DO YOU INHALE ?
Then you're better off
smoking PHILIP MORRIS
.••because Philip Morris is definitely less irritating, definitely milder than any other leading brand!
PROVE IT YOURSELF
Take the PHILIP MORRIS NOSE TEST
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
» PHILIP MORRIS
2
The Scholastic
LETTERS
Go Ahead, Lambert!
Editor:
We would like to express our appreciation and thanks to Mr. Lambert for his thoughtful and enlightening letter. We feel that Jack can speak from experience after many trips to this side \. of Dixie. .
Perhaps with a little urging on our part we may hope to entice Jack into coming over to St. Mary’s and delivering a lecture on the “Methods of Acquiring Charm and Poise.” We are sure that all the girls here, part of a larger’ :	St. Mary’s family, would be most grate-
ful for any help in the matter of improving ourselves.
Hoping that we will see Jack gracing our halls again soon we remain: May God bless you all,
L	Eileen O’Brien
Nancy Harding Martha Stuart
More on the SMU Game
Editor:
Tell the fellows that they are no • longer boys no matter what their age but rather men, Notre Dame men, and as sons of Notre Dame they are expected to act like NDrnen at all times " even in the heat of battle. The taste of defeat is always bitter, but win or lose, ND men have always held their ' heads high for they represent the finest school and the greatest traditions in the land. The ND men of today must remember that they represent the many * great ND men of yesterday, and act accordingly. Sincerely,
Dr. R. J. Stierwalt, ’50.
Thank You, Mr. Klee
1	Editor:
May I commend you or your worthy assistant who has written the editorial on the Maroon dismissal at Chicago in last Oct. 12 edition.
Several years ago, when I worked on Scholastic circulation, in answer to my query as to why we didn’t carry more editorials and feature commentaries on international and other controversial questions, I was told that among other less memorable reasons Scholastic didn’t believe they had a man who was sufficiently skilled in such branches of journalism to permit the publication taking an official stand in im-
portant matters currently debated. This I thought regrettable . . . most regrettable.
So congratulations, for a noble venture into the realms of real journalism where some of your predecessors
“feared to tread.” May we look for further indications of the blooming of these “seeds of Christian promise” in the Irish press?
An edified alumnus,
William Klee, ’51
for a college wardrobe BROOKS BROTHERS'
DISTINCTIVE SPORTSWEAR
In our fine new Chicago store college men will find an unusual selection of casual, colorful sportswear—from warm flannel sport shirts, distinctive sport vests, and tartan or blue flannel blazers...to popular polo coats and ultra-warm, practical alpaca or fleece lined greatcoats for campus wear—all with Brooks Brothers’ individuality and good taste.
ESTABLISHES 1813
Mens furnishings, Hats ^^boes
7+ EAST MADISON STREET, CHICAGO 2, ILL.
NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
Oct. 26, 1951
3
THE FRED J. AND SALLY FISHER EDUCATIONAL FUND
Office of Business Affairs UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Notre Dame, Indiana
A loan fund of $250,000.00 was established in 1950 by Mrs. Sally Fisher of Detroit, Michigan, to aid students at the University of Notre Dame who are unable to complete their education without financial assistance.
1.	OPERATION. The fund is operated by a special committee set up by the University of Notre Dame.
2.	ELIGIBILITY. Any student entering the University or in attendance as an under-graduate—and this includes Law students— may apply for a Ioan.
5.	INSURANCE. All loans must be covered by insurance policies assigned to the University of Notre Dame. The Committee will take out insurance for applicants on request.
6.	INTEREST. An interest rate of 1 per cent
will be charged on all loans.
3.	APPLICATION. Application must be made on an official form supplied by the Fisher Loan Committee, Office of Business Affairs, Notre Dame, Indiana. Students in residence may inquire about loans from Rev. Harry Stegman, CSC, Military Affairs Office, opposite Students’ Accounts Office in the Main Building.
4.	AMOUNT OF LOANS. Loans are not granted to cover all expenses. A student is expected to help himself by part-time work while in school, by earnihgs from summer . employment, or by assistance from relatives. In general, loans are limited to one-half the University’s charge for board, room, tuition, etc., but each application will be considered on its own merits.
7.	NOTES. Each applicant for a loan will, if the loan is granted, be required to sign a note payable.
8.	FUTURE LOANS. Loans will be made for the immediate need of the applicant, not to exceed one year. New applications must be filed for additional loans.
9.	REPAYMENT OF LOANS. Four months after graduation or withdrawal from the University, repayment of the loan must begin. Payments of not less than 10 per cent of a borrower’s income or not less than 1-12 of 10 per cent of the total amount borrowed, whichever may be larger, will be required in equal monthly installments.
4
The Scholastic
Notre Dame men are notoriously known as lady-killers . . .
In the Good Old Summertime
The record-shattering October heat wave which currently graces this part of the national geography is nothing less than astounding to the grizzled and embittered veterans of past Indiana autumns which are usually distinguished by premature icy blasts, leaden skies, snow and sinus trouble.
But so far this season, overcoats, mukluks and chap-stiks have remained in reserve and shirtsleeved, local inhabitants are parading under sunny skies and balmy breezes; the cautious and more experienced members with a jaundiced weather-eye peeled for a sudden thirty-point temperature drop, the optimists sending home to mother for their Skol and Gantner Wikkies.
persona non grata at our sister school.
However, as we stopped by Herr Lambert’s cell the other day to pin on his chest the Croix de Tea Dance and to inform him that he has probably touched off an intercollegiate incident, we found him completely becalmed and unruffled by the whole thing.
And as we were leaving we noticed that he was vigorously donning his asbestos gloves and reaching for his flaming quill and bottle of acid with that glint in his eye again. John Lambert, man of courage, we salute you!
Solvent Again
Poem of the Week:
The saddest words of tongue and pen May be, perhaps, “It might have been.” The sweetest words we know, by heck Are only these, “Enclosed find check.”
Grantland Rice Please Copy
The Badin Bog quarterbacks, a board of football experts who group around the center pole in the Huddle every morning at 10, have jumped the gun on the more widely renowned pigskin sportsters and have already selected their 1951 All-American eleven.
And it is a team calculated to end forever the question of All-Americans. The board’s selections are as follows:
LE Abner Sloke
LT McMeecham Motsytrots
LG Renfrew Bilgebucket
C S. Z. “Cuddles” Sakall
RG Steve Canyon
RT Percy Kilbride
RE Knobby Walsh
QB Daddy Warbucks
RH Alvin “Crazylegs” Garibaldi
LH Rex Morgan
FB Igor Allshot
There it is, fans, the first and last word in ALL-Americans for the 1951 season. Personally, though, we can’t understand why “Moose” Schubert wasn’t included. Oh well, maybe next year.
Bottom of the Week
. . . they starve their dates to death.
The local Chamber of Commerce, never known as a group to let opportunity rap unanswered, are speedily preparing brochures which advertise— “Visit beautiful Michiana, blooming land of enchantment, the jasmine of the midwest.”
What’s that you say? It’s snowing?
Dawn Patrol
That 8:00 o’clock class:
Freshman—in class, notebook in hand, pencil poised.
Sophomore—running to class.
Junior—eating breakfast.
Senior—just turning off alarm clock.
The Scarlet Letter
The episode of John Lambert’s letter to S.M.C., a rhetorical masterpiece which appeared in this publication two weeks ago, has not been without its consequences. Scribe Lambert has been hailed on this side of the Dixie as the new H. L. Mencken and many are those who are in full step with his declamation and who have offered him their congratulatory handclasps and back-slaps, including a generous low bow and a grand salaam from yours truly.
But on the other* side of the highway, the storm warnings are still flying and the war drums are still beating, and J. L. of the poison pen finds himself
Travel and study abroad via TWA next summer
All-expense tours will again
fill the needs of college professors and students
Now’s the time to start planning for one of the most interesting and profitable summers you’ve ever spent.. .sightseeing
and studying abroad. In cooperation with specialists in the field, TWA will again offer these popular tours.
Check the area you are interested in visiting next summer:
I | British Isles
Q European (Generali
Q Mediterranean
0 India and Far East [3 Spain and Portugal
(3 Scandinavia
Are you interested in university credits? f~I
Yes
Holy Land Africa
Other (specify).
□ No
Are you interested in resident study at a foreign university? Q Yes Please specify area_________
Across the U.S. and overseas you can
CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY BARGAIN TOURS
Your choice of the following 2-week tours:
(Check one for further information)
Q European
Q Holy Land
John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Air World Tours,
SO Fast 42nd Street, New York 17, N. Y.
Please put me on your list to receive detailed information about the Trans World Airlines tours indicated above, to be sent as soon as possible
Name.
Address.
City.
Zone
.Position.
I i
-State.
.Phone No.
C-ll
Oct. 26, 1951
5
Calendar
OCTOBER 26
PEP RALLY—The Senior Class plays host tonight with a gigantic bonfire and guest speaker at the rally to be held on the interhall fields west of the Stadium. Band leaves Washington Hall at 7:15.
PALAIS ROYALE—The Sophs become BMOC for the first time with their Southern Serenade featuring Al Trace and his Orchestra. Don’t stay out too late, fellows. We gotta beat them Boilermakers tomorrow.
PALACE (through Nov. 1)—The Red Badge of Courage (Legion of Decency Rating A-l) says TIME, “is one of the best war films ever made.” Based on the Civil War novel by Stephan Crane, the film sticks to the book religiously, even to using the same dialogue, as it portrays an outwardly brave regiment’s baptism of fire. Two authentic soldiers, Medal of Honor winner Audie Murphy and cartoonist Bill Maudlin, play the top roles. The best thing that can be said about the companion feature Submarine Command (A-2) is that it contains some excellent action shots of undersea warfare.
OCTOBER 27
STADIUM—The Irish seek to even score No. 2 on their books as they meet streak-breaking Purdue. Game starts at 1:30 p.m. CST.
DRILL HALL—Gene Hull and His Lettermen will provide the music at the third home Victory Dance.
WASHINGTON HALL—Battleground with Van Johnson, John Hodiak and James Whitmore.
OCTOBER 28
GRANADA (through Oct. 31)—Fourteen Hours (A-2) with Paul. Douglas and Debra Paget is one of the better films in town this week. House on Telegraph Hill (B), though, doesn’t seem to get its message across.
.	OCTOBER 31
ST. MARY’S SIDING—Student trippers take off at 5:30 p.m. for Baltimore, Washington and the Navy game. Don’t forget your lunch 1
COLFAX (through Nov. 6)—Dennis Morgan and Virginia Mayo head a musical treat in Painting the Clouds With Sunshine (A-2), the latest technicolor musical from Warner Brothers. If you don’t like singing and dancing, stay away because that’s about all there is to the flicker.
GRANADA (through Nov. 6)—The story of the Nazi’s best general in World War II is told in The Desert Fox (A-2), with James Mason as Field Marshal Erwin Rommel. The picture sticks close to the book of the same name from which it was adapted and in trying to be as objective as possible, it sometimes loses the punch of a war film. Darling, How Could You (A-2), the co-feature, may prompt some viewers to wonder Paramount, how could you?
STATE (one day only)—Phantom of the Opera, starring Claude Raines, and Tower of London with Basil Rathbone are two high class chillers back for a re-run.
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
% Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$7.20
JOE NABICHT'S RESTAURANT
“Chicken in the Rough”
213 N. Main	Open Sunday
Pipes or Cigarette Holders—throw it away, with the nicotine, juices, flakes and tars it has trapped. Insert fresh filter for cooler, cleaner, dryer, sweeter smoking. Imported Briar.
NEW: MEDICO CREST-$3.00
Medico's Finest! Rich Burgundy finish.
MEDICO V.F.Q. — $2.00 MEDICO MEDALIST-$1.50
Wide variety of styles and sizes.
Write $. M. Frank ft Co., N. Y., for Booklet G
MEDICO CIGARETTE HOLDERS —SI
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
^^di lor lais
Vol. 93 October 26, 1951 No. 7
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized * June 23. 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE.................News
PATRICK CARRICO...........Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY...........Features
JACK R. VARLEY..................Sports
WILLIAM J. LONDO......Assistant Sports
WILLIAM H. FRASER..........Photography
LEON GARDNER.................Librarian
C. B. FARMER.........Campus Circulation RONALD E. ZIER.......Advertising
WILLIAM KERWIN.............Circulation
JOHN P. DEFANT........Faculty Moderator
Basketball Suffers Another Blow
The latest addition to the sad list of college basketball "fixes” certainlv is a depressing commentary' on the state of the game. The very size of the scandal, in fact, is a heavy' blow to America’s leading winter-time sport. What moves us to something approaching anger about the whole mess is the "oh well” attitude adopted by some.
Let’s start with the players involved. Wc think it’s pretty' obvious that it wasn’t all their fault. The roots go a lot deeper. We’re not trying to defend them. Agreed, they' cheated. They put money above honor and let everybody down. They' should be made to pay for what they did to their schools and the sport in general. But let’s face it—that won’t correct the situation that made the whole thing possible.	•	‘
Gambling interests—reallv big-time gambling interests—were allowed to get such a foothold that they could directly approach players. And what was the attitude of the players who fell? “There’s a lot of money floating around and we ought to get some.”
And why this? Because in some schools the sport was virtually removed from a campus level. It became a big-time money maker, played in big cities where the gate was a great deal larger than in the local fieldhouse. In short, college basketball became a business to some.
As a result, some of the moral qualities that competitive athletics seek to instill were lost in the shuffle. The idea was to build fieldhouses, not character. And the little question of ethics was disregarded. It was only a matter of time before something like this happened. If there ever was a time to put the game back where it belongs, this is sure it.
Member of Catholic School Press Association. Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: Football weekends, Cotillions, Law Balls, and all the successive events that mark the Fall social season usually present their share of problems. One of these is the “blind date.” ) The blind date, come to think of it, is with us all year round. And the lad who is trying- to promote one is usually asked the inevitable question: “How tall is she?” The gentlemen on this week’s cover seem to have run into a little problem concerning height. For the purposes of getting out a cover, this particular situation was solved by the simple matter of switching. It isn’t always that easy though. Sometimes you just have to make the best of it. But even blind dates can be fun, especially on a Cotillion weekend. We ■ hope all you gay socialites enjoy it enough to agree with us.
—Photo by Al Muth
Annie, Drop Your Gun
A recent letter to this magazine by one John Lambert seems to have stirred up a great deal of ill-feeling among our beautiful friends across the Dixie. This is rather unfortunate since neither we nor Mr. Lambert intended to start a running fight with the girls of SMC.	•	'
It all started innocently' enough when Mr. Jack Hynes, author of The Week, uttered a few truths to the incoming Frosh last September. The'boys vastly outnumber the girls at Tea Dances, said Mr. Hvnes. and therefore the odds are against the boys. He also added that there is no tea at Tea Dances. We have yet to see anyone disprove these statements. A letter of protest, however, from four SMC gals moved Lambert to write his missive, o
The din that followed his message moves us, in turn, to comment on the whole thing. To begin with, wc know Lambert didn’t mean all the girls at St. Mary’s. Wc also know that his remarks were intended as a spoof at the girls looking for their ten men. And the letters wc received from some men on Campus lead us to believe that there are those who agree with him.
On the other hand, the large number of N.D. men who flv to that fair land across the highway ought to reassure the girls. Evidently, there are those who care. And we seriously' doubt that their faith will be shaken.
In this light, why all the fuss? We’re sure a little humor isn’t amiss. And there’s an old saying that you only' spoof the things you like. So put away the guns, girls, wc love vou all. (We are still looking for the tea. though.)
Oct. 26, 1951
7
-3339
To enter YOUR NAME for
DANCE LESSONS
HURRY!
HURRY!
10 Hours
$15.00
ATTENTION: Notre Dome Men — At Your Request
Gentlemen:
In the past two years, since the ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing opened in South Bend, we have had numerous telephone calls, and many personal suggestions from many of you regarding special classes and special rates for Students! Mr. Murray has given me permission to arrange the classes below at reduced rates again this year. Women Instructors are already reserved.
Best Wishes for Your Dancing Future,
Leila Gray.
Pay as little as $1.50 a week. Free Dances every week! Also Special Parties
MONDAY—October 29, 4 p. m.	TUESDAY—October 30, 4 p. m.	WEDNESDAY—October 31, 4 p. m.
Enroll—3 - 4 p. m.	Enroll—3 - 4 p. m.	Enroll—3 - 4 p. m.
THURSDAY—November I, 4 p. m.	FRIDAY—November 2, 4 p. m.
Enroll—3 - 4 p. m.	Enroll—3 - 4 p. m.
Think of it . . . for as little as $1.50 a week you can learn all the latest dances at the famous Arthur Murray Studios. Be sure to ask about the special pay-as-you-go plan when you come in to arrange for your dancing lessons.
We Teach All the Dances — You May Have Your Choice of:
•	FOX TROT	• JITTERBUG	• WESTERN SWING	• SAMBA	• RHUMBA
•	WALTZ	• POLKA	• CHARLESTON	• TANGO	• MAMBO
P. S. If any five or more students want a class at a different hour or on a different day—our women instructors will be glad to arrange a special one to suit each group, on the day of your choice.
Call 2-3339 NOW
OPEN
10 a. m. — 10:30 p. m.
Arthur Murray
120 East Wayne Street
(Above Copp Music Shop)
Call 2-3339 NOW
OPEN
10 a. m. — 10:30 p. m.
8
The Scholastic
Notre Dame
VOLUME 93, NUMBER 7 t ------------------
OCTOBER 26, 1951
Sophs Go Southern at Tonight’s Cotillion
Hall Decorations Contest, Bonfire and Victory Dance Highlight Packed Purdue Weekend
Full Weekend Ahead After Palais Formal
A big weekend is in the making for Notre Dame, with all 13 residence halls competing for honors in the decorations contest and the Senior class sponsoring tonight’s bonfire rally and tomorrow evening’s Victory Dance.
During half-time ceremonies at the Purdue game tomorrow, the winners of the hall decorations contest will be announced. The first-place hall will have its name inscribed on a two-foot trophy of mahogany and gold, which will remain in the winning hall until won by another hall.
The top three halls will receive plaques engraved with the name of the hall and the place which they won. These will be held permanently by their winners. A hall must win the trophy three times for permanent possession.
The direct results of these artistic endeavors will be seen tomorrow as the Boilermakers are depicted undergoing every fate conceivable, and perhaps even some inconceivable. It will be a field day for the lovei- of the bizarre and the unusual.
All the displays in the contest will be ready at 10 a.m. when the judging will begin. This year the judges are all members of the faculty. It will be their job to rate the displays according to originality, presentation, and theme. The men to whom this task falls are Dr. William Burke, Department of English, Dr. M. K. Newman, Mechanical Engineering, and Mr. Robert Schultz, Architecture.
Bonfire in Badin Bog
At the half-time presentation ceremonies, the co-chairmen of the contest, Joe Albers and Dick Benedict, will present the three plaques and the trophy to theii- respective winners. The trophy, standing two feet high, is topped by a golden figure representing “male
achievement.” The front plate will read, “Hall Decorations” and contain the name of this year’s winner.
The other two-thirds of this “triple threat” weekend are the bonfire-pep rally and the Saturday night Victory Dance.	'
Tonight at 7:15, the band will start its rounds of all the halls, and lead the way to the interhall field. There Lenny Simons will direct the evening’s activities. Stands ■will be set up for the Cotillion-goers and their dates and for the team.
A member of the squad from each class will give a brief address, and after the speeches and cheers are over, Jim Mutscheller ■will light the monster (Continued on Page 29)
MISS DARLENE SAMAS A Southern Plantation . . .
By TOM GODFREY
Tonight, the upperclassmen will enjoy formal dancing at the Sophomore Cotillion, Notre Dame’s major social event of the fall. They will be sere-
MISS MARY LOU LEIM
. . . For Their Courtyard
nading Southern style in the garden of a Dixie plantation. Providing the music will be Al Trace and his Orchestra, featuring vocalist Lola Ameche.
In reality, the “garden” will be the Palais Royale, no farther south than downtown South Bend. Dancing will last from 9 to 1 with permission extending till 2.
Reigning as queens of the dance will be the dates of co-chairmen Walter Vaughan and Jerry Sheehan. Miss Mary Lou Leim, Vaughan’s date, is a St. Mary’s Sophomore majoring in Elementary Education. Her home town is nearby Rensselaer, Ind. Sheehan will be taking a Harvey, Ill., girl, Miss Dar-
(Continued on Page 29)
Oct. 26, 1951
9
German Editor Visits Notre Dame Campus, Tells of Hopes and Conditions in Homeland
A Doctor of Philosophy, a Doctor of Medicine and the editor-in-chief of an influential German weekly, at the age of 32! Such are the signal accomplishments of Notre Dame’s visitor of the week, Dr. Otto Roegele.
Dr. Roegele, editor of Die Rheinsche Merkur, one of the most influential organs of Christian thought in today’s Germany, is in the United States on a six-week State Department Tour of Orientation in Democracy.
Many influential Catholic and Protestant political scientists had advised him to come to Notre Dame; he took their advice and states that he is glad he did. “I was greatly impressed by the size and beauty of your campus,” he said, ‘‘and I was interested by the fact that so many students work to supplement their tuition.
“I attended the discussion on how the Soviets organized their satellite empire, and I was again impressed by the alertness and common sense of the students in attendance. Of course, another reason for my visit is the chance to observe your famous Committee on International Relations in action. I am glad to see that Americans, as a whole, are becoming more interested in international problems,” he added.
German Commonweal
Dr. Roegele’s paper, Die Rheinische Merkur, is generally known both in and out of Germany as the organ of Chancellor Adenauer’s middle-of-the-road West German government, and in form and content it is somewhat o^ the equivalent of our omi widely-heralded Commonweal. It is published in Coblenz.
After obtaining one of his two degrees from Heidelburg University, Dr. Roegele became a leader in the almost-dormant German Catholic Youth Movement of the pre-war Reich.
In 1941, he was pressed into service in the Wehrmacht and saw extensive service on the Russian front during several of the winter campaigns. Mustered out in 1945, he obtained the second of his two degrees and helped to found Die Rheinische Merkur.
When asked of Germany’s role in world affairs, Dr. Roegele declared, “Germany hopes to be accepted as a partner with equal rights by the West. Germany must have feeling that the West will protect them against Communism.
“Although German re-armament is opposed in a demagogic way by Ger
man Socialists and by ex-soldiers who have long memories, I believe that the Schumann Plan providing for the pooling of German and French industries will be accepted by the majority of thinking Germans.
“Konrad Adenauer,” he went on, “is the ‘man of destiny’ in the New Germany. He has performed an excellent work and because of his successes in foreign politics, he has many adherents in almost all German parties. If, however, the West does not support him, it is. possible that he would be overthrown by radicals. That would be disastrous in the cause of Free Europe.”
Dr. Roegele continued, “The most important task in Germany today is resolving the problem of refugees and expellees. One out of every six Germans is a refugee; there are 11,000,000 expellees from the Eastern, or Russian, sector, and 1,000,000 political fugitives from Communist-dominated states.
“This all adds up to no jobs. A German worker summed up the economic troubles of the country for me just before I left. He said ‘Wages are too low, prices are too high.”
—Frank Jackman
Contralto Ann Farrell To Perform Tuesday
Miss Ann Farrell, contralto, rising young star, originally from Scranton, Pa., now of New York City, will be presented by the University Concert
MISS ANN FARRELL
With a Voice to Match
and Lecture Series at 8:15 Tuesday a evening.	1
Her program is to be a blending of	1
classical selections and folk songs. Ac-	*
companying her will be Mr. Carrol 1 Hollister.	j
Free tickets to the concert, which is open to all students, were available at the Washington Hall box office from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. today and will again be available during the same hours \ on Monday and Tuesday. All seats will be reserved and admission will be by ticket only.	y
Students have been requested by the Office of Academic Affairs to wear coats and ties to all presentations of the Concert and Lecture Series.
Miss Farrell’s program will include Schuberts’ Ave Maria by special request, When I Am Laid in Earth, from	,
Dido and Aeneas, and Mozart’s .4??	।
Chloe.	|
Five of Brahms’ works will be sung along with a French Aria from Samson	*
and Deliah. Lecourna’s Malaguena is	I
included along with selections by Debussy and Bach-Saint-Saens.
Bizet’s Gypsy Song will precede the last part of the program which is comprised of five folk dances and songs. They are: Grieg’s Norrvegian Dance; Roys This Little Rose; an English folk song, O No, John; the Irish ballad, I Know Where I’m Goin’, and Floods of Spring by Rachmaninoff.
Civil Service Examinations
Given for Trainee Positions s
The U. S. Civil Service Commission has announced an examination for Student Aid (Trainee) positions in the fields of chemistry, physics, mathematics, metallurgy, and engineering, paying yearly salaries of $2,650 and $2,875.	{
This examination is of special interest to Sophomores and Juniors in the above fields, since the Student Aid Trainee program offers the opportunity to participate in special training programs of the various Federal agencies, and to become acquainted with the ( work of these agencies while they are still attending school.
To qualify . in the examination, ap- .. plicants must pass a written test and must have received one-half (for jobs paying $2,650) or three-fourths (for jobs paying $2,875) of the total credits * required for a bachelor’s degree in their specialized field. Age limits, waived for persons entitled to veteran preference, are from 18 to 35.
The University’s Placement Office has more detailed information about the Student Aid Trainee examination. In- ‘ formation and applications may also be
IO
The Scholastic
obtained from most first and second-class post offices, Civil Service regional Commission, Washington 25, D. C.
Applications will be accepted in the offices, or from the U. S. Civil Service Commission’s Washington office until December 4, 1951.
> Hans Kohn Lectures Here on Pan-Slavism
The Committee on International Relations announces a series of three lectures this coming week on the general subject of “Pan-Slavism” by Hans * Kohn, Connaley professor of European history at the City College of New York. They will be held in Room 101 Law Building as follows:
Monday at 8 p.m.: “Pan-Slavism and the Western Slavs”;
Tuesday at 4:30 p.m.; “Pan-Slavism ► and Russian Messianism”;
Tuesday at 8 p.m.: “Pan-Slavism and Two World Wars.”
Pan-Slavism, as defined by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, chairman of the Committee on International Relations, is a renaissance of Slavic culture and for-> mer glories, both artistic and military, which started about the middle of the last century under the impetus of the then Czar of Russia, Alexander VI.
It has been used by the Czarist Russians for Imperialist designs, and it is still being used for that same reason by the Soviets.
Fought Russians, Fled Hitler
Professor Kohn holds the degree of Doctor of Laws from the German University of Prague. He served in the German Army in the first World War and was captured by the Czarist forces. While interred, he witnessed the Russian Revolutions of 1917 and the civil wars of 1918-22.
After his release by Soviets, he taught in several of the great European universities: Heidelburg, Bonn, Strasbourg and Munich.
He fled from Germany and his pro-fessorship at Munich when Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933. He first went to England, where he taught at London University for a time, and then went to the United States where he taught at Harvard and Stanford before proceeding to C.C.N.Y.
He is an editorial advisor to the Encyclopaedia Britannica; is a reviewer for many prominent periodicals, including The Saturday Review of Literature, The Reporter, and Commentaries (the Jewish equivalent of the Catholic Com-monweal); and has written a mid-way account of the Western World called The Twentieth Century.
Special Train Bears 450 ND Men Eastward Wednesday for Game and Stay in Capital
By AL SUWALSKY
About 450 Notre Dame students will board a special train Wednesday evening to journey to Washington, D. C. and Baltimore, Md., for the Navy game.
Co-chairmen of the project, Frank Regan and Bill Lewis, announced that almost 300 regular and 150 band tickets were sold during the five days that they were offered in the lobby of the Dining Hall.
Arrangements have just been completed for a series of parties in Washington. The belles of Trinity College will welcome Notre Dame students with a tea dance Friday afternoon. The Washington ND Alumni Club is to put on a smoker at the Hotel Statler the same evening. Saturday night the Washington club of Notie Dame will sponsor- a dance at the Carlton Hotel.
Bus tours will leave from the hotel where the student-trippers are lodged.
Since they are to stay in the capital city and remain in Baltimore only during the afternoon of the contest, plenty of opportunities will be available for students to visit the buildings which house our nation’s government and the monuments erected to its leaders.
Leave Wednesday Afternoon
The Capitol, the White House, the Washington Monument, the Lincoln Memorial, the Smithsonian Institute, the Library of Congress, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Bureau of Printing and Engraving are only a few of the interesting points in the city.
The Student Special is scheduled to leave the St. Mary’s siding at 5:30 p.m. Wednesday. The train will make a short stop in Cumberland, Md., for Mass at St. Patrick’s Church the following morning, the Feast of All Saints. Arrival time in the Union Sta-
“You Mean It Isn’t In Yet?”
tion, Washington, will be approximately noon Thursday.
The Annapolis Hotel will be Notre Dame headquarters during the trip. Reservations must be made for all three nights or not at all. Some tickets were sold without hotel reservations. However, all who reside elsewhere must register with the trip officials so that they may be contacted in an emergency.
Game at Baltimore
Just before noon Saturday, the ND men will set out on the shorter trip to Baltimore to see the Irish meet the Middies in a continuation of their long and friendly rivalry. Immediately following the game, trains will return the group to the nation’s capital.
One more evening of parties—a quiet Sunday Mass, and the weary trippers will be -on their way back to classes and books, arriving early Monday morning, Nov. 5.
The approximate cost of the excursion will be ?52. The railroad ticket is the main item at S32.29. Hotel reservations for the three nights in Washington are about $10. The football ticket, two meals on the train and a few miscellaneous expenses make up the balance.
Classes will not be’ held on either Thursday or Saturday. However the Office of Student Affairs has announced that Friday, Nov. 3, is a regular class day and that cancelled cuts will be granted only to those making the official student trip.
Vetville People Plan Poverty Party, Potluck Dinner Nov. 3
A post-Hallowe’en affair being sponsored by the residents of Vetville and other married students will be the Potluck Dinner and Poverty Party. This social highlight of the semester is to be held Saturday night, Nov. 3, at 8 o’clock in the Vetville Recreation Hall. The direction of the affair is in the hands of a committee of wives.
As the name signifies, each family will bring some food and all will be combined for the meal. The Poverty Party section of the evening will be passed in playing games.
It is a pseudo-Hallowe’en party for which nobody will dress iri costume but will wear old clothes instead.
Oct. 26, 1951
11
President Truman’s appointment of Gen. Mark Clark as Ambassador to the Vatican has touched off a bitter controversy. Protestant church leaders have already raised the bugaboo of “separation of church and state.” claiming that diplomatic relations with the Vatican would be a violation of this constitutional injunction.
More heat than logic has been generated in the discus Jon to date. The United States has long had ambassadorial representation at the Court of St. James—the King of England, to be exact—which controverts the argument of church and state separation, for the King of England is the titular head of the Anglican Church.
There is only one real issue in the controversy. Would it be advantageous to the United States to enter diplomatic relations with the Vatican?	•
If the ansicer is yes—and the administration apparently so believes, as do 37 other nations represented at the Vatican—then by all means let Congress approve Gen. Clark’s appointment. It would be a waste of the nation’s money to support an embassy for any other reason.
The decision should be based on political and foreign policy considerations alone, with all religious bias and animosities exchided.
The follozving article is reprinted to throw some light on the workings of the Vatican as an independent state.
—Papal Polities-------------------------------------------------
By WILLIAM HENRY CHAMBERLIN
Reprinted from the WALL STREET JOURNAL
May 17. 1951, Issue
Rome.—At one of the international wartime conferences, Stalin is supposed to have brushed off a suggestion that the Vatican might be consulted about the peace settlement with the disparaging question, “And how many divisions has the Pope?” Today the Soviet dictator might be inclined to revise his judgment , of the Catholic Church as a negligible force in international politics. To be sure, the tiny Vatican state has no divisions, no soldiers, except the traditional Swiss guards with their medieval weapons and their superbly colorful uniforms designed by Raphael.
But Catholic political parties and groups are dominant or influential in all West European countries, with the exception of Scandinavia. The Christian Democratic party of Prime Minister Alcide de Gasperi was the mass force that turned back the onslaught of Communism in the decisive' Italian election in 1948. A foreign diplomatic observer remarked to me:
“The only public figure who excites really wild popular enthusiasm is Pope Pius XII.”
The Christian Democratic Union, predominantly Catholic, is the strongest party in the West German state. This is true as regards the Christian Social party in Belgium and • the Volkspartei in Austria. The Dutch Catholic party ;s a steady partner in the coalition
12
cabinets of the country. The popular Republican movement, a new party of Catholic inspiration, has played a considerable part in the politics of postwar France. It may have been easier for Foreign Ministei’ Schuman to negotiate successfully with Chancellor Adenauer because both men, as Catholics, found it easier to take the supernational European view. The dictatorships of Franco in Spain and Salazar in Portugal emphasize their devotion to the Catholic Church.
Vatican foreign policy, as one learns by inquiring in Rome, cannot be accurately described in simple, black-and-white terms. It is marked by two outstanding characteristics.
One is the tendency to take the long view. The Vatican is the oldest institution with a diplomatic tradition in Europe today. It has experienced and survived many shocks and crises: The struggle with the Hohenstau emperors in the 12th and 13th centuries; the “Babylonian captivity” at Avignon, the great schism,, the challenge of the reformation, the assault of Napoleon, who kept the Pope a prisoner for years in France, to mention only a few. It has, therefore, developed a tendency to assume its own permanence and the transitoriness of the temporal powers which have, at times, seemed to threaten its existence.
The second is the necessity for the Vatican, as center of a world religion, to avoid becoming entangled in national partisanship. In both the world wars of this century, there were tens of millions of Catholics on both sides. The natural, indeed the inevitable instinct of the Papacy has been to assume in times of international strife the role of peacemaker and reconciler, reaffirming moral and religious principles but abstaining from any action that might seem to suggest preference of one nation or group of nations against another.
Typical of the kind of problem that poses difficulties for the Pope and his two main advisers of foreign relations, Monsignors Tardini and Montini, was the recent visit to Rome of the primate of Poland, Archbishop Wyszynski. The purpose of this visit was to obtain the appointment of Polish bishops in the area which has been annexed by Poland from Germany. The great majority of Poles and about half the Germans who live in the East German state are Catholics. The Vatican decision was that, until the eastern frontier of Germany is settled by a peace treaty, no appointment of bishops to succeed the expelled German prelates was possible. The sees will continue to be in charge of temporary administrators.
The strict discipline of the Catholic Church excludes the possibility of the emergence of a “Red dean” of Canterbury in the ranks of its clergy. The stand of the Church on the moral evil of Communism has been clear and unequivocal.
But the elderly editor of the Vatican official newspaper Osservatore Romano, Count de la Torre, occasionally indulges in reflections that cause some dismay among advocates of a firm policy toward the Soviet Union, and have earned appreciative comments in the Italian Communist newspapers. Osservatore Romano expressed approval of the dismissal of General MacArthur and has suggested that Communism, as an idea, cannot be conquered by force and that a form of Communism was practiced among the early Christians.
This writer heard a cardinal, very skeptical of the Soviet goodwill and faith, speak critically of this editorial line of Osservatore Romano. Officially, Count de la Torre expresses a personal viewpoint. Yet it would not be inconsistent with the Vatican long range view to hold open a door for adjustment with the Soviet dictatorship as long as possible.
. .The Vatican receives an enormous ■ amount of information from priests and
(Continued on Page 29)
The Scholastic
Irish Pipers Don Kilts, Plaids and Doublets; Hope's Giants Set for Debut Against Purdue
Tomorrow at the Purdue game, the long-awaited Fighting Irish Pipers will be presented for the first time. Under the direction of Louis Snedden, of South Bend, the pipers have been practicing on the chanters since last spring, and have been working on the complete set of pipes since September.
Mr. Snedden was piper aboard British ships, and trained a Reserve Pipe Band in England before coming to this country.
Because the group is just starting out on unfamiliar instruments, and have had to learn everything from the very beginning, the repertoire is limited. However, they are learning several new pieces every week.
Mr. H. Lee Hope, director of bands, is now receiving applications for a new class to be started after the football season.
Applicants must meet the same qualifications as the present pipers did last year: they must be Freshmen, six feet two inches or over in height, and interested in becoming members of the Fighting Irish Pipers by spending sufficient time in learning. Previous musical training is not necessary, but would help somewhat.
Known in Asia Minor
and pep rallies^ It is not suitable for lullabies; it would be of doubtful value in a neurological ward; it can’t interpret the “blues”; it should not be practiced in a residence hall.
The bagpipes are the only instruments requiring a special uniform to be worn: the kilts, doublet, and piper’s plaid are traditional in every country. The Fighting Pipers are equipped with the finest uniforms obtainable, the items being imported from Ireland, England, Canada, and Scotland. The kilt and plaid are of a Notre Dame blue-and-gold tartan, with squares of green for the Irish. The doublets are of scarlet, of no special connotation—except that they make a vivid uniform.
Can Play ‘Victory March’
Though closely approximating the ancient vocal scale Damascus, the scale of the bagpipes is not tuned to the piano. Therefore, all songs cannot be played. There are, however, hundreds of pieces which have been adapted to the pipes. For a song not originally designed for the instrument, the Notre Dame Victory March comes out very well, with only one of the notes being changed.
In rehearsal the Irish Pipers had to
try a variety of combinations and keys before the desired key was found. In . the pipe scale, the “C” and the “F” are tuned higher than the piano “C” and “F,” but lower- than the “C sharp” and “F sharp”; thus they are “inbetween” notes. This so-called deficiency in intonation does not seem to harm regular pipe tunes, but offers much difficulty in playing modern songs.
Bagpipe Makes Opera
The bagpipe has received the attention of many serious composers. -Bach used it in his English Suites Nos. 3 and 6, Handel in.the Sixth Grand Concerto, Meyerbeer* in the opera Dinorah, and Boieldieu in La Dame. Blanche. Pipe effects can be found in Schubert’s Rosamune and the finale of Beethoven’s Pastoral Symphony, as well as Berlioz’s Harold in Italy. And of course, Jaromir Weinberger’s opera, Schwanda, . the Bagpiper, is built entirely around the vicissitudes of a piper.
Bach or Beethoven might feel a bit misplaced should they be in the stadium tomorrow afternoon when Notre Dame’s giant pipers swing into action, but surely any old Roman gladiator or Irish warrior who happened to be travelling through would feel right at home.
Purdue’s band will share in the halftime ceremonies, and the Notre Dame Band will offer salutes to the visiting school and to the Belles of St. Mary’s.
An interview with Mr. Hope produced some interesting facts on the history and mechanics of the bagpipes. Ancient Israel, Persia, and Turkey knew the pipes; old Roman coins show citizens making melody. History relates that players in the old Roman days used to burst blood vessels trying- to make the pipes sound to the far corners of the Colosseum.
The pipes were brought to Britain by the Romans, and spread all over Europe during the Crusades. Michael Conran in The National Music of Ireland tells of the pipes being used in Ireland in the year 800 to exhort warriors to greater feats of valor on the field of battle.
Thus, the purpose of the -Fighting Irish Pipers appropriately enough is to stimulate Notre Dame’s football warriors on the gridiron.
An Outdoor Instrument
The sound of the pipes bears a curious resemblance to excited human voices —the hearty, strident, martial inflections. Therefore, the instrument is staunchly advocated for outdoor athletic contests, parades, picnics, festivals,
COACH AND PIPERS WITH HOPE Something in the Wind
Oct. 26, 1951
13
MRS. ROBERT BURNS Reigning Over . . .
Lawmen Show Other Talents at Ball Tonight
“Court is now in session.” With these words, at 9 o’clock tonight in the Indiana club, the Bailiff will begin the “Autumn Assizes,” the annual Ball of the College of Law.
Reigning over this judicial assembly will be the guests of the co-chairmen, Bob Burns and Vic DeFiori. Burns will be accompanied by his wife, Wilma. Miss Dorothy Garcia, a senior at St. Mary’s from Danville, Ill., will be the other queen and the date of DeFiori.
Also honored tonight by the students will be Professor Roger Peters, of the
Placement News
Mr. W. R. Dooley, placement director at Notre Dame, announces that the Occupational Outlook Handbook is now available at the Placement Bureau, located on the ground floor of the Main Building.
Since the bureau has at present only one copy of the book, it is necessary to keep it there for reference. However, if enough students are interested in obtaining the book, the bureau will order additional copies and establish a lending policy.
This book is of value to both graduate and undergraduate students at Notre Dame.
* # *
On Monday, Oct. 29, the Lockheed Aircraft Corp, of Burbank, Calif., will interview civil, aeronautical, mechanical, and electrical engineering students.
14
MISS DOROTHY GARCIA
. . The Judicial Assembly
Law faculty, who will act as presiding judge over the ball.
Armed with “Writs of Habeas Corpus Ad Danceamus” the future barristers will produce their dates and proceed to dance till 1 o’clock to the music of Gene Hull and his Lettermen. Two o’clock and car permissions have been granted accordingly.
Tomorrow the aspiring lawyers will escort their guests to the game with Purdue in the furtherance of an action-packed weekend. All proceedings have been arranged by the Student Law Association.
The next day, Oct. 30, joint representatives of the Bell Telephone Companies, the Bell Telephone Laboratories, and the Sandia Corp, will confer with prospective engineers and physicists.
Largest Frosh Class Swells ND Enrollment
A total of 5,006 undergraduate and graduate students have enrolled for the 1951-52 school year- at the University of Notre Dame, according to figures recently released by Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs.
These final figures reveal that 1471 students are enrolled as Freshmen in the University's four undergraduate colleges, making it the largest first year class in Notre Dame’s history.
Leading the individual colleges in Freshman enrollment is the College of Engineering, with an unusually large number of 439 students. The College of Commerce follows with 371 first
year men.
The number enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters is next with 346, but this number is swelled to 440 if 41 physical education majors and 53 men in the General Program of Liberal Education are included. The College of Science rounds out the total with its 221 first year- students.
The total enrollment for the Sophomore class is 1238, the Junior class, 920; with the Senior class being the smallest at 756. In addition to these are 39 part-time students in the undergraduate college.
Leading the colleges in Sophomore enrollment is the College of Arts and Letters with 423, followed by Commerce with 370, Engineering with 274, and Science with 171.
Commerce has by far the largest Junior enrollment with 360, followed by Arts and Letters, 254, Engineering’s 213, and Science’s 93.
The breakdown of the Seniors shows 285 enrolled in Commerce, 243 in Arts and Letters, 180 in Engineering, and only 48 in Science.
The figures also show that the College of Commerce continues, by a very small margin, to be the largest college on campus with 1390 students, ten more than the Arts and Letters total of 1380. Next comes Engineering with 1113, followed by Science with 541 students.
In addition to these there are 204 Law students of various advancements and 378 men enrolled in the Graduate School.
These final enrollment figures for this year represent a drop of 46 students from the record- enrollment of 5,052 for last year.
French Philosopher Maritain Gives Lecture on Empiricism
M. Jacques Maritain, noted French Thomistic philosopher, presented a lecture on “The Cultural Impact of Empiricism” last evening in Washington Hall.
The eminent Catholic layman is also currently delivering a series of talks on “Some of the Aspects of the Problems of Evil” at the University this month.
The lecture which Monsieur Maritain gave in Washington Hall last evening was open to the public while the series on the problems of evil remain closed to all students except those in the Medieval Institute and graduate students in the Department of. Philosophy.	-hr...:. .	-
The Scholastic
Army ROTC Program Will Accept Students Next Semester in Basic or Advanced Course
In answer to many inquiries relating to enrollment in the Army ROTC program this coming semester, certain students will be eligible.
General requirements are: 1) The applicant must be a citizen of the United States; 2) he must be physically qualified; 3) he must not be over 23 years of age at the time of enrollment; 4) he must be acceptable academically by institutional standards; and 5) he must have two academic years remaining at the University.
If the student has had three years high school ROTC or six months active military service, he may be admitted to second-year basic.
The two-year basic course is open to students of all colleges. The specialization and technical skills are given during the two-year advanced course, which is open only to those students in engineering, mathematics and science.
Advantages of Basic
However, the advantages of taking the basic course for two years are twofold: 1) The successful completion of two years of college in conjunction with two years of basic training qualifies a student for Officer Candidate School. Those students who have not begun
upon the number of students who enroll from the non-technical schools.
Nearly all students are aware now of the presence of this ROTC unit and the role it plays in the Army. Those who are not familiar with the program are advised to investigate some of the course offerings and to become acquainted with the group.
Necessary information may be ob-r tained in the ROTC offices, Social Science Building. Applications are to be accepted no later than Nov. 10.
DuPont Official Council Head For Science and Engineering
Dr. William S. Calcott, assistant chemical director of the Organic Chemical Department of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington, Del., has been elected chairman of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame.
Dr. Calcott was elected at the recent fall meeting of the council at Notre Dame. He succeeds Leland V. Stanford, vice-president of the Sinclair Refining Co.
Arthur J. Schmitt, president of the American Phenolic Corp., Cicero, Ill.,
replaces Dr. Calcott as vice-chairman.
The Advisory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame is composed of 21 leading scientists and industrialists. It advises the University, on its science and engineering research.
Hall Decoration Winner Gets Trophy in Halftime Ceremony
All of the campus residence halls were represented by their newly-elected presidents at a recent meeting to discuss plans for tomorrow’s hall decoration contest.
The contest, which is a part of the homecoming celebration, will have a $75 trophy as a prize for the hall with the most expressive and original decoration. Plans are being formulated for the awarding of the prize during the half time of the Purdue game.
This will be the first project for the hall councils. It will be only the beginning of a full schedule of activities which will keep the councils busy for the entire year..
The Hall presidents are as follows: Roland Kohlbeck, Alumni; Dick Harvey, Badin; Jim Barry, Breen-Phillips; John Connors, Cavanaugh; Jim Gallagher, Dillon; Jack McDermott, St. Edwards; Joe O’Donnell, Farley; Justin’ Davis, Howard; George Welch, Lyons; Mike Caliandro, Morrissey; Joe O’Brien, Sorin; John Moran, Walsh; Richard Reamer, Zahm.
their Junior year can enroll in the basic course and qualify for the Army Officer Candidate School upon graduation; 2) If a sufficient number of students in non-technical fields apply and are accepted, the University can petition the Army for the establishment of a non-technical advanced course.
Briefly, this means that students in Arts and Letters or Commerce, in a non-technical field, could continue in the ROTC program in a branch such as the Quartermaster or Transportation Corps. This would be contingent
SMC Plans Nov. 16 Soph Cot; Close Tea Dances to Stags
At present, no definite fixed schedule is in existence for the Sunday afternoon tea dances at St. Marys College across the way. Except on days when St. Mary’s has an open house, all Sunday afternoon visitors from N. D. must have prearranged dates.
Scheduled for Nov. 16 is the St. Mary’s Sophomore Cotillion. Details for the dance have not as yet been worked out.
HALL PREXIES WITH COUNCILMAN MANION (R.) Vieing for $75 Trophy This Weekend
Oct. 26, 1951
15

University Theater Scores Hit With 'Faust'; 'Professional Touch' Marks Fall Production
By JERRY COSTELLO
By definition, the University of Notre Dame Theater is an amateur group. The recent production of Faust, however, should not fall under that heading. It was professional in virtually every sense of the word.
Van Goethe’s version of the familiar story of Faust was vividly retold before an appreciative Washington Hall audience last Sunday through Wednesday.
A brief dialogue between the angel . Raphael and Mephistopheles, in which the latter vows to win a pure soul, opens the drama. , His intended victim is the learned, saintly Doctor Faust. The first faint traces of the devil’s wiles induce Faust to despair over what he feels is his limited knowledge. He longs for a change from his drab existence. Pondering the thought of suicide, he is dissuaded from this by the sound of a heavenly choir. Ultimately, he decides to risk the torture of hell rather than to succumb to the “perpetual sleep” of heaven.
Faust’s wishes for a sweeping change are fulfilled by the dramatic entrance of Mephistopheles. In return for Faust’s soul after death, he promises to be his servant on earth, and envisions for him the sensual pleasures that together they will find.
Later, Mephistopheles and Faust are in a city square, where the newly-rejuvenated Doctor is attracted by a pretty, pious villager named Margaret. Turning down the devil’s offer to give him a richer, nobler woman, Faust persuades the disappointed Mephisto to see to it that Margaret will be his.
Faust and Margaret
Charmed by the mysterious appearance of- costly gifts, thoughtfully provided by the devil, Margaret is anxious to have a fuller knowledge of the stranger called Faust. In a garden scene, after the devil coyly leads Margaret’s mother away, Faust and the young girl eagerly proclaim their love for one another.
Shortly afterward, though, Faust undergoes a sudden change of heart. Speaking to Mephistopheles, he feels that he is unworthy of the love of so pure a girl. The devil dispels this notion, noting that her love for him is by now too great. He orders the luck-.less doctor to return to her.
Margaret, fearing momentarily that.-Faust has rejected her love, is over
26
joyed to see him. The devil has managed to get Margaret’s mother out of town, and Faust spends the night with the girl.
The devil secretly convinces Margaret that she is beyond forgiveness, and her actions rapidly become the scandal of the village. Margaret kills her mother to prevent her knowledge of her daughter’s shame, and still further tragedy takes place when Faust murders Margaret’s brother.
In a dramatic prison scene, the two lovers forsake an available escape and renounce their worldly pleasure, implicitly begging to be forgiven.
Following their death, Mephistopheles once more encounters the angel in a brief epilogue. His plea for the soul of Faust is turned down by Raphael, who explains that through their sensual love, Margaret and Faust came upon a greater, spiritual love. As the curtain falls, the devil bemoans his neverending struggle and eternal defeat.
No single factor can be hailed as the reason for the success of Faust. A careful blending is responsible foi- its enthusiastic reception.
Direction, Acting Are Convincing
First of all, direction was in the experienced hands of Mr. Leonard Sommer. The results of his work can best be seen in the performance of the cast. Mr. Stephen Hauser, recently a Notre Dame student and now an instructor of mathematics, turned in an outstanding performance as Mephistopheles. In a role that could have easily been overplayed because of several good comic lines, Mr. Hauser had the right touch.
Cast as Faust, Joseph Tunney played a convincing part. Ann Duncan was
STUDENT COUNCIL AGENDA
The agenda for the next meeting of the Student Council, which is to be held Monday at 7:15 p.m. in Room 100 Law Building, includes a report on the Dining Hall situation by Father Joyce.
The meeting will be open to all students. Students having suggestions are asked to submit such reports to their Student Council Representative.
No questions from the floor will be honored during this portion of the meeting.
equally good as Margaret, and her scene before • the image of the Virgin was especially noteworthy. Hildegarde Vargyas as Margaret’s mother, Thomas Mathews as Raphael, and the other members of the cast did more than capable work.
The sets and lighting were dramatically effective. Supervised by Mr. John Tumpane, a newcomer to the Notre Dame Speech Department, the scenes of “selected realism” were an innovation here—an innovation that was highly appreciated. The moonlight effect in the final prison scene and the soft chapel lighting both deserve special mention.
Adding to the over-all mood of the work were carefully selected musical bridges of Brahms, Beethoven, Wagner, and Berlioz.
Only one imperfection in Faust could be noticed. At several points in the drama, recorded voices were used, and these failed to carry through to the audience. This, however, was a minor detail and failed to detract from the enjoyment of the play.
A closing thought: whoever vetoed individual curtain calls should be warmly congratulated. The success of Faust didn’t hinge on individual performances.
The University of Notre Dame Theater, under the direction of Mr. William Eisen, has grown immeasurably in stature during these past four years. This presentation stands as strong evidence of the progress that has been made.
Because of the success of Faust, the December production of Old Heidelberg will be eagerly awaited.
WND Airs Cotillion, Invites Sophs, Dates to Open House
Direct from the Palais Royale Ballroom tonight, WND will broadcast the music of Al Trace at the Sophomore Cotillion, and all Cotillion-goers are invited to the station’s open house tomorrow.
Nine o’clock null be starting time for the broadcast, as the student voice visits the second year men’s “Southern Serenade.”
Visitors to WND’s third “open house” of the season tomorrow will find the studios of the student voice radically changed since the last time the station threw open its doors on the day of the SMU game.
Under the direction of tech engineer Paul Curtin, a crew of five engineei's began construction of the second story of the studios last Saturday morning, and were all but finished by late in the afternoon.
The Scholastic
A floor has been completely laid covering the area above the present engineering department, and walls and partitions will soon be added to divide the new room between the technical engineering and continuity departments which will share it.
Aiding Curtin in the carpentry work were Ted Byrne, Bob Donoghue, Joe Frediani, Jim Noonan, and Jack Horan.
Head technical engineer Ted Byrne also announces that the refurbishing of Studio B is proceeding according to plan. ‘'Which means,” says Byrne, “that we’ve done next to nothing since last week. It should be finished in a couple of weeks though.”
Another new sight greeting Open House guests will be the finally completed record catalog. So great is the
Council Suggests Friday SMC Tea Dances;
Students Granted Limited Use of Hall Phones
Future social functions with Saint Mary’s College, the installation of 13 dial phones for communication between residence halls and campus offices, and the possible establishment of town meeting-style seminars were the foremost topics of discussion at last Monday’s Student Council meeting.
In his report to the Council, Floyd. Blair, co-chairman of the Social Committee, announced that a meeting of his committee was held with the Social Committee of Saint Mary’s, at which time social calendars for the forthcoming year were coordinated.
Blair also stated that at this meeting the suggestion was made that the traditional Sunday afternoon “tea dance” be changed to a Friday evening affair with admission by ticket only. The recreation hall at St. Mary’s would be the site of these functions with the hope that the crowded conditions that existed in the past would no longer prevail.
Blair concluded his report by stating that the suggested plan has been placed before proper authorities for approval.
One Free Phone Per Hall
Bev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs, reported to the members of the Council that 13 dial phones, one in each campus residence hall, are to be installed in the near future.
The expressed purpose of these phones will be for communication between the residence halls and important campus offices.
“These phones,” Father- Carey stated, “are not to be used by students for interhall communication.”
size of the station’s musical library that librarian Bruce Harrison has had his hands full keeping up the listing of the standard 78 records, and just recently got around to filing all the Sam Goody 45 long playing discs.
“We discovered that WND owns, including selections on the Thesauras Transcription Service, over 12,000 records,” said Harrison. The record librarian also announced that a new policy of acquiring recordings of old-time popular hits has gone into effect at WND.
“Old Bing Crosby favorites and things like that, which were popular before the station went on the air and consequently, which we haven’t had in the library, are now being accumulated,” Harrison stated.
Releasing one phone in each hall, Father added, is not expected to hamper the completion of incoming longdistance phone calls.
Dials will probably be reinstalled on the second-floor phones in each hall.
A comprehensive report on the structure and history of the National Federation of Catholic College Students was submitted to the Council and incorporated into the minutes.
NFCCS Plans ‘Town Meetings’
NFCCS Senior Delegate Al DeCrane announced the establishment of a committee by the NFCCS to inaugurate town-meeting style seminars for the remainder of the school year. This system, as suggested, will include all the departments of the University, and will enable students and faculty to discuss controversial subjects in a round-table manner.
Said DeCrane, “By this means it is hoped to encourage more campus groups to actively participate in the educational life of the University and also to gain more recognition for the en-
WANTED: ONE MAN
The Publications Department is in the market for a little help in the photo lab. Specifically, for a student to develop and print pictures taken by DOME and SCHOLASTIC photographers. Anyone interested can contact the editors of SCHOLASTIC or DOME, or Mr. John P. Defant, Director of Publications, in the offices in Farley' Hall basement.
deavor of scholarship in the eyes of the students.”
Council Secretary Tom Reedy reported to the Council that to date only 54 campus organizations have registered with the Student Council and recommended that a token penalty be exacted. Those clubs not meeting the Oct. 30 date would be assessed a §5 fine.
Apologize to SMU
In his president’s report, Council head Jim Garvin gave an account of his weekend in Pittsburgh as the guest of the Student organization at the University of Pittsburgh.
Garvin also cited in his report various articles which appeared in a Dallas newspaper concerning the unsportsmanlike conduct of Notre Dame students.
At the suggestion of the Council, Garvin agreed to send a letter of explanation and apology to the Southern Methodist Student Council.
The Council’s president concluded his report by stating that, in conformity with past policy, the head of the Purdue student body has been extended an invitation to the Purdue-Notre Dame football game this weekend.
The Council has reserved Nov. 30 as the date on which the AROTC wall hold its annual dance. Members of the Council also approved the appointment’ of Sommers Brown as chairman for the forthcoming affair.
Sociology Club to Meet
The Sociology Club announces that its first meeting of the year- will be held at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 30, in Room 101 of the Law Building.
Rev. James M. Murphy, O.P., will discuss “The Role of Conscience in Social Psychology.” The discussion will start at 8 p.m. and is open to all students.
Italian Club's Garippo Heads Kampus Keglers This Year
Leading the Kampus Keglers this year will be Lou Garippo of the Italian Club’s bowling team. The New Jersey Club’s Bob Stefkovitch will serve as vice-president, Ernie Buckley- of the Irish Club as secretary, and Cleveland Club bowler John Roy as treasurer.
The new officers of Notre Dame's bowling league were chosen, at a recent meeting. Several rule changes were also discussed by the Keglers at that meeting and at one held yesterday.
Oct. 26, 1951
17
Eastward /tot
Photos Courtesy Baltimore Association of Commerce
The appendix, we know, is something the world can easily do without. It has no earthly reason for existence, it is attached to no vital organs, and it serves no purpose other than to provide the family doctor a steady income. It does nothing, gives nothing, and often kicks up an almighty fuss. And analogically speaking, Baltimore is the appendix of the metropolitan world.
Baltimore, according to the common misconception, is just a place attached to the more vital organ of Washington,
IS
D. C., a place with no purpose, no background, no nothing, a place where you stop off for lunch before driving the last 20 or so miles to the Nation’s Capital. And, needless to say, that’s making a big mistake. For one thing, Baltimore is strategically located between the North and South, is the nearest seabord city to the Midwest. For another, it is the country’s sixth largest city and its second seaport in foreign trade tonnage. To several hundred Notre Dame men off for a football
game and a big week-end, of course, all this isn’t of the greatest interest. But what does matter is that Baltimore has a legacy of historical interest and background rich enough to make it one of the leading convention cities, has enough to make that big week-end there and in Washington possible.
Since the student trip will arrive into the East early Thursday morning, you should have the greater part of two days for sight-seeing, as well as several evenings to pursue more universal pastimes. What you will find is a fascinating city of contradictions and paradoxes, of trim row houses and large private estates, of Revolutionary War forts and racetracks. And you will find a wealth of memorials, museums, and monuments more than able to keep you busy during your stay in the East. It is natural that a great majority of the most interesting sights are also the oldest.
A Towering Monument
Baltimore’s most famous memorial, for example, is the Washington Monument, the first erected to the memory of George Washington. Built of marble from nearby quarries, the monument towers to a height of approximately 200 feet. Begun in 1815, the edifice was completed in 1829 at a cost of $190,000. A museum in the base of the monument is open daily, and contains relics of Washington, various weapons of the Revolutionary War, and exhibits of early Baltimore history. Also to be found in Mount Vernon Place, the monument’s site, are statues of Lafayette on horseback and of Chief Justice Roger Taney.
Baltimore contains many mementos of one of the first great men in American literature—Edgar Allan Poe. The tiny house which was the home of Poe at the time of his first success is still standing, there is a Poe monument in Wyman Park, and his grave can be found in Westminster Churchyard, marked by a monument paid for by school children.
What is perhaps first in appeal to Baltimore visitors is Fort McHenry, the site of a national monument and historic shrine. It was here that on September 13, 1814, a young Baltimore lawyer visited the flagship of a British fleet which was preparing to shell the fort, and-sought the release of a prisoner. The results of Francis Scott Key’s detention, the poem written on the back of a letter, everyone knows. The original manuscript, which Key finished that same day, is preserved in the Walters Art Gallery. Thousands of people visit the fort each week to see the impressive earthworks, thickwalled dungeons and massive guns
'	The Scholastic
which guaranteed the National Anthem a happy ending. The old fort was made a national park in 1925, and has since been almost completely restored to its original appearance. Commemorating Baltimore’s participation in this War of 1812 are two monuments, the Francis Scott Key Monument and the Battle Monument in Court House Square, which commemorates the battle of North Point, in which the British were repulsed in their march on the city. In addition, there are two memorials to Colonel Armistead, who directed the defense of Fort McHenry.
Another Interesting Relic
Still another interesting relic of this era is the Shot Tower, a 234-foot-high structure built in 1829 for the production of various sized shot. Molten lead was poured from the top down the shaft into tanks of cold water at
rounding as it fell
for its appeal undoubtedly stems from
charm blended with mod-
The Great Fire
A rather prolonged period
of in-
Catholic and the Bailey’s collection
Cathedral in North America, tomb of Cardinal Gibbons. Roundhouse holds a historic of locomotives and cars, in-
its old-world ern progress.
the memorials and shrines this past history, the fine
In recognition of pation in the Civil graphical location the armies of both
Sites of general interest include the Cathedral of the Assumption, the first
Aside from which mirror
the base, the shot through space.
which
“What
Baltimore’s partici-War—and her geodrew recruits for the North and the
BALTIMORE SKYLINE
Rising Phoenix-like From the Ashes
eluding the famous “Tom Thumb.” Others are Johns Hopkins University, the University of Maryland, the Baltimore Museum of Art, and the Baltimore Zoo.
graph line was erected, over Morse sent his famous message, hath God wrought.”
FORT McHENRY
. . A Happy Ending for the National Anthem . .
South—several beautiful monuments have been erected. Among them you will find the Confederate Soldiers and Sailors Monument, the Confederate Women’s Monument, the Union Soldiers and Sailors Monument, and the double equestrian statue of generals “Stonewall” Jackson and Robert E. Lee.
An Interesting History
This wealth of monuments and shrines denotes a really interesting and seldom-quiet city history. It began in 1634, when Lord Baltimore’s ships, the Ark and the Dove, landed on the New World. When the city was first officially established a hundred years later, its inhabitants were a somewhat lawless lot whose chief occupation seems to have been the smuggling in of goods contrabanded by Great Britain. From the Revolution to the War of 1812 was Baltimore’s Golden Age, “that lusty and adventurous time when youth was in the saddle and horizons expanded overnight.” The city’s initial wealth was due to the Baltimore Clipper ships, the swiftest vessels afloat which took over much of the free trade which resulted from the long-raging Anglo-Napoleonic wars. “A nest of pirates,” the British termed Baltimore during the war of
1812. The next period, while not quite as spectacular, -was one of solid achievement. When the Erie Canal posed a new threat to the city’s rich trade with the newly-opened West, she answered with the first commercial and passenger railroad to be built in the United States, the Baltimore and Ohio. It was from Baltimore, too, that the first tele-
dolence after the Civil War was shattered, as was the case with several other cities, by a catastrophe. The great Baltimore fire of 1904 created the opportunity of constructing a modern business district, and laid the groundwork for the city as it stands today. Now in its third hundred years of existence, the sweep of centuries is important in understanding the city today,
WASHINGTON MONUMENT
The first- memorial to the first president
food you will find in Baltimore will definitely be one of the largest rewards for those making the trip. Seafood as far removed from sewer trout as an afternoon hygiene class is from the phy ed fields, bluefish, channel bass, oysters and lobsters, duck and geese, all from deep, beautiful Chesapeake Bay, an inland sea which provides Baltimore with delicious seafood in bountiful quantities. Moreover, you can find it in any number of good, inexpensive restaurants scattered throughout the city. And the night life is that of any large city—adequate.
So that’s Baltimore, a city rich in history, in interest, in food and recreation. There’s enough time to get a liberal sample of it. It’s quite a city. But then, so is South Bend.
OK!
The Cruise of the J oily J
by Fran Meaney — U.S. Navy Photos
Staggering - under a seabag and a suitcase, both of which some fiend had obviously crammed with rocks, I stumbled along Norfolk’s Navy Pier No. 5. Halfway down the dock the column stopped and I gratefully heaved my two stoneheaps to the ground. Glancing to the side, I noticed a small boat huddled in the monstrous shadow of the battleship Wisconsin. Could that little boat be the thing they were sending
20
me to Europe in? No, I decided, it couldn’t be. But still unsure I turned on my best inquiring look and politely asked the midshipman next- to me if this boat was going to take^us out. to our ship. He gave me a 1-ather Plasty look, I thought, and laughed somewhat unpleasantly. “This,” he informedime, “happens to be the USS Johnston, DD 821, upon which you and I will have the opportunity of enjoying several
weeks as we cruise to Europe.”
I turned a ghastly green under my winter/pallor and stood there mumbling somethiri*gj,about going to sea in a green pea- pod. A seabag thumped against the back of my head and I was invited to go aboard—quite nastily, too.
We filed forward to look for our compartments and found the Annapolis Middies already aboard. We exchanged blank stares and a friendship was born.
'	The Scholastic
’ * T?

At 1330 (1:30 p.m., you land lubber!), 4 June 1951, we were mustered to quarters for leaving port. I, determined to start off on the right foot, showed up only five minutes late. Some Annapolis guy seemed to be in charge and frothed at me for something. Since I was the only ND man aboard I satisfied myself with sneering at him when he turned away.
Presently I was almost lifted out of my shoes—noticeably minus the de riguer spit shine — by a long deep-throated blast of the ship’s whistle. With misgivings I watched the lines being cast off and felt the throbbing of turbines springing to life. All too soon the ship was speeding toward the open sea. Toward sundown I stood on the fantail and watched the last bit of the Virginia Capes slide under the horizon. . . . All that water and this little bit of tin. . . . With storms predicted too. If my fairy godmother had given me one wave of the wand for my own right then, I know what I would have said—“Gee, I wish I could swim.”
Laid Low
’ The first two days at sea were pretty smooth. But then, on the morning of the third day at reveille, I rolled out of my rack—and kept going. The ship was pitching and I was catching it— ' right in the stomach. I didn't feel too good. A look around the compartment showed that I wasn’t alone in my misery. What I need is a breath of fresh ‘ air, said I, and up I went. Unfortunately my compartment was below the mess deck.	The soggy smell of
’ fat bacon hit me in the face and nearly knocked me back down the ladder. But I bolted for- the hatchway and swung
up the ladder to the main deck. My stomach felt like somebody was using it for a punching bag. Just as I stepped out onto the storm-washed deck I got a terrific jolt—a right cross, I bet—and fell toward the rail. I had just assumed the time-honored position when the Johnston plunged into a wall of water that crashed over the fo’c’sle in a knee-deep stream. With even the lint in my shirt pocket drenched, I decided this was no place for me in my delicate condition and went below to sag onto my rack.
That first rough weather had ship’s company and middies alike on the flat of their backs. Those who could walked, slipped and/or crawled up to the Pharmacist’s Mate for seasick pills. The rest suffered agonies, unrelieved by the miracles of science.
But about a year later—two days by the calendar—strength returned to limbs and feeble minds began to function once again, and practically all were back on their feet. One Academy third classman, the son of an Admiral, was on the ropes for fair and didn’t eat a meal till we reached Edinburgh twelve days later. The ship’s log reported the condition of the seas as “moderate” that first 48 hours but you couldn’t prove it by him. But it got much worse before it got better.
When -the gale finally blew itself out, it was found that several ships in the Task Group had suffered damages, the worst hit being the Bauer, which had lost the use of one screw. She was to proceed directly to Plymouth, England, for repairs with the Johnston as her escort. The rest of the formidable Task Group, the greatest show of American sea power in European waters since war’s end, continued on a north
erly course, while we veered to the southeast.
Ireland Sighted
June 15 saw us 25 miles off Notre Dame’s own Emerald Isle. Another day and we were rounding Land’s End and giving the three-0 sign to Bauer as she steamed into Plymouth harbor. Full speed ahead through the English Channel and into the chilly North Sea. Early Monday morning, the 18th, we rendezvoused on schedule with the Wisconsin, destroyer Bailey, and the speed transport Carpellotti outside the Firth of Forth. At 0730 we dropped anchor in the shadow of the cantilever Forth Bridge. We had arrived.
Later in the day’ two sidewheelei- tugs maneuvered us through the locks opening into the dock area of Leith. Built while the Grand Army of the Republic was defending Gettysburg, the locks afforded little elbow room for a modern warship and several times the “Jolly J” slammed into the stone wall sidings. But it was the Bailey that took the beating. When a tug line parted she rammed head-on into a stone piling and tore a three-foot gash in her bow. Then the recoil threw her stem against a side wall and crunched in her starboard depth charge rack.
World's Most Beautiful Street
Then the first day of liberty on foreign soil. We were off the ship at 0900 and hopped a trolley for the two-mile ride to Edinburgh. The car climbed a long hill and then turned onto Princes Street, “The Most Beautiful Street in the World.” And the Scots had good reason to be proud of it. On the right were impressive buildings of (Continued on Page 32)
BUCKINGHAM PALACE	EDINBURGH CASTLE
A cattle train ride away ....	.... from a breath of history
Oct. 26, 1951
21
Capital Trip Again Set For End of Semester
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew of the Department of Political Science will again conduct a seven-day tour of Washington, D. C., and other points of scenic and historical interest between semesters for all students who wish to participate.
The trip begins Thursday evening, Jan. 24, the last day of semester examinations, and will be completed with the return of the students to the campus on Wednesday morning, Jan. 30, the last day of registration.
Although all details are not as yet completed, it is known that the students will leave from and return to LaPaz, Ind., on the B. & 0. “Columbian” and that buses will be used for the side trips after arrival in Washington.
While in the nation’s capital, the students will make a tour of the sights, among which will be the Capitol, the Senate, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Mellon Art Gallery.
They will eat in well-known restaurants like the Capitol and Senate restaurants, besides attending several dinners in their honor. Each year that the trip has been undertaken the students have been invited to one of the foreign embassies.
See Old-Style Williamsburg
One of the highlights of this year’s jaunt will be the excursion to beau-
VICTORY DANCE
tiful Williamsburg, Va. A boat trip to Norfolk, Va., and then a bus ride will take the students to this former capital of Virginia, which has been restored as nearly as possible to its pre-Eevolution quaintness. The atmosphere is added to by the wearing of period costumes by the townspeople.
Other sites to be visited are Mt. Vernon, George Washington’s plantation; Alexandria, another colonial shrine; Jamestown, the site of the first English settlement in America; and Yorktown, where the Revolutionary War ended with the surrender of the British army.
The purpose of the entire tour, although the trip is of interest in itself, is to acquaint the student with physical points of interest and with the official workings of the nation’s government, Dr. Bartholomew said.
CCD Seeks More Students To Bolster Teaching Groups
Adult study groups have been organized by the local chapter of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine during the past weeks and a full program is now being set up to spread the Catholic religion to more adults, high school students, and to the colored residents of South Bend.
Students who signed up to teach these groups have been split up into four sections. The first is now organizing and teaching the adult groups in the various parishes downtown.
The second committee is preparing to
teach in the high schools. Plans are being made to get the students together ' into classes and it is hoped that the . actual classes will start in the next month.	y j
The third classification of Notre M Dame students engaged in this mis- - i sionary work is the research com-	J
mittee. It is their job to set up the J syllabus for the teachers and to pre- 1 pare lists or reference books for the i convenience of the students who are spending their time in actual teaching. The ultimate goal of this committee ; is to set up a permanent file of references on the various topics along with a record of the lectures given by the students. The CCD in future years	j
will then have a complete backlog to	|
work with.	s
More Men Needed
The fourth group is preparing to work among the colored in the Chapin street area. A central meeting place may be set up or the alternate proposal being to organize block groups to meet with CCD representatives in the former’s homes to discuss the mysteries of the Catholic Faith.
This committee needs more men to make its work successful. Freshmen and Sophomores interested in teaching downtown are urged to join this committee in order to gain valuable experience and knowledge necessary to j teach next year. It is intended not to require more than two hours a week of each member to do the necessary work.
Anyone interested in teaching or in contributing to this work in any way whatsoever may contact Bill Motzel in 329 Dillon or John Corrigan in 328 Dillon.
‘‘I Guess Willy’s Blind Date Didn’t Turn Out Too Well."
WHO’S WHO
Nominations are now being accepted for “Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities” for 1951-52. All Juniors, Seniors, and graduate students are eligible for nomination.
Any student in the University may nominate a candidate, which nomination shall be made in the form of a letter outlining the candidate’s qualifications and character. All nominations will be reviewed by a special Blue Circle committee which will in turn submit 60 names to the Student Council. From the list the Council will select 30 men for Who’s Who.
Deadline for nominations is next Tuesday evening, October 30, and they may be turned in to your floor representative.
22
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Irish Face Rugged Purdue Tomorrow
Boilermakers Return to Scene of '50 Upset; Samuels Again Heads Downstaters Offense
By JACK SAND
The Boilermakers of Purdue, who startled the football world last Fall by snapping Notre Dame’s undefeated string at 39, will return to the Stadium tomorrow afternoon with one thought in mind,—to upset the Irish again. But as much as Purdue would like to beat the Irish, that’s how much more Leahy’s Lads would like to avenge last season’s defeat.
Stu Holcomb, Purdue’s very adept coach, is still definitely stewing over the loss of his first string backfield stars in the person of fullback John Kerestes, and halfbacks Neil Schmidt and Mike Maccioli. Kerestes and Schmidt, who raised havoc with Irish linemen last season, were both lost through graduation, while Maccioli, who was tabbed as the No. 1 left halfback this fall, was called to service by Uncle Sam.
The Boilermakers’ record thus far this season backs up Holcomb’s beef,
LEO SUGAR
Rated as a Potential All-American
since they have lost three out of their first four, being handily whipped, 31-7, by Wisconsin last week.
Facing the Irish tomorrow will be a familiar face, quarterback Dale Samuels, whose performance in the 1950 classic was little short of amazing. The
CLINTON KNITZ
An Ironman Senior
brilliant little passer will direct a backfield trio made up of junior letter-man Phil Plezek at left halfback; Jerry Thorpe, a slight built junior, at fullback, and junior Earl Heninger at right halfback.
Heninger, who was a double duty performer last Fall, has been the leading ground gainer for the Boilermakers thus far this season. Against Texas and Iowa, the 188-pound halfback picked up 110 yards in 26 carries, in setting up a couple of Purdue touchdowns.
Combining with Heninger, is scat-back Klezek, a 166-pound ■ lad from
DALE SAMUELS
Little Short of Amazing
Chicago, who has racked up one six-pointer thus far, that coming against Iowa on a pass from Samuels. Oddly enough, young Klezek wasn’t expected to see much action this season, but due to the • loss of Maccioli he has gained his opportunity and is ably filling the bill.
Score 34 Against Iowa
At the fullback slot is Thorpe, who is no relation to the famous “Jim,” nor a Kerestes in stature, but whose added speed provides much of the spark in the Boilermaker running attack. Thorpe also hit for paydirt against Iowa, and wins the nod over Glenn Young who opened the season at fullback.
The overall scoring picture of the Boilermakers has been painted with very few touchdowns, as exemplified by a total of 41 points scored in four games to date. Against Iowa they had their biggest day, registering 34 points as to 30 for the Hawkeyes, while losing to Texas and Miami by counts of 14-0 and 7-0.
All-impoi-tant in Stu Holcomb’s plan of things, is the true-to-form Boilermaker line which has lost All-Conference (Continued on Page 26)
Oct. 26, . 1951
23
Interhall Grid Season Swings Into High Gear; Morrissey Routs Prison Team in Exhibition
The Morrissey Hall football team traveled to Michigan City, Indiana, last Sunday and took on the State Prison team in an exhibition game.
Morrissey racked up 19 points in the first half and coasted in the rest of the way, the final count being 19-6.
End Don Zech took a pass from quarterback Marty Vieth in the opening quarter and scored on a play that covered 20 yards. Before the quarter was over, Morrissey had its second touchdown on a one-yard plunge by back Joe Bandiera.
A two-yard plunge by back Mike Walsh capped a Morrissey scoring drive in the second quarter. Vieth’s placement split the uprights and Morrissey left the field at the half with a 19-0 bulge.
The two teams battled on even terms in the second half until, late in the fourth quarter, a Prison back made a spectacular 80-yard run to avert a shutout.
Farley and B-P in Deadlock
In one of the better games played thus far on the interhall gridiron, the Farley and Breen-Phillips squads finished in a 6-6 dead heat.
Farley took the opening kickoif and in just eight plays had the pigskin planted in the B-P end zone. The climactic play of the drive was a desperation fourth-down pass from tailback Joe Puccinelli which end Hugh Wilson picked out of the air on the B-P 25-yard line and carried over the goal line. The extra-point try was fumbled.
The Jim Riha-coached lads from Farley continued to dominate play and had B-P on the ropes throughout the remainder of the first half.
Coach Jim Ryan, however, did a marvelous job of bringing his team back with a renewed vigor and B-P
LYONS RUNNER ON AN END JAUNT
A “Go for Broke” Affair In the Closing Minutes
battled Farley on even terms in the third quarter. Finally, on the last play of the period, quarterback Bob Kunze flipped a pass to left halfback Ray Colpoys on the midfield stripe. Colpoys hauled in the pass and threaded his way down the sideline for the all-important tying touchdown. B-P’s bid for the lead failed, however, as the kick for extra point fell short.
Farley took the ensuing kickoff and, in a dazzling display of running and passing coordination, did not relinquish possession of the ball throughout the entire fourth quarter. Farley drove practically the entire length of the field and, as time ran out on the B-P 20-yard line, Farley was desperately heaving passes all over the field.
One of the big factors in stalling wave after wave of Farley drives was the entire defensive line of B-P which, paced by guard Ed Czuppa, played an outstanding game. Fullback Dick Brown, running out of the T-forma-tion, was B-P’s most consistent groundgainer.
On the Farley side of the ledger, Tom Cozad spearheaded the double-wingback running attack and center Hank Gies dominated the line play on both offense and defense.
Both freshman teams now have identical records of one loss and one tie.
—Ken Murphy
Morrissey 6, Dillon 0
In a hotly contested and highly spirited interhall football game, the Morrissey gridmen squeezed out a close 6-0 decision over a defensively strong Dillon eleven, Tuesday, Oct. 16, on the University athletic field. The victory was the second straight of the season for Morrissey.
Highlighting the first half was the superb defensive play of the Dillon line which held the smoothly coor
dinated Morrissey attack to a scoreless . i tie. The closest either team came to	j
pay dirt was midway through the	j
period when Morrissey drove to a first .... i down on the Dillon one-yard line but ' J were unable to go over for the score. . I
Morrissey dominated the play in tlv second half but it was not until there ; g were three minutes to go in the half | that they were able to turn the tide - i and score the only touchdown of the -i game.	a
Marty Vieth,	Morrissey’s quarter-	1
back, threw a	pass from the Dillon	J'
35-yard line into the end zone intended for Don Zech. Both Zech and Vic ■ Riley, the Dillon defensive right halfback, went into the air after the ball and in the ensuing scramble it was ruled that Riley had interfered with Zech and that the play was good for a touchdown. The attempted conversion I was blocked and despite a desperate	।
last second passing flurry by Dillon	!
the game ended with the score 6-0 in , favor of Morrissey.—Frank Goerg	|
Lyons Defeats St. Ed’s
What appeared to be a lackadaisical offensive versus a spirited defensive game, between St. Ed’s and Lyons last week, finally materialized into a “go for broke” affair in the closing minutes of the final quarter.
It was quarterback Guy Macina who sent his fellow backs through and around the line of the Saints to score the only TD of the game. Starting on their own 45-yard marker the lads from Lyons chewed up yardage on successive runs by fullback Joe Ensler for 15, halfback Phil Brahm for 20^ and halfback Paul Meheagan for another 15 yards, which brought the ball down to the five-yard stripe of the defenders.
From there it was Ensler who broke off his own left tackle for the lone score of the game. For the extra point Brahm swept around right end behind good blocking making the final score 7-0.
St. Ed’s held their ground throughout the contest giving in only in the last few minutes. However, after the Sophs had scored, the losers started a goal line surge ^of their own with Don Montemurro catching a pass in enemy territory good for 20 yards. Time was running out though, and the upper-classmen held their younger rivals till the final whistle blew.
Jim Walmath, halfback for the Freshies, was their offensive star piledriving his way into the Lyons secondary many times. Captain Bill Brewer played a sparkling game for St. Ed’s and left the game only when shaken up in the final minutes. Center Ed Dargis was conspicuous on defense making many tackles.—Tom Moore
The Scholastic
24
Nappy and His Gridders
By ROGER FERNANDES
At the moment out on the fields south of the tennis courts the interhall footballers are holding forth with many an exciting and hard-fought gridfest battle. On Nov. 3, the champions of the two campus leagues, the East and the West, will meet to decide who will be the interhall title holders in 1951.
The man directing the whole setup is Mr. Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano. Nappy’s youthful appearance belies the fact that he has been around the campus of the University of Notre Dame since 1928. And for about the last 15 of those years he has been connected with or has directed the destiny of Notre Dame’s interhall football.
Notre Dame One of the First
Notre Dame was one of the first universities ever to run a full fledged tackle football league as an intramural sport. And now many other schools are beginning to follow the example of the Irish and are organizing intramural tackle football circuits.
Here at ND the interhall football league is sponsored by the university’s Department of Physical Education headed by Dr. John A. Scannell. Mr. Napolitano is the league’s director and the officials that work the games and most of the coaches of the respective teams are physical education majors.
Good Equipment Used
Mr. Napolitano told the Scholastic that “ . . . there is a separate budget for interhall football and every bit of equipment used by the league is brand new.” The interhall players don’t receive cast-off equipment from the varsity and J. V. teams.
We got Nappy to reminisce about the
DOMINIC NAPOLITANO
Around Notre Dame Since 1928
“old days” of the interhall grid wars.
“Interhall football was very strong during .Rockne’s time. Knute encouraged interhall athletics and was the backbone of the intramural football movement when it first got started.
“Interhall football reached its highest peak,” Mr. Napolitano continued, “back during the 20’s and the early •30’s. In those days the fellows didn’t have many of the amusements that they have now. So most of them went out for interhall athletics, especially football.”
Popular Activity
Then as now, interhall football was one of the most popular sports engaged in by the hall athletes.
Nappy keeps a file of the information on interhall football and he showed
the Scholastic the interhall football report for 1950. A grand total of 305 players participated in the 16 games played last Fall before a weekly average crowd of 500 spectators. Nine Halls were represented by grid squads and not one game was forfeited by the failure of a team to appear at game time.
The campus champions, of Morrissey Hall, received little gold footballs while the players on the runnerup St. Edward’s club got silver footballs.
The key word that would best describe the present interhall football setup is that it is a voluntary affair. The coaches and players are in it because they want to be and they think it is well worth the time and hard work that they must put in for the success of such a program.
Safeguard Against Injuries
Every attempt is made to safeguard the players from injury . . . they must have a medical exam slip from the university’s doctor before they can participate; they receive first class equipment and they are under the guidance of qualified officials and coaches.
But every player participates in the interhall football program “... at his own risk,” as is emphasized in the Rules Digest. “If a student is injured in interhall football he is responsible for his own medical care and bills.” To date the interhall football leagues have not been able to find a practical way to enroll • its members in a group insurance program.
However, the precautions taken by Napolitano and his staff have paid rich dividends, for the pre-season conditioning period, the medical examination, and good equipment have kept injuries at a minimum in past years.
INTERHALL GRIDDERS IN ACTION
Coaches and Players Are In It Because They Want to Be
Oct. 26, 1951
25
Splinters fiomth^PressboX
By Jack Varley
It seems there is a small part of every periodical published today dedicated to reporting sports scandals, warning against them or giving straight forward explanations as to how the filth with its fixes etc. has crept into sports. Then when a publication comes out with the story of a man whose place in athletics has placed him on a pedestal, the contrast makes this corruption even worse.
In the November issue of Coronet, Carol Hughes writes a story about Notre Dame’s Knute Rockne and her portrait of the famous coach should cause the conscience of many a sports figure to literally cringe for if the ideals of Rockne were prevalent in the sports world today, there would be little room for contamination.
“In retrospect, the name and ethics of Knute Rockne loom larger today after time’s seasoning than they did on the day back in 1931 when his body lay in state at Notre Dame University.”
"... For Knute Rockne left a heritage of sportsmanship and living unequaled by any other man in the world of sports that he loved so deeply. His clear, concise words come down today to remind players, coaches, teams, and fans of the true meaning of sports and sportsmanship.”
Rockne Was a Man of High Ideals
Rockne's ideals were strong and he was quite willing to fight for them. He believed the best way to judge a man was by the man himself. Race, creed or financial status neither added to nor subtracted from the man.
In her article Miss Hughes recalls the time a wealthy alumnus of Notre Dame came to the Rock and demanded that his son be placed on the varsity squad. Rockne answered him,
“I care only about the team. We have no fraternities here. We play nc- favorites here. My eleven best men will make up my first eleven regardless of nationalities, creed, financial status, or social prominence.”
In this article Rockne is described as a man who taught honor, decency, consideration and fellowship. His desire for honor could not be bent even if it would.give his team more victories.
“If a player flunks in class, he’s no good to the coach or the school and the coach who goes around trying to fix it for athletes to be scholastically eligible when mentally they’re not is nothing but a plain, everyday fool!”
Rockne had the same problems in his time that coaches have today. He faced them honestly without tolerating anything dishonest or hypocritical and turned out enough winning teams to be called by many the coach of all time. His ways in football should present a pattern for all who deal in sports today. Those who think that football is the most important aspect of collegiate life; those who think that a college will stand or fall on its reputation for football should recall these words of Rockne.
“From the beginning of my career as a coach, with whatever faults I brought to my profession I at least recognize the fact that the faculty musfr run the institution. The school is their school, and the coach must bear in mind that his is an extra-curricular activity, like glee clubs, debating societies, campus politics, and publications.”
Prediction of the Week
Tomorrow afternoon, the Fighting Irish meet the Boilermakers of Purdue. Just about a year ago this time, the Irish were to meet the Boilermakers and into that battle Leahy’s gridders carried a proud 39-game streak which the lads from Lafayette were to end. That should be enough incentive for Notre Dame to post a 27-7 victory.
Irish Meet Purdue
(Continued from Page 23)
tackle John Beletic, but still sports ■ nine returning lettermen, including center Clint Knitz and a couple of outstanding ends.
Knitz, an ironman senior, and one of the best centers in the Big Ten, will anchor the middle of the Purdue line, flanked by veteran ends Leo Sugar, and Darrel Brewster. Sugar, who hails from Flint, Mich., plays a sweet defensive left end and is rated by Holcomb as a potential All-American.
Brewster Samuels’ Favorite
Offensively, Brewster and Bernie
Flowers rate as Samuels’ favorite re-
DARREL BREWSTER A Favorite of Samuels
ceivers. Flowers, an Erie, Pa., boy, tips the scale at 190, while Brewster weighs in at 200.
Filling in the offensive tackle slots will be Sophomore whizz Dave Whitaker, and senior veteran Billy Bruner. Whitaker, a rugged 210-pounder, is the lone newcomer to the offensive unit, while the Oklahoma born Bruner solves Holcomb’s othei- tackle problem.
Forming the center of the Purdue line along with Knitz, are guards Jack Houston, from Massillon, 0., and Joe Skibirski from Chicago. Defensively, newcomer Fred Pregiosia, a 200-pound freshman, and Ray Pacer, a bruising soph, should be given special attention along with vet Al Hager.
Backing up the Boilermakers’ forward wall will • be Don Kasperan and Norm Montgomery, the latter also being the team’s leading punter with an average of 34 yards per boot.
The Scholastic
26
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UP (Offense)
PURDUE	NOTRE DAME
Brewster .....LE....... Ostrowski Whitaker ..............LT. Poehler
Houston ......LG.......... Seaman
Knitz ........C .......... Hunter
Skibirski ....RG............. Lee
Bruner .......RT.......... Toneff
Flowers ......RE....... Mutscheller Samuels ...............QB. Mazur
Klezak .......LH.... Petitbon Heninger ..........RH... Barrett
Thorpe .......FB.......... Worden
Kickoff time: 1:30 CST.
In the safety spot will be Phil Mateja, who returned a punt 92 yards against Iowa for Purdue’s longest score of the season. Winding up the secondary is junior halfback Curt Jones or possibly Tom Redinger.
Pittsburgh No Match
The Fighting Irish in the meantime* having bounced back on the victory trail by ripping Pittsburgh’s hapless Panthers, 33-0, are more eager now than ever to return to the heights of national prominence.
Frank Leahy’s charges, in a complete reversal of the form they displayed against SMU, had little trouble in handing Pitt its fourth straight setback. But perhaps the most heartening sight of the contest was the quarterbacking of John Mazur, who led his mates to four of the five touchdowns.
Notre Dame actually wrapped up the game in the first quarter when Mazur flipped 10 yards to Billy Barrett in the end zone for the initial score. Again in the second quarter it was a Mazur to Barret aerial which clicked, for a TD, climaxing a 54-yard downfield jaunt set up by a Pitt fumble.
Late in the same period John Latt-nei- recovered a Panther fumble on the Irish 46. Paul Reynolds, running star of the game, then took a couple of handoffs from Mazur and lugged the ball close enough to the goal for th'--quarterback to sneak over and give the Irish a 20-0 lead at halftime.
As the final half rolled around, masterful Mazur scored again on a one-yard dive, capping an 80-yard march. Just to keep things even, the Irish added another seven-pointer in the last quarter when halfback Joe Heap raced 17 yards through the Pitt line to score. Minnie Mavraides booted his third extra point in five tries to make it 33-0 and the beginning of another Irish winning streak.
Oct. 26, 1951
Trojans, State Win; Four Foes Defeated
By JOHN COX
As Notre Dame returned to its winning ways by trouncing Pittsburgh, the future Irish grid foes mustered only two wins in six games. The victors were Michigan State and Southern California while North Carolina, Iowa, Navy and Purdue went down to defeat.
The Trojans of Southern Cal gave the old dope bucket a good kick as they upset the heavily favored California Bears.
Trailing 14-0 in the second half the Trojans began to move. Frank Gifford raced 69 yards for a touchdown, then passed to Dean Scheider for another. Gifford made good on both conversions. Leon Sellers plunged over for the tiebreaking tally late in the fourth quarter. This upset makes the season finale with the Irish one of the big games of the year.
Spartan Downs Penn State
Another big game this year looms as Michigan State’s Spartans chalked up their fifth win this season by downing a game Penn State team 32-21. The Spartans jumped to an early lead on fumble recoveries by Bill Hugres, Vince Pisano and Don McAuliffe. Penn State roared back and went ahead in the third quarter 14-13. Then the Biggie Munn’s boys took over. Jim Ellis ran back a punt 57 yards to score, McAuliffe passed to Al Dorow for another and Leroy Bolden ran 66 yards to sew the game up for the Spartans.	*
Purdue’s Boilermakers, next on the Irish schedule, couldn’t cope with the passing of John Coatta and the running of Gerald Witt and Alan Ameche as they went down in defeat to Wisconsin 31-7. Coatta passed for one touchdown and set up another. Witt hit pay-dirt twice and Ameche once as the Boilermakers tried in vain to halt the Badgers.
Dale Samuels, star of last year’s Purdue victory over Notre Dame, picked up only 77 yards with his passes. He hit eight out of 26. The lone Purdue score occurred when the Boilermakers recovered a Badger fumble on the Badger four yard line. Don Kas-peran plunged over for the marker.
Navy fought hard but went down to defeat before North western’s Wildcats. An 88 yard run by Dick Alban and a long dash by Chuck Hren sealed the doom of the Middies. They didn’t reach paydirt until the third quarter when Dean Smith ran fourteen yards on a fake pass play.
The Iowa Hawkeyes won the battle
of statistics but lost the game as the Michigan Wolverines beat them 21-0. The Hawkeyes piled up 310 yards as against Michigan’s 205 but didn’t have the punch in the right spots. Bill Reichardt, Iowa fullback, picked up 152 yards on the ground to outgain the Wolverines in that department. Michigan scored on a plunge from the one by Bill Putich, a three yard plunge by Don Peterson and a twenty yard run by Peterson.
The Tarheels of North Carolina lost a heartbreaker to Maryland 14-7. Maryland scored the first time it had the ball with Ralph Felton going the last twenty-eight yards. The Tarheels bounced right back with a forty-two yard drive climaxed by a four yard wash by Bob Grantt. An eleven yard pass from Bob Shemonski to Lou Weidensaul put Maryland back into Hie lead. The Tarheels fought gamely the rest of the way and might have come out with a tie but Grantt dropped Billy Williams pass in the end zone in the closing minutes of the game.
Here’s how Notre Dame’s opponents have fared so far this year:
Team	Won	Lost	Tie
Indiana —	—			.2	2	0
Detroit 			2	3	0
S. M. U	-			9	3	0
Pittsburgh 	—		0	4	0
Purdue 	-			1	3	0
Navy 					0	3	1
Michigan State 			0	0
North Carolina 			2	3	0
Iowa 			2	2	0
Southern California	....5	0	0
Tennis Meet Nears Finish; Langford Impressed by Play
“On the basis of what I have seen thus far in this Fall’s intramural tennis tournament I have high hopes for our ’51 varsity tennis team,” Mr. Walter Langford, ND’s tennis coach for the past 12 years, announced to the Scholastic last weekend.
“The quality of play throughout the matches has been a lot stronger than that displayed in last year’s tournament. We’ve had more really outstanding players and a large number of good, steady ones participating this Fall.” *	.
Last year the ND tennis squad had a mediocre season with only five wins in 11 outings. It was the worst record for a Langford—coached team in the even dozen years that Mr. Langford has been guiding the fortunes of Notre Dame’s top racquet swingers. And the affable mentor has plans to make up for last year’s poor showing this coming Spring.
27
So far the favorites have lived up to* expectations in the 1951 Intramural Tennis tournament. The contests were open to all but monogram winners in tennis and this Fall a record number of entries, 110, registered with Mr. Langford.
As the Scholastic goes to press for this week the ’51 tournament was only two matches from completion. The winner of the first, a semi-final joust between first seeded Jim Fan-ell, a sophomore from Kalamazoo, Mich., and fourth ranked Dick Simons, a sophomore from South Bend, will go into the finals for the intramural crown against second seeded Wally Clarke, a freshman from San Francisco, Calif.
A sophomore from Lakewood, 0., Chuck Gallagher, a comparative unknown proved to be the surprise of the tournament. He worked his way to the semi-finals before being eliminated by Clarke 6-1 and 6-0.
In five previous matches Gallagher numbered among his victims third seeded Don Crowley, whom he edged in straight sets 6-3 and 6-4 in the quarter-finals, and fifth ranking Bill Beale, who also succumbed in straight sets 6-3 and 6-2.
One of the finest encounters of the tourney was the spirited battle be-
For your convenience ...
SHIRTS EXPERTLY LAUNDERED
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson On the Bus Line
20% DISCOUNT ON CLEANING AND PRESSING
rOUR FALL CLOTHES ... SIR?
Through their unchanging Excellence of Quality . ■ • Artistry and Skilled Craftsmanship . . . clothes bearing our name give assurance of complete satisfaction and proven value.
Select from more than 600 domestic and imported Fall woolens . . . expertly designed and tailored to your individual measurements.
S57.50 upwards. Either ready-to-wear or tailor-made.
PARKER-WINTERROWD — Tailors - Clothiers
115^-117% N. Main St. (upstairs). South Bend, Indiana
Phone 3-6318 for appointment.
tween Clarke and Gerry Finney in the quarterfinals. Clarke had to go all out to win over- his plucky opponent 7-5, 6-8, and 6-2.
In swinging his way into the semifinals, Jim Farrell, the favorite, won five matches in straight sets. His toughest opposition to date was furnished by eighth seeded player Raymond Tierney. Farrell slipped past Tierney 6-4 and 6-4 in the quarter-finals.—Roger Fernandes
Reynolds Leads in Rushing; Barrett Steps Out Against Pitt
Billy Barrett stepped back among the leaders of the Irish statistics race this week, as he had his best day of the year against the Pitt Panthers in Pittsburgh. The diminutive back, who tied All-American Emil Sitko for the scoring lead two years ago, in 1949, when Sitko was a senior, picked up 40 yards in eight carries on the rushing side, an average of five yards a carry, to boost his total yardage for the year to 138 in 40 carries. In the widely spread out rushing race, this places him third to Neil Worden and Paul Reynolds. Barrett’s best efforts Saturday, though, came by the pass receiving route. He snagged two of John Mazur’s heaves, for 38 yards, and two scores. The first one saw Barrett take a flank toss in the end zone, and on the second, he went 28 yards down the middle.
Paul Reynolds moved into the top spot in the rushing department. He picked up 83 yards in 11 carries against Pitt, to boost his total for* the season to 157 in 24 carries. This is an aver-age-per-carry of 6.5 yards.
Bearing out the maxim that football players, like hitters in baseball, work in spurts, was John Mazur, Irish quarterback. Mazur figured in four of the five touchdowns scored last Saturday, scoring two himself on sneaks, and throwing twice to Bill Barrett. Two weeks ago it was John Petitbon’s night, as he scored three times against De
troit, and three weeks ago sophomore Neil Worden got 24 points against Indiana, all in the first quarter.
In the team statistics column, the Irish of this year show an encouraging improvement over performance of last year’s squad. This year’s squad has 141 points, more than the 1950 team turned in during the complete nine-game schedule. They have gained 964 yards on the ground, almost twice as much as the 499 registered at the same time last year.
Pitt Downs Irish Harriers; Purdue Tomorrow's Guest
Although their football squad was decisively defeated last Saturday, the Pitt Panthers were able to salvage something for the day when their crosscountry team outlegged Notre Dame’s harriers in a dual meet by the score of 24-35.
The spotlight, however, was stolen from the Pitt victory by the individual performance of the Irish’s Jack Alexander. The ND soph established a new record for the four and one-half mile “Smokey City” course, covering the distance in 22:08.6. Alexander and his teammate, Benny Almaguer, set the pace for most of the way, but Pitt’s Luterancick put on a strong finishing kick and edged out Almaguer at the tape for the number two spot. Luterancick was clocked in 22:10, the Irish runner in 22:11. Mahanna of Pittsburgh finished fourth with 22:47.
Notre Danie’s other point-getters were Bob Feiler, placing eighth in 23:02; George Helfenstein, eleventh at 23:46, and rounding out the scoring, Con Tetrault, twelfth with 24:01.
This week, Coach Wilson’s charges engage Purdue on the Irish campus in a meet that will be run previous to the grid encounter between the two schools. Notre Dame now has a record of one win and one loss in dual meets and a second in their only triangular meet.
—Bill Noonan
Finance Club Votes Affiliation With Professional Association
The Notre Dame Finance Club has decided to become a student affiliate of the American Finance Association. Action was taken at a recent dinnermeeting of the club, when Prof. L. H. Eels presented the group with the opportunity of AFA membership.
All requirements having been met, the club will fill out formal admittance papers at its next scheduled meeting.
The recent meeting was the club’s third of the year and its first dinner.
The Scholastic


28
Cotillion
(Continued from Page 9) lene Samas. A 1950 grad of Thornton High School, she is presently employed by the Whiting Oil Corporation.
Active Weekend Planned
For the Cotillion-goers an active weekend has been planned, starting at the monster pep rally at 7:30 tonight. After watching the bonfire, they will don formal attire, and proceed to the dance. All the couples must arrive by 10 and remain at least till 12:30. Upperclassmen who attend the Cotilion may have cars for the weekend if they have received permission from home and have registered at the Prefect of Discipline’s office.
A new innovation at the dance itself is the use of part of the balcony for dancing. Approximately 60 couples will be accommodated on this floor which is directly above the main entrance. The dance committee felt that this step would be necessary because of the sum-tertanied us at their club, very exclu-mer remodeling of the Palais, which made it considerably smaller than it was last year.
Another feature will be special coverage of the dance by two representatives of the Chicago Trilnine. Their article and pictures will appear in that paper’s “Youth on the Campus” section in the Sunday supplement.
Communion Breakfast Sunday
The next big event on the Cotillionite’s schedule is the Notre Dame-Purdue contest tomorrow afternoon. Sitting in a special section will be 354 couples who purchased tickets with their Cotillion bids.
The weekend will end Sunday morning with Mass in Sacred Heart Church and a Communion breakfast downtown. Cotillion-goers are asked to attend the 9 o’clock Mass and arrive a few minutes early so they can take their seats in the center-aisle section.
Later they will get together in the Main Ballroom of the Hotel Oliver for the breakfast, which will last from 10:30 to 12:30. The principal speakers will be Rev. Thomas Cady, C.S.C., and’ Rev. Charles Sheedy, c.s.c., rectors of
Cavanaugh and Farley Halls, respectively, while Chaz Shubert and Jack Hynes of local radio fame, will act as masters of ceremonies. Chairmen of the breakfast are Joe Gallagher- and Tom Schoen.
Papal Politics
(Continued from Page 12) members of monastic organizations dispersed all over the world. No doubt, it is aware of the Communist peace offensive and conscious of the desirability of conveying to the war-weary masses of Europe its own devotion to the Christian ideal of peace.
The Pope spends his time and energy unflaggingly in receiving, greeting and blessing in large general audiences throngs of devoted pilgrim visitors from all countries of the world. The writer was present at one of these audiences, where a considerable number of American sailors from the Mediterranean fleet were present at the end, gave three rousing cheers for the Pope. One was “impressed by the nice adjustment of dignified traditional ceremonial in this audience, held in the ornately decorated papal reception room, with its throne and gold-leaf ceiling, and the kindly informality with which the Pope moved among the visitors, inquiring about their homes and families.
Pope Pius XII, who was secretary of state for his predecessor, Pius XI, is keenly interested in world affairs. Apart from his general audiences, he receives a considerable number of visitors, ecclesiastical and lay, and not always Catholics, in private audiences which supplement his fund of information from church sources.
Vatican diplomacy moves quietly. It is clear from papal statements that the Pope welcomes the elimination of peace settlement and all moves toward the harsher features of the original greater European unity. He has also made it clear that he is conscious of the threat of Communism to western culture and civilization, and he has made no small personal contribution to stemming the advance of Communism in Italy.
But the Vatican is preaching no crusade, no “holy war.” Its leaders are still convinced of the truth of the biblical text: “Blessed are the peacemakers.”
Hall Decorations
(Continued from Page 9)
bonfire in which 01’ John Purdue will meet his flaming fate.
Joe Stanichek piloted the behind-the-scenes planning and was assisted by Glen Haney and Dick Stubbing.
In addition to sponsoring the pep-rally, the Senior class is also taking charge of the Victory Dance. The decorations committee of Tom Foley, Jack Daut, Tony Messina, and George Reverman are preparing the Drill Hall for the enj'oyment of one of the year’s biggest crowds. Gene Hull and his Lettermen will play for a throng of couples here for the game and tonight’s Sophomore Cotillion.—Mike Ducey
BEST AND LATEST AT
Al&M.
RECORD BAR
Complete line of
JAZZ—DIXIELAND—POPULAR CLASSICAL on all 3 speeds
412 S. Michigan Phone 7-3553
Don't miss our WND shows.
ENGINEERS — RENT YOUR TUXEDOS ...
WXEDO RENTAL CO.
206 North Main St.	Phone 4-0228
. . . Wltefu the. 2aald^ U	than th* ffun
Oct. 26, 1951
Thespians Try for 50 Roles In 'Old Heidelberg1 Musical
Tryouts for the 25 acting and 25 singing roles in the University Theater’s next production, Old Heidelberg, were held last week. Mr. Dan Pedtke will direct the singing part of the play and Mr. Len Sommer will direct the acting.
Old Heidelberg is the story of a crown prince who enrolls at the famous Heidelberg University for one year’s education before taking over the rule of his country. At Heidelberg he meets and falls in love with a girl, a commoner named Cathy; but much to his dismay, he cannot marry her because of his royal birth, and must return to rule his country.
The play will be held for five days stalling Dec. 9. Principal characters are Prince Karl Heinrich, his Minister of State Von Maugh, his tutor Dr. Juttnes, his comedian-valet Lutz, Master of the Household Von Passarge, and
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
JOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main Et.	J. M. S. Bldg.
AQUINAS Library and Bookstore
Next to the grace of God a taste for good reading is one of the greatest gifts we can possess.
IIO EAST LaSALLE
TYPING CLASSES
for
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Monday Evenings, 7-9 p. m.
South Bend College of Commerce
212 S. St. Joseph St. t 3-3191
Mass Schedule
Monday, Oct. 29—Feast of Saints Simon and Jude.
Tuesday, Oct. 30—Mass of the Season.
Wednesday, Oct. 31—Vigil of All Saints.
Thursday, Nov. 1—Feast of All Saints. (Holy Day of Obligation).
Friday, Nov. 2—Feast of All Souls (First Friday).
Saturday, Nov. 3—Mass of the Feast of All Saints, Colls. 2, 3 of the Church.
Ditley, leader of the Corps of Saxony.
Music of the play will be from the score of the famous operetta The Student Prince.
Show 5 Foreign Films Here This Semester
During the current semester the Department of Modern Languages will sponsor a series of five feature-length foreign films. These films, offered primarily for their educational value, are aids in providing the modern-language student with aural training and a certain insight into customs and temperament of other people.
These films are open to anyone who wishes to attend so far as there is enough seating capacity.
Each of the films will have the sound track in a foreign language and superimposed subtitles in English (with the one exception noted below). All showings will be in the Engineering Auditorium and will start at 7:30 p.m. Admission will be 25 cents per person payable at the door. No season tickets will be offered.
The list of the foreign films, their dates of performance and the years in which they were produced is as follows:
Nov. 7 Volpone .........French 1947 Nov. 21 A Volar, Joven Spanish 1947 Dec. 3 Die Fledermaus German 1947 Dec. 17 A Musical Story Russian 1943 Jan. 9 Open City .......Italian 1946
Comedy, Music, and Realism
Volpone is a satire based on a work by Ben Jonson. It stars Harry Baur and Louis Jouvet. Jouvet, almost a legend in the French filmland, died last summer and this picture is shown in his honor.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building
South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
.4 Volar, Joven stars “the greatest comedian in Latin America,” Cantin-fias. He is often called the Charlie Chaplin of Mexico. This film has no English subtitles as the humor of Can-tinflas speaks for itself. Mimeographed copies of the action will be distributed at the door for the benefit of the audience, however.
Die Fledermaus is a German film based on the famous opera by Johann Straus. The film is composed of a humorous story and a brilliant array of color and music.
Musical Story is a Russian “comedy,” depicting the tribulations of a Leningrad taxi-driver who aspires to the opera. The picture includes a number of famous opera selections.
Open City represents a return to Italian realism after the last war. This Italian film stars Anna Magnani and is rated on a par with such Italian productions as Bicycle Thief, Paisan, The Shoe Shine, and others. It initiated this line of films.
FIRST FRIDAY;
ABSTINENCE RULES
Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., reminds students that the Friday of the student trip weekend is the First Friday of November. All who wish to go to confession are advised to do so before leaving the campus.
The vigil of the Feast of All Saints is a day of fast and abstinence. Students living on campus, when eating on campus, may enjoy the dispensation from fasting and abstaining, granted by the Bishop of Fort Wayne, provided they substitute another appropriate form of penance.
Campus students eating off campus must abide by the regular laws for fasting and abstaining which are proper to the diocese in which they are at the time.
30
The Scholastic
BRIEF
MUNSING
they're
89c
”eC. T. M
GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET Open evenings until 9 o'clock
sm spiro & co.
121 S. Michigan. South Bend Oct. 26, 1951
Here's a brief of lightweight rib knit combed cotton that supports you in a way to which you've never been accustomed! It's because of the patented "Pouch" and “Horizontal Ry" construction created by Munsingwear.
Stock up now on this "Horizontal Fly
...for the man who- wants to be 9mart--;-.--vThere-'-s--Hom but you'll find expertly-tailored carefully-sewn Vari Heusen shirts a-lo-t-easier •on-t-he -eyes ’-------------------- There, a re. EMERSON.' S ESSAYS. but nothing can quite describe the quarity’Tobk'"^
smart ...sty.ling.,..,..,u.niq^	_______
comfort of Van Heusen shirts!
FREUD'TiasT aTTot'''^ mind,.....but....y.pu..'.l.l..find_..that....there„’.s. no easier way to be confident arid" sel f-assured ’ than"weafihg ' a handsome...:V.an...Heus.en....shirt.!........ DON JUAN may help you in your success with ladies, but when you-come- on. the- scene in - a—.............-Van Heusen shirt, it's the gals who'll be doing all the chasing!
Approved | for Campus smartness
TT 7"	TT "^e *°dd’s smartest” shirts
Van Heuse
Make
GILBERT’S your VAN HEUSEN headquarters

31
Jolly J
(Continued from Page 21) smooth grey stone. To the left, in the midst of a pleasant little flower-filled park, stood the imposing Waltei- Scott Memorial. We climbed to the top and got a fine view of the city from some 300 feet up.
But the crowning glory of Scotland’s fairest city lay atop the cliff rising across the valley from the Scott Memorial. The most awe-inspiring sight I have ever seen, the grimly beautiful Edinburgh Castle. Many were the tales of great battles that took place around that fortress . . . and the unscalable sheer face of the front cliff that was mastered by an early day warrior. “Auld Reekie” fairly breathed history and of days when Scotland stood proud in her independence and freedom.
After that a tour of the stores where we fingered the Scotch plaids, eyed the twenty-dollar cashmeres, tried on kilts, asked the price of everything from golf clubs to bagpipes, I finally bought two penny-postcards and called it quits.
It was getting on toward mid-afternoon and I was starting to feel a little hungry. My buddies weren’t ready for chow yet, so we parted company, they going to the library and I in search of food. I didn’t know what would be a good spot, of course, but before long Yankee ingenuity and moocher instinct supplied the answer and I lit out for the nearest bookstore.
I soon found what I was looking for: “Where to Eat in the British Isles.” Thumbing casually through the volume I stopped at the heading of ■“Edinburgh” and made note of the recommendations. I was just returning the book to its place when a polite cough sounded at my elbow. Guiltily I looked up to find a distinguished-looking Britisher eyeing me quite amusedly.
Almost immediately he began to think •of places he could take me that would be interesting. I jumped on the bandwagon and ooh’ed and ah’ed at every suggestion. Finally we agreed to meet back at the bookstore in 20 minutes and he would have his runabout ready.
After downing a quick roast chicken at L’Apertif—a. most highly-recommended spot—I rejoined my new-found friend. We got into his car and headed for open country.
Two things upset me about the traffic in Scotland. First was the left-hand lane set-up for the roads. The other thing was the pedestrian. In .the States there is a pretty general adherence to traffic rules. Not so in Scotland. People crossed streets when and
32	.
where they felt like it, with or against the lights. Men, women, and children would dash through heavy traffic with seeming disregard for life and shiny fenders. What open-field runners some of those guys would make!
Everybody an Athlete
And then there are the trams which run down the middle of the street. Previous to my visit to Edinburgh I had thought it a widely-established custom to wait for a trolley to stop before trying to board it or get off. Disillusionment. Believe me, it was astonishing to see a tram tearing along at a good clip and then see some woman—not always a young one either—jump off and plunge through the traffic lane to the sidewalk. Just as common was the sight of people puffing after the trams and pulling themselves aboard. Talk about the hustle and bustle of New York! These wonderful folks were in so much of a hurry that they actually ran up and down the sidewalks, after streetcars, everywhere. The slowest pace was a fast walk. Nobody sauntered but the Americans.
To return to the story: John, who turned out to be from Yorkshire, England, took me through the countryside and gave me a look at rural Scotland. We had tea in the garden of a former family estate. Two wars have practically put an end to the large fortunes in the Isles and everyone has to find some way to support himself. The austerity program means just that. But they are cheerful about it and I admire them.
After John and I left the estate we drove to his aunt’s house for supper, or “high tea” as the Scots call it. Since the weekly meat allowance per person is a quarter of a pound, we had omelet,' and it was good, too. In the evening we went to the Edinburgh Empire for the latest Parisian revue. Really was an eye-opener with its clever staging effects.
John drove me back to the ship and we said good-bye. I was leaving for London in the morning and probably wouldn’t see him again. But he gave me his address anyway, just in case I evei’ happened to be in his part of the world: Government Service, Mombasa, British East Africa. So I thanked him for his kindness, tucked the jar of home-made strawberry jam his aunt had given me under my arm, and climbed aboard the “Jolly J.”
At 10 a.m., we left from Waverly Station, Edinburgh, for London aboard a British Railways “cattle train,” third' class. There were eight in our stuffy, dirty little compartment on the six-
hour ride. We were served a box lunch fij which was included in the price of our tour. I don’t know what the English <4 think we eat, but they were far wrong. § The ham sandwich wasn’t bad but I g just couldn’t take the margarine and ■ clover sandwich, to say nothing of the i cucumber and lettuce affair. The ice t cream and Coke saved the day.	*
We hit London about supper time y and were soon in our hotels, mine being r the Imperial in Russell Square. That night we visited the fabulous South Bank Exposition on the Thames, and * it was just that—fabulous. Next day we toured the famous places in and about the City of Fog: Tower of London, House of Parliament, Westminster Abbey, St. Paul’s, Windsor Castle, Whitehall and pretty nearly everything else. That night we went to the theater. No, not the Paladium, but it was right across the street.
About 1:30 in the a.m., we—my buddy from Duke and myself—had the luck to run into an Air Force Major stationed in London. He and his wife, a very lovely bit of old Virginia, en- ’ tertained us at their club, a very exclusive, very British tie and tails sort of thing. The evening flowed along quickly and about four o’clock we had wonderful mushroom omelet for breakfast. The major drove us back to the hotel about 5:30 and two hours later we were leaving for Kings Cross Station and > Edinburgh via the same cattle train and cucumber-lettuce sandwiches.
On to Holland
Three days later, Monday the 25th, we sailed up the 18-mile waterway from the North Sea into the port of Rotterdam, Netherlands. So this was quaint Holland. I searched everywhere for some typical example of Dutch life. And then, in the distance, I saw it. How typical I was later to realize. It was a big yellow tank trailer truck. As it approached, I made out the blue lettering on the side. I laughed. The quaint Dutch word was spelled S-H-E-L-L, Shell gasoline.
That was the keynote for our whole stay in the Lowlands: progress and modernity. Nothing old-fashioned’ there. A few people still wore wooden shoes, but from a practical viewpoint these were the exact things to wear when working in salt water as were, for example, the tug-boat men. One tradition about Holland which was still true is its amazing cleanliness. Not once in the time I was in the country did I see a dirty or streaked window — and there was plenty of picture windows in their apartment houses.
Rotterdam, one of the cities most
The Scholastic
i
| heavily damaged by the Second World f	War, is rebuilding, slowly but magnifi-
!	cently. Buildings are more modern
than nine-tenths of those in New York City. It is a long climb back to the top, but Rotterdam is well on her way —thanks to the Marshall Plan. They are putting the money to good use.
One thing about the Continent which was appreciated was the ease of handling currency. There it is based on the metric system and is very similar to ours. After the horrible time we ><* had with the English system of pence and ha’pence, shillings, half-crowns and crowns, pounds and guineas, it was quite a relief.
Another tour had been arranged, this time to Brussels, the capital of Belgium. Only a hundred miles or so from Rotterdam, Brussels is completely different from the Dutch city. Rotterdam’s citizens are Germanic, blond, of rather large stature. Dutch and German are spoken; the people are predominantly Calvinist.
Brussels, on the other hand, is strongly French. That language is the common tongue, but Dutch is fairly widely understood. The people are dark-complexioned and smaller in build. Catholicism is practically universal. It’s really amazing how such a difference I can exist between two peoples living so close together.
J Waterloo Visited
Brussels is referred to as “Little Paris” with good reason. High-class cabarets abound for the rich and the unwary. I fell into the latter category and soon lost my bankroll. Sadder but wiser, true—but oh! so soon! Brussels 1 was to us an expensive city and a fascinating one. A visit to the battlefield of Waterloo the next morning topped off our brief stay and we drove back to Rotterdam in the afternoon, with a stop-over in Breda, Holland, for supper. I	More tuxedoed waiters, soft lights and
'	dinner music with our steaks in this
quiet little town.
Amsterdam claimed our attention on the following day. Canals interlace the streets every block or so. Practically untouched by either World War, Am-sterdam preserves much of the atmosphere of olden Holland that Rotterdam has lost. And in the suburbs of this city, we saw large, magnificent private homes that are more breathtaking than any I’ve ever seen in the States. Just as in the outskirts of Antwerp, Belgium, there are homes of brown and black brick that are extremely modern, quite expensive, and in excellent taste. These often-neglected parts of the world are keeping pace with us and in some respects outdistancing us.
In these countries the welcome wasn’t as warm-hearted as that which we received in Scotland. Maybe they’ve seen too many Americans in the past seven years, but they weren’t as enthusiastic in their reception as we expected. They did like the crackling of those greenbacks though. Perhaps we aren’t contributing enough Marshall Aid to the Kingdom of Belgium. They seemed to need a little supplementary something. Anyway, it was really awesome the way the industrious people of Brussels earnestly and diligently applied themselves to the shearing of the American “Golden Fleece.” In the course of one evening we paid anything from 14 cents to a buck for a throat treatment. That’s operating.
But soon we were out to sea again, sorting our souvenirs, praising and deriding our favorite and most-hated countries. Then to the Azores where the Task Group rendezvoused and set sail westward. And after a week of gunfiring off Guantanomo Bay, Cuba, we headed toward Norfolk, Virginia.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
DON'T let those stripes fool you. J. Paul was no prisoner of love! His hair looked like a tiger rag, and he was feline mighty low. But did Sheedy buy a wig? No He's not a cheetah! “I hate to be catty,’his roommate said, “but even an ugly pusslooks better with Wildroot Cream-Oil! Non-alcoholic. Contains soothing Lanolin! Relieves annoying dryness. Removes ioose. ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the fingernail test! ’ Sheedy got Wildroot Cream-Oil, and now he has every girl on campus waiting • in lion for a date! So, be cagey... get a tube or bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil Hair Tonic at any drug or toilet goods counter today. And ask your barber for professional applications. Then you'll be the cat’s pajamas. But don’t delay. Meow is the time!
* of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y-
Wildroot Company, Inc.. Buffalo 11, N.Y.
The morning of 27 July 1951 found us steaming into Hampton Roads. And were we happy! No more chipping paint and swabbing decks and ducking first-class midshipmen who might put us to work. It was a great cruise and a valuable experience, but it was good to be home again.
Students From India Elect Gupta President at Meeting
An inaugural meeting of Notre Dame’ students from India was held Sept. 27, and an association was formed with Mr. Subodh C. Das Gupta as President and Mr. George K. Abrahams as Secretary.
The Association is a strictly non-po-litical one, whose aim is to foster cultural appreciation between India and America.
Any student or member of the faculty interested in India and her culture will be welcomed in the regular ' monthly meetings of the Association.
Oct. 26, 1951
33
~lhe IJack Vaqe
— ------------------By Bill Riley
This is another of Mr. Riley's stories without morals. More may appear.—Ed.
Many, many years ago, in one of the most obscure corners of a little-known foreign kingdom, a group of knights, who were not at the time occupied with going on quests or writing sonnets, were sitting around the courtyard. One of the knights, a tall, husky fellow who was not much good at sonnets, but was a real whistler when it came to quests, spoke up: “Hey,” he said, or the equivalent in the Patois of his day, “as long as we haven’t got anything much to do, except to write these lousy sonnets, why don’t we have a few jousts among ourselves, just to keep in shape?” The gang, except for Sir Reggie, who was possibly the handiest man in iambic pentameter of his day, was all for it. So, they split off into two teams and began.
While they were jousting, the king, who also did not have much to occupy his time, happened to stroll into the courtyard. Immediately an idea struck him, “Why not,” he thought to himself, “have my knights meet knights from other kingdoms in jousting matches. It would keep them in good condition physically, and besides, they enjoy jousting.” The king was also worried about the inactivity of his subsidized * poets. So, as simply as that, jousting as a major sport began.
For awhile, everything went well. Every week a group of knights would meet another group of knights in a half-serious, half-friendly match. After a little while, people from the surrounding countryside began to come to the tourneys; at first, in fairly small numbers, then, as word of interesting jousts got around, in larger crowds.
Broken Lances and Special Food
The kings, who knew that jousting matches were expensive considering the costs of broken lances, special food for the horses, and reconditioning the courtyard after the tournaments, decided that as long as so many people were enjoying the tourneys, they could charge admission, and so defray the costs of administering the sport. It turned out, though, that not only did enough money come in at the courtyard gate to defray expenses, the Kings were actually making money on the whole project.
34
About this time, a fairly small-time king in an undistinguished kingdom decided that if he built a particularly impressive courtyard, and got good jousters in, he could draw better crowds, and thus make a good deal of money. It so happened that this king was a sincere man, who intended to use the revenue to further the whole institution of knighthood.
He succeeded. His ministers, scouring the kingdom, got big, tough young men, who were fast with a lance, and brought them in and made them knights. Sometimes these young men did not have all the qualifications that were supposed to belong to knights, such as honor, nobility of mind, and so forth. But they almost all were big, tough and fast with a lance.
Kingdom-Scouring and Living Expenses
Regularly, week after week, his young men beat the gauntlets off the other knights. Crowds at other courtyards diminished. The other kings, who had come to depend somewhat on the revenue from the jousts, in order to keep up, were forced to go out and do a little kingdom-scouring on their own.
After awhile, you could travel over many kingdoms, and very seldom find a young man who jousted for the sheer love of jousting. In some kingdoms, the young men were paid outright. In others, they merely received knighthood, plus bare living expenses. Some protested that knights should be chosen not because they were big, tough, and fast with a lance, but because they were honorable, intelligent, noble-minded young men. They argued, that even though you sometimes found a knight who had been chosen for his ability as a lancer, who also had the other qualifications of knighthood, still, the very fact that generally the young men were chosen first of all for their jousting ability, would tend to sort of set the cart before the horse. They were shushed.
. Meanwhile, special teachers for the lancers had been hired. At first they served a very minor function at court, but, as the revenue became bigger and bigger, their prestige and remuneration increased. Within time, they were paid as much and more than the wisest of court philosophers. Some said that this,
too, was a bit backwards. They were told that they were idealists.
Other kings, who did not like to see S jousting become commercialized, were 3 forced to make a choice: either they S stopped jousting altogether; their I knights jousted only for fun, and the I kingdom absorbed the cost; or they | went full-scale into jousting.	’
Bets and a Weascl-Faccd Groom
Bets on jousting matches grew in volume. They became of major importance. Throughout the country, people waited to learn who had won the tourneys. It was the most important news of the day.
Then, a weasel-faced little groom in the stables of one of the minor kings, got an idea. If he could fix a tourney, he could really clean up. So he approached one of the jousters, a lad who was extraordinarily big, unusually tough, and almost incredible in his speed with a lance. He offered to pay the young man a good deal more than he would make in a whole season of jousting, if only he would throw a match. The jouster, who played chiefly, if not completely, because it was a living, and besides, the only way he could gain knighthood, accepted.
He was found out.
Immediately, throughout the kingdoms, a hue and cry went up. Some said that he was a disgrace to the sport of jousting. Others, that it was nothing more than could be expected from one who was just being paid for jousting, and cared little for the sport in itseif.
Suggestions and a Radical
. Many suggestions were made as to how jousting could be reformed and the sport be saved. Some, who were exceptionally horrified by the spectacle, suggested that jousting be stopped completely. The kings agreed that the whole thing had got out of hand. But they could find no way to stop the wrongs unless they all would get together and agree on steps. And there was so much money involved that they could not fully trust each other. About that time another joust-throwing was uncovered. More and more people became concerned about the future of the sport.
Someone said: “As long as knights jousted because they loved to joust, no amount of money could keep them from always doing their very best to win their tourney. When they began to play for gain, it only took someone who could offer them a better deal; then they would throw a match.”
He was called a radical.
The Scholastic

QoMcJl tyotecGAt . . .
Here's your chance to prove that you too are an expert in rating football games. All you have to do is to mark in your favorite predictions in the space provided and leave them at the designated points before noon of the Saturday on which the game is to be played. What could be simpler? The makers of Medico V. F. Q. pipes will award a Smoker's Set containing two pipes (as pictured) each week to the winner of our contest.
DIRE C TIO NS—Please circle the ten teams that you think will come out on top. Also indicate your prediction as to the score of each game. In case of ties duplicate prizes will be awarded. To facilitate judging please use the form below. Only University of Notre Dame students are eligible.
	 cd	Ute «AcuiiALe>				> •
	•	•
FOOTBALL FORECAST	— Games of Nov. 3.1951	a • a 1 a a a •
NAME	ADDRESS	a
	-	a a
NOTRE DAME		NAVY		a a a a a
SOUTHERN CAL		ARMY		
COLGATE 		HOLY CROSS			• a a
YALE			DARTMOUTH				a a a a
GEORGIA TECH 		DUKE 			a a
ILLINOIS		MICHIGAN 			a a
TENNESSEE 		NORTH CAROLINA 			a a
INDIANA		WISCONSIN 			 		a • a a
TEXAS		S. M. U. 		a
CALIFORNIA			U. C. L. A			a a a
		a a a
Oct. 26, 1951
35
a
SERIALS DIVISION UNIVERSITY LIBRARY NOTRE DAME IND
THE BIGGEST "PLUS IN CIGARETTE HISTORY
"No Unpleasant After-taste"
B _______added to
I the world’s most famous ABCs —
"It’s the only, one
r
$
p p
Always Milder Better Tasting
with the Big Plus
CHESTERFIELD IS
brands tested in
THE ONLY CIGARETTE of all which members of our taste
panel found no un
pleasant after-taste.
From the report of a
well-known research organization
■
Always Buy CHESTERHElP