The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing-] at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXVIII
October 26,1934
No. 6
MANY NOTED PERSONAGES ATTEND CARNEGIE GAME
JACQUES MARITAIN, PHILOSOPHER, TO SPEAK HERE ON SUNDAY NIGHT
Undaunted by the predominance of monsoon-like weather a hardy group of guests were on hand last Saturday for the Carnegie Tech game. What they lacked in numbers was supplied by their exultancy and determination.
Among the more well-known visitors were Rt. Rev. Bishop Francis Noll, of Fort Wayne, Ind., Rev. C. E. . Coughlin of Royal Oak, Mich., Rev. ’ M. L. Moriarity, ’10, Director of Catholic Charities in the diocese of Cleveland; and Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., ’16, Director of the Catholic Youth Bureau, Washington, D. C.
Those of the alumni body, who braved the seasonal downpour were: Senator George Maypole, ’03, of Chicago, always a loyal follower of Notre Dame teams; John V. Diener, ’09, Mayor of Green Bay, Wisconsin; former football player and teammate of the late Knute Rockne, Torgus Oaas; ’14; Jack Kenny, ’21, ex-president of the Notre Dame Club of New York; and Dan Foley, ’23, president of the Kansas City Club of Notre Dame.
Father Coughlin can well be called an alumnus of Notre Dame, for in 1933 he was given an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Laetare Medal. He gave the Baccalaureate sermon on commencement Sunday of that year. For his work in increasing devotion to the Little Flower; for Ins radio talks from the Shrine of that Saint in Royal Oak; and for his interest in the welfare of the people of America, Father Coughlin has become a nationally known priest.
Missionaries Visit Campus
The Rev. Walter Marks, C.S.C., who was ordained at Notre Dame last year, and the Rev. Francis Wyss, C.S.C., on leave from the Bengal Missions, stopped at Notre Dame last week on their way to India where they will labor in the Bengalese missions.
Father Marks, a former member of the Bengalese staff, spoke in several religion classes where he asked for prayers for the missions and offered his last Mass on the campus in Walsh hall chapel.
Landslide Of Talent Is Revealed In Second Student Audition Held Last Week
The saying, “They always come back for more,” seems to apply particularly to students who participated in the radio auditions which were held again Friday night, Oct. 19 in
James Boyle
He uses Husing’s diction.
the Engineering building. Why the audience also came back is beyond comprehension. The return of the student gallery can perhaps be attributed in a large measure to the hope on its part of seeing the now famous collapsing chairs in action, rather that the desire of hearing the efforts of the amateur announcers and vocalists.
Joe Mansfield and Jim ‘Bowery’ Boyle, two deep - voiced, aspiring “mike” men, did much of the announcing. They made the most of their opportunity. John Schemmer, a freshman from Colby, Wisconsin, was next on the list of announcers. His rendition of ‘Bowery Jim’s’ terrify-(Continued on Page 2)
LEADER OF SCHOLASTICISM
By Clifford F. Brown
As the guest of Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, Jacques Maritain, brilliant French philosopher, author and lecturer, will interrupt his current nation-wide tour of the United States and its colleges to visit the University of Notre Dame on Oct. 27 and 28.
He will come here from Michigan University where he will lecture on Oct. 26. While here, he will speak in Washington Hall, Oct. 28 on “The Historical Ideal of a Renewed Christianity.” This topic is expected to reveal the historical background of the author’s conversion from Bergsonian to Christian philosophy.
Since his conversion in 1905, Maritain has become one of the outstanding philosophers of the world as a result of his important activities, in Catholic thought and culture. He. has written a number of widely used philosophical books, mostly explanations of Scholastic philosophy, and refutations of the various minor schools of thought that were prevalent in France during the nineteenth century.
These past few years Maritain has spent in Canada where he is a professor in the Institute of Mediaeval Studies at Toronto. Here he has also conducted courses in philosophy.
Mr. Maritain first studied under the famous French philosopher, M. Bergson, but at 24 he "was converted to Catholicity. Shortly afterwards he published a book renouncing the philosophy of his former teacher.
Upon the completion of his studies at the Sorbonne, he went to the University of Heidelberg to continue his research work in the field of philoso-- phy-
After a post-graduate retreat at Versailles, the bishops of France, in charge of the Institute Catholique, asked him to write a course in Scholastic philosophy. At present only two of the seven required volumes have been completed.
One
October26, 1 93 4
University Council Approves
Navy Game As Student Trip
FR. SIGMAR TO TEACH COURSE IN PSYCHOLOGY
SPECIAL TRAIN TO LEAVE
The University Council this week approved of the Student Activities Council’s selection of the Navy game at Cleveland for the annual student trip.
According to the suggested itinerary for the trip, a special train will leave from the foot of Dorr road at approximately 6:00 Saturday morning. There will be a student mass in Sacred Heart Church an hour before departure. The special train will arrive in Cleveland at 12:30 p.m. The return trip is scheduled for 1:00 a.m. Sunday morning with arrival here in time for 7:00 Mass and breakfast.
The latest estimate made by S.A.C. officials regarding the total cost of the trip is $6.60. Railroad tickets will cost $5.50 and the game ticket . $1.10.
Cleveland Club Active
Coincidal with the approval of the University Council came the announcement from the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland that they intend to sponsor a series of social events covering the entire weekend. On Friday night, Nov. 9, the Club will hold a smoker at the Cleveland Athletic Club which will be featured by several championship boxing bouts.
Saturday noon a buffet luncheon will be served at the Hotel Cleveland. This luncheon will be served from 11:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. After the game the club will sponsor a Victory banquet and Victory ball at the Lake Shore hotel. The Banquet will be at 6:30 and the dancing will start at 10:00.
Box office sales for the Navy game are now well ahead of what they were two years ago at this time when Notre Dame played the Navy before 70,000 people in the Cleveland Stadium.
Der Deutsche Verein
“Der Deutsche Verein” will hold its first regular meeting in Carroll recreation hall on Tuesdayc night, Oct. 30, at 7:45 o’clock. Anyone interested in “Deutscher Kultur und Gemiitlich-keit” is invited to attend this meeting.
Brigham Young University students won’t study merely for grades this year. For high scholastic achiev-ment university officers have decided to award foodstuffs — produce from the university garden. They will also record grades.
Two
Schedule Of Saturday
Movies Replete With New Hollywood Releases
Following is the list of moving pictures up to the Christmas holidays: Oct. 31—“Whom the God’s Destroy,” with Walter Connolly and Robert Young.
Nov. 3—“The Crime of Helen Stanley,” with Ralph Bellamy and Shirley Grey.
Nov. 10—“Handy Andy,” with Will Rogers.
Nov. 17—“Change of Heart,” with Janet Gaynor and Charles Farrell.
Nov. 24—“You Can’t Buy Everything,” with May Robson and Jean Parker.
Nov. 28—“This Side of Heaven,” with Lionel Barrymore.
Dec. 1—“Little Miss Marker,” with Shirley Temple.
Dec. 7—“Old Fashioned Way,” with W. C. Fields.
Dec. 8—“Baby Take a Bow,” with Shirley Temple.
Dec. 15—“Charlie Chan’s Courage,” with Warner Oland and Drue Leyton.
RADIO AUDITIONS
(Continued from Page 1)
ing, tongue-twisting script was surprisingly well done. His success amazed the audience, since a record of only 50 mistakes in pronunciation was formerly considered excellent. Investigation brought forth the confession from the reluctant Schemmer that he had seen the piece of literature before and had practiced, “just a little.”
Joe Ratigan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, Arthur Serki Neuman, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, and Dan Livingston Youngerman, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters were among the other embryonic Ted Husings.
The erstwhile announcers having made their share of noise, the artists decided that it was now their turn to do likewise, so they started to give the ‘mike’ a musical cramming. But after the first couple of attempts, Bob Kennett, announcer of radio station WSBT, decided that everyone, even the audience, was a bit too strained and formal, so his suggestion that everybody sing .a song was followed, while the studio resounded to the strains of “The Man on the Flying Trapeze.”
Bill Prendergast pleased the audi-
Announcement was recently made of a new course in Experimental Psychology to be offered the second semester by the Reverend Doctor Sigmar of the Department of Philosophy.
Among the problems which will be taken up are the following: Objectives and rules of Psychophysics, the testing of the external senses for reliability of perception, analysis of musical perceptions and of the perception of color, extension, space, time and rhythm. Other similar problems will be taken up should time permit.
The course will include two hours of lectures and demonstrations, and one laboratory period a week. It is open to all juniors and seniors in the College of Arts and Letters and to qualified students of other colleges.
ence with a couple of popular songs. Then came James Calloway McLaughlin who very successfully ‘hot-cha-ed” “Ridin’ Around in the Rain.”
In genuine final form thos merry “Collegians of Melody,” namely, Jim Keough, pianist, John McNeil, violinist, and Irwin Goldman, vocalist, gave a take-off on Fred Waring’s Ford program, substituting Hook’s drug stores for the Ford cars, and woring their motto, “Watch the girls go by,” instead of “Watch the Fords go by.” To the accompaniment of the piano and the violin, Goldman sang “Little Man You’ve had a Busy Day.” The words of the chorus were changed so as to tell the story of a day in the life of a Notre Dame man.
Their minature broadcast received considerable applause. Thus ended the student auditions. What the future will bring in the form of Notre Dame student broadcasts depends upon the “Collegians of Melody” and their newly-chosen cohorts of the air waves.
Mr. Dick Addresses Irish
Club on De Valera’s Policy
The Irish club of Notre Dame held its first meeting of the schoolyear last Tuesday evening in the Law building. More than 30 old and new members attended the event. Mr. Dick, a student from Ireland, was the principal speaker of the evening. He summarized briefly the present administration of President De Valera, stressing the fact that the president was basing his Republic on a strictly domestic, cultural and economic basis.
Sympathy
The Scholastic wishes to express the sympathy of the student body to George Mack, whose mother died this
week.	,
The S ch o I as tic
9
SENIORS RUN FOOTBALL DANCE TOMORROW NIGHT
Two Hundred Fifty Couple Are Expected to Attend Cotillion
The first and only football dance of the year, to be held Saturday, Oct. 27, at the Progress club, comer of Colfax avenue and Taylor street, from 8:30 to 11:30, will act as a climax to the last home games of the
season.
Tony Dunning He did the impossible.
This year’s football dance will be unique in two respects. It has replaced the usual Saturday afternoon tea dance for those that attend the Sophomore Cotillion and it will for the first time be attended by St. Mary’s students.
For the first time in the history of the school, St. Mary’s students have been given permission to attend a football dance. Acting on a suggestion of Anthony Frank Dunning, dance chairman, the authorities have granted the necessary permission. To meet the situation a new regulation has been put into effect by the St. Mary’s authorities: All Notre Dame students may call for and return their guests to the place of residence.
It is anticipated that with the St. Mary’s and the Cotillion guests the attendance will approach 150 couples.
The nine-piece Collegians orchestra will furnish the music while couples dance in a ballroom fully decorated with collegiate pennants.
Tickets are one dollar a couple. They are obtainable from Anthony Dunning, 207 Walsh Hall. The ticket sale will end Friday evening.
“Scrip” Notice
Although the deadline for Scrip is only a few days away, Editor George A. Lawton is still accepting material for the first issue. Lawton has announced that an anonymous contribution series will be run in each of the four issues. These contributions must be concerned with aesthetic criticism. Lawton hopes that this idea will encourage those, who possess talent but who dread publicity, to contribute to Scrip.
All material must be handed in by Oct. 28, at room 125 Sorin Hall.
O c t ob er 26, 193 4
Pink Nighties Found In Pullman Car; Clues Point To N. D. Man Of Hoboken
This is a copy of a letter received by the President of the New Jersey club from the New York Central railroad :	.
President, New Jersey Club, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Sir:
I have on hand, unclaimed in ticket office, a pair of pink pajamas taken from extra sleeper, from Hoboken arriving South Bend with Notre Dame students train No. 5 morning of Sept. 11.
Thought that possibly you might be able to locate the owner by making announcement at one of your meetings.
Yours very truly, Ticket Agent
Clevelanders Entertained By Magician Alfeldt
Before a group of about fifty Cleveland club members, Mr. Julius “Cy” Alfeldt, popular magician of South Bend, performed his many tricks at the club smoker held Wednesday evening, October 17, in the Faculty Dining Hall. The innumerable “foolers,” consisting mostly of coin, palm and disappearing acts, lasted more than an hour.
President Ed Caldwell of the Cleveland Club began the evening’s entertainment by introducing the guest artist, Mr. Altfeldt, as a magician famous throughout this section, as a well-known politician, a candidate for state representative, and a member of the South Bend city council. From that time on, the magician, closely surrounded by keen-eyed Club members, never pulled anything that the puzzled audience could solve. . He reached his climax when he took a five dollar bill from one student, supposedly burned it in an envelope, and then pulled it out of the student’s pant cuff.	.
Besides his sleigh-of-hand tricks, Mr. Altfeldt displayed his mental alertness and skill with numbers. He guessed the day of the week upon which any member was born if they gave him their age and the date of their birthday this year. He could guess ages, also, by other methods.
The program ended with a humorous, yet praising, speech by the Chaplain of the Club, Rev. Joseph Muckenthaler, C.S.C. Light refreshments were served.
L. CORMIER IS CHAIRMAN
The Class of ’37, presents its Cotillion tonight, from nine to one o’clock, at the Palais. Royale in South Bend. Dancing to the music of Mark Fisher’s Edgewater Beach Hotel orchestra will be some 200 Sophomores and their guests, hosts to the school in their initial bow to Notre Dame’s social scene. Ticket sales the first three days of this week indicate an unusually large gathering this evening, a gathering which will bring to a successful conclusion several weeks of
Harold Miller He got the boys dates.
active planning and direction by Chairman Leo Cormier, Class President Harold Miller, and the different committees. Special two o’clock permissions have been granted students attending the dance by the Prefect of Discipline.
A large number of guests have been invited both from out of town and from the neighboring vicinity. Queen of the Cotillion will be Miss Dorothy Richardson, of South Bend, who will accompany Chairman Cormier, and the guest of honor will be Miss Katherine Kervan, accompanying President Miller. A most important feature of the week-end, the Notre Dame-Wisconsin game tomorrow afternoon, will be viewed by Cotillion-goers from a section on the Wisconsin side of the field, reserved specially for them. Scheduled as another attractive weekend function is the Senior Class-sponsored Notre Dame-Wisconsin football dance tomorrow night at the Progress club, from the hours of 8:30 to 11:30.
The following is a list of committees :
Tickets—Philip Welch, chairman; John B. (Continued on Page 4)
Three
Presidents Council to Check All Financial Statements Of Clubs
UNIVERSITY THEATRE MAKES PLANS FOR YEAR
ALL CLUBS RECHARTERED
In a meeting held in the basement of the library Thursday evening, Edward J. Van Huisseling, president of the Presidents’ Council, outlined the program of the year for the various campus clubs. He gave emphasis to the conditions for the rechartering of the clubs.
To fulfill the requirements for sur-vival, each club must submit to Edward J. Van Huisseling in 117 Walsh Hall a financial statement to show its solvency, together with an outline of a program for the year, subject to approval by the Council, to show that the club will be active. The name of the president of each club and the respective members should be listed in the report. President Van Huisseling has stated that all this must be done as soon as possible, tins being the last notification.
Throughout the year the financial condition of the clubs will be examined after each function.
Three S.A.C. men will represent that body at all Presidents’ Council meetings. This trio is composed of Phil Purcell, chairman of campus clubs; Thomas G. Procter, President of the Senior class; and Charles Schill, the represenative of the engineering school in the S.A.C.
Dr. John M. Cooney Returns After Automobile Mishap
Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the School of Journalism, was discharged from St. Joseph’s hospital and returned to his home last Sunday afternoon, being quite favorably recovered from injuries received in an automobile collision on the Saturday of the Notre Dame-Purdue football game.
Though his condition is much improved at present, members of his family stated that Dr. Cooney may limp for a time as a result of the painful leg bruises which he received in the accident. Beyond that, however, the. Doctor was described as feeling “just fine,” and the ribs fractured in the collision appear to be mending rapidly.
Dr. Cooney returned to Notre Dame on Wednesday, resumed his duties as head of the School, and once more taught his journalism classes.
Mrs. Cooney, though still suffering from shock, seems completely recovered from the physical effects of the accident, being released from the hospital three days before her husband.
F our
Inter-State Meeting Of
French Teachers To Be
Held Here In April
French teachers from every part of Indiana will gather here in April to hold their annual spring meeting, it was decided at a recent meeting in Indianapolis of the Indiana State Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of French.
The A.A.T.F., which is a national organization, is divided into state departments, and has both high school and college teachers in its membership. The association publishes a monthly bulletin called the French Review which is devoted entirely to the interests of teachers.
A special invitation will be extended to all high school teachers in Northern Indiana to attend.
A feature of the spring meeting-will be a state wide contest in college French. Two representatives from all freshmen classes of all universities will compete for prizes donated by Indiana University.
The invitation of the University was extended by Rev. Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C., Benjamin DuBois, and Earl Langwell, members of the Romance Language department, who attended the meeting.
COTILLION
(Continued from Page 3)
McGurl, Joseph C. McNally, Robert C. Weaver.
Music—Walter J. Nienaber, chairman; Robert J. Cronin, William J. Steinkemper, Joseph B. Ryan.
Publicity — Thomas M. Doyle, chairman; George E. Murphy, Edward J. Hoyt, John H. Campbell.
Programs—Arthur F. Hoffman, chairman ; Richard H. Delaney, Alex D. Sloan, John J. Manning.
Hall—Parker R. Sullivan, chairman; Paul J. Sheedy, Albert J. Schwartz, Thomas H. Ivory.
Printing — Richard H. Meier, chairman; John W. Gallivan, Edward P. Lynaugh, John M. Byrne.
- Patrons—Albert J. Smith, chairman; Edward J. Hackett, Robert J. Bodie, Richard S. Smith.
Reception—John E. King, chairman; John C. Metcalf, Paul F. Mueller, Robert J. Demer, Bernard M. Niezer.
Arrangements — Robert ’ Wilke, chairman; John H. Marr, James W. McHugh, Robert W. Stein, .Walter D. Smyth.
Invitations—Lawrence E. Danbom, chairman, Verner C. Mooney, Lloyd R. Stolich, William J. Lee, Marcus P. Kerin.
Floor—Thomas P. Foy, chairman; Hector Sarinana, John D. Dineen, Timothy R.' King, William J. Kennedy.	• -
Decorations—Cyril F. Stroker, chairman; Edmund P. Joyce, Martin T. Burns, Leonard Krapenski, Donald G. Hanning.
Entertainment—Leonard H; Tose, chairman ; Lawrence F. Burnett, .Charles F. Myers, James H. Foltz, Daniel P. Mahoney.
The administration of the University announces the reorganization of the University Theatre. To effect a more unified program, and to assure greater cooperation between groups that may be interested, a faculty committee has been appointed to take charge of all campus productions of a dramatic or musical nature. Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., is chairman of the committee. The other members are Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C., Prof. Joseph Casasanta, and Prof. Frank Kelly.
The committee wishes to announce to the student body its sincere intention of aiding in the production of plays, comedies or revues. The per-sonell of these shows is not to be restricted. Every one who would like to try out for such events will be welcome and encouraged. The University feels that there is an abun-ance of brilliant talent on the campus, enough, in fact, to guarantee the success of half a dozen high class shows a year. It- should mean much to the student, also, to realize that, besides the fun of being in a show, he may, under the University’s excellent instruction and at its expense, acquire experience which null in the future serve him well.
The committee has decided that its first effort this year will be to foster a popular, but high-class, musical revue, to be produced toward the middle of December. Those students who would like to work up an act and who feel that they have something good to offer, should start immediately.
So that there may be no overlapping of numbers, and in order that some unity may be given to the program, those who care to partake are asked to outline their act and submit it to Father Hope, Prof. Casasanta or Prof. Kelly.
Later in the year, “The Ambassador to France,” a three-act musical comedy written by Father Hope, will be produced in conjunction with the symphony orchestra under the direction of Prof Seidel. The play was written two years ago and made its first appearance in Portland, Oregon.
Judge Cain Commended
Judge William M. Cain, of the University Law School, has received federal recognition for his work in reviewing the crime situation.
In a letter to Judge Cain, Robert H. Jackson, assistant general counsel for the Bureau of Internal Revenue, complimented him on having presented a very accurate analaysis of the underlying causes of the breakdown in the administration of justice and spoke of the work as a fine contribution upon the subject.
The Scholastic

J I
Wranglers Plan State Oratorical Contest For Catholic Schools
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE HEARS PROF. COLLINS
HRUBY IS THE CHAIRMAN
By Andrew F. Hufnagel
As sponsor for the Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest for high schools, which will take place this fall, Notre Dame will establish itself as the leading patron of the forensic art in this state. The contest, which will em-
Louis H. Hruby
Editor without portfolio.
brace all the Catholic high schools with male attendance in Indiana, was originated by the Wranglers Society, Notre Dame’s honorary forensic organization.
According to a resolution adopted at the last meeting of the Wranglers, letters will be posted to the principals of the 25 Catholic institutions in this state, which have male students, inviting each one of them to enter the leading male orator of the school in the contest. The method of selecting these prospective contestants will be left entirely to the devices of the head of each school.
After each principal has submitted to the I. C. 0. committee the name of the orator who will represent his institution in the contest, it will be the duty of the committee to divide the contestants into two, or if necessary, into three districts where eliminations will be held. Three men will be chosen from each of these districts to compete in the finals at Notre Dame in January, 1935. It is intended that all eliminations, prior to the finals, take place before the Christmas holidays.
Entrants have an absolutely free choice in deciding what subject is best suited for them to orate upon. How-
Brother Of Joe Esposito, ’34, Is Central Figure
In N. Y. Kidnapping Case
Headlining the news this past week was the story of the kidnapping of Lewis Esposito, aged 22, in New York City. Few on the campus knew that the abducted youth was the brother of Joseph Patrick Esposito who graduated last June from the College of Arts and Letters here at Notre Dame.
At the time of the kidnapping, Joseph was driving his grandfather home from their residence, 263 East 142nd street in the Bronx. Later that evening a sister of the youthful victim received a phone call from a woman who is reported to have said:
“We have Lewis and it will cost you $20,000 to get him back. Wait for further instructions.”
Shortly afterwards the police came upon the abandoned roadster which the abducted youth had been driving. Although the family refused to give any information to the authorities, twenty detectives scoured the city for traces of the kidnappers.
A few days later the youth returned home but whether or not the ransom had been paid was not disclosed. Joe Esposito was believed to have made contact with the kidnappers and to have figured in the negotiations prior to his brother’s release.
ever, their effort must not exceed 15 minutes or be less than ten minutes in length.
The I. C. O. committee will appoint three judges who will take care of the finals. One judge will be a faculty member of Notre Dame’s speech department; another will be a faculty member of the department of religion, and the third will be the president of the Wranglers, itself.
The awards and prizes to be offered to the winning contestant and the school he represents, as well as those to be given to the runners-up have not been announced. The Contest Committee is negotiating with University officials and the rewards will not be known until next week.
Notre Dame will pay all expenses of the finalists incurred by their journey to and from the University and by their stay on the campus. While here they will receive all meals, lodging, and entertainment free of charge. The University will extend itself to the utmost in its efforts to make the stay of its guests a most enjoyable and profitable one.
Louis Hruby, senior member of the
An unusual meeting of the Academy of Science was held Tuesday night in Science Hall. Besides an excellent address by Dr. George B. Collins of the Physics Department, Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Science and Moderator of the Academy, answered some twenty questions which were submitted to him by members of the organization.
The modern yet ancient topic “Transmutation of Metals” was discussed and illustrated by Mr. Collins. He traced the history of the subject from the dream of the alchemist of changing baser metals into gold to the accomplishments of the modern physicist in changing one metal into another. To acqquaint his listeners with the proceedure necessary in bringing about this change, the speak-, er discribed the structure of the atom, and pointed out that it is necessary to split the nucleus in order to change the nature of the atom.
Carbon vs. Cancer
Radium, after several thousand years of activity in which it gives off alpha and beta particles, will finally be transformed into lead. This is natural transmutation. The physicist, however, is interested in artificial transmutation. He has brought this about by bombarding elements with alpha particles until the nucleus of the element is disintegrated, thus causing new elements to exist. For example, nitrogen has been made to change into hydrogen and oxygen by this method.
Dr. Collins concluded by stating that carbon has been obtained from beryllium in this manner. This carbon has then been made radio-active. The practical use for this radio-active carbon will be to replace radium in the treatment of cancer.
Aftei- Dr. Collins’ talk, Father Wenninger read and answered some of the questions handed into him by students in Science. These questions were concerned with ethics, religion, science, future of medicine and scientific writings. Father Wenninger commented on these questions, and also answered extemporaneous inquiries which were made in connection with the topic under consideration.
Wranglers, and chairman of the contest committee, stated the aim of the organization in backing the contest, when he said. “It is the purpose of the Wranglers Society to promote public speaking, and its members feel that the promoting of the I. C. O. is just another means by which the art of forensics can be perpetuated.”
October 26, 193 4
Fire
ACTIVE SEASON AHEAD
FOR ALL CANPUS CLUBS
The spirit of good fellowship, the distinct characteristic of Notre Dame campus life, as exemplified in the 40 or more city and academic clubs comprising all forms of student activity, will be in evidence soon as practically all club organization matters have been completed.	-
The Metropolitan club, under the guidance of Andrew Maffei, have planned a movement inaugurating athletic activities to supplement social affairs. The Engineers have traditionally inducted the newcomers into the mysteries of the club. The Wranglers, forensic society, are planning the interhall debates. The city clubs are preparing for more or less elaborate Christmas dances.
In keeping with the spirit of Notre Dame the Metropolitan, New Jersey, and Connecticut clubs gave a Communion breakfast recently. The success of the venture has induced other clubs to plan similar affairs. At present the Italian club and the Calumet club are considering the matter.
There are clubs for everyone on the campus. ■ Those who are interested in sociological and charity work have the St. Vincent de Paul Society. Those to whom foreign languages and cultures appeal have the La Raza, Der Deutsche Verein, Charles Phillips Cracow, Le Cercle Francais, Italian, and Irish clubs.
Students of the sciences and of engineering have the Academy of Science, American Institute of Electrical Engineering, Architects’, Chemists’, Engineers’, Pharmacy and other mechanical clubs and societies.
Music lovers have the various musical organizations and societies, such as the Glee Club the Symphony orchestra. The Bookmen exist for the book lovers and those interested in library work. The Press club represents the journalism students, the Economic Seminar the economic majors, and the Commerce Forum the commerce students. The Monogram club is the honorary society of those who have won major monograms.
- Glee Club
Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, director' of the Notre Dame Glee Club, completed the quartet trials this week and has started rehearsing the club on the program for the year.
The program, which will be announced later, contains many numbers to be presented for the first time on the campus.
Medical School Notice
Students who wish to take the Medical School Aptitude Test will meet at 12:45 on Monday, Oct. 29, in Room 208 of Science Hall.
S ix
about the carnPys
One of the jollier souls in the class of ’35, is William John Casazza, Albany, New York’s gift to Notre Dame and the Glee Club. Bill experienced his first thrill two years ago when he broke through the ranks of 150 applicants to make himself a permanent member of Prof. Casasanta’s singing troupe. His repeated successes have
resulted in his one ambition: Willie is now president of the Glee clubbers.
He’s small and curly headed, with all the charm that make women want to mother him. But don’t let that fool you. Bill is active enough. His cheerful smile is never missing and his ability to make friends is well evidenced by his popularity and his two years of service to the S.A.C. As the S.A.C. dance chairman, he predicts a grand time to be had at the one and only Wisconsin football dance tomorrow night.
And then there’s the social side. There have been proms and cotillions. Willie knows many leagues and has a right smart batting average. Detroit’s fashionable suburb, Grosse Pointe, is in first place, we discovered. If you don’t believe us, ask Foley. And we wonder what a certain blonde named Anne will say to this?
Bill likes his den at 237 Corby. . . although his neighbors at the Corby du lac haven rarely find him in. His name appears on the night list frequently. Week-ends in Detroit. . . . likes good shows. . . majors in Economics. . . has the largest collection of colored shirts and ties on campus. Still raves about that Christmas dance in Albany last winter and emphatically denies cleaving Frank Mahar’s silk topper with a cane that night. Will never forget the Minnesota co-ed who played him a solo on an Indiana tom tom—on his bus trip home last summer. Easy to satisfy in any matter. ... is blessed with a warm, inviting grin. . . . happy-go-lucky Bill Casazza. . . a grand guy.
INTERHALL DEBATES TO BE INAUGURATED IN NOV.
The fifth of November was set as the opening date for Interhall Debating at the regular meeting of the Wranglers in their room in the Law building last Tuesday evening. Robert Schmelzle, chairman of debating, announced that a full schedule for the Interhall season would be made public next week. The critic judges will be members of the faculty chosen because of their particular interest in forensic activity.
The coaches of the debating teams reported an excellent turnout in most instances. However, in two halls sufficient material for a worthwhile team was not found. It is hoped that the men in these halls will show more interest. The names of the above mentioned halls with poor showings are known by the men who came out and they are requested to stimulate debating consciousness.
John Clark delivered the speech of the evening on “The Legion of Decency.” He pointed out that it should be given the whole-hearted support of Catholics because it is a movement of their Church and thus necessitates cooperation by them. .
Clark demonstrated that only through the box office boycott will proper results be obtained as in this manner the feature of “block-booking” is hit. “Block-booking” is the system whereby an exhibitor is forced to take all the pictures, good and bad alike, produced by a certain company. He cannot choose his own picture for he is under contract. Should be not take a “block-booking” his cost per picture is nearly doubled. This puts the average exhibitor’s costs beyond his receipts and causes him to operate at a loss. Clark pointed out that it should be realized that because a house plays a restricted picture it does not always do so through its own choice.
The speaker for next week will be James Boyle.	•
Father O’Hara and Dean
McCarthy To Attend Meet
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president, and James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, of the University of Notre Dame, will represent the University as delegates to the National Foreign Trade Convention in New York on Oct. 31.
The purpose of the convention is a study of foreign trade in both its national and international aspects and consideration of the problem of re-establishing American trade 'with the rest of the world.
The Scholastic
* B.T. STRONG LECTURES ON POLARIZED LIGHT
College Parade
With Vincent Gorman
PATRICIANS RECEIVE FIFTEEN NEW MEMBERS
Before one of the largest and most distinguished audiences to attend a lecture at Washington Hall this year, Mr. H. T. Strong, famed authority on Polarized Light, gave a demonstration of his much-discussed Polarizer.
The title of Mr. Strong’s lecture, “Revelations in the Realm of Color,” ♦ was no misnomer if the “ohs” and “ahs” of the audience were any evidence of the reaction to his many colorful slides.
Mr. Strong explained how his work in the designing of the color schemes for automobiles led him to the study . of color first as a hobby, then as a vocation and finally as an avocation.
The Polarizer was able to show what no other machine can — the actual growth of matter. The slides which Mr. Strong showed through his Polarizer brought out the beautiful and varied colors in the many elements.
In his study of color, Mr. Strong remarked that he had come to identify colors with ages. Youth and vitality prefer red and yellow, middle age, green and blue, and old age, violet.
In the large audience were the most Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., and the Rev. Julius A. Nieuw-land, C.S.C., inventor of synthetic rubber. Several hundred students and many members of the faculty also enjoyed the lecture.
Mr. Strong was secured through the efforts- of the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., who has charge of entertainment.
South Bend Association To Hear Famous Lectures
One of the highlights of the winter season will be a series of lectures to be sponsored in South Bend by the South Bend Chapter of the American Association of University Women. Five outstanding personages have been secured to present these talks in ft the auditorium of Central Senior High School.	•
The following schedule has been arranged: Nov. 14—H. V. Kalten-bom; Dec. 11—Emil Lengyel; Jan. 24 —Amelia Earhart; Feb. 22—George E. Sokolsky; March 19—Cornelia Otis Skinner.
Season ticket prices for these lectures will be general admission, §2.00 .	and reserved section, $3.00. Tickets
’	may be secured at the South Bend
:	Book Shop, Room 506 J.M.S. Build-
L	ing, or by telephone call 3-1325 and
*	the tickets will be delivered upon
•	request.
J.	October 26,1934
Familiar
“Freedom is an elusive status which all men crave. Speeches, books, blood, sweat, curses, prayers and revolutions, all have been employed in the hope of its attainment. But, like other objects of men’s desires, freedom is an en dwhose attainment involves implications, inconvenience, confusion and chaos.”
—The Heights (Boston College)
Tonsorial Bait
“Football fans get your hair cut —listen to a good football game. Special—Friday-Saturday, Hair cut 25c. K.U. Barber Shop. . .”
—Advt. in University Daily Kansan
Significant
“Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler deplores the manners and personal conduct of the youth of today, he stated at the opening exercises of Columbia University. . . Tn respect to manners and personal conduct, present-jday ' habits as manifested in every sort of public place and personal relationship are time and again quite shocking. One wonders why it is that youth can come to full adolescent years with no apparent appreciation between good manners and their opposite’.”
—The Carnegie Tartan
Universal Custom
“And what,” asked a professor of economics at the University of Illinois, “is a vicious circle?”
“A fraternity bull session,” came the reply from the back of the room.”
—Michigan Daily
Remarkable
“One asks, of course, why students are more interested in grades than knowledge? We believe the answer lies in - the fact that at least while the student is on the campus, his accomplishments are measured by his point average. .	.
“So. . . full blame cannot be placed justly on the student’s shoulder if he take an attitude that grades are more important than knowledge. It is true, . we believe, that student can very often secure high grades in a course about which he actually knows little.” —The Ohio State Lantern
They Did!
“Alas, alack, alack-a-day— We lost another game,
But we’ll reverse Wisconsin’s scorecard
From that of Rice and Notre Dame!”
—The Purdue Exponent
(Daily Trojan please note.)
Vincent A. Gorman, president of the Patricians welcomed 15 new men into the society at the regular meeting last Wednesday evening in the Classics room of the Law building.
The men chosen by the committee
Vincent A. Gorman, Jr. ’ He insists on “Jr.”
on membership were introduced in the meeting b y Franklyn Hochreiter, chairman of the committee. The new members are as follows: Seniors— Gerald Molinari, Roy Scholz, Francis Schlueter and Patrick Quigley; Juniors—Carl Senger, and Andrew Hellmuth; sophomores — Matthew Bruc-coli, Leo Curmier, Vincent Hartnett and John Marbach; Freshmen — Thomas Doody, John Deane, Aram Jarret, Robert Mullen, and William Lusson.
The fifteen men admitted to the Patricians were selected from 25 applicants after an examination of their qualifications by the committee on membership.	-
The president in his address to the new members pointed out to them the aims of the society and explained what would‘be expected of them as recognized Patricians.
Paul Hart read a paper to the society on “Classical Philosophy” in which he traced the philosophical trends in the writings of the ancient scholars and compared them with the modern conception of philosophy as found in the present day propounders of the science.
Prof Davis Speaks
Prof. Alden E. Davis of the College of Commerce faculty addressed the St. Joseph-Benton Harbor branch of the National Association of Credit Men at the Hotel Vincent, Benton Habor recently. His subject was the “Changing Theory and Practice of Credit Extension.”
Mr. Davis has been engaged to address the Indiana-Michigan State Conference of the Credit Men’s Association at their annual convention in Grand Rapids on Nov. 16.
.	5 even
ST. VINCENT DE PAUL SOCIETY TO RUN REC
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
“GOOD BYE MR. CHIPS” IS POPULAR AT LIBRARY
At the meeting of the St. Vincent de Paul Society in the basement of Walsh hall Tuesday night, it was announced that the proceeds from the alleys and pool tables in that hall will be used for relief work. These alleys and pool tables will be put in first class condition for the school year.
All the money that is realized on the hall will be used to aid poor Negro families in So. Bend. It is thought that the relief work for this winter will be unduly heavy, and thus, the money from this source will be very helpful. This arrangement was made possible through the kindness of the administration of the University.
It was also announced that a new machine will replace the damaged one in the candy store. Reports on the individual case work carried on in South Bend during the past week were discussed. Arrangements were made for the distribution of copies of the Catholic weekly, The Sunday Visitor, to the patients at Health-win.
Commerce Forum Holds Its First Meeting of the Year
The Commerce Forum of the University of Notre Dame met for the first time last week. Ninety-two Commerce men were present. Mr.- James E. McCarthy, Dean of the College of Commerce, formally opened the meeting by expressing his appreciation of the University’s plan to aid the Forum, and incidentally, the other clubs of the College of Commerce.
Following Dean McCarthy’s address, Mr. Flatley, of the faculty of the College of Commerce, spoke briefly but forcefully of the heritage of the commerce man at Notre Dame— a heritage that he may take or leave according to his application. '
Mr. A. B. Davis, also of the Commerce faculty, concluded the evening’s addresses with an exhortation to the Forum members to be challenging, inquiring, and inquisitive. Mr. Davis further hinted that men from a university such as ours would, and will, go out into the world with a stronger moral code of ethics than will men from universities with little or no sound religious direction.
A program for the year was outlined tentatively, by Frank Shay, president of the Forum. Officers and members of the Board of Directors were introduced prior to the meeting, proper.
Good times are coming back to North Carolina—that is, if record attendance crowds at football games this year can be used as a yardstick.
Eight	.	.
Fifth Home Game—	/
We told you about Sorin’s Tigers only two weeks ago, and here we are repeating ourselves. But it is not because this column has become partial. Mercy no! Let the best team -win we say. The Sorin story has become “a natural.” We can’t keep it down.
With Skeehan’s first rumble a few weeks back, this red rapier gathered more and more rumbles, until now it is a veritable volcano. Butch Carey has been offered one of Hochreiter’s dates to throw the Corby game—but’ he will have none of it. Breen was lured away on a mysterious weekend last Sunday, but he overpowered his abductors and returned to grunt brilliantly against Alumni.	-
“Sorin is getting cocky,” said their coach this afternoon. “Bill Lord is., even trying field goals from his own 45-yard line.” '	. . . . . . ■ “ .
The Tiger manager has posted pic- • tufes of all the Corby players in the . ‘12’ rooms of Sorin, for his warriors ■ to. familiarize themselves. with while at ease. It is hoped that not a. Corby backfield man, will be unknown at • game time. Walsh, of course, is equally at home in the backfield or at end. Tom’s end has never yet been known to faih when the occasion was getting too hot for the other boys to handle. But the Tigers will know .him any- . where. 1 -
It has- been suggested that the Sorin team be quartered at Elkhart the night before the game. This plan has , the full approval of the boys. They are old enough to know what is best for; them.
Because of the presence of Corby . scouts last Sunday, it is rumored that the Tigers will change their system for the Corby game; but time alone can tell. If Sorin does change, however, Corby will revert to an 11-5-2 defense. '
.. < “We -will win on a forfeit,” claims -the Corby crowd. “They’re afraid of us.” >	'	’	'
- ; “Cleah living will tell,” says Sorin.
Somerset Maughan .	.
And his men of brawn, . .
Are usually best sellers ; ‘
But stories racy, .	-
Like Dick Tracy, :
: Is what gets us fellers. .
7 :	. Sympathy	\
The Scholastic joins the-Univer-sity and the student body in extending .heartfelt sympathy to the" Rev. . Francis -Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, whose mother died last
. . week.’ j . V . ■	- -
James Hilton’s much-discussed and best seller, Good-bye, Mr. Chips, which has been added to the University Library, is ranked at the top in student popularity for the past week—prob-ably because of the similarity between many of Notre Dame’s professors and the schoolmaster, Mr. Chipping. A schoolmaster for nearly a quarter of a century, Mr. Chips summed up in his person an abiding loyalty for England, an intelligent loyalty to the classics he taught, and, above all, a crusty, dryly amusing, and lifelong loyalty to the school which was his world.
. Next most discussed and widely read was the 1934 Pulitzer Prize winner, Lamb in His Bosom, by. Caroline Miller. . ' . ■ •	"
The New Dealers by Unofficial Observer, gives for the first time an in- -formal. history and account of the . New Deal—not merely of the headline figures, but also of the many.
- humble assistants whose names are not yet in the papers. Most of the material presented is entirely new to
. the public.	.	’
. Stuart Chase’s The Economy of ’ Abundance should furnish students of economics with a valuable analysis of the changing social and economic pattern. The book brings out some excellent and little-read source material produced by other scholars in the last few years. It is no less authoritative
, for its readibility and humor.
• New books now available at University library:
Religion—The. Canon Lazo Digest, by T. L. Bouscaren, S.S.; The Christian Home, by Celestine Strub, O.F.M.
Economics — America’s Recovery Program.	.
Sociology—Leadership in Group Work, by Henry M. Busch; - The Method of Sociology, by Flarjan Znaniecki.	.	•
Literature—Franciscan Poets,- by -B. S. Musser.	.	.
. Fiction—Red Clark Rides Alone, by Gorden Young.	.	.
Bibliography—An Enquiry Into the Nature of Certain Nineteenth Century Pamphlets, by John Carter. ;
Capitol District Club -
. Gerald Molinari, president of the Capitol District Club of New York, announced that the next meeting , of the organization will be held Oct. 30, at 6:40 in Carroll Recreation room.
.All the members are requested to attend. . This meeting will mark the completion or the plans for the Christmas dance.
■	'	-	-I -	*	•
.	. .The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, October 26
October Devotions Sacred Heart
Church, 5:00 p.m. Scholastic staff meeting, editorial, 6:30; general staff, 7:00 p.m., Ave Maria building. Sophomore Cotillion, Palais Royale.
Saturday, October 27
Football game, Varsity vs. Wisconsin, stadium, 2:00 p.m. Movie, 6:45 and 8:15 p.m. October Devotions, 12:30 p.m.
Sunday, October 28
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a.m. Interhall football 9:15 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. Benedic--tion 7:00 and 7:30 p.m. Lecture by Jacques Maritain, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m. S.A.C. meeting, Basement of Library 10:00 a.m.
Monday, October 29	'
October Devotions, 5:00 p.m. Blue Circle meeting, Library basement, 6:30p.m.
Tuesday, October 30	,
; Der, Deusche-Verein, Carroll Rec., ■7:45 p.m. October Devotions, 5:00 p.m.. Capitol district club meeting, Carroll Rec., 6:40 p.m. Symphony orchestra, 6:30 p.m. Wranglers’ meet' ing, Law building, 6:30 p.m. ■
' Wednesday, October 31
October Devotions 5:00 p.m. Commerce Forum, Commerce building. Patricians’ meeting, Law- building, 6:30. Movie, “Whom the Gods :Destroy,” with Walter Connolly, and -Robert Young.	' -
Thursday, November 1 -. -All Saints day, no classes. Breakfast at 8:00.	'.	'
Many Famous Sport Writers Here For Wisconsin Game
The return of Notre Dame to. a leading place among the ranking foot- :: ball elevens in the country has led to applications for space in the press box for the Wisconsin game from a galaxy of sport writers and announ- ' cers.	.
Radio station WBBM of Chicago . with Pat Flannigan at the mike, will -7 broadcast the game, as will WTMJ, Milwaukee, with Russ Winnie announcing; WKBF, Indianapolis with Len Riley; WSBT, South Bend, with Bob Kennett; and WIBA, Madison. .
All the Chicago newspapers will have representatives here, and Associated Press and United Press, King Features Syndicate and Universal News will be represented. The Milwaukee Leader is sending Ben Smith to cover the game; the Wisconsin Nezus of Milwaukee sends Howard Purser; the Milwaukee Sentinel Howard McIntyre; Wisconsin State Jour- . nal at Madison, Roundy Coughlin and H. J. McCormick.
O c t o b er 2 6, 1 9 3 4
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Salesman
The boys selling football programs last Saturday were scattered all over the parking lots and around the stadium, but hawk as they would, sales were coming along mighty slowly.
One happy individual, however, seemed to be getting rid of package after package. He was peddling just like the rest of them, but with one exception. He would holler out something, and people, instead of passing him by, would pause. They would look at each other and smile, and look at the boy and smile, and the boy would look back at them and smile. Whereupon .the customers would invariably walk over and buy a program.	■
We decided to investigate and strolled over to the scene. We got smiled at, too, and the boy called, “Get your programs. Names, numbers, and salaries of the players!”
A nice trick, say we, and ingenious. Of course, the salaries weren’t really listed at all, and the customers knew it, but it caught their attention and their .quarters, which was the main idea. The boy will probably get ‘ ahead in the world, even though he might be- sat. upon at various intervals for daring to mention money in the same breath with amateur sport.
Pretty Boys	•
; Regarding the forced incarceration , of the. pretty boys from Walsh, who had sought our . aid in their behalf, there didn’t look to be anything we could do about it from our far-removed cell, but we did like the opinion- expressed by one of their number: at the end of the fifth day of the' corralment.
; . “Well,” he said simply, “if we’re in, ■we’re in, and if we get out, we get out.” Seemed to sum up the situation quite- adequately.
Rebuff
' It-was;, four, ayem and the watchman was. embroiled in a brisk argument with an- inmate who was clearly . desirous of clearing the premises.
“I, want to' get out,” said the guest.
; (After; all; that’s precisely what we - are—guests of the University, and we can leave whenever we want).
“Whatf.fof ?” the guard wanted to
4 know. J;.-;
; “What7 do you think we are — stupid;kids?” demanded the student.
A head appeared at an upper win-
dow. “Yes,” said a voice. It was the third floor prefect.
The youth turned around and looked up at the window. “I utterly disregard the childish remarks of young and insignificant freshmen,” he said, scathingly.
There was quiet for a split second and then the head was withdrawn. The prefect closed the window and went back to bed—a beaten man.
O
M. Maritain
Perhaps you’ve been Maritained by every one of your professors until you’re ready to fight at the mere suggestion of going to hear his lecture. Well, don’t let it get you down. Every so often the professors are right. It so happens that this is one of those times.
When the arrival of one Jacques Maritain is announced and the lecture date set, go over to the dining hall as usual and eat your supper slowly, make sure that it’s properly digested, and pay no attention to those waiters who try to rush you. But as soon as you are finished, don’t go standing around the cafe listening to creatures who aren’t quite sure of what anything is about. Head for Washington Hall, grab yourself a front seat, and stay awake until M. Maritain traverses the boards before you. Then listen. He knows something.
Bookstore
There seems to be a widespread affliction on the campus at present, and we’re wondering just where it will end. It’s a sort of dull-minded illness, and its symptoms consist of such things as disconnected conversations, purposeless remarks, and senseless replies.
Now we find that the disease, or a first cousin to it, has apparently spread to the boys who roam up and down behind the bookstore counter. We dropped in there last week and asked for a book of seventeenth century prose.
“Seventeenth century prose,” said the man, “seventeenth century prose. Okay, I’ll see.”
Back among the shelves he went, and after several minutes of intense searching, came back with a volume in his hand.
“There isn’t any seventeenth century prose there,” he said, “but here’s one that might do. It’s eighteenth century prose. Four-fifty.”
We said no, and went out.
in e
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
pelled to leave the volume they are consulting before they have completed their assignments.
The two hour rule makes weekend study almost impossible in some cases. Here, indeed, is an opportunity for the library to act again in the interests of the student body by keeping, the stacks and reference rooms open for at least eight hours over weekends.

John D. Carbine_________________________Editor-in-Chief
Edward J. Van Huisseling.____________Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI-----------------------Chief Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN.--------------------------LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY__________________________The Week
VINCENT A. GORMAN Jr.---------------------College Parade
WILLIAM V. ELLIS, IL________________________Art Editor
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY---------------------Graduate Assistant
News Staff JOHN J. MORAN-------------------------------News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN-------------------Assistant Nezvs Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL------------------Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN--------------------JOSEPH RATIGAN
JOHN W. WALKER----------------------HARRY A. BALDWIN
LINDSAY PHOEBUS-------------------------FRANK KELLY
PAUL FOLEY.-------------------------IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI------------------CHARLES A. LANDMESSER
PHILIP F. WELSH---------------------JOHN A. GILLESPIE
FREDERICK SHANLEY
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST__________1_______Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER------------------Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER---------------.ROBERT J. DONAHUE
GERARD SCHAEFER-------------------JAMES McMULLEN
JOHN L FLANAGAN-------------------JAMES A. WALDRON
Business Management
_ JOHN F. STOECKLEY------------------Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated (Sollegiate $ress 1	nvuswzfts er
-S!934	1935 e-
M4D,SC»<	WISCONSIN
October 26, 1934
WASHINGTON HALL
The announcement that Jacques Maritain will lecture here Sunday night is a welcome one. The appearance of M. Maritain follows that of another world famous philosopher and educator, Mr. Francis J. Sheed of London. The department of philosophy has certainly done its part to bring noted and worthwhile lecturers to Washington Hall for the benefit of interested students. The School of Journalism too has been active in bringing leaders in the field of journalism to the campus.
It has, however, always been a constant source of wonder to The Scholastic that leaders in other fields of thought were not more frequently brought to Washington Hali. Certainly the appearance of a few of the leading economists and sociologists on the Washington Hall stage would be very well received. Father Ryan was the only renowned economist to speak here last year and on each of his appearance he spoke to capacity crowds. On the occasion of one of his lectures there was not even standing room available. Certainly there is enough interest on the campus to insure the enthusiastic reception of leaders in the fields of economics, politics and sociology.
The proximity of Notre Dame to the concert stage of Chicago affords excellent opportunity for the importation of musical talent. Several fine musical groups have appeared here in recent years. Prominent among them were the Cossack Chorus, the Welsh Singers and the Paulist Choir. The Scholastic hopes that this practice will be continued this year.
The lecture season has certainly had an impressive beginning with the appearance of Mr. Sheed, Mr. Strong and the coming appearance of M. Maritain. It is to be hoped that this excellence of program, with just a bit more variety, will be protracted throughout the school year.
WEEKEND STUDY
The University Library is open only ’two hours over weekends during the football season. To The Scholastic this time seems to be insufficient. There is no apparent reason why the library should not be kept open Saturday night or Sunday afternoon. In fact part of the library— the art gallery—is open all day Sunday for the benefit of the visiting public.
To make matters worse, many professors, under the assumption that students have more time to prepare for Monday’s classes than for those of any other day, plan to have the most difficult assignments fall due on Monday. It is true that two hours is plenty of time to obtain the necessary books from the library, but in order to do many of these assignments, the students must use books in the reference room of the library. These books cannot be removed from the building and often students are com-
Ten
COTILLION BUDGET
In these days of thin soles, shiny pants and cramped pocketbooks, people are anxious to know just where the money they spend is going. This week some 200 students paid three dollars apiece for a ticket for the Sophomore Cotillion. They would, no doubt, be interested in knowing just what their money was used for.
The Scholastic, therefore suggests that the sophomores—and those in charge of all other class dances— publish financial reports of their dances in the columns of The Scholastic. This procedure, designed, of course, for information rather than investigation, will dispense with much of the inevitable questioning and insinuation over the financial conduct of class functions, for the greatest part of this askance is based upon ignorance of the real conditions.
The Scholastic

SPCKTS
SORIN HUMBLES ALUMNI TO TAKE LEAGUE LEAD
BADGERS OPPOSE NOTRE DAME IN FINAL HOME APPEARANCE OF IRISH
By John I, Flanagan
Group 1.	W	L	T	Pts
Sorin 		.. 3	0	0	6
Alumni 							9	1	o	4
Lyons 			.. 1	1	1	3
Morrissey 		.. 1	1	1	3
St. Edwards 		.. 0	1	2	2
Corby 					. 0	3	o	o
Group 2.	w	L	T	Pts.
Brownson 		.. 3	0	0	6
Carroll 			0	0	6
Howard 		. 1	1	1	3
Freshman 		. 1	2	0	2
Dillon 		.. 1	2	0	2
Off Campus 		. 0	3	0	0
Once more the men of Sorin returned victorious. Leaving their psychology and economics they donned their football togs and trounced the hitherto undefeated Aljnnni eleven by the score of 12-0. In their first three games the seniors have a total of 38 points and they have yet to be scored upon. Again the boys displayed their highly vaunted aerial attack to great advantage, scoring both of their touchdowns in this manner. The first score came before the game was two minutes old on a 30-yard pass from Cavender to Fehr. The try for the extra point was unsuccessful. They scored again in the second canto via the ozone. This time Captain Carey faded back and tossed the pigskin into the waiting arms of Mike Sheedy who fell over the last marker for another six points. Carey failed to convert when the incensed Alumni line charged through and blocked the kick. Alumni’s line stiffened considerably then and the lads were not able to pass the 15-yard line. Late in the final quarter Bill Lord, Sorin right guard, tried two drop kicks from the 40 and 20 yard lines respectively but the first was short and the second was inches B wide. The Juniors could make no headway either by rushing or by passing, and had to be content with keeping the score down.
Lyons and St. Edwards played to a scoreless tie in a game marred by several fumbles. Neither team showed much scoring punch but both had a strong defense. The game throughout was listless and unimpressive, the play centering about midfield.
In the third scheduled game of Group 1, Morrissey won from Corby by forfeit. Although this is the third | game that Corby has lost that way, (Continued on Page 12)
Wisconsin Holds Edge Over Notre Dame Teams During Short Grid Series
1900—N.D. 0 ; Wisconsin 54
1904—N.D. 0 ; Wisconsin 5S
'	1905—N.D. 0; Wisconsin 21
1917—N.D. 0 ; Wisconsin 0
1924—N.D. 38; Wisconsin 3
1928—N.D. 6; Wisconsin 22
1929—N.D. 19 ; Wisconsin 0
Totals—N.D., 63; Wisconsin, 158. Notre Dame won 2, lost 4, and tied 1.
Wisconsin has the distinction of winning the majority of contests in their seven year series with Notre Dame—a distinction that very few teams have. Playing without cleated shoes, in a sea of mud, the Irish could not get started in their inaugural battle against the Badgers during the season of 1900. The visitors, with a veteran team of four years experience, piled up 54 points — a large amount of their yardage due to Gold and Blue penalties.
With six of the starting eleven disabled, and outweighed 12 pounds to a man, Notre Dame suffered one of her most disastrous defeats, in 1904, by being humbled 58-0. An insertion from the Milwaukee Sentinel reads like this, “Handicapped and beaten at every point, the only source of action left to the Fighting Irish was to live up to their reputation and they fought to the last ditch.”
Renewing hostilities in 1917, Rockne pulled an upset by holding the powerful Badgers to a 0-0 score. Wisconsin threatened the Irish goal line six times, but lacked the necessary punch' to push the pigskin across. Late in the game, Phelan, Notre Dame captain and quarterback, tried a 41 yard placement, missing the bar only by inches.
It was not until the reign of the Four Horsemen that the Cardinal “jinx” was shattered, with a 38-3 decision. The first, second, and third Irish teams ran rough-shod through Wisconsin territory, completely outplaying them at every angle. The attack was so destructive that it did
(Continued on Page 16)
LARGE CROWD EXPECTED
By Cy Stroker
There is an old axiom in Geometry which states that if the first of three quantities is greater than the second and the second greater than the third, then the first is greater than the third. If this statement could be applied with some reservations to football, the prospects for Notre Dame in
TOMME/ZSOM	f/l/LL-
tomorrow’s game with Wisconsin would indeed be happy ones. For the Irish defeated Purdue two weeks ago 18-7 and Purdue downed Wisconsin last week 14-0.
It would then follow that Notre Dame would have little trouble in trouncing the Badgers. Experience has proven, however, that football and geometry are two widely different fields, especially in regard to the aforementioned axiom, and Wisconsin will be as tough a team as the Irish have met this year.
So far this season, the Badgers have, won two games to offset their defeat by Purdue. In their opening game, Wisconsin fought an unusually strong Marquette eleven to a scoreless tie for 59 minutes and 50 seconds. Then, with the time-keeper holding the gun over his head, Pacetti, Badger left tackle, booted a field goal for a priceless three points. The following week, Wisconsin showed up strongly, trouncing South Dakota State 28-7. Last Saturday’s game, with- Purdue showed the Badgers to be in excellent form, and it was only by dint of two spectacular runs by (Continued on Page 15)
October26,1934
Eleven
Shakespeare And Vairo Register As Irish Trample Tartans, 13-0
SCORE ON RUN AND PASS
By Joe Prendergast
The late Knute Rockne once said, “One perfect play and a strong defense will win most any ball game.”
Last Saturday on the soggy turf
Captain Oom Vaiko
A soggy field was no handicap.
of the Stadium the men of Layden, Inc., won a ball game from Carnegie Tech that coincided with “Rock’s” concept of a winning ball club except in one detail—Coach Layden’s boys executed two perfect plays instead of the quoted one.
Five minutes after the opening kickoff was the time at which the first such play occurred. The Irish were in possession of the ball on their own 44 yard line, the backfield shifted to the right, Bill Shakespeare received the ball, circled his own right end, cut towards the east sidelines and proceeded down the field without being touched. Some excellent blocking by Bonar, Elser and Hanley made this touchdown possible.
The second of the perfect plays for Notre Dame came near the close of the third stanza. Bill Bruno, the Jersey Comet, kicked out of bounds on Tech’s nine yard line. Mihm, the 200 pound quarterback for the visitors booted on the first play thereafter; Bruno caught the punt and advanced the pigskin to Tech’s 31 yard line. Pilney on the next play tried to outrun Sanford, the Skibo’s left end, but failed. Pilney again tried the Tech line—this time losing a’ yard. Bruno called for a pass and right he was for with Andy Pilney heaving the ball in beautiful fashion from the Skibo’s 45 yard stripe it came ultimately to rest in Captain Dominic Vairo’s arms on the goal line, good for the second score.
Bill Bruno drop-kicked the extra point giving the Irish their first point after touchdown this season and also the first in the Stadium since 1932.
The play of Carnegie Tech failed
Twelve
Hibernian Soccer Team Is Victorious; May Be Sponsored By Irish Club
The Hibernian Soccer Club won its first game of the season last Sunday when it sent the Turnverein soccer team of South Bend down to a 3-2 defeat. The contest was well-played and closely contested throughout.
The club with the Irish moniker got off to an early lead in the first half by virtue of a goal by Maxwell, inside forward, after a solo dash half the length of the field. The South Benders tied it up shortly afterwards through Watson’s efforts. Nanovic, defensive halfback for the Hibernians, was responsible for the second score for his team when, near the end of the opening half, he booted a tally to put his outfit in the van.
Soon after the start of the second period the city boys again knotted the fray; this time the score stood at two all. With but four minutes of the game remaining, Santaniello kicked what proved to be the winning counter. In the last few minutes of the tilt, the Hibernians held off the desperate attempts of their opponents to score.
to materialize even once into a scoring threat. The defensive maneuvers of the Irish kept things well under control during the slow affair. Twice in the second quarter Harpster’s engineers advanced to Notre Dame’s 32 yard line but the attack bogged down at this point — so nothing which looked like a “pay-off” resulted. The soft ground was a distinct setback for Howard Harpster’s tricky offense, 18 yards being Tech’s total reward for running plays during the skirmish.
Notre Dame totaled 146 yards from rushing which indicates the superiority of its offensive machine over the Tech men.
With the win last Saturday before the drenched 15,000 spectators, the Irish not only won the engagement but hand in hand with the victory was the smashing of a sort of “Blue Monday” atmosphere which surrounded Notre Dame whenever the name of Howard Harpster, Coach of Carnegie Tech, was mentioned.
In 1926 and ’28 Carnegie defeated two of Rock’s fine teams with Howard Harpster quarterbacking both of the wins. Last season, Harpster’s first as head man of the Skibos, saw Notre Dame again beaten; this time 7 to 0. Last Saturday Elmer Layden put an end to the jinx decesively, 13 to 0.
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 11)
they have a team. It is rumored that they are practicing every night in preparation for their homecoming game with the Sorin men, and feel that any games might injure their stars. They are not, worried about their scholastic eligibility as they have been “hitting the books” in order to do or die for old Corby du Lac.
In Group 2, Brownson and Carroll still remained deadlocked with three victories apiece and no defeats. Brownson won their game from Howard in the second quarter 6-0 when Vince Donahue intercepted one of the junior’s passes and raced 50 yards behind perfect interference for the only score of the game. The try for the extra point was futile.
Carroll kept in the running by trouncing Dillon 32-0. The Carroll lads made two touchdowns in the first quarter and followed this in the second stanza with 13 more points. In a vain effort to score in the waning minutes of the fourth quarter the Dillon yearlings put on a determined aerial attack only to have one of the heaves intercepted by Carroll and six points more added to the tally.
In the final contest of the day Freshman emerged victorious after a hard fought battle with Off Campus 6-0. The issue was not decided until the closing moments of the fourth periods when Rainey ran 65 yards to score the six points which gave Freshman their second victory of the season.
The schedule for this Sunday finds Group 2, playing at 9:15 in the morning and pits Brownson against Howard and Dillon against Off Campus. At 2:30 Group 1 gets into action with Sorin against Morrissey, Lyons against Alumni, and Corby against St. Edwards.
1934 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Dec. 7 Kalamazoo, here
Dec. 15 Albion, here
Dec. 18 Northwestern, here
Dec. 22 St. Ambrose (tentative)
Dec. 26 Stanford, here
Dec. 29 N.Y.U. at Madison Sq. Gard.
Dec. 31 Holy Cross at Boston
Jan. 5 Minnesota at Minneapolis
Jan. 8 Marquette, here
Jan. 12 Butler, here
Jan. 19 Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
Jan. 21 Detroit at Detroit
Jan. 26 Chicago, here
Jan. 31 Ohio State at Columbus
Feb. 2 Northwestern at Evanston
Feb. 16 Pittsburgh, here
Feb. 23 Butler at Indianapolis
Mar. 1 Marquette at Milwaukee
Mar. 4 Minnesota, here
Mar. 9 Temple at Philadelphia
Mar. 11 St. Xavier at Cincinnati
The Scholastic
NOTRE DANE HARRIERS TROUNCE WILSONITES
Twenty-Two Games Listed on Irish Basketball Card; Purdue Dropped
Despite treacherous footing and a steady rain, Notre Dame’s crack cross country team swept to a decisive win over Loyola of Chicago, last Saturday. Paced by McKenna who covered the three and a half mile course in 19 minutes flat, the Irish runners took the first four places. Thirty-four sec-9 onds back of McKenna came Gott of Notre Dame, closely followed by Kenyon and McGrath. Brennan and Tit-tinger who finished in fifth and eighth positions, respectively, were the only Loyola men who edged in among the first eight finishers.
Although Coach John Nicholson is delighted with his team’s showing, he predicts all kinds of trouble when the powerful Michigan State harriers meet the Irish tomorrow. Led by the great Tom Ottey, this great squad of cross countrymen is expected to win the first six places according to “gloomy Nick’s” calculations. This pessimistic attitude, however, is not shared by the men on the team or those who have been watching the squad progress. Contrary to all predictions, a great upset may be turned in by the flying spikes of the Irish harriers.
Freshman Tennis Outlook Dissapointing—de Landero
Professor de Landero, coach of the varsity and freshman tennis teams, is very much dissatisfied with the number of candidates that turned out for the freshman tennis tournament.
Coach de Landero had expected to form a strong freshman combine so as to hold practice matches with the varsity next spring. He believes that there are many capable racquetswingers among the freshmen who did not bother to enter the tourney. If these players would report to Coach de Landero at the courts behind the law building, an idea of the material available would be secured.
Newspapers Laud Irish After Impressive Win Over Carnegie Eleven
Notre Dame’s various elevens had no trouble combating the jinx with which Carnegie Tech has annoyed them in recent seasons. The Scots, without making a serious threat at any time, just curled up on a rain soaked field and the Irish without the I
necessity of stiff fighting paraded to a 13-0 victory. It was like old times when Shakespeare, who started at left half, went tearing around his right end. Preceding him were Bonar and Hanley taking out the few Tech players who apparently were not fooled by the play.—Irving Vaughn, Chicago Tribune.
Two sparkling plays which enlivened an otherwise drab football game, enabled Notre Dame to avenge the second of its 1933 defeats here today when the Irish conquered Carnegie Tech 13-0, before a crowd of 20,000 persons who braved a cold rain. Both teams looked good on defense, while neither had much to offer in the way of offense. The Irish made five first downs to three, two of Tech’s coming on penalties and the other from scrimmage.—Special reporter, the Indianapolis Star.
Striking twice when least expected, once in the first quarter and again in the third, Notre Dame’s Irish did a workman-like job of overcoming the Harpster jinx and defeated Carnegie Tech before 15,000 rain soaked customers Saturday afternoon by a score of 13-0. . . Saturday no amount of (Continued on Page 16)
PLAY N. Y. U. ON DEC. 29
By James A. Waldron
For years the Notre Dame football teams have commuted their “football magic” from coast to coast. According to this year’s basketball schedule released by Coach George Keogan, the court edition of the Fighting Irish will put on its traveling suit during this season. From Stanford on the Pacific Coast to Holy Cross in the staid old town of Boston, are spread Notre Dame’s opponents for the 1934 season.
The team will open against Kalamazoo on Dec 7th and then follow with engagements on Dec. 15th, and 18th with Albion and Northwestern, respectively. These games will be in the form of warm-ups as the Irish court machine gets up power in pointing for the N.Y.U. Game on Dec. 29. This contest, one of the most important on the Notre Dame schedule, will be played in the Madison Square Garden.
On Dec. 26th, the Irish stronghold for the first time will be primed to withstand the assault of a Western Coast invader, Stanford. The site for-this game is pending, and will be announced later. Notre Dame will then try to celebrate New Year’s Eve in true Irish fashion by defeating Holy Cross in the Boston Garden. This contest will mark Notre Dame’s first appearance in New England. Following this eastern invasion the Irish will tangle with two of the three teams to defeat it last year; Minnesota, Jan. 5th, and Marquette, Jan. 8th.
Doc Keogan will follow these games with a trip into the lair of the Pittsburgh “Panthers.” No victory would be sweeter to the Irish than to gain revenge on the only team which (Continued on Page 16)
HERE COME THE BADGERS WITH A BANG! BANG!
<JAHX<MSI<I	HAUXEDAHL.	M/ELfiR.
October 26, 193 4
STR/™*'
SC>jUEL-KE
BECKER,
‘Thirteen
By Joe Prendergast
FENCERS SHOW PROMISE SO DE LANDERO SMILES
Rocco Victor Schiralli of Gary, Ind.—home of football players par-excellent and steel mills. Rocky is a guard, left guard to be exact, and as guards go on Notre Dame elevens, tough, fast, and medium-sized. He is 22 years old, weighs 168 pounds and stands five feet-nine inches in height.
In his sophomore year Rocco was first string substitute to the very capable James Harris, left guard on the varsity. “Hunk” Anderson gave this Gary boy his initiation to varsity com
petition in the first game of his sophomore year, the Haskell fray.
In the Kansas battle of 1932 in the Jayhawkers stadium at Lawrence, Rocky had a unique experience. Kansas had jumped off to an early 6 to 0 lead., Lukats’ 67 yard run in the first quarter dueced the affair at six all. At the start of the second quarter Hunk called for Rocco and told him to warm up. The second period started, Rock still sprinting up and down the sidelines; five minutes passed—then ten, our man, Rocco still proving himself to be a promising dash man on the sidelines. When 12 minutes of the second canto had elapsed and Joe Sheeketski had scored, the second touchdown for Notre Dame, Hunk finally sent our subject in to do battle against the “Jayhawkers.” Rocco says, “For 13 minutes I knew just how the forgotten man felt.” Jim Harris coming
Fourteen
out of the game looked much fresher than his relief man entering the tussle. This incident is the most memorable happening to Rocco during his three years of football at Notre Dame.
In 1932 “Rock” played in every contest but three and last season took part in all but two skirmishes, Army and S.C.
“There are four brothers in the family besides myself. I’m the smallest but not the youngest.” He has a younger brother now in high school who has hopes of following in Rocky’s
footsteps here at Notre Dame. Four years at Emerson High School, Gary; three years on the football team, Captaining the State Champs his senior year; two years on the swimming team—“I swam the hundred, never established any record just a member of the team”—are his doings before entering the institution of the “Fighting Irish.”
Rocco Victor, like so many other fine football players, always wanted to go to Notre Dame. Clarence “Chick” Bader, baseball star for the Irish back in the 1919 and ’20 era, was mainly instrumental in this Gary youth’s sojourn here. Pinochle and Katherine of Gary are his two topics of conversation. The Sorin mail-man reports three letters weekly from Gary in the same type of envelopes. None from the little Elmhurst brunette, Rocky? Rocco likes to sleep but the Rev. Charles Doremus, C.S.C.,
Coach Pedro de Landero smiled optimistically as he watched a large group of his 40 fencing candidates go through their paces early this week. He predicts a successful season, and with the wealth of material on hand, his prediction is more than substantiated. Since coaches are inclined to under-estimate, all of which means the brightest fencing for Notre Dame.
Enthusiasm is at a high pitch, and all the men are endeavoring to make the team. In these early practice sessions, which display mid-season seriousness, fundamentals are stressed, and each man is well grounded in the elementary phases of fencing.
Six members of the squad have been invited to take part in an exhibition at the charity affair at Holy Cross parish on Nov. 7, 8, 9. Through the courtesy of Athletic Director Elmer Layden, the request has been granted and six men will compete in dueling swords, saber and foil.
Two excellent prospects for saber were unearthed in the freshman squad of 20, P. Lavergne and F. Wenninger. Both of these men have displayed unusual ability and stand out as future fencing stars of Notre Dame. Among the varsity members, Joe Myron has shown the most improvement and is an outstanding can-idate for the vacancy in saber created when Harold May failed to return to school.
There will be practice once a week in the evening, day undetermined, to permit Mr. Delmar G. Roos to come and practice with the foilmen. Mr. Roos is chief engineer of the Studebaker Company and helped Coach de Landero instruct the men last year. He will train five or six of the outstanding candidates.
Tall men are in demand for dueling swords, and any men who have not reported as yet, are requested to do so at once to Coach de Landero in the gymnasium any afternoon after 3 o’clock.
prevents this with a little cold water every morning.
His room - mate for foui* years has been Joe “Marty” John who said that Rocco is an excellent golf player, shooting in the low 120s. The best linesman “Rocky” ever played against was Summerfelt of the Army and the best back was Sebastian of Pittsburgh.
Rocco, during his three years of varsity football at Notre Dame, has never received an injury. He is a senior in the Commerce School, lives in 109, Sorin; is President of the Calumet Club and has a position awaiting him after he graduates this coming June.
' The Scholastic
I
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
I
I
I.
I.
THE BIG TEN
Our puzzling and ever colorful neighbors, the Big Ten, have passed the threshold of what promises to be the most interesting and baffling of many seasons. Preseason comment favored the Minnesota Gophers as top heavy favorites, with six other clubs as potential menaces. No conference team has more than two games under the belt at this date and already the picture is changing. Michigan and Purdue don’t appear to be in the running and have been replaced by a dangerous Chicago eleven.
As far as we are concerned, the Gophers are still the favorites, but not by any such margin as they were in mid September. We say that in face of their recent destruction of Nebraska and Pittsburgh. Their impressive pashing of the Panther brought on the shouts of National Champions. To capture such a title Bierman’s men must undergo no end of hardships, and to wind up on top in their own family circle will not be the easy task it appeared to be 'some time ago. The Gophers have some first class competition in their way in Iowa and Chicago. The Hawkeyes are still in the fire despite their two non-conference defeats, and Chicago cannot be taken too seriously.
In fact we feel that the Maroons are the key team in the solution of the whole muddle. As a starter, let’s grant the Gophers a clean conference slate. This would indicate future victories at the expense of Iowa, Michigan, Chicago, Indiana, and Wisconsin. A perfect record would ordinarily assure a clear claim to anybody’s title. But glance down at Urbana where the slightly regarded Ulini have an Ohio State victory to their credit as a starter. Here is the gang, we feel, that must be tamed if the Gophers are to cop. Zuppke hasn’t shown very much so far, but according to those who know, the Blini have their best team in years. With Michigan, Northwestern, Wisconsin, and Chicago to be met, Illinois seems to have an easier road than does Minnesota. It’s not very probable that the Wolverines, Wildcats, or Badgers will topple the Illini, but Chicago, the big obstacle in Minnesota’s way is also burning a bright red lamp at the end of Zuppke’s path. Those Maroons are the big X in the solution.
Before further investigation is made, we’ll go on record as predicting that the ultimate title winner will not lose a conference game. That eliminates Ohio
State who lost by a nose to Illinois. Iowa, with a Northwestern victory to its credit, is doomed to tumble from the ranking elevens when it scrambles with Minnesota tomorrow. If, however, Ozzie Solem’s crew upsets the bucket and comes home first, the Hawk-eyes will be very much in the thick of things with two comparatively easy ones, Indiana and Purdue, and the possibly difficult Buckeyes of Ohio State, to negotiate.
Again back to the Windy City’s key team. Their card calls for games with Purdue, Ohio State, Minnesota, and Illinois. It’s a big assignment, even too big for the improved Maroons. But what anguish they could cause by knocking off either the Gophers or Illinois, one of whom or both, we predict, will be the Big Ten champions. Did somebody say this race was a muddle?
•
WE PICK
Last week’s record shows 30 wins, eight defeats, and two deadlocks. The games we missed were Columbia-Navy, Fordham-St. Mary’s, Georgia Tech-Mich-igan, Iowa-Iowa State, Pittsburgh - Minnesota, Mississippi-Howard, Missouri-St. Louis, Tex-as-Centenary. For the season: 115 victories, 25 losses, and eight ties for a percentage of .821. This week we venture 40 frays of varying degrees of toughness.
WE PICK:
NOTRE DAME OVER WISCONSIN Amherst over Wesleyan Army over Yale Boston over Vermont Syracuse over Brown Purdue over Carnegie Tech Holy Cross over Colgate Columbia over Penn State Princeton over Cornell Dartmouth over Harvard Southern Methodist over Fordham Navy over Penn Pittsburgh over Westminster Washington and Jefferson over Waynesburg West Virginia over Davis-Elkins Villanova oer Bucknell Chicago over Missouri Drake over Washington Illinois over Michigan Minnesota over Iowa Nebraska over Iowa State Oklahoma over Kansas Temple over Marquette Ohio State over Northwestern Alabama over Georgia Auburn over Kentucky Duke over Tennessee Florida over Maryland Tulane over Georgia Tech Louisiana State over Vanderbile Mississippi over Sewanee
North Carolina over North Carolina State Rice over Texas
Arkansas over Missouri Mines California over Washington Oregon over Utah Washington State over Oregon State Stanford over Southern California U. C. L. A. over California Aggies. Santa Clara over Fresno State.
WISCONSIN GAME
(Continued from Page>ll) j7
Carter and Purvis, dne- bt j64 yards and the other of 80, that Purdue was able to score against "Coach /Spears’ aggregation.	S'.
It is difficult to predict .the. lineup that Dr. Spears will use ..in tomorrow’s game because of the many changes made since, the. beginning of the season. It is certain, though, that Fontaine, who kicked? a ;90-yard punt in the Purdue gamey. willhold down the left halfback berth,, and. Pacetti will be in at right/tackle,Jankowski will probably occupy the fullback position, Schuelke right half, Parrott, quarterback, Null., left end, Bender left guard, Mahnke?.center, Nellen right guard, Millar, right tackle, and Deanovich right end; - '
Notre Dame faces its-last home game of the season with two decisive victories behind fit,’ The r Irish playing has been characterized ■ by rather loose action followed by sudden bursts of brilliance. As long- as the latter continue, the' squad has little to worry about. But if the Wisconsin secondary is strong enough to stop the spectacular 131ns and to knock down the occasional-long pass, it is doubtful whether .the ordinary Irish play will put over the necessary touchdowns. It is no dark secret that the team did not click quite as smoothly last. Saturday as was expected. This might have been caused by the rainy field to which the squad was unaccustomed. In that case, with the improvement which Layden’s men have shown since the beginning of the season, it is reasonable to expect that Notre Dame will come out ahead tomorrow. The Badgers, headed by Captain Jack Bender, are about the heaviest team in the Big Ten conference but as yet they have not shown themselves to be championship material. The Irish, on the other hand, are a comparatively light unit and once given the offensive should come through with flying colors.
Annual Fall Handicap
Track Meet Completed
Coach Nicholson should be well pleased with the results of the Fall Handicap Track Meet which took place Oct. 18 and 19. Apparently the cold weather had no effect on the trackmen for the times made were remarkable.
A modest sophomore, Eddie Boyle of Carroll Hall, paced off the century in the outstanding time of :09:8 seconds. This time is enviable in any weather, but extraordinary in cold weather.
Another instance of superior running was displayed in the 220-yard dash when McGinley of Carroll Hall sped down the track in 22:05 seconds.
Fifteen
October 26, 1934
On Down The Line
By Jim Me Mullen
$300—hoax or bribery? That’s the raging problem down at old George Washington U. Their star half, TUFFY LEEMANS was recently offered the big dough to fake an injury for the game with Tulsa . . . WALTER (the Big Train) JOHNSON, struck out 3,497 batters in 21 years while with the SENATORS . .* . If some of the boys would like to get up a polo team they can figure $7, 832 per player on their budget . . . That’s the average cost of equipment . . . Then there is the time that LADDIE SANFORD paid 22,000 rocks for a pony alone . . . Name of the critter was Jupiter in case you wanta buy it . . . MAX KALICH is reputed to be the biggest bookie in America . . . He’ll take ten grand on any race . . . Down at HOBART UNIVERSITY they have a 290 lb. tackle, ART JOHNSON by name . . . While over at GEORGETOWN, BILL DOWNER and FRANK WILLIAMSON, tackles, each weight over 230 .. . ART LASKY, heavyweight boxer, swings a golf club from the right side, weilds a tennis racket with his left, bats right handed in baseball and throws with his left . . .
9
EDDIE FORBES, New York boxing referee, estimates that he has officiated in 10,000 bouts during the past 40 years . . . ABE MARGOLIES, Brooklyn semi-pro football player, has competed for eleven years without using a helmet and never has suffered a head injury . . . WALTER NEUSEL, German heavy, was a distance runner in Westphalia before he took up fighting . . . The GIANTS stole only 19 bases during the past season, less than the total pilfered by any team in the history of the National league . . . The great DIZ DEAN refuses to give the TIGERS credit for anything ... Says his gray hair was due to a typhoid attack when he was 15 years dizzy . . . Euclid, 12 year old thoroughbred owned by the B.B. Stables has won 18 races in the past Two seasons . . . He oughta reach his peak soon ... The oldest trotting sires of prominence ever known were VOLUNTEER and HARRY CLAY, each of whom died at the age of 34 ... During a five year stretch of competition in the professional golfers championship tournament, WALTER HAGEN scored 25 consecutive victories ... GENE SARAZEN calls SAM PERRY of Birmingham, the outstanding youngest in golf today . . . The IRISH are at it again . . . They can’t figure out where JIMMY Me LARNIN was born-Dublin or BELFAST. He’s to smart to squak and his parents don’t remember . . .
•
Now over in RUSSIA—the athletic teams are organized in shops and fac
Sixteen
tories rather than schools and colleges . . . FRANK CARIDEO is said to be on the way out as coach at old Missouri ... if his boys don’t get into the win column a few times this year . . . OHIO STATE and ILLINOIS battle for “Ulibuck,” a wooden turtle, every year . . . PURDUE and WISCONSIN for the little brown Jug . . . Incidently I understand that any outfit that can beat the Irish 25 times in a row gets the famous Dome . . . LENA LEVINSKY, sister of the KINGFISH, is trying to get a referee’s license, . . . She’d pack em in . . . CLAUDE THORNHILL, head coach, STANFORD UNIVERSITY, has declared he will not change his necktie until the Indians lose . . . and if they lose very often he may not have any chance . . . GIL DOBIE of Cornell, has turned out 12 undefeated teams during his career at that institution . . . Lud Yards, is the only member of the OHIO STATE football squad that does not live in the state . . . the dern foreigner is from Gary, Indiana . . . HOME RUN OLIVER, of the Baltimore baseball club has amassed a total of two of the four sack clouts in the past five years of play ... At RUTGERS the players huddle on the defense . . .
©
The GLENDON family has given three head coaches to collegiate rowing—Old Dick, the late Young Dick and Hubert Glendon ... A few months ago JESS WILLARD, former heavy champ was walking around almost on his uppers . . . Now following a tip from DEMPSEY the big feller is cleaning up money refereeing wrestling and boxing matches . . . LOU GEHRIG, the most durable of all big league ball players, was advised to give up athletics in grammer school because of a bad heart . . . and another one on DEMPSEY; he once told SCHOOLBOY ROWE that some day he would be a great boxer . . . ANDY KERR, the canny scot of Colgate has as many as 7 players handle the ball on some of his plays . . . Dizzy Dean; “You know Pop had a lot of chewing tobaccer bet on that last game with a feller down in TEXAS—I just hadda win.” THE PAYOFF GENTLEMEN.
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 11)
not stop until the Badger’s goal line had been crossed five times.
The last year that Notre Dame encountered Wisconsin, they sent them rocking on their heels by a stinging 19-0 contest. It was the season of ’29, when Savoldi, Schwartz, Elder and Brill carved a niche in football’s hall of fame by crashing their way through a powerful Cardinal wall to register three touchdowns and one conversion, while holding the opposition scoreless.
BASKETBALL
(Continued from Page 13)
defeated Notre Dame twice last year. Many return engagements will be played before the Irish trek once more into the East to meet the Temple Owls at Philadelphia, March 9th. The season will end on the road as St. Xavier is met at Cincinnati, Mar. 11th, on the way back to school.
Wielding an unfriendly stick, “Old Man Hard Luck” dealt Coach George Keogan a rather hard blow before the court season has even opened. Don Allen, whom the Irish Mentor was grooming to fill one of the guard positions after his grand play as relief man for Leo Crowe last year, was taken suddenly ill three weeks ago. Dr. McMeel, who is attending him, says he is doing as well as can be expected, but the question whether he may be able to rej’oin the team depends on his recuperative powers.
SO THEY SAY
(Continued from Page 13)
rabbits’ feet or Derby hats could help Harpster’s reputation because an Irish team that would not be beaten did a very neat j'ob of bottling up a versatile running attack and a tricky overhead game.—Jack Ledden, South Bend Tribune.
After Bill Shakespeare ran 56 yards for a touchdown ( Andy Pilney passed some 35 yards to Dominic Vairo for another, but it seems that the story carried away from there today was Bill Bruno . . . other Notre Dame lads have run 50 yards or so for touchdowns this season. Other Notre Dame lads have flung long passes with touchdowns at their completed end. But Bruno is the first to get an extra point after any N. D. touchdown. All hail Bill Bruno— Special reporter, Cincinnati Enquirer.
Apart from Shakespeare’s run which took place in the first period and Pilney’s pass which occurred in the third—followed of course by the Bruno sensation—there wasn’t much to the ball game save the inability of the Tartan offense to gain anything against Notre Dame, in spite- of the Terrible Terebus who, Tech had a hunch, might do some tall running before the day was done. . . Notre Dame played steadily and effectively, whether it was No. 1 team, No. 2 team, No. 3, or whatever spare parts to each of these teams that happened to be in there.—Warren Brown, Chicago Herald and Examiner.
The S cholas tic
TRADITION OF REFINEMENT IN DRESS HAS BEEN MAINTAINED THROUGH GENERATIONS BY YALE UNDERGRADUATES AND ALUMNI.
It is therefore a significant tribute that well-dressed Yale men prefer trousers and. slacks equipped with Rover-Zip, the invisible seamline closure.
Further evidence of Rover-Zip’s correctness from the standpoint of style is its approval by Yale’s leading college tailors.
7 J)
• • • •	• famous yak and Harvard tailor
for over 40 years, says—"Our custom tailoring establishments in New Haven, Cambridge and New York, always scrupulously cautious in the acceptance of design innovations, whatever their origin, are nevertheless responsive to every style development that is in good taste.
"Although we have been witness to a growing favor for the zipper fly, we could not accept the ordinary slide fastener as fit for fine clothes. The new covered zipper, however, does meet our standards in every respect and we are now prepared to equip trousers and slacks with the Kover-Zip fly.
college tallots,
eitclot.se l/^ovet —^he culy slule ^asteitet /it /ot lute ciistom clothes.
WALDES KOH-I-NOOR, INC., LONG ISLAND CITY, N. Y. PARIS PRAGUE DRESDEN BARCELONA WARSAW LONDON
La Raza Club Banquet
The La Baza Club held its traditional Columbus day banquet which is given annually to commemorate the discovery of the new world and to present the new members of the organization, on the evening of Oct. 12, in the LaSalle hotel.
The speakers for the occasion were Professor Pedro de Landero, Mr. J. Pedevilla, and Carlos de Landero, president of the club. Nestor Gutierrez introduced the speakers.
COLLEGE MEN PREFER CLOTHES MADE WITH INVISIBLE CLOSURE
Style experts and fashion authorities are well aware that the preferences of college men form an important and dependable indication of the trend in men’s apparel.
One detail of men’s clothing which until now has never been satisfactory is the fly of the trousers. The buttoned fly, no matter how carefully made, is bulky because of the extra fold of material required; it bulges and wrinkles in a way that is most unsightly.
The slide-fastened fly gives a much smoother and neater effect in front than is possible with buttons, but the ordinary slide fastener has an uncovered strip of metal that is objectionable to men who take pride in being well-dressed.
The new invisible style-line closure, the Kover-Zip fly, has every practical advantage of the ordinary zipper, and in addition is superior to it from the standpoint of good tastebecausenometalshows—the units of the fastener are concealed by a grosgrain ribbon that harmonizes with the fabric of the trousers and is guaranteed to outlast the garment.
The Kover-Zip fly has been acclaimed and adopted by “best-dressed” seniors in America’s foremost colleges, and a typical expression of opinion about it is the following statement by Arthur Willis of Dartmouth, class of 1934:
“The trouble with the early type of slide fastener was the display of metal—too much of a suggestion of work clothes. I’m for this new covered zip with the invisible fastener, it’s a finished product for a finished dresser.”
College men everywhere, fromCambridge to Palo Alto, welcomed
the Kover-Zip fly and now demand it alike on dress trousers, informal suits and slacks. Smooth and smart, efficient and durable, Kover-Zip is the closure for all modem clothes.
ARTHUR WILLIS
Professor de Landero spoke on the deep meaning that Columbus day holds for the Spanish-speaking people, and he emphasized the importance of Spain by quoting verses of “Cristolfo Columbo” from the pen of Ruben Dario, noted Latin American poet. He also pointed out the friendly relations established by the club with the Sociedad Latina-Americana of the University of Michigan. This rivalry on the soccer field is the only athletic relation existing between Notre Dame and the University of Michigan.
Mr. J. Pedevilla, graduate member of the club, lauded the union and the fraternal spirit exhibited among the members who are representatives of many countries speaking the Spanish language.
President Carlos de Landero thanked the members for their fine co-operation, especially Vicente Sing-son and Jaime Creel, chairman of the affair.	.	,
New members, R. Roces, J. Roces, A. Bayot, R. Ochangco, and J. Sierra, were introduced to their fellows.
October 26, 1934
Seventeen
. Law News
Of 28 law graduates of the class of 1933-34 who reported as having taken the bar examination in the spring and summer of 1934, 24 or 87% percent, passed it on the first attempt. One more has passed since then, making the total 25 or 89 percent, of the graduates who took the examination.
This is a decided increase over the preceding year. Of the 27 of the class of 1932-33 who took the examination, 20 or 74 percent passed the first time
The SAFEST QUICKEST Most CONVENIENT WAY TO CHICAGO
Ride the
SOUTH
SHORE
LINE
All-steel cars protect you from danger on this direct route to Chicago. Besides the safety and comfort of the South Shore Line, the low cost round trip fares save you money. Frequent service.
IT’S CHEAP, TOO! from
SOUTH BEND
XND SO-60
FARE
15-Day Return Limit
For more information, ask C. W. Veach, City Pass. Agt., 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE AND
SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
^SOUTH^HOR^
and the rest passed at subsequent examinations. Thus, on the first attempt, the class of ’34 showed a 13% percent, increase over the class of ’33.
American Chemical Society
Dr. W. L. Badger of the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Michigan was the speaker at the regular meeting of the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society held in the Engineering building, Wednesday night. The lecture was of a non-tech-nical nature and was entitled “Historical Phases of Chemical Engineering.”
Dr. Badger is recognized as an authority on evaporation and heat transfer, and it was upon these subjects that he addressed the junior and senior engineers on Wednesday afternoon.
Commerce News
From Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, comes the information that the Library room in the Commerce building has been given over to the Commerce Forum, the Foreign Commerce club, and the Accountants’ club. The room is now to be used solely by these organizations, and for academic work. This change is a result of action taken by the University council at a recent meeting. It is also the beginning of an effort to give the organizations of the College of Commerce as much help as possible along academic lines.
, Carroll Rec Club
The Carroll Rec announced this week the formation of the Carroll Rec Club. According to plans outlined by . the management, membership in the organization will be opened to all students.
A weekly fee of ten cents will entitle each member to one hour of pool or ping-pong every week, to the use of cards, chess and checkers, and admittance to the various bridge, pinochle, and pool tournaments to be held during the winter months.
The date of the first meeting will be announced shortly in The Scholastic. For further details see Prial Curran in Carroll Rec.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Eighteen

Good Taste /
4
uckies are round, Luckies are firm, Luckies are fully packed । with only the clean center leaves < —these are the mildest leaves— they cost more—they taste better.

“It’s toasted”
Your throat protection—against irritation — against cough
N in t t e e n
French Club Notes
In the Lay Faculty Dining Hall the Cercle Francais had its first smoker of the year at 8:00 o’clock last evening. At this event Reverend Norbert C. Hoff, was the guest of honor.
Professor Earl F. Langwell, faculty advisor of the Cercle, gave a brief biography in French of Jacques Mari-tain, Scholastic philosopher, who will lecture at the University Monday night. Dean James Me Carthy and Professor Lee T. Flatley, of the College of Commerce gave short talks to the members also.
Further entertainment was supplied
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
by John Ryan singing to the piano accompaniment of Hugo Melchione. After this Melchione rendered several piano solos.
Metropolitan Club
Basketball and gymnastics were added to the growing athletic program of the Metropolitan club at its gym night last Tuesday evening. The club is already on the second week of a handball tournament in which twenty teams of two men each are participating.
The basketball candidates are rapidly organizing, and there is a physical training man in the apparatus room for those interested in gymnastics on the club’s Tuesday nights. The committee in charge of athletics includes: James Shiels, Robert Forbes, and Joseph Sullivan.
Besides becoming an active athletic club, the Metropolitan club plans to hold frequent communion breakfasts every five or six weeks, sometimes in connection with other sectional clubs.
BLUEPRINTS PHOTOSTAT COPIES
SCHILLINGS, Inc.
329 South Lafayette St.
A tentative arrangement has already been made with the Chicago club for a joint breakfast.
K, of C, Membership Drive
The Knights of Columbus membership drive got underway last Tuesday night when the residents of the freshman halls were visited. Particular stress is being placed upon the membership drive at this time because the initiation will be held early in December. Prospective members will be initiated through the minoi’ degrees in the near future, making them eligible for the major degrees which will be held at a later date. Several applications have already been received, and many others will be passed upon at the next meeting. Anyone who is interested in joining the Knights of Columbus is requested to see Eli Abrahem in the K of C offices in the basement of Walsh Hall.
Commerce Announcement
From Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce comes the announcement that the library room in the Commerce Building has been made available to the Commerce Forum, the Foreign Commerce Club, and the Accountants’ Club for academic work and meetings of these organizations.
“Please tell women smokers more about
Did Gold’s throat-ease
Twenty
The Scholastic