Vol. XXI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, OCTOBER i, 1887.	No. 4.
Down Grand River.
No more my life, a broken thing, Floats idly down the tide;
Like some lost boat the waves may fling On waters wild and wide.
I see the rose of morning make The desert all her own;
The broad, bright river’s ripples break On shores where gold is sown.
The scarlet cypress flashing through The willows waving green, And far La Sal against the blue A crown of towers between.
The sad Dolores, miles behind, Has merged her wave in this,
Before us fragrant valleys wind Where rich fruit blossoms kiss.
The hands that bend the oars are mine, Yet more than mine their skill;
The eyes that meet my glance shine With firmer, stronger will.'
And of my past, confused with cares, I dream no more; I know
Another loyal heart now shares My life’s success or woe.
Traditions strange encompass all
The silent land we see;
The Spaniard’s trail, the Aztec wall, The tribes that wander free.	’
Beyond us, south, the stream is born
Whose secret no man knows;
So mighty are the walls, storm-worn, That ’round its current close.
Marion Muir Richardson.
The celebrated German mathematician, Lejeune-Dirichlet, is credited with a bon-inot in one of his .lectures: “It is with zeroes in mathematics, just as in politics: they have no value, except when they < are on. the riff Jit side.”
The Precursors of the Reformation.
In the beginning of the Church’s existence we meet with two great heresies, which have had the sad privilege of nurturing the “ reformers ” of all ages, and which may be called the mothers of heresies—Gnosticism and Manicheism. The ancient philosophers, when the splendor of Christianity burst upon their sight, sought to mingle their false doctrines with the teachings of the new religion,. The dogmas of Plato, the reveries of the Orient, the mysteries of Egypt, all formed, under their hand, a mass of beliefs, strange and absurd, which attracted even most distinguished minds. We cannot here make known in detail all the absurd and ridiculous tenets of Gnosticism; the vagueness and obscurity felt at each step would render the task very difficult; it may be remarked, however, that this very obscurity has opened a way for those evil' minds, who, in the course of ages, seek for inspiration at this source.
Gnosticism was produced only for the learned, the wise men of the world. Constituted as it was, it had no principle of vitality, and could not traverse ages. A fantastic creation of poetic erudition —an incredible amalgamation of dreams, devoid of all reality, it was not accessible to the masses. Proud-of its hidden doctrine, Gnosticism sought not to communicate itself to the common people who could take no interest in a purely contemplative philosophy. What the people wished was a teaching more tangible—some attraction more natural, and this_they found in another sect—the Mani-cheans.	.
If Gnosticism was produced for the learned, Manicheism addressed itself to the masses. Instead of shutting itself up—isolating itself, like its predecessor, in abstract contemplation—it begins by forming a visible body, a society. In order to captivate the masses, to give them a clear and solid basis of unity, it made use of an idea the.mort common, perhaps the most trivial, but at the same time the easiest to understand. It divided the world into two sections, presided over by two principles: one good, and the other bad. From this
jo	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
double source everything was derived—morality, philosophy, poetry, religion. Here was something tangible and ingenious which the merest child could grasp.
Gnosticism and Manicheism were like two arsenals to whibh the greater part of the “ reformers ” who succeeded each other in the course of time came for their arms. Let this general assertion suffice for the present; We shall find other sects to which modern heresies owe more especially their systems.
The Rationalism of our days believes itself new. Yet what is it but the collection of doctrines already gone out of date? The Atagi, in denying the Word of God, although from afar, opened the way. They rejected the infinite as something incomprehensible, admitted only that which their reason could seize, and directed their studies towards mathematics and the pure sciences. Such was the system of the Byzantine tanner, Theodotus of Artemon, and especially of Paul of Samosata. They saw in Christ only a man endowed with superior wisdom, thus agreeing with many of the Protestants of the sixteenth century.
Take Pantheism, which has made so many partisans, especially in Germany. Is it more recent than Rationalism? No: It is contained, in principle, in that strange doctrine of Sabellius, who resolved the universe and the human race into an immense idealism. At the beginning of things, says Sabellius, God, silently concentrated in His own ineffable Being absolute unity, without emanation and without revelation, had not as yet drawn anything out of that depth wherein all reposed. First, the Soul of Christ, then the Holy Spirit, then, finally, the soul of man were produced in turn, and the moral universe was created. Thus the world and humanity vanished and were lost in God; universal nihilism became the defined object of universal mysticism. And to this the disciples of Sabellius had come, even as the Arians, later on, passing from transformation to transformation, ended by producing Socinianism, the father of modern philosophy. Having mentioned the Arians, it may be remarked that the destruction of all hierarchy by the Protestants is no more than anything else an invention of modern times, but owes its origin to the Arians, who were the first to give the example at Byzantium and elsewhere.
What were the Ilhiminati of- Germany in the eighteenth century? theEcstatics of the Germans in the seventeenth? Modern Montanists.
Regarding only the prophecies of the Old Testament, the Montanists mixed in a strange manner democracy and inspiration. Inspired ignorance and holy poverty were the ideas of this party. The Montanist loved and deified ecstasy, but it should be joined with ignorance; the more ignorant, the more pure. Every man was susceptible of the gift of prophecy; every Christian was priest, magistrate'and king.
The great reproach of modern philosophy is that individuality is made dominant, the energy of the -human soul immeasurably exalted. Now, the source of this system, which approaches to Stoicism, is founded in the doctrine of the English- monk
Pelagius. -His was a doctrine purely stoic, glorifying at the sathe time the idea of duty and that of our moral energy. To place above everything the will of man would be to destroy the influence of God bn our actions, and render prayer useless. This error was spread abroad, and for a long time existed	:
among the western nations.	.	.
Much has been said and written of Spinosa; By	-
many he has been considered as a leader in the	-
works of human genius. Spinosa is but a copy of	\
ScotusErigena, and especially of Abelard. Abelard,	q
that ambitious and powerful spirit, full of subtlety	(
and energy, is one of the men who have precipitated	J
nations into that human wisdom and critical satura-	J
tion of which Protestantism is the last echo. He	J
has his own way of reconciling the will of man,	j
his liberty and moral power and foreknowledge	■
of God. “Man is free,” he says; “ his will, his	*
caprice can always disturb the order of Providence.	(
We cannot attribute the impossible to God—that	:
is, the faculty of foreseeing that which man can	;
do; but external things, opposing to the will of	?
man a series of insurmountable obstacles, permit	|
at most liberty of thought, but not that of action.”	5
We have thus seen the origin of Rationalism,	t
Pantheism, German illuminism, modern philosophy,	?
Spinosism. Now, what was that of Protestantism ?	|
Before answering this question directly, let us	I
cast a glance at all those fanatical sectaries of France, the Petrobrusians, Henricians, Albigenses, whose	|
appearance was the prelude of Protestantism.	5
They are not to be separated from Luther; both	i
are bound firmly together. Now, what were these	1
heretics? Simply resurrected Manicheans. The	j
inhabitants of the French coast on the Mediterra-	1
nean had frequent intercourse with Byzantium and	?
Greece, and easily became impregnated with Ori-	i
ental ideas. A doctrine so popular and vivacious	J
as that of Manicheism, establishing the two co-ex-	i
isting kingdoms of good and evil—their violent con-	j
flict, and the necessity for. man to defend the good	j
and resist the evil. This doctrine, at the same	1
time mystic and active, impressed itself on the minds	1
of the people in Southern France. The Cathari pretended to a life perfectly holy, chaste, poor, simple, ignorant of everything except religion. These ideas were everywhere adopted, first by the lower	|
classes, and afterwards by the great. From the	;
eleventh to the twelfth century the Cathari agitated . all Europe. History shows them to be only rebels in arms against every civil and religious law of their times.	•
Let us not forget Wyckliffe, John Huss, and Jerome of Prague, the two latter the disciples of the former. All three were but the perpetuators of the Cathari, and, in this way, of. the ancient Manicheans; but at the same time they were the • immediate precursors of Protestantism. The doctrine of Wyckliffe, says a writer, may be considered . from two points of view—the philosophical, and the theological. Viewed philosophically, the doctrine of this heresiarch is a rude compound of Manicheism, Pantheism and Fatalism. According : to him, God abandons the government of the world : to the powers of evil; or in.other words, the good
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
is subservient to the evil; every creature participates in the Divine nature; blind necessity rules every event; whence it follows that there is in God neither providence, nor power, nor liberty. From a theological point of view, the doctrine of Wyckliffe is pure, simple presbyterianism; the Pope was not the head of the Church Militant; there was no need of Cardinals, Patriarchsj Bishops, and Councils; priests and deacons could discharge all the sacred functions. It is here that we see the forerunner of the reformer of Wittenberg. The way was now prepared, and Luther was not far off.
At the commencement of the sixteenth century there arose a new heresy of immense proportions, possessed of a boldness until then unheard of—a frightful disturber of all social and religious order. It has been said that the spirit of evil had gathered into one vast system all the errors that ever existed, and communicated to them a force and energv' hitherto unknown. We have called it Protestantism. Was Protestantism a discovery, an invention ? The lines preceding give the answer. Not at all. To imagine it, to formulate it, required no effort on the part of Luther; he had simply to plunge into the impure receptacle of past heresies, and take the substance of each one, and throw that incoherent mass in the face of Europe. Incoherent mass it was, because the reformer did not even take the trouble of putting any kind of order in his system.
Is it necessary to prove now what we have already advanced, that Protestantism, like all the sects that preceded it, was but the resurrection of old systems, which at some distant period were built up, then for some time forgotten, and at long intervals revived to infect the world? It seems unnecessary. We may, however, cite an authority which no one will gainsay. “The University of Paris, in condemning the doctrine of Luther, very wisely observed that the new sect concentrated in itself all the errors that had preceded it in taking from each one its dominant idea.”
To conclude. It is then true that the spirit of lying, with all his activity, all his efforts, all his perfidy, after eighteen hundred years has been only able to turn around in a circle of errors, out of which he has not gone, and out of which he can never go. Powerless to build, he can but destroy. The rationalists of our age, and our modern would-be “ reformers,” can lay no claim to originality or a priority in their opinions, or the honor of a revolt of which they were the heads; everything can be found in the first five or six centuries of the Church; the rest is but a copy.	J.
The Boy Crusade.
“In every child is found the full man”; or, as Wordsworth puts it, “the child is father to the man.” This axiom has always been admired because of its truth. Children there have been who in war, in the sciences, in civil life, have shown the energy and not unfrequently the reason of full-grown men. That which is developed most quickly in children is impassioned instinct and the sentiment
of grand duties. Hesitation is often the fruit of a heart that begins to corrupt, or is already slightly corrupted. The right heart of a child goes straight to the end which appears to him glorious, or noble, or holy.	_
One of the most remarkable examples of what we have just said is found in that singular event which marked the thirteenth century—the century of charity' and generous deeds—and which is called The Crusade of the Children.
In the year 1213, the great Pope Innocent III made an earnest appeal to all Christians to assist the Latin Emperors of Constantinople to deliver the Christians in the Holy Land, and protect the boundaries of Europe threatened by the followers of Mahomet. But the powers of Germany, France, and the other countries employed their armies in intestine strifes, instead of responding to the appeal of the Sovereign Pontiff. Then there was suddenly presented the spectacle of children, in default of their fathers, aroused at the perils of the Christian world and taking up the cross. Thirty thousand were raised in France and twenty thousand in the other European states. Escaping the vigilance of their parents, they armed themselves as best they could, proclaimed themselves the soldiers of Jesus Christ, and bravely took the road to the Holy Land. It was in a sense an epidemic movement, if we may be permitted thus to name so noble a resolution; and shameful is it that one who has written the history of this great manifestation for the chronicles of the time gives it but a brief notice. This short account we shall repeat. These fifty thousand children, from twelve to sixteen years of age, were persuaded in their pious zeal that since grown men had not raised themselves from their stupor, God wished to make use of children for the deliverance of the Holy Sepulchre—“ Give us, Lord Jesus, the Holy Cross!” was their war-cry.
Young clerics and the children of nobles formed part of the band; but vagabonds were joined with them, and because of the excesses which they committed in Germany, almost all the young crusaders perished of misery and fatigue. In the other countries they were despoiled by robbers.
Of the thirty thousand children that were enrolled in France, a very large number reached Marseilles, there to embark. Two bandits, who had followed them, and who passed for honest merchants, when they were but pirates, promised to transport them gratuitously to Palestine, and caused them to embark on seven large vessels. Two of these were shipwrecked; the five others landed at Egypt. Immediately the two pirates unmasked themselves; they pretended that they were without resources, and sold the poor children to the Saracens.	'
They had rushed into the crusade determined to shed their blood for the cause of Jesus Christ, and eagerly desirous of martyrdom. This happiness was theirs; for, firm in their faith, they almost every one suffered death rather than deny their Divine Master. Some, not less happy, converted to the Christian faith those by whom they had been bought. The grand example given by those chil-
TILE FOTEE DAALE SCifOLAStiC.
clren bore its fruits. Whilst they were perishing gloriously in Egypt, the Council of Lateran, convoked by Innocent III, proclaimed a new general crusade in which the kings and the grandees of earth delayed not to avenge the little martyrs.
Thoughts on Art.
{From the German of Gccthe^
Nature and its imitation are subjects that are ever before our thoughts^ and oftentimes, in our perverseness, we say that nature should be1 more beautiful. We must then choose—and, without doubt, choose the most perfect. But how are we to know this? According to what rule are we to make our choice? Where can this rule be found? Not in nature. Suppose that the object is given; that it is, for example, a tree, the most beautiful in the forest, and acknowledged the most perfect type of its species. In order to transform this tree into its image I turn around it, I seek to seize it on its most beautiful side; I place myself ata suitable distance in order perfectly to take in the whole; I await a favorable day; and after all that, do you believe that much of what belongs to the real tree is embodied in the description many give of it? The crowd mav believe it; but the artist who possesses the secret of his art will certainly not fall into the same error.
That which pleases the most, as nature pleases the multitude, in a work of art, is not exterior nature, but man, interior nature.
The world interests us only by its relation with man. And in art we taste but that which is the expression of this relation.
More merit is due the unsuccessful attempt to satisfy the highest requirements of art than the perfect fulfilment of the inferior conditions. We are very well convinced of the necessity of_studies from nature for the sculptor and the painter; but we confess that we are often troubled at seeing the abuse that is made of this laudable exercise.
There exist in natuie many objects which, if considered separately, present the character of beauty. However, talent consists in discovering the harmonies, and, consequently, in producing works of art. The butterfly that lias just lighted upon a flower; the dewdrop that moistens its cup; the vase that contains it, make it still more beautiful. There is not a bush, not a tree, that cannot be made interesting by the neighborhood of a rock, a fountain—and to which a well-arranged perspective does not lend a great charm. It is the same with the human figure—with the forms of animals of every kind.
The young artist will find more advantage in following this direction. He will first learn to ’ reflect, to combine, to seize the relations Between objects that harmonize together. If in this way he composes with talent, what we call invention, that is, the art of drawing a crowd of ideas from a single particularity, will not be wanting to him. _
Man, originally gifted with the most happy
। dispositions for knowledge; must necessarily be formed by education. His faculties can be developed only by the care bestowed upon him by his parents and his masters; by an experience acquired with labor. The artist is not born at once formed; but simply with the germ of talent; Nature can give him a happy sight to take in the forms; the proportions; the movements; but for lofty composition, the distribution of light and shade, the choice of colors; natural talent alone would fail him.
If he does not feel disposed to learn from the great masters of past ages, or from those of his own time, what he needs to become a true artist, misled by the false idea of his own originality, he will remain behind and below himself. For it is not only that which is innate, but also that which we acquire, that belongs to and forms part of ourselves.	-	C.
Filial Heroism.
I.
When faithful Ireland was struggling against the hypocritical and disloyal William of Orange, among the most ardent defenders of the holy cause of the Stuarts was' William Patrick of Fenny-Moor. In times of civil strife, it is but a step from the prison to, the scaffold. William Patrick was taken in an ambuscade by King William’s soldiers, cited before a council of war, and condemned to be beheaded. However, it was necessary that the order of execution should come from Dublin, where the usurper had established his court, and which was miles away; a fact which afforded the prisoner a respite of some days.
His family and friends had visited him in prison, and had received his last embrace. • One member of the family came not with the others; and this one was the pride of his eyes, the hope of his house, the joy and love of his heart; it was Jane, his best beloved child.
The shades of evening had succeeded the last gleams of the twilight. The noble captive, his head leaning against the cold wall of his prison cell, grieved that it had not been permitted him to give a last fond kiss to his child, when the iron door swung open on its rusty hinges, and the jailer entered, followed by a young and beautiful girl. Her appearance was dignified, and her walk graceful; her black eyes were sparkling and tearless, but their brightness itself only betrayed sorrow, and that more deeply than tears could have done. The black tresses were parted on a forehead white and transparent as polished marble. The prisoner raised his head the moment she entered. '
“My daughter! my Jane!” he cried, as he embraced her.. . ’
“My father! my dear father!”	,
“Your visit must be very short,” said the'jailer on leaving them. .	-
“ May Heaven protect and console you, my child!” said Sir William Patrick; “ I feared I should die_without, giving you niy blessing, and thaLfear was' more cruel than'death.” ’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	53
■ “No, no! stop!” she cried, “ it is not your last :	blessing, father! You shall not die!”
>	“ Calm yourself, my child. Would to God that
J I could console you! But there is no hope; only three days more, and you and all my other children shall be—” “ orphans,” he was going to say, but the word died on his lips.
“Three days?” she repeated, raising her head quickly, “three days! there is then some hope. My father shall live.” .
“Ah! no, Jane, do not labor under such a delusion, there is no hope. My death warrant has been signed already by William the usurper!”
“ What matters that? My father shall not die! ” repeated the young girl, looking up to heaven. Then, as if she had found more confidence there, she took her father’s hand, kissed it with transports of love, and said to him: “We must now part, but we shall see each other soon again.”
“ What do you mean, my child ? ”
“ Do not ask me.”
“In whom do you hope?”
“ In God and myself.”	.
“Jane, do not expose yourself.”
“ Father, pray that I may succeed.”
“ What are you going to do? ”
“ My duty.” And she hurried out.
On the following day atraveller crossed the drawbridge of Shannon Fort. He wore a gray woollen jacket fastened to his waist by a leathern girdle, and covered by a short cloak of common brown stuff. He was evidently a young man, but his hat, pulled down over his eyes, entirely hid his features. In • one hand he carried a small parcel, and in the other a pilgrim’s staff. Night was approaching, and the heavens were black from the heavy stormclouds that were gathering thick and fast.
“ May Heaven - protect you, young man, if you travel such a night as this!” said the sentinel who guarded the gate of the city when the stranger reached the draw-bridge.
In a few minutes the stranger had passed out of the fortified enclosure, and soon came into a kind of barren heath-covered field.
Now the tempest broke in all its fury: the rain fell in torrents, and the wind howled like the yells . of a band of starved wolves. The stranger, in spite of the weather, pursued his journey, never stopping until he reached an old oak, shattered by the tempests which had passed over it during its long life. The young traveller rested himself against the trunk of the old tree, and found shelter under its large branches. However, the night was becoming darker and darker, and the storm was raging more violently. The traveller had been under the branches of the tree seeking refuge from the rain for a half hour when he heard the noise of a galloping horse. .The rider had his. head turned from the wind. All at once, the horse was seized by the bridle. The dispatch bearer looked to see what had stopped him, and the highwayman placed a pistol to his breast, saying: “Get down, or you are a dead man!” The rider, shivering from cold and stunned with fear, for he. had recognized the “bloody oak,” made a movement to .get his
pistol, but at the same moment the robber struck him on the breast and threw him on the ground. He fell heavily on his face and remained motionless for some moments. The robber took his leather sack that contained the dispatches of the king, and, placing it on his shoulder, fled across the fields.
II.
Sir William Patrick O’Gorman was still among ______________	o the living. The dispatches containing his sentence of death, and signed by .the Lord Lieutenant, had been stolen from the messenger of state. Now, before a new order for his execution could be prepared, it was hoped that the sentence might be set aside through the intercession of the Anglican minister, who was a friend of William’s. Jane remained constantly by her father’s side, speaking words of consolation to him; Nearly forty days had elapsed since the dispatches were forcibly carried off, and hope was beginning to enter once more into the heart of the prisoner, when they were informed that all the proceedings had failed, and William himself had signed the death-warrant. One day more, and the fatal order would reach the prisoner.
“May God’s will be done!” said the captive.
“Amen! ” responded Jane, “ but my father shall not die!”
***
The bearer of the dispatches commanding the execution of Sir William Patrick O’Gorman of Fenny-Moor entered the swamp of Broak-Marsh; he spurred his horse onward, watching attentively everything around him, and holding in his hand a slender sword. As he was about to turn an angle of the road, his horse suddenly reared at the loud report of a pistol which flashed before his eyes. The dispatch-bearer fired at the same time, but the horse reared again with such violence that he threw his rider. At once the highwayman had his foot on the breart of the fallen man, and, pointing a dagger to his heart, said to him: “Give me your arms, or die! ” The order was obeyed.
“ Now arise and go; I will keep your horse and baggage.” The trembling man raised himself and, without looking to see what was behind him, took the road by which he had just come.
Everything was in readiness for the execution of the faithful and loyal O’Gorman, when it was learned that the dispatches had again been stolen. This prolonged the prisoner’s life another fourteen days. He embraced his daughter, and exclaimed: “The hand of God shows itself here!”
“Yes,” answered Jane, “I said my father shall not die.”	x
The fourteenth day had not yet arrived when the doors of the prison were thrown open, and the old Count George O’Gorman rushed in and embraced his son. He had renewed his entreaties with the favorite minister of William, and the usurper had at last consented to spare the prisoner’s life.
' ■ - ' -_ * *
Sir William returned home. All the inhabitants
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
hastened to welcome the lord of Fenny-Moor, and under the paternal roof the family joyfully gathered around him; but Jane, who during his captivity had scarcely left his side, was now absent. “ Where is she?” was asked, again and again in the large drawing-room filled with relatives and friends; “ W here is she ? She is missed now in our happiness.”
Just then a stranger solicited the favor of seeing Sir William Patrick of Fenny-Moor. He bade him enter, and the highwayman made his appearance. He wore the costume before described— the coarse cloak and gray woollen jacket. On entering, he twitched the broad-brimmed hat he had on without, however, uncovering his head.
“ When you shall have looked over these papers,” said he, “throw them into the fire.” .
Sir William read them, started, and turned pale; they were the two death-warrants.
“ My saviorl my deliverer! ” he cried, “ how can I reward you, you to whom I owe my life! My dear father, and you my children thank him with me.”
The old man warmly clasped the stranger’s hand; the children embraced his knees, and he, placing his hand to his eyes, the tears fell in torrents.
“ Your name! your name! In the name of Heaven, who are you?”
The stranger took off his hat, and the long trcs-ses of Jane’s beautiful hair fell over the rough cloak.
“Great God!” cried the happy father, “it is my daughter, my Jane, who is my deliverer. Ah! may this new life be a sweet one!” And saying these words, he pressed to’ his heart her to whom he had given life, her to whom he owed his life.
O	1
Art, Music and Literature.
—His Holiness Pope Leo XIII has founded at the Vatican an important school of tapestry, which has been placed under the direction of Chevalier Gentili.
—The first of a series of articles on University Education will appear in the November number of the Catholic World. They will be written by Right Rev. John J. Keane, Bishop of Richmond, and rector of the new University.
—The “Faith of our Fathers,” by Cardinal Gibbons, has been translated into Norwegian, and published by Messrs. Hoffmann Bros., Chicago. This work has reached a sale of 150,000 copies in English, and passed through several editions in French, German, Spanish and Italian.
—A grand monument to St. Thomas of Aquin, the Angelic Doctor and Father of Christian Philosophy, has been placed in the Vatican library at Rome. It is designed as a perpetual memorial of the Papal jubilee, and is truly a noble work of art. It has been erected through means of the offerings of all the Catholic seminaries throughout the world.
—Referring to the minor writings of Leopold Von Ranke, just published in Berlin, the Nord-deutschc cordially endorses the views expressed by
the deceased historian in reference to the great o
masses of civilized nations. He said that the mass of the people have no real interest in pure politics; but the economical and social demands they make exceed those of all other classes.
—In the Vatican palace at Rome, the celebrated painter, Ludovic Seitz, recently completed the decorative work in the gallery of the Candelabras, which is a worthy continuation of Raphael’s Loges. The frescoes which Herr Seitz has executed represent the apotheosis of St. Thomas of Aquin and the triumph of Catholic truth over multiform error, which the Angel of the Schools and his disciples are vanquishing.
—In the fourth paper of his series on “ The Economic Disturbances since 1873,” to appear in the October Popidar Science Monthly, Hon. David A. Wells will enforce his view that the recent decline in the prices of sugar, wheat, iron, and other staple articles is in each case an inevitable sequence from a great multiplication and cheapening of commodities through new conditions of production and distribution, which in turn have been mainly due to the progress of invention and discovery.
—It is interesting to learn from Cardinal Newman himself that the fourth verse of his world-famed hymn—“ Lead, Kindly Light”—is “ not authentic, but an unwarranted addendum by another pen.” This statement His Eminence makes in a letter written from the Oratory to the editor of the Cambrian newspaper, Swansea, in which the holy and learned writer acknowledges the compliment paid him by the insertion of a Welsh translation of the beautiful verses. It is a forcible proof of the wonderful influence of the greatest of religious poets that this hymn of his should continue to be such a favorite as it is in Protestant churches.. “By our Dr. Newman,” assert the different congregations who use it, “for it was written before ho»left us.”—N. T. Freeman's Journal. . .
—M. Johannes Weber gives a short anaylsis of M. Gounod’s new Mass in memory of Joan of Arc. Excepting the prelude, in which trumpets and trombones are employed, the treatment of the work is extremely simple. Far from being “dramatized,” like so many modern Masses written with full choral and orchestral resources, much of M. Gounod’s work is in the plainest ecclesiastical style, sometimes for voices without accompaniment, or merely doubled or emphasized by the organ part. M. Gounod seems to have drawn' his inspiration from the school of Palestrina, in which the melody is always simple and the harmony severe. The perfect chord, the first inversion of the-minor fifth, and the chord of the dominant seventh- seem to be the chief consonances employed; there are a few simple suspensions and an occasional chromatic sequence.' M. Weber characterizes the Mass as essentially suited to the church. It is severely and purely religious throughout; the prelude alone having any relation to Jeanne d’Arc in a descriptive and symbolical sense.—Home Journal.
—Cologne’s GreatBell	The bell of the Ca-
thedral of Cologne weighs 27,000 kilos, or about 26.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tons, 13 hundred weight. The clapper alone weighs 800 kilos, or nearly 15^ hundredweight. Its perpendicular height is almost 141^ feet; its diameter at the mouth nearly 11 jZ feet. Twenty-two cannon taken from the French were assigned by Emperor William for its manufacture; 5,000 kilos of tin were added. It was cast by Mr. Andreas Hamm, of Frankenthal, and 21,000 marks (=£1,050) were paid for the casting. It will be known as the itai= fcrglorfe,, or Emperor’s bell; and as the two other large bells in the cathedral bear the epithets respectively of Pretiosa (precious) and Speciosa (beautiful), this one is styled Gloriosa. It bears above an inscription, recording that “ William, the most august Emperor of the Germans and King Of the Prussians, mindful of the heavenly help granted to him, whereby he conducted the late French war to a prosperous issue and restored the German Empire, caused cannon taken from the French to be devoted to founding a bell to be hung in the wonderful cathedral then approaching completion.” A likeness of St. Peter, Titular Patron of the Church, is on the side, beneath which is a quatrain in the style of the mediaeval conceits, praying that, as devout hearts rise heavenward at the sound of the bell, so may St. Peter open wide the gates of the celestial mansion. On the opposite side is inscribed a sextet in German, of which the translation is:
“ I am called the Emperor’s bell;	.
I proclaim the Emperor’s honor; On the holy watch tower I am placed. I pray for the German Empire, That peace and protection	.
God may ever grant to it.”
The bell was solemnly blessed a few months ago in the cathedral by the Archbishop of Cologne, according to the ritual of the PontificateRomanum. The opinions of experts are divided as to whether the note which the bell sounds is C sharp or D.
Oolleg'e Gossip.
—A new Catholic college will soon be erected in St. Helena, Napa Co., Cal.
—Louvain possesses a very worthy institution in the College des Americains, in the Rue Namur.
o	1	.
This establishment, founded by the American Episcopacy for the training of subjects for their country, has prospered since the first day of its inception. Under the gentle but firm administration of its learned Rector, Mgr. de Neve, it continues to send annually to the several dioceses in the United States ablejand zealous priests, who never fail to sustain on the mission the distinguished reputation of their Alma Mater for holiness and sound educational"ability. This year, twenty-six priests were sent out by the college for work on the American missions.
—St. Mary’s Academy starts the new year under the care of the same devoted Sisters as before; the building being crowded from ground floor to fopZ There were indications in the eminent satisfaction of parents with the school work of last year
of this great rush of pupils, and what could be done during the summer vacation toward preparing for it, was done with diligence, and on as comprehensive a scale as possible; but the incoming of pupils has been like a flood tide, and the cry is for more room; and still the girls come; the hills seem to be full of them! But all are well taken care of, as their happy, healthy looks so evidently testify. There is an excellent library of over 2000 volumes for the use of the pupils, and ample philosophical and chemical apparatus. The buildings have been newly painted, and all about the Academy is the very model of neatness, beauty and order. The entrance roll for boarders is now about 135; day school, 120; art school, 40; music roll, 140.—Salt Lake {Utah} Tribune.
—Shakspearean English.—Every number of the “New English Dictionary” will be to' Shakspeareans worth the cost of the whole work. It will throw a thousand side-lights on Shakspeare’s language, which they have always longed for, but could never hope to behold. How much of our vocabulary and its significance can be traced back no further than the great dramatist will be revealed so clearly that he who runneth may read. Something of this disclosure may be seen in any fraction of the stupendous work. Turning over the first 200 pages of the first number it will be ascertained that 146 words are first found in Shakspeare, either altogether or in some of their meanings. At this rate our total indebtedness cannot be less than for 7,000 Shakspearean words or meanings. Rome owed only one word to Julius Cassar. The nature of our debt will be more apparent if we examine some of these hundredsand a half of Shakspearean words, all so near the beginning of the alphabet that the last of them is “air.” We owe the poet the first use of the word “ air ” itself in one of its senses as a noun, and in three as a verb or participle. He first said “ air-drawn ” and “ airless.” He added a new signification to “ airy ” and “ aerial.” Nobody before him had written “aired,” and more than a tithe of the verbal gifts now in view were such perfect participles. Wellnigh as many were adverbs. In no previous writer have Dr. Murray’s Argus eyes detected “ accidentally,” nor any of the following: “Abjectly,” “acutely,” “admiringly,” “adoptedly,” “adversely.”
Of the 146 words and meanings first given us by Shakspeare at least tWo-thirds are of classical origin. Baconians will say that such a gift could not by any possibility come from a man of “small Latin and less Greek.” Others will enlarge their ideas of what Ben Johnson meant by “small.” The strangest thing seems to be that so few of Shakspeare’s innovations—not so much as one-fifth— have become obsolete. He gave them not only life, but immortality. It is perhaps equally noteworthy that while he was never read so much as to-day, no writer before him (and scarcely one of his contemporaries) cited as authors of words and senses is now read at all, save by special students.—Chicago Tribune.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
seww.
Notre Dame, October 1, 1887.	'
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twenty-First year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day ;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, S1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—The various societies of the University have been. reorganized for the scholastic year, and are now in full working order. These organizations commend themselves to the attention of each and every student; and one who is intent upon profiting by all the means to the attainment of a perfect education will not fail to unite himself to one or more of them. They are of a triple character, corresponding to the nature of education which, to be perfect, must be moral, intellectual and physical. Let the student, therefore, reflect upon the advantages to be gained by connection with the religious, literary and athletic societies at Notre Dame.
Studying Modern Languages.
Most of the young men attending classes here recognize the utility of their study of modern languages. This is evidenced by the large number who attend the French and German classes, and more especially the latter. They feel that no matter what may be their position in life, whether they follow some of the learned professions or embark in commerce, a knowledge of these languages will he of the greatest service to them. They know that every year large numbers of voluntary exiles
from Germany, France, Italy and other countries arrive on our shores, settle down and become citizens. With these emigrants, as well as with those who hail from Ireland, Scotland and England, we must transact business. It is true that after they have been in this country for a while they learn to speak English well enough for practical purposes, but it is only natural that they should prefer dealing with those who are able to speak their own language. Hence it is of much service to young men, especially those who intend following commerce, to be able to speak French and German. And for those who are preparing themselves for any of the professions, it is of use. Many learned and able works treating on subjects connected with their avocations are written in these languages, and unless they are acquainted with the tongues, they are sealed for them. For all, then, it is important that they study French and German. They know this well, and hence they pursue their studies in these languages and endeavor to master them.
But if they recognize the utility of the study, and endeavor to familiarize themselves with the foreign idioms, we fear that there are many of them who by a false shame neglect one of the most efficacious means of acquiring a knowledge of the language they wish to learn. We believe that no one can attain any proficiency in the knowledge of a language except by frequent conversation in that language. The student may be able to translate quite freely from the authors placed in his hands and yet not be able to speak fluently the language. We have a number of persons in our mind’s eye who are examples of this, and they are so simply because they never gave themselves any practice outside their text-book in conversation. We believe that the student studying a foreign tongue should begin the practice of speaking the language from the day on which the grammar is put in his hands. W e do not mean that this should be the case in class; there he is forced to do so, to a certain extent; but even outside of his class, in his recreation walks. Many mistakes will be made at first—sometimes very ludicrous ones; but these will gradually become fewer and fewer. It is a knowledge of words which is the trouble to the student; when he has acquired these,the remainder of the study becomes easy enough.’ Exceptions as to gender, etc., should, of course, be learned; but these can be learned. afterwards, and no student will ever be able to master a language if he devotes himself to learning simply the rules and the exceptions. Practice in conversation is the great teacher, and unless the student practises he will find it uphill work. ,	.	-
After the student has accustomed his tongue to pronounce words, and is no longer afraid or ashamed of making grammatical blunders, or of not pronouncing with the precision and the elegance of a native of Paris or Vienna; after he has accustomed himself to use French and German words, and has acquired a goodly number of them, then it is time for him to trouble himself with the strict grammatical construction of. his sentence. There are tnany students, who, not having a natural
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
57
taste for languages, have been discouraged at the very start, and never made any progress, because they were frightened by the formidable array of exceptions which they were required to learn. They had to load their memory with not only rules, but with exception after exception, and.this without being able to frame a single sentence. They had to plunge into irregular declensions and conjugations, and had not a thorough knowledge of the regular ones.
Now, this is not right. The languages should be taught in a proper manner. The student should be accustomed to express himself in the language which he is learning, and taught to learn just as children learn their own language. They are not bothered by learning rules, etc.; they are taught first to pronounce the words, and then they learn the meaning of them. So should it be with persons learning a foreign tongue. After they have been taught the pronunciation of the words, and their meaning, then give them the rules which they . are to follow in speaking the language correctly.
We know that there are many young men who even in class do not like to express themselves in the language they are studying, because they are fearful lest they commit some blunder which may cause their companions to laugh at them.. This is wrong on their part, because all men in similar circumstances are liable to commit faults in speech. If the young man were able to speak without any mistakes,"there would be very little reason for him to give himself up to the study. Go to work, then, young men who are studying German and French, and devote some of your recreation hours to conversing in these tongues.	B.
Very Bev. Father General to the Minims.
On Saturday last, the Minims were overjoyed on receiving a letter from their venerable Patron,Very Rev. Father General Sorin, who is now sojourning in the Old World, visiting the Houses of the Community whose interests have been intrusted to his wise and experienced supervision. It is a matter of pride, and no slight gratification to the “ Princes,” to realize that the venerable Founder of Notre Dame, amid the cares and duties of his exalted office, does not lose sight of them, and ever retains a truly paternal interest in all-that concerns them. This thought, while serving to excite sentiments of affection and gratitude, is a powerful stimulus to well-doing. The letter is as follows:	•
On Board “ La Gascogne,” Sept, io, 1SS7.
My dear young friends:
Thanks to the many fervent prayers of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, and especially of our pious young Princes, whose hearty petitions are always granted, we are already in sight of land, and by 1 or 2 o’clock in the morning expect to reach Havre.	’
Although separated by an actual distance of four thousand miles, we never were more closely united in spirit and in heart. The complete rest of a week. has brought to my mind.so many loving souls, and allowed me to pray with such delight for their happiness, that I look upon it as one pf the most beautiful voyages I ever made. Indeed, we
reach almost too soon the end of it. How forcibly-it reminds me of our first crossing, forty six years ago 1 We had started on the 5th of August, the Feast of Our Lady of the Snow, and after full ten weeks of weary travelling by sea and land we hailed Vincennes on the morning of theglorious solemnity of the Divine Maternity. Had not Our Blessed Mother taken our little Band, from the first day to the last of our journey, under her own tender protection! To-morrow morning 1 return to her own kingdom—Regnum Gallice, Regnum Maria:—on the precious feast of the Holy Name of Mary. How happy such a coincidence makes me feel for us all 1	.
My dear young friends, if you knew one-half of the joys I have found through life in my continued efforts to love and honor the Blessed Mother of God, you would never cease to thank her for having brought you to commence-your career in such a chosen place wherein everything reminds you, above all, of the glorious Mother of Jes.us; where it must be your delight to see her honored, not only by exterior marks of respect, but especially by every sentiment of love breathed day and night from so many angelic hearts. May you appreciate, more and more sensibly every day, the blessing bestowed on the first years of your life! Pray to Our Blessed Mother for your beloved parents at home; for all your friends, and particularly for me.	Your devoted
E. Sorin, C. S. C.
All at Notre Dame rejoice at this news of the safe arrival of Father Founder. We hope that his visit will be attended, not only with the success he desires, but also with continued improvement in health, and that he may be soon present with us,
Library Hall.
We were pleased, some time ago, to receive a letter from the Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C. S. C., Professor of Natural Sciences in St. Laurent College, near Montreal, and for many years Professor of Natural Sciences, Curator of the Museum, and Librarian of the University of Notre Dame. He refers to the contemplated erection of the new building already mentioned in the columns of the Scholastic. We deem it not amiss to reproduce this interesting portion of the letter, inasmuch as its suggestions are timely and appropriate, and have that weight and influence which natural ability and years of experience alone can give. Father Carrier says:	-	’
“.. .Tread with pleasure in theSciroLASTicthatyouintend to erect at Notre Dame a library building; but, for goodness’ sake, use every effort to have a separate building, perfectly fire-proof, then all your precious works, etc., will be safe for thousands of years. Make it by all means a fire-proof building. Bear this in mind, and use your eloquence to have this done. Undoubtedly such a building (fire-proofed) will cost a little more- perhaps one third—than a commonly built one, but in the end it will prove a great economy and all fear of fire removed effectually. Such a fireproof building library exists in Cincinnati, at Princeton -and in Quebec Seminary. I would advise you to dispense with side and rear windows; to make, the. roof nearly flat as in Cincinnati, and covered with thick glass (snow can easily be removed in winter), and the floor tiled; the walls solid. By such devices you -will have plenty of light from above, much room for your alcoves, and perfect security against destructive fires. Think much over this, and consult the best architects; You should make-your library large enough to contain two hundred thousand volumes. But above all, and first of all, get a fife-proof- building entirely separate from any other.- Experience of every-day occurrences shows the folly of building museums, libraries, etc.,- in any other than fire-proof material. . ..”	‘	‘
’ • '	• r ~	'
E
58
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Books and Periodicals.
—In The Popular Science Monthly for October, Hon. David A. Wells gives the fourth paper of his series on “The Economic Disturbances since 1S73.” In it he shows that the recent decline in the prices of certain staple articles is in inevitable sequence from a great multiplication and cheapen-ingr of commodities through new conditions of production and distribution, which in turn have been mainly due to the progress of invention and discovery. In the fourth of his “ Social Sustenance ” papers, Mr. Henry J. Philpott treats of the “Allotment of Specialties.” In “The Oldest Noble of them all,” Professor Carl Vogt gives a very interesting account of the zoological family of the Brachiopods as the most ancient of the animal races, whose remains are found very abundantly in the oldest geological formations. Of rare, curious, and varied interest is Miss C. F. Gordon Cumming’s “Strange Medicines.” Professor William __ o	O
Thomson, in “Color-blindness among Railroad Employes,” gives an account of the more recent experiences on the Pennsylvania and other railroads in dealing with that evil.
—.S'/. Nicholas for October is the last but not the least excellent number of the current volume. A charming story by Miss Alcott, with which it open’s, lends strength to the hope that there are “ more to come” in the new year of St. Nicholas. The present story is entitled “An Ivy Spray.” It is a kirmess story, and it tells in a strong, helpful style how a brave girl danced her way to happiness. Frank R. Stockton contributes one of his capital “ Personally Conducted ” papers, on “ The Low Countries and the Rhine,” with abundant illustrations of the many interesting scenes described. “ General Grant at Vicksburg ” is the title of General Adam Badeau’s war story, which is pleasantly supplemented by a very clever Southern sketch,—“Ole Mammy Prissy,”—by Jessie C. Glasier, the author of the amusing story, “A Gunpowder Plot,” in the July number. There are four characteristic illustrations by E. W. Kemble. John R. Coryell tells about the curious habits of an absurd bird with the queer name of Kiwi-Kiwi; and Mary J. Safford writes about a self-respecting and knowing dog that stopped a mutiny. George J. Manson tells ambitious youths how they may become successful dry-goods merchants; while boys of a more literary turn may gain encouragement from “ The Boyhood of John Greenleaf Whittier,” as told by W. H. Rideing.
—The frontispiece of the October Century is a striking portrait of Harriet Beecher Stowe, engraved by T. Johnson from a photograph by Sarony. This portrait is apropos of a paper by James Lane Allen, entitled “ Mrs. Stowe’s ‘ Uncle Tom ’ at Home in Kentucky,” which recounts the life of the Kentucky slave of the old time, in a series of typical scenes, pointing out some considerations which it is thought should qualify Mrs. Stowe’s point of view. The illustrations, by Mr.
Kemble, drawn from life, reproduce characteristically’the epoch which Mr. Allen describes. A sketch is also given of the mistress of that time and her round of duties. The Lincoln History consists of a concise recital of the Secession Movement as exhibited in Congress, in the Cabinet of Buchanan, and in the correspondence of certain of the Southern leaders. A chapter is devoted to the secession of South Carolina and to affairs in Charleston Harbor, and another to the Commissioners from South Carolina, and the growth of the movement in the different States is also rapidly traced. The papers in the War Series consist of “ Marching Through Georgia and the Carolinas,” by Captain Daniel Oakey; “Sherman’s March from Savannah to Bentonville,” by General Henry W. Slocum; and “The Battle of Bentonville,” by General Wade Hampton; these papers presenting a graphic view of Sherman’s operations after Atlanta, which is reenforced by a number of interesting pictures, many of which are from war-time photographs or sketches. Among the illustrations are “ Sherman and his Generals,” “ Sherman’s Troops Destroying Railroads,” “The Storming of the Salkehatchie River,” “ Crossing the North Edisto,” “ Ruins of Columbia,” and sketches at the Saluda, Juniper Creek, Fayetteville, and Bentonville. Portraits of Generals Blair, Wade Hampton, Hoke, and McLaws are also given.
—The opening article in the Maria for September, is one which will not fail to attract by the novelty of its subject, and enchain the reader’s attention by the interest and instructiveness which characterize its treatment. It is entitled “ The Litany of Loreto as Sung by American Blossoms,” and is from the facile and graceful pen of Prof. A. J. Stace, of the University of Notre Dame. It runs through the four numbers of this monthly part of the Ave Maria^ and will well repay perusal. The learned writer, utilizing the extensive knowledge of the science of Botany acquired through natural taste and aptitude, and perfected through years of teaching and field practice, discourses upon various American flowers, which he applies with apt significance and appropriate symbolism to the different invocations of the Litany of the Blessed Virgin. We take the first which will serve as an illustration of the writer’s development and treatment of his subject.	1
“Sancia Maria, ora pro nobis. Thoughts awakened in our hearts by the sweet name of Mary may be aptly symbolized by one of the best known of American flowers, in New England called the May-flower, in Maryland the trailing arbutus, while the botanist knows it as Epigtea repens. This little flower loves the seclusion of the forest, blooming beneath the withered leaves of the previous Autumn. Its fragrance, however, betrays its presence, and then the delicacy of its white and rosy coloring is discovered and admired. But, with all this delicacy, it is not afraid to brave the rigors of the early season, being among the first of flowers to break the fetters of the frost-giants. How emblematical of the qualities of the Blessed Virgin, how sweet the song of praise this humble blossom sings to her name, telling of the perfume of her virtues, the purity and amiability of her soul, and the intrepidity with which she met her surpassing sorrows, it is needless for us to'point out to the faithful Christian.”	.	.
And so on through' all the titles given by the
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	59
Church to Our Blessed Lady in the Litany of Loreto, the writer speaks of some familiar little flower symbolical of each, and thus reveals tp the delighted reader one of the most beautiful tributes which Nature herself pays to her who is Queen of heaven and earth.
There are many other excellent articles in this number, each in its particular way contributing to that rich fund of entertainment and instruction which is a marked feature of each issue of the Ave Maria, and which, added to its literary excellence, has made it superior to any other magazine in the language. Our limited space, however, does not permit us to speak of them in detail. We invite the reader to procure the magazine and judge for himself.	'
Personal.
—Max Nirdlinger, ’58, of Fort Wayne, Ind., visited the College during the week, o	o
—Mrs. J. W. Smith, of Leadville, Col., is spending a few days at Notre Dame with her son Frank of the Minim department.
—Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Tompkins, of Leadville, Colorado, are welcome visitors to the College this week. They have called to see their son Tom in the Minims. .
• —Mr. Michael Cudahy and Mr. Patrick Cavanagh, of Chicago, spent last Saturday and Sunday at Notre Dame visiting their children of the Minim and Junior departments.
—Rev. John Fitzharris, ’69, formerly assistant pastor of St. Joseph’s Church, New York, has been promoted to the Rectorship of the newly-established parish of St. Veronica in that city.
—Rev. John Shanley, the esteemed Rector of the Cathedral at St. Paul, Minn., paid a visit to the College a few days ago. He expressed himself as most agreeably surprised with all he saw—the numerous and commodious buildings and all the advantages afforded for a thorough education.
—Frank W. Bloom, ’81, of Vincennes, Ind., was married a few weeks ago to an estimable young lady of St. Louis. The ceremony was performed by the Rev. M. Keilty, Rector of Holy Angels’ Church, St. Louis, a former student of Notre Dame, of the Class of ’58. Mr. Bloom’s many friends extend their heartiest congratulations, with best wishes for a long and happy matrimonial life.
’	Local Items.	*
—The 13th draweth near.
—“ I want to be a Senior.”. Look out for him.
—Did you see the rabbit? If so, do not let B. M. know it.	'
—Whoop up the football teams on these cool “ rec” days.
-—’Mac has returned, although it took him three days to get here.
—The festive bicyclist may be seen spinning’ gaily along the gravelled road.
—If it be a fair day, Fehr will have a fair chance to win a fair race on St. Edward’s Day.
—The Thespians have organized, and are now preparing for the exhibition on the 13th.
—There are now 700 incandescent electric lights distributed through the Universitv buildings.
—The reorganization of the religious societies will take place to-morrow (Sunday) evening.
—And now is the time when “ the flying gold of the ruin’d woodlands drove through the air.”
—Self-respect, self-knowledge, self-control— these three alone lead in life to sovereign power.
—We heard a gentle voice say, the other day, that over-coats would be fashionable this winter.
—The classes in the department of Natural Sciences are attended more numerously than ever before. ,	.
—“ Cas ” understands it, but he has not had familiarity enough with Bights to give the proper definition.	;
—The devotions of the month of October—the month of the Holy Rosary—were solemnly opened yesterday (Friday) evening. 1
—Master Harry Seerey has. the thanks of those interested in St. Edward’s Park for some rare stones, souvenirs of a trip to Lake Superior.
—Our young artist^ Paul Wood, is at work on an oil portrait of Titian, which he is copying after the one made by Signor Gregori last year.
—The contract for finishing the interior of Set-ence Hall has been let out, and the work will now be actively pushed forward to completion.
—Several of the Preps, are studying Geography, practically by filling albums with the stamps of all countries arranged in a systematic series.
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Bro. Leander for some handsome specimens of petrifactions taken from the coal measures of Pennsylvania.
—Prof. O’Dea and Bro. Bernardine. were busy during the week in making a number of electrical tests with a view to the lighting up of the extension to St. Edward’s Hall.
—“Were I but an inch or two taller,” were the words spoken by some of the smaller Juniors on their being refused admittance to the company of all companies—the gallant H. L. G.
—That walnut trip was enjoyed by all, especially by our friends from the Empire City. Holdon held on to the tree and shook them down so vigorously that he was charged for three new hats.
—Our esteemed Professor of Greek invested in a magnificent cutter which was exhibited at the late St. Joseph- County Fair. The transaction evidenced wise forethought and no little commercial ability.
—The Juniors take advantage of the cool weather to indulge in well-contested games of football. Nearly two hundred boys take part in each game,
6o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
so one can imagine the lively scene presented by the campus on such occasions.
—The wet weather that prevailed during the week interfered materially with the laying of the cement walks between the College and the Presbytery. It is presumed, however, that the work will be accomplished ere long.
—A fine portrait of lion. H. S. Cauthorn, engraved on steel, has been placed in the Gallery of distinguished Catholic laymen. Mr. Cauthorn is well known in Indiana, where he has rendered valuable services to Church and State.
—Among those recently entered on the University rolls, is the young Marquis de la Chaux, of Paris. For some time a student at the College de Ste.-Croix, Neuilly, he has come to Notre Dame to complete his classical studies and perfect himself in English.
—The two Junior second nines met for the election of captains, Saturday last, and resulted in the choice of B. O’Kane to captain the “Reds” and T. Wilbanks the “Blues.” A game was played on the afternoon of the 24th ult., resulting in a victory for the “Blues” by a score of 12 to 6.
—A new “ Steinway Grand ” has been placed in the main parlor of the College. The old “ Chicker-ing Grand,” which survived the shock of the great fire, and for many years has been the delight of visitors and the select audiences that have been present at various soirees and concei ts, will hereafter erive forth its melodious tones in Washington Hall.
—A large number of bound volumes of The
__ «—I
Jesuit, Catholic Herald, The Diary, The Metropolitan Record, Catholic Telegraph-) The Miscellany, Boston .Pilot, Catholic Mirror, Pittsburgh Catholic;Nezu Tork Freeman? s Journal, Catholic Advocate, Catholic Expositor, and other early Catholic publications, have recently been secured for the historical collections in the Bishops’ Memorial Hall.
—An exciting game of baseball was played on the Minim campus between the “ Blues ” and “ Reds ” on the afternoon of the 25th ult. After a stubborn contest, the score in the ninth inning-stood in favor of the “Blues” 11 to 13. Among the visitors present were Very Rev. Father Provincial Corby, Rev. President Walsh, and Rev. Father Fitte; Messrs. John Cudahy, and Mr. Patrick Cavanagh, of Chicago. Time of game, two hours and a half.
—At the first regular meeting of the Thespian Society, held Saturday evening, Sept. 24, the following officers were elected for the ensuing ses-. sion: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Revs. A. Morrissey and M. Regan, Assistant Directors; Prof. J. A. Lyons, President; C. J. Stubbs, 1st Vice-President; C. P. Neill, 2d Vice-President; M. B. Mulkern, Recording Secretary; J. E. Cusack, Corresponding Secretary; G. A. Houck, Treasurer; R. C. Newton, Historian.
—A meeting of the Sorin Cadets was held Friday, Sept. 23. After the election of officers, etc., it.was unanimously resolved that the members of
this Society adapt the regulation style parade dress. The Cadets are delighted to hear that their gentlemanly Captain of former years, Mr. G. Craig, will continue in his position as tactician of their battalion during the coming year. A vote of thanks was unanimously tendered Rev. Father Regan, C.S.C., for his kindness in securing guns and other needed equipments.	■
—At a meeting of the Minim Baseball Association, held Monday, the 26th rdt., the following officers were elected: Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President; Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., Director; John Cudahy, Secretary; W.Williamson, Treasurer; C. Boettcher, Field Reporter; V. Kehoe and D. Quill, Captains; J. Cudahy,Captain of Special Nine. V. Kehoe, E. Savage, Fred Toolen, Jas. Jennings, G. Sweet, J. Dempsey, J. Ayer, L. Stone, J. Cudahy, “Blues”; D. Quill, Jessie Dungan, W. Williamson, C. Koester, G. Franche, H. Marx, G. Mayer, E. Conners, H. Johns, “Reds.” Frank Dunn and R. Clendenin were chosen Captains of Second Nines.
—At a meeting of the Junior Baseball Club, held on the 21st inst., Masters D. Tewksbury, V. J. McGurk were elected captains of the 1st nines. C. V. Inderrieden was chosen Captain of the special nine. The nines are as follows: “Reds”— Captain D. Tewksbury, W. Cartier, B. Stevens, D.. Cartier, S. Fleming, J. Cooney, M. O’Kane, J. Pfau and E. Campbell. “Blues”—Captain J. McGurk, F. Benner, J. Moncada, E. Ryan, C. V. Inderrieden, J. McIntosh, W. Walsh, B. Lahey and R. Hall. The special nine are: Captain C. V. Inderrieden, D. Tewksbury, J. McGurk, B. Stevens, D. Cartier, S. Fleming, J. Cooney, M. O’Kane and B. Lahey.
—The old members of the Columbian Society met Saturday evening for the purpose of organizing for the ensuing year. The election of officers resulted as follows: Director, Rev/T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.; President, Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C.; Honorary Presidents, Profs. J. A. Lyons and J. F. Edwards; Promoters, Bros. Paul and Emmanuel; 1st Vice-President, F. Jewett; 2d Vice-President, H. Hull; Treasurer, T. O’Regan; Recording Secretary, J. Meagher; Corresponding Secretary, P. Burke; xst Censor, L. Meagher; 2d Censor, W. Akin; Librarian, E. Prudhomme. The admission of new members was postponed until next meeting.	- •
—On Sunday last, Mr. Fernand Dorbesson, who was passing a few days on a visit to friends at Notre Dame, kindly consented to sing during the services in the church. He is one of the leading singers in the choir of St. Francis Xavier’s Church, 16th St., New York city, and is the fortunate possessor of a rich and well cultivated tenor voice, which he uses to the best advantage and to the delight of all who bear him. On this occasion, he sang at the Offertory, Doss’s Ave Maria; after the Elevation, Gounod’s Benedictus, and after Mass, an old French piece, Sancta Maria, by Faure. Mr. Dorbesson’s kindness afforded a most agreeable musical treat, which was greatly appreciated by all.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	Bi
_ •
—The first regular meeting of the Law Debating Society was held Wednesday evening, Sept. 21. The question, “Resolved that Prohibition is beneficial, and should be enforced throughout the country,” was debated. The leading disputants were Messrs. Albright, Heinemann, Pollock, and Rochford. The debate was well conducted; and the decision of the chair in favor of the affirmative was unanimously accepted.
At the second meeting of the Society, held last Wednesday evening, the question, “ Resolved that Oratory accomplishes more for civilization than the Press,” was debated. Leading disputants were Messrs. Butt, Shields, Pollock and Brewer. Decision in favor of the -negative.
—Master Willie C. Walsh, who entered the Minim department on the 22c! ult., the 10th anniversary of his birthday, is the remarkable one among the one hundred and seven princes. Thirty years ago, his father, Mr. William C. Walsh, of Chicago, at the very same age came to Notre Dame, and entered the Junior'department. At that time the University consisted of two divisions—Juniors and Seniors. Soon, however, others of Master Walsh’s age followed, and the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, then President, established the Minim department. The affectionate interest that the venerable Founder has ever since manifested towards this department, makes the Minims feel that, among all the five hundred students, they are his boys—his special favorites. If Father General were home he would certainly have given a warm welcome to the little gentleman, whose father was the nucleus of the original Minim department, and who so far is the first student, finishing his course of studies by going through the three departments of the University—Minims,Juniors and Seniors—who has a son in the Minim department. But the princes, who are always among the best interpreters of Very Rev. Father General’s wishes have in his absence given a royal welcome to Master Walsh, who promises to be an honor to his name as well as to St. Edward’s Hall.
—Accessions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.:—Letters written by Rt. Rev. Bishop Gartland; letter written by Bishop Persico; manuscript of a mathematical work written by Bishop Gartland’s father, presented by the Bishop’s sister, Mrs. B. Robbins. Letter written by Rt. Rev. P. Kelly, first Bishop of Richmond; letter written by Rt.Rev. J. Carroll,Bishop of Baltimore; letter written by Most Rev. J. Carroll, Archbishop of Baltimore; two documents written and signed by Rt. Rev. Leonard Neale, Bishop of Gortyna; two letters written by Most Rev. Leonard Neale, Archbishop of Baltimore; letter written by J Richard Vincent, Bishop of Richmond, presented by Mr. J. Neale. Gold embroidered jewelled mitre used by Archbishop Whitfield, presented by Sister Mary Theodora. Two letters written by Bishop Conwell,presented by Father Whelan. Beautifully illuminated parchment address presented-to Bishop Wood by the pupils of Sharon Hill; several addresses presented to Archbishop Wood on the occasion of his Silver Jubilee, presented by Rev.
Father Elcock; Engraving of Archbishop Wood; record of his life; lithographs and medal of buildings erected by him, presented by Mr. Powers. White silk mitre used by the fourth Bishop of Richmond, presented by a friend. Twenty-nine letters written by Rt. Rev. Bishop Egan; five letters of Most Rev. Archbishop Carroll; two letters of Rt. Rev. Bishop Cheverus, presented by Joseph Conwell. Manuscript concerning the genealogy of the Carroll family; two letters written by Charles Carroll, of Carrollton; letter written by Archbishop Carroll; several documents relating to the Carroll family, presented by R. and J. Private seal of Frederick Wood, Archbishop of Philadelphia; seal used by Very Rev. Wm. O’Hara when Vicar-General of Philadelphia, presented by Mr. W. Power.
—We have been permitted to publish the order and subjects of sermons to be preached in the Church of the Sacred Heart during the scholastic year, beginning with Sunday next, the 9th inst. They are as follows:	.	-
SERMONS—OCTOBER ’87, JUNE ’88.
Oct. 9.—“The Unity of the Church”; Oct. 16.—“The Catholicity and Apostolicity of the Church ”; Oct. 23.— “ The Holiness of the Church ”; Oct. 30.—“ The Visible Head of the Church.”—Rev. Father Hudson.
Nov. 1.—“All Saints’ Day.”—Rev. Father Zahm.
Nov. 6.—“ Purgatory ”; Nov. 13.—“ Prayer ”; Nov. 20.— “Invocation of the Saints.”—Rev. Father French.
Nov. 27.—“ Christ Foretold by the Prophets ”; Dec. 4.— “Christ in His Life and Miracles”; Dec. 11.—“Christ in His Person and Natures”; Dec. iS.—“The Imitation of Christ.”—Rev. Father Fitte.
Dec. 25.—“ Christmas Day.”—Rev. Father Regan.
Jan. 1.—“ New Year’s Day.”—Rev. Father O’Hanlon. Jan. 8.—“The First Commandment”; Jan. 15.—“The Second Commandment ”; Jan. 22.—“The Third Commandment ”; Jan. 29.—“ The Fourth Commandment ”; Feb. 5.— “ The Fifth Commandment.”—Rev. Father Morrissey.
Feb 15.—“Ash-Wednesday ”; Feb. 19,26, March 4,11.— “The Sacrament of Penance ”; April 1.—“ Easter Sunday.” —Rev. Father Walsh.	.
March 17.—“St.'Patrick’s Day.”—Rev. Father Zahm.
March 19.—“St. Joseph’s Day.”—Rev. Father Robinson.
April 8, 13.—“The Blessed Eucharist as a Sacrament”; April 22.—“The Patronage of St. Joseph ”; April 29, May 6.—“The Blessed Eucharist as a Sacrifice”; May 10.— “ First Communion.”—Rev. Father Kirsch.
May 13.—“The Mission of the Holy Ghost”; May 20.— “Pentecost”; May 27.—“The Sacrament of Baptism”; June 3.—“ Corpus Christi.”—Rev. Father Stoffel.
June 8.—“The Feast of the Sacred Heart”; June 10.— “The Sacrament of Holy Orders.”—Rev. Fathfr O’Hanlon. ■	.
The 6th, 7th and Sth Commandments and the Precepts of the Church will be treated in special instructions during Lent.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Albright, Akin, P. Burke, Barrett, J. Burke, Barnes, Beckwith, Bombeck, Bronson, Ball, Barnard, Blessington, J. Burns, Bush, Brownson, Brewer, Becker, Britt, Baca, E. Burns, Baldrick, Boland, F. Coady, J. Clark, Campbell, E. Clark, J. Cassidy, Chacon, Cusack, Cooke, Craig, Crill, Cartier, Chute, Cullin, E. Coady, Donaghue, Donel-son, Dempsey, Dore, Ewing, Eyanson, Francka, Fitzharris, Finckh, Fenton, Fisher, Fehr, Franklin, Goebel, GallardoT
62	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
A
Gordon, Giesler, Garrity, Henderson, Hobart, Heinemann, Howard, Hummer, Houck, Jennings, Jacobs, F. Kelly, J. Kelly, Kerlin, Keating, L. Larkin, W. Larkin, Lappin, H. Luhn, A. Longmire, L. Longmire, A. Larkin, Langan, Mulkern, J. Meagher, L. Meagher, McWilliams, McErlain, J. McDermott, Mackey, Monroe, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, Maloney, Mithen, Maier, McAllister, McCart, McAuliffe, McGrath, Melady, W. McDermott, Neill, Nations, Andrew Nicholl, Alfred Nicholl, Nester, K. Newton, Norton, R. Newton, Nelson, O’Hara, Orr, O’Regan, O’Shea, O’Donnell, Pears, Plato, Paschel, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, Prichard, Preston, Roper, Rochford, Reynolds, Rodriguez, Rothert, Russel, Stubbs, Scholfield, Sullivan, Schaug, Short, Stephenson, Suing, Sawkins, Spencer, H. Smith, Tiernan, Towle, Tudor, Velasco, Webb, Wall, O. Woods, Welch, White, Wilkin, Hart.
JUNIOR department.
Masters Adelsperger, Adams, Allen, Anfehder, Berry, Boyd, Blake, Boldric, Burger, Backrack, J. Bray, Brannick, Benner, Brady, Bombeck, Bronson, Beaudry, Cunningham, Cauthorn, Campbell, Carelton, Case, Crotty, Cooney, F. Connors, Connelly, Chacon, Ciarcoschi, Cooke, Cavanagh, J. Connors, Chute, G. Cartier, W. Cartier, Casey,* J. S-Dohertv, f. Doherty, Duffield, Daniels, Davis, Devine, Ebner, Fitzgerald, F. Flynn, Falvey, Freeman, Frei, Gal-breth, J. Greene, T- Greene, Graham, Gonzales, Gray, Gir-ten', Garrity, Heller, Henderson, Hoffman, Hiener, Hagan, Houlihan, Howard, Hall, R. Healy, P. Healy, Hillas, Hoerr, Hampton, Hughes, Hartman, Hackett, Hake, C.Inderrieden, Johnson, Jewett, Johns, Kinsella, Kellner, Kehoe, Leonard, Lahey, Lane, Moncada, Monroe, Monaghan, W. Mallay, fames McIntosh, John McIntosh, McGurk, McGuire, Me- ’ Ivers, Miner, McNulty, Mooney, McKenzie, McPhee, Martin, Merkle, Nichols, Neef, Noud, M. O’Kane, B. O’Kane, O’Neill, O’Hearn, G- O’Brien, O’Donnell, O’Hara, Patterson, Paquette, Priestly, Powers, Pritchard, F. Peck, J. Peck, Plan, Pecheux, Quinlan, Reinhard, Rierdon, J. Rose, S-Rose, Reidinger, Ryan, Roth, Ramsey, Rowsey, C. Scherrer, L. Scherrer, L. Schillo, Stephens, Shenk, Schloss, C. Spalding, Sullivan, Silver, Smith, R. Spalding, Talbot, Thome, Wageman, W. Walsh, Wood, Wright, Wilbanks, W. Welch, Fleming.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayer, Ackerman, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, G. Black, Blumenthal, Bloomhuff, Beckham, Barbour, Beerman, Blake, Bradley, Boettcher, Burns, Bates, C. Connor, W. Connor, Collins, Connelly, E. Conners, Cummings, Clendenin, Carlile, Cudahy, Crane, Durand, Jas. Dungan, J. Dungan, L. Black, Doss, J. Dunn, F. Dunn, L. Demp-sey, J. Dempsey, F. Dempsey, G. Franche, C. Franche, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Goldmann, Grant, Hinds, Harlan, J. Healy, Hagus, Halthusen, Jaramillo, A. Backrack, Koester, J. Kane, Kutsche, Kinsella, Keefe, Kehoe, Klaner, H. Lonergan, A. Lonergan, Mooney, Marx, Morgenweck, Maternes, G. Mayer, L. Mayer, McPhee, Mott, Neef, Nichols, Nee-nan, Zieman, Oppenhimer, O’Mara, Perry, L. Paul, C. Paul, Plautz, Parker, Quill, Ricksecker, Sweet, Seerey, F. Smith, E. Smith, Stephens, Tomkins, J. Toolen, F. Toolen, Taft, Trujillo, J. Walsh, W. Walsh, A. Welch, W. Williamson, Wm. Williamson, Witkowskey, Young.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
out any of the preparation which they find an essential. The writer, who has been in the habit of attending the regular games of the college with which he is connected, has felt under obligations to be equally consistent in attending the daily practice games of the men, in order to watch the preliminary training; and he must-confess to a great respect for the good sense and good management of the undergraduates who have the matter in charge. The ‘University team’is selected provisionally; it is pitted daily against a second, or ‘scrub’ team of somewhat larger numbers; both teams are kept under careful training and supervision; the playing is made short and as gentle as possible at first, until the men begin to become ‘hard’; the playing is then gradually lengthened and made more severe, as the men become able to endure it; and, by the time the season comes to its last game, the players are able to endure with impunity treatment which would be dangerous to men who are ‘soft,’ or out of condition. After the first few weeks are over, and serious playing has begun, men who have not yet played are not encouraged, or, in extreme cases, even allowed, to play on the ‘scrub’ team; the managers think it inadvisable to run any risks. The players are not only brought to a point of physical condition which makes it a pleasure to watch them, but they are taught how to fall, when a fall is inevitable, in such a way as to retain control of the ball without hazarding a broken bone or a dislocation. When the closing games come on, the player can take what seems to the spectator a frightful fall, not only without a bruise, but so skilfully that it is regularly necessary for his opponent to ‘hold him down’ lest he rebound and take to his heels again. The preliminary practice games can hardly be more severe elsewhere than at Princeton; and yet the writer has never seen a serious accident occur there. An accident may occur, of course, and will give no warning of its coming, but its coming has been put as far as possible out of the range of probability. But if men in other colleges wished to play foot-ball, as should be the case, they must not ignore the systematic course of preparation, take the final playing of a well-trained team as a model, and attempt to imitate it. It is from such folly that the recurring accidents in foot-ball come. With good physical condition in the players, the requisite training, and suitable grounds, the game is not only one of the best of outdoor sports, but one of the safest.”
THE DANGERS OF FOOT-BALL.
From a prof usely illustrated article in the October Century, by Alexander Johnston, we quote the following: “The game is as safe as any outdoor game can well be, provided it is played with the careful preparation, and training which are the rule in the larger colleges; it is a dangerous and unfit game when men undertake to play it without such preparation and training. In the season of last year, two fatal accidents were reported; both occurred in colleges which were attempting to play the game as it is played by the leading teams, with-
THE WISE MAN.,
There is a man in our town, and he is wondrous wise.
Whenever he writes the printer man he dotteth all his i’s;
And, when he’s dotted all of them, with great sang froitl and ease
He punctuates each paragraph and crosses all his t’s. .
Upon one side alone he writes, and never rolls his leaves;
And from the' man of ink a smile, and mark “ Insert,” receives. .	/ ....	, .	: -
And when a question he doth ask . (taught wisely he has been), .
He doth the goodly two-cent stamp, for postage back, put in.
—St. yose^li {Mo. Herald.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6j
Saint TFlary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame university.
—The Misses F. Hertzog and A. Schmauss re-: Cited at the Academic meeting on Sunday.	'
—The weekly receptions are to begin this month. At the first one the Graduates will receive the First Seniors.
—The Gregorian Society, for the improvement of Church music, was reorganized last week. The regular meetings are held every Tuesday at 5 p. m.
—In the last issue of the Scholastic, the term “Eternal Father,” in description of Prof. Gregori’s beautiful Salvator	have been “ Eter-
nal Word.”
—Mr. W. Thien, of Cincinnati, Ohio, who has had charge of the interior decorations of the church, has completed his work, and in beauty of design and finish the interior now corresponds with the-exterior.
—The officers of the Sodality of Children of Mary for the present year are: President, Miss M. Dillon; Vice-President, Miss H. Guise; Secretary, Miss M. Murphy; Librarian, Miss E. Brady; Tfeas-urer, Miss E. Kearns; Sacristan, Miss M. Hummer.
.—The Theoretical Music classes opened on the 24th. Nothing is more necessary in the study of music than a thorough knowledge of principles. It is to be hoped that every one of the large number now taking music will appreciate the importance of this study.
—The Scholastic mentioned that those wonderful burros carried off a prize at the County Fair; but it did not state that the same burros, while at St. Mary’s, tried to carry off another prize. In their eagerness, however, they ran into a tree, broke the cart, and thus lost all claim even to an “ honorable mention.”
Father Faber.
When, in some moment of solitude, we muse with ever increasing, avidity over the ponderous leaves of the Book of Time, we are struck with astonishment at the number and greatness of the names therein engraved. Each century, as it passes away, indites its own peculiar character in this wondrous tome. Nor shall our nineteenth century prove deficient in this regard when, like its predecessors, it shall have taken its place among scenes of the past. Splendid, indeed, is the galaxy of eminent names which even now she presents to the world, but upon which it is not our purpose to dwell.
It is in the glorious constellation of names which form the Corona Borealis of this great period that we seek one who, as the lovely “ Alphecca,” shall shine as the gem of the crown. Such is the sweet poet-convert, the saintly priest, the lofty intellect —F aber.
While meditating upon the superior characteristics of this great man, we scarcely know to which our greatest admiration is due. Many consider as pre-eminent that insatiable longing for truth which caused his early life to be but a series of vacillations. As a mere youth we find him seeking spiritual repose in the vain and pernicious doctrines of Calvinism. Later he adopts the Creed of Anglicanism. From a mere advocate of the latter religion he becomes one of her. ministers; and so on, step by step, until at last he enters the portals of. a blessed tranquillity. Like a poor, restless sheep, this wavering soul found peace at last in the saving Fold; he quenched his thirst at the fountain of Eternal Truth; beneath the peaceful sanctuary of the Church of God, he rested sweetly at the Good Shepherd’s feet. Others dwell with admiration upon that apostolic zeal with which for fourteen years he labored for the salvation of souls. And again he is extolled for that sweetness and serenity of disposition, that benign and fascinating manner which none could resist. With us, all these characteristics, so worthy of commendation; must be overlooked.
It is to his wonderful talents as a poet, his sublime genius as an author, that our attention must now be directed. -A perusal of his inimitable and soul-inspiring sentiments by one who is a mere tyro in the difficult study of literature, calls forth, not a criticism, but simply a tribute of praise; a fervent extolment which, in comparison to the merits of the author, consitutes not even the “widow’s mite.”
Faber lived during that momentous period when the “ great revolution in religious thought,” known as the “Tractarian Movement,” was agitating the minds of so many illustrious men. It was under the guidance,of the mighty intellect Newman that, in 1845, he made his submission to the Catholic Church.
Chief among the characteristics which distinguished his youthful mind we find that keen perception of nature, that delicate appreciation of beauty which, developed by time and aided by the romantic scenery of his native hills, enabled him to give to the world numerous and beautiful poems. His merits as a poet at this early period were admitted by the greatest writers of . the day. When it became known that after his conversion he intended to cast aside the charms of his favorite muse for the arduous duties of the priesthood, we find Wordsworthexclaiming: “The world has lost a poet, but the Church has won a saint.” In 1835, we find him competing for the Newdigate poetry prize, accorded him on account of the superior merits of his “Knights of St.John”; a work not only valuable for its beauties as a poem, but also on account of the rich fund of historic lore which it contains. The “Styrian Lake,” whose smoothness of diction and true.poetic rhythm have led some to prefer it to his more lengthy poems, seems but to foreshadow that tender love for the Mother of God which the author was so admirably to portray at a later period. “Sir Lancelot” is the longest, and, perhaps, the most romantic of his poems. Its plot was drawn from mediaeval sources.
His biography “Prince Amadis”is replete with.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
allusions; both classical and scientific. Many beautiful extracts might be quoted from the abovementioned works; as well as from his minor poems, but we must pass to the grander efforts which distinguished his later days. In these are found the most abstruse doctrines of Christianity clothed in that beauty of expression and simplicity of language which render his works so attractive,—a fact which proves that the Catholic Church possesses not alone the power of making saints, but that flowers of genius, which heretofore have only budded, are, under her auspicious guidance, made to bloom forth in all their beauty of maturity.
The first of his series of ascetic works—“All for Jesus”—was given to the world in 1853. The author himself assures us. it was intended, not for those who have almost reached the summit of perfection, but for those who, having scarcely begun the difficult ascent, are still struggling at the mountain’s foot. Its object, as the title plainly signifies, is to direct the Christian in the performance of his every action. Its perusal requires deep and concentrated thought, in order that one may fully appreciate the hidden beauties which a careless reader would inevitably overlook. It is one of those books capable of being read again and again, and yet at each repetition we find new merits to admire, new significations, before unheeded. *
“The Foot of the Cross, or the Sorrows of Mary,” to which we have before alluded, is a masterpiece of its kind. Delicate thought clothed in the most beautiful language, faultless imagery, figures of surpassing excellence, render it valuable as a mere literary work; but the chief attraction for the Catholic heart lies in its boundless praise and perfect delineation of the life and sufferings of the sorrowful Mother of God. The beautiful practical lessons contained in “Spiritual Conferences,” if onljr appreciated and practised, would render this vale of tears an earthly Paradise.
Thus we might speak in turn of the numerous other works which the marvellous pen of Faber produced,namely: “Creator and Creature,”“Precious Blood,” “ Blessed Sacrament,” and “ Bethlehem,” not forgetting his excellent letters, which are treasures in themselves. Suffice it to say that while reading these wondrous words of truth and wisdom, a feeling of awe takes possession of us; an interminable chain seems to bind our hearts to these invisible spirits who minister unto God in the eternal realms of heaven.	'
Faber died in 1863. His future life, as his biographer tells us, was only a realization of the picture he himself had drawn.
“Only serve Jesus out of love; and while your eyes are yet unclosed, before the whiteness of death is yet settled upon your face, or those -around you - are sure that the last gentle breathing was indeed your-last, what an unspeakable surprise will you; have had at the judgment seat of your dearest Love, while the songs of heaven are. breaking in your ears, and the glory of God is dawning on . your eyes, to fade away no more forever! ”	:
- Finally, we will terminate by quoting from the eloquent Bowden: “ Words-cannot produce the
gracious presence, the musical voice, the captivating smile; cannot give back to earthly life the charm of person or. the fascination of manner any more than the fire of genius, or the nobility of soul, and cannot, therefore, satisfy those whose labors are cheered and sorrows comforted; whose interior lives are formed and directed to God; whose brightest, happiest hours are blest by the wisdom, holiness and love of Father William Faber.”
Marv Dillon (Class ’^7).
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF
. RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Allen, Andree, Arpin, Brady, Balch, Bub, Burton, Barry, Barth, Bloom, Brewer, Boyer, Beschameng, Bourne, Bray, Butler, Bates, Blacklock, Carmien, Clifford, Claggett, Carey, Conners, Clore, Coll, M. Coll, Campeau, Dempsey, C. Dempsey, Ducey, M. Desmond, C. Desmond, Davis, English, Early, Flannery, Fravel, Fitzpatrick, Gavan, Geer, Guise, Hummer, Hughes, Hertzog, Hellmann, Hyland, M. Horner, I. Horner, Henke, Hinz, Harlen, Heffron, C. Hurley, K. Hurley, Hillas, Hoffmann, Hutchinson, Johnson, Kearns, Kennedy, Kohler, Kron, Latta, Leonard, La Berge, Murphy, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, N. McCarthy, B. Morse, M. McCormick, M. McEwen, McNamara, Moore, C. McCarthy, Marsh, Moran, Neff, O’Brien, Orr, Palmer, Prudhomme, Piper, M. Papin, Quill, Quealey, G. Regan, Rend, E. Regan, Richardson, Robinson, Rowsey, Rannells, Snowhook, Sullivan, Stadtler, Sheehan, Shields, Saviers, Schmauss, Smith, Sloman, Sear,' Trask, Thompson, Terhune, Van Horn, Van Mourick, Wright, Waterbury, Wagner, Wiesenbach, Young, Zahm.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses T. Balch, E. Blaine, Burdick, O. Butler, E. Burns, M. Burns, Crane, Churchill, N. Davis,, C. Dempsey, Dolan, Dryer, Farwell, Foster, Fritz, Hake, Hagus, Hull, M. Hughes, Knauf r, Kloth, Lewis, Longmire, Loonie, Mercer, Miller, McCune, McCormick, N. Morse, M. Morse, Newman, O’Mara, Quealey, Reeves, Reed, Rhinehart, Rose, Simons, S. Smith, Stapleton, Wyatt.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Hummer, Kearns, Murphy, G. Regan, Brady, Sullivan, Trask, Carmien, Snowhook, Hughes.
ist Senior Class—Misses L. Hyland, L. Van Horn, Clifford, Moran, Bub, Dempsey, Hertzog, Stadtler, McCarthy, Meehan, Riedinger, Ducey, Morse.
2D Senior Class—Misses Davis, Desmond, Barry, M. Horner, Flannery, McNamara, Shields, McCormick, McEwen, E. Regan, C. Dempsey, Hinz, Hutchinson, Sheehan, Henke, C. Desmond, Latta, Burton, Kron.
3D Senior Class—Misses Quill, I. Horner, Terhune, Van Mourick, K. Hurley, Hillas, O’Brien, Prudhomme, Sear, Claggett, English, Heffron, C. Hurley, Schmauss, Fitzpatrick, Blacklock, Hoffmann, Barth, Fravel, Waterbury, Bloom, T. Balch, N. Morse.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses Young,Wiesenbach, Geer, Piper, Kennedy, Blaine, Knauer, Newman, E. Quealey, Stapleton, Simons.	1
2D Prep. Class—Misses S. Brewer,-Kohler, Rowsey, Rannells, Carey, Conners, Bourne, Butler, Dempsey, Davis, Dolan, Hull, Rogers.
3D Prep. Class—Misses Rhinehart, E. Burris, M. Burns, Loonie, Fritz.	-