The Notre Dame Scholastic
427
COMMENT
The Notre Dame Scholastic

While we are being bothered with examinations we need not feel that those afflictions are present only at Notre Dame. They are being considered elsewhere, and while the subject is appropriate, it might be fitting to take up this column by reprinting an editorial taken from The Sheaf, a publication of the University of Saskatchewan. The article is entitled “Average.”
“It is usually the poor student who finds fault with the examination system. Consequently criticism of examinations, particularly just after the results appear, is discounted as an attempt to justify personal inadequacy . . . the rumor, which is familiar to everyone, is that some- professors— generally the newer members of the staff—find it convenient to keep in mind the law of averages when marking papers. The law of averages which is just a fine term for probability, as applied to examination, means that so many members of the class will likely fail. A staunch believer in the law will be able to tell pretty closely how many students will fail on any examination provided he is given the number in the class. There would be no objection to this statistical feat were it not for the fact; that the rule is often considered quite reliable.
“That a rule, necessarily formulated only after study of the work of many students, should be considered quite reliable when applied to a few of them is farcical. The human being is not yet blithely trotting along paths which can be accurately predicted. It is quite conceivable that a class might not have a single A or B student or a single failure, but the “law” of averages takes no account of this, and our rumor says that occasionally the rule is preferred to common sense.
“Whether or not the suspicions of the student body have much basis in actual fact will probably not become known. The divinity of the examination system will continue to be protected by strict secrecy. In any case, ' it is a misfortune ■ that what little confidence the students have in examinations as a reliable means of testing knowledge and industry should be destroyed by the widespread suggestion that the individual receives less consideration than is generally imagined.” (We wonder if he’s right)
—W. V. B.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1SG7
EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief Assistant Managing Editor	Managing Editor	Assistant Managing Editor Neil G. Hurley	Joiin E. Bercan	John A. Kiener
’	Associate Editors	.
Edward E. Brennan	James J. Kearney	Edward R. Brennan
• Austin Boyle	James Carmody	’ Paul J. Hallinan
■The Week	Make-up Editors . .	Coliege Parade
Richard J. O’Donnell	Alfred E. Gall	Daniel C. Williams
Walter V. Beesley *
Music and Drama	Feature Editor'. ’	Campus Clubs
Frank E. Seward	James K. Collins	W. Leslie Raddatz
’	News Staff
Lloyd Teske, News Editor
'	William C. Karl, Assistant News Editor
William, Fitzgerald	Anthony R. Schreiner	Lawrence Dcnda
John Conley	William Corr .	'	Sanguinet Williams
Myron Crawford •	F. Granger Weil	Lawrence Prybylski ,
John Pick - ’	,	Walter Johnson
■	Sports Staff
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor
Cleve Carey	George Belting	T. Edward Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr.	James Kearns	Irving Halper
Business Staff
James H. Rorke, Local Advertising Mgr. John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr.
James L. Rizer, Foreign Advertising Mgr. Andrew McGuan, Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer	Raymond J. Naber	John P. Hess
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications
Merle Baldwin, Publications Office Manager
Vol. LXIV	JANUARY 23, 1931	No. 14
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Week—Richard J. O’Donnell		429
Italian Club Meeting—Fran Oelerich	— 430
K. of C. Formal—F. Granger Weil and Martin Downey	431
Glances at the Magazines—Edward R. Brennan	436
Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward	'	437
A Man You Know—Edivard E. Brennan		438
A Man About the Campus—William Knox	439
Book Reviews—John Pick			441
Campus Clubs—IF. Leslie Raddatz	442
Editor’s Page	■	443
The Wink	444
College Parade—Daniel C. Williams	445
Cagers Win Thriller From Penn—James Kearns	446
Tommy Yarr Achieves Goal—T. Edward Carey		—	449
Splinters From the Press Box—H. B. A	452
At the South Bend Theatres—John Francis	454
On Down the Line—Cleve Carey	456
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame, Manu-
scripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as secondrclass matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailins: at
special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
428
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Campus at Night


The Notre Dame Scholastic
429
♦ THE WEEK ♦
'I' HE legend persists in these parts that anyone holding any kind of office in any kind of organization is without doubt a “racketeer,” or, to change the vernacular, a “grifter.” The idea remains and grows more widespread with the passing years so that some honest men with a mind to their reputations are becoming afraid to accept the offices which are offered to them by their fellow men. That, according to tradition, is what caused the dissolution of the Peoria club and the Oshkosh club several years ago. None of the members would accept executive offices so they all banded together and formed what has become known in University history as the first quartet that ever sang in the Glee club. And, according to Bourke Motsett, who is frequently accused of hailing from Peoria, a fine quartet it was! Now Jack Dempsey is coming forth with a Juggler issue which will in all probability convince the entire world, or at least, that vast majority which has its ear tuned to the saying of the Funny Fellow, that colleges are nothing more than breeding places for “racketeers.” We’re surprised at Jack. He’s been around here long-enough to know better than that. But then, he never has been the same since that A. A. book photographer made a Covarubbias caricature out of the handsomest countenance in the Dempsey family. Maybe there’s a justification for his satire.
w HAT this country undoubtedly needs is fewer persons who talk about what this country needs. And the statement might be limited to apply to our University. Accordingly, we don’t desire to criticise the undergraduate mind or scale of values in pointing out a local need, but merely to point out an actual need, and make a suggestion. To be concrete . . . Monday night in Washington hall there was held an event -which is bound up in the traditions of Notre Dame. The Breen Medal contest for oratory is an annual affair on the campus, and for many years after its establishment it excited a great deal of student enthusiasm. The interest in it, however, has slowly been dying away. This year, Frank McGreal, who has been winning honors since his freshman days as a speaker and debater, was judged the winner. His competition was keen; the men he eliminated were competent orators, and Frank is deserving of all the congratulations in the world for having received the award. He will subsequently have the distinction of representing the University in the state oratorical meet, and if successful there, may proceed to the national contest, in -which Jim Roy, a Notre Dame man, won first prize two years ago. Debating and oratory have always flourished on this campus, and the forementioned Mr. Roy is not the only one -who has brought national honors to his school as the result of his talents in this field. It is unfortunate, then, that the student appreciation is not on a par with the abilities of the men who represent it on the platform. Washington hall is filled on Saturday nights with the devotees of Mickey the Mouse, but is a lonely place on the evening of an oratorical contest. If the freshmen speech classes had not been forced to attend on Monday night, Frank -would probably have had as his sole listener the Washington hall ghost . . . that is, if the talkies have not already forced him out of there.
Any Chicago contractor can tell you that Rome could not have been built in a day. But some imaginative freshmen and sophomores who have loafed through Latin classes during the past five months will be attempting to master the language of the Romans over the coming week end. Lights in residence halls will be burning brightly till midnight. Dust covered texts will be unearthed from the bottoms of trunks and lockers. The library (that white stone structure north of Howard hall) will suddenly be discovered by undergraduates who had hitherto believed it to be merely a building in the basement of which the city clubs held their meetings. Now is the time when that fast dying out species, known as the “grind” comes into his own. He ceases to be a “goof,” and overnight is changed to a good fellow. He’s addressed as “pal” and slapped on the back in a hearty, Rotarian manner. His room becomes a haven for the gentlemen who slept beside him in class since last September, and who had resented the disturbing noise that his pen made during the process of taking notes. His friendship becomes more sought after and more valued than that of any of the All-Americans. In fact, many of the AllAmericans are eager to listen in on his ex cathedra rehashings of lectures they had either never heard, or had long since forgotten. While the “grind” becomes the center of interest, the library is thronged with those in pursuit of knowledge, and text books become suddenly interesting reading matter, there is, on the other side a noticeable dropping off in the attendance at the local theatres and the Palais Royale, and a pronounced slump in the town taxicab business. “Study” is our password, and cramming is our pastime. What has happened to all those resolutions made so earnestly last fall concerning “keeping right up with the daily work?”
TT HOSE signs announcing that cap and gown measurements are being taken in Walsh hall sub are slightly ironical, are they not? The mention of such scholarly apparel usually brings visions of a sunny day in June, a green, blossom-covered quadrangle, and a campus brightened to a strange appearance by a colorful throng of visitors. But there’s nothing so effective in banishing such images than the howl of wintry winds sweeping across the Hoosier prairie and the swishing of snowflakes against the window pane. Still, cap and gown committees are appointed by Jack Saunders, seniors are already worrying about their theses, and some members of the class of ’31 are checking up their commencement invitation list in Dunn and Bradstreet. Professors warn us that the last year of our collegiate existence flies by even more rapidly than any of the preceding three. So it is urgent that we gather the snows of happiness and make snowballs while we may before they become snows of yesterday. And that may not be quoting Francois Villon correctly, but it’s not a bad juggling of the verse. But to get back to the caps and gowns—we venture a guess that one-half of the senior class forgets to be measured for their academic outfits, and that within the next few months there will be approximately six notices to the effect that “This is absolutely the last opportunity you will have to be measured for your cap and gown.”
430
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ITALIAN CLUB BANQUET
COMING EVENTS
SCRIBBLERS HEAR PAPERS
Royal Consul Speaks to Local Organization Last Monday.
Cavaliere Giuseppe Gastruccio, the royal Italian consul-general stationed at Chicago, was the principal speaker at the first banquet of the II Circolo Italiano, the Italian organization at Notre Dame, last Monday evening. Seventy members of the club attended the affair, which was held in the lay faculty dining hall.
The consul, ably introduced in the inimitable manner of the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., surprised the audience by speaking in English. It had been supposed that he would talk in Italian, but Cavaliere Gastruccio said that he realized that there were a few present who were not well enough acquainted with Italian to understand him if he used that language. He praised Notre Dame, its museum, its students, and especially its faculty.
The consul then went into the main theme of his address, which he called “The Philosophy of Italian History,” and showed himself to be a philosopher as well as a diplomat by saying: “There are living people whose souls are dead, and dead people whose souls are living. Italy, because of its spiritual background, is always alive.”
Mentioning such men as Dante and Petrach, he spoke of Italian literature and then went on naming the men who had brought Italy out of the muck. After praising Victor Emanuel II and D’Annunzio, he wandered from his text to denounce Bolshevism. “Mussolini brought the Bolshevik wave to a close in Italy,” he said. The consul then continued by saying “every century has its own special characteristics . . . Mussolini wants for the twentieth century: men who are spiritual, men who are patriotic to God and country, and men who are generous, frank, open, and sincere.”
Cavaliere Gastruccio concluded with “Hypocrisy is the enemy of the twentieth century.” The audience rose and applauded for ten solid minutes. Such was the effect of the consul’s sincere words upon them.
Louis Esposito, chairman, and his committee, John Papera, Adam Sferra, and William Blind, were in charge of the function at which were present such distinguished guests as the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; and the Reverend Arthur Hope, C.S.C.
These dates subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, Jan. 23—Movie, “Half Shot at Sunrise,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Scholastic staff meeting, 7:00 p. m., Main building. —Publication of “Racketeer” number of Juggler.
SATURDAY, Jan. 24 — Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
SUNDAY, Jan. 25—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, Jan. 26—Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., Room 2, Main building.—Dome pictures, 12:20 in gymnasium, Rochestra club, Utica club, Texas club.—Publication of January Catalyzer. — Wranglers’ club meetin, 6:30 p. m., journalism room of library.
TUESDAY, Jan. 27—Dome pictures, 12:20 in gymnasium, Chicago club.
Paula Stone Thanks “Juggler”
Miss Paula Stone, daughter of Fred Stone, and leading actress in “Ripples,” playing at the Illinois theatre in Chicago, is featured in the Racketeer number of the Juggler. Miss Stone sent the following telegram to Editor Dempsey:
“Jziggler, Notre Dame, Indiana:
“Thrilled to receive advance copy Racketeer number Juggler. It makes me very happy to know that I have been selected to join the Funny Fellow’s cast for this performance. I consider the Juggler far superior in quality of contents to eastern college comic magazines. Congratulations and continued success. Again thanks.
“Paula Stone.”
Wranglers Hold Meeting
J. Edward Phelan, president of the Wranglers, at a meeting held last Monday evening in the journalism room of the library, announced that Howard hall would receive the interhall debating trophy soon.
One of the features of the meeting was a very interesting speech given by William Kirby. He chose for his subject, “I would not like to be alive twenty years from now.”
Seward, Hasley, and Spalding Read; Contests to Be Held.
Frank E. Seward, Louis A. Hasley, and George Spalding read papers at the weekly meeting of the Scribblers held last Wednesday. Seward read a one-act play entitled “Hidden , Places.” A short short-story about children, “The Road to Canada,” was Hasley’s contribution, while Spalding read a short story of the same type, entitled “I’m Seven.” All the papers were well received and started considerable discussion, Seward’s and Hasley’s in particular causing a sharp dispute.
Announcement was made at this meeting of the Scribblers’ short-story and poetry contests, which will be held shortly after the semester examinations. Richard J. O’Donnell, Sorin hall, was appointed chairman of the short-story contest, and Frank E. Seward, Corby hall, chairman of the poetry contest. They will announce their committees in the February 6 issue of the Scholastic.
The next meeting of the Scribblers will be held after the semester examinations on Wednesday, February 4, at 6:30 p. m. in the Howard hall “rec” room. Louis A. Brennan and Francis X. Nulty are scheduled to read papers.
SPECTATORS TO RECEIVE THREE NEW MEMBERS
The Spectators’ club announces that it is at the present time receiving applications for membership. The club has as its purpose the fostering of intellectual activity among its members, with particular emphasis on the discussion of the arts and sciences.
At no time may there be more than fifteen members enrolled in the organization, according to its constitution. This means that at the present time there are but three vacancies to be filled.
Application blanks may be obtained from Tim Benitz in Sorin hall.
Former Grand Knight Marries
Howard Bhalin, Past Grand Knight of Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, and vice-president of the class of ’28, was married to Miss Evangeline Peterson of Minneapolis last Saturday in the log chapel. The nuptial Mass was celebrated by the Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
431
Louis F. Buckley
K. C. FORMAL TO BE GALA AFFAIR
Knights Open Social Season February Fourth
Mrs. Louis F. Buckley
Miss Harriett Wilson
Bourke Motsett
Tweet Hogan To Play For Dance
The success of the annual formal dance of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, to be held February 4 at the Palais Royal e ballroom, is virtually assured according to an announcement issued today by C. Bourke Motsett, general chairman of the dance. Over half the limited number of tickets have already been sold, with the closing date of the sale set for the Monday preceding the dance, which is to last from nine until midnight with twelve-thirty permissions granted to students attending.
“Tweet” Hogan and his band will furnish the music for the evening. “Tweet” is well known to many Chicago men on the campus and has an impressive list of appearances during the present season to recommend him. He has played for the University of Illinois senior informal and sophomore cotillion, the Northwestern jun-ioi* prom, and the Notre Dame Club of Chicago’s Christmas formal. During last spring he played at the Drake hotel and broadcast over radio station WGN.
Programs Original.
Programs for the formal are original in the manner of naming the dances. After much debate, the committee on programs, of which Francis McGreal is chairman, decided on naming each dance after one of the branches of scholastic philosophy. This is the first, time in the history of dances at Notre Dame that the educational branches have been called upon to lend variety to programs.
The nature of the favors, which are said to be something entirely new, is to be kept secret until they are
distributed at the door on the night of the dance.
Eli Abraham, chairman of the decorations committee, has dropped no hints as to the plans he and his fellow-workers have in mind for decorating’ the ballroom. The committee promises, however, to live up to, if not to exceed, the usual “original, breath-taking, aesthetic decorations.”
Patrons Named.
Dean and Mrs. James E. McCarthy' head the following list of patrons and patronesses: Mr. and Mrs. John Cooney, Mr. and Mrs. Philip Riley, Mr. and Mrs. John Nicholson, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Riordan, Mr. and Mrs. William Downey, Mr. and Mrs. William Benitz, Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Kohlbrenner, Mr. Clarence Manion, Mr. Paul Fenion, Mr. William Jones, Mi*. Andrew Boyle, Mr. William Coyne, and Mr. John Connolly.
Mr. Otto Dorsey of Laporte, state secretary of the Knights of Columbus in Indiana, and his wife will be present, as will Mr.' Frank P. Shortle, district deputy of the district in which Notre Dame council is located; Mr. Lucius H. Miller, Grand Knight of the South Bend council; Mr. Edmund Wills, chairman of the South Bend Council Building corporation, and Mr. George McCarthy, warden of the South Bend council.
Older Knights to Attend.
Members of the faculty who are members of the Notre Dame Council Building corporation will be present. This includes Mr. and Mrs. William Benitz, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Shilts, and Mr. and Mrs. Edmund Maurus.
Members of the faculty who are members of the Notre Dame council attending the dance are: Mr. and Mrs. James Hines, Dr. and Mrs. Leo Kuntz, Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Dubois, Mr. William Coyne, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Hoyer, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Jones, and Mr. John Stoeck-ley, graduate manager of publications.
Bourke Motsett, chairman of the dance, will have as his guest Miss Harriett Wilson of Chicago. Louis Buckley, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame council, will escort his wife; Neil Hurley, chancellor of the council, will have as his guest Miss Mary Ruth Fairman of River Forest, Illinois; Vincent Ponic, Deputy Grand Knight, will accompany Miss Bertha Carr of Chicago; and Miss Charlotte Farwell of Chicago will be the guest of Nicholas Bohling, financial secretary of the Notre Dame council.
Campus Leaders Invited.
The Knights of Columbus, following the usual custom, have invited as guests: Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, who will have as his guest Miss Kathryn Meyer of Mishawaka; Paul J. Hallinan, editorin-chief of the Dome; Louis A. Brennan, editor-in-chief of Scrip; John Dempsey, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; Timothy Benitz, chairman of the S. A. C.; Louis Esposito, treasurer of the S. A. C.; John Saunders, president of the senior class; Vincent Cavanaugh, junior class president; Edward Madden, chairman of the Blue Circle; and Robert Ruppe, chairman of the S. A. C. dance committee.
432
The Notre Dame Scholastic
EXCELLENT PICTURES ON MOVIE SCHEDULE
Third Quarter List Includes Many Popular Stars.
Washington hall will be the scene of several popular moving pictures during the next two or three months. Sound. pictures of three-star caliber have been obtained as the result of an effort to get the best of recent productions. On January 23, the two comedians, Wheeler and Woolsey, will be shown in “Halfshot at Sunrise,” in which the life of two American soldiers in Paris is farcically portrayed. January 31, Edmund Lowe and Joan Bennett will appear in “Scotland Yard,” a picture ■which is still showing in many of the large Chicago theatres.
The inimitable Will Rogers comes to the campus on February 1 in the old stage production “Lightnin’.” Amos and Andy, of radio fame, appear in “Check and Double Check” on February 7. Two appealing melodramas entitled “Up the River” and “Danger Lights” appear on the fourteenth and the twentieth of the month respectively. Charles Ruggles follows on the twenty-sixth in “Charley’s Aunt,” a fast-moving comedy which is an improvement over the silent presentation of the same picture.
On March 7 George Arliss will be shown in “Disraeli,” generally proclaimed to be the best motion picture of 1929. “Anybody’s War” and “Silent Enemy” will come on the fourteenth and the twenty-first of the month, and the fine production “Tol’able David” on the twenty-eight will end Notre Dame’s pre-Easter movie season.
Brant Concludes Lectures
Professor Brant recently completed the last of a series of six lectures to freshmen and seniors of the Law school on bibliography.
The Law club is planning a postexam banquet in honor of the recently elected judges of South Bend, and Congressman Samuel Pettingill, the newly elected president of the St. Joseph County Bar association.
NOTICE!
There will be an important meeting of the editorial staff of the Scholastic in the Publications’ office tonight at 6:30. At 7:00 o’clock the news and sports staffs will meet in Room 222 of the Main building.
PROFESSOR WEIR LEAVES
Takes Executive Staff Position With Credit Association.
David A. Weir, head of the finance department of the College of Commerce here, will leave the University on the first of February. After more than ten years at Notre Dame, Mr. Weir goes to New York to join the executive staff of the National Association of Credit Men.
The announcement was made at the regular monthly dinner of the South Bend Association of Credit Men of which Mr. Weir is secretary-manager. The dinner took the form of a farewell and concluded with the presentation of a watch to Mr. Weir.
After a month’s vacation in Texas, Mr. Weir will return to New York on March 1. His offices will be at 1 Park avenue. Eugene J. Payton, commerce professor here and adjustment bureau manager of the local credit association, will succeed Mr. Weir as secretary-manager.
His efforts with the national organization, Mr. Weir said' last week, will be directed toward the managing of the enlarged program of the national association in the fields of business service and research. The group is made up of 26,000 leading manufacturing, wholesaling, and banking organizations in the United States. It is devoted to the building up of sound credit policies.
Mr. Weir has been manager of the local branch of the credit association since 1926. He is president of the University club of South Bend and a member of the Round Table.
In 1920 Mr. Weir received his M.A. from Ohio State. After teaching at Ohio Northern for a year, he came to . Notre Dame and has been connected with the College of Commerce as head of the department of finance and as assistant dean since that time.
SCRIBNER’S OFFERS
SHORT STORY PRIZES
Unknown Writers Have Chance to Win Large Awards.
In a contest which provides an opening for stories from unknown writers, Scribner’s Magazine, in its February issue offers prizes of SI,000 and §500 for the best narratives, 2,500 to 6,000 words, which are concerned -with some phase of American life. Everyone is eligible for the contest, which closes June 20, 1931.
The amateur has his chance in this contest. It is an attempt to bring new vigor and life into literature by reaching those people who are living and creating America and not merely writing about it. The narrators may be a worker in an oil field, a business man, a miner, a forest ranger, a' stock broker, a housewife, a debutante, a politician, a bootlegger, an actor, a farmer—anyone who has something significant to tell either about his own life, or life as he has observed it.
. The manuscripts may be either narratives, articles, or sketches. They will be read as quickly as possible and all found suitable will be purchased outright and published. From these the prize winners will be selected. The purpose of the contest, the announcement says, is to break through the literary shell and get to the real America. The editors are hopeful that the majority of the stories will come from the non-pro-fessional sources, from individuals who are expressing for the first time their thoughts on paper and will, because of that, bring a strength and vitality and freshness of vision often lacking in conventional -writing.
As -instances of the type of stories desired, Scribner’s points to the cowboy tales of Will James, the “Hunkie” stories of Owen Francis, and the Florida cracker stories of Marjorie Kin-nan Rawlings. Each of these is said to be an accurate and interesting picture of life in a particular American setting.
Beg Your Pardon
It was erroneously reported in last week’s Scholastic that Robert McDonough shook his bed before retiring and found it gave way. ’Twas not so! Mr. McDonough was in bed.
i
The Notre Dame Scholastic
433
FACULTY MEN READ REPORTS TO N.C.E.A.
Fr. Lahey, Bro, Aidan, Byrne, Give Views to Educators.
At the meeting of the National Catholic Educational association held recently at New Orleans, several members of the faculty of the University read papers before the association, and these papers have now been issued in printed form in the report of the proceedings of the association.
The Reverend Thomas Lahey, C.S.C., of the College of Commerce, is the author of a treatise on “The Opportunity of the Catholic College in Business Education,” which was presented before the college department of the association. Father Lahey told the members that “the young man who enters into the American business field today hasn’t much of a chance unless he has received preparation for progress. . . . Business has not time to teach him its secrets and it will not run the risk of allowing him to learn them by the hit or miss methods.”
Speaking before the secondary school division on “Objectives in Teaching High School Mathematics,” Brother Aidan, C.S.C., rector of Brownson hall, maintained that there were three main objectives, “stimulation of the inventive faculty, exercise of the judgment, and development of the power of logical reasoning.”
The University librarian, Mr. Paul Byrne, is the author of “Dissertations in Our Graduate Schools,” presented before the library section of the association.
These papers will be found valuable particularly for those interested in the field of education. The report of the proceedings of the association may be found in the University library.
Chesterton Defeats Darrow
Gilbert K. Chesterton, who lectured at the University in the beginning of the school year, defeated Clarence Darrow in a debate held in New York last Sunday night. The subject was “Will Religion Be Discarded.” In the audience decision after the dehate, which lasted three hours, Mr. Chesterton received 2359 votes while Mr. Darrow received 1022.
The debate resolved itself about the question of whether the world would turn to Catholicism or paganism.
NOTICE!
Because of the coming semester examinations, there will be no issue of the Scholastic next week. The next publication will be on February 6, it was announced yesterday by Emil L. Telfel, editoi’-in-chief.
“SANTA MARIA” ISSUED
First Issue of K. C. Publication Has Excellent Contributions.
Variety and good quality are precisely what have been gathered between the covers of the January number of the Santa Maria, official publication of the Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, issued last week. John Bergan, editor, has asembled a group of able contributors.
Kenton Kilmer, son of the famous poet, Joyce Kilmer, displays his own particular talent in a poem, and gives besides, a skilful estimation of his father’s poetry. He casts aside personal impressions and upbraids those who judge Joyce Kilmer’s art by “Trees.” He gives a detailed analysis of the work of a really great poet.
In his “Personality and Success” Professor John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism at the University, points out what true success is and stresses the important part which personality plays in the attaining of it.
Professor Charles Phillips of the Arts and Letters school writes vividly of the city of the Popes in “Vati-cano”; and there are two poems appearing on the first page which are strikingly beautiful and effective. Reverend P. J. Carroll, C.S.C. has written “Our Lady of the Dome” and Theodore Maynard is represented by “Winter.”
Book reviews, editorials, and a story of the proposed Union building are features of the January issue, and are of interest to every student at the University. Editor Bergan is to be commended on an extremely well-done first issue. The magazine has even passed last year’s fine standard.
OESTER SPEAKS TO ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
Speaker Discusses Importance of Vitamins in Food.
At the regular meeting of the Academy of Science, held last Monday evening in Science hall, the members heard a very excellent paper presented by Yvo Oester, a senior in the College of Science.
Mr. Oester took as his subject “Vitamins,” and proceeded to give many interesting examples of the important part played by vitamins in various dreaded diseases, especially scurvy and other similar maladies. He explained that in nearly every case, these diseases may be prevented by a properly arranged diet, that is, by eating food containing the correct vitamins.
Joseph Harney, also a senior, was scheduled on the program to give a paper entitled, “A Brief Resume of Early Bacteriologists.” A sudden illness, however, prevented his appearance at the meeting.
Plans for taking over the publication of the Catalyzer for one issue was discussed. Lawrence Zell, vicepresident of the Academy and chairman of the executive committee, announced that the Academy would publish the April issue of the monthly periodical of the department of Chemistry.
The Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., moderator of the Academy, was unable to attend the meeting, being called away on University business.
MICHIGAN EDUCATOR SPEAKS TO SCIENTISTS
Dr. Ralph C. Huston, dean of the applied science and head of the organic chemistry department at Michigan State College addressed the Saint Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society Wednesday evening in Chemistry hall.
Dr. Huston spoke on the subject of “Some Condensations with Aromatic Hydrocarbons and Phenols.”	a
A dinner for the guests and society in the University dining hall preceded the meeting.	,
434
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FRANCIS MEAL IS WINNER OF BREEN MEDAL ORATORICAL CONTEST
JUNIOR PROM ORCHESTRA IS NOT YET SELECTED; PROGRAMS CHOSEN
Speaks On Root Protocol; Other Finalists Are Ackerman, Rockwell, and Boyle
From an original field of twelve, four finalists spoke in the Breen medal oratorical contest held last Monday evening in Washington hall. Three of the speakers, Edward Ackerman, sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters; Harvey Rockwell, freshman in the Engineering college, and James Bowie, also a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, were eliminated. The contest was won by Francis P. McGreal, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. McGreal chose for the subject of his oration the Root Protocol, a bill President Hoover submitted to the Senate for ratification a few days ago. Severely scoring the proposed measure and characterizing it as a “so-called cure for all the ills of this troubled country,” McGreal captured the attention of the entire audience. In another statement in which he publicly denounced the Root Protocol, he referred to it as the predominant factor which would “supposedly rid this universe of that terrible curse, war among nations.”
McGreal also spoke of the meeting of the League of Nations at the Hague, to which the United States sent representatives. He said that the American delegates foresaw that such a thing as international war could not be abolished, even though a friendly attitude existed between the nations. They then decided to do the next best thing and presented a bill which if adopted would establish a permanent court of international justice. The measure was not passed.
The winner of the Breen medal lives off-campus at 822 Sorin street. During his four years at Notre Dame he has been very active in the various campus activities. He is a two-year varsity debater, and survived the final cut of the debating squad to insure him of his position on the varsity team again this year. Shortly after the opening of school in September, *McGreal took part in a radio debate which was broadcast over station WLS of Chicago. His colleague in this debate was John Keefe, also a
member of the varsity debating team.
Edward Ackerman was the first speaker in the contest. He spoke on “Unsung Heroes.” 'Ackerman pointed out that every year thousands of fans idolize Babe Ruth and Bobby Jones, while the great acts of heroism by men whose deeds are superior to those of professional athletes, men who risk their lives and sometimes make the
Francis P. McGreal
supreme sacrifice for a friend or stranger, are scarcely discussed and seldom reach the newspaper headlines.
In his speech, entitled “Abraham Lincoln and the Defense of the Constitution,” Harvey Rockwell outlined the policy of the Lincoln administration in matters relating to the constitution. “President Lincoln was one of the greatest supporters of the Constitution,” Rockwell pointed out. He also said that the Civil war was indirectly caused by the steadfast belief and faith which Lincoln had in the constitution, in regards to the secession of the states from the Union.
“Preparedness” was the title of the oration given by James Boyle, the final speaker in the contest. In his speech Boyle said that preparedness was just another step in protecting the peace and tranquility of a nation.
Throughout the past week committees for the Junior Prom of 1931 have been making final preparations to insure the complete success of this year’s junior class dance which is to be held at the Palais Royale ballroom on the night of February 13.
Due to a series of difficulties the final selection of the orchestra has not yet been made. Careful consideration must be given and several well known orchestras are being sought. The committees assure the members of the junior class that the orchestra will be decided upon very shortly and the choice will be announced the early part of next week.
Joseph McCabe, associate editor of Scrip, was appointed to arrange the program for the dance. He has succeeded in presenting a very novel idea.
Within the next two or three weeks the Prom song, “My Heart Tells Me,” written by Walter Phillip, will be released at the several downtown theatres. Orchestra leaders in the various theatres have promised to accept and play the song. It is hoped a radio rendition may be arranged.
The dinner dance, scheduled for the night of February 14, is still tentative pending a faculty conference. Vincent Cavanaugh, president of the junior class, has issued petitions among the members of the class to ascertain the advisability of considering the dinner dance. He urges every junior who would like'to attend the dance to sign the petition.
The oratorical contest was judged by Mr. Frank Kelly, head of the department of speech, and Mr. Albert Doyle arid Mr. Edwin Quinn of the same department. The decision of the judges as to the winner was unanimous.
The Breen contest is but the first step; McGreal will next give his oration, “The Root Protocol,” at the Indiana state oratorical contest to be held at Wabash college, Crawfordsville. The winner of this contest then goes to the sectional eliminations at Ripon, Wisconsin, and finally to Northwestern university, where he will compete in the national finals.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
435
PETTINGILL TALKS TO N. D. ENGINEERS’ CLUB
Samuel Pettingill, congress-elect and prominent South Bend attorney, was the chief speaker at the meeting of the Engineers’ club held Monday night in the north room of the library. Mr. Pettingill spoke of the social and political consequences which will be the results of this age when machine is remaking the world. During the course of his speech, the congressman-elect told of the radical change that machines have made in this country alone in the last half century, and stressed the influence that it had on every industry.
“The trouble is,” Mr. Pettingill said, “that American inventors have been turning out labor saving devices, before the sociologists and economists could evolve some solution whereby they could adjust themselves to such a fast-moving pace.”
“SCHOLASTIC” CUBS GET LESSONS IN WRITING
Neil C. Hurley, assistant managing * editor of the Scholastic, held the first of a series of weekly meetings for the younger staff men at his room in Morrissey hall last Tuesday evening. Several informal talks on “Human Interest Stories,” “Newsy Leads” and other journalistic topics took up ' the greater part of the meeting. An interesting trial in news writing showed that several of the younger “cubs” are still vague about the finer points of a news story.
Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, hopes that these ‘ meetings will lead to improvement in the quality of journalism in the Scholastic.
No Grades Issued at Office
Following the semester exams stu-& •' dents are requested to get their grades from their own professors instead of at the office of the director of studies. In a bulletin’ published during the past week students were also reminded that no grades will be given out during the third quarter.
•' The Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., advised them, therefore, to keep their past bulletins in order that they may have on hand a complete record of their scholastic averages.
DEBATING TEAM TO OPEN SEASON WITH PITTSBURGH FEBRUARY 12TH
Hanna, Pick, Kirby, McGreal, Allan and Keefe To Represent Notre Dame
Four veterans of last year’s team, supplemented by eight more or less inexperienced youngsters, many of them sophomores, will represent Notre Dame on the debating platform this year. After the echoes of the • last constructive speech had died away, and after the final rebuttal card was tossed in the waste basket, the results of the final debate eliminations held Thursday and Friday, January 15 and 16, were made known by Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., University debating coach.
Regular speakers of the affirmative team will be Hanna, Pick, and Kirby, with McGreal, Allan, and Keefe presenting the negative side of the question.’ In addition to these regulars, an equal number of alternates, O’Meara, Burke, Johnson, Baer, Hannon, and Cline, were selected. Competition for each position was spirited, and in almost every case a close decision was necessary.
Four Men From Last Year.
Hanna, Kirby, McGreal and Keefe were members of last year’s team, and the latter two, Keefe and McGreal, spoke last fall in a radio debate with Purdue, over station WLS, Chicago. The others, eight in number, are newcomers in varsity competition, but their presence on the roster is sufficient evidence of their forensic ability.
Thirteen Teams On Schedule.
With the results of the final eliminations comes also the official announcement of the year’s schedule of debates. Although still incomplete, it provides for thirteen debates at home and away, and includes several engagements in the East during the spring vacation.
February 12—University of Pittsburgh at Notre Dame.
February 15—Kent College of Law (radio debate) at Chicago.
February 24—City College of Detroit at Notre Dame.
February 27—University of Porto Rico at Notre Dame.
March 5—Michigan State at Lansing.
March 10—University of Kansas at Notre Dame.
March 13—Michigan State at Notre Dame.
March 16—Purdue at Lafayette.
March 22—Purdue at Notre Dame.
March 25—Detroit City College at Detroit.
April 8—New York University at New York.
April 10—Princeton at Princeton.
April 17—Northwestern at Notre Dame.
April 24—University of Illinois at at Urbana.
Last year’s victories were over New York university, Princeton, Northwestern, City College of Detroit, and Michigan State. This will make an enviable record for the 1931 team, and as all the schools are again represented, many good contests can be expected.
Debate With U. of Porto Rico.
Perhaps the most interesting debate on the schedule is that with the University of Porto Rico, at Notre Dame, on February 27. Since the topic, “Resolved that the United States should discontinue its policy of armed intervention in the Caribbean” is to be debated by representatives of both the countries concerned, a certain amount of personal prejudice and national feeling is bound to be shown, and the result should be more of a real argument than a staid debate. The Porto Rican team is making a good will tour, something like that of the Harvard Chinese debaters last year.
436
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Glances at the Magazines
WORK ON CARILLONS COMPLETED THIS WEEK
Would-be authors, literary men to be, who will some day be sending their manuscripts off to the publishing concerns for better or worse, who will (or perhaps already do) entrust their stories and poems to the magazine editors for examination and possible publication, will find invaluable suggestions contained in Edward Weeks’ article in the Atlantic Monthly, “My Friends the Writers.” Mr. Weeks knows whereof he speaks, 'for he is on the Atlantic staff in immediate charge of Atlantic Press books. Primarily he aims to explain the position, difficulties, and ideals of conscientious editors and publishers, as well as to correct the hostile attitude so many writers hold toward the publishers; but he also inserts many gems of advise and information regarding the composition, revision, and marketing of manuscripts, correspondence with editors, and the mutual give-and-take between publisher and author which often proves so very valuable to the latter. And if you have any doubts as to the ability of the young man or woman in the publishing house who reads your manuscript to determine whether or not it merits the publisher’s consideration, Mr. Weeks shows how needless is such fear by listing the qualifications of the professional reader, and some readers who have become prominent literary figures: George Meredith, Edward Garnett, the friend of Conrad, Willa Cather, Frank Swinnerton, and others.
Mr. Weeks quotes “The Ten Commandments for Authors,” compiled by a Philadelphia, publisher, Mr. Gordon Dorrance. They are worth reiterating here:
1.	Don’t starve to death. If you can’t write, work. Read Martin Eden.
2.	Don’t show your work to friends. Show it to enemies. They’ll criticize it.
3.	Don’t tell everyone you’re writing a book. Get it accepted.
4.	Don’t write long hand-written letters about your MS. Use a typewriter; be brief.
5.	Don’t send an Arabian Nights to a Bible publisher. Know your market.
6.	Don’t submit your fall novel November 15, and expect the publisher to have it in the stores by Christmas. He won’t.
7.	Don’t use a pen name. Your publisher doesn’t.
8.	Don’t criticize first and inquire afterwards. Information is understanding.
9.	Don’t bother the bookseller. He has one show window and 10,000 new books every year to put in it.
10.	Don’t change publishers. Old friends are best.
“The Bookshelf,” in the Atlantic, offers reliable judgements of the best of current books by capable reviewers. This department is also conducted by Mr. Edward Weeks. The short stories by James Hart and Frank O’Connor are very good. And Chester Henry J ones offers a criticism of architecture in America, maintaining that American architecture is too classical, not modern enough according to his dictum that “the criterion of the architecture of any age is its efficiency.”
The following is an editorial in the Columbia: “When historians get . around to the business of embalming the events of 1930, they will undoubtedly overlook the most important thing that happened during the year. They will write about Russia, India, the peace conference, prohibition, the crime commission, unemployment, the . stock market, aviation, and Mussolini.
But not a word about the Notre Dame football team, if we know our historians. In the interest of justice, posterity, and what have you, we supply that word here. If some scholar, about the year 2041, should resurrect a file of Columbia, he has our permission to reproduce, in whole or in part, this paragraph:
“In September of the year 1930, a committee of students of Notre Dame was appointed to represent the University in a series of football games with committees representing other institutions of' learning. Although ' the opposing committees were the finest that could be gathered in all the length and breadth of the land, the Notre Dame committee, on successive Saturdays, did fairly defeat, devastate, and destroy its opponents. It stood out as a shining example of courage, persistence, co-operation, and speed. It was the only committee, in a year overburdened with committees, that had a definite objective and attained it.”
“Taps” to Be Nightly Feature at Ten O’clock.
The work on the carillons in the tower of Sacred Heart church has practically been completed. A few minor adjustments remain to be completed before the work is through. The Reverend Lawrence Broughall, C.S.C., secretary of the church restoration committee is in charge of the work.
Ralph Sollitt and Sons, of South Bend, were the contractors for the work. Their materials were removed last Friday and that same night, “Taps” was played shortly after ten o’clock. This will be a nightly feature at ten o’clock and will be known as the freshman “Lullaby.”
An automatic tape, punched at intervals to superintend the striking of the bells, will have to be adjusted. Father Broughall assures the Scholastic that he will superintend the work to avoid maladjustment.
By the end of the week all the adjustments should be finished and the pealing carillon will be heard regularly by the students. The carillon that hung in the old church back in the middle of the nineteenth century was one of the first in this country. The rarity of carillons in the United States at the present time makes this set more valuable.
When the church was rebuilt the carillon bells were rehung and in the rehanging the charm of the old bells suffered. With the appointment of the committee the rehanging of the carillon in the attempt to restore an old tradition was undertaken.
Many South Bend men who have been deprived of work were hired by Father Broughall to begin the task of the rehanging of the bells. This provided employment for many and the contribution will make the winter months easier for a number of local families.
When the final adjustments on the carillons have been made the quarter hours will strike promptly whereas at present they are slightly behind in ringing. Careful punching of the tape will assure this, Father Broughall explained.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
437
“DOME’S” VIEW SECTION TO BE UNSURPASSED
Music And Drama
Year Book Will Contain Ten “Shots” of Campus Scenes.
When told that there are points of grandeur on this campus that rival old-world settings, the average student is inclined to regard the speaker as a well-meaning, but slightly bombastic, lover of things Notre Dame. The speaker happens, in this case to be the Dome staff, which has just announced that its view section in the front of the year-book, is, modestly speaking, the most beautiful collection of Notre Dame scenery yet assembled.
In the first place, there will be ten in place of the usual eight views. The two extra were added after- the editor-received the use of a number of architectural photographs, which are as artistic as they are unusual. The exact nature of these two pictures is not being divulged by the staff until the time for publication but they are both interiors, something new to Dome scenic sections.
Presenting a complete view of campus life, the section boasts another unique “shot.” This, admits the editor still speaking in the unassuming superlatives contains every student of Notre Dame. That is, he is rather certain that it contains every student. It is an enormous photograph, so it probably has plenty of room for them, but the staff expects considerable speculation as to the identity of some of the freshmen.
Included in the other views, are an interior of the new Law building, and a splendid natural photograph, St. Mary’s lake at sunset.
Speaking of scenes, the staff was very anxious to tell of its many other “scenes.” There are views of several of the prominent universities which Notre Dame meets in athletic contests; scenes of the cities represented by the bigger and more important campus clubs; scenes of each of the ten football games of last fall; views of each hall; views of the covers of all the campus publications; and photographs of many of the tangible campus traditions, the boat-house, the Vengeance tree, and others.
And while on the subject of covers, the Dome cover was selected this week, a rich black with silver design and lettering.
We hope you did not miss “Viennese Nights” at the Palace the first part of the week, for it was one of the finest musical romances the screen has offered. The story is not new; but it is a good one, for it has been enjoyed in some form or other by probably every generation for the past century or two at the very least. The music is-by Sigmund Romberg, which fact means that it is charming and melodious. The tunes do not, however, come up to those of his earlier operettas, “Blossom Time,” “The Student Prince,” “The Desert Song,” and “The New Moon.” Technically, “Viennese Nights” is the highwater mark of operetta on the screen, with the possible exception of “The Vagabond King.” For the past two years it has been the custom of the director to give us a bit of what there was' of the plot, then have everybody stop for the theme song, and then a bit more of the plot. In this latest production, the music and story are woven together and develop simultaneously.
Early this year -we told you that Philip Barry was writing a new play. It is now completed and had its premiere in New York last week. From
STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE
TO BE CHARGED IN FALL
A fee of one dollar, to be known as the Student Activities Fee, will be added to each student’s bill beginning next fall. The fund thus collected will be used to finance the various activities of the Student’s Activities Council. During the past few years student activities had been financed chiefly by profits from the gridgraph operated each fall in the gymnasium. This year, however, because of the small number of games played away from home, further operation of the gridgraph became unnecessary. This consequently removed the chief source of income for the S. A. C.
Besides the financing of student activities, such as band trips and the like, the S. A. C. also underwrites class dances and club activities. The fund accumulated next September will insure a full and complete program for the ensuing year.
what we have been able to find out about it, “Tomorrow and Tomorrow” (even this quotation becomes Barry-esque when used as his title) is just what we would expect of the young playwright. It may not be very clear, but it is very lovely and beautiful. Mr. Barry has been writing a play practically every year now since he left Professor Baker’s classes at Yale. About him personally, we cannot tell you much, except that he is thirty-two, married, and has two children. His play “You and I” won him a prize at Yale and was subsequently produced on Broadway.
Now is the time for all good critics to choose the ten best movies of last year. And they certainly are doing it, whether or not they be good critics, or even critics at all. We in the midwest cannot always appreciate their choice because some of the pictures chosen have not been shown in South Bend. Of those you have seen, you will surely approve of “All Quiet on the Western Front,” “Holiday,” and “Outward Bound.” Of course, no matter how many lists are made out, they don’t have to mean a thing if you don’t want them to. “De gustibus . . .,” you know.
COMPREHENSIVE EXAMS
FOR SOCIOLOGY MAJORS
Beginning in January, 1932, all students with sociology as a major subject will be required to take a comprehensive examination in the following subjects: introduction to sociology, social pathology, criminology, the family, and clinical psychology, according to the Reverend R. W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the department of sociology.
In addition to this requirement for graduation, all students must submit a short thesis giving evidence of ability to do research work in the field of sociology. The grade received on the comprehensive examination ■null be averaged with the grade on the thesis. This thesis requirement may be fulfilled in the junior year.
This does not affect the present seniors but those who are just entering the department of sociology will be bound by these requirements.
438
The Not re Dame Scholastic
A Man You Know
“BULLETIN? JUST BULL” REPORTS DEAN KONOP
Professor E. J. Maurus is one of the veterans of the faculty here. For thirty-five years he has impressed upon succeeding classes of engineers the fact that, mirabile dictu, the square of the hypotenuse equals the square of the other two sides. Because of the success of these engineers in after life we are justified in assuming that Professor Maurus has mastered the intricacies of mathematics, the science which has use for originality, contrary to the general opinion, and that his students have benefited by his knowledge.
Professor Maurus was born in Seneca, a little town in the northern part of Illinois, in 1874. He secured his primary education and most of his prep school in Seneca. In 1888 he entered the Notre Dame preparatory school, and, barring a few short absences, he has been around here ever since. Entering the University in 1889, he was graduated with the degree of bachelor of science in 1893. Immediately he started to teach t mathematics in the Notre Dame prep school. In 1895 he received the degree of master of science. Since then he has taught in the University.
The Notre Dame of his student days would have seemed strange to us today. Having but a tenth of its present enrollment, the University en-jo’yed no nation-wide prestige. Much of the present campus was wilderness, and the few college buildings in existence were close to the Main building. Discipline was strict: students just didn’t go into South Bend. Considering the variety of entertain-
Former Scholastic Editor Weds
John C. Mullen, editor of the Scholastic in 1927-28, was married to Miss Ellen Crump of Oak Park, Illinois, last Saturday in the log chapel.' The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, performed the ceremony.
Mr. Mullen was graduated in 1928 from the journalism department of the College of Arts and Letters: In his student days he was a member of the Scribblers and won second prize in a poetry contest held by that club. He was also a member of the Press club and the Chicago club.
ment which the little town -was able to offer the students in the “mauve decade,” however, the refusal to let students visit town does not seem to have caused any great deal of suffering.
Besides teaching mathematics, Professor Maurus finds time to belong to
Prof. E. J. Maurus
several organizations interested in mathematics. He is a member of the American Mathematical association, the Central Association of Science and Mathematics Teachers, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Teaching mathematics has never been wrork for Professor Maurus. It is more of a hobby than a trade. It is not at all surprising to learn that his diversion, if it may be so considered, is found in the solving of difficult problems and, as his students complain, in the making of even more difficult ones for them to solve.
Hooton Leaves Palace
Buddy Hooten, genial manager of the Palace theatre of South Bend and friend of Notre Dame men, has been transferred from his South Bend position to assist in R-K-0 work in Chicago. Mr. Hooten during his short stay in the city had gained a host - of admirers and friends at the University, having entertained the student body at performances. Only recently Mr. Hooten had entertained the residents of Freshman hall at the theatre.
Mr. Hooten will be succeeded at the Palace by Mr. E. C. Roy recently of Gary.
Rather surprised last Monday morning was Professor Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College of Law. Confronting him as he was about to enter his first class was a staggering notice to the effect that “Dean Konop is ill and will not meet his classes today.” Having just finished a hearty breakfast in the dining hall, Dean Konop was sure that he had never felt better in his life. Immediately he attributed the sign to a prankish lawyer. Much to his surprise, however, he found that the notice was from the office of the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies. The mistake was in the name. Actually ill was Professor O’Connell. The similarity of the names had led to a slip on the part of one of the office force. Much relieved at his quick recovery, Dean Konop informed Father Carrico that, in the words of Mark Twain, “the report was greatly exaggerated.”

JUNIOR PROM SONG TO BE FEATURED THIS WEEK
Theatre-goers, between now and the evening of the Junior Prom, will be provided with additional entertainment. This will take form in the singing and playing of this year’s Junior Prom song by the organist and audience. The song is entitled “My Heart Tells Me,” and was composed by local talent. Music for the song was written by Walter Phillip, a senior; the words by Miss E. Kathryn Ullmen, a senior at St. Mary’s. According to all advance information the song is quite apropos, and will rival last year’s number in popularity. The publishers and writers are sure that the fruit of many weeks’ labor will be in great demand after the initial appearance of the song, and especially so after the prominent campus singers present the piece as they did last year.
Prof. Engels Praised for Poem
The editor of “Current Poetry,” a weekly feature of the Literary Digest, in a note prefixed to a poem written by Professor Norbert Engels entitled “Autumn Ending,” says, “It again goes to show that poetry is alive at Notre Dame.” Mr. Engels is a professor in the department of English.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
439
JANUARY “ALUMNUS” HAS MANY FEATURES
A Man About the Campus
Editoi- James Annstrong issued the first number of the Alumnus for the
1	year 1931 last week. It is a particu-
. larly attractive issue and contains several unusual feature stories.
“Art at Notre Dame” is the subject of the leading article. It gives many interesting facts concerning the works of art in the Notre Dame art gallery
3	as well as giving descriptions of the
Columbian frescoes which decorate the corridors of the Administration building. Several of the many famous paintings are reproduced in connection with the article. This adds to the general attractive appearance of
}	the magazine.
Another article entitled “This Notre ;	Dame” is very interesting. It con-
।	tains many miscellaneous facts about
;	Notre Dame since, as the article
states, “publicity of last fall indicates
i	lack of knowledge of the University
i1	itself.?’
This issue of the Alumnus also includes articles on the election of the 1931 football captain, the awarding of the Erskine trophy, and many other items of general interest to the alumni.
It is all very well to sit around a fellow’s room and talk, and not care much just what kind the talk is. I say it’s all right and I like it; but some editors think it a pretty poor way to get out a newspaper. Even
GOLDEN DOME INVADED BY ENGLISH STARLINGS
Every afternoon at about 4 o’clock a great flock of small birds having j	the appearance of swallows gather
1	around the base of the statue of the
Virgin on top of the golden dome. These birds are English starlings.
Starlings were introduced to America in 1851 when some of them were brought into New York state. Since 3	that year they have spread all over
the United States and have multiplied so rapidly that they are becoming a pest. The birds appeared in Indiana only three years ago, and already have increased to such great numbers that they are one of the problems of
-)	the Indiana state conservation department.	•
Notre Dame first noticed the starlings in 1928. They were unwelcome boarders, and vigorous measures were taken to put them off the campus. Their final attempt to get a home is being made now, high up on the dome. However, embrasures which might provide quarters for them have been blocked up; the starlings are being driven out in the cold of -winter. They must find new places to nest.
Edward B. Madden
if I think that some newspapers are rather . . . but it doesn’t matter what I think anyhow; at least the editor-in-chief thinks so. You see my opinion doesn’t count; I’m around as your humble servant and a very-kindly one who has found out this:
The home town of Ed Madden is Sharon, Pennsylvania. Now, despite the fact that Sharon is in another state, I wouldn’t be greatly surprised to hear that New York City counts it a suburb. There is hardly a reason why Sharon should be the one city not so tabulated, is there? Or don’t you care?
As a freshman Ed played some kind of game for Howard hall. For the moment he couldn’t remember what the game was. From his explanation there are eleven sillies on each side, running and kicking and throwing a ball about. Probably^ at
some other university they- know more about it. His accompanying freshman activity, interhall debating, is more comprehensible and I am sure much more interesting to Notre Dame students.
In the second and third years his doings increased, and if you lack the technique for order as I do, you’ll not care very- much how I arrange them. During these two years he led cheers for that game we hear so little of. An accusing finger, pointed by the Blue Circle, frightened him into becoming a member of their organization. I forget now whether we are in his third or fourth year. Anyway, in the fourth year, by becoming an S. A. C. he got his eligibility for, and appointment to, the chairmanship of the Blue Circle. Back to the third year again, he tells of some fairly interesting probation work done with South Bend delinquents. Also in this year he began a sociology major with politics filling in the rest of his hours.
After being graduated he looks toward a law degree from some Pennsylvania school. And I might mention the large picture over his desk.-I liked it fine. And before nastyspace requirements clip all that I want to say, I better get off a nice bright crack about where he lives. He lives in Sorin. Will that do?
Gathering my bombazine petticoats about me before flouncing off, I will quickly tie up a few loose ends: last year Ed was chairman of the ticket committee for the Junior Prom; his Blue Circle activities include the management of pep-meetings of those games the names of which we can’t for the life of us remember; and on the same occasions established booths at hotels and railroad stations. Just now the Blue Circle isn’t doing much. These are, I hear, hard times. Once in a while Ed goes over to meetings of the Youngstown club.
Ed would like to know where in the world the students imagine the Blue Circle gets its operating expenses?
♦---------------------------------------------------------——❖
NOTICE TO SENIORS
Seniors who have not been measured for cap and gown will have a last chance to do so Sunday morning between 10 and 12. This is absolutely- the last chance, as the orders are being sent in Monday.
.j,-----------------------------------------------------------.*♦
440
The Notre Dame Schola
s
University Announcements
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY St. Louis. Mo.
The School or Graduate Studies
Graduate assistantships. These pay from .$500 to .$750 each and are normally available in various departments of the College of Liberal Arts, the Henry Shaw School of Botany, the Schools of Engineering and Architecture, and the School of Business and Public Administration. They require the devotion of approximately one-half time to assistance with teaching or laboratory work and permit the holder to devote the remainder of his time to graduate work.
Phi Sigma Biological Society scholarship, to encourage study and research in biology at any recognized summer school. Stipend, $75.
David May loan fund. For deserving students. Amount of loan to be determined in each case.
Washington University Students' Loan and Scholarship association provides tuition loans for worthy students.
La Verne Noyes scholarships for citizens of the United States who served or who are descendants of persons who served in the war entered into by the United States in 1917. Stipend, tuition only.
Century Electric Company research fellowship in electrical engineering. One-half time is devoted to instruction and one-half time to advanced study and research. Stipend, $750.
Henry Semple Ames fellowship. Preferably for a graduate student in law or in allied subjects. Stipend, $500.
Note: Holders of fellowships, scholarships, and graduate assistantships are exempt from tuition fees. For information and application blanks, address the secretary of the Board of Graduate Studies. Applications must be filed previous to March 15, 1931. Awards will be made on April 1, 1931.
BROWN UNIVERSITY Graduate School
Fellowships—Open to graduates of any college: twelve fellowships of $1,000 each ; nine fellowships of $750 each; one fellowship of $700; eight fellowships of $550 each: one fellowship of $500. These fellowships are open especially in the departments of biology (4), chemistry (10). economics (1), English (3), history' (3), mathematics (3), physics (3), and romance languages (3) ; but occasionally they are available in the departments of Biblical literature, philosophy, and psychology.
Scholarships: twelve scholarships covering tuition are available for study in any department, Preference will be given to those applying from institutions other than Brown and to those who expect to devote their full time to study. Additional scholarships sufficient approximately to cover tuition are available in chemistry and English.
Assistantships: there are forty half-time assistantships in the departments of biology, botany, chemistry, economics, engineering, English, geology, history, mathematics, philosophy, physics, psychology, romance languages, and social and political science, each paying $600 to $750 (occasionally more) and tuition.
In addition there are several paying lesser amounts ranging down to part of tuition only.
Tuition—Unless otherwise stated tuition must be paid by the student. Under certain conditions, the tuition of fellows may be remitted.
Application and Award—Ordinarily fellowships will be awarded only to those who have completed a year or more of graduate study. Scholarships are open to those just entering on graduate work. Application blanks may be obtained from the registrar of the Graduate School. Applications will be received until March 1. Awards will be made on or before March 15. A Graduate School catalogue and further information may be obtained by writing to the registrar of the Graduate School, Brown University, Providence. R. I.
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY Graduate School
The Graduate school of New York university announces a number of fellowships and scholarships available for the academic year 1931-1932. ranging in value from $500 to $1,000.
University Fellowships—A limited number of fellowships ranging from an annual value of $500 to $1,000 are offered to specially qualified graduate students who are candidates for a higher degree from New York university. These fellowships are available in any one of the following fields of study of the Graduate school: biological sciences, chemistry, classical languages and archaeology, economics. English, fine arts, German, government, history, mathematics, philosophy, physics, psychology, romance languages, and sociology.
Penfield Scholarships for Studies in Diplomacy, International Affairs, and Belles-Lettres •—By the will of Frederic Courtland Penfield. New York university has received a fund of $80,000, the income of which is used to maintain fellowships for studies in diplomacy, international affairs, and belles-lettres. For the year 1931-1932 there will be four of these fellowships available, each of a value of $1,000. It is preferred, although not required, that applicants for these awards have to their credit at least one full year of graduate work. All credentials in support of applications for Penfield or University fellowships should be on file in the office of the dean of the Graduate school not later than March 14. 1931.
For application forms or further information address John Musser, executive secretary, New York university, Graduate school, Washington Square East. New York City.
THE UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN The Graduate School
Applications are invited for fellowships, scholarships, and assistantships for the coming academic year. There will be open to well-prepared candidates the following positions: fifty fellowships, stipend $600 to $1,000; twenty-five scholarships, stipend, $250; two hundred and eighty .. assistantships (part time), stipend $600 to $800.
Applications should be received by February 15. Address correspondence and requests for application forms to Charles S. Slichter, dean of Graduate school, 111 Bascom hall, Madison, Wisconsin.
SCHEDULE OF SEMESTER
EXAMINATIONS POSTED
The semester examinations in all the colleges of the University will be held on the Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday morning of January 28 to 31, according to the following schedule:
Classes taught at 8: CO on Monday will be examined at 8:00 on Wednesday.
Classes taught at 9:00 on Monday will be examined at 8:00 on Friday.
Classes taught at 10:00 on Monday will be examined at 10:00 on Wednesday.
Classes taught at 11:00 on Monday will be examined at 10:C0 on Friday.
Classes taught at 1:15 on Monday will be examined at 1:15 on Wednesday.
Classes taught at 2:15 on Monday will be examined at 3:15 on Wednesday.
Classes taught at 3:15 on Monday will be examined at 1:15 on Friday.
Classes taught at 8:00 on Tuesday will be examined at 8:00 on Thursday.
Classes taught at 9:00 on Tuesday will be examined at 8:00 on Saturday.
Classes taught at 10:00 on Tuesday will be examined at 10: CO on Thursday.
Classes taught at 11:00 on Tuesday will be examined at 10:00 on Saturday.
Classes taught at 1:15 on Tuesday will be examined at 1:15 on Thursday.
Classes taught at 2:15 on Tuesday will be examined at 3:15 on Thursday.
Classes taught at 3:15 on Tuesday will be examined at 3:15 on Friday.
Classes taught any day at 4:15 will be examined at 7:00>on Wednesday.
Classes taught any evening at 7:00 will be examined at 7:00 on Thursday.
The period for each of the semester examinations will be one hour and fifty minutes. Any examination given outside these four days set in the University calendar will not be valid, . and there should be no change of the hour of examination without the approval of the director of studies. The time of the examination in any course not provided for in the schedule above will be fixed by the teacher of the course, within the days of the examination.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
441
Campus Opinions
Book Reviews
“What is your favorite magazine and what are the reasons for your choice?”
Philip A. Riley, St. Edward’s hall, sophomore—“The magazine having the most appeal for me is the conservative Forum. Abounding in interest vital to every educated person, it gives a lucid account of current news, has the foremost of the present day authors offering the best in short stories, essays, and poems. Besides this, the Forum book reviewer stands paramount in his field of giving an honest and unbiased opinion of the new books, explaining the psychology behind them and the subtle situations the reader might encounter.”
Theodore A. Collins, St. Edward’s hall, sophomore—“College Humor is my favorite magazine because it is a collection of wit and humor from cover to cover. The authors writing for College Humor are clever in portraying true campus life. The sport editor is cosmopolitan in his views. He gives us information about all American colleges, not only about those in one section of the country. To summarize, College Humor affords the best in light, interesting reading matter, something we all seem to enjoy.”
Louis A. Brennan, Corby hall, junior—“The Golden, Book is my favorite magazine. It gives its own reason on its title page, ‘Only aristocrats signed their names in the original Libro d’ Oro of Venice. The world’s aristocrats of letters—of all ages, from the' oldest to the most modern—appear in these pages.’ The editing of the magazine is beauty-conscious, as well as literally impeccable and modernly inviting.”
James P. Garrigan, Sophomore hall, sophomore—“The Red Book. Its illustrations, short stories, and serial novels cannot be equalled. With McClelland Barclay and Hans Flato illustrating; Sinclair Lewis and Rupert Hughes writing, the magazine stands ahead of the rest for its monopoly on the best artists and authors.”
Howard Hinkel, Corby hall, junior —“My favorite magazine is Pencil Points, an interesting, well-illustrated monthly devoted to subjects of an architectural nature.”
The Last Days of Shylock. By Ludwig Lewisohn. Harpers. §2.00.
Shylock—Shakespeare’s Shylock of “The Merchant of Venice”—returned from the ducal court a man broken, forlorn, bitterly rebellious, after he had been tricked out of this revenge by the effeminate young advocate, Portia.
Shylock, after his defeat in court, after the decision that he must accept Christian baptism and deed half of his goods to Jessica and her dog of a husband, Lorenzo, is the hero of Ludwig Lewisohn’s latest book, The Last Days of Shylock.
The first third of Mr. Lewisohn’s volume is devoted to Shylock’s return to his lonely home, to his recollection there in the night, of his life, of the route he had traveled to attain his position of wealth and power. It has been said that The Last Days of Shylock, in its beauty, is virtually a poem, and this picture of Shylock, tragically alone with his thoughts, is reminiscent of Cavendar contemplating his past in the early part of Edwin Arlington Robinson’s long narrative poem, Cav-endar’s House.
Thereafter the narrative of the last days of Shylock proceeds. It tells of his morning baptism, of his kissing the cold bronze cross that burned his lips, of his departure from Venice to found a new home for his people, of the persecutions, humiliations, and trials which pursued him wherever he went; of how, finally, Jessica was reunited with him at Crete where Shylock was spending his last days bene-ficiently administering to the persecuted colony of Jews there. And now-some of his wounds were healed and some of his bitterness was allayed. His days were nearly over, but he had found some rest and some happiness of spirit.
The Last Days of Shylock is, in form, a novel, but it is more than a novel. It is a tract and a brief against the inhumanity of man tow-ard the Jews through the ages. It is a short novel, a few more than two hundred pages in length. But by brilliant condensation, economy, and consummate literary artistry it succeeds in giving the effect of infinite dimensions; its bigness transcends mere physical proportions. It is one of the finest achievements of Mr. Lewisohn’s distinguished craftsmanship.
Memories and Vagaries. By Axel Munthe. Dutton. §3.00.
It is to the widespread popularity of Dr. Axel Munthe’s The Story of San Michele that we owe the pleasure of nowr reading Dr. Munthe’s Memories and Vagaries, long out of print following its first publication more than 30 years ago. It is a book drawn from the same material and expressive of the same personality that has made The Story of San Michele so richly satisfying and humanly interesting an autobiography.
Most of the chapters of Memories and Vagaries are, in essence, shoi-t stories. But they are not short stories by any conventional standard; they are individual, yet they possess unity.
The memories of a man capable of quick and deep sympathy, capable of keen-edged irony, these stories are richly revealing of certain aspects of mankind. They deserve a place beside The Story of San Michele to complete the history of Dr. Munthe’s full and abundant life.
The Limestone Tree. By Joseph Her-gesheimer. Knopf. §2.50.
To the Kentucky of 1775 came James Abel and his family. Of good pioneering stock, James and Sarah Abel, and welcome additions to the little handful of wilderness settlers whose intrepidity in Joseph Herge-sheimer’s The Limestone Tree, becomes the theme of the third important novel about pioneer Kentucky to be published in less than a year. Previously have appeared Elizabeth Madox Roberts’ The Great Meadow and James Boyd’s Long Hunt.
But whereas The Great Meadow and Long Hunt each dwelt with not more than 25 years of the fortunes of Kentucky settlers, The Limestone Tree traces the history of James Abel and his descendants through nearly 125 years, right down to the turn of the twentieth century. Its wrriting, then, represents a considerable feat on the part of Joseph Hergesheimer. The Limestone Tree is his most ambitious novel in a number of years and it easily puts in the shade such of Mr. Hergesheimer’s more recent fictional efforts as Tampico and The Party Dress.
442
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CAMIIf CLUB J
NORMAL
Notre Dame’s club activity, languishing since the Christmas vacation, began its return to normal during the past week. First group to announce a post-holiday meeting was the VILLAGERS’ club, after them the SPANISH club, NEW JERSEY club, ITALIAN club and PHARMACY club. Last week was held also the first meeting of the newly-formed FOREIGN COMMERCE club.	'
PICTURES
After next week the noontime trek of club members to the gym will cease. By Tuesday all of the campus organizations will have been photographed. Schedule for the remaining pictures is this:	‘
Monday, January 26—ROCHESTER club, TEXAS club, UTICA club.
Tuesday, January 27—CHICAGO club.
Since a number of clubs did not keep their appointment with the photographer, they will be given another chance. Immediately after the examinations a final schedule will appear.
In addition to the group picture of the club itself, each club’s page will feature a photograph of the club president and, in the case of the larger clubs, a cut of the city or district which they represent. In the past years it has been the custom to include a small picture of the various cities. This year, however, Dome Editor Hallinan announces that the clubs will have a large picture on their pages.
Club presidents who have not as yet been photographed for the Dome should attend to it at once.
—o—
DANCE
The UTICA club held a meeting last Sunday morning in the old Law building. A. C. Hitzelberger, chairman ’ of the club’s Christmas formal, read a report of the dance which was successful
All'club members are urged to be present when their pictures are to be taken.
LURE
“. . . one hour credit . . . interesting talks . . . visitors from Spain and Mexico . . .” Thus did the SPANISH club last week attract new members to its ranks. Pink bulletins with yellow letters at the top caught the eye of many a student who first paused, then read. Of no mean merit are the SPANISH club’s attractions. Open to all those interested in Spanish history and customs, to those who can speak Spanish, and to those who have taken the
language for three semesters, are .the regular meetings held every Tuesday at seven o’clock in the old Law building.
—o—
SALARIES, AGENCIES v	-
Speaker at the meeting of the EDUCATIONAL CONFRATERNITY, held last Monday evening, was Benjamin Gannon, Montana university graduate and educational expert. His subject was: “Teachers’ Salaries and Teachers’ Agencies.” Although teachers are supposed to teach merely for the love of the work, most of the EDUCATIONAL CONFRATERNITY men were vitally interested in the subject. Said Mr. Gannon, “Their (teachers’) salaries have not increased proportionately with those of other men.”
—o—
TURNOUT
Very much in the minority was the ITALIAN club member who failed to turn out for the banquet given by that club this week. Reasons for the turnout: Guest of honor was Guisseppi Gastruccio, Italian royal consul at Chicago; other guests were the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Professor Charles Phillips of the English department.
—o—
SUCCESS
More than successful were the pink and yellow bulletins of the SPANISH club. For the last meeting sixty-five members turned out, a record. Perhaps the cause was the advertised talk by Professor Jose Corona, one of the oldest and best-liked men in the Spanish department. Principal point of Mr. Corona’s speech was that, in order to understand people of other nations, it is necessary to understand their language. Thus, continued he, by learning Spanish the average student helps in the unification of the Americas.
Another speaker was Mr. Louis Wallace of the Studebaker Co., a resident of Spain for some ten years. In his brief talk he congratulated members on their choice of Spanish as a language. Drawing upon his long business experience, Mr. Wallace showed the usefulness of a foreign language, especially Spanish, in the business world. Reason for this, said Mr. Wallace, is the nearness of the Latin American countries.
Present also at the meeting was Professor de Landero, director of the club last year.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
443
IS IT WORTH IT?
With all the arguments, pro and con, from > interested educators, sports writers, and college students on the value of football, it might be well to consider the problem of extra-curricular activities in general. The question seems to be whether they have any possible right to exist, 5 and whether they are of any benefit—lasting or momentary—to the students engaging in them.
In our opinion, there is very little to say in favor of any activities apart from the necessary one of becoming erudite. Social contact, yes, and benefits of a kind from all the outside activities, but all too often these same contacts and benefits nullify the advantages which should be forthcoming from a carefully planned and scholastically verified course of study. If we are to believe the educators, and there is a > good basis for believing them, the work attend-' ant on maintaining even a fairly good standing in classes, if properly pursued, is sufficient to take all the time left after classes are disposed of. From the point of view of the educators, outside activities, where they exist, are merely 1 tolerated as having no definite advantage, and are often frowned upon as seriously affecting the required work of the student. We are inclined to agree.
What, after all, do the various clubs and ; societies and groups do for a student? What is the schedule of an “activities man”? He is obviously interested in an activity for the material gain he can get out of it, and the goal of his effort has too often nothing to do with improving his status as a member of an institution . of learning. If the sought-for object is enticing enough, he will spend no end of time pursuing it. Furthermore, if he is being paid, he must many times necessarily neglect the education that he in turn is paying for. He has a job, and jobs demand much time and attention.
5	The Scholastic makes the sweeping asser-
tion that most extra-curricular activities are a waste of time because the student participating has to put too much time in them. Even if he
is sincerely interested in his studies, and wants to get an education in the true sense of the word, he usually finds out that he cannot serve two masters. In most cases he quits the service of the more important master, especially if the extra-curricular activity is really a paid position. Then the student finds himself in the paradoxical position of one working to earn money to help defray the expenses of an education which he cannot really get because he is working too hard to get money to pay for an education which he isn’t getting.
It sounds complicated, but it is really simple. One might call it robbing Peter to pay Paul. Ask any editor of a college paper.
—o—
TAKE IT EASY!
The semester examinations will be held next week. To many students they will bring expected disaster, to others unexpected failure if they do not heed the warnings issued at this time.
Slow up! And take it easy! Don’t let yourself become panicky. It is not so necessary to remind the upperclassmen of this; the advice is offered more to freshmen, for they will be taking semester examinations at Notre Dame for the first time.
It does no good to worry and fret over the exams at this late date. There is only one road to success; and either you take it, or you don’t. If you haven’t done the required amount of studying during the past five months, it will be futile to attempt to absorb everything in the few days remaining. Only an indulgent professor can save you now.
To the seniors a special word! You must be successful in these examinations or very probably you will not graduate in June, inasmuch as the eligibility list is to be made up next month. And if you do obtain a qualitative average this term, do not slacken your pace; it is very easy to fall far below the 77% mark in the final semester.
444
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
FAREWELL NUMBER
Your Beamy Bard is leaving, ' Amid Ye Ed’s most dismal cries. We ignore his mournful grieving; It’s just—“So long, youse guys!”
—o—
QUICK WINKS
Goodness me, my gracious, land sakes alive, nerts to you, and other assorted exclamations I We’re just that nervous we can hardly set pen to paper . . . Freed from his long months of penal servitude under the yoke of the Wink, your Beamy Bard is capering about like a Freshman halier on vacation . . . Yep, it’s true. The captain is abandoning his ship, the general deserting his post, the motorman skipping his trolley, and the Beamy Bard, conductor of this column, is skiving out of the Wink after a full semester on the joke-pile, and if you don’t think it’s time we quit after that last crack, you ought to take the job yourself . . . The Wink is blinking mournfully this week as its beamy, or balmy, conductor is prancing with tears in his eyes, looking forward to a semester without nightmares of four blank sheets of copy paper haunting him every Monday, Tuesday, or even Wednesday afternoon. ... To you, generous contributors, and everyone who has enjoyed oui- antics, go our thanks and appreciation.
WINTER REFLECTION
The age-old clasp of winter grips the earth;
The ice-lang rides upon his howling steeds Of sleet and snow; long ages till the birth Again of flowers and grass and wavy reeds, It seems. But spring, with young eternal mirth Reborn, will glow with green-flamed trees and meads Alight once more. And bare iron limbs ivill pin On buds like butterflies, all silvery thin.
—Alabaster.
—o—
If anyone thinks that our leave-taking in this issue is too sad, think of what tearful scenes would be enacted should we postpone our farewell number until next June, after manfully struggling with the column for the whole darn year. Things are bad enough now, what with sorrowful seniors being measured for caps and gowns, and semester exams less than a week away. But imagine the gloom into which the campus would be plunged and the woe-begone expressions on the faces of faculty and students alike if we let loose with our tear-jerking paragraphs just when we were about to leave our alma mammy forever and venture forth into the cold old world next spring. It is therefore in the interest of our great Notre Dame public as well as ourselves that we withdraw at this
time. It is expected, however, that the “I do not choose to run this column” announcement will rock the publishing world for weeks.
You can’t say that we didn’t warn you. At the beginning of the school year we announced that, as a 'noncontributor to the Wink the* year before, we had been selected to supervise the thing this year. We are getting a half year off for good behavior, and the editor is looking about for a non-contributor during our tenure of office to conduct the thing next half. The eagle orb of Telfel is now searching the campus for his unfortunate victim. Who knows? It may be you. You or one of 2,998 others. Everyone is under suspicion. If it were not for fear of being exposed in the Juggler’s “Racketeer” number, we would promote an insurance scheme to protect our readers from the awful fate that might overtake them. We would print a coupon at the bottom of this page. You would clip it, send it with ten cents in stamps enclosed to the Publications office, and thus insure yourself against filling the run-down-at-the-heels shoes of the Beamy Bard.
THINGS WORTH WHILE
The things worth while?	'
The Stars . . . coral in a sea of splendour . . .
My Rosary ... a string of priceless prayer-pearls . . . The Moonrise . . . a silver symphony of dreams . . .
You . . . and ycur smile . . .
—Bishop M.
—.
In leaving the Wink at this time, we are only following what seems to be a long-established tradition. It is now almost legendary in Scholastic circles, that no one man ever lasted at the Wink for a whole year—not even when it wasn’t the Wink at all, but was called Hobnails. There’s one thing that makes us happy. The fellow who had it last during the 1929-30 season is now graduated and has a job. We hope that becomes traditional, too.
—o—
Well, here’s our jumping-off place. So long, fellows. We turn over our entire stock of white space, prose, poetry, quick winks, good-will, bad will, oi* mere indifference to the next conductor who tries his hand at this column. And wouldn’t it be the best joke that’s ever appeared in it if the editor could find no one else and condemned us to keep on running it? But let’s not think of that. Washington freed the colonies; Lincoln freed the slaves; Hoover freed the laborers, and now Telfel at last frees that most long-suffering of his ink-stained and typewriter-palsied wretches,	.
The Beamy Bard.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
445
COLLEGE EARALE
WANT TO GOVERN YOURSELF?
The local politicians of the advanced breed who are continually decrying the lack of self-government at Notre Dame may be interested in the recent finding at the University of Wisconsin. Eighty research workers, plying pen, pencil and questions, canvassed the Wisconsin campus recently in an effort to discover if the students wanted self-government as much as they talked about it. When the final returns were in, it was found that the Madisonites, while believing themselves capable enough of governing themselves, did not wish to accept the responsibility.
That abstract term “student government” sounds fine to undergraduates, but the practical responsibilities of governing students is a job for which the students themselves have neither the time nor the energy. Most schools have student associations of varying power and responsibilities, but few of them have the absolute power of disciplining a classmate.
At the University of Virginia a student court has the theoretical power of disciplining any violator of the honor system. In reality, the court rarely dismisses students other than those found intoxicated at the principal dance of the year. A group of students firing another student from school is rather a silly and unjust procedure. It is democracy gone crazy. It is a case of undergraduates rushing in where angels fear to tread.
. ; AND AT CHICAGO UNIVERSITY
You may get your degree from Chicago university in one year or seven years, depending on how intelligent and industrious you are. Under the new plan of education which will go into effect next fall, a student may take his final examination in a subject as soon as he feels that he is capable of passing. Although the same amount of credits must be earned to secure a degree, as many subjects may be taken as the student believes he can possibly carry.
Dean Chauncey Boucher states that the new plan attempts “to set such a level that the average student can obtain a bachelor’s degree in four years, the superior student in less time.
It is anticipation that the average student will not spend any longer time in getting an education, but that he will get more out of an education in the same time. The time required for the superior student to obtain an education and to qualify for degrees will be reduced in exact conformity to his superiority.”
This new educational plan will probably bring few smiles to the faces of the Stagg-Page combination. If they do develop a good team this year (remember, I said “If”) imagine the embarrassment of Pat and Alonzo if their athletes had graduated before the next season started. You just can’t get a break at Chicago.
CONCERNING THE CORDUROY
Just when the corduroy was supposed to be as dead and forgotten as a September lecture, it has jumped back into collegiate popularity. The forbidden article has again become the s standard winter wearing apparel at eastern universities. Dartmouth dropped the cord for a season or two and they found out that when sliding down an icy New Hampshire hill by. the seat of the pants, nothing could be so consoling as to have the pants made of the good old rock-ribbed corduroy. A season ago Dartmouth men were wearing military whipcord pants for winter sports. Experience proved to them that the only difference between a pair of ripped corduroys and a pair of whipcord breeches in the same condition was twenty dollars in favor of the much maligned cord.
Sartorial-minded Notre Dame men seem to be just a couple of years behind the times. When cords were the fashion six or eight year’s ago, we didn’t wear them; when they went out of style, we started to wear them; and now when they are the thing again, they are “out” forever at Notre Dame.
However, the University regulations allow the wearing of colored corduroys, and the colored corduroy is the style right now. This last fashion note may gladden the heart of the local frosh who wears the two-toned, striped-brown, six-apiece creation which has been seen ambulating across the campus of late.
446
The Notre Dame Scholastic
'a
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Cagers Win Thriller From Penn
Keoganites Take Second Game of Year From Quakers; Bill Newbold Is Star
21-20 Victory Gives Blue and Gold Fifth Consecutive Win Over Penn in Four Years.
Fighting back savagely in the closing moments of the game, the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame snatched a one point victory from Pennsylvania Saturday by a score of 21 to 20. The finish that the Notre Dame team staged was one of the most thrilling in years. The game was the second won by the Gold and Blue squad from the Quakers this season, and the fifth in a period of four years.
Opening the initial period, the Penn team forged into a three point lead before the visitors from the west got under way. Once started, the Notre Dame machine picked up speed and squared things in rather short order. They continued to hold the Pennsylvania five scoreless while they amassed points in their own section of the score column. They built their lead up to 13 to 3 before Penn scored again. The latter staged a rally of their own before the intermission, which came with Notre Dame on the long end of a 13 to 10 score.
Returning to the court after the rest period the trailing Quakers flashed ah offensive that kept them in the center of the stage for a little less than ten minutes. In this rally the Notre Dame team was held scoreless while Penn ran their total up to eighteen, a lead of five points on the stranded Gold and Blue. The next few minutes produced no scoring and Penn still led, 18 to 13. The Keoganites were apparently baffled by the Penn attack.
Going into the final five minutes with the score in that position, Bill
Newbold led the Notre Dame team in a breath-taking comeback. The Blue and Gold climbed to within a single point of the startled Penn team and the crowd was worked up to near hysteria. Another basket sent the
Bill Newbold, forward
Notre Dame quintet into the lead by the slim margin of one point. The enthusiasm of the spectators was keeping pace with the rush of the play and the entire audience was in an uproar. Pennsylvania, fighting to avenge that early season set-back at the hands of Notre Dame, made another desperate drive and went ahead once more by a single counter. It seemed to put the game on ice for them, as only seconds remained in the
battle time. Newbold was equal to the occasion, though, and dropped in his third field goal of the second half. The scoreboard shifted its reading for the fourth time in these hectic last minutes but this time it was final. Notre Dame 21; Pennsylvania 20.
The two teams were exceptionally evenly matched with Notre Dame holding an apparent advantage only in speed. Pressing this advantage to a great extent, the Blue and Gold players made it felt strongly in the pinches. The margin of victory that Notre Dame held at the final gun was due directly to acuracy from the free throw line. Penn outscored the winners eight to seven in field goals but the superiority of the Notre Dame team in converting charity tosses overcame this advantage and supplied the scoring edge. Newbold, Notre Dame’s offensive star, tied with Tanseer, Pennsylvania guard, for high scoring honors with eight markers apiece. Two field goals and a brace of free throws put Ray DeCook next
in line with a six point total.
Score:
Notre Dame (21)	Pennsylvania (20)
G F T	G F T
Newbold, f 3 2 8 Ullrich, f 0 2 2
Crowe, f	Oil McNiff, f Oil
DeCook, c 2 2 6 Hale, f	10 2
Burns, g	10 2 Sander, e	10 2
Baldwin, g 12 4 Tanseer, g 4 0 8
	Peterson, g 2 15
Totals	7 7 21		
Totals	8 4 20
DeCOOK STILL IN LEAD
(Including Pennsylvania game)
DeCook, c .. Newbold, f . Crowe, f____ Gavin, f ____ Baldwin, g . Johnson, g . Bums, g ... Schumaker, f Schroeder, c Jaskwich, g Staab, g ...
FC 33 21 12 9 9 9 3
1 1
0
Totals ...............100
Opponents’ total points...
*
FT 18 17 4 6 4 4 1 i 0 0 1
TP 84 59 28 24 22 22
7 5
2 2
1
56
256
235
*
The Notre Dame Scholastic
447
TRACKMEN MEET FROSH
England Pits Yearling Stars Against Varsity Runners.
The annual Freshman-Varsity indoor track meet is scheduled to take place this afternoon at four o’clock under the direction of Coach John P. Nicholson and freshman coach “Spike” England. The meet is annually one of great importance to the first-year men simply because it is their first opportunity to show their worth in competition. They have been working hard for the past ten days in order to make a good showing.
Coach England held frosh tryouts on Tuesday afternoon and discovered some very promising material in the few events that were run off. Joe Young gave an excellent performance in the half-mile to win by nearly twenty yards over' Ray Troy. Young’s time was 2:09. El Grundeman looked good in the sixty-yard dash when he was timed in :06 7/10. This event drew about forty starters but Grunde-man’s time was the best recorded.
The outstanding performance of all
turned in by the freshmen was the shotputting of Chas. Finkel. Finkel heaved the 16-pound ball 39 feet yesterday t o top the yearlings. He has bettered the forty foot several times in practice sessions during the past week or so.
Several of the more prominent freshmen did notappear for the trials yesterday. Am o n g them were some men who are counted upon by Coach England to make
Capt. John O’Brien
the varsity runners work for their points. Rudy Obergfall, the big California middle-distance star, is expect-
ed to prove a big factor in the halfmile event today. Bill Dupuy, also a Californian, who is interscholastic hurdle champ of the far west state, should give both Captain O’Brien and Bailie, varsity performers, quite a race.
Eddie King, miler, and Art Scott, 440-yard star, are two Canadian men of whom Coach Nicholson expects great things next year. Also from that northern country comes Abe Zwonkin of Hamilton, Ontario, a shot-putter extraordinary.
The varsity, however, has not been standing idle in the meantime. Coach Nicholson has been setting his charges through their paces daily. Trials are still being held for the fourth place on the two-mile relay team. Gene Howrey, captain of the cross country team has turned in the best time so far.
Captain Johnny O’Brien and Roy Bailie, mainstays on last year’s squad, are rapidly rounding into shape. O’Brien showed that he was ready to take on all competition, when he went over the 60-yard high hurdles last Saturday in the remarkable time of :07.9, one tenth of a second slower* than the present world’s record.
j	EXPERT	|
|	SHOE REBUILDING	[
}	and	j
I	HAT	RENOVATING	I
1	i
I	I
I CALLED FOR AND I
1	DELIVERED	j
I	•—,	J
i	I
i	Phone 2-2228	I
I	2
I	1
i	1
i	1
J	I
j Washington Shoe Repair Co. j j	116 W. Washington Street	1
j	South Bend, Ind.	|
I	I
I	1
mi—tm—m—im—ta—
3
I
3
3
3
3
3 I 3
3
a I
I
I 3 I
I 3 I 3
$2.39
Wool Sweaters
Mens 4 Buckle Galoshes $4.00 values
GIL-BRO’S
FORMERLY —U. S. ARMY STORE
330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
a
3
3
3 I 3 I 3
3
I
I
I 3 I 1
3 I 3 I 3
3 I
I 3
3 I 3 I 3
3
1
3
3
1
1
3
448
e Notre Dame Schola
s
PITT TEAM IN FEATURE
Carlson Brings Strong Squad to Combat Cagers.
Dr. George Keogan’s sparkling bas-keteers have drawn one tough assignment after another in their quest for the hardwood supremacy of the middle-west, but to-morrow night a great team — one of the best, if not the best in the East,—will journey to Notre Dame to test the mettle of the local quintet.
When the Pittsburgh university five takes the floor against Notre Dame they will be represented by a team probably not as widely known a's were the stars of ’29, but, nevertheless, a team that has followed in the footsteps of the former stars, by downing such formidable opponents as Nebraska, Marquette and Purdue of the middle-west. Besides these victories, they have also triumphed over some of the best the east has to offer —notably Fordham, N. Y. U., Dartmouth and West Virginia.
Faced with the serious problem of rounding out a representative basketball team, after losing such stars as Charley Hyatt, Les Cohen, and Norm
Zehfuss, Dr. H. C. Carlson appears to have mastered the situation despite the heavy odds that were against him. He has a team which to date has won seven and lost three contests. Last year’s aggregation, it will be remembered, won 23 games out of 25 starts.
Dr. Carlson’s quintet is led by Bill Arture, who is said to be one of the classiest guards in the east. A newcomer, named Smith, is Captain Ar-ture’s mate, and it is said to be plenty hard to get through this pair of guards. The Panther’s boast of a six foot four inch center by the name of John “Tiny” Albright. “Tiriy” is one of the leading scorers of the squad. The forwards are no less capable than their mates. Two brothers, Willie and Steve Kowallis, expect to make the Notre Dame guards step lively.
List Interhall Ineligibles
The following men were automatically declared ineligible for competition in interhall basketball for the 1931 season, having survived the final cut made by “Oonie” Donovan, coach of the freshman basketeers: Edward Albert, Raymond Boland, Edward Angsten, Leo Crowe, Richard Davis,
Joseph Ford, Randolph Franklin, Hubert Gildea, Wilbei- Grubert, Eugene Holland, Edward Krause, Phil Krause, Curtis Milheim, Charles Minnot, Al McGuff, James Newbold, John Edward O’Conner, Vincent Phelig, L. Yank Terry, Thomas Tobin, Joseph Voegele, Fred Weidner.
O’CONNOR SIGNS TO HELP STEVENS, WALSH AT YALE
Paul H. “Bucky” O’Connor, “shock troop” right half-back who starred in the fullback position in the Southern California game, announced early this week that he had accepted a position as assistant coach at Yale university. O’Connor will receive his B. S. degree at the end of this semester and plans to take up the study of medicine at the Yale Medical school next fall.
“Bucky” made a hurried trip to New York last week-end and completed arrangements with authorities of the New Haven institution. His actual duties will not start until next September, and he is undecided yet whether or not he will go to Yale for spring practice.
Mal Stevens is head coach at Yale and he has been ably assisted during the past two years by Adam Walsh.
i|(l—.s—n—a—n—u—-n—-an—b—ta—■—■i— ! } I	SEE	|
I	WILLIAMS	|
! - -------------------
|	THE FLORIST	i
I	1
j about her corsage for the 1
|	K of C FORMAL	|
f	1-
I	and the	|
[.	JUNIOR PROM	|
I	Moderate Prices	I
I	Fresh Flowers at all times	|
s
£
g
your
EYES
g
g
s
I
g
§
g
g
I
£
g
§
QCCASIONALLY
Have them examined every
year
we hear someone boast of
the extreme long life of his glasses — as though it were something of which to be proud.
Our eyes are changing constantly, and the best experience proves that the ophthalmic correction provided by lenses usually requires changing every eighteen months to two years. To wear glasses longer than that means that the eyes are being forced to adjust themselves to the glasses, instead of the glasses being an aid to the eyes.
g
|	WILLIAMS, The	Florist	|
I 219 W. Washington Avenue I I	Telephone 3-5149	I
1	’
—.—>—«—.—-—-—«—   —-—-—-—-—-—-—-—■—-fr
LEMONTREES
102 W. Washington St.
2221-2 S. Michigan St.
1
g
e
♦
S
The Notre Dame Scholastic
449
TOMMY YARR ACHIEVES HIS COAL
AS STAR CR1DDER AT NOTRE DAME
Leaves Dabob, Washington, And Becomes Captain After Two Years of Play
If you should ever chance to be in the far-off state of Washington you would undoubtedly see the great Mt. Rainier, seemingly reaching to the very heavens. Seeing, you would marvel, and probably say, “It’s a long way to the top.” Three years ago, in the little town of Dabob, Washington, a swarthy, black-haired Irishman
odist, seeing the ambition of fourteen months toppling before their eyes, unleashed the deadliest passing attack ever seen in these parts, he intercepted three passes and brought the efforts of the Texans to naught.
Since his great debut as a varsity player, Tom has risen high in the estimation of the football world. An in-
The FAVORITE tobacco of the Dartmouth man is ...
Tommy Yarr, Newly-elected Varsity Football Captain
Quiet, smiling, rugged Irishman, typical Notre Dame gridder
boarded a train heading east, bound for Notre Dame and a new life. We wonder if, when he turned for a parting look at the lofty Rainier and the land he loved, he did not say to himself, “It’s a long way to the top—of mountains, and ambitions.” It was a long way, but Tom Yarr has reached the top. His greatest ambition was realized a little more -than a week ago when he was elected captain of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame.
Quiet, smiling, rugged, and clean, Tommy Yarr typifies the land from which he comes. He looks like a man who has lived in the outdoors, and he looks like a man who can play football. Both of these are facts. Tom received his first football publicity at Notre Dame in one of the closing games of the 1929 season when he threw a bad pass that resulted in a touchdown for the opponents. A dubious accomplishment. We next heard of him in the first game of the 1930 season. No longer a third string center, but a varsity man—one who had yet to prove his mettle. This he did without a doubt, playing a remarka- • ble games. In the closing minutes, when the Mustangs of Southern Meth-
tegral part of the invincible national ■ champions of 1930, he has well emulated his famous predecessors, Moynihan, Fredericks, Boeringer, and Walsh. There are football players from coast to coast who will vouch for his ability. They are the men who played against him during the past season.
The team did well in choosing their new leader. Playing a schedule such as the Fighting Irish will play next season undoubtedly necessitates the very best of everything if any degree of success is to be expected. Notre Dame has made a good start; they couldn’t have elected a better man for captain. A captain needs football knowledge to correctly estimate his opponents, the courage necessary to play good football despite his great responsibility, and the ability to make his playing an example for the rest of the team. That, we think, is a word picture of Tommy Yarr.
Captains Law and Conley have set a high standard for Tom Yarr. When he leads his team onto the gridiron for the first game next October he will be faced with a record of nineteen consecutive victories and two national championships.
IF you want to know the Dartmouth man’s favorite tobacco, watch him as he loads his pipe between classes in front of Dartmouth Row. Watch -him as he strolls along Wheelock Street and pulls the familiar blue tin of Edgeworth out of his pocket.
A pipe and Edgeworth—this is the smoking combination that has won the college man. Harvard, Cornell, Michigan, Stanford, Illinois .. v all agree with Dartmouth. Natural merit has made Edgeworth the favorite smoking tobacco in America’s leading colleges and universities.
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their choice; try Edgeworth yourself. Taste its rich natural savor that is enhanced immeasurably by Edgeworth’s distinctive “eleventh process.” You will find Edgeworth at your nearest tobacco shop—15c the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address: Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old barleys, with i ts natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive “eleventh process.” Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —“ Ready-Rubbed ” and “PlugSlice." All sizes, 154 pocket package to pound humidor tin.
450
The Notre Dame Scholastic
WHERE
NOTRE DAME
MEN MEET
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili Hot Tamales
Ice Cream Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 N. Michigan St.
1	T
| Residence	Office |
Phone 3-4041	Phone 2-1067 |
';	s
I
{	Dr. Edgar	S. Lucas I
i	Dentist	I
f	s
I	I
J	702 J. M. S. Building	|
I	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA	|
L_______________________________I
Interhall Sports
INTERHALL BASKETBALL PRACTICE SCHEDULE
Varsity Floor	Apparatus Roon
Friday, Jan. 23
Lyons	7 p. m.	Walsh
Freshman	8 p. m.	Howard
Badin	9 p. m.	Corby
Monday, Jan. 26
Sophomore 7 p. m. Off-Campus Brownson 8 p. m. Carroll Sorin 9 p. m. Morrissey
Tuesday, Jan. 27
Walsh 7 p. m. Lyons
Howard 8 p. m. Freshman , St. Ed’s 9 p. m. Badin
Friday, Jan. 30
Off-Campus 7 p. m. Sophomore Carroll 8 p. m. Brownson Morrissey 9 p. m. Sorin
Officially coming into being, the interhall basketball season will get under way Sunday when twelve of the campus teams will engage in their first games. Since thirteen teams comprise the list Sorin will remain idle on this day. Officials for the contests will be selected from the list of physical education students chosen to act as arbiters for the entire season.
Games between the various teams have been scheduled to be played on three days each week, the season terminating with the games of March 8. Both lightweights and heavyweights will compete, the latter engaging each other on the varsity floor, while the men who tip the scales at less than 150 pounds will hold their contests in the apparatus room.
In addition to the regularly scheduled games, arrangements have been made to allow the squads to practice several times a week, and schedules have also been drawn for this purpose.
Interhall indoor track practice will begin immediately in preparation for the two meets planned in February, according to an announcement made
by officials Friday. Equipment will be issued to those who desire to work out, and for the present they will practice under the supervision of Varsity Coach John P. Nicholson, and Freshman Coach “Spike” England. Coaches for the interhall teams will be chosen at once, ’it was said, and will begin to groom their charges for ■ the tests which are tentatively set for
February 19 and 24.
The final meet will be held on March 14, at which time the winners of the first three places in each event of the two previous tryouts will compete. As in the past, freshmen who equal times, distances, and heights set in the various events will receive their numerals. Equipment for indoor track may be obtained at the varsity equipment office in the gym from 3:30 to 5 o’clock every day.

INTERHALL BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Sunday, Jan. 25
9:30 a. m.—Off-Campus, Lyons 10:30 a.m.—St. Ed’s, Freshman
1:30 p. m.—Howard, Carroll 2:30 p. m.—Brownson, Badin
3:30 p. m.—Walsh, Sophomore
4:30 p. m.—Morrissey, Corby
—Sorin, no game.
Wednesday, Jan. 28
7:00 p. m.—Off-Campus, St. Ed.
8:00 p.m.—Freshman, Carroll
9 :C0 p. m.—Howard, Brownson
Thursday, Jan. 29
7:00 p. m.—Badin, Morrissey
8:00 p. m.—Walsh, Corby
9:00 p. m.—Sophomore, Sorin
—No game, Lyons
Sunday, Feb. 1
9:30 a. m.—Off-Campus, Fresh.
10:30 a.m.—Lyons, Howard
1:30 p.m.—Carroll, Badin
2:30 p. m.—Brownson, Walsh
3:30 p.m.—Morrissey, Sorin
4:30 p.m.—Sophomore, Corby
—No game, St.' Ed’s.
❖-----------------------------
The Notre Dame Scholastic
451
KAPLAN TO SUCCEED JONES, VEZIE IN 1931
Coach Knute Rockne announced a week ago that Clarence Kaplan has been signed to coach the Notre Dame frosh team next fall. This announcement assures the men of the class of 1935 a teacher whose knowledge of the Rockne system is as thorough as that of any one who could be obtained.
Kaplan is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters and completed his career as a player in the Southern California game. He will return to the University next fall to continue his studies as well as to coach the yearlings.
The 156-pound right half-back is a native of Owatonna, Minnesota. He entered Notre Dame at the end of his sophomore year and, after’ the required year of frosh football, stepped right into a place on the traveling squad. As evidence to Iris ability, we may point to the fact that he won his varsity monogram in his first year on the team and repeated again this
year. To win the major insignia in one’s first year on the Notre Dame team is no small achievement.
Kaplan succeeds Bill Jones and Manny Vezie, both of whom complete their studies in the College of Law this year. Jones has served in the capacity of freshman coach for two years and Manny joined him at the beginning of this past season.
INDOOR INTERHALL TRACK SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED
Now that the football season is a thing of the past, and with both basketball and indoor track heading the athletic program, youthful athletes are getting their track shoes from the bottom of their trunks or from the floors of dust covered closets. In general all candidates for the interhall cinder teams are getting ready to step out in the 440 yard dash, or to win the particular event in which they may be entered.
Interhall track as well as all other intra-mural activities have always held a place of importance at Notre
Dame. The call for the interhall track teams to organize has been anxiously awaited, and it is hoped that the students will respond very generously.
The interhall indoor track schedule was announced by the athletic department a few days ago, and from first impresions it appears that Freshman hall will be out to add another banner to their display of trophies for campus championship.
The complete schedule follows:
First Preliminary Meet—Thursday, February 19, 7:30 p. m. Halls competing: Sorin, Corby, Badin, Lyons, Freshman, Howard, and .Off-Campus.
Second Preliminary Meet—Tuesday, February 24, 7:30 p. m. Halls competing: Morrissey, Brownson, Walsh, Sophomore, St. Edward’s, and Carroll.
Final Meet—Saturday, March 14, 2:00 p. m. Men competing: winners of first, second, and third places in each of the preliminary meets.
Coaches for the various hall teams will be appointed within the next week by Mr. Masterson, head of the department of physical education.

tu^— nn^—	nu^— m—im<
Baby Grand Portable Radio
Just the Radio you want for your room.
Complete $68.00
Philco Baby Grand Console Complete $88.00
Terms if desired.
Full line Men’s Furnishings School Representative: JIM BAKER, 164 St. Edward’s Hall
MICHIGAN at COLFAX
Notre Dame's Literary Quarterly
Now On Sale
452
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Splinters From the Press Box
OUR CAGERS
They have been doing rather well lately, haven’t they ? Yes, for a team that lost such stars as Donovan, Smith, and McCarthy all at one time, Coach Keogan’s performers have been doing exceptionally well. This may be only our own personal opinion, but we think that the most credit is due to Ray DeCook. Ray is not the best center in collegiate basketball — not the second best, but he is the man who holds the Notre Dame team together. He is not a natural-bom player, but by sheer hard work and earnest endeavor he has gone far towards making those of us ■who saw John Colrick play a few years ago forget that smooth-working star who is now head coach at Georgetown university.
DeCook leads all other Notre Dame scorers by nearly twenty points. He bears the brunt of the Blue and Gold offense and in the new style of play, which Notre Dame followers saw for the first time in the Marquette game, his duties were made doubly hard.
This same game gave ample demonstration of just what his presence on the floor means. While Ray -was in the game, Notre Dame made 30 points and held the Hilltoppers to a single field goal. When he left late in the last half Marquette got busy and scored seventeen points while Notre Dame rarely got a shot at the basket. These two conditions may or may not have been because of the presence or absence of DeCook, but it is something to consider if one is searching for the real star of Coach Keogan’s 1931 machine.
AND NOW THE TRACK TEAM
We would have a hard time trying to pick out such a man on the 1931 track team, or on any track team for that matter. Track is one sport that is almost entirely a series of individual performances. Each man is given the opportunity to prove his own worth -without depending on his teammates. He is not like the All-American halfback who looks bad because he has no interference, or the daz
zling pitcher on the baseball team who fails to win because his mates can’t field or hit. And so it is that there seldom is a track team whose success or failure depends on the performances of one man.
Coach Nicholson’s track teams are beginning to command the respect due to consistent winners. Last year his men suffered only two defeats while registering brilliant victories in both indoor and outdoor Conference meets, and in the State meet. His two-mile relay team was undefeated and broke the track record in nearly every race in which it competed.
Joe Quigley was a member of this team. And, in addition to running a half-mile in its races, he ran the quarter-mile, mile, or two-mile, as the occasion demanded, and was far better than the average in each of the events. Joe is like Ray DeCook. He is the type that would hold a track team together if one man could do that thing. This year, his last in competition, should be his best. He has already turned in some excellent races in time-trials held during the past two weeks and indications are that he -will again be one of the “ironmen” of the squad. He is a product of Coach Nicholson’s training, and
STARTS SAT. fl VUKAJk	THRU TUES
—I	THEATRE JVk | 
Clara blossoms forth into the emotional glory of a dramatic actress in this modem love story, enacted amid Manhattan’s towers and luxurious apartments.	’
CLARA BOW
Interpreting a girl’s own way of disposing of -would-be-husbands and fighting to win the man she really wants!
“NO LIMIT'
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE
AI FY A	Metropolitan guest organist presiding at
the console of the Colfax Wonder Organ.
-----ADDED---
VITAPHONE
SOUND V O D VIL
SHOWS AT 1—3—5—7—9
A PUBLIX THEATRE
-----ADDED----
PARAMOUNT
SOUND NEWS
The Notre Dame Scholastic	453
one of which “Nick” can justly be proud.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL
The Interhall basketball league is scheduled to get under way Sunday after more than a month’s lay-off from interhall competition. Few students at Notre Dame realize the importance of this phase of the University’s athletic program. Our interhall competition is one of the most talked-of systems in use today for providing every student an opportunity to take part in athletic contests. It is being copied by colleges and universities the country over for their intramural sports.
Interhall athletics at Notre Dame is not exactly an old institution, but it has become highly organized under competent direction. During the past three or four years it has reached its highest development, first with Father Mooney at the helm, and later with Father Murch in charge. Mr. Masterson, head of the department of Physical Education, has taken a very active part during the past year or two.
The basketball league opens Sunday with thirteen teams lined up in each division. Each team will play twelve games over a period of about six weeks and at the end a champion
will be crowned in each division. Coach John P. Nicholson and Mr. Masterson have just about completed plans for the Interhall track season which, in the past, has consisted of three meets, the last of which was for the campus championship. Preparations for the swimming season are also well under way and plans will probably be announced shortly.
So, all in all, these “dead” winter months should prove quite active foi' those students interested enough to go out for their hall teams. And there is hardly a valid excuse for any one not to report. The teams are open to every student in school, varsity men excepted. Let’s make this a banner' year for Interhall athletics. Everybody out!
CAGERS MEET INDIANA
AFTER EXAMINATIONS
Following tomorrow night’s game with Pittsburgh, Coach George Keo-gan’s basketeers will take a ten-day lay-off over the period of semester examinations. . The Blue and Gold eagers, who have won their last four starts, will not swing into action again until February 3, when they
journey down-state to meet the strong Hoosiers of Indiana.
This game should be a thriller. Indiana sorely misses McCracken this year but the Crimson seem to be imbued with that same fighting spirit which characterized their football team Jast fall. This has been most clearly brought out in their two lastminute conference victories within the past two weeks.	‘
Oddly enough, Indiana’s chief scoring threats are its two guards, Veller and Campbell. These two boys have an unerring eye for the basket and are difficult men to hold. Miller, forward, also has been playing fine basketball so far this season.
Notre Dame has been showing a greatly improved brand of basketball in the past two weeks, but they will probably have to be at top form to best the fighting Crimson. Coach Keogan has at last seemed to find his strongest combination with Crowe and Newbold at forwards, DeCook at center, and Baldwin and Burns at guards. With these men functioning the way they did in the last half of the Marquette game, and with Joe Gavin ready to show all the speed necessary, Notre Dame should be able to take the measure of the boys from Bloomington.
In appreciation of the manner in which the men of Notre Dame have received my efforts.
JOE ALEXANDER
Sunday and Tuesday JOSEF VON STERNBERG’S Thrilling love drama of the Foreign Legion!
Gary	Marlene
Cooper - Dietrich
Adolph Menjou in the Paramount picture sensation of today—
'MOROCCO'"-
ITS NEW!
ITS NIFTY!
ITS FAST!
Wed nesday-Thu rsda y January 28-29
CHARLES ROGERS
With
Frances Dee Evelyn Hall Stewart Erwin Betty Boyd in
"Along Came Youth"
A penniless millionaire takes society with a broken-down race horse and—Nerve!
A ■'A A ^1 BA Deforest—Sound ■ ■< ZW 1^1 You Can Enjoy!
454
The Notre Dame Scholastic
At the South Bend Theatres
has interspersed comedy with the heavier dramatic sequences. On this one you must use your oivn judgement.
If you are going to town—and reports are to the effect that not all in Sorin hall are hibernating—today, tomorrow or within the week, the possibilities are that you’ll wander into one of the local homes of the thundering tin-types. For the talking screen gives every promise this coming week of intriguing your fancy, no matter what you are fancy about. Mostly the films presented for your approval, “ladees and gennulmen,” are easy to sit through—none of them require much thought and concentration on the plot. Here are details . . .
The Colfax, surviving Publix (Printer: not Public) house, shows Saturday, January 24, “No Limit.” Clara Bow—she to whom R-K-0 dedicated that new song, “I’m looking for the man who said, ‘Daisies Won’t Tell’ ”—greets you as Bunny O’Day, an usherette who meets wealth in the person of a not too bright Swedish boy, Ole Oleson (enacted by that slow moving, slow thinking comic, Stuart Erwin). Here is Park Avenue life made exciting and dangerous, with crooks of the calibre of Norman Foster (the reporter of “Young Man of Manhattan”), and Harry Green trying hard for additional laughs. If you like Clara Bow . . . and many do . . .

On your radio Saturday . ■. . listen o Lorna Fantin, famous numerologist. She’ll tell you how names and dates affect success in business, love or marriage. A real radio thrill.
WBBM at 8 o’clock Saturday
CENTRAL STANDARD TIME
p x*. Loriiiard Co., Inc.
OLD GOLD
RADIO PROGRAM
Should you hear the stirring call of adventure in legions, foreign or otherwise, hurry over to the R-K-0 Granada and treat your eyes and ears to the final picture of the Beau Geste series, “Beau Ideal,” starting Saturday, January 24. Ralph Forbes and Loretta Young are the headliners of this drama of the desert sands, made by Herbert Brenon from P. C. Wren’s novel. This is a Radio picture and some say it surpasses the' other two in the series. We doubt if any Legion picture will ever thrill us again as did Colman’s “Beau Geste.” But if it’s red blooded romance you enjoy . . . see it.
And if this much desert is not enough, why, following “Beau Ideal” Manager Earl of the Granada has arranged for “Painted Desert” with William Boyd and Helen Twelvetrees —Wednesday, January 28.
We are always suspicious when any theatre announces a “parade of hits” —and yet, what can we do about it when Mr. Earl reveals that his bookings in the near future include “Cimarron,” “Dracula,” “Resurrection,” with Lupe Velez and John Boles, and “Dirigible” with Jack Holt.
The R-K-0 continues its second anniversary RKO celebration with a “balanced program” and a genial new manager, Mr. A. M. Roy. This experienced showman brings promise of better vodvil and better pictures to South Bend’s largest house. Here is the menu for the week starting Sunday, January 25:
On the stage Moss and Frye, quietly termed “the international favorites,” perform in “A Mixture of New and Old Things.” These gentlemen are best remembered by some of the more rabid vodvil fans for their use of the expression, “how high is up?” In the words of the old maestro, “we hope you like it.” Further features include Four Beaux and a Belle, musical dance presentation.
“Captain Applejack,” from the Broadway stage play, appears on the talking screen with a cast featuring John Holiday, Mary Brian, Alec B. Francis, and K. Strozzi. Our good friend and director, Hobart Henley,
Comes Wednesday, in the forgotten language of the sub-titles, and that is January 28. The Palace presents for your approval the following: “Southern Gayeties,” a singing, stepping review of the old plantation; Jones and Rea in “A Carload of Laughs”; and “The End of the Line,” comedy skit of the rural variety. 'To complete the stage bill Flo Mayo offers novel tap dancing and clowning from the air.
Lowell Sherman and Mary Astor enact on the screen the sophisticated, satirical comedy that pleased New Yorkers and Chicagoans for many months, “The Queen’s Husband.” Since the movie mogul’s minds run entirely to the box office angle, this stage play has been retitled for- the screen, “The Royal Bed.” We trust that this title will not drive you away from the theatre. You should know that Lowell Sherman is a polished actor with a flare for comedy as well as villany. We hope you like it— and aren’t disappointed greatly.
If you have been reading the theatre advertisements—and we trust you do —you’ll note that the Strand, local independent talkie house, is back with us again. The Strand has a reputation for never missing on a box office angle. It plays only the cream of the pictures already shown in South Bend. It is now showing “Morocco,” and my critics point out to me that “At a Glance” is misleading—it should be “your last chance to see Marlene Dietrich in ‘Morocco’.” We were lax in our theatre attendance when Morocco graced the Colfax screen and you may be sure to find us at the Strand between Sunday and Wednesday.
AT A GLANCE	I
1 Colfax—Clara Bow has her trou- 1 I	bles, “No Limit.”	i
: Granada—“Beau Ideal” carries = E	on ’mid the desert sands.	j
= Palaeo — “Captain Applejack” = =	brought to the talking screen. =
E Strand—Last chance to see Gary j :	Cooper in “Morocco.”	|
The Notre Dame Scholastic
4-55
CARROLL HALL DEFEATS
DUJARIE BROTHERS, 38-26
Six men, composing a pick-up team from Carroll hall, strolled across the ice of St. Mary’s lake last Sunday afternoon to play their annual game with the Brothers of Dujarie Institute. For 24 minutes the freshmen from under the Dome were given a lesson in “How to Play Basketball on a Small Court” but managed to muster up enough scoring punch to emerge victorious.
Immediately after the opening tip-off the Brothers, led by Brother Aquinas, who, it seemed, had only to toss the ball to score two points, got busy and at the end of the first half they were leading 17 to 7. During this period, the flashy Brother Aquinas scored 12 points.
The second half found the Carroll hall team dumping in bucket after bucket, Gildea, Alberts, and Davis tallying 31 points. In the meantime their teammates managed to hold the Brothers to 7 markers.
The game on a whole was considerably more interesting than the score would indicate. Brothers Aquinas, Cyril and Mel led the Dujarie attack,
while Davis and Crowe were the Carroll hall luminaries.
The lineup:
Brothers of Dujarie				Carroll Hall			
	G	F	p	G		F	r
Br. Mel	1	1	2	Minnott	0	0	0
Br. Canisius	0	0	0	Davis	6	3	3
Br. Aquinas	7	1	1	Alberts	5	0	1
Br. Cyril	A O	0	0	Gildea	5	1	1
Br. Alexand.	1<	0	0	Newbold	1	0	0
Br. Jude	o'	0	0	Crowe	0	0	0
Total	12	2	3	Total	17	4	s
FIFTY FROSH AWARDED FOOTBALL NUMERALS
Freshman numerals for football were awarded to fifty members of the frosh squad, according to an announcement by the athletic department. The aspiring members of the squad coached by Manny Vezie and Bill Jones who earned their coveted 34’s will be presented with the sweaters in the near future.
The list of numeral winners follows: Alexander, Barstow, Bloemsma, Boland, Bomba, Buzoltis, Canale, Chas. Carney, Cashill, J. Chapman, R. Chapman, Cusick, Desnoyers, Devore,
Dixon, Fisher, Ed. Flynn, J. Flynn, Franklin, Furlong, Gildea, Hagan, Halpin, Hoban, Johnston, Kane, Ed. Krause, P. Krause, Lentsch, Leonard, McGuff, Melinkovitch, Michaelson, Milheim, Moriarity, Mueller, Orr, Paulson, Pivarnik, Rascher, Rinaldi, Roberts, Schrenker, Smith, Stancook, Suehr, Vettel, Wiedner, Witucki, and Zvonkin.
□■■■■ IlttilllllllllltItllllilllllllllltlllllilllllltlllllllllllllllllllt I 1930-31 BASKETBALL j i SCHEDULE |
E Dec. S—Notre Dame 26. Kalamazoo 15 £ £ Dec. 12—Northwestern 42, N. D. 29 £ £ Dec. 15—Purdue 34, Notre Dame 22 E ~	Dec.	19—N.	D.	31,	Pennsylvania	19	=
E	Dec.	30—N.	D.	24.	III. Wesleyan	17	E
E	Jan.	3—N.	D.	17,	Northwestern	20	=
E	Jan.	6—N.	D.	27,	Ohio State 24	£
£	Jan. 9—Notre Dame 29, Wabash	19	£
£	Jan. 13—Marquette 23, Notre Dame	30	£
£	Jan. 17—N. D. 21. Pennsylvania	20	E
E	Jan. 24—Pittsburgh here	:
E	Jan. 31—Open	£
E	Feb. 3—Indiana there	£
£	Feb. 7—Pittsburgh there	£
£	Feb. 13—Wabash here	E
£	Feb. 21—Butler here	E
E Feb. 28—Army there -	E
E	Mar. 2—Syracuse there	£
E	Mar. 6—Marquette there	£
E	Mar. 10—Butler there	£
E	Mar. 14—Iowa there	£
1*1 nmiinut i,iiiiuinui>uuii,,»ii>utiimiiniiii>n>mi:»im<»F»l
A LACE
STARTING SUNDAY
An Amusing Stage Play—Now a Riot on the Talking Screen
CAPTAIN APPLEJACK
'	With
MARY BRIAN—JOHN HALLIDAY
Alec B. Francis—Claude Allister
On the Stage
Another Mammoth Anniversary Program of
RKO VAUDEVILLE
Last Times Saturday
THE RIGHT OF WAY
A Bigger Sensation Than Sir Gilbert Parker’s Epochal Novel
Conrad Nagel — Loretta Young Fred Kohler
Starting Saturday HERBERT BRENON’S MIGHTY
SEQUEL TO “BEAU GESTE
Again! ... to the measured beat of desert drums, the thundering footsteps of Legionnaires marching on to adventure!
Again! ... A Geste, “Stout Fellow” rides to romance and the world that asks to share his dangers can live and fight and love with him!
BEAU IDEAL”
With
Loretta Young Ralph Forbes
Fierce lover, brave soldier, loyal friend, was he gallant enough to trade life for another man’s happiness?
456
The Notre Dame Scholastic
On Down the Line
4^ ’MOOD INDIGO
. Wailing! Primitive! Compelling! The Great Duke Ellington brings the jungle to you on the most important Victor Record ever made by this most famous of Hot Jazz bands! Tromp to this African tomtom beat . . . and then savor the startling variety of the dance list below . . . Whatever stage of musical sophistication your mood requires, you’ll find it on Victor . . . performed by the world’s finest artists . . . exclusively Victor. Remember . . . Victor brings you the latest hits . . . first!
NEW VICTOR RELEASES
Victor Hot off the griddle
Record No,
22587-^51000 INDIGO”—FOX TROT
"WHEN A BLACK MAN’S BLUE”—FOX TROT Duke Ellington & His Cotton Club Orch.
22592-^YOURS AND MINE”—FOX trot
The Southerners
"ON A LITTLE BALCONY IN SPAIN”—FOX
TROT
Leonard Joy's All String Orch,
22S86-"WHAT GOOD AM I WITHOUT YOU”- FOX 1KOT
"NINE LITTLE MILES FROM TEN TEN TENNESSEE”
Duke Ellington & His Cotton Club Orchd
22597-«la»Y PLAY YOUR MANDOLIN”
—RUMBA FOX TROT
"OH MAMA’”—RUMBA FOX TROT
Havana Novelty Orch,
23024—MISS A LITTLE MISS”
"AFTER ALL, YOU'RE ALL FM AFTER”
McKinney’s Cotton Pickers
10-inch Records, 75c
RAVEL’S MOTHER GOOSE SUITE NOW READY! .
"Most amusing of modernistic masterpieces" ^MA MERE L’OYE” (Mother Goose)—Ravel Serge Koussevitsky and Boston Symph. Orch.
Pictor Record No. 2370 •
Victor Record No. 2371 •
• Parts 1 and 2 • Parts 3 and 4-
Don’t miss this sensational recording!
The Music You Want
When You Want It
WT ’’F’ The Music You Want	When You Want It... on ::: .
victor Records IliJ
. . . Speaking of “iron men” . . . REGGIE McNAMARA has competed in 67 six-day bicycle races . . . GALLANT FOX, greatest money-winning thoroughbred in turf history, travelled more than 4,000 miles in steel express cars during the past season . . . This sounds like an Alger story . . . SAM COLACURCIO, new owner of the Jersey City club in the International league, is a former mascot of the team . . . Miniature golf courses in the United States, exclusive of real estate, represent an investment of about §200,000,000 . . . 140,000 persons are employed on these courses . . . did we hear someone speak of a depression? . . .
* $
. . . OSSIE SOLEM, director of athletics and head football coach at Drake, has signed for five years more . . . Ossie has just completed his tenth season at the Des Moines school . . . RUSSELL YOST, Penn State fullback, is a 30-year-old junior . . . there’s one YOST who refuses to “hurry up” . . . BABE HOLLING-BERY, football coach extraordinary at Washington State, never played the game at college ... in fact he never attended college . . .
. . .Abiding by the letter of the law, spotters of the New York State Athletic Commission refused admittance to PRIMO CARNERA, the Italian giant, and PAULINO UZCUDUN, heavyweight from Spain, to the Baer-Heeney fight last week because of an ancient ruling which prohibits suspended boxers from attending other bouts . . . this is the first time this ruling has ever been enforced . . . Kentucky U., in an effort to snap out of its athletic lethargy, has signed a new basketball coach, who is putting forth a new system, a new team, and a plenty tough schedule . . .
* * *
. . . The Delaware senate voted recently to legalize boxing and wrestling and establish a state athletic commission ... In a boxing show arranged in behalf of Mayor WALKER’S unemployment relief fund, EDDIE McCARTHY, former Georgetown athlete, a member of the New York Curb Exchange and of the New York Athletic club, will shape up against an unknown bricklayer . . . it ought to be a good battle, especially if the bricklayer has any communistic tendencies . . .