FIRST
IMPRESSIONS . . .
Do you make a hit ... or miss ... in your first impressions? How would you be sized up today? Do you look your best? You should. Because the day you figure nobody will notice what you wear could be the very day you meet someone important. When you look your best, you do your best . . . you feel confident, sure of yourself. And that’s the stuff success is made of.
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JUNE
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JULY
PAY ONE-THIRD IN AUGUST
Got the clothes you need to make those good impressions and charge it the Campus Shop way. Enjoy the advantages and sure-of-yourself feeling that good, well-fitted clothes give, and pay one-third in June, one-third in July, and one-third in August.
No Carrying Charge.
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
February, 20, 1959
HUSBANDS, ANYONE?
It has been alleged that coeds go to college for the sole purpose of finding husbands. This is, of course, an infamous canard, and I give fair warning that, small and spongy7 as I am, anybody7 who say7s such a dastardly7 thing when I am around had better be prepared for a sound thrashing!
Girls go to college for precisely7 the same reasons as men do: to broaden their horizons, to lengthen their vistas, to drink at the fount of wisdom. But if, by pure chance, while a girl is engaged in these meritorious pursuits, a likely7 looking husband should pop into view, why, what’s wrong with that? Eh? What’s wrong with that?
The question now arises, what should a girl look for in a husband? A great deal has been written on this subject. Some say7 character is most important, some say7 background, some say7 appearance, some say education. All are wrong.
The most important thing—bar none —in a husband is health. Though he be handsome as Apollo and rich as Croesus, what good is he if he just lies around all day7 accumulating bedsores?
The very first thing to do upon meeting a man is to make sure he is sound of wind and limb. Before he has a chance to sweet-talk y7ou, slap a thermometer in his mouth, roll back his eyelids, y7ank out his tongue, rap his patella, palpate his thorax, ask him to straighten out a horseshoe with his teeth. If he fails these simple tests, phone for an ambulance and go on to the next prospect.
If, however, he turns out to be phys-. ically fit, proceed to the second most important requirement in a husband. I refer to a sense of humor.
A man who can’t take a joke is a man to be avoided. There are several simple tests to find out whether your prospect
For RUer smokers the Philip Morris Company makes Marlboro, the cigarette with better “makin’t.” New improved Alter and good rich flavor. Soft pack or flip-top box. A lot to Uke!
can take a joke or not. You can, for example, slash his tires. Or burn his “Mad” comics. Or steal his switchblade. Or turn loose his pet raccoon. Or shave his head.
After each of these good-natured pranks, laugh gaily and shout “April Fool!” If he replies, “But this is February nineteenth,” or something equally churlish, cross him off your list and give thanks y7ou found out in time.
But if he laughs silverly and calls you “Little minx!” put him to the next test. Find out whether he is kindly.
The quickest way to ascertain his kindliness is, of course, to look at the cigarette he smokes. Is it mild? Is it clement? Is it, humane? Does it minister tenderly to the psyche? Does it coddle the synapses? Is it a good companion? Is it genial? Is it bright and friendly and full of dulcet pleasure from cockcrow till the heart of darkness?
Is it, in short, Philip Morris?
If Philip Morris it be, then clasp the man to your bosom with hoops of steel,
for you may be sure that he is kindly as a summer breeze, kindly as a mother’s kiss, kindly to his very marrow.
And now, having found a man who is kindly and healthy and blessed with a sense of humor, the only thing that^re-r mains is to make sure he will always earn a handsome living. That, fortunately, is easy. Just enroll him in engineering.
© 1959 Max Shulman
Dear Editor:
This evening Notre Dame was privileged to hear an unusually beautiful and haunting performance of a man who has devoted his life to the guitar. Unfortunately that privilege was abused.
There is a message which should be impressed on all those who arrived late, whether two minutes or thirty. This holds for the priest in row L on the left as well as the couple with their young son who were seated front and center. It holds for the graduate English student and his St. Mary’s date in row J
as well as the large group of under- ■<* graduates who were shown down the right hand aisle at 8:45. It holds espe- -cially true for the couple who arrived thirty minutes late and demanded their money back when told they would not be seated until intermission. I will not 4 bother to mention the two undergraduates in row N on the left who laughed * their way through the first five minutes of the Piezas Caracteristicas.	->•
I do not think that the blame can be placed on the Blue Circle ushers considering the fire regulation against blocking the exits. I do not feel that as ’ an alternative to the way in which the ushers handled the situation those who ” arrived late should simply have been told to go home.	’■
Maestro Segovia won many converts tonight and perhaps his future performances will be more appreciated. Tonight’s audience, however, does not de- ’ serve a ‘next time.’ Still the next time you see the name Andres Segovia you may realize exactly what it means and perhaps you will also realize that you don’t arrive late to hear Segovia.
Ah yes, ladies and gentlemen: “There ' is no silence like a Segovia silence” — except at Notre Dame!!
Sincerely, Barry M. Fitzpatrick, 370 Dillon Hall
Dear Editor:
The Hall Presidents’ Council has recently been subjected to criticism by a member of the Student Senate as car-tied in the Feb. 13 issue of the Scholastic. We believe that the criticism in the Senate came as a result of ignorance or lack of reflection as to the scope and purpose of each organization which is included under the term Student Government. A more prudent and constructive manner of expressing this criticism might have been utilized to bring it to the attention of the council, which is no longer integrally connected or responsible to the Senate. Had this been done, the Senator’s time could have been devoted to some well thought out constructive item, rather than a poorly presented critical one.
We of the council, upon hearing this criticism decided that we would make a public statement, not to answer the criticism of the Senate member, but rather to state our purpose and what we feel (Continued on page 33)
The Scholastic

Scholastic
p	-
* Vol. 100 February 20, 1959 No. 14

Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
tonight
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of w postage. Authorized June 23, 1918.
BOB SEDLAGK
Editor
LOU STETTLER
Associate Editor
RON BLUBAUGH________________News	Editor
WALT RUDGE------------------Copy	Editor
JIM YOCH._______________Features	Editor
TEDDY THOMPSON____________Sports	Editor
PETER HASBROOK.________Business Manager CONRAD SUSKI___________Circulation
ROY RUBELI______________Assistant	News
BOB MARUYAMA------------Assistant	Copy
CHAS RIECK______________Assistant	Copy
FRANK DUDA____________Assistant Features JERRY KRIEGSHAUSER.—Ass’t Features CHUCK MILLER__________Assistant Features
TOM ROSE_______________Assistant Sports
BOB SCHAEFER-----------Assistant Sports
BOB HORN_______________-Assistant Business
Tonight, the Senior Class as a body will assemble in the Drill Hall to observe the time-honored Washington Day Exercises. The conferring of the Patriot-of-the-Year award to Wernher von Braun will be followed by a presentation of an American flag to the University to be raised on the day of graduation and flown above the campus during the following year. This gift,is symbolic of the Class of 1959’s “threefold love of God, Country, and Notre Dame.” Tomorrow, the exercises will be a thing of the past and the present Senior Class will have done their duty—or at least will have fulfilled the formula for expressing their “threefold love of God, Country, and Notre Dame.” Another link in the. .chain of Father Sorin’s tradition will have been forged.
The tradition will be resurrected within a year, it will be resurrected again in an effort to help the next graduating class show their threefold love. The truth of the matter is that the time-honored tradition which dates to the era of Father Sorin has lost all meaning to the present generation of Notre Dame students! The ceremonies which take place each year on or around Washington’s birthday no longer express any threefold love; rather, if anything, they indicate a lack of any such love. The Washington Day Exercises have failed in the present time to live up to their own tradition. They are an archaic and meaningless ritual which each succeeding class endures in the name of tradition.
The Class of 1959 is no different. It will assemble in toto in the Drill Hall for the exercises not because each senior wishes to show his threefold love but because non-attendance will be punished by a suitable citation on the disciplinary record. The class will also watch while the honor of the Patriot of the Year is awarded — awarded presumably to the choice of the Senior Class. Actually there was nd choice of the class. Nominations were treated lightly as attested by the naming of Orval Faubus and other non-descripts as candidates for Notre Dame’s Patriot of the Year. The voting was even less representative. The polls, once closed, had to be reopened because of the poor response. Even then, and even though some energetic people voted more than once, the number of ballots was less than half the enrollment of the senior class. Obviously the class did not consider the selection as something important — not even important enough to write a name on a piece of paper.
FR. CHARLES CAREY, C.S.C...Moderator
BUSINESS STAFF: Tom Carey, Bernie Dobranski, Jim Keough, Roger McMahon.
NEWS STAFF: Jim Byrne, George Casey, Wade Clarke, Bill Flaherty, Bill Galvin, John Hoey, Jim McGranery, Tom Marciniak, Tom Romans, Charles Tausche, Tom Weiss.
The lack of importance with which the ceremonies and the award are viewed by the seniors does not reflect a lack of any patriotic feeling nor a lack of any of Father Sorin’s threefold love; but rather it indicates the apathy which exists for a tradition which is meaningless. It is meaningless to the present senior. Few seniors, if any, knew the reason behind the exercises before an information sheet was passed out last week together with the obligatory ticket. The chairman of the committee in charge of the event (who was the only applicant for the job) could give no further explanation as to the meaning of the tradition than that which he found printed in last year’s program. There is a more basic explanation, perhaps, than just a lack of knowledge. The present class at Notre Dame cannot divine any reason why it should express in a body its allegiance to the United States. In the time of Father Sorin, the position of Catholics necessitated such action but in modern America the Church is no longer suspected of disloyalty. The need for a public profession of allegiance is no longer existent.
[ SPORTS STAFF: William Cary, Dick Ciccone, Dick Corso, Jay Kilroy, Jim Lee, Pat O’Connor, * Tim O’Reilly, William Reagan, George Voris.
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The University, however, still maintains that this public profession should be performed. The tradition must be maintained. Why? The most probable reason is that it is tradition. Five years ago the Patriot-of-the-Year award was instituted to sponsor some interest, but little has been forthcoming. The approach this year is that the exercises will be on Friday instead of Sunday and will be in the early evening in order that they might not inconvenience the seniors! Apparently even in the minds of the Administration the tradition has been scrutinized and found
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods,. at the University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $5.00 a year. Address all manuscript* to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
lacking.
If the tradition is so meaningless or considered such, the insistence upon its revival year after year is absurd. Traditional exercises are an excellent feature in . a school, a city, or a country; but they|areonly excellent when they are meaningful and when they contribute to the way of fife. The Washington Day Exercises do neither. If they are to be maintained !js an integral part of the worthwhile tradi- ‘ tion of Notre Dame, they must be revamped; but if they are to remain unchanged, . they ought to be dropped and left to join the thousands of other human traditions ;
which have outlived their meaning. — L.S.;
February, 20, 1959
THE
ROOMS
anytime to
PREFERRED
certain convention peri* ods, all available Chicago hotel rooms are frequently taken.
You can be assured of comfortable accommodations in the heart of the Loop, anytime, by writing for your FREE “Preferred Guest Card” from the Hotel Hamilton, today. The Hamilton — preferred by the family, and business executives for -downtown convenience and courteous hospitality at sensible rates—guarantees (with advance notice) reservations anytime of the year to. you, the preferred guest. Ask for your “Preferred Guest Card”, today ... at no obligation.
. Rafes
from

HAMILTON
20 SOUTH DEARBORN Preferred by guests in CHICAGO IN KANSAS CITY ITS THE BELLERIVE HOTEL 100% AIR-CONDITIONED
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC INVITES ITS READERS TO | WIN A FIN | from LIMERICK LAUGHTER
A NEW MONTHLY CONTEST SPONSORED AND JUDGED BY THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF ON BEHALF OF OUR BACK COVER ADVERTISER
Each month, the SCHOLASTIC will, award $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty L & M cigarette pack. Another $5 will be paid for the best limerick submitted with an empty Chesterfield pack, and a third $5 for the best limerick submitted with an empty Oasis pack. Ten (10) honorary mention limerick winners each month will receive Happy Talk game, the new hilarious word game.
Write your limerick on any subject you choose. Enter as- often as you wish, but be sure to accompany each limerick with an empty pack of L & M, Chesterfield, or Oasis cigarettes.
This contest is open to all Notre Dame students and faculty members. Entries must be delivered to the Scholastic office or mailed to: LIMERICK LAUGHTER, % THE SCHOLASTIC, University Press Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Limericks for the February contest must be received by March 1. Names of the winners will be published in the March 13 edition of the SCHOLASTIC.
So enter now and keep entering each month. The samples below show you how easy it is to write a winning limerick.
At N.D. the coming of spring. Is not marked by a bird on the wing.
Its portent instead,	-
Is a thousand-and-one heads, Off to the Dunes for a fling.
On Ruddy Pierre let us tarry. He dated a coed named Mary.
With taste as their basis, They of course smoked Oasis. Compatible pair — need you query?
CHESTERFIELD KING
Nothing Satisfies Like the Big Clean Taste of Top Tobacco
MENTHOL-MILD OASIS Delightfully Different —a Refreshing Change
L & M is Low in tar with More taste to it. Don’t settle for one without the other.
CALENDAR
TONIGHT
7-8:00 p.m.—Registration for the University-wide chess tournament sponsored by the Chess Club and the Student Center House Committee in the lobby of the Student Center. Entry fee is $.25. The tourney will start Feb. 27.
8:00 p.m.—Dr. Wernher von Braunn, noted missile expert, delivers the main address and receives the annual Patriot of the Year Award in the Drill Hall.
8:30 p.m.—The University Theatre presents Murder in the Cathedral in Washington Hall.
SATURDAY
I* 1-4:00 p.m.—Tryouts for the University Theatre’s production of The Boy Friend in | the Washington Hall Lounge. Actors, singers, and dancers are needed.
.	2:00 p.m.—Basketball: ,ND vs. DePaul
' v in the Fieldhouse.
18:30 p.m.—University Theatre presents Murder in the Cathedral at Washington Hall.
SUNDAY
I 2-5:00 p.m.—St. Ed’s mixer in the Stu-f dent Center.
i 4:30 p.m.—Third Order of St. Francis j» meeting in the Student Center amphitheater.
MONDAY
|	12-5:30 p. m.; 6:30-9:00 p.m.—Appoint-
' ments for Dome pictures in 2C of the Stu-i dent Center for juniors. Office open at these times until March 6.
7-8:00 p.m.—Chess tourney registration ; in the lobby of the Student Center.
THE LATECOMERS OF WASHINGTON HALL: The latecomers, unfortunately, were not the garden variety juvenile delinquents who frolic around Washington Hail on ordinary Saturay afternoons and evenings. They were the supposedly civilized and cultured Conceit and Lecture Series audience of last Friday night who witnessed the masterful performance of Andres Segovia. For those of you who were not there, Segovia’s performance was interrupted twice by latecomers being ushered to their seats. The first time Segovia, obviously distracted, stopped playing and turned his guitar over as he waited for the people to be seated. The second time he got up and walked off the stage. While it may be all right iin high society to be “fashionably late,” it is nothing more than an act of complete boorishness to interrupt an artist while he is performing.
As we see it, the remedy is quite simple. First, start the performance on time (this goes for all Washington Hall productions, we’re tired of getting there early and then waiting for the latecomers to be seated), second, lock or bar the doors once the performance has begun and do not seat anyone until intermission, third, promulgate this policy and sell tickets with this understanding.
As usual, it has taken an exceptional occurrence to bring a poor situation into public prominence. Let’s hope that last Friday night’s fiasco does not happen again.'
,	TUESDAY
:	7:00 p.m.—Blue Circle meeting in the
Student Center amphitheater.
7-8:00 p.m.—Chess tourney registration continues.
WEDNESDAY
i 7-8:00 p.m.—Chess tourney registration continues.
■	7:30 p.m.—Fourth lecture of the “Mar-
I riage Institute” in Washington Hall. Mr. r1 and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd speaking on “Love in Marriage.”
,	THURSDAY
>•	7-8:00 p.m.—Chess tourney registration
• continues.
)•	7:30 p.m.—Organizational meeting of
i the Westchester Club in 118 of Nieuwland Science Hall.
STUDENT INSURANCE: Insurance against the death of a student’s parent or guardian as envisaged by Denny Shaul in his recent Scholastic article seems to be one of the more important things scheduled by student government this semester. The plan will be very appealing to the student who is financially dependent, as most of us are, upon his parents and has considered the possibility of losing their help. However, it seems to us that the plan should also cover cessation of financial aid due to injury, sickness, or loss of job. If this is already included in the plan it was not mentioned in the article.
EFFICIENCY: It is a bit late, but plaudits should be given to the Academic Affairs Office and all others who in any way participated in the administration of registration for the current semester. The facility with which the previously painful process was dispatched would be utterly disbelieved by a senior of four years ago. Although registration is only a minor or secondary process in the administration of a university, an improvement in it is indicative of an effort on the part of the administration to make the more mundane aspects of campus life a bit more bearable.
BOY FRIEND NEEDED
Tryouts for the University Theatre’s spring musical, The Boy Friend, will be held tomorrow at 1:00 p.m. in the Washington Hall Lounge. Students interested in singing, dancing or acting are cordially invited to try out. A notice is posted in the rear of Washington Hall for those who wish to sign up for a specific time.
LAW AND ORDER: Last Sunday night, the Student Court finally opened its new session. The only decision tendered was that in which Joe Harrison, the chief justice^ reaffirmed the stand which he took last October (see Scholastic, Oct. 10). The Stu- -dent Court is useless, and according to Harrison, the proceedings last week were a .	;
farce. It seems that the agenda called for the prosecution of two clubs which did not appear during the senate investigations. The Central Pennsylvania Club did not appear again; but Jim Hughes, after a lengthy preparation in consultation with Tom Crehan (who happens to have the only records of the Student Senate action during	-
his tenure and before), decided to test the legality of the Court. Much repartee fd-	.
lowed. After this the plea was entered, but the prosecution immediately dismissed -	■
charges — charges which they never intended to press. The only outcome of the whole ' ■ i affair, other than the reiteration of the uselessness of the Student Courts was the i knowledge that the Student Senate files were incomplete—hardly a justification for	J
the Court’s existence. If the student government in its program to give a new lode to	?
itself does not have a plan for the Court, then it should just be abolished as a waste? . ' of time and as an effort which failed.—S & S	. '
February, 20, 1959
ton a MW of FUN!
Travtlwith JITA
Unbelievable low Cost
Europe
«w* $645
Orient
43-65 Dev* xX. $998
Many tours incluae college credit.
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $549 up and Around the World $1798 up.
Ask Your Travel Agent
26th Year
k 332 So. MicHfoa Ave. MC-Chicogo 4, HA 7-2557
Dr. Wernher von Braun, who will be on campus this evening to receive the annual “Patriot of the Year" award, is portrayed on a cover by Joe McDonnell.
As director of the Army Missile program, Dr. von Braun was the driving force behind the development of the sleek and powerful Jupiter-C's which are sketched in the background.
This is the second year that McDonnell has contributed to the SCHOLASTIC cover. He is a senior fine arts major who hails from Detroit, Mich.
TGDM -OMd Msaij /vtoug n CM-S4OH U4O4J-
BBEEBS BBBBBD EGBEED □□BEBE BEBcac bedbcib HEE EQEBB BBS
BEEKl HGE □bedb sn EDE B
BBEDEBB SEES EBE
SEB SSQQS SEE □EDDsa aBuma BEEEGE BQEEBB □ansae beeobb
USAASNYIODM
K3DL (CROSSWORD No. 15
i
ACROSS
1. Delaying actions, in the paddock?
7. Titled Turks
13.	Kools refresh your_________
14.	Traffic in exchange students
15.	A sitting duck for Drake
16.	Niftier
17.	Jumbo car pool
18.	Guys without gals
20. Pride of the pregnant perch 21. Crossword bird 22. Suns
23. Tongue-lashings
26.	Un-oomphy horse
27.	Kipling poem
29. Confronter
33._____Kool your steady smoke
36. On the_____
38.	Part of a church
39.	Europe in World WarH
40.	Kind of berry blonde
42.	Make the crew
43.	Selection
45. Russet, gas or Mickey
47.	Hot underplace
48.	Nook, not necessarily for necking
49.	They’re not liabilities
60. Pelted
13
15
17
33
39
43
47
49
ARE YOU KODL ENOUGH TO KRACk THIS?"
20
25
48
50
kins-sizc
DOWN
1.	Wild guess
2.	Kind of way on the road
3.	Weapons used in smooching
4.	Mauna_____
5.	They’re made for lasses
6.	Ohio, Penn or Michigan
7.	Kool’s Willie
8.	Heave-hoes a steady
9.	Saratoga, for instance '
10.	Jalopy’s successor
11.	Small space in a plant
12.	Extra attention 19. Small amount 22. French novelist 24. British fly-boys 25. World’s most thoroughly tested_______(pL)
28. Remote
30.	Buy Kools by the________
31.	Come about gradually
32.	Clear the lawn again
33.	Pilgrimage place
34.	One of Dumas’ Big Three
35.	Refreshingest cigarettes made
37. Kind of boy
40.	Cry of - -aelurophobes
41.	Handle for Whitman
44. French island
46. Corporal or sergeant (abbr.)
10
12
• As cool and clean as a breath of fresh air.
18
21
23
26
27
36
28
37
45
30
KuDL
• Finest leaf tobacco...mild refreshing menthol and the -world’s most thoroughly tested filter!
your throat refreshed.!
Qmeita& Most- ‘Rhfieehing Oijoidfe
.ALSO REGULAR SIZE KOOL WITHOUT FILTERI
•IBSS. Brown* WUliam«x>Tot>ac»oCer>t
kodl
8
The Scholastic
f bohemian life
•’ l<- A
...
m our very midst
* ♦ .
by JOHN BELLAIRS
' I have often viewed that gay and mys-. terious group of Bohemians, the University Theater actors, from afar, wistfully 4 > longing for a taste of the wild, dissolute life which they lead. My only taste of . । > forbidden pleasures in the past has been a coke chugging contest held at a meet-u in£ Scout Troop 680 in the Old Grange Hall in Calhoun County, Michigan. Then too, I had longed to tread the boards (or board the treads, 1 wish ( ( someone would clear me up on this). I was, however, driven from this pursuit « r when I lost a declaiming contest for leaving out the “raven’d sea shark” while reciting the cauldron scene from Macbeth. I have had a distaste for seafood ever since.
But, at any rate, I was approached ) ( last week by a fellow named Thespis Pananacreon, who said that he was a representative of the University Theater group. He said that they had heard fl > of my longing for Dionysian pleasures, and that they would be most happy to » take me with them on a junket. I joyously accepted. On seeing the gold-trimmed tunic which Thespis wore, and on hearing the lyre which he strummed ' 1 constantly, I could not help but smirk at the thought of-the world I would be * entering, and the pleasures which lurked behind the pink doors of Washington » i> Hall,- “Once, a philosopher, twice a Bacchante,” I gurgled to myself.
Thus it was that one night, after a performance given by the Theater group, ' ‘ I scuttled surreptitiously into a side door of Washington Hall (all those who * have seen me scuttle surreptitiously will know what I mean.) Inside, half-overpowered by the smell of grease paint and mothballs, I was introduced by Thespis to those who would be my companions on this memorable evening. Each actor, ’ ‘ clad in the costume which expressed his 'r * soul most perfectly, greeted me in mellifluous accents and proffered a goblet of . Kool-Aid (grape flavor). And you may ' be sure that I drank my fill. The actresses were primarily young intellectuals from St. Mary’s, who were gaily discussing the latest play of their leader, Y Megaera Plotz. She herself read me part of a critique which she had written for a literary magazine; she called the work 1 “Parnassus among the Paperbacks: Frank G. Slaughter as an Existentialist.” I devoured the work greedily be
February, 20, 1959
tween munches of jelly sandwiches and draughts of Kool-Aid. Eventually the sound of a bronze gong told me that our group was going forth on a revel. At last, I thought, we are going out to mingle with the cocottes, sansculottes, or whatever they are. A momentary blush crossed my face, but I rushed madly on, tripping over the hem of my tunic.
We boarded the South Shore Train, and took over one whole car, which we decked with myrtle and thyme (ground). In one part of the car Hecuba Thurgood, whom her friends call “The Muncie, Indiana Muse,” was doing a pantomime of Wallace Stevens’ Sunday Morning, although we had no cockatoos with us. The group that I was in was listening to Thespis and Caliban Gloam do a duet ■ with lyre and Phrygian flute. After one number an actor nudged me. “That’s the Lydian mode,” he said, leering. He then offered me a gumdrop (rum flavor), and after two or three my head began to spin and I blurted out the entire third act of Macbeth, then sank into a swoon.
When we got to Chicago, the group ■ swept out of the car (swept out the car is more accurate — the conductor was quite peeved at our antics) and were rushed by taxi to the favorite “coffeehouse” of the theater crowd, The Golden Bough, operated by Arthur and Letty Fraser of Bindlestiff, Ore. Once inside, we found our way to small tables in the dimly lit room, and began to talk over the cosmos in a leisurely fashion. Sparklers were passed around, and I lighted mine from the flame of the candle (set rakishly in a Pepsi bottle) oh my table, and let it burn till it almost' singed my fingers. Miss Thurgood read to me parts of her epic poem, The Dragon of the Dixie Highway, which is written in dactylic monometer. At each strophe I became more ecstatic, and was on the point of hysteria, until the spell was broken by the sensuous voice of Thyrsis Cranch, the entertainment chairman:
“We’re going to play ‘Spin-the-bot-tle,’” he said, with a goatish look. .
Soon we were engaged in this riotous game, and my pockets were full of candy kisses which I had won by lucky spins. The next game was “Guess Who I Am.” My imitation of Nestorious stumped the * whole panel, and you may well guess my amusement. The game-broke up when -
Clytemnestra Fenley, attempting to inn- ■ . tate the Winged Victory of Samothrace^ . -J set fire to one of the featherdusters she .. was using as wings. We all had a stirrup cup of tomato juice, with a dash of * ■ Worcestershire sauce for tang. I will -confess that I don’t know how the an- . cients balanced a cup in a stirrup. It is quite hard.	. .
We left the Golden Bough, and took the train back to South Bend, arriving . . just in time to get back to campus. The merest thrill ran through me as I signed in at 12:05, for I was just beginning to ' fully realize the depth of my experience that night. The next morning, when rosy-fingered dawn painted the Nieuw-land Science Hall with vermilion beauty, " (I have become quite lyrical since that . night of nights), I looked about my room. All I had to remind me of my first taste of Bohemian life were a slightly dented bay wreath, a Dixie cup : smelling of grape juice. . . and my . memories.	.
SOCIAL DEPT.	.
' I feel it my duty to be the first to -report on an event of prime importance, . the first Lost and Found Party ever held : at the University. Last Monday the stu- ; ; ' dents gathered in the Dining Hall for this gala event. Gaiety was the watchword as the hall, decorated in a white -elephant motif, rang to the shouts of mmmaging students. Dendron Foley and \ an unidentified commerce major put up ■ a spirited battle over a green parka with , “Hanseatic Bowling League” on its back. Two seniors managed to carry off the largest item on display, an Italian automobile which had been left in the foyer of the O’Shaughnessy Building. Here are some statistics on the out-.
come:
Most Loot: Lasciate O. Speranze,who ; r' got twelve overcoats, nine copies of ; “Steam Pipe Fitters Annual,” a siae 22 Triple E Cavalry Boot, and a biretta.
Least Loot: Cranbrook Oaf, who not only got nothing but left minus a shse .S;^ and half of his pair of pince-nez glnrers
Tea and cookies were served and a;--'; -young woman sang a song of her osm^^ creation, “The Lost and Found Mambo^* ^ and favors were distributed. AH wim'/^; attended felt it a success and hope Ite party will be repeated. ~
- - - - .
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Telephone engineer Stu Black—and the booming Southern California region he serves.
■<
“The telephone company helps you blueprint your future"
Stuart C. Black had job offers from seven companies before he got his B.S. degree in Engineering from U.C.L.A. in 1954. His choice: the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company in Los Angeles.
“They told me exactly what to expect,” he says. “Every phase of my training, covering two years of rotational job assignments,'was outlined. They made it easy for me to see where I could go.”
Since Stu was hired, he’s climbed poles, installed telephones and worked with architects and contractors. He’s designed ventilating systems and studied labor-management relations. He’s handled million-dollar-a-month settlements
with connecting telephone companies for mutual use of Long Distance lines. And he’s learned how complex bookkeeping is reduced to punches on IBM cards.
Today, Stu is a Staff Engineer in San Diego. He programs equipment and money for engineering projects as far ahead as 2^ years in one of the fastest growing areas in the United States.
“The telephone company is a ‘lookahead’ kind of business,” says Stu. “It can predict future telephone needs and the need for more and more management people. So there’s a whale of an opportunity for the young fellow who really wants to get ahead.”
Many young men like Stu Black are finding interesting and rewarding careers in the Bell Telephone Companies. Find out about career opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus. And read the Bell Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
BULL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
10
The Scholastic
< >
I *
1959 STUDENT FOUNDATION STRIVES
TO SURPASS 57’S STANDING RECORD
The fifth annual Notre Dame Student Foundation Drive will begin March 8 and continue until March 14. Chairman Bob Toland, a junior commerce student from Chicago, Ill., who was also chairman last year, inaugurated the committee’s work by setting the goal at 100 per cent student participation. The record campus contribution to date is 99.56% set in 1957.
The purpose of the drive is to get the students acquainted with, and interested in, the work of the Foundation.
FATHER CAVANAUGH
Head of Notre Dame Foundation
Particular support is sought for the new ten - year, $66,600,000 University improvement program. It is realized that the student contribution will be nominal, but as a means of student orientation in the work of the Foundation, it will be significant.
Class representatives on Toland’s committee include John Martin, a Liberal Arts senior from Chesterton, Ind.; Bob Beranek, a junior in the College of Liberal Arts who hails from Chicago, Ill.; Ned Grant, an AB sophomore also from Chicago; and Dan Kenney, a freshman in Liberal Arts. Phil Allen, a junior in AB, and Dave Otte, a junior commerce student from Appleton, Wis., are in charge of publicity.
The first Student Foundation Week, held during the 1954-55 academic year, was an extension of the scope of the Foundation instituted in 1947. The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, then president of the University, outlined the program of
the Foundation in conjunction with the Alumni Board, the Lay Tnistees, and Harry G. Hogan, noted alumni from Fort Wayne, Ind.
The following year, Father Cavanaugh announced a 10-year $25,000,000 goal to be used in defraying the 30% of the budget not paid by tuition, a Faculty Development program and new construction. Father Cavanaugh is now the director of the Foundation.
Only one function may be attributed to the Foundation, that of turning the spotlight on Notre Dame, bringing into clear focus the relationship of what has been done with what is being done, and what needs doing.
During the first Student Foundation Week, 93% of the students participated. The percentages in following years included 98.4, 99.5, and last year’s 99.56. Of the 4,480 students living on campus last year, 4,460 contributed. It is believed that the 100 per cent goal can be reached this year.
Gethsemani Retreat Planned For Wed.. March 24 by YCS
Reservations for the annual YCS retreat at the Gethsemani Monastery in Trappist, Ky., are now being accepted on a first-come-first-serve basis at the YCS office in the LaFortune Student Center. The retreat will be given during the last four days of Holy Week, March 24 to 27.
A fee of $25 is being collected by the YCS, $11 for transportation, and $14 as an offering to the Trappists to defray the room and board expense for the four-day gathering.
Buses will leave Tuesday from the Circle at 6:45 p.m. and will arrive at the Kentucky monastery at 5 a.m. Wednesday in time for Mass. The closed retreat will entail four or five conferences daily and will culminate in Mass Holy Saturday morning at 7 a. m. Buses will then leave for Louisville and will arrive there at 9 a.m. The students’ transportation will then be their own responsibility.
The YCS office is open from 9 aan. to 5 p.m. daily on weekdays, and the deadline for the reservations and depositing of $5 will be March 22. A total of 29 reservations will be accepted.
Chairman of the YCS retreat committee is Gerry Wolfe; Art Dechene is in charge of transportation; Mike Corcoran is handling publicity.
1959 Festival Grosses $2000 More than 1958
Final returns show that the 1959 Mardi Gras raffle, which was the second largest in the last ten years, grossed a total of $35,000. This total was bettered only in 1957 by a receipt of $40,000, while last year’s raffle took in $33,000.
The carnival this year was the largest ever seen on campus. A concert, something new to the Mardi Gras, featured Dave Brubeck and brought in a gate receipt of $9,500. The dance broke even. The committee hopes to take in $35,000 with expenses to range around $11,000.
Booths this years were built to resemble a New Orleans street scene and the closeness of the booths created this effect. The carnival was one of the best ever produced, due to the fact that the clubs stuck so closely to the theme.
The Cleveland club, first place winner in architectural design, constructed a casino. Second place went to the Texas club with their “New Orleans Done Texas Style.” A Court of Dice theme gave the Kentucky club third place. The Aesculapian club received the novelty prize of $10.
First place in hall collections went to Farley hall. Pangbom was second with Keenan taking third. St. Mary’s took in their largest receipt, totaling $3,200. They will be granted 25 per cent of what they collected.
Mary Finan of Chicago won the 1959 Lincoln, while the Chevrolet Impala went to Joseph Krajacic of St. Ed’s. Lywda Scheer, 512 Le Mans Hall, became the recipient of the wardrobe.
General Chairman Tom Carroll wishes to thank the student bodies of St. Mary’s and Notre Dame for their fine spirit in helping the 1959 Mardi Gras reach its goal.
ONE GLOSSY PRINT
Tom McBreen, business manager of the DOME, has announced that pictures of the Class of 1960 for the DOME are still being taken. Members of the present class of 1,135 juniors who have not already had their pictures taken or made an appointment to do so are urged to contact DOME representatives in room 2C of the LaFortune Student Center as soon as possible.
Approximately 50 students are being photographed every day. The facilities are open weekdays from 12 to 5:30 p.m. and 6:30 to 9 p.m. Mr. Whitefield Delaplane, a photographer for Delma Studios of New York City, is taking the pictures. He will remain on campus until March 6.
February, 20, 1959
11
Debaters Take First Place for Second Time; Powers and Dempsey Named 2nd, 3rd Speakers
The University debate team traveled to Spring Hill College, Mobile, Ala., on Feb. 11 to participate in the annual Azalea Festival Debate Tournament. Notre Dame won first place at the tourney in 1958 and successfully defended its title by defeating 11 teams while losing only once to Florida State University. For the second straight year Bob Dempsey, president of the debate team and a senior from New Ulm, Minn., was awarded the third top speaker rating while Guy Powers, sophomore from New York, captured the second top speaker award.
Earlier this year Dempsey ranked first at the Wake Forest Dixie Classic Tournament and tied for second place at the St. Joseph College Tourney at Philadelphia. Powers won the third spot and tied for second at these tournaments also.
Debating on the affirmative were Dempsey and Joel Haggard, a sophomore from Seattle, Wash. On the negative were Powers and Morris O’Sulk, freshman from Kansas City, Mo. The first place trophy won at Spring Hill marks the seventh trophy won by the debate team this season.
On January 29 Gerald Goudreau, vice-
Annual Open House Set For Saturday Afternoon
The College of Science will hold its second annual Open House tomorrow from 2 until 8 p.m. The theme of this year’s Open House “toward a greater scientific awareness” — expresses the purpose of the undertaking. It aims to inspire high school students toward a scientific education through a demonstration of the facilities possessed by the University’s College of Science.
Extensive displays have been planned by the departments of chemistry, biology, physics, and geology. In addition, Lobund, the germfree laboratory, will show a movie along with its display.
Movies of scientific interest dealing with the common cold, the heart and circulation, science and superstition, food and health, and elementary chemistry, will be shown throughout the day in 127 Nieuwland.
This year the visiting high schools are participating in a project contest. Each school has been invited to submit entries which will be displayed in 346 and 420 Nieuwland. These projects may deal with all phases of science.
Throughout the day students will present their entries before science professors Hofman, Meade, Gutschick, and Bernard. Winners will receive cash awards.	.
Notre Dame students and area residents are invited to attend the Open House along with the high schools. All are asked to circulate freely through the buildings of the College of Science to see alLthe displays.	_
12
All are cordially invited to attend a lecture by Brother Eymard Salzman, C.S.C., on vocation, life and work of the Brothers of Holy Cross, illustrated by colored slides on Wednesday, February 25, 7:00 p.m. at the Student Center.
president of the team and junior from Cleveland, Ohio, and Jay Whitney, sophomore from Burbank, Calif., traveled to the University of Miami to participate in its national tournament. The Notre Dame debaters were the defending champions but failed to repeat their victory of last year when they dropped four of six debates.
Last week end the debate team met similar misfortune when it failed to qualify in the quarter-finals of the Owen-Coon Debate Tournament at Northwest-era University, one of the largest tournaments in the country. Those participating in the tournament were Bob Dempsey and Jay Whitney, who lost four debates while winning four. The team lost to such schools as Dartmouth and the Air Force Academy while winning from Minnesota and Nebraska.
According to Professor Leonard F. Sommer, director of forensics, “the 195859 debate record is an excellent one as evidenced by the number of trophies already won this year. However, as yet, the team does not show the superior consistency that is needed to win the annual national tournament at West Point.” Professor Sommer pointed out, however, that the debate year is still young, and that the debaters will be participating in tournaments at Washington, D. C., Brooklyn, and Cincinnati in the near future.
The Director of Forensics also announced that on March 16 and 17 interested students will vie for a gold medal in the annual Breen Oratorical
THE OLD AVERAGE
Mr. Emerit E. Moore, director of student accounts, has officially announced the policy for determining room accommodations for next year. Rooms for next year’s seniors and juniors will be determined on the student’s average through last August, i.e. the numerical average on the old system. Next year’s sophomores will choose rooms on their first semester average of this year which will be on the new six point system.
Any other information such as changes of halls from one class to another will be forthcoming after the payment of preregistration fees ' the first week in March.
Contest. This annual speaking event is open to the entire undergraduate student body. To enter, one must write an 1 original speech of from seven to ten j minutes’ duration on any topic of inter- 1 est and submit a written manuscript to , Professor Sommer in room 344, O’-	'
Shaughnessy, by March 9.	;
The following week all entrants will : compete in a preliminary round from । which finalists will be chosen for an- ! other round the following night. Judges * will be Professor Sommer and law stu- j dents Richard Schiller and Jack Mart- ; zell, both of whom are ex-presidents of the debate team.	*
Fourth Lecture Planned Wed. by Married Couple *
The fourth in a series of six Marriage Institute lectures will be presented by Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd Wednesday < in Washington Hall. Their lecture topic will be, “Love in Marriage.”	*
Mr. O’Dowd graduated from Notre Dame in 1942 with a Bachelor of Phil- -* osophy degree in commerce. Later in 1954 he received his master’s degree in business administration at the University of Chicago. During World Wai* II ! he served as a naval officer in the sub-
MR. AND MRS. FRANK O’DOWD -
To speak at Marriage Institute u marine force. Mr. O’Dowd is now a member of the Serra Club of Chicago and the local board of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.	*
Mrs. O’Dowd is a graduate of Chicago . Teachers College. There she received a i’’ bachelor’s degree in education. For two years she served as a Wave officer in " San Francisco.
The O’Dowds are from Wilmette, Ill., and for the past ten years have participated in Catholic Action work. In this 1 capacity they have been active in the Cana Conferences and the Christian X Family Movement. They have eight chil- £ dren. This will be their fifth appearance 8 with the Notre Dame Marriage Institute. K
The Scholastic I
'4
At the Movies
>
A
4
y
i
►
►
V
V
AVON
The French, They Are a Funny Race: (Feb. 19-25). They don’t care what they do, actually, as long as they pronounce it properly. And in dubbed English dialogue that isn’t much.
Co-Hit: Brothers-in-Laiv. Moxie.
GRANADA
Some Came Running: (Feb. 19-March 4). And some will keep on running from here to eternity. Life in Madison, Hoosierland, was made pretty rough while filming the movie. Starring Frank Sinatra in the eternal role of Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin as a lucky when-he’s-got-his-hat-on gambler. This setup puts Bacchus to shame. Shirley McLaine’s talent should keep bettercompany.
PALACE
The Perfect Furlough: (Feb. 14-22). Another comedy well worth seeing. Tony Curtis doing the town in Paris with Linda Cristal and an MP escort, Janet Leigh with her Freud showing, and Elaine Stritch with a few matronly remarks about it all provide a lot of guaranteed laughs. And Keenan Wynn, as the Hollywood big shot, delivers the top line in the movie. Expertly put together, as is Miss Cristal.	*
The Journey: (starts Feb. 23). Yul Brynner, as the Russian commander of a Hungarian border post, and Deborah Kerr, as a titled Englishwoman in a busload of stranded travelers bound for Vienna, wade through some thick cliches here and there. But the movie does have its good moments. The large supporting cast is notably headed by Jason Robards, Jr. and E. G. Marshall.
RIVER PARK
The Deep Six: (Feb. 19-21). Shown once at Washington Hall and it keeps coming back, no matter what. Deals with the old story of conflict between religious belief and necessary action, already profitably used in Friendly Persuasion. After much trouble in which one wonders why the hero didn’t die, everything turns out all right. Approved in Boston, and you know what that means. Starring Alan Ladd and his elevator shoes.
Co-Hit: The Quiet American. Graham Greene at his confusing, obscure best.
Bonjour Tristesse: (Feb. 22-25). Francoise would have a hard time keeping track of edited parts, which is all the better. David Niven and Deborah Kerr do a good job, considering what the book was like.
Thunder Road. The world of easygoing moonshiners as seen through the slit eyes of that sleepy monster, Robert Mitchum.
STATE
The Ten Commandments: (Feb. 19-March 4). The lat C. B. DeMille’s last splurge, and quite a big one, too. Returning after a year — or had it gone at all? Excellently done and faithful to the book, except it takes Moses Heston two hours of film and a ten-minute intermission to return to Egypt. Co-starring the innumerable.
COLFAX
Senior Prom: (Feb. 20-26). We’ll remember always graduation day, if it gets here. Banking on borrowed stars: Louis and Keely, Mitch Miller, Les Elgart, and others which will prove good entertainment. Standing on the muzzle end of the gun this time, Ed Sullivan does a switch and appears as guest star. But Jill Corey balances out the talent. Also Paul Hampton.
Co-Hit: The Two-Headed Spy. Jack Hawkins has been abandoned by Alec Guinness. And with reason. But Gia Scala is still box office.
WASHINGTON HAU
Murder in the Cathedral: (Feb. 20-22). T. S. Eliot’s poetry in symbolism offers a good evening out.
— Tony Wong
LaFortune Expected To Reopen in 3 Weeks
The LaFortune Student Center has been closed for the past two weeks in order to undergo internal redecoration and is expected to have all floors ready for general use in about three more weeks.
All three floors have been redecorated and many offices have been changed. The purpose of the painting is to lighten the atmosphere throughout the Center. '
The main reasons for- the changes were to move the student government out of the main part of the building to a more secluded spot and to create more office space.
Every year, the Student Center is appropriated $10,000 by the student government for improvements such as are
STUDENT CENTER PAINTER
being done at the present time. The Mardi Gras Committee has also given $6,200 to the student center.
Many changes will be in effect once the Center reopens. The student government will take up residence in the old YCS office, which is located on the mezzanine between the first and second floors.
Father McCarragher, assistant to Father Bernard, is moving into the student government office, and Father Putz is moving his office to the basement.
The YCS and the National Catholic Action Student Bureau are moving into the graduate student lounge. The lounge is being discontinued for lack of use. This will leave space for two more offices.
The social calendar for second semester week-end nights is open, and all halls and clubs are invited to contact the manager of the center for rentals.
On a night during which nothing special is scheduled, there will be an open house with dancing and entertainment for aD. Checkers, chess, and card tables are also available at all times.
U
February, 20, 1959
IBM invites the 1959 Graduate
with Bachelor’s or Master’s Degree to discuss career opportunities
Contact your college placement office
for an appointment for campus interviews
THURSDAY, MARCH 5
Career opportunities
Applied Science
If your degree major is in:
Liberal Arts • Business • Accounting Engineering • Mathematics
Physics
Physics
Mathematics • Engineering
Mechanical
Engineering Physics
• Electrical Mathematics
Some facts about IBM
IBM’s phenomenal growth offers unlimited professional opportunities to highly qualified graduates. Company policies lay a firm groundwork for stimulating and rewarding careers in the areas listed above. At IBM, you will find respect for the individual — small-team operations... early recognition of merit — good financial reward — outstanding company-paid benefits__and many educational and training programs.
IBM’s laboratories and manufacturing facilities are located in Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Yorktown, N.Y.; Burlington, Vt.; San Jose, Calif.; Lexington, Ky.; and Rochester, Minn. Sales and service offices are located in 198 principal cities throughout the United States.
If you cannot attend the interviews, write or call the manager of the nearest IBM office:
IBM Corp.
234 N. Michigan Street South Bend 1, Ind.
IBM
INTERNATIONAL . . BUSINESS MACHINES COBBOBATION
DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS • MILITARY PRODUCTS - SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS • SUPPLIES • TIME EQUIPMENT
The Scholastic
PATRIOT OF THE YEAR:
Wernher von Braun
Tonight the senior class of the University of Notre Dame honors one of the greatest e n g i-neers of our time, Dr. Wernher von Braun, as 1959 “Patriot of the Year.” At the age of 46 he has behind him one of the most brilliant careers in
the short history of rocketry.
It is not ordinary for a man who once worked for the enemies of the United States to receive an award which is established to honor “the outstanding patriot of the year.” But then Dr. Von Braun, who obtained his doctorate from the University of Berlin at the age of 22, is no ordinary man.
Ever since the day of his confirmation when he received a telescope from his mother instead of the traditional long pants and pocket watch, Wernher’s longing towards space travel steadily increased. After taking a few closer looks at the Moon and Mars, the young would-be scientist decided that it was not enough to just look at them, the real thrill, he told himself, would consist-in going there.
TO SPACE IN NINETY DAYS
Sending away for the classic book by Herman Oberth The Rocket to the Interplanetary Spaces, the young Von Braun was shocked to find that it contained for the most part mathematical equations. Up to that date he had loathed mathematics and had flunked both mathematics and physics in high school. Firm to his objective he decided that if he had to learn mathematics in order to learn about rocketry, then he would learn mathematics. The effect was a fast rise to the head of his class by Wernher, and he finished by teaching physics and mathematics to the class when his teacher was sick.
Wernher von Braun has always been a man of strong and decided character. Many times he stood up to speak when evei-yone and everything including the odds were against him. At the time when the first “Sputnik” was launched, the newly-designated Secretary of Defense, Neil McElroy, was visiting Huntsville. Dr. Von Braun, who had received the news from a British correspondent, told the secretary, “Sir, when you get back to Washington tomorrow, and find that all hell has broken loose, remember this: We can put a satellite up in sixty days.” General Medaris who is Von Braun’s military boss and who was standing nearby cautioned, “Make it ninety days Wernher.” “O.K.” said Von Braun, “ninety days it is.”
On November 4, the Russians put their second “Sputnik” in the air, a huge one which weighed 1,120 lbs. and had a live dog in it. Five days later a teletype arrived from Washington, General Medaris called Dr. Von Braun on the intercom. “Wernher,” he said, .“let’s go!” Eighty-four days later the United States had a satellite up. It could have been done within sixty days, but for the requirements laid down by Washington stating that the satellite must carry scientific instruments for the IGY program. The Jupiter-C’s were ready to go, but most of the work had to be done at the Jet Propul-
February, 20, 1959
by Peter Ojtozy
sion Laboratory in Pasadena where they had to build the new IGY satellite itself.
The period that followed the U. S. success in putting a satellite into space was one of jubilation and feeling of superiority. Everyone was happy and confident that the Russian space program had been surpassed or at least equalled. Dr. Von Braun was very far from confident, and at a press interview a few days later he cautioned that the “Explorer” was a rival to “Sputnik” only in spirit. “The frightening thing is the rate of progress of their effort,” he pointed out about the Russians. “If we should attain a rate 20 percent greater than theirs it would still take us five years to overtake them. Let’s remember that ‘Sputnik II’ had 1120 pounds of payload while “Explorer” had only 30. The six years between 1945 and 1951 during which the Russians laid the groundwork for their large
rocket program are lost. The U. S. went into a serious ballistic missile program only in 1951. We are working hard enough now, but we did not work hard enough during the first six to ten years after the war. It will be over five years before we catch up with the Soviets again because they are not likely to sit by idly. We should concentrate on a well-planned research and development program covering all aspects of human flight through space.
“It is most likely that we are in for a few more shocks. With the powerful multi-stage rockets they must have used to launch ‘Sputnik II,’ the Soviets have a definite immediate capability to fire a payload of possibly over 100 pounds on a one-way trip to the moon. With just a little more speed, the top stage of their rocket would permanently leave the earth’s gravitational field and enter an orbit around the sun. Another
possible surprise they may have in store for us is a manned ascent into an orbit with ensuing return and recovery. There _ can be no doubt that as the first successful conquerors of outer space the Soviets can now reap a whole bunch of easy fruits.” The preceding words reflect Dr. Von Braun’s permanent worry about Russian space superiority. He was trying to get support for his space program back in 1954 when ex-Secretary of Defense Wilson “pooh-poohed” satellites saying that they were absurd. Von Braun warned at the time that the possession of a satellite would be a tremendous propaganda weapon for the nation that puts one up first.
RED RACE AND RED TAPE
Sure enough the free world was shocked to hear the news of “Sputnik.” Some nations who were neutral in the cold war but leaned towards the U. S. became doubtful as to whether it would be a safe thing to do. The launching of the Explorers, the Vanguard and now finally the Atlas has partially restored the prestige of America in the eyes of the nations , abroad. However a lot more must be done in order to con- * vince our allies and the rest of the world that we can outdo . . the Communists.
Dr. Von Braun is also worried about the training programs ' for scientists and engineers in the United States. “I believe Y that the professional quality of a young American engineer fresh from the university is at least .as high as that of Iris . Russian counterpart,” he said. “However we do not provide	•
sufficient opportunity for these young men to work a sufficient	:
number of consecutive years in missile development to adequately get enough practical experience.	■
“Research and development projects are turned on and off like a faucet, depending on the shifting situation with regard to budget and priority. And every time we turn one research
and development contract off, several years of priceless experience on the part of a few individuals go down the drain.
“Something drastic must be done,” said Von Braun, “to raise the status of scientists in the public eye in this country. I am sure that the ‘Sputniks’ will give Russia’s science education program a powerful boost. I can only hope that they will give the United States science education program an even greater boost, because we need such a boost badly.”
Although governmental red tape is a serious hindrance to efficiency and progress, much too little has been done about eliminating it. One big step, however, has been taken by Dr. Von Braun’s missile agency. The Army has established an over-all Ordnance Missile Command with its headquarters at Huntsville, Ala., and headed by Major General John B. Medaris. Notable in this arrangement is the fact that General Medaris now will have direct access to the Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Army, without going through all the between layers of Pentagon officers and committees. This development is due in a great part to the efforts of Dr. Von Braun and General Medaris who have been fighting for a system like this for a long time.
BEAUTY IN SPACE
When the NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) made a move which would have required the Army to turn over , to the agency 2,100 space scientists and engineers, Von Braun threatened to quit. In the opinion of many it was this threat that kept President Eisenhower from approving the change; he did however, as a compromise, turn over to the new civilian agency the Jet Propulsion Laboratory at Pasadena, Calif.
Dr. Von Braun stated that a transfer of even some Army missile men to NASA might cripple the Army’s missile program. He also said that under civilians he and the other scientists would not have had the same scientific freedom as they had while perfecting the Jupiter and other missiles.
Asked once by a correspondent what he thought of the future of man in space, Dr. Von Braun had this to say: “There is beauty in space, and it is orderly. There is no weather and there is regularity. It is predictable. Just look at our little Explorer; you can set your clock by it literally; it is more accurate than your watch. Everything in space obeys the laws of physics. If you know these laws, and obey them, space will treat you kindly. And don’t tell me man does not belong out there. Man belongs wherever he wants to go and he’ll do plenty well when he gets there.”
Segovia Strums i . ♦. Stomps
Washington Hall and Friday the thirteenth witnessed serious music’s answer to Gene Autrey, minus the voice. For that matter, they almost heard the voice when Andres Segovia interrupted Vincenzo Galileo’s little lute lullabies to saunter off the stage a la Callas. You see, Notre Dame’s le Circle Bleu (as in cheese) has not mellowed with age, grace, nor culture. The audience held its breath as Andres glided off; Sol Hurok released his when Andres returned.
With this as the overture, I expected not much, but I got much. This Charles Bowen-shaped creature, seated on the Baldwin stool with his left foot propped on an exacting footstool (“It must be 16 inches high”) strummed and plucked beautifully. His tone is two-sided, on one side you are in the audience, and on the other’ you are inside the guitar looking out. The novelty of seeing and hearing a guitar do a rather formidable imitation of a keyboard instrument loses its appeal rather quickly, but that’s when Seiior Segovia’s musical intuition takes' over. From this point on, you don’t care what instrument.he’s playing; it’s the music that counts.
Concert presented by Andres Segovia, guitarist, on February 13, 1959, in Washington Hall at Notre Dame, Indiana.
Prelude, Passacaille, 6 pieces for lute.____________________________.Galileo
Gigue & Gavotte_____________________________________________________Roncalli
Intro. & Allegro.________________________L_____________;________________Sor
Siciliana & Gavota-----------------------------------------------------Bach
Sonata ___________________________________________________________Scarlatti
Romanza ___________;----------■_______________________________Mendelssohn
Canzonetta _____________________________________________________Mendelssohn
Characteristic Pieces ______________________________________________Torroba
Study in A Major-----------------------------------------------------------------Tarrega	j
Sevilla ____________________________________________________________Albeniz
Dome Announcement
John Thurin, editor of the 1959 Dome, announced that the entire yearbook will be at press by Easter vacation.
Like to have an informal picture in the ’59 Dome? Well then do not cut any classes during the next three weeks. During that time Dome photographers will be prowling through labs and popping up in classrooms to take pictures. This of course is for the Academic Section which has been revamped to keep in line with the “new look” of the 1959 Dome. This year each department in the University will be featured on one or two pages. In this manner a more accurate and more complete view can be given of the academic life at Notre Dame.
During the past month a completely new set of administration pictures were taken. A photo studio was set up in the Dome office to obtain the striking lighting effects desired. The results achieved guarantee the students ten pages of fascinating portrait studies of the University administration.
— Fine, J.Y.
The first group tantalized the audience into super silence, which is the only way one can hear the focal point of Segovia’s talent. Galileo (the astronomer’s father), Roncalli (of Venice?), and Sor (pronounced “bore”) weren’t really given a fair chance, as both audience and Andres were busily trying to perfect that sublime art called easing tensions.
Bach was a different story. He was met with more equality than I remember in many a moon. The dynamic shadings which characterized these two small pieces were never met with again. This was the deepest incision made musically by Segovia. His inherent ability to achieve nothing but sheer contrast has carried him much farther through the years than has the novelty of his medium. Contrast in music is one of the basic precepts of the art. To hear it perfected to such a degree is overwhelming.
The Scarlatti suffered a bit from technical maladies; the Mendelssohn Songs Without Words profited from congenial melodies. Spanish music will never be my particular brand of the art, but Torroba’s vaguely dissonant and highly ingenius “Characteristic Pieces” brought me closer to Seville than does the Huddle’s chili. I was disappointed that Andres didn’t encore with Bach’s d minor unaccompanied (he did the last time I heard him), but the two perpetual motion pieces sufficiently squelched the cavity that cacophony had created. And he didn’t play Liszt
The Scholastic
16
WHETSEL
l's>
GOSS
Concert and Lecture Series
Broadway
The next Notre Dame Concert and Lecture Series attraction will be the popular Broadway show team Goss and Whetsei. Each of the preceding three attractions, pianist Theodore Ullman, Players Incorporated, and Andre Segovia has been well accepted, and the


S'
Goss and Whetsei February 27 appearance promises to make a fourth success.
The Goss and Whetsei song and dance “Make a Show” concert has a history of marked national success. It was while both were featured in the Broadway Show Kismet that they decided to pool their talents and theatrical knowhow to “Make a Show” of a concert. Husband and wife in private life, Robert Goss and Louise Whetsei have taken their exciting show to road following New York approval, typified by the New York Journal American’s comment, “Recitals like this should inspire other singers.”
“Make a Show” grew out of Goss’ decision that something should be done to modernize the approach to the conceit, to rid it of its usual static quality. The team has consequently introduced a unique vitality to its performance, which ranges from opera to folk songs. Their repertoire includes selections from such Broadway hits as Porgy and Bess, Oklahoma and Call Me Madam; folk selections from Down In the Valley, from Copland, Young and others; opera and operetta selections from such as The Marriage of Figaro, Showboat, and Spring Is Here.
The concert itself is built around a single continuing theme, thus giving it a certain meaning and substance for the audience. All acts, solos and duets, are costumed, choreographed and linked together in action and conversation to give the concert the pace of a miniature Broadway production.
Robert Goss, baritone, brings an impressive background to the Washington Hall concert stage. Formerly a professional skier and dance band leader, he is now reputed to be one of the best leading men in musical theater.
A graduate of the University of Vermont, Goss furthered his musical studies at Julliard School of Music and the American Theater Wing in New York. In 1953, he was asked by Leonard Bernstein to translate and adapt Poulenc’s opera, “Les Mamelles de Tiresias,” for the Brandeis Festival of the Creative Arts. He was chosen to star in the leading male part, and the show subsequently received excellent reviews.
Robert Goss has created leading parts in ten world premieres and five American premieres of operas by such composers as Mozart, Siegmeister, and Milhaud. He created the famous part of Cecco in the premier of Haydn’s The Man In
February, 20, 1959
at
Notre Dame
by Neil Stalter
the Moon. His most current world premiere was the part of Prince Zorn in James Therber’s The Thirteen Clocks.
As a Broadway star, Goss has appeared opposite Carol Channing in Leonard Bernstein’s production of Wonderful Town. Deutschophiles will be interested to learn that Goss was later engaged by the Metropolitan Opera as leading man for their national tour of the always popular Fledermaus.
In television he has been seen with Patrice Munsel in the color version of The Merry Widow; with the NBC opera the- atre in such works as The Would-Be Gentleman, Madame Butterfly, and Billy Budd; and on Omnibus in The Mighty Casey.
Robert Goss recordings include: Operetta, The Student Prince for Columbia Records; “Oratorio Arias for New Records, Inc.; German Folk Songs for the Book of the Month Club Music Appreciation Series; and American folk tunes for the documentary movie Shrimp Fisherman.
Louise Whetsei, soprano, and the other half of the “Make a Show” team, likewise brings a big background to Notre Dame. She combines the sophistication of a world traveler with beauty, talent and a charming grace of an accomplished performer, .	'
Miss Whetsei received her first stage training in the ballet at the Paris Opera. Later, she spent eight years at the family residence in Mexico, where she added athletics and “horsewomanship” to. her credits. Immediately following came secondary school'in Colorado and then the Julliard School in New-York City.
Her first professional opportunity came when she left Julliard with a concert group which toured Italy, Africa and Greece, after World War II, under the auspices of the USO. On her return she joined the Opera School at the Berkshire Music Festival under Boris Goldovsky. -This was to prove a firm stepping' stone to many New York appearances.
First came featured parts with NBC opera theater, and then quickly followed appearances as soloist with the Little Orchestra Society, New York Philharmonic Symphony and Comic Opera Players.
Broadway beckoned next to Miss Whetsei with parts in Roberta and Wonderful Town in summer stock. This led di- * rectly to a featured lead in the Broadway production of Kismet. Last fall, she was seen in featured parts with the NBC Opera Company on its first nation-wide tour, which played at St. Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium.	.
When “Make a Show” is judged, you will agree it adds up to enjoyable entertainment. In the Robert Goss and Louise Whetsei background both experience and excellence are re- : fleeted. And- their repertoire as cited promises a fine and memorable concert. Tickets are still available at the Washington Hall box office. • ..	*	-
17
A History
The Scholastic
by Jerry Kriegshauser and Chuck Miller
Continuing the series on campus organizations, the Scholastic presents here a general history of its development to the present, volume 100. The article mainly considers the magazine's fluctuating implications in campus life. It brings out the important concept that the SCHOLASTIC was founded to reveal student intellectual progress as well as news of campus life to the parents.
With the modem growth of and demand for student responsibility, the magazine has attempted in recent years to direct itself to the interest of the student body itself. Sporadic skirmishes with the Administration have at last, if only briefly, sounded the students* dissatisfaction with elements of campus life. This is an important function of the SCHOLASTIC since it thus tries to effect the harmonious intellectual community to which all elements of a true university should be directed.
Since the students, as Newman and other intelligent educators agree, are the raison d’etre for a university's existence, it is only fitting that their magazine exist for them and justifies its place in the university community by contributing to intellectual improvement.
ity.” In order to keep the student infomned, the staff printed lectures on math and history, book reviews, biographies of famous men, and the “current art, musical, literary and scientific gossip of the day.” Poems were added for the enjoyment and moral inspiration of the student. Most of these works were written by students and professors from St. Mary’s and Notre Dame. The tables of contents in those early volumes list such articles as “An Early Frontier Wedding,” “On the Pronunciation of Latin and Greek” and “Chinese Punishment.” The record for lengthy poems was set by a sixty-seven stanza creation entitled “Such Is Life.” Most of the articles were learned and pei-tinent and gave the young Scholastic a scholarly and sophisticated tone. Even the editorials and letters to the editor were primarily concerned with general social and moral problems of the day.
“If there be one paper devoted to college literature that pursues the even tenor of its way, heedless alike of th smiles or frowns of its contemporaries, it surely must of the Scholastic. . . . It cannot but give us great pleasure to find such patriotism and loyalty to principles, with such complete absence of bigotry as mark each issue of the Scholastic.”
(Wesleyan College Portfolio, 1882)
But the Scholastic Year, as it was called then, had other purposes. The University Catalogue of 1872-73 stated: “The chief object of this paper is to keep the parents and friends of our students informed on the various subjects of study and discipline at this University and St. Mary’s Academy. For this purpose, regular weekly reports are given, consisting of the names of those who deserve, by their excellent conduct, to be rewarded on the Roll of Honor, and who by their perseverance and industry deserve special commendation from their various professors and teachers. Other reports, relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find place in this paper, and keep parents and friends accurately informed on all that concerns their children.” With this parental concern in mind, they printed lists of the arrivals of students and friends at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s so the parents could be sure their son or daughter had arrived 'safely and on time. Bulletins of general health and grades received on the major exams filled many pages of these early issues, and in the back pages were found the activities of the various organizations and groups. This, for instance, might have been the first, unofficial “Time Out”:
r


4
Perhaps opinion has not changed since 1882, but the Scholastic has. There are points of similarity all through the century of the Scholastic’s existence; the editors were always dissatisfied (in the first issue in 1867 they complained that a "time-worn and venerated tree” on campus had been cut down), the freshmen were always unmanageable (in 1924, they were “straining the democracy of Notre Dame”), and the cycles of fashion were always evident on its advertising pages (button-down collars were the rage in 1940). But the Scholastic has undergone various and gradual changes that denote shifts in its policies and aims.
The Scholastic was the direct descendant of the earlier bi-weekly literary entitled Progress, which appeared only in manuscript form and was read aloud on certain evenings to the assembled student body. The new magazine fostered this literary tradition from its first issue in the fall of 1867 to the early 1920’s. One of its chief purposes in those years was to “open a field for aspiring young writers who might otherwise, through timidity, allow their talents in this respect to remain inactive,” and to publish articles “of an instructive and literary character from writers of mature mind and abil-
“Last Wednesday, about sixty or seventy boys of the Junior Department, accompanied by Brother Florentius, proceeded to a fallow field to have some fun kicking the ball, and occasionally, each other’s shins.” (Nov. 9, 1867)
(We wonder if Brother Florentius knew what he was starting.) The parents were no doubt reassured when they read this editorial, written in the verbose style of the last century, in 1867:
“We would like exceedingly to make the Scholastic Year an illustrated paper, so far at least as to give the photographs of the intelligent, frank, cheerful-looking students who are rapidly filling up the college halls, and making the playgrounds resound with their merry games, and rejoicing the hearts of the professors by their zeal and enthusiasm in class.”
This may have been written by Father N. H. Gillespie, who, more than any other single figure^ was responsible for the founding of the Scholastic, and who served as its first editor. As the mastheads of the ’70’s and early ’80’s did not list the names of staff members, we are not certain about their identity, but by the fall of 1886, all the editors were students. The paper had by this time received full endorsement from Father Corby, president of the University, who re-
The Scholastic

u
cognized in it the fulfillment of Father Sorin’s often-expressed , k wish for student literary expression.
| Toward the end of the last century, humorous poems and p serialized fiction became more common, though serious essays ; “in prose and verse, and notes on art, music, literature, gleaned from the best sources,” still occupied a prominent place. Sports coverage increased from an occasional article to a regular column, and the amount of news and of contri-.t butions from St. Mary’s decreased until it came to occupy the paltry space it receives at present. News columns were written in a more concise and plain style. Thus: “Manager ( O’Malley of the football team has made arrangements with the liverymen of South Bend to have a number of wagonettes ran to the games, carrying passengers at a low price. This will increase the attendance at the games, as the poor hack service
' heretofore lessened our patronage.” (Circa 1900.)
k Changes were not limited to the content. The SCHOLASTIC 1	Year had grown from a six-page appendage to the already
;	flourishing Ave Maria to the 1876 Notre Dame Scholastic
f of sixteen pages. By 1900 it was twenty-eight pages in length, ' and frequent appearance of photographs began to prepare the way for the “newsy” revolution a decade later. It appeared , daily for a time in June, 1898, and occasionally thereafter during seasons of special interest. In 1917 the Scholastic y had color designs on the covei' for the first time, and beginning in the ’20’s carried advertisements in greatei' abundance. The format was completely modernized in 1924. Printed on glossy paper, the Scholastic assumed a magazine-like appearance. News articles moved to the front and displaced the more cultural articles, and the sports section increased from , a column to its present size of several pages. Book reviews, humorous and serious poems, theater columns, and national * coverage were still run, although they began to lose their prominence. The founding of a new literary magazine called ► the Scrip in 1930 and the later broadening of the Juggler marked the end of a literary tradition that would never be revived on Scholastic pages. The publication became more and more localized in scope as the number and availability of other magazines and newspapers relieved it of its older responsibilities. Shortly after this transformation, the Scholastic won its first major award when the Associated-Collegiate Press chose it the All-American college paper of 1937.
The dominant theme in the editorials during the ’30’s was I the lack of or the demonstration of school spirit. During the • war years, the entire magazine, tagged as “a chaste reflection t of official Notre Dame,” became patriotic and assumed a USO tone. The post-war years, however, brought a new change in Scholastic policy and it became self-conscious of its role as an organ of student opinion and criticism. This new aim was expressed in an editorial in September, 1947: The Scholastic must function “as both a medium and an instrument in the 1 development of genuine student leadership, responsibility and initiative. To this end Scholastic opens its letters column to the expression of intelligent student opinion; it will report and take its stand in support and defense of reasoned attempts to assume real responsibility in student affairs, and to encourage student initiative in this field.” The Scholastic was aware of its critical limitations, however. “Often college editors fail . to consult the administration and therefore do not get information which might throw an entirely different light on whether the truth will be served. On the other hand admin' istrations have an inordinate fear of what they call ‘bad pub-i licity.’ ” (Editorial, November 15, 1957.) So the Scholastic, I placing the good of the University before its own limited I critical “mission,” commented on a less inhibited journal: 1 “Last week a nondescript and anonymous journal called the J Thursday Throwback made its second appearance of the school year.. According to its own authority the Throwback is published in ‘a spirit of friendly, helpful criticism,’ with the hope that ‘they might bring a more balanced view of the University and its life.’ The idea behind the Throwback is a
February, 20, 1959
fine one but the editors have not always lived up to it. . . . .” The editor went on to plead the case for a more open, and legal organ of uncensored criticism. “If there were a paper printed at Notre Dame and written just for the campus, would it not be’ possible for student criticism to appear openly?” (Jan. 1958.) This new policy of the Scholastic is more striking when compared with the editorial opinion expressed in a similar situation in February, 1924. “It was just about this season two years ago that a parentless paper made its appearance on this campus of ours. ... It was born of the season and died in season. . . .” The editor continued, discussing the source of such newspapers and general student dissatisfaction. “But the student will cling to his room discussing the question of the day and of no day of his oft-times imagined mistreatment, without giving the proper authorities a chance to establish the reason between cause and effect. Consequently there is no harmony of spirit.”
By approving a critical review the modern Scholastic displayed a freedom unthought of by its 1924 predecessor; but by approving such a review the Scholastic also acknowledged its own limitations.
The Scholastic is still a young magazine. It has changed and will continue to change. AS1 a part of the University, it will improve or decline with the University. As a reflection of the student body, it will function as long as there is a student body. Its purposes have changed during the last century, but whether literary, newsy, or critical, the Scholastic has always been useful.
MASS SCHEDULE
Friday, February 20
Mass (purple) of Ember Friday
2nd Prayer for Vocations
Saturday, February 21
Mass (purple) of Ember Saturday
2nd Prayer for Vocations
Sunday, February 22
Mass of 2nd Sunday of Lent
Monday, February 23
Mass (white) St. Peter Damian 2nd Prayer of Monday of 2nd Week of Lent 3rd Prayer for Vocations
— or —
Mass (purple) of Monday of 2nd Week of Lent 2nd Prayer of St. Peter Damian
3rd Prayer for Vocations
Tuesday, February 24
Mass of St. Matthias
2nd Prayer of Tuesday of 2nd Week of Lent
Wednesday, February 25
Mass (purple) of Wednesday of 2nd Week of Lent
2nd Prayer for Vocations
'^ Thursday, February 26
Mass (purple) of Thursday of 2nd Week of Lent 2nd Prayer for Vocations
Friday, February 27
Mass (white) of St. Gabriel of the Seven Sorrows 2nd Prayer of Friday of 2nd Week of Lent 3rd Prayer for Vocations
— or —
Mass (purple) of Friday of 2nd Week of Lent 2nd Prayer of St. Gabriel
3rd Prayer for Vocations
19
At the Gallery:
NOOm HIT:
A WAI N TI8
SHAPIRO COLLECTION
by JAMES KEY REEVE, Curator of the Art Gallery
After graduating from New York University with a master's degree in Art History and Curatorship, Mr. James Key Reeve held curatorial posts at New York's Metropolitan Museum and the Museum of Modern Art. Mr. Reeve worked for three years at the Toledo Art Gallery before assuming his present position at Notre Dame as Curator of the Art Gallery.
The current exhibit presents a broad selection of material in the modern painting genres. Such exhibits (as well as concerts, symposiums, etc.,) should be an important element in the university students' calendar — they have the great advantage of being something we can partake of freely and without the stigma of grades. Art is one of the chiefs among those leisurely activities we often forget at Notre Dame amidst bells, IBM cards and assignments; nonetheless, it is an essential feature in the life of a truly educated man whose life here has been more than a collage of football games, slide rules, and the Huddle.
Rene Magritte: Caterpillar and Bird

On Sunday, Feb. 8, the University Art Gallery held a t public reception in honor of the opening of an Exhibition of J Modern Master Drawings, Watercolors and Collages, loaned ' to the Art Gallery by Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Randall Shapiro of Oak Park, Ill. At the time of this writing the exhibition has been open one week and approximately 600 people have ; viewed this fascinating personal collection of one of the most. . discriminating and far-seeing connoisseurs in the field of: Modem Art.
Mr. and Mrs. Shapiro represent the best of the “collector’s . collector.” They have not only grounded themselves thoroughly in the various styles of contemporary modern art, but have, through their very great knowledge, an appreciation and foresight of the works by artists as yet not well known £ to the general public. This last mentioned ability is that of ' the true connoisseur and an absolute prerequisite for those of us not possessing millions of dollars who wish to assemble a first-class, top-quality collection of today’s art. The Shapiros . have helped and furthered the cause of many not-so-well- , known artists in the days before public acceptance of their ' art. This is one feature which has endeared them greatly to artists and public alike. The scope of their collections,includes not only the drawings, watercolors and collages to be seen in this exhibition, but paintings and sculpture as well. The Sha- : piros collect in the Renaissance sense — that is, art to them is a way of life, a method by which life is enormously enriched by the varied creative efforts of mankind, and like true col- \ lectors they are exceedingly generous with their collections, \ loaning them to various institutions for the enjoyment of a great viewing public. Also, like true collectors, they present gifts, from time to time, to different public museums; the . predecessor of this particular facet of their collection is now : one of the treasures of the Chicago Institute of Arts, known as the Shapiro Collection of Drawings and Prints. They have L also been very kind friends of the University Art Gallery, ‘ making various loans to us at different times, and presenting to our permanent collection a group of 23 oil paintings, water- > colors and prints which forms the nucleus of our collection of j modern art.	.
In looking at this Exhibition it is amazing to find such a £ varied group of artists and their still more varied styles of | expression. The collection ranges from the classical romanti- | cism of Maillol, the gentle realism of Max Kahn and the . colorful impressionistic style of Francis Chapin through the £ strong expressionism of Kokoschka and Beckmann to the whim- y sy of Klee and Graves, the warm abstract landscapes of John f Marin and Lyonel Feininger, the non-objective works of $ Schwitters, Kandinsky and Matta. One of the largest individual groups in the exhibition is that of the surrealists. This & includes works by Berman, Brauner, Magritte, Seligmann and $ Tanguy, among others. The show allows for a comparison $ of style between some of the outstanding modern artists — Matisse, represented with four drawings, the British sculptor J Henry Moore, Marc Chagall, George Grosz, Joan Miro, Jules f Pascin, Odilon Redon, Mark Tobey and Max Weber. One of | the most unusual and curious medium of work is that of the , | collage, and in particular the work of Joseph Cornell. He is represented with two box constructions, which may be classed i with the collage medium, although they are actually threedimensional constructions. This type of work involves a prob- # lem of pure design, but with an objective subject matter ar- B ranged in a surrealist manner.	S
For the student of drawing the exhibition is most reward- S ing. These are the fresh, careful studies from which the artist B
The Scholastic 9
Joan Miro: Night Birds
• derives a finished work in oil painting or sculpture. As such they must be approached with the knowledge that, in most ? cases, they represent only a development in the long process of transformation of an idea into a finished work of art. We are able to see the artist’s notes to himself, sometimes a kind of “shorthand,” other times elaborately detailed and intricate studies. It is this branch of the fine arts which is often overlooked or relegated to a secondary position, and we, the general viewing public do not have a chance to see these foundations upon which the finished painting or sculpture is built. This is another important reason for the fascination the show holds for the obseiwer.
’ Many of us jump to the conclusion that when an artist, let us take for example Matisse, paints an abstract work, he simply thinks of a subject and then without preliminaries ar, rives at the simplified volumes and masses characteristic of his work. In actuality Matisse was one of the most thorough of artists, rendering as many as twenty or thirty preliminary drawings before he was satisfied with the quality of simpli-b fication he wanted to achieve. His first drawings would be ; acutely real — with every line or contoui* carefully placed; r, then with careful study he would begin to omit secondary lines until there remained only those which seemed essential to him. This produced a long series of drawings, each one simpler than the last, until finally there remained a drawing of extreme simplification. It was this last drawing he would use U>‘ as the basis for the resultant painting. To the public un-f aware of this process the work might seem childishly simple t and “easy.” This is what Matisse was striving for. Matisse f is famous for the rich, vibrant quality of the color in his paintings, seen with a flat patterned design. Without the sim-■ plification of this design he might have been lost, colorwise, s and certainly would not have been able to express his ideas.
This exhibition includes four of these studies; one, Woman at fc Table, is a nearly finished design and the resultant painting F follows this composition closely. The other drawings are those t partly through the process of line elimination, or abstraction. £ It is also interesting to note the many varied ways in which F a sculptor will make studies, which ultimately are used in the I finished, three-dimensional work. The English sculptor, Henry
Moore (represented here with four drawings) approaches his -1 problem on a much different basis from that of Theodore , t Roszak. They are both of the abstract school, but Moore uses recognizable human subject matter, whereas Roszak creates ■ | an entirely imaginative, elegant design, faintly reminiscent of architecture. Jacques Lipschitz presents in a very small drawfl ing a powerful, monumental and completely abstract figure, || while Marini’s elegant, attenuated nude suggests this sculp-II tor’s love for the smooth, expressive abstractions he produces. I Since many of the painterly artists in the exhibition be-| long to the surrealist or magic realism school, it is of great I interest to see their various approaches. Miro uses highly 1 abstracted forms rendered in an almost childish innocence and ; ecstacy, the sophistication of his work is so subtle as to be j February, 20, 1959
1
lost on many viewers. Rene Magritte is more obvious with his themes. His Homage to Manet’s Balcony is a spoof at the famous Manet painting, The Balcony, in which three figures are arranged on a balcony, one seated and two standing. Magritte uses the same composition, but instead of figures he uses three coffins, one bent to appeal* seated comfortably in a chair. Classic surrealism is seen in the work of the Belgian, Paul Delvaux. His dream-like figures disport themselves serenely at the beach where the bathers seem to float in memory only, or are seen, as in Nude Among Ruins, placed in en-' tirely incongruous settings. The American Seligmanh and the French Tanguy use similar ideas — that of unknown or unexperienced figures or objects placed in what seems to be a deep, mysterious landscape stretching forever back into memory.
Of special interest to people of this area are the two drawings by Norman LaLiberte, Painter-in-Residence at St. Mary’s College. One, Annunciation, is an example of highly abstracted forms rendered in very subtle coloring of greens and grays heightened by the addition of attached metal leaf collage. The othei* drawing, Legend, illustrates LaLiberte’s marvelously sensitive linework and suggests the delicacy of historiation in Mediaeval manuscripts.
Including as it does some of the most important figures in the field of Modem Art since the turn of the century, this exhibition presents a unique opportunity to faculty and students of the University, and to people of the South Bend area. To be able to see at first hand the personal working drawings and the more finished watercolor studies of these artists is indeed a rare privilege. To further enrich the public appreciation of these works, Mr. Shapiro will conduct a question and answer session on the exhibition the evening of Tuesday, Feb. 24 at 8:00 o’clock. A question box is located just inside the main entrance of the Art Gallery for deposit of any questions which anyone might have. These questions will be answered by Mr. Shapiro on the 24th, as well as any questions which the audience in attendance might pose to him, concerning the works in the exhibition.
AT THE GALLERY
an exhibition of MODERN MASTER DRAWINGS, WATER COLORS, AND COLLAGES
loaned from die collection of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph' Randall Shapiro February 8 to March 8, 1959
1 to 5 P.M. Doily
SCHEDULE
Informal Discussion cm Modem Art conducted by Mr. Shapiro, Tuesday, February 24 at 8 P.M.
The exhibition features works by Chagall. Klee. Feininger, Kokoschka. Beckmann, Bfiro. Matisse. Weber. Lipschitz.
Braque, and Kandinsky
21
The Douglas Aircraft Company
February 25 and 26
SEE YOUR DIRECTOR OF PLACEMENT FOR YOUR INTERVIEW APPOINTMENT
BEST BOOK
BUYS In . . .
ART BUSINESS DRAMA ECONOMICS FICTION
GOVERNMENT & POLITICS HISTORY HUMOR LANGUAGE LITERATURE
MATHEMATICS & SCIENCE MYTHOLOGY PHILOSOPHY POETRY RELIGION PHYSICS & ASTRONOMY
Save Time and Money Shop at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on-ffte-campus
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS IN ENGINEERING, PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS
INVITES YOU TO ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Find out about the interesting positions, assistance in furthering your education and outstanding promotion opportunities with the world’s leading manufacturer of aircraft and missiles. Get facts on living conditions, research facilities and opportunities to advance professionally at Douglas facilities located in California, Florida, Oklahoma, North Carolina and New Mexico.
Reserve your career decision until you have talked with the Douglas representative. It may be the most important interview of your life.	,
22
■ The Scholdstj^ j
SpMk Pki^
Fencing Meet Follows ' TV Basketball Game
Immediately after tomorrow’s nation* ally televised Irish-DePaul basketball game, the Notre Dame fencing squad will present a demonstration of the art of fencing by George Santelli. Follow-i ing the demonstration the Irish fencers will host a triangular meet with the fencing squads of Ohio State and Michigan State.
Mr. Santelli is a. former U. S. Olympic fencing coach and is one of this country’s most famous fencing masters. He is one of the most active and colorful • men in U.S. sports today even though he is over 60. The visiting coaches, Charles Schmitter of Michigan State and Robert Kaplan of Ohio State, will ft- demonstrate while Santelli explains. [■ The triangular meet following will take place on the basketball court. “These two Big Ten teams are always 1 a threat,” says Coach Walter Langford. “We’ve had good success against them. ■ ?	In the last decade we’ve beaten Ohio
I	State each time and lost to the Spartans
’* only once. But more often than not i these were close decisions.”
Last Saturday the fencers went to Chicago where they engaged Chicago University and Wayne State University, winning by scores of 20-7 and 14-13, respectively. For the 27 matches of the ► Wayne match, Langford used 20 differ.	ent	men.
In the foil division against Wayne, ;	the	score was	6-3. Wayne’s three vic-
tories were won by Wayne Junior Jim ‘	Davis. Davis	is the two-time NCAA
.	foil	champion.	Jim Russomano, John
I Lauerman, and Jerry Johnson each notched two victories for ND.
:	Wayne won the sabre division, 5-4.
p	Pat Green won two for ND while Joe
■	Klein and Tom Lee each won one.
« By an identical score, Wayne also won ■ the epee division. Notre Dame’s victories - were by Jim Jock, who won two, Jim ; Brogan, and Dan Clancy.
? Langford also used substitutes against :	Chicago University, and they came
' through, rolling up a score of 20-7.
In the foil division Russomano again won two victories as the Irish won it 7-2. Johnson, Lauerman, Norbert Spitzer, Charles Duggan, and John Hutchings each won one match.
1 The score in the sabre division was 8-1, with the Irish on top. Klein took two matches while Green, Lee, John Wursta, Rudolph Ehrensing, Klaus Muller-Bergh, and Eugene Spejewski each notched a victory.
The closest division was the epee where ND won 5-4.
“Our inability to take charge in the sabre and epee divisions,” says Langford, “could hurt us when we meet stronger competition.”
. February, 20, 1959
Cogers Host DePaul n National TV Contest; Return Home After Kentucky Loss in Stadmm
Tomorrow afternoon, the Blue Demons of DePaul University invade the Notre Dame Fieldhouse to meet the Irish of Notre Dame in a nationally-televised game. As usual, starting time of the contest will be 2 pan.
Last Saturday night in the Chicago Stadium the Irish ran into the topranked Kentucky Wildcats and lost a 71-52 decision. The Irish kept with the Wildcats for about ten minutes in the first half, and then poor shooting by Notre Dame led to an easy victory for Kentucky.
Tom Hawkins was bottled up effectively by the Wildcat defense, but he was still the most effective Irish eager with 13 points. Gene Duffy and John Tully each had nine.
FIRST DEPAUL
DePaul, coached by the veteran Ray Meyer, brings a 10-6 record into the game. In their last outing, the Demons edged Western Michigan, 65-63. More notable was their 89-80 upset of Marquette two weeks ago, which broke the Warriors’ 15-game win streak.
The hub of the DePaul attack has been nifty sophomore Howie Carl. This 5-10 guard features long jump shots and driving layups. McKinley Cowsen, a 6-5 junior, gives the Blue Demons fine rebounding and scoring power from his forward position. He gets able help in the rebound department from Mike Sal-zinski and Jim Flemming. These four, plus little Billy Haig, comprise the DePaul starting lineup.
The Irish will be seeking to reverse the 69-66 with the Demons scored in Chicago last month. However, the Irish played that game minus leading scorer Tom Hawkins.
On Tuesday, February 24, the Irish journey to Milwaukee for an important clash with Eddie Hickey’s Marquette Warriors. After* running up a 15-game win streak, the Milwaukeeans have dropped their last two games to DePaul and Louisville.
IRISH LEAD SERIES
The game is another in a long series which shows the Irish leading, 50-16. Last year, the two squads traded victories. The Warriors won the first game at the Milwaukee Arena, upsetting the Irish, 78-64. The Big Green routed Marquette, 104-76, in the Fieldhouse. This was the highest score ever run up by a Notre Dame team.
One of the most notable Irish triumphs of recent years was the one that broke the Warriors 22-game winning streak during the 1954-1955 season. In
that game Jack (Junior) Stevens led the Notre Dame squad to victory with 35 points.
Hickey has installed the fast-break offense he used successfully for many years at St. Louis University. When no opportunity presents itself for the fast break, the Warriors resort to a deliberate style of play, working for the good shot. Superior rebounding, plus fine shooting and defensive play, have sparked Marquette this year. They boast a 17-3 record. Among their victims are Xavier, NYU, Bowling Green, Loyola, -and Detroit (twice). The other loss came at the hands of Nebraska.
The offensive ring-leader for the Warriors is 6-9 Mike Moran who carries an 18-point average. He is the third highest scorer in Marquette history. Moran features a sneaky left-handed hook which he scores on with amazing accuracy. He is the team leader in field goals (128), field goal percentage (47.8), free throws (92), and points (348). He is.also third in rebounds.
MANGHAM AND KOJIS
Walt Mangham and Don Kojis make up the rest of Marquette’s front line. Mangham scores on long jump shots and driving layups. His fine rebounding, along with that of Kojis, explains the success of the Warriors fast break attack. Kojis specializes in feeding Moran. He drives well and has an efficient hook shot with either hand. He has a fine touch which enables him to score on tipins. He and Mangham both have averaged 13.9 points a game. Kojis (6-6) leads in rebounds, 250-246. Due mainly to their efforts, the Warriors have been out-rebounded only in their loss to DePaul.
Coach Herman (Peck) Hickman of . Louisville calls Kojis “one of the finest sophomores anywhere. He makes the difference in their club.” Mangham (6-4) has jumped 11-6 from a standing jump. He also holds the national high school high jump record.
Jim McCoy and Jim Kollar man the guard posts for Marquette. McCoy, a 6-1 senior from Farrell, Pa., is the steadying influence of the team. His great speed makes him especially effective on the Warriors’ fast break. Jim has good spring for his size, which enables him to average about nine rebounds . a game. He favors a 15-20 foot jump shot from anywhere on the court. His per- . sonal high for the year was 26 against Illinois.	'
The 6-1 junior Kollar hits well with a two-hand set from about 30 feet out. -He is also known for his aggressive defensive play.	’	\
. • 23
£'i
TIME OUT
Notre Dame ran up against a Kentucky team in the Chicago Stadium that played just well enough to run up an impressive 19-point win. After pulling even with the Irish at 21-21 midway through the first half, the Wildcats opened a seven-point lead in a matter of minutes and were not extended in ninning up their 19th victory of the year.
Hitting 23 of 28 free throws as a team, Kentucky was able to take advantage of repeated Irish fouls, some of which looked inexcusable, to pad its lead.
Kentucky’s four consecutive points at the end of the first half gave the Wildcats an eight-point lead, and the Irish managed to threaten only once in the second half. With six minutes to go in the game, the Irish pulled up to 55-46 and sent three men down the court on a three-on-one fast break.
Here a basket would have continued a brief Irish scoring spurt, but Kentucky’s superb 5-10 guard Dickie Parsons knifed through the offense to slap the ball cleanly out of bounds on an outstanding defensive maneuver. Bill Lickert then intercepted the pass-in, and the Irish gave the Wildcats no more worries.
One of the most obvious factors in the Wildcats’ easy win was the atrocious shooting of the Irish. Kentucky’s excellent defense hampered the Irish and forced them to theii- lowest point total in over five years.
LICKERT STOPPED HAWKINS
Especially notable is the job Lickert did on Tom Hawkins. Hawkins hit only four field goals, missed a numbei’ of shots by wide margins, and was not allowed to do his usual good job of rebounding. Lickert played Hawkins manto-man and was seldom far enough from him to enable the Irish to get the ball to him. To this 6-3 sophomore from Lexington should go most of the credit for holding the star Irish forward to only half his average.
The Irish were also hampered by Mike Graney’s inability to score. Graney connected on only two field goals for four points and had to sit out much of the second half because of foul trouble.
Unable to work the ball into Hawkins successfully, the Irish seemed completely inept to uncover any sort of offense. Gene Duffy handled the ball well and dribbled beautifully past Parsons a numbei’ of times, but this did not enable the Irish to score. Tom .Reinhart could not get open for his favorite shot, a jump shot from outside of the circle, and there was no one to whom to turn.
Time after time, the Irish fired poor shots at the basket, and usually Kentucky’s domination of the backboard kept the Irish from a second shot. The two times the Irish were able successfully to surround the offensive board, a succession of tips (four one time and five another) failed to produce two points.
IRISH COULDN’T SCORE
Even though Duffy was able to outmaneuver Parsons on defense much of the time, this did not help the Irish scoring much because of the sterling defense put up by Parsons’s teammates. While his dribbling was well done, the thing the Irish needed was more scoring, and the Wildcats defense allowed Duffy to do no more than move for the sake of moving most of the time.
Parsons and Lickert collaborated to produce most of the Wildcat scoring. Parsons led the first half scorers with twelve points, ten of which came on five long jump shots from the corners. He was very instrumental in the Kentucky surge which brought the ’Cats from a 20-17 deficit to a 29-22 lead with about five minutes left in the first half.
Lickert then took over in the second half. Having scored ten points in the first 20 minutes, Lickert connected for four more field goals and six consecutive free throws to take game honors with 24 points. Parsons wound up with 17 points, ten more than his average.
CONGRATULATIONS
Words of congratulations to the swimming team which claimed its first intercollegiate victory last Saturday and to Ron Gregory, sophomore distance star of the track team, who set a new school record in the mile run last Saturday against Marquette with a time of 4:10. — T. T.
Wrestlers To Compete In Wheaton Tournament
Today and tomorrow Coach Tom Fallon’s Notre Dame wrestling team will . compete in the Wheaton Tournament at Wheaton College with 15 other schools.
The Irish entries will most likely be
-
s
Jerry Sachsel in the 130-pound weight j class, Dick Sapp in the 137-pound divi- . I sion, Dominic Carbone in the 167-pound division, and Captain Bucky 0 - . ; Connor in the 177-pound class.	I
Pretoumament favorites are South- ‘
em Illinois, Northern Illinois, Wheaton, and Notre Dame. Southern Illinois has a well-balanced squad which has compiled an excellent record in the past two years.
One of the outstanding grapplers in the tournament will be Roy Conrad of Northern Illinois. He has a record of
eight straight pins going into the tourney. Conrad is being groomed for a national championship in the 177-pound division.
Last Saturday the Irish matmen lost to Northwestern, 19-11. Notre Dame won three matches, one of them by a pin, while the Wildcats copped the remaining five matches, three by points and two by pins.
In the 123-pound class Joel Crabtree of Northwestern outpointed Notre Dame’s Ed Finlay. Jerry Sachsel evened the meet for the Irish as he decisioned Paul Blake in the 130-pound division. NU’s captain, Dick Woehrle, defeated Dick Sapp in the 137-pound match.
In the 147-pound contest John Heintz gave the Wildcats a six-point lead as he outpointed Bill Sheehy of the Irish. The first pin of the meet occurred in the 157-pound division as NU’s Art Croft pinned Mickey Sundstrum. Notre Dame’s Dominic Carbone came right back to pin Bruce Thompson and win his match in the 167-pound class.
(Continued on page 25)
24
Tankers Visit St. Louis; Topple Western Michigan
Tomorrow afternoon the Notre Dame swimming team will invade St. Louis University for a dual meet. Coach Dennis Stark doesn’t know what to expect from the St. Louis tankers but is confident that his “improved” squad will make a good showing.
“In the meet against Western Michigan University,” says Stark, “the decision could have gone either way in the opening minutes. It was a real team effort; they had the determination and desire to win.”
The Irish swimmers defeated Western Michigan last Saturday, 48-38, bringing Notre Dame its first intercollegiate swimming victory.
The Irish took four first places, six seconds, and three thirds in the ten-event meet. Five varsity records were set.
Dick Katis took first place in the 220-yard freestyle event in 2:21.2, bettering the old mark by 0.4 seconds. Co-Captain Tom Londrigan took third place in the same event.
Paul Chestnut took first in diving competition and broke the old record of 232.65 points by compiling 236.65. Jim Carroll took second for ND. In the 100-yard freestyle, Bill Cronin took second place, and Mike Mahaney came in third.
Tom Haske set a record when he won Notre Dame’s first 200-yard butterfly event in 2:31.6. Teammate Dick Dunn took second. Jim Garrity notched a new record of 2:21.6 in the 200-yard backstroke. Co-Captain Dick Nagel took second in the 440-yard freestyle, and George May did the same in the 200-yard breaststroke.
The Irish 400-yd. medley relay team, composed of Jim Garrity, May, Tom Moran, and Cronin, took first in the opening event.
On Feb. 11 the Irish hosted the tankmen of Bowling Green University, the current leader of the Mid-American Conference, and the Ohio squad took a 5432 decision from the Irish. Notre Dame’s only first place honors were taken by Chestnut, diving, and Cronin, in 100-yard freestyle.
The Irish tankers travel to Loyola February 25 and host Central Michigan next Friday. The final meet of the year is the Midwest Invitational meet at North Central College.
Wrestlers Lose to NU
(Continued from page 24)
Captain Bucky O’Connor brought the Irish to within three points of the Wildcats by decisioning Ken Brettman in the 177-pound class. But Northwestern’s heavyweight, Bob Deasy, clinched the meet by pinning Fred Jamroz to win five points for Ken Kraft’s matmen and give them a 19-11 victory.
Coach Fallon was fairly pleased with the over-all performance against Northwestern’s Big Ten squad.
February, 20, 1959
Hawkins Tenth In Nation In Major Cage Statistics
Tom Hawkins, tenth leading scorer in the nation, continues to lead the Irish in that department over the first 19 games of the current campaign. His 24.0 - point average suffered somewhat against Kentucky when he ran into 6-3 Bill Lickert. The Wildcat sophomore held the Irish scoring ace to a mere 13 points before Hawkins fouled out midway in the second half.
Other averages up to and including the Army game found Mike Graney the only other member of the Blue and Gold to hit double figures as the junior center turned in a 10.2-point per game average. Tom Reinhart with a 9.9 average, Bob Bradtke with a 7.9, and Gene Duffy with a 6.2 output rounded out the top five scoring wise for the Irish. Sophomore John Tully and junior Emmett McCarthy were the only other two players to obtain above a five-point per game average. Tully came in with an 8.4 and McCarthy with a 5.6-point per game total.
The all-important rebounding total
EXCLUSIVE
NOTRE DAME DANCE CLASSES
ARTHUR MURRAY 120 E. Wayne	CE 2-3339
found Hawkins leading the crowd with 258. He was closely followed by Mike Graney who had grabbed 257 loose balls off of the backboards.
Tom Reinhart had picked up 109 rebounds and was the only other member of the squad to break the century mark in this category. Surprisingly, Duffy was fourth in rebounds.
The sharpshooter percentage-wise from the floor was sophomore John Tully who had hit on 37 of 83 attempts for a .446 percentage. He was followed by Hawkins with a .413 percentage.
From the charity line another sophomore, Bill Crosby, who had hit on 16 of 18 for an .889 per' cent, led the pack. Hawkins again followed with a .683 on 82 of 120.
The team average was 69.4 as opposed to the opposition’s 67.9. The Irish have the very narrow edge in foul shooting percentage, .653 to .652, but trail in shooting from the field by .378 to .340. They have had 265 more shots than their opponents but have made only 38 more field goals.
Mr. Murray this year will subsidize Notre Dame dance classes. The regular rate for 10 class hours is $24.00. Notre Dame students only will receive 10 class hours for $15.00. This amounts to only $1.50 per hour.
You’ll be surprised at how quickly you will become a good dancer at Arthur Murray’s. Even beginners will master several steps the very first lesson. Become a confident dancer and really have fun at your next dance.
ENROLL NOW!
CE 2-3339
TRACK SCHEDULE
Last night the track team competed against Purdue in a dual meet at the Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
Next Saturday the squad journeys to New York for the IC AAAA meet and then on March seventh travels to Chicago for the Central Collegiate Conference meet.
MAM
TWO EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY PROGRAMS
European Art & Music Program
40 days Study Tour through 8 countries. 10 day study session on Art, Music and History in Vienna 7 days relaxation in Salzkammergut mountain area. 9 European Festivals. Tour emphasis on art and music.
Sailing: SS Ryndam, June 28. Return flight: SAS Air Line. Application deadline: April 15. All inclusive price: $1235.
Salzburg Study Tour
13 days of lectures and seminars. 28 days Study Tour through 6 countries. Faculty of University of Salzburg invites scholars and students from Europe and US to discuss: “EUROPE: THINKING, CREATING AND GROWING", from a Christian point of view. Salzburg Festival included.
Sailing: SS Ryndam, June 28. Application deadline: April 15. All inclusive price: $890.
Art-Music Program
Please return this coupon for free brochure.
The INSTITUTE of EUROPEAN STUDIES
35 E. Wacker Dr., Chicago 1 Check program interested in:
name
addrou
city	zona
state
JERRY FITZPATRICK WINS 60-YARD DASH AGAINST MARQUETTE Sophomore Jerry Fitzpatrick (second from right) scores his second first-place finish of the day by copping the 60-yard dash. He also won the broad jump to help I the Irish to an 84-20 victory over Marquette. Second is Pete Salsich of Notre | Dame (far right), and Marquette’s Roger Abbot (second from left) finishes third. | The meet was featured by Ron Gregory’s record-breaking mile run. jj The Scholastic^
Irish Win Opening Dual Meet over Marquette; Ron Gregory Sets New School Mile Record
Paced by a record-setting mile by Kon Gregory, the Notre Dame indoor track squad won its first dual meet of the season last Saturday over Marquette, 84-20. The Irish captured first place in every event, including the pole vault where there was a three-way tie, and swept all three places in three events.
Individual stars for the Irish were Gregory, team Captain Steve Dornbach, and Jerry Fitzpatrick. Gregory won the one-mile run with a time of 4:10, a new Notre Dame indoor track record and a new Fieldhouse mark.
Dornbach and Fitzpatrick were the meet’s only double winners. Dornbach was the winner in the 60-yard low hurdles and the 60-yard highs. He won the lows with a time of :07.1 and the highs in :07.4. Fitzpatrick took the broad jump with a jump of 23 feet, eight inches, and he copped first in the 60-yard dash (:06.4).
The three events swept by Irish runners were the mile, where Galen Cawley and Mike Haverty finished behind Gregory, the half-mile, where Chris Monahan and Dan Rorke finished in a dead heat and Marty Clynes came in third, and the 440-yard dash, won by Ray Ratkowski. Frank Hemphill and Pat Reilly finished behind Ratkowski in the 440. .
Ratkowski also anchored the winning mile relay team for the Irish. He took the baton ti'ailing Marquette’s anchor man by five yards, but he gained the lead on the final tui*n and won easily. Notre Dame won in 3:24.5.
Other winners for Notre Dame were Tom Reichert and Glen Cividin who tied for first in the pole vault at 13 feet, four inches. Ken Scarborough won the shot with a toss of 47 feet, two and one-half inches. Dave Cotton won the two-
FINAL MEET SCORE: N. D. 84, Marquette 20.
mile run, setting a new meet record of 9:31.1.
In two freshmen exhibitions held during the meet, Jim McCann and Tom Dempsey won victories. McCann edged out Dick Musial in the 60-yard dash. McCann’s time equalled the winning varsity time, :06.4. Dempsey won an 880-yard freshmen run with a time of 1:58.3.
Summary:
Broad Jump — 1. Jerry Fitzpatrick (ND); 2. Dick Monjeau (ND); 3. Botond Viragh (M). Distance: 23'8", new Marquette-Notre Dame dual meet record. The previous one: 23'4,/j"! by Jack Cote in 1957.
Mile Run — 1. Ron Gregory (ND); 2. Galen Cawley (ND); 3. Mike Haverty (ND). Time: 4:10.0. New Marquette-Notre Dame dual meet record (the previous one: 4.15.4, by Dick DiCamillo (ND) in 1957); a new Notre Dame Fieldhouse mark and a new Notre Dame indoor mark (the previous one: 4:10.7, by Bill Squires (ND) in 1955).
60-Yard Dash — Jerry Fitzpatrick (ND); 2. Pete Salsich (ND); 3. Roger Abbot (M). Time: :06.4.
60-Yard Dash (ND Freshmen) — 1. Jim McCann; 2. Dick Musial; 3. Joe Balistrieri. Time: :06.4.
440-Yard Run — Ray Ratkowski (ND); 2. Frank Hemphill (ND); 3. Pat Reilly (ND). Time: :50.5.
60-Yard High Hurdles — 1. Steve Dorbach (ND); 2. Karl Sturtzen (M); 3. Jim Broihier (M). Time: :O7.7.
880-Yard Run — 1. Chris Monahan (ND) and Dan Rorke (ND) tied for 1st. 3. Marty Clynes (ND). Time: 1:57.5.
Pole Vault—1. Bob Verbick (M); Tom Reichert (ND) and Glen Cividin (ND) tied for 1st. Height: 13'4".
Shot Put—1. Ken Scarborough (ND); 2. Si Woods (M); 3. Mike Hoch (ND). Distance: 47' 2)4"
High Jump— 1. Jack Reilly (ND); 2. Dick Monjeau (ND) and John Gardner (M) tied for 2nd. Height: 6'1".
Two-Mile Run — 1. Dave Cotton (ND); 2. Jim Allen (M); 3. Dave Wehlage (ND). Time: 9:31.1 (a new meet record). The old record: 9:35.9, by Mike Haverty (ND), 1957.
60-Yard Low Hurdles — 1. Steve Dornbach (ND); 2. Karl Strutzen (M); 3. JimSheeler (ND). Time: :07.1.
880-Yard Run (ND Freshmen) — 1. Tom Dempsey; 2. John Garnet; 3. Terry Jones. Time: 1:58.3.
One-Mile Relay — Won by Notre Dame (Sheeler, Ewart, Breitenbach, Ratkowski). Time: 3:24.7.

>


>
*

"V

Campus Season Near Close; Play-off Set in Both Leagues
The Interclub League, having completed more than half of its schedule, has eleven undefeated teams in its six divisions.
In Division I, the unbeaten Met Club Red team leads the pack. The Columbus, Ohio, squad and the Villagers have not lost in Division II. In Division III, three unbeaten teams, the Philadelphia Club, Physical Education Majors, and the Tech. Review Blues share the lead.
In Division IV, the Knights of Columbus are unbeaten. Two big teams, the Army ROTC and the Monogram Club, have not lost in Division V. The Kentucky Blues and the Washington Blacks also have perfect records in Division VI.
Dick Chapura, director of the Interclub League, stated that at the completion of the regular- season play, there will be a single-game elimination tournament to determine the Interclub champion. The championship game is tentatively set for March 11.
In the Interhall League there are nine undefeated teams in the six leagues. The Stanford Whites, with a well-balanced scoring attack, have won the league I title. Their record is 6-0. The Lyons Red, leaders of league II, boast a 5-0 slate, as do the Stanford Blues in league V. In league VI, Pangbom Gold has a 4-0 record, followed by Pangbom Red with a 4-1 record.
Director Gene Perry stated that the Interhall League will also have a single game elimination tournament to decide its champion. This champion Interhall team will play the Interclub League champion for the campus championship, according to tentative plans now.

I
TYLER JR.’S BASKETBALL PICKS
TONIGHT Akron U. over Wabash SATURDAY Cincinnati over Wichita Louisville over Dayton Notre Dame over DePaul St. Thomas over Hamline Holy Cross over Connecticut Indiana over Illinois Iowa over Ohio State Kansas St. over Oklahoma St. LaSalle over St. Joseph’s Xavier over Marquette North Carolina over Maryland Michigan State over Purdue Northwestern over Michigan Minnesota over Wisconsin Mississippi St. over LSU North Carolina State over Villanova St. Louis over Houston Loyola over Canisius
Could Mean National Championship Kentucky over Auburn
LAST WEEK 16- 4
TOTALS 57-16
HAVE BUSES . . . WILL TRAVEL
Departmental Field Trips Geographic Clubs Group Movements of all types Contact ED SILLIMAN. Campus Bep.
263 Dillon CHARTER A —
Ext. 631
BiperbMate
FREE OFFER 1
GIANT	SPECIAL
Papers Mate—
$|69
Si.ee TU-TONE pen STANDARD REFU-L 39 SCHOOLMATE PEN $2^ VALUE ■
ART UNKIETTER
ARTHUR GODFREY
s2s; VALUE . • • • OHLY 1”
Piper Mate
REFILLI
LOOK FOR THIS SPECIAL FREE OFFER CARD TODAY
HURRY! GET YOURS AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
“^RWTURBOW
\pFTOMCTNIST
CONTACT LENSES
207 W. Washington -Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-3///
GROUCHO MARX
££££
39C SCHOOLMATE
££££
49C EXTRA REFILL-
WIEN YOU BUY A BlFERaMaiE TU-TONE PEN FOR *1.69
February, 20, 1959
28
Touch system or hunt-and-peck— Results are perfect with
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typewriter Paper
Whatever your typing talents, you can turn out neat, clean-looking work the first time, with Eaton’s Corrasable Bond Paper. Reason why: Corrasable has a special surface—it erases without a trace. Just the flick of an ordinary pencil eraser and typographical errors disappear. No smears, no smudges. Saves time, temper and money!
Bowlers Second In MIBC; Four Points Behind DePaul
Having swept all five games in the match against Valparaiso last Sunday, the Notre Dame intercollegiate bowling team moved into second place in the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Conference. Notre Dame now trails leagueleading DePaul by four points with three matches, including one at DePaul, remaining on the schedule.
On the basis of two points for each game won and one point for winning team series in a match, Notre Dame has a season’s record of 34-21. The record to date against the other four teams in the league is as follows: Valparaiso, 20-2; St. Joseph’s, 7-4; DePaul, 4-7; Loyola of Chicago, 3-8.
The team, composed of the top bowlers in the Notre Dame Kampus Kegler leagues, is coached by Mr. Jean “Speed” Sheenan, manager and professional at the Notre Dame alleys. Team members and their averages are: Captain Ray Grubbe, 184; John Curran, 192; Tom Jablonski, 184; Ted Nekic, 183; Fred Vida, 172; and Frank Mullen, 162.
Winding up its season on April 19, the MIBC will hold its annual team and singles tourney, won last year by Notre Dame, at the Notre Dame alleys.
The three remaining matches, DePaul at DePaul on March 1, St. Joe’s at Notre Dame on March 8, and Loyola at Loyola on April 5, will give the Notre Dame team ample opportunity to overtake DePaul for the league championship.
A
I
I
Corrasable is available in several weights—from onionskin to heavy bond. In handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A fine quality paper for all your typed assignments. Only Eaton makes erasable Corrasable.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND A Berkshire Typewriter Paper EATON PAPER CORPORATION {IS} PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
CHESS ANYONE?
Students are reminded of the University-wide chess tournament to be held Feb. 27 in the LaFortune Student Center. Registration for the tournament in the lobby of the Student Center begins tonight from 7 to 8 p.m. and continues until next Thursday. Registration fee is $.25.
MASTERS DEGREE CANDIDATES
in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Mathematics and Physics
are invited to meet Representatives of IBM on
THURSDAY, MARCH 5
For appointment, please contact your College Placement Office.
IBM.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
Tkf Srhnl/ititf
Music Till Noon
The following is the list of the album music to be played this week on WSND.
MONDAY, FEB. 23
9:00 “Liberace at«Home”
9:30 “When Lights Are Low” George Shearing 10:00 “Rainy Night in Paris” Frank Pourcel 10:30 “Music for Bachelors” Henri Rene 11:00 “Music from Pete Kelly’s Blues” Heindorf &
Matlock
11:30 “Rendezvous with Kenton”
TUESDAY, FEB. 24
9:00 “The Talented Touch” Hank Jones
9:30 “Velvet Carpet” George Shearing
10:00 “Very Very Dry” Queen’s Hall Light Orch. 10:30 ‘"Romantic Melodies” Montovani 11:00 “Main Title” Jacobs & Gates 11:30 “We Could Make Such Beautiful Music”
George Williams
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 25
9:00 “Skylight Rhapsody” Joe Bushkin
9:30 "Love Is a Fabulous Thing” Lex Baxter 10:00 “Jackie Gleason Plays Music for the Love
Hours”
10:30 “In a Romantic Mood” Oscar Peterson 11:00 “Music from Around the World” Victor
Young
11:30 “The Art of Van Damme”
THURSDAY, FEB. 26
9:00 “Sweet and Lovely,” Lou Stein
9:30 ‘"Beautiful Music to Love By,” David Rose 10:00 “Soft and Sweet” Three Suns 10:30 “That Feathery Feeling” David Carrol 11:00 “A Musical Tribute to James Dean” 11:30 “Harry’s Choice” Harry James
FRIDAY, FEB. 27
9:00 “Frankie Carle Plays Cole Porter”
9:30 “Music for Daydreaming” Melachrino
10:00 “The Shearing Piano”
10:30 “The Ballad Style of Stan Kenton”
11:00 “Serenade to the Stars of Hollywood” Alfred Newman
11:30 “Lester Lanin at the Tiffany Ball”
Leaders Training Set For Feb. 28, March I
A Leadership Training Conference has been set up by the Blue Circle’s Leadership Development committee on Saturday and Sunday, February 28 and March 1.
The conference is designed to acquaint the participants with questions and techniques pertinent to leadership and to establish certain guideposts by which the college student may gauge his own and other’s leadership qualities.
Lists have been posted on the hall bulletin boards and those who sign up will receive further information regarding the conference. The lists will be removed on Sunday, February 22.
The keynote speech will begin at 1:30 p.m., following which the conference will separate into small groups where they will discuss questions contained in the working papers. Saturday’s program will conclude at 5 p.m.
Sunday morning will begin with a special Mass in the Fisher Hall chapel at 8 a.m., followed by a Communion Breakfast in the Faculty Dining Hall. The charge for the breakfast will be $1.25.
Concentration Sunday will be in techniques, especially- in “role-playing” and group dynamics. At 11:30 a.m., the program will recess' and the St. Mary’s participants will be able to purchase lunch at the Cafeteria. At 1 p.m. the program will resume and continue until approximately 3 pan.
February, 20, 1959
Senate Committee Finds Mystery in Service Cost
Reporting back to the Senate after a week of investigation, the student welfare committee announced that there would be no change in the two dollar fee for copies of transcripts. The report stated that the cost to the University for each transcript was $.22 for materials and ten minutes of labor. The University Council had raised. the fee, along with the price of diplomas and teaching certificates, in June 1957, “to meet rising costs.” Thus far, the committee has been unable to determine the cause of these rising costs.
Lack of space in this issue makes it impossible to give proper coverage to the hall presidents’ council report of Karl Mangold. The report listed over 150 hall activities initiated or guided by the Council in the first semester. Senate Treasurer Bill Scheckler, who had criticized Mangold’s group the previous week, praised the report and admitted that he had been mistaken in his opinion that the Council had been doing nothing.
Mike Halpin, head of the academic commission, reported on the progress of the Honor Society committee as well as telling what work had been done regarding teacher awards, student-faculty relations, and the Student Forum.
— Jim Byrne
Curiosity isn't enough these days. To make major advances the engineer needs support equipment that's designed for discovery. He has it at Vought. A 3,800-mph wind tunnel, giant computers, environmental test labs, mock-up shops — all help him fathom the forces hidden in speed and space. Be sure to ask our representative about Vought research facilities.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL RE IN YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE March 2 and 3 ought aircraft
EUROPE
Dublin to the Iron Curtain; Africa to Sweden. You’re accompanied—not herded around. College groups. Also shorter trips $724-$1390.
EUROPE SUMMER TOURS 255 Sequoia (Box 6)	Pasadena, CaL
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed by contacting Peter Hasbrook at the University Pres Office in Stanford Hall Basement or 337 Baffin Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of three lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented by Sunday night preceding publication.
SERVICES____________________________
Enjoy an Irish Terrier Puppy. Same brand as the Notre Dame Football team mascot. The only love money can buy. Where else can you get six to twelve years of devotion loyalty and companionship but from one of Kelley’s Irish Terriers. Shipped express or by air express. Write Kelley’s Kennel, Huntley, Illinois. Prices from $75 to $150.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
CHANCE VOUGHT AIRCRAFT—All Graduates, March 2 and 3. see pages 29, 31, 33.
DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT CORP.—AU Seniors and Graduate Students, Feb. 25 and 26, see page 20.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES —AU Graduates, March 5, see page 14.
IBM—Engineers and Scientists, March 5, see page 28.
PERSONALS
LOST —PEARL AND GOLD EARRING, ON MARDI GRAS WEEK END; IF FOUND CONTACT JOHN BOYCE, 256 ALUMNI. REWARD.
29
University Approves NSA Student Support
The Foreign Student Leadership Program passed by the Student Senate last November has been approved by the University Council. The National Students Association will send the student government the names of prospective candidates by March 15, and one will be chosen to come to Notre Dame for a year.
The FSLP was established five years ago by NSA to bring students to the United States from Africa and the Middle East to study and observe the American way of life. Important in the program is the participation of the foreign students in extracurricular activities with emphasis on student leadership in the University.
There is a particular need for such a program since in the involved areas of the world, there is a relatively small percentage of intellectuals. Just a few of these intellectuals trained in the American way of life will be an invaluable help in improving their countries’ relations with the United States when these students come to hold important political positions in their respective countries.
The students are chosen by a board composed of NSA, Ford Foundation, and Fulbright committee members. Notre Dame requested a Catholic student preferably from Africa because the Council and Student Senate feel that this is an area rapidly emerging into world prominence and is a continent on which there is still much intellectual work to be done.
The plan has been in effect at Colorado University and Dartmouth. The FSLP student will carry half of the normal credit load in order that he might be active in extracurricular activities in spite of his language handicap. At Notre Dame, the University and student government will pay % of his fees while NSA will pay the remainder.
The work on the project at the University has been headed by Senate Secretary Bruce Babbitt, who is currently chairman of the Notre Dame FSLP committee.
Tentative Date Approved For Spring K. of C. Ball
A tentative date for the annual Knights of Columbus Ball, which had been originally scheduled for January 16, has been set for April 17. The dance was postponed when an unexpectedly heavy snowfall prevented St. Mary’s College students from leaving their campus.
The April dance will be reorganized with a completely new theme apropos to the spring season. The scene of the dance will probably be the North Michigan Street Knight’s Club.
Bill Bittner, who is handling the matter, reported that the loss from the postponement was greatly reduced when the contract with Gene Bertoncini and his Lettermen orchestra was not enforced.
39
mows UBURYui INK SUP
ARMY - NAVY AIR FORCE
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
Gendel's Surplus Sales
All Officers Insignias
You Save Everyday at GENDEL'S
512 SO. MICHIGAN
New Catholic Books' Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization

i
on American Express M59 Shidenilbuis of Europe
Wherever, whenever, however you travel, your best assurance of the finest service is American Express!	■<
On American Express Student Tours of Europe you’ll	I
be escorted on exciting itineraries covering such fascin-	J
ating countries as England ... Belgium ... Germany ... Austria___Switzerland... Italy... The Rivieras ... and France. And you’ll have ample free time and lots of individual leisure to really live life abroad!
7 SWeat Tears of Europe . . . featuring distinguished leaders from prominent colleges as tour conductors ...	1
40 to 62 days... by sea and by air... $1397 and up.
4 EducatiuMl Student Tears af Europe ... with experienced escorts
— by sea... 44 to 57 days... $S72and up.
•tber European Tears MvadaMe... from 14 days ... $672 and up.
Misu, Tours to Florida, Benuuda, Hence, West Was and Bauui.
You can always Travel Now—Pay Later when you go American Express!	s
Member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel.
For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service ... or simply mail the handy coupon.
AMEUICAH EXPRESS TRAVEL SERVICE
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. «/• Trail Sala Dirinon	J
Yes! Please send me complete information	•
about 1959 Student Tours of Europe!	*
•
Nune.......................................... •
•
Address....................................... X
City...................Zone....State.......... X
rooTECTYouEmmFuNDswiTHMna'MraMiiiMsnnufwuHi jtuiMmuafwwiot .
■W MV HU VMS CMMBVUME UHM T« VMMVC CMMT CMP
The Scholastic

Bi-Weekly Program Planned By Joint International Group
»

>


4
v

"1*
A new radio series, every other Sunday from 9 to 9:30 p.m. on WSND, will be presented by the Joint International Council of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. The first show is this Sunday.
' As in the words of the preamble of their constitution, the Council was instituted to “become aware of the dignity and brotherhood of all men and to realize our obligations in the world scene.” Its immediate objectives are to promote awareness and interest in the areas of international affairs and international student relations.
One of the few organizations to enjoy active student, faculty, and administration participation, the group was started by Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C., and Bob Hilger, a senior in engineering.
The Council itself is composed of representatives of such Notre Dame and St. Mary’s campus groups as the Committee on International Relations, La-Raza club, NFCCS, NSA, and the Human Relations club.
Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of political science at Notre Dame, and Miss Phyllis O’Callahan, a professor of history at St. Mary’s, are the faculty representatives.
The Council is under the jurisdiction of Academic Affairs. Besides Father Haley, the foreign student advisor, Rev. Joseph McGrath, C.S.C., is also a member.
Chairman of the Council is Armando Loizaga, and Sue Graefe of St. Mary’s is secretary.
Future plans of the group include assisting the Human Relations clubs on Brotherhood Week, organizing several of the Student Forums, and participating in the Foreign Students Leadership program.
df a | I?
Political Constitutions Drawn By Newly Organized Groups
This week marked more activity in the formation of partisan political clubs on campus. Thursday evening organizational committees drafted constitutions for both clubs along lines suggested by national political parties and recommendations by the Student Senate. The constitutions also included the conditions imposed on the newly formed clubs by the University.
The next step for the clubs is approval of the constitutions by the Student Senate. After this is taken care of, a general meeting will be held for all interested students. Later, after organization is completed, the members will split into their respective party groupings.
Members of the Democrat constitutional committee are Chairman Bill Bowman, Ron Schoenberg, John Sullivan, and Jack Wursta. Members of their Republican counterpart are Larry Turner, chairman, Bill Barrett, Bill Mapoth-er, and Ed Plunkett. Bill Graham and Doug Gonzales, president of the Political Science Academy, are helping the clubs to organize.
February, 20, 1959
SHAVES ANYWHERE —
ANYTIME
NO PLUG NO CORD!
UNIVERSAL Cordless
Electric Shaver Voted “Most wanted companion on a desert isle”. . . the new Universal Shaver that doesn’t need an electric outlet! Three self-sharpening blades revolve 300 times a second, shave off every whisker right at the base. No pull, no scrape, no burn, just a dean, dose dec-tric shave without clumsy cords or outlet.
• SetMlwpeaiag
UNIVERSAL
AT YOM CAMPUS SHOP NOW!
WANT 10 K WELL-ROUNDED?
The engineer who's at Iwne in several specialties is a moo in demand.
Vaught's cross-training and Multiple products produce weH-raoaded condidntss for top level positions.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE IN YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE

31
News Briefs
Last year’s editor of the NOTRE DAME LAWYER, Patrick McCartan, has been appointed law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Charles Whittaker for the court’s 1959*1960 term.
McCartan, who is from Youngstown, Ohio, will be graduating from the Law School this coming June. His undergraduate work, which was completed in 1956, was done here at the University.
Art work of Mr. Theodore Golubic of the Notre Dame art department will be exhibited at the 134th Annual Exhibition of the National Academy of Design in New York City. The entire exhibition will consist of 255 exhibits, including oil paintings, prints and water colors by artists in 21 states. Mr. Golubic was one of the 75 non-members whose work was selected by a jury of painters and sculptors to be shown.
A 1937 graduate of Notre Dame, Dr. Charles Hufnagel, will be named “Hoosier of the Year” this coming Sunday at a
brunch to be held by the Indiana Society of Washington, D. C., in Washington.
Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., academic assistant to the president, will be the University representative at the affair.
Dr. Hufnagel, who is an eminent heart surgeon, is teaching and is engaged in advanced heart research at the Georgetown University School of Medicine.
A Negro priest, Rev. Rolin Lambert, told the two-day symposium on “Immigration and American Catholicism” that America’s 12% million non-Catholic Negroes “offer the Church the greatest opportunity for its own extension in the United States.” Father Lambert was one of several speakers on immigration problems.
Mr. Louis L. Hasley, assistant head of the English department, read a paper entitled “The Interpretation of Belief in Literature,” last Tuesday evening at the English department’s monthly meeting in the faculty lounge of the Main Building.
. Composed by Mr. Hasley, the paper shows that every work of art presents some belief of the author in way of attitude or ethical position and deals with ways in which such attitudes and beliefs are manifested.
$12,420 Given to Underwrite^ University Radiation Project |
Ten college and high school teachers * will participate in the research of the g University’s Radiation Project next sum- | mer as part of a nation-wide program 1 announced by the National Science Foundation.	■
The NSF is awarding grants totaling -1 $800,000 to 54 educational institutions 1 which will conduct summer programs providing research experience for about I 550 teachers of science and mathematics. | A grant of $12,420 will underwrite the j University’s phase of the program. ?
Teachers will be chosen for the Notre Dame training program from colleges which do not have adequate facilities or 4 support for research during the academic year. A second group would consist of high school science teachers with a
master’s degree or other equivalent ex- . perience.
They will spend from six weeks to f two-and-a-half months at Notre Dame
beginning June 19. The teachers will be put to work on specific research programs and also will attend a series of seminars and lectures.
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave!
regular or new mentholated
Take your choice of . new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice quality
lather that won’t dry up before you’ve finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves...try
Old Spice Smooth Shave!
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
32
TAe Scholastic
Summer Session to Offer ■r Grad Business Courses y Ten graduate courses leading to a master’s degree in business administra-[ tion will be offered by the College of
Commerce during the summer session, »June 22 to August 4.
The master of business administration ) program, whose first graduates received their degrees last year, was inaugurated in 1954 and was specifically designed for members of religious communities.
Approximately 40 priests, brothers, and sisters were enrolled in the graduate A business administration program last summer. Most of them are engaged in > high school, college teaching, or in the administration of hospitals and other in-l stitutions. According to Dean Culliton of the Commerce College, the curriculum places emphasis “upon a broad understanding of the complex array of mod-> em business principles and procedures rather than upon narrow specialization ‘V in any one area.”
Repercussion (Continued from page 4) our function, as a group, should be.
The hall president is elected by the members of his hall for the purpose of ' initiating and coordinating activities within the hall. He is to represent the hall in anything which will affect the hall as such. His prime purpose is not, as is the Senator’s, to serve as the representative from a part to the whole. His job is concerned with life at Notre Dame on a most basic level, the hall.
The purpose then, of the Hall Presidents’ Council is to deal with activities j on the hall level exclusively. Such as: religious, academic, social and athletic which are on a practical and immedi-' ately obtainable level. While there are many problems which must be attacked from an over-all viewpoint (which demand a great amount of time), solutions of which may never affect the students L presently at Notre Dame, we do not be-, lieve that these problems are within the scope of the council nor do we seek any part of such activity.
Totals on a poll of first semestei’ activities showed: 57 religious, 15 aca-! demic, 54 social and 28 athletic hall events not including the interhall sports, h which are organized by members of the hall government, not student government in the complete sense of the term.
It is, therefore, our conclusion, since ' the president is directly responsible to the members of his hall, it is the purpose of the Hall Presidents’ Council as a group, to work out within itself plans > which will directly affect the individual I halls, and which may be put into effect L in conjunction with the rector. It is not I the job of the council to be active in I any area outside this realm. We are in-■ terested in putting forth effort where it I will be immediately felt, but do not share I the opinion of some people that constant I busy and official activity is a sign of s | achievement or an indication of ability. ;	Karl Mangold, .Chairman
The Hall Presidents’ Council
| February, 20, 1959
COLERIDGE
from 7%e Rime of the Ancient Mariner, part VJI
WANT RKOGNfflON?
Neophytes don't stay neophytes long in o Vooght engineering groep.
From the start, the yovng engineer is recognized. He is teamed with experienced men. He is methodically assisted in finding his best field. To broaden his potential, there's company-sponsored work toward advanced degrees, a rotational training program. Ask oer representative haw Voeght's recognition can help yow advance while yoe're yoerig.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE IN YOUB PLACEMENT OFFICE -----------------------------	*«*» 2	3 J^OUGHT AIRCRAFT
9 99 C O R *© R RR 99 9 • 091999, T9I99
Back Pape.
by JOHN P. MORAN
politics j on campus;
January 20, 1959, marked a new era in the history of Notre Dame. On that day campus partisan political groups received formal approval from University officials. The next few paragraphs deal with this action on the part of the University Council regarding partisan politics, namely, Young Democrats and Young Republicans, at Notre Dame. The measure, drawn up jointly by Student Senate representatives, the Academy of Political Science, and other interested parties, was presented to the Council and approved on January 20.
I would venture to say that few students know of this recent development and frankly could not care less. This “sowhat attitude” is very indicative of student apathy so prevalent in universities and colleges today. If Mr. Joe College would , reflect on the present deplorable situation, he might realize a great void in his college education.
What is to be gained from participation in the proposed groups? Why become interested? Some of the answers to these questions may be found in the philosophical order. The very nature of man, his social nature, obliges him to take an active part in the happenings of the community. As a member of a democratic society, the citizen is obligated to participate in his democratic government. The educated Catholic has a special obligation in that it is his responsibility to strive for harmony between the social and moral orders.
Today, the quality of politics must be improved. Therefore, the best minds of the society, the university educated, must be brought to bear on the impending questions of the day. If these persons do not participate, then the only alternative is a government run by less worthy persons. As Democratic National Chairman Paul M. Butler has said, “no longer can we afford the ‘luxury of politically illiterate and apathetic college graduates.’ ” Politics is a very neces-aary part of our society as it is through political parties that the voter is edu
34
cated and worthy candidates presented for election. As the privileged, the educated of America, let us not enhance an already dangerous situation; rather let us search our conscience and fulfill our obligation to society. As Rev. Philip H. Schaerf, C.S.C., said last May Day, the time has come to rid the university students of their “complacent acquiescence of mediocrity.”
Now that there is an opportunity for political party education at Notre Dame, what should the students do? Quite obviously, the answer is to join and actively support the group of your choice. But, how do I know which one I should join? That answer is up to you. Do a little soul searching and find out which party supports, most nearly, your ideals as to the proper functioning of government. Do not expect to be completely satisfied with your choice of party, as you will undoubtedly disagree with some of its policies. Rather, fight for the way you think government should be run by trying to influence the party through your ideas.
How will the groups be run on campus? Who will be in charge? March 1, or as nearly therafter as possible, will mark the beginnings of active Notre Dame partisan politics. For the first two or three weeks, general meetings of all interested persons will be held with the specific purpose of introducing the student to the major parties. In addition to their respective platforms, the philosophies of each party, the very heart of American politics, will be stressed. It is hoped that the participants will gain a knowledge of what it really means to call oneself a Democrat or a Republican. When the issues have been presented and the time deemed proper, the students will be given the opportunity to make a choice of the party they wish to support. Understand, this choice is up to the individual student, but he is not obligated to,make a decision, one way or the other, in that he may be active in one or both groups. The two
groups will comprise the nucleus of these educational forums and each will have a faculty moderator.
Some may ask, what are a few of the actual activities to be advanced by the | party groups? A club is only as active , and educationally profitable as the efforts of its members. The success of these clubs depends greatly upon the in- *' itiative and imagination of their membership. Noteworthy speakers and dis- I cussion will be the basis of the educa- J tional process. There are many impressive speakers who have indicated an interest to discuss partisan politics on campus, but until now have been denied । the privilege. Another outlet for activity is voter education, or more specifically, “first voter education.” The pre- ' ceding are but a few of the possible activities and areas in which these clubs may operate.	.
What should the Young Democrat or Young Republican expect to receive from membership in one of these political forums? Education of a far greater „ range than just politics is the result of political participation. Granted, a political awareness of pressing issues is the primary object of these new groups, but much more is to be gained from a participation in them. The student is offered t the opportunity to correlate the theory of the classroom with the urgencies of reality. The citizen has an opportunity ' to fulfill his democratic obligations to society. Finally, the university Catholic furthers his education for his role as an influential personage of society. Through political participation, the student has 1 a chance to develop the full man.
The responsibility for the develop- -ment of partisan political groups lies with the underclassmen. Gentlemen, here is an. opportunity for a most worthy and knowledgeable advancement. Do not pass up such an opportunity; actively support these new clubs. Once again quoting Mr. Butler, “We are a comfortable people living in dangerous times.” Let us prepare ourselves. , .	.
The Scholastic ®
Arrow cotton Wash-and-Wears earn their way through college
Why spend date money sending shirts home? Just wash and dripdry these Arrow cotton wash-and-wears and you’re ready to go.
Only Arrow offers so wide a range: your favorite styles of collars and cuffs in oxford and broadcloth, in white, solids and patterns.
And every shirt features exclusive Arrow Mitoga®-tailoring.
$4.00 up.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
first in fashion
Shirts for any date
... while you wait
We’ve a storeful of Arrow wash-and wear shirts. All the newest collar styles in oxfords and broadcloths, white, solid colors and patterns, French and regular cuffs. Look in soon and see them for yourself.
-GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend

They said it couldrft be done...
They said, nobody could do it...
LrMis

but
SI
with
More



©1959 LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO COMPANY
I/M is kindest to your taste because IfM combines the two essentials of modem smoking,” says TV’s Jack Lescoulie.
LOW TAR: If M’s patented filtering process adds extra filter fibers electrostatically, crosswise to the stream of smoke... makes If M truly low in tar.
MORE TASTE: IfM’s rich mixture of slow-burning tobaccos brings you more exciting taste than any other cigarette.
LIVE MODERN - CHANGE TO MODERN L‘M |