
·the campus media 



A full range of summer undergraduate and graduate courses, special institutes and workshops. Residence halls available. 
2 sessions: June 18-July 20 and July 23-August 24 (day and evening) 
Call or write for the Summer Bulletin: Summer Session Office, C.W. Post Cent~r. 
C. W. POST CENTER ·SUMMER SESSIONS 

MARCH 30, 1973 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
scholastic 

4 letters 
MONTAGE 

6 on the road to pakistan 8 week in distortion 
• 9 media on campus: programs and purposes 
• 
16 sly, sexist slurs on notre dame 

• 
19 structuralist technique: the algebras of literature, part 11 

• 
24 warren gameliel spider 

PERSPECTIVES 

26 politics, priorities, and the university 30 abortion: coming to terms 

KULCHUR 

34 figures for a festival 37 and a book for a festival 39 vision and revision 
41 coming distractions 41 the crooked rook 42 last word 
alana mcgrattan 
t. j. clinton 
jim fanto carole moore sue taub 

cordelia candelaria 
t. c. treanor 
edward manier james kearns 
Jim gresser dan o'donnell dan kogovsek 
don jaspers 


paul bolduc 
greg stidham 
VOLUME 114, NO. 12 

The opinions expressed in th!' SCHOLASTIC arc those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily reprc~cnt the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. 
Second-class postage paid al Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for 
national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New Yo1k, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly during the school year except during \'acation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at Ave .Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription 
rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers arc 
available from the SCHOLASTIC. Please addrcs~ all manuscripts to the ScnoL\STIC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unrnlicited material becomes the property of the ScHOk\STIC. 
editor: greg stidham / art director: michael lonier / managing editor: jim munsch / assistant editors: jim fanto, jim gresser, pat mccracken, dan o'donnell, jim pauer, terri phillips, joe runde, jack wenke / business manager: joe meyer / circulation: roger burrell / faculty advisor: frank o'malley I staff: pat ahasic, paul bolduc, kevin dockrell, t. j. clinton, paul colgan, greg conti, buz craven, bill cumbelich, jim delong, al depman, betsy dwyer, tom enrico, chris fahey, tom gora, don jaspers, pat keefe, kathy kelly, bob kincaid, mike king, tim kochems, juan manigualt, mike melody, kerry mcnamara, leo j. mulcahey, mark nishan, kevin o'mara, peggy perkinson, casey pocius, bob quakenbush, john ring, pat roach, neil rosini, mary siege!, tim standring, sally stanton, theresa stewart, katy sullivan, bubby vespole, mark wenig / business: gus brown, jim hoban / art & photography: earl hawkey, terri lustic, don nollet, nan smith. 
illustrations: cover design, photographs on I0, 11, 20, 22, 33 by michael lonier / photographs on 7 by alana mcgrattan / drawing on 24 by terri lustic / photograph of arthur miller on 35 by inge morath / photograph of stanley elkin on 35 by joan elkin / photograph of chaim potok on .36 by jill krementz. 
copyright© 1973 scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be reproduced without permission 
printed statements issued by the University's Provost, have been ad­

letters 

mirably documented and analyzed in 
your article, "Personal {in)Security 
:at Notre prune" (SC::H0LASTIC, Feb. 2, 1973r You also image an ongoing decline in. ,"community" (pardon the use of a:much-abused term)-_ cne which some__of us watclled in its beginning ·stages and have since fol­lowed, albeit. from a distance, with sadness. 
-One need not be told (because one intuitively knows. only too-well) the cruel, black-comedy· particulars of the "Lewis Hall incident." What is most strikingly absent in its handl­ing by upper echelon administrators -indeed, what is most strikingly absent_ in _all. the trumpeting about "understood'' (??) moral codes, 
SHAME? SIMPLISTIC GUEST "articulate" (??) Catholic beliefs 
and filial love -_ is humility.·

Editor: -Editor: 
I just wish to comment on the In-In reference to Professor Rodes' Instead, we have pride, and a troduction that you wrote for the letter concerning sexual intercourse_ desperate arrogance: hubris. Surely Scholastic. It is-a shame, but I have-. outside of marriage and its relation--the good fathers can call to mind to agree with .you -100_% on what ship to Roman Catholic teachings, it dozens of Biblical injunctions warn­you wrote. I attended Notre Dame's is a pleasure to see a law professor ing. against -those two -particular Graduate School during the summer cut through' a maze of complicated :: moral qualities-_:cailed by some of_ of 1966 and the 1966-67 aca-demic -·issues and get right to the-heart of the most grievous of sins. Ironically, year graduating with an MA De-the matter. His solution is_ a para-the essence o~ go'od ."parenthood" gree in art. During this period of gon of logic and should be extended. (the model given: us_ in the rhetoric time, I became ·very_ involved in~ For instance,. non-Catholics, faculty ·,about· trust. and··,niutual responsibil­Notre Dame and what it stood for. and/or students, who do not believe -Uy ·and the,·gifts_ of a Catholic edu­I wanted everyone to know the real in the formal teachings of .the Ro-· cation) -clearly has to do with both ND, not the ND that js made-up of man Catholic Church are-by his .···:·\\iisdom and'}egitimate, fair,-earned, football weekends: But I found o_ut definition here as guests. According-reciprocal · ~uthority:: But _the re­the hard way as to what you stated_ ly then, as Professor-Rodes states lationship between humility and real in your intro. I will say one thing · "as guests, they_ can be asked to _ wi~dom is ab~ent even iri the words though in defense of it -that it _is._ leave if they can~ot fall in with the -let· alon~' ~e action_s -.of_ those a little better now than_-five years-decencies of. the place during the _who~claim__to_ lead:the_ University at ago. -. . "· time of thei~ stayY• As rion~believers,°·· :~his tirp.~~-. -' 
It seems that wherever you go and these -people are certainly indecent :Faculty_ and students pay for the people find out that·you _are a grad-. -therefore they should be -asked to .-pride anµ obsession with image that . uate ~n somEf .capacity, from Noire: leave:, ' . . ; . . ..-: characterize:the Provost's decisions. Dame, the first thing that comes .to . ~-~at. _about , those Catholics;.: by _-: Sti:rely,'... to: place -_all blame on one _their_pJinds.·is_jootball. lam~ lover _birth or:choice, who::do not believe ,m._an is_ to. ignore more, serious and of football too!. brit-•fuis annoys me -·or. ·practice_. all Roman Catholic_ · more· internalized problems; still, to great lengths ·wh_en I. think· :what· teachings. Go~h, it's getting compli~ ~-person~ C re~ponsibility is, unavoid­Notre Dame"'truly_-is and.stands for-.cated.again. For a minute there, I<· able when-the_ thrust·of a man's ac­to ._all that·attended:,the':school.' r.-,-tiiought Professor_ Rodes' had :the·-~tioris has' been--precisely·to' center hope_ that· someday·· the public: be--· answer. ·Oh-well, -back ·to· the· law_' , adniinistrtive power in himself._ You_ comes aware.of the real Notre Dame·\ books:··. _ . .. ... write, _"The symptoms are ominous," as you nowJrnqw it' and respect it: :: '· ·.. Sin_cerely,. , but :your -description· is :dearly un~ 
In closing, I will' say that I'll ·con-.:·'. -:·· ·._Morton S. Fuchs ,, _ · ·_' -. '. derstated. _ tinue to_· b~ing Notre Dame 1nto:.1:h~.:-:·._-.:-Associate .Professor pf.Biology .. -. ·Hubris--the emanation ·of s·~all 
correct perspective by tryillg to ex-::~--_~ '~ -~ . _-_ ~ ~ ·. · · -. · ·_}_::-.-_:, .~ minds and small hearts --seemS·the 
plain to the laymen . the .true Notre_; ~ . . :, .: : . ' . '· . . -. . ·_ only . conceivable motivator 'for 'the.• Dame as I ex:J?eri~nced_'·i~-and~-~~l"~.:;:A·DE~PERATE ARROGANci. :_-kinds of institutional inequities and treasure as a highlight 1i;i.-my.career _--.· ·:. · -_,personal cruelties you have outlined. ·and life. . --:>·-· -·_:-->:. <E,dit<>r: · -· =·Giveh the dimensions and zeal of Sincerely~__:-' ·:\-t>:-:'.~ ·: ·'.t -··:~~ ::: Th_e·aliriost Nixonian moral· chau< these_ -actions,·. mere sadness is•-no -_,: Michael _R.~C?~orff.·-'..' '· .-~ "-..;. •"vinism~ ·demonstrated ·by., recent: de-:·" longer appropriate --rage-seems :the _-_Levittown; }~e~nsyivania_"· ;: ·cisions :( covert and otherwise) · ari~ : · · only proper response. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
We share, your obvious anger -­applaud it and are 'thankful for -it. 
'Pax, Steven Brion ('71), Fred Dedrick ('71) Rory Holscher ('71) 
. ' Marilyn Holscher ( '70) 

AND THEN THERE'S BASKETBALL HOCKEY 
Editor: 
I received the issue of SCHOLASTIC that contains the Notre Dame Foot­ball Review, and I was interested to read, your introduction. I'd like to offer a couple ·of my thoughts. 
As someone who follows Notre Dame· football closely but who has limited knowledge about other as­pects of Notre Dame, perhaps I as one example of_ the people you were concerned about: in writing that in­troduction. 
Your concern, if I could try to put it in my own words, is that many people around the country get ac­customed to hearip.g about Notre. Dame only in connection with foot­
. ball, so they begin to equate the two and have no conception of, the other qualities of Notre Dame -qualities that-may indeed offer much to the individual and to society. You, feel this is a "tragedy" and that the 'jock" image of Notre Dame is··still strong.. 
I kn,ow that image and reality are often woven together: what a thing 
· actually is depends to some .extent on what people think it is. However, I believe· substance is more, impor­tant than image . .-In this ·case;-I-be­lieve that. if the people ,of Notre· Dame want the school to be known as .a· center qf. scholarship,: or the arts, or social concern, the ·task is to give s,trong. effort to those areas,­rather: than to avoid writing·or, talk­ing , about., football. The , work of .· N:otre, Drune scholars ,will ·riot be­·come more profoµnd simply· if news­
-papers carry fewer· stories -off the -· 'f_ootbalf team. ··_. · · ,, · -: · 
_· ·:: ~My. interest in, Notre, Dame· and . · knowledge of-. it began: with: .football . . .But' because. of ·;'this. interest, I lis­. : -,-.tened..a ·bit. more closely: when Fa­:ther , Hes burgh. talked -about -civil .,_: rights:\· When I -met an outstanding · · ·physicist:here at ·the ·University of ' · . _·Vi7isconsin;_~. one who had degrees :. -., . frorr('Notre ·name._, r.· noticed he :·-.__·,_ was:fron'i Notre·Dame and th~t gave 
··.MARCH ·30, 1973 
,ine more reflection ·on-· the school. It is that Notre Daine should have When I ·come to. South Bend _for a -the substance and dimensions to con­.football gaine,· J: ·seei:your , campus, :,tain good football and many other listen to people there, and gain other programs and achievements. I sus­knowledge of·Notre_Dame. · pect it in fact has these dimensions 
While this indicates ·that a person now. can learn a number· of, things.about .· So I think you were right to pub­Notre Dame·by starting with an in-lish the Football Review rather than terest in football, I don't think you to "de-emphasize" football. But I should be disappointed if I don't sub-also believe •it is worthwhile to raise scribe to an issue. on the• arts at· questions as you did. If Notre Daine Notre Dame, as yow hoped. r. doubt is to grow in excellence, the ques­that many people in South-Bend fol-tioning and evaluation of all the .low the arts here at -the University University's aspects and qualities 
. of Wisconsin, where -I work. will be necessary. 
In addition to football being a possible starting ·point for interest Sincerely, ill Notre Dame, there is another is­Thomas J. Murray sue which I thin_k is more important. _ Madison, Wisconsin 

·HELP WANTED 
$100.00 weekly possible addressing mail for. firms 
. ' ' 
full and, part time at-home· send stamped -_s.elf:-addressed envel<?pe to. HOME, WORK OPPORTUNITIES 

Box 566 ··Ruidoso Downs, New Mexico 88346 


montage 



On the Road to Pakistan 
I guess Venice was the beginning. would stride out in any situation but we became friendly with the police­Filming, talking and being with found myself more and more leaning chief who took me home to his fam­friends after two and a half years in, staying close to the van, and be­ily, and I lived with the women. It of music-producing at an incredible ing very aware of my sex. Most of was comforting, the womb-like pro­pace ... just starting to mellow out the men saw me in relation to the tection of the walls of the compound; when two travelers passed through guys I traveled with, approaching no curious staring men (except the on :heir way to Afghanistan. '\Vhere's them when interested in me, as if I police chief), baking chapiti (bread), that? They were going to hitchhike was their possession. One man of­bathing from the cool spigot near and go by bus and spend a few fered all the stock in his shop if they the well, playing with the children, months in the mountains in Mazar-i­would sell me to him. This was all exchanging gifts, stories, music and Sharif. I could smell adventure in asked when I was not in the room laughs. The women never left the their backpacks and loose-fitting em­. . . a transaction among men over compound without a piece of mate­broidered clothes. We made arrange­property. The attitude made me an­rial (called chadri) which covered ments to meet in Heret in a month gry but it's real and to survive you them completely except for a small 
·and a half. I had to wait for a friend must live with that, and know it, arid grill in front of the eyes. who was coming from the States to be very careful with whom you Passing into India, the flashing travel ~round Europe but I was sure travel. It soon became obvious that colors of the saried women as they I could change her mind. A month traveling alone would be a bit risky moved along the sides of the road leter in Istanbul, after stories of so when we got to Heret and I with brass containers balanced on white slavery, evil diseases, and drug cculdn't find my other friends, it their heads was a startling change arrests of females who didn't have didn't take much convincing to go on from the chadri of the Muslim drugs but something else that police­to India and Nepal. (Later in Kabul, women who moved through the men wanted, she chickened out. So I I ran into my friends from Venice in streets like drab ghosts. Those ori­decided to make it alone. The next a restaurant. When the VW van they gins, those cultural patterns, that de­day I put up a note in the Pudding were riding in broke down they fine and limit personhood by role ... Shop and within a day I had a ride traded it for six horses and rode traditions once necessary for sur­sharing expenses with three English across Afghanistan missing Heret vival that now entrap and smother freaks and an Australian on their completely) what one half of the population 
way to India. The first few nights By that time I was really up for could offer to a culture, to a nation, were cold. I didn't have a sleeping India and the five of us had become to the planet! In India, women's bag, only a blanket, but after the an integral unit. Coming through the roles were as clearly defined, just usual formalities between four guys Khyber Pass around sunset, sitting more expansive. Careers for women and one girl had been broken down on the roof holding the luggage rack, .in India are made possible by the we huddled together at night. In all we passed from the high dry desert family structure. The woman moves the small villages, people would come to the green lush valleys of_ Pakistan. in with her husband's family and his out and stare and smile. The first We were held up at the border qe­mother will take a large share of question every time, pointing at me, tween Pakistan and India waiting for raising the. children. The closest 
was "'\\Those woman?" Normally I a roadpass for several days. There thing to the experience of India for 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
~•••• ~-:,-T:-~ 
" '~" -. 

i}t)'.
i···...,
if~-:·:. 
l -
. 
-
. 

me is a Fellini movie, ... a totality of beauty and ugliness ... rich col­ors and smells that fill all the senses . . . certainly a long story in itself but this was just the beginning of my travels. 
Rode back to England with the "Pudding Shop Five," where I sold antiques and sang to survive, waiting out the cold winter before I could get on the road again. In early Feb., I headed south, stopping first for a week of skiing in Austria. I met a friend in Milan and we hitched to Marseilles. There we caught the boat to Algiers to visit with some of her friends. After four days in the city something we did sparked off the suspicion of the secret police and we were tailed for a week without know­ing about it. That's not hard not to notice when you feel as if you're the only unveiled women in the city. 
MARCH 30, 1973 
Everyone is looking at you! They ar­rested us at the airport where we had gone to see a friend leave for Paris. What a surprise that was! They wouldn't speak French, only Arabic, and we didn't know where we were going or what it was all about until we arrived at the Secret Service Headquarters. After a har­rowing six hours we were finally cleared, apologized to and driven back to the University. The Captain explained that the city was full of spies and he just had to check us out. What a feeling of powerlessness! No American Embassy to call, no spe­cific charges, whisked off into the night! Never did figure out if it was my tape recorder, my friend's Chi­nese face, the conversation we had with the Black Panthers or the gen­eral espionage spirit of the place. After that, I left for Morroco. 
I spent four weeks exploring the King's city of Fes, and the Atlantic coast, Tangiers, Casablanca, El Ja­dida Marrakesh and Agadir. Met some French people driving down to Central Africa oufitted for safari. We traveled together as far as the desert where I turned back and headed for Algiers and a rendezvous with my 'spy' friend. That summer I made my way to India again before finally running flat broke in London. 
But I was going to try and talk about the experience, not the events. How to get to it and separate it out ... it's so deep-rooted and individual. Learning how to survive, meeting parts of yourself for the first time, being accepted on face value alone, at the whim of fate, trusting your­self to something beyond your own ego, becoming humble to the forces: if you've traveled that way you know what I mean. If not, try it. It's usually harder for a woman on the road . . . more hassles and harass­ment, being so visible and connected to myths, but it's worth all of that. 
If you travel at the right pace, with open-ended possibilities, and a respect for the people, their places and customs, you will be growing and learning and sharing in such a rewarding way this planet and its gifts. 
-alana mcgrattan 
7 
7 December 1934 

With the lights on again, you will



week in distortion 

probably notice the new wheatcake pourer behind the counter. Slightly smaller than the other one, but with many more . curves. Thinner neck, too. Rather a work of art for this section of the country. Has grace, .and poise, and _a sort of quiet, digni­fied charm. It's aluminum, we think. 
Purdue has a date bureau to help eds and coeds become acquainted -the only catch is that the bureau will sanction only coke dates. 
6 December 1946 

A little ten-year-old nephew of one
THROUGH THE PAST DISTORTEDLY 
·of the .Sisters became so confident and enthused over Notre Dame win­
a review of past scholastics. ning the Army game that he draped the · Sacred Heart, Our Lady's stat­ues, the· Crucifix, and St. Michael's statue with Notre Dame pennants. 
His mother, ·fearing there was a possibility of his _being disappointed, said.to him: "Son,·remember Notre Dame has . not· a Blanchard nor a 
. . 

Davis on her team." "Yes, mother, tha:(is very. true, they haven't, but . :remember _they have a Lady on their
5 October 1867 19 May 1906 
· ~earn that Army doesn't· have, and 
Skedaddling was in vogue some · Mr. · Constantine of Paris has She will stand on that goal line and years ago. We thought that the brought the auto-mobile id.ea a steP, not let a man pass for a touchdown male portion . had discarded that . further in his invention of. motor-for Army." · fashion at the same time that their skates..These skates, operated. by··. 
fair half of creation did away with elec~ric or gasoline motors. the in-5· October 1962 balloon hoops and tilters. It appears, ventor says, will carry a man at the·. --------------­however, that a very few young lads rate of twenty miles an hour; but The Uniyersity is trying several are behind the times, and· think some doubt of their practicability measures to decrease the barbarity skedaddling. is still in fashion; just has been.,raised for the.reason that in the student section at football 
. as some of the young girls imagine it might be· difficult to maintain ·a games,· and both·involve the use of that they are perfectly comme ii faut uniform speed in both .skates and a St. Mary's girls. Last week the with the monstrous hoops of a year man might fl.rid one leg running far SCHOLASTIC documented one of ago. in ad\Tance of the other, thus causing · ·these. me~sures -the seating of 
_Both show considerable greenness. accident...The same result would be. _freshmen with the girls in the end had no doubt, if alcohol were used zone. This week another measure instead of gasoline. was revealed: girl cheerleaders, 
three of them.

16 December 1911 17 September 1881 
Purdue on Saturday han.dily de­
·13 November 1970 

feated Indiana· University at foot­It is asserted that if a person ex­ball, but earlier_ in · the season poses himself to the electric light for "Distortion doesn't seem confined Wabash had nosed-out a victory .on some time, in a close inspection of to the section accorded it, although Purdue and a little later Notre the same, his hands and cheeks will "The Week in Distortion" is the Dame nosed out on Wabash. It looks show -if he be a fair complexion -worst, most biased, yellow-to-pink as though Notre Dame was in a all the symptoms of sunburn, even journalism I have seen in a long position to claim the state cham­in midwinter, and he will develop time, being eclipsed only by the pionship. Apparently, that faculty freckles on his countenance as Berkeley Tribe (sic) and. Dave rule abolishing the cigarette at the quickly as when he goes about un­Lammers..." Catholic college has conduced to protected by a sun-umbrella in mid­-·Letters to the SCHOLASTIC huskiness and brawn. summer. 
-t. j. clinton 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
media on campus: programs and purposes 
THE fall of 1966 was an important year for the campus media. · A student named .Robert Sam· Ans.on. took charge of the campus newspaper, the Voice, re­named it the Observer and kept it from disappearing from the campus scene. The rejuvenated newspaper joined the other two campus media, the SCHOLASTIC and WSND, in the business of providing students' informa­tion, entertainment and, as the editors believed, thoughtful editorial opinions. 
Each of the three media has undergone numerous changes since that third of November when Anson first published his four-page newspaper. And one ques­tton has repeatedly come to the minds of numerous station managers and editors during the last · seven years while WSND has become a community station, the Observer has published its first color page and the SCHOLASTIC has suffered yearly budget cuts: what role does each medium play in the life of the Univer­sity? What unique service do WSND, AM and FM, the Observer and the SCHOLASTIC offer the students at Notre Dame? 
Judging from the remarks of John Abowd, the for­mer editor of the Observer, who just relinquished his duties to Jerry Lutkus, the Observer has become a necessary part of Notre Dame life. "In the words of a former SCHOLASTIC editor, we are a campus 'bulletin board' since we list for students events which occur on campus," states the senior from Farmington, Michigan. "But we are in the business of shaping student opinions because we write about and analyze the news." 
That an Observer editor can now confidently ex­press his newspaper's role in the Notre Dame com­munity is deceiving. The paper's existence was in question for several years. Abowd attributes the present stability of the Observer to the management of Glen Corso, the editor from 1970 to 1972. He is seconded in his opinion by Richard Conklin, Director of Information Services for the University, who believes that the rise of the Observer to its place among· the other campus media is due to a series of strong editors -Guy de Sapio, Corso and Abowd himself. 
WITH A budget of approximately $68,000, the Ob­server is funded by a two-dollar fee attached to a stu­dent's tuition bill and by advertising revenues. Pub­· lished daily and averaging about eight pages an issue, the campus newspaper has the New York Times service .tor national ·~vents and sends out its own reporters to investigate local campus activities. Local coverage . can take the form of standard reporting articles, Ob­server insights or special supplement features. Columns, editorials, -event schedules and advertising complete 
the paper. 

The Observer has a staff of 135 students and ap­
proximately 15 of these fill the top editorial positions. 
The . majority of reporters are freshmen and sopho­
mores. According to Abowd, a standing joke among 
the staff used to be that it took only six months _to be­
come an Observer editor, since the turnover rate was 
so high. · The paper-now offers more organization and 
salaries to some of its personnel. Thus, many students 
remain with the paper for their entire undergraduate 
career. 

A perennial problem· with the Observer has been 
the difficulty in its attaining a standard of professional 
journalism in its layout and the quality of.its writing. 
Since there is no journalism department at Notre Dame 
the fledgling Observer reporter must learn the news­
paper business through his reporting experience. The 
quality of an article often varies with the class of its 
writer; the older the writer, the better the article. Yet 
Abowd believes that newspapers, like the Observer, 
are "spunkier" than a journalism school's paper and 
more willing to tackle any issue. And talent is present 
on the •Observer. Four members. of the editorial board 
will be working for professional newspapers this sum­
mer. 

MARCH 30, 1973 
THE OBSERVER 

SCHOLASTIC 
the characters of the newspape1 
An accusation that bothers Abowd much more than criticisms of the Observer's reporting is that the Ob­server is not treating the students honestly. "Any news­paper is an opinion-shaper, so the question becomes how you wish to manage your power," the former edi­tor states. "We always try not to let our own pet opin­ions intrude into our reporting. And we always want to justify why we are upset about something at ND. We never discuss a problem at the University without suggesting at least one solution to it." 
Abowd responds calmly to the accusation that stu­dents don't take the Observer seriously or that they give it just a cursory glance at lunchtime. "We don't expect to persuade masses of students to move in the direction where we want them to go." But he be­lieves that administrators and students do read and respect the paper's editorials. Since Abowd and other members of the Observer have worked so hard to pub­lish the paper, they feel that they are entitled to print their opinions about issues. "What you think of them is your own business," he adds. 
THE ONE. medi~m whose role in relation to the stu­dents has been frequently questioned by the faculty, students and the magazine's editors is the SCHOLASTIC. Founded in 1867 this magazine is the oldest of its type in the country. It is nominally under the jurisdic­tion of a publications board consisting of faculty and administrators. In reality, the SCHOLASTIC is completely student-run. 
The SCHOLASTIC's history has been anything but uneventful. However, with the rise of the Observer and WSND the SCHOLASTIC has had to compete with the other media for student attention. After 100 years of existence, the editors of the campus magazine discovered that they were not the only student voice at Notre Dame. 
Competition between the SCHOLASTIC and the Ob­server has often resembled a feud. Many seniors re­member the hostility between the newspaper's and the magazine's respective staffs which surfaced during 1969 and 1970. The March 13, 1970, edition of the SCHOLASTIC included a supplement, entitled the "Ab­surder," which was obviously a parody on the Observ­er. Later in 1970 Glen Corso, then editor of the Ob­server, suggested that the two media merge, which met with an unequivocal "no" from the SCHOLASTIC's edi­tor, Steve Brion. Overt ill will between the staffs has vanished during the past years. Abowd believes that the characters of the newspaper and the magazine are now well-defined. The Observer covers the news and the SCHOLASTIC is a reflective journal. 
Dick Conklin, who keeps a close watch on campus media, suggests that the Observer acquired its impor­tance on campus by covering the area of "hard news" of the 60's, when the campus was full of activity. He believes that the SCHOLASTIC left a void in the coverage of day-to-day news because of its weekly publication and its identity as "a one-half commentary and a one­half literary magazine, which the Observer filled." Conklin wonders whether the SCHOLASTIC· can maintain student interest without this "hard news" coverage. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
•





and magazine are 
GREG STIDHAM, the present SCHOLASTIC editor, be­lieves that his magazine's competition with the Ob­server has helped to identify the service the SCHOLASTIC now performs for students. "Our job is not to cover e:very campus event, but to cover important issues in­tensively and in depth," states the 22-year-old senior pre-medical major from Cleveland. "This is not done by any other publication or medium on campus." 
This in-depth coverage requires that each member of the 50-student staff of the SCHOLASTIC spend much time and effort whenever he writes an article. Stidham encourages his staff to investigate an issue thoroughly, which ideally demands many interviews, research and much thinking on the part of the writer. "We hope that the reader will take as much time reading the article as we take in writing it. The complexity of some of the issues we cover may require our readers to peruse a particular article more than once," adds Stidham. 
Like the Observer, the SCHOLASTIC has the problems of a magazine run by student journalists. The student writers need experience to develop a style of writing suitable for a magazine. SCHOLASTIC editors do help the younger writers. But the trial-and-error method of journalism is much in evidence in the SCHOLASTIC's pages. 
SCHOLASTIC writers often hear the criticism that their articles are too vague or confused attempts at art. Stidham admits that he encourages his writers to at­tempt creative writing, but to limit their efforts to 
\VSND 


well defined 
personal columns or to reviews which are included in the magazine's k:ulchur section. 
"We can only solve the problem of communicating to our readers by the style, tone, layout and graphics of our magazine. Our content doesn't scare readers away," states the senior editor. Stidham has intro­duced this year many technical innovations which he hopes have made the magazine more attractive to the reader. He cites the increased• use of photography and graphics, an artistic layout and the attempt to have each issue _based upon a theme, such as the October 27 issue entitled, "Art at Notre Dame." "We have received quite a few compliments on our issues," concludes Stidham. 
The competition with the Observer is not the only pressure the SCHOLASTIC has felt in recent years. Its present $32,000 budget is approximately $15,000 less than its 1970 budget. Almost 80% of the magazine's budget goes into production costs, while $1500 is used for editors' salaries. The SCHOLASTIC has attempted to balance its budget cuts by -increasing its revenue from advertising. 
wHEN THE animosity between the SCHOLASTIC and the Observer appeared in the beginning of the 70's, the campus radio stations, WSND-AM and WSND-FM, remained aloof from the journalistic infighting. A popu­lar show, "The Green Gaper," which spoofed the hap­penings in La Fortune at that time and, in particular, events in the Observer office, did originate from WSND's production studios. Besides that program, the 
MARCH 30, 1973 
AM and FM are separate stations 
two broadcasting media seemed to inhabit a world of 
their own with regards to student information services. 
"Really, I can't remember much hostility existing between the staffs of the SCHOLASTIC and WSND," notes John Walsh, the manager of both the FM and the AM stations. "We used to be angry when the ScHo­LASTic's budget was so much higher than ours. As for the Observer, both our news departments are always in competition with one another to break a story to the ND community first." 
It is not correct to speak of WSND as one branch of student media. The AM and FM stations have sep­arate and unique identities. Out of a combined staff of 175 students, the two stations share some 100 per­sonnel who work in the production, engineering, sales, business, news or sports departments. The AM station also provides funds for the FM statiqn from the $24,000 budget it receives from the University and its adver­tising. Beyond shared personnel and a budget, the sta­tions go their separate ways. 
Founded in 1947, WSND-AM broadcasts to the ND community via carrier current for 19 hours each day (from 7 a.m. to 2 a.m.). According to Walsh, the AM station provides students with music and information. "AM is primarily a top-40 rock station, although we have shows which include nearly all types of music," states this fifth-year major in mechanical engineering. 
WSND-FM is something of an anomaly among the campus media. It is run by students and has the same news department as AM. However, the station's 3,430­watt stereo signal which carries regularly 25 miles from Notre Dame is a far cry from its 10-watt begin­ning in 1962. Station personnel insist that FM is a public information and classical station serving both South Bend and Notre Dame. 
Directed by Thom Knudson, a senior classics major from Whittier, California, WSND-FM averages 12 hours a day of classical music. Records from the sta­tion's 4,000-record library and special programs, such as the Metropolitan Opera and the Boston Pops, supply the music. ND faculty, students and local musicologists also produce programs for the FM listeners' pleasure. 
Since FM's broadcasts are not tailored to please the average student but to meet the classical music needs and to provide community-oriented programs ( such as "Contact, Notre Dame") for its audience, most of whom are outside ND, the station is unlike any other campus medium. Although its aim is outside ND, its means are inside. "We can't do a completely profes­sional job even though we are competing with other professional stations because we lack money," laments Walsh. But the listeners are generous. They donated $3,000 to the station during one fund-raising drive. 
BoTH WSND-FM and WSND-AM are volunteer sta­tions because they cannot afford salaries for their per­sonnel. Walsh admits that his staff would like money, yet they nevertheless sacrifice their time. In fact, twice as many people volunteer for the stations as the di­rectors need. Like the reporters for the SCHOLASTIC and the Observer, WSND's volunteers have .little experience in their medium. They make mistakes, but with ex­perience comes a fine professional skill. At least six graduating veterans of WSND obtain professional radio jobs each year. 
Within budgetary limitations and with much effort, the WSND volunteers keep up the appearance of their stations and maintain their equipment. Both AM and FM have new broadcasting boards, and FM has two expensive, Panasonic turntables. The station's walls are freshly painted. If the volunteers decide to expand a studio, they are not hesitant about moving an ob­structing wall. "We don't let little things like that get in our way," concludes FM station director Knudson with a smile. 
YET THE informational aspect of the AM station is no less important than its music. News programs on the hour, interviews with administrators, campus lead­ers and sports personalities, and coverage of sports events are all featured on WSND-AM. "We have the best campus news organization and we have an advan­tage over all the other media since we can get a story on the air immediately, without waiting for press delays," boasts Walsh. Conklin admits that WSND-AM news has been at times the most professional of the news services on campus. But he tempers his praise by adding that the quality of the news varies with the ambition of the news director. AM is also an informa­tion center. Disc-jockeys frequently receive calls from students asking for sporting event and movie show times or confirming a news item. 


jim fanto 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


From Cooking 
to 


Coping 
roles, cults, 
and women 
Last summer a number of women at Notre Dame formed the Women's Caucus. The pur­pose was twofold: first, to provide a group in which women could relate to one another on a common ground not inherently provided by Notre Dame's traditionally all-male environ­ment; second, to provide a source of informa­tion to the community in hopes of raising the awareness of the issues facing the woman today. This week the SCHOLASTIC has invited several members of this group to write, and it is in this context that the following two articles appear. Alana ~1cGattan (page 6) is also an active member of the Women's Caucus. 
0 NE of the distinct advantages of delving into women's history is its newness as a field of study and the paucity of traditional and confining interpreta­tions. This gives the historian enormous leverage in approaching old historical data and in gaining fresh and needed insights. Yet, even as recent as substantial and serious scholarship is, there is one basic misconcep­tion that must be laid aside -a misconception which permeates not only the writing of women's history but also women's own images, one that distorts a true understanding of the female past. Stated simply, it is the idea that the story of women has been one of con­tinual progress; women have gradually progressed from a position of inferiority and subordination to the happy prospect of today, approaching the very brink of true equality. With a bit more time and proper so­cietal conditioning, women will win the age-old "battle of the sexes." 
As applied to the history of A~erican women, this misconception is employed too easily. The journey from colonial times to the present has not been a steady climb upwards for women, but rather a series of partial advances, reversals, contradictions, and total failures. Women have not moved persistently from Puritan "shackles" through suffrage to the ultimate plateau of new feminism, as is generally hypothesized. In actual­ity, the new feminists may have more in common ideo­logically with many of the colonial women. or the col­lege women of the 1920's· and 1930's than with the suffragists of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, or even the suburban housewife of the 1950's. 
To understand the complexity of American women's history, one must grasp the tremendous changes that were set in motion by the early nineteenth century. At that time, a basically agrarian society was being trans­formed into a more fully industrialized one. It is the impact of these changes on the family unit that greatly altered the direction of colonial women's lives. 
THE most obvious feature of colonial life was its agrarian nature. This, combined with the severities of colonial living, helped make women an integral part of the society and economy. Society centered on the fam­ily; an extended family composed of a married couple, 
MARCH 30, 1973 
many children (average of nine), unwed and/or widowed relatives, possibly servants, and other assorted characters. Although the husband was the ultimate authority in family matters, the wife commanded a gcod deal of respect, and children were taught to obey both parents equally. The very survival of the family depended on how well she managed her household responsibilities. Her spinning and sewing abilities kept the family warm, her canning and cooking expertise kept them well fed, her vegetable garden furnished them with much of their food, as physician she kept them well, and her continual production of children kept the family supplied with extra hands to help with the chores around the farm. Her general importance to the family and thus the community is attested to by fact that widowers were forced by economic necessity to remarry as quickly as possible; the death of one's wife was viewed as a complete calamity. 
Women of this pre-industrialized society were not limited entirely to activities as mistresses of house­holds. Due· to the generally precarious nature of life and the shortage of laborers, women filled such occupa­tions as gunsmiths, butchers, blacksmiths, printers, inn-
woman was to be the buffer between husband and a chaotic society_ 
keepers, teachers, midwives, field hands, and planta­tion overseers. If they performed their tasks well, there was little thought given to their sex. However, this was to change as the population increased and men desired employment in these areas. 
IT was not altogether a rosy existence for these pioneer women. They underwent "civil death" (no right to property and no legal existence separate from their husbands' on their marriage) and had almost no legal recourse if their husbands were abusive or neglectful. They received little but the most elementary of educa­tions; they were not only considered generally incapa­ble of abstract thought, but it was believed that much of it could lead to insanity. One contemporary sum­marized this sentiment by advising women "to know the useful and necessary restraints of your sex." 
Despite the limitations imposed on them, colonial women were able to secure for themselves a meaning­ful and essential position within their society. They were economic assets who contributed substantially to their community and were respected by it. In addition, many women were able to function in traditionally male-defined vocations and secure society's acceptance of it. But as America entered the nineteenth century, industrialization produced a significant change in the societal structure. 
The view of women and their functions within the community was modified by the 1830's. The world created by industrialization was in many ways a fright­ening and insecure · one. One in which few women functioned productively; their economic activities were taken over by factories and assembly lines. As they lost economic responsibilities, they were assigned supposed­ly more important moral ones, and thus the "cult of domesticity" became a fixture of American life. 
The cult of domesticity is a designation of certain historians to describe society's response to industriali­zation. The woman was to be the buffer between her husband and a chaotic society. She was given guardian­ship of the home and was expected to provide a cheery and secure atmosphere for her work-weary husband. The climax of her happiness, though, was to come in the raising of her children; she would be fulfilled only in maternity. It was also her responsibility to act as a moral force on her husband; she was to tame his passions and help purify his soul. An emphasis was placed on emotion and instinct, not intellect. All of these attitudes produced an image of women as a lop­sided and distorted group. Her role was being glorified and idealized at the same time her active and produc­tive participation in society was being reduced. 
Not all women had the luxury of staying in a cheery cottage all day, but it was still the dream of lower­
. class women. The cult was valid at all but the highest levels of society because it remained the constant goal. There were other women who could have adhered to the cult but who chose not to do so; women who were involved and encouraged by their activities in the abo­lition movement. Such women as Lucretia Mott, Eliza­beth Cady Stanton, and Lucy Stone sensed that women's capabilities and potentials were much greater than the cult dictated, and they set a few dedicated 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
women on the path to emancipation. It is out of the small meeting at Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848 that the women's rights movement grows. But for all its noble aspirations and the sacrifices of its leaders, it was not of pervasive influence except for the immediate goal of suffrage. 
IT is in this one area in which the organization of women was successful; they secured the right of elec­tive franchise. On August 26, 1920, the Nineteenth Amendment was ratified and about 26 million women of voting age were enfranchised. Unfortunately, women failed to capitalize on their potential power; they split along ethnic, local, and class lines in imitation of male voters and failed to form a unified bloc that could effec­tively shape governmental policy. Symbolically, women had won an important battle, but translated into prac­tical realities, they fell short of real accomplishments. 
After World War I and the Nineteenth Amendment, most women retired once again to the comfortable world of being wives and mothers. Although many of the college women of the 1920's adopted new modes of behavior, especially in regard to dress, sex, and career plans, the values embodied in the cult of domesticity continued to survive. These college attitudes did pro­vide a more vital and capable image for women which encouraged educated women into new fields, but over­all they had limited impact. In fact, the so-called "revolution of manners and morals" of the 1920's was wearing down even before the Depression of 1929 hit. The reaction of American society to the Depression was one of positive reassertion of the family. Much of this promotion of family life was due to economic considera­tions; it was more economically feasible to stay to­gether. But once again the home life presided over by the woman presented security in the face of chaos and instability. 
However, the praises of motherhood were suddenly squelched by the advent of World War II. The war would have to be won on the industrial home front as well as on the battlefields, and women marched gallant­ly out of their cottages and into the factories and ex­clusively male jobs. They proved to be reliable and completely capable of their assignment and provided a positive projection of women outside the home. For a time it seemed that women could secure an equality for themslves and stand with pride over their achieve­ments but the time passed quickly. 
THE GI's came back to America worrying if their women had been worth the fight and sacrifices. They were afraid that their girlfriends and wives were no longer "feminine" and would not be willing to return to the fireside. But their fears quickly subsided. Women had endured the drudgery of assembly lines and poor living conditions, and the attraction of a quiet home and babies was strong. Thus, women trooped home to lives in suburbia, diapers, station wagons, and little league. The problems of insecurity in the atomic age were buried in mounds of potato chips and hot dogs and weekend barbecues and creative cooking classes. 
For many women this was a full life, but a growing number in the late 1950's found there was something which Betty Friedan calls the "unnamed problem" lurk­ing in their minds -a feeling that there had to be more to life than they were experiencing, that a woman should have an identity of her own, not one appended to that of her husband. It is this uneasiness that touched off a resurgence of feminism -a new feminism that is more radical and demanding than the feminism of the late nineteenth century. Whether a majority of women will be drawn to a reinterpretation of both female and male roles and implement it in their lives, or rather perpetuate the cult of domesticity is difficult to discern. In reflecting on their past history, there is little evidence that favors radical new directions for the family structure and women's role within it. But perhaps the society of the 1970's will be more recep­tive and responsive to the need for the re-evaluation of its institutions, and if women will follow the words of Christabel Pankhurst, maybe that plateau of true equality will be reached: 
Remember the dignity of your womanhood. Do not appeal, do not beg, do not grovel. Take courage, join hands, stand beside us, fight with us. 
Carole Moore 
MARCH 30, 1973 



Sly, Sexist 

Slurs on Notre Dame 
PREFACE 

On Thursday afternoon, March 22, Dr. Susan Taub, Chainnan of Com:m,ittee Won the status of women of the local chapter of the Anie,rican Association of Uni­versity Professors, addressed a meeting of University of Notre Dame adniinistrators upon the invitation of Father James Burtchaell. The topic of "Women at Notre Dame" headed a lengthy agenda. Dr. Taub's re­marks, which are substantially reproduced below, dealt with what some of the women already at this Univer­sity believe must be done to create an atmosphere con­ducive to the increase in the numbers of women _in faculty positions and the better utilization of their talents. 
Following Dr. Taub's talk and a brief question period, Sister John Miriam, Jones, Assistant to the Provost, spoke on the same topic but from a different point of view. Sister's remarks on what the Provost's Office believes need,s to be do1i'e were based on a working copy of a Carnegie Commission report on the status of women in universities, the draft for which was available through Father Hesburgh. 
The juxtaposition of these two talks was 11wst re­vealing -a_t least to those four members of Com­mittee l-V wlw were present at the ·meeting. Dr. Taub stressed the necessity of "Affirmative Action." Sister John Miriam, interpreted the statistics gleaned f'rom the C<J,rnegie study as offering little hope that any efforts made by Notre Dame could effectively alleviate an admittedly bad iuid steadily worsening sit~ation. The Conunitttee is concerned that such a pessimistic attitude will be most effective in forestalling any at­tem,pts by department and program chairmen to hire women as faculty niembers. It is in this context that Committee W has decided to publish Dr. Taub's talk, co-aut1wred by Deirdre LaPorte, Kathleen Weigert and Mary Lynn Broe. We recognize that Notre Darne has a vrobleni. We know, perhaps better than anyone, how difficult the solutions will be. Nevertheless, we urge the University to 11iake the special efforts -and the sac­
rifices -Dame.  necessary.  The result will be a better Notre  
sue taub, chairperson m. l. broe  
. deirdre laporte . kathleen weigert COMMITTEE W OF AA.UP  
16  

THIS talk is the work of Committee W of the AAUP. Our membership ranges from part-time instructor to the woman with the highest faculty position, associate professor. Four of us' are here today: Sue Taub, Mary Lynn Broe, Kathleen Weigert and Deirdre LaPorte. Dr. Josephine Ford and Maben Herring were not able to attend, but their ideas are represented in my remarks. Because of the small number of women on campus, we are probably a body that is very representative of our constituency. This talk on women at Notre Dame was scheduled some time ago, but it was only on Tuesday that we were asked to address ourselves to the techni­calities of Affirmative Action. 
"Slur" can have two meanings: 1) To besmirch, sully or cast aspersions upon, and 2) To slide or slip over without due mention, consideration, or emphasis. We are concerned with both meanings, but especially with the latter. 
There simply are not many women at Notre Dame. We can talk about the goals for women for this year: the goal submitted by Father Hesburgh to the Depart­ment of Health, Education and Welfare, the figures 
_given in Notre Dame Report #4, and the reality. The goal for female faculty for this year was 70. The figure given was 45. The number 45, however, is misleading. It includes librarians and professional specialists. This is an educational institution. According to Notre Dame Report # 13, there are only 23 females on the teaching faculty. Eleven of these are at the instructor or lecturer level. Only, 9 are on the tenure track, while one woman has actually achieved tenure. Of the 23 female teachers, 15 are full-time. The reality is that education at Notre Dame, at least from the teacher's side, is a male activity. 
The reasons for there being few women here are simple: 1) we do not hire women, and 2) we don't re­tain the ones we hire; we do not renew them. The rea­sons given for these actions include the standard one of the lack of "competent" women (Sister John Miriam's remarks will probably bolster such excuses) and Father Hesburgh's "First Wave Theory" that the first women and blacks to arrive are usually incompetent. This year we have managed to ,terminate in that female "first wave" both a Yale and a Harvard Ph.D. We'have not been bringing in women at levels above assistant pro­fessor, and according to Father Burtchaell, because of 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
budget considerations, we are unlikely to do so. That leaves us only the hope of obtaining senior faculty positions for women by raising our own. With one exception (myself), it will be 1976 before women are eligible for tenure and then it will be a maximum of three. Obviously, that is too slow. Until 1976, then, the departmental committees responsible for hiring will be composed of men. 
Isthis necessarily a bad thing? Can we expect to ob­tain more women with all-male committees responsible fer the hiring and promotion? We say no. The maleness of this community is likely to be self-perpetuating. Males have male contacts and naturally enough tend to interview males. Also sex-related attributes easily color judgments about the professional qualifications of women. Crude examples of this are easily spotted, like the comment, "She is not attractive enough to want to watch," or the reverse, "Luckily, she's ugly enough not to be distracting." Harder to spot are comments that at first seem reasonable: "We're looking for capa­ble women." The implication is that there is a work­ing assumption that a woman applicant will be incom­petent. Who would suggest looking for an incompetent woman? Another remark that might at first be readily accepted is that of the "First Wave Theory," the gen­eralization that the first minority group members to obtain positions are, of course, incompetent. Another frequent statement is, "That is a good salary for a woman," (but, by implication, not for a man)-again, an irrelevant statement which is offered to justify un­equal treatment. In many cases, it seems that the wom­an can't win. If she is single, her potential colleagues suggest that she is too busy husband-hunting to be ser­ious about her career. If she is married, then the com­ment is that she is too busy with household concerns. Children are considered a burden upon a woman's time, whereas no such evaluation is made when males also have children at home. If a woman with children holds short office hours, the assumption is that she is at home scrubbing floors and cooking. If a male, even if widow.ea with children, has short office hours the assumption is that he is engaged in research. In our opinion women should have some input into hiring, if we are to become 
a truly equal opportunity employer., 
Presently on this campus there are circumstances which we feel to be discriminatory. Some of these are minor, if blatant and frequently funny. For example, Dr. Ellen Ryan and I wished a locker in the female locker room of the ACC. We were told that the locker room and lockers were only for female graduate stu­dents. After spending quite some time fruitlessly with the head of the ACC, we had to go to Dean Crosson who quickly had the policy changed. Annoying, time­consuming, but not critical. Another example is the refusal to let a male and fem ale share the same library office unless they happen to be married. We can only assume that they question our morality. Again this is annoying, petty but not critical. 
More important are existing nepotism and part-time employment practices. Presently, employment of a husband and wife within the same department is considered an "extraordinary" circumstance. How can we possibly pretend to have an open employment 
policy when that is considered extraordinary? Although 
prevention of tandem employment within a department 
does not seem to be sex discrimination, as the husband 
could in fact be the one not hired, the usual effect is 
that women, not men, are barred from employment. 
Our present handling of part-time also seems question­
able. A greater percentage of women than of men work 
part-time. We do not provide part-time employees 
with tenure or fringe benefits. This would seem to 
affect women differentially. It also appears that we use women, especially wives of university men and female grad students, as a buffer resource to carry a heavy teaching load in the introductory classes through use of the part-time arrangement. Some part-timers teach up to 12 hours a semester when this is necessary. When it is not, they are readily disposed of. Both nepotism and part-time would seem to be not de jure but de facto discrimination. Another discriminatory practice is the university-required participation by faculty age 30 and over in a retirement plan that pays higher bene­fits to men than to women. True, if we do i-n fact live longer, we may eventually collect the same number of dollars, providing we have not starved to death in the interim. These situations are all examples of unplanned discrimination against women and many of them may already be illegal. They are points that many women are only becoming aware of now. 
W HAT should be done to correct these conditions? 
1. 
We need a public affirmative action program com­plete with goals and timetables. We need the commit­ment and mechanisms to make it work. 

2. 
Departments should be encouraged and, if neces­sary, forced to make efforts to obtain females. The administration might do this by either carrot or stick methods. The stick would be not allowing departments to hire new members unless some of them are females. The carrot would be offering departments extra faculty positions if they can hire women. Departments must avoid the word-of-mouth method of filling positions. Advertisements should be put in the relevant profes­sional magazines and contacts ~ade via women's cau­cuses within the various professional organizations. 



the few women who are here are not effectively used 
More ingenious methods might be found. Stanford's FINALLY the entire· atmosphere at ND must . be biology department placed an ad in Science and came changed. The few women ·who are here are not really up with many: female applicants. Ask the women in being effectively used. Faculty wives are more· fre­your department and/or professional associations if quently on committees than female faculty. A few they know of any qualified people-.women. usually female faculty members find themselves on too many know the women in their own field. · committees to do an adequate job on any, while others are on no committees. Committee W, Women's Caucus, and American Association of University Women are all 
3. 
The administration must check the departments relevant women's groups to appeal to. Those of us who to be sure that th·ey are in fact making consdentious are here won't be here for long unless changes are and successful efforts at recruiting females. Records made, so please utilize us while you can: _Also, please must be kept of the number of vitas from males and become more concerned with how all women here are females, of the number of male and .female inter­treated, and help us to know if in fact things are viewees, of the offers made, along with documented · better than we thought. In any recruitment effort, the proof they were made with the salaries offered, of rea­best advertisement is ·happy -women on campus, ·the sons why females and minority candidates were worst is unhappy ones. Finally, broaden your own view­dropped from consi.deration. Finally, whenever an offer points on womanhood. Catholic mothers and·nuns are is rejected, a questionnaire should be· sent to. d.eter­· valuable human beings, .but they do not exhaust the mine why it was rejected. (The women at the March 22 category of woman. Ethel Kennedy has been sµggested · meeting were informed by Dean Crosson that the Col~ as a guest speaker for a proposed "Woman's Week" on lege of Arts and Letters has hire~ five (5) women for campus next year. She is undoubtedly a brave widow the.coming year.) · arid'a fine hurrian being. However, this is an academic 

.institution, not a maternity ward. We are seeking to 

4. 
An independent grievance office should be. set up give our students· a model .of womeri's intellectual 


so that any person wp.o .feels lie or she has been powers, not reproductive powers. treated unfairly co.uld complain and have his/her com­plaint.checked by someone who need not fear reprisal. 
0 

A member of .the ·administration has suggested that· NEVER say that you jus.t c;n~t 'find··th~· necessary, 
• 

everyone be her .or his own. affirmative actiori officer. women. You-have been successful all· of your lives in We.see this as an example of th~ old divide.-and-conquer fl.riding women ,to .type for . you; fr.on for you, cook stra~egy. . . . for ·you,•and bear your children. It should be ·at -least 
··as easy to find them to teach and do research for you. 
5. 
· This necessitates each. department's ha v"i n g drawn _up: a set _of· criteria for hiring, promotipn, and dismissal. The person· who has .a grievanceosh01µci be , able to obtain information as to the b~sis .on which decisions affecting.him or her were made ... 

6. 
An autonomous agency, with . its. own>· funds, should be established to conduct. periodic reviews, to ... see that women and minority groups· are indeed being hired, promoted, and paid equitable salaries. This agency should have the power to compensate for. dis­covered inequities. These results should be made public. Funds from this agency might also be utilized to pay part· or all the salaries of exceptionally promising can­didates in lean years. These suggestions are all made in th.e hope that the participation of women and minori­ties at ND may be increased and that this process may remain an internal affair within the ,University. Under present conditions a number of women have already felt it necessary to go outside the University, to Federal agencies, to rectify their status at ND. 


.', 


.. THE SCHOLASTIC 







Structuralist Technique: The Algebras of Literature 
Candelaria: Literature itself too often seems to repel, particularly in classroom situations. Perhaps the re­pugnance comes from our single-minded search for metaphysical answers, for the "Message," without first having sufficiently penetrated the literary piece itself. 
Walton: Still, many students seem to be looking for ultimate truths in imaginative literature. I don't know if the teacher influences the student or the student in­fluences the teacher in the tone that is often adopted in class, a doom-edged oracular tone that encourages boredom and disgust with life-with life.· The plea­sure that emerges from one's transaction with litera­ture tends to be one of grim-exultation at having formuiated one's disgust properly. That's too bad. It seems that it's a consequence not of the neglect of the principle_of pleasure in works 9~ the imagination, but a wrong way of talking about. it. ­
Our antecedents in literary criticism, say Aristotle; · talked very lucidly about the pleasures to be derived from literature. Though Aristotle's talk is supposed to · be problematical; it seems q~ite lucid to me; the trouble i!5 it doesn't answer the questions that we ask. We have a di~cult time formulating those questions because there· are so many of them. All our answers have c!'eated even more questions. As. a result, literary dis­course breaks down the way that, say, discourses ,on_ n?,ture broke down in the 18th century when all writers on that subject could no longer assume as a first· prin­ciple that nature has a first cause-that there· is an_ author of our being. When they· could no longer pro­ceed from there, the conventional way of talking about nature disi~tegrated. ·Perhaps_ tlie traditional ways of ·talking about literature are in "a ·_state of disintegration 
· • now because we are no lo_nger confident about the nature of pleasure. How's that;·Jack? . 
Part Two 
McDonald: It's so true. Perhaps we could, in fact, date the modern recurrence of this lack of confidence precisely with the advent of the kind of empirical 
_method suggested by Bacon. You remember the relent­less way that "Baconians" were satirized all through the 18th century in essays on "virtuosos" and collectors. Behind those satires may very well be a realization that Baconianism is attacking the very life-principle of art: the pleasure principle. 
Walton: Indeed. Much of the literature that we study is _in its own right troubled by the nature of the very 
_ principle upon which imaginative literature is based. The experience of such diverse characters as Madame Bovary,_ Geryaise, and Gustav Aschenbach is to see the mask of pleasure removed, disclosing death. That's their Celestial City. The mask is the promise of gratifi­cation and behind it is death. That problem bears on the question of literary form. 
McDonald: I don't know that I would agree with you, however,· that this constitutes a really profound dis­infegration of the pleasure principle. Perhaps we can get into · a good argument now over the definition of pleasure. I would contend that it follows immediately _on the perception that things fit-the perception of harmony._ Interestingly, the same thing happens in science, at least as viewed by people outside of science. Especially in the 19th and early 20th centuries, non­scientists viewed science as being "bleared, smeared" by the new technology. I'm thinking here of Hopkins' sonnet, but we see those things in Thompson, Words­
-worth, and many others, too, at least as late as Sher­wood Anderson's Poor White. Science seems to take all the pleasure out of the contemplation of reality. And -yet that's not true to a scientist; the pleasure principle reappears in science at a different point. 
" 
,. ­

_· MARCH 30,·1973 

I have a kind of personal mythological happening in my own past. I remember sitting in a classroom eleven years ago, listening to a mathematician whom I had completely lost at that point in the lecture. I lost him because I became so intrigued not with what he was doing, but by his attitude toward it. This mathe­matician was aesthetically excited. He was talking about the solution to a set of differential equations, and he was saying things like: "Of course, you could solve it this way, but this way is beautiful. This way is sym­metrical. This way is lovely." 
Walton: You must have had the same teacher I did. I had the same experience. 
l\lcDonald: The point is that pleasure does recur in the scientific mind. I think it also recurs in literature, and I guess this is what I was talking about before ­that it -is from the perception of harmony that we derive our pleasure, even if the thematic material on which that perception is built is the decay of the plea­sure principle. 
\Valton: That, by the way, is exactly Flaubert's an­swer to the critic of Madame Bovary who was repelled by the novel's sordid world. 
l\lcDonald: A classical answer! 
Walton: His answer, however, had nihilistic implica­tions because he says that he has exhausted the world of nature by reproducing it in a world of art. Now that's probably nonsense, and thus raises another ques­tion, namely, whether the sources of intellectual gratifi­cation are not always some mode of self-deception that can be analyzed as such. Modernists are preoccupied with that sort of thing, with the possibility that all of our pleasures are a form of vanity. Yet, they differ from traditional moralists whose whole world of vanity is going to give way to an eternal order. What emerges from their attack on mundane pleasures is a sort of apocalyptic pleasure. The universe is the ultimate work of art of which the work is a model. So they're serving the ultimate ends of the universe by addressing them­selves to the pleasures of the imagination. 
If I can say that pleasure has achieved a pathologi­cal state in literary as well as social relations, then it's symptomatic of the times that students, teachers, and professional critics frequently enjoy that literature which draws attention to the fact that life is a night­mare. The source of pleasure is that they have this knowledge after they've read, say, Journey to the E1id of Night, and that the others don't. 
McDonald: I think you have hold of a cultural phe­nomenon that has reverberations in many different fields. For example, occupational therapy for psycho­logical basket cases is a matter of trying to find a kind of pleasure by radically delimiting the knowledge of the world, so that one is involved only with braiding little vinyl strips and that's all. The patient can forget about everything else. Similarly,_the kind of pleasure 
that "my" mythological mathematician was getting 
resulted from his total involvement in an imagined, 
relatively minute world of differential equations. The 
artist most usually constructs the same sort of selec­
tive imaginative world. 

Now, the kind of pleasure you described as patholog­
ical and that you want to call illegitimate, I think you 
C(JJl1,, finally, call illegitimate because if it's true that all 
pleasure depends on ignorance, then we ought to be 
able to judge the value of the areas of human experi­
ence one chooses to ignore. If one decides to concen­
trate only on chaos, and to refuse recognition of any 
results of human systematizing, then one has chosen 
an arid, life-denying field of phenomena. I think you'll 
be able to say that that's perverted, at least if the posi­
tion is dogmatically retained, rather than used as a 
step towards something broader, something more 
human. Does that make any sense? 
\Valton: That makes good sense. But the modern "metafictions," like those of Borges and Barth, have enormous metaphysical pretensions. They claim enor­mous scope for themselves by creating lapidary models of a world that is enclosed in a void. Their preoccupa­tion is with technique, yet the implication of their work is to invite us to take comfort in the void. This is essentially masochistic, for as traditional artists they know that even an amorous lyric of the Renaissance proposed to our mind a temporal world and an eternal world, created a model of the temporal world operating within eternity. The modern metafictionist parodies that process which is so beautifully defined by Sidney in his Defense and exemplified in his poetry. 
Canclelaria: But it's so Platonistic. Perhaps you could describe that process in another way. 
\Valton: · Here is the pleasure of the imagination: the work of imagination knows that it does not give you the thing in itself; it gives you an image of that thing. The image, of course, is intelligible, sensuous; the thing, however, is neither of these. So that we really contract the universe into an orderly whole which is an intelligible whole and a source of pleasure because, as Jack says, pleasure is in the perception of how the things fit together. And it could be said that it isn't sado-masochistic pleasure to see, say, Emma Bovary confronting, in effect, the inevitability of her own dis­integration in the form of an eroded face, a horrible rotting and yet living form. It's not sado-masochistic pleasure because the horrible face itself is a mask for what is ineffable and, therefore, what is horrible about dissolution. 
Candelaria: Which reminds me of the Crucifixion and why it's such a lastingly profound story: in the horror of Christ's martyrdom we find, what you call, the mask of the ineffable. It's morose, but somehow affirmative. 
\Valton: Even in my own teaching my description of the design of Madame Bovary is an invitation to mo­roseness on the part of the student. In that moroseness they feel a kind of pleasure: we know the horrible truth. There's a grim and probably spurious feeling of 
MARCH 30, 1973 
we now call it 
existential terror 
self-exaltation to be gotten out of that. I'd prefer to be able to demonstrate how the representation in art of a negative truth is always an affirmative act and a legiti­mate source of pleasure. Is that twaddle? 
McDonald: I don't think it's twaddle at all. That's a very traditional rendering of the theory, for example, that all tragedy ends happily. I think that's probably true; genuine tragedy ends happily. I have a corollary theory about melodrama -and this has no academic respectability at all, but I still think it's true-that the difference between melodrama and tragedy is that melodrama ends horribly and the kind of pleasure you get from melodrama is sado-masochistic. [GENERAL LAUGHTER] With even less academic respectability, I look at King Lea1· as embodying both of these visions at once, so that we see the same incidents at ~wo differ­ent levels of harmony, with Gloucester played out at an absolutely senseless level which is overarched with the tragedy of Lear, which is. played out on a sensible, ordered level: a level which makes sense out of the whole drama because it encloses the senselessness of what happens to Gloucester. The whole play, then, is an affirmation. It insists on that center of disorder which we all feel. I guess we now call it existential terror. 
\Valton: I think modern criticism has enabled us to speak with great precision about that peculiar behavior of the aesthetic. Positivism in our thinking -a kind of pocket version that every modern mind carries around with it-does tend to subvert belief in the aesthetic. It is in the very nature of literature to alleviate despair, and I can't understand the inconsis­tency between the effect of many of our courses of English and the knowledge that we have about the nature of literature. The effect is that some. students think they have been put into a Slough of Despond by reading certain works of literature. Teachers have to be at fault; so do the students. Some continuity be­tween the teacher's training and the effect of his work has to be achieved. 
Candelaria: That's surely true, but isn't college age­late adolescence -kind of predisposed to despair? Besides, the mature appreciation of literature and its insights are seldom immediate results of one's literary experience. 
lValton: But the problem is not just dementia praecox. These glooms take the form that cultur_e gives them. An established liberal piety requires that "realistic" art dealing in the horrible or the squalid be defended as "true to life." Yet, no mode of literature. can justify itself on these grounds. · And our discussion of Frye should remind us that we are in the very·efflorescence of a tradition that makes that point. Do you agree? 
l\lcDonald: Except that (and this may be confusing) we should redefine "lifelike" in· the old romantic sense of not being faithful to phenomenal life but instead being faithful to the process of life. In thaf sense, all literature is in fact lifelike because it does re::-enact the myth of life. Would you agre.e? 
lValton: Yes, we have had to re-establish a sound definition of the word· "verisimilitude." As incorrectly used, it assumes a positivistic definition for tlie -'.'veri-"; and that's exactly antithetical to what Aristotle seemed to have meant when he made. "verisimilitude" a cri­terion of literature. It debases the idea. 
McDonald: That's what makes "myth" such a valu­able term to use. It gives us a tag which can denote ­if it's well-defined, that is -a pattern·that has its own principle of change built into it. So that when we talk about myth in a useful way, we're not talking about a static pattern. We're talking about a process, a pattern which is perceived not in an arrangement_ of things; but instead a pattern which is perceived _as the way in which this arrangement changes according. to certain rules. The work of literature is verisimilar, then, not to the phenomena, not to the things as they are arranged, but to the way· those things change. · A mathematical analogue might be the·first derivative -a description of the way in which things change. It's even better to think of it in terms of a second derivative. That is,· we·. have two variables that change relative ·t~ one _of the original variables. The rule ·which defines· the change in the change is ·closer to what we mean by ·myth 'in literature, I think. Of course;· in m.atliematics you can talk about the nth derivative. That would be the ulti­mate description of the myth itself. 
Candelaria: Would one of you iare to provide a ·spe.;. 
cific literary example? 

. ' 
lValton: Take romance..·It can be something glibly characterized· as· a narrative ·m(?de' that-promises· and delivers_ complete gratification of: all,the needs and de­sires that are introduced <into •its_ world. In modeI'n · jargon, the-romance. is a wish,;fulfillment fantasy. It· · presents. th~-·obstacles -to. gr~tificatio~ in .'the. impres­sive, _but sharply limited··for!,ll ·of:an ordeal,· a malevo-, lent dwarf,a dragon~ which stands·for .the principle of reality in itself~ unenh~ced:by the imagination. 
The monster in·a world.of.romance is reality.. Now romance. knows-that it ·cannot reproduce a reality un­enh~ced-by imagination, so _quite arbitrarily it,repre-. sents it in a stylized, symbolic form. Some• "reali~m",. is . 
. by contrast_hubristic, acting as though_it could strip_ the encounter with,reality. of. all that the imagination; pro­duces in• it. "Classic" realism; however, derives ,con­sciously from romance by inverting the order of plea­sure and reality. The world of Mada1ne Bovary purports to be structured according to the reality principle. In such a world the misfit is. that character who pre­eminently represents the imagination. Monstrous as she is, we are at worst ambivalent toward her because we share her-hostility t9~ard the·"reality" around her. A "return to romance"-the rubric.under which Love Story has been ·absurdly: defended-·is perhaps being · actually conducted by Barth, Borges, and Nabokov. All the modern bogie~ become th~ dwarves in their_universe of ear-and mind-pleasing ~echniques. 
" . 
McDonald: You know, I've only heard this idea once before and it sounds _neat .. I. can't come t~ irips with it much more than just.to·say it:s·intriguing.. 
Walton:. -Incidentally,· one of: tlie romantic themes tha_t archetypal and :psychoanalytic criticism have en­~bled us to focus on_is the '_'father.probJem"_ in•romance: .Freud calls the child's fantasy of being a foundling the "family romance."·_ If it isn't actually a delusion with the·c:Iiild, it's an idea that accompanies his growth.-He has to pick out a set of parents who are the real. (that is to say, "ideal") ones, in order to make up for the deficiency in his actual (that is, "step-") ones. In one· romance situation, the father will be the good.but weak king who is saved and superseded by the hero and who . unit_es him with the object o{ desire. In· another. he is · 
· · the beast, tyrant, or jealous suitor who can be overcome without guilt. Both cases seem to imply that every desire for gratification is an offense.. against the father -.that is to say, against the prlnciple of re9-lity. · · 
McDonald: That sounds great to me. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
Candelaria: I don't know. I have difficulty equating the father with reality. I would have said God or .. ·.. 
\Valton: Yes. The Father: Once upon a time and a very. good time it was there was a moocow coming down along the·road and this moocow that was coming down the road met a nice little boy named baby tuckoo.... 
His father told him that story. [from James Joyce's Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man] 
·Stephen Dedalus perceives that he is merely a charac-· ter in his father's story. His romanticism re_quires that his father become a character in his. 
McDonald: He needs to become the father himself.. 
Putting all this in the context of Frye, what you've been dealing with is the romance mode and archetypal symbols. There should be a more general mode still ­a-mythic mode in which you. can ·talk about monadic symbols. So that you ca11:. talk in even larger ahstrac­tio~s about this kind of relationship. Perhaps the final abstraction . is a> :monadic -relationship of opposition. 
· That level may ev~n be more abstract than Fryewould .want to make it,' but I don't think so because behind his monads. are. the confounded circles that are generated out~ of-his. book.time and time again. The Anatomy_ 
·i:r~vltes you to. make diagrams of it, and the _diagrams . all come out to be circles: 
Walton: They're .all over: my blackboard. 
· McDonald: I understand.thathis studerits end_up. the 
-. ·same way. :They come_away with n~tebo9ks filled with_ -· interlocking and concentric.circles..In.ariy· case, one of 
MARCH 30, 1973 


the romance is a wish-fulfillment 
· the monadic relationships you may be talking about is this relationship of opposition. The classification of the various relationships possible between A and B has been codified most abstractly in Boolean algebra, which I should now run· back and study up on. That is more general than the reality/romance opposition you set up, Jay,. or the spirit/matter opposition out of which it seems to come most immediately. It's at this point that literary theory begins to break through to a vision of how literature reflects the dynamic patterns that .are behind our consciousness as a whole. 
-·Walton: There's that idea again. I think it might be 
· true. It sounds. to me like the best formulation I've heard of asense, expressed frequently, that the real business of literary criticism cannot be done in ordinary · 1anguage. Jack makes me feel like a peruke salesman when he tells me that I have to understand and use a metalanguage. One apostle of this creed actually said that writing in nor~al language about literature is like commenting on a concerto by sitting down at the piano arid playing something else. That is corrosively logical. 
Candelaria: Why "corrosively" so? 
\Valton: I can't understand abstractions of that kind; 
otherwise I'd be a mathematician. 
Candelaria: · Yet you use·therp. in class. You're groping 
. -as we all are;all the time~ for those pure abstractions _ Prof~ssor McDon~ld _d_escribes:; And sometimes we seem to· appr:o~cll -and, even, reach them. 
-:\Valton: ··Yes, but.we'r~ still groping. ¦ 
WARREN GAMEliel spit>eR 
This sto1·y_ is a new and valuable. citizen in that very wonderous world · ruled by Machiavelli's. THE PRINCE. I suspect all of us who visit the worlils of Warren Gam,ale,il Spider will·.never be able to· return. 
-Michael A. Baum. 
T. C. Treanor with this article does two, things. He gives 1ne Flight. He makes me young. He ~lso takes me to green pastures, w1urre·heJJ1iakes me lie down.· For all of this I a1n deeply grateful. · · . · · · · ·: 
-.Caryl Chessman 
"~ " ~ --­
To the real Warren Spider, ,vho cra,vl~ among tis all. 
IT was evening, and the ~wilig~t of Cairo, lliinois, was being hastened by the soot of the town's ·only:mariufac:,_turing center: ... ', . . . . '. It was going to rain that night.. · ~ . . . A mile from Cairo's sole monument·-.· a statue ··of 
' ' 
the town's :fifst rotarian -a flock of happy spiders were making preperations for a busy night of.feasting. ·All, .that is;-except Warren Gameliel _Spider.· For 'Warren· Gameliel Spider was. no ordinary spider; 
· While. ·other spiders could content themselves by eating;. spinning webs, and laying eggs, Warren Game­liel Sp1der had a loftier calling. The ver:y thought of food.did nothing but fill his abdomen with pain (spiders . have .no.hearts). Orily when some other spider, in tri-· bute to Warren's superior mission, would leave :food· for Warren as a gift:would Warren ever.eat.. · 
That, however, was not a regular: occurrence. 
Fortunately, his hunger never. bothered :<warren. His_ great mission occupied all his n:iental energy, \vak~ . ing and asleep. · 
Warren Gameliel Spider, you see, wanted to crawl faster and higher than any other spider in Christendom. More than that; he wanted to .be the best and most graceful crawler in all the animal & insect kingdom. 
This, you might imagine, didn~t set too well with . his little spider-parents. One day his little spider­mommy said to him, 
"Why, VVarrie,''. · i~· her,Jittle spider-:voice. !'Why can't you be like other memb~rs.of your family? You're practically all ectoplasm and juice." _· . .· 
"We're all practically all ectoplasm_ and juice, ma,"· VVarren would· reply :patiently_..·: "Besides, · I . don't care. · I just want to see·what~the limits· of ,the_se. eight gor­geous legs are." 
_;.Look here; War," _his.. father would take'. his little spider~pipe' out .bf his' mouth 'no(unkindly, anci' say, '."If .you don't eat'soon; you'll cro,akand the worms'll eat you. 
Do you want that fo.. happE:n?": .. Warren Gameliel Spider" listened respectfully,:-and 
.. then went· out. and' did· what he damn well wanted. "Silly oid guzzard/' he would. say; "Mom's going to eat him pretty soon anyway." . 
· Warren. GameiieL Spider had ·spent that day prac­ticing: his · crawling. First fift¢en-foot ·. ·sprints, then twenty.·. Then he would climo up and.descend a pair of 
. 'eight ~ incff mountains .. Then 'he would run back to the. other _spiders,·· shouting, '.'It's· fun!:.':It'_s exhilarating!" . . Generally speaking; he wouldn't. evoke. much of a . reply; though· once someone. suggeste.d he :write a bool(about.it~ · ·, ~ -~ 
THAT 'evening, as all the . spiders headed to their homes .in the earth to· avoid ·the upcoming thunder-. shower, an idea: hit Warren· with the force of a· wasps'· sting. ··"Why not" he. thought sudderitly, ''combine _my height and speed drills by running down the face of:a 
rock?"_ .----· -,~ · Imi:ne_diately he broke from:the· main.body of spiders·· and headed towards the biggest rock he.kriew; · · .. · . · ... . ·~where's·:that. goofy. bastard going?'! :asked :·Spiro. Spider to.his-neighbor.: . ·· · .·, · •.-. . .. "I dunno," was the reply, "maybe he's:"gonna· prac-· tice Swimming." -, ..._ The raindrops were the -size· of. Warren's ·eyes.as:_he 
began to climb the -huge rock;·. hut he hardly:_noticed · therri. This, he was certain,' is' wh.ar:tli'e Gr~at·Arachnid' had made him to.do_··-· run dchvn·',the·'sides: 'of. ~oun-, tains. 
He soon passed_ the grass .line and was on· barrem rock As he stopped to rest~ he .thought he· could see all · the wo:r;ld: Insects one. hundred, one.hundred.fifty feet 
· away, dived. and disappeared.·. Warren could see 'them.. He · could see :the cloud-darkened· vegetative stalks 
THE.SCHOLASTIC 
around the mountain dance softly in the cool wind. In wanted right then wa~ a drop of water. the distance.-nearly aquarter-mile away, he could see . . "Good._ -This is what you do .-..." 
--' ' --> ­
the vague outlines of the -trees as they passed upward 
·... ~--,-!. 
. and out of his imagination. _ 'Many,_ days ·1ater, :-Warren was ,full of this gi:eat ·He continued towards the top._ teacher's -knowledge. Though.he could have stayed for­-.The :sky was utterly:black, save .for the moonlight ever, his old. sense of mission was upon him. which filtered through the heavy cloud cover.-_ ~'.Master," Warren said, ."I f~el as though ·J must 
Finally,, Warren completed· his climb and stood _on bring.your words to my spiders above ground." the summit of his mountain, fully twenty inches_ high, ''But I'm· only on chapter six,". the master objected, alone and sweaty.and magnificent. · "!".haven't gotten to what I had to say to the street­
"Great Arachnid," he said to-himself; "how glor:ious lighter -yet-.?' · ,_it is to be a Great Idea of Thyself. How fortunate I am . , ''.'No matter, master," Warren said, "my spiders cry to realize my own glory, and my Oneness with You . .out for me." . . You and I, GreatArachnid, know the secret ·of height · -~!Go -then/' the ma.ster said reluctantly, "let me give and speed. -you·my blessing." But since·the master couldn't get his 
"Great Arachnid,"· he continued silently; "how for­hand outof the goo, Warren was obliged to travel un­tunate I am. not to be like one of those spiders down blessed as he moved back to the overworld. there, ignorant and lowly. I thank you for making them 
· not me, and I pray you to help me to lead them in my own. example." WAR~N Gamaliel _Spider had gathered all his _ In reply, a tugboat horn so_unded-on the distant fellow-spiders around him. He had, he said, swapped Mis~issippi, hushed and low. , . interplanetary platitudes with the Little Prince-himself~ Then, suddenly, the sky was torn in half by a-mon-and had brought the Prince's wisdom. . strous saw of lightning; .turning everything -_ trees, He. began slowly. _ · grass, mountain, old.stale flowers, and Warren·Gamaliel . "Remember to love your neighbor, or at least ignore 
•Spider·---into a camera's negative. In that moment of him. Buy American. The fastest way to crawl· is on lightning horror, Warren saw that· there were ·eveII another spider's back. higher ·mountains around him. The sky flashed dark . "Remember to·tend to your garden, and when you're again, and the clouds made a hungry sound . _not, ·to watch television all the time. 
.The afr smelled-like a gasoline lawnmower. ·"Life is like a roto-rooter . Then itreally started to rain. ."When you're thirsty, drink Metrecal. Don't eat your "-This is -it," thought ·warren Gamaliel Spider; "a own eggs.. Write-'I love you' on his thorax. 
-sign from'the Great Arachnid." ."Be·open to all kinds of love, but never at more than 
-So concluding, ·warren -Gamaliel Spider dove :down· five a throw. ' ' ' the· side of the mountain,· _slicking the pads of his· 1egs '_'Life is like a bowl of:cigars. , against the side of-the mountain, loving the ground ··as -_ "Seek out the truth and find it.. When· you're done it-~ came_: close, · legs moving like eight -pinwheels _-. with it, put·it back. · aloft( floating! flying! free! and !ejoicing:in wild spider · -"i~~y_cott' nori-unfon'Iettu~e. voi.ce .until he crashed violently and laid still. _ , "Life is· l1ke an electr~c dryer. . 
-:Incidentally, the mountain he had jumped off of was. . "There is one great-se_c;ret I learned with the great the gravestone of:Richard Brahmin, a · speech ·writer teacher thaf r·,want to share ·with you. Since knov,,ing during the Kennedy· adm_inistration. ---this se~ret, .rhave become the happiest· spider extant, 
and ·when. you learn it, you too . will find that peace is · at paw_in your own abdomens...." _ ·. :·: Just then; a filthy white bird, which looked some-­
''H·1"i;, said--a-v~i~e, "w~lco~e-to consciousness-two~;, 
what like . a seagull but acted more like a drunkeri · Slowly Wa~re~ opened his h~ndred-eyes a~d look~d chickeii hawk, suddenly dive-bombed ·five thousand feet, .
arourid. "Over here!" . 
grabl)ed Warren in his bill, and ate him.
Tµrnirig hastily, h~ saw one of th; ~pst:w_ide-e~ed, ­gorgeous · faces he had ever seen. Un.fortunately, .the ·_ . _· body that should have been connected. to -tl~ii face was 
. somehow submerged in some sort of goo. ::-. · ' · . "Guess who I am!'! the face said-cheerily'. . "Mia Farrow Spider?" . _ _ . _ . . 
. .-·,,No. Does this_ help?:-_ I 'go' around_-frorrr plane{ to 
• ' planet and· tell everyone. that-he's: doing wrong and·jiow __ -topehappy.''.. .,'... ··c--__ -·i,-. _:·-,.,;· T. C. TREANOR 
. __ : "Jane Fonda Spider?~'. · ·-, . . ·, ... : <'No. In ·fact, I'm not a spi_der at. all:_:Bu(that's' all­
T /, .­

.·_ .. --_ right.· Listen, do you wanfthe best in every'tJ?.ing?~--Do . -· you want to use ·100 per cent of .your:bra_iri,:~ot·.j~st_.t~n . like normal beings? Would. you like-to~ slide -.down_-tl).e · 
•web the envy of everyone?·.•Would-you:iike":,:to ,be.. the 
-· spider the black widows set theii· trips·for?"--,·;·:_~' ·._ .. ', ''.'Sure would," :Warren ·said; ·though: in :_truth ,all ,h~: 
MARCH 30, 1973 
perspectives 




Politics, Priorities, and the University 
Edward Manier 
1. The New Politics. Lewis Carroll's Humpty­Dumpty expressed the following sentiments to_Alice in Wonderland, "My words mean whatever I w~nt them to mean. I pay them well, and I expect them to do what I ask." 
The problem with H.D.'s strategy is that in the ab­sence of sufficient wealth to pay a listener_ to under­stand what one wants him to understand, it is self­defeating. To do any job properly, words_ haveto func­tion as common, not private, property. If they mean only what one man wants them to· mean, he:can't use them to talk to anyone else. If words can be bought and _sold, they cannot be used for purposes of honest communication. 
If any. expression deserves to be banned because of a loose living tendency to spend the night with the highest-bidder, I suspect 'the new politics' is it..There is even a tendency to call whatever tactics won the ' last election. 'the new politics.'_ .In Indic1na, ,,;.;e. h~ve -. elections three-out_of every fou_r years. 'I'o keep up. with the stunning. career_ of 'the new politics,' you. need a loose leaf dictionary. _ -. -The idea·of welcoming the pr~digal has·a-deep hold on some of us. For Irie;-the. new ·politics is. not the· clever·manipufative use of the electronic_media_ by a candidate glowing with youtq.ful vigorand cq.arisma. It is not the use of the techniques of computerized voter analyses:-of massive door-to~door and telephone can~ -·. vassing., It--is not even. the-artful fu~~position·oi a· : variety of specialinterests' into another "new coalition.": 
·The new·politic;s, I submit~ ,is .what it was :twenty--. one years ago in the elder Adlai ·stevenso~'s ·fir;t cam­paign .:for the. presidency: of the U.S: It has· ~on few­
. -~ -~ . , -~ " ­
if any elections. It is the,effort to ."talk sense_ to· the Americal1:-people," ·1:0 put :ir~telligeri~e at the se~ice of citizenship. _ _ · · ' . · _ 
It is not the effort' of atechnocratic elite to identify, ­catalogue, and exploit-the weak points in our collective psyche. It is_ the effort to restore 'real meaning to the term 'participatory democracy' by thoughtful consu1:·.__­tation of our common experience to deter:mine our_ 
_realunfinished agenda, our future course,· as a"com2 rrmnity. It is the effort to discover an idiom, a way of speaking which all of us can use as a means·of sharing and developing our various· private hopes._ 
It is also the effo~t to develop structures or institu-­tions which truly liberate rather than oppress the society they are-intended to serve. For mo'st citizens, sponta_neous.interest in a public: meeting of the town council or the school board ranks.just below watching the 99th summer ·rerun of Gunsmoke. Ancl quite justifiably so, since their attendance, more often than 
-not, is either deliberately or inadvertently rendered pointless b·y -those-who ·convene ·and organize the meet­
. ing. One i!5 r~minded as .a pr<;>fessor who chides his students·for not asking· questions, but who never looks up from his notes to· see the cro-wd of hands. ·· 
Fina'.liy, thi{new politics· _is· not th~ "ne\\rpolitics of federal retrenchment." :But it .does have a wry sense of the fact:.thaf politics is a means and not an end in ­itself. -.yve seek~political ·consensus in order to attempt to develop ·a common matrix•or framework within ­
·which each individu.al -·ca1f bes_t he~r the beat of his own drummer, or discover~and' pursue the intensely· personal-meaning.of his_own)ife.-. _ -. . . 
2. Scientific· Priorities.. Explicit rational choice is 1iot ·as popular.an activity· as one_mightimagine. It is mor:e comfortable to:drift. :A leaf blown by the wind canit be held_ accountable in--the matter of its final 
. resting place. -Everyone has some use f~r someone · \\-'ho can't. say "no." · · · :_ Whatever one might feel about L.B.J.'s accent or -la'ck of-charisma,-there was something warm ·and:: . ·_ human about that tireless log-:-roller, holding his troops together for the quorum calls, dealing and • . -trading with established prejudice, gradually. advancing 
•his ownvision. In contrast, the cold rationality of · . Robert McNamara -newly transplanted from Defroit -· to the Defense Department -fell victim to the occu-· --P~tional disease of the systems analyst: doing the ·wrongthings for the right reasons. . 
· . We have been told that universities and their scientists face several very dry financial seasons. Un­less this economic stress is-to· convert the scientific community into a bickering collection of free-lance.· opportunists, that community must undertake a more careful _review of its shared concerns; it ·must develop ­sonie means of first discussing and then establishing a 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
reasonable schedule of priorities among the various use of scientific intelligence to extend the range· of feasible scientific research programs. Such a schedule dialogue and choice in situations where, without need not be monolithic or totalitarian. In rny view, if it science, mute passivity before the might and mystery of is reason<:1t>le,-it is more likely to. be multi-dimensional nature :would be the only thinkable response." and pluralistic. Given the difficulty of predicting the. -.A notable feature of this_formulation is that it fruit_s of any intellectual activity, it is important not ·ctoes not deny the value of "mute passivity"; it simply to overlook the strategic values of "random search," argues that that should not be the "only thinkable re­more commonly known as the trial-and-error method. sponse":to man's plight. So understood, even the 
If we are all interested in getting qetter at what technological ethos can be rendered compatible with we do, and in getting and giving criticism concerning the conviction that above all else we must avoid the the metho_d and the 'direction of our investigations creation of a universe in which the "domination of and projects, the model of the brilliant ·but lonely nature [is] linked to the domination of man." professor, contemplating a rose in the middle of the Perhaps the crux of this is that man must learn battlefield, is of very little help. The most important to "interact" with nature and other men, not "dom­ingredient in any sort of human progress is the human inate" or "exploit" them. "Interaction" here means capacity to:learn from the mistakes of,the past, one's "communicative action, symbolic interaction." As own and those of others..We cannot do that.unless we Habe:rmas says, it is "governed by binding consensual have some 'standards for identifying ·mistakes, and·we norms, which define reciprocal expectations about be­cannot do it together unless we have shared standards. havior. and which must be understood and recognized 
In contemporary America, the attitudes of most of by at least two acting subjects." There is an element us, from the general citizenry to the political establish­of unblushing myth in this, the myth of the personi­ment; and certainly including most university students fication of nature.* and professors, are conditioned by the so-called "tech­
. The difficulties involved in rationalizing thenological ethos." ·Implicitly, almost unconsciously, we scientific project render humility absolutely necessary. 
share its standards and values. It is particularly im­In discussing the criteria for scientific choice (forportant that the members of a scientific community determining the priorities of our national science pol­give explicit articulation to these values, and that we icy), Alvin Weinberg spoke about three different sortsundertake a joint effort to decide whether their hold of "external criteria" to be used in appraising research on us will be firm or loose. 
programs. Although he was at that time the head.Some of us live in the past to the extent that we of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, he argued thatstill subscribe to_ that formulation of the technological the scientific establishment had no right to requestethos first advanced by the, rationalists of the 17th and greater federal support than the Juilliard School of18th centuries: -'Scientific progress is the necessary and Music -unless it could satisfy such external criteria assufficient condition of human· progress.' Even then no 
these: 

one could persuade Voltaire that this was true, or that 2.1. Scientific merit. The range of scientific activi­this was the best of all possible worlds. By the time -ties may be_ partitioned 'into those which are more orof Darwin, the, scientific community was much more less fundamental in the special sense of being morecautious in _the expression of its ·optimism. Writing on or _less "illuminating" for cognate activities in relatedthe supposed marvelous design of the human sense fields. Weinberg, in 1963, was willing to argue that , organs, Helmholtz wrote, "That which we have dis­molecular biology deserved a much higher "illumina­covered in the way of inexactness and imperfection in tion" rating than ultra-high energy physics for ex­the optical machine and in the image of the retina, is ample. He assigned this rating on the basis of theas nothing in comparison with the incongruities which _supposed fact that molecular biology could provide . 
,ve have just come across in the domain of the (other) the key to the solutions of problems in a host of re­, sensations. -One might say that nature has taken de­_lated biological specialties (cell biology, embryology, . light-in 'accumulating contradictions in order to remove .neurophysiology). In contrast, he rated ultra-highall-foundation from the theory of a pre-existing har­energy physics very low indeed. "Aside from themony-bet,veen the,exterrial and internal worlds.",, · . 
brilliant resolution of the tau-particle paradox, which -··: ·old.creeds die hard. Successes in the Manhattan led to the overthrow of the conservation of parity, ...
and-then·again,in the Apollo projects fostered-the I know of few discoveries in ultra-high energy physics contemporary version of the old mytn: "Given-·con-: -which bear strongly on the rest of science."
fidence·inahis·mastery over nature, and a-sense·of·mis-: Neither Weinberg nor anyone else has developedsion,-. m_an_ ·can develop the requisite techniques to do this particular rating scheme to a satisfactory level. 
·_ -whatever he choos·es." This'tiine we don't needVoltaire,:. 
Population biology and ecology were not even men­, ·Helmholtz~ or.any expert ·9~ssandra. . 
tioned by Weinberg in 1963, and molecular biology 
, -. · :·, Racial prejudice, starvation, pollutio~,: the: Vietnam. ­_-~-war are all too obvio'us. To what do w'e·attr_ibute o_ur'' :,-.-_'-, _ * A~tually the theory of evolution underlines this point by . : failure? Lack of confidence in our mastery _over nature? . ·. -_stressing.the gradual character of the process of hominization: Lack of a sense of mission?'_·· . . ·_·. man, evo~~ed slowly f:om sub-human ancestry an~ h? evolved as ·__ -. . ~ • _. ·~ -· ; -·: _.: part of a natural env1ronment. Consequently, a s1gmficant'.fhe tragedy of Oedipus did not cons1s~-m his_ lack__ .-. part of the meaning of human personhood consists in the effort to of. hubris. _ · -_:-_., ·__ ·__ :. · 'maintain a reciprocity, a mutuality of adaptations, with one's '.' But surely intelligenc~-has some role in hu~an'hi~-~-. '' 'envir:o~mient. Coincidentally, Darwin personi~ed nature in em-c • ·_ ? · • , -h · h l · • l th ·h" ·h_I :.·>:: _ph,1SI~mg the analogy ~et~een "na_tural select10_n" and the _.t9ry. -;1'he version of .t. e t~c" no 0 ?.i_ca e. os_ w_ IC -. , · , __ conscious process ("arttfic1al selection") by which a farmer :-.favor 1s somewhat-humbler. Man 1s :r:es:gons1ble_for__ th~ _ _attempts to improve his herds. 
··_MARCH 30, 1973 27 
' ' . 

we need-a ·rebirth of 


poetic concern for nuance 
. . . 

does not illuminate those two fields -any ?lore than Nor do our probJems. disappear if we decide to they illuminate ·molecular. biology. baptize our, difficulties·by calling ourselves a "plural­
2.2. Technological merit. If,for any reason· what­istic society.~•. We might ~all agree upon a CO.IJlmon con­soever, a certain utility valueis assigned to a particular cern for ·our suryivar_as a ri~tion~ for. the health and widget, it is rational to assign·· a comparable_-value to vigor of all .our. citizens, for· equality of access to the basic research that-·may be seen to contribute fo the goods oreducation/h9u_sing,_-meaningful work, and invention, design, and production· qf ·better and better · leisure.•. But .our disagreements concerning the size 
. widgets. ·If improvements in paint· are important to of the.Pentago~•s· bt{dget:, the bes(m~de·of-distributing you,· and you have sufficient capita_]., it would seem . modern. medical care; }:he _meaning of "quality educa­rational _to have a·research and development budget tion,II "fair housing," arid_:'-'the right to work" are liter-and to devote a large part of it to· basic research on ally ·1egic.m. . . _ .. such topics-as pigment chemistry, the viscosity of· 3. The Univ~rsity. How do _we overcome the prev-. colloidal suspensions, etc.; o:rdiriadly you would not alent polarization··ori thes(f issues? There is no easy be expected to retain 'a ,biologist _in your. laboratory. answer.• ·But the university:has a part to play and the 
. It is someti.mes_argued that the c_eritral· concept of cogency of:its respo~se to these issues ~ill determine its . ratiopality has, in Western culture, been dominated by far·e in our_'~ciciety. ... -~ . the model of technoiogical rationality. -For whatever . What is ;the role _of. science, the scientist~ and the reason;•the mental p~ocesses of contemporacy·Western-. science ··sthdent hi the '.contemporary university? Cer­ers do seem to be naturally and easily· stimulated by tainly one· aspect :of :this-role-must oe the effort to problems in which it is necessary to· invent the means rec~~ture the fuII:Inulti::dimerfsionality of scienti!Jc. of attaining some obviop.s and clearly defined goal: activity.,-.;·:_;._ ~--. . . 
The problem-here,· of. cours~. is. that'sonie of our -. My. owri,-i::urrent research -in the history_ and philos­most-important goals· are neither·:obviou~ nor _well . ophy. of. science:is -~ddressed. to· the" reconstruction df .. -defined. . . · · . -­
the complex empirical,·'logical,· metaphorical, ·and 
-2.3. -Social merit. It might'be adniitteci: that m~st· . political texture of the scientific activity and writing of . of the difficulties.associated witll the·_effort to ratio"ri-. Charles-Darwin: ·For example; recoiistructim1 of the alize_the·project·of science.flow from-its in.volvemeni-influetice·of.T:-Malthus (Essa:j;-on Population) ·upon. 
-with the:furidainenta] .and n~~~ly:iritract~ble' questfon; Da~w_in·:indic~tes that at least four distinct b1,1t_inter-. . ''In what sort oi.society·do we·-wi;h· to.live:,,,-. In.-the acting. channels were· involved: 't_he empirical,· the .• . -face of the inevitably .irreducible :v~~iety cjf, a_ris~ers to . mathematical,: :the. heuristic;, and the metaphorical or · that guestion,,if is not\inc~mmon·to declar(fit-)neaning-· poetic/·:_-:··., ··., · _,,.. ,: -.. :, .· ,-.:. . les:(and'po~t~ess. · .-: :::; ·: ·,. '.'< ;_ .::·,: C •• >.: ,·.... ···_. iApo~tic!"coriceri/for ~11.iances ~ the subtleties of the
:.· 

. interaction of naturi and its ob~ervers -..may be that 
, aspect -~j.; scie~·ce 'most in need of_'a·-rebirth: If our .. ;iew ii s~1ence•is..that scienrific activity' itself is bleak, ·. c9lorless; .and h~artless,-then the pursuit of science.will, 
·do relatively little to help us J.iriderstand ciurselyes and, --. 
our ·fellow men. . . .-. · .. -. . ­. · ,;This µieans·that laboratories should not rese~ble· 
• ',:-· J.: -t __ ~;;~" ~~ .¥­

grim -factories or arenas for th~ bloodless co~bat.Qf
:-;:, ~ :::,~ :··-, ,­

· _competing technical skills.· By osmosis· and habit, th_e .­·. · ,· mo·dality by which we _address nature in the laboratory· :·,. becomes ,the modality .of our self-perception and the:: . ·:<:-:~·:< ';: _basic_ ft:amework for. our relations to other persons.:: .--~ -· -~ The history··and philosophy of science may con-.:'_· . ::~: _:_ tributeO:to:the full self-awareness of the sc1entist, 'btit·· }': .. ·"u-:·is not the essential key for every student. 'it 'can.,-,·;.-:­
' .: ' --• 't •• 
'Edward Manier. is'· an ·Associate Professor' j~ 'th:e. ;~Department_o{Phil~sophy . ..::--.-.·-;_ ,,.· 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
.:-,_; 

THE·scrioLAsT1c . 
. become more effective in this regard. by making a 
-C I ­

great~r ·effort to reconstruct the laboratory and field activities of past science.· Too.often·, it now deals with the past.of science as if it were.purely atextual affair,. or purely a matter of staring at (not through) dusty, ancient telescopes. History and Philosophy of Science must also give greater attention .to· the artistic and political dimensions of past scientific· activity. 
Today's scientist must hav:e (in addition to all'the familiar and demanding ·mathematical and empirical skills) a depth of artistic vision, realp6litkal sophis­tication, and. cogent moral convictions. An ambi~ious list to be sure, but it does 110 more than sketch the · conditions for beginning. . 
We must and we can do more than begin. The the: prqcesses· bY. which science is· utilized and inter­
. larger problems of our nation -and I would include preted: Otir--own strategic gamble with atomic weapons our.· shared tendency to abandon reason to fear and is iiot just mad, it is diabolic. greed at the mere mention of a buzz word like "bussing" • No theory I know has the power of exorcism. Per­
-will never be met until some increasing percent~ge haps· a ·liturgy of innocence and purity is reg'uired: a of our citizens hav~ had sqme experience in the ·suc­naive extrapolation of the scientific faith in the creative cessful solution of comparable problems in smaller com­potential of _unfettered, individual minds seeking truth munities. together. The political modalities of this liturgy are 
If the role of science is ·to expand.the range of expressed w:ell enough by the terms 'decentralization optioris open to m~n,· the scientist must also assist. of authority,' 'pluralism,' and 'participatory democracy.' in the joint effort to appraise these options and to · · . The solution·s for our many problems certainly de­guarantee equality o'f access t-o them. · pend upon more thari shared theories; meaningfully 
It has been said that scientists are incurably. naive common. solutions also require a large area of shared about. politics: --po ii tics is a struggle for power, a values-and shared ·experiences; meaningful "sharing" · s-truggle of personalities, and science .is the quiet search must be·a free and individually authentic act. for· truth,-involving no harsher conflict than the critical · The::iioint 'is that the college which transmits theo­comparison of ideas. Yet politics symbolizes a·reality . retical sophistication and nothing more does not pre­
which science can neither assimilate· nor eliminate -pare its graduates to meet their basic responsibilities .the irreducible variety of individual and comrimnal as citizens. Today; a true university must provide all aspirations. its -members an opportunity to gain experience and ·· it'is not the case·that all disagreement is rooted in . some measure of wisdom in what must be their life­mis~nde:rstanding. -At times men and nations under-· . . long effort-to harmonize their roles as scholars, citi­
-stand each other perfectly.and stilJ.profoundly .dis-. zens; arid priVfl.te individuals .. agree. Politics is the art of:coming to' terms with the ~There is a very old (Greek) sense of the word in fact. Consequently,· no inan can. avoid-coming to terms which the communal realization of such opportunities with: poiit~cs.' · · is tile true task of·politics: There is. no better way to · 
. realize·'such opportunities in· the contemporary univer--· · · · sity than_ to involve. all its w,illing members·in' the greatIn a.stirring·characterization of ''.science as-com-,_tasks· of·setting the priorities, designing the instru-· _ · munis~-,, J. D. Bernalstressed'the natural democracy. · · · " · -· 
· .'..m.ents/an_ d app.raising the completed performances of
of the. community.of science·,. a c.om.munity .in.. which,
-that university. · · .-" af·its best, coilaboratio~. and mutuaJ aid truly,are the.· . _-rri other words, I believe that it is absolutely neces­.01eans. of realizing.the m~st.indiv:idua~ 'o.f aspiratipns. . · -Sary, for universities to find ways to introduce the "new ·There:is·a ·profound.sense.in which·_each.scientist·de-, ..~ ·politics"of participatory democracy" into the.old guild 
: pep.ds:µp~n every. othe~ scienti~t)orthe_successful ..· ·· ·. _ and its traditionally rigid hierarchy of master (teacher) · culmination of.his own· personal_ quest,for,truth. -_ '. ~nd ·apprentice (student). ¦. . . ·; ;·There is however, an '.eq~allY profound sense in-,. 
-'; ... ~ ~. , ' -+ -+ + -, + -' .. ' t +
~ ~ 

..: which the;scientific community. is. limited and incom-· ·_ ;plete'.·,:-It ·s~el]l{~~lik~iy. thafthe~e c~ul~.ever be.... -:,.. : · ··a_:."sciehce of-scienc~". so·_powerful·as to ·p:r9vide a-com-:_ 
' :-pletej:h~o~~tical 'program-for.the ta,sk.of incorpqrating· .. -_:_ ·new,sc1entific·th~9ries ;(such as those of Galileo, Dar:.-: .· :.-: .:· ~fr{6t".jfreuci) ·.frito.: tii~: -netw,ork °-f ex!stin_g';_traa~tions . ·: , . ...­, :-' ·,.... ' >jri'·morality oin;religious belief ~ncfJiturgical practi_ce,_ · _ 
--,•.-~ < , •-.... ~~ •,•] _•>r ~ ~ C ' 
'· : .=·fri,.,politics'and:in·ae$thetic-s¢nsibility.:_~i~·.i;qmes .::__ ··::, ,.·. .-. ·. ,. 
-, ,.., ~• _-,~; ~• ) -~ ' _ _,,!• ', ~~~' ._~• ! -~ .-• •:, .~•: • '• .,_..,_ 'a•,•.• ~-•-,
r~ • • 
,._":.:":,' •j,~ry-,:~1qs<;:t§.t9-~·-a,d_mis~if_n..:~~at'the:f~ 1~__a!~ost_m_:-,:i ;_ · : ;_ ....•:. :... ;,, . 
:: ,~:.{?~yi~~ElY:,~r(i~~e~t. of)rr~t!,OI1f1l!ti,i_J:!·.~~r:e~()~t!ol ...~-,,_.' ·.'. ,.' .,: ·, .:· , '.; ·, -,, , ' .. ,,·,...:~:-·: :;­.,--... :"-:'idilize science and.:to·interpret)ts br~ader.cultura 1m-... . · :~-··.·:·•·.-: ·.:::..: ::\f-'po~1?S}\; · · :~ :::.·-_..' ': <::> .:'_':Y../· .-· :· :·..•.~ · · ~ ··:··_ --~, · -.:: · .. : ·. ·,. :: < ... · , ., ..·. > . -:· --·.:·-/:,~'~~{Obvio·usiy; th.ere'arE/cerhi,in ,social arrange~~nts ,.._;:, /~:· . ' . 
-~-:~; ~~de~:~hich:-''frrationalify' 'is·mtlch· too ki~d·a terIJi,for :-... ':' ....,·-._~·::,_\·: ··.
':.,~ ~.Mi.Rt~ 30,1973·-.· ·,, ., .. C 
'' .-,;'. . ·. ·' ' , .,. ' • 
James Kearn·s. 


Coming .to · Terms 
In the heated discussion now taking place over the only by a licensed ppysician, in a certified hospital or Supreme Court's recent abortion decisions, Roe v. Wade; clinic, etc. Any such regulations are to he only Doe v. Bolton (January 22, 1973), there is a decided those ':'reasonably related to maternal health" (em­lack of clarity on two fundamental points. The first · phasis added). concerns the precise legal effect of the decision, and the As abortional. technology becomes increasingly safer second concerns the process of legal re.fsoning used by (for the mother, at least) this regulation by the state the Court to reach its conclusion. On this second point will become a minimal formality. For example, is the. in particular there seems to be.serious misunderstand-"morning-after"_piUis further·developed (which is ing among nearly everyone except.those in the legal abortional by definition, because it_ terminates'preg­profession itself. It is important that people under-nancy after conception has taken place), abortions will stand .not only _what the Court di.d but also Jww they . ·be available through a doctor's prescription, or perhaps. did it, because only in these terms can be understood qff the _shelf; like aspirin. . the full impUcations of the a_bortion decisions. . _··3_· Finally, from the time of viability until birth, a · 
·_First_ of all, what the_ Supreme Court's-decision di_d state· may strictly regulate, and even prohibit. ab~r-­was to.Jay the foundation for abortions_ for any persori_, tions; ~•except where it is necessary; in appropriate in-.µiy place, at·any time, for any reason..The Court'~-··. medical judgment, for the preservation of the life decision makes unconstitutional any state_law wllich or health of the mother" ( emphasis added):· does not conform to.the standards set-by-the.Court·' The word "health" is of crucial significance here, be-
itself: . -. ----cause the Court defines "health" very liberally to · . 
" , . . . include "psychological as well as physical well-being" l._,During,the first three months of,pregnailcy,·a ~· _ and "the medical judgment may be exercised in.the_.­~tate may neither prohibit noJ'. regulate ab~rtion, · · · light of all factors-physical, emotional, psychological~: 
~whi~h is-"left to the medicalju_dgrilent·o(th,e preg.: ·-ta~iJial, and the woman's age -relevant to the 'Yen.: 
__, nant woman's attending physician." . .-\: ·. . beirig" of'the mother. Even had the Court riot construed 2..From the·end of the first three months unti(viabil--'·. ·. the word "health" this open-endedly,.the experience· · ity ·("Viability is usually piac~d-at ~l:>ou(~eve_~_ -·... ·.· -of-states ·with similar provisions in their ,c>wn laws .. months (28 weeks) bufmay occur earlier, ever1 at shows that it is not difficult to ·find a physician"willing· 
. 24 weeks'~). a state .inay·not:prohibit.aborticnis,:_but-. · · . to,·certify an ahortion as necessary to._preserve.the · .. : ·may-regulate how· they are to be performed,:e.g;, -.:·mqtiier.'s.'.'heaith." 'For instance, ·of the 61;572. ;. ~-: "_.:. ··.. '. 
--'~->, -:: -----) --~. ~,•.;:: < • --~:_;_';.:::_:' • ~--;_ ·:,~-,}_:-;.. • ---~ .-,~~~ -~,:-_·_,' 
-· -­
~ 
' ' ­
-..... _• • "!';; ­

abortions performed in California during 1970, 98.2% were approved by a medical committee because of a · · supposed threat to the pregna~t woman's mental·_ _health. (San Francisco Chronicle., November 23, 1972.). 
In effect,·therefore, the Supreme Court has accom-­plished by judicial decision what had come to seem ­impossible to achieve through i1:J.diVidual state legisla-. tion: legalized abortion-on-demand in every state of ­the_ union, dtiring·any stage of pregnancy, right up to the moment of birth itself. Struck down, of course, are the_ statutes of 30 states prohibiting abortion except to sa\7e the.mother's life. But it is doubtful if even 'the liberalized ·abortion laws of.such states as· New York· arid California-are liberal enough to meet the Court's standards._ · ­
As· drastic a development as_this may seem, much more far-reaching effec_ts are implied in the Supreme Court's reasoning of the case. What that reasoning· was, and what it implies, are now to be examined. 
Although.the Court's opinion is. long and involved, the crucial sentence in it is'this: "[T]he word 'person,' as used iri the Fourteenth Amendment, does not include ­the unborn." -To many who are not acquainted with legal phraseology, especially in constitutional law, ·the import of such a statement is far from clear. Its mean­ing, however, is simple. The constitutions and statutes through which our state and federal governments operate contain thousands of references to "persons." An example especially pertinent to our times is Section One of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution: 
No State shall .. ~ deprive any person of life, liberty or property, without due_process of law; nor deny to any pe'rson within itsjurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. (Emphasis added.) 
. To say that someone or something is not a "per­son" in the law is" simply to say that when any law re­fers to a "'person," it does not include the someone or something in question. Accordingly, the word "person" has a-great deal of significance when -it ·appears in the 
. law. ~rthermore, the definition of ."person" is pot -. -· left·toits commonly understood meaning in ordinary speech; rather, it is for the law to say who is ·and who is not ·a:-"person/' and who i.s therefore covered or not by a specific provision. For instance, it has 
· fong:been settled that corporations are "persons" ­within the meaning -of the Fourteenth Amendment, ~hile.other business_ organizations; such as partner-'. 
_.ships, are not. Consequently, corporations-. as car~ .­
_ _-pora.tions -indep~ndently of their officers and· stock-
the appellants'. case, ·of course, collapses, for the 
fetus' right to life is then guaranteed specifically 
-. by the Amendment. ·_ ,·.If the child in the ,vomb is recognized as a "person'' within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, the~ allowing his_or her life to be taken for any reason other. than to save another life is clearly a violation of 
-"equal protection." For the unborn child has obviously ccmmitted no wrong, and there is no rational basis _for depriving the unborn of life for reasons· which do not justify the killing of people already born. This jg ·directly analogous to racial discrimination: there is no · ratfonal basis for depriving nonwhites of the rights to 
vote or to buy property, for example, for reasons which do not justify denying whites these same things. To illustrate the concept another way: it would not be a denial of equal protection of the laws if Congress passed a law saying that any person may terminate the life of any other person, whom the first person considers dangerous to his life or physical or mental health. (There would obviously be a big "due process" problem 
-here, though.) Having concluded, however, that the child in the 
-w9mb is not a "person" in the law, the Supreme Court obviated any need to consider whether liberalized abortion violates any rights of tp.e unborn to dtie process or equal protection. Without this complication, the Court could readily affirm the pregnant woman's "right to privacy" in terminating her pregnancy. With such a great deal at stake, it is important to see upon what grounds the Court reached this conclusion that the· unborn child is a legal "nonperson." 
The first reason given by the Court is historical: traditionally, ''the unborn have never been recognized in the law in the whole sense." This is so, it is said, be­cause "the law has been reluctant to endorse any ~ theory ~hat life, as we recognize it, begins before live birth." With this, the Court comes to the crux of the entire abortion controversy: whether the child.in the ­
-womb, -the "fetus," is a living human being. The 
overriding importance of this issue stems from earlier ·decisions-_ of the Supreme Court concerning illegitimate · children.In Levy v. Louisiana (391 U.S. 68, 70), 
:, decided-in· 1968, the Court said·: 
·We sta:rt from the premise that illegitimate children :, are nof"nonpersons." They are humans, live, and -have their being_ -They are clearly "persons" -within 
-the.meaning of.the Equal Protection Clause of-the --Fourteenth Amendment. -,-Thus; if-'thE:i''child in the womb is human, lives, and 
. ~ h'oiders -_· are entitled to ,idue process" and '_'~quai pro--. has his ,being _-that is, if he is a living human being . --·. tection" of·the laws, ·with substantially the same "civil·
• • , -• __:__ then he is· entitled to legal personhood. And, as ­. ; .. •. "rights" .<. -e:g.;:fair trials and freedom from· discrir~1f:.' ---pointed· out. above, the Court acknowledged that if the 
, : -. -~ation -:-:-_·as belong-to individual people. -.-·-· -­
·.. ·_: _,::_tn:the .~tii:frtion. cases, then, what.-the Supr~~e-·:;. · ·__ :_/_'Court-was really: deciding in saying that. the child-in·· .:·.-. ··\the\~·omb is not_a "person" in the iaw; is that_thE/ ·__ .,-__ :_ --~-µnborn··child is not entitled to the. protection·-~of_ th~_ -: --. :Child in the womb is accorded legal personhood, then 
-liberalized.abortion laws cannot stand. In short, "the _·. critical issue is whether an abortion involves the , .:· --destruction of a human life. If one concedes that it 
do2s, then one can hardly support a proposal to kill 
;;>_·::<_;:_pu'_e''Process and Equal Protectiori.'clatises of the·. ?: . ·_existing human beings to suit the convenience or com:­>>_:-)~9n~ti~ution. In fact, the Court openly adinittE!a '.that · :: , ·joit Qf others." (Testimony of Professor Charles E.­.·---:~\·Jf-the:unborn_ child were_:to_ b~,r~cognized as a:Jegal'__ -.. ::·"]-Rice before the New_York Joint Legislative Committee ---, .'\-'_t:'.'p_erso:n,'! then libera~izecl-.abo_rtion: would: have to b:e .-: ; . ,.·_':on' Health, Albany, New York, February 27, 1969. -. 
_:;:·,-..completely.forbidden:.:_: /·.~.:-/·._ :· _ . -.· --. . . '. :Professor Rice is presently on the law faculty at· ~'.-_. ,:.::If'thi~ ~~ggestion oi pe~s~nhood_is'establisheci,· .·_ ,> ~--:'__ .:Notr~ Dame.) 
: : . :.:MARCH-'30,· 1973 
·., 

when does life begin? 
The Supreme Court apparently_r~ogniz_ed this·. difficulty, for it refused to -confront the issue di_rectly: "We need not resolve the difficult ·question of when life begins." Of, course,.in this case·not to decide·was to decide: if thej.mhorn child "is a living hiiman beirig, then liberalized abortion is -not permissible; therefore, if the _Court holds liberalized abortion is p·errilissible, the ·court 'must believe that the unborn child is not ­a living human: being: . _ . _ 
This, then, -poses a-question_ of fact: -wheri. does life begin? The·.court claims·there is a"wide·diversity of thinking on this·sensitive and difficult 9uestfon:11 The·-· 
, Court is correct insofar as:there:is_not tofal \manimity 
._among· all cmninentators _on the q4estion:Ye1: the · overwhelming weight, of ·opinion; even"amcirig-:those , : . supporting abortion-on-demand;.is that·human life : begins at conception.• For-:example; the_.highest~. court _ of New York; in:upholdi1'ig thidil:>eralized·abortfon law 
. of that state;.foimd;--':: :.·': ' .., >: _....· ' -, -_. -: ; -11: is not :¢tectively·contq1dicted, ii it·is·confra9icted '-' at.all, that modern: biological -disciplines :acc:ept. that. ·iipon: co~·ception :affetus' has .ari.-·indeperidenCgenetic' 
----:: -~ ' ~ -:-:.. --. ­·-, . •.: _"·., ~:-~_ --,,.. ­
---:·-.;:_ --.~--·: --~ :;,: --.. , ­,----,-_ ;-.:.-_-: ~: :~-~-, .:--,. 
--' -­
-.-. ­
', ~"-~~-,....,... -/·~-: 

'.'package"-·. :· -~ and that it has· an autonomy of de­-vefopment and. character . : _: ~ It is human, . . . and 'it is unquestionably alive. (Emphasis added.) (Byrn· ·v: N~Y.C. Heq,ltli & Hasps: Corp:~ 31 N.Y.2d 194 . '(1972).) 
Even' if somehow one: can avoid' conceding that the child ·in the womb is a=livint(human being, one ought a_t· least-to_gfve him the ben.efit-of'tlle doubt. Our.law _ does not . allow-the _imposition of _criminal punishment unless guilt·isproven beyond a·reasonable doubt. ·Anal-. 
-ogously, the child in~th'.~·womb-':admittecily.innocent · •of any"crime~'deser\ies'to.have resolved iri his favor ' any doµpts as to his_ livin'g' humanity and his personhood. _ , '. Especially--ominous,"-but more·"ac.curately portraying the chariicter. of our.times,:fs the position of Californ~a Medicine~ -".Offic!al Jour~al of the California Medical . 
· Association": ::--, .. -. -­. -· · The ·rev~rence for·each_a:nd_eyery liu~an life ... is ·-.-. being_ erodid "at"its2c_ol".e ::ind·miy•eventually even be abandoned';'--:':Since.the olcfethic has not_yet been :fully displaced-it haJ, been necessary· to separate the -. idea ·of· abo~tion°·-from:·th~"'ide~":of killing which -, 
,: -;,._-. -_, ··~ _-_: . -' " : _-=-: -. -~ ' -~ -. -. ---!. • • -­. -.:i; ,•-' -~ > • 
---~ ·, ·,-----~; ~ 1 !--'; : '. -. _.. --;-=. -_:--' ·~ '-,:: -·. -;; ..., ' 
-. -·;,__ ,;..:· 
• C •T • ~~ ... -,-:, •,:/ .: < 

-:_.,,:t-~ -; ~ ~f-!.'-._ ~ ~ ,-~-­
-, .: ' :___,. ," -:-; ----·_.:-~ :-.;:-_; ·­--~ ' 

:__ >_: •__ . ­
~" 
:-~: 

.. continu~s to be .socially abhorrent. The r'esult has : ·been a cu~ious avoidance of the scientific fact, ~hich ' everyone' really kno~s, that human life begins at 
conceptfon arid is continuous whether intra--rir .. -extra-uterine until.death. The very·considerable · seinc!-ntfo: gymnastics which are required ,to rational~ .·ize abortion as anything but taking a human life 
would. be ludicrous if they •were not often put forth_ .-under. socially. impeccab_le _auspices. (Vo[ 113, No. -3, Sept. 1970, pp.-67-69.) ­
'The Supreme Court's abortion decisions are a prime exarpple of "very considerable-semantic gymnastics ; ._ . put forth urider-socially impeccable auspices." But these.semantic gymnastics not only serve "to rationalize abortion," but also provide the basis for authorizing 
·euthanasia o·f the aged, the sick and the retarded. If the Court can define some human beirigs-as nonpersons -, because. they are-_too young -tllat is, they hav_e,not ­liYed nine months from their. conception --it-can··also • do •it _to others because they are too old. Or diseased. 
Or ,retarded. . Hereiri lies the _importance of the. «Human Life -Am'endmeht," introduced.into the,·House of Represen­tatives· by .Congressman Lawrence J. Hogan .(R.~Md.): 
1. Neither the United States rior any State shall de­prive·any human being;·trom the moment:.of con-· ception, of life without due process of law; nor deny· 
· any humari being, from. the moment of· conception, within-its jurisdiction, the equal protection of-the 
-·1aws.--. 
2; Neither the United States nor any State shall ·de-· 
·prive any human being.of life on account of age,-ill­--_ness o~ incapacity. -· · ­.· 3. -Congress an·d the several States'.shali have power to ­
enfo~ce this article by appropriate legislation: · _,'. It would not be appropriate at this.time to attempt . a~T analysis or the full legal impact thi{am.endmenf · 
James Kearns is a second-year law student. He re­
.", would have if adopted. For it has just· recently; entered 
ceived his B.S. in 1911 from Notre Dame. in 
-the -for~m. of -public. debate, with det'aileci "discussion · · 
-El(}ctrical Engineering. Mr~ Kearns has. also .co-. 
of it by',legai·and medical· authorities_y.et to.come.~ -­
aut7iored.Jhe book Era of. Challenge, an account of_ 
Suffice it .to say that-·any ·effective antidote to· tlie. ~u.: ·_ 
the V1etna;,,, --~ar pitb_l~shed 'in 1911. 
-preme ·cou~t•s-abo:ftion 'rulings will-~eed to· protect· ---.­

·.the'right_ to iife~at all'~ge~., ' . ··:.,,­, -i-In~-f857;:in the Dred ··Scott decision; the•Supreme. ·_-, ::' _. :Cotirtheld tii~t free descendents of slaves could 'not be :.-:, -'·--' -citi;ens "and ·said:that slaves were not· even persons but ' 
prope~t:i-~-T~at'-r~fusal-by-th~:supreme Court tq-see-_­:·human beings-where·they -~ctually exist has·been-re--. _ ·:· e~acted -in ·our ·own day.. In-an age, of-increased sensi-. --_, __ '-·.: 
:-, ::•, tiyity:'tq.the ,~~g~ts"-of-the',tii;iderprivileged a~d'·the, de-:•_:;,_:,· ', :: ·::_ feiiseless ,·the Dred Scotf:Case of·,1973 is the ultimate· -· · .:: : , ... :. 
·:?:~!r~~f_.--<.'.~-'.-(~·-__': -.. :_·\, "~ ,:.',,_ .· . -. : ~~ ·1,-_--':-··, -_,_ . ·..:..1'..~-.--:."_:·.?··:?..:-·,,•· 
' -. -•-=,• , •::-'l ~• .,•. i . ..:--: -,, ' :...,-:,.<_~ ~•:, _;

•, ~•• : 
.... --r'"· -· --" --__ ,-,_
-;f~:t:... -._: 

' -;~_, ·-.:.--.-:.._ -;!"' _, • :-.;: •••-....-~ '; • 
., .' _, ,_,. -. 




kulchur 

Figures for a Festival 
The New York Tim,es declared in 1969 that the Notre D_ame Sopho­more Literary Festival was "unlike anything of its kind" and the 1973 Festival promises to maintain the standards that have brought such acclaim. The writers visiting the campus this year, John Ashbery, Gwendolyn Brooks, Stanley Elkin, Arthur Miller, Chaim Potok, Ken­neth Rexroth, and Jerome Rothen­berg, are people who give, through their work, an unparalleled richness of experience. 
These artists are as diversified as they are talented. Together they represent some of the most talented writers of drama, fiction, poetry, and translation in contemporary litera­ture. Their personal backgrounds dif­fer quite widely as well. Nonethe­less, the seven people who will make this year's Festival are in one way very similar; they are writers. They are artists with a capacity and abil­ity for the creation of new worlds. 
One of these interesting worlds is the world of John Ashbery. This Fulbright Scholar and Guggenheim Fellow is one of the most original writers of our time. He is an ac­complished poet, playwright and nov­elist who employs a highly unusual concept of language, a concept said to consider the use of words similar to the use of paint by an abstract painter. In his most recent work) Three Poenis, Ashbery utilizes a prose style that is so intense, so de­manding and so full of life that it is almost inseparable from verse. The trilogy deals masterfullywith human emotion and man's ability to act doing becomes one of the most pro­vocative, innovative poetical works in current American literature. 
Ashbery is obviously not content with previous modes of writing but feels compelled to experiment with totally new ones. Perhaps the only restriction on the limits of his talent is that he has limited himself to the use of language. Often the formal purpose of his poetry is subdued in order to, as he puts it, "reproduce the same power that dreams have of persuading you ... that there is a hidden relation among disparate ele­ments." 
The Harvard graduate's other poetical works include Turnabout and Other Poem,s, Sonie Trees, The Pomns, The Tennis Court Utah, and Rivers and Mountains. Ashbery's work as a playwright includes The Heroes and The Compromise and he has also written a novel, A Nest of Ninnies. 
Another poet who will be bringing a new world to Notre Dame is Gwendolyn Brooks. She is often re­ferred to as one of the best contem­porary black poets but to say that is to limit her ability. She is simply one of the best poets. 
Her poetry often. deals with the black world today but what she says is limitless in its humanity. To read her poetry is to feel the beauty of the strong soul of a strong woman. 
Gwendolyn Brooks is dedicated to her people and her culture so in­tensely that her work can more ac­curately convey the black experience than all the world's sociology books. Gwendolyn Brooks is much more. 
remain unchanged after reading her 
work. Her poems are highly personal 
and show the warmth of an artist 
very closely tied with her people. 
In 1960, Miss Brooks won the 
Pulitzer Prize for poetry because of 
her work, Annie Allen. Since then 
she has written many volumes of 
poetry such as The Bean Eater, In 
the Mecca, and a volume of selected 
poems, as well as an autobiography 
and a fiction piece entitled Maude 
Martha. 

Specifically a fiction writer, Stan­
ley Elkin writes about the human 
condition in an often hilarious way. 
More important to his work, though, 
is what lies beneath the wittiness. 
Elkin has a great deal to say about 
life and men's response to their own. 
He often deals with characters who 
present the "tragic inadequacy of a 
simplistic response to life." 

His novels, while exceptionally funny, contain powerful statements on the position of the human in the world. His situations vary from gro­cery store basements to radio sta­tions and he deals with ways to face and look at life, ways to live it, and ways to end it. 
His novels include Boswell: a Mocl­
ern Comedy, Criers and Kibitzers 
and Criers, A Bad Man, and his most 
recent work for which he received a 
Guggenheim Fellowship, The Dick 
Gibson Show. 

Also coming to the Festival is a man who is without question the greatest contemporary playwright. His work contains some of the most moving and intense drama ever writ­ten. None but Arthur Miller could write the Pulitzer Prize winning Death of a Salesm,an and convey all the anxiety of a struggling Willie Loman. No other playwright could create the tenderness and strength of· John and Elizabeth Proctor at the close of The Crucible. 
Arthur Miller's plays have been performed and acclaimed through­out the world to so great an extent that there can be no question as to the place he occupies in American literature. His ability to express the relations of struggling man to a hos­tile society was demonstrated in his earliest play, The Man Who Had All the Luck, and since then he has con­tinued_ to· show his unparalleled ex­pertise as an artist. 
· Miller's other works include A .View front the Bridge, Incident at 
with and upon his destiny, and in so She is so moving that no reader can -Vichy, After the Fall, All My Sons, 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
ARTHUR lUILLER 
The Price and a collection of short stories entitled I D~t Need You Anymore. 
One of the foremost writers of fiction today is Dr. Chaim Potok. The author of three novels, The Chosen., The Promise and My Name Is Asher Lev, Dr. Potok writes with a style so full of warmth and sin­cerity that the reader cannot help but be moved deeply by his fiction. Though his style is somewhat simple his capacity for compassion and love overflows his pages. 
Though his characters are mainly Jewish, his knowledge of kindness, understanding, love, friendship and art holds the same truth for . all. In The Chosen he deals with the de­veloping friendship between two boys and their growth to manhood. Potok is so sensitive to the human qualities involved .that to read his book is to weep at times and at times to shout for joy. 
Kenneth Rexroth, poet, playwright, translator, painter and novelist is perhaps one of the most diversified talents in contemporary literature. A native of South Bend, Indiana, Rexroth is a writer who is a strik­ing individual person and whose work demonstrates that individual­ity. 
His purpose in his works he says is "to embody in verse the belief that the only valid conservation of value lies in the assumption of unlimited ability, the supernatural identifica­tion of the self with the tragic unity of the creative process. I hope I have made it clear that the self does not do this by an act of the will, by sheer assertion. He who would save his life must lose it." 
STANLEY ELKIN 

Rexroth's works include Collected Shorter Poems., Collected Langer Poems., 100 Poems From the Chinese., Assays., and With Eye and Ear. 
Operating in the extremely \vide areas of translation, Jerome Rothen­berg has become more than well known and respected in his field. A student of "primitive" poetry, Roth­enberg has by his work reopened a whole field of poetry. "I look for new forms and possibilities, but also for ways of presenting in my own language the oldest possibilities of poetry going back to the primitive and archaic cultures that have been 
MARCH 30, 1973 
T ' ~: ~T 

;,:{t:/__ _ 
•~ ..... 
' ­

CHADI POTOK 

opening up to us over the last hun­dred years. . . . Everything is pos­sible in poetry and our earliest 'western' attempts at definition rep­resent a failure of perception we no longer have to endure." 
Rothenberg's original approach to poetry is called ethnopoetics and he 
is co-editor of the first magazine de­voted exclusively to it. His most fa­mous works of primitive poetry in­clude Technicians of the-Sacred: A Range of Poetics from Africa., Amer­ica, Asia and Oceania, Shaking the Pumpkin: Traditional Poetry of the Indian North Americas, and Poems for the Game of Silence 1969-1910. 
These, then, are the writers who will be speaking to and with the students of Notre Dame during the week of April 1 through 6. They are people who know what it means to be a writer. They are well aware of the pain and joy of creating. The people who are planning the Festival are also aware of the challenge of writing and, more especially, the challenge of writing in an atmo­sphere so hostile that it threatens the very existence of the writer. In this awareness, they have dedicated the Festival, as Festival Chairman Frank Barrett put it, "to all literary oppression because of their beliefs." 
The seven artists appearing at the Festival are people with beliefs, people with ideas. Through their works and their presence at the Festival they provide a rare oppor­tunity to experience some of the best writers of our time. All of these people have something to say, some­thing very important to themselves and to their readers. As these writ­ers give their various presentations and go to some classes with Notre Dame students, there will hopefully develop a meaningful dialogue and exchange of ideas. 
Chaim Potok in an epigraph to his novel The Promise quoted Franz Kafka and perhaps that best sums up what these authors are doing by their work and by participating in the Festival: "If the book we are reading does not wake us, as with a fist hammering on our skull, why then do we read it? Good God, we would also be happy if we had no books, and such books as make us happy we could, if need be, write ourselves. But what we must have are those books which come upon us like ill-fortune and distress us deeply, like the death of one we love better than ourselves, like suicide. A book must be an ice-axe to break the sea frozen inside us." 
-fi.m gresser 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
And a Book for a Festival 
Three Poerns, by John Ashbery; The Viking Press; New York, 1972; $2.25 
John Ashbery is perhaps the most exciting young poet writing in Amer­ica today. He is certainly among the most difficult. Now, "difficult" writ­ers may be divided into two cate­gories: those who court obscurity and those who demand attention. The deliberate verbal perversity of writers in the first group frequently disposes us to avoid those in the sec­ond group, or at most, to confess them as "good" (whatever that means) and dismiss them with some casual observation to the effect that our "tastes" lie elsewhere. This is. un­fortunate. The difficulty (and it is considerable) of Three Poe·ms is re­warded with flashes of poetic bril­liance culminating in moments of the most intense and lucid pleasure. Pleasure, rather than understanding, is the end of Three Poems. It may seem paradoxical that a volume that demands such unfailing attention, such intellectual gymnastics, a vol­ume that is so damned hard to read, should result in something as non­cerebral as pleasure. Why not simply go for a walk, eat a peach or make love? Why? Because (and this is one of Ashbery's fondest beliefs), unfor­tunately, the most lucid pleasures do not present themselves at the drop of a hat-they are hard and hard to find: 
In this scheme of things what is merely pleasant has to die to be bo1n again as pleasure, and although it seems unfair this includes your out­side view, openness, your penetra­bility and force to penetrate through outside agents that are merely the logical extensions of your inner deci­sion to act and to bring this action to bear on the constellation of every­day phenomena. And so a new you takes shape. 
Toward the end of his life, Aquinas concluded that the Summa Theo­logica amounted to "nothing." How are we to take this? Are we simply to agree, drop the Summa from our reading lists and pass merrily on our way? Or, are we to enter into the much more arduous task of tracing a man's mind as it progresses through a series of significant oppo­sites, keeping in our minds the ever­present possibility that all is, finally, for nought and pushing on anyway, ferreting out the forms, the move­ments of the soul as Ashbery calls them, that are our vital selves. 
One should always suspect any form of communication that yields up its full meaning on first appear­ance. More likely than not, it is hid­ing more than it tells, and one of the things it is probably hiding is its own ultimate insufficiency: 
Any reckoning of the sum total of the things we are is of course doomed to failure from the sta1t, that is if it intends to present a true, wholly ob­jective picture from which both arti­fice and artfulness are banished; no art can exist without at least traces of these, and there was never any question but that this rendering was to be made in strict conformity with the rules of art--only in this way could it approximate most closely the thing it was intended to reflect and illuminate and which was its in­spiration, by achieving the rounded feeling almost of the forms of flesh and the light of nature, and being thus equipped for the maximum num­ber of contingencies which, in its capacity as an aid and tool for un­derstanding, it must know how to deal with. Perhaps this was where we made our mistake. Perhaps no art, however gifted and well-inten­tioned, can supply what we were de­manding of it: not only the figured representation of our days but the justification of them, the reckoning and its application, so close to the reality being lived that it vanishes suddenly in a thunderclap, with a loud cry. 
The three prose poems progress dialectically. "The New Spirit," the first of the three, creates this sense of movement which is then tested against alternative forms of happi­ness in the second poem, "The Sys­tem." "The Recital" offers a tenta­tive conclusion to the dilemma. The whole volume is organized around a complex· analogy between our re­sponse to language and our response to life. The first lines set the tone: 
I thought that if I could put it all down, that would be one way. And ne..xt the thought came to me that to leave all out would be another, and truer, way. 

Life involves movement between contradictory poles. The language act traps its creator between the equally contradictory realms of art and li.{e. The better writers realize this radical polarity and refuse to be forced into a position where they must "choose" between art and life. Instead, they attempt to manipulate both, juxtaposing them so as to dis­cover a creative opposition. There is finally very little difference between the "pure aesthete" and the "strict realist." Both operate under the mis­apprehension that the art/life con­flict is a problem to be solved rather than a source to be studied, suffered and used. This "glad mess," this in­finitely particular real, enforces lim­its on both reason and imagination, turning us back onto ourselves and others with newfound wonder and humility: 
And one moves closer, drawn first by the aura of the spectacle, to come to examine the me1it of its individual parts so as to enjoy even more con­necting them up to the whole. 

If Ashbery is urging a more fluid conception of. art he is also creating a more dynamic way of seeing life. Oneapprehends themovement, thinks on it, feeds off it, enjoys it, changes it and changes with it, "keeping at­tached to it as it rolls from view, like a river which is never there be­cause of moving on someplace." 

MARCH 30, 1973 







Vision and Revision 
When one is in one's late thirties, ordinary things-like a pebble or a glass of water-take on an expres­sive sheen. One wants to know more about them, and one is in turn lived by them. Young people might not envy this kind of situation, perhaps rightly so, yet there is now inter­leaving the pages of suffering and indifference to suffering a prismatic space that cannot be seen, merely felt as the result of an angularity that must have existed from earliest times and is only now succeeding in making its presence felt through the mists of helpless acceptance of every­thing else projected on our miser­able, dank span of days. One is aware of it as an open field of nar­rative possibilities. Not in the edify­ing sense of the tales of the past that we are still (however) chained to, but as stories that tell only of them­selves, so that one realizes one's self has dwindled and now at last van­ished in the diamond light of pure speculation. Collar up, you are lighter than air. 
The form of Three Poems is con_­ceiyed as open-ended. The poetic voice actually undergoes the painful 
-contradictions of mood and ·persua­sion that the poem is "about." It is a love poem, but it is more than that. It is more than mechanistic allegory, it is something other than an effort to represent experience. Three Poems 
i.s its own setting in the process of making us its characters. This is to say that Three Poems anticipates the reader's response, somewhat like a detective novel. Alternately, it re­wards, punishes, baffles and enter­tains. 
Three Poems cannot be exhausted by critical exegesis. It seems to me that the most any reviewer can hope for is the removal of barriers, such as "difficulty," that, unattended, would stand between reader and writer. 
The last word belongs to John Ashbery: 
All right. Then this new problem is 
the same one, and that is the prob­
lem: that our apathy can always re­
new itself, drawing energy from the 
circumstances that fill our lives, but 
emotional happiness blooms only 
once, like an annual, leaving not 
even mots or foliage behind when 
its flower withers and dies.... Al­
though the task seems hopeless and 
there is no end ... in sight, we are 
within our rights in fighting back, 
the weapon is ours to wield, and it is 
possible that by dint of continually 
doing so we might at length gain a 
slight foothold or edge, for the ene­
my's powers though superhuman are 
not inexhaustible: we are basically 
certain that nothing is except the ca­
pacity for struggle that unites us, 
foe to foe, on the vast plain of life. 
We are like sparrows fluttering and 
jabbering around a seemingly indif­
ferent prowling cat; we know that 
the cat is stronger and therefore we 
forget that we have wings, and too 
often we fall in with the cat's plans 
for us, afraid and therefore unable 
to use the wings that could have 
saved us by bearing us aloft if only 
for a little distance, not the bound­
less leagues we had been hoping for 
and insisting on, but enough to make 
a crucial difference, the difference 
between life and death. 

-dan o'donnell 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
The Best and the Brightest, by David Halberstam, Random House I 1972 (688 pages, Hardback, $10) 
". . . your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams." · 
Acts of the Apostles 2 :17 

«In dreams begin responsibilities." · W. B. Yeats 
In this best seller, David Halber:. stam argues that the best way to be­gin to make sense of Vietnam is to understand "the architects of the war." Borrowing from his intellec­tual paradigm, it would seem that the best way to begin to make sense of The Best and the Brightest is to understand its author. David Halber­stam has always been a journalist's journalist. Managing editor of the Crimson at Harvard, he first came to national prominence in the early sixties as a correspondent for the New York Times in Vietnam. His re­ports from that beleaguered country earned him the Pulitzer Prize in 1964. Indeed, printer's ink :flows through the veins of David Halber­stam. It should not be surprising therefore that The Best and the Brightest reads like a 688-page newspaper article. Therein lie both its fundamental strengths and weak­nesses. Halberstam's prose is that of the teletype-brisk, factual, and above all, highly readable. However, because of his penchant for descrip­tion and detail, Halberstam, like most journalists, often fails to see the forest for the trees. Although his . book is an excellent example of first­rate reporting, it suffers from a dearth of perceptive analysis. In reading it, one senses that the author is not really aware of the larger im­plications of his own words. 
Halberstam asks why "the best and brightest men of a generation" allowed "the worst tragedy . . . since the Civil War" to happen. Put bluntly, his answer is that they were fools. Over and over again Halber­stam cites miscalculation and bad 
· judgment in high places. He con­cludes that while New Frontiermen may have been the best, they were not very bright. According to Hal­berstam, other men would have been more prudent. Unfortunately, the system simply failed to provide these men. 
MARCH 30, 1973 
The problem with Halberstam's thesis, to use the Cambridge vernac­ular, is that it just won't wash. If, as he claims, the Vietnam nightmare was simply a matter of personnel, how would he explain the fact that the new men of the Nixon adminis­tration repeated the mistakes of their predecessors? Halberstam sim­ply cannot understand that the real tragedy of Vietnam was not that the system failed, but that it worked. The war was the quintessential prod­uct of the intellectual technology of our age. Therationalism/pragmatism of that era robbed America of its conscience. We could no longer ask why, but only how. Hence, America blindly prosecuted not only the long­est but the most immoral war in its history. Vietnam did not reveal, as Halberstam argues, the mere foibles of a handful of men. Rather, it ex­posed the essential bankruptcy of our system. The main :flaw in The Best and the Brightest is that its focus is misplaced. As a journalist, Halberstam suffers from what might be called the Nuremberg syndrome. For him, wars are conjured up by men who are either evil or inept. He fails to appreciate the fact that the so-called "warmakers" of history are more often than not merely the vic­tims of the ideas/institutions of their times. And so it was with Vietnam. 
Now that our country has extri­cated itself from the quagmire, how can we avoid future Vietnams? Hal­berstam is vague in answering his own question. He implies that the Government should simply recruit better players for its team. However; it seems that a more viable solution would be to change the nature of the game itself. In other words, we should move to radically change those ideas/institutions that got us into the war in the first place. Curi­ously_ enough, . the "military-indus­trial complex" is not mentioned once in Halberstam's book. Apparently he didn't think it significant. Neverthe­less, history will probably record that this monster was primarily re­sponsible for forcing America into the dark tunnel. Unless democratic controls are placed on the war busi­ness machine we can look forward to a succession of Vietnams in the fu­ture. 
Simply keeping the "military-in­dustrial complex"· in tow will not be enough, however. A much more pro­found change is called for if we are to avoid future Vietnams. New York Times correspondent Neil Sheehc!n, after reading the Pentagon Papers, was convinced that there is an inner 
U.S. government which he called the "centralized state." Sheehan de­scribed this inner government as be­ing "far more powerful than any­thing else, for whom the enemy is not simply the Communists but everything else, its own press, its own judiciary, its own Congress, for­eign and friendly governments-all these are potentially antagonistic." He went on to say that the central­ized state "does not function neces­sarily for the benefit of the Republic but rather for its own ends, its own perpetuation; it has its own codes 
. which are different from public codes. Secrecy was a way of protecting it­self, not so much from threats by foreign governments, but from de­tection from its own population on charges of its competence and wis­dom." The tragedy of Vietnam will repeat itself many times, in many ways until this inner government is destroyed. If that sounds like revolu­tionary rhetoric, then so be it. Maybe the time has come for the second American revolution. Has the cen­tralized state been any more repre­sentative than the government of George ill? As Halberstam put it "They had manipulated the public, the Congress and the press from the start, told half truths, about why we were going in, how deeply we were going in, how much we were spend­ing, and how long we were jn for." 
The second American revolution, like the first, would destroy the oli­garchy and make our country a de­mocracy. However, unlike the first, it would not be violent, nor would it be a mass movement. It would be up to us as individuals to return to our home towns and work out ways by which political power could be local­ized. We would have to instill in our families and neighbors a sense of place (i.e., make them conscious of their history, traditions, identity) so that they could stand up ro the cen­tralized state. Without question, it is a task for visionaries and dreamers, but unless we act to carry it out, Vietnam is destined to become a re­curring nightmare in the future. 
-dan kogovsek 



Your share from $245. A new cruise is forming now. Write Cap'n Mike for your free adventure booklet in full color. 

\ 
a 
;~~~: r::~1 ~: · •-,. ~ 
~ .----:.-~,).;-.._..-:-,:.•~.."\.~ -· 



,,,::~ -<--'~~~ ' 
:,.• ~-:.: -­
a tee shirt. Or your bikini if 

you want. You're on a leisurely cruise to remote islands. With names like Martinique, Grenada, Guadeloupe. Those are the ones you've heard of. 
A big, beautiful sailing vessel glides from one breathtaking Caribbean jewel to another. And you're aboard, having the time of your life with an intimate group of lively, fun-loving people. Singles and couples, too. There's good food, "grog;' and a few pleasant comforts ... but there's little resemblance to a stay at a fancy hotel, and you'll be happy about that. 
Spend ten days exploring paradise and getting to know congenial people. There's no other vacation like it. 

Address 
Phone State Z,p 
P.O. Box 120. Dept. Miami Beach. Flonda 33139 
FILMS 
I 
Cinema '73 presents five contem­porary French classics April 8-12. On consecutive days, beginning on 
I 
the 8th, "Stolen Kisses," "Zazie Dans le Metro," "La Femme In­fidele," "The Umbrellas of Cher­
f bourg," and "Breathless." All are in the Engineering Auditorium at 8 :00 and 10:00 p.m. 
MUSIC 
Josef Sluys, organist, appears in Sacred Heart Church on April 4. Free admission for his 8 :15 p.m. concert. The Jazz Band takes over at 9 :00 p.m. on the 5th, with no ad­mission charge for the concert in LaFortune. For one dollar, Gregory Bonenberger, guitarist, is yours at 8 :15, April 13, in the Library Audi­torium. 
SPECIALS 
The Magic Flute, a Notre Dame/ St. Mary's Theatre production of Mozart's comic opera can be seen April 6, 7, 12, 13, and 14. Perfor­mances start at 8 :30 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. March 31, stop in for some good vibrations with the Beach Boys at the ACC. Tickets are $3.50 for the 8 :00 p.m. concert. The ACC will be filled with the magic of the Harlem Globetrot­ters, April 6. The Library Auditori­um is the site of the Chicano Sym­posium, April 12, at 8 :00 p.m. Disney on Parade marches into the ACC for some family enter­tainment for six days, April 10-15 (call ACC ticket office for further information). Why not try "once around the rink" at the Student Union -sponsored skating party, April 12., ACC ice rink. The Soph­omore Literary Festival brings noted literary figures to Notre Dame, April 1-6: 
April 1, Gwendolyn Brooks read­ing from her poetry, 4 :00 p.m., Library Auditorium. 
April 2, Stanley Elkin reading from his fiction, 8:00 p.m., Li­brary Auditorium. 
April 3, Stanley Elkin, "Litera­ture and the Heart Attack," 
3 :30 p.m., Library Auditorium. Chaim Potok, "Rebellion and Authority: The Jew and Modern 

coming distractions 
Literature," 8 :00 p.m., Library Auditorium. 
April 4, John Ashbery reading from his poetry, 3 :30 p.m., Li­b r a r y Auditorium. Kenneth Rexroth reading from his poet­ry, 8:00 p.m., Library Audi­torium. 
April 5, Poetry Symposium, J e­rome Rothenberg, Kenneth Rex­roth, and John Ashbery discuss­ing poetry, 1 :00 p.m., Library Auditorium. Jerome Rothen­berg reading from his poetry, 
3 :30 p.m., Library Auditorium. Arthur Miller reading from his work, 8:00 p.m., Washington Hall. 
April 6, J e r o m e Rothenberg, W o r k s h o p on Ethnopoetics: Translations as Oral Poetry, 
3 
:30 p.m., Library Auditorium. Arthur Miller, "An Informal Evening with Arthur Miller," 

8 
:00 p.m., Library Auditorium. 



Notre Dame hosts the Collegiate Jazz Festival, April 12-14, beginning on Thursday at 7 :30 with Cannon­ball Adderley, Grover Washington, Jr., Charles Irvin, The Bill Nix Trio, and the CJF judges' combo. On Fri­day at the same time, listen to The Notre Dame Combo, University of Michigan, M.I.T. Memphis State, Triton College and others. On Sat­urday, The Rat Pack, Ohio State, Indiana University Modern Jazz Quintet, Malcolm X College, Texas Southern Jazz Band, and a judges' jam session. Tickets at the door or at the Student Union Ticket Office. 
LECTURES 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series features Professor Arnold R. Weber of the University of Chicago in the Library Auditorium, April 9, at 8 :00 
p.m. Professor Jerrold Katz speaks in the Library Auditorium on the 9th and 11th at 8 :00 p.m., and on the 13th at 3 :30 p.m. On April 11, the Jewish Chautauqua Society's Rabbi Albert M. Shulman's topic is "The Making of Scripture": Carroll Hall (SMC) at 7:30 p.m. Dan Morgen­stern continues the Collegiate Jazz Festival activities with "Jazz Criti­cism" in the Library Auditorium on April 13 at 1 :30 p.m. 
-don jaspers 


the crooked rook 
HENRY, EDGAR and JACOB BETT~IANN 
Quebec Chronicle August 25, 1882 

White mates m two moves 

SOLUTION IN NEXT ISSUE SOLUTION TO LAST PROBLEM 
1. B-B4  threat  2. RxPdis ch, mate  
1. B-B4  QxBch  2. K-R8  
1. B-B4  QxBch  2. K-R8  
1. B-B4  NxB  2. BxP  
1. B-B4  P-K5  2. NxBPch  

threat  3. R-NS mate  
P-K5  3. R-Rl mate  
any  3. B-N5 mate  
K-R4  3. BXP mate  



MARCH 30, 1973 
the last word 
My nerves are bad tonight. Yes, bad. 
And whose nerves were you talking about, Mr. Eliot? Whose nerves were bad that night? · Yours? Your wife's? Whose nerves, Mr. Eliot? Mine?. 
Why did I listen to Stravinsky tonight? Tonight, 
alone, when everyone else has gone home.. The fog 
clung to the water till _one o'clock. It clung until the 
wind rose and drove it away, scattered it, bringing the 
rain. · 

After the rain the sky was biack and deep. Frag­
ments of clouds, low, rushing by with unnatural speed. 
They were white, the clouds were white with a light 
that seemed like their own. 

I went for a walk around the lake and smoked a 
long cigarette. Never have I seen clouds like I saw to­
night. I watched them, and smoked, till I couldn't watch 
any more. 
Dear Cathy, 
r·like you. 

I've always felt that I could talk to you, though I 
never have. I wanted to write a poem and dedicate it 
to you ("for Cathy" -like the poets .do). But I've 
never been able to write a good poem. 
Good luck. Take care of yourself. 
Love, 
Greg 

A Rusty Nail is a potent drink. More properly, a cocktail. It's made with one part Scotch and one part Drambuie (proportions may be varied slightly accord­ing to one's taste -more Drambuie to sweeten it; more Scotch to strengthen it). · 
My roommate gave me a small bottle of Drambuie for my birthday. I don't remember if I ever properly thanked him. (I. thanked him for the bottle, I know, but 
I. can't remember if I thanked him for the thought.) • 
(I'll bet you're thiriking now I've turned to drinking. But, no. That bottle of Scotch you·gave me last Janu­ary: I've nursed it so frugally that only now is it even half-gone.) 
~ -= ­
~ere .do my worcts·go? 

. They go .in a: wide; wfae· circle, turning· in upon themselves (like a-desperate, starving m~n; ctlone on a lonely island). And when they touch themselves at their· beginning,.they disappear.: As _tho~gh they never were. And I'm not so sure they·ever really:.we:re. · . . 
When I was about five. years old I spilled a bottle of black ink on .1:he carpet of our Jiving rooni floor. When my·grandmother (Monie,·we called her) found it, she asked me; I said no. And I've never forgotten my first lie. (How can I write a poem now?) 
She lay stirruped, on her back, upon the table, face wrinkled. Her mouth was wide like "The Scream." And when they had cut the cord, and when the rest came out, they started to stitch her up. And then it started to cry. 
· I was just a high school senior, making his summer dollar in the suburban hospitaL But then I thought, 
Someday['d like to be a doctor. · Someday I'd like to be a doctor. 
(I am embarrassed.) .. 
Octavio Paz (poet): "A feeling of shame; I write in front.of the others.... Something like undressing in a cafe, or defacatfog, crying before strangers." 
When there are no people, I turn to music. (The piano of Erik Satie is now only four feet away.) 
4:00 a.m.: I take my Scotch and my cigarette to the water· beyond my door (leave Satie alcine with his piano).... · · 
I walked to the water and propped my rear against a tree that leaned, slanted,· over it. The ducks were making noise (making love) at the other end of the · lake. But they were far away.· And the air was cold, and the night and the water were very black. My cig­arette hissed a second when it hit the water. 
_ 

Dear---­
_. ­
' 

.Please do not let rriy words frighten you~ They are only word~. And, tomorrow will be a good day I'm sure. · Affectionately, ·" Greg·. 
The fog was. where I wanted to be. Halfway down the patl~ you can't see. this house. You'd never know it was here. · Or• any of the. other pl,aces down the avenue.
· I ~ouldn't ·see ·but a few feet ahead. I didn't rneet a soul. Everythi.ng looked and sou~ded unreal. Nothing ·u·as what it-is: That's what I wanted-·to be alone with 1nyself •in another. world where t·ruth is untrue · and Zife c~n hide· froni itself: 
The ~~kirigs ·of' ·a. poet . .. No, I'»',:-afraid I'm like the guy who. is alway_s panhandling fcn·.a·srnoke. He hasn't .ev.en g~t tlie niakings. He's got cnily the habit. I couldn't 
touch:wh<;1:~ I tried to· tell .you just now. I .just _stam.-­
_rnm;ed:: :Tl~at's:·t1ie. best I~ll ever. do· I. rnep:n,.if I live. · -~eU, it ·'11!1,ll :b~ 'faithful realisni~ at ,least. Stam1.nering· . ~-t1~_ native. eloquence cO{ us Jog people.· (from' Long 
·.-.. Days Journey Into Night)·-:.·: 
-·greg stidham 

WRITING CONTEST NOTRE DAME ENGLISH DEPARTMENT 
Samuel Hazo Poetry Award-$50.00 (5-poem maximum) 
William Mitchell Award for Playwriting-$50.00 (one act or longer) 
ND/SMC Fiction Award-$50.00 (short story or chapter from novel) 
Meehan Medal for Literary Merit-(original essay on literary subject) 
Deadline April 11; Information, room 309 O'Shaughnessy 






kt~"wailfortoma:-f'\:l 
?\¢JPutlimk)he ~is aplace otstudyiuidmetjitatio~ :··'.; -,,·. ··-JOlfl'e right. But there is so muchmore. .·_ ·.. ·.;·· _· ·.-.· __.·. l ?/~iv.auDst.Y9Ubecome involved from ~be st~.. -·_._· · -~ __ . · :. -:! \.._--·:w;~mfoundedwith thebelief that.eachman· has ti'placa. ·. I r----~man bas·ajob. Sometimes, many jobs. And each con...·-..--; :-:-_tributes .his own mµque ftµ~fs and is given-the _freedom_>: ) ··end thesupport lie needs to achieve his goals. · . ··' ·_-·, ·__i 
f;_~~ Patilist Js a man on the move. His mission is to·.~ple~ ;·,,_'.' r.,.-.Jiat!icularly fhe people of North America.. ~ ~~~-~--·/\
t: .'. ~blems we face 1oday-injustice. poverty. ~~ ~7..-_ ~ j 
...must ~theconcern of the Church. . , -. , .:: 
nity-inaparishoran."iimer .) city schoot a youth center::;-[ or a campus. or1n~--\:J cations. he is concerned.-·,{
Involved.'Right now. · ··· .-=: -:-; 
. . . • ·'' 
, 'When you commit -youl'Seif·-~-, :ef!l to the Paullst~, it. isn't·.~-':: ~aytlmw.-It'st~~Y· _-__ :·-;_j l For more lnmmllllhiwdte:_.:,'.".:J FelberDuaald·C. ~--;)
",, n--1~. -~ . ; ,,'... ~:; :·: _,-,_-: 
............ ~ .. .,. ............ :i, ........,_·<-.·+.-·: ' • \ • • ., ' .·.-'-,, ,·, '': .,.:,..~ 
."•Paulistlidliei&···:·.: 
-_l-.: __::_l t::;,__/~:~::~:-=~--:~ --~-; •_j\i:/f~t~tti 
.415 \Vest 59thStreet-'.~-., ·•.:;_-~)J -Ne~-~o/.~•-~~Y. -~~:~.-x ;~-:_:-r:m 

R. K. MUELLER, INC. ~ eepsake~\;:::;I REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS Downtown 233-4200 218 S. Michigan St.  
PARTY STORE Liquor Beer & Wine Champagne Gourmet Foods if we don't have it-we'll get it U.S. 31 South, Niles 1\i\ich. 1 Block No. of Ind. Line 683-9875  
YEAGER MOTOR Co.I Inc. BUICK--OPEL--VOLVO •SALES ~ • SERVICE ~--::­~ • PARTS • ACCESSORIES "Where customers send their friends" 215-225 South Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 288-2531  

2 
BUDWEISER CAN HUG ••. most empt; Bud~ cons which contestant hugs ne,ct to h1,;, person Cans cori t touch ground or 
t 
1 
BUDWEISER CAN CR~NCH ••• rio,t . 
'f' ' 
err.pt) t:ouc cans c:r,.mchea l{.,,. with one hand in span / I,,. :>f 15 seconds You ge· 1 2\..., crtdit fer c/Jminum cc•n 
Cu·rent rc::ord 1\ 5 !the s1,-th con !urned out to be full) 
3 
BUDWEISER CAN TOTE . .. most empty Bud cons balanced atop one 
another ond tofed 
without mishap for 25 
feet Record to beat 
" 4 {don I laugh 
BUDWEISER. 
ANNOUNCES 5 KINDS OF HORSEPLAY IN WHICH YOU CAN BEA WORLD CHAMPION 
YOU CAN EARN 
4 
BUDWEISER CAN TOSS ... mo,1 con·ecut1ve completed toHes between two or more people, each 20 feet apart Record 1s 7 (hard to 
THIS SWELL 7"x 6" PATCH! Sad hut tnie: There's a big shortage 
of !'harnp1nn~ in the \\odd. To pIO\e it. count how many you pe1,;onally know. See: ... To ea~P this <;hmtage, Hudwei'-eI i~ ~anctioning fj\·e foolish e\ents in \\ hich lmnafirle \\"01 Id Cli:1.mpionship'-can he earned. They are descdbed ahoYP ... The ~well Rud\\ei>'er \\"01 Id Champion Patch is your prizP .. The~e may not he the ultimate sporting acti\;ties on mpu~ But the~· a1e the onh ones in \\hich ll"e'll 1ecognue 1eco1d-h1eak111g peifo1rnances .. Su1e. if-; easy to get a patch ll\· da1ming a fictit1ou-, recmd. But then you 
• wouldn"t he able to in,-ctibe yoUI >'pecialty beneath the \\Ord~ "\\'odd Champion."' (01 would you?) ... \\"he1e do vou get all the empty Bud•,•.-ei,-e1 can,-you'll nPed 
to win a Wot Id Champion'-hip? RmllY. now'. 
o' empty Bud cons ante 
regular trash con from distance of 1 0 Record 1s 
72 {only hod three cme, 
lo start with) This event gets rid of the empties from all the others 
(Moybe you've detected lhot this 1s not on officio!, rigid-rules "contest." But ii 1s o lot of fun, even if you con't breok the records You con, though, con"t you?) 
TO GET YOUR BUDWEISER WORLD CHAMPION PATCH (EVEN IF YOU DON'T SET A RECORD), JUST WRITE YOUR NAME, ADDRESS AND WHAT YOU DID ON A POSTCARD. SEND 
NO PPOOF OF PURCHASE PEOUIP£D OFFER VOID WHERE PROHIBIH0 BY LAW AtlOW FOU'I 'NEEKS tOR DELIVERY 

IT TO
OFFER EXPIRES DECEMBER JI 197l •.rrn['ISER-BUSCH HIC • ST LOUIS 



