
SCHOL8STIC 
CHECK LIST 

EDITOR IN CHIEF
0 
Applications due Feb. 17 

MANAGING EDITOR
0 
Applications due Feb. 17 
FOR MORE INFORMATION OR AN APPLICATION, CALL MICHAEL GRIFFIN AT 1-5029. OR STOP BY OUR OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. 
SUBSCRIBE TODAY 
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni 
13 ISSUES 35 DOLLARS 


SCHO[aSTIC 
INFORMED. INTELLIGENT. OUT OF THE ORDINARY. 
. '. . . .. ,-.·. . . . ' . , . . . 

··1 . . . ·....·· .•. ·. , . ·.. ·.·• ·... . .... -....· < 7· 
I PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR @~J~j'£];ll;J,n@Y1 LIST. . SEND THIS FORM AND I 
$35.00 PAYMENT TO: I NAME: ----------------,--SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE .... II 315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER I 
I· ADDRESS: "-----'--------'------NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 I 

I ___________ I 
I I 

COVER GRAPHIC TABLE OF CONTENTS PHOTO PAGE 
MIKE MIKE DELAROSA MCNARY University considers curriculum adjustment. V 18 
·12002·E1ection_C~verage -_ ·:-··o·9
TABLE 0E·CONTEN-iS by.Scholastic 'Staff . · · · 
' . ' . . Scholastic takes a_look at the candidates and » Presidential Endorsement by Scholastic staff 03 
their platforms to lessen uncertainties wheri casting your bal_lot. -· __ · · i ·. -·.' . . 
» Web of Tales byMaureen Ritchey & Beth Riesterer 15 » Four for the Future by Mike Borgia 18 » Crossing Juniper by Carolyn LaFave 20 » Coming Home by Tracy Evans 34 » Center Stage by Kathleen Corte 36 

The Rest  Splinters  29  
From the Editor  2  Out of Bounds  37  
Letter to the Editor  5  Week in Distortion  38  
ND Notebook  6  Calendar  39  
Campus Watch  28  Final Word  40  



Vol. 143, No. 08 • 07 FEB 2002 



SCHOL8STIC 
·., 
· . ,_, 
··: 
. 
· ··.. . 
Editor In Chief 
Michael P. Griffin 
Managing Editor Matthew Barr 
Associate Editor 
Jessica L. Daues 
Executive Editor Sarah Childress 
News 
Katie Freddoso, editor Jeffrey Drocco, assistant 
Campus Life Jacklyn D. Kiefer, editor Kristin A. Kramer, assistant 
Sports 
Gerard J. Meskill, editor 


A crimeless Sisyphus·
0 nee a year, before trekking out into the muddy slush of Febru­ary, I pause for five seconds in the lobby ofStanford Hall to do my part in the electoral process: voting for student-body president. 
In preparation for this yearly moment, I closely study the tiled bathroom walls, which blossom periennially with yellow sheets advertising the new presi­dential hopefuls. 
But every year, the same thought crosses my mind: Why do I take the time to compare platforms and assess experience? Will the outcome affect me? Ac­cording to a recent (unscientific) NDToday poll, 43 percent of the student body "couldn't care less" about the election; another 23 percent are not "particularly interested." Such apathy often is justified by the claim that the president has no effect on the lives of the student body. _ 
After interviewing candidates in depth, however, I am convinced of their 
capibility. Our past presidents and (some of) the current candidates comple­

look for ment their experience with unwavering dedication. I have little doubt that they 
ISSUE 9 have worked hard for students, and will continue to do so. So why the apathy? 
on 
The job of the president is like that of the mythical Greek king Sisyphus, 

FEB28 
who was doomed to push a rock up a hill only to have it roll down again in an infinite cycle offutility. Likewise, our leaders push their projects forward only to have the university push them back again. Thus, the lack of progress is not the student leaders' fault, nor is it the fault of the student body. The blame belongs to the administration. 
Our student government is given little power to work for us, making its members seem like unwilling characters in the university's plots. They collect ideas, work out the logistics and then propose changes, many times only to see them shot down: by the administration, which claims that projects are infea­sible or the price prohibitive. 
Nevertheless, it's important to pick the best candidate so we have the most capable representative to defend our views. But we won't notice their work until the university allows them to produce noticeable results. We have a right to valid representation because we sacrifice ourselves -and our money -in a social contract to be here; this university is nothing without us. It's not too much to ask that our leaders' attempts not be stifled every time they try to improve our college experience. 
In many cases, the candidates this year have lowered their goals from past years, jaded by so much red tape. Administration-student relations are in a sad state when the student leaders set low standards for themselves because they know the administration won't have it any other way. 






;1!!J!_/$II. 
Michael P. Griffin, Editor Clarification: Carolyn LaFave contributed to the cover story in the last issue, "In the Line of Fire." Scholastic regrets the omission. 
• David Murray, assistant 
·; 
:­
· 
. ··. 
. ·., ·,._ 
... 
· 
Entertainment 
Kathleen Corte, editor Tracy Evans, assistant Matt Killen, assistant 
Departments Jennifer M. Osterhage, editor 
Design 
Crissy Manary, editor Jessica A. Chamberlain, assistant Brendan Condon Eric DoversbergerGreg Ellis Ryan Greeenberg Nick Dailey 
Photography 
,: Mike McNary, editor Uesl Marx, assistant Beth Murphy Lesha Zielinski 
Graphic Arts Michael M. delaRosa, editor 
:. Copy 
Adam M. Arolan, editor Jennifer L. Wahoske, assistant 
. ' Distribution .-.': Fellsia Johns, manager 
·,; Advertising ,.,. Jessica B. Polish, manager ,--: Kyle Zuaro, assistant 
·:. Online / Jamie L. Moran, manager 
'.: •. 
· Advisor Robert Franken, '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus · Vive Quasi Cras Moritums 
. , 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame · · and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, ' 
46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright© 2002. All rights reserved. No contents of •. 
this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be ' 
reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume · . liability tor unsolicited manuscripts or material. All 
'· . .: _·. ··:. 
i. 
':. _,_. ": 
correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. To be published In the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must include.the writer's name;address and phone number. Jessica Daues is the offlcal office St. Lunatic, seriously. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain Instances. Scholastic reserves the right to,edil letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate 
·"; is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per ·: copy; please specify volume and number, or date. · ·: Back Issues of the annual football review are available :_:, at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. -., The opinions expressed In Scholastic magazine are not .: necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or 
· the student body. 
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR 


Vote Moscona/Oxley 
Because experience counts in LaFortune 
Four tickets have lined up to replace Brooke Norton, the university's first­ever female student-body president. Three of the eight candidates are women, and although the numbers bode well for gen­der equality at Notre Dame, only two can­didate pairs have emerged with solid plat­forms and student government experience: the Moscona/Oxley and Bishop/Foley tick­ets. Although both pairs would serve as com­petent leaders, Scholastic endorses Brian Moscona, Norton's current vice president, and running mate Keri Oxley for the 2002 election. Three considerations shaped Scholastics decision: experience, platform and vision. Moscona and Oxley have served in stu­dent government since their first years at the university -both as class presidents dur­ing their respective sophomore years. Dur­ing his time as student body vice-president, Moscona has built relationships with many student leaders and administrators and has learned firsthand the process ofrunning stu­dent government. He witnessed the complex logistics ofhow to get something done amid rolls of red tape and had opportunities to learn from sucesses and failures. The pair envisions student government as a "union of students," hoping to re-energize interest in Notre Dame as the students' com­munity by emphasizing collaboration among student groups. Recognizing that no one or­ganization or governing body can do every­thing, they wish to scale back student-gov­ernment programming and focus on coordi­nating groups to host larger, better-attended events. Their service collaboration project, for example, would allow the CSC and other service groups to create projects together to increase student involvement. Their proposals also include several small, feasible ideas, many of which emphasize community building. Among their list are ·plans to sponsor an Irish Feis for St. Patrick's Day, coordinate a video-game tournament on the quad and open the school year with Tradition Night to boost Irish spirit. With the teamwork they hope to inspire, Moscona and Oxley should have little trouble accom­plishing these goals. Moscona and Oxley chose not to cam­
paign on larger, popular issues because their 
experience has taught them that such huge 
projects cannot be completed in a year, es­
pecially without university approval. They 
don't want to make promises they can't keep. 
They do pledge, however, to continue work­
ing toward goals ofprevious administrations 
already in the works, such as cable in the 
dorms, food-service changes, LaFortune 
renovations,,the celebration of 30 years of 
coeducation, improvements to ticket distri­
bution and Domer Dollars expansion. 
A fault of this past year's administration 
was its lack ofcommunication with students, 
but Moscona and Oxley rate improving com­
munication their most important goal. After 
brainstorming sessions with 100 students, 
Moscona and Oxley have opened their plat­
form to students, encouraging them to add 
their ideas in ·their campaign poster's "black 
box." Once in office, the "KOO-BAM" 
committee would be available to take stu­
dents' ideas. Student government stall notes 
will be distributed to the dorms. The candi­
dates encourage students to make sugges­
tions that the students themselves want to 
realize. 
The Bishop-Foley ticket offers similar 
ideas, but many of them are not as polished. 
Their slogan speaks oftheir ideal -"less 
government" -which parallels Moscona 
and Oxley's goal of collaboration. Though 
they aim for less overlap, Bishop and 
Foley do not have a definitive plan on how 
to achieve ·the goal. 
Their platform contains some creative ideas, such as an alumni-sponsored com­puter scholarship for needy students, a campus-wide book swap and a Welcome Willingham tour for the new football coach. Several planks, however, lack suf­ficient research. Bishop and Fol~y wish to continue the current administration's attempts to introduce a camping trip into freshman orientation, though the univer­.· sity already discouraged Norton and Moscona from pursuing the plan because of cost and risk. (Moscona now hopes to continue the new' administration's plan to extend freshman orientation to a week, allowing students more time to adjust be­
fore classes begin. The proposal is already before the board of trustees.) 
Bishop and Foley also propose changes to Grab 'n' Go that would allow more flexibility for students. They report that Food Services officials have been recep­tive to their suggestions, but when Norton's administration tried to increase Grab 'n' Go options this year, they made no progress because of university resis­tance. 
Bishop and Foley have student govern­ment experience but cannot match the qualifications of Moscona and Oxley. Neither Bishop nor Foley held a major student-government position this past year. 
Despite these drawbacks, the Bishop/ Foley ticket offers enthusiasm and abil­ity -and a refreshing honesty. They are a good choice for those who are looking to get some new faces, if not new ideas, in the president's office. 
Palko and Mercanti show genuine en­thusiasm and a strong desire to get things done. While the ticket boasts varied ex­perience -Palko is currently serving as the president of The Shirt 2001 and NDToday.com -neither has served on student government. They wish to initiate the process of installing air conditioning in the dorms, but the issue has ~lready been discussed in current and past years with little progress. Also, Food Services will likely write off ideas such as refunding un­used Flex Points and increasing the number of Grab 'n' Go items available to students as financially infeasible. Allowing first-semes­ter freshmen to have cars would not only crowd the already-full student lots but also draw first-year students' focus from campus. 
McCord and Williams want to make stu­dent government more lighthearted, billing themselves as normal students who just want to have a good time. Accordingly, they have approached the campaign in a purposely non­serious manner, and the ticket's shallow plat­form ideas would little improve student life. . Only one ticket matches vast experience with enthusiasm, forethought with dedica­tion. On February 11, vote for Moscona and Oxley. . 
SCHOLASTICENDORSEMENT 3 


UGANDA
Peru 

Tanzania 
Haiti ·CA,,-.•. 




INDIA· 
Frailce 
United States · .



·Ghana 
Kenya.
Brazil 



CBangfadesfi
.Canada 


lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/~vocation . 
;.:. ~·---;:-:· :.,;_-. ;·,:-:~..,-·· •~· ;r:.•J·,-~: .~--~ ~· .·;--;, ••: .! }_:;{-·>.-.1>•:_:_, • • · •.'./.:~·7:.}~;• :.•:;;.< ~":':·~:>~ ,-;'.;··•:":,:.-·, ·>;'_-,~,.:-.·'.;,·,::.'.::~~,:•~:: .·;:<f.~·. -h,:,;~~:·)·,f.;<~_-..-~:•-ii-.-.J.~.t--j"-jJ.:··:;::~/}=-.'.•~;~;;.~f~:~,~:-;~~~: ,'._ ·,. '•;'.l;,·~~~:~/.~./~-•·.)<\;·t',-:"/.)~:~:-~·:~·~~7~-.(:::·•:-::·:~:,:-~/!;:J 
·)l:~~~·?:)>/:,:.\c;;,:,:,~(:.,,ii·::,~.-;:;X•::':</·..,..;<-}':'.U},::,:)::i,.~-;>-Si;C~>:;~\:T-~:.;>:;;:i:'c:,;:~2'•0'.';·;;~,;::'<"E;:"·-,;C::,.,:,:,:;._,:._?··.};,. ·{:;•:-:'•:•.-;:;: ·, 
A Citizen's Army 
ROTC prepares officers for tough wartime decisions 
Dear Editor: 

In 1968, at the height of the Vietnam War, Lieutenant Colonel Paul T. Hackett com­mented in my military science class at the University ofHouston what made the Ameri­can military so unique: that most of the mili­taries around the world where he served as military liaison had in-bred military officer corps. That is, the sons ofmilitary officers took the place of their fathers. Consequently, there was little movement between the military and civilian community. Over time an "us versus them" mentality set into the military structure He believed this environment made it diffi­cult to exert civilian control over the military. 
The article "Line ofFire" in the 06 Decem­ber 2001 edition of Scholastic discussed the military's ideals, :financial questions and hope for the future. But, the most important issue missed was the civilian control of the mili­tary that you must have in a democracy. I maintain the three greatest U.S. presidents are Washington, Lincoln and Truman because they established or re-established civilian con­trol over the military. 
Tom Feeney, member of Notre Dame's chapter of Pax Christi, makes three claims. "First, the U.S. military has a history of act­ing irresponsibly and unjustly. Second, there ... are many Catholic soldiers with an unques­tioning obedience to their commanding offic­ers and [to] Catholic institutions which are too quick to cooperate iri. military projects. Finally, Notre Dame's ROTC program as it stands now, requires no Catholic war-ethics course for its students." The Rev. Michael Baxter agrees with Tom Feeney but wants to take action starting with the last. Baxter uses Hiroshima as an example of a military with­out a conscience. We need to remind ourselves that the atomic bomb was authorized by a ci­vilian president, built by civilians and ordered dropped by another civilian president. The military provided the delivery vehicle. 
The line between civilian and military stra­tegic decisions became blurred in the 20th century. Stephan Ambrose writes in his book "Americans at War" the following: 
. 

In the Second World Wa,; the civilian be­came a legitimate target. This was a new thing, and it was very deliberately done at the high­est levels by the German government, by the British government, and by the American gov­ernment . ... [President Franklir,,J Roosevelt became the most enthusiastic advocate ofstra­tegic bombing. By late 1944 and into 1945, he was pushing General Hap Arnold, the air force chief, to burn Japanese cities to the ground. He wanted Arnold to go in there with high incendiary bombs and napalm and burn down homes built ofsticks and wood. 
The massacre at My Lai in Vietnam by Lieutenant Calley happened while I was on active dury in the Anny. There was a lot of discussion among my fellow officers about My Lai. We felt is was a reflection on us as a group of professionals: One of our own lost control. Ii: is interesting to note that another Lieutenant helicopter pilot saw the massacre and immediately started flying children out ofthe My Lai village. He was the officer who reported the atrocity that started the investi­gation. So, we had one American officer who was out of control and another American of­ficer who was trying to protect the Vietnam­ese from the Americans. Lieutenant Calley went to college for one year and became an officer through O.C.S. (officer candidate school). I always felt the O.C.S. officers were the "Rambo" types. Their training was com­pressed into months where ours, the ROTC guys, was spread out over several years. My experience in the military was that the officer corps reflects the current thinking around most universities for the simple reason that almost all officers come from the university environment. 
The U.S. military has a history of the lowest losses in war. You should remem­ber the U.S. military "borrows" its sol­diers from the civiliancommunity. It has a "sacred" responsibility to return these civilian soldiers back to the civilian com­munity. Regarding unquestioning obedi­ence to superiors you should read any of Stephen Ambrose's books about the Ameri­can military. Strategies and tactics are usu­ally hotly debated at each level ofcommand before being issued. The issue becomes one of how much control an individual com­mander can exert without jeopardizing neighboring units. 
A close friend of my brother and 1969 ND graduate said he had two objectives in Vietnam: one, accomplish the mission and two, get all of his men home alive. He ac­complished both objectives. 
History is dotted with decisions made by military leaders that have good and bad ef­fects on civilization. Don't you think the type of environment that Notre Dame fos­ters should make its way into the military via the leaders that leave Notre Dame for mili­tary careers? 
Sincerely, 
Timothy A. Mattingly 
"Corky" 

Chris Burke 

Life Goes on Actor 

Thursday, F'ebruary'J_l ;: 2007 .:; ._ ,7:30pm Stepan Center 


As anacio-,_'with ·vownSyndrome, 
Chris Burke wilrinspite you to se't ...-. goals ~nd achieve yourfa!l Pot~ntial. 
. _ ..· ·. : .-, -·· . . -•. . . :._-;'" 
Spo~sored by: Best Buddies, Howard Ifall/Cei'lte,· ­
SCHOLASTICLETTER TO THE EDITOR . 5 



IThrough Rose-Colored Glasses Unraveling the mystery of the traveling pink light 
SONJAMAPES 
In your late-night treks across campus, you may have noticed a pink lamp illu­minating the quad. Each night, it seems that at least one of the lamps around cam­pus defies the traditional white and opts for a rosy shade of pink instead. If you pay attention, you'll notice that the pink light seems to change locations just about every night. In the past couple of weeks, it has been spotted glowing in front of Corby and keeping vigil next to the Grotto. For awhile, it seemed to have taken up residence in front of Decio, but then it mysteriously disappeared. Some have dubbed this curiosity the "traveling pink light." When asked, students offered a variety of explanations for this mysterious phenomenon. Some speculated that a maintenance worker is moving it around as a practical joke. Others just figured that the traveling pink light was one of Notre Dame's more obscure traditions. One student guessed that the soft pink hue might have to do with the upcoming anniversary of coeducation at Notre Dame. Some had even more 

imaginative explanations. Sophomore Larry Hofman hypothesized: "The pink Jight traveling around has something to ;;do with aliens communicating with their mother ship." Or, he said, "it's just some 
wise guy." 

But don't call Mulder and Scully just 
yet. According to a source in the Office of 
Maintenance and Projects who asked not 
to be named due to the controversial nature 
ofthis issue, the cause is neither a practical 
joker nor aliens. In fact, the "traveling 
pink light" does not even travel. The pink 
tint simply is an indication that a lamp's 
bulb is growing dimmer so that 
maintenance workers can replace it before 
it actually burns out. 

So, the next time you see a lamp burning 
pink out on the quad, you don't have to 
look around for the mischievous practical 
joker or start preparing for an alien 
invasion. Instead, you can feel secure knowing that the bulb will be replaced and that our campus will stay illumined late at night. . 




Ten Questions 
with the guy in the security booth ... 

Meet Officer Mike Shanton. Ifyou've tried to get your car onto campus this yea,; you may have run into iiiin a few times at either the Main or East gafe, both of which he works with equal aplomb and congeniality. But disregard those horror stories you've heard about nasty gatekeepers. Officer Shanton was not only pe,fectly friendly to Scholastic when we sat down in the booth with him, but we even witnessed him let people onto campus without giving them the third degree. Could it be? 
How long have you worked at Notre Dame? 
I started here in '91 doing on-call park­ing services, but I started working security about a year and a half ago. 
Do you prefer to be known as the 'Gatekeeper' or 'the guy in the security booth'? 
I suppose the person in the security booth. The gatekeeper sounds like someone who works at a cemetery or prison. 
What do you do when it gets slow on the job? 
IfI think more people will be corning, then I'll write passes out to have them ready. I look out the window, keep an eye on things. 
Do you prefer to work at Main Gate or East Gate? 
I prefer the Main Gate because you get a different kind of traffic there. With the United Limo bus stop being 


. . · .. 

''Sex at St. Mary's isa c:onstaht." ·. . . . · · · ---' professor, lecturing on statistics I46 Years Ago 
> 
A test on du Lac? 
According to a column in the October 19, 1956 issue of the Notre Dame 
> 
"I started off in economics, but I switched to literature because it was.less subjective;" ---' English professor 
"What I like is the Roman numerals -as if the Super Bowl goes back to antiquity." 
> 
-English professor 
"I feel like we're living like the Indians because I can't toast my Pop-tart." · 
> 
_:_off-campus student, after losing electricity 
"I'm doing too much of what I didn't want to do -teach." -Arts and Letters professor 
> 
there I get to meet people from all around the country. 
What's the most ridiculous excuse you've ever heard tor a student to get onto cam­pus? 
There's so many it's hard to know where to start. Usually it's like they're moving TVs back and forth between dorms or going to the airport at two in the morning when there's no flights at that time, especially out of South Bend. You can usually tell if they're being honest with you by the looks on their faces. Some of the excuses can get annoying, like someone will want to park close to a building like Pasquerilla East that's al­ready fairly close to the lots. 
What are these booths like? Do you have access to a bathroom? 
Yeah; if you can call them that. The one at the Main Gate is so small that you can barely fit in there! We have heat and air con­ditioning though, so it's pretty comfortable in here. 
Do many shady characters try ~o drive onto campus? -­
Not really too many shady characters, but people who always have an excuse like, "I know so-and-so." Well, I do too, but I don't get any special privileges for it! 
What do you think about mullet haircuts? 
Mullet? What's that? (Explanation, com­plete with ~illy Ray Cyrus heads/wt.) Ohhh. 
Scholastic, professors weren't the only ones assigning things to study. 
Last week, as I was leaving Farley Hall, I happened to notice a sign posted at eye level on the door. The bulletin stated that all freshmen would be tested on the rules and regulations set forth by the Student Manual. The test, administered this past Monday night, would place particular emphasis on the sections dealing with disciplinary regulations. As a final note, the bulletin, issued by the office ofthe Prefect of. Discipline, stipulated that no freshman was to be excused from the examination. 
The writer says that this is both unnecessary and undesirable because it does not promote goodwill. According to him, "the rules are being jammed down" people's throats. 
And we thought we had it bad! 
-Jennifer Osterhage 

It's not something I'd wear myself, but people are entitled to wear their hair how they want. I'd worry more about their per­sonality. 

Do you have a favorite author? 
Yes. Arturo Perez-Reverte -in the original [Spanish], of course. You lose something in the translation. He writes suspense and mystery novels. My wife is Spanish, and I actually lived there for a couple of years. 

So ... can I get onto campus? 
If you've got a legitimate reason, I try to accommodate when I can. 
-Kristin Kramer 
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 7 


NOTEBOOK 

IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 


ICE STORM 
Thirty percent of students and 
virtually all professors had no 
power. Couldn't we have closed ·the university? 

WINTER CAREER FAIR 
If students wanted to sell them­selves, they'd probably have more luck outside the Glo-Worm Lounge. At least there they won't need a resume. 


KEENAN. REVUE 

t It was great entertainment on a January evening -unless you're Jesus or a BP girl. 
ALUMNI/SENIOR CLUB 


RENOVATIONS 
If seniors wanted to drink with underclassmen, they'd go to Boat Club. . 

++ STARBUCKS Coffee keeps you going in the morning, but who has eight bucks for a biscotti? 
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY 



~r$;··~>::%\§it:.1#&.$J%1 

New TV shows bring 
JJ
the world of spies to the small screen 

-i-------S-tory-by 
Yournumberjustmightbeup,007.No one could have fathomed that some ofthe most exciting spy stories in a decade would come not from $100-million worldwide film productions, but from two television productions that haven't traveled outside of Hollywood. The networks have upstaged the film industry this season -in the form of ABC's Alias and Fox's 24. Although neither show was an instant hit in the ratings, the programs established loyal viewers with their distinctive, fast-paced styles. Alias follows the adventures of graduate studentSydneyBristow(JenniferGamer) and her dad (Victor Garber) as they work as double agents for the CIA within an evil rogue organization named SD-6. 24 chronicles a single day· in the life of CIA agent Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland) as he attempts to thwart an assassination attempt on the country's first African-American presidential candidate. 24' s episodes occur in real time, where one hour in the characters' lives equals one hour of viewing time. Both shows have a unique and wholly addictive angle on spy drama.Alias, which 

Matt Killen 

comes from Felicity creator J.J. Abrams, is a near-perfect blend of personal drama and thrilling spy action. Like Alias, 24 deftly ties Bauer's professional and personal life into a single story. Theshow'sgimmickgives it a chance to match Alias in both 
dramatic notes and action sequences. 
The shows can be daunting, since they rely on a serial format to move the main story arcsforward. The a.ction and the cool spy 
scenes, however, make both shows watchable, even 
Ifyou like 
James 
B
ond ... 
You'll love Alias and 
_
24
-----------1 

without detailed knowledge of previous 
episodes.Inotherwords, the shows satisfy 
both sporadic viewers and continuity 
buffs alike. 
. Despite their similar premises, Alias and 24's disparate plots and styles distinguish the shows from one another and raise them above the common hour­long drama format with a novel combination of admirable acting and adrenaline-pumped spy sequences. It just might mean tliat Alias and 24 will . leave Bond shaken and stirred. D 
IDomelights COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE Source: John Antonucci, operations chief, NDFD 

Ever wonder how much the Notre Dame Fire Department 
1,100 annual emergency responses 
actually takes care of? Here are some of the things the NDFD inspects, maintains and repairs. 270 emergency responses in 1991 
1 O emergency responses in 1940 
700 annual false alarms 
400 annual responses involve medical attention 
1 weekly burned-popcorn response 
8,000,000 square feet of property 
7,000 fire extinguishers 
160 fire hydrants 
135 fire alarm systems 
135 sprinkler systems 
t 

8 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 


2002 



ELECTION COVERAGE 
IT'S THAT TIME OF YEAR AGAIN -TIME TO ELECT THE HEADS OF NEXT YEAR'S STUDENT GOVERNMENT. LEST YOU BE UNINFORMED VOTERS, SCHOLASTIC SAT DOWN WITH THE FOUR CANDIDATE PAIRS TO SORT OUT WHAT'S WHAT AND WHO'S WHO IN THE RACE FOR THE NEXT STUDENT­
0 
a: 
0 0 0 
~ 
~ ~ 
z 
,­,­
BODY PRESIDENT. 

THE CANDIDATES 
a.. 
0 
I 
(I) 
(D 
>­
(D (D 
_J 
0 
,­


PLUS 
AND 
<( 
0 

z ~ 
0 _J 
<(
0 

(I) a.. 
0 I­
I­
~ 
0

z ·o 
<( 
(I) 
a: 
Cf)
(D 

,­C\J 
,­

14 BROOKE NORTON 
Looking back at this year's ups and downs 
03 ENDORSEMENT 
• 
Revamp Freshman Orientation -Let's make students' first impression of Notre Dame a good one. (Moscona/Oxley) 

• 
Bookstore Basketball Barbecue -It's the largest single­elimination five-man basketball tournament in the world: Sounds like a good excuse for free food with friends. (McCord/Williams) 

• 
Spice up the pep rallies -Let's wake up the echoes and make it an event that students will enjoy. (Bishop/Foley) 

• 
Expand use of Domer Dollars to Senior Bar -It would be nice not to have to bring cash. (Bishop/Foley, Moscona/Oxley) 

• 
ND Wizard -Crawl out of your rooms and bust out the Nintendo Power for this campus-wide video-game tournament. (Moscona/Oxley) 

• 
Water Fountains at the basketball courts -Why hasn't anyone else thought of this? (Palko/Mercantil 

• 
Extend LaFortune's weekend hours -Students need some­where else to go after 2 a.m. (Moscona/Oxley) 

• 
Free movie shuttle -It could improve the campus dating scene without the cost of a cab. (McCord/Williams) 

• 
Campus-wide book swap -The bookstore could use a little healthy competition. (Bishop/Foley) 

• 
Life 101 Program -Part of a complete education is learning how to live in the real world. (Moscona/Oxley) 


We asked the candidates to use "bandicoot" in a sentence without giving them the definition. What would you have said? 

bandicoot n. 

1. Any or several ratlike marsupials of the family Peramelidae, of Australia and adjacent islands, having a long, tapering snout and long hind legs. 2. Any of several large rats of the genera Bandicota and Nesokia, or southeastern Asia. In this sense, now usually called "bandicoot rat" and sometimes "molerat." [Telegu pandikokku : pandi, pig + kokku, rat.] · 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 9 . 


LIBBY NICK 
BISHOP FOLEY "More student, less government" 
what's out there." them. They have brainstormed several ideas to gather suggestions from the student body, __J_;;~~;-~t~~;~!~:~;n ~~~J~:n:;~; ·. -~::~::s~:~:~c:n~~~;o~i~;o:;:: such as organizing large-scale student polls emment and real-life experience is the nication between student government, the via their streamlined Web site. The pair also ticket to a solid administration. administration and the student body. The.can-· researched several new ideas for their plat­
Although neitherheld a major student-gov-didates plan to sponsorweekly advertisements form. Most important of these, according to emment position this year, the candidates have in The Observer called "Who Knew?", a se­Bishop, is working with Food Services to de­been involved since they arrived at the univer-ries to make students more aware ofavailable velop a meal plan with fewer than 14 meals sity-they metwhile servingonfreshman class resources. Such ads also would appear on an but more Flex Points. The pair received en­council. Three years later, they bring substantial improved student-government Web site. couragement from Food Services, which es­campusleadership to thetable: Bishop servedas "[ThecurrentWeb site] hasn'tbeenupdated timated that a new plan could take effect sophomoreclass vicepresident, andFoley served since Micah Murphy was president," Bishop within six months. last year as student-body secretuy. says. "We all know how much we use theWeb. Other ideas in the platform of the Bishop­
Bishop spent the fall semester in London If you really have a professional, useful Web Foley campaign include a new _scholarship and rejoined student government this semes-site, then people will visit it." fund to purchase laptops for students on fi­terasjuniorclasssocialchair.Foleyhadmade The current administration has been criti­nancial aid, aWelcomeWillingham residel).ce similar plans to go abroad but chose to stay cized for failing to communicate with stu­hall tour, a consigriment-type book sale in behind to spend time with close friends who dents, a problem Bishop and Foley feel was LaFortune and a new pre-orientation camp­plan to graduate this year. exemplified by the sudden crackdown on tail-ing trip for incoming freshmen. They also 
They don't consider their recent absence gating problems by the university. . want to expand the number ofstudent shuttle from student government a weakness, how-'There was so muchconfusion and so much stops, work with the Development Office to ever. Bishop calls it a "unique opportllnity" frustration at the student level," Bishop said. establish a new lecture series and create a sys­to bring a "clear perspective" to the office of "Even beingabroadweheardaboutit"Hadthey tem to allow students to share their computer­the president. "I think that from being on the been in office, Bishop and Foley would have cluster printing allotments. outside we've seen that not enough student asked the administration for a clearstatementin Bishop and Foley are pr9ud ofthe feasibil­needs werebeing metby studentgovernment, the campus media and an e-mail to all students ity of their platform. 'Qiey·have received posi­and we didn't feel like they were being re-from the Office ofResidence Life to clearly de­tive responses to each idea and are eager to get sponsive enough," she says. fine the university's policy. Now, the two hope busy.Adds Bishop: "I'dliketo think that serving 
To Bishop, the primary goal ofstudentgov-to negotiate withadministrators to develop more­as student-body presidentandvicepresident, we ernment is twofold: ''To be student represen-reasonable rules for next year's season. would serve as examples of characteristics of tatives to the administration and to be respon-But Bishop and Foley don't just want to what a Notre Dame person should be." sive to studentneeds, and to letstudents know talk to students, they ~!:Ult students to talk to -JeffDrocco 
PRESIDENT VICE PRESIDENT 
IDEAS Name: Libby Bishop Name: Trip Foley 
Most important: Class: Junior Class: Junior 
More varieties in meal plans Major: Psychology and economics Major: Economics and Spanish 
Least important: Dorm: Welsh Family Hall Dorm: Sorin College 
Making Domer Dollars usable at Senior Bar 
Quote: 
"From our experience of being inside and

PERSONALITY If you could be any Ninja Turtle, which 
out, we think we could best meet student

one would you be?
Use bandicootin a sentence: 
needs and have the most responsiveBishop: "Splinter, because he's the"If you see a bandicoot on the quad, run!" 

student government." · coolest."

Favorite movie: · 
-Libby Bishop

Foley: "Michelangelo, because he had the
Bishop: "Life is Beautiful, because it tells cool nunchuks."

such a wonderful, sad story:' 
Foley: "Good Will Hunting, because Robin Williams does such a great job in the movie, and also my father is from Boston so I've always liked the city." 




2002 ELECTION 


10 SCHOLASTICNEWS 
NIKKI NICK 

MCCORD WILLIAMS 
"We're serious ... seriously." 

When you see baseball cards used as a campaign de­vice, you might wonder how se­rious the candidates are. But just because presidential candidate Nikki McCord and running mate Nick Williams have created a fun cami:iaign does not mean that they are joke candidates. As their slogan assures us, they're "serious ... seriously." They're serious about representing the students, and McCord believes their fun­loving spirit is as essential to that task as their previous experience in student govern­ment. "[Fun and professionalism] should not be exclusive in student government," she says. "I that think you should have a really good meshing of that to represent the students." McCord believes that she and Williams have this balance: "We have the leadership experience, [and} we have feasible ideas. ... We know that we've got the stuff to back up everything that we say. Just because we're having fun with it doesn't mean [we're unqualified]." The candidates have held several posi­tions within student and hall governments. McCord served for two years as a student senator for Pasquerilla East, co-chairing the Senate Diversity Board and sitting on the Student Wellness Advisory Board. In 2001, the Pyros named her Commissioner of the Year. 
Williams serves as vice president of the sophomore class and Fisher Hall Academic Commissioner. Last year, he was on the Freshman Class Council, acting as chair of the Freshman Council Committee. This year, he is the council's peer adviser. 
McCord and Williams believe that this broad range of experience and activities, both within and outside student government, would make them good representatives of the student body. "We're students first who just happen to be in student government," McCord says, adding that "we can be the best representatives ... because we have an ongoing presence in both the student-gov­ernment realm and in the dorm-party-every­day Notre Dame student life as well." McCord and Williams believe that formal · venues for student communication -such as this administration's widely criticized and poorly attended "town-hall meetings" -are unnecessary. 
After the first week of campaigning, they already have added several new ideas to their platform, which now focuses on eight "simple and feasible" ideas, such as a free movie shuttle to take students to local the­aters and a system that would allow students to charge Copy Shop expenditures to their student accounts. 
They also hope to foster community on campus by sponsoring barbecues before Bengal Bouts and Bookstore Basketball and an all:schooi Mass at the end of every semester. They also want to promoting an "Adopt-a-Team" program, where dorms would adopt a lesser-known sports team. 
· In an effort to increase student partici­pation in and awareness of student govern­ment, McCord and Williams plan to make themselves and the other branches of stu­dent government accountable to the students by publishing frequent updates in The Ob­se111e1: These updates would include infor­mation about the progress of their ongoing projects as well as activities of various clubs. 
With regard to issi1es such as tailgating, McCord thinks that "the most important thing we can do is lobby for the students" to administrators. Williams adds: "It's not up to us to change those things .... Our job is to make sure that the administration is held accountable for what they do and also for exactly what they change and how. they deal with it." 
McCord and Williams may have an untraditional campaign style, but they hope that their platform demonstrates that when it comes to working for the student body, they're serious ... seriously. 
-Katie Freddoso 
PRESIDENT Name: Nikki McCord Class: Junior Major: Government, classics minor Dorm: Pasquerilla East 
PERSONALITY Use "bandicoot" in a sentence: 
"He stole our money, that bandicoot!" 
Favorite movie: 
McCord: Heat. "For Val Kilmer." Williams: The Godfather. "What a fantastic flick. I come from an Italian family, and it's Roots Italian-style. It touches on everything." 

VICE PRESIDENT Name: Nick Williams Class: Sophomore Major: Government and Spanish, Hesburgh Program in Public Service concentration Dorm: Fisher Hall _ 
If you could be any Ninja Turtle, which one would you be? 
McCord: The theme-song singer. "That was a really cool song -everybody remembers it." Williams: "Michelangelo, because he's the party dude." 
IDEAS Most important: 
Barbecue before Bengal Bouts and Bookstore Basketball 
Least important: 
Adopt-a-team 
Quote: 
"We're students just like you who happen to be in student government, and above all, we're serious ... seriously." -Nikki McCord 


SCHOLASTICNEWS 11 


BRIAN KERI 


MOSCONA OXLEY 
"En vision the possibilities" 
_ministrators takes time, Moscona says-timeBrian Moscona and Keri Oxley have a that he and Oxley already have invested. new vision for the_office ofthe p~r_e_si_-__·Althoug11 Moscona admits communication 
dent. 
"When student government is working alone, it doesn't really have that much power," says Moscona, student-body vice president, "but when you use the student union to actu­ally make a union of students, then there is power .:. and you really can have a positive impact on the university." 
The Moscona-Oxley campaign sees student government as a jumble of separate groups competing for funds and resources. Their ad­ministration plans to scale back its own pro­gramming and collaborate with clubs and campus groups to eliminate overlap and in­crease attendance at events. 
The switch to a coordinating body explains the pair's confidence that they can accomplish each goal on their packed platform. Ideas such as service collaboration and a unity fair, a mix ofthe multicultural fair and the failed Founder's Day, would pull together campus groups andrely on teamwork to get the job done. 
Arguably this year's most seasoned ticket, Moscona and Oxley have served in student government since their first years at the uni­versity, and they believe their experience is invaluable to the office of the_ president. Un­derstanding the university's political system andestablishingtrustingrelationshipswithad­with stucl,ents was a big weakness for the out­going administration, he and Oxley have made that their campaign's biggest goal, with four key ideas for exchanging information with the student body. 

They plan to use the "KOO-BAM" com­mittee, named for the candidates' initials, to answer questions or take complaints through phone, e-mail and suggestion boxes placed in all dorms, dining halls and DeBartolo Hall .. The candidates also will update and expand the student-government Web site to provide resources such as an off-campus housing gnide, online book swap, student polls, stu­dent classifieds, the day's weather and a stu­dent-governnient and Office of Student Ac­tivities events calendar, a larger version of . which would hang in Lafortune for easy ref­erence. Student-government "stall notes" also will be distributed to dorms to keep students informed. 
To ensure they continue to serve the stu­dents, Moscona and Oxley will continue to rely heavily on students' suggestions. Much of their original platform came from brain­storming sessions with more than I 00 students before campaigning. The candidates also say their e-mail accounts crashed, overloaded with suggestions on how J_o_fill the ''black box," the space left for students' ideas, on their cam­paign posters. Moscona and Oxley hope to capitalize on the enthusiastic responses they have received by helping students work on projects they consider important. 
Despite its new vision, the Moscona-Oxley campaign plans to continue projects begun by the Norton-Moscona administration, such as a new freshman-orientation program al­ready before the board of trustees. They de­cided not to campaign on larger goals, such as improving meal plans, because their re­search and discussions with administrators proved the goals infeasible, . at least for the next administration. Food Services said re­vamped meal plans, although popular with students, would be ·difficult to negotiate due to budgeting costs. 
Moscona and Oxley did take a stand on tail­gating. They say administrators already have agreed to establish the university's new policy, but have left little room for compromise. Moscona and Oxley plan to offer alternatives to tailgating for students, such as a tent with free food and entertainment, and they con­tinue to serve as a "sj:rong voice" to the ad­ministration. What that voice will say, how­ever, hinges on student opinion. Moscona and Oxley hope their new vision will encourage all students to take an active role in directing the path of student government. 
-Sarah Childress 



PRESIDENT VICE PRESIDENT 
Name: Brian Moscona Name: Keri Oxley 
Class: Junior Class: Sophomore 
Major: Marketing, Hesburgh Program in Major: ALPP and philosophy 
Public Service concentration Dorm: Badin Hall 
Dorm: Stanford Hall 



PERSONALITY 
Use "bandicoot" in a sentence: 
"Me gusta 'phat' bandicoot." Favorite movie: Moscona: "Rudy, because he's a big dreamer. It's corny, I know, but I still remember seeing it at the theater." Oxley: '7'/Je Shawshank Redemption because it's a good example of using media to educate and giving them a reality check." 

If you could be any Ninja Turtle, which one 
would you be? Moscona: "Leonardo -he's a stud and a gentleman. He had game, you know." Oxley: "Michelangelo -he's upbeat and he likes pizza." 
IDEAS Most important: Communication Least important: 
Improving graduate-student housing 
Quote: "It's all about the students." -Brian Moscona 


2002 ELECTION 


12 SCHOLASTICNEWS 



---··-········--···----___!!l~~~-­
SCOTT P.J. 
PALKO MERCANTI "Leadership is action, not position" 
Presidential candidate Scott Palko and vice-presidential candidate P.J. Mercanti are hands-on kinds of guys. Instead of hiding behind desks in Lafortune, Palko and Mercanti want to be involved in student-government activities from the ground up. "If there's a barbecue, I want to be the one flipping the burgers and setting up the stage," Palko says. "We're not just going to delegate. It all goes back to our slogan -the essence of service is through leadership." Palko and Mercanti have experience in leadership, though not in student govern­ment. Palko serves as president of NDToday.com and was president of The Shirt 2001. Mercanti is captain of Keough Hall's hockey team and a two-year hall com­missioner. The candidates do not feel their lack of student-government experience would hinder their ability to achieve any of their campaign goals. "There are different ele­ments in different aspects ofleadership, but the motivation, the team building [and] all the same things still apply in any leader­ship position," Mercanti says. Among the pair's top priorities is a plan to compensate students for missed meals by adding Flex Points to students' account af­ter every week. Though they need to do 
PRESIDENT Name: Scott Palko Class: Junior Major: Management and theology Dorm: Keough Hall 
PERSONALITY Use "bandicoot" in a sentence: 
"Killer bandicoots, man!" 
Favorite movie: 
Palko: "Coo/ Runnings, because it's about making dreams come true and reaching goals." Mercanti: 'The Godfather parts one through three, because it's a story about family and it has great insight into human nature." 

more research, Palko thinks such an idea might be feasible. "We feel that if you are going to give Flex Points to students, it's 
. ._ '' 
gomg to get spent on campus anyway, Palko says. "It seems like there is a cyclical flow of money, and it all ends up in the university's hands anyway." 
Another plan that might affect Food Ser­vices is Palko and Mercanti's idea of im­proving the selection of food available at Grab 'n' Go and introducing a "line limit" on Grab 'n' Go bags. Students would be able to take as many items as they chose, up to a line printed on the Grab 'n' Go bag. Nei­
· ther Palko nor Mercanti have looked into the specifics of these ideas yet, but they think such plans feasible if they are backed by student support. And even if these exact ideas are not implemented, Palko says, it's most impor­tant to open communication between stu­dents and Food Services. "I think its more effective to go to them with a plan," he says. "Ifwe can get that to come true, we'll work towards that. If we can find a common ground and it will benefit the students, we'll work with that." The two also plan to try to initiate a pro­cess to install air conditioning in all the dorms by investigating how many years the process would take, what the cost might be and other details. "Realistically, we know 
VICE PRESIDENT Name: P. J. Mercanti Class: Junior Major: Finance Dorm: Keough Hall 
If you could be any Ninja Turtle, which one would you be? 
Palko: "Michangelo, because he was the most laid back. He just chilled and supplied the comedy." Mercanti: "Donatello -his bow reminded me of a hockey stick." 
there is not going to be air conditioning in 
all the dorms in a year," Palko says, "but 
it's our p!c111 that if there ever win be air 
conditioning in all the dorms at Notre Dame, 
we would like to start the process." 
One platform idea they do know is fea­

sible is "The Wall of Clubs" -a wall in a 
building in which students frequent that al­
ways will have information posted about dif­
ferent clubs. Other ideas include the installa­
tion ofwater fountains atMcGlinn, Lyons and 
Stepan courts, a one-night football ticket dis­
tribution accompanied by a barbecue, and a 
new measure that allows freshmen to bring 
cars to campus first semester. 
Palko and Mercanti also plan to address the problem of underage_ drinking at tailgates, which was exposed by the administration's controversial crackdown this fall. To provide · underage students an alternative to tailgating, Palko proposes to set up tents and stage a bar­
becue for underclassmen in B2. 
Though many of pair's most important 

platforms might not appear very feasible, it 
seems that if anyone has the will and perse­
verance to pull them off, it's Palko and 
Mercanti. "I'm sure there were doubters that 
thought that we would never have a Golden 
Dome at Notre Dame," Palko said. "But we 
have one, and we believe that if you work 
hard, anything is possible." 
-Jessica Daues 
IDEAS Most important: Flex Points compensation for missed meals 
Least important: 
Improvements to 24-hour space 
Quote: 
"We are leadership through means of service and we're firm believers that anything truly is possible if you work hard enough." -Scott Palko 


2002 ELECTION 


SCHOLASTICNEWS 13 
'1 


¦ YEAR IN REVIEW 
BROOKE BRIAN 
NORTON MOSCONA Looking back on a university first 
0 n the first day she took office, Stu­dent-Body President Brooke Norton already had accomplished a fundraiser to purchase an ambulance to something that no other student-body presi­replace one· of many lost in the events of dent at Notre Dame has ever achieved: September 11. Norton was the first female ever to be elected But Norton and Moscona's term in office to that position. And while she admits that has not been all success. At the very begin~ "it has been difficult sometimes because ... ning of their term, they failed to get pari­I can't have the best-friend role [with male etals pushed back to one a.m. on weeknights, administrators] that a lot of the guys do," although they did manage to get them Norton doesn't think that her changed from 10 a.m. to 9 a.m. sex has inhibited her ability to "A lot ofthe Moscona says that the Student get the job done. "I think ev­Senate currently is conducting 
things that we do 
eryone has treated me just like research to reopen that debate. 
are nameless, " 
they treat everyone else," she One of their 
Norton said. "We
says, adding that she has administration's biggest prob­"never felt that people don't negotiate with lems has been communication. listen to me because I'm a administrators all Like her predecessor, Brian woman." O'Donoghue, Norton has been .
the time, but ... 
Of course, Norton and Stu­criticized for spending too
how are you going 
dent-Body Vice President much time in her office and 
to advertise that 
Brian Moscona's accomplish­not enough time with students. ments certainly have not been 'we're this close This lack ofvisibility has con-· limited to getting elected. They· to getting[these tributed to some students' per­ran on an extensive platform ception that student govern­
changes made 
and achieved many of their ment does very little; <'A lot of
while] they're 
goals, such as · coordinating the things that we do are name­more collaborative efforts with thinking about it less," Norton says. "We nego­student organizations and the for three years tiate with administrators all the recently begun renovations in time, but ... how are you go­
down the line?' 
Lafortune. They also had great ing to a_civertise that 'we're this
It's just hard to 
success with last semester's close to getting [these changes 
·advertise that. " 
well-attended Culture Fest, a made while] they're thinking 
multicultural fair celebrating -Brooke Norton about it for three years down 
the various cultures repre­the line?' It's just hard to ad­
sented by students at Notre Dame. They plan vertise that So a lot of it is behind the 
to follow up on that event with this scenes." 
semester's upcoming diversity symposium. Norton and Moscona also took much of 
But perhaps their greatest achievements the blame for not easing the university's this year have been the ones that went un­crackdown on tailgating. "There still are a mentioned in their campaign .."[September lot ofvague places in du La,c, especially with 
11] was something that nobody expec.ted, tailgating, and administrators can read it and it changed the course of the semester their way, and students can read it their way, for everyone, and for our office, too," Norton and they're still reading the same thing," says. In response to the tragedy, the office Norton explains. To solve the problem, she ofthe president coordinated a collection that and Moscona tried, mostly unsuccessfully, benefited victims and their families, to open lines of communication with the monthly town-hall meetings were poorly at­tended due to bad scheduling and mediocre publicity. And, a year later, the student-gov­ernment Web site still has not been rede­signed and updated. 
Still, Norton and Moscona are not giving up; they continue to look for more effective ways to improve-communication with stu­dents, such as group-specific town-hall meetings. They also recently established the Maxx, a student resource room on the first floor of LaFortune. They also are working to create a comprehensive calendar ofall.the events going on around campus, which will be posted in the Maxx and on their newly revamped Web site, which should be up and running by late February. 
Norton believes that if they can get these things started, it will be one of her office's greatest accomplishments: "Year to year, every [student-government] administration tries to reinvent the wheel and think ofa new way to communicate "Yith students....We've tried and failed in a couple things this year. It would be great if we could ... open those lines [of communication so that] the next administration won't have to worry about it." 
In their last two months in office, Norton and Moscona hope to energize the students and show them their real power to effect change. Moscona points out that "the true power lies within the student body, and I don't think that they realize that enough, that if something really wants to getdone, it got to be done by the union ofstudents." He says that "if Brooke and I go [to the administra­tion] and demand something, it's not going to speak as loudly as it would if the entire student body united hehind something." Norton agrees: "When students really draw together, that's when things change, and I think that we need to _try to pull together more." 
-Katie Freddoso 

14 SCHOLASTICNEWS 







WEB OF TALES 
>> DispeUing the myths behind popular Notre Dame lore AlJREEN.RITCHEY'ANPBETHRIESTE 
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 


Nothing romances members of the Notre Dame community quite like affirmations of the university's grandeur. With a weakness for self-eleva­tion and a notorious focus on Domer tradi­tion, students are apt to place their confi­dence in the various strands of oral history that pervade our campus. These oral histo­ries have transformed into the many urban legends that lurk as half-truths in the minds of the students and alumni alike. Urban legends at Notre Dame go beyond the standard myths of Mickey and his pop rocks and Coke, teenage girls -babysitting alone at night and the promises of Internet forwards. Domers have developed their own unique brand of urban legends. Whether we first heard the tales during our campus tour as prospective students, an early engineering lecture or dinner with friends, students assume that behind each story lies a spark of truth. However, in ac­cordance with the defining characteristic of urban legends, all guesses about the degree of certainty with which each legend should be accepted have been merely that ­guesses. Until now. Scholastic has dispelled the rumors sur­rounding a few of Notre Dame's most popu­lar tales and brought you the truth. So sit back, ignore your calculus homework and enjoy hearing your friends proved wrong as we give their stories the true-or-false treatment. 
Deflating Male Egos 
After marveling at the beauty of the Golden Dome as it sparkles against a blue sky, females arriving on the Notre Dame campus for the first time often notice the prevalence of beauty of another kind -in the physically fit and attractive young men who flood the quads. Most Notre Dame women would agree that their male.class­mates are, in general, a cut above when it comes to looks. . 
However, did Playgirl really rank the men of Notre Dame as the second-best-looking group of college men in the nation? 
Sorry, guys, but no. Playgirl never published a list of the ~al­leges with the most beautiful men. 
In fact; no such survey can be found among the vast wonders of the Internet. So where did this urban legend come from? 
Most likely, some random guy was flip­ping through his Playboy one day and saw 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 
that the illustrious magazine had published a list of colleges with the best-looking women (which it did, in 2001; the Uni­versity ofTexas topped the list). He then decided to impress the ladies at dorm parties later that night by insisting that Playgirl had published a similar list, ranking him and his male col­leagues as among the most at­tractive. Believable? Maybe. True? No. 



Flying Zahmbies 
f-·i · ---L--,· ·•' · 1 .\ts·•· ­
The men of Zahm Hall have definitely created a mystique for themselves over the years. From the wild and crazy antics of the traditional Zahm Winter Carnival to the infamous Bun Run (which requires no expla­nation), their reputation is well known on campus. 
And, as legend has it, the namesake of our. very own 
Zahm Hall also was the first man to fly. Could someone of this ctazy breed really have preceded the Wright brothers in flight? 
Well, not exactly. 
Zahni Hall was named after the Rev. John Zahm: priest, physical chemist, evolution­ist and university vice president. The man behind the legend actually is his younger brother, Dr. Albert Zahm. 
Dr. Zahm attended the university as an undergraduate and later returned as an aero­nautics professor. He was later appointed as Notre Dame's first mechanical engineer­ing professor. 
During the late 18!Qs and early 1890s, Zahm worked in the..S,cience Hall (now Lafortune Student Center), researching and testing designs for gliders. Zahm success­fully launched the first man-carrying glider from the roofofthe Science Hall during this time, and he was well known for his "night launches" from the rooftops of campus buildings. 
One night, in what was possibly the be­ginning of Zahm-related crazy antics, Zahm's assistant was testing a model glider Zahm had built and suspended from the ceil­ing in what is now the lobby of Lafortune. While soaring around the room, the assis­tant had to use his feet to stop himself from hitting the walls, leaving shoe prints high above the ground. The next moming the 


FIRST IN FLIGHT Notonly was Dr. Albert:,Zahm ND's first mechanical engineering professor, he also was the inventor of the .fir$t inan-carry}rig glider. But was he-Zahm Hall.'s
names~e? ' '., ' ', ' ' ' ' ' ,' ' '' ' 
curator of the Science Hall found the shoe prints and attributed them to supernatural 

. causes -namely the Devil and his evil spir­its. He was so convinced of this that he had the room blessed with holy water. In 1893, Zahm organized the first-ever International Aeronautical Congress, which was held in Chicago. It was here that Zahm presented his paper "~tability ofAeroplanes and Flying Machines:" With this paper, he became the first person in America to ex­plain the method for launching an aircraft. Sitting in the audience were two then-unknown brothers from Dayton, Ohio by the names of Wilbur and _Orville Wright. The Wright brothers went on to make the first powered, controlled airplane flight in De­cember 1903. So, Dr. Albert Zahm may have been a highly innovative engineer, but as for an aeronautical connection to the hallowed halls of Zahm? This urban legend has defi­nitely crashed. 

We Were the C.hampions 
At a university where 75 percent of stu­dents were varsity athletes in high school, interhall athletics showcase talent compa­rable to that found on many other colleges' 


varsity teams. __ 
But how do the teams really stack up? 
As the story goes, Dillon Hall's interhall football team was nationally ranked among Division III schools in the 1970s. Although definitive evidence pointing either way has yet to be found, all signs indicate that this story also rings false. 
Dillon's current rector, the Rev. Paul Doyle, says that he has heard a similar rumor, but with different details. Doyle recalls that a Sports Illustrated writer once claimed that the Notre Dame foot­ball team was so good that even our larg­est men's dorm's interhall football team could defeat other teams in Division I. However, more research into this rumor proved fruitless. 
Dillon Hall's football team has a proud history of greatness; it has claimed the interhall championship seven times since 1975. Even its nickname, "Big Red," has its roots in the team's winning ways. Red shirts used to be awarded to the men's interhall football champions, and because Dillon residents were so often the victors, the dorm changed its nickname from the "Big D" to the "Big Red." 
Both Dillon's and Notre Dame's tradi­tional football greatness makes Doyle's version of the rumors plausible. But as fo~ being ranked? Notre Dame men miss out once again. 


Hitting the Books 
You're sitting in your dorm room in front 
of your computer, frantically trying to write 
your fifth paper in two weeks. You talce a break 
to study for that big calculus exam tomorrow. 
The girl across the hall is complaining about 
her 15-page paper for journalism class, and 
the guy sitting diagonal from you in the li­
brary is surrounded by four stacks ofresearch 
books. 
Sound familiar? You must be saying to 
yourself: "Wow! We must have the biggest 
workload in the country!" In fact, the buzz 

around campus is that ND had been ranked 
second nati0nally in terms of student 
workload. 

Well, there's good news and bad news. As gratifying as that recognition might be, un­fortunately, Notre Dame doesn't even make the top 20 colleges in terms of study time ac­cording to the Princeton Review, which polls thousands ofcollege student across the county. · The top three colleges are the Massachusetts Institute ofTe~hnology, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and the California Institute ofTech­nology. These rankings are the result ofa poll of thousands of college students across the 
country. 
The Princeton Review also publishes · a 


SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 



Committee examines pros and cons of four­credit-based curriculum 

MIKEBORGIA. 

Students at prestigious universities such as Harvard, Princeton and Emory take only four classes per semester. In theory, taking fewer classes allows students to concentrate and acquire more in-depth knowledge ofclass subjects. So, is Notre Dame hurting its students by keeping with the traditional five-per­semester rule? This year, the Curriculum Review Committee (CRC) will investigate the possible merits of changing the standard undergraduate curriculum from five 3-credit courses to four 4-credit ones. Once every 10 academic years, Notre Dame assembles the CRC be released to the entire faculty; there have been no university-wide meetings or departmental evaluations to discuss the implementation of such a curriculum. The CRC's discussion of this issue has nevertheless sparked discussion among non­committee members as to the repercussions of such a change. 

For Notre Dame, it already is apparent that the implementation of such a curriculum would present several advantages and disadvantages. The intended benefit of the change is to give students the opportunity to explore four subjects in depth rather that 
Zuckert sees the change as ideal for Arts and Letters students, particularly seniors, because it would provide them with more opportunities for conducting research, writing major papers, participating in small discussion groups and developing oral­presentation skills. Mark Roche, dean ofthe College ofArts and Letters, agrees that this change would provide Notre Dame students with "greater intellectual maturity, smaller class sizes and increased faculty-student interaction." 
In spite of the potential benefits, a change to a four-course curriculum would require a great deal of 

to study the effectiveness accommodation in other of its undergraduate "Some faculty members feel that the areas: "If you reduce the 
programs. This 11-member number of classes that a committee, which includes curriculum, especially that in the First stud·ent takes while representatives from each of keeping the number of the university's colleges and Year of Studies program, is too much requirements the same, it functions, disucusses ideas will obviously be harder 
concerning the like high school." 
to meet those improvement of the ND requirements," Zuckert curriculum. If the CRC says. Were the new plan decides that a particular --_ Catherine Zuckert, implemented, the modification is worth university would have to
government professor and CRC member 
pursuing, it submits the idea consider adopting at least 
to the Academic Council as a formal proposal. 

After its standard decade-long hiatus, the committee, which currently is chaired by Vice President and Associate Provost the Rev. John Jenkins, reconvened in October 2001 to discuss the introduction of more interdisciplinary courses and to review the effectiveness of the university theology and philosophy requirements. But perhaps the most controversial matter before the committee is the idea ofcurriculum change. 
The committee's discussions have yet to 
18 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

simply exposing them to a brief survey of five. "Some faculty members feel that the curriculum, especially that in the First Year of Studies program, is too much like high school," says Catherine Zuckert, a committee member and professor in the department ofgovernment and international studies. "Over the last 20-plus years, the quality of both the students and faculty at Notre Dame has improved tremendously, leaving us to question whether or not the curriculum is still challenging enough." 
one of several changes, such as a reduction in the number of courses required for a major, a cutback on the availability of electives or the elimination of some of the core requirements. Another solution Roche mentions is what he refers to as "double counting." Basically, this would mean that courses taken to fulfill university in any particular subject requirements -for example, two courses in philosophy and theology -would also count towards a major in that field. 

i ~ • /· ,~ • • , -• 4 -• ' • , , • ; 
• • ' • ' > • 

Qne ofthe most controversial effects of any course-load reduction is that it would make double-majoring much more difficult. Some do not see this as a serious problem. Roche argues that many students who pursue a second major do so primarily to add to their credentials. "One doesn't get a liberal-arts degree simply to get a job," he says. According to Roche, "many of. our professors feel like students who double major aren't getting into their areas of study as thoroughly as they should," and he believes "this change would allow students to explore their first area of interest with increased depth." 
Carolyn Woo, dean of the Mendoza College of Business, agrees. "A double major should be an· intent to broaden your education," she says. "Unfortunately, we very quickly and automatically equate this broadening with double-majoring.... There's very much a focus on the credentialing part, and the key really is the broadening, not so much how we package it." She points out that the demands of a second major often limits students in their choice of 
electives. "Sometimes in going for that 
credentialing, a student loses the flexibility 
for broadening," she says. 
In addition, Roche believes that the university still would be able to accommodate those students who genuinely are interested in ·studying multiple disciplines. In support of this claim, Roche cites the existence of a wide array of "interdisciplinary minors," which he believes to be "the most impressive of any · university in the country." 
Roche does, however, acknowledge that some departments, such as film, television and theater and the foreign-language departments, could suffer significant 
. deci:eases in enrollment as the result of a major curricular overhaul, since these majors are often viewed as supplementary by those students who major in two fields. Professor Joseph Wawrykow, director of undergraduate studies .for the theology department, thinks this is an important concern. "This [change] is a serious prospect from the perspective of language departments and theology and philosophy, since many students choose these disciplines as second majors," he says. "In our department, we have engineers, government majors, etc., so, from our perspective, if one of the consequences ... is to make it much more difficult for students to do a 
supplementary major, then there's an 

. argument against the proposal. The dean himself seems to have recognized that supplemental majors would be rendered problematic, and that isn't necessarily a good thing." 
While the College of Arts and Letters would be most heavily affected by the double-majoring issue, the other colleges also would face significant challenges if this plan were adopted. According to Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science, this change "could cause serious logistical problems in terms of lab times and making lab space available." He is "already teetering on the edge in terms of providing the lab time for all the students in the college, and this could completely throw off the balance." Castellino is skeptical ofthe merits of a change to four­creditcourses. "Classes won't necessarily cover things more in depth just because [the professors] have more time," he says. "[They] might try to simply teach more, and you might end up with more of a smorgasbord." Also, Castellino notes that he does not see how the change would allow for more undergraduate research within the College of Science, the lack of which has. been a concern among some science majors. At the same time, he admitted that he simply "would need to hear more argumen_ts" before formulating a concrete opinion. 
Jenkins observes that the change also would be difficult within the College ofEngineering, the College of Architecture and the department of accountancy within the College of Business, as the various agencies that evaluate these programs expect students to follow a somewhat standard course program. Changing the curriculum would make it harder for-students of those disciplines to meet these expectations. 
As Jenkins makes clear, a change in the undergraduate curriculum is highly unlikely to affect any current student. "The [committee] is currently considering about 25 other proposals, so no change is imminent," he says. In addition, the ideas coming out of the review will have to be examined by the Academic Council and members of the faculty and their departments before any changes can be made. Wawrykow says that, along with many of his colleagues, he is "[looking] forward eagerly to the committee making clear the work that it's done and what it's hoping to do in this review." He adds that he anticipates "learning about how it plans to gain additional input from the rest of the university population." 

Regardless of what the committee finally proposes, its ideas offer the chance to evaluate the current university curriculum. Woo believes that this could be an opportunity to generate "more creative 

thinking in terms of how we educate." She says, "Iam excited about [the four-credit idea] because ofits challenge to usto really unpack [the current program ofstudies] so that we can reexamine what we need to put into the curriculum." . 
-Katie Freddoso contributed to this st01)t 
SCHOLASTICNEWS 19 



! 
i,>'·, 


CAROLYNLAFAVE 
Juni per Road: A straight shot through the east side of campus, surrounded by university facilities and swarming with university pedestrians -and the scene of daily battles. Juniper's 10,000 daily motorists complain that the road's six traffic lights on campus are unsynchronized and that they frequently stop through traffic for non-existent cross-traffic. Also annoying them are the prohibition on the right turns on red at its intersections and its bizarre kinks and variations in width and lanes. These drivers are anything but alone. For their part, the road's 20,000 daily pedestrians and cyclists face long waits for a gap through which to cross, especially at the all-important rush hours. Signals and crosswalks grace crossing points that are used infrequently, while the two busiest crossings lack signals (between the Library Circle and LotB2) or crosswalks (between Moose Krause Circle and Lot Cl). And, for all, the most galling -and dangerous, according to the university ­is when these constituencies meet. Exasperated drivers routinely ignore lights and signs, while equally impatient pedestrians jaywalk and begin to cross when the coast is not clear. The result? For daily users of the road, near misses between cars and pedestrians are not uncommon. Special events such as football games and registration enrollments heighten an already severe problem. The university, fearing that it is only a matter of time before a disaster, has been trying to control Juniper's general traffic for the last 25 to 30 years. In 1957, it managed to get the road pushed back from behind North Dining Hall to its current location to make way for university expansion. Since then, facilities ranging from the Joyce Center to the Band Building to the Fischer Graduate Residences have joined an alphanumeric soup of parking lots on the east edge of campus -and by 1988, the time seemed ripe for closing the road to city traffic. The county, however, reluctant to reroute thousands of vehicles to already-busy streets, thought otherwise. When the university brought the measure before the city council in 1988, the proposal didn't even make it to a vote. 
Fast-forward 14 years to tod::1y. University expansion on the east side of Juniper contin_ues at full tilt, and officials predict that current daily crossings will double when the planned 205,000-square­foot science learning building is completed, in less than five years. The university is again saying that something must be done. It maintains that current solutions -such as _the frustrating-but­deliberate unsynchronization of traffic signals -are insufficient to ensure convenience and safety to all who use the road. Notre Dame officials met a few weeks ago with the county to reopen the discussion, and Juniper's fate again rested in the hands of the city council. 
The result, however, was no more successful than 1988's. According to county engineer Susan Al-Abbas, closing Juniper, a main north-south corridor through town, leaves only two alternatives: build a new road outside the bounds of campus but parallel to Juniper or reroute traffic on existing roads. Both present serious problems, according to the county. 
A new road would run up high bills for the county. To receive federal funding to defray costs, the county would have to earn a high "level of service" rating. Graded on a ·scale from A to F, with A being as free-flowing as possible and Fas 
20 SCHOLASTICNEWS 

I . . ----. J . ' --_----. • . --. . , • • • . • . ; 


the most congested, evaluators consider smooth operation, number of vehicles allowed and time cars spend at traffic lights, when cars burn more fuel. Road grades of A can be as difficult to earn as their academic counterparts. Also, before any construction, the county would have to meet government standards for air quality -a goal St. Joseph County has failed to achieve not only for Juniper Road, but for other county roads as well. 
Diverting traffic, the other alternative, would only inconvenience drivers and clog existing routes, according to district commissioner Mike Hamann, who looked at university and county research and decided the move would not best serve local residents. Without any positive comments from his constituents on the closing, he recommended that the council vote against closing the road. Alternate streets simply could not handle the overflow that would result from nixing Juniper. 
~ 
Without a viable solution, then, "it's pretty apparent that we cannot close Juniper," Al-Abbas says. It thus comes as little surprise that the city council followed Hamann' s advice and refused to close the road. The decision is final, but university administrators may feel reassured the county has no interest in "shutting the door on Notre Dame," Hamann says, in part because of the university's role in the community. They also might take heart from students such as sophomore Mo Orzechowski, who frequents Rolfs and has had classes in Loftus, and sophomore Andrew Sylling, a ROTC student who crosses that road every day. Orzechowski says the cars move too slowly to consider Juniper Road dangerous, and Sylling maintains that he has "never felt endangered by the road, or delayed." 
When added to the consideration that it is far from clear that university community members will want to forgo Juniper's benefits to alleviate the current problems -and that it's a moot question at least for now, anyway-some see a combination of road improvements and footbridges or tunnels as the most feasible way to proceed. Lou Nanni, vice president for public relations, says discussions on alternatives have not gotten very far, but Hamann says the county would be "more than happy to help" with whatever Notre Dame decides, although the burden ofthe cost lies on the university. 

It's a consideration administrators will have to face if they wish to continue development, Hamann says -but so too is the safety ofthe users of the road. In the meantime, drivers and pedestrians· alike are best advised to be careful out there. D 
-Sarah Childress and Katie Freddoso contributed to this st01y. 

' JUNIPER Roio, already 111ov~d orice by th~ . ·university, ·keeps traffic flowing but is now 
·considered hazarqous by many...·  . .  :  ·.  
.  .  ,,.  '. .  ~  .  
PHOTO BY LIESL MARX  

SCHOLASTICNEWS 21 


The CAC asks five main reforms of the NCAA: to broaden health insurance for college athletes to include year-round coverage forall sports-related injuries, bpost the value ofathletes' life insurance, increase monthly stipends, eliminate the $2,000 cap on annual income for student-athletes during the off-season and to allow student-athletes time and resources to make education their top priority and to improve graduation rates at colleges and universities across the country. 
The CAC is not the first organization to propose changes to the NCAA system. In the last decade or so, several attempts have been made to unite student-athletes to increase compensation for their involvement in the business ofcollege sports. In the mid­1990s, former Duke basketball player Dick DeVenzio created and distributed a videotape entitled Do Something, which included clips of interviews about the exploitation of college athletes. The tape ran on Crossfire, 60 Minutes and the MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour. DeVenzio included a toll-free phone nuinber and encouraged student-athletes to voice their concerns and complaints. 
Last year, the StudentBasketball Council was organized by Shane Battier, a former Duke basketball player_and current member of the NBA' s Memphis Grizzlies. The SBC exists under the National Association of Basketball Coaches and outside the structure of the NCAA. 
But so far, every attempt in collegiate sports' more than 100-year history to organize enough support from student­athletes nationwide to make a serious push for change has failed. In 1989, the NCAA system of Student-Athlete Advisory Committees was begun mainly to take suggestions on NCAA legislation. This committee has little power to effect changes, however, ,leading to the birth of other organizations outside the umbrella of the NCAA. 1 
It seems that the CAC, the latest group to challenge the system, might be the one that breaks the mold. Though it still is too early to tell, two signs indicate that the CAC might not suffer a fate similar to the other NCAA reform attempts: First, it exists outside the umbrella of the NCAA, theoretically giving it more power to influence new legislation. "[NCAA representatives] seemed to indicate that we should work with one of their in-house committees," Huma says. "W.e've already identified [the SAAC] as a system which was designed _to fail. They have minimal potentialto influence any NCAA legislation. We already looked at that system and decided that student-athletes needed an independent system." 
The most ~mportant distinction of the CAC, however, is the support that it has gained from the United Steelworkers Union, one ofthe most powerful unions in the United States. The CAC and the Steelworkers officially joined forces in July 2001, after Huma spoke in front of a 
group from the union last July and . convinced them to support the student­
athletes' cause. 
"They (the student-athletes) contacted 
us to see if we could take a look and offer 
some help to their cause," says Tim 
Waters, the United Steelworkers' liaison 
to the CAC. "We offered help mainly 
because they are exploited workers." This 
affiliation with the Steelworkers led to an 
immediate increase in media attention, 
most notably The New York Times, Sports 
Illustrated, The Los Angeles Times and 60 
Minutes. "Athletes are unable to have the 
resources and time and commitment it 
takes for a national organizing program," 
Waters says, but with the help of the 
Steelworkers, they have "the resources 
and the ability to get this done." 
The CAC still has a long way to go before 
it can fulfill its goals. Homa claims to have 
convinced several hundred members from 
nine Division I football and basketball teams, 
mainly from thePac-10 conference to which 
Huma' s alma mater belongs, to join the 
CAC. While progress has been made, the 
CAC faces the stiff challenges of recruiting 
members and organizing chapters at 
hundreds of Division I schools across the 
country. 
What makes this task even more 
daunting than organizing of a typical 
coalition is that student-athletes are at a 
school for only four or five years at most. 
Educating them on the issues and 
convincing them to form CAC chapters at their schools at the risk of punishment from their coaches is an extremely difficult task. Even with their alliance with the United Steelworkers, the CAC and its issues likely will not be addressed-or even considered -by the NCAA until it clearly represents the majority of Division I student-athletes. Nevertheless, the CAC seems headed in the right direction, making requests that even the NCAA recognizes as reasonable. 


HEALTH INSURANCE 

Student-athletes now receive health insurance benefits that cover them only during official · workouts. NCAA rules mandate that Division I athletic teams may hold only 20 hours ofofficial practice per week during the season ofa particular sport and only eight hours per week in the off-season. Student-athletes are not covered during the numerous voluntary workouts most Division I athletic programs hold. While the exact amount of voluntary workout time per week varies from school to school, itlikely exceeds 10 h~urs per week for most major Division I athletic programs such as Notre Dame. Many student-athletes, however, refer to such workouts as "volundatory," a combination ofvoluntary and mandatory. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 23 

---~------'-'----------------~­
___ ----­

-



"Ifa coach calls a practice and says, 'Well, it's voluntary,' a players knows they need to be there," Waters says. "A lot of them want to be there, they want to participate, but they go in knowing that if they get 
-:.: .,._ ·~ WII,dUAM KIRWAN, NCAA presidept ·· , .. 
' ,-' .--;.. .. -' ­



''As far as I know, virtually no '' 
athletes are joining the CAC. The CAC doesn't represent all college athletes. 
injured, the financial strain is going to fall on themselves and their family." Because of this pressure to attend voluntary workouts, coaches are able to get around the NCAA restrictions on the amount of time they can force their athletes to practice. 
One of the main reasons that health insurance do_es not extend to voluntary workouts is that such a program might be considered a recruiting advantage for some top Division I schools, because some of the less-weaJthy schools might not be able to afford it. Nevertheless, the NCAA recognizes that the issue is valid. "Insurance should be extended throughout voluntary workouts," says Brit Kirwan, chairman ofthe NCAA Board ofDirectors and president ofthe Ohio State University. He also says that the NCAA already is working on increasing the scope of health insurance. 
DEATH COMPENSATION 

Hum a had scheduled a meeting between the CAC and the SAAC of the NCAA on January 20 of this year. The SAAC cancelled this meeting just days before it was to take place because it didn't consider the CAC a significant enough force to bother with. "As far as I know, virtually no athletes are joining the CAC," Kirwan says. "The CAC doesn't represent all college athletes." Though Ruma and his colleagues were disappointed by the cancellation and skeptical of the excuse given by the NCAA, they were not surprised. After all, their membership and relation to the entire college athlete population. 
Despite the high odds of failure, the CAC leader still felt compelled to organize the January meeting for one main reas;n: the safety problems faced by student-athletes. 
"We came to the NCAA prematurely because we were really addressing a lot of the tragedies oflast off-season," Ruma says. An example is the death of Florida State linebacker Devaughn Darling, who collapsed during an early-morning conditioning drill. Darling's family was outraged when they received a paltry $10,000, the standard'death benefit under current NCAA regulation. Families ofother players who suffered fatalities while practicing also felt that thus sum is not nearly enough. "We talked to some of the family members," Ruma says. "They said that it wasn't even sufficient to cover the funeral-related expenses, much less begin to compensate for their loss." 
The CAC planned to ask the NCAA for an increase in the death benefit at the meeting. "With the three deaths in football last year and some other issues that we were already concerned with, we felt like it couldn't wait for us tofinish the players association," Ruma says. "This meeting was to focus solely on health initiatives at our request. We weren't going to talk about stipends or employment. These things need to·be changed now. Here we are in another off-season, and we still have fresh in our minds all the tragedies 


Even more disturbing to a family than getting a small death benefit is not getting one at all. During a 60 Minutes interview, Humaspokeof a University ofPloridarecruit who died after collapsing at a voluntary summer workout. NCAA rules prohibited the university from reimbursing the family for his hospital costs or giving it a death benefit. 
As anotheroff-season ofworkouts begins, the situation remain~ unresolved. 
STIPEND AND OFFSEASON CAP 
Most would agree that scholarship athletes receive plenty of financial benefits each year from their schools. Student-athletes typically receive a payment that covers tuition, room, board, fees and books. For example, at Notre Dame, the current value of a full scholarship is on average approximately $30,700. 
Nevertheless, schools know that their support is not enough to cover an athlete's total living expenses for the· year. Each school has a figure known as the cost of attendance, which the school determines to be the amount required to live at that school for one acadeinic year. The cost of attendance includes everything covered by scholarships and adds the average amount of money spent on other expenses such as transportation, clothes and entertainment. According to the CAC's statistics, the average cost of attendance exceeds the scholarship amount at a given school by $2,000 for student-athletes living offcampus and by about $250 more 
for students living on campus. One of the main factors in this slight difference is that · off-campus full-scholarship student-athletes receive a small stipend each month to cover extra expenses, while student-athletes living 

. . RAMOGI H.UMA, CAC fciun·der .· · 
, r . o , 
' ' One misconception that we ' ' want to dispel is that we get a free ride through college ... guys are putting their lives on the line.1 
on campus are prohibited by NCAA rules from receiving monthly stipends. 
To bridge this gap of approximately $2,000 annually, the NCAA allows student­athletes to work during the off-season, though their earnings are capped at an annual value of $2,000. 
According to Kirwan, this cap aims to protect the academic interests ofthe student­athletes. "The concern is that we want flexibility for athletes," he says. "We don't want their time commitment to their jobs to be so great that it compromises the time they spend on academics. Itis theNCAA's notion that athletes should receive the full cost of attendance." 
While Huma admits that most student-athletes are too busy to get jobs, he says student-athletes who can manage their time well enough to have a job should not be restricted. He does not believe that" the salary cap is in place for academic reasons 

as Kirwan says. "They could have capped the number of hours of work," he says. "It wasjust a mechanism to take the heat offof them for not having our scholarships equal our cost of attendance." 
The CAC would like to see the cap on off-season earnings lifted, but it feels that college players who are both students and athletes year-round should not have to earn the extra money needed to fully cover the cost ofattendance. For this reason, it also is looking for an increase either in scholarship money or in stipends. "You're a full-time student and you're a full-time athlete year round," Huma says. "It's hard to get a job on top-of that. Really, it's like being a full­time student and having a job already, so to 
SCH0LASTICSPORTS 25 

get a job on top ofthat is extremely difficult. That's why we're looking to raise the scholarships." 
FREE RIDES OR SWEATSHOPS? 

Huma says most who are not student­athletes share some common misconceptions about them. He says that the student-athletes are not driven by greed, and that they appreciate the benefits they do receive. "We're the first to admit that we're in a fortunate situation, and we're grateful for our opportunities," Huma says. "But to keep things in perspective, football and basketball generates about $3 billion a year. Right now, not enough resources are redirected to give us basic protections." 
The steelworkers' interpretation of the NCAA as a "sweatshop," however, may be taking the situation too far. For one thing, the responsibility for change does not lie solely in the hands of the NCAA. Although universities' hands are tied by NCAA policy, no institution has yet lobbied for beuer player support. The NCAA says it hasn't turned a deaf ear to the CAC. "We believe those issues are real issues, and we've been trying to address them," says Ron Stratton, NCAA vice president ofeducation service_s. "They're very serious to us." 
Perhaps the hardest group of people to convince of the validity of the athletes' complaints are college students, Ruma says. College athletics are often thought ofas just 
26 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
another type of school activity -one for which the students are compensated. In reality, Huma says, college athletics come closer to being a job than an activity, and the consequences of participating can be extremely serious. 
"One misconception that we want to dispel is that we get a free ride through college," Huma explains. "We're fortunate, but we actually earn everything we get. These scholarships are not for free. We are working year round; we incur injuries and surgeries. Guys are putting their lives on the line. And there's a tradeoff. It's hard to compare us to regular students because it's all a matter of personal preference. One student might be OK with working a part-time job and taking out a lot ofloans to get themselves through school. But an_athlete might be willing to put their body on the line and risk and sustain different types ofinjuries." 


WHERE DO NON-SCHOLARSHIP ATHLETES FIT IN? 
Amongst the media discussion of the CAC and student-athlete benefits over the last year or so, there has been little, if any, mention of any student-athletes besides scholarship football and basketball players. Huma claims that the CAC would eventually like the benefits for which they are asking to include Division II and III student-athletes as well as student-athletes from other sports. However, the possibility ofachieving such aspirations -or even pushing for them ­does not appear to lie in the foreseeable future, and such goals do not seem to be nearly as important to the CAC. • 
At Notre Dame and most other universities, a number ofwalk-on football players join the team each year, spending 
-countless hours sweating and bleeding with the scholarship athletes. Similarly, members of the baseball, hockey, -track, women's basketball, women's crew, men's and women's soccer, and men's and women's lacrosse teams, for example, expend plenty of ene-rgy and time for the school. Most ofthese players cannot expect to get the same type ofmoney and stipends as scholarship football and basketball players. But the issue of insurance coverage is another problem. If a walk-on and a scholarship football player collapse during the same conditioning exercise, should the latter player receive greater benefits? In this light, the NCAA may have a case in waiting to alter the compensation of student-athletes until enough money can be raised to ensure that all student-athletes can be included. 


WHAT IT ALL MEANS 
When the public hears of organizations like the CAC making demands for increases in _the benefits of student-athletes, the first thought is often that college players want to get paid like professional athletes. Some student-athletes may feel that they deserve a salary. Some would argue that the move 


would damage the allure ofcollege athletics as competition for bragging rights and love ofthe game. "Ithinkitwould be the ruination ofintercollegiate sports," Kirwan said during his 60 Minutes interview. "[It] changes the whole concept." 
College athletics have become an extremely profitable business, however. ESPN reported last year that in the NFL, more than 60 percent of all revenues go to playersalaries. Atbig'.--time college programs like Notre Dame, less than 10 percent of football revenues go to players in the form of scholarships. Under the CAC's current plan, these two figures would not come­close to approaching one another. 
The most important issue, though, might 
· not be the compensation of student-athletes for their efforts but rather a more realistic perception of the situation by the public. "It go~s down to the depths ofeven high school," Huma says. "Your parents and your friends are telling you: 'Congratulations, you have a free ride. You're going to float through college and everything's going to be all good.' But those expectations are misleading and .are reinforced by the recruiting process. You never hear actual objective voice or a voice from the inside, someone who's going through it or has just been though it and can tell you how it really is .... We need some understanding, but we're not looking for sympathy by any means. We're fortunate, but just because we're fortunate doesn't mean that we shouldn't seek to minimize our risk." D 




A More Modest. Proposal 
Although many athletic scholarships theoretically cover the full cost of college attendance -such asroom, board; books and tuition -many athletes feel that the $2,000 cap on earnings per year forces them to niiss 
out on some social activities because they_ don't have thefunds to participate. 
. : c·•,. 

In response to the problem, the College Athlete Coalition, a group of student-athletes formed to represent athletes, has requested that tile NCAA either increaseathletes; stipendso cover the expenses orremove the cap so athletes can earn the money themselves. 
NCAA President Brit Kirwan is sympathetiC to the student-athletes' 
. ' . •, . ' ' ' .
. 

need for. an increase in financial support, and he acknowledges that the NCAA had been working on this issue before the coalition approached it. 
. . . . 
, Unfortunately, increasing stipends all rnvision I schools, even for pmfjtable sports such as basketball and football only, is a very difficult task because some ofthese schools don't generate enough. 
At Notre Dame; forexample, 98 scholarships are allotted for football and men's basketball alone each year. According to Athletic Director Kevin White, the university has approximately the 28th-largest athletic budget of the 117. Division I schools. Furthermore, since Notre Danie is in the unique position of having a first-class football program without belonging to a conference, the Irish easily exceed all •other Divisio~ I schools in revenue from athle.tics each year. So, ·while scholarships amounts at other Division I schools are similar, many of them do not have nearly enough athletic revenue to support any kind of uniform changes in student-athlete benefits. · 
"One of the things I am working towards is to increase the stipend an · additional $2,000," Kirwan says.<'The issue here is that while most of my people support this in general, the concern is with other universities, . . whose athleti_c programs may.be running on deficits, that the cost would · be too difficult to bear. My hope is thatas new funds come into the NCAA .. we can use them." Last year, the NCAA's approved budget indicated 
. ·. . . . .. 
around $335 million in operating expenses and $345 million in total revenue. 
White has a unique and refreshing point of view on the situation. "There was a time when I was somewhat inclined to think that maybe a modest stipend across all sports. and afl studentsathletes made some sense," White says. "[Now] I'm. more concerned about the stud.ent athletes that just don't ha.ve the financial ability to completely integrate themselves into 
· the community.... I'm more concerned about kids who just don't have .. enough resources to do what they need to do to be a full-fledgedmember 
. . . . . ' . . . ' '_ . of the community." .. White proposes that a large part of the NCAA uses the money it receives··from television contracts with networks be put into a "needy student fund," which White says already exists but should be expanded. This way, schools won'thavetq beartn.e brunt of giving all its players increased stipends, justthose players whb need it" I think I'd put 1 Otimes more than what we're putting in {here now and create a distribution system to really take care of student-athletes that really do need thcise additional resources," he says. 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 27 






Good day, Gipplings.Valentine's Day is right around the comer, and what could be more romantic than a giant pink gorilla? A giant pink gorilla snatched from atop Farley Hall, that's what. In the truly daring manner that only accom­panies near-fatal blood-alcohol levels (ac­quired at Boat Club, incidentally), a posse of young men has snatched away North Quad's favorite inflatable monument and hoisted it home with them. The kicker: the fellows claim they had forgotten the inci­dent by the time they woke up. Says one tip­ster: "One roommate woke up at 6 a.m. to go to the bathroom and this big, giant, pink thing was in the room. He thought that he was hallucinating, went to the bathroom, came back and went back to sleep figuring it was just a dream." Of course, that's nicer than what most people wake up next to after a night at the Boat Club. Well done, lads. The Gipper commends you. Now give it back, quick, lest you share in the fate of the last set of North Quad thieves. 
Busted! 

Apparently, shortly after the Gipper's last column was published, the culprits in the nativity scene heist were paid a visit in their dorm room by one of North Dining Hall's shock troops, complete with nametag and headset. Their plastic friend was whisked back to NDH, and the young men were left bewildered, trying to figure out just how they had been caught. Accusations flew: The Scholastic office received a slew of nasty phone calls from the perpetrators, and rumors that the Gipper had spilled their identities to the administration festered and brewed around campus.. 
Preposterous! The Gipper had to clear his reputation. After a few minutes on the telephone and a few days of waiting, he was met with a humdinger of a surprise: Apparently, the NDH sleuth who retrieved the statue -operating entirely on his own authority -had bribed a student worker with liquor to tell him whodunit. 
In unrelated news, the Gipper would like to welcome the new assistant manager at NDH. 


From the Urination Files 
And now, a look at what the residents of South Quad have been doing to entertain themselves. The tipster himself says it best on this one: "A couple ofamateur filmmakers from Fisher Hall thought it would be classy to make a movie of themselves urinating in their pants ... so they could relive their lost childhoods. So, on a warm and sunny Monday afternoon, the filmmakers and the film's two stars stood outside of the front steps of Fisher and proceeded to do their business while 
A DATE FOR GODZILLA 
This Farley mascot now has a new j · home, thanks to some brave young men and some i. liquid courage. I 
1. 
fellow Fisher residents, maintenance staff [and] a few other South Quad residents looked on in wonder. Go figure." The Gipp is going to start making the trek to NDH more often -things just sound more interesting on that end of campus. 


What the hell? 
Before leaving you, the Gipper would like to share a particularly tempting piece ofjunk e-mail he received during break. The subject line: "BE ORDAINED NOW!" The Gipper scoffs at all those poor young celibates who spend half a decade haunting the halls of Moreau Seminary, knowing that "STREET BISHOPS, a U.S. based Ministry, has the authority to make you a LEGALLY ORDAINED CLERGY/MINISTER within 1 week!!!!" The Gipp salivated at the thought of performing funerals ("People die every day providing a never­ending need for funeral officiates") and baptizing young'uns ("You can say 'WELCOME TO THE WORLD!!!! I AM YOUR MINISTER AND YOUR UNCLE!!' What a special way to welcome a child of God.") Worried about 
denominational quibbles? Don't be: The group has "ordinained Protestants, Catholics, Jews and other traditions serving God." These charitable folk wanted only $29 for the service of turning the Gipp into "Rabbi Gipp," but unfortunately_he's got neither a credit card nor a Social Security number. So, unless he can acquire one quick, looks like another lonely Valentine's Day at the seminary. 
The Gipper wishes you all better luck next week. O 
28 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 



Jordan Cornette is a 6-foot-9 freshman forward from Cincinnati. He gives the Irish a quick man with defensive instincts, and his large wingspan makes him efficient at blocking shots and forcing turnovers. Cornette's ball-handling skills and instincts on defense have already earned him considerable playing time. 
. .  ~  ,  .  .  
.  '  ~  .. .  . , .  - ,  
.  .,,  .  ,, :  ''; .....  

I began handling the basketball: as soon as I could walk. I grew up in a basketball family, and the first sport I was playing as far back as I can remem­ber was basketball. 

My favorite player growing up was: 
definitely Michael Jordan. Everyone loved him growing up. I'd have to say he's my favorite, too. I emulated his moves as best as I could growing up. 
Ifl could play another sport at Notre Dame besides basketball, it would be: football and baseball. Football tradition here is amazing, and I'd love to be part of something like that. Also, one of my good buddies from back home plays base­ball here, Steve Sollmann. I also played a lot of baseball growing up. 
The hardest class I've taken so far at Notre Dame is: calculus. I hate calculus. 
Should Michael Jordan have re­turned to the NBA?: I definitely think he should have. I don't think you can deny a man to come back and play some­thing he loves. 
Does your name guarantee you bas­ketball success?: Michael Jordan's breakout year was in '83, with that shot that he hit. Incidentally, that's the year I was born, so everybody always asks me, "Were you named after Jordan when he hit that shot?" because my birthday is in March. But when I ask my parents, they al ways say no. Maybe it's just irony. 
Who'sgoingtowintheNCAA Tour­nament this year?: No doubt, Notre Dame. I think once we get into the tour­nament, wecanbeatanybody. You can't go against your own team. 
The game I am looking the most forward to is: the Big East Champion­ship game. I know we should definitely be in that game, when it comes down to it, in March. I think it would be a great thing to win the Big East Tournament in New York, and then go on a roll into the NCAA Tournament. 
-Gerard Meskill 

Jerry's Jabber 
On Sunday, the men's basketball team won on the road against Seton Hall, 63­
61. F Ryan Humphrey set up the game-winning basket, pulling down a rebound before making a down-court pass to PG Chris Thomas for a layup. F David Graves led the scoringwith 20 points, while Humphrey added 11 and Thomas and Carroll each netted 10. The Irish take on Georgetown Saturday.... The women's basketball team won its 500th game Tuesday, beating Pittsburgh 68-56. G Alicia Ratay scored 21 points in the victory. The win was the 12th for the Irish in the past 15 games .... The Irish hockey team continued its recent funk with a·6-5 loss to Alaska Fairbanks on Saturday. The Nanooks led 5-1 and 6-2 in the second period before Notre Dame rallied back to 6-5 late in the period, the score that would stand throughout the third. C Connor Dunlap led all scoring in the game, notching a goal and three assists. C Yan Stastny added a goal and an assist in the loss. Notre Dame is 1­6-0 in its last seven contests.... Notre Dame fencing continued to dominate competition last Saturday. The second­ranked men won all six matches at the event, including a 23-4 blowout over fourth-ranked Stanford. The women finished the event 5-1, falling only to sixth-ranked Northwestern, 15-12. Epeeist Jan Viviani won all 15 of his matches, lifting his school-record winning percentage to .885. Ozren Debic (15-1) and Alicja Kryczalo (14-1) led the Irish in the foil competition. ND takes on Cleveland State, Ohio State and Penn State Saturday in the Ohio State Duals. O 
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 29 







RANT 
BY GERARD MESKILL 


~JllilliilittiIii 
Tyrone Willingham has busted his butt recruiting players to fit his new style of offense, and, for the most part, he's done a darn good job. So take what you hear on SportsCenter with a grain of salt -ND might not have the best-rated recruiting class, but it will be its performance next season that counts. 

So much for the fears of a weak recruiting class this year. Almost every day of Tyrone Willingham' s short tenure thus far has been spent on the road, recruiting like a mad­man to save the year's class. But Willingham has more than just saved Notre Dame from a lackluster recruiting year -he has built the foundation of a new era. Willingham has promised a brand-new style for a team that has played a second-rate version of Nebraska football for the last five years. He promised wide-open pas_sing, the long-awaited scrapping ofthe option and even the now almost mythical pass to the tight end. 
But all of these promises would be noth­ing more than propaganda from the mouth of a fool if Willingham didn't back it up by finding men who can play this brand of football. After all, the veterans were all hand-picked by Bob Davie, which means they are suited to the ground game, not Ty's NFL-style offense. 
But Willingham is no fool. He didn't see the weapons he needed to carry out his offensive blitzkrieg, and this is why he has been on the road for the past month almost nonstop. To be successful, the Irish need to retool their entire offense. 
Willingham began the rebuilding process from the top. Notre Dame's offense was pu­trid last year, and even with the Davie excuse, much of the blame must be shouldered by the quarterback position. Carlyle Holiday struggled mightily with placing his passes, and Matt Lo Vecchio wasn'tmuchhelp off the bench, either. The addition of Chris Olsen, a passing quarterback from Wayne Hills, N.J., should_ be a perfect fit for Willingham' s West Coast-style offense. Olsen is a Hodge 150 pros­pect and a top-rated quarterback in this year's recruiting class. Best of an; he doesn't run the option. 

Of course, Olsen will need guys to run patterns and catch the ball, too. So Willingham went out and recruited a couple of fine wide receivers. Maurice Stovall is the first of these men, a Hodge 150 prospect out ofRadnor, Pa. Stovall chose Notre Dame over Virginia and Michigan. The other re­cruit is Michael Richardson, a 6-foot-1 re­ceiver from Georgia. 
The Irish also added two highly regarded tight ends, Anthony Fasano and Marcus Freeman. Unlike their-predecessors at tight end, Fasano and Freeman can look forward to actually getting a few touches, too. 
Even with all of these offensive additions, Willingham will need a strong ground garne for the first year while he repairs the years of recruiting damage his predecessor did to the offense. This is where Nate Schiccatano comes in. Schiccatano is a Hodge 150 running back boasting a 4.70 in the 40-meter dash and a 6­foot-3, 220-pound frame. With the loss of Tony Fisher and Terrance Howard, the Irish ground game is currently in the hands ofRyan Grant and Julius Jones. While Grant is enter­ing his second year of eligibility, Jones is looking at his final year with the Fighting Irish. With the loss of Jones, Schiccatano could be an important factor to the Irish's success in 2003. 
On the front lines, Notre Dame added four offensive linemen. Bob Morton is a 6­foot-4, 305-pounder out ofAmerica's foot­ball factory, the great State of Texas. The other three are James Bonelli (6::-foot-5, 280 pounds), Scott Raridon ( 6-foot-7, 270 pounds) and Ryan Jamie (6-foot-5, 275 pounds). 
All of these offensive additions signal in action what Willingham· has already made clear in words: Notre Dame football is going to look drastically different from what any­thing we've seen in the past few years. That's a good thing. 
On the defensive side of the ball, the Irish addedfivedefensivelinemen. Themosthighly regarded ofthese men is Derek Landri, one of the top overall recruits in .this year's class. Landri is 6-foot-3 and 280 pounds. He comes to the Irish over powerhouses Michigan, Ne­braska, USC and UCLA. He is joined by Travis Leitko, another Hodge 150 recruit, as well as Chris Frome, Brian Mattes and Dan Santucci. ., 
Still, the analysts are going to say the Irish hadasub-parrecruitingyear.ESPNwillplace Notre Dame around 20thin recruiting. By strict ratings, maybe it was a sub-par year for the Fighting Irish. Jus! remember two things: First, everyone expected Notre Dame to have a hor­rible recruiting year, and it didn't. Second, Bob Daviehad afew top-10 recruiting years, which goes to show that what the analysts rank your recruiting class isn't worth much. D 



SPORT: MEN'S BASKETBALL OPPONENT:GEORGETOWN WHERE: WASHINGTON WHEN: SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 
12:00 PM The Irish are 9-3 away from the Joyce Center, proving they can handle the pressure of playing on the road. ND avenges a 10-point home loss to Georgetown, nipping the Hoyas, 71-67. 
-Gerard Meskill Sports Editor 

When the Irish played Georgetown three weeks ago, they were out­rebounded by 13 and shot a dismal 4-21 from three0 point range. With the shooters beginning to heat up, the Irish will prevail over the Hoyas, 75-69. 
-David Murray 
Assistant Sports Editor No fancy statistics in this pick. The fighting Irish will play angry and have their revenge in a low-scoring affair. David Graves continues his hot shooting and Notre Dame wins, 59­54. 
-Matthew Barr Managing Editor 
30 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance 
Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S. C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 



South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 




ark 
Best-selling novelist and ND grad Nicholas Sparks 
imparts some of his wisdom to aspiring writers 




11ns 
iration 
KATHLEENCORTE 

A line of women and girls, all clutching paperback novels under their arms, curves away from a small table set up just inside the bookstore. They aren't waiting for a movie star or a rock musician -they are lined up to get the autograph of best­selling novelist Nicholas Sparks, who obligingly steps from behind his table when a fan proffers a camera and asks for a picture. 
"I would never think to bring a camera to a book-signing," marvels Valerie Sayers, who directs the creative-writing program that brought Sparks to campus on January 30 and 31. But the situation seems perfectly normal to Sparks, a 1988 Notre Dame graduate whose fans seem to love him as much as they love his romantic novels. 
Since the publication of his first novel, The Notebook (1996), Sparks has written four other novels, seen his work translated into foreign languages and helped adapt his novels into screenplays such as the new movie A Walk to Remember, which is based on Sparks' third novel. Although he consistently has been in the limelight at the top of the bestseller lists, Sparks recently has earned attention on campus with the announcement of a $1.5 million donation to the creative-writing program. 
For a self-taught writer who never took a single creative-writing class, it seems an unusual choice. Sparks attendect' Notre Dame on a track scholarship -he proudly proclaims that he still holds a record in the 800­meter relay -and graduated with a degree in finance in 1988. But, he explains while settling into a leather chair in a corner of the bookstore, his business major wasn't a total loss. "I don't care what you major in at Notre Dame," Sparks says. "You do a lot of writing." 
For Sparks, simply writing is how he learned his trade. He wrote his first novel during the summer after his freshman year at Notre Dame, when a track injury left him moping around the house. Sparks' mother suggested that he write a book, and, eight weeks later, he finished his first novel. "It was not good, but I wrote it," Sparks says. The novel never found its way into print, but Sparks had proven that he could finish a book-length work. 
He tried his hand at two other books and was working in pharmaceutical sales when he wrote The Notebook, a love story set in 1940s North Carolina. Warner Books bought the rights to the book for $1 million and Sparks was on his way. Two years later, he continued his success with Message in a Bottle, which was adapted into a movie starring Kevin Costner and Robin Wright Penn. In the three years since then, Sparks has managed to write and publish a novel each year. 
Despite his lack of formal training, Sparks is quick to point out that he did go through a learning process. "I certainly don't write in a vacuum," he says. "I work with an editor, I work with an agent, and they're teachers of sorts." 

But while Sparks'~self-taught method catapulted his name to the bestseller lists again and again, his gift to Notre Dame's creative-writing program seems to speak for itself on the much-debated question of whether writing can be taught. "Everybody can learn, and everybody can improve," Sparks says. "Many fine writers today come from fine writing programs across the country." 
His donation also ensures that writers 
in the master of fine arts program will 

gain firsthand knowledge about the 
publishing industry. The gift consists of 
three parts: the Nicholas Sparks 
Fellowships, which will allow MFA 
students to serve assistantships at the Notre Dame Review, the program's literary journal; the Sparks Summer Fellows Program, which will provide two internships with Sparks' literary agency and publishing house; and the Sparks Prize, which will give one MFA graduate a year's time to write. 
"What's nice about the three is that they' re all intermeshing," says Sayers, who met with Sparks last year to discuss the donation. Sayers introduced him to the program, which started in 1990, and Sparks then outlined some ofhis ideas for the helping the program. The Sparks Prize, with its offer of a year spent in the South Bend area with nothing to do but teach one class and write, sweetened the deal. "When he said that, I said, 'Oh, that would be heaven,' " Sayers recalls. 
Sayers also hopes that the assistantships and internships will attract top students to the program. It seems to be working. Only a couple weeks after Sayers posted the press release about the awards on the program's Web site, she already had fielded a dozen calls about them. 
Despite his obvious interest in writing, however, Sparks' s main motivation was a desire to give something back to Notre Dame. "This university gave me quite a gift in education," he says. "As a good Catholic, you should give back." For Sayers, Sparks' school loyalty was instantly recognizable. "You could tell he went to Notre Dame," she says. "He has a real affection for the school." 
But the Notre Dame days are in the past for Sparks, who now lives in North Carolina with · his wife and their five children, ranging in age from a 10-year­old boy to 5-month-old twins. When asked how he finds time to write in such a busy household, Sparks just shrugs and smiles. "It's my job," he says. Sparks generally writes daily from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., but he is quick to add that "all general rules are broken, especially in the arts." At this 


32 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 
pace, he has already finished both his sixth and seventh novels, Nights in Rodanthe, to be published in fall 2002, and The Guardian, scheduled for spring 2003. 
If his past novels are any indication, these novels also will be love stories. In Sparks' world, however, this genre doesn't necessarily ensure a happy ending. "Love stories by definition have to be bittersweet or tragic," Sparks explains. For an author who draws largely on real-life experience for his novels, this maxim seems sound. The main character in A Walk to Remember, for example, was inspired by Sparks's sister and her struggle with cancer, while The Rescue draws on his experience while working with his son Ryan, who has a central-auditory­processing disorder. 
Perhaps because of their real-life foundations, Sparks' novels have 
hit home with large numbers of fans who are eager to both read his books and to see the film versions. Sayers attributes Sparks' success to both the characters and situations about which he writes. "People have a longing to read about decent folks who do the right thing," she says. "It's reassuring to have someone tell that story." The honesty in his writing comes out in Sparks' conversation as well, especially in his conversation with young writers at Notre Dame. "He's very straight with students," Sayers says. "He makes a distinction about kinds of fiction and what kind of fiction to write." 
· But maybe Sparks' most instantly recognizable trait is his ease with a crowd and his sense of humor. As fan after fan passes by, each one exclaiming how much they enjoy his work, Sparks strikes up a conversation with each one. He patiently, even jovially, answers repeated questions about how he likes the film version of A Walk to Remember, which stars Mandy Moore. Even though most of South Bend is crippled by an ice storm and he and his wife are scheduled to fly back to North Carolina in a few hours, Sparks still has a smile for his fans. 
With all his success and the fast pace at which he has turned out his five published novels, one might expect Sparks to slow down, maybe take a little time off. But he quickly rattles off the projects currently in the works: He is finishing Nights in Rodanthe, adapting The Rescue into a television series and planning a new novel later this spring. He pauses and then adds with characteristic humor: "And five kids." 
It seems the steady stream offans in the bookstore has nothing to worry about: There always will be more Sparks coming soon to enjoy. D 


. . !>"weeter\ >whenthe.women inBeattort, i 
1. N.C,,;11vore dresses and the men donriecl ·.. 

·. 1 
! 
}. '' ': ·__._. ., ': .._--_,.' _,.;:·· :·. '",' ..-:'·' :-i-; ' ' .', .. ~ ', .-: ·., : . . '. ... ,_ "-· ', . ":' ,_ ·,: ·_-·-.... 
1.·._hats ..;,w!Jerr som.ethingf1.appenedto.a .. :1 tYeat-otql:Joythat INCJU(d.change/Jisli(e .•...· -forever, ./ 
.. •·•··.J~e{popJ11r.•·•··L~ndon.·... cacter.asks 
the Baptist rninister'sdaugh:t~rtobe_his .· / hqm"ecoming date,.her9allydoesn'tttiink . : that anything wi.U everhappen between. . thern, After aH, Jamie Sullivan' is.>SO. •. 
•.· conservati~e>and. _religi~usJtlat:_shH ··.·_ ··•· ·'carrie~.he(BJble IA'ith 11er ev~iyitvhere.·· ·.·.·..... an.d,.alt,hOugh·a11ti,eaduitsiritowl)i()ve .···.·her;the.. l<ids·.at schbol.inake·fyrlofl,er.·.. 
ButwhenLando~ stars opposite J,amie .·. ·inaschool_play,hebeginsfoJall.ihloi.re .· with her, and whenJamie._tells himthaf s.he hasileukemia, ·Landon· realizes just 
·. how rnuch he has to,learn about::faith -: and nfe/from this girl: . .•· .·. . / . ·.s~t inthe J.950s,•••.Nichola~ Sparks'·
>ri()veI~ Walkto· Rem~mber(W.9~).is·· . -· jnsp.ired DY the story _o'f his, c:iwn .s,is,ter; .··• whq was diagnos,ed·,with_,ca,nce(.aha.. 
•young.age.sparks claims.·not to'hav~. a . ··.favoritElnovel ... but/as. he writes on his_ . Web site; ;t can say that A Walk to ·. Remember was my. favorite J1ovel to· . 
write: :... lfwas alsotheonly n.civ.elthat made me·cry.while wrlting itn : C< •. 
_Jne noyel is the basis fo_rJhe·r~pent i film.bf the same title, 'A'hich st~rs 
tvlandyIMoore.asJan,ie,ShaneWestaslandon, r .arid Daryl :Hannah as Landon':s mother/ ' 
. But fans of .. the novel .will find. some ch~hge§Jn_• themovie,The ·$~Uing;for ··example,.ischanged to· 1.990s North 
Carolina . in ·. order lo ·.•.cOnternporary> teen :audience/ But no · . rnaUerwhaternittcikesplacein,flWa/k. 

,tOFll;me.mber deUv~rs'anoth~fl?\/e, 
storyJhat fans •of, $parks have c.ome. 
(. to expElct. · · · ·-· ·. I 
~~~-·:,::··~-:-__

SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 33 




TRACYEVANS
"I t happened in the green room of Moreau Hall -I 
was validated," says St. Mary's alumna and best­
selling author Adriana Trigiani. "In one fell swoop, Reg Bain told the world (our class of nine) that I was 
talented. God love him. It changed my life." 
As an undergraduate in the Notre Dame/St. Mary's theater program, Trigiani honed her innate love of writing, directing and, above all, comedy. "She did it all," recalls Reginald Bain, a retired Notre Dame theater professor. "Adri was quite a talent. She was just full of life and desire to do work." 
Not many artists can balance both the creation and production of their work, but the range that Trigiani encompases is a testament of her passion. "I am consumed by my art," she says. "Each job feeds my soul in a different way. Writing is my constant companion, directing is the imagined made real and producing is the low-down dirty begging!" 
Trigiani's drive to succeed in the art world began when she became the first student to write and direct herown play on Notre Dame's Mainstage. She carried her creation of an all-female comedy group, The Outcasts, from her undergraduate days at SMC to her new home in New York. Writing a series of off­Broadway plays and touring the club circuit built experience that evolved into writing andproducing for sitcoms including The Cosby Show, A'Different World, and CityKids, a Jim Henson Co. production. Her work on the Lifetime special Growing Up Funny (starring Lily Tomlin) even landed an Emmy nomination. 
"She's jusra born storyteller," Bain says. "She sees 
the humorous side of things so well, so naturally. 
She's got real insight into people." 
While her early praise as an innate comedienne has 
certainly fueled her prolific success, Trigiani believes 
her greatest inspirations come from familiar, everyday 
interactions. "People inspire me to look at life with a 
comic perspective," she says, recalling an anecdotal 
example: Trigiani immediately engages in a vivid 
description of her dying grandmother and her "blue­haired girlfriends" who had come to visit, one of whom is crying. 
After characterizing her grandmother as "a ball­buster, brutally honest" who "frankly, bordered on rudeness," Trigiani changes the tone from a grim scene to one of relief through an unexpected and humorous turn: "The crying lady looks at me and says, 'She's fine.' I breathe a sigh ofrelief and say, 'Then why are you crying?' She says: 'She told me I was fat.'" 
This tongue-in-cheek humor that borders on the ridiculous is exactly what Trigiani does best. Her wo~k embraces reality and reminds us that true happiness should come from an ability to laugh at ourselves. Trigiani's national bestsellers, Big Stone Gap, and its sequel, th_e newly released Big Cherry Holle,~ reflect the same quaint-yet-profound style of humor. 
Trigiani also draws from her personal experience in her novels, reviving the memory of her childhood town of Big Stone Gap, Va. as an atmosphere where friendships blossom among a distinct blend ofcomic individuals. Among the mix are a.bookmobile librarian who is a self-proclaimed authority on sex, a pharmacy cashier with a proclivity for chain-smoking and professional wrestling, and a coal-mining bachelor. Each character plays a significant role in helping the heroine, Ave Marie, overcome her struggle to find happiness and rediscover what is most important in her life -the people who surround her. 
The sequel, released in 2001, has been praised by People as "delightfully quirky"; the New York Times Book Review says it is "as comforting as a mug of chamomile tea on a rainy Sunday." 
Trigiani attributes herdesire to read to her curiosity of the outside world. "To fill the void between small, remote town and big-city dreams, I would read and read and read," she says. As a child, she failed to appreciate her town's intimate charm and instead devoured the worlds within books and celebrity magazines. Now, however, Trigiani describes Big Stone Gap as the ideal setting for a writer's imagination. "When I looked back, it all became clear," she says. "Our family was marooned in a sense, in a place out of time. Now, this makes for good drama and excellent comedy." 

:: "\.i  34  SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT  
ii  
j!  
---·---·-------.---.---::---,-­.. . .  .  

Now that she has made it to the Big Apple, Trigiani' s creative imagination has yet to be satisfied. Her success is counterbalanced by a humbled outlook on her profession. "Iexpect to fail, and I expect criticism," Trigiani admits. "Itdoesn't even faze me. I just throw it in the crock pot with the compliments." 
Trigiani regards her work with a determination to pursue what she loves. Her secret? "My career path has been full of surprises with one underlying theme: work hard until my fingers bleed," she says. That would explain her schedule. Trigiani rises at about four o'clock each morning and writes until noon. Then she meets with casting crews and producers about her shows. Her latest project involves writing, directing and producing the film version ofBig Stone Gap under The Shooting Gallery, a company recognized for prooucing the film Sling Blade. 
· With the bestseller status of her written works, Trigiani finds her schedule even more hectic with travel: She toured· 52 cities last year alone. Despite the harried nature of her work, she would not give it up easily. "The prize is meeting my readers," she says. "That is worth all the hassles." This yearTrigiani adds her alma mater to the list of destinations. 
This February, the Sophomore Literary Festival welcomes the return of Adriana Trigiani to the ND/ SMC campuses. The weeklong event has become a 35-year tradition at Notre Dame that allows the community to hear from and interact with notable writers. Novelists, in addition to poets, playwrights, columnists and translators are invited to speak. 
Sophomore Katie Ellgass is in charge of coordinating the event on behalf ofthe Student Union Board. Of the popularity of the festival with the literary community, she says that "it was thrilling to receive each letter." According to her, "many writers either fondly recalled their visit to the festival years before or had heard of the festival and wished our event success." 
Created in 1967 by Richard J. Rossi as a series of lectures focusing on the works of Faulkner, the torch was passed the following year to sophomore John Mroz, who chose to invite writers rather than literary scholars. Since the first guest, Catch 22's author Joseph Heller, the festival has grown increasingly popular as a forum in which students can interact with writers on an intimate level. 
The selection of guests comes from the input of a committee of freshman and sophomores, along with the advice of professors of English, liberal studies and Core. Even letters of regret were filled with admiration for the campus tradition; Ray Bradbury wrote, "I wish I could be there, it sounds like great fun." 
In anticipation of her own appearance, Trigiani recalls the event with fond memories. "The Sophomore Literary Festival was my favorite event every year ofmy schooling here, and I loved meeting writers," she says. "It opened me up, so this is a huge honor for me to be here." 
For students, the reality of fame and a life of success seems at times a dream buried beneath tedious homework assignments and never-ending deadlines. With the presence· of Trigiani among this year's talent, the daunting task of bridging such a gap appears to shrink to the size of a small town in Virginia. 0 
Adriana Trigiani will speak at Washington Hall on February 11 at 7:30 p.m. 

SCH01STICENTERTAINMENT a5 




KATHLEENCORTE 

Gregg Murray still remembers his first foray into the literary world. As a high-school student, he decided to submit a short story to his school's literary magazine. "I had a friend who drew a picture to accompany it," says Murray, now a senior English major. "The picture won first place, and my story didn't even get published." This disappointment was enough to keep Murray from picking up his pen again for sev­eral years, until he took a 200-level poetry writing class at Notre Dame. He has been writing ever since and, in addition to seeing his poetry published in campus literary publi­cations, is one of only three students chosen to read their 'work at this year's Sophomore Literary Festival. The festival has been bringing famous writ­ers to campus for the past 35 years, but only within the last decade has the festival come to include student readers. On a campus with few venues for presenting student literature, it now provides a much-needed opportunity for stu­dent artists to present their work. In recent years, the festival has featured a Student Readers Night, when all of the se­lected readers present their works. This year, however, the committee decided to have the chosen students read on different nights as opening acts for the visiting authors. "We're hoping that people who might have just come to hear someone literary speak will get to hear some of our students, too," says Katie Ellgass, chair of the festival committee. The committee also chose only three stu-· dents this year, even though past festivals have featured up to six student writers. The readers -Murray, senior Eric Long and junior Mike Rampolla -also are all poets, although 


k-c, 
Ellgass says the committee intended to include prose writers as well and even considered fea­turing a student songwriter. But at the open­mike student coffeehouse sponsored by the festival last fall, Murray, Long and Rampolla were the writers whose work wowed the com­mittee members. 
Murray, who lists T.S. Eliot as his favorite poet, impressed the committee with his en­thusiastic reading. "Gregg was really passion­ate about presenting his poetry," Ellgass says. "You can tell that he wants·people to read it. He presents subjects in a way you have never experienced before." She recalls poems from 
· Murray's repertoire with subjects as diverse as encountering spiders and eating dinner at Parisi's restaurant. Murray cites a recurring theme of "aligning sadness and beauty" in his poetry. Although he has a collection of more than 100 poems from which to pick for the reading, he plans to present "All That I'm Asking," a recent poem "whose speaker is a kindred spirit, the best friend, the lone person who knows the author and authorship of what he feels is the greatest poem ever written." 
Long, a senior PLS major whose poetry has appeared in The Juggler and the graduate re­view The Rhubarbarian, also lists Eliot as an influence, if a minor one. 'The poets that re­ally make me want to write are Emily Dickinson, Robert Lowell and Wallace Stevens," Long says. His reference to a line by Stevens, proclaiming that "divination does not fit on a desk," was one reason the com­mittee selected Long as a student reader. 
Long got his start writing song 1 yrics in jun­ior high, with the hopes of starting his own band. He developed his skills through fiction­and poetry-writing classes here at Notre Dame and has read his work at coffeehouses on cam­pus. "I'm starting to approach it more like poetry is an oral art form that should be shared with other people," he says. 
Long's poetry often is confessional, and he draws on personal relationships for subject matter. "I try to write about the struggle for personal identity and how the individual comes to grips with the world," he says. 
Rampolla, a junior English and education major, also draws on personal relationships, but with a slightly different twist. "I write ba­sically cheesy love poems," he says. "I could easily put a book together of just that stuff, and I wouldn't have much left over." 
But the committee easily identified with Rampolla's poetry. "He captures the situations we get ourselves into," Ellgass says. But Rampolla, who began writing when his sev­enth-grade English teacher assigned a poetry exercise, writes about fDOre than just relation­ships. At the student coffeehouse last semes­ter, for example, he read a poem about the all­too-farniliar subject of procrastination, or what he calls "genius under pressure." 
Even though they will open for the likes of award-winning poet Maura Stanton, best-sell­ing novelist Adriana Trigiani and Sex and the City creator Candace Bushnell, none claims to be nervous. "I just think it's an honor," Murray says. 
The only regret is that more students couldn't participate. "There are so many tal­ented and unique voices among the students here," Rampolla says. "It would be great if you could hear and appreciate them more." . 
Mike Rampolla will present his work on Fri­day, February 8 in the LaF01tune Balbvom. Gregg Murray will read his poetry on Monday, February 11 in Washington Hall and Eric Long willpeifo,m on Tuesday, Febn1a1y 12 in Wash­ington Hall. All readings begin at 7:30 p.m 
36 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 




Get the sensation 
008 is far from home, but feels the cosmic connection 
Greetings from London, City of Unrefrigerated Eggs! Yep, this semester, OOB is coming to you direct from England, where they put eggs on the shelf right next to the peanut butter, or the glass cleaner or some other highly non­perishable item. This is one difference that I just can't get comfortable with. I may be a stereotypical, wasteful Ameri­can, but if I'm going to eat an egg, I'm going to store it in something that can chill the life out of any little germies swimming around in there, even if I have to build a nuclear plant on a nature preserve to power the sucker. (I have yet to secure funding for such a project.) · I've been here for more than three weeks, so the culture shock is slowly but surely wearing off. After five or six near-death experiences while attempting to cross the street, you get the hang of the whole driving on 
tidimensional travellers flock there. They even have their own paper, the Sedona Journal ofEmergence, which claims to be "the journal that will lead to the fourth dimension and beyond." (Eat your heart out, New York Times.) Recent sto­ries include "Warning! Stay in Your Own Energy Field," "Could It Be That You're Already Dead?" and my personal favorite, "Dog's Eyes View: Earth Through the Eyes of an ET Through the Eyes of a Dog." The best part is the Journal's stories aren't just written -they're channelled. So, for example, the byline for "Dog's Eye View" lists Ketchin-sa, an extraterrestrial visitor who has inhabited the body of a large terrier for the past 14 years -and, of course, her interpreter, Robert. 
But I digress. The point is, Michael's vision says energy 
similar to the kind found in Sedona is 
the left thing. It really is the subtle dif-also present at Stonehenge. ·we took a ference, like the eggs, that take the most 
class trip there two weeks ago, but to getting used to. Milk here, for example, my utter despair, I found not one vor­comes in skim, whole and 1.7 percent. tex-sitter to remind me of my belov~d The standard-sized paper is slightly home state. (I did find some extremely larger than 8.5 by 11. And when a Brit­cute, undoubtedly cosmically enlight­ish person asks you, "Are you all right?", ened sheep grazing on the sweeping he means something like, "How are Salisbury Plain, but this was a minor you?" and not something like, "Are you consolation.) feeling OK? You look as though you've So Stonehenge was somewhat disap­just eaten an unrefrigerated egg." pointing. But all is not lost. In case you 
This culture shock has been soothed hadn't noticed yet, I think this whole substantially by the fact that England and vortex thing is one giant galactic rip-off, 
the United States. have one important thing in common. It's something that other international stu­dents have to go without if they are studying in, say, To­ledo, where they speak Spanish, or Angers, where they speak French. That's right: Both England and America are home to energy vortexes. 
Doubt not the cosmic connection, my friends, until you allow me to explain. About 90 minutes north of Phoenix, my hometown, lies the city of Sedona, Ariz., home to breath­taking red rock formations. It's also supposedly home to several seats of highly concentrated Earth energy called energy vortexes. According to Michael's Vision, a Sedona­based company that charges about $100 a head for vortex tours, they contain a special healing, enlightening energy that "is hard to describe, but is felt by many." 
Because of this, Sedona has become the virtual New Age capital of America. Psychics, aura photographers and mul-
Q TI T 
but I see no reason why we can't share the wealth. Here's the deal: I have it from a partially sane source that there may be energy vortexes in South Bend. Potential sites include the remains of the Council Oak Tree in Highland Cemetery, where it's said LaSalle negotiated a peace treaty between the Miami and Illinois Indian tribes in 1681, and the "Keepers of the Fire" sculpture located in the St. Joseph River next to the Century Center. It's up to all of you back in the Bend to organize an exorbitantly ex­pensive tour. Channel old ND football heroes. Sell blue and gold crystals. Put the bookstore to shame with your ridicu­lous prices. Then send me a cut of the profits -London is an expensive city. 
Do as yqu will with your share ..I have but one request: Use some to treat yourself to a nice carton of American style, properly chilled eggs. You don't know what you've got 'til it's gone. D 
0 F 
SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 37 


A study in stream of consciousness 
DAVIDYEAGER 

Alot of people on our campus complain about gender issues, and I completely understand. I could have been able to count the number of girls that like me on one hand, but I have fingers. I have no problems with the policies, but I do notice that our campus struggles with one specific area of social interaction: awkward eye contact. Is it just me, or does anyone else never know when or if one should look up and say hi to people walking if one knows them? I am not talking about roommates or girlfriends, I mean those whom you kind ofknow or sat next to in a freshman survey class. You know her name and she knows brief touch ofmy firm, muscular frame, but it was probably more that I. wanted to get a Caesar wrap before they were all gone. Man, those things are good. You know what else is good? Boston cream pie. Oh, and moose tracks -and doughnut sticks! Those things are like Scooby Snacks. 
Speaking offood, I think my belly is growing at an exponential rate, similar to that of E. coli on a dark, dank, agar-saturated Petri dish. I honestly think I am the only person getting both skinnier and fatter at the same time. While my arms have gone from being on the cover of a bodybuilding magazine to where if I poked a hole in them I could sew you a pair of pants, my torso is an entirely different story. It is as if all the 
muscle cells in my body 

yours, but sometimes you just held a town-hall meeting aren't in the mood to and said: "Ya know what, acknowledge that and give guys, all this ATP and them the "what's up" head­striated contraction stuff bob. really sucks. Let's just turn 
I find this particularly into lipose and congregate difficult when walking on the around David's navel. Oh, sidewalk during the not-so­and don't forget to tell ail crowded times. You look your friends in the hairy ahead and notice the person and pale departments. about three miles away, but Let's go!" you still look at the ground Speaking of bellies, I until she is inches from you have decided after much -at which time you act deliberation that the sole surprised and gleefully requirement for a woman ejaculate: "Oh, hey!" There to be me wife is that she is an awkward silence before would rpb my belly after I the "Well, see ya later." All eat. I don't think this is too this is done hastily and with tall an order, and the way I surgeon-like precision that see it, if Ood gave me the 

certainly does not interrupt your steady gait. It gives the other person a maximum amount d meaningless human interaction while allowing you to avoid an awkward situation. 
I met this girl on the first day of class freshman year when I invited her over to eat with my friends and me at dinner. We introduced ourselves and were cordial, and so, naturally, I covered my face with chocolate pudding and dry pasta and shook it around in her face. From then on we a voided each other as Tony Duckett avoids education, but it has only been through masterful use ofthe head-turn look-away-or, more accurately, by her pretending I don't exist when she talks to my friends ­that we have escaped awkward conversation. The other day we were in the dining hall and ran into each other, literally, and so we had to quit the charade and acknowledge that we knew each other. I like to think that it is because she just had to have another 
desire to rub my belly after I eat, then there must be a woman out there who would do it for me. This is perfectly good logic. ·:0fcourse, with my growing belly, this may pose a problem to just one woman: How is she ever going to do it all by her lonesome? Maybe I need two women -but if they are both rubbing my belly, who is going to do the dishes? Further, who is going to do all the housework and pick up the kids and do the taxes? Oh, and ifl need two to rub my belly, than imagine how many it would take to rub my biceps -that is, if I ever stopped lifting weights? We are talking the population of a Southeastern Asian nation! 
So if I see you in the dining hall, and you know me, don't get offended ifl avoid awkward conversation.·It honestly has more to do with my social inadequacies than with your horribly bad looks and/or uninteresting personality. D 

Submit an BOO-word story for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu. 




>>CJ 
COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE 
~~~~~~­


EDITOR'S CHOICE 




Kick back 
So much to do, so little time! This little phrase has become my mantra this past week. It looks like Coming Distractions is packed with plenty to cure your back-to­school blues. Take in the sounds of the New York Chamber Soloists, an ensemble that has traveled the world with its creative programs and extensive repertoire. If you're already missing the warmth of baseball season, catch the Pasquerilla East Musical Company's performance of Damn Yankees. Show your blue and gold at one (or more!) of the many upcoming sporting events. If comedy is your cup of tea, check out The Weekender. 
-Jennifer Osterhage 
LECTURES 
• Fri 08 Katie Trumpener, Peripheral Cosmopolitanism: Ireland, Scotland and the 'English' Novel, 3:00 PM, ii25 Flanner Hall. 
• Tue 12 George Lopez and David Cortright, 
Carrots, Sticks and the War on Terrorism, 
4:15 PM, C-103 Hesburgh Center. 
• Fri 15 Kirsten Sundell, The Woolen Industry Defended, 1731-1732, 3:00 PM, ii25 Flanner Hall. 
• 
Sun 17 Ethan Haimo, How to Listen to Bart6k's Sonata for Piano, 2:00 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 

• 
Tue 19 Mohammed Abu-Nimer, 


Nonviolence and Peacebuilding in Islam, 
4:i 5 PM, C-i 03 Hesburgh Center. 

CINEMA 
• 
Thu 07 The Circle, 7:00 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 

• 
Tue 12 International Film Series: Wedding in Galilee (Palestine), 7:00 PM and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 

• 
Thu 14 Yi Yi, 7:00 PM, Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 

• 
Wed 20 International Film Series: Peppermint Candy (Korea), 7:00 PM and 


9:00 PM, Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center. 

SPORTS 
• 
Sat 09 Swimming: ND men vs. Cleveland State, 2:00 PM, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

• 
Sun 10 Basketball: ND women vs. Boston College, i :00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Wed 13 Basketball: ND women vs. St. John's, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Sat 16 Tennis: ND women vs. Tennessee, 


10:00 AM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
• Sat 16 Tennis: ND men vs. Wisconsin, 
2:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
• 
Sun 17 Tennis: ND men vs. Purdue, i :00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

• 
Sun 17 Basketball: .ND men vs. Syracuse, 


3:30 PM, Joyce Center. 
• Mon 18 Tennis: ND women vs. BYU, 4:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
• 
Tue 19 Basketball: ND women vs. West Virginia, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Wed 20 Tennis: ND men vs. Michigan State, 4:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

• 
Wed 20 Basketball: ND men vs. West Virginia, 7:30 PM, Joyce Center. 

• 
Fri 22 Tennis: ND women vs. Iowa, 3:30 PM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

• 
Sun 24 Lacrosse: ND men vs. Penn State, 


i :00 PM, Loftus. 
• 
Sun 24 Tennis: ND men vs. Miami, i:00 PM, Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

• 
Tue 26 Basketball: ND women vs. Villanova, 7:00 PM, Joyce Center. 




THE ARTS 
• Thu 07, Fri 08 and Sat 09 Pasquerilla East Musical Company, Damn Yankees, 
7:30 PM, Washington Hall. 
• 
Sun 1 O Saints and Sinners (Dayton Bach Ensemble), 2:00 PM, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 

• 
Mon 11 II-Eun Byun, piano, 3:30 PM, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Musuem. 

• 
Sat 16 ND Jazz Bands, 2:00 PM, Band Building. 

• 
Sat 16 Claude Cymerman, piano, 8:00 PM, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 

• 
Wed 20, Thu 21, Fri 22, Sat 23 Actors From the London Stage, Macbeth, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall. 



Post your event in Scholastic's Corning Distractions. What: Jeff Foxworthy with Bill Engvall, Ron White and Larry the Cable Guy 

THE WEEKENDER 

Get the recognition your event deserves. E-mail yourWhen: Sat 09 at 6:00 PM and 9:30 PM submissions to Jennifer Osterhage at
Where: Morris Performing Arts Center Cheapest Seats: $27.50 

osterhage. l @nd.edu. For Tickets: Go to www.morriscenter.org 
•All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval. 
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 39 
. -·---· 


"The implications made by many in the media that December's events were a debacle of our own making seemed the type of galling and baseless bad press that is best ignored.... Our adminis­tration was willing to face the public fal_lout in order to hold fast to our university's core values and integrity.'' 
Jamie Kimmel Eifert graduated from the University ofNotre Dame in 1984 and is currently the president ofthe Alumni Association 
Board ofDirectors. 
by Jamie Kimmel Eifert 


Rising Above It 
Last October, the Alumni Association's board of him. directors held its annual fall meeting on cam­As the fall's events unfolded, St. Paul's lesson, pus. Following tradition, the head football as articulated by Father Bill became more and more 
coach was invited to make an appearance, and Bob salient. I thought about it again when coachDavie's Davie graciously accepted. I am sure that ad­contract eventually was terminated in early dressing a group of passionate alums as' an 0-3 December. Although I thought Kevin White coach was about as eagerly anticipated as a root handled the press conference with great sensitivity canal -yet he came, ready and willing to face and dignity, it still must have felt like exponential our group. bad pi:ess to coach Davie and his family. 
As president of the Alumni Board, it fell to . The following week presented another me to introduce him. I always find it a challenge opportunity to recall the lesson of staying centered to come up with something new and interesting -God-centered -in the midst of life's highs and to say when introducing someone who is well lows. Few of us will ever experience a week with known to everybody in the room. But this was a higher highs and lower lows than what George particularly tough one. We were all painfully . O'Leary and Kevin White experienced in that short aware of the disappointments and pressures he span of time. was facing, so it was hardly the time for a jo.vial These men are seasoned professionals "for he's a jolly good fellow" intro. At the same accustomed to the glare of the media and the 
time, it was completely ferocity of public opinion. Nevertheless, I have to unthinkable to be think that sometimes human nature might get the pessimistic, damning or upper hand, tempting even the wisest and most sarcastic. grounded among us to trust glowing accolades or 
As I gave considerable to succumb to deafening catcalls. How hard it must thought to how I could be be to remember to take all of the hype with a grain sincerely respectful of salt aI).d stay focused on what is truly important without sounding like a when every major media outlet is either talking you Pollyanna, I suddenly up or putting you down! remembered a homily that In many respects, this lesson applies to the entire our the alumni board heard Notre· Dame community. We aren't as perfect as a few years earlier at a some believe, nor are we as flawed as others like Mass on campus. Based on to claim. For instance, the implications made by St. Paul's first letter to the many in the media that December's events were a Corinthians (1:26-31), debacle of our own making seemed like particularly alumni chaplain,--·Rev. Bill galling and baseless bad press that is best ignored. Seetch, remindedus ·that While.it would have been easier to rationalize away we should neither buy into coach O'Leary's past indiscretions as ancient 
. all the "good press" when history, our administration was willing to face the things are · going great nor believe all the "bad public fallout in order to hold fast to our press" that surrounds us when things hit the university's core values and integrity. In the end, skids. After all, he said, when we feel like the we followed the path of what was right rather "lowly and despised of the world," we are still than what was easy, and we emerged with a God's chosen ones; conversely, when we become terrific coach whom we can all be very excited inflated with our own self-worth, we need to rein about. · · 
-

it in ·"so that no human being might boast before Management consultant~ like to say that "the God." middle of every successful project looks like a 
I referred to Father Bill's homily in introducing disaster." In this case, the search was tumultuous, coach Davie. I thought it was very appropriate for but the end result tremendous. The alumni board a man so recently lauded with "good press" as a has extended its warmest welcome to coach Tyrone finalist for the 2000 National Coach of the Year, Willingham and his family. We are thrilled to have since he was enduring increasingly raucous "bad him atthe helm as we enter the next successful era of press" as more and more people spoke out against Notre Dame football. · 0 
40 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 






SUB this week ... read ·ail aboil1 it! 

·2L12 Candartce B 
7:_30 pm \Jyashingt 

y,ea·r ! sc.hed.ule ! . 
US,· OlJti! , > student--r.u 
.. _ 
.. . : ---~:-. '_ ..,.. :.· _· "<-:.·; ·... _··._ ..-_-.._: --. 
" cac"'\ J, • di
:,!;•,./;/) :.:: •'• ___ /\ _;.--\ -.... -.··.:'.·L-:<>-'..;<.:\_.,·, 
n __:·,.";:r.·''.i:,·;: .,.·, -·;: 







