
Scholastic Is Back! 
For The First Time In 15 Years Notre Dame's Student Magazine 
Is Publishing Weekly 

Alumni-It was here when you were. You read it then, read it now for even more in-depth coverage of: 
News Sports 
Reports that go beyond the box scoresDigs beneath the surface of campus and and headlines to give sports fans anational stories, giving readers a detailed unique picture of the Notre Dame sports look at current issues. 
community. 


Student Life 
Columns on the latest music, film and 
literature, and stories which focus on 
student lifestyles. · 
Be A Part Of The New Tradition 
Subscribe Now 

Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 
Ad res s 

City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $18.75 x __years=$____ 
Contents 
October I 6, I 986 Volume 128, No. 6 


Scholastic 

Cover Stories 

6 
Feeling the Pressure By Kyle Olinger and John Perie 

College is often a stressful environment 
but the effects of pressure can be alleviated 
8 
Blowing Off Steam 

,
By Paula Abowd ·' 
The best way to relieve the effects of stress 
is by using imagination and initiative 
Too Much Stress: Losing Control 


By Kathleen McKernan 
Doctors say stress can be a factor in problems such as alcoholism, dating, disorders and even suicide 

Departments 
3/Letters 4/Week In Distortion: A voiding A Big Stink 5/On Other Campuses: Break A Leg 12/Calendar 16/Music: Successful Sounds 17 /Restaurants: A Taste Of Mishawaka 24/Final Word: What's Cooking? 

·sports 
18/Breaking The Streak By Larry Burke 
20/Setting For The Future 
By Pat Crawford 

22/Parietals Under Scrutiny· 
By Mark Gredler 

Edrrorial 

•:dorm.s•••leave ·• their.··IDs' at hall: deski:fr iH/is·. signifi~ant .tliaf•thesfude:nx,Ieaders:t~emselyes fejected J>'• 
· ' this proposaL · ·· · · · · 
1h~~hr!tt~r:~t.Bitfi~~i1~~i!ii1tfiitl~t~f 
~,t~t'it~:1!i!:J:1lrlit11r~~

·••·•·-··•··••• -:bec;9ine necessaryi[theprnpos~ pas~ecit•• 

<•c~0~l;~i~!Itii!i!~ft~ltfriit;ti,~k~iilt!llfl!!i~i~tif!Wt:~!i~llil~8 
.·•.·,··· .. ,prqblems.... Vlitl{ tllis .·.rycenf PfOposal 1are ••riot:fosir'ni?llritalJle;·•·•·tlieisol~tions t? thos~:.probltllls·..~Gre < ,·•· ......... nqt.-aclequatelr•.·r.ysearc~e.d: tQ,is,.~iU1(5I°I:filtux-.e pr.opn~1~.:~h?:~1d st~{t {vhh' ~•.· sµ.fyyy{~b:.9ri11g:st11derit•> suppo.rt, irif.lu?e thror9ll~h/~s~f~~li ~ndi:rno~0,t~rollg~ t~eP~?P1} !ciII1i11istr~jife ~lifnr1eJs.r . . 
, /iitli!it1~filfIii1tJ.jI~!ii{i~iit!ifi!itlttSifltt{l!
.. '... ,.. ,1 O;a.w,·• ~11ci 9tj•~;i,i11clay11igq.g;/y,ro11lcl:~i!i114,~P-!U l+:=}9: ~smi'i :··.. '' 

·· .. :. cq.,an,:gel~• tcr ge,t th~ifpfopqs~I$!Pa~seci.';:> • 






'~lf@l~~\~!i1i1!ll;_1tlililli{il{i~rllllt;i~~:{~~,t~iiJ~~.
'.:::·.·: ..:):>'•:::;;:; 
h'i"~-;:;i_·: 


Letters 
Editor-in-Chief 
Maher Mouasher 

Managing Editor 
Keith Harrison Jr. 

Design Editor 
Alex Peltzer 

Production Manager 
Matthew Bradley 
Gene·ral Manager 
Phil Coghlan 

Editorial 
Larry Burke/Sports Catherine.Coffey/Departments Frank Lipo/News Greg Miller/News Lucian Niemeyer/Photography Aimee Starin/Copy Chief Bob Winn/Student Life 

Administration 
Pete Cespedes/Comptroller Julie Gschwind/Advertising Mike Hoban/Circulation 
Asst. Design Editor 
Sharon Dow 
Layout 
Jim Doerfler 
Anne Ranaghan 
Susan Serrato 
Art & Photography 
Bob Challenger 
Tom Falvey 
Maria Murphy 
Steve Moriarty 
Mike Napierkowski The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire edi­torial board of Scholastic or the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or student body. Editorials, unless otherwise indicated, represent the opinion of the majority of the edi­torial board. 
Scholastic is represented for national advertising by CASS student advertis­ing, Inc. Published weekly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at The Papers, Inc. Milford, IN 46542. The subscription rate is $18.75 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. ·Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, IN 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. Copyright 1986 Scholastic. All rights reserved. None of the contents may be reproduced without permission. 


October 16, 1986 

j 
If you have an opinion about something in Scholastic, write us a letter clo Scholastic Letters LaFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame IN 46556 

Letters to the editor must be typed and must include the author's name, address and phone number. Letters should not exceed 250 words in length. 

. . 
~-\ ( \ -:;:....._,,;:'... ~-=-±_.'--"-_.,_.:,;,.,; -~....~c..1,;<;i....;;;.r-~--.,:,::_.,.., 




Avoiding ABig Stink 
Football games with morning kickoffs show little consideration for students' schedules 
By John Coyle 
orget about boycotting the 
Olympics for political rea­
sons, blacklisting businesses in South Africa because of apartheid, or heaven forbid, refus­ing to patronize 7-Eleven on account of a couple· of innocent porno magazines. Let's boycott something of real importance that's extremely detrimental to society: 11:30 a.m. Notre Dame football games. 

F
Who's kidding whom here? To be at the game by kickoff you have to get up by 11:00. This is cruel and unusual punishment for the average college student on a weekend morning. Even prisoners are allowed to sleep in once in a while. On a normal Saturday, I don't roll out of the rack 'til about 
12:15 and that's only so I can catch the last half of "American Band­stand." 
If I somehow manage to motivate myself and rise from the dead, the scene is never .pretty. You just know that the majority of the students are not going to have time to do something so unimportant as shower. Every­body just throws a hat on and waits for that magical, almost reli­gious experience, when their 'do makes that transition from bed head to hat hair. 
When you finally get to your seat you quickly find that you are not alone in your shabbiness. Looking like the· biggest grub-ball is the newest status symbol, and people are quick to brag about their unshowered state. 
"I got home at three in the morning after dancing for two hours in a sauna of a basement with everyone spilling beers all over and I didn't even take a shower this morning," the guy next to you says with the manda­tory, eyes at half-mast, cheesy smile. 
He continues, though you wish he wouldn't, "I must be smelling pretty bad." You nod in agreement as you hold your nose, hoping he won't burp in your face for good measure. 
By halftime the realization sets in that you have made a grave mistake and that life would be a whole lot cooler if you were back in bed. The noise from the band is doing nothing for your hangover, no one's really into the game and the ,normally faithful sea legs are starting to give out. This is defin­itely not fun. 
Football was meant to be 

:.'.played in the afternoon. It is a social event and theistuff that goes on before kickoff is oftentimes more enjoyable than the game. Everything was fine and dandy before those jokers from ESPN and TEN Sports came along. But surely Notre Dame would never sell out for a few extra televisio~ revenue dollars. We are too righteous (or is it self-righteous?) 
to do something like that. 
Direct from the ever-popular "got a gripe, blame the alcohol policy" mentality, the possibility that maybe the alcohol policy is the root of the problem arises. If that's the cause, I say we show Ted how we feel about a.m. kickoffs by going out at four in the morn­ing and drinking our collective face off. But if the director of 

psych services got wind of this we'd probably all be over there lying on a couch before we could say, "toss me another coldie." 
No, the best solution is a very easy one, mostly because it requires no effort. The next time we have an 11 :30 start; we'll put our little plan into action. When the band comes by your window and wakes you up, don't nudge your roommate and greet the new day, just roll over. That's right, just roll over and go back to sleep. 
We'll show them. It will look pretty silly when the world's greatest student body is back home· in bed instead of "cheer, cheer, cheering" for old Notre Dame. See if Ted and the fellas don't back down then. And even if it doesn't work at least there won't be 10,000 cheeseballs stinkin' up the sta­dium. 


4 


Scholastic 



Student Life 

Feeling the Pressure 
By Kyle Olinger and John Perie , 
College is often a stressful environment but the effects of pressure can be alleviated 
l:2-~ 


r--~~-~---~
It's 4 a.m. and Terry is strug­
gling .with his calculus. On 
his desk sit several cans of Mountain Dew, a cold, half-eaten Naugleburger and an overused cal­culator. Over and over, he reads the same theorems, studies the same integrals. 
"I have to do better," thinks the student in his never-ending quest for that elusive· grade. "What would the graduate schools think? What about my friends? My family? My girlfriend?" Visions of an uncertain future begin to cloud the picture. Terry has tumbled into that deep abyss that all students, at one time or another, have fallen into: stress. 
Stress not only has an affect on students' grades, but also affects their personality, attitude, and ultimately their lives. 
"Stress is a mismatch between our expectations and what our environment can deliver," says Dr. Robert S. Eliot in Chicago maga­zine. Eliot, whose specialty is teaching people how to control this mental enemy, is the founder of the preventive and stress medicine program at the University of Nebraska Medical Center. 
"Stress is a modem epidemic . .-: There are 40 million Americans with high blood pressure, and stress is a precipitatory, sustaining and aggravating factor in this potentially fatal condition." Stress is a mental disorder that not only affects our thinking processes, but also our physical well-being. In a complex world of changing tech­nologies and new ideas and dif­ferent social problems that affect us all, it is no wonder that moi-e and more people are beginning to feel their stress catching up with them.· 
There are many reasons for the stress present among students. For 

the freshman, trying to adapt to a new surrounding, different people and harder courses becomes a source of great anxiety, tension, and fear. 
In one sense, students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are sure candidates for stress. They have high expectations for achievement, based on accomplishments in high 
. school. According to the Saint Mary's College catalogue, 50 per­cent of recent entering freshmen were ranked in the top one-fifth of their graduating class and 30 percent were in the top tenth. 
Of the 1986 freshmen at Notre Dame, 35 percent were' ranked among the first five students in their high school class, according to Notre Dame's 1986-87 Fact Sheet. 75 percent were in the top tenth and 92 percent in the top fifth. The competition when these extremely successful high school graduates are thrust into a pool far more compet'.hive than they've ever experienced. The self-applied pressure to do well can be intense. 
"When I slept through a Cal­culus 125 test as a freshman," junior Teri Hanley recalls, · "I broke down completely. I was told that I couldn't take the exam over. I didn't know what to do." 
Junior John De Souza, was ori­ginally an engineering student and is now a business major. He too attests to the ·amount of stress which freshman face. 
"My most stressful course was 'Emil, (Chemistry 115-116),"' he says. "I remember spending twice the amount of time studying for Emil as some of my friends, and getting only half the score." 
No matter what major a student chooses to pursue, once he get involved in college studying, stress undoubtedly becomes a part of his life. It is apparent in an architec­ture student feverishly trying to put a design together in his head and transfer it onto draft paper in the basement of the architecture building. 
Stress is qn the faces of ten business majors in a dorm hallway figuring out a managerial econom­ics problem at 3 a.m. Students in 
Scholastic 

I. 
Student -Life 

every major have to deal with the stress of deadlines and exams; there is no student not prone to stress. 
Most often physical symptoms act as a warning sign for the trou­ble lurking within the person. 

"The signs of stress are familiar and troubling: anger, anxiety, and sleeplessness," says Eliot. "Along with these symptoms come headaches, muscle tension _ maybe 
a backache." People may be unconscious of the effects of stress, but very often their bodies tell the story. 
"I usually wasn't able to sleep before an orgo test," pre-med major Robert Burke recalls. "Usu­ally big tests get me stressful. If my next test score decides my semester grade, no doubt I'll be a bundle of nerves beforehand." 
Many students can sympathize with Rob. At one time or another, all students have felt that fear of an impending test. College stu­dents are targets for "stress attacks." All students will at some 
October 16, 1986 
point undergo a stressful situation in school. Grades, curves, class competition, romantic trouble, and du Lac contribute to the growing mental instabilities that hurt the intellectual status of students. 
In order to deal with pressure, students must first ac­knowledge that they have some form of stress. "On a scale of one to ten," Robert Burke says, "I'm around a five or a six. Some things get me more stressed out than others · and it changes according to the tests. It depends on the kind of test and the work load that accompanies the studying. That's where stress comes in." 
Secondly, students must somehow find a way to deal with the problem. Dr. Eliot says that "you need to know how to gain that sense of control. Stop struggling with fantasy and the pain of unrealistic 

expectations. Let go of stress." He warns that by .taking too much control; however, people create a new forni of stress -how not to lose that control over themselves. 
"I'm usually worried about goals," junior science major Mike Murray admits. "I'm usually wor­ried about my grades, and that puts me in a vicious cycle because I go from one subject to another "'..ithout a break." 
The most important way to alleviate stress is through relaxa­tion and exercise. To relieve men­tal tension, students should try some sort of relaxation. It could even be just closing the eyes and breathing rhythmically in a quiet room for 15 minutes, as Eliot sug­gests. Students can substitute any­thing that they think will best relax them. One way of relax­ing is music. 
"I usually play loud music that has a hard bass line," says Teri Hanley. "The music reflects the intensity of the work load I have to get through. It keeps me more in control of stress. You can't play Sade when you're relieving stress. I'd probably play Led Zeppelin or Rush." 
By relaxing the mind, students can better relieve the tension of studying for or surviving a test. Some feel that physical exercise is very important in relieving stress. 
"After playing, say, football," Robert Burke says, "I gradually become more capable of studying. A physical game wakes me up both physically and mentally, and I'm able to cope with the course-load with a fresher mind and attitude." 
Most important, especially in tlie case of students, is peer accep­tance. Friendships relieve the anx­iety of school. Going places, attending hall activities, playing interhall sports, donating time to other worthy causes, all have the benefit of relaxing a person. 
Mike Murray, who disagrees with Hanley's taste in stress-· reducing music, says: "Usually I'll listen to mellow music, kick up my legs onto the table, drink a couple of 'brew-has' and talk to friends. What could be more relaxing?" 
No matter what activity the stu­dent chooses to relieve stress, this relief is ultimately necessary for a successful and satisfying college career. The pressures of college will not relent and will continue to induce stress in all students. Only the student who is aware of the effects of these pressures will both overcome stress and master the challeges of college life .. 
Student Life 




Blowing Off Steam 
By Paula Abowd 

The best way to relieve the effects of stress is by using imagination and initiative 

Glaring fluorescent lights, vacant chairs, unplugged typewriters, closed books and crumpled papers decorate the familiar study lounges of most dorms. On a classroom blackboard, scribbled in yellow chalk, the mood of many students on campus is expressed: "What is sleep? Does anyone know what it is? I wouldn't because I get such a small amount of it here." 
Amidst a swarm of assign­ments, . quizzes, reading assign­ments, examinations and papers, calls for help can be heard all across campus. There is no group that escapes it: freshmen, sopho­mores, juniors and seniors alike eventually encounter a stressful situation caused by academic demands. Students face a variety of crises every day. 
Susan is a classic example. At three o'clock in the morning she realizes that not only is the ten­page paper due at eleven o'clock. incomplete, but that she is also equally unprepared for. the eight 
8 
o'clock statistics test she is scheduled to take in a class of very competitive and bright students. 
Whether trying to decipher a complex math problem or dodging that clinging SYR date, students constantly struggle with rising lev­els of stress. Searching for a type of relief from stress is a serious concern for most students at Notre Dame. 
Anxiety runs high for students . of all majors. Living space can be cramped, the dining hall cuisine less than tasty, the social life limited -especially for those underage -both on campus and in South Bend. Add to this academic requirements, extracurricular commitments as well as time to sleep and the potential for stress increases. 


Finding places to relieve such stress, however, especially on campus, may seem almost impossi­ble at first. Just to "blow off" for a while is easy ; watching televi­sion, talking with friends or listen­ing to music are common ways to relax a little. But there are times when more drastic measures are called for, times when the urge to · burn all books or strangle a room­
mate becomes overpowering. 
Although the campus is like a second home to most students, it is also the site of some of our most stressful situations. Students like Cindy find themselves consumed in an endless battle t.o make the grade. For many the relief from such pressure may be exercising, eating, commiserating with a friend or making an extended long-distance phone call home to Mom and Dad. 


Scholastic 



Student Life 

Maureen has established several methods to relieve stress, follow­ing the advice of her mother, who 
suggests  trying, to  do  something  
fun  each  day.  This  can  mean  
watching  a  favorite  television  

show, reading a magazine, or "running in the rain without an umbrella." 
It is important to stay in touch with the outside world. Take the time to read a major newspaper or just write a letter to a friend and step outside the concerns 
of yourown little world. Blast a favorite album. Do something dif­ferent; on a campus flooded with new facilities, alternative means of coping with stress wait to be tested. 
Take advantage of the outdoors. Grab a take-out lunch from the Deli (temporarily located in South Dining Hall) and picnic by one of the lakes. Feed the ducks or just go for a walk or a jog and take time to really look at the pic­turesque surroundings of theNotre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Explore some of the intriguing-looking buildings on campus that you pass by in haste on the way to your next class. Visit 
· the Snite Museum, which houses an extensive and impressive art collection. See a movie there or elsewhere on campus, or go off campus for a flick. 
Physical activity is a method of stress relief highly recommended by doctors. Practice your figure 
•eights at the ACC ice rink. Relax those aching and tense muscles at the pool. Climb into one .of the racquetball courts at the 'Rock' and release some anxiety. Put some swing into your . day and play a round ·of golf. A simple game of midnight basketball may work for you as a stress reliever. 
Swimming is one soothing way to relieve the effects of everyday stress. 
If you're not in the mood to exercise, try out some of South Bend's offerings. Treat your sweet tooth to some refreshing Yogi's Yogurt. Swirl some spaghetti at Tina and Joe's Restaurant. Dive· into a luscious hot apple pancake at the Original Pancake House. Down a dog at Frank's Red Hots. Make your ultimate challenge for the night to eat pizza at Bruno's without havii:i,g cheese slip down your chin. In addition to these suggestions there are numerous other eateries to test. 
If you feel domestic, rearrange 

your  room.  Bake  your  buddies·  
some  cookies  or  treat yourself to  
some  of  your. own  creations. An  
even  quieter  approach  could  

soothe frazzled nerves. Light· a 
candle and say a prayer at the grotto. Attend an evening Mass or prayer service. Visit Sacred Heart Church or anywhere quiet and take a few minutes to sit and think about pleasant memories. 
Maybe these suggestions are too conventional for you. Try getting a wild haircut. Find a shorter route to· the golden glow of a .I-Jawaiian vacation by hitting the 
· tannfog salon. 
The most important guideline 

· to use when combating the effect of stress is imagination. Find an activity that will take your mind off of what's causing stress, even if it's only for a short time each day. Remember that college should mean more than just good grades. 
October 16, 1986 


Student Life 

Too Much Stress: Losing Control 
By Kathleen McKernan 
Doctors say stress can be a factor in problems such as alcoholism, eating disorders and even suicide 

Michael had a few problems last spring. For one thing, his car kept breaking down. And while his thoughts turned to romance, it became clear that the object of his affections had been unintentionally manipulative and was otherwise uninterested. In a final blow, his best friend from home suffered a violent death. 
"It was awful," he says. "I seri­ously considered suicide. Looking back on it, it's almost funny the irony of the situation. I mean, I did start counseling (sessions) after Mark died, but I would call the Psych Services Counseline for the suicide tape, and it wasn't work­ing. It was like that line: 'I called Suicide Prevention -they put me on hold."' 
"And after I started counsel;_ ing," he continues, "I'd walk home from the sessions and the con-is not entirely uncommon at Notre Dame. 
Other self-destructive reactions are common as well, although they may tend to be somewhat less 


cerncd Notre Dame students with nothing better to do would yell insults out their dorm windows. It was just a really bad situation." 
Michael's reaction to the stress was extreme. He immediately thought of suicide. His reaction, although it may not seem typical, final, and considerably less direct.· Alchoholism and the eating disorders of anorexia nervosa and bulimia are also related to stress. While the problems may not be exclusively related to stress, stress plays a role in the manifestations of these disorders. 


Scholastic 


St ude n t Li f.e 

"There arc many reasons cer­tain disorders come out in stu­dcn ts," explained Dr. Patrick Utz, director of the University Coun­seling Center. "It is difficult to attribute problems to one cause only, as is apparent with eating disorder -problems. Some reasons, however, do become clear. 
Utz explained that bulimia and anorexia are predominantly, although not exclusively, f~male disorders. "First of all, society's overemphasis on the external v_ari­ables of appearance affects the way young women relate to food and increases the likelihood of eat­ing disorders. Secondly, stress does activate negative coping stra­tegies.· 
"Thirdly, a person's personality affects the way she handles the situation," Utz continues. "And finally, the way family and other significant others cope with stress sets up a model." 
Last week, . Dr. David M. Garner, one of the foremost experts in the field of eating disorders, spoke at Saint Mary's College on the subject of eating disorders. While the majority of his talk centered on the problems of eating disorders as related to a culture that holds a distorted ideal for the female figure, Garner echoed Utz in his assessment of the reasons for the problems. 
"The probleil_l is not strictly a cultural disorder," Garner says. "If it were, there would be a lot more people walking around with eating disorders. Stress doesn't cause· bulimia But stress in the presence of depression, negative body image and low self-esteem can easily contribute to the situa­tion. 
"It becomes necessary for the 

October 16, 1986 eating disorder patient to learn how to control the social pres­sure," Garner adds. "And, when the average weight of a centerfold goes down almost in inverse pro­portion to the rise of the average weights of the general population, it's very difficult." 

The bulimic eating disorder patient, who purges themself of the food they eat by inducing vomiting or abusing laxatives, tends to have a negative body image and a predilection for con­soling themself in stressful situa­tions through food. The bulimic is much more likely to have their condition aggravated by stress 
than the anorexic, who gains satis­faction in self-denial. 
But how common are eating disorders at Notre Dame? 
"Well, the honest answer is that we don't know," Utz says. "Among our students, I would imagine that we're a little above the national average -only because of socio-cultural factors such as the emphasis on looking good at this age, and parentalpressures." 
Notre Dame also beats the national average in cases of alchohol abuse -to the best esti­mations of the University Coun­seling Center. 
"That's really a traditional thing here," Utz admits. "Alcohol is clearly an area in which we are · above the rest." 
continued on p. 14 
om Jones oliday Star Theatre 

-65 & US 30 in Merrillville, IN Oct. 16-18 at 8 p.m. $18.95 
Johnny Mathis & Dionne Warwick Chicago Theatre 175 N. State Street Oct. 16-22 at 3 p.m. $9.90 -$29 
Ramsey Auditorium Kirk Road, Fermilab Oct. 18 at 8 p.m. $7 

Donnie and Marie Osmond North Central College i·. 310 East Bennton Ave. 
j: Oct. 17 at 8 p.m. 
I· 
j. 
Richard Thompson

I· 
I· Park West 
I· 322 W. Armitage Oct. 20 at 8 p.m. $13.50 
Skip Griparis Zanies 1548 N. Wells Oct. 22 at 7, 9, 11 p.m. $8 
Tokyo Art Dealers Gaspars 1359 W. Belmont Oct. 16 at 9 p.m. $4-8 
Reaction Gaspars 1359 W. Belmont Oct. 17 at 9 p.m. $4-8 
Buddy Guy and Junior Wells 
P .J. Flaherty's 2535 W. 95th Oct. 17 at 10 p.m. $2-5 
Vanessa Davis Band 
P .J. Flaherty's 2535 W. 95th Oct. 18 at 10 p.m. $2-5 
THEATRE: 

"Amadeus" Apple Tree Theatre Companny no Deerfield Oct. 16-18 at 8:30 p.m. $12 "Art, Ruth and Briar Street Th 3133 N. Halstec Oct. 16-17 at 8 $15 
"Highest Stand Organic Theatr 3319 N. Clark Oct. 16, 17, 22 Oct. 18 at 9:30 $14-17 
"Shear Madnes Mayfair Theatr 636 S. Michigar Oct. 16, 17, 22 Oct. 18 at 9:30 $15-18 
"Union Boys" Wisdom Bridge 1559 W. Howar Oct. 16, 17, 22 Oct. 18 at 3, 8 $15-18 
DANCE: 

Chicago Dance Columbia Coll9 4730 N. Sheridj Oct17-18at81 
Lauri Macklin . MoMing·Dance 1034 W. Barry Oct. 17-18 at 8: 


Michiana lndia~olis 
ITrudy" eatre I p.m. 
ard of Living" 
'e 
at 8 p.m.; p.m. 
s" 
e r at 8 p.m.; p.m. 
Theatre d at 8 p.m.; p.m. 
Medium ge Dance Theater 
1n 
~.m. 
and Arts Center 
:30 p.m. 
FILMS: 

"The African Queen'' IUSB Little Theatre/Redtal Hall 1700 Mishawaka Oct. 18 at 8 p.m. $1.75 
"The Prince and The Pauper" IUSB Little Theatre/Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka Oct. 19 at 2 p.m. $1.75 
"Nashville" IUSB Little Theatre/Recital Hall 1700 Mishawaka Oct. 19 at 8 p.m. $1.75 
THEATRE: 

"A Thousand Clowns" Firehouse Theatre 701 Portage Oct. 16-18 at 8:30 p.m. 
"The Magic Arrow Boy" Colfax Cultural Center 914 Lincoln Way West 
Oct. 16 at 10 a.m. 
"On The Razzle" IUSB Northside Hall 1700 Mishawaka Oct. 17-18 at 8:15 p.m. 
MUSIC: 

The Intimate P.D.Q. Sponsored by the Elkhart Concert Club Elkhart Memorial High School 
·Oct. 16 at 7:30 p.m. 
Faculty Recital & Art Exhibit Science Building Octorium Bethel College Oct. 17 at 8 p.m. 
THEATER: 
"A Chorus Line" Beef And Boards Dinner Theater 9301 N. Michigan Oct. 16-22 at 8 p.m. 
"Bewitched, Bothered & Bewildered" Indiana Repertory Theater 140 W. Washington Oct. 16-17 at 8:30 p.m. Oct. 18 at 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
ART: 

"Gary Justis: Electrokinetic Sculptures" Patrick King Contemporary Art Museum 427 Massachusetts Oct. 16-22 
"James L. Cunningham: New Paintings" Cunningham Gallery ·314 Massachusetts Oct. 16-22 
"African Arts: Masks to Sculpture" Atrium Gallery 36 S. Pennsylvania Oct.16-22 
CLASSICAL: 
Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra Circle Theater 45 Monument Circle Oct. 17 at 8 p.m. 
Ticketmaster: (312) 559-1212 Ticketron: (312) TlC-KETS Hot Tix Booth: half-price "day of performance" tickets to theater 
· concerts, sporting events and other 
attractions (312) 977-1755 Theatre Tix: (312) 853-0505 Curtain Cali: 24-hour information 
[Wt rnn1r1· .,,,. 
I. 



Student Life 




\iLBitysr:ipir~aii1~tiirta1jti1iii1
{hey are•likel:\' tb experieilcfst'ress. ;; <•·•• 

''1:i~~!'Jf!l!ltfi!ti!llj
<Jiti-essiC.,:t,• < •·.·•··• #l•••·ii;·••·.£!iK•· 1ev~i tr.st~7is i11cr~ases,j~~i; 
.····•·in6relikelyit is thatp1irs6nalitydecqm;,;
:J~~hs~tidfi'.'ivilJ.#~dift, 
.. . . ..... ... 

t.•.~t,•.·nJ_.1;1tiii~liiili:~iai~~
~ 
10 •••• ,::••'•• C, •••• ; ,::•:•:.:~:i,' ,•.:;h.f/\}\•'.~/i 

<. ~J>th~:·•inb:e '.lifui~kd th~':i-!.i1fubJti\a:r1 
•' available··•·•·· coping, ... }'.~p~nsii~ i1f )f)
;,!~It~•:t~t~1~1tu:Iip!!it•tlii.i~$;!i~er,t;tM.:/ i,::t.iirii~f.~;1ttf{!:ni~If~bl~:iti~f:LWi~i. 
poteiitial fof stress. ..· '' : 

!~l~~!!l"~tf!£Rl~i~!~

!ii,#icllvidual.'. ::','' •··• . ·•· ,.. 
continued from p. 11 
The tradition Utz speaks of may influence student attitudes towards alcohol. Some students use alcohol to relax on weekends. Alcohol for relaxation may be common, but some counselors take a hard-line approach on the issue. 
"On the issue of drinking for fun," Sally Schreiber, a social worker at South Bend's Madison Center, says, "it may be fun, but what are you trying to escape from?" 
In the case of students, what they are most often trying to escape from, to use Schreiber's terms, is academic pressure.

1,' 1. 
i 
I 
14 

I 1· 
I 
1· 
University Counseling Center's Dr. Timothy Onkka believes that there has been an increase in academic pressure. He observes that before 1970, any college degree would insure a hopeful future; after that year, more peo­ple began looking for fewer jobs and an incredible amount of com­petition emerged. 
"Many people felt," Onkka says, "that the competition for jobs justified the intensified com­petition to excel and succeed. That may be a legitimate reason, but something was lost -learning for learning's sake." 
Stressors brought on by cultural and personal factors cause diffi­culties for Notre Dame students, and students in general, but academic pressures arguably cause the greatest stressors here, a fact which is revealed through the idea that it causes the most serious dif­ficulties among students. 
"For all suicide cases we encounter academic pressure is at least part of the problem," Utz says. "It's the dominant factor. in at least 50 percent of the problems. It's clearly an issue. Some people 
v ar101 o 
Cocktails -Wine -Beer Open Tues -Sat.
Pasta of All Kinds 
Veal 
4-11 p.m. Manicotti Fettuccine Al Fredo Pizza 
1707 South Bend Ave. (I mile east of ND) 277-0578 
Scholastic 
don't realize the academic pres­sure." 
For those who become depressed to the point of suicide, there are a few things that coun­selors try to do with the suicidal patient in order to discourage a suicide. 
"It's imperative that the .suicide patients realize a couple of things," says Barbara Berebitsky, a case management worker at the Madison Center. "There's lots of hope in life. It's not an either/or situation. It's not 'I have to be with this person or die.'" 
"It's not, 'I have to get five A's,"' Schrieber adds. "It's not just stress that leads to suicide. It's an attitude of people who feel they can't succeed, people who feel that they're not doing as well as they should be or they can, people who have little self-confidence. When people get that stressed-out, they aren't thinking clearly. That's when the option of suicide gets into people's heads." 
As far as suicide at Notre Dame goes, a graduate student and his wife killed themselves after his dissertation was rejected. Utz has the view that the Notre Dame 
.., 


Student Life 

ARE YOU DYING TO BE THIN OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? 

A FREE LECTURE DISCUSSING SUCH TOPICS As: 
DIETING EATING PROBLEMS
-

BINGE EATING CHANGING EATING BEHAVIORS LEARNING To ACCEPT ONE'S BODY 
SPONSORED BY UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER (UCC) 



community · reflects national trends, and therefore some incidents are to be expected here. 

"Suicide and suicide attempts ha vc increased na tio nall y," Utz says, "a.nd while we are better · here as far as over~!l_rates go, it's reasonable to expect that we could see an increase here. In this 
Catholic college, suicide takes on an added moral aspect. We've been well below the rates of the last ten years." 
Officials are often unwilling to talk about suicide among students -and with reason. Statistics show that after television programs on suicide or after a suicide in a com­munity, the general rates of a population tend to go up. Even when an attempt at increased awareness of preventive measures is the goal of media coverage, it seems that any amount of attention increases the romantic aspects attributed to suicide. 
Michael recovered from his crisis. The car still doesn't quite work all the time. And while the young woman has not changed her perspective, he has found other 



'c. i:!~[W:~;l~Uil~f~E!lffit!l~i~i~t•~:ft:i~:s, 
Utz sympathizes with Notre Dame students like Michael who have incredible outside stressors in 
addition  to  their  workloads,  and  
he  feels  that  the  majority  who  
undergo  even  large  amounts  of  

stress handle it well. 
... 
company. He still thinks of his 
best  friend  -but  it  has  been  a  
while  now.  There's  no lo nger the  
urgency.  

"I'm not considering it anymore," he says. "Not to say that maybe someday it ·wouldn't come up again, but now I can't really consider it an option." 
"I'm very impressed," Utz says. "We have a student body who is under significant pressure. Overall, we recruit and have intel­ligent, highly motivated students here. Wf? ask a lot of them: academics, volunteerism, commit­ment to the university. They respond magnificently." 


DATE TIME PLACE 

THURSDAYJ OCTOBER 30J 1986 
8:00 P.M. 

CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
' 
H~ 

SuccessfuI· Sounds 
~miths' n~w album shows ~motion and idiosyncrasY. while Fogerty's puts distance between himself and CCR 
By Melchizedek & Jones 

The Smiths' newest record, The Queen is Dead, is idiosyncratic and often· offensive, but the album as 
a whole is interesting, amusing and successful. A delicate and soft-edged sound merges with Morrissey's distinct vocals and morbid lyrics to make the band's sound unique. 
But some songs on this record are just plain bad. "Frankly Mr. Sh~nkly" has · a slow, boring instrumentation that allows Morrissey's vocals to degenerate into inconsequential whining. Other songs just don't translate well onto vinyl,' althopgh the lyrics themselves have value. 
I 
The best song on the record, and possibly of the year, is the morbid "There Is a Light That Never Goes Out" The deft bass line, strumming guitars, and myst­ical flute and string music com­bine with images of Morrissey and his date, as it were, getting smashed by double-decker buses and ten-ton trucks to create a tran­scendent pop song. 
Morrissey's ironic vocals are great on "Big Mouth Strikes Again" when he coos, "Sweetness I was only joking when I said/By rights you should be bludgeoned in your bed." Perverse, perhaps, but funny anyway. 
The last song on the record, "Some Girls Are Bigger Than Oth­ers," is representative of the Smiths' signature style. Straight­forward music and idiosyncratic vocals sing of the strange concern that "some girls' mothers are bigger than other girls' mothers." Despite, or perhaps because of the somewhat appalling innuendo present here, the song is intrigu­ing. In its mixture of hits and misses, so is the album. 


John Fogerty's second album, Eye of the Zombie, is also worth a listen. Though by no means a great album, it continues the same admirabie if uneven effort of last year's record Centerfield. 
The first song, "Goin' Back Home," is by far his most unusual. 
It consists of a plodding Gregorian chant overlaid with a graceful, intense guitar line that punctuates the music's solemn mood with feeling. The odd construction of the tune works. 
The rest of the album is spotty. On some songs Fogerty seems to be trying too hard to distance him­self from his former band Creedence Clearwater Revival and its sound. "Headlines" seems like material from Survivor or Tri­umph or some other inept crew. It screeches to no avail. And the song "Violence is Golden" is all but unlistenable. It is the sort of music whose sole reason for exist­ing is to have its lyrics printed on the inside sleeve. Definitely the low point of the record. 
There is much right with this album. The lilting "Knockin' On Your Door" and the gentle "Sail Away" are wonderful, inventive tunes. "Eye of the Zombie," the title_ track, moves the artist away 
from  the  CCR sound  while still  
managing  to  sound  like  John  
.Fogerty's  characteristic  biting  

sound. 
And when he does decide to sound like his old group -on "Change in the Weather" -it is a deft return to form that reminds one of some of CCR's last moments. This album's a good one, an adequate successor to "Center­field," and, hopefully, a sign of more to come. 
"Pure Pop" is.written by "now people" Sean Callahan and Tom Szromba. · 



16 
Scholastic 


ATaste Of Mishawaka 
By Eric Cruz· 
Francesco's offers fine dining along the river, serving hearty Italian fare in a family atmosphere 
Arenovated house, a veranda, great hospitality, comfortable decor and great food add up to an excellent restau­rant -Francesco's. Nestled into a quiet residential area in Mishawaka, this restaurant creates outside and inside dining areas that promote relaxation and com­fort. 
Francesco's serves an excep­tional variety of appetizers, salads, soups and entrees. Made with mozzarella cheese, ham, black olives, green peppers, lettuce and tomatoes, the antipasto appetizer is pleasing to the eye as well as the tastebuds and is a reasonable $3.95 a plate.· 
Fresh vegetables sprinkled with pepper and homemade Italian dressing make the salads another superb choice. Also provided for 

$.1.50 is garlic bread, prepared the real Italian way, served hot and crunchy. 
On to the entrees. Francesco's offers traditional meals, Italian sandwiches, pizza and seafood. As a main meal, the Spaghetti Allogio e Olio is a quality choice. The spaghetti, neither too wet nor overcooked, is combined with a· mixture of oil, parsley and garlic that is just right. Not too much oil, not too much parsley, not too much garlic. 
More traditional dishes also invite the famished. Two large mouth-watering pieces of breaded veal covered in spicy tomato sauce and mozzarella cheese just wait to be devoured. However, one should be warned that a large amount of pasta, also covered with the spicy 
Aside from the usual soft drinks, the restaurant offers cap­puccino, espresso, and Cafe Fran­cesco, as well as imported spring water. Reasonably priced wines from California, Italy and France are also available. 
Francesco's offers a cozy and enjoyable environment. The dim lighting and the classic red and black decor are very soothing and the friendly waiters and waitresses make patrons feel right at home. Also contributing to the atmo­sphere is Francesco Catanzariti and his family, who own, cook for and manage the restaurant. This 


sauce and cheese, comes with the meal. The dish itself is enough to satisfy the healthiest of appetites and comes at a cost of only $8.50. 
For a slightly different entree try Seafood Canneloni, made with pasta shells stuffed with shrimp, crabs, and sauce and covered in white clam sauce. 

If there's room in your stomach for dessert, sample Francesco's cheesecake. There are two irresis­tible varieties: cappuccino and amaretto, each of which is sold for $1.95. Also on the menu are Spumoni and Calzone, but the cheesecake is more highly recom­mended. 
family-centered unity extends into the dining room and makes the customer feel as if he is part of the family. 
Francesco's, located at 1213 Lincolnway West, is open Monday through Thursday from 11 a.m. tb 10 p.m., Friday from 11 to 11, and Saturday from 5 to 11. The restau­rant is closed Sundays. Parking may be a problem, especially on the weekend when business is at its peak. Francesco's does not take reservations. It is not uncommon to wait in line for a table. How­ever, the combination of ambi­ence, decor, friendliness, quick service and excellent food make Francesco's worth the wait. 
17
October 16, 1986 

; 
I 
. 

'L ..,,._.,___,=e.~--".,;...,~,__,. ~'-".t,,;~.~'"'""'~ •-~-·•_( .,. -. • ' ­
Sports 


Breaking The Streak 
By Larry Burke 
Against Air Force on Saturday, Notre Dame will try to get back -on the winning track and to end the Falcons' recent dominance 
I 
t seems only fitting that the Falcons of the Air Force Academy will visit Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. If the 1-4 Irish need any extra incentive to win, they need only consider that the Falcons will be gunning for their fifth consecutive win over the Irish. Air Force has managed to defeat Notre Dame each of the past four years, twice blocking field goals to do it. So after four straight losses, do the Irish feel like they owe Air Force 
one? "Right now, we owe anybody one," said senior quarterback Steve Beuerlein, after the Irish had · suffered loss No. 4 last Saturday, a 10-9 heartbreaker to Pittsburgh. 
"Especially Air Forc_e," said Beuerlein, "because they've beaten us the past four years. But we're looking to come away with any victory we can. With the kind of close games we've been losing, it's been especially frustrating." 

Putting an end to that frustra­tion is the primary motivating fac­tor for Lou Holtz and his Irish this Saturday. Notre Dame's 1-4 start is its worst since ·1962, and the Pitt game marked Notre Dame's third narrow loss of the season. It also was the second time this year that the Irish lost a game in the final minute on a missed field goal. This time John Carney's 38-yard attempt missed by inches and the Irish came up empty. 
Another on the list of motivat­ing factors for Saturday's game is the desire to keep Air Force from 
_ becoming only the third team in history to defeat the Irish in five straight seasons. Since Notre Dame 

-football began in 1887, the only two teams to ever have accom­plished that feat are Michigan State (1959-63) and USC (1978­8~. . . 
For the 5-1 Falcons, the game provides an opportunity upon which Head Coach Fisher DeBerry would dearly love to capitalize. DeBerry· is 2-0 against Notre Dame, and he is well aware th.at the Falcons' recent win streak has been a key factor in Air Force's move toward national prominence. 
Scholastic 

------, , ,7 , -.. , ' • , , -J 
Sports 
"Beating Notre Dame four in a row has brought a lot of recogni­tion to our program," DeBerry said. "Only two teams have ever beaten them five consecutive times, so that will provide great incentive for our young men. But so far beating Notre Dame has brought some focus on our pro­gram, and beating them has enabled us to attract better foot­ball players." 

Still, Air Force's recent mastery over Notre Dame has been some­what of a mystery. The Falcons never seem to match up well with Notre Dame on paper, yet they have given the Irish all they could handle over the past four years. 
But much of Air Force's recent success against Notre Dame can be attributed to more than luck: a well-disciplined wishbone offense orchestrated by quarterbacks such as Marty Louthan (1982-83) and Bart Weiss (1984-85) has led to the streak. The option attack has given the Notre Dame defense fits, and has enabled the Falcons to average more than 300 yards . rushing in the last four games of the series. 
But the Notre Dame defense, which was a strong point in the Pitt game, appears ready to meet the challenge. The Irish mounted an impressive goal-line stand mid­way through the second half to keep Notre Dame within one point. For the afternoon, the Irish defense allowed 23 net rushing yards on 32 carries. But Pitt doesn't run the wishoone. 
"Notre Dame has good speed in the defensive secondary with (cornerback) Troy Wilson and (free safety) Steve Lawrence," DeBerry said. "Those are players who have played against the wish­bone before. But this season, Notre Dame has not played against a wishbone team per se, although Michigan did line up in the wish-· bone at times against them. But that situation presents some questions for us about how Notre Dame will line up against our offensive scheme." 
Junior quarterback Jim Tamallo directs the Falcons' wishbone this season. Tamallo has thrown just 31 passes, completing 17 for 346 yards, two touchdowns and three interceptions. 
As usual, the running game is vital to Air Force's attack. The workhorses are senior fullback Pat Evans (I 14 carries for 458 yards and five touchdowns) and senior halfback Marc Munafo (72 rushes for 348 yards and five touch­downs). 


"They run the wishbone with amazing efficiency," Holtz said of· the Falcons. "And they keep com­ing at you with people like Evans and Munafo." 
Although the Air Force offense usually attracts a lot of attention, it is defense that has held the Fal­cons together this season. This is a unit that held Navy's Chuck Smith, the • nation's top rusher at 157 yards per game, to only 40 yards on 17 carries last week. 
Led by linebacker Terry Maki, Air Force starts eight seniors on defense. Maki had 30 tackles and a blocked field goal against Notre Dame in last season's game. Other standout players on the Air Force defense are junior nose tackle John Steed and senior tackle Steve Spewock, the team leaders in quar­terback sacks, and senior corner­back Tom Rotello, Air Force's career interception leader. 
"I haven't been around for the last four games, but Air Force has to have something special going for them to beat Notre Dame four times in a row," Holtz said. "I know they've blocked field goals a couple of times to do it and I know they ran one back last year to win the game. 
"But I can't imagine our players don't understand what they're up against this week. Sure, things haven't gone well for us, but we better be ready to play Saturday because Air Force plays with as much intelligence and intensity as anyone you'll see." 
Mistakes, turnovers, and missed opportunities have been Notre Dame's biggest problems this sea­son. In its four losses, the Irish have been inside the opponent's 45-yard line 15 times without scoring, and the Irish have com­mitted 13 turnovers in those games. 
"You can't help but get the feeling you're snake bit," Beuerlein said. "But you can't go out there believing that bad things are going to happen because that only makes things worse." 
"It seems like every time we put ourselves in a position to win a football game, we just can't seem to make it happen for ourselves," Holtz said. "We just have to keep stressing with our football players that we're that close to being 4-1. I can't explain what's happened. I don't know why we don't seem to have things fall our way. 
"But we've been competitive every week, and we've played hard. And if we continue that, something positive will happen one of these weeks. I just hope that week comes soon because our players are a little disappointed and frustrated right now, We've 

· just got to keep eliminating more of the errors, both mental ·and physical, until it works." 
October 16, 1986 


Sports 

Setting .For The .Future 

By Pat Crawford 
. . ' 
This season's 14-5 record may be just the beginning for Art Lambert's talented young'volleyball team 
.. 
ito 
i:: 
S ;; ~ 
..c:: 
0 
..c 
0 
enior Karen Sapp looked i:i:i 
back on her first volleyball 
season at Notre Dame, 
remembering the long bus rides, poor quality opponents and a frus­trating 11-30 record. "We would be exhausted before games from the long bµs trip," Sapp recalled, "and to top it off, we'd lose to a team which we knew we should have beaten." 
Sapp, one of only two seniors on this year's women's volleyball team, has witnessed the changing of the guard. She has been a part of the transformation of the women's volleyball program from what amounted to little more than a club team, into a well-financed Division-I sport. Sapp came in on the ,ground level of a program that Lambert spent five years at ' that will enable us to compete with had plans of taking off. 

Stanford, coaching both the men's the top teams in the nation. And "(Notre Dame's 1980-83 head and women's volleyball teams to Art Lambert is the man to lead us. coach) Sandy Vanslager told me regional and national honors. He His experiences here will be simi­
when I first came here that I returned to coaching in 1984 after lar to those he had at Stanford in would be a part of a building pro­being involved in private business terms of the student-athlete and gram," Sapp recalled. In 1983, since 1978. "I came back to . the commitment to academics." 
Sapp's freshman year, the team coaching because I missed it;" Despite Corrigan's yxpecta­made the jump from the Lambert said, "and because I had tions, Lambert said he feels littleDivision-II to the Division-I level, the opportunity to coach at a qual­or no pressure · to perform mira­but maintaiped a primarily ity institution like Notre Dame, ·.. cles. "As I understand it," he said,Division-II calibe_r schedule. The where they really believe in the "the athletic depattment is com­next year, Notre Dame athletic _concept of the total student­mitted to making : volleyball andirector Gene Corrigan hired a athlete." 
integral part of the. women's ath­new head coach: Art Lambert. 

When he made the coaching letic scene. They see it as theCorrigan also increased the change, Corrigan said, "We've missing link between the bignumber of volleyball scholarships talked to volleyball people all attendance draws to the north at·from seven to 12, the most allowed around the country and we're now Western Michigan and to the south by the NCAA. 
prepared to do the kind of things at Purdue." 


20 


Scholastic­
The Notre Dame athletic 

department and the volleyball 
team itself are now starting to reap 
the benefits of the decision to 

build a program that is aiming for 
national recognition. 
The Irish are off to their best start ever, and with a 14-5 record the team has already_s\1rpassed the victory total of last year's 12-21 performance. Notre Dame also recorded its first tournament championship at the Gene Hacker­man Volleyball Showcase in Hous­ton, as well as two runner-up fin­ishes at the Hoosier Classic and the Bradley Invitational. 
The young Notre Dame team has been tested early and h-as responded well, notching four wins over teams ranked in the Midwest coaches' preseason poll. The Irish have defeated No. 4 Illi­nois State, No. 11 DePaul, No. 13 Indiana, and No. ·18 Bradley. The victory over Indiana was Notre Dame's first-ever win over a Big Ten school. 
With a perfect 3-0 record and a combined point total of 135-24, the Irish have <;iominated their North Star Conference foes thus far. A conference title in 1986 would have special significance, because this most likely will be the last year of existence for the North Star Conference. 
Lambert attributes the success of this . year's team to the two exceptional recruiting years preceding this season. His current team has several outstanding players, but Lambert is careful not to single out any one above the, rest. 
"Right now our key players are probably four sophomores and two freshmen," Lambert said. The sophomores are Zanette Bennett, Maureen Shea, Whitney Shewman, and Mary Kay Waller. The top rookies are Taryn Collins and Kathy Cunningham. "In addition to being good athletes, these girls play with a great deal of intensity 
.. , 
~ 
] , o 
.g 
Pl 
and have a desire to improve their volleyball skills," Lambert-said. 
Lambert's squad also has some 

.., experience to. add to its youth. Senior Mollie Merchant is a three-time monogram winner, and there are four juniors on the squad: Jill Suglich, Kathy Baker, Gretchen Kraus and Kathleen Morin. 
In last Friday's match against Kentucky, the Irish were trying to break the school record for con­secutive wins, going for their eighth. But the Wildcats, rated fifth in the South, knocked off Notre Dame 15-5, 15-13, 15-8. "We were really inconsistent," Suglich said of · the Kentucky match. "And we finally played a team equal to our ability, but we weren't ready." 
The Irish rebounded well, how­

. ever, with an impressive victory at Louisville the following night, 15-3, 15-6, 15-9. "We were much more prepared ,against Louisville," Lambert said. "Our effort and concentration were vastly improved, as was our setting." 

Sports 
The Irish have rested and regrouped this week and will return to match play Saturday at Ohio State. The Buckeyes were rated ninth in the Midwest coaches' preseason poll. Following its encounter with the Buckeyes, Notre Dame will remain on the road for showdowns with 
Georgetown, Duke, North Caro­lina and Virginia in a six-day span over break. The teani returns home to face Bradley in the ACC on October 30. 
The Irish are extremely optimistic about the remainder of the season. Their goals are to win the rest of their games, earn a spot in the Midwest coaches' poll and earn an NCAA tournament •bid. 
"There are a lot of exciting things happening with this pro­gram, and I almost wish I was coming., .in as a freshman," Sapp said. Over the past four years, the senior has seen more talented recruits and more competitive schedules. The team now has the funds to fly to its matches, and the program itself appears ready to spread its wings and take flight. 

October 16, 1986 
News 

Parietals Under Scrutiny 
By Mark Gredler 
New parietals proposals at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's meet different fates under student direction 

Last week the Campus Life Council decided to postpone a vote on a proposal which seeks changes in parietals hours and the potential penalties for parietals violations at Notre Dame. Earlier in the week a joint meeting of Saint Mary's Programming Board and Board of Governance voted against a change in the present parietals system at the Col­lege. Despite obvious similarities between the residence policies of the two schools, these recent events show the different focus the policy has at each school. At Saint Mary's, members of student government themselves brought the parietals discussion to· a close. But at Notre Dame, student leaders have been unified behind the proposal, only meeting opposi-· tion at the CLC meeting. 
Most of that opposition was in reaction to the students' proposal that the wording in du Lac con­cerning overnight parietals viola­tions should be changed. "The discussion centered upon what penalties should be applicable for overnight parietals violations and how that could be best expressed in words," said Bruce Lohman, member of the No_tre Dame Stu­dent Senate Committee on Parie­tals. 
That committee, made up of 
Lohman, Student Senator Brian 
Holst, Judicial Coordinator Maria Cintron, Student Senator John Bauer and Lewis Hall President Kris Thompson, proposed three changes in du Lac at the CLC meeting. 

The committee first gained approval for the proposal from the Student Senate and the Hall Presidents' Council. The proposed 

lessening of penalties given to overnight parietals violators has received the most attention of these proposals. Two other propo­sals involve changing parietals hours. 
"No one is suggesting that suspension or dismissal is not an alternative," Lohman added. He said that a parietals violation is a private. matter and is a less severe offense than a violation of the sex­uality, drug or physical injury codes. The nature of a parietals violation differs from the nature of a violation of the above codes because a parietals violation may not be intentional, according to Lohman. 
One reason why that proposal was not voted on at last week's meeting is that some CLC members said the wording of the proposal is unclear. According to Lohman, that problem was caused by a lack of discussion among the student leaders. "There wasn't enough student discussion on the matter amongst those who were (at the CLC meeting). A resolution needs to be written up for exactly what we want to make clear," said 
Lohman. · · 
"The fundamental principle. is that the majority of students don't perceive an overnight parietals violation to be as serious as a sex or drng penalty," said Holst. He said he agrees with Lohman that the proposal has to be revised to make it clear how students feel concerning a parietals violation. 
The CLC decided that changes would be needed in the proposal before it could be voted upon, according to both Student Body President Mike Switek and vice president Don Montanaro. An understanding about the serious­ness of a parietals offense has to 
Scholastic· 
News 
be reached between the adminis­tration and the students if the pro­posal is to work, they said. 
Du Lac states, "Overnight parietal violations involve suspen­sion or dismissal." The wording of the committee's original proposal to the CLC read, "An overnight parietals violation is a serious vio­lation of the University regula­tions." · 
Also, a rule would be added: "Repeated violations of University rules and regulations may result in suspension or dismissal." The emphasis is on the evaluation of the current· University policy's effect on first-time offenders of overnight parietals, said Switek. 
I• 
.Montanaro said he feels that the punishment for a first-time over­night parietals violator is con­strained by the present wording in du Lac which implies that a viola­tor must suffer the maximum penalty. 
"I think ( the proposal) is a good way of reopening the debate to make parietals something that is not so severely punished," said Cintron. She said she believes that the proposal is not meant to hinder the security provided by parietals. 
Instead, Cintron said, the purpose of this du Lac amendment would be to question the penalties for 

'parietals offenders. Under the amendments, the University would retain the right to suspend or dismiss any individual with a poor record or who is a repeat offender, according to Cintron. 
The CLC will meet sometime after fall . break to reconsider a reworked proposal. If passed, it must be approved by Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson. Tyson declined to comment on the pro­posal until the CLC makes a final decision, because the bill is currently being revised. 
The two proposed changes in the parietals hours have received less attention. Under the propo­sals, visitation would be extended · to 12:30 a.m. on Sundays to accom­modate hall Masses, and morning visitation hours would begin at 10 
a.m. each day, as it does now for home football Saturdays. 
"For convenience's sake, we are pushing for consistency," said Holst, "It's up to the residence halls to establish their visitation hours within the parameters set in du Lac. What we're doing is giving each dorm the opportunity for maximum visitation in the morn­ing hours," he said. 

The recent re-examination of parietals at Saint Mary's has taken a different route, one which has shown the unique problems the· College faces if a future revision is to be made. 
The proposed rev1S1on still would have required that men be escorted in Saint Mary's dorms at all times, but would not have required men to leave their IDs. The consensus of the boards was that there was not a foreseeable need for changing the present pol­icy because of its success in enforcing parietals at Saint Mary's. 
"At Notre Dame, it is not necessary to leave IDs; I wanted the same thing to work out at Saint Mary's," said Judicial Commis­sioner Mary Fisher, who favors the chang~. Security would not have been'a problem if the change was handled correctly, according to Fisher. Fisher said that a trial period with the new policy would have been possible if the proposal would have been passed. 
A majority of the board members believed that the pro­posed change would have meant added responsibility for RAs and the hall government, said Betsy Burke, vice president for academic affairs. Also, students were con­cerned that additional security measures might have to be taken and that a revision of punishments for violating the policy might occur if the policy was changed. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Sarah Cook said that there was a special problem with chang­ing the parietals system at Saint Mary's: the presence of adminis­trative offices in the dorms. "That's also the reason why we wouldn't be able to implement a detex system: because the adminis­tration would have to bother with that also," said Cook. 
"We did a survey at the end of last year," said Student Body President Jeanne Heller. "Students were satisfied with parietals hours. Changes were made back at the end of 1985, and we are doing another survey in about a month. If something comes up, we'll pur­sue that." 

October 16, 1986 



Whats Cooking?
Bv William J. Hickey, Jr. 
The director of University Food Services says the key to his organization's success is motivation and creativity 


.niversity Food Services is an organization made up of 350
U 
food service career profes­sionals and 400 student workers. Food service personnel service for various constituencies at Notre Dame. UFS serves and caters to 9000 students, 2,_682 faculty and staff members, alumni groups, and campus guests. 
We must be in line three meals a day, seven days a week throughout the school year regard­less of snowstorms, tornados or floods. Since Notre Dame has many international students, ser­vices are required regardless of circumstances, serving meals beyond contractual agreements. Despite these efforts, many stu­dents sometimes abuse and make light of the heavy work that is executed. 
Four and a half years ago, the administration decided to switch from a contract to a self operated service, feeling that central control of the services should be located on campus. Since that time, the service has grown and expanded. 
Every school year, UFS has presented 70 to 80 mini and major special events in the dining rooms,. adjusting schedules to meet the rigid demands placed on students' time by a myriad of academic and athletic activities. UFS has become the anchor producer for Junior Parents Weekend, support­ing the student committee for this celebrated 35-year-old tradition. 
Legendary special food events introduced by UFS include the famous Capt'n Crunch Week in 
24 
1983 and the "Taste of Notre Dame " this year where over 96 Companies presented 250 different kinds of food samples. Other well known events are the Senior and Athletic Luaus, the Welcome. Back Picnic, and Green Field and Stepan Center Picnics. 
Satellite social centers such as the Limited Edition Deli in South Dining Hall were opened to accommodate students during the 
=.:::?'"•:;:_::·:·-< 
:/-~ ., 
renovation of LaFortune. The Deli has the earmark of staying around after · the completion of the new contemporary food mall, "The New Huddle." 
Our catering service has become a hallmark of the campus, used by over 700 campus groups annually. Thousands of birthday cakes are very cleverly produced and decorated by our 18-hour-a­day bakeshop. USF has been requested to provide services at Corby Dining Hall in Corby Hall, Moreau Seminary, the infirmary, and Decio Commons in Decio Faculty Building. 
Our student dining and auxili­ary units have not gone unnoticed by professionals in the food ser­vice industry. One would ask why UFS received such recognition as the 1984 Ivy Award presented by Restaurant and Institutions maga­zine, one of the top magazines in the· industry. Why we were cited by student government for the first annual Irish Clover Award. Why our accomplishments · were recognized by the 1984 Theodore Hesburgh Award. Why our Decio Commons, student and special event menus were cited as second and third runner ups for the National Association of College and University Food Service recent competition. 
Finally, the highest award in food services, the very coveted International Food Manufacturers Association Silver Plate Award of 1986. I believe that the answer is that our operations have been recognized for the introduction of creative and innovative food ser­vices, which more often than not,. is the hallmark of a good campus food service. We have been cited for· our constant committment to excellence, outstanding leadership, and complete renovation of the bad reputation of the food service program. 
Our customers expect the impossible and we deliver. We will continue with every ounce of energy, every resource available to us, every employee -professional 
or support staff -to constantly work to achieve the ultimate situa­tion: a high quality food service operation that strives each day to meet the heavy demands of an innovative, creative University Food Services. 
Scholastic 

J:~li::1:iili:!le :g,endl :rn,e: adldiltirnm,'il !lnk,r:r'fn,~1~!,.'.ii.n ,cm your ,r.:~1mpm1 lm~g,~iiiil!I:' .~~ib qp.p(fftr1inJt~1. 
Add:rrr.,s:.i: 

_,,11111111111111111 11111111··,·...·,·..............·,11 · 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111m111111mmmmmmm, 
Cn't:!iJ' S'tii:tte: l.'!p
""'"'"'"""'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'""'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'""""""'""""""""""""""=""~~-c:111 

---~--------------· -­
,[ -~ ­
, • ~ ' , • • •• -, i , I 







