

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 
Entertainment reviews and·previews, Out of Bounds ·_ and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In-depth news and sports coverage. 
Read one for the Gipper! Campus Watch plus _Week in Distortion and On Other Campuses. 
Ca~pus Life stor~es ·to keep you informed of what's · happening on campus. Rememb~r: If you _see news happening ... you're ­probably reading Scholastic! 
If you don't have time to write home every wee-k, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription! 
?<-------------------------------------­
Please send.__ years of Scholastic to: 
Name: 
Address: 

City: ______ State: ___ Zip Code: __ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x . _ years = $ --~ 
Please send form with payment to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, In 46556 

CONTENTS 

NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 


· 2 Editor's Notes 
3 -Letter to ·the Editor · 8 Campus Watch 28 On Other Campuses 29 Week in Distortion 30 SPY Dispatch 32 Final Word 4 Code Control 4 He's· the Pope 

6. RescueMe 7 Pessimism Must -Stop 


11 Radiation Rumors ­12 Friction and ·Friendships _· 14 Dryingthe Midwest 

·20 Florida State Preview 22 The Next Cooperstown? 

24 Out of Bounds 
25 Fall Movies ­
27 Hamlet Review· 
Cover photos by Kenneth Osgood and FSU Sports Information 


FROM THE EDITOR 

.. 
It has been touted as the college football game of the year. Twenty-seven dollar general admission tickets are reportedly selling for $2,500 a pair. Some say that if it snows, the Fighting Irish will walk out of Notre Dame Stadium victorious. Others say the Irish have no chance, that _not even Touchdown Jesus can save them from Charlie Ward and his Seminoles. No matter what the outcome is, the fact remains that Saturday's game against Florida State -pitting number one against number two -has received more hype on campus than any other game since Notre Dame vs. Miami in October, 1990. It's definitely the one that loyal Notre Dame fans have worried about most all season •. And now it's here. What could be seen as the main event of the season; the football game that could once again put the glowing green No. 1 atop Grace Hall. Or the game that could break the Irish winning streak. . The country win be watching. The student body will be cheering. And hopefully, the Irish, led by quarterback Kevin McDougal, will "chop" the Seminoles to bits. Check out Sports Editor Amanda Clinton's preview of the big game on page 20. 
ALSO IN THIS ISSUE ... 
In Campus Life, Assistant Editor Kate Crisham. investigates· the age-old stereotypes, friendships and tensions existing between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women. Also writer Shannon Lennard takes us on a tour of one· 
. of the most mysterious structures on the campus, the Radiation Research building •. 
Over in the News department, Lissa Sheldon relates some faculty members' reactions to President Clinton's recently released health care plan, and Katie Redding _celebrates Pope John Paul II's 15-year reign. 
Assistant Entertainment Editor reviews Hamlet, and writer Steve Susco reviews some of the fall's movies in our Entertainment section. 
Departments sports a new feature this week, SPY Dispatch. This monthly column is brought to you by SPY Magazine, and it includes some quirky little points of interest. Check it out along with our regular columns. 
Scholastic issues a special welcome to all of the returning alumni and friends of Notre Dame that.are here for the game. Enjoy the issue; enjoy the game,' and "GO IRISH!'' 
-Margaret S. Kenny 
Sclwwtlcls puhlls'/udwttkly tluougfund Uu 1t:lwoly,,.,a:upt utters lo Sc1towlknnutb, typ,da11d l11cbul, Uu wrlln's ,...,,.,, 
thlriJig a:""""""OII 1t11d r,i,c..UO,, p,riab af rlu lbtlwrslfy of addnH 1111d pho11t 11lffllb,r, lbtiv,r1/ly 1twlt11ta shoubl /Jtcl""'
Noire Da111,, Noire D1tm,, IN, 46556 1111d pri,,t,d at Tiu Pap,,., thdry,11r /Jt 1t:1tool a11d coU.g,. F",:ulty ,,....,1,,,. shoubliacluh 
Iiu:.Milfonl, IN4$42. Tiu subscrq,Utni nte ls $25.IIO/ytu1111d tlltir dtpartmt11t, All httns n11ut &t -,,,.,d. N11mu will bt 
bad: wut•an alllla&lt at $1.25la,py. :n.,oputums apuntd withlltbl"1'011 Ntpltst 111 ctrtlll11 iRltllllt:11•, 
. /Jt Sdrowtll: tiff thou ofUu mitlum 111111 tdlton 111111 ,lo IIOt 
Sclwwtu: n:urot• tlui right to n:Jm lttttn Uu,t "" libdous a,11tct•sarily,.,,nu11tUu op/JtlouofUut11tlntdllorialboanlof 
obKt11tby t1lt lllwufUu lbt/t,dSfQtt•• Sc1tolastlc11lso will tdlt Sdrowtic orofUul 11111"'mly ofNam D-,, U. ,ut,,,/Jtldra• 
for copyfitt/Jtg, B"'"'"'"tic"I o, sptll/Jtg mo,. 1111d Sclwwtlc tlo11, f,u;ulty orlfwh11ta. Edilor1Ai.1lgrttd Sclwlastlc rtpnu11t 
,tyu.Bwuutofspi,c1,SclwwlkCllllllOtpriJitallktttr1rtuiti1d•. t1u op/Jtlo11 of t1u ""'forlly of lllt tu,:utlw tdllorlal board, M11111UCrlpta artw,lc,n,c,, AUwuolldlltdmattrials b<cOlllt Uu 
Addr,s, "" comspottd111« lo : 

prop,,ty ofScholiutlc, :n., Editor 
Sdrowtic Copyright1993SdrowticMagazbd, AUrlgf,btturvtd, R,pro­
lllFo"""' Ct11tt, 
thlctloll /Jt w1toltorl11partwllluiutwrltln,.,,,.inlolllsp,o1dl,­
NamD ..... ir, IN46556 
lkd, 
SCHOLASTIC 




¦------------------~ 
LETTER 

Dear Editor: 
After reading "Final Destination: Notre Dame," I felt transfers were 
· portrayed in this article under a very weak light Since some tennis "money star'' has declared that "Image is everything," I am concerned about the impressions that other students, maintenance workers and professors received after reading this article. 
First, the article used the ill-advised remark from transfer coordinator Susan Joyce who explained the two major groups of transfers. One group was those who entered the military or took some years off after high school. The other group was not admitted because if "weak high school performances." Looking all the way back to the eighties, I do not recall having a weak high school performance and if evidence is wanted, my transcripts are available upon request. 
Second, while the article does mention that 150 transfer students were admitted out of 450 applicants, the article makes the application process sound as simple as filling out a scorecard at the local Putt-Putt Golf and 
. Games. Contrary to what the article stated, the transfer application does include an essay, and SAT scores are required. In this age of images, the transfer students were portrayed as somewhat shady characters who did not accomplish the basic requirements that the regular "darners" have completed. · 
In the October 7, 1993, edition of Scholastic, an editorial lashed out at the "attitude of silence" that encompasses Notre Dame. I commend Scholastic for writing this valiant article and could not agree with you more. As students and faculty continue to break this silence, how about Scholastic tuning on a brighter light so future articles do not make inaccurate mistakes concerning transfer students. Notre Dame students who I believe took a different, more interesting, social, cultural and economic route to get where they wanted to be. 
For the transfers, Ted Liebler 

Correction 
In the October 21, 1993, issue the byline on the Campus Life article, "Up ... Up ... and Away!" was listed incorrectly. The actual author is Amanda Pontarelli. 
Scholastic regrets the error. 
NEWS 

Code Control 
Whether or not you like it, everyone is bound by the honor code; but does the code cheat the students? 
by Shannon Lennard 

Ithink students do feel an obligation to tell on a fellow student. One of the hard things to do, especially in a culture such as ours, where students are pushed to work together, is to tell on another student, be­cause you feel you are going against the grain of the community. It takes a lot of courage to do that." Father Oliver Williams,C.S.C., associate provost, understands the difficulties within the current honor code at Notre Dame. While the honor code has been used in some form oranother at Notre Dame for six years, it was just accepted as a standard at Notre Dame last spring. Positive effects of the honor code include teaching ethics and val­ues, and having a two-level system. 
The present system allows a third party to judge who is guilty and who is not, so per­sonal feelings between a student and a pro­fessor are less likely to interfere. Still, some problems with the honor code do exist These include the idea of promoting the honor code, having students accept the honor code and creating a standard system among the colleges, according to Father Williams. 
"The honor code is a positive factor in many ways. Students, professors and deans feel the honor code is a positive step. It allows the student to foster an idea which will help them in the future. Students are allowed to succeed on their own and accept responsibility for students who feel cheating is an acceptable avenue. Also, any student who cheats once has the chance to redeem himself. Seriouspunishmentisusedonly on those individuals who cheat often," said Father Williams. 
The ethics and values within the honor code are proactive. Most people feel the honor code is a positive step when used as an educational device. There might be a differ­ent system that would be more effective than the current system where catching all guilty people is concerned, according to Father Williams. "I do not think there is a better alternative [to the honor code]. It seems to me that the only other·alternative is [to do] the inverse of that Watch every move. But, you would not build a community doing that," said J. J. Marley, associate dean of the College of Engineering. 
One of the unique characteristics of the honor code is the so-called two level system. The two levels include major and minor cases. Major cases consist of either pre­meditated cheating or cheating on a major test or paper. A student found guilty would receive an F in the class. Minor cases in­clude cheating on a minor paper or assign­ment A student would secure an F on the assignment only. "When a student is found 


.SCHOLASTIC 

guilty twice, regardless of whether it is a minor or major case, he is dealt with by the dean. It is usually a suspension, and some­times a dismissal or other serious action," commented Father Williams. 
"The honor code is good because ifyou do suspect a case of dishonesty the confronta­tion and the case of guilty versus not guilty is put into the hands of a third party who is separated from the case. That way personal feelings cannot get involved," expressed Dian Murray, associate dean College ofArts and Letters. "Students do not need to fear a bad decision based on theirrelationship with the professor," continued Murray. 
Yet, there are negative aspects to the honor code. "The honor code has been in existence for only six years. Students do not yet consider the honor code to be a tradition. The honor code must bepromoted better and more often. This will help the honor code become more known by the students and around campus. Students do not yet under­stand their responsibility within the honor code," said Father Williams. 
"I think we need to do a lot more with what .it means and the expectations, and while we do some things. to promote it we must do something that deals with the classrooms," commented Eileen Kolman, Dean ofFresh­man Studies. "The honor code as it stands now is _unclear to students. There is a prob­lem dealing with the writing ofpapers. Stu­dents do not understand what the professor wants or the documentation is necessary when writing a paper. The honor code.must be explained in detail to the student body for it to be effective," continued Kolman. 
According to professors.Notre Dame stu­dents do not fully understand their involve­ment within the honor code. While some forms of cheating, such as using notes on a test, are obviously against the honor code, other forms are less noticeable. Ifa student signs a group paper, but never actually did any work on it, he is breaking the honor 
code.· Many students feel 
that the honor code is excellent in keeping a person from cheating, but if someone does cheat, there is a good chance that he or she willnotbetumedinby 
another stude11t. "I think the honor code creates indi­
vidual honor, and sets a good set of rules. It can be used poorly in relation with others, though. When viola­tors are turned in, the university often does 
not act on them. More often than not, the violator will receive a slap on the wrist. When students find out about this, they are less likely to turn someone in because all it does is tum. some people against them," 
commented Karen Kipp, a Notre Dame jun­ior. 
One other problem within the honor code consists of barriers between each of the colleges. If a student changes colleges, sometimes the previous accounts on cheat­ing do not follow him. This allows a student to be found guilty for the honor code infrac­tions once in the College ofArts and Letters, change to the College ofBusiness, and cheat once more without more severe penalties. 
"The problem with 

---------------the honor code is that 
"I think students do after the departments hold a hearing thefeel an obligation to tell files are kept in each individual college, on a fellow student. It but not in thef student's file. It istakes a lot O courage to hard to keep track of 
do that." second offense cases when a person has switched colleges. All files should go to -Father Oliver the provost's office," commented Murray. William, c.s.C. While the 
provost's office works to iron out the difficulties with the code, it is still in force in the classroom. Kolman commented, "I like the philosophy [that the honor code] represents, especially with new students and their expectations withNotreDameandlife." 0 


,.  . .  
•  ~  ...  -.  •  - •  • •  •  •  •  - • ­ •  • '~  
NEWS  

. 
Rescue 
As President Clinton tries to save the ailing health care system, his plan has aroused controversy around the nation and among the Notre Dame facuity 

by Lissa Sheldon 
Perhaps the most controversial piece of legislation proposed in recent years has been President Bill Clinton's health care reform. Clinton has been known to rely greatly on the advice of academics and scholars in his policy formation, but many professors here at the university are not in agreement with the present option to change the national health care system. The reforms stipulated in Clinton's plan will set up health alliances that replace the current insurance companies. People who are employed through companies will re­ceive their health coverage at work with a choice ofhealth plans.· Ifa person is a small business owner, employee of a small busi­ness owner, self-employed or unemployed he will sign up with his health plan ofchoice through the regional alliance office in his area. If a company .has more than 5,000 employees then the firm can provide em­ployee coverage by establishing a corporate alliance or joining the regional alliances. 

The health care proposal plans to pay for this comprehensive care through savings made by increasing competition in health care, reducing administrative cost and im­posing budget discipline. Iffor some reason the savings from these fails to pay for the plan, then the government will set a cap on insurance premiums to ensure that the pre­miums remain in line with inflation. 
Several Notre Dame professors with ex­pertise in the area of health care have their own ways to alter the plan. "Currently the insurance companies issue a blank check to see how much money each service will cost;. the companies can dictate the prices of care and services," said Dr. James Moriarity of Notre Dame Health Service. ''The cost of health care is well above the level of infla­tion, and if there is a cap on the insurance premiums, then the companies will be forced to control costs within an allotted amount of money." 
"Putting caps on insurance premiums is not the way to control costs. The American people are abusing the medical system," said Dr. David Solomon of the philosophy department ·"I am stunned by theamountof money spent on health care. The only way to curb costs is to convince the American people that some medical procedures are unnecessary and are a waste ofboth time and money. We need some moral leadership from the President, to discuss tough issues such as changing the people's demands on American national health care." Solomon 



m 
cited that in 1950 health care and educa­
tion both accounted for 5 percent of the 
Gross National Product Since then, health 
care spending has skyrocketed to 14 percent 
and education still remains at 5 percent. 
"Such a statistic promotes the idea that 
spending on health care could be reduced or 
even maintained at a set level to provide 
money for other worthy endeavors, such as · education," Solomon continued. 
"I support reform because of the current rising costs of insurance companies and the cost of liability insurance for doctors, but I disagree with much of the developing health plan," said professor of law David Kmiec. "The plan is contrary to Catholic social teaching, in that it calls for the federal government to usurp functions that are bet­ter performed by individuals, families and private organizations. And the health alli­ances which President Clinton proposes are just another way of phrasing state-run mo­nopolies. How happy are we now with state-run programs? If the state-run public schools are not providing quality education how can the state provide quality health care," Kmiec explained. 
"Students who participate in Urban Plunge are distraught when they see impov­erished• sick people who have no health care. The most positive thing about Presi­dent Clinton's health plan is that everyone will be covered. Mr. Clintori must stay forceful on the needs· of the poor," said Father Donald McNeill, C.S.C., director of the Center for S.ocial Concerns. 
In his speech Clinton referred to wellness programs that work as preventive medicine, incfoding vaccinations and warnings ,of the dangers of smoking or eating foods high in cholesterol that would improve health in or­der to save money on health care. "Such preventive methods will not save money in the long run. There was once a study that proved that people who quit smoking lived 
''People are abusing the system and should learn to let go sooner to cut down on the cost." 
-Dr. David Solomon 

longer and later died of other diseases such as Alzheimer's; this still consumes health care system money," said Solomon. "One­fourth to one-third of health care money is spent on a person in the last six months of their lives. The American people are abus­ing the system and should learn to let go sooner in order to cut down on the cost" 
"The consumer is faced with such high prices because you don't have a choice of health plans. With regard to the Notre Dame faculty plan, I orily have one choice of a 
health plan. And because the current Notre 
Dame health package does not cover all of 
my needs, I have to invest in private insur­
ance at outrageous prices," said Moriarity. 
Clinton's health plan will enable the indi­
vidual to choose a better plan that can save 
him money, according to Moriarity. ''The 
greatest sacrifice will be made by large em­
ployers who will now have to pay for their 
employee's health care." 
"Many people face higher costs if 

Clinton's plan is implemented. The eco­
nomic demands of the health care proposal 
on small business will force that sector of the 
economy to shoulder what is in reality a new 
health tax," noted Kmiec. Further, because 
of the demand on the employers to provide 
their employees with health coverage, the 
small businesses will no longer be able to 
hire as many employees. This will hurt the 
actual business as well as encourage a rising 
unemployment rate, according to Kmiec. 
"Clinton's definition of choice astounds me. ~he new proposal is displacing family decision making with these health cartels. · The better alternative is the authorization of 
medical savings accounts," said Kmiec. 
The wide range of opinions among the faculty of the university reflects the many and varied notions of health care reform present throughout the country. Father McNeill commented, ''Whatever the result, Mr. Clinton must keep in mind that he is ultimately taking care ofpeople in need and he is taldng care of one of the most precious parts of their lives -their health." 0 


: i 
I, i'I NEWS COMMENTARY 
1. 


Prevailing negative attitudes swallow campus pride 
Notre Dame certainly won't stop the 'Noles ..." "This place is a hole ...""Notre Dame girls spend way too much time at the yo­cream machines ... Notre Dame guys have only three things on their minds: sega, sex, and sports ..." "Notre Dame is nothing without football ..." "Notre Dame is dead in the winter ..." The pessimism. must stop. All too often, negativity dominates the talk ofthe campus at Notre Dame. This hasbeen especially noticeable now that the Florida State Seminoles are coming to town, and the majority of students seem to think that Notre Dame is going to get shellacked. Where is the loyalty and optimism championed throughout the Victory March? 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 
Do the words, "What though the odds be great or small," mean anything? 
Even ifwe do lose, couldn't we at least put up a good fight in the tradition of the Fighting Irish? A loss to Florida State does not mitigate the fact that we have the winningest and greatest football team in the history of college athletics. Besides, we have a very good chance of winning. Our defense is one of the best in the game~ ifit snows, the game's ours; and it has to comfort one to know that Touchdown Jesus will be watching over us come game-time. 
Further, all this talk of selling one's ticket for money is just way outofline. !tis one thing to think about. !tis one thing todoitquietly. But it is quite another to talk about it and bring the entire attitude of the campus down with you. Perhaps we should just forfeit the game, as was foolish! y suggested in the student newspaper last week. Then we could focus on improving this place, Notre Dame, from the "hole that it is." 
There are some things you almost never hear and you real!y don't want to hear. One of those is that Notre Dame is a hole. The last time I checked, the Basilica, the Grotto, the DeBartolo building, the library, the A.C.C., the stadium, the newest dorms and those wrought in tradition, were not "holes." Whatever the target, this negative criticism must stop. The epitome of a "hole" may be found at any of a hundred other schools and community colleges. Some of us, in fact, might be at such places ifnot for admission into Notre Dame, so listening to this mad tripe can· be bothersome. 
Walking to lunch sometimes, a Notre Dame male will often spot an attractive person of tlie opposite ~x and let his friends know that "she's hot" and what-not Then, someone will crack the usual, "Oh, she can'tbe from Notre Dame." The label that nearly all Notre Dame women are ugly is yet another instance of the fact that too few people have anything good to say at this school. In the first place, those of us who have attended single-sex high schools should not have to listen to this madness. Coeducation on the campus is a privilege for many of us. Further, Notre Dame women in general are not unattractive and cranky as most men seem and (I don't know why) like to think. Ifa particular group of men thinks otherwise, the least they could do is show a little respect.The way they always bring it up makes one wonder if they're proud to have heinous members of the opposite sex at the same campus. If you've got a particular problem with it, you can always go someplace else. The majority of the women ·here are decent-looking and more importantly they are decent people. Let's give the false chatter aboutNotreDame women a rest. 

Moving to the other side of the spectrum, Notre Dame men are some of the classiest, coolest guys around. Unfortunately, the women often have oµter thoughts -namely that the guys here are beer-drinking sex beasts who love sports and sega. Once again, this stereotypeis way offthe mark and merely generates morepessimism and negative talk around the campus. 
The most disturbing and most frequent degradation of Notre Dame by its own students is that Notre Dame is nothing without football. Basically they claim that we are a football factory. But U.S. News and World Report did not rate Notre Dame #25 in the nation because it liked our football team, the school colors or the way the band plays the fight song. They did it because the school has a 150­year tradition of influencing academics in America. And, in fact, we would have been down at around five or ten if we had a medical school. 
Finally, whining and complaining that Notre Dame is dead in the winter does nothing to make it any more exciting. Ifeveryone did something about it, maybe it wouldn't be so bad. Ifwe can't bring ourselves to do it, we could at least pretend to cheer for the hockey team or the basketball team like we do the football team. Hey, start a snowball fight or something. Throw a party. Do anything. But you're only fooling yourselves by telling everyone that Notre Dame stinks, acting like this place is persecuting you. It's your own fault if you prefer the high-life urban atmosph_ere. Chicago's an hour away. And ifit's that bad, leave. · 
"The pessimism must st9p," reads the hand-written sign on the message board outside thetoom.Jt is a sign that says things must change, attitudes must adjust. It calls each of us to live up to the positive, classy, loyal mindset exemplified by all Notre Dame students. And ifyou don't like it, pack your bags, quietly. You were never meant to be here. . 
8 
SCHOLASTIC 


NEWS COMMENTARY 
Off-Cam12us Watch 
BY THE GIPPER 
Know Patty O'Hara's address Got a problem?
Welcome to knew, a neighbor found Lou, returned 
Hate the Gipp?

the Gipp's brand him and everyone lived happily 
Heard a rumor? 
new "Off-campus Watch" ever after. Or maybe not ...
Need advice? 
feature! When the Gipp fore­warned his _readers that he would be doing an "Off-campus Watch," he had no idea he would get such an overwhelming response! He got, and the Gipp is not exaggerating, a grand total of two-count 'em, two -responses. Both from Castle Point. Let's see·what they say ... 
Onereaderreports that on the weekend of the BYU game, apprnximately 30 students ran outside oftheir cozy apartments during half time -in the pouring rain -and frolicked in the gigantic puddles between buildings. This is not all, however. They were not wearing clothes. Yup, butt naked. 
LEAPING LIZARDS 

The second reader repbrJ:ed • that Kevin Prendeville, a Castle Point resident, had a nice iguana mice-until the lizard jumped· off the balcony and scrambled away. 
The loss of his pet frightened Kevin, but he did not panic. Kevin is a smart Notre Dame senior. He put up posters advertising his misfortune: · "Lost: Iguana, 1 ft. long body with 2 ft. long tail. Name: Lem," 
Someone from the South Bend Tribune saw these signs and wrote a nice article on Kevin's search for Lou. Ne~t thing Kevin 
After the local

Tell the Gipp!!! 303 LaFortune news interviewed gipper@nd.edu Kevin and Lou 
fax: 631-9648  on TV, the  
p r o ­ ph.: 631-7569  verbial  
caca hit the  f a n  .  

Another resident of Castle Point complained vociferously anq threatened to move out and to start legal action, on account ofthe fact that Kevin's deadly dragon scared her daughter stiff. 
The verdict: Lou was evicted; He now lives with a doctor who owns eight other iguanas. 
WHERE IS OFF-CAMPUS??? 

The Gipp has never taken for granted the fact that the administration thinks he and his fellow students are stupid, until he discov­ered the definition of"off campus" inDuLac: "Off campus is defined as all areas and loca­tions not included in the 'on-campus' defini­tion." Thanks for clearing that up. 
IF ONLY THEY KNEW 

Speaking ofoff campus, everyone's favor­ite hero, Rudy, lives at Oak Hill-and has he been busy!!! Before break he watched a private screening of the movie bearing his 
r-------------------~ name with none other than 
TOP TEN REASONS TO MOVE BACK ON CAMPUS 
10. Everyone gets a free J-Crew catalog but you. · 
9. . Need to live "".ithin walking distance of quality health­care facilities. 
8. SYR's, and a chanceto break in your new khaki pants, blue blazer & red tie action kit 
7. Spacious living accomodations. 
6. Avoid temptation of spending time with evil and corrupting members of the opposite sex. 
5. Busch Light-warm. Just the way you like it. 
4. Those low-low bookstore prices. 
3. Friday night email-a-thon. 
2. Haven't heard Billy Joel in awhile. 
1. Yo-cream. 
Bill Clinton. The next morning, Clinton was seen on TV wearing a 
"Rudy" hat. Later, Rudy appeared on the Monte/ Williams Show, Arsenio, Good Morning America and Eye to Eye with Connie Chung. 
The Gipp just hopes Rudy appeared on at least one of the shows without 
crying. 
THE GIPP TOLD YOU SO 
Our little contest with FSU has gotten so 

much hype that the Gipp couldn't help but 
comment on it The Gipp's friends have 
repeatedly claimed, "FSU is going to be a 
nightgame. NBC soldtherightsto ABC." No, 
it is not. Kickoff is at 1:35 pm. These fine 
fellows forgot that the Gipp dispelled that 
same rumor in his "non-controversial minor 
dispelling section" a few issues ago. 
However, there is more to this rumor than 

meets the eye. First ofall, NBC never tried to 
"sell" anything to ABC. But sources say they 
did, however, off er the university somewhere 
around one million dollars for permission to 
have a prime time game. The university 
declined this offer. Why, my little Gippy 
friends ask? Well, according to the Gipp's 
high level administrative top secret source, 
"something terrible happened at the the last 
night game." What? Oh. You mean ... like ... 
it got dark? 
Of course the Gipp also heard rumors that 

theSouth Bend Police willbe providing horse­
ridingpolicemen tokeep fans from rushing the 
field after the game. The Gipp thinks this will 
not work. Imagine: 
"We won!!! Yippee! Wow! Let's rush the 

field!" 
"Wait! WATCH OUT!!! -He's got a 

horse!" 
OTHER (unverified) FSU RUMORS: -150undercover police will be hiding in the stands, presumably checking for student IDs. · -Freshmen will be violently mutilated for joining the Seminoles in their "chop-cheer." -Norm (from Cheers) will attend this game. 
-So will Bill Clinton. 
-FSUQBCharlieWardappearedinPeop/e, 
half-naked. II 
-This will be FSU's "scalping game." If i 
they win, they will steal a clump ofgrass from /I 
our stadium and bury it on their campus. i 
' 
-But the worst ofthem all: In the Chicago Tribune,FSU coach Bobby Bowden admitted that his players "have· never heard of the Gipper." Well maybe they should learn how to read. · . 



BRUNO'S 
PIZZA 
1111Q 11,1 

Bruno's North Bruno's South Open for carry out and delivery only. Accepting reservations on weekends. 
1 • 
One 18 inch 2-item pizza for $15. Available for private parties and banquets. Or one 14 inch 2-item pizza for $10. Open at 10:00 a.m. on football Saturdays. 115 N. 31 (just North of campus) 2610 Prairie Avenue. 273-3890 288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We now deliver our pizza right to Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
·.·~.lifli_} 

~ SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
¦ 

• SR-_23 At Ironwood 
• US 31 N (By North Village Mall) 


CAMPUS LIFE 
or fatal substances. but according to Bentley. 
this is not the case. "The radiation building 
does contain high energy sources, high volt­
RADIATION 
age and many chemicals, but none of these are 
RUMORS 

. Brent Tadsen 
Scientific glass blower Ian Dunc_anson at the radiation lab 
Mysterious building's_ direcior . , dispels time-honored myths 
by Shannon Lennard 
~ 
. . 

Itis the most unknown and strange build ing on Notre Dame's campus, the one next to the library, the one that no one ever seems to go into or come out of. The radiation building is a iny~tery to most Notre Dame students. ' · The radiation building was built in the early 1960's by the Atomic Energy Com­mission, which is run by the government, specifically to pursue the study of the ion­ization ofradiation and materials. ··"In 1942 there were no known effects of highly ionized radiation. They decided to study the issue in more detail," said John Bentley, assistant director of the building. "This is now one of the premier chemical radiation [laboratories] in.the world." The building has been the subject" o f manycampusrumorsandmisconceptions. One of the well-known myths about the radiation building is that no one ever enters or leaves the building during· ·daylight hours. -Bentley -dispelled this myth by guaranteeing that people do in fact enter and leave the building. 
Other sttange conceptions have arisen around the building's curious reflective windows. ''Thewindowsarereflectiveonly because this building was built 30 years ago,'' explainedl3entley. ''Reflective win­. dows help keep the heat entering the build­ing to a minimum in the summer, while it 
keeps the cold air out in the winter." 
Perhaps the most common misconcep" 

tion, however, s·rirround the research taldng 
place within the building. Because the sign 
outside the building says "Radiation. Re~ 
search,'' people have called the radiation 
building to see if the department could dis­
pose of their hamdous wastes. The radia­
tion building does not engage in this sort of 
work, according to Bentley. He said other 
people have called with questions on the 
subjectofradiology. Thissubjectisalsoout 
oftherangeoftheradiation building, which 
concerns itself solely ·with the chemical 
reactions that take place within radioactive 
materials. 
The radiation building may sound like a 

dangerous place, conjuring images oflead­
helmeted technicians dealing in poisonous dangerous. It is no more dangerous than the chemistry or physics building," said Bentley. 
As the radiation building is less hazardous than people think, visitors are allowed to enter and~ven tour the basement of the building, "where all the heavy stuff is kept" The basement is so large that many of the experi­mentation rooms are actually under the side­walks surrounding the building," explained Bentley. Protective clothing and helmets are not required when touring the building. 
To increase safety in this area, the walls are afixed with many fire extinguishers, eye wash stations and signs that stress the importance of being careful on the walls. Furthermore, the walls encompassing major experiments are four feet.thick. 
The first room one would encounter in the basement of the radiation building is the ob­servation room, which holds computer screens showing the progress of a given ex­periment · 
The actual laboratory room contains a mul­titude of wires that run along the ceiling and the walls. Soni~groups ofwu:esare six inches wide and go on for several yards. Depending upon the the. type of experiment being per­fonned; this room could contain anything froin a small. electron conductor to a large one 
about 20 feet long. _. 
One of the most interesting experiments is ·. ·., the Van deGraffESR, anelectron accelerator. The machine itself is oval-like in stri1cture, '_._ · almost seven feet long and about five feet across. Today, the ESR has been painted to 
resemble a football; It is brown and even has lacing. ·The side of this football holds the autographs of Dan Devine's national champi­·onship team. 
Although the radiation building is not affili­ated with the university in any way. it serves a useful purpose to Notre Dame and the indi­vidual stode11:L The building's current staff consists of both university faculty and non­unh•ersity faculty, as well as eight graduate students. In addition, it provides high school seniors and undergraduates with the opportu­nity to participate in chemistry and radiation experiments during the summer. 
"Anyone can enter the building and is en­couraged to do so because it is part of this campus,'' said Bentley. . 

CAMPUS LIFE 
The FRICTION••• 

GY1";( 
by Kate Crisham 
Notre Dame sophomore Michelle Nolan first encountered the tenuous relationship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women at the beginning of her freshman year. "All the sophomores in my sectidn were telling 'SMC chick' stories," she recalled. "One of my good friends from · high school went to Saint Mary's, and I couldn't un­derstand how an entire. school could be labeled based on stereotypes." 


The fricton between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women has been an undercur­rent on campus since the university first became co-educational. In 1971, Father Theodore Hesburgh offered Saint Mary's College a proposal to merge with the univer­sity, thereby bringing about coeducation. But the merger dissolved when Hesburgh refused Saint Mary's demand of tenure for its professors. Notre Dame proceeded with . co-education, and relations between the two institutions became strained. Stereotypes of 'SMC chicks' and 'Domer girls' developed and continue to impede healthy relations 
today. 
Most students agree that definite tensions exist between the two schools. "I wouldn't sayI'veever encountered actual hatred from a Notre Dame woman," said Saint Mary's sophomore Clare Heekin, "but most tend to shy away when they find out I'm from Saint 
Mary's." 
Notre Dame sophomore Kathryn Cavanaugh agreed: "You really only meet Saint Mary's students on a social basis, so that brings in a competitive aspect. . Al­though I have some great friends at Saint Mary's, I have had girls be incredibly rude to me simply because I go to Notre Dame." 
Archaic stereotypes are often cited as the culprit for the tension. "When I firslcame to Notre Dame, I didn't know ofany problems between . the two schools," recalled Notre Dame sophomore StephanieReday. "I think that the stereotypes are passed on by upper­classman." Saint Mary's sophomore Katie McHugh's own experience echoes Reday's assessment "We were told as freshman that Domer girls are very stuck up, unfriendly 
SCHOLASTIC 

.. 
and arrogant" .. 
The persistence of these stereotypes from . class to class is striking, but so is theirrange. Freshman Brad Dehond said he encoun­tered theip before he even arrived in South Bend. "Everyone back home told me that Notre Damegirls were smart, whereas Saint Mary's girls were less intelligent but better looking." Dehond ·discovered for himself that these stereotypes were simply untrue. "I've met a wealth of really attractive Notre Dame girls who are very coolandalotoffun · to hang around with.'~ 
So what causes the propagation of these myths? Junior Brian McCarthy believes the two schools should be totally separate. "Even though they are considered our 'sister 
school,' we.'rereallynotveryclosetothem." 
Sprouse said. "There's a lot of tension between the females and, to a lesser degree, the males." 
But others, sucti as Saint Mary's freshman Amy Renee Lalick, see no reason why Saint Mary's students. should not utilize Notre Dame. "We 're so close together, I don't see why w,e shouldn't take advantage of the benefits Notre Dame offers/' she said. 
The Notre Dame administration also re­

jects the belief that Notre Dame receives no benefits from Saint Mary's. ''The two insti­tutions are very interdependant on each other," said Notre Dame Director of Public Relations Michael Garvey. "Notre Dame wou'id be much less of school without the presenceofSaintMary's,and vice versa;" In addition, Notre Dame students are able to take classes from Saint Mary's renowned nursing, education, and music programs. 
Despite the friction, most students believe that women from the two schools can de­velop meaningful friendships. Saint Mary's 
Continued on page 15 

that the stereotypes are based on ignorance. "It's natural to want to place people in groupings, but I try not to ste­reotype a person ·based on her 
•••and the 
college. As you get to know people better, the stereo­types change. and dis-
FR IE ND SHIPS 
solve." "You can't take 5000 women from one 
. . 

school and 2000 from another and expect them to all fit the same inold," said sopho­more Nick CappozoJ,la. "These stereotypes are formed by guys sitting around after parietals, talking about what didn't hap­pen." 
Yet other students argue !hat tensions result from · the belief that Saint· Mary's students are taking unfair or unearned ad­vantage of their close proximity to Notre 
Dame. · · · · "It really upsets me when Saint Mary's girls say that they go to Notre Dame," said Notre Damejunior)hirley Nagy. "Being near Notre Dam~_opens them up to alot of benefits, but tQey should realize that they are two entirely different schools." . Junior Dave Bozanich agreed: "I have no problem with Saint Mary's students using Notre Dame, but they are afforded every right and priviledge ailowed Notre Dame students. It seems as ifNotreDamereceives no such benefits back from Saint Mary's." Sophomore Mike Sprouse believes that 
BETWEEN NOTRE DAME WOMEN AND ST. MARY'S WOMEN 

CAMPUS 
Drying the 
Midwest 
Notre Dame students spend fall break helping the victims of the flood of 1993 

bus trip from South Bend to St Louis, Mis-. by Abigail May souri, for fall break. At. 5:30 that first morning, the NotreEighty three blue-jeaned darners shuf­Dame Flood Relief Group had piled onto the 
fled offcrowded Salvation Army vans, bus that carried them from their living quar­and 83 pairs of eyes took in devastation ters at Kenrick Pastoral Center to the Salva­difficult to comprehend. The air was warm tion Army station in St. Louis. There ..the group split into several smaller teams. Out­fitted with plastic coveralls, rubber work boots, gloves and protective masks, the groups headed in different directions for some ofthe hardest-hit villages in the flood­ravaged area. Most of the teams travelled to towns about an hour from St. Louis, where 
that Monday and the lifeless little towns cowered under the beaming sun. Contrast­ing with the brightness of the beautiful fall morning stood bare trees, dry, cracked ground and settled dust ev­erywhere. 
Glancing around the ru­ins of what had orice been a 
,,l 
town like any other, the stu­dents caught their first glimpses of the picture they would see all week long. This summer's flood had left its mark, erasing every trace oflife from the faces of these small Midwestern villages. Eighty-three people looked around and understood why they had made the eight hour the:x again split up and tack­led two or three houses at a tifile. Then, in only a few hours, they took apart all that a family had worked for years to build. all that the flood waters had com­pletely destroyed. 

The tasks performed by the group varied from day to day and from team to team. Each team would usually work on one or two houses a day, doing what­ever work the homeowner felt needed to be done. This involved tearing down walls and ceilings ruined by the ten-foot waters, remov­ing furniture and appliances 

Notre Dame students are tired bl.it exuberant 
and tearing up carpets and
after a day of hard work. 
SCHOLASTIC 

. 
! 

floors. In addition, they dug.out rooms and basements that were. inches deep in thick, heavy mud and sludge. Every house had suffered a different .degree of damage. Upon arriving at a home that had been completely submerged, seemingly beyond repair, tfie students occasionally wondered if their efforts were futile. 
"Sometimes the things they asked us to do seemed p·ointless," said sophomore Holly Campbell. "But we just tried to re­member that this was someone's home and that our job was to help them deal with the situation. We weren't there to tell them what they should or shouldn't try to do." 
In general, though, the workers returned to the Kenrick Center at the end of the day 
filthy, exhausted and filled with the satisfac­tion of knowing that they had made a signifi­cant difference in someone's life that day. 
"It's incredible seeing the changes you can make in somebody's life," said sopho­more Don Zimmerman; "It's total devasta-· tion, and you're improving it so much." 
"Wha~ we did in two hours would have taken these people three or four weeks," added junior Chris Setti, "and they justkept saying thank you and how much they'll always remember us." . 
While the students looked forward to opportunities to talk to the people in whose homes they worked, they also felt that their presence made the job more difficult. Sift­ing through pictures, clothing, even toilet­rie!l and dishes was a sad task in any case; With the owners of these barely recogniz­able mementos standing there, these re­mains ofshattered lives became all the more painful. 
Jack Bomkamp, a sophomore whose group worked on the same house for several days, said "As we cleaned up we kept run~ ning across broken pieces of this man's life. We found his shredded college diploma, ~d then someone looked down and realized they were standing on his varsity letter jacket. It was all worth it, though, when he kept saying that he would never have been able to do all this himself." 
As the vans left at the encl of the last day, thegroupmemberslookedatthewreckagefor the last time. Feelings of accomplishment were accompanied by a sense ofregret that a huge amount of work remained unfinished. There will not soon come an end to the hard work or the suffering for the people of those towns. 
The group had made a difference, though, and for·a few families it was the.difference between starting over and giving up. Every student left there with that knowledge. And every student left there with a better under­standing of what it is to hear someone say thank you. . 
Continued from page 13 

sophomore Katie O'Donnell worked as a camp counselor in Wisconsin with three Notre Dame women this summer. "I devel­oped three great friendships, " said O'Donnell. ''There was absolutely no ten­sion between us because there was no reason for any." 
Notre Dame junior Angie North con­curred: "I'm taking a class at Saint Mary's this semester, and I really like all of the girls in my class. None of the girls that I know personally fit the typical 'Saint Mary's' ste­reotype." 
The future of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's relations poses many questions to the two campuses. Can something be done to allieviate the tensions between the two schools? Saint Mary's Director of Public Relations Brett McLaughlin claimed that the situation is being dealt with both formally and informally. "Not a month goes by when administrators don't get together informally to discuss this problem." said McLaughlin. "On a mote long term level, we have also established a subcommittee to study rela­tions between the two schools. These find­ings will be released sometime next year." 
Students also have strong feelings on the issue. Cappozolla fears that "as more women are admitted to Notre Dame, the tensions will only increase." And Dehond believes that the friction is "a naturally occuring thing. If the administration makes a conscious effort to stop it," he said, "the situation will only become worse." 
But some students, such as McHugh and Reday, said that increased interaction and joint activities would allieviate most of the tensions. "When you get to know people on a personal basis, you realize how ridiculous the stereotypes are," said O'Donnell. 
In the end, each individual mustmake his or her own choice to either accept what one hears through the grapevine or to look be­yond the stereotypes and keep an open mind. As Notre Dame sophomore Elissa Micek said, "We should realize that we are all women. Just because we go to different schools does not mean that there are funda­mental differences in our personalities. We should respect people for their individual qualities and not distinguish between 'us' and 'them."' . 

./ 
Send information for your event to: Jenny Tate, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 631-7569. · 

Thursday 11 
Fall Concert: Notre Dame Orchestra, 
8:30 p.m., Washington Hall. Movie: "On Toe Waterfront,'' 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater, ~orturie,S. Acoustic care: 9:00-12:00 p.m., LaFortune. Comedy: ''The Foreigner," directed byJames Birder, 8:00 p.m., Little Theater, Moremi Caner for the Arts, SMC. 
I 
I 
i 

Friday 12 
Tennis: Notre Dame women vs. Florida State University, Eck Temtls Pavilion. Fall Concert: Notre Dame Glee Club, 
8:00 p.m., Washington Hall Swimming: Notre Dame vs. Florida State University, 7:00 p.m., Rolfs Aquatic Center. Fllm: "Map of the Human Heart," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2. Movie: "Sleepless in Seattle," 8:00 & 
10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Movie: ''The Breakfast Club," 7:00 & . 
9:30 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, SMC, · 
s. 
Comedy: ''The Foreigner," directed by James Birder, 8:00 p.m., Little 1bcater, Moreau Center for the Arts, SMC. · 
Saturday 13 

Pre-Game Concert: Shenanigans, 12:00 p.m., JACC. Football: Notre Dame vs. Florida State, 
1:35 p.m., Notre Dame stadium. Film: "Map of the Human Heart,'' 7:30 & 9:45, Snite, $2. Movie: "Sleepless in Seattle," 8:00 & .. 10:30, Cushing Auditorium, $2. Variety Show: ''Black Images," 7:00 p.m.~ Washington Hall,$. Movie: ''The Breakfast Club," 7:00 & 
9:30 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, SMC, $. Comedy: ''The Foreigner," directed by James Birder, 8:00 p.m., Little Theater, Moreau Center for the Arts, SMC. 

C 
\. 
F 
ti 
p 
C 
J1 
~ 
W« Fla 
w, 
WE 
Ko Wt Ng

Touch Four 
Dial 239-2500, .then press: x6050 for news headlines x6052 for world news x6121. for top pop albums x6571 for prime time TV x.6129 for :Video releases.· 
\ ;unday 14 
'acuity Plano Recital: '"The Roman­
e Prelude," William Cerny, 2:00 .m., Annenbcrg Auditorium. 
:omedy: 'Toe Foreigner," directed by uncs Birder, 2:30 p~m., Liule Theater, forcau Center for the Arts, SMC. 
x 1031 for local weather x 6736 for national weather x 6123 for movie reviews x 9463 for thought for the day 

• 
x 6238 for TV sports events x 6230 for national sports report 
x 6263 for college basketball 
Monday · 15 
Film: "Videodrome,'' 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2. 
First Day ofSpring Registration 
Tuesday 16 
Lecture: '"N:ational Identity and Political Culture: The Case of.Chile with Refer­ence to Mexico," Larissa ~nitz, 12:30 p.m., C-103, Hesburgh Center. Film: "Waiting for Fidel:' 7:00 p.m., Snite,$2.. . Film: "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington," 
9:00 p~m:, Sr,tlte, $2. Camp~s Bible Study: 7:00 p.m., Badin Conference Room. 
African Film Fall Festival .Room 140 DeBartolo 
· 7:00 p.m. 

~dnesday November 10: Je Te Plumerai (Africa, I Will . ~ece You), by Jean-Marie Teno klnesday November 17: Death of a Prophet, by Raul Peck ~nesday N~vember 23: The Village Teacher~ by Bassek ba 
bhio . . ~nesday December 1: I.;a Vie Est Belle: Life is Rosy, by ;angura Mwezeand Benoit 
TOUCH 
FOUR 

Wednesday 17 . 
Fourth Day Meetings: 7:15 p.m., Stanford­Keenan Chapel. Movie: "JFK," 7:00 & 1():30 p.m., Cushing A~torium, $2. 
· · 



Welco111e Fans ! Come Join Us At 


*Breakfast served all day *Lunch *Dinner 

*Or a snack ANYTIME
OPEN 

Just minutes from campus 
Hr,tro Dama Avo.
24 HOURS 
1710 N. Ironwood 277-7400 



After The Game Order 

CHINESE FAST FOOD 
Right Near Campus 525 N. Eddy St. 232-11777 

We Deliver to Notre Dame $6.00 Minimum/ $1.00 service charge for orders under $15.00 

Mon. thru Thurs. 11:00 am -9:00 pm Fri. & Sat. 11:00 am -10:00~pm 
18 

. , .., 
..., ,,,. ' ' . ' , / -. -' . ­
SPORTS 


FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK 



Cindy Daws.• Daws, a freshman from Northridge, CA, led the women's soccer team past Xavier in last Sunday's MCC championship game. Daws scored her team leading 16th goal of the season and she also had two assists in the game. Daws was named the MVP of the MCC tournament. 
Jamie Ling. Ling, a sophomore from Charlottetown, Canada, helped the Irish hockey team tie seventh ranked Michigan State at the A.C.C. last Saturday. He scored the lone Irish goal with 7:34 remaining in the second period. Ling's goal broke the Irish five period scoreless streak. 
WVFI The Voices of the Fighting Irish 
Monday 7-9 p.m. Kelly Daugerdas  have Dave or Larry "Bud" Melman at my  Thursday 11 p.m.-1:45 a.m.  
"How Catholic Am I?"  wedding? Oh dear, it got worse. My mom  Teds Peterson "Anyone Who Says  
noncconceited world of lustful images of  stared taping episodes ofRegis that had J .J.  'Bubblegum Grunge' Hasta Spend  
more perfect God, and to praise the one  on, from the time she said she met Chris  the Night in the Box"  
ost in question. Here is where I need much  Isaak til the mock co-dependency episode. I  I'll complain a lot Seriously, I mean, wh  
atisfaction and fulfillment out ofthe bleak  must admit, I gradually fell victim to her . died and made Rolling Stone "Creator o  
and ofNotre Dame where men come to spill  feminine guiles, Now I will not rest until she  Annoying Labels for Alternative Bands?'  
eer on the best of the outspoken. I need to  is mine. Hence, this show, by which I will  As if Urge Overkill got together years ag  


iscover my Catholic attitude conflicting ith my sexual desires. It is loud! So loud hat the genetic makeup of the dandelion on't stop rubbing my back. Oh, a wonder 
o hate all that I play. Call in, and we'll iscuss quilting techniques. · 
Monday 11 p.m.-1:45 a.m. James Kennedy ''I'm Only Doing This to Impress J.J. Philbin" 

y mom started watching Regis and Kathie 

e this summer and became fixated on the dea that I meet Jennifer Jay Philbin (she oes here) and, somehow, make her my 
ife. Atfirst I was skeptical. But then I ought about it. Regis is acquainted with avid Letterman. How cool would it be to 
This is a paid advertisement. 

project 500 watts of pure love direct to her for three hours every week. Jenny-I'm-a­comin' for ya, babe. 
Tuesday 9-11 p.m. Lael Taylor "Lil' Blabner and the Pan-Galactic Solar Fun Hour(s)" 

"Piglets in a hat, piglets on the floor!" ex­claimed Garrell, the little solar powered car with the big, big heart. "I sure do enjoy piglets." Hurtle through the cosmos with me -won't you? 
Wednesday 7-9 p.m. Todd Pagden ''The Coroner's Report" 

A cameous cacoffiny ofvarious music rang­ing from Smashing Pumpkins to Carcass­something to wake you up. 
and said, "Geez, I'll bet some lame ban (PearlJ am) is gonna hit itbigin seven years and ifwe get crackin' soon, we can rip 'e offreeeeal good!" uhh ... was that out loud. Umm ... I'll probably play some music too 
Friday 9-11 a.m. Ted Liebler · "Jet Set Garage Sale (The Swinging Sounds)" 

Over t1!e Atlantic flew a Jet Set of Sound which landed in bare light bulb pads o NYC, the beaches of LA and the bedroo and garages of suburban USA. With a Bi Star above, the lights went out and the ga rage doors closed whiles and Zepplins rule the air. But the kids grew restless, and th lights turned back on and the garage door swung open again ... Welcome to the Jet Se Garage Sale, the swinging sounds. 

WillThe 
•,j 
!I j 
Chop Stop ·Here? 
"To me, Charlie is like a vapor," by Amanda Clinton saidFlorida State headcoach Bobby Bowden. "Just when you think you
H-e grabs the ball and takes a few steps see him and can reach out and grab ­
back. Glancing from side to side, he him, he's gone." dancc:s away from the clutches of a hungry The Seminole Fast Break Offense defender. He _bullets a pass, threading be-: will pose the most potent offensive tween two defenders, where it lands in the threat to the Irish this season. anns of an open receiver who easjly jogs Florida State uses a no huddle style into the endzone. with the Fast Break technique, which places 
The nation has watched Reisman hopeful a lot of pressure on the wide receivers. · Charlie Ward easily dodge the competition In the first eight games of the season, the so far this season. But this Saturday, Ward Seminoles notched 20 rushing touchdowns and the elusive Florida State offense will to its competitor's one,_ and they scored 20 face one of its toughest competitors yet -passing touchdowns compared to four for Notre Dame. their competitors'. 
Nine_ starters return from the 1992. Semi­nole offensive squad including junior wide receiver Kez Mccorvey, known as Ward's go-to receiver . . Mccorvey leads the team with 40 catches and 581 receiving yards. ·He has tallied two touchdowns in the first eight games this · · ~on. _So far in his career, McCorvey has over 1500 yards in re­ceptions, making him ninth on the Seminole all-time reception lists with 96 catches and Last season Junior cornerback Corey Sawyer was second tenth for receiving In the nation for Interceptions and fifth In punt returns. yards with 1505. · 


Bobby Bowden, the Florida State head coach, Is the only coach In Division I history with six straight ten win seasons. 
Sophomore center Clay Shriver is touted by Bowden as one of the best in the country. 

·· "At center we feel.like .we have a good one with experience coming ~ack in Clay Shriver," Bowden said. 
He touts 21 intimidation blocks and has not let his man sack the quarterback once this season. . 
"We feel pretty good about our skill people on offense. We've got just about everybody back and they have a lotof talent and a lot of experience," Bowden said. "We're anxious to work some more on this offense because it kind of took us by surprise last year." . 
By far the most widely known offensive· player returning for FSU is senior quarter­back Charlie Ward.:Last year he emerged as one of the top college players by breaking the Seminole single game and single season total offense records. Ward also was named the Atlantic Coast Conference Player of the Year and was selected as third team All­American. :.. "Charlie got off to a slow start last year. But remember, that was his first time start~ ing.· Now he's got a year under his belt I'm almost scared to say it, but he could be even better," Bowden said at the beginning of the 

SCHOLASTIC 

season. 
Despite·surgery last spring on his shoul­der, injured playing basketball for theSemi­noles, Ward appears to be better than ever. Already this season he has completed 168 passes on 241 attempts for 2011 yards. He has thrown 16 touchdowns with only one interception and also has four rushing touch­downs. 
"I expect him to come back good as new," said Bowden at the beginning of the season. "It's funny that he kept hurting that thing playing basketball \Yhen he never had a probl~m _during fo_otball. Of course, he didn't get caught too much playing foot­
ball." . : -. Whil~ the Florida ~tate offense may seem to be the pride·of the _Seminoles, the defense should not be overlooked. In the first eight games it allowed only five touchdowns to be scored. Compare that to Notre Dame's gameagainstNavy two weeks ago where the Irish defense allowed three touchdowns in the first half. But, on the other hand>last weekend the Seminole defense gave away 20 points to ~aryland. . "I like the players we have coming back on defense. We'il have to see if they can perform_ as well as the group before did," said ijovvden. ''They hav:e the talenL" 
.·. 
. 


The Seminoles lost six start­ers from last year, including standouts Dan Footman, Carl 
. 'Simpson, Reggie Freeman and Marvin "Shade Tree" Jones. Footman, Simpson and Free­man were all second round NFL draftpickslastyear. AndJones, the winner of the Butkus and Lombardi awards anda consen­sus All-American, left.school a year early to play pro ball. 
"No question there are ·some holes to fill, especial~y on the defense," Bowden said. Junior outside linebacker Der­rick Brooks is touted as one of the nation's best defensive players. Despite missing the 

Virginia and Wake Forest 
games because of a neck injury, he has 
netted 54 tackles so far this season. Brooks 
intercepted two passes, recovered two 
fumbles and sacked the quarterback twice in 
six games. Corey Sawyer, a junior comer back, has ten career interceptions. In the first seven games_he registered 30 tackles and knocked down eight passes. 
Sophomore defensive end Derrick Alexander has six tack­les for a loss arid three and a half quarterback sacks in the first seven games. With 56 total tackles and four broken up passes, Alexander is ranked second on the squad. So far this year he had ten plus tackles in three games. 
The Seminoles are known for their special teams. The kickoff·re­turn squad last year was the best in the country, scoring three _times on the kickoff and twice on punt returns. And punt returner Sawyer, kickoff returners McMillon and. sopho­more Tamarick Vanover have all re­turned to the 1993 squad. 
An_d Scott Bentley, the FSU freshman 
kicker, is well known on the Notre Dame 
campus for_ bad mouthing the university 

aft.er a recruiting visit here. Bentley, in the . first eight games, has scored ten field goals on twelve· attempts while he has made 35 e~tra points on 43 ~ttempts. 
The Seminoles have a challenging 1993 
schedule; seven of their opponents finished 
in the top 25 iast season. 

"We've got our. work cut out for us. We've got a schedule as challenging as ·any~yin the country," said Bowden at the beginning of the year. "Just look at those non-conference opponents. We've got three ofthe top ten teams in the nation right there. And the ACC, top to bottom is as . tough as any league in the nation. I learned 
that last year." 
But so far, Florida State has easily beaten 
itsopponents. Theclosestgamewasagainst 
Miami, where the final score was 28-10. 
Other final results include 57-0 against 
Clemson, 51-0 against Georgia Tech and 
54-0 against Wake ForesL 
"We've aboutreached the point where we have become victims of our own success. Everyone starts saying, 'national champi­onship, national championship, national championship.' What the coaches andplay­ers· must do is .be realistic, be honest and have a good time," Bowden said. "We are where we want to be, always mentioned at the top and we should enjoy it" 
. But if it's up to Notre Daine, Florida State only has one more day ofenjoymentleft. . 

i 
SPORTS 

South Bend The Next Cooperstown? 
After failing in Kings Island, Ohio, the College F 09tball Hall ofFame will re-open its doors in South Bend in 1995 

by Ki.m Tonto 

The college football tradition at the Uni­versity of Notre Danie has made South Bend, Indiana, the home of college football. It is quite fitting, then that South Bend will become the new home of the National Col­lege Football Hall of Fame when it opens in the summer of 1995. The Hall of Fame will be built in down­town South Bend, on the southwestcornerof Washington and St. Joseph streets across from the Century Center convention center and the Marriott Hotel, only two miles from Notre Dame's campus. The Hall ofFame is moving to South Bend from Kings Island, Ohio, where it closed down in 1992 due to poor attendance. The building in Kings Island was built in 1978 across the street from an amusement park in hopes that it would attract the same people who visited the park. However, this ap­proach was not successful. "The reality of the situation was that after nine hours at an amusement park, the last thing you want to do is spend three hours in a museum," said Mickey Dobsky, the project coordinator for the Hall of Fame. · Expected attendance was 300,000 visitors each year, but only one-tenth of that was met During the winter of 1984-85, the hall opened only on weekends, and it closed indefinitely in January 1992. The National Football Foundation has taken a business­like approach to the Hall ofFame, searching nationwide for a new location that would draw a greater number of spectators.The search for a new home for the Hall of Fame began in September 1991, when the National Fooiball Foundation offered bids to the cities that had local chapters of the foundation. Thirty-five of these cities, in­cluding South Bend, responded.­The South Bend proposal began with Bill Starks and Edward "Moose" Krause of the South Bend chapter of the National Football Foundation who approached Mayor Joe Kernan. Mayor Kernan then spoke with the Project Future department of the city, re­sponsible for bringing in new attractions that will aid the economic development of South Bend. Patrick McMahon, executive director of Project Future, with the help of over 100 people, created the proposal that was pre­sented to the National Football Foundation in November 1992. It proposed a $14 mil­lion facility to be built in downtown South Bend.In addition to South Bend, the National Football Foundation also considered sites in Houston, Atlanta, New Orleans and the New Jersey Meadowlands. But the South Bend proposal won out primarily be­cause the city lies in the heart of the Big 10 Conference as well as the U.S. population. The city's location is within a five hour drive of 42,008,492 people and is the second most populated area in the country according the Sales and Marketing Management maga­zine. In addition, the diverse athletic sched­ule of the University of Notre Dame draws athletes from all over the country to South Bend, and Notre Dame football attracts over a quarter of a million different fans each year. On July 13, 1992, William Pearce, the chairman of the National Football Founda­tion, announced that the new Hall of Fame would be located in South Bend. Last July; Mayor Kernan announced that the facility will open in the summer of 1995. In addition to the Century Center location, several other sites in downtown South Bend and near the Indiana Toll Road were consid­ered for the Hall of Fame. However, "only the Century Center was considered seri­ously because of the impact and proximity associated with it." Building the Hall of Fame across the street from the Century 
Center "makes the economics work," said 
Mayor Kernan. 
"By linking the two facilities, we are able 
to take advantage of a variety of existing 
assets: professional management staff, sales 
and marketing systems, profession audio 
visual services, foo and beverage services 
and accounting, just to name a few," said 
Mayor Kernan.
The Century Center will be operated in 
conjunction with the Hall of Fame. 
According to Sandy Lee, a 'marketing em­
ployee at the Century Center, officials hope 
to offer convention packages for delegates 
who visit the Century Center to allow them 
also to visit the Hall of Fame. An under­
ground tunnel will connect the Hall of Fame 
and the Century Center. 
Although the Hall of Fame will prove 
advantageous for the Century Center, it is 
also expected to have a strong positive effect 
on the economy of South Bend. Mayor 
Kernan has been a major advocate of the 
project since it first began for this reason. 
"The economic advantages that will be 
created are the main reasons for my interest 
in [the Hall of Fame]. It will create jobs and 
help support the Century Center. The Hall 
of Fame will make the name South Bend 
synonymous with college football and the 
national exposure will benefit the commu­
nity," said Kernan. 
A 1968 graduate ofNotre Dame, Kernan 
said, "I am a loyal fan, and that has 
helped me to understand the appeal without 
having to researchit" 
However, his loyalty to Notre Dame is not 
the reason he chose to support the project Asidefrom attracting visitors, the university will have no official affiliation with the Hall .:.except that of the 650 players and coaches inducted into the Hall of Fame, 36 are from 
Notre Dame. 
Although officials from both the National 
Football Foundation and the city of South 
22 

Bend remain optimistic about the success of knowledge. In the training camp exhibit, the project the new Hall of Fame, the question still they will have the chance to compare their While the mayor maintains that all the remains: What will be different about this speed to that of Marcus Allen, play a fight money will be raised through corporate Hall ofFame that will save itfrom the fate of 'song or try on old uniforms. Guests will sponsors and bonds, after fourteen months the last one in Ohio? learn coaching strategies or experiment with the only money that has been announced is a 
"You can't compare them," said Dobsky. their own in a computer-generated scrim-$250,000 donation that will take place over "It's like comparing apples to oranges. First mage in the Strategy Room. five years. ofall, the organization ofthe National Foot­Although the project has generally been "After fourteen months, I'd call that a 
, ball Foundation has improved since the first met with approval, a campaign has been failure," said Cierzniak. Hall of Fame was built. Very few exhibits started against the project by James The mayor hopes to raise $2-3 million by from the old Hall of Fame will remain the Cierzniak, a retired teacher at Penn High the Spring when ground-breaking takes same." School in Mishawaka. Cierzniak feels that place. According to the mayor's office,The Troyer Group is ---------------;...1-,.-,,-,-------------. several othercorpora­
11

"' .;,/ ".111'.\ ·•'{:, J-' 
the architect for the  1{· /· · ,::,  lions are prospects for  
museum.·  The  museum  !  donations but their  
will be built using  the  names cannot be re- 
newest strategies in learn­ing and entertainment and  I '\ ·  leased at this time. Though all the money  
will include hands-on ·ex­hibits as well as artifacts  <-1~,').•  for building the Hall of Fame will come  
from inductees ofthe Hall  r:, :\:~:.:,~  from corporate spon­ 
ofThFa~e5.8 000 e 1s , square 1oot hall will feature a Gridiron Plaza set at ground level. The Gridiron Plaza will  _jJL~. , .., [...1.. ,.,,ll, ,, · ' \"" ---·-~'t,,{, ,1...,,~.;:1,1  sofrs, aboualt ~600,000 o extern improve-ments in the down­town area around the new hall will come  
resemble a  football  sta­ (.  X.J  from tax money.  
dium and will greet spec­:~~ =~~ ~:;~!{e~~This "stadium" will in,.· cludea(oodcourtandgift shopandwillholdvarious  ,~ '\ ; ·,: · •·i " 1· 1 ;· ,_,,'_-,  . ~ L! ~ ·.:· ;~ ·:· L-! . •.. -,.,,.,,.l_1 :, \:1 ' L-' · 11 •· • t; .1'1111/'~  ?ii;;:;:''._ ,. '.:. ·. -~ :~ · _··~\'. :~'11;f ·• ;,,·" .. ,_ 0 • """,·,,,,.. =---.~,tP .,1,fh'°~· . --~ ·~•-:f l •·~W t... ,:,,,J. : ·,·, -::'·, 1 1 ~ e rt, ',1 "-' _; : ._'.> ; /\·'!L·i=.;L! {'!i,L~. ):'..  while the gen isthatS~:~c;:~:: chosenbecauseofits ideal location and prospects for the fu­ 

special events. The· mru·n 1· ' ·•. h' t..: .1il/11!1W · . :'l.1~'t1!i\•I. ·!·t.:. ~ ture, Cierzniak dis­
. "' / '-' , i..: )"',}'h .. "·----.... -.·. J. z· 'l;i. t..:· t...: . ··~I;1 .. 
attraction inside the mu-1 . t..,; zt· ~?:1~:w;;,,;;i,iif.r;~t?s';:-;··:=.---~ ,:.. t u u.. :/ 'f ,1 agrees. seum will be a three-story ' 1..,·1 _--n·l\:;·,~ ~t\J. · ...~5-;:_ _\Ii .. j'\111,i~ '° · ' "We were chosen 
th -. ,!." .... \. _,_... [~•:,··.• -~M.ll)l ... llllL~~· • _ ,, • ,--:··; ,~':~,,;,.\!} 11 b s h 
eme sculpture of sym-,·· [,.........., •· ,. " · ---· . . . ,,,,., ,,,,,d•li,, . .. not ecause out
~,,,:,..f;."·.'·,.: ,, : . ""~-~,,,.. ,.1,.~"'''·''. .v. 1([1·, •
!f~~i~:l;i:if'.:~ -iJ·;. .;)1. L ~:;:t~, \, ~f;;E~!Jl: 
other while another rests Ir ,!' ,· ·,1 .·'.ii.,,;,,,, . . . . ."".¥:31·,H)1;Jl1II''l ball Foundation] a 
. _11 . : 1Jir ,,, 1'·~., 

dejectedly on the sideline. sweetheart deal. 
"The museum will be ever-changing," history will repeat itself and the Hall will South Bend resolved to build and run the said Dobsky. "People will want to come fail in South Bend just as it did in Kings new hall and to take up the losses. They more than once." Island. couldn't lose," said Cierzniak. 
The Hall ofFame will also feature a 360o "This project is an enormous waste. It The National Football Foundation had stadium theater that will plunge visitors into may have a few good years, but it will sink originally planned to build a new hall for theworldofcollegefootballastheyhearthe like a brick," said Cierzniak. only $7 million. "South Bend unilaterally cheering fans and a marching band. Visi.:. whenthe decision to build the Hall of decidedto build a first class, state-of-the-art tors will be able to look for their favorite Fame was announced in July 1992, building for $14 million," Cierzniak said. player in the Hall of Champions, where Cierzniak began his campaign by writing "They won't have to put up a dime." each inductee of the Hall of Fame will be letters to corporations that were named by Despite Cierzniak's objections, ground-presented in his college days with photos, the city as prospects for donations. In breaking is still scheduled for this March. artifacts and film clips. At the Training addition, he attends the mayor's nights out "The fact is that he has chosen to stop the CampandStrategyRoomsites, visitors will and repeatedly questions Mayor Kernan project, but we are moving right along," be able to test their own football skills and about how much money he has raised for stated Mayor Kernan. · . 

REVIEW & PREVIEW 

by Miranda C. Sanford 
Disney Makes Its Move 

".'I' 
I 
l After a few years of box office slumps, Disney has introduced a film for this season which moves in a very different direction than "normal Disney." Nightmare Before Christmas, from Tim Burton the director of Batman and EdwqrdScissorhands, has been recently released arid received mixed re­views. 

Designed to boost revenues, the new film carries a PG-13 rating and targets the teen­age crowd with its less than kosher subject matter. Nevertheless, this film contains little pearls of entertainment that no one will want to miss. For one, the musical score deserves special attention because whoever said the 80s were dead is wrong. Danny Elfman, formerly the lead singer for Oingo Boingo, has written and sung all of the scores for the flick. 
This movie requires a very Beetlejuice kind of appreciation. Audiences who want to watch an evil pumpkin king kidnap Santa Claus and almost feed him to his pet will get a real charge. Otherwise, audience$' minds will wander after they get accustomed to the phenomenal animation. An extra morsel of fun, this film's moral -"don't try to be someone you are not." Somehow, I do not think this departure from Disney's normal format will save the company, but it might be good for a laugh. 
Jail Cell Romance 

Anyone who has ever given a thought to what happened to Amy Fisher after-she was convicted of shooting Mary Jo Buttafucco may now rest easy. People Magazine re­ported that she has found a new romantic companion during her 5 -15 year stay in the lush Albion Correctional Facility. Her new beau is one of the sergeants at the facility, and they are "madly" in love. According to friends, when the two are alone, he takes her to the frisk room -oreven the visiting room -for romantic interludes. Amy's lawyer stated he knows nothing about the romance between his client and the sergeant. No romance, come on! 
Howard and His Privates 

During the past year, Howard Stem has received a great deal of criticism and rejec­tion for his "non-p.c." radio show. In an effort to save his reputation and tell those who don't appreciate him to take off, he has released his first lit~rary effort, and it •has topped many best-seller lists. Appropriately entitled Private Parts, Stem is featured on the cover naked except for a black satin cloth held in an important position. Obviously people are not as sensitive and easily of­fended as I thought because a million copies have already been sold. Filled with his trademark "explicit sex-talk, celebrity put downs and racial slurs," it must be taken with a grain of salt After all variety is the spice oflife, and he shreds everyone so it has to be interesting, even if what he says is extreme. 
Picks, Pans & Tidbits Alert! No one should miss the pending release of a new version of "I Got You Babe," featuring Beavis, Butthead and Cher. That's right, she dumped Sonny for two raunchy, pubescent cartoon boys. Any­way, to help get you through to Thanksgiv­ing, here are my do's and don't's. Do see Addams Family Values with An­gelica Huston and Raul Julia. In this se­quel to the Addams F amity the parents ifitro­duce a new member to the family_:_ Pubert 
He is a "mustachioed" boy whose nanny is 
· sure to attract the attention of all red blooded males in the audience. Wednesday and Pugsley go to "sleep-away camp" and cause havoc. This movie has everything in a neat package for the holiday season. 
Don'tseeLook Who' sTalkingNow-It' s a Dog's Life, the third part in a trilogy about internal banter. Kirstie Alley, John Travolta and the kids are back with a twist of "newness." This time the hilarity comes from a poodle and a mutt's canine conversa­tions. Danny Devito has fallen so far to do the voice of the mutt This one is a definite nogo! 
Do check out the new Tribe Called Quest disc. Don't get Andrew Dice Clay's new co­medic relief album. 
Do get tickets to see the Billy Joel concert at the Rosemont Horizon in Chicago for November 16 and 19. This tour has been reviewed as awesome. 
Don't go to see Neil Diamond perform his "America" .rendition for the millionth time at the Star Plaza Theater. 
Up and Coming 

Even though Christmas is over a month away, now is the time to purchase tickets for Christmas shows. Jerry Seinfeld will be performing on November 27 In Chicago at the Arie Crown Theater and the Nutcracker Ballet will be performed and is always really good ... Phil Collins, Mudhoney, K.D. Lang and Joe Satriani all have new discs out by November 9 ... Violent Femmes at the Metro on November -14 ... Bruce Hornsby at the Kalamazoo Stadium on November 16 ... and INXS at the Aragon 
::. Ballroom on November24 sum up what will be around for the next few weeks. ,­
24 

a 
ENTERTAINMENT 

Surprises in this fall's films 
by Steve Susco 

There's something scwewy going on in Hollywood. Weawwy scwewy. Lately it see~s that the aphorism "Don't 
judge a book by it's cover" can be more commonly applied to the films that are in wide release. You go to the cinema expecting some­thing and you get something. en­tirely different. 
Take The.Good Son, for ex·ample. When I first heard about this film, I made a silent oath that I'd have to be bound and dragged across South Bend before I would willingly see it (I've got a really big thing against young 

cutsie-stars). But the Entertainment Editor of Scholastic asked me to see one very bad movie that I could shred to pieces. And boy, did this film seem to fit the bill. 
My prejudices couldn't have been more wrong. The Good Son is one of the most entertaining films I have seen in a long time. The story, as it is communicated by adver­tisements, sounds less than enthralling -a young boy (Elijah Wood) goes to live with his relatives after his mother's death when his dad decides he needs to get away from it all. At this house .he meets his cousin (Macaulay Culkin), who seems to have a darkly malevolent side to his personality. 
OK, fine. So even though Elijah Wood intense one, but Macaulay adds an unex­pected dimension to it. He shows, for the first time fo his career, the ability to play a dramatic role without being cute and run­ning around screaming his head off for no apparent reason. The boy really scares you. 
I never thought I would say it, but Macaulay really impressed me. 
Elijah Wood and the entire cast do a fabulous job with their roles as well, but their perfor­mances are vastly outshined by Culkin' s portrayal of his wicked char­acter. 
There is a very strong theme in this film involving a son's relationship to his mother, but it is very hard to fol­low at times. I was too involved in waiting for Macaulay's next 

plays the leading role, Macaulay Culkin gets top billing. OK, fine. So another one of Cullin's siblings gets a gratis role: His sister Quinn plays his character's little sister in the film. TypicalHoHywood casting ... no surprise there. 
The surprises came later. In brief, Macaulay scared the living s-out of me. Forget about Home Alone and the sequel; go see this film. The role itself was a very 
appearance to be completely immersed in the other parts of the story. 
All acting aside, the film was written and directed very well. It was shot amidst the beautiful landscapes of Cape Ann, Massa­chusetts, and Two Harbors, Minnesota, with a few breathtaking scenes in the beginning and end in the mountainous regions of Ne­vada. As a piece ofart, this film is appealing to the senses in all ways. 





.The GoodSon is an example ofhow what you have heard about a film can be · misleading -another excellent example is 
Malice. 

Again, this is another film that you abso­lutely must see. It's notjustoneofthe most original films to come out ofHollywood this year, but also one ofthe most unpredictable. 
· This film is carried by powerful acting performances from Bill Pullman, Nicole Kidman and Alec Baldwin. Pullman plays a down-on-his-luck college professor; Kidman plays his supportive wife. Baldwin is a brilliant.surgeon who takes on a recent residency in the hospital of the town in which Pullman and Kidman live. 
Two things happen immediately at the beginning of the film. First, Pullman meets Baldwin and they realize that they went to high school together. Pullman introduces Baldwin to his wife, and it seems that Baldwin may be interested in her. 
At the same time that Baldwin arrives in town, a series of murders begin at the col­lege campus at which Pullman works, and the audience is lead to question ifBaldwin is involved. 
Now whatever you may think happens next in this film is most certainly wrong. 
This is as much as I can give away, for the rest ofthis chilling thriller is a roller-coaster ride of shockingly unexpected plot twists and makes the over-rated swprise in The Crying Game seem likechild'splay. I don't want to tell you exactly what happens, but I'll give you a small glimpse: sex, nudity, violence, harsh profanity, deception, mur­der and tragedy. It's not swprising that this film has been 
doing so well in the box office, and yet peopledon't seem to know very much about it at all. Unlike The Crying Game, which uses one slightly interesting and graphic twist to inject some sort of ethereal energy into the plot, 
Malice is a true representation of the classic.film noir : this film never leaves the audience resting comfortably in their seats or their dispositions. This is true entertain­ment If recent movies have left you bored and uninterested and you want to be taken for a suicide ride into the dark comers of the 
· human soul, go see this one. · I've told you about two movies from 

which I expected little and received much . Now let me tell you about a film that works the other way: one that promised the world and failed to deliver.The film is Demolition Man, and it is seventy million dollars wasted. The difference between the film's hype and the film itself is reminiscent of the difference between George Bush's election campaign in 1988 and his term itself: promises, prom­ises, promises. Read my lips: Don't waste your money on this film. Wait for cable. The most distressing thing about the movie is the fact that it actually starts off with a concept that, had it been properly developed, could have exceeded even the wildly outlandish, yet strangely riveting hit, Terminator 2. Sylvester 1_Stallone plays a California cop who, in the late 90s, acciden­tally kills a large number of hostages while capturing his long-time criminal nemesis, played by Wesley Snipes. Incidentally, Snipes acting performance is the only reason to even consider renting this film; it is a humorous and exciting contrast to the flat and predictable job of Stallone. The method of imprisonment at this time is to be cryogenically frozen and then "melted" back to life every ten years for a parole hearing'. Both Stallone and Snipes are.sentenced to this prison. Decades later Snipes escapes from a pa­role hearing and into the streets of Califor­nia. But much time has passed, and he finds that California has become a world of non­violence and harmony (there is an interest­ing scene in which police officers see his violence and say "We're not trained to deal with this •.. we're police officers!"), and he can do justabout whatever he wants since no one knows how to deal with him. Ofcourse, the obvious· solution: "melt" Stallone and leave him the job of finding Snipes. Conceptually, this movie works very well. The story is an action-packed thriller that leaves room for a wide range of special effects and original sequences. It also uses satirical experimentation to depict a utopia in the now violence-ridden regions of south­ern California. Unfortunately, the makers of the film did not learn from the mistakes of Last ActionH ero (which I actually believe is a better film then Demolition Man). They pushed their satire to the point ofself-reflex­ivity, interjecting meaningless attempts at humor and farce into a film that should have been dark and ominous. The result is a slick but shallow package; For. all it's visual impressiveness, the film is contrived, con­fused and lacks any substance whatsoever. This film is so bad that neither the humor nor the well-matched persona of Snipes and Stallone can keep it afloat. 
In closing I wish you happy viewing. But be alert: Hollywood is in the midst of a masquerade of narratives, and you are their target. D 

26 


a 
ENTERTAINMENT 
LOndon Culture Comes to 
Washington Hall 
.. 
'{~]e all know the story of Hamlet. Ev­
l' l' eryone has seev the infamous "to be or not to be" s~ech performed by the likes of Mel Gibson and Bugs Bunny. Yet we always return to the theatre, hoping to see the words ofShakespeare'sHam­
by Scott Johnson 

let come to life. 
For those of us fortunate enough to see the troupe of five English Actors from A Center of Theatre, Education 
· and Research (ACTER) at Washington Hall last week­end, a breath-taking, compel­ling perfon:nance was· given. It was a performance that at its conclusion would have made Sir William Shakespeare smile, and that made a full house rise to their feet, ex­pressing wondrous cheers; chills and emotions. 
ACTER was founded in 

...,,.-........­1975 at the University of Cali­Sarah Kahler
David Howey Miranda Foster and Jonathan Donne in ACTER's Hamlet. 
fornia, Santa Barbara, by Pf9­fossor Homer Swander. Dr. Swander began a revolutionary way of teaching Shakespeare, by having actors engage hands-on in the instruction. The present company from the London Stage includes David Howey and Miranda Foster (who were on tour three years ago when ACTER did As You Like It at Washington Hall), Jonathan Donne, William Russell and Sam Dale. These five actors have been touring 
U.S. universities and classrooms since late 
September. · While at Notre Dame, the actors visited and assisted students in twenty-three classes, performed two recitals and three sold out performances of Hamlet 
As I sat in the balcony ofWashington Hall last Thursday, I felt as if something from the heavens brought Shakespeare's London to South Bend. From the moment the lights went down and the five actors rose and 
' 
approached the center of the stage, I knew 
we were witnessing more than simply pro­
fessionals, but the words, poetry and power 
of what Shakespeare left behind. These 
actors and this play were on loan to us, and 
I felt almost unworthy. 
The ambitions of Dr. Swander, with so small a company, so little funds, yet such distinguished actors, "is to give you a ver­sion of the play that is Shakespearean in its depth, power, boldness and clarity." Each actor portrayed as many as six characters, enhancing the boldness and clarity of the foolish, senile Polonius, brought Shakespeare's comic relief out to perfec­lion, and Sam Dale was simply remarkable as Hamlet. 
In Hamlet, Polonius says to his son Laertes, "This above all, to thine ownself be true, and it must follow as the night, the day, thoucanstnotthenbefalsetoanyman." The work these tremendous actors are doing is true not only to themselves, but is true to the beauty, the relevance, and the profound in­sight of the world of Shakespearean theatre and what it represents. D play rather than detracting from it Few props,littlelightingand virtually no set were used. The production placed emphasis on the words ofthe script and the actors' bodies and voices to light the stage. They had no director or designer, yet they flowed across the stage with the greatest of precision and power, letting nothing get between 
Shakespeare's passion and the audience. 
The only tool the actors had to work with was the script itself. It was amazing to see Jonathan Donne's hi­larious dual performances of the flamboyant Rosencrantz and the reserved Guildenstem. Miranda Fos­ter worked so beautifully and distinctly between Gertrude and Ophelia, and David Howey assuming both the role ofthe Ghost of Hamlet's Father. and his uncle Claudius was magnificently frightening and chilling.
w·11· R 11' 
1 iam usse s constant asides to the audience as the 

ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
News ofthe Bimrrefrom the Nation's Universities 

"-,...!"-·:: ·-· 
·,_{. / t'···

Give Me My Diploma! . .. 
uA
)\.)

After four years ofhard work at the university level, what does one have to show forit? For2,300 University of Miami 1993 undergradu­... -----,r. ate and law school graduates, the answer is ... nothing. These students ;;. still have not received their university diplomas. Some of the missing diplomasbelong to students who graduatedlate. Many oft}Jediplomas, however, were sent back to the printer for corrections after last May's 
)/4 l, i 
graduation ceremony. Because of red tape and complications involv­ing theprinter, these diplomas have yet to return. Some of the students 
?i,

are starting to get impatient Who can blame them? It sort of deflates . the thrill of receiving a degree if one expends more effort locating it than one actually spent earning it 
·~>~ . . 
_{;(\rlf''J° 

Knowing How to Commit aCrime ­Stanford's Band On the Loose
One would probably guess that a university's Office of Business Services would be the last department to require the services ofan The Stanford _University marching .band always appears to be outsider auditor. This is not the case at Penn State. Deloitte & Touche, -· somewhat (OK-very) disorganized. But there is a reason why the an auditing firm, has been hired to conduct an investigation into the half-time show during the Notre Dame-Stanford game appeared to be financial affairs of the department. At this point, there seems to be no a little more chaotic than usual. Stanford's all-class homecoming question that misappropriations within the business services depart-·reunion weekend brought over 400 former university band members ment have occurred. Criminal charges loom on the horizon. Although back to perform at thehalf~timeshow. The showcontainedmemorable the monetary figures have yet to be disclosed, thesum is reported to be performances by an Elvis impersonator and by a woman sporting a substantial. It only makes sense. Who better to figure out a way to cone-shaped bustier. Many band alums took the opportunity to misappropriate funds than a business oriented department?_ reminisce about crazy band times from the past. ''We were the ones 
who got us kicked off national television for continually forming phallic formations on the field," said 1982 alum Lisa Morando. "On airplanes, we'd all move to one side or the other.:. crazy stuff," she said. LeaveittotheStanfordbandtoturnthemundaneintosomething newsworthy. 
Edited by Jenny Tate 
SCHOLASTIC 

WEEK IN DISTORTION 
Notre Dame's Rule Culture 
by Matt Foley 

Here at Notre Dame we have a society shaped, sculpted, and completely de­fined by what members in the society can and cannotdo. Ever readDuLac? Ididn'tthink so. Aside from the oft-quoted passages deal­ing with alcohol and maie-female relations, most of us really d6n'tknow or care what lies within the cover of that booklet We figure, contrary to the Office of Student Affairs, that lifecan be picked up through theexperience of living it, not through mindless dictation and impersonal directives. Dueto this differencein philosophies, many members of the community choose to escape the omnipresent, petty rules and move off campus, giving up one of the distinctive char­acteristics of Notre Dame :--its dorm life. This is a tragedy of sorts because a lot of people who could-have made tremendous contributions to the dorm simply trot over to Campus View or Turtle Creek to get away from the influence of the rules, the Enforcers and the tensions they bring. Therein lies the real problem with a society structured so heavily on rule~ and regulations -who does the dictating in the society, who enforces the rules? In the Notre Dame com­munity, the rules are dictated by the adminis­tration and they are enforced by RA' s, Assis­tant Rectors, Rectors and occasionally Notre Dame security. Du Lac changes these people from ·"helpful assistants in the lives of. the · averagecommunity member"toeagles watch­ing over a nest of people, trying to make sure that Du Lac stands firm in all cases. Occasionally the Enforcers become so im­mersed in regulations that they lose their perspective and over-enforce, using the rules to boosttheirownimp6rtanceamongthepeople they deal with. These overzealous people enforcetherulesforthesakeofDuLac,forthe sake of authority, not the good ofthe commu­nity. 
The real drawback to this "rules culture"­one defined and dominated by rules -is that the mission of the dorm and the reason for a residential campus sometimes gets lost in the swim of pages upon pages of unread non­sense. Are we in the dorm only to follow Du Lac, or are we there to try to grow and live as acommunity? IrealizeDuLac existstohelp bring about a workable community, but it falls far short of fostering an environment condu­cive to growth and vitality. 
First of all, I would like to offerup the issue oftrust. From my experience as an undergrad as well asmy occasionalexposuretoDuLac, I feel that Student Affairs trusts its students about as far as it can throw them. Think about it The classic example of this mentality finds its finest expression in the parietals policy. If the university was only concerned about dorm noise and "privacy," as it claims, then quiet hours would suffice and the students could work out matters of privacy on their own. 
Butno. Theuniversityhandsdownadecree from on high that people of the opposite sex must vacate dorms at the appointed hour and then cites the two reasons above instead ofthe real reason: avoiding premarital sex. Plainly· and simply, they can't trust undergraduates to come up with a workable solution to the aforementioned issues or keep control oftheir procreating urges; Student Affairs just dic­tates a policy and puts the Enforcers on the trail of those who don't agree. 
Dictating behaviorand itsjustificationsalso clouds the issues. Occasionally, the univer­sity will do something and then offer a less than satisfactory explanation as a reason be­hind it or not admit to the real impetus at all. My favorite example comes from a recent issue threatening the Notre Dame Commu­nity-initiations. When StudentAffairs came out with the blanket "no initiation" policy to help keep Dillon, Zahm, St Ed's and a few other dorms in line, it was clearly in response to Dillon's initiation this fall, which took the unfortunate turn of going too far and invading the rights of other people on campus. 
. For this transgression of decency, Dillon should have been punished (i.e. ban Dillon's initiation for a while). But Student Affairs, riding the crest of outrage, banned every ini­tiation from Zahm' s Odin to class serenading and then implied that the rule wasn't in re­sponse to Dillon's affront but was in fact a long time coming. Am I the only one skeptical about this? I doubt it 

Finally, the heavy-handedness of the whole rules procedure leaves the average student feeling that Notre Dame can "screw you in any way and get away with it" The society is so structured-with everything laid out in black and white-that members feel like re­sistance, however justified, is futile. In gen­eral, if something comes up on campus, you can rest assured that Student Affairs either already has a rule about it or will make one up tomorrow to apply. 
Responding to issues by just creating more rules stifles the community and the vitality contained in it A better response is to build a community ripe for the development and growth of the members in it; let the members of the community have more of a say in the standards they are forced to live by. 

DEPARTMENTS 
A Dispatch from Spy Magazine 
............................................. ~ ..~················· 
leersand Frothing on the College Lecture Circuit 


by Louis Theroux 
Once upon a time, witty and well-be haved famous people roamed the nation's campuses, dispensing their years of accumulated wisdom for the sheer love ofit Nowadays, the big-draw speaker is as likely to dispense accumulated urine down his pant leg. That'sassuminghe'saCarouser. Other college-circuit types behave in different ways, depending on their phylum. CAROUSERS Gonzo autoparodist Hunter S. Thompson Jr. is the Ur-speaker-Carouser, notorious on college campi for never failing to draw a crowd and riever failing to drive it away. When students came to fetch him from his hotel to speak at Boston College, they couldn't get him to answer the door or phone. They prevailed upon the hotel man­agement to open the door, only to find a seriously pillaged minibar and the writer passed out on the bed. Undaunted, they dragged him fully clothed into the shower, took him to the show and helped him onstage still in his wet clothes. Thompson yelled vituperative gibberish for about.15 minutes before he was helped offstage. 

A less-well-known Carouser is not-yet­indicted-at-press-time Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, who appeared at Johns Hopkins on a Democratic Caucus retreat and ended up at a 1950s-themed sock hop. Rostenkowski draped a tablecloth over his head and, with two fingers cocked like horns, charged like a bull down the dance hall. 
SNL writer and Coneheads scribe Tom Davis took a leaf out of Thompson's book when he and Al Franken performed a skit about drunk driving at the University of New Hampshire. Davis insisted that his prop bottle be filled with real whiskey. 
Conservative blowhole William F. Buckley Jr. made Yale history when he ran up a bill in excess of $500 at a New Haven restaurant, at one point bellowing, "Waiter, bring me a bottle of wine before I pass out." Though he did not, in fact, lose conscious­ness, he did become drunk enough to leave his laptop computer behind in the restaurant. It may also have been his famed conviviality 
-that caused Buckley to repeatedly refer to his host college as Bryn Mawr when he was speaking at Sarah Lawrence. 
Blunders, Faux Pas and Tenure Bender~ 

The first sign of trouble with Southern Illinois University theater professor JohnStaniunascamewhenhecasthimselfin the coveted role of Romeo in a school pro­duction. His performance earned him a lot ofresentment arid-especially his skipping during a fight scene -a lot of laughs. Nonetheless, Staniunas continued to try to hang out with the kids. At a costume party he showed up dressed in pantaloons, pirate shirt and wide hat, only to sit in the comer and smoke; when a student asked what he was supposed to be, he gave him the finger. But Staniunas's most memorable perfor-. mance came at the year-end Theatr~ Guild Picnic, where he got drunk and collapsed on the grass. Students wrapped him in toilet paper, says one participant,'' dancing around him like he was a Maypole." The semi­conscious Staniunas then eyed the picnic's roast pig, pointed to his own anus and bel­lowed, "Give me some pork." He then chuggedatwo-literbottleofsodaandstarted "throwing up, projectile vomiting." Staniunas is now an assistant professor at the University ofWisconsin at Madison, where he will no doubt fit in better. 
For psychology professor Philip Zimbardo of Stanford, the old adage that those who can't, teach, is particularly apt. This is because Zimbardo teaches hypnosis and, in testing its powers, likes to explore the area of human pain. One student described how Zimbardo tried to make a goup think 
their hands were numb and heavy and then 
stabbed their hands with pins: "It really hurt. 
He kept pricking me!" Res ipsa loquitur. 
Chemistry professor John Wood of the 
University of Minnesota was found not 
guilty ofmanufacturing synthetic heroin in a 
university lab in 1990: Wood testified, "My 
purpose was basically a humanitarian one. I 
thought I was making an analgesic for a 
legitimate operation in Rio de.Janeiro." 

In 1989, in a widely reported incident, 
American University president Richard 
Berendzen resigned after admitting he'd 
made obscene phone calls from his office. ,Recently, and much more quietly, -Berendzen returned to American as an as­tronomy professor. 
30 

The Fine Print:Security Measures 
-

Y'"f'> those who thought the sole qualification for being a security.I. guard was the ability to wear an ill-fitting uniform, a recently settled class-action lawsuit claaed Soroka v. Target Stores may come 
as a surprise. 
InJuly,TargetStores,adiscountchain(snacks,foldingchairs,toilet brushes) based in Minneapolis, agreed to pay $1.3 million to2,500 security guard applicants who, as a part of theis selection process, were subjected to a privacy-invading psychological exam. 
The test, Rodgers Condensed CPI-MMPI, consists of704 true-or­
•I 
liked "Alice in Woqderland" by Lewis Carroll. 

•Clever, 
sarcastic people make me feel very uncomfortable. 

•Sometimes 
I feel like smashing things. 

•
I usually feel nervous and ill at ease ata formal dance or party. 

•
I am fascinated by fire. 

•School 
teachers complain a lot about their pay, but it seems to me hat they get as much as they ~eserve. 

•I 
wish I were not bothered by thoughts about sex. 

•I 
have strange and peculiar thoughts. 

•Only 
a fool would try and change our American way of life. 

•
We ought to let Europe get outof its own mess; it made its bed, let it lie in it 

•
I have had ·110 difficulty s_tarting or holding my urine. 

•If 
the pay was right, I would like to travel with a circus or carniv.al.­


/\ 
false statements ans is based on the classic Minnesota Multiphasic Personal Inventory, introduced in 1940and still in use for certain high­risk professions-law enforcementand nuclear power plant work, for instance. 
Its usage for discount store employees ("Now, very slowly take the Slim Jims out ofyour pocket and put them on the floor.'') is not, so far as we know widespread. 
Herewith, a sampling of the true-or-false statements: 
•I 
am very seldom troubled by constipation. 

•
I sometimes tease animals. 

•
I see things or animals or people around me that others do not see. 

•I 
am very strongly attracted by members ofmy own sex. 

•I 
used to like drop-the-handkerchief. 

•I 
have never indulged in any unusual sex practices. 

•I 
resent having anyone take me in so cleverly that I have had to admit that it was one on me. 

•
I commonly hear voices without knowinf where they come from. 

•Someone 
has control over my mind. 

•
At tiipes I think I am no good at all. 


Student, Heal Thyself 
Just about every student health center has a reputation for giving non-specific illness with white pustules. tudents shoddy treatment, with doctors ranging from inexperienced -The questionnaire is supposed to red-flag students who deserve to to inept to scarce. At the University of Missouri at Columbia, they've seean actual nurse. Other students take their questionnaire to the school solved that problem. . pharmacist, who gives out a symptom-specific grab bag of over-the­While there is usually a long wait to see a doctor, students with counter remedies. mundane symptoms seldom find a line at the "Cold Care Center" "They'rereallybigonAdvil,"saidonestudentwhowastoldtheself­because there's no doctor to wait to see. In the self-examination room, examination room was her only alternative to waiting two weeks for an they find a thermometer, a questionnaire about their symptoms and a appointment flashlight and mirror to look at their throats. · Nadler said the program was imposed from the University of To make sure students know what to look for, on the wall of the California at Davis. A spokesman there said, "It didn't go over very room, there are pictures of "two throats: one good and one bad," well," and Davis ended the program in the early 1970s. D according to health-center manager Ann Nadler. The bad throat has a 

FINAL WORD 

How Can 
tuden; Gain 
Th 

:.i 
,:1
I.:·:·,·.! 
' 
Scholastic is now accepting submissions for the Final Word. Articles should be opinionpieces dealing with local, national or international issues as they relate to Notre Dame!Sairit Mary's. · They can include narratives on personal experiences, strict news commentary or documented information. Submissions should be typed in Microsoft Word and should be about 4­5000 characters in length. Scholastic reserves the right to reject any unsolicited manuscripts. Call 631-7569 for more information. 



ts? 

The great legacy of the Judea-Christian Western Civilization lies in the belief in self-rule and democratic governing institutions limited in both scope and size. Notre Dame openly betrays that legacy, denying its students a crucial segment of a liberal education. · · While activism measured ih the number of PC causes may appear to be animated, in reality students seem content with privileges rather than rights. Notre Dame is but a microcosm of our larger society, an authoritarian bureaucracy ruling over a constituency that seems to relish the role ofchild. The recent events regarding parietals illustrate such a thesis. The most recent action delayed a vote on a trial period extending parietals one hour. Student government reasoned that we boys and girls need more time to study togetheron the weekends. Such an argument defies logic and reeks of disingenuousness. By utilizing such tepid methods and not fully attack­ing the parietal policy and Notre Dame's culture of apathy, student government is debating on the administration's terms and the powerlessness will continue. Parietal policy ought to be identified for what it is, an instrument of control. If privacy is the intention, then surely quiet hours ought to be acceptable. But according to the administration, quiet hours are unac-' ceptable. Clearly then, parietals exist to prevent sexual conduct, which is said to be a violation of the rule of God. However, the rule of God is often inconsistent with the rule of Notre Dame. For ex-· ample, gluttony, immoderate consumption and sloth are capital sins committed daily at Notre Dame. The prevention of sexual conduct presupposes that copu­lation takes place only between the hours of2-11 a.m. While we· must all honestly admit that parietals perform poorly in attempting to prevent intercourse, they are certainly somewhat effective in straining . relationships between the sexes. The question for the Notre D~ecommunity then, is this: How do we gain 
our rights to liberty and the pursuit of happiness? 
Two polemicalanswers could be to burn theROTC 
building ~nd turn over cars, or continue to attempt to 
affect change through student government, student 
by Patrick Coolican 

media and studenrorganizations. The former would belittle the greater problems of the world, while the latter would belittle out cause. The dilemma of student government and s.tudent organizations lies in the simple truism, money is power. Students are unable to actively pursue an agenda because there exists a tacit boa-constrictor-like censorship on campus. 
While free expres_sion·is sanctioned in theory, those who make statements considered "offensive" or "not in the best interest of the college" suddenly and suspi­ciously have.budget problems. This situation is epito­mized by "The Shirt," which bankrolls student organi­zations. However, according to student body Vice­
. President Nikki Wellman, the administration has man­dated that halfof all proceeds be contributed to charity. Without necessary funds, we are dependent upon and this beholden to Student Affairs. 
thesolution, therefore, lies in student independence and autonomy. Secession need not be as hostile as in the Civii War variety. We simply inform the university politely that we no longer desire nor necessitate its funding for various student organizations, including student government, all forms of student media and other organizations that are vital as mediating institu­tions between administration and student body. We would need help from freedom-loving alumni who could provide financial assistance, legal counsel and networking. The Observer and Scholastic might have to charge a price; student government might have to lay and collect small taxes. We might need assistance from such groups as the Young Americans for Free­
dom. __ , 
The result ofan autonomous student.body would be equal ground between students, faculty and adminis­tration in a partnership rather ·than a ~ierarchy. We could engage in honest and open debate; and .the administration could not unilaterally impose· disci­pline or seize what would hypothetically .be rights 
rather than privileges. · · 
In the ~ords of Ronald Reagan, let us go forward in this great task,}eaving no onebehind'. Liberty is a right ofall, not a privilege for a few. . 
The views expressed in this column do not necessarily 
reflect the views ofScholastic. 
32 


Gris.t For The Mill 
I"-' '{OVP.. FR!ENI>'~ Ck>E\

ljE i:XJESl-l'"r E~ 50 lOU6f\ LJi> 
WE Rcl061Jrz:.E. OLJ2. 1() "l'M YO GH-r" /JOWi 
DFFlllAU-V 111s Ebuc..>,-T10t-.i, 
t\!.MK. 51MP1..~ FILL "\Y,q: 'TIL , 
O<Ir RlR.1-15 C.-ILi ljE FINI 
Tul10U4H F-t.7, 11£.R.l"-'ll 
WILL Be. i'W<-E.SSE.I) 
UJI n-11"3 6-1 1-\01->1)-IS, 
~ I 
't • 

HEY, WHA-T t\c.O()T 'Eol>Z 15 ~ 'rOO {,,(JyS T:.01/06 
WE. F'lbUKE. Wf.b UEU(<.. GET
TIM[ Mll(f.f WJ-lAT 

I-If:. C,0/-JT/JvU/Df. THE FU/?.501 o,-:i C..ltM'PUS~ 
c.A{}&f1T t5i' Of'-' "BA-Cl:'. LDN-J t'A'/NE/SB, 
o1. &E.r cct. E1>U0\'flO/JS 
FO'f:. H/6/-IER_ E'DUCAT/0,-.; ~ 
UIJ-KE.i'O.S~ESE.1> .... 
&:x)oC!) '?CO 'EEU£V£. \ 
SO o.JE'.(E... 'B,O"e.'F_O0/I-JG
K'E.GISTE.RIJ-Jb FO'f:. 
s1 

T.F.T. T. O.T. D. (-r, Wt<$ i~ q I.wry) 
AWHILE, ArvD A ffW DRIAl~
blVE M6

W\-l~WIN
AT AN SYt:. ... ~DIA KNOW 
-=-ON/:i HOIIR. Wtfl-/ 
LA--TER. • • .. W5 GANT 
\:)I~ T ~K THIS 6VY AND 
ALWRIGHf! A MEAN~
HI. KIM. :r:: ji}ST 

A SMICI::? Tt{e;N WE= L.AIJ 
D INblf« HroKvp
60 ArJ'lWt-lERE
J:f\JVIT8D 'iov-WHY 
e,a 'fl) ·n-JN( 

O 1-le,w MD TffeRG tl\b You ALL c.oMi=, 
W\Tl--\OV1 6A-lH 

O J\ND :r; 'lL HA-V6 H[M
nl:. I o-rHe/1 PA-RTY
TSk.
OTI-\E;fl · · · 

lEASH-TTfeN
VP OJ Mt{J{l6AN
'1\s A 
\ 

,H,'tT ffDS H/1-VIIJt., AMJ.'l..L
Sl-{AME­
Y HIM AND

M 

,. h l \ 
I 
~ 
Rick Grey 
1-\E:'.'5 6D• ,\N EXA-f,\ ~ TLJES!)lt'( I! 
51>( PLUS 
FIVE.. 
( 
M/tfl.k MJ\ZU?t-A 
5€€'!1J 
;::b/'-,._,:sM
-:9 t: ':-)__ 
DO.JT fE€LSO 
\J GOOl:I £o :C'M 
6',/.JNA Go f{oME l,Jl'l'i{ TH5Se 
{,U'(S ! 11-{AN KS ~ J 
off '[11/{f f#T'T.
,,~!
fJ pt/I-I-' ,g 01.Af(! 
(: ~ 
~ 
~ 
(Hee HffHfG HEEE!) 

\ 
........____ 

tickets available at the LaFortune Info De~k 



