The Notre Dame Scholastic
547
( ( UHfAI
"He dabbles his fingers in the day fall. He is gold-dusty ivith tumbling amidst the stars. He makes bright mischief with the moon. The meteors nuzzle their noses in his hand. He teases into growling the kennelled thunder and laughs at the shaking of its fiery chain. He dances in and out of the gates of heaven: its floor is littered with his broken fancies. He 'runs wild over the field of ether. He chases the rolling world. He gets between the feet of the horses of the sun . . . .”
No^re Dame Scholas^ ic
I)isee- Quasi - S mpeT-Vic^UFus-Vlve’-Quasi-Cras-Moriturus
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
... .Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire..............Managing	Editor
Emil L. Telfel.........Assistant	Managing Editor
Thomas A. Cannon.......Assistant Managing Editor J. Archer Hurley.......The	Week
Walter Langford...............The College Parade
Joel Egerer.....................Music and Drama
Ramon G. Smith....................Campus Clubs
Alfred E. Gall.....................Script Editor
Paul J.
Hallinan
Features
Editor
Last week we were talking about “tingling”—the tingling feeling you experience when you hear music, or the wild cries of birds choiring up the air; or when you read a stormy or silvery bit of writing; or when you suddenly realize that life is a great golden cloth, in which it is every man’s privilege to enmesh himself.
So: when we came upon the passage we have quoted above, we thought we would pass it on to you as a piece of writing calculated to produce “tingling.” It is one poet’s description of another poet—and as the words, like great yellow oranges, fall from the tree of language and drop into the gardens of the mind, we realize the beauty of little things— words in a certain arrangement, trees at night, black printed on the white cloth of the moon, the sky at noon, a blue bowl with white fire raying up its sides, the green gavotte of trees.
And we also spoke, some time ago, of “rounded thinking.” And it strikes us that the passage above, if remembered in the early morning, when (if you are awake) you see the sun break the earth in two parts, can contribute mightily to your experience.
And if you should happen to remember fugitive bits of music, strayed pieces of melody, and fit them into the general scheme, you have something that will render significant and fine the passing moment. The moment itself may seem trivial, fleeting, and unimportant; but if you attempt to place it in relation to the day, and the day in relation to the year, then, you have a steady record of significant living.
James J. Kearney James Collins Howard Webster
Austin Boyle
William J. Magarral Harry A. Sylvester,
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan, News Editor Richard J. O’Donnell Neil Hurley Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor
Jr.
Henry B. Aswan
BUSINESS STAFF -
Harrington J. Noon
George Allan Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors William Karl James Carmody
F. Granger Weil
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Local Circulation Manager
Chester M. Ashman. .Foreign Circulation
Frederick N. Davis
James L. Rizer____
...Local Advertising Foreign Advertising
Manager Manager Manager
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
Vol. LXIV
FEBRUARY 14,1930.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Four Campus Halls—Frontispiece---------------------
The Week—J. Archer Hurley_____________________ Campus Clubs—Roman G. Smith___________________ Editor’s Page_________________________________ “He-Men” and What They Wore—Paul J. Hallinan------- College Parade—Walter Langford________________ The Wink______________________________________ Pitt Panthers Conquer Notre Dame—John A. Kiener---- Relay Team Wins Two—Henry A. Asman____________ Interhall Items ______________________________•----
Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester, Jr. On Down the Line___________________________________
No. 18
548
549
558
559
560
562
563
564
565
571
574
576
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC. Publications Office, Main Building.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of -	All Notre Dame Men.

f«|miiiimttimmiiimtmmmmmmmiimnfrq
Engineering Building
Science
Hall
Chemistry
Building
Law
Building
f«lm«mmmmmmmtmmmmmmmmmFwl
The Notre Dame Scholastic
549
HE Scribblers, who are offering- awards to campus ' poets, would do well to recognize the need which we have for drinking songs, and should offer a special prize to the writer of a particularly good soda-water song. England, France, Germany, with their ale, wine, and beer have songs to suit the mug, the glass, the stein; but in America we morbidly gurgle soda water to the squeaking accompaniment of canned music. Oui- voices have gone with our liberty. St. George, who was saintly enough to know a r good thing when he saw it, has been commemorated in a poem by G. K. Chesterton, the last four lines of which are:
“But though he is jolly company And very pleased to dine, It isn’t safe to give him nuts i -	Unless you give him wine.”
St. George, G. K. Chesterton, and three or four other good fellows of my acquaintance will smile rather broadly to hear that down in Washington, a House sub-committee has decided that the “Star Spangle Banner” should be made the official national anthem. Despite the fact that the music is taken from an old English drinking song, it is considered an appropriate measure by our hypocritical legislators. We are attempting to reap the inspiration of English inns without trusting ourselves with their mugs.
OMEONE remarked the other day that one of the recent talking picture releases verges on light opera. But my opinion remains that no matter how light the opera, prima donnas still make a pretense at singing. Theme songs are meant more for parrots than nightingales. A theme song of a different sort has been choked from the unwilling-strings of a lonely piano by Zeno Staudt and John Beljon. They call their ballad, “My Prom Sweetheart,” and it is ’’ thq song of the coming Prom. Some of the sweethearts at the Prom will undoubtedly be irritated at the inference that songwriters consider sweethearts as easily obtained * and discarded as Prom tickets.
OGS have trotted after men ever since our race had affections, and of dogs and affection I rather think that dogs will last the longer. Certain it is that much of the affection in modern homes is as artificial as the electric-made ice in those same homes. One of the great men of the Church named those in his saintly order Dominicans, or “dogs of the Lord.”
w E have all heard of men who are born with silver spoons in their mouths. Perhaps in our younger days we have even wondered just why anyone should want to be born with a piece of the family service between his teeth. But since coming of age our mouths have found other and more vicious occupations, and we generally admit that silver spoons can be found in most any babe’s mouth. Though, indeed, many a silver spoon has been treated like a coal shovel, mostly through misjudgment of overgrown babies. If you have not the gift of tongues you have the less bothersome gift of silence. Most of us who are seniors are beginning to wonder whether ’ the particular spoons that were put in our mouths were meant for the soup or the dessert. When one goes out into the -world, or has the world come into himself as some of us expect it to— there will be a day when we give an account of our stewardship; or, more properly, when we lay our spoons on the table. And many of them will be the silver that is used for the last course of that irregular meal which is served to humanity. Four months are left for the burnishing. What are we going to do about it?
"J”HE Juniors, not content to have only their prom, have also made plans for a dinner-dance as an aftermath to it. The class of ’31 will have quite an enjoyable week-end even though there are no sports events carded. Formerly the Prom guests were paraded about the campus by their escorts so that the freshmen could pass an agreeable glance in the young ladies’ direction. This year the guests may not even see the campus.
550
The Notre Dame Scholastic
---------------------------———
Coming Events
.j,-----------------------------
FRIDAY, Feb. 14—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler at Indianapolis.— Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Publications Offices, Main Building, 7:00 p. m.—Interhall Basketball Practice, Gymnasium, 7:00 to 9:00 p. m.—Indiana State Oratorical Contest, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, Feb. 15—Track, Notre Dame vs. Illinois, Gymnasium, 7:30 p. m.
SUNDAY, Feb. 16—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00.—Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Interhall Basketball, 9:30 a. m. to 11:30 a. m., and 1:30 to 5:30 p. m.
MONDAY, Feb. 17—Lecture: “The Divine Sense of Humor,” Dr. Fulton Sheen, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Interhall Basketball Practice, 7:00 to 9:00 p. m.—Dome club pictures, Gymnasium, 1:30 to 1:05 p. m.
TUESDAY, Feb. 18—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, University Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.— Dome club pictures, Gymnasium, 12:30 to 1:05 p. m.—Scribblers meeting, Howard Hall “Rec”, 7:45 p. m.—Interhall Basketball Practice, Gymnasium, 7:00 to 9:00 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 19—Concert, Russian Cossack chorus, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Dome club pictures, Gymnasium, 1:30 to 5:30 p. m.
THURSDAY, Feb. 20 — Spectators meeting, Journalism Room of the Library, 7:45 p. m.—Last day for securing Prom tickets.
FRIDAY, Feb. 21—Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Publications Offices, 7:00 p. m.—Movies, “The General,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Lawyers Club Ball, Palais Royale Ballroom.
SATURDAY, Feb. 22—Washington’s Birthday, no classes.—Procession of Senior Class from Main Building to Washington Hall, 9:00 a. iq, —Presentation of the Flag.—Movies, “Old Ironsides,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—Track, Notre Dame vs. Indiana, at Bloomington.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Wabash at Crawfordsville.
ALUMNUS DESIGNS NEW CUBAN CAPITAL
The new capitol building at Havana, Cuba, involving a cost of $15,000,000, was designed by Eugenio Reyneri, ’04. Mr. Reyneri is among the most prominent alumni of Notre Dame in Cuba, and is an outstanding architect in Havana. The capitol was recently completed and is modeled after the capitol in Washington.
SPECTATORS DISCUSS ARCHITECTURE AND SOCIALISM
In a meeting last night, marked by heated exchange of ideas, the Spectators listened to Joel Egerer and John Dubuisson speak on “Modern Architecture” and “Socialism.”
Mr. Egerer set forth varying views of the future of the skyscraper, as well as the future of various new designs in other fields. He cited as examples of the modern trend in building design, several new cathedrals in Europe.
Mr. Dubuisson presented an ordered and considered view of the case for and against Socialism. His remarks brought forth much comment, and several interesting points of view were set before the club members.
A.S.M.E. HEARS C. BOWERS OF SHOCKLEY CORPO-
RATION
The Notre Dame Student Branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers held its second meeting last Monday evening in the basement of Badin Hall.
The speaker of the evening was Mr. C. Bowers, of the Shockley Flying Service, and his talk dealt with the development and the future of aviation. At the conclusion of his address, Mr. Bowers spent some time answering the many questions asked by members and visitors.
❖-----------------------------«
JUNIORS, PLEASE NOTE!
Representatives of the Junior Pin Committee -will canvass- the halls this week as a preliminary to their drive among the men of ’31. All Juniors are requested to co-operate with the committee’s representatives.
♦---------------------------
FEBRUARY ALUMNUS APPEARS
The February issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus announces that the seventh Universal Notre Dame Night will be observed by all alumni clubs on April 21st.
President Eggeman, of the Alumni Association, in a lead article, makes known the committees which will nominate the candidate for the offices of the association in 1930-31. The article states that the name of these committees are carried in the Alumnus with a request for suggestions from the members of the association.
A write-up of the Glee Club relates some of its activities, both past and present. A vivid account is given of the work done by the club, and of their recording and broadcasting engagements.
An article entitled “Living Endowment” by Francis H. Hayes, ’14, chairman of the Alumni Committee on Living Endowment, makes a plea that the attention of Catholic laymen be directed to the needs of Catholic universities. Mention is made of the fact that the living endowment plan is not intended in any way to interfere with graduates and friends of the University seeking large sums as gifts and bequests.
The page under the heading of “Reaction” presents letters from the alumni, and many opinions of the article, “The Needs of the University,” by the Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S C. which appeared in the January Alumnus, are discussed.
Under the heading “Suggestions for Reading,” the Alumnus calls attention to two books which were selected by the Catholic Book Club, for January. These books are “The Catholic Church and Literature” by George N. Shuster, A.M. ’20, and “The Catholic Church and Art” by Ralph Adams Cram, LL. D. ’24.
The editorial, “Sonny Boy,” explains the nature of the Living Endowment theory, which is followed by another editorial “I and Notre Dame” on the same subject.
c
I r £
i
G $ (
?
*
GLEE CLUB TO GIVE CONCERT
The Glee Club will give a concert in Washington Hall on Sunday, March 30. The plans for the Glee Club’s annual tour have not as yet been completed.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
551
INDIANA STATE ORATORICAL CONTEST HERE
TONIGHT
- The Indiana State Oratorical Contest will be held this evening at eight o’clock in Washington Hall. Seven colleges and universities, including Notre Dame, will participate in the competition. They are as follows: Butler University, Wabash University, Earlham College, Manchester College, Evansville College, Franklin College, and the University of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame’s representative in the contest is Frank Corbett, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, who receives the honor as a result of winning the Breen Medal. Corbett has entered the Breen Medal Oratorical Contest for the last three years, but was unsuccessful until this year. The winners of the previous two contests were James Roy of Fort Wayne, and Patrick Duffy of Moreau Seminary. Corbett is from Fort Wayne, and before coming to Notre Dame was high school oratorical champion of Indiana.
CATHOLIC ALUMNI CONVENTION IN APRIL
Edward S. Dore, New York City, president of the National Catholic Alumni Federation, has announced Washington, D. C., April 25, 26 and 27, as the time and place of the fourth convention of the Federation. The Mayflower Hotel will be the headquarters for the convention.
In view of the active Notre Dame Club in Washington, and the participation of Notre Dame men in the affairs of the Federation, it is particularly interesting. The organization of Catholic alumni also has a growing significance which must not be lost to the graduates of Catholic schools. The Federation is open to individual membership as well as association or institution membership. The Notre Dame Club of the City of New York holds a membership in its own name.
4----------------------------♦
SENIORS ATTENTION!
Caps and gowns may be secured in the old Carroll Hall Refectory, Thursday and Friday afternoons, hours 1 to 5. Price $1.75.
Immediately after the exercises they are to be returned to the same place.
♦—---------------------------❖
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS INITIATE FIRST CLASS
OF THE YEAR
Last Sunday the first three degrees were given to a class of some sixtyodd candidates for the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus. The customary impressive initiation ceremonies were held in the Chambers of the South Bend Council; immediately following the initiation a banquet was tendered in honor of the newly initiated men.
On Monday evening, Feb. 10, the candidates of the class initiated the previous Sunday were tendered an official welcome by the Notre Dame Council. Lecturer Francis McGreal provided all present with enough entertainment to satisfy even the most exacting.
Among those present at the welcoming meeting were several members of the University faculty, including the Reverend Charles Milt-ner, C.S.C.; the Reverend Leo Heiser, C.S.C.; the Reverend Patrick Haggerty, C.S.C.; and Professor Henry C. Staunton. All of these men delivered short talks on various subjects, and the entertainment was climaxed by the appearance of a brother knight from Michigan City, who gave a humorous talk on “specializing.”
BELJON AND STAUDT COMPOSE PROM SONG
The Junior Prom of this year has provided the inspiration for a new waltz written by two of Notre Dame’s most promising musicians. John Beljon and Zeno Staudt, seniors in the College of Arts and Letters, are the composers of “My Prom Sweetheart,” the number which they have dedicated to the Prom. Since their composition is a waltz, and since Wayne King, who is to provide the music Lor the Junior Class Formal, bears the title of “The Waltz King,” it should fit in well with the schedule of melodies he has prepared for the evening. King has already received copies of “My Prom Sweetheart,” and has worked out his own special arrangement of the piece which he will play at the Prom.
The local theaters have arranged to include “My Prom Sweetheart” in their music programs during the week of February 23. At the Palace and the Granada, the organists will play the music of the new number, while the words are flashed on the screen.
SCRIBBLERS DEBATE “CAR-MEUAN VIEW”
Meeting last Tuesday night in Howard Hall “Rec,” the Scribblers spent the evening considering a paper on “The Carmelian View of Tragedy,” presented by Mr. Murray Hickey Ley.
The paper set forth a new view of tragedy, which Mr. Ley declared implicit in the poetry of Robinson Jeffers. The view takes its name from the home of Jeffers, Carmel-by-the-Sea, California.
The paper first set forth the theories of tragedy held by various commentators of the past, and then stated Jeffers’ view of tragedy as found in his poems.
Mr. Ley then discussed “Oedipus Rex” by Sophocles, “King Lear” by Shakespeare, and “Cawdor” by Robinson Jeffers, in the light of this view.
He concluded his paper with the establishment of a parallelism between the poetic drama of Jeffers and the views of Whitehead and Haldane.
In the comment that followed the Club revealed itself as quite opposed to the views set forth in the paper.
“PHILOSOPHY OF VALUE” IS NEW BOOK BY
FATHER WARD
“Philosophy of Value”' is the title of a new work by the Reverend Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., of the University faculty. The jacket states the following as the aim of the book: “This work is a sustained attempt to answer the general inquiry as conclusively as possible. What does it mean to act? There can be no question that the problem of value raised by this inquiry is the uppermost problem under-discussion in philosophy/today.”
Reading on we are informed that, “practically every important thinker of our times who has expressed himself on human affairs and conduct, on order and meaning and purpose, or religion, is granted a fair and impartial hearing. Among those w-hose views are presented and subjected to critical appraisal are Dewey, Perry, Alexander, Lloyd Morgan, Driesch, Whitehead, Spaulding, Ames, Leighton, Sellars, Bertrand Russell, Hobhouse, Laird, Bosonquet, James Ward, Gilson, Maritain, DeWulf, Durkheim, etc.”
The book is on sale in the Notre Dame Bookshop. The price is ■$2'.25 per copy.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
552
Second Issue of “Scrip”
Scrip made its second appearance on Monday, February 10. Already the sale of this second number has exceeded that of the first, which shows that Scrip has established itself as an ’undergraduate publication. Louis C. Heitger and the associate editors are to be complimented on the excellent make-up of this second number. Their selection of stories, poems, and essays from the many submitted by students has been excellent. The high standard of the contributions in the second number of Scrip proves the truth of the editor’s claim that Scrip represents the best literary work being done at Notre Dame.
“The Art of Chekhov,” the essay of Jay Walz, is a painstaking analysis and evalaution of the works of Chekhov. Walz gives special attention to the stories “After the Theatre,” “Grief,” “Easter Eve,” “The Black Monk,” and “Verotchka.” He also treats of the character of Chekhov’s writing, saying that the three qualities characterizing it are a natural and easy manner in which the story is told, the unity of effect that Chekhov produces, and the completeness of Chekhov’s characterization. Instead of permitting the story to determine the incidents Chekhov has the incidents determine the course of the story. In his writings there is no attempt to reach a climax. A story told in the manner of O. Henry may be more entertaining than a story by Chekhov, but it is not as faithful a picture of life. Walz’s essay is the best one that has appeared in Scrip. Stuednts who were here last year- will remember that this essay was submitted for the Meehan Medal Contest last year. In this contest it was given second place, an essay by Murray

NOTRE DAME BAND CANCELS BROADCAST
The broadcasting of the Notre Dame Band, scheduled for last Wednesday, has been dropped. Preparations for the broadcast were nearly complete when Mr. Joseph Casasanta received word from Station WLS, Chicago, that the program had been banned by the Chicago Federation of Musicians. Officials of WLS said that this organization practically controls radio broadcasting in Chicago and that without its consent the program would be impossible.
Welcomed by Campus
Young winning by the proverbial nose.
As regards the poems in the second number of Scrip there is but one criticism to be made of them, and this criticism is that there are too few of them. “Homeage,” by Jack Mullen, is undoubtedly the best of the five poems in this number. It is a vivid picture of nature. Readers of Scrip will remember Mullen’s poem, “The Fortunate Lover,” which appeared in the first number. Mullen has contributed several poems to the Commonweal, the Overland Monthly, and other equally well known publications. “A Finger Shaken at an Aesthete,” a poem by Richard Sullivan, appears in this number. It is an amusing bit of light verse satirizing the aesthete. The two quatrains by Cornelius Laskowski, a seminarian, give us convincing proof that much can be said in a few words. “Complin,” by John Bednar, a seminarian, is a translation from the Office of the Blessed Virgin and is a moving prayer to Our Lady.
The three short-stories in this num-bei- of Scrip have been praised by every reader of the magazine. “Crazy,” the story by V. T. Boisvert, a seminarian, has attracted the greatest amount of attention. “Breakfast,” the story by Joseph A. McCabe, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, and “Toothache,” by James d’Autremont, a seminarian, have been favorably received.
Austin Boyle, a member of the Scholastic staff, has written an essay, “The Age of Wonder,” and this essay is included in the second number of Scrip. The frontispiece by Stanley S. Sessler, art instructor in the University, is > a beautiful pen-and-ink study of La Giralda, Sevilla.
BAND TO GIVE CONCERT MARCH 9
The University Band will give its annual concert in Washington Hall on Sunday, March 9. This has been one of the most successful years that the band has had. It played at five football games, going to New York for the Army game to culminate the season. It has appeared at all of the home basketball games. The concert on March 9 will be followed by one on March 19 at the Oliver Theater for the benefit of St. Joseph’s Hospital.
DOCTOR SHEEN TO SPEAK MONDAY NIGHT
The student body of the University will be highly honored Monday evening when the Reverend Fulton J. Sheen, Ph. D., one of the foremost Catholic speakers of the day, will deliver an address in Washington Hall. The emiment doctor is making a special trip to the University to speak, and it is expected that his subject, “Divine Sense of Humour,” will be delivered to a capacity house.
Doctor Sheen is considered one of the foremost Catholic students and thinkers of the decade. He is connected with the diocese in Peoria, •Illinois, but at present is teaching at Catholic University, in Washington, D. C. He received his degree of Ph. D. at the University of Louvain some years ago.
To date, Doctor Sheen has' written and published three books of great value. They are, God and Intelligence, Religion Without God, and The Life of All Living. He is also a frequent contributor to our foremost religious periodicals.
The University is exceptionally fortunate in securing the services of Doctor Sheen. He is by far the bst speaker to appear in Washington Hall this year, and his audience will surely remember and be impressed by his wisdom. His appearance is a compliment to the University since he makes a special journey to Notre Dame to speak.
SENIORS, ATTENTION!
All those Seniors who are eligible for graduation in June must be present at the Washington Birthday exercises to be held at 10 a. m., Saturday, February 22, according to an official bulletin posted last Wednesday. Any Senior who does not appear in his cap and gown on this occasion will not be given his diploma at the graduation exercises in June.
Lists of Seniors who are eligible to receive their diplomas in June and who, therefore, must participate in the Washington Birthday exercises, will be posted the latter part of this week and the first of next week. Omissions of names should be called to the attention of the Deans or the Director of Studies.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
553
A i
A Man About the Campus
----------------------------»♦«
“Chekhov, I think, is ‘the nuts’.” Thus spake Louis Heitger, after we had questioned him about his favorite author. Now, if Louis had said, “I believe the works of Chekhov are superb”—or “wonderful”—or even “grand,” we might have been impelled to say crossly that we had always thought Chekhov was the Russian term for checkers. But Louis passed up a flow of superlative adjectives and resorted to the campus vernacular to describe the writer whom he admires most. The expression he
Louis Heitger
used robbed his opinion of the affectation which one might otherwise associate with it. When he said he thinks the author of The Black Monk is “the nuts,” it was evident that he has a real regard for this writer and a sincere appreciation of his works. So here you have a man about the campus who knows and appreciates his literature, and who can tell you what he likes and what he dislikes without being at all pedantic about it.
As a matter of form we may as well state here that Heitger is the editor of Scrip. Since the new-born infant has been receiving a great deal of attention of late, it is probably unnecessary to mention this fact. But if you have not as yet become acquainted with the new member of the University’s literary family, don’t waste any time in doing so. Louis assures us that his prodigy is doing well and that his latest public appearance has been ever more successful than was his initial bow.
Last year Louis was a regular contributor to the Scholastic. Four of his sketches which were published had unusual merit and were well received on the campus. The first edition of
DEBATERS SPEAK AT ST. MARY’S
The Varsity debating teams opened their season in the .traditional manner last Monday by appearing at St. Mary’s. The assembly room was packed and offered a fine test for composure and logic. Both cases were presented forcefully, but when the time came to vote, the' senior students who served as judges marched to the polls and accorded the victory to the Negative, by a count of 26 to 7. The members of the Negative team were Walsh, Kirby, and Keefe; of the Affirmative Stanton, O’Malley, and Keegan. Walsh and Keegan received especial mention for their clever and forceful speeches. The audience was very attentive and fully appreciated the eloquence of the speakers. Frank McGreal served as chairman.
After the fray a dinner was given to the debaters, at which the orators re-enacted the debate and showed themselves excellent trenchermen.
Scrip contained one of his plays, and it, too, reflected exceptional ability on the part of the writer. This, however, is not unnatural since his pet hobby is the theater. He is rather a devotee of the stage and has roamed widely in the field of drama. His reading, though, has been limited somewhat to the classical writers and the dramatists of the past centuries. Louis does not care much for modern literature. He would no more compare it to the classics than he would class the talking pictures with the legitimate stage. And that, of course, is blasphemy.
Literary figures are so few on the campus that it is but natural that we dwell more on the personality of Louis than on the facts concerning his campus and pre-campus life. Since it is necessary that they be included in our column, we might as well conclude with these biographical statements. Heitger is in his fourth year in the School of Commerce. The only local organizations to which he belongs are the Press Club and the Scribblers. His home town is Bedford, Indiana. He attended Bedford High School there and was business manager of the high school paper and the annual. And—don’t forget—he thinks Chekhov is “the nuts.” If you don’t know who Chekhov is, see Scrip. (Adv.) '
RUSSIAN COSSACK CHORUS TO APPEAR HERE FEB. 19
An unusual feature will be presented on Feb. 19, with the appearance of the Russian Cossack Chorus, the most famous organization of its kind in the world. Reverend William Molony, C.S.C., Registrar, has been instrumental in arranging for their first concert in this section of the country.
The members of the chorus are members of the famous Cossack race, the race that has figured prominently in Russian History for centuries. They sing of the exploits and hardships and warfare that have made the name Cossack synonymous with adventure. Their harmonies are full of the ancient grimness of Russian life.
Sergei Socoloff, director of the Cossack Chorus, is famous both as a musician and as a soldier. He studied at Moscow, going from there to the Cossack Army. After the War he organized the Chorus, taking it on tour throughout Europe and attracting attention and praise everywhere.
' Included in the repertoire of the Chorus are selections from Rachmaninoff, Baudot, Tchaikovsky, and Mendelssohn, and that most famous of Russian coompositions, the grave, solem “Song of the Volga Boatmen,” sung in the truly Russian manner.
WRANGLERS START NEW SEMESTER WITH
BANQUET
The Wranglers Club held their first banquet of the new semester February 6th at the Rose Marie tea room. All of the members were present and had as their guests the men who participated in interhall debating.
Following the dinner the Wrangler charm was presented to the new members of the club, Frank Andary, Mill Kirby, John Wilson, Neil Hurley, Tim Benitz, and Fred Baer. Short talks were made by all of the incoming men.
Then followed the presentation of the cup, which is emblematic of the interhall debating championship. Chairman of the event, Thomas Keo-gan, presented this award to the victorious Howard hall team. The history and outstanding success of this activity was then sketched in a colorful description by several of the older members.
554
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Sorin Hall Takes Inventory of Its Occupants
What? Another article on Sorin? It seems the boys are good, and you just can’t keep them down. Sorin doesn’t “make claims” for campus honors; the campus showers honors on the sturdy old hall uninvited. The hall was named for the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., leader of the gallant little band of French missionaries who founded the school in 1842. It glories in the title of one of the oldest Catholic college residential halls in the United States. Men of achievement in the life of the school walk its wide, high-ceilinged corridors, and sustain its much-publicized traditions.
From its porch benches tolerant and not-so-tolerant seniors have eyed freshmen coming up the paths before it for many decades. Despite the successive appearances of Walsh hall, the “Gold Coast,” easier ways of living and modernistic influences, Sorin is still the three-year goal of nearly every freshman. By some mysterious necromancy of spring registration, the old hall, every year, finds itself the host to more "big shots” per capita than any other residence hall on the campus. The writer who interviews “men about the campus” for the Scholastic’s pages must usually bound up Sorin’s well-worn steps to get his man. If the one he’s after isn’t in, the next room will probably contain another celebrity just as good. Let’s have a look at some of them.
Athletes, publications men and other “activities” notables so clutter up the scene that we may miss some of them in this hurried glance. Jack Cannon, all-American guard, who delighted football followers and sport writers by his masterful play in 1929, is an outstanding Sorinite. Ted Twomey, Gus Bondi, Joe Nash, Larry Mullins, Dinny Shay, Bucky O’Connor, George Vik and Joe Locke complete the hall’s varsity football roster. Captain Donovan, Marshall Kizer and Jack McCarthy are now helping to pile up counters for the basketball team. Joe Lordi, Harry Francis, Johnny Moran, Ed Feehery and Joe Palermo spring into the limelight during the baseball season. Captain Joe Abbott and Ken Boagni are Sorin men now in strenuous training for indoor track. Student managers Quinn, Carey, Conroy, Kegowicz,
O’Meara and Hellrung keep a watchful eye on all the foregoing athletes.
Publications men also find a haven in Sorin. John Nanovic, editor of the Juggler, shares his room and razor blades with Jim Callahan, a fellow staff member. Lou Hasley, Art Kane, Arch Hurley and Frank McAdams help get out the popular comic publication. Hurley writes “The Week” for the Scholastic and is Art West’s able assistant in the school’s publicity department. From Sorin’s sedate towers “The Wink” is given the campus, and Murray Hickey Ley solves his problems as Scholastic editor on the third floor. John Motz, president of the Press Club, is a Sorinite. Pete Wacks and Jerry Parker, guide the activities of the band and glee club respectively. Robert Dinkle, Edward Connor John Houlihan and many others are men of distinction on the campus. Bob Kuhn, last year’s Prom chairman and present chairman of the Blue Circle, makes Sorin his home, as does Bob Hellrung, chairman of the S. A. C.
And, as if this imposing list of students of prominence were not enough, Sorin also houses several well-known faculty members. Professors Charles Phillips, poet and playwright, and Paul Fenlon are of the English Department. Professor Pat Manion of the Law School, Dean McCarthy, head of the College of Commerce, Paul Byrne, head librarian, and Emil Jacques of the Art School complete the number of faculty residents. The Reverend Walter Lavin, C.S.C., Sorin’s present rector, is assisted by Reverend Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C., and Reverend Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C.
No article on Sorin would picture the hall adequately without mention of the Reverend John O’Hara, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s beloved prefect of religion. From his rooms and the hall chapel radiates the true significance of Notre Dame life. The Religious Bulletin and Religious Survey reflect and interpret the spiritual attitudes of the school and students. Underclassmen daily overrun stately Sorin, drawn by Father O’Hara’s pamphlet rack, chapel, or friendly personal assistance, with vexing problems. So ends the tale of the honors of Sorin, home of Notre Dame’s heroes of athletics, activities, and religion.
♦-------------------------------A
FROM THE FILES OF THE SCHOLASTIC
❖-------------------------------i
ISSUE OF AUGUST 14, 1880
It is worth a trip to Notre Dame to see and admire the magnificent colossal statue which now rests on the veranda in front of the College building, and which is destined to surmount the Dome when completed.
We hope that our friends in both the Senior, Junior and Minim Departments will send us plenty of “locals,” and thereby help us to make these columns what they ought to be—the most interesting portions of the Scholastic
Our friend John ought to be careful how he writes other person’s names in the paths and on the trees between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. A word to the wise is sufficient.
ISSUE OF SEPTEMBER 25, 1880
Parents having sons at the University, should subscribe for the Scholastic. The Class Honors, Rolls of Honor, etc., herein published weekly, will keep them well informed of their sons’ standing in class, conduct, etc.
The Minims’ swings and validores are being put in fine order by their Prefect and Bro. Polycarp. Bro. Albert is making an effort to have a new top of a lighter makeTput on the validore, as the present one is rather heavy for the Minims. It would be a first-class one for young men of the Senior department.
An equine came uninvited into the Seniors’ Campus on Friday last: the “Corporal” soon espied him, and “tumbled.” In less time than it takes to write it, there was seen a “mounted Corporal” riding as gracefully as a “plumed knight,” while cheer upon cheer was given by the interested spectators. The “Corporal” felt the dignity of his position; the equine, the weight of the “Corporal.” Struck by a sudden idea of performing some unprecedented equestrian feat, the “Corporal” “tumbled” again—striking his head on the hard gravel walk. On becoming conscious, and in blissful oblivion of what had occured, he exclaimed: “Bind up my wounds! give me a piece of pie!” “Deadwood Dick,” who was one of the most interested spectators, asked him if he wouldn’t have another horse ? What followed can be easily imagined.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
Lawyers Call Circus Court to Order Next Friday
i	One week from tonight a hush will
'	descend over the court room while
I the judge of the evening will tap three times with his gavel; then a strange melody will float across the F court room as all lawyers present will assume the correct attitude for the /	Circus Court. The court room will
1	be the Palais Royale, the judge of
the evening will be Marlow Hardy, and the Circus Court will be the fourth annual Law Club Formal.
*	President Bob Eggeman, of the
Law Club has agreed to relinquish ‘ his robes and bench for one night, so j. that Judge Hardy may lead his dusky Alabamians through all the tantrums necessary to please the ears, and guide the feet of all lawyers and 1	their guests during the evening.
I	Hardy needs no introduction to the
r	Court—his practice at the Bar of
Melody has been long and capable.
President Eggeman has agreed, however, not to remove himself too - far from the bench, so that he will be on hand to lead the grand march. . Assisting him in this will be his able co-worker, John H. Flanagan. To ‘ these two men much of the success of the court session is due. They have packed the jury of chairmen with seven men. Earle Barry, Morton Goodman, Raymond Sanduskey, * John Nelson, John Chevigny,, Lawrence O’Connor, and Harrington ” Noon, who can be depended upon to decide all cases in favor of the merry court throngers.
These men have canvassed the cam-
pus for unbiased witnesses and spectators to take part in the merrymaking of the Court, and all state, in their briefs of the cases which will be tried, that an evening of terpsichorean excellence is confronting anyone who can slip past the bailiffs and guards, and enter the sanctums of the Court.
Earle Barry reports that he and his assistants have whispered the pass word to a large number of lobbyists, and each attentive listener has been given a summons to appear with a guest, to answer the melodious thrusts of Judge Hardy. Morton Goodman and his men did good work in signing up such a distinguished director of ceremonies as Hardy. A better judge has never presided over a session of the Circus Court. The Court Jesters, otherwise known as the Magpie Trio, will chant harmonious by-laws while Judge Hardy is probing the case.
Juror Barry admitted with regret that not another summons would be sent out, as the full quota has been disposed of. Juror Goodman refuses to make any further statement concerning Judge Hardy and his assistants, but Juror Harrington Noon, with capable aid, has taken up the work. The other jurors, Sandusky, Nelson, Chevigny and O’Connor, have all done their shares, and will majestically file out of the juror’s box to receive congratulations on their work when Judge Hardy, at the end of the session, will pronounce no sentence, but “Court Dismissed.”
TICKETS FOR JUNIOR DINNER-DANCE SELLING FAST
The committee in charge of the Junior Class Formal Dinner-Dance to be held Saturday, March 1, at the Oliver Hotel, reports a very brisk sale of tickets. Of necessity the number* attending the dinner-dance has been limited to two hundred couples. Approximately half of the reservations have already been taken, so anyone desiring to go should make reservations at once in order not to be disappointed. After* two hundred reservations have been made the sale of tickets will close.
The dinner will be served at 7:00 o’clock in the Gold and Venetian Rooms and on the Mezzanine. Eight people w’ill be seated at each table. There will be dancing in the Rotary Room from 7:00 until 11:30. Students must be in their place of residence at 12:00 o’clock.
In the. past the post-Pi-om entertainment has consisted of a basketball game or* track meet. The dinnerdance offers something new and distinctive in the way of entertainment for* Juniors and their Prom guests.
Only those who have purchased their Prom tickets may make reservations for* the dinner-dance. Reservations may be made by purchasing a ticket from any of the following Juniors: Ray Mannix, Lyons Hall; Jack Saunders, Walsh Hall; William C. Brown, Morrissey Hall; Phil Ang-sten, Badin Hall; John Agamy, Badin Hall; Edward Merhen, Morrissey Hall; Charles Cushwa, Morrissey Hall; Dick Baker, Corby Hall; John Keefe, Corby Hall.
Scribbler Short Story Contest Rules Announced
The committee in charge of the Scriblers short story contest announces the following set of rules:
1.	Any undergraduate of the University is eligible for competition.
2.	Stories must be typed on regular S1^ x 11" unruled typewriting, and on one side only.
3.	Three copies of each story must be submitted. These must be unsigned. A sealed envelope containing a list of the stories submitted, and the name and address of the person submitting the same, must accompany all manuscripts.
4.	No more than two stories may be submitted. These must be limited to 400 words.
5.	These prizes will be awarded:
first prize, §15; second prize, §10; third prize, §5.
6.	Stories shall be judged according to strict literary standards by disinterested judges, whose decision shall be final. A pre-judging shall be held to eliminate manuscripts falling below literary standards.
7.	No contestant shall receive more than one prize.
8.	Each story will be judged individually on the basis of 100 points.
9.	The story having the highest average of points will be judged winner; the second highest taking second prize.
Manuscripts should be submitted to Louis Brennan, 233 Sophomore Hall, as soon as possible.
STUDENT TOURTOTRAVEL VIA LEVIATHAN
The students of the University who are planning to tour Europe this summer under the auspices of the Universal Tours Company will travel on the S. S. Leviathan, the largest ship sailing between America and England. About fifteen students from Notre Dame plan to make the trip.
The itinerary includes Paris and Versailles, France; Brussels, Belgium; Cologne-Rhine by steamer, Weisbaden, Heidelberg University, Munich and Galleries, Hamburg, and Berlin, Germany; Prague, Czechoslovakia; and Vienna, Austria. At Vienna the students will stay for one full month.
Students from universities and colleges throughout the country will comprise the tour which will be from June 28 to August 31.
556
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Notre Dame Closely Linked to Aviation
The Scholastic is pleased to reprint herewith a recent photograph of Albert F. Zahm, holder of four degrees and the Laetare Medal from Notre Dame, whose appointment to the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics at the Library of Congress, newly founded.
Dr. Zahm is a brother of the famous Reverend John Zahm, C.S.C., a graduate of Notre Dame, ’71, famous author and traveler. Father Zahm accompanied Theodore Roosevelt on the recent expedition in South America which resulted in the discovery of the River of Doubt. He died in . 1921.
An interesting book has been called to the attention of the Editor by Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., its owner. It is the proceedings of the International Conference on Aerial Navigation (the first conference ever held on this subject-in America), held in Chicago in 1893. The significance of the book to Notre Dame is contained in its introduction:
“The proposal to hold an International Conference on Aerial Navigation in Chicago during the Columbian Exposition first originated with Prof. A. F. Zahm of Notre Dame University. He conferred with Mr. C. C. Bonney, President of the World’s Congress Auxiliary, an organization under the auspices of the World’s Columbian Exposition, intended to promote the meeting of various congresses; then he interested various persons in the subject, and in December, 1893, a committee of organization was formed.”
Prof. Zahm, then a member of the University faculty, presented two papers at the Congress, the results of experiments conducted at Notre Dame. One was “Atmospheric Gusts and Their Relation to Flight” and the other “Stability of Aeroplanes and Flying Machines.” Speakers from all over the world were represented on the program. When it is recalled that this Conference took place thirty-seven years ago on a topic that is still considered in its pioneer stages, the value of the contributions of Dr. Zahm to the field is enhanced. His new appointment is merited recognition of signal leadership during the whole period of development in this field, including outstanding services during the World War for the government, and invaluable con
tributions to the development of the ideas of many of the foremost figures in American aviation.
Excerpts from the letter* of presentation to Father Cavanaugh attached to the copy of the “Proceedings” indicate the esteem in which Dr. Zahm and his work are held by the public (Mr. George L. O’Brien, South Bend, a student at Notre Dame under Dr.; Zahm, was the original owner):
“. . . . He sent me the book at the time because when I was at Notre Dame I helped him with some of his experiments. ... I loaned it. to a friend of mine in New York some
Dr. Albert Zahm
(Photo by Harris & Ewing, Washington, D.C.)
time ago. I got nervous about getting it back, so I asked him for it, and suggested that he could get the information that he wanted from the New York Public Library. He informs me that the book is not in the New York Public Library, and that it is tremendously valuable. When you consider that Albert Zahm was the first one to attempt to coordinate the minds of people who were thinking of aviation, and that he was a loyal son of your institution, this gives you a sentimental interest in it. Attention should be called to the fact that the very early theories that are now common practices were developed in Notre Dame’s laboratories.”
Prom Preparations Reviewed
The twenty-second annual Promenade of the Junior Class is in the offing. Preparations have been in full swing for more than a month, and now only one week is left for securing tickets. A great deal of work lies before the Junior class men who have been chosen to make this Prom the greatest Notre Dame has ever known, and now that interest is high we pause to see what has been done and what will be done in the next two weeks.
The first Prom was held at Thanksgiving time, we are told, and was given for the Junior Class of 1909. It was a success, as all Junior Proms have been. Since then the Prom has developed into a full blown tradition and is now 22 years old. Year by year, it has been more beautiful, more successful, and more resplendent. Last year we saw the Prom Beautiful of the class of ’30 come and go, and we cannot but say that it was by far the most successful of all Proms held here.
And now, we see the Prom of 1930 approaching. The million and one things that have to be arranged are almost completed. The work of some of the committees is almost finished; for others it is merely started. The Decorations Committee, for instance, under the guidance of Tim Benitz, has been working for weeks so that this Prom will surpass all that have gone before. Now they will begin to act on plans and will be extremely busy from now until Friday evening, February 28, at about eight o’clock, when they will.pause to rest on their laurels.
The dinner-dance, the Saturday evening following the Prom, will be a gala affair held at the Oliver. By this time there will, no doubt, be very few reservations left. Only two hundred couples can be accommodated that evening, and tickets are going fast. The dinner-dance, we feel, will surpass all like affairs at other Proms. Music will be provided by the Notre Dame Jugglers, and, from what we have heard about them this year, they will certainly realize all the expectations of the committee in charge.
All those Juniors who have not as yet secured their bids are urged to do so at the earliest possible time. Reservations for the dinner-dance are almost completely filled.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
557
FATHER CARROLL’S “AVE MARIA” SKETCHES RE-
CEIVE FAVORABLE
COMMENT
The series of sketches which the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., is writing for the Ave Maria Magazine has been received with pleasure * by all who read this well known Catholic publication. Father Carroll has already established his reputation as a writer of prose and poetry through his books and the various poems and sketches he has had published. The stories -appearing in the U Ave Mana are whimsical tales of life in Ireland. They have in them all the charm and quaintness that is characteristic of Irish authors when writing of their homeland. Father Carroll has succeeded in depicting life as it was in Ireland many years ago. So realistic are the characters and scenes he has created that many of his readers have written to him saying that he has made them live over the days of their youth spent in the “Old Country.”
Dr. Daniel B. Keeley, of Providence, R. I., said in a letter to Father Carroll, “ I was a boy again in the reading, though fifty odd years have gone since I sledged from school to rob an owl’s nest in the castle of Oala. Your Paddy Owen was duplicated by a. Paddy Doherty who had an apple orchard near us, and, believe it or not, , I could taste the flavor of Paddy’s stolen apples as I read your story.”
The Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President Emeritus of the University, has written of Father ,	Carroll’s sketches: “A lot of people
■write fairly good English, but I know s	of no one who writes such good Irish
English as you do. It isn’t merely a magic of word juggling. It is the flesh, the blood, the fibre. You not only write perfect Irish English, but you think it' and feel it, and most vividly remember it.”
MUSIC AND DRAMA
In South Bend the week’s best bet is probably the Oliver. The Oliver Players are consistently good and the plays they put on are of the best. Their farces are done with that ail- with which farces should be done and the director of the company seems to know the capabilities of his group. This makes for a better showing to the audience (we can remember when other stock companies had only too obvious casting difficulties).
Miss Constance Collier, performing in G. B. Stern’s “The Matriarch” at the Princess in Chicago, is well worth seeing . . . and hearing. Miss Collier has one of those voices that are seldom heard save when Miss Anglin presents something or on those rare occasions when there is nothing of the Barrymore in Miss Barrymore’s acting. Of course, you m ay have some difficulty in understanding Miss Collier’s entirely English accent but you will at least get some pointers for use when talking to some of your -friends back home.
Harold Bauer gave a concert Sunday. Ordinarily that would be sufficient comment, but plans had been made for a joint recital by Bauer and Myra Hess. It seems that Hess’ mother became ill and Harold Bauer-took the stage himself. Two fantasies, one of Mozart and one of Haydn, an Etude Symphonique of Schumann, some Cesar Franck, and the famous Children’s Corner of Debussy made up the program. For encores there was “Rayells Fountain,” a descriptive number “The Wind, and a Beethoven number.
Victor Herbert’s “Mlle. Modiste” is at the Majestic for another week. Fritzi Scheff takes the leading role which she has created some years ago. If you care for Victor Herbert you will like the way Fritzi Scheff sings “Kiss Me Again.”
If you are buying any new records this week we can suggest some recent Victors. Wayne King has a good violin chorus in “Wrapped in a Red Red Rose”; Waring’s has smart vocal effects in “Alma Mammy and Navy Blues,” and Johnny Johnson’s band in “Kiss Me My Sweetheart” has a vocal chorus that is,, to quote William Rose Benet, “swell.”
Victor is announcing a set of new records today, the best of whicch are the following: “Gypsy Dream Girl” and “M-a-r-y I love you,” done by Rudy Vallee. The orchestra makes a very smooth record out of “Gypsy Dream Girl.” George Olsen does “Mona” and “I’m on a Diet of Love” very, very well, what with a trumpet or two and a fiddle that just doesn’t know any bounds. “When I’m Looking at You” and “The Rogue Song” (from Lawrence Tibbett’s new picture) are done by Nat Shilkret, and you can take it that they are done, “The Rogue Song” number- should be as popular as any marching song on the operatic stage.
Brunswick has a good number in Isham Jones’ recording of “Nina Rosa.” Someone who was holding chin-chin with Guy Lombardo at the Roosevelt last week-end states that Guy says he will return to Chicago in May to play on the North Side. That eliminates some of the danger ... of being shot just to hear Guy.
mi tit mum in i in imimiiiimmmti min iif tuifict if tttttttfniimtitittittttti titti mmmmiimmmmimmmmmmmmmmmmmjj
Double Feature Number of “Juggler” Coming
ARCHITECTS RECEIVE
HONORABLE MENTION
Three students in the School of Architecture of the University, Leonard Blommert, Frank Kelly and Raymond Feinberg, received mention in the third analytic competition conducted by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design, held in New York, on January 11 of this year, the subject of the competition being a private mausoleum.
When the Funny Fellow’s cap and bells tinkle on the campus -on Monday night, they will play a double tune, with music both for the Alumni and for the Prom Trotters. The next issue of the Jziggler, the Alumni issue, contains a special Prom Supplement section in which appear several thrilling prom features that will prove entertaining to the Prom boys and their guests. The Prom Song, written by Zeno Staudt and
John Beljon, is included in this section.
The Alumni section of The Juggler contains a number of contributions from former Juggler staff members and editors, foremost among them being Joseph P. McNamara, last year’s editor-in-chief, and George D. O’Brien, the second editor-in-chief of The Juggler and one of its founders. Campus writers “go to town” on tales about Alumni experiences and reasons, to make a very interesting edition.
558
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The VILLAGERS, we believe, have caught the true spirit of the clubs in that they have appointed a committee to arrange plans for a joint banquet of all Campus Clubs representing Indiana. Plans as yet are tentative because it is not known how they will be received. A banquet of such a sort would certainly be a great success as far as promoting brotherhod and “get-togetherness” is concerned at Notre Dame. The banquet will be held sometime before Easter.
The PITTSBURGH and PHILADELPHIA CLUBS are planning a joint banquet. Committees are working hard trying to arrange things, but they, too, do not know how such a banquet will be received. We mention it here, hoping that it may offer encouragement.
The CLEVELAND CLUB held a banquet last Wednesday at the LaSalle Hotel, followed by a “theatre party” at the Oliver Theatre. The banquet was ‘a typical Cleevland affair, with a world of entertainment and good food. Dean McCarthy of the Commerce School addressed the members, and each class in the Club entertained with a series of novelties. Sunday afternoon, at 2:00 p. m., this same Club intends to hold a bowling tournament for its members at the LaSalle Annex. There will be three valuable prizes given to the best bowlers. The Club also intends to hold a few more tournaments, golf, pool, handball and possibly indoor baseball for its members, before Easter.
The SPECTATORS held their usual meeting last Thursday evening in the Library. John Dubuisson, president of the PRESIDENTS’ CLUB and the LOUISIANA CLUB, presented a paper on “Socialism.” Joel Egerer, Music and Drama Editor of the Scholastic, spoke on “Modern Architecture.”
The NEW JERSEY CLUB held a meeting a day or two ago and discussed the problem of turning the Christmas dance over to the Alumni. The Club is also preparing a program of entertainment for the present season.
The DETROIT CLUB held a meeting last night for the purpose of electing a secretary to fill that vacated position, and intended, at the time this page was set up, to plan a banquet on the 29th of this month.
The METROPOLITAN CLUB will hold a meeting next Monday evening, at 8:00 o’clock in the Law Building, to make final arrangements for having pictures taken.
The GRAND RAPIDS CLUB held their first meeting since the Christmas vacation on February 6. The Club intends to contribute to the members a dinner sometime in the near future. AH members are requested to be at the meeting, February 20, to discuss arrangements.
The SPANISH CLUB held its first meeting of the second semester on February 6 in the Law Building. An election of officers was held. Robert Kelly was elected president of the Club; Francis J./D’Muhala, secretary, and Alex Rivera, treasurer. Since in this Club a credit hour is offered for regular attendance, Mr. Kelly in his first address to the Club stressed the importance of regular attendance. Hereafter there will be a meeting of the Club every Thursday night in the Law Building at 7:30.
The YOUNGSTOWN CLUB has evidently started this series of “theatre parties” which other Clubs are adopting. After their banquet the first of this month, all the club members went to the Oliver Theater.
The UTICA CLUB intends to hold a meeting in the near future and has requested the Campus Club Editor to announce that it will be of the utmost importance to club members.
The CHEMIST’S CLUB have asked that they be given a column in the news section of the Scholastic each week.
And now we arrive at a discussion of the Dome pictures. The Editor-in-chief tells us that at this date approximately twenty clubs have had their pictures taken. If there are any clubs not wishing to have their pictures appear in the Dome, they should inform him so that no arrangements need be made for them. The photographer will not be available after the next few days, so it is imperative that all the Club officers that have not done so, make arrangements with him for having their pictures taken.
It will be the policy of the Dome, this year, to give the type of write-up to the Clubs that they desire. For that reason, as soon as the pictures have been taken, a write-up of the kind agreed upon by the Club Officers should be handed to the Campus Club Editor of the Dome. They may be sent to the Club Editor in Science Hall.
The intention this year is to place small cuts of some spot in the city or state represented by the Club, in the Club Page. Club presidents should arrange to secure these cuts from their home cities as soon as possible.
Three pictures a day are taken in the Gymnasium. In order to make arrangements for having pictures taken it is necessary for the Club officer to sign the name of his club opposite the time and the day he wants the picture to be taken; then call his members for that date. The photographer and the Editor-in-chief of the Dome will be there to receive them.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
559
The second issue of Scrip, the Notre Dame Quarterly, made its appearance on the campus last f Monday night. Six hundred copies were released and we understand that most of them have been sold.	$
.	Mr. Louis Heitger, editor of the Quarterly, has produced a rather fine group of short stories,
poems and essays. But we would suggest the inclusion of reviews of the more significant books of the day, especially in view of the fact that some eleven pages are devoted, in the issue at hand, to " a study of Uhekhov; this lengthy “review,” making plain the fact that the editors are not averse to consideration of an author’s work.
*	Mr. Joseph McCabe is represented by a short story, “Breakfast,” which is easily the finest piece
of creative work in the magazine. Mr. McCabe has succeeded in catching the significance of the moment; and in his ordered presentation of several significant moments, he has produced a first rate story.
The poems, though failing to measure up, both in quality and quantity, to those of the first issue, are, none-the-less, not without their marks of excellence.
Mr. Jay Walz’s study of Chekhov is careful and judicious, if not particularly significant.
£	We would like to point out three things, which, it seems to us, if given more extended consideration
j by the board of editors, might contribute towards the still greater success of Scrip.
First, we would suggest the inclusion of more work by students in the University proper. It is our belief that several men on the campus are producing work of more than ordinary merit; we may be wrong; but more determined search will, we' think, reveal the truth of this statement.
’	Second, we would urge that the majority of the articles accepted and printed, be written by
.	students now in attendance at the University. We do not question the validity of printing the com-	petent products of graduates, but we would question the advisability of giving a third of the avail-
m	able space to the work of men now removed from active connection with Notre Dame, and, conse-
x quently, having no hand in the support of the magazine.
ri	'
fl	Finally, we would suggest that greater cognizance be taken, in printing criticism, of the works of
men living today. Adherence to tradition is ennobling; but blind allegiance may exclude recognition iw
fu	of the fact that “great spirits now on earth are sojourning.” Here again, it is our opinion that more
V	determined search will reveal the existence of “great spirits” in our present day and age.
f	If we have seemed unduely critical in our remarks, such narrowing scrutiny is only the result
j	of our sincere wish and hope that Scrip may take its place in the front ranks of the written expressions of the youth of today.	.	—M. h. l.
Page 560—The Notre Dame Scholastic

HE-MEN ANH WHAT THEY WERE
By Paul J. Hallinan
“A bath every two weeks?’’ exclaimed the Brownsonian in 1867. “Never! We are being robbed of our rights. I believe I am expressing the sentiment of the school when I say that I lament this order. They are trying to take away our liberty, our virility. This is a he-man’s school! A bath a month is good enough for any student. Why, maybe in 50 or 60 years, they’ll be telling us what to wear!”
Baths every two weeks was going a little too far, thought the boys of 1867. And the future presented an even more dismal picture with the possibility of an order necessitating a bath every week. It was an effeminating measure—one indicative of luxury. And if there was one thing that the 1867 boy wanted to be it was a he-man.
x
Did you ever gaze on the features in a “Fambly Album”? Fancy vests and tin derbies, high shoes and tight-fitting trousers for Uncle Oscar and Brother Ed; circumferential hoop-skirts and lots of ruffles for Cousin Euphrosyne and Aunt Clarissa. Styles change as surely as the weather and more drastically. Below is a group of local Brummels snapped during a moment of relaxation on the Sorin steps. The picture
William Good, who decreed fashions in 1850.
was taken long ago. Even Jim Armstrong, the Alumni Secretary, couldn’t identify the
men in it, and he has met hundreds of old grads.	.
Derbies were not only in vogue th they were of extreme importance. are 42 students in the setting; 31 are -<j bied. The Encyclopedia Brittanica, in^ enlightening article on “Dress,” says t during that period the soft hat was gi ually but certainly replacing the bowler, । derby proper and the top-hat. Notre D: with her adherence to traditions mig|?t expected to clutch the derbies until the j one was declared decidedly archaic.
Note also in the Sorin panorama affected ease of the two who are lean on tennis-rackets, the snappy craj and the collars, and the no-crease, no-tr up trousers. On the whole the faces if a nonchalance—affected or not—that is prising in the late ’90 prints and whic ‘ entirely out of proportion to their strai postures. The leg-postures were evidei regulated mechanically by the photo” pher: square stance, square squat, st and-a-half and the cross-leg.
SU	jj:
The first team to appear on a I1 Dame football field was arrayed in baseballic splendor of the group in
Derbies and sport accessories give this Sorin group that “smart” appearance.
The Notre Dame Scholastic—Page 561
Notre Dame’s First Football Team—(seated) Jewett, Cusack, Luhn and Prodhomme; (standing) Hepburn, Houck, Sawkins, Fehr, Nelson, Melady and Springer.
isture above. Skull-caps, neck-line filars, and tennis shoes distinguish fee boys from a 1930 big-league team go-pg south. The two moustaches and the |wd semi-moustaches definitely clinch the L^iod as “late 1800’s” because after the entury had turned, football came into the pfai, and hair-brushes were relegated to he locker-rooms.
"The men of that proto-team met again in
-.924 for the Homecoming. All but Frank Springer, the left end, were present. Harry Jewett, right half-back, left the presidency ^f the Paige Motor Company for the week-Sersi to the various vice-presidents. The Hittie fellow next to him in the photograph, tS-E. Cusack, was quarterback on the team, J nd later became colonel of the U. S. cav-illry at El Paso, Texas. The gentleman Harrying the ball is Henry B. Luhn, cap-nain and left half-back, and instigator of •th® Reunion idea. Next to him is Ed Prod-jhomme, smashing full-back and member of rise Louisiana legislature, from Bermuda, {’ll J. L. Hepburn, insurance man of Detroit, was the moustached right-end. George gfaouck, a retired cattleman of Portland, ||Dre., and Gene “Butch” Melady were 4ackles; E. A. Sawkins, sanitary officer of
■Detroit, and Pat Nelson (the Napoleonic
figure in the photo), a Judge of the Dis
trict Court of Iowa, were the guards, and
Frank Fehr, later a banker in Louis
ville, Ky., was the center.
Neither the Egyptian tunic, the Roman toga, the Elizabethan frills or the Louis XIV knee-breeches had anything on the dress of the pre-Salmon era of American football. The gentleman to the right has a very modified apparel. As West brook Pegler tells it, the fan of 1900 had visions like this:
“The moleskin warrior of 1900
had corsets on r , x , , , • , . . , . , ,, Jacket and moleskins of his shins, bustles	, ,nn
, .	; ,,	the late 90s.
on his shoulders,
and a dry peck of hair combings, old rags and Spanish moss worked into a voluptu
ous mound on each knee. His head harness was an open-work apparatus something like a cargo sling, his hair stuck through the interstices like hay through the slats of a crib, and the general ensemble suggested the hybrid issue of a mis-alliance between a plush arm-chair and a leather couch from the herd of the Union League Club.”
Fashions are amusing. But we are warned by Romain de Terloff-Erte, artist and contributoi- to Vogue and Harper's Bazaar, “one has only to live the past over impartially to realize that all changes in fashion are rungs of a ladder leading to an inconstant ideal.” John Erskine claims that dress is at least “an expression of the body, and we might almost say, an expression of the soul.” We think it is frequently the latter.
“No corduroys?” said the Brownsonian last week. “Gentlemen, we are being robbed of our rights. I think I am expressing the sentiment of the school when I say that I sincerely lament this order. They are trying to take away oui- virility, our liberty. This is a he-man’s school.’ Corduroys are good enough for every student. Why, maybe in a few years they’ll be telling us what to talk about!”

562
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Once again we have the unadulterated pleasure of bringing to our readers (if any such there be) the joyful announcement that we have a champion in oui* midst. Yea, and according to all information available on the subject it is a champion of the world we have. To be brutally brief, the fact is that our old yo-yo champion is the new champion now. Perhaps some of you may remember way back when this friend and idol of ours most nonchalantly doubled the yo-yo record of 15 minutes established by some equally industrious attendant at the University of Indiana. Then came the news that someone had manipulated his yo-yo down and up for no less than 3862 times, a total which could be accumulated only by an hour or more of continuous labor. Our buddy promised with all confidence and sincerity that he would in time shattei’ this noble record, and we hereby announce that he has gloriously fulfilled his promise. On the afternoon of January 25th he suddenly swung into action and before he ceased activities the gleaming yellow yo-yo had gone spinning downward exactly 4113 times and come spinning back upwards just 4112 times. No doubt he would have continued indefinitely had he not attempted the many fancy and trick shots that eventually resulted in his miss. Nevertheless, he cracked the old record by 250 and still remains the same unassuming lad he always has been. His modesty is such that he has forbidden us under threat of dire consequences to disclose his name to the public. All we are allowed to say is that he is a valued member of what is probably the greatest and most exclusive of our campus organizations, Playboy Alley, which flourishes in Morrissey. In view of the fact that his remarkable performance was witnessed by two official timers, it is practically certain that his new record will be accepted at once by the International Association of Yo-yoers.
—o—
Old Dan Cupid has been defeated by the University of West Virginia on a technical knockout. It seems that Danny was going strong, so strong that student elopements were almost becoming the rule rather than the exception. But the cruel faculty finally stepped in and decreed that no undergraduates of the university may enter the state of matrimony without first producing the written consent of both parents. All who violate the new rule will promptly be informed that there’s no place like home.
Though all of them admit that they “like girls,” the students of Emory College are vague in their notion of what constitutes the ideal girl. The freshmen seem to prefer brunettes because they are more reserved and smoke less. One frosh declares that blondes are always fickle and cannot be trusted. The Sophs likewise prefer that their girls do not smoke, but they are in favor of blondes and demand that their girls have physical pulchritude and a tendency towards having a good time. The Juniors wax idealistic and want
girls who are lovers of “home and children.” The Seniors, perhaps disillusioned, are dubious about the existence of any ideal girl. “Love ’em and leave ’em” seems to be their attitude. The graduate students like them quiet. One of them says that “women are to be seen and not heard.” The notions of the profs on this subject were not set forth, for which omission many possible reasons pop into mind.
—o—
It pays to go slow around the University of North Carolina. Some theatre manager and the chief of police concocted an ingenious idea for securing obedience to traffic regulations. The scheme is for the policemen to hail all motorists who appear to be exercising particular care and caution, and then go tripping lightly up to present them with a free pass to the theatre as a just reward for their carefulness. There are possibilities in this noble experiment. For instance, the possibility of rank favoritism. What is to prevent some eligible young copper from furthering his cause with some sweet young thing by promiscuous presentation of complimentary tickets? Again, we vision the possibility of some officer of the law strolling out in full dress suit to accost some motorist thus: “Oh, but I say now, old chappie, your driving is simply ripping! Do allow me to present these to you with our compliments and appreciation. Ah, yes don’t mention it. Good day, sir.”
—o—
Dr. Andre M. Siegfried, famous French economist, gives us the encouragement that “students in American colleges are much happier and get much more out of college life than students in European colleges.” The campuses of American colleges,” he continues, “are also much prettier than those of Europe, for in place of the spacious greens seen here, in Europe they have streets and buildings in the same manner that a town has. They have no dormitories, and naturally the college atmosphere found in America is lacking there.” As regards intercollegiate athletics, he says that it is entirely in the hands of the students as to whether or not they participate in such sports. In other words, if' one year the students of a university feel ambitious and athletically inclined, then they graciously condescend to take part in intercollegiate sports; but if the next year such activity seems quite a bore to them, then they graciously decline to participate. This idea has possibilities too. Think of all the victories to be achieved and disasters to be averted by judicious manipulation of this privilege of participating or no.
Ar
{
They must like to take their time about things at Ohio State, for they are just now “getting wise” to the existence of such infernal instruments as the yoyo. One of the professors there predicts that the lad is going to sweep the campus. All of which reminds us that we used to have a yoyo champ ourselves.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
563
I
Deal’ Sans Gene:
Fifty million Frenchmen may not be wrong, but one Frenchman is going to be awfully, awfully wrong if he doesn’t print the following:
QUIZ CASES	.
The student who brought a Milky Way to an Astronomy exam.
The student who borrowed a sorority pin to take to the Greek III quiz.
The student who refused to answer a question in an Insurance exam because it was against his policy.
The student who brought a pony to a Transportation quiz.
The Advertising prof who asked for a copy and got it.
The student who whistled “I wanna be bad” during a Criminal Law exam.
—The Red Knight.
—o—
All we have to say to The Red Knight is that he had better keep away from Chicago. A lad who spent this week-end in that fair city just dropped into the room to inform us that he had a perfectly killing time.
—Sans Gene.
1 THE GLORIOUS FOURTH
Oh, same may long for quiet retreats, In seclusion, so silent it stings.
But my abode must possess the mode Of glamour fit for kings.
The times I sleep and the times I weep Must be few and far apart,
For I hate seclusion as well as delusion And I want a floor with a heart.
Give me a wild floor, brother;
One with noise galore.
A floor that will swear
And rip and tear
And fill the air with a roar.
Oh, some will say that a gentleman's floor Should only be seen, not heard,
But I icant a floor, just covered with gore, And mischief must be the last word.
I yearn, I long for a floor so strong
It will take two prefects to “woe” it.
But such there be, come up and you’ll see.
Please come, my boys, and you’ll knoiv it.
Give me a wild floor, brother, One with a lot of glamour;
A floor that will blaze
In a hectic haze
And all the exiles, enamour.
And being a member of that floor, I’ll wrestle any one in the crowd for five dollars.
Just in the way of an encouragement, the following happens to be our first contribution:
Dear Sans Gene:
“But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue.”
— (King Henry VI, Act II, Scene 1.)
By a strain of the imagination, the above will be seen to have a faint connection with what is below. I just wanted to say that people who write for your column are crazy; people who read what crazy people write for your column are twice as crazy. But the fellow who edits what crazy people write for crazier people to read in your column must have been born psychopathic and suffered a relapse in his early youth.
—Wild Orchid.
The Scotch joke of the week concerns a certain McTavish who bought a house with what he saved by not using ANY toothpaste. And that should be enough Scotch jokes for this week, or any other week for that matter.
Our second contribution was engraved on a brick which came floating over the transom this evening:
Shall we play the “Recessional” or shall it be a “Requiem”? For no good reason at all let’s play the “Recessional” because we sincerely hope that our friend T. Talbot Tabloid is not altogether- dead. What were those words from Longfellow? Oh yes, “And departing, leave behind us, footprints on the sands of time.” The question arises, are we going to follow in those footsteps? Quite evidently not, because they had a decided turning towards New York, and we’re headed for nowhere in particular. We’re just going to flit “hither and yon,” not trying to be funny but just filling up space, with a deal of pent-up energy that we hope some of the worthy contributors have in store. So now that we have finished with a deep sonorous “Recessional,” lets start out the new regime with—oh never mind, we don’t like music anyhow ....
The first business that we have on hand tonight, dear readers of obsolete telephone books, is in regard to a slight query that our retired member, T. Talbot Tabloid, made in a recent issue of the—hey, by the vray, what’s the name of this column? Oh yes, The Wink. The above query was made in a fashion to be a bit derogatory to that sanctuary of the aesthetes, the Fourth Floor of Walsh. We thank our friend for that because it gave us an opportunity for a debut into this column; a debut which could find no better material than in that dear Fourth of Walsh.
-SA
’I
564
The Notre Dame Scholastic
5 PORTS
t
I ' i
4
1
J
' r
Pitt Panthers Conquer Notre Dame Again
Overcome Early Lead To Win; Hyatt and Zehfuss Star For Victors
APTAIN Charley Hyatt will probably never be forgotten by Notre Dame fans as long as
basketball is played in these parts, for that man put up one of the classiest, snappiest, and most decisive games played on the local floor this season. All this as part of Pittsburgh’s 25 to 14 conquest of the fighting Notre Dame Blue and Gold quintet, last Saturday night before 6,500 frenzied fans, the largest crowd ever to be jammed into the gymnasium for a cage tilt.
Hyatt was everywhere—down the floor, up the court, in the center, and when he wanted to count, under the basket. Four times did he propel his slim, lithe form down the court to ring up field goals for his team, and two of these came in the beginning of the second half after the Panthers had tied Notre Dame at 11-all before the intermission.
To be sure, it was a great contest, and only justly so because the Blue and Gold quintet, donning creamy white unies at home for the first time this season, led by McCarthy and Smith made it so. These two men were outstanding in their individual efforts and had they not worn themselves so completely out in that gruelling first period, Notre Dame might have continued on to a brilliant victory over the Smoky City five.
The starting lineup of Newbold and McCarthy, at the forwards, DeCook at center, Smith and Donovan guards, seemed to click just as soon as the game was under way. Their zone defense was so impregnable that Pittsburgh was unable to score until six minutes of the first half was played. Not until it became a matter of physical exhaustion did Pittsburgh’s scoring chances really materialize. Then, and only then, did Pittsburgh score several successive goals to wipe out Notre Dame’s 11-6 lead,
and tie the score at 11 to 11 at the half.
Ray DeCook got the first tipoff for Notre Dame, and after passing the ball around in back court, Pittsburgh regained it, only to miss connections and Smith grabbed it under the invaders’ basket. He passed shortly to DeCook, who shot it to McCarthy, who took it on the run and neatly put it through the net for the initial counter in the first minute of play. Hyatt fouled McCarthy but his shot was awry.
At this point both teams were fighting furiously for possession of the leather, and Notre Dame seemed to be having the edge of the battle, but lost the ball, however, several times on out-of-bound penalties. Donovan attempted a shot from two-thirds of the way out, missed, and DeCook taking it off the backboard, shot it out to “Ooney” again. Donovan’s next try from center also missed the net. Pittsburgh’s first attempt at the basket by Arture, went sliding around the ring for no score. Newbold fouled Arture but his heave was wild.
The scrappy Pitt guard was successful on his next try from the floor, and Arture rang up Pitt’s first points with a push shot under the board, tying the score at 2-2. With McCarthy handling the ball in the pivot position, Smith took it in center floor and made the score, 4 to 2. McCarthy pushed it up a notch with a free toss after Arture fouled him. Up to this time, it appeared to be all Arture for Pittsburgh as Notre Dame’s.perfect defense was proving too strong for Charley Hyatt. Tire flash soon after attempted his first shot of the evening but it bounced off the back- ' board.
Arture slipped under the net again on a clever break and tightened the count at 5 to 4, in Notre Dame’s favor. McCarthy was rapped by Arture and he made his single foul count. Donovan slipped a pass to Smith, who took his time in making
a pretty shot from mid-floor, running the count to 8 to 4. Cohen fouled DeCook and Ray added another’ point. Tire first Notre Dame foul was called on Donovan for pushing, and Zehfuss foozled his try. Pittsburgh attempted to pass the length of the floor several times but the ball went way over the forwards’ heads. Zehfuss counted from the charity stripe when DeCook fouled him. Baker made it 9-6 in favor of Notre Dame with a free toss and a minute later Smith dribbled right past Hyatt and counted under the net raising the advantage to 116. Zehfuss put the ball through the net from the foul line and Hyatt scored his first goal of the evening on a quick break from the right side of the floor. With 1% minutes of the half remaining, Baker, husky Pitt guard, stole the march, and shoved in a follow-up shot to knot the score at eleven-up. Substitutes had ruined Noter Dame’s perfect defense to a point where Pittsburgh held a great advantage.
Charley Hyatt opened up the second half with a whirlwind attack and made two successive goals,—the first from outside of the foul line, and on the next tip-off caught Notre Dame sleeping, broke for the basket, took a pass from Zehfuss, and increased the score to 15 to 11. DeCook fouled Zehfuss and the latter’s foul shot was good.
Ed. Smith tried to dribble the ball around the center* of the floor with two Panthers hanging on to him like leeches, but Hyatt succeeded in wrestling the leather away from him. Smith followed the flash down the court, but Hyatt’s shot went slithering through the meshes to make the score, 18 to 11. With 10 minutes left to play, Baker received a snappy pass from Zehfuss and scored from right court.
Smith attempted several long shots in a frantic effort to connect, but his shots were wild. Notre Dame had
(Continued on Page 566)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
565
Can Notre Dame Trackmen Break Illinois Jinx?
Coach John P. Nicholson’s Blue and Gold thinlies will meet their first really stiff opposition of the season, tomorrow evening when the track squad of the University of Illinois comes to South Bend for the annual indoor dual meet between the two schools. The meet will be run off in the University gymnasium with the first event scheduled for 7:30 p. m.
The two schools have been competing in track for the last seventeen years, and Notre Dame has yet to chalk up her first victory over the Illini. Many times the scores have been close, but the Big Ten school has always been victorius. The indoor meet of 1918 was, perhaps, the closest to victory for Notre Dame, and the score, 431-3 to 42 2-3, indicates how evenly matched the two teams were. Of recent years, however, the Urbanians seem to have been in a different class. Always the meets have ended with the Illini leading from twenty to seventy-five points.
This year the Blue and Gold is conceded more than an even chance of
-no/
Chicago to be Site of Notre Dame-Army Game
Notre Dame will play Army in Soldiers’ Field, on November 29, it was made known Tuesday. At the request of Notre Dame officials, headed by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, representatives of the United States Military Academy agreed to transfer the game to Chicago.
Father O’Donnell made it clear in announcing the change that the request had been made solely in an endeavor to lighten the Notre Dame 1930 grid schedule. As now arranged the Fighting Irish will not have to make the long train grind to the western coast for the Southern California contest, on December 6, until several days after the Army game, whereas if they played in New York they would have been forced to leave for Los Angeles immediately after the fray. Players would have had to absent themselves from classes for a period of almost two weeks.
The game was not transferred to the new Notre Dame stadium because as Father O’Donnell said, “West Point belongs to the nation, and the
breaking the old jinx. The team has shown great speed and strength in all of its trials and from all appearances will be ready to hand the Illinois squad its first defeat in close to twenty-five starts against Notre Dame. With Wilson, Little, Abbott, Quigley, O’Brien, Bailie, McCormick and Boagni nearing mid-season form, Coach Nicholson’s men are practically, assured of the majority of points in the sprints, hurdles, and middledistances. Enright, McDonald, and Bailie will get the opportunity to “show their stuff” in the broad jump, • Darling and Abernathy will be in the high jump, and Johnson, Fishleigh, and Slattery in the pole vault. Mortenson, 'who took first in the Butler meet two weeks ago, together with Hoffman, and Brill, will probably heave the shot for “Nick’s” team.
The program will consist of eleven events, scheduled to be ran off in the following order: pole vault, sixtyyard dash, one mile run, broad jump, sixty-yard high hurdles, high jump, shot put, 440-yard dash, half-mile run, two mile ran, and one mile relay.
largest number possible should have an opportunity to see their team in action.”
Major Phillip R. Fleming, director of athletics at West Point, agreed reluctantly to the transfer of the game to Soldiers’ Field, because New York had become the locale of the concluding game of the Cadets’ schedule. The 1931 and 1932 games, articles for which are already signed, will be played in New York as originally planned.
When the Cadets take the field against Notre Dame on Nov. 29, it will be their first appearance on Soldiers’ Field since 1926, when they played Navy. It will be Notre Dame’s only Chicago game during the coming campaign, five home games are already scheduled.
The military academy officials made clear in their announcement that the change was made only at the request of Notre Dame, and that the unpleasant rumors which spread through the country shortly after the last , game between the two schools had nothing to do whatever with the transfer.
RELAY TEAM WINS TWO; ELDER SWEEPS SERIES
Notre Dame’s two-mile relay team chalked up two brilliant victories on its week-end visit to New York and New Jersey last week. Running in the Milrose Games on Saturday night, the boys met the stiffer opposition and likewise turned' in the better time. Alex Wilson, running in the anchor position, was given the baton in third place but quickly sprinted to the front, and finished with a thirty yard lead exactly 7 minutes, 59 2-5 seconds after Brant Little had left the starting block.
Monday the boys crossed the river to Newark for the Seton Hall Games. They repeated their victory again, this time in 8:01, slightly slower than Saturday’s performance, but good in consideration of the shortness of the track.
New York University, Georgetown, Holy Cross, and Syracuse were represented in the Milrose race, while N.Y.U. and Georgetown were the only ones to be represented in the Newark games.
Alex Wilson finished third in a special 500-yard race in the Seton Hall Games. The race was won by Bernie McCafferty, of Holy Cross, in the good time of 59 seconds.
Jack Elder running unattached, added four more victories to his already imposing list, but also suffered a rather unexpected defeat. After taking the measure of Cy Leland, of T.C.U., in the preliminary sixty yard dash of the Milrose Games, Jack was defeated by two comparatively unknown Canadians in the final fifty-yard event. Leigh Millei* and John Fitzgerald finished only-two ahead of Jack in this race.
Monday night in Newark, the “Colonel” • was out for revenge, and got it in each of the three races of the series -and over everybody who decided to ran sprints that night. He took the forty and fifty yard events rather easily and then climaxed his evening by tying the world’s record for about the thirtieth time in his favorite sixty yard dash. Bill Bruder took second place in each race.
Notre Dame Scholastic
566

PANTHERS CONQUER N. D.
(Continued from Page 564)
I
PEP
BRAN HAKES
Here it is in BETTER BRAN FLAKES
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating cluhs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include ALL-BRAN, Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee — the coffee that lets you sleep.
PEP
TRY Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes tomorrow. Each crisp, delicious spoonful gives you the concentrated nourishment of health-building wheat— energy to keep you wide awake in classes, pep to keep you on your toes throughout the afternoon’s athletics.
Just enough bran to be mildly laxative.
Ask that Kellogg’s Pep Bran Flakes be served at your fraternity house or favorite campus restaurant. They’re great with fruit or honey added.
been unable to score throughout the whole second period, so strong had been the Pitt defense. Baker was pushed by Smith and he increased the lead to 21 to 11. Crowe’s foul attempt missed by several feet. Baker scored another from the floor, and Zehfuss took Hyatt’s pass under the basket putting the ball nicely through the net.
“Geever” Gavin brought Notre Dame’s scoring machinery out of lethargy with a nicely placed shot from the side after taking a pass, relayed by Donovan, from Smith at the other end of the court. McCarthy next skimmed under the net for a pretty bucket, and then just before the game ended he scored a shot from the free stripe, concluding the tilt
BRAN FLAKES
Books
Authors and
Literary Events
A page in the Sunday paper of interest to thinkers
. Are you reading Prof. Phillip’s Sunday articles?
THE
NEWS - TIMES
ELDER GETS 60-YARD POST ON ALL-AMERICAN
Jack Elder, captain of last year’s track team, and now running unattached in the country’s important meets, was named on the All-American track and field team for 1929 in the list announced by Secretary Daniel J. Ferris, of the Amateur Athletic Union, the forepart of this week. Elder received recognition for his repeated successes in the 60-yard dash, the world’s record for which he equalled fifteen times during his collegiate career.
with Pitt on the long end of the 25 to 16 score.
Hyatt and Zehfuss made two fine fine running mates, and their efforts were highly successful, the duo accounting for 13 of their team’s points. McCarthy and Smith played a wonderful game, the latter, attached to Hyatt throughout the game, held the Puissant Panther down to four field goals, three of them coming in the final period. McCarthy was the keyman in the Blue and Gold offense, making two buckets and three fouls. NOTRE DAME (16) PITTSBURGH (25)
	G	F	P		G	F	P
Newbold, f	0	0	0	Hyatt, f	4	0	2
Crowe, f	0	0	1	KowaIlis,S.,f	0	0	1
McCarthy, f	2	3	1	Zehfuss, f	1	3	0
Gavin, f	i	0	0	Cohen, L., c	0	0	2
DeCook, c	0	1	2	Brown, c	0	0	0
Busch, c	0	0	0	Baker, g	3	2	1
O’Connell, c	0	0	0	Cohen, M., g	0	0	1
Donovan, g	0	0	3	Arture, g	2	0	3
Smith, g	3	0	3	KowTs,W.,g	0	0	0
Conley, g	0	0	0	Wrodleski, g	0	0	0
Totals	6	4	10	Totals	10	5	10
Officials: Referee, Lane (Cincinnati); umpire, Bolster (Pittsburgh).
The Notre Dame Scholastic
567
Conley Receives Erskine Trophy for University
A huge silver cup, emblematic of the national intercollegiate football championship, was presented to Notre Dame’s 1929 football team Saturday night between halves of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh basketball game.
Paul Castner, former star athlete at Notre Dame, introduced J. L. Bingham, erstwhile Denver University athlete luminary and now a high executive of the National A.A.U. Mr. Bingham acted in this capacity in the stead of Avery Brundage, president of the A.A.U.
The Erskine trophy was the third given to the Fighting Irish this year,
•>>
(From original drawing, sent to the ALUMNUS by Art Lea Mond)
INTERHALL GAMES FOR SUNDAY, FEBRUARY				16, 1930. TIMER
TIME	Varsity Floor GAME	REFEREE		
			UMPIRE SCORER	
9:30	St. Edwards vs. Carroll	Quenan	O’Connell Friel	Shinners
10:30	Lyons vs. Sorin .	Quenan	O’Connell Friel	Shinners
1:30	Off-Campus vs. Sophomore These tivo games postponed indefinitely			
2:30	Brownson vs. Morrissey	because of varsity practice.		
3:30	Freshman vs. Walsh	Luckett	Tomasi Szekely	Sheedy
4:30	Howard vs. Corby Apparatzis Room	Luckett	Tomasi Szekely	Sheedy
TIME	GAME	REFEREE	UMPIRE SCORER	TIMER
9:30	St. Edwards vs. Carroll	Staab	Hoyt	Zarlengo	Addonizio
10:30	Lyons vs. Sorin	Staab	Hoyt	Zarlengo	Addonizio
1:30	Off-Campus vs. Sophomore Schriete		Aug	Rawley	Baker
2:30	Brownson vs. Morrissey	Schriete	Aug	Rawley	Baker
3:30	Freshman vs. Walsh	Wilson	Gould Lacks	Bergan
4:30	Howard vs. Corby	Wilson	Gould Lacks	Bergan 	4
each representing itself to be emblematic of the national football title. The Rissman trophy and the Veteran Athletes Association cup preceded the Erskine Award.
In the absence of Coach Knute Rockne and Ex-captain Johnny Law, Captain-elect Tom Conley, surrounded by his teammates received the cup. When the cheers of 5,000 spectators had subsided, the 1930 football leader accompanied his acceptance with a short speech of thanks and appreciation in behalf of the team and the university, and expressed the hope that a second leg might be gained on the award next season.
To pipes, Men, to Pipes!
Tradition has it that ye shall know the fellowship of pipes with seasoned, masculine, mellow men of every age and degree.
Some try to join this brotherhood, yet fail, and are absolved as bom to pipeless lives. But honest effort is required—each man’s own test with good tobacco in a good pipe.
That is the formula. Both pipe and tobacco must be good. The pipe must be pure of bowl, and the tobacco must be-----
Well, Edgeworth, if you’ll permit —good old Edgeworth, Class of *04. Tried Edgeworth yet? Now’s your chance! Use the magic coupon, and we’ll rush right back to you a free-for-nothing packet of genuine Edgeworth to fill your good pipe with.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality and flavor ne ver change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms— “Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”—15e pocket package to pound humidor tin.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
f--------------------------------------
•	LARUS & BRO. CO.	I
।	100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.	J
1	I’ll try your Edgeworth.	And I’ll try I
j it in a good pipe.	_ J
1	1
•	Name_____________  I
•	t
।	Street_____________ J
I	Town and State_________ ।
I'	Now let the Edgeworth come! V ।
!___________________________________J
568
The Notre Dame Scholastic
330 South Michigan
Half - Price
Sale
TROUSERS
SHOES
SHIRTS
GALOSHES
SWEATERS
SOCKS
RAINWEAR
GLOVES
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store
Your Last Chance To Buy at
Comer Michigan and Colfax
c A VF “Far
^1^	wr	at Meyer’s
FRIDAY and SATURDAY SPECIAL Feb. 14th and 15th
50c Ipana Tooth Paste-----------------29c
$1.00 Pinaud’s Hair Tonic____---------59c
$1.00 Lucky Tiger Tonic_______________73c
$1.00 Gillette Blades_________________60c
$1.00 Auto Strop Blades_______________66c
50c Williams Aqua Velva---------------36c
50c Mennen’s Shaving Cream____________32c
25c Palmolive Shaving Cream___________19c
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
SODAS	PAPERS
American Trust Company
—0-
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
—a/nd—
Soda Grill
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
—o—
MICHIGAN AT WASHINGTON
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
Scholastic
The
VARSITY TRACKMEN BEAT
FROSH, 7034 TO 28%
The varsity track squad swamped the frosh team last Friday afternoon in a dual meet in the University gymnasium. The varsity men scored firsts in eight of the eleven events to run up a 70% to 28% score against the yearlings.
Bill McCormick again outclassed the field in the sprints, winning the finals in :06 3-10, the fastest time recorded in the gym this year. Cummings took second and Boagni placed third.
Abbatemarco was the leading scorer for the Frosh with eight points to his credit. He won the broad jump ■with a distance of 22 feet, 1 inch, and took second place in the high-jump which was won by Darling with a jump of 5 feet, 8 inches.
Mickey MacBeth, a Canadian Olympic man, scored an easy victory in the half-mile while.“Chink” Kelly chalked up the best time in the 440-yard dash.
The results:
60 Yard Dash—Won by McCormick (V); Cummings (V), second; Boagni (V), third. Time :06 3/10.
Mile Run—Won by Sylvester (V);
Notre Dame
Troy (F), second; Hoyt (F), third. Time 4:52.
60 Yard High Hurdles—Won by O’Brien (V); Vaughn (V), second; Corcoran (F), third. Time :07 4/5.
440 Yard Dash (1st section)—Won by Kelly (F); Scanlon (V), second; Gilfoil (F), third. Time :53 4/5.
440 Yard Dash (2nd section)—Won by Bradley (V); Schrichte (F), second; England (V), third. Time :54 3/5.
880 Yard Run—Won by MacBeth (F); Rudd (V), second; Lawler (V), third. Time 2:07 2/5.
Two Mile Run—Won by Howery (V); Biggins (V), second; Bowers (V), third. Time 9:47 1/5.
Broad Jump—Won by Abbatemarco (F); Rigney (V), second; Mullins (V), third. Distance, 22 ft., 1 inch.
High Jump—Won by Darling (V); Abbatemarco (F), second; Kenny (F), third. Height, 5 ft., 8 inches.
Pole Vault—Fishleigh (V) and Slattery (V), tied for first; Rohr-back (V), Jaskewich (F), Pappas (V), McAdams (V), tied for third. Height, 11 feet.
Shot Put—Won by Hoffman (V); Savoldi (V), second; Brill (V), third. Distance, 41 ft., 11% inches.
569
BASEBALL CANDIDATES TO MEET MONDAY
First call for baseball candidates was issued this week, and a meeting of all players will be held Monday, according to Coach George E. Keo-gan. Varsity pitchers will begin immediately to limber up in preparation for a strenuous season. By March 1 all baseball men will be working out nightly in the gym, polishing off the rough spots in anticipation of the trip to Florida which has been planned for the Easter vacation.
Prospects for a good year in baseball are present, and following the spring vacation the Fighting Irish nine will swing into action against some of the toughest competition in this section of the country. Several fast teams will face the home guards this spring, and a creditable com bination will be moulded into form before the first scheduled tilt.
With the advance of spring and the promise of the Florida trip in sight, interest in the national pasttime at Notre Dame has taken on new life. Promise of a fast varsity as well as of a snappy freshman team is in the offing.
For school supplies and appropriate reading material patronize The Book Shop 119 North Michigan St.		W- you go away for week-ends, go quicker and enjoy a longer stay by taking the South Shore Line. Fast trains leave South Bend every hour on the hour for Michigan City, Gary, East Chicago, Hammond and Chicago. CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
570
The Notre Dame Scholastic
^QBB0BBiB00BiB8i0iBU88iB0iB0ti00ii0iBi0tBi0Bi0iiii0iMumiiuB0iBiiB0BaBBiBBBiBiB08BBitBBBBBBSttiiiiiiBBBBBBBBB00iBBBBBB008iB8BHiBBBBiBBBHiB0B8BBBBBBBiBBBBBB88aBBB8fl88BBBfl88BtBBBB8B8Bfl8BBBaBBBBBBa8BBBBBBBB0BBB8BBB8BBB0BB0iB0B8B80BBBBBBB8SBBBB8B{^
| Library Books |
Q■•■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■><.u»....iiimmuiiiiiiiiiminmiiiimiimiiiiHimiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiniiiiiiimiuuiiiiiiiuiiiiuiiiiiiimmiiiunmiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiuiuiiiiuiiuiiuiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiniuiiQ
Reference shelves and cataloguing desks of the University Library are teeming with activity as freshmen, just out of orientation courses, search for varied and intensive reports, and upperclassmen return again to recommended novel and short-story lists.
No change in the rules and regulations, which this year have been printed in a leaflet, was made. The hours are from 8 a. m. to 6 p. m. and 7:30 to 9:30 from Monday to Friday, and 8 a. m. to 5 p. m. Saturday and 10 a. m. to 12 m. Sunday
Some of the books which were purchased during the past months are:
Literature: James Boswell, “Life of Samuel Johnson”; C. L. Allen, “Country Journalism”; R. V. Mason, “Life of Robert Louis Stevenson”; E. L. Shaughnessy, “Other Ways and Other Flesh”; Sigrid Unset, “The Snake Pit”; A. W. Service, “Ballads of Bohemia”; P. A. de Alarcon, “The Three-cornered Hat”; R. A. Knox, “Essays in Satire,” “Other Eyes Than
Ours”; Mary Roberts Rinehart, “The Poor Wise Man”; Edgar Wallace, “The Green Archer”; John Forster, “The Life of Charles Dickens.”
Education: Elizabeth Clark, “Stories and How to Tell Them.”
Fine Arts: A. V. Frankenstein, “Who Is Who in Music”; C. H. Thurston, "Why We Look at Pictures.”
Bibliography: H. S. Boutell, “First Editions and How to Tell Them.”
History: George Seldes, “You Can’t Print That”; Alfred Smith, “Campaign Speeches of Governor Alfred Smith”; Francis McCullough, “Red Mexico”; E. S. Kite, “L’Enfant and Washington”; Oswald Spengler, “The Decline of the West.”
—o—	.
NEW ADDITION TO THE CHEMISTRY LIBRARY
A list of the new books added to the Chemical Library this year for the benefit of those who are studying the various branches of chemistry
and who might wish to use them, follows:
An Introduction to the Chemistry of Plant Products—Vols. I, II—Haas and Hill.
A Dictionary of Applied Chemistry
—7 Vols.—Sir Edward Torpe.
Organic Laboratory Methods—edited by Oespar—Adams and Clark.
The Determination of Hydrogen Ions—W. M. Clark.
Chemical Publications — Melvin. G. Mellon.
Molybdenum, Cerium and Related Alloy Steels—H. W. Gillett and E. L. Mack.
The Chemistry of Wheat Flour— C. H. Bailey.
A Comprehensive Treatise on Organic and Theoretical Chemistry—J. W. Mellon.
Volumetric Analysis—Kolthoff and Furman.
Lead—J. A. Smythe.
Welding Encyclopedia—The Welding Engineer Publishing Co.
Tungsten—Colin J. Smithells.
For the
BEST HAMBURGER SANDWICHES
AND
THE BEST HOME-MADE PIES in South Bend or Mishawaka STOP AT THE 2x4 LUNCH ROOMS
232 N. Main St.	123 S. Main St.
South Bend	Mishawaka
WE GRIND OUR OWN MEAT DAILY. no extra charge for toasted buns.
Open All Night
HELLO MEN!
SMITH S CAFETERIA
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMIII’S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
571
| INTERHALL ITEMS |
2 ■iiiiiiuiliuiiuiuiuiiiiuliiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniuiiiiiimiiiiiuiiiuiiiuuiiuiiiiiiuiiiiiiuuiiiiniiuiKiiiiniiiiiiumiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiuitin
Don’t forget that the Freshman, Sorin, Corby, Lyons, Badin, and Off-Campus track teams will compete next Friday, February 21. Any men from those teams not reporting for practice before today will be ineligible for competition.
sk *
Track coaches for each hall have been assigned by the Department of Physical Education. They are now giving the teams individual attention. Off-Campus. Sorin, Carroll, Morrissey, Corby, Freshman and Lyons have every other night of the week. Howard, Sophomore, Brownson, Walsh, St. Edward’s, and Badin are grouped on the remaining nights.
Only those finishing in any one of the first four places in the preliminary track meets on February 21 and March 1, will be allowed to race in the finals on March 15.
* * *
Beginning tomorrow evening, during the Illinois-Notre Dame dual meet, a special interhall relay series will be run as part of the varsity track program. These relay events will consist of a six-man team from each hall, each runner to race 220- • yards, and the series will continue each week. * * *
Sophomore’s Horsemen continue to register their weekly wins, despite the loss of four first-string men due to disastrous results in the semester exams, and they are leading the boys a merry race in the heavyweight league. * * *
Carroll and Corby Lites played a nip-and-tuck game Thursday necessitating two overtime periods. Jim
INTERHALL BASKETBALL STANDING
(Including games played February 9) HEAVYWEIGHT DIVISION	LIGHTWEIGHT DIVISION
		Games	Won	Lost	Pct.		Games	Won	Lost	Pct.
	Morrissey	5	5	0	1.000	Lyons	6	6	0	1.000
Li	Sophomore	5	5	0	1.000	Sophomore	5	5	0	1.000
	Lyons	5	4	1	.800	Corby	6	5	1	.833
	Corby	5	4	1	.800	St. Edward’s	5	4	1	.800
	Badin	5	3	2	.600	Badin	6	4	2	.666
	St. Edward’s	5	3	2	.600	Sorin	5	3	2	.600
X	Carroll	5	3	2	.600	Howard	5	3	2	.600
	Off-Campus	6	3	3	.500	Off-Campus	6	3	3	.500
	Sorin	‘4	2	2	.500	Brownson	6	3	3	.500
	Freshman	6	2	4	.333	Freshman	6	1	5	.333
1	Brownson	5	1	4	.200	Walsh	5	1	4	.200
	Howard	5	1	. 4	.200	Carroll	5	1	5	.200
a I) 1 /	Walsh	5	0	5	.000	Morrissey	6	0	6	.000
Deely’s backhand shot from the corner of the court took the heart out of the Carroll men. Harold Duke scored sixteen of the team’s 31 points.
The Badin Badgers lost a close game to Lyons by a mere three points due to scoring activities of Flynn and Oaks, who netted six markers apiece.
* * *
Morrissey and Sophomore continue to lead in the heavyweight league and if both teams remain undefeated for a while longer the game between these two squads should result in the feature of the season.
Sophomore is also in the lead in the lightweight division sharing the top berth with Lyons.
Howard Lites lost two games in a row last week and dropped down from the top rung to a tie for sixth place. Badin, Lyons, St. Edward’s and Corby were all knocked off in their games in the Heavyweight class, robbing them of their perfect percentage.
'Morrissey, Lightweight division champ last year, has failed to ring up a single win so far this season. Walsh shares the winless “honors” with them in the Heavyweight class.
* * *
There are two postponed heavyweight games which will be played off on the first open date. These are between Badin and Corby, Lyons and Morrissey. $ & *
The Sophomore Hall team, with its classy red and white uniforms, is finding plenty of competition from Lyons, Badin and Morrissey, with several other teams, including Sorin and Brownson, giving the leaders plenty of stiff opposition.
NOTRE DAME AND BUTLER CLASH TONIGHT
Coach George E. Keogan will lead his Blue and Gold eagers on the Butler floor in Indianapolis tonight against a depleted Bulldog outfit. Heretofore a very strong and successful team the Butler outfit has been weakened severely by the loss of six of its most valuable players. The Bulldogs have been divested of their star guard, the pivot man, the latter’s two understudies and a duo of reserves.
Up to the date of disbandment, Butler- had won 10 out of 14 games. Only one game had been played since that time, and it resulted in a win for Wabash, 16-14. Notre Dame ran away with the latter team, 26 to 10, just two weeks ago, on the home floor.
If comparison of scores means anything, Keogan’s boys should experience little difficulty in toppling the downstaters tonight. In fact, it may give Keogan a chance to use some of his reserve strength, saving the regulars for the gruelling Michigan State game here next Tuesday.
INTERHALL BASKETBALL RESULTS
Heavyweight League
Wednesday, February 5—
Brownson 26, Off-Campus 16.
Howard 16, St. Edwards 13.
Lyons 13, Badin 10.
Thursday, February 6—
Carroll 20, Corby 16.
Sorin 24, Freshman 8.
Morrissey 17, Walsh 14.
Sunday, February 9—
Corby 14, Brownson 12.
Morrissey 23, St. Edwards 12.
Off-Campus 15, Badin 7.
Freshman 19, Lyons 11.
Sophomore 17, Howard 11.
Carroll 16, Sorin 13.
Lightweight League
Wednesday, February 5—
Brownson 20, Off-Campus 18.
St. Edward’s 20, Howard 19.
Lyons 14, Badin 11.
Thursday, February 6—
Corby 31, Carroll 23.
Sorin 15, Freshman 12.
Walsh 14, Morrissey 12.
Sunday, February 9—
Corby 16, Brownson 14.
St. Edwards 19, Morrissey 9.
Badin 17, Off-Campus 11.
Lyons 15, Freshman 11.
Sophomore 16, Howard 13.
Sorin 14, Carroll 12.
572
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SATURDAY
THRU TUESDAY
I	At Last! You Can Hear
HI . JOHN
BARRYMORE
America’s Foremost Actor in his
FIRST TALKING PICTURE
"General
Crack”
A Warner Bros. Vitaphone Picture with
MARIAN NIXON and ARMIDA
WEDNESDAY
THRU FRIDAY
I “Sweetie” Makes South Sea
j | I Love ....
NANCY CARROLL
in the
PARAMOUNT ALL-TALKING ROMANCE
“DANGEROUS
PARADISE”
zvith
RICHARD ARLEN
and Warner Oland
--------th«atr«/B
A Public Theatre
Home of Paramount Pictures
RKO
PALACE
SUNDAY—MONDAY—TUESDAY
Biggest Necromatic Extravaganza on Earth
Blackstone
The Greatest Magician the World has ever known.
25 - PEOPLE - 25
THE GREAT
CANNON MYSTERY
“Alice in Wonderland”
BORING THRU A MAN
Birth of the Butterfly
Broadcasting a Human
Live Ducks Hatched upon the stage.
VANISHING BIRD IN CAGE
The Law of Gravity Defied and 999 Other Mysteries.
America’s Foremost Magician on World Tour
The Notre Dame Scholastic
573
“HUNK" ANDERSON HOLDS FREAK SCORING RECORD Hartly “Hunk” Anderson, who re
turns to Notre Dame assistant football coach Rockne next season holds the all-time scoring record for a guard, the position he played on the teams here at Notre Dame in 1918, 1919, 1920, and 1921.
Playing against Purdue in 1921, Anderson scooped up i two of the Boiler- I maker fumbles and converted each into a touchdown. He
as chief to Knute
recovered another loose ball and ran it across the goal also, but the referee called the ball back
to the line of scrim- ,.Hunk„ Anderson mage. Notre Dame
won the contest with Purdue that year, 33 to 0.
“Hunk” broke into the coaching game under Rockne, assisting with the teams of 1924, 1925, 1926, and 1927. He was assistant along with
Tom Lieb, the man whom he now replaces, in 1924 and 1925.
Anderson started his football career in 1918, coming here from Hancock, Mich. This particular sea-sin marked the first in which Rockne was head football mentor. Anderson played with George Gipp, Paul Cast-ner, Chet Grant, Joe Brandy, Eddie Anderson, Rog Kiley, Frank Coughlin, Chet Wynne, Johnny Mohardt, and numerous other stars of the period of 1918-19-20-21.
For the past two years “Hunk” has been head grid coach at St. Louis University and comes back to Notre Dame with high hopes of helping Rockne turn out another championship team. If the team of 1930 goes through its schedule undefeated it will be the third time in the period of Anderson’s connection with Notre Dame either as coach or player that a squad has had an unblemished record. The contract, which he signed last week, is of a year’s duration.
MILLS FAMILY CRASHES ENROUTE TO WASHINGTON
Tommy Mills, former Notre Dame assistant coach, and his family met with a slight motor accident on the way from South Bend to Washing
ton, where Mills is to take up his new duties as athletic. director of Georgetown University.
After a series of minor difficulties the climax was reached when a spectacular, but not fatal, head-on collision occurred near Hagerstown, Md. Here the demolished machine was abandoned, and the remainder of the trip was made by bus.
TOM LIEB SIGNS TO COACH LOYOLA
Tom Lieb signed a contract last Saturday to coach football at Loyola College, Los Angeles. Lieb left Notre Dame a week ago, accepting conditionally the offer advanced by the western school, to inspect the conditions at Loyola. He was so impressed with the prospects there, that he immediately signed a contract to take charge of the 1930 grid team. Lieb is expected to move to Los Angeles shortly in time for spring practice.
Lieb performed on Notre Dame’s football and track teams during 1921, 1922, 1923 and acted as grid assistant to Coach Rockne in 1924, 1925, only to leave Notre Dame for Wisconsin, to accept an assistant’s job there.
STARTS	fl P A M A Fl A STAETS
SATURDAY	VJ ± V -IjL ± 1 11 JL7 11	SATURDAY
“Happy Days”
WITH THE GREATEST CAST EVER ASSEMBLED FOR A TALKING PICTURE INCLUDING
EL BRENDEL SHARON LYNN JANET GAYNOR GEORGE JESSEL J. HAROLD MURRAY FRANK RICHARDSON
And More
NICK STUART EDMUND LOWE MARJORIE WHITE JAMES J. CORBETT CHARLES FARRELL WILLIAM COLLIER, SR.
Than 100 Other Big Stars
LEW BRICE WILL ROGERS DAVID ROLLINS RICHARD KEENE SLATE BROTHERS VICTOR McLAGLEN
574
The Notre Dame Scholastic
❖----------------------------«
Splinters from the Press Box
►
Talk to file folks at home!
(college life presents many perplexing problems; problems that could be answered by Dad or Mother in short order if they were near. But a letter is so slow . ■ . and so hard to write exactly as one feels . . .
Talk to the folks at home ... by telephone!
Telephone toll calls are quick, satisfactory, and economical. Make it a habit to call home at least once a week.
Indiana Bell
Telephone Company
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst DENTISTS
261 Associates Blog.
It appears that John P. Nicholson’s two-mile team was anything but over-rated. When one considers that most of the team has had little or no experience on boards, and that Brant Little was anything but himself, it will not be expecting too much of them to come rather close to the outdoor record at some of the relay meets this spring.
In a recent letter to the New York Herald Tribune, Joe Choynski, the old boxer concluded an eulogy of the original Jack Dempsey—the Nonpareil, with the remark that he would probably wreck the boxers of his class if he were fighting today. He went on to say that there were only four or five real boxers in the ring today, and that the vast majority of fighters merely hold and hit. The five men he rated as real boxers were Earl Maestro, Jack Kid Berg, the Englishman, Jack Sharkey, Al Singer and Tony Canzoneri.
J. P. Abramson, a New York sports writer who knows track rather well, recently made an interesting comparison of the indoor records of today and those of a generation ago. There was much of interest in the article, but to us the outstanding thing was the fact that Tom Halpin’s ’ :49 3-5 for the quarter mile was the only record of a decade ago which still stands, and Halpin made that record considerably more than ten years back.
It is rather unfortunate that this coming season’s schedule necessitated the transference of the Army game to Chicago. The annual classic has become the feature sporting event of the East for the entire season, and had even reached a point where it rivalled the Yale-Harvard game, which has always been regarded as the footbalf game no matter how poor the brand of ball displayed. It is some consolation, however, to know that the game will be played in New York in 1931 and 1932. It has become a source of great good will in the East toward Notre Dame.
We nominate for the hall of fame:
Edward B. “Wahoo” Smith, a senior in law at the University of Notre Dame, who has been chosen as All-Western basketball guard for the past two seasons, who is well on his way to be chosen for this honor for a third time, whose coolness never
The Notre Dame Scholastic
575
deserts him at any time, whose quietness and modesty is exceeded only by his ability, and, who is most of all, i in possession of that true mark of
athletic greatness—consistency..
It seems that a number of schools have one sport in which they excel, and which the sporting public in ■ general connect with that school. For example: Marquette is known ~	as a hockey school; Navy as
_	an institution that puts out great
boxing teams;-Cornell and Penn State in the East, and Illinois in the West are known as track schools; Georgetown has turned out more than her share of great relay teams; Indiana and Purdue in the West are basketball schools, and C.C.N.Y. and the University of Pennsylvania in the East are known as exponents of the court game. Rutgers is known for its swimming teams, and Lehigh for its wrestlers; Holy Cross for its base
ball teams, and so on, down the line. Hence it would seem to appear that tradition has something to do with excellence in a particular sport. Not only will runners be attracted to a “track school,” and swimmers to a school that excels in swimming, but more men who know little or nothing about a game will report for that game, simply because it is the sport in which that particular school has traditionally excelled.
Drink
Delicious and Refreshing
Put the "grin in Grind
Pause that refreshes When much study is a weariness to the flesh. When you find yourself getting nowhere— fast. Pipe down! Don’t take any more punishment! Let go everything! Pause for a moment and refresh yourself.
That’s just the time-and place when an icecold hottie or glass of Coca-Cola will do you the most good. A regular cheer-leader with its happy* sparkle and delicious flavor, while its pure, wholesome refreshment packs a big rest into a little minute and gets you off to a fresh start. _
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
/
MILLION
CW-1
I S
576
The Notre Dame Scholastic
❖---------------------------------»;«
I
On Down The Line |
________________________________i
1855
SEVENTY
1930
. . . HOWARD DENT, stroke candidate on Washington freshman crew has his oar handle notched to tell whether the oar is “faced” or “feathered” . . . He is blind . .. The late JOHN E. MADDEN, America’s foremost breeder, sold racers bred by himself at prices, estimated to total nearly $1,000,000 . . . GLENN WRIGHT, Brooklyn shortstop, is having trouble with his right arm . . . He plans to use the left now . . . There are no left-handed shortstops in big league baseball ... so he will probably perform around first base ...
... In a baseball game at Kingston (N. Y.) last summer, a team held to one hit in five innings suddenly drove out three successive home runs on five pitched balls . . . quite like Hyatt’s splurge last Saturday night . . . Football at University of Illinois in 1929 earned $304, 261 but after expenses were paid the amount in the kilt was $134,509 . . . this amount is the starter of a nest egg for an intramural ice rink ... It will cost $300,000 . . . co-ed . . . and is expected to be completed on profits from 1930 season . . .
. . . CHARLIE RUFFING, Boston Red Sox pitcher, made four hits in four times at bat, one of them a home run, in a game during the 1929 year . . . And JIMMY WALKUP, Ft. Worth southpaw hurling star, is one left-hander with control . . . In a stretch of fifteen games he walked only 13 batters . . . That’s “berth control” . . . JOE RUDDY, 51-year old swimmer of N. Y. Athletic Club, is still a member of the world’s championship water polo team ... It has held that title for 22 years with a single exception . . .
Watering 87,000 Horses
On Horseshoe Lake near Oklahoma City, in a businesslike, compact building, 8 7,000 horses (figuratively speaking) are stabled . . . nearly three for every family in Oklahoma City. For with the completion of a new unit of the Oklahoma Gas & Electric Company’s power station at this point, the total generating capacity was raised from 46,930 to 87,130 horsepower.
To keep these “horses” up to full working condition, and do it cheaply as possible, is no small job. Just the water required is 86,400,-000 gallons daily, the equivalent of eight days’ supply for Oklahoma City.
The new generating unit was made necessary by the expansion of industrial activity throughout Oklahoma and particularly by the increased use of electric power by the oil industry. For it, improved valves, fittings, and piping, so vital to efficient and economical power production, were supplied by Crane Co. Thus in these modern times does progress in one industry bring progress in another.
No matter what branch of engineering you enter after graduation, you are likely to find Crane piping materials essential tools of your profession. In the Crane book, “Pioneering in Science,” is told the story of Crane research in metallurgy, with important scientific data and high pressure and temperature curves. A copy will be valuable for reference. Let us send you one.
i*.
. . . Brazil claims a potential pole-vaulting champ in LUCIO de CASTRO, 18-year old scion of one of the wealthiest Brazilian families . . . He expects to compete in next Olympic games . . . LUCIO has cleared the bar at 13 feet 1 inch . . . Today’s the day . . . And St. Valentine conveys our best wishes to VIRGINIA GUNG-RUNG . . . there’s something peculiar about that tho, to say the least .. .
Valves
Fittings
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL STEAM, LIQUIDS. OIL. GAS. CHEMICALS
CRANE CO.. GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE.. CHICAGO NEW YORK OFFICE: 23 W. 44TH STREET
Branches and Saks Offices in One Hundred and Ninety Cities
I
578
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Chemistry Hall