



I 
, . 
• 
/ 
. 
~~­
~.// 
VILLAGE GREENHOUSE 
$9.95/dozen 
Sing/e/$1.00 each 
I .. I 
I 
I ervinatio.n~ 
. 
$4.95/dozen 
Single 45¢/each 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
272-5335 
Delivery Service Available 

SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 123, No. 6, February 1982 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES 4 Tibet: A Rude Awakening 
The Da/ai Lama's battle against cultural genocide . . . Dan Bell 
6 El Salvador The struggle of a people . . . Dan McGrath 
10 Hanging Valley Nepal carved in meditation . . . Stephen Burkart 
12 Reaganomic Reform 
Embracing the Quick Fix Mark Bustamante An Historic Reverse Ed Kelly 
16 At Issue with Nestle: The Notre Dame Boycott "... the use of infant formula in the developing nations accounts for up to one million deaths per year." Francis D'Eramo George McA/eer 
22 Poles Apart: General Huyser and Archbishop Hunthausen Speak Out 
New overtures on the nuclear issue . . . Beth Domnick 
26 Red Smith, Sportswriter: Tribute to a Master 
An athlete with the pen . . . Beth Healy 
30 .Photo Essay/China Eileen O'Meara 
33 "Ni Hao!" Hong Kong A hello from an outpost in the Orient . .. Vanessa Sapienza 34 Getting to Know Finland, Courtesy of AIESEC · Business brings about cultural exchange ... Pat James 
REGULARS 2 Front Words Chuck Wood 18 Perspective/On the Road Again Notre Dame's bussing tradition ... Dan Keusal 19 Perspective/The Language of the Popsicle You can't sell Good Humour to a Haagen-Daz clientele . .. Sue Kelleher 
20 Gallery 25 Poetry I Kathy McGarvey 29 Poetry II Lillian Klassen 32 Fiction/The Rebel Trell Covenant 37 Culture Update 39 Fiction/Old MacDonald's Farm Casey O'Connor 40 Last Word Clay Malaker 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. 
copyright © 1982 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 
FEBRUARY, 1982 
}f·· ..~:::1 --: 
;~\~tg?£;~ 
page 19 

1 
Front Words 

~-"­
You can tell how bored everyone is getting by the growing number of ice patches for sliding that are turning up all over campus. People are becoming fairly desperate for entertainment, but who can blame them? Getting through February is like driving across the Ohio Turnpike. 
The more time someone spends here, the harder it is to endure this month; I base this observation on my own experience. It's bad enough that Christmas break has faded into a memory buried under a snowbank, and the next break in the action seems years away. But campus has a way of contracting in the cold, and this shrinkage becomes more obvious with each winter spent here: Of course it may be that this year my sense of being closed in is worse because of my move to the North quad. For example, there is a smaller variety of paths between Stanford and the Library than between Pangborn and the Library. If I don't want boredom to overcome me, I will just have to stop going to the Library (never mind that when I was in Pang­born I used to rationalize that it was too far to go in the cold just to get a book). 
Yeah, I know, the only thing worse than suffering from the February Doldrums is talking about suffering from the February Doldrums. So that's why we decided to focus this Scholastic on what's going on in the rest of the world. We thought we would help every­body get their minds off this place for a while. We span the globe, from Kathmandu, Nepal (see Steve Burkart's poem/photo essay), 'to Paterson, New Jersey (Sue Kelleher describes the dangers of working in this East Coast hot spot). 
It was interesting for_ me to see the writers and editors becoming excited about some of these articles. I have to admit that I was dubious when Ed Kelly told me he was trying to find someone to write about Tibet. Tibet? But it seems that we have ended up with a: valuable look at the destruction of a lifestyle, a culture, by Dan Bell. 'And Dan McGrath, one of the copy 
by Chuck Wood 
editors for the magazzine, learned so much and had so much to say about El Salvador, that he had to put his article in a two-part format. Dan gO't much of his information from extensive ·research and a woman who lived in El Salvador and worked for Archbishop Romero investigating .human rights violations, so he is not just making a lot of shots in the dark. 
That story on El Salvador is, we think, important enough to warrant two parts; the issue is serious and complex. But we also thought it would be nice to have a few things that were a little closer to home and a little lighter. So, you are invited to take a bit of a Swiftian trip to a new McDonald's farm with Casey O'Connor. Or, if you've always avoided taking a "Club bus" home for break, or if you don't have an area club that rents a bus, you can find how lucky you've been if you read Dan Keusal's travelogue. 
Originally, the theme of this issue was going to be "Anything that has Nothing to do with Notre Dame or Saint Mary's." That is why I was glad to have Steve's poem and photo essay which I mentioned earlier, and the article by Vanessa Sapienzza, a Saint Ma,ry's stu­dent, about her experiences in Hong Kong; these two can share about experiences abroad that were not related to any of our Foreign Study programs. 
But we were not very strict with ol,II" .exclusionary rule about campus-related stories. We gave in when it became obvious that we had two important stories that, in a way, bridge the gap between us and "the real world." One is a profile of Red Smith, a great sportswriter who recently passed away, and who was a Notre Dame alumnus. That story is written by my successor, Beth Healy; she is a good example of one of those writers in this issue who became more excited about the topic as time went o~. 
The other article is a close look at the issues behind Notre Dame's Nestle's boycott. The authors, George McAleer and Francis D'Eramo are both officers of the World Hunger Coalition, yet their article has a balanced presentation. If you have forgotten why we have the boycott or were not around when the WHC first pushed for it, read this artide. __ 
Instead of going on to talk about all of the other articles in this February Scholastic, I simply want to suggest that if you ever read any Scholastic from cover to cover, this should be the one; it's a great way to fight February Boredom. But, on the other hand, I v.:m also probably want to make that suggestion for the March issue, which should be a: (thoughtful) cure for the Post-Break Blues (see, I figh't boredom by planning the next mazagine) .... 
Editor's note: As I said, most of the writers and editors became more and more excited as they worked on their articles. I found myself doing the sam.e as I heard about individual articles and saw the whole magazirw taking shape. So, I decided to do .an introductory essay instead of my usual "Last Word.'' 
Thanks to Clay for agreeing to the switch. 
SCHOLASTIC 
HOURS: MON -TUES -THUR -FRI 9 AM 5:30 PM WEO -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPECTACLE 
SERVICE 
ALL EYE OR.'S PRESCRIPTIONS HONORED 
ROGERS 
Ci,tt
Optical 
289-7809 

Your Complete 
HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTER 
• 
Paneling • Paint 

• 
Lumber • Tools 

• 
Wallpaper • Shelving 

• 
Shelf Brackets • Hardware 

• 
Stain • Electrical Products 


Over 5000 Hems in Stock 
Delivery Service Available 

BIGCLUMBER 
125 DIXIEWAY NORTII-ROSELAND (Business 31 North) Just north of Iha campus 
PHONE 272.6500 
L 

Special thanks to John Reynolds for the cover design for the January Sports Review. Scholastic apologizes for its oversight in failing to give credit for the highly 
praised cover. 
FEBRUARY, 1982 
EDITORIAL BOARD 1981-1982 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Chuck Wood 
GENERAL MANAGER 
Clay Malaker 
Culture/Fiction Editor 
Jan.e Zwerneman 
News/Sports Editor 
Ed Kelly 
St. Mary's Editor 
Elizabeth Bradley 
Copy Editors 
Dan McGrath 
Mark Bustamante 
Advertising Manager 
Brian Graham 
Distribution Manager 
Randy Raciti 
Business Manager 
Pat James 
Layout Editor 
Mike Mulligan 
Art Editor 
Tamera Mams 
Staff 
Beth Healy, Alyson Hritz, Barbara Stevens, Bryan Cashman, Jim Wasilak, Joe Hildener, Karen Trappen, Beth DeSchryver, Ducan Meyers, Jim Rickert, Allen Brenzel, Scott Rappold, Bill Muller, Julie Wodarcyk, Mary Sloan, Greg Bachhuber, Tim Judge, Bill Mans, Bob Vanderheide, Mark Boennigh­hausen, Donna Teevan, Charles van Rav­enswaay, Tom Wrobel, Dan Bell, Michael Meeks, Michael Marz, Daniel Ferris, Philip Allen, Pat Pitz, Andrew Gan, Mike Stuart, Beth DeSchryver, Chris Keller, Beth Mcin­erny, Ann Nicgorski 
CREDITS 
lllustrations: 
p. 
1, Paul Monardo; p. 5, Tony Penate; 

p. 
18, Peter Rodes; p. 25, 29, Lorenzo Fernandez 


Photos: 
p. 1, Eileen O'Meara; p. 2, 11, 33, 35, Pat Pitz; p. 4, 37, Mary Sloan; p. 8, courtesy of Paulita Pike; p. 7, 8, 13, couresty of the Observer; p. 9, courtesy of the Human Rights Commission of El Salvador; p. 19, courtesy of Sue Kelleher; p. 20, 21, Bob Wade; p. 23, p. 24, Cheryl Ertelt; p. 26, courtesy of University Archives; p. 27, 28, courtesy of Information Services 
Cover: 
Jeff Loustau 
Adivsor: 
Fr. Mario Pedi, O.S.B. 

A~ude Awake11i1111 
Editor's note: In an international atmosphere which emphasizes the tensions between the superpowers, it is easy to ignore events of profound import occurring outside this sphere. Events in long-forgotten Tibet, and the unfortunate journalistic euphe­misms which have appeared in well­known publications since 1916 have made this article necessary.-E.K. 
"From now on, Brother, everybody stands on his own feet." This, I think, is what Buddhism is about, what Christianity is about, what monasticism is about-if you un­derstand it in terms of grace. It is not a Pelagian statement, by any means, but a statement to the ef­fect that we can no longer rely on being supported by structures that may be destroyed at any moment by a political power or a political force. You cannot rely on struc­tures. The time for re}ying · on structures has disappeared. They are good and they should help us, and we should do the best we can with them. But they may be taken away, and if everything is taken away, what do you do next?­Thomas Merton, The Asian Journal of Thomas Merton 

Hidden within the confines of the foreboding Himalayan mountains, an ancient people continued in almost perfect isolation to . advance their culture free from "progress," the overwhelming influence of 'the indus­trial revolution. It was under such conditions that the culture of the mountain nation of Tibet thrived ­until 1950. 
Progress. A revolution of ideas in economics, in politics, in science: the twentieth century is born. The mod­ern age puts man in the driver's seat. The system of capitalism loosens na• ture's grip, the availability of capital allows communities to import from other regions what nature chooses to withhold. Marxism, on the other hand, offers the direct control of a planned economy. The ideology of democracy insists that men control the structures in which they live. And advances in technology make possible a world of material conve­niences, longer and healthier lives, and speedier transportation and communication. 
Progress. The world becomes smaller and the differences between societies grow increasingly more dif­ficult to accept. This proximity com­bined with advancing military tech­nology results in massive destruction on a scale never before seen on the face of the earth. With the industrial revolution comes a complete restruc­turing of the very societies in which men live: a shift from agrarian to urban communities, a growth of in­terdependency for fulfilling basic ma­terial needs such as food, clothing and housing. In short, along with the evolution from feudal systems to na­tion states has come an all-encom­passing cultural transformation. 
It was in the 5th century AD. that the first loose formation of a Tibetan nation came to be, near the region of Lhasa, a city soon to become and to remain the political center of Tibet; and during the 7th and 8th centuries Tibetans enjoyed for the first and last time a domination over their neighbors, including China. 
A divisive conflict between the tra­ditional Bon religion and the Bud­dhism imported from India frag-
by Dan Bell 
mented the state in the 9th century, and it was not until the revival of Buddhism and submission to the Mongol Genghis Khan in the 13th century that Tibet was reunited.. Kubla Khan set up the Sakya Lama, a Buddhist monk, as viceroy, and it was here that Tibet acquired its characteristic form as a theocratic state. When .the Ming dynasty re­placed the Mongols in the 14th cen­tury, Tibet again became indepen­dent and was ruled by a secular king until the 1600s when another Mongol invader set the 5th Dalai Lama up as religious and temporal ruler. During his rule, numerous majestic monas­teries were constructed. The inspir­ing examples of architecture such as these and the innumerable pieces of art within them constitute the most renowned part of the rich ar­tistic culture of Tibet. 
Leadership of the country re­mained in the hands of the successive incarnations of the Dalai Lama, al­though again falling under the slight domination of the Manchu dynasty from the early 1700s until 1912. At this time, the dynasty was over­Chinese forces were ousted from Tibet, and the 13th Dalai Lama maintained independence until his death in 1933. 
Simply listing the Dalai Lamas among the succession of Tibetan leaders does not do justice to the important role they play in the cul­ture which has developed on this plateau delineated by the world's highest mount_ains, the Kunlun and Himalayan ranges. As is pointed out _ by Pradyumna P. Karan in The Changing Face of Tibet: 
When independence was reestab­lished in 1912, the nation-state idea was already well developed among the Tibetan elite. It re­mained to develop a strong sense of nationalism among the citi­zenry. Loyalty to the person of the Dalai Lama, which claimed the support of all Tibetans, was al­ready a strong unifying force. This religious sentiment tran­scended all parochial, sectarian, and regional loyalties. 
SCHOLASTIC 

-~d 
.'­
~/1//tt· 
The Potala in Lhasa, once home of the Da/ai Lamas and core of Tibetan Culture. 
The first Dalai Lama, born in 1391, was an incarnation of Chenresi, the Buddha of Mercy, who had prom­ised to safeguard all living beings. Within a short number of years after his death, a reincarnation was born, and so on until the present. And so upon the death of the 13th Dalai Lama, the oracles and learned lamas were consulted in order to conduct the search for his reincarna­tion; meanwhile, a Regent was ap­pointed by the National Assembly to govern. 
An incredible array of signs were interpreted to lend direction to the search. Curious cloud formations were sighted in the Northeast, and at the spot where the 13th Dalai Lama had been placed, it was noticed that his face had turned toward the east and a star-shaped fungus appeared on the Northeast side of the shrine. Visions in the holy lakes revealed a detailed picture of a monastery as well as three Tibetan letters: Ah, Ka, Ma. All these signs led the search party to the monastery of Kumbum in Takster where was found in 1937 the two-year-old 14th Dalai Lama. The child had to under­go a number of traditional tests, such as choosing among pairs of arti­cles the one belonging to the pre­vious Dalai Lama. During one such test, the boy chose the wrong staff, realized his error and opted for the second one. It so happened that the first staff had been given to a monk as a gift from the previous Dalai Lama. 
Once the search party was satis­fied, permission had to be obtained from the Chinese governor (north­eastern Tibet was under the secular control of China) to take the boy to Lhasa. Indicative of this Dalai Lama's future relations with the Chinese, they were met with re­sistance from the governor and even­tually compelled to remit a large ransom. 
Once in Lhasa, the young boy be­gan a rigorous education which called to mind that of Socrates' phi­losopher-king. Due to the Tibetan isolation, the discipline which he would have found most useful for his future role, second only to his spiritual training, was not available: foreign policy and international rela­tions. For in 1950, at merely sixteen years of age, he was called upon to accept his role as leader two years early, while Communist China was threatening to "liberate" Tibet. As he recalls later in his book, My Land and My People, 
I hesitated-but then the Na­tional Assembly met; and -added its plea to the Cabinet's, and I saw that at such a serious moment in our history, I could not refuse my responsibilities. I had to shoulder them, put my boyhood behind me, and immediately prepare myself to lead my country, as well as I was able, against the vast power of Communist China. 
Now we had to learn the bitter lesson that the world has grown too small for any people to live in harmless isolation. 
Under the influence of Buddhism, the Dalai Lama had placed Tibet on a path of peace. The Tibetan culture called for nothing. more than a sim­ple, peaceful life of isolation for ­which strong armies were no longer necessary. While the free nations of the West were becoming enslaved by the need for stimulation, and the communist nations were becoming obsessed with the desire to control, the people of Tibet were turning in-. ward to an inner peace which tran­scends the ever-changing world around them. The Dalai Lama tells us, 
Humanitarianism and true love for all beings can only stem from an awareness of the content of reli­gion. By whatever name religion may be known, its understanding and practice are the essence of a peaceful mind and therefore of a peaceful world. If there is no peace in one's mind, there can be no peace in one's approach to others, and thus no peaceful relations be­tween individuals or between na­tions. 
The .communists in China recognized no religion. In 1950, they penetrated the frontier of Eastern Tibet. Help­lessly, the Dalai Lama turned to England, to the U.S., and to India, but his pleas fell on deaf ears. Even the United Nations refused to con­sider their case, so in 1951, Tibet was constrained to sign the Seven­teen-Point Agreement in Peking. They were to become an autonomous region of China with local govern­ment, religion, and culture left in­tact; or so the Chinese said, 
But the Dalai Lama tells us: 
The Chinese had an extraordinary way of mixing trivial demands with those of the highest im­portance. In the midst of all these desperate affairs, they insisted that the word "reactionaries" should always be used to describe the Khampas who had taken arms against them. The word had a spe­cial emotional significance for Communists, but of course it had none for us. Everybody, in the government and out, began to use it as a synonym for guerrillas. To Communists, no doubt, it implied the height of wickedness, but we used it, on the whole, in admira­tion. It did not seem to matter to us, or to· the Khampas, what their fellow Tibetans called them; but later, when I innocently used the word in writing, it did cause con­fusion among our friends abroad. 
From the Tibetan point of view, the Chinese invasion was beyond comprehension; however, the Chi­nese have provided their justifica­tion in· a pamphlet published in Peking 22 years later. According to 
Great Changes in Tibet, 
(cont/don page 15} 
FEBRUARY, 1982 

Author's Note: This is part one of a two-part series dealing with El Sal­vador. Part Two will highlight the facts of Paulita Pik~s arrest and im­prisonment and address the subject of El Salvador in the U.S. govern­ment's foreign policy. D.M. 
They are standing around a small television set watching the national news. Father Miguel D'Escoto, Min­ister of Defense of Nicaragua, is be­ing interviewed. When asked what will happen if the United States sends troops to El Salvador, he says the conflict would become regional­ized. He also says, "We will defend the revolution." 
They all cheer. Paulita and Otto clasp hands and she holds her fist up in victory. "We will win," she pro­claims proudly. 
Paulita Pike is a junior here at Notre Dame, but her experience goes far beyond that of your average Notre Dame student. Paulita is a bright and very attractive woman of twenty-nine and. has a ten-year­old daughter. She is an American citizen. Her father is American; her mother is Salvadoran. Paulita moved from Spain to El Salvador in 1973, and she lived there until her arrest, imprisonment and deportation in 1980. It is her story that gives flesh and blood to issues that seem far away to us in America. 
Today, El Salvador is a country in tremendous social upheaval. It is a hotbed in Central America, and, in recent days, its violence and terror­ism have increased dramatically. The Reagan Administration is consider­ing sending troops to quell the rebel-· lion, and, like it or not, the American people are being drawn into this tragic arena. This conflict could be­come Latin America's Viet Nam. 
An adequate picture of the conflict in El Salvador requires a historical perspective. Social injustice in El Salvador is centuries old. The peas­ants or campesinos, lived for many years as sharecroppers, growing the food they required to live. As foreign trade and multinational interests entered the area, the lands, which originally fed the campesinos, were slowly taken from them by the wealthy coffee and sugar growers. To survive, the campesinos had to work the coffee and sugar planta­tions for meager wages. The econ­omy moved to a wage system, but there were not enough jobs for the surplus work force. Forced into a migrant worker existence, peasants moved to the cities and the misery belts around the cities began to'grow. Before aH of these problems, the wealthy remained uninterested and unmoved. 
In 1931, campesinos led by Fer­nando Marti revolted in San Salva­dor, protesting the oppression .and 
calling for a minimum wage and the right to unionize. The revolt was crushed, and 30,000 were massacred in the streets of San Salvador. In 1944, a coup against General Mar­tinez, the ruling military dictator, succeeded. He was exiled to Hon­duras; however, .control of El Salva­dor was still in the hands of the military. Throughout the fifties and · the sixties, four juntas came in and out of power. All were, nevertheless, facades. There was no democratic process; the real power was wielded by wealthy landowners and rightist 
military forces. 
The Roman Catholic Church has 
played an important role in the de­
velopment of the present-day prob­
lems in El Salvador. The Church was 
brought to this part of the world in 
the sixteenth cgptliry by Spanish 
missionaries, and with it. were im­
ported many European weaknesses. 
Associated with the wealthy and 
closely allied with the civil state, it 
enjoyed a prominent place in so­
ciety. Its hierarchy gave consolation 
to the poor, but was understood to 
side with the rich. In recent years, 
however, there has been a change of 
focus in the Catholic Church, and 
many of its leaders have begun to 
speak out against the injustices 
against the poor of Latin America. 
The Church's support of the poor 
and its strivingfor social justice have 
been an opportunity for Marxists 
6 
who have identified the message of Christ with the political liberation of the people. 
The Marxist alternative began to gain acceptance in the sixties. The injustices were so great that the communists' message seemed to offer hope to people who had none. Illiter­ate campesinos, who knew only hunger, poverty, and injustice, found the Marxist alternative viable. His­tory has shown, however, that often when Marxist forces do take power, the injustices against the people con­tinue. The Marxists played off the faith of the people. Christ's message of the Salvation of man became to mean the material and political lib­eration of the people, the overthrow­ing of a tyrant force. The Messiah becomes a political leader. 
In El Salvador, the right has labeled all opposition groups as "communists," even when the oppo­sition groups abhor communism. Suppression of communism becomes an excuse to justify the oppression of the people. The motive is said to be the salvation of the country from terrorist communist rule, but, the ac­
..­
tual motive is to maintain the pres­ent system to save the landowners' interests by impeding the democratic process. What is happening is the satisfaction of the overwhelming greed of the ruling class, a greed rivaling that of the ancient Roman senatorial class. For the wealthy in El Salvador, the welfare and pros­perity of the nation have nothing to do with the welfare and prosperity of her people. 
Nineteen seventy-two was the year of the infamous election fraud in El Salvador. The government rightist party was the PCN, the Party of National Conciliation. Its candidate, Colonel Molina, was supported by the landowners. This was the year that the opposition groups joined together to form one party, UNO, the Na­tional Opposition Union. Napoleon Duarte, the present president and a '48 Notre Dame graduate, was the presidential candidate for the UNO. Duarte won, but the military pre­vented him from taking office. He was imprisoned, tortured, and finally exiled to Venezuela, his release much aided by the efforts of Father Hes­burgh. 
In 1978, there was · a similar oc­currence. The opposition candidate, Claramunt, won, but again the oppo­sition was prevented from taking office despite its popular support. On February 28, 1978, there was a dem­onstration in San Salvador to protest the prevention of the democratic pro­cess. The Security forces fired on the crowd. The military, under General Carlos Romero, took control of the government. Under Romero, terror­ism escalated to such a point that his administration was toppled with 

President Napoleon Duarte ( cont'd on page BJ 
Open letter to progressive people, nations and governments of the world'-­
.When .we seek to communicate,. we are always conditioned by the concrete historical sociai reality in which we are immersed. At this moment, 15 January 1981, our re-. 
· -----·­
ality is that of_ war, with a threat by. no means areinote one, of direct USA intervention. It is the business of the strates gists, the men and women of _the peopl~ who are struggling from the battlefront, the leaders .and _mili­tarits, to .perform the political analysis andc:orrect interpretation of events; as well as to bring into action i the necessary .__factors at every stage of the process, with a view to overcoming obstacles_ and achieving the objectives\which will -­· lead• 1:o the ·final triumph of the people. . . . As members of .the Socorro Juridico, we haVe seldom felt obliged to more painful reflections .than we are now. . . . One day the accumulation be­came toO much: too many cases, · numbers, proofs. And we :felt in our hearts, arid because the facts• were only too/plain, that the mos m~nt had cometo call things by their real name -and we termed the situation "genocide.'' . Ori that basis we understand. the 
right of the people to fight to de­
.fend itself, to triumph and to build 
-a new human being and a n·ew. so­ciety, in.which children will have a chance to play with the birds. And the_,situation was hopeful, even though the persecuted, .the pris­oners, tortured, murdered, and missing, continued to collect into interminable classified lists._ For we men and women of this people have known for some time .now •that a liberated El Salvador will·inake up for everything. Today, however, 15 January 1981; a deeper anguish than any before has gripped us, filling us witfr cold anger to the very mar­row. This was the news: 
· In DJcember 1980 the United Nations Organization passed a resolution «urging the govern~ ments _of the world not to send any type of military aid to El Salvador." .After recognizing the systematic violation of hurn.an rights, the resolution implicitly considered that the Salvadorean 
· case must be solved without in­tervention by any country. Nevertheless, the United States of America has violated the in~ ternational _juridical __ agre~nt by resuming militafyaid(money, war materials and militaMJ ~­visors) to the Military Junta in El Salvador. . 
· We at once asked ourselves a simple, obvious question. . As US military aid continues, how many . documents .like the presentwilLwe have to fill with new facts, cases and figures to present to interna­tional tribunals? 
That -is one of our tasks as So­corro Juridico. 
In these historic moments for the 
liberation of a people, what must be 
the task of all democratic men and 
women, .nations and governments · 
of the w9rld?. Their responsibility 
will not be absolved with funerals, 
indictments, of dispatch ofme!lica­
ments to stop the epidemics catISed 
by unburied corpses; -None of those 
things will reawakenthose who are 
alive today but in a few days may 
already be dead. 
If this happens, what government 
in the world can be free of practical . 
responsibility for the extermination_ 
and for having prevented peace be-' 
ing made for a nation? · 
·At the point where our question 
ends_: another version might run: Who is really ·going to ·contribute to the cessation of repression for which Mgr. Romero died? The right action ofgovernments hadJo begin .with a determined stance of rejec­tion and condemnation of United States intervention in El Salvador. 
. Socorro Juridico · 
Archbishopric ofSan Salvador 
:E:lSalvador, 15 January 1981 
the help of the United States in the "bloodless coup" of 1979. Ironically, the rightist forces realized they needed a more benevolent facade and were willing to cooperate. 
The opposition felt that this might be the break they needed to obtain at least some reforms. A five-member junta was set up with two military and three civilian members, and twenty ministers were appointed to various governmental positions. Two of these ministers were Salvador Samayoa, professor of philosophy at Jesuit University appointed Minister of Education, and Enrique Alvarez. Cordova, appointed Minister of Agri~ culture. These two men were the star ministers; their views were pro­gressive, and their two responsibili­ties were in most need of reform. 
In December 1979, it became clear that the reforms would not take place. These two ministers, Sa­mayoa and Cordova, gave the armed forces an ultimatum: either the re­forms would be allowed, or they would resign to emphasize their lack of confidence in the junta. The mil­itary did not accept, and on January 3, 1980, the ministers resigned. Both men joined the opposition group. 
A second junta was formed. The Christian Democrat Party made an attempt to gain momentum. Duarte, a leading figure of the PDC, returned from exile to lead the new junta. Again it became clear to the PDC that peaceful, democratic efforts to obtain reform were useless. The Christian Democrat Party split when the Minister of the Poor, Mario Za­mora, was assassinated, and a new party was formed, the Popular Social Christian Movement (MPSC). Most of the intellectuals, disgruntled by the lack of action, pulled out of the PDC, and joined with the MPSC. Without support, the second junta failed, and a third was established with Duarte again as president. The
i. 
third junta is in control today. Paulita Pike's story gives us in­sight into the events in El Salvador. Paulita moved to San Salvador from Spain with her young daughter in 1973. She taught at the Jesuit High School, which catered to the wealthy of San Salvador, and attended classes at Jesuit University.. Of a middle­class family, her life was a com­fortable one. In 1977, Bishop Osca'I' Romero established the Legal Aid Office in the Chancery at the Jesuit High School. TI:iree lawyers and a small staff worked to provide legal aid to the poor people and docu­mented the campesinos' testimonies of disappearances and murders. 
8 
Paulita worked as a translator part time and aided foreign journalists that would come to the office for information. Her contact with the poor and the injustices they suffered convicted her.."Just hearing their stories, finding out what was going on made me aware of the situation in the country." 

Voice of the Voiceless 
Paulita knew Bishop Romero and admired his courage. "He lived in a very humble way. Many times he had campesinos living with him in his room, when they were fleeing from the guards." 
The Legal Aid Office provided Bishop Romero with the facts that he used in the inspiring sermons he gave each Sunday at the cathedral, sermons that eventually cost him his ·life. While he was Bishop of San Salvador, religious persecution in­creased drastically. Priests, seminar­ians, catechists, and other church workers were killed. Church insti­tutions such as schools, universities, monasteries, and convents were ma­chine-gunned and searched illegally. 
This blatant religious persecution af­fected Bishop Romero greatly. Paul­ita said, "Each death shattered him more, and each death convinced him more that the Church's rolewas to be by the side of the poor, to speak out for and defend them from the injus­tices of the social system under which they wereliving. The Christian commitment is to teach a peasant his life is of value· to Someone, that his children don't have to die of malnu­
trition, and he doesn't have to go out 
every weekend and spend the few 
cents he has for· his family on moon­
shine. . . . The Church's focus is to 
elevate their human dignity, some­
thing they never had." 
In three years, Bishop Romero be­came so identified \Yith the poor and social reform that many said he was crazy, mentally unstable, a commu­nist. However, the campesinos loved him dearly, calling him "the voice of those without voice." Bishop Ro­mero was not a radical. In fact, the majority of liberal Catholics were disillusioned when he became bishop, because he had throughout his career adopted a conservative stance to­ward social justice. But as his priests were killed and as his legal aid office provided him with concrete evidence of the wanton slaughtering of his poor, he began to speak out. 
Paulita quoted the archbishop as saying in response to his lawyers' warning not to speak so harshly, "I cannot keep quiet! How can I keep quiet when I see all these terrible things going on, when all this killing is going on against innocent people, people who just believe in a better life?" 
Bishop Romero was assassinated on March 24, 1!:)80, and his death deeply affected Paulita. "I felt as if a part of me were dying at the same time. But we had all expected it be­cause he had become so outspoken, especially in his last sermon.'' Im­plicated is a retired Army major by the name of D'Abuisson as Ro­
mero's assassin. He has been di­
rectly linked to paramilitary death 
squads. 
It was through this close contact with Bishop Romero and the Legal Aid Office of the Chancery that Paul­ita experienced for herself the plight of the campesinos of El Salvador. . Most observers admit that the terror­ism is perpetrated by the oligarchs and the groups favorable to the 


Editors' Note: It was a very difficult decision far us to include these photos. Balancing sensationalism with the desire to show the truth, we came to the conclusion that it is important for the Notre Dame community to understand the magnitude of the violence in El Salvador. These photos graphically show the fruits of the military's labor. It is because we are outraged by these photos that we include them in this magazine. It is our hope that people will be more fully aware of the tremendous injustice tha,t so many people must sufjer in our world, and that perhaps more will seek ways to speak out against it. 
Dan McGrath Ed Kelly 
Mark Bustamante Chuck Wood 


right. Eighty percent of the mur­ders committed during 1980 were perpetrated by the National Army and the National Security Forces. The other twenty percent were car­ried out by paramilitary groups such as death squads, the Secret Anti­Communist Army, and ORDEN, all of which acted in· collaboration with the official military forces. 
One incident known as the Sumpul River Massacre occurred on May 14, 1980. El Salvadoran troops attacked the Salvadoran village of LaArada. Peasants had been crossing the bor­ders to Honduras trying to flee the conditions in El Salvador. . On May 14, Honduran army vehicles drove· down to the border between Hon­duras and El Salvador. Megaphones shouted out prohibitions against crossing the border. The next day at about 7 am, the massacre began. The Salvadoran National Guard opened fire on the defenseless refu­gees. Women were raped and tor­tured before being shot. Infants were tossed into the air for target prac­tice. Those that managed to cross the river were returned by Honduran soldiers to be executed by Salva­doran soldiers. At the end of the massacre, 600 bodies were left un­buried to be eaten by dogs and vul­tures. 
According to the Legal Aid Office, high military commanders of Hon­duras, Guatemala, and El Salvador met several days before the massacre in the city of Ocotepeque, El Sal­vador. The evidence clearly shows that the massacre, known to the military as "Operation Sandwich," was premeditated by the three coun­tries. 
On July 9, 1980, one of the most outrageous of a series of atrocities occurred. Thirty-one members of the peasant family Mojica Santos were shot by members of the paramilitary 
(cont'd on page 38) 

) ~ :,_
ii:-:: 
. . 
.· ,··.'.· 
?:lte Jla1111i1tl1 Valte-v 
by St~phen Burkart 
Step out off the screen porch: it is different here in the dark. A cold damp mist has come and hugs close to its mother. Across the street, lighted windows blur. All the valley dogs bark and confused cocks crow to a clear, bright moon. A solitary car passes, silent for once; there would be no challenge to his horn now. 
From no panorama I know the few lights are fewer than all the brick shacks and hovels with cow dung pies-winter fuel­drying on their suntanned walls. Timid homes dare not proclaim so humble a being to dark, nocturnal gods. 
The hills loom implicit in the black silk over the crowded simple terraced valley. Further above, mountains float; often clouds drifting by stop and harden into pluming peaks: shadows fall crisp and hard on aseasonal snow. 

It is smalling to be so high 
breath comes short, 
and yet to see those ghosts hovering 
above hills away, 
indomitable in silent almost divine true and absolute height. 
The days' street odors that seep, incensous from shop to temple and tourist to turista, mingle with the perfume of the cows' sacred dung and wasted street half-men, sore, begging children and the history told by dirt from too many slow, similar centuries all giving way at dusk with dampening confusion to dry wood smoke flowing undisturbed from lowly chimneys. 

The red tikapowder drifts its way into temple cracks, sticks to foreheads and fingers, painting under golden roofs with slides for condescending gods; ancient, iron wood, carved in meditation for good fortune by insignificant, suffering moments, all locked into samsara, enviously eyeing, touching the benign and happy cows. 
· The moments squat philosophically (as only they can-I tried) and smoke weeds and spit, work for survival alone, or merely watch while bony worn.en with tree trunk skin glean fallen grain and coax another life from the lumpy grey earth with homemade hoe and tradition only ...• 
FEBRUARY, 1982 

Nepal is a small sovereign kingdom (about the size of North Carolina) located in the Himalayas between India and China. The bulk of the country's contact with the Western world mu; been the result of tourism, mountain­eering expeditions (especial,ly to Mount Everest) and diplomacy. Most of the 13 million Nepalis live in the flatter and more fertile Kathmandu valley. It is a poor 
·country -the per capita National Income is less than $100 yearly, and the United Nations considers it to be the most underdeveloped nation in the world. The most popular religion is Hinduism, but it is difficult to tell where the Hinduism leaves off and the Buddhism begins. In any case, the general Nepali interpretation of Hinduism seems to leave them with little or no ambition except to leave samsara, the cycle of death and rebirth, which makes for a very interesting life-style in the meantime. 

I!,,:
,,
I! 
irl 
~ 
------. --------------­

Reaganomic__ Reform 
Embracing The Quick FtX 
I ! 
In his State of the Union address, 
I i President Reagan reminded us of his fundamental commitment to renew economic America, and stressed that his program was quite unlike the "quick fixes of the past." His new method relies on balancing the bud­get and eliminating the federal defi­cit, which we are beginning to recog­nize as the true strangler of the American economy. His operating premise is one of slashing federal spending to quell the growth of the federal monster. So far, so good-the economy is in trouble, the old solutions don't seem to be ·working. We do need to fundamentally renew our economy. But there seems to be a flaw in Reagan's method, and it . begins to uncover itself when we consider whether or not the new plan really avoids the "quick fix." Let us begin by examining the general strategy of the new budget proposal. It is characterized by across-the-board decreases-with the major exception of defense spend~ ing. Reagan has ruthlessly pursued waste and corruption, trying to force government agencies to serve only the true need by eliminating any possibility of surplus. At least that is what we assume. The Reagan logic · behind these moves boils down to a question of survival. He has warned us that our present economic direc­tion is not viable, that to survive, we must limit ourselves to the essen­tials. Building up an apparently in­sufficient military machine is one of those essentials; continued expansion of social programs is not. Taxes must also be cut to stimulate the pri­vate savings and investment that we are told is the foundation of a healthy America. The stakes are high, and the argu­ments behind the new program are strong. Where is the flaw? Let us 
by Mark Bustamante 
consider two important areas af­fected· by President Reagan's strat­egy which reflect the wisdom of the new economic reform. 
* * * 
The current administration's de­fense policy seems to be in direct conflict with the new survival pro­gram. There are several arguments we can consider in support of this contention. First, a political one. In the State of the Union address, Pres­ident Reagan spoke of the commit­ment to "restore that margin of mili-' tary safety that insures peace," to "rebuild our defenses" so that we can "negotiate from a position of 
strength," in order that the Soviets "take (military reduction) talks se­riously." Now "margin of military safety" translates into "margin of
=~~di:=
we build better guns to feel safe, a situation which threatens the So­viets,· who therefore build better guns, which threatens our safe feel­ing, so that we build new better. guns, and so on. The only outlet from this cycle is to reach a point in which the Soviets can no longer match our firepower potential, either through lagging technology or lag­ging economy. But once we reach this position of safety, why should we put ourselves through the trouble of arms reduction? We could insure our peace. ideolo~ with a fo~ce monopoly-a position we are trymg to prevent the Soviets from assum­ing. Worse would be the possible Soviet reaction to our imminent realization of this margin of safety, a scenario known as the preventive strike. 
Economic considerations generate 
a three-prong objection to the new defense policy. First, we can consider the cost-effectiveness of our new generation weapons. ·The Chicago Tribune recently ran an excellent series of articles on this and related issues. They reported that the vast weight of evidence indicated the ultra-expensive miracle weapons on which we are depending fall far short of performance specifications. The world's fastest tank (American, of course) breaks down every forty mile.;;. The world's most advanced fighter aircraft, the F-15, is shot down by simpler, cheaper aircraft almost as fast as it can shoot them down. The conc:lusion: our money is 
rt is ~~1: ~ 11rius11al observation 'that 1:he 'course of 'a. nation's history ··should'. ~y~aL-~rt~i.ri patterns_ anQ 
a:i:titudes iabout that nation's. vahies; ·.. 
~,:t~~~~rtfs.·•
; Romana. emphasized the supremacy ·of)aw; ·so, it ~ouldjeelli/should a. ba·sic. formula be em.·ergi.ng>for the : history· of theUn:ited·States:-There 
•is a danger here; ofcc:>ufs( for. :over~. 
. simplification;. however;-'itis a. fair ..·.. -~ssessmerit :·of , ev;~nts , .in~" America .··· sirice: her accession'.) to overseas im-< perialism (with President McKinley's decision to take over jurisdiction of the Philippines in 1848) that our country's politics have shown a steady advance in the depth of what may be called its Qc:>rnestic social conscien<!~. . . _·. · .·. _.. __ . . ·.. . 
-In·1982; however, this steady. ~d­vance and gro_wing preoccupation with the less fortunate have been . brought t·o a s.cr~hing half. Per~ haps -this halt has come as ·a result. of fiscal necessity,'.Just as ·political 
necessity gave rise: to inost of our state's sponsorshi~ • of social am}, edu-

L-.__;____;______;___;___'---'---"""."'"-­




not being wisely invested. In the air­craft example, cheaper, less glamor­ous weapons could provide twice the firepower at the same cost-or the same firepower for only half the cost. 
The second prong of the economic objection lies in the government's business practice with the defense industry. The Detroit Free Press re­cently ran an interesting article that dealt with this topic. Their report: 80% of the defense contracts are awarded on a noncompetitive basis. Eighty percent. For a president whose entire policy revolves on the merit of free enterprise, a noncom­petitive government-sponsored in­dustry ought to be anathema. But instead of cutting waste by reducing funds as he does elsewhere, he dumps more money into the Penta­gon. For a president who prides him­self on eliminating waste and fraud in Medicaid and Medicare, the de­fense program ought to hold a gold mine of savings. Instead, he ignores it. The Detroit Free Press gave the example of an antitank shell whose cost was reduced 84% when it en­tered the competitive arena. And the example has been suggested by many 
(cont'd on page 14) 

cational programs· in the first place. And perhaps it is not. In either case, it is ce11tain that such a halt repre­sents a major shift in what might be called ·the "national philosophy" of the United States. ­
The chronological origin of such a development could be located at the time of the Spanish-American War. The event appeared on the stage of American history at a critical junc­ture: it was recognized that the American frontier was closing. Pres­ident McKinley's decision (after a lengthy speech-making campaign to determine the opinion of the Ameri­can public) to occupy the Philippines and so place Americaon the road to overseas expansion . reflected this realization.... The closure was soon ackno'\Vledged domestically as well, 
·and from this· time forward,. govern­ment efforts at improving the lot of 
Jhe people inside the United States, protecting their rights and advanc­ing the· equity of American society continued more or less steadily. 
The advance began with a · ques­tioning of the validity of the conven­tion of social Darwinism which was so popular near the turn of the. cen­tury. It became increasingly evident that/as Henry George stated it: · 
The association of poverty with progress is ·the great eniema of our 'times.. It is the central fact from which. spring industriai, so­cial, and political difficulties .that peoples the world and with which statesmanship and philanthropy and education grapplein vain.... It is the riddle which the sphinx of fate. puts to our civilization; and which not' to answer is to · be de­stroyed....· 
The question is indeed ·compelling, but it went beyond the eternal ques­tion of mere poverty arid extended ever more urgently to the p:rinciple of equity. 
The first responses to the chal­lenge came, predictably, in the area where progress was most evident: big business .. The early trust-busting campaigns of Teddy Roosevelt and the follow-up attempts by President Wilson in the years before World War I. were designed to curtail the advantages of the monopoly capital -'-which were seen as not only coun­terproductive, but unfair. Answers more directly related to the social conscience of the nation were offered by the scathing revelations of the "muckrakers," who politically forced the passage .of health and Safety regulations over the objections ofthe industrial elite. 
Sporadic but significant advances in social legislation continued in the years before the Great Depression: child labor laws, taxable income and more federal business regulations were topped off in 1922 by the grant of women's suffrage. via the 19th amendment. 
The next significant series of ·ad­vances took . place under the influ~ ence of the Great Depression.. At a time when revenues in all sectors were · down, . F.D.R. nevertheless thought.· it impera_tive that social legislation be pushed to its constitu7 tional limits. Where previous to his administration, government officials occasionally thought it morally and expedientially . advisable to ·· protect Americans from unjust abuses, it has ever since been a fundamental tenet of United States government ·that such issues not be ignored. For ex­ample, while President Eisenhower's campaign rhetoric painted a reac­tionary picture, .even he thought it wise to maintain this new philoso­phy of positive government involve­ment in the eradication of social ills. The National Defense Education Act of 1958, though typically couched jn language of defense,. is indicative of this continued involvement. 
The America of the 1960s pro­duced even more social legislation, headed by the Kennedy-Johnson bills. We insisted (through Supreme Court rulings and, for the first time, fed­eral enforcement of fagging local governments) on national support for racial equity, increased aid to the unemployed, the elderly, the blind, and the sick, and reinforced the government's fundamental com­mitment to social welfare. In short, the philosophy . underlying such a commitment to social issues has been formulated and . developed over the course of nearly a hundred . years, from the manifestation of political necessity to the sweeping embodi­ment of a national legislative phi­losophy, a philosophy dedicated to the.advancement of human potential, and to·the idea that a society can be a model of human opportunity. 
·But >the old· order changeth. In 1982,.that philosophy of government interest in human potential is being chaUenged. And the defense of such a .seemingly. Inadmissihle change is, unforturiately, exactly the one .de­fense whicll. could justify it: sur­vival. The new administration is us­ing economic survival as vindication for a momentous .· historical reverse -a reverse which.calls into .question every step the sociopolitical advance has ·taken. Antitrust . laws are loos­ening: ···· 1egal·.•· protection of ·racial equality is slipping (the President believes the court-accepted withhold­ing of federal funds · because of seg­regation "has no basis in law"); the old theories of laissez-faire and the benefit of the poor via the enrich­ment of the upper class are return;; ing (as Stockman said, "supply side is trickle-down"); and the "new fed­eralism" is the rule of the day. If survival mandates such a course, and true· progress ma.kes poverty neces­sary, then so be it. The question for us though, the riddle of the Sphinx of Fate in the 1980s, is:· does it really? 
FEBRUARY, 1982 
13 
,I I!
ii
Ii 
1l 
II 
ii
Ii 
<I 




congressmen and defense analysts to be a realistic model of savings for many weapons systems. Apply that savings to the $216 billion defense budget! Even half that success would clear the federal deficit.... 
The third prong of the economic objection deals with the nature of defense spending itself. It is essen­tially nonproductive. Although in­vestment in military hardware cre­ates some jobs, it does not generate wealth. Tanks and missiles aren't used for anything---except destruc­tion, of course. Further, the defense department's contribution to the fed­eral deficit siphons available money out of the private sector, driving up interest rates and leaving less for in­vestment and economic growth. The increasing number of defense con­tracts awarded to foreign corpora­tions is also transferring wealth and jobs outside the country. 
Social repercussions generate a third argument against the new de­fense spending policy. Money tar­getted for defense is not spent for people who need assistance. In effect, the current administration is trans­ferring money from social programs and pouring it into the glutted de­fense budget. Now elderly, blind, and disabled people were never noted for their propensity to riot in protest of their progressive dehumanization. But the nearly 700,000 unemployed workers in Detroit alone are a group with a far greater potential for mobilization. 
We can see then that President Reagan's defense policy is anti­thetical to his economic reform ef­forts and clearly opposed to the drive for survival. Politically, economi­cally, and socially, the defense policy is undermining our efforts to rebuild America. One of the largest areas of the national budget has been left outside the needed reform. But with­in the walls of the economic renewal are problems as well. 
President Reagan has pledged to avoid the quick fix, but it is ap­parent that he has wiped out the foundation for long-term renewal. The evidence for this final embrace of the quick fix lies in the treatment of the vital areas of education and research funding. Perhaps a lesson from familiar history will be in­structive. Recently, a General Motors executive commented privately about the difficulty the corporation was ex­periencing in launching an industrial complex in mainland China. The trouble lay in finding enough people with the education to understand and coordinate an industrial opera­tion. Today, a whole generation of 
14 
Chinese are without the needed edu­
cation because of an event known as 
the Cultural Revolution. For ten 
years, the Chinese government vir­
tually stopped all higher education. 
All schools were shut down. The 
teachers were sent to work in the 
fields. No one was taught to think. 
And now China is nearly paralyzed 
by a thought deficit; economic de­
velopment must wait until a genera­
tion is educated. 
The lesson applies today, and the 
parallel is not that distant. The 
president's efforts to cut education 
funding is myopically creating a fu­
ture less able to generate the new 
goods and services vital to a healthy 
economy. Resolving today's problems 
by destroying the long-range gain is 
by definition the quick fix Mr. 
Reagan has so studiously avoided. 
The slash of research and develop­ment subsidies is in the same vein, and just as deadly. Cutting research funds increases profit today, but closes the door on new opportunities tomorrow. This is a lesson that ought to have been well-learned in this country. The examples of this sort of shortsightedness are all around. Consider the steel industry: for years it fed contentedly on past discoveries, but woke one day to find it was left behind, no longer able to sell steel competitively. For­eign producers had invested in the research that led to better, cheaper steel, and were able to meet the growing steel needs. 
Again we see Mr. Reagan's efforts destroying the long-range hope. Again we are left with the quick fix. 
But the tragedy of this flawed economic reform extends beyond the failure to truly revitalize America. The tragedy lies in the injustice that is being done for the sake of our survival program. Social programs are being slashed, and the people on the bottom are being pushed further down. These people do need help. The poor will not just go away by eliminating the lines they stand in. And it's not the fault of the un­employed that there are no jobs to be had. These people, without power and with little hope, are being forced to bear the burden of 01.ir misguided economic reform. 
The new tax laws are the flip side of this coin the president now rubs so greedily between his fingers. The Concise Explanation of the Eco­nomic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 proclaims in boldface: "BIG IN­COMES BENEFIT EARLY." The reason: the previous graduated tax range of 14% to 70% has been re­duced to 11% to 50%. The lowest tax bracket has a 3% savings: the highest, 20%. What is happening? The rich are hoisting themselves up at the expense of the poor. David Stockman kindly led us to this con­clusion when he gave us the bottom liine on President Reagan's economic philosophy. His logic, if I may para­phrase, was something like this: 
"Trickle-down" is a crock. 
"Supply side'' really is trickle down. Therefore, supply side really is a crock. 
This widening of the rich/poor 
gap is inexcusable. If the issue was 
one of survival, and if the president's 
policy would save us, across-the­
board sacrifice would be in order. 
But the sacrifice is not being evenly 
distributed, and the present policy 
won't save us. But if the president's 
policy will not work, what will? 
Reversing President Reagan's eco­nomic policy would provide a truer solution. The defense budget ought to be gutted so that waste and cor­ruption are rooted out, while truly needed services are maintained. Edu­cation and research ought to be in­vested with the defense savings in order to generate a whole new era of growth and development. Social programs should be maintained until the new economy can offer oppor­tunity to people. A selective tax pro­gram ought to tap the resources of the rich to provide the needed social funds. Where would this lead us? To an unheralded advance in human op­portunit:y-generated by a funda­mental renewal of America. D 
'l!~f1t·'.·_1 
i~if 
~~­
Mark Bustamante, senior theology major and copy editor of Scholastic, is pleased that Chuck Wood can no loriger hound him for a coritributiori to the magazine. Chuck Wood, senior economics major and editor-in-chief, is pleased too. 


Tibet (cont'd from page 5) 
Before liberation Tibet was a hell on earth, where the labouring people suffered for centuries under the darkest and most reactionary feudal serfdom. (italics mine) ... Such savage feudal serfdom ob­structed the development of social productive forces so that Tibet steadily declined politically, eco­nomically and culturally and its population dwindled. On top of all this, a century of aggression and enslavement in Tibet by imperial­ist forces plunged the Tibetan peo­ple into an abyss of dire misery. 
In 1951 Tibet was liberated, and imperialist aggressive forces were driven out. 
There are two circumstances which render the Chinese rationale highly questionable. First, numerous ulte­rior, and less idealistic, motives can be pointed out; secondly, this "libera­tion" was followed by cultural geno­cide. 
The Dalai Lama points out three way in which Communist China has benefited from the invasion. His analysis is reinforced by Karan in The Changing Face of Tibet. First, the large territory of Tibet com­bined with the relatively small popu­lation suggested an inviting oppor­tunity for expansion, easing the high density of China's enormous popula­tion. Secondly, as China moved to­ward becoming an industrial nation and military power, Tibet's rich mineral deposits became an impor­tant resource. Thirdly, the geograph­ical nature of Tibet makes it an almost impregnable fortress from which China could base the military domination over South Asia. Karan adds to these a fourth explanation: Chinese perception of the space sur­rounding their homeland. With China proper as the center, the value placed upon surrounding territory increases as it approaches this center. 
Since Tibet lies in this area it is thus regarded an inseparable part of China which must be integrated into the national territory. Con­ceptually the territorial border conflicts between China and the Soviet Union and between China and India can also be explained ... by this perception. 
In the Communist pamphlet, China claims that the invasion was neces­sary to save Tibet's dwindling cul­ture and population. Ironically, a decade later, the International Com­mission of Jurists came to the fol-
FEBRUARY, 1982 
, 
. . 
, ----~-------------~-­

lowing conclusion in their report, 
Tibet and the Chinese People's Re­public: 
(a) 
that the Chinese will not permit adherence to and practice of Buddhism in Tibet; 

(b) 
that they have systemati­cally set out to eradicate this re­ligious belief in Tibet; 

(c) 
that in pursuit of this de­sign they have killed religious fig­ures because their religious belief and practice was an encourage­ment and example to others; 

(d) 
that they have forcibly transferred large numbers of Ti­betan children to a Chinese mate­rialist environment in order to prevent them from having a reli­gious upbringing. 


The Committee therefore found that genocide had been committed against this religious group by such methods. 
As for the dwindling population, Tibet was a nation which scarcely knew famine--at least no one alive in 
·the city of Lhasa could remember one. However, when the People's Liberation Army came to Tibet, they, predictably, brought very few provi­sions with them. Suddenly the sub­sistence economy of the Tibetans was expected to feed thousands of Chi­nese soldiers. This placed a burden upon the bewildered Tibetans not un­
. . 
like the hardship the American In­dians faced when U.S. buffalo hunt­ers wiped out their herds. 
The cultural destruction was not limited to murdered monks, induced famine, and economic chaos, but also extended to the artistic heritage of 1:he Tibetan theocracy. In the past 30 years Chinese soldiers have de­stroyed all but ten of the approxi­mately 2500 ancient monasteries.... 
According to the New York Times 
magazine, 
In 1976, after the downfall of China's radicals, called the "Gang of Four," the Peking Government admitted to violating its stated policy of respecting religious be­liefs and cultural heritage in Tibet. A new policy of moderation began. The move was also designed to gain ,popular support for social stability and moderation. 
After the Chinese takeover, the Dalai Lama remained in Tibet until 1959 and attempted to coexist with the Chinese; however, the commu­nists seized more and more control, continuously undermining his au­thority, until he was finally forced into exile in March, 1959. The Dalai Lama was granted asylum by Nehru in India, where he was followed by. thousands of Tibetan refugees. Since his departure he has toured both 
(cont'd on page 36) 
15 
-· 

An Issue With Nestle: 
The Notre Dame Boycott 
by George McAleer and Francis D'Eramo 
In the campus elections in the spring of 1979, the students of Notre Dame voted to join in an interna­tional boycott of the products of Nestle Inc., and its subsidiaries. The University administration, in turn, agreed to abide by the decision of the student body, and to discontinue the use or sale of Nestle products in any of the University-operated food services. The boycott referendum it­
, I i self had been sponsored on campus by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's World Hunger Coalition, an organi­zation of students who raise funds for charitable purposes and sponsor events designed to increase aware­ness of the problem of hunger. The boycott has been in effect at Notre Dame since that vote. This year, on March 2, the issue comes once again to a vote of the student body. The question at hand is whether or not to continue University participation in the boycott; once again, the World Hunger Coalition advocates the boycott's renewal. This is by no means a light decision, and there are a number of issues which bear ex­amination in relation to it. 

Essentially, the reason that Nestle Inc., has been targeted for boycott is because of its marketing practices in the sale of breast-milk substitute infant formula in the developing nations of the Third World. The sale of infant formula in the developing nations has had an incredibly devas­tating effect on the already precari­ous standard of living which exists there. UNICEF and the United States House of Representatives es­timate that the use of infant formula in the developing nations accounts for up to one million deaths per year. Consider that number for a moment: one million deaths per year. And this estimate, is con­sidered by many to be very conser­vative. The question that this statis­tic raises is just how infant formula causes so many deaths. There are a number of reasons, as well as a number of other negative effects 
16 
whose contributions are more in­directly lethal. 
First, although infant formulas are noit inherently harmful in them­selves, they do not contain the nat­ural immunities which are trans­mitted from mother to child during breastfeeding. These immunities are critical in protecting an infant from infection during the early stages of life. The Director General of the World Health Organization has stated that children who are not breastfed during the first six months of their lives are five to ten times more likely to die in their second six months. 
Second, in the developing coun­tries there is very often inadequate hygiene to insure the safe prepara­tion and storage of infant formula. The powdered formula is often mixed with contaminated water, bottles are not sterilized, and there are no fa­cilities to prevent spoilage of for­mula which is not used immediately. Of course, the hygiene problems do not disappear, but a breastfed infant need not consume as much of the contaminated water as a bottle-fed infant until he is older and better able to tolerate it. 
Third, many mothers in the devel­oping nations cannot r.ead the in­structions for the preparation of the formula. In addition, the cost of bottle-feeding a single .infant can run as high as 62.4% of the mini­mum weekly wage of some of the developing nations. This almost in­evitably drives lower-income moth­ers to dilute the formula in order to prolcng the supply. These mothers are unaware that diluted formula can lead to malnutrition and death from diarrhea-induced dehydration. Also, mothers who do not breastfeed can conceive again more rapidly than mothers who do, causing more frequent pregnancies and aggravat­ing the e:idsting problems. 
What is amazing about this situa­tion is that it is all so very un­necessary. The sale of infant formula in developing nations· is not in re­sponse to an existing need, since the World Health Organization estimates that only 1-3% of the mothers are physically incapable of breastfeed­ing. Rather, the market for infant formula in the developing nations was created by the manufacturers to increase their sales. To do so, they employed a large array of market­ing techniques. 
By far the largest share of the infant formula market in the de­veloping nations belongs to Nestle Inc. Nestle has promoted its prod­ucts intensely via radio, television, newspapers, billboards, posters in medical clinics, and through less conventional methods such as trucks equipped with loudspeakers. Nestle claims to have stopped all mass­media advertising in 1978, but viola­tion of this pledge occurs continu­ously. Nestle also employs so-called mothercraft personnel, or "milk nurses." These are no more than sales agents recruited often from the already insufficient numbers of health-care professionals in the de­veloping nations. The "milk nurses" often dress in nursing uniforms which create an improper impression of their status. They promote infant formula and give instructions for its use which are often meaningless in the absence of proper facilities and hygiene. 



Perhaps the most effective and least ethical method of promoting in­fant formula in the developing na­tions is the use of free samples given to hospitals and to the parents of the newborn. In a typical scenario, a mother who delivers a child in a hos­pital will be given a free sample of the infant formula and instructed in its use. If she employs the sample, it may last long enough so that by the time it is gone, the normal lactation process has been disrupted and the mother may no longer be capable of producing sufficient milk to feed her child. She is therefore forced to con­tinue the use of the infant formula, which she now must buy. This pro­motional practice certainly speaks for itself. Should there be any doubt, Dr. Carl Taylor, Chairman of the Department of International Health at Johns Hopkins Ur.iversity, wrote a letter to the Baltimore Sun that the distribution of free samples in this manner is, "... a process analo­gous to a drug pusher." 
Also, Nestle has employed finan­cial and material inducements to members of the health-care profes­sion in the developing nations, such as gifts and expense-paid "educa­tional" trips. What has come to exist then is the combination of a product whose improper use presents a tre­mendous potential for harm, and an intense promotion by unethical means. Ethical advertising can be of great assistance to a well-informed consumer, but the type of advertis­ing which Nestle employs is no more than a means of exploitation. 
The infant formula situation in the developing nations is so severe that it certainly could not continue unnoticed. In May, 1981, the World Health Organization, a branch of the United Nations, passed a Uniform Infant Formula Code which calls for an end to the unethical marketing practices of the infant formula man­ufacturers. The Code was passed by a vote of 118 to 1, with three ab­stentions. The lone dissenting vote was cast by the representative of the United States, who claimed that the provisions of the Code could not be constitutionally implemented in the United States. However, the Justice Department quickly pointed out that the Code relied on volun'tary compli­ance and was in fact a set of flexible guidelines that could be implemented in a variety of ways. Because of this, the Justice Department stated that 
the Code was indeed constitutional. 
Further response was forthcoming. Congress passed two resolutions, the Senate expressing "concern" and the House "dismay" at the negative vote of the U.S. representative. The joint resolution "... urges the administra­tion to notify promptly the World Health Organization that the govern­
r 
PRODUCTS ():F ·. NESTLE AND ' 
.·. IT~. SUBSIDIARIES 
. Nestle Chocolate• 
. ·Nestle .Cookie Mixes 
: Nestea 
QUIK 
Souptime 

L'Oreal Cosmetics 
Stouffer;s Frozen Foods .. 
Stouffer ·Restaurants/Hotels · 
Rusty Scupper Restaurants 
Libby's <\ . . . 
Beechnut Baby Food 
Los Hermanos Wines 
Beringer Bros,. Wines 
Crosse ·& Blackwell Wines ' DeerParkMtn. Spring Water 
Montclair Water 
Chambourcy Yogurt 
Wispride Cheese 
Swiss Knight Cheese 
· Old Fort Cheese · 
Cherry Hill Cheese · 
Rogers Cheese 
Locatelli Cheese 
Crosse and Blackwell 
McVities 
James Keller & Sons, Ltd. 
Lancome Cosmetics 
Alcon Pharmaceuticals . 
Ionax Skin Care Products 
Contique Lens Cleaner · 
ment of the United States will co­operate fully with other nations in the implementation of the code." 
That implementation· has to some extent begun. In September 1981, the Parliament of the European Eco­nomic Communities proposed a code following the guidelines of the World Health Organization. But implemen­tation in the developing nations, where the problem is most severe, has been slow in coming. In part, this may be due to what section 26 of the European Code states, "The governments of the developing coun­tries, where the impact of breastmilk substitutes is most serious, all un­doubtedly come under heavy pres­sure from the manufacturers to de­lay implementation of the code or dilute its provisions." 
Another kind of response to the infant formula situation is one which is open to everyone, and which has been in effect at Notre Dame since 1979. This response is partici­pation in a boycott of Nestle prod­ucts. The boycott was initiated world­wide in 1977 by an organization of concerned people who formed the Infant Formula Action Coalition (INFACT). In the United States alone, this boycott has grown to such proportions that it is now the largest nonunion-generated boycott in U.S. history. The boycott itself is valuable because it has historical precedent, ethical significance, and practical ef­fectiveness . 
Historically, boycotts in the United States date back at least the be­ginning of the American Revolution. The Boston Tea Party grew out of a Colonial boycott of British goods taxed by the Stamp Act, goods such as the tea of the British East India Company. Boycotts by no means op­pose the free enterprise system. Free enterprise, in its best form, is a partnership between producers, dis­tributors, and consumers. Each time a well-informed consumer makes a purchase; he makes a choice between competing products based on such factors as quality and price. It is equally legitimate to make such a choice on ethical grounds such as the marketing practices of the pro­ducer or distributor. This kind of choice is an exercise of the most fundamental economic freedom. 
Practically, the boycott has forced Nestle to take notice of the con­siderable weight of public opinion. Nestle has responded in some ways, such as decreasing mass-media ad­vertising while claiming to have halted it entirely. Business Weekly has reported that Nestle's profits have been sagging, in part because of the worldwide boycott. But resalts come slowly, and only after much effort. Yet the results are mounting. 
The aim of the World Hunger Coalition in advocating the continu­ance of the Nestle boycott is not to punish Nestle, or to exact economic retribution. No amount of lost sales or decreased profits can atone for the millions of lives which have already been lost. The aim of the boycott is to use economic clout to save the 
(cont'd on page 31) 


On The Road Again 
Notre Dame is a place rooted in tradition. From this sense of tradi­tion stories come. Everyone has his favorite. For some it is a tale of sports lore like those of Rockne. For others it is the method or madness of a particular professor -Emil's obsession with the number seven comes to mind. My favorite one that is still in the making: the busses chartered by the va·rious geo­graphical clubs to take students to and from home at break time. 
My particular experience is with the Washington, D.C. club, but I think the stories I have to tell have counterparts elsewhere. Those of you who don't travel on these busses, feel free to laugh at these stories. Those of you who do, try to laugh (as op­posed to scream or cry) with me. 
Scene one is the bus station, in my case a Greyhound terminal on New York and 11th streets in N.E. Washington. The bus station is where we sit on our pile of luggage eagerly waiting for the P.A. an­nouncer's words, "Now boarding platforms C and E, special charter for Notre Dame University.'' Some day, one of us will take the trouble to tell him that we are from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and not Notre Dame University. 
After finding someway to stuff our four pieces of luggage into the bus's luggage compartment, we sit and wait for the two or three people who always come a half hour late. I'm never sure whether to be angry at or feel sorry for them when they finally board the bus, their faces red and confused. . 
Our first stop is a town called Breezewood, Pennsylvania, which is 
about two hours out of Washington. The only part of town any of us get to see is a strip about a quarter of a mile long marked by a McDonald's on one end and the "Homestead Restaurant" on the other. But this stop is the most eagerly awaited be­cause it is our last chance for any­thing but turnpike food. Once we leave Breezewood we enter the land of two-dollar hamburgers, onion rings that were made fresh last week, and fifty-cent vending machine soft drinks. 
18 
The trip itself poses the challenge of entertaining ourselves for twelve hours. Maureen O'Reilly reviews for the upcoming double-Emil and after one page begins to wonder if twelve hours will be enough time. Carl Frushon tries his hand at Mattel's latest electronic football fame. Chris Fasano sits behind him planning how to sabotage the game as he tries to read a novel. Paul Kucera, also annoyed by the game's six different kinds of electronic noises, heads for the other end of the bus in search of conversation. That he has to stand or sit on an aisle seat armrest seems a small price to pay for peace and some company. 
An unidentified student wearing a "Buckeye" cap has the toughest challenge of all: he sits by the win­

dow and tries to find something scenic about the Ohio turnpike. At the front of the bus is our esteemed vice-president Bill Bastedo. The rhythmic tremors coming from his seat tell all who approach that he is hard at work on another chapter of his latest book, The Hi.J3tory of 
Competitive Sleeping, 
The mood of the students shifts as we progress from Washington to South Bend. At the beginning of the trip, it is fashionable to grumble about how little work was done over break and how much one dreads going back to school. Few people seem excited about the prospectof a twelve-hour trip that will take them to a place where massive amounts of work await them. But as those hours begin to pass, people begin 
by Dan Keusal 
to yearn for the relative comfort and security of their dorm rooms .. Even 
dining hall food doesn't seem such a bad prospect. When the Golden Dome is finally sighted, there are few who are not happy to see it (a moral victory for sadistic seat designers everywhere). 
However, all of the above seems almost routine when compared with the times when something goes wrong. There was, for example, the time our bus broke down twice in one trip, first on the toll road, where we were saved by a Greyhound mechanic who happened to drive by, and then again at a terminal outside of Cleveland where we were forced to change busses. Slowly, the twelve­hour trip. became a seventeen-hour trip. Only the very gifted were able to amuse themselves for three hours in a turnpike Howard Johnson's. 
The trips from South Bend to Washington have. also had their share of mishaps. Last October we had two busses, one of which was scheduled to leave an hour and a half after the other. When the earlier one got to Saint Mary's with nine empty seats and ten passengers waiting, one student already on the bus cheerfully volunteered to go back to N.D. and wait for the next bus. Seven hours later, with the first bus nearing the Pennsylvania border, she and forty-four others were still waiting at the library circle when Greyhound finally re­routed a bus from Minneapolis to get them. 
This Christmas, we all gained a sense of what Dorothy felt like when . she arrived at Emerald City: when we arrived at the bus station we were told that the yellow brick turnpikes were closed and that we should come back tomorrow. 
The persons to pity in the midst of all the misfortune are the club leaders. They are the easy target for blame, though they may be innocent of anything except being a part of the adventure. Take heart, club leaders, for the grumbling that comes from within your ranks is also part of that tradition in the making, a tradition that I believe we will all be glad to say we were a part of. 
· · SCHOLASTIC 



For most of us, frigid South Bend 
winters conjure up wistful recollec­
tions of summers past: lazily lolling 
beside amethyst oceans, romantic 
rendezvous under starry skies and 
. . . peddling popsicles in Paterson. 
Paterson, New Jersey, to be exact. 
Unromantic as it may sound, I found 
this activity to be a truly enlighten­
ing, if not life-threatening experi­
ence. 
It began last May with a frantic 
search for a summer job. One eve­
ning I anxiously combed the classi­
fieds as my father sat mesmerized 
by the ramblings of the six o'clock 
news. 
"Here we go," I said. "Full-time 
waitress needed for Hoboken diner. 
Oh, forget it. Spanish necessary." 
My father said nothing and re­
mained transfixed to the tube. 
"Here's one," I said. "Make $300 to $400 per week. 'The Meat Locker Inn' in Times Square needs go-go dancers. Topless only. We will train." 
I turned to my father. "Well, the money's great, and who said every job you ever had has to go on ·a resume?" 
"Here's the job," I said. "Up to $500 per week. Sell Good Humour ice cream. Must have driver's li­cense." 
Much to my father's delight (and my mother's dismay) the next day I interviewed with the Pied Piper Ice Cream Company. The owner, Na­thaniel Chernichaw, was a sarcastic but streetwise individual. Nate called Newark, N.J., his home, but Israel was written all over his face. He read my application aloud. 
"Hmmm . . . family of six . . . Notre Dame ... Catholic, huh?" 
Brilliant deduction, Nate. I nodded. 
"What's your major?" he quipped, "Home Economics?" 
"Of course not," I snapped lying through my teeth. "My major is aerospace engineering." 
"It's a tough job," he said. "Long hours, no social life . . . and you gotta work, rain or shine. Think you can handle it?" 
"Of course," I said defiantly. 
"O.K., you got the job. Be here tomorrow morning at 11 sharp and we'll load up your truck." · 
I arrived for work the next day at 11 a.m. Expecting my co-workers to 
be fresh-faced co-eds like myself was 
naive at best. Out of 30 drivers, I 
was one of five females. Out of the 
other four, three can best be de­
scribed as "has-been" paramours." 
The fourth was, to be tactful, the 
epitome of androgyny. 
"Panderers and pushers" aptly de­scribes my male co-workers. Pan­derers peddling popsicles, you ask? My explanation is, given that sum­mer is a hot season, it is a slow one for pander~rs peddling paramours. Since panderers have to eat like the rest of us, in the summer they peddle popsicles, which is potentially more profitable than peddling paramours . . . for three months of the year, anyway. And as for the pushers, the sad truth is that New Jersey has corrupted the innocent ice-cream truck. Hence, pushers profit from peddling not only popsicles, but pot and pills as well. 
Nate assigned me to a 1967 truck with very loose steering that lurched violently when shifted from drive to reverse. After reciting detailed in­structions to a duck pond in a far­off suburb, he bade me farewell. 
Maneuvering my truck and trying to recall Naite's detailed instructions proved too difficult so I decided to sell right where I was, in Paterson. Turning down a side street I rang my bells and was deluged by a flood of chicas and chicos. Though they chattered away in their native tongue and I in mine, the language of the popsicle is a universal one-and I sold a great many of them. 
Heady with success and feeling slightly brave, I drove to a park in Paterson. When I pulled into the parking lot, the picnickers, of vari­ous ethnic origins, regarded me curi­ously. Apparently, I did not fit their notion of a popsicle peddler. One gentleman was especially curious. He nudged his friend then turned to me. 
"Whatta you sell besida popsicle?" he asked with a smirk. 
I rattled off my wares. "Let's see, today I've got cherry bombs, ice cream sandwiches, chocolate eclairs, blueberry ices ...." 
"No, no, lady," he said, lecher­ously raising his eyebrows. "What else?" 
Noting that I was the only Cau­
by Sue Kelleher 

casian for miles I felt vaguely un­comfortable, but was soon too busy selling popsicles to feel threatened. By the end of the day, I had made $50 for only nine hours of work. 
The next day, when Nate dis­covered I had sold in Paterson, he was furious. "It's too dangerous," he said. He gave me a permanent route ... my own hometown, even though ice-cream trucks are illegal there. Nate's reasoning: "If the cops stop you, tell them you live there, and they won't bug you. If they do, send them to me." 
I carefully combed every street of my town. One would think that peddling popsicles in an area whose per household income is $58,000 would be quite lucrative, but just the opposite is true. Those born with a silver spoon, as the saying goes, don't eat.popsicles. I sold all of three that day. 
I returned to the depot that night and asked Nate for a better route. "Sorry, hon," he said. "I haven't got another one." 
"Then I'm quitting," I said. 
"What?!?" 
"Nate, you can't sell Good Humour to a Haagen-Daz clientele. I'll sell in Paterson if you give me a trans­lator." 
"You're out of your mind," he said. "Go back to school." 
Such is the stuff of small minds ... and of summer employment. The moral of the story is this: Provided you're not a panderer, paramour or Padre, preclude peddling popsicles in Paterson. 
Sue Kelleher, a Senior American Studies major, is from Franklin Lakes, N.J. She tried out three other jobs after the popsicles fell through and ended up . . . back in Paterson, working at an acccrunting firm. 



Gallery Focus on} Robert 
Bob is a second-year graduate student. 
He will graduate in May with a M.F.A. 
in Photography. 
Making a good photograph is a matter of keying one's feelings to a situation in order to make a coherent image. My photographs are subjective and personal-they're 
OJ intended to be accessible, to relate to peoples' lives, and to communicate my feelings about the world and what happens in it. I'd like to feel that my photographs can be of some use to add insight to human experience and to broaden our perspectives. 
People, their well-being and their survival are the crux of what is important to me and my work. 
SCHOLASTIC 
C 
>holography 
Wade 

FEBRUARY, 1982 
·­
Poles Apart-~­
General Huyser and Archbishop Hunthausen Speak Out 
Nuclear weaponry and the possi­bility of nuclear warfare are rapidly becoming topics for much concern and debate. The present administra­tion is pushing to increase defense spending to bridge the nuclear imbal­ance between the United States and the Soviet Union. The prevailing at­titude is that "only by deploying _such weapons can the United States persuade the Soviets that it is pre­pared to fight and win a limited nuclear war -and this will deter the Soviets from pushing the button first" (Ne:wsweek, Oct. 5, 1981). The acceptance of the limited war theory is relatively young, beginning in the mid-70's when a strategy known as "Mutual A s s u r e d Destruction" 
(MAD) began losing credibility among government officials as a viable means to deteITence. MAD is the theory that if the Soviets launched a nuclear attack on an American city, the U.S. would in­stantly retaliate, and that such a city-by-city incineration would pre­vent either side from "pushing the button." 

Presently, however, limited war ideas are flourishing -based on "counterforce" attack strategies (attacks ai:rned at military bases rather than at cities). Yet, there are numerous other possible strategies and scenarios that could be devel­oped. 
Many people do not accept the concept of a limited nuclear war, however. To them it is a contradic­tion of terms. They argue that with the present nuclear weaponry po­tential to destroy the world 10-20 times over, a nuclear war could not be contained. Moreover, in this over­kill situation, many people ask why we continue to spend more money for further arms buildup while mil­lions of people are starving and homeless. Also, the idea of nuclear weapons getting into the hands of teITorists is a frightening one. 
Recently, at Notre Dame, guest 
by Beth Domnick 
speakers have addressed the criti­cal issues of our national security, defense, and nuclear arms pro­liferation. · U.S. General Robert E. Huyser and Archbishop Raymond Hunthausen were among these guests. 
General Robert E. Huyser, De­fense Advisor to· the last five Presi­dents, spoke to Notre Dame students on American Foreign Policy in the 1980's and specifically on the Reagan Administration Defense Policies. 
Labeling the 1980's as a "Decade of Crisis," General Huyser claimed that American society is bouncing back from the post-Vietnam War slump of the 1970's. He cited rises in crime, abortion, divorce and mur­der as largely due to the disgrace America suffered in Vietnam. Huyser said that the disintegration of America's internal affairs during the last decade is because "We didn't fulfill our responsibilities there. We didn't end ('the war) in a proper form." However, he sees America moving away from that decay in the 1980's. 
"A strong defense is useless with­out _a strong society." Throughout history America has expressed an "honorable intent to maintain our 
_democracy and those of others." Yet, he claimed that "If we continue on the trends we've been on, we're headed for disaster." Huyser focused on the theory of a bipolar world: the United States and the Soviet Union. 
Huyser also pointed out that throughout history, national strength has been based on dominance. The Soviet Union has a. history of com­munist aggression -which can only be controlled by an equal, if not su­perior, U.S. defense policy. 
Soviet history, he says is clearly one of expansionism. Within the last two decades alone, the number of nations under communist influence has risen from nineteen to forty­two. 
The Soviet nation is atheistic; re­ligion is considered, as Marx taught, the "opiate of the people," -and an interference to the one true faith, that of the nation. Religious com­mitment has been oppressed and out­lawed. The individual who identifies himself with a religion has virtually no chance of· rising in his career or in society. Social change in Russia has been achieved largely by force. Huyser pointed out that "With a Russian takeover, we not only lose our liberty, we lose our souls." 
Huyser claims that America must be the leader of the Western world and express her strategy in a simple statement: "We will have no major conflicts" (meaning strategic nu­clear war). He emphasized that the United States needs to keep her ac­cesses to natural resources and oil safe as well as provide protection for 'the Western world. America cannot afford an inferior defense. We can make "no unacceptable concessions for anything that would infringe on our sovereignty and freedom." 
Responding to the frequent criti­cisms of Reagan's defense policy in light of social concerns, Huyser stated, "What greater social service could our government do for us than to guarantee our lives and our se­curity?" 
Those opposed to Reagan's ap­proach to defense raise · questions about the policies and viewpoint pre­sented by Huyser. First, Huyser links national security with military su-­premacy. Many feel this is an inac­curate link. In 1966, Robert Mac--Namara said, "The concept of se­curity is dangerously oversimplified to the mere problem of weaponry. Force alone does not guarantee se­curity." The · escalation of military spending and increased production does not necessarily add to security, especially in light of the incredible overkill power the United States and Russia already possess.­
-Professor Denis-b Goulet, Depart­ment of Government, criticizes Rea­gan's usimple, naive and dangerous" policies, in that they are totally based on the Balance of Power be­tween two superpowers, the United States and the Soviet Union. Defense policy advocators, such as Huyser, see security from "a bipolar uni­verse concept" which Goulet believes to be more or less obsolete. In sup­port of this, he recalls that NATO made advancements towards multi­dimensional involvement in defense politics. U.S. Allies must participate actively in defense policies and strat­egy, if for no other reason than mere 
SCHOLASTIC 
courtesy. The view that the world 
is comprised solely of the powers of 
the Soviet Union and U.S. is erro­
neous. Considering the number of 
nations in the world which have and 
can produce nuclear arms, defense 
and weaponry must be handled by 
many people, many nations, and not 
only by the "experts." 
From a concern for terrorism, pro­
military defense supporters remark 
that only a powerful defense and 
strong commitment to use that de­
fense, if necessary, will deter ram­
pant growth of terrorism. 
However strong disagreement to 
this arises from the fact that with 
the availability of nuclear technology 
and production of nuclear weaponry 
in numerous nations, the risk of ter­
rorists producing nuclear weapons 
increases. Antinuclea,r supporters 
question the possible isolation of 
nuclear technology and production 
from terrorists. 
On an economic basis, Huyser claims that defense is crucial· for safeguarding our economic depen­dence on natural resources. Likewise, military does provide employment and often the most sophisticated uses of engineering concepts and new technology. Another argument claims that weapons technology protects free institutions. Historically, he says, it was World War II and in­creased military production that put many of .the victims of the Great · Depression back to work. Arms pro­duction and research is, then, eco­
nomically stimulating. 
Economist John Kenneth Gal­
braith in an article entitled The 
Economics of the Arm.s Race ___:_ And 
After addresses the economics of the 
arms race. He claims that in reality 
the arms.race is gravely weakening 
the American economic and social 
systems. Says Galbraith, "Expendi­
ture for arms, like any public ex­
penditure, is at a cost of other uses, 
to private capital use . . .. The freeing of revenues now used for public purposes is deemed vital for private capital improvement -for the revitalization of the American industrial plant." 
Galbraith also notes that Amer­icans are unaware of the vast de­structive consequences of nuclear war. The mere threat is damaging to our economic system which is largely based on individual motivation. We fail to realize that· in the aftermath of nuclear warfare neither capital­ism, nor socialism nor communism for that matter, will survive. "And if or when, in some moment of error; . anger or panic, this race goes out of control -if there is a nuclear ex­change, large or as some now imag­ine, limited -what is called free enterprise or capitalism will not sur­vive." 
Setting the politics and economics aside, there is another aspect to the nuclear arms issue that cannot be ignored -the moral perspective. Many church leaders of various Christian denominations are begin­ning to take strong stands against nuclear arms proliferation. 
Within the Catholic Church, popes Pius XII, Paul VI, and John Paul II have "unequivocally condemned the production, deployment, possession, use, and· threat to use nuclear weap­:ons'! (Sojourners, Jan. 10, 1982). The Second Vatican Council called upon the Church to engage in serious evaluation of modern warfare, con­demning the use of weapons of mass destruction, and stating that "the arms race is one of the most grievous plagues of the human race, and it in­flicts intolerable injury upon the world." In 1976, the statement of the Holy See on Disarmament was de­livered to the United Nations. It labeled the arms race as "a danger . . . an injustice ... a mistake ... a wrong . . . and total folly." 

Recently, several American bish­ops have been strongly denouncing the arms race and calling individuals to a "spiritual conversion" -a transformation of the heart that will transcend logical argumentation to get to the moral implications of this modern-day crisis. The Archbishop of Seattle, Raymond Hunthausen, who has gained national atten­tion recently because of his de­cision to withhold 50% of his taxes in nonviolent protest of the nuclear arms buildup, spoke at the CILA Education Workshop, Jan. 29-30. He said that he came to the tax with­holding decision after much "prayer, thought, and personal struggle," but has been bothered by the fact that the media has picked up only on the tax issue. Believing that "all nuclear war is immoral because there is no conceivable proportionate reason which could justify the immense destruction of life and resources such a war would bring about," Hunt­hausen backs his arguments purely o:ri the loving and peaceful message of Christ. In a way, he sees this moral dilemma to be a blessing in disguise, prompting Christians to ex­plore their consciences and faith to determine if they are putting their trust and security in weaponry rather than in God. This, as many religious leaders see it, would be "idolatry of the worst kind." 
Hunthausen began his speech at Notre Dame by reading the Beati­tudes from Luke 6: 20-26 ("Happy are you who are poor: yours is the kingdom of God ... But alas for you who are rich: you are having your consolation now") -empha­sizing Jesus' compassion for the poor and oppressed. Relating this to the present problems of nuclear arms buildup to protect our nation -the richest in history -Hunthausen says that "if we go the way of out­rageous wealth and power, we will get the very nuclear war with which we threaten others.'' However, he adds that "the good news of Jesus tod;iy is that through a way of non­violence, nuclear war can be stopped." 
The archbishop's decision to with­hold a portion of his taxes came out of his desire to find his way back to the nonviolent way of the Cross. He referred to the Christians of the first century who, ·at the cost of martyrdom,· refused incense to Cae­sar -refused that form of idolatry. Today, Hunthausen claims that each of us runs the danger of nuclear 
(cont'd on page 24) 
,I 
i 
I 
Archbishop Hunthausen 
idolatry by supporting the arms race 
through our tax money. "It is the responsibility of each of us to look at the gospel, examine its implica­tions and take a stance." However, Hunthausen is quick to point out that his method of withholding 50% of his taxes and putting that money into charitable and peacemaking or­ganizations instead is not the stance that everyone should take. He re­alizes that not all Christians will agree with his position, but strong­ly urges the continuation of open I dialogue to weigh possible alterna­
!1 
tives to the arms race. And while many may agree with his disar­mament views, he is not suggesting that they imitate his actions. "I am saying that everyone should think profoundly and pray deeply over the issue of nuclear armaments. My words and my action of tax with­holding are meant to awaken those who have come to accept without thinking the continuation of the arms race, to stir even those who disagree with me to find a better path than the one we now follow, to encourage all to put in first place not the production of arms, but the production of peace." (Taken from his letter to the Seattle archdiocese, Jan. 26, 1982.) 
With his nonviolent, unilateral disarmament views, Hunthausen is often asked, "What about the Rus­sians?" His response is not based on political theory, but rather on his view of the situation in light of the gospel -"loving enemies means re­sisting violence with love rather than inflicting more violence on others." He believes that our fear of the So­viets only provokes their fear of us. 

"If we were to lay down ourweapons and put our faith in God instead, I believe we would be able to see the Russians once again as people." 
In reference to objections that many people have on his taking this political stance, the archbishop says: 
I strongly reject the notion that because the episcopal office is a re­ligious office a bishop may not speak out on · issues that involve the political realm. There are some who mistakenly think that Pope John Paul has forbidden Church leaders to speak out. This is false; it is also dangerous. Our Holy . Father has decided that bishops and priests should not become poli­ticians ... but by his own example in addressing the abortion issue during an election which involved an abortion law in Italy, he under­lined that bishops and priests must speak out on political issues that touch on moral values of our tradi­tion. Hence, although disarma­ment has a political side, it is also true that it has a moral side that 
I as a Christian leader must ad­dress. 
Hunthausen also refutes the objec­tions that he should not disobey the law of the state even for a good end. There are "times when disobedience may be an obligation. of conscience ... civil law is not an absolute." 
While he urges the importance of spiritual conversion to understand the nuclear arms race from a moral perspective, Hunthausen offers no suggestions for strategic political policies. Yet that is not his intent. He admits that his ideas may seem a bit naive and simpleminded, but his personal decision is irrevocable in light of his conscience and faith. He hopes that others will awaken to a sense of urgency concerning the nuclear arms issue and come to a prayerful transformation of their hearts, so that a peaceful transfor­mation of the world may begin. 
As members of a Catholic univer­sity, Notre Dame students are forced to examine, question and study the dilemma of American defense and nuclear weaponry in their lives and futures. Many fear that ultimately the threat of nuclear exchange peaks for their generation. If there is a nuclear war, it is we, our children, and our society that will suffer the consequences. They question their responsibility to accept the present defense situation or to retaliate against the insanity of nuclear arms. After all, within the next twenty years, it will be today's college stu­dents who hold their hand over the nuclear war button. The problem is very real in their lives now and they often wonder how to respond. 
For example, the electrical engi­neeering student who finds the most lucrative career possibility is in arms production. Or the ROTC student whose education is being financed by an Armed Forces scholarship. Or the young Christian who struggles to live Christ's word in a world where peace appears almost impossible. Each struggles to question and de­velop some responsible stance on the defense policy nuclear arms, trying to remain realistic and moral at the same time. 
Clearly, much of the defense poli­cy and nuclear proliferation rise from fear. Likewise, antinuclear objections and questions about the ethics of defense policies are equally based on fear. One is a fear of Rus­sian aggression and ultimate power­lessness; the other, a fear of the consequences of nuclear exchange and the immorality behind such de­fense. n
::5. 
The reality of Soviet expansionism is a problem for the western world. The United States has watched the Russians' role in Cuba, Afghan­istan, and now Poland. They do not appear overly concerned with American disapproval. Also, the horror of Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings is far from forgotten. We did use the nuclear bomb before. We cannot claim that we won't use it again. 
However. speculative the threat of nuclear destruction may be, the re­ality of a defense and foreign policy 
· (cont'd on page 37) 
SCHOLASTIC 


Poetry 
,f Watched 
: I watc~ed tod_ay -~--» ' A cloud -burst. · . It cried .:;_ on·me. · • Soaking my sanity • With bitter tears ' That stung . .J< my pride.· 
, And tomorrow (if it coines) : I'lrpaint another ·c1oud,< · . A11«;l charge it.with the fire ' Of burnt red desire. . . 
And the next day· (if I care) 
• 
I'lLfillmy cloud with air; . · And hope that my balloon · Will· sail· above iny rooin. 

• 
I watched today . A leaf•~ leave.: : It died --,-on ine, Shriveli~g iny samenes( 


In mirrored change ' ' ' ' · That chaUenged my .. ;isecurity.. 
And tomorrow (when it comes) 
, i'llpaint another leaf, And watch again the green go old , . In spletjdid hues of auburned gold. . . . Arid the riexf'day (I'm sure I'll care) 
• I'lLknow my leafis rare. And grin as winter's icy embraces ._. Deny my leaf their.·death-chilled traces. · 
: I \Vatched today < . 
· k flower --'-bloom. : It blossomed .:::.._ for me. .. Saluti~g my soul . , 
In acknowledged beauty · That warmed ... my heart.· 
. . . : . . 

' And t~~o~ro:v;, (it has dome) ! I'll ,paint anothe:r flower, · · And gasp. forever at unfurUng petals : Bravely becoming fromse~d-bubbles .. ,And the next day (because I cared) 
: I'll snip my flqwer aqd, share, ! And watch ifs. color _and shape Create clouds 0f·'hope.for other.s' escape. 
' ' ' 

ij 
by KMcG 
It's . .tNot by K McG / It's not that I am scared. No, not at all; 



Red Smith Sportswriter: Tribute to a Master 
by Beth Healy 
On January 14, 1982, the Editor of the 1926 Dome died. Big deal? Yes! He was one of America's most widely read, admired and quoted sports journalists. In fact, he was one of America's best contemporary journalists. On January 14, 1982, Walter Wellesley (Red) Smith, age 76, died. While his absence leaves an emptiness in many lives, his beloved, crafted columns remain an influence and delight to all. 
Red Smith loved the written word. He wanted more than anything to be a "newspaper stiff." He once ex­plained, "I never wanted to be an actor, never wanted to sell insurance, never wanted to drive a truck. All I wanted to do was what I'm doing." Who could ask for more? Under the guise of sports, Mr. Smith sculpted precise, clear, prosaic, elo­quent English prose as Bernini sculpted stone. While many writers turned to padded prose, heavy with ambiguity and cliches, Smith kept his phrase on a strict diet. He trimmed and starved the sentence, and thus enlivened and enriched the .word, as well as American sports. 
Red Smith, a Notre Dame student back in the days of prohibition, crew cuts and .the School of Journalism, graduated in 1927 with a BA in Journalism. Said American Studies Professor Thomas Stritch, a long­time friend and colleague, "He al~ ways admired his education here." John. M. Cooney, Chairman of the Department of Journalism from 1912-1943, was Smith's favorite pro-fessor. Stritch describes Cooney as a "great stylist" who pushed his stu­dents and probably had the greatest influence on Smith's "lean, economi­cal style.'' 
Red Smith always remained dedi­cated to Notre Dame. He often re­turned to cover games. "He lcved being here. He was always a great Notre Dame alumnus, but he wasn't one of those .gung-ho guys. He didn't hesitate to criticize Notre Dame if he felt it necessary. He never made a grea't point of being a Notre Darner," remembers Stritch. Smith's son, Terry, also graduated from Notre Dame and is now a Washing­ton correspondent for The New York Times. 
Originally from Green Bay, Wis­consin, Smith began his journalism career in 1927 after his graduation. At $24 a week, he reported for The Milwaukee Sentinel. In 1928 Smith moved to The St. Louis Star as copy­reader. "I hated the routine," he said, "but I've got to credit that job with teaching me about writing." Later that year Red Smith moved to wha't he called the "newspaper's toy department": sports. 
Red Smith was never as addicted to sports as he was to writing. Nor was he All-American material. At Notre Dame, he joined the Varsity Track Team to escape P.E. require­ments. After training all season, he finished dead last in the mile race, his only competition ever. Professor Stritch remembers a banquet dinner when someone once commented, "Red, you would have been a great athlete if only you hadn't been small, weak, uncoordinated, myopic and a coward.'' Once, when questioned about his devotion to sportswriting, Smith said, "I had an advantage. In addition to being little and near­sighted, I was also yellow. That's why I can appreciate what those big fellows do.'' 
Physically, Red Smith was a very "unassuming" man. A slight 5~foot-7, he described himself as "a seedy amateur with watery eyes behind glittering glasses, a retiring chin, a hole in his frowzy haircut, and a good deal of dandruff on the shoul­ders." While at Notre Dame, his childhood nickname "Brick" gave way to "Red." As the years went by, his sandy-red locks turned white. Stritch remembers that "He looked more like a college professor ·than a sportswriter. 
In 1928, Red Smith revealed the beauty of his lighthearted, flowing style. Covering his first assignment, St. Louis'. first night football game, he wrote from the point of view of "a glowworm on the gridiron, indig­nant at the floodlights-and the men responsible for them-which dimmed his own incandescence.'' That's 
sportswriting. 
In 1936 Smith worked as a sports­writer and columnist for the Phila­delphia Record. In 1945 he began a full-time column for the New York Herald Tribune. Following Grant­land Rice's death in 1954, he became the most widely syndicated sports 
columnist in the U.S. In 1971, at 66, 
Red Smith joined the New York 
Times. His three to four · columns a 
week were syndicated by the New 
York Times News Service to 275 
papers in America and 255 in ap­
proximately thirty other countries. 
Red Smith wrote with literary 
grace and lighthearted humor. He 
especially enjoyed horse racing, box­
ing, baseball and fishing. He loved 
his career and considered it the 
greatest profession on earth. 
"Sports is not really a play world," he said. "I think it's a real world. The peop'le we're writing about in professional sports, they're suffering and living and dying and loving and trying to make their way through life just as the bricklayers and politi­cians are. 
"This may sound defensive -I don't think it is -but I'm aware that games are a part of every cul­ture we know anything about. And often taken seriously. It's no acci­dent that of all the monuments left of the Greco-Roman culture, the big­gest is 'the ballpark, the Colosseum, the Yankee Stadium of ancient times. The man who reports on these games con'tributes his small bit to the rec­ord of his time." 
Red Smith didn't always write about the "thrill of victory and the agony of defeat," for he had a gentle touch. In an interview on CBS-TV's 60 Minutes he commented, "I've al­ways tried to remember that these were games little boys can play." 
Smith never abandoned the sports department. In No Cheering in the Press Box, by Jerome Holtzman, Smith said, "I like to report on the scene around me, on the little piece of the world as I see it, as it is in my time. And I like to do it in a way that gives the reader a little pleasure, a little entei:1:ainmen't. I've always had the notion that people go to spectator sports to have fun and 'then they grab ··the paper to read about it and have fun again." 
Smith's columns were fun. His readers especially enjoyed his soft humor and keen eye for the inter­esting angle. He strove for perfec­tion in both his vivid, rich vocabu­lary and grammatical excellence. He wrote with wisdom, and he was a kind writer. He never sought to crucify his subjects. If he criticized, he did so gently. 
In a ,column on the 1951 Joe Louis­Rocky Marciano fight, Smith wrote: "An old man's dream .ended. A young man's vision of the future opened wide. Young men have vi­sions, old men have dreams. But the 
FEBRUARY, 1982 
place for old men to dream is by the fire." 
Red Smith had an uncanny ability to find a fresh, new angle in sports­writing. Says Professor Stritch, "He was concerned for the person with a little flair. He was fascinated by Mohammed Ali. He had the same kind of flair as Smith. He loved the sideshows, the freaks and the odd­balls." 
In a column, written as coverage of a dog show in Madison Square Garden, Smith chose to describe the judge. "He had splendid conforma­tion -broad shoulders, white hair and erect carriage -and was beau­tifully turned out in an ensemble of rich brown. One was inclined to hope that he would, in the end, award first prize to himself." Sur­prisingly, though the words flowed like a mountain stream, writing was never easy for Red Smith. 
Describing his writing, Smith often said, "I made up my mind that every time I sat down· to a typewriter, I would slash my veins and bleed a:nd that I'd try to make each word dance." Smith was a deadline jour­nalist. He rationalized the long, agonizing hours spent bent over the typewriter while the minutes ticked to the deadline. "God is good," he said. '!God will provide." 
Although he often had numerous options for the column's subject Smith never wrote before the due day. He was described as a "snow­ball writer," often ripping the paper out of the typewriter when the sen­tence just wasn't right. Paper "snow­balls" covered the floor around his wastebasket. He never really en­joyed basketbaU. 
Smith's first wife, Kay, once de­scribed her husband at work. From behind the closed door of his office, she heard "Groans, modified moans, small whimpers and ari occasional calling on the deity." 
In 1976, Red Smith's groans finally paid off. He won the Pulitzer Prize for his column "Sports of the Times." It was the first Pulitzer for sports "commentary" and one of only three ever awarded for sports. At seventy, Smith had been writing for over half a century, often six weekly columns. Accepting the Pulitzer, he said, "It's the only bottle cap that counts." 
In addition to winning the Pulit­zer, Smith's colleagues named him best columnist five times. In 1969, he returned to Notre Dame for an honorary degree. Charlie Callahan, former Notre Dame Director of Sports Information and recently re­tired Director of Publicity for the 
Miami Dolphins, first nominated Red Smith. Professor Stritch gave him the needed second and also wrote the citation. In that citation, he wrote: "Notre Dame has always rejoiced in her sports tradition, and she rejoices today that she nurtured one of the best sportswriters, a man whose good heart has endeared him to all who love good sport, whose honesty and balance made sports better, and whose wit and style have earned him !Ii a solid place in American letters­Red Smith." 

Ii
He endured sportswriting for 55 years. During that time Smith never questioned his -work, never stopped refining his prose. He kept improv­ing, maturing with the years."I have tried to become simpler, straighter and purer in my language...." 
27 


,:j 
I 
I 
I 
Father Hesburgh congratulates Red Smith for his honorary degree in 1969. 
Often Smith was forced to take a stand on controversial sports issues, from slave trading in the American baseball associations to the recent 1980 Moscow Olympics Boycott. Call­ing for the boycott of the 1980 Mos­cow Olympic Games, he wrote: "We should pull out now, ending uncer­tainty among the American athletes and serving notice on the Russians that, no matter what happens in Afghanistan, their offense against international law will not be quickly forgotten.'' 
Red Smith published five collec­tions of his columns. The last, in 1974, he entitled Strawberries in the Wintertime. It comes from a column 
Smith wrote about the Giants' ex­
citement over their new, youngrookie Willie Mays. One Giant execu­tive had commented, "Believe me, Red, this Mays will have us eating strawberries in the wintertime.'' However, with the usual Red Smith wit and style, he explained it saying, "finding a title for such a mixed bag can be a problem. I ·considered using a catchier title like 'War and Peace,' 'Wuthering Heights' or 'The Holy Bible,' but they struck me as outdated." 
At Fred Corcoran's eulogy, Red Smith commented, "Dying is no big deal, the least of us will manage that. Living is the trick." Red Smith worked on living every moment of every day for seventy-six years. He never considered retiring, even after 
a few years ago. He said, "No, never. If I don't write I'll die." In discussing death, he once said, "I want to go like Granny Rice did. I just want to · fall into my typewriter." Funny how God arranges such . details for us. Red Smith entered the hospital on Wednesday, January 12, and died the following Friday. In his last column, which appeared in the New York!Times on Monday, January 17, he wrote of the old days when he churned out seven columns a week. 
Excerpts from Red Smith 
0 can't Beat Notre Dame on Rice 
KriS'pies, on the 1974 N.D.-Alabama game: "Now, football players at Alabama are seldom seen in bread lines, but their dietary luck turned sour yes­terday afternoon when a flash fire in the kitchen of their motel burned up 53 ·of the steaks ordered for .their pregame meal. · They were soon to discover that you can't run against Notre Dame on Rice Krispies.... More than anything else in a game that had just about everything· el~e., it was the Notre Dame defense th1:1.t undid the favorites, 24-23, and · es­tablished the gristly scholars fro!'ll South Bend, Ind., as national cham­pions... .'' · 
He was a bit remorseful to learn 
that the Times had cut him from 
four to three weekly columns. "First 
time I ever encountered John S. 
Knight, the publisher, . . . He _did 
not acknowledge the introduction. 
Instead he said, 'Nobody can write 
six good columns a week. Why don't 
you write three? Want me to fix it 
up?' . 
"'Look Mr. Knight,' I said. 'Sup­
pose I wrote three stinkers. I wouldn't 
'have the rest of the week to re­
cover.' One of the beauties of this 
job is that th_ere's a'lways tomorrow. 
Tomorrow things will be better. 
"Now that the quota is back to three, will things be better day after 
tomorrow?" 
* * * 
Red Smith knew how to enjoy life. 
He also knew how to share that en­
joyment with others. He wrote about 
real people who could run, slug, ride, 
and fish. He saw their wholesome­
ness because he was so down to 
earth. 
Red Smith's spirit hovers in the air of American sports departments and he sti'll wears the crown of a sportswriting king. Things must be better for Red Smith; he no more missed Superbowl XVI than the mil­lions of Americans glued to their TVs. Undoubtedly he's still covering sports, only now it's the Angels' Pillowfighting Championships when it snows, and the Angelic Open Bowl­ing Tournament when it thunders. He must be content to be sitting around heaven arguing sports trivia with Grantland Rice, Bob Considine, · Babe Ruth, Joe Palmer and all the 
other great figures in Sports. 
o Rum + Vodka + Irish = Fight, on Golden Reunion of Class of '27: "Wherever the eye turned it lighted on a cluster of. gold caps covering skulls that were sent out-of here stuffed with learning 5<i years ago, for something like 125 of the 400-odd members of the Class of '27 made their way back. They came prepared for the discovery that their friends had aged faster than they did in the last half-century, and sometimes they were pleasantly surprised." 
• On Sugar Ray Robinson: "These have been trying times for Ray Robinson, a brooding genius, a darkly dedicated soul who walks in lonely majesty, a prophet without honor, an artist whom nobody, but nobody, understands/' D 
his battle with cancer of the colon L---------------------,-------------­


Poetry 

Come and Go 
Like a Rose in full bloom, you opened up my senses You made me realize that I am a person with feelings You listened and cared and loved me with all your heart 
We shared great times, ones which I'll never forget And then the time came when it happened to me I turned around and you were no longer there. 
You were gone to explore the wonders more thoroughly, You were too young to settle down in the world I was lost without you but learned to seek myself 
Your memories are locked inside my soul forever . And when you find your peace of understanding I will be here, ready to listen and love ­
' 
;:&·c
cc.-· ....D---t., 
,,l.--,_,,.,1..-,-v·"l!­/<Y(! .--~ C 
c--·v ,: . 
by Lillian Klass en 
Wandering Lady 
There is a lady that wanders in the wild blue yonder Though she knows of no real cause, she still keeps going ... What could it be that she hopes to find in the vast world of confusion ? 
A whiff of the gentle Spring breeze blows through her misty hair As the sun gives a brilliant radiance to her very existence in life 
She sometimes smiles at the crazy creatures in life 
As they seem to be too busy at their own concerns 
-Forgetting that others are living and existing with them ... 
A buzzing motor just past, almost taking the lady with it But the lady just stares and moves on to her destiny 
Along the land there lays a gentle creek of happiness The wandering lady stops to enjoy the fantasies of nature She wonders very deeply if her dreams will ever come true? 
Like chattering chipmunks and rumbling bumblebees. Taking their own course in nature and having it end all too soon A dream of success and happiness is all the wandering lady wants But ... a tear comes to the rosy cheeks as she must still search for it ... To wander the paths of pain and hardship is not a pleasant road to her destiny. 
People's Republic of China-­
i 
li II 
I! I 
Mencius said,". .. can you follow the .nature of the willow tree and make the cups and bowls, or must you violate the nature of the willow tree before you can make the cups and bowls? If you are going to violate the nature of the willow tree in order to make cups and bowls, then must you also violate human nature in order to make it into humanity and righteousness?" 
-photos by Eileen O'Meara----------_, 
The Rebel 
The massive silver wheel floated freely over the planet's surface, reflecting the pinpoint light of stars, clusters and galaxies. This project, Kal-eb, had taken more than twelve years to construct, and only hours ago had become Kal-mar's fifth orbiting tech center. Kal-eb had a diameter of seventy-two kilometers, and a depth of over ten kilometers. Encircling the city were ten corri­dors, each of which stretched" over two hundred kilometers in length. It was in corridor four that the sound of quickly approaching boots was heard. Others followed. 
Karam was a tall man of average build. He was very charismatic, and his eyes revealed his power. He wore a white suit with three blue crosses above each elbow, and a pair of black boots. Carrying a weapon of some sort in one hand and some other object in his other, he ducked down one hall after another in an attempt to evade his pursuers. But his workers' boots betrayed him. He could not be quiet while wearing them, and his enemies were closing in. As he fled, he noticed a waste shaft about twenty meters in front of him. As he reached it, he quickly flipped the object in his right hand into the chute, and took cover, wait­ing for his quickly approaching op­position. 
From behind a corner, he fired at the first man, and succeeded-in tak­ing off his left arm and chest. A red flare blazed by him and was absorbed by the wall to his back. He fired again and hit a second man, tearing away his abdomen. After an exchange of shots which missed their marks, Karam was hit. Just before he passed out, Karam saw his right leg shred in slow motion. 
Commander Larson read the open file which lay on his heavy iron desk. It detailed Karam's in­surrectionist activities. Sixteen years ago, he had led a peasant revolt in the third quadrant of Kal-mar, which had nearly over­thrown the military rule. He eluded Kal-marian authority until six years later, when a group of farmers and factory workers marched on Kal-rex, the capital of quadrant two, sparked by his "peace through revolution" speeches..The revolt was shattered by the Kal-marian army, and Karam · 
by Trell Covenant 
was jailed. Within three days, he had escaped, leaving no clues as to how he disappeared. Four years ago, he had again caused a stir in the third quadrant when he led a group of commoners against the govern­ment. He succeeded in assassinating the Governor General, and for a short time, had installed a "people's government." Karam's history was one which had always been as­sociated with the powerless. It was ironic that this is where-his power lay. He had quickly appointed one of his most trusted aides to the throne, for Karam refused to take the crown. Shortly afterward, he disappeared, and had not been heard from since. Larson closed the file and pondered on the day's events. 
Two of the Empire's best men had been killed in a seeker-fire exchange. A third man had wounded the rebel, who now lie in the medical sector under very heavy guard. Somehow, Karam had stolen the code cartridge which linked the ship's computers with those of the other four tech centers, and with those of Kal-mar. The cartridge was found at the bottom of a waste shaft off of corridor four. Since the center had been under way for only a few hours, the disintegrators in the chute had not yet been activated, and the code cartridge had been found undamaged. Obviously, there were enough of Karatn's sym­pathizers aboard to cause some sort of upheaval when the communica­tions were disrupted. Now that communications were reestablished, there would be little threat of mutiny. Larson would sleep riow, and await the assembly of the tribunal over which he would· preside. 
As Commander Larson entered the circular courtroom, he noticed Karam, seated in the middle. The rebel's hands and feet were held by powerful tractor beams, and a metallic circlet had been plac~ around his head. This would ·deliver a painful shock, should Karam de­cide not to cooperate. When all were assembled, a silence swept over the group, and the tribunal began. 
"Karam!" exclaimed Larson. "You 
(cont'd on page 361) 


........ -:­!:_-:!'.._ 
'' i\ r·
~ ~--1-Vt-Hao''
-. < :-_,;·_~'.--.: :·:~:=:::_ 
r--·.:-;1$:i"i,
i"''•~--i.i
'.. -~f~)~~!t: 
Hong Kong 

Vanessa Sapienza 
Hong Kong has been my home for the past five years and living there has become as natura'l and familiar as living in the United States. Wait­ing in bus lines for hours and push­ing through streets literally devoid of traffic laws is something that many find hard to believe. However, you learn to adjust and accept an environment so unique that it is hard to extract the everyday experi­ences that others would view as not so ordinary. 
Adjusting to life overseas is not an easy task,_ as we Americans are so used to the conveniences and luxuries in the United States. There are very few homes on the island which is half the size of Texas and has twice as many inhabitants. The Chinese have had to build up instead of out in order to accommodate the soaring population rate. Most American fam­ilies live in high-rise apartments that are as large as many homes in the United States. The European popula­tion is large, for many European and American companies operate in Asia. Apartment living is not one of the more .glamorous aspects of life over­seas, as they are often referred to as "concrete jungles." 
The streets of Hong Kong are an experience in itself. The downtown district is where the majority of businesses are located, and the side­
walks are always overflowing with people. You learn quickly that po­liteness is not a key factor in get­ting around. Whether it be waiting for a bus or walking through a store, you can always be assured that someone will push you out of the way. You come to appreciate shop­ping centers and spacious grocery stores in the United States where the salesmen are courteous and po­lite and no one pushes. 
Hong Kong is known as a shop­per's paradise, and if you can find the right places to go, there are some good bargains. Because it is_ 
FEBRUARY, 1982 
the major exporter of garments to the United States, you can often find name-brand clothes priced at a third less than they would be in the major department stores in America. How­ever, these bargains are only found in the crowded markets where you have to spend hours sorting through crates. Camera equipment, watches, stereos, and calculators are just a few of the items that are far less expensive than those in the United States, and remain the best bargains available in Hong Kong. 
There are several schools in Hong Kong that the Americans and British can attend. However, most Ameri­can families send their children to the International School which is run by the Lutheran Synod. School was perhaps one .of the hardest ad­justments to moving overseas. My school contained only 400 students, the majority of whom had lived in Hong Kong longer than I. The cur­riculum was the -same as any high school in the United States, and ninety percent of the students fur­ther their education in the United States. The high and junior high schools were contained in a seven-
by Vanessa Sapienza 

Downtown Hong Kong 
story building; so, our outdoor fa­cilities were limited, as there was just no space. You come to appre­ciate open spaces· and fields after constantly being surrounded by con­crete. 
One of the best aspects of living in Hong Kong is the ability to get around the island on the public transportation system. The crowded conditions on the roads make it diffi­cult for private vehicles; so, it is often easier and cheaper to get in a bus or taxi than to bother with the hassle of not being able to find a parking place. 
(cont'd on page 38) 


Getting TO Know Finland, Courtesy of AIESEC 
by Pat James why this organization is considered marketing representatives because to be so unique. that is the best way to learn about 

It seems a little late in the school year to be talking about my past summer experiences in Finland. On the other hand, people are often ask­ing me how I ever got the chance to go to such a faraway place. I tell them that AIESEC provided me with this opportunity. The typical reac­tion is, "What? What's that?" No, AIESEC 'is not a disease or a chemi­cal compound or even a terrorist or­ganization as some of my ·friends claim. So, what is it? 
Well, AIESEC (pronounced eye­sek) is a French acronym for the International Association of Students in Economics and Business Manage­ment. It is a dynamic organization concerned with promoting interna­tional understanding among nations and providing a framework in which a select group of students are able to develop their leadership and man­agement skills. AIESEC is unique in 11:hat it is the only nonprofit, non­political, and entirely student-run world-wide organization which oper­ates a reciprocal exchange program. It offers top students the opportunity to gain firsthand practical .business experience by living and working 1n countries other than their own. AfESEC is, in effect, the largest international management develop­ment corporation in the world. Nearly 100,000 students have been exchanged since AIESEC was formed in 1948. There you have it, AIESEC in a nutshell. 
How does AIESEC operate at Notre Dame? Before I go into that, a few words first about the structure· and background of AIESEC. What began in 1948 in seven European countries 1s today an organization that is active on over 400 university campuses in 58 countries. The head­quarters of AIESEC-United States is located in New York City. There, seven recent college graduates direct the activities of the 60 local commit­tees across the country. AIESEC­International is headquartered in Brussels, Belgium. They oversee .the 58 countries -affiliated with the AIESEC program; The staff at the International AIESEC Secretariat (IAS) is composed entirely of for­mer students. There is not one pro­fessional person in AIESEC at any level of the ·organization. That is 
How does AIESEC work at Notre Dame? The most vital part of AIESEC is the corporate marketing program. The success of this pro­gram determines how many students will have the opportunity to go overseas. AIESEC marketing repre­sentatives contact companies in the Northern Indiana area. Their "l)llr­pose, simply stated, is to raise jobs for foreign students by selling them the AIESEC concept. For every for­eign student who comes to work in this area, AIESEC-Notre Dame can send an equal number of its mem­bers overseas. AIESEC-Notre Dame has been extremely successful this 
,and ne~, united stat~~ gaustria german) 
pain greece yugOS ·a \unisia malts t '\and ivoryr 

year in raising ten jobs despite the depressed economic situation in this . area. Doubling last year's figure, this is the second-best year in AIESEC­Notre Dame's eighteen-year history. 
AIESEC-Notre Dame is smaller than most of its 60 counterparts across the country. There are ap­proximately 35-40 members who are divided into one of seven subcom­mittees: corporate marketing, com­pany service/reception, student mar­keting/public relations, finance, ex­change, special projects, and fund­raising. Each subcommittee is headed by a vice-president who is in charge of all the activities and func­tion of that working group. The seven vice-presidents report to the local committee president. New mem­bers are placed into one of these seven groups. 
Students interested in AIESEC usually (but not always) become the program. New members are thoroughly trained to sell the AIESEC concept. Most students join AIESEC because they have a desire to live and work abroad for several months. Such a desire is certainly not a prerequisite for joining AIESEC. There is so much one can learn and experience here at the 
· local level without. ever going over­seas. Members often obtain much international experience here in South Bend by simply iriteracting with the foreign trainees who come to work he:r:e. 
Why would a company participate in the AIESEC program? There are several reasons, the main one being the low cost of participation. A par­ticipating firm merely provides a meaningful job and pays a stipend to the foreign student. AIESEC stu­dents are not in this program to make money, but to gain valuable cultural and practical work experi­ence. AIESEC-Notre Dame takes care of arranging visas and provid­ing insurance for the students who come to work here. The local com­mittee also provides housing, trans­portation and entertainment.for the trainees. Companies which partici­pate in AIESEC, therefore, have very few responsibilities. 
Ten Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will have the opportunity to go overseas this year. Last year, I was one of five to receive an AIESEC traineeship. The competi­tion is tough and Notre Dame_ al­ways has more traineeship appli­can1:s than there are jobs raised. Students at Notre Dame. _tend to be more highly qualified than students at other . university·~-campuses be­cause of its Sophomore Year Abroad program. AIESEC-Notre Dame at­tracts many .of these qualified and motivated individuals. 
The economic and cultural atmo­sphere I experienced in Finland was different from anything in the United States. The Finnish people are a very proud but small nation. They live in the shadow of the Soviet Union. Finns hate to admit it, but they are very much dependent upon their eastern neighbors both eco­
. nomically and strategically. Much of what used to be Finland is now part · of Russia. Finland would like very 
34 


known in Leningrad. 
much to get that eastern strip· of 
land back; .but,, they are a pacifist 
and docile .people. 
A foreigner's first impression of 
the people is very cold and shy. 
Gradually, as they become accus­
tomed .to visitors, they open up and 
talk freely about their country and 
their heritage. Finland is the land of 
saunas and lakes ·and of forests and 
fine furniture. It is also the land of 
the midnight sun. I saw nearly 20 
hours of daylight last June. Need­
less to say, it was difficult sleeping 
at night. 
Finnish saunas are the best in the world. Soon after my arrival, I sweated through and barely survived my first one. It was hotter and more humid than anything I had ever ex­perienced in the U.S. The Finnish way to thoroughly enjoy ,the sauna is to get very hot and open up the body pores. The next step is to jump into a cold clear lake. It is a very healthy and invigorating experience and one which I enjoyed immensely. 
The only direct way of getting to Finland, if you are not flying, is by boat. The two surface routes are not practical and involve large detours. One goes through Russia and the other takes you around the Gulf of Bothnia. I did not need to know Finland's two official languages, Fin­nish and Swedish, to communicate with the natives. Many of them, es­pecially the students, speak English well. English is the international business language, so I had no prob­lem communicating with my supe­riors.._ 
I worked in the capital city of Hel­sinki for F·inland's largest cqemical products firm as a marketing intern. I dbserved the company's marketing system and its foreign trade pra:c-
MARCH, 1982 
tices. Most of ?nY time was spent translating articles, contracts, and letters from French and Russian into English .and vice .versa. I even had the opportunity to teach -an informal English course to company em­ployees. The ,exposure to Finnish cul­ture I received as part of my job was invaluable. I was flown to the city of Oulu in northern Finland with a few of my Finnish colleagues to observe the operation of a Finnish factory. I visited the company's ex­perimental farms and its research center in Espoo. AIESEC students go overseas to work and gain cul­tural and business experience, but they are also there to learn and study the economic and cultural en­vironment as well. 
AIESEC-Finland is reputed to have the best reception program·-in the world.. I have absolutely-no doubts as to the validity of that fact. Therewere 60 other AilESEC trainees in Helsinki a't one point during this past summer. I met students from all over the world. English was the primary means of -communication, but French and .German were also used extensively. Many of us lived together in dormitory-type arrange­ments. AIESEC activities such as parties, sight-seeing, and ·trips were organized together. It was a co­hesive ·group and strong ties of friendship developed during the course .of the summer. 
Numerous .group trips to the dif­ferent xegions of Finland exposed us to the Finnish way of°life. We visited the Lake District in ,central Finland and the Aland Islands off the western coast of Finland. We camped in tents 
under the rain, swam in 'Clear cool •· lakes, sun-tanned on fresh-water _.-.· . ; beaches, roasted sausages over open fires, and often talked late into the night. Such experiences made my summer in Finland truly memorable. 
One highlight of my summer was the opportunity to spend four days in Leningrad. Most of what I had anticipated turned out to be true. Security at the border is very tight. Russian people are not permitted to talk to foreigners. People rarely smile. They wear old, drab-colored clothes. There is little food selection in the stores. The food and the toilet facilities in the hotels are abomina­ble. The generalizations hold true, but there ·are exceptions. Our Rus­sian tour ,guide spoke English rather well, owned western-style clothing, and joked freely with us. Our limited exposure to black-market dealers convinced us that business is thriv­ing. I felt particularly sad for the Russian people •because they have no power to change their fate.. They must accept the communist way of life. Overall, I was a little disap­pointed, but just to have been in Ru§sia was certainly an experience. 
Besides having lived and worked in Finland for two and a half months, I spent three .weeks travel­ing across northern Europe. It was truly the summer of a lifetime, one that I shall _never forget. The AIESEC program has done more for me than I could ever ask I encourage anyone interested in an opportunity to live and work over­seas to look us up. AIESEC-Notre Dame is always looking for new qualified and motivated members. Give us a try. AIESEC may make your dreams become a reality. . 
Pat James, a Senior Marketing major, is Director of Corporai;e Marketing for AIESEC-Notre Dame... This is his first contribution to 
Scholastic. 
-
Rebel (cont'd from page 32) 
are charged with three counts of treason, conspiracy, and six counts of murder. How do you plead?" Silence filled the courtroom. "Well? Are you guilty or are you not?'' No sound came from the prisoner. The bailiff pressed a green button on his desk, and a charge raced through Karam's body. He screamed. "Well now, are we guilty?" taunted the commander. "That's what you seem to think," replied Karam. "What I have to say doesn't make a bit of difference. You've already convicted me." 
The trial proceeded with no affir­mation or denial from Karam, and the panel of magistrates found him guilty on all charges. "For crimes 
·such as yours," intoned Larson, 
"death would be less than fair 
enough. Instead, at midday tomor­row, you will undergo the degenera­tion process. Your followers can not help you now. Your career as a revolutionary is at a close." Larson returned to his quarters with a smile on his face. 
In the early hours of the following morning, Karam was roused from an uneasy sleep and was injected with a tranquilizer. He was carried under guard to science sector twelve, and was stripped of his clothes. Two of the guards strapped him to a large metal ta:ble, where his body was covered with a silverish liquid. Still under the influence of the tranquil­izer, he was wheeled to the main science lab, and was inserted into a metal tube which was just large enough to accommodate him. With the flick of a switch, -t:he tube turned a bright blue, and from within it came a shrill piercing scream which rose above a tranquilized stupor. 
In the next few hours, the mass which was once Karam, the rebel of Kal-mar, was transformed into a single cell. This cell then underwent cryogenic preservation, was trans­ferred to a container, and was loaded aboard a transport ship. The cell would then be reimplanted in a female of some backwards society in some other galaxy, where he would suffer through a primitive existence. His charisma and influence would never be a threat again. 
The transport hovered high over the land, and the science officer re­turned from a successful reimplan­tation. In the following months, the ship watched the progress of their mission, to make sure Karam's friends did not interfere. When the child was born, the ship left, and neither Herod, nor the three Persian monarchs ever saw it again. O 
Tibet (cont'd frorn, page 15) 
Europe and America with the dual purpose of raising an awareness of the plight of hi:s people and spread­ing his vision of a world in which the plurality of religions can live in harmony while retaining their uniqueness of expression. The Ti­betan refugees finding initial com­fort in the bordering nations of India, Nepal, Sikkim, and Bhutan, have made new homes for them­selves all .over the world while still ret:aining their cultural identity. The Dalai Lama believes that the Tibetan 
children in exile are the most valu­able of their resources because it is only through them that Tibetan cul­ture can survive. Those children left behind in Tibet can hardly hope to resist the indoctrination of the com­munist regime. Nevertheless, Tibetan culture stubbornly struggles to sur­vive, even under the Chinese control. The struggle is demonstrated in this passage from a New York Times article on Nov. 1, 1981. 
. . . The summer palace of a Bud­
,----------------------~---~
11 Buy One Large Sandwich* ii 
ll GET ONE FREE d serve II 
11 *Big Mac®, Quarter Pounder®, II Quarter Pounder with Cheese®, Filet-o-Fish® II or McChicken® Sandwich. 
1
1 OFFER EXPIRES MARCH 15, 1982.
1 
11 1 
II 
Co,h,~lu,l/10oflmt.
Owner for reimbursement: McDonald"s" ll lOOCenter,Mishawaka.lN 
dhist order was also destroyed. However, one of the Indian visi­tors said local residents had ap­parently salvaged some ancient prayer stones and · built ram­shackle chapels. Above one ru'in there flew a solitary prayer flag that had apparently been recently put in place, attesting to the ten­acious hold of the religious culture even in the absence of monks. True to his Tibetan Buddhist heri­
tage, the Dalai Lama has taken this 
legacy and extended over it the same 
peace and control which he has de­
veloped within. The peace he extends 
is a spirit of reconciliation and 'true 
love for the Chinese people as ex­
pressed in the preface to his book. But I must add that we Tibetans still have no feeling of hatred for the great Chinese people, although their representatives in Tibet have 'treated us so barbarously. Our only wish is to live our own lives in peace and friendship with all our neighbors, including the Chi­nese . 
Control in th'at he has not merely 
~--------------------------~ 
y'ptL ktodO.~® II 
tl breO. PA II 
II McDonald'sII 
¦ I® II 
Good only al: 
McDonald's II
1519 N I l D • 
· ronwooc nve II South Bend, Indiana _)I 
reacted emotionally to the oppres­sion, but has looked for the good to be found, the lesson to be learned. As Merton points out, 
The Dalai Lama is very objective apd open about this kind of thing (monasticism and Marxism). He is in no way whatever a fanatical anti-Communist. He is an open­minded, reasonable man, thinking in terms of a religious tradition. He obviously recognized the prob­lem of a ruthless Communist take­over, a power that had to get rid of monks, that had to drive monks out of Tibet. The Dalai Lama him­self made every effort to coexist wit:h Communism, and he failed. He said frankly that he did not see how one could coexist, in the situation in which he had been, with Communism-on an institu­tional level, anyway. He then went on to admit the blindness of the abbots and communities of the great, rich Tibetan monasteries, who had failed to see the signs of the times and had absolutely failed to do anything valid to meet the challenge of Communism. They re­fused to do anything, for example, about giving land to people who needed it: They simply could not see the necessity of taking certain steps, and this, he said, precipi­1ated the disaster, and it had to happen. O 
Very special thanks to Priscilla Pedersen, Assistant Professor of Theology, for furnishing much of the resource material and impetus for this article. Dan Bell is a regular contributor of Scholastic. 
Culture Update 
ART 
. at the Snite Museum of Art 
Until March 21 -George Tisten: One Man Exhibilion-O'Shaughnessy Galleries Until April 4 -Aoron Siskind's Harlem Document -O'Shaughnessy Galleries Until April 11 -Recent Accessions: Drawings and Prints -Print, Drawing, and Photography Gallery Until April 14 -Harmsen's Collection of Navajo Weavings ­O'Shaughnessy Galleries (gallery hours: T-F, 10-4 p.m.; S-S, 1-4 p.m.; Closed M) 
... at the Isis Gallery 
March 1-26 -University of Northern Illinois Graduate Student Exhibi­tion (gallery hours: M-F, 10-4 p.m.; Closed S-S) 
... at Saint Mary's 
March 1-April 10 -All Galleries -"Senior Comprehensives" (gallery hours: M-F, 9:30-12 a.m., 1-3 p.m.; Sun., 1-3 p.m.; Closed Sat.) 
... lectures at the Snite 
February 25 -Dr. Paul Roche -"Duncan Grant: Painter of Blooms­bury" -8 p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium March 9 -Dr. Charles M. Rosenberg -"The Medici: From Mer­chant to Prince"-! 2:l O p.m.-Annenberg Auditorium March 23 -Robert Rosenblum -·"Towards Photography: Painting in the 1830s" -8 p.m. -Annen berg Auditorium 
THEATRE 
March 26 and 27 -American Buffalo -by David Mamet -Directed by Doug Kreitzberg-Washinglon Hall-8 p.m. -All tickets, $1.00 
MUSIC 
at Notre Dame 
March 2 -Musicke of Sundrie Kindes -8:15 p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium -$2.00 March 30 -Billy Taylor, jozz pianist -8:15 p.m. -Annenberg Auditorium -$2.00 
... at SMC 
February 20-Faure Requiem, SMC Women's Choir, Wabash Men's Choir -Raymond Sprague, director -7:30 p.m., Church of Loretto 
February 21 -Ann Bourjaily, Senior Piano Recital-23 p.m., Little Theater February 28 -Michigan Varsity Singers, Guest Artists -8 p.m., Little Theater March 4 -Pat Andrews, Senior Piano Recital -8 p.m., Little Theater March 7 -Joan Moore, Senior Voice Recital, 3 p.m., Little Theater March 11 -Morris Taylor, Piano, Guest Artist-8 p.m., Little Theater 
Any club, group, organization, or department affiliated with the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community is encouraged to submit any listings of cultural activities for publication in the Cultural Update. Please include all pertinent information in typed format, addressed lo: Art Editor, Scholastic magazine, Lafortune, UND. Thank you. 
Poles Apart . . . 
(cont'd from page 24) 
based on nuclear supremacy is al­ready taking its toll. Undoubtedly, a sense of spiritual destruction has taken root. The influences of the threat of nuclear exchange dete­riorate the morale and hope of young Americans. 
Last December, a high-school freshman theology class in Rockford, Illinois, was asked to describe what the peace of Christmas signified. A 14-year-old boy wrote: "How can we even imaginethe peace of Christmas? Peace is a joke. In the end, we're aH going to be blown up anyway." We cannot allow this moral decay of our nation. Hopefully, we will somehow be able to undergo the moral con­version that Hunthausen speaks of, and combine it with some viable po­litical and economic solutions. A workable alternative may be a long time coming, but if we allow the arms race to continue without any hope of moving away from this pres­ent insanity, we will all die before we're dead, like the despondent 14­year-old. D 
FEBRUARY, 1982 

Boycott ... 
(cont'd from page 17) 
lives of children. Nestle, by far the largest of the infant formula manu­facturers, has been targeted for two reasons: first, any reforms which Nestle agrees to undertake will, be­cause of its size, have the widest pos­sible effect, and second, Nestle is the leader of its industry. The respon­sibility that Nestle shares for all the deaths that have already occurred cannot lightly be dismissed. It would be necessary for Nestle to drastically reform their marketing practices in the developing nations to demon­strate good faith. 
On March 2, the students of l':otre Dame have the opportunity to take a stand once more, to renew thejr com­mitment to the sanctity of human life. In the three years that the boy­cott has been in effect, there has been no deterioration in the quality of campus life because of the ab­sence of Nestle products in the Uni­versity-operated food services. At such a small cost, such a large state­ment can be made. The Notre Dame­Saint Mary's World Hung-er Coali­tion urges you to vote to continue the boycott. The lives of children are at stake. D 
Hong Kong (cont'd from page 33) 

On the other side of the island the conditions are not as crowded. This is where Repulse Bay is located, Hong Kong's answer to the resort. Most Americanslllive in this area be­cause of its close proximity to the school and its distance from the city. The . beach areas are wall-to-wall people in the warm months, and one often has to fight one's way through the crowds and find an empty spot. For the Chinese, it is a chance to get awayfrom the pressures and crowded 
conditions that they are forced to live in. Water skiing and sailing are popular-sports in this area, and in the tropical climate they can be en­joyed year-round. 
Hong Kong has a large tourist in­dustry. The nightlife is said to be the best in Asia, and there are numerous hotels and restaurants of­fering both Chinese and European cuisine. A walk through the open-air markets, which at night become filled with merchants peddling their goods, is an enjoyable cultural ex­perience. Two horse tracks are popu­lar gathering spots for both the Chinese and Europeans. Movie thea­ters have both American and Chinese films, but unfortunately arrive a year after their opening in the United States. Luxuries such as McDonald's, Burger King, and Baskin-Robbins are common, but the Chinese haven't quite perfected the art of American fast food. One can always find some enjoyable entertainment in a city 
as large as Hong Kong. 
I still remember looking forward to the summers when we would re­twn to the United States and be free from the tensions and the crowds. However, despite the diffi­culties of overseas living, .it is a way of life that one can easily be­come accustomed to, one that makes returning to the United States be­come more of an adjustment than leaving. The opportunities to travel and observe different cultures are endless. For me, living in Hong Kong is a unique experience, and as I look back on it, I know it's one that I will appreciate more and more. 
Vanessa Sapienza is a freshman at Saint Mary's. This is her first con­tribution to Scholastic. 
El Salvador 
(cont'd from page 9} 
organization ORDEN. Fifteen chil­dren, all under the age of ten and one only fourteen days old, were murdered clinging to their mothers. Later that day, the National Guard sacked the peasant dwellings. In several instances, campesinos testi­fied that they saw Army soldiers ripping wi•th machetes unborn chil­dren from the wombs of their moth­ers, as if "one were taking eggs from an. iguana." 
People are constantly disappear­ing. Paulita spoke of people who, for simply attending church meetings and bible studies became suspect to being subversives. They are taken in the night and never seen or heard from again. The army's tactic is to "dry up the ocean to get at the fish." The fish are the opposition groups. Unfortunately for the campe­sinos, "drying up the ocean" involves incomparable terrorism, harassment, rape, torture, murder, dismember­ment, and the burning of crops to create starvation conditions. 
"Many of the people would be­long to some kind of Christian read­ing group or some co-op group. Just 
• because of that, they are suspected 
of being communistas, subversives, terrorists. It is just because they are not in communion with the mili­tary. Since the military does not have a good intelligence system, the easiest •thing to do is kill anyone who is suspect. If they aren't sure, it does not matter to them." 
The point is that the rightist forces are not just violating basic human rights of the people of El Salvador. The tremendous bulk · of evidence substantially proves that a large portion of the population of the country are being systematically ex­terminated; this is the genocide of Salvadoran peasants. 

These facts have serious implica­tions for America. In sending mili­tary aid to .the Duarte junta, the Reagan Administration is in fact aiding in the genocide of the people of El Salvador. The militacy clearly control the Duarte junta, and it is this systematic extermination of a single group of people that betrays them. Genocide is the only proper term. . Since 1979, military forces have been responsible for 32,000 deaths, all aimed at a particular group. Paulita expressed her feel­ings about U.S. military.:)ntervention in saying, "It's so ridiculous to think 
that a military solution is going to be available to the United States. What are they going to win? Massacre 30,000 more people? Is that what the United States wants to do? The 
U.S. would be involved in the geno­cide of the Salvadoran people, and that's not too strong a word, that's not a slogan, that's not political pro­paganda." D Dan McGrath is one of Scholastic's co-copy editors. He is a mechanical engineering and history double ma­jor from Naperville, Illinois. This is his first contribution to Scholastic. 
SCHOLASTIC 

te1:l()fl .~ 
off so much weight. God! I hate to even think about the money I'd lose. 'Sides, in here they're safe an' warm, an' they git plenty a food. They don't 
need to go out. "Well, that's 'bout all there is to
(l)LJ, Mac~onaLJ'4 dJ(i/1,m 
I first became aware of the Mac­Donald Farm when I was asked to write an article on modern farms in America. It would be just like the old nursery rhyme about "Old MacDonald's Farm," with a moo-moo here, and all that. It was going to be a day that I would long remember. 
I had driven for a couple of hours when I finally arrived at the farm, and turned into the driveway. As I drove up to the farm, I saw that it consisted of a large white house and a long red building which I assumed was the barn. Standing in the drive­way was a bearded man. I parked the car and stepped out as he walked toward me. "Farmer MacDonald?" I inquired. 
"Yep, sure am. You must be that reporter they told me about." 
"Yes sir. My name's Tim Holdorf. It's nice to meet you," I said as I extended my hand to him. When we shook hands I couldn't help noticing that his hands were perfectly clean. And as I thought about it, I noticed he was clean from head to toe. His overalls were spotless; and his base­ball cap (with a patch proclaiming "ERADICANE WORKS ON PROB­LEM WEEDS") looked as good as new. It seemed rather strange to see such a clean farmer. I had always pictured farmers as being rather grubby. My thoughts were in­terrupted when he said, "Well, come on. We might just as well get started now." He started walking toward the barn and I followed, pulling out my notepad. 
"Farmer MacDonald, how long has your family owned this land?" He glanced at me and muttered, 
"About a hunnerd 'n' fifty years, near as I figure." We continued walk­ing toward the barn, and I noticed that its sides were actually red aluminum siding. 
"Aren't barns usually made of wood that's just painted red?" I asked. 
"Naw. That ain't economical. Aluminum and insulation's what ya need,·have to make sure my live­stock stays warm. Got a lot a money wrapped up in 'em." We reached the barn, he unlocked the door and went in, motioning me to follow. The floor 
by Casey O'Connor 
of the corridor was carpeted, and everything looked spotless, much nicer than I had expected a barn to be. We walked down a few more yards, and I noticed the walls ahead were made of some kind of trans­pacrent plastic. 
"These here are my beef units," said Farmer MacDonald as we walked over to one side of the corridor. I looked through the plastic window and saw below me a stall about ten feet long and five feet wide housing a very bizarre-looking creature. The "beef unit," as Farmer MacDonald had put it, was a massive blob of flesh that nearly filled the stall. The only discernable features on the beef unit were four scrawny legs, and a head that had a large tube inserted into its mouth. 
"They used to call 'em cows, but · we've improved 'em so much today, that we call 'em beef units." I looked down once more and saw the beef unit just lying there, a motionless mass. Its legs were quite small, and I wondered how they could ever sup­port its tremendous weight. Its whole body was a pale color, and was totally devoid of hair. Was this a cow? I had to admit, I had always pictured cows as being much more impressive. 
"I got a hunnerd beef units all together. I'm really just a small-time farmer, but it's a good living." As we walked further and further down the corridor, I looked down at all the beef units we passed, and noticed there was a number on the back wall of each stall. 
"What are those numbers for?" I inquired. 
"Those are so I can keep track of how each unit is doin'," said Farmer MacDonald. He stopped and pointed down into the stall we were next to. "Ole number sixty-seven here took sick 'while ago, near died, Lucky I noticed and made sure it got the right injections. I caint afford to lose no units, I'd lose money, ya know." 
As we resumed walking I inquired, "Do they ever go outside and graze or anything?" He looked at me and laughed. 
"Hell no boy! Why if those critters started walking around they'd burn the barn." 
Although I was silent my mind was still awhirl with all the things I had seen. Was this a farm? It seemed so much like a factory. The poor beef units were totally ex­ploited, not even treated as fellow creatures. My thoughts were inter­rupted by Farmer MacDonald. 
"You sure don't do much talkin' tor a reporter." I paused for a mo­ment. 
"Well, Farmer MacDonald," I said, "the farm wasn't anything like I imagined it would be. I thought of a farm as more of a quaint old place with hens cackling in the barnyard and cows wandering the pasture, but this ... it seems more like a business than a farm." 
"That's 'cause it is a business! Listen boy, today I make more money than anyone in my family has ever made, and doin' what? Why feedin' this great country of ours, that's what. Just 'cause science makes farmin' easier don't mean it ain't farmin' !" 
Farming, I thought to myself. This wasn'·t farming. All Farmer Mac­E>onald ever had to do was push a few buttons here and there and things ran smoothly. All he was was a damn businessman. 
We had almost reached my car when Farmer MacDonald said, "Come on up to the house, I'd like to show ya one more thing before ya go." 
I didn't really want to go with him, put I followed just so he wouldn't be offended. Once we were inside the house I saw that the inte­rior was quite cozy. It had brick walls, a rocking chair, a fireplace, a grandfather clock, and an oak table. Now this was what I had imagined 
· a farmer's house to be like. He led me through the quaintly furnished living room to a closed door. Perhaps I had been wrong about Farmer MacDonald. Maybe he wasn't just an uncaring businessman, but instead a simple farmer with old-fashioned values trying to adjust to a modern mechanized world. As I thought, he pushed open the door revealing a dimly lit room with a bed in the center. On the bed I saw a large fleshy mass that had two scrawny arms and legs sticking out. 
"I'd like you to meet Henrietta, my wife unit." D 


Dame community's faulty reading comprehension. To
The Last Wor-d 
make this essentially the heart of your column dem­

(a.k.a. Up Front) 
by Clay Malaker 
Dear Bill Granger, 
The dust from the uproar you created with your 
Jan. 17, 1982, Chicago Tribune Magazine article "It's 
So Nice to See a Notre Dame Team Lose" was just 
beginning to settle here at Notre Dame when you 
decided to stir it up again with your article "Notre 
Dame Fans Think Critic's a Loser." Many people are 
wondering what are the reasons for your recent erup­
tions toward Notre Dame. Most would agree that 
your articles have brought you increased recognition. 
However, Bill, I'm afraid you have paid dearly for 
your new fame, or to be more exact, your new no­
toriety. I, for one, would find swapping my journalistic 
credibility and respectibility for increased public 
recognition simply too great a price to pay. 
You are indeed entitled to your own opinions, and 
since you have your own column, you are entitled to 
express them in print. However, a decent columnist 
would try to present his opinions in a reasonably 
fact-founded, logical, and rational manner. In my 
opinion, at least in :these respects, your two columns 
failed miserably. Here's why: · · 
Your second column contained the. lines, "In fact, ·a 
large number of Notre Dame grads who wrote spoke 
of my hatred for the University. I never wrote that." 
To be sure, you never wrot~ "I hate Notre Dame!" in 
your first blast. What did you write that gave an 
overwhelming impression :that you do· hate Notre 
Dame? It"must have been something, Bill. 
Perhaps this line from your first article is why. "First, there -are all sorts of things I don't hate about Notre Dame." Coupled with the •tone of the rest of your column, that last statement in no uncertain terms im­plies that you hate at least some aspects of Notre Dame. You insulted Notre Dame students, grads, alumni, Notre Dame fans in general, and the region and residents of northern Indiana. You also said ''My ·antipathy toward Notre Dame sports runs deeper than that." Assuming you to be at least partly rational at this point, the reader, after being carefully led to this point by you, concludes that these are some of the aspects you hate about Notre Dame. Maybe, Bill, you don't really hate Notre Dame, but you certainly left 
most people with the impression that you did; 
Therefore your comment to Thomas H. Riley, a 
Notre Dame sophomore who wrote to you to say he 
was sorry that you did not like Notre Dame, was 
totally immature, unwarranted, and incredibly inap­
propriate for a columnist of a respectable publication 
such as the Chicago Tribune. In fact, your statement 
"I hope Riley will attend a reading comprehension 
course if it is offered at the school" is ludicrous. Even . 
if you never intended :to make people feel you disliked 
Notre Dame or at least certain aspects of Notre Dame, 
your writing left them with that impression. There­
fore, if you actually ·did not want people to get the 
impression that you are a Domer-hater, then it is your 
writing that "is at fault, not your audience's reading 
comprehension. A good columnist writes in a manner 
that allows his readership to understand and compre-· 
hend his message. Why did most people· misconstrue 
yours, Bill? 
Perhaps the most questionable aspect of your second 
article was· the boring tirade concerning the Notre 
40 
onstrates incredibly poor judgment and taste. Your first column may have rankled many who stand by Notre Dame, but your second column merely nauseated them. Let me address several other mistakes in that column. 
1) Weddings are not performed between halves of football games. (Incidentally, we haven't played SMU since 1958. Do you mean MSU?) 
2) The word English has no gender. It is neuter. You should have written "... learn to read English as it is· written ..." not "... as she is wrote ..." 
3) The "great majority" ofNotre Dame fans would have to disagree with the opinion of your art history student. Most are not ".too soused to know what's going on" at basketball games; in fact, most have not been drinking at all: 
4) Lastly, "ain't" is hardly appropriate usage for a writer of your supposed stature. 
What may have enraged Notre Dame members and 
supporters so much was your grasp and presentation 
of the facts in the first column. Both were questionable 
to say the least. I do not think the average Notre 
Dame fan is a sports bully or boor. However, most of 
our fans are exuberant. The fans from every team 
we have ever played appeared to be exuberant to me 
as well, so it doesn't look like Notre Dame is the only 
school with this problem. I suppose you are not as 
exuberant as some fans, but that really is not a good 
reason to cri:ticize them. 
But you also criticize the students. Naturally you 
really don't know very many of us, having never 
visited Notre Dame, but we are intrigued to know that 
you believe we exhibit poor sportsmanship, and never 
grasp gr_aciousness in victory and dignity in defea~. 
I suppose you have seen us on TV, so you are an ex­
pert. Come to Notre Dame some time and learn the 
truth. See us for yourself. Come to the De Paul game 
and observe us. We may be too exuberant for you 
as well, but we will show you we are good sports, win 
or lose. Maybe some of those alumni you describe 
as. "thuglike'' won't be quite :the thugs you thought 
they were either. · 
South Bend life is not quite as bucolic as you painted 
it, Bill. But how would you know? You turned around 
at the outskirts and drove home. I am not very im­
pressed with yo]J.r factual foundation. Many of the 
people from northern Indiana seem to me to be more 
sophisticated than you, but that may be because I only 
have your writing to base a judgement on. . 
Basically, I feel you have an incorrect,:impression of 
Notre Dame. We study hard, and we play h~d. We 
live our lives with gusto. We want to improve aca­
demically, athletically, .spiritually, and emotionally. 
Our athletes and most of our fans pride themselves on 
their sportsmanship. If an opposing player is hurt 
and we cheer, it is not because we are happy he is 
hurt, it is because we are congratulating him for his 
efforts and wishing him a quick recovery. Notre Dame 
is happy to be as successful and popular as it is, and 
even if it means that we will win -the enmity of some 
people like you, it is still worth it. 
Honestly Bill, come down t9 South Bend and get the real story. Until you do, I will still think that the -title to your second column, "Notre Dame Fans Think 
Critic's a Loser," is only too appropriate. In all sincerity, Clay Malaker '82 



GIANT RECORD SALE 
AT 
f!USZ: 10K Z:J/8 K&eOJe:D 
259-1813 
ALL SINGLE LP's ONLY $5.99 
OLD -NEW -ROCK -JAZZ -EVERYTHING! 
ALL DOUBLE LP's ONLY $8.99 
• 3 LP sets or more, direct-disc & audiophile LP's not inclu1ded in sale • 
SALE STARTS ON WEDNESDAY, FEB. 24 SALE ENDS ??? JFTR, 100 CENTER, MISHA WAKA 
DAILY 10 a.m.-9 p.m.
Get there early for the best selections!! 
SUNDAY You can't afford to miss this one!! 12 p.m.-6 p.m. 




ACE 
ACE IS THE PLACE 
WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN HOURS­
7,30 AM To 5,30 P.M. Closed Sunday
272-7535 
• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
PLUMBING & ELECTRICAL 


FREE PARKING 
SUPPLIES 
• GARDEN SUPPLIES 
FRONT & REAR 
• HOUSEWARES219 DIXIE WAY • HARDWARE 
NO. IN ROSELAND • SPORTING GOODS 
I 'iv ! 
~ I 
/ 
. l-"'//
•~1 
~ir l\icbarb'~ Hair Designs 
417 Dixieway North 
½ mile north of campus -Across from Wendy's 
Girls and Guys 
277-0734 
Walk-in or call for an appointment 
-' I ' • ~ , ,:_• ' • ' , ~ • • . 
-
, ~ . ' . . . ' 
. . ' . . -' 
. . 
.•
,. 

•
•.
• 

