Hot re Dame Scholastic
• DI5CE ■ QUASI • 5EMPER-VICTURVS- VIVE- QUASI • CRAS • MORITVRVS •
-F-X-A-
Vol. XLI. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, Alumni Number, 1908. No. .36
Notre Dame Fifty Years Ago and To-day*
Hon. James B. O’Brien, ’59.
Like a wanderer from the parental home, after the lapse of half a century, I return to. find myself surrounded by new scenes, changed conditions; a hamlet transformed into a city; a simple college .into a magnificent university of international renown.
The only familiar faces known and prized -in 1858 with us to-day, are those of Father L’Etourneau, General Healy, Rev. Thomas Vagnier, Father Tim O’Sullivan, Brother Basil, Judges Howard and Hubbard and -my dear old friend, Brother Bonaventure. May they long be spared as witnesses of
the trials and triumphs of Alma Mater.
The priests and professors here half a century ago were, Fathers Sorin, Granger, Corby, L’Etourneau, Gillespie, Patrick Dillon, James Dillon and John' Chrysostom Maher, members of the order; Father Madden, D.D., and Father Vahey, secular priests, and Professors Jones, Downing, Girac, Byrne, Brill, Muller and Ackerman. [The speaker here diverted into reminiscences of these men.]
We had then from 150 to 250 students, devoted almost exclusively to the acquisition of a classical education. There was but one college building containing class rooms, professors’ rooms, parlors, counting-house, dormitories, and refectory. The Minims had separate apartments under the care of the Sisters; they-were about forty or fifty in number. The prefect of all the boys- was Brother Benoit; he had two or three subordinates. The students ranged in ages from children of seven to men of thirty. For the three or four years that I was then here, I never knew a disreputable young man or boy among them.
Father Sorin was Provincial, and always resided at Notre Dame. At that time, and long before and afterwards, he made annual visits to France. In 1858 he was in the prime of robust manhood. Not a gray hair on his head, nor did he then wear whiskers, and was apparently a man from thirty-five to forty years of age. His leading characteristic was his active and invincible faith. Notre Dame was his idol. He was offered bishoprics, but he declined all honors tha.t would interfere with the supervision of his
* Address delivered before the Alumni Association at Notre Dame, June .17, 1908.	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Rev. T. D. O’Sullivan, ’SS, Chicago, Ill.
fav orite insti t u -tion. He was very commun i c a t i v e, generous and dignified. To the Minims, his little princes, as he was wont to call them, he was specially devoted. He was favored with long inter views on his European trips by Napoleon III. whose dynasty die loved, but for the
stability of whose rule he feared. In 1850, I think, he told me, he paid a visit to London, where he met the great historian, Lingard, who presented him the History of England in ten volumes, enriched with the autograph of the distinguished author. These volumes he was very fond of reading. At this early period, Father Granger was his favorite among the priests and Bro. Vincent among the Brothers. They were two saintly men.
The only branches then taught here were Greek, Latin, French, German, mathematics, natural philosophy, chemistry, painting, drawing, vocal and instrumental music, rhetoric, history, Christian doctrine, elocution and book-keeping, and what was then called calisthenics. Father Patrick Dillon
and Professor Tim O’Sullivan were the instructors in bookkeeping. [Judge O’Brien here told interesting anecdotes of these two professors]. Professor Girac and Brother Basil gave lessons in music. Professor Muller ■ was the master in drawing and painting and gave lessons in the terpsi-chorean art. We also had a brass band, in which the same (Rev.) Tim O’Sullivan was leader, and a military Zouave Company, drilled by William F. Lynch, afterwards a Brigadier-General in the Union Army.
Athletics then were almost unknown. We
had swings, hand-ball in fine weather and football in winter. Quite a common amusement, when the ground was not too cold, was the playing of marbles, in which all the students freely indulged. Among the best players were two Indian young men of full age. They came from some part of Illinois.
One of them while here, in some mysterious way, formed the acquaintance of a neighboring farmer’s daughter, named Murphy, and married her. That created quite a sensation.
We had a weekly journal, issued in manuscript, called the Progress, which was read weekly in the refectory after supper. We also had debating societies and a dramatic club which gave exhibitions periodically and a grand one during Commencement week. Air. McVicker, proprietor of the theatre of the same name in Chicago, used to send one of his adepts to the college to assist in the preparation and presentation of these performances. Mr. McVicker had, during a part of this time, a daughter named Mary, a pupil at St. Alary’s, who afterwards married the famous actor, Edmund Booth.
Father Sorin was in the habit of visiting the class rooms during recitations, and kept himself well acquainted with the ability of the several professors, and the progress and standing of the pupils. He was a man of lofty ideals. His patience was equalled only by his perseverance. The success of Notre Dame as an educational centre was the prime object of his ambition. He laid the foundation in the imperishable concrete of faith, hope, and a sound morality at a time when hostility to his
Gen. R. W. Healy, ’59, Chattanooga, Tenn.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
religious creed was rampant and destructive. To illustrate—and here you will pardon me for being a . little personal—Carl Schurz, forty-eight years ago, had become famous by a speech delivered at the Chicago National Republican Convention, seconding the nomination of William H. Seward of New York as candidate for the Presidency of the United States. He then lived, I think, in Watertown, Wisconsin. Taking advantage of the popularity thus acquired, that winter he visited many of the cities and larger villages of the country, delivering lectures on “Napoleon and His Dynasty.” He appeared in South Bend in one of the largest Protestant churches. The legislature was soon to convene in Indianapolis. Father Sorin and Mother Angela, of St. Mary’s, commissioned the person now addressing you to request the audience immediately after the lecture to circulate a petition to the legislature to change the name of “South Bend” to “St. Joseph.” The church was crowded. As the lecturer closed his address he requested the people to remain seated for a few minutes, adding that I had a communication to make. After briefly stating the object of my remarks, that the name of South Bend was unworthy of the rising little city and that it would be more in harmony with the propriety of the situation to have the county, the river, and the county-seat bear the same name, and that the
petition, signed by the citizens, should be presented to the legislature to make the change, the speaker had barely resumed his seat, when an aged, gray-haired, diminutive gentleman arose in the body of the auditory, and in a few impassioned sentences advised the people of the wickedness of the proposed change; that Romanism was trying to impose its pet and disloyal name on the
fair village, etc. The question was put to a vote, and not more than ten of that numerous assembly were in its favor. The representative of defeat then arose, stating that he acquiesced in the result, and that for the first time in his life he had learned from that concourse of Christian people that the foster father of the - Lord Jesus Christ was tainted with Romanism. Carl Schurz remarked in a'whisper: “You may
Rev. Denis A. Clarke, ’70, Columbus, Ohio.
have .the best of the argument; the old fellow has a majority of the votes.” Such is a specimen of the religious bigotry of the expiring Know-Nothingism of half, a century ago. How changed the city of South Bend-of to-day from the village of South Bend of 1860!
Father Sorin left Notre Dame prosperous and progressive to his successors of the Holy
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Cross; and to the youth of America, inspired with his ardent faith, he left investments more precious than gold, a seminary of, intellectual culture presided over by the genius of moral discipline and Christian righteousness.
To-day, after five decades of incessant and continuous labor, what a transformation in the external curriculum, surroundings, appearances and equipment of Notre Dame I Nothing- remains of the old institution but
Hon. T. E. Howard, ’62, South Bend, Ind.
.the spirit of its illustrious founders—the indomitable faith of Sorin, the sanctify of Granger, the humility of Vincent, the fortitude of Gillespie, the patient resignation of L’Etourneau and the suaviter in modo of Corby. These were the virtues which their possessors left as bequests to their successors forever. And well and sacredly have they guarded and preserved these priceless legacies.
The Notre Dame of to-day, with her numerous halls, clubs, societies, departments and laboratories; with her complete course of instruction in nearly, all the arts and sciences, from typewriting and telegraphy to journalism and jurisprudence, theoretic and applied electricity, is the natural product of the Notre Dame of 1S58. The growth has been steady and uninterrupted; the expansion gradual, the development in the field of education always commensurate with the best interests of society and the improvement of her pupils. Yes, the Notre Dame of to-day is the admiration of the thoughtful men and women of the Republic. Without State aid, without endowment or subsidy from the munificence of the Ryans, Carnegies or Rockefellers, she stands to-day the peer of the greatest endowed institutions in this or any other country.
Ah! there are some things at Notre Dame that have not changed—her active faith, her salutary discipline, and . her pure morality. In these was she founded; from their influence she has sent out thousands of her pupils to do honor to the parental home, to aid in the purification of society, to enlighten less-favored citizens, and to excel in the various callings of professional life. America, north and south, is justly proud of Notre Dame. Wealth did not make her, power did not protect her. A few purseless missionaries from France in the fourth decade of the last
century, laid her foundations, in what was then the deserts of Indiana, jn the cement of Faith, Hope and Charity. On these virtues she has been nurtured, has thrived, grown robust, active and healthy, until she has reached the full stature of a complete university; as such I, as one of the oldest living graduates of the Alumni of her youth, hail her to-day, and say from a grateful heart—Esto Perpetua !	-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
The Men, of Other Days.
Response of Jolin G. Ewing, A. B. ’77.
While Father Cavanaugh’s request that I respond to the toast “The Alumni” came to me in the way of a command which I could not but obey, still I felt that in a measure in selecting me he showed a wise discrimination. From Father Neal H. Gillespie. and Father Richard Shortis, the men of the first class of Notre Dame, down to those this year sent forth from her halls, there are few of the graduates of Notre Dame whom I have not personally known and whose sentiments I can not feel I may now fittingly voice.	-
There are two tendencies dominant in the life of our day. The one, a spirit of doubt and unbelief, a love and searching for things new that from humble beginnings has grown to criticism and denial of the very essentials of civilization; the other, an absorption in the material things of life, a devotion to creature comforts, an anxious and nervous quest of wealth as the ultimate end, as the hall-mark of success
in life. Speaking to you and me, to all her sons, Notre Dame has ever stood against these tendencies, destructive of all that is
. high and noble in- man’s aspirations. She has taught us faith in the eternal verities instead of the doubt that in the end leads to despair of all reality. She has lifted our eyes to higher ideals than success in moneygetting as the end and aim of man’s struggles. She has taught us that many a one has gone down to his grave a failure, in the material sense, that he was poor in the things of wealth, but still a successful man in that’ he had learned to know and master himself.
And she has so taught us not in words only, but in the example of the daily walk of those whose names come back to us in fond memory. To me and the men of my day come the names of Lyons, Stace, Howard, Baasen, Ivers and Edwards; of Fathers Corby", Colovin, Zahm and Stoffel, of that saint of God, Father Alexis Grander, and above all of that kindly, loving friend, that patient teacher, that cultured gentleman, that gentle scholar and true man, Father Thomas Walsh. To each of you will come the names of men familiar in your day, living exemplars of the truths and the lessons they taught.
Not in length of days, not in gain of wealth, not in fame of men, but in strength of willFandj loyalty of heart to
Hon. C. P. Neill, ’93, Washington, D. C.
6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
William L. Dechant, ’79, Middletown, Ohio.
high ideals, in living, earnest faith in the everlasting truth, lies the longed-for result of the lessons they taught. And we come back to these scenes to renew our faith, to make young again our hearts, and to discern once more, in no uncertain light, the ideals to which Notre Dame would have us ever aspire. May she never fail in the loving adherence of us, her sons, to the lessons she taught through the word and example of those who here guided our steps.
With delight I again read the words of the poem placed before us. Its sweet melody charmed me, when in boyhood I first heard it from the lips of its writer. Apt and fit for us to-day are its closing lines with which I leave you:
“Brothers, farewell! To these fond scenes, farewell!
No more for us the early college bell Will ring for study. Paths of duty spread Before our feet. Time’s all-resistless tread Is bearing us away....A few brief hours— Like morning dew on the awakened flowers— Of friendly intercourse, and we depart Again upon our several ways. The heart Must guard its treasures: let us guard them well Until we meet where there is no farewell!”
Notre Dame and the Future.
Response of Byron V. Kanaley, A. B., ’04.
No man knows what honors may come to him, deservedly or undeservedly, by the mutations of chance during the course of his allotted span of years. But I am that deeply affected by the nature and purpose and occasion of our gathering here at Notre Dame to-day, to say from my heart what my head approves: that if one were to consider any or all the honors that might come to one during the course of even a more than usually eventful life, one could not find any that would transcend in the personal pleasure it would give, or carried with it a heavier sense of responsibility, or brought home to one more acutely the sense of one’s own personal unworthiness, than to be asked by one’s mother educational institution to respond to the sentiment of her future at a gathering of her sons and our brothers.
One’s own sense of personal unworthiness becomes the more acute because of the worth of the subject of that future—Our University. I do not believe in mawkish sentiment upon any occasion, and I believe I have gotten by the period of academic eloquence, and I believe in calling a spade a spade, and I am also keenly aware that this is an occasion when one might easily be pardoned for empty rhetoric and verbal pyrotechnics; but I also just as strongly believe that when I speak of Notre Dame as she has been and is to-day I might as well use, were the gift mine, the farthest resources of language to draw for you . a word-picture of a university great among great universities, honored by all from whom honor is worth while, and whose sons are the educational equals of the sons of any of her sister institutions. I might truly draw for you, I say, a word-picture of this great school which is amply fulfilling the ends which justify its existence and which is thoroughly doing its work among the higher educational institutions of this country.
I believe, and know it to be so, from studied observation of many. of our best schools, • and from intimate acquaintance with the best products of the other best.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
schools of America, that no graduate of Notre Dame need ever mention her name in any gathering of university men on this side of the Atlantic but with pride, nor ever
think of her thoughts other than thoughts of love and loyalty and veneration.
Wisely it has been left to others far apter than J to depict for you the glorious past of this institution. And it is a glorious past. Some other colleges may have pasts that antedate ours; some other colleges may have more traditions and more memories than has ours; but no college with whose "history I am familiar has a better right nor more just claim to ask her graduates to turn to her past and read it, and thereafter ’ as long as life is given them to be faithful, loyal, labor-serving sons, and to give, when giving is asked, and to give in the spirit that has made our sister institutions great— blindly and unquestioningly.
Notre Dame is great because she has met the needs of the age in which her sons were to live and labor and have their part. Every age has something that is characteristic of that age. If, for example, you and I had
lived two thousand years ago we should have had to make culture an end in itself, for culture was the great characteristic of that age. A thousand years ago we should have had to have been warriors and skilled in feats of arms, for war was the pursuit of that age, and the world lay prostrate at the feet of imperial and warlike peoples. Three hundred years ago, the characteristic of the age was “blood”—nobilitv—and unless one were to the manner born one was of no account, and the political and civic and social world passed one unheeding by. To-day, it seems to me, the characteristic of • the age is to seek and to make use of that which is truly useful. Some people say we live in a commercial age, but this term may be misleading, for to many of us commercialism means money-getting alone, while, in fact, the spirit to-day among our people is a broader thing; it takes in a great deal more than the money field alone—it takes in everything in all fields that is genuinely useful and that serves in a practical way to meet our needs as we see them.
Now, forty years ago, a boy went to college, in many instances, so that when he was graduated his parents might sayjto
the world: “We have an educated gentleman in our family,” and very often that hoy fared better in the family than his brothers and very often was let live a life of idleness,
while perhaps the rest of the family toiled to keep him so. To-day, however, a boy goes to college so that when he is graduated his parents may say if they wish: “We have a man in our family who is better equipped by a high course of study, by intimate acquaintance with young men gathered together from all parts of the world, by daily communion for four years with great minds and with great teachers, ta go into the world and do better work than he otherwise would have been able to do; to do more thorough work and to stick at it longer; to see the needs of his age more clearly and to better shape his toil sb those needs will be met”; in short, he is by a college course—if he makes the right use of it— able to be more useful to his nation, his state, his city; to his God, his race, and to himself.
The prejudice that existed thirty years ago against the American college and its product—the American college boy—is
Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, Chicago, Hl.
8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
William P. Breen, ’77, Fort Wayne, Ind.
pretty well swept away, for to-day the college man has clearly established his ability and willingness to make good in this workaday old world of ours; he has proved he can come from a life of comparative ease and joy and Quixotic days into the scientific or professional or business life of to-day and live as cheaply and work as hard and as loyally as his brother whose education has been solely in the college of hard knocks and experience.
Montaigne, I think it is, says in one of his essays that a man may have knowledge and wisdom without judgment, and may have judgment without knowledge and wisdom, and true it is; but certainly when you have a combination of wisdom and knowledge and judgment you have the combination the world is looking for and is willing to pay its highest price for, the combination that a college like Notre Dame
is supposed to give a man which Notre Dame does give a man if he makes rightful use of his opportunities while here. And it is a combination that a college alone can produce best, and by means of which the college sends the boy forth to you in the world a more useful man to you and to himself; a man who is characteristic of the age in which he lives in that he is useful to a high degree.
Of course, it takes a few months for the graduate to get away from colored hat bands and virile neckties, and all that, but these are mere trappings of the boy that are cast aside in a month, and then the real usefulness comes forth, then that which the boy has unconsciously, perhaps, stored up in the four years of his college course makes itself day by day apparent, and his usefulness becomes day by • day greater and greater.
It is because of this something that a boy gets in
college—and which he gets nowhere else— that the employers of to-day are seeking so eagerly for the college men for all positions and all lines of work from bossing the diggers of our ditches to filling the highest positions of trust and responsibility.
A boy can go to college for four years and never open a book except to cram through his examinations, and, unless he is dissipated and vicious, learn more that will be of real value to him in the world outside than he could learn by spending those four years in any other place. This appears at first sight to be a rather broad statement, but that boy’s horizon will be widened, his judgment will be matured, his inner self will. be developed, his real useful knowledge will be greater, simply by four years daily contact with young men gathered together from all parts of the world, if he never opens a book, than by four years at any kind of work in
Notre dame scholastic	9
the world outside. For the American college, and particularly a cosmopolitan school like Notre Dame, is the great clearing house of ideas. It is the place that gives the boy the wide view, it is the place that lifts him to the heights whence he can in the years to come look with seeing and understanding eyes out over the world of men and their actions, that enables him to pick the world’s chaff from the world’s wheat, and to be most useful in settling policies and directing the tendencies of the world’s mental growth.
And it would seem that if ever there were a time it is now when we need the services and trained usefulness of the college man— and of more interest to us who may be Roman Catholics, the services of the Catholic college man. When we look about us and see not only the great problems that confront us socially and politically—such problems as the expansion of the nation, the relation of labor and capital, and the others; but of more immediate in-
specialization, have, perhaps, in some instances the most noted teachers. But I say their peculiar excellence lies in the fields of specialization; fields into which the boy does not get till after he has finished his college course of four years—fields of the law, medicine, and the like. And for the Catholic boy, a great university like Notre Dame will teach a boy all he can possibly learn or wish to learn in the four years of a college course, and teach him as well and as thoroughly as any college in the land. Notre Dame will throw him into daily contact with Catholic men gathered together from every part of the world; she will teach him the broad principles of Catholicity as applied to modern needs and modern conditions; she will make him stronger in his faith, sturdier in his convictions, more intimate with men of his kind; she will open his eyes to what Catholicity means—its great meaning to the world to-day, in soothing its sorrows, in sup-
terest to us on this occasion are such problems as the growth of agnosticism, socialism, materialism, and the other isms, that follow naturally in their wake, we see the more closely the need of trained minds, to cope successfully with these problems.	.
Now, what sort of American college is suited best to fit our Catholic youth to be most useful to their Church, to themselves and to the world ? I should say unhesitatingly, the Catholic college—just such a great college as this to whose halls we return to-day, some of us after an absence of many years to express to her personally gratitude for the lessons she had taught us.
I have no words but words of praise for our great non-Catholic colleges. Some of them undoubtedly offer the widest fields for research, the biggest opportunities for
IO
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Rev.M. A. Quinlan, C. S. C., ’93, Notre Danie, Irid. pressing its vice, in aiding its unfortunate, in curbing the over-powerful and the overrich, in solving its great political and social and civic problems—and Notre Dame will give him with all this an education equal to that of any institution in this country.
Notre Dame takes the boy at his most
plastic age and moulds him into an educated. Catholic- gentleman. Other colleges, and especially if he goes far from home, may mould him into something far different. Now, don’t take this in too sweeping a sense. I do not mean to say the boy will undoubtedly lose his/faith if far from home at a non-Catholic college. But here is a youth of sixteen or seventeen, hundreds,
perhaps a thousand miles from home and home influences, thrown among a thousand, or two, three or four thousand other boys
of all creeds and most of them of none,
and this at his most impressionable period of life. He is surrounded by an atmosphere
subtly hostile to his faith. If he is the
right sort, he will come through all right, than any other will make the greatness of but why unnecessarily subject him to such Notre Dame of the future an undreamed
ideas and Catholic knowledge, and he will also receive an. education the equal of that possible to be given him by any other college in this , country, and he will be when Graduated useful in the highest sense to. the nation, the state, the city—to his God, his race and to himself.
And this is the one great reason why the past of Notre Dame is secure, why the future of Notre Dame is sure—because she isfitting her men to do the world’s work in the world’s best wav. -J
And now conclusion. When the mariner has been exposed to the rigors and perils of a voyage on the seas, he has a peculiarly placid feeling of heart and calm of mind when once again he returns to the port whence he sailed to meet the unknown and unknowable dangers of the deep. If he is a good mariner he, while in port, overhauls his ship and makes it stronger here and there, so it will bear him again safe and true on the bosom of the deep, and he makes it stronger here and there so it will be a good and staunch ship for those who come after him, who go forth on future voyages on the same waters. We here to

day are as that mariner: we are mariners on the sea of life come back from voyages professional, scientific, clerical, mercantile,— come back safe to the port whence we started. And that mariner of whom I spoke has an affection for that bark that has borne him safe through all his dangers an affection that becomes rooted in his nature. We ought to imitate his example;
we ought to have an abiding love and sentiment for this institution -which sent us forth -well prepared for the dangers and
labors of- the world; whose teachings have
borne us safe and true on the stormy sea of life.
If I were asked what single thing more
temptations at such ah age? It seems to me such a course is fair neither to yourself nor your boy. .
So I should strongly urge, give your boy a Catholic college education, give it to him at our great University, where he will meet representative Catholic young men from all parts. of the world and exchange ideas with them, where he will imbibe Catholic
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ri
of greatness, my answer would be, the sentiment of her sons. It matters little in
comparison who makes her laws or her rules of discipline, or who carries out the commercial parts of her organization. These things do not count so much if she has back of her the live love of her sons. It matters little how much or how little money her sons may give her; if only.they will give generously of their moral support Notre Dame will have a future of undreamed of greatness. This may sound a bit sentimental to you hard-headed business men. I point you to the most remarkable growth and development in the history of American colleges—that of Dartmouth in the past twenty years— a growth due, and due alone, to the awakened affection of her sons and their consequent generous moral support. Notre Dame pleads with you men to-day for your moral support—always to raise her name when her name is mentioned, to send your sons here, and to take an active interest to the end that your friends’ sons come here to school. It’s of boys and not money, primarily, that great universities are made.
One of the most potent efforts for the ever-increasing greatness of Notre Dame is that now being put forth by our honored and beloved President, Dr. Cavanaugh, in forming the Notre Dame Alumni throughout the country into alumni associations in their respective cities and towns. I believe the importance of this work can not be over-estimated.
1 am unable, for lack of time, to review the administration of our present President. But we all must strongly endorse the manner in which the affairs of the University are being conducted—the broadening of the scope of the University, the unifying of her alumni, the betterment of the material condition of her boys, the increasing of the measure of personal liberty consistent with her aims. I know we heartily endorse all these, because they have amply justified themselves, and because
we believe the future holds in store great cumulative results.
My final word would be: Let us allow the occasion of our gathering here: to make us more sentimental toward our college. Let us have more of that sentiment that makes the graduate of Harvard or of Yale forget his dangers in the far-off interior provinces of India or China or Siberia and makes him respond to some appeal coming to him from his mother educational institution across
John M. Gearin, ’71, Portland, Oregon.
the expanse of the deep and the dangers of the desert. Let us have more of that sentiment that has made our sister institutions so great—the sentiment that makes their sons return from every quarter of the earth for alumni day. Let us have more of that sentiment that made, as I saw once on an alumni day, the oldest returning “grad,” the sole member living of the class of ’52, in private and public life one of the honored citizens of the land—a man who occupied
-t2
MERE DAME
SCHOLASTIC'
much the same position in the esteem and affection of the public as do our three oldest living graduates who are here to-day, Judges Howard and O’Brien and Gen. Healy—the sentiment, I say, that made that honored old man head the procession of returning sons, and carry on his bowed shoulders a banner with the letters “52” upon it. That meant fifty-five years that that old man had had a living love for his Alma Mater. Do you suppose he thought of any such miserable interrogatory as “what is this worth tome?” We want more and more of that kind of sentiment; we have it now as exemplified by this gathering here to-day, but we want more of it, and then we will
GustavcTL. Trevino, ’OS, Monterey, Mexico. -flourish in a worldly sense as we ought to flourish in a worldly sense, as we have flourished in the face of big obstacles in an ^educational sense.
In final conclusion. If we, the sons of this institution turn from here to-morrow to wend our different ways to every part of this and other lands, to take up, each for himself, again the thread of his life’s work, carry with us a reawakened sentiment, a living love for this great University—our University—then the end for which we came is attained—and Notre Dame is repaid in measure generously-good.
The Notre Dame Spirit.
Address of Dr. Monaghan at the Alumni Banquet.
Mr. Toastmaster, Rev. President, Fathers, Alumni and Guests:—Gathered to do justice to the splendid memories of dear old Alma Mater, Notre Dame, to tell of the glories that were hers, and to cast the horoscope of the years that are to be, we are more or less liable to wander away from consideration of the present, in our affection for the past. While I am willing that the brilliant orator who has helped us to realize what the work of Father Sorin was, should weave his golden chaplets for that splendid brow, while I am willing to give to Father Corby the generous meed of praise so well, so wonderfully well, won by that heroic soul, I shall not be satisfied unless you let me mingle with your eulogy the names of men as great in their way, as noble in their day, as were the Sorins and the Corbys—the men of our glorious past, that golden age of early effort, sacrifice and endeavor..
By the side of Sorin, in the brilliant company of Corby, I place the name of our President—as much the idol of our day as Sorin was in the beginning, or Corby in that .later day. Who will draw the line that measures a difference between any of the giants of those other days and Dr. Morrissey whose name is- writ in letters of gold all over the walls ? Weave, then, your chaplets for the men of that older day, you that knew,them, but 'bear with us, boys of the later day, if we ask you to let us crown our heroes. “To be as good as our fathers,” some one has well said—Philips, I think it was,—“we must be better, for we begin where they leave off.” Sorin sowed the seed of Notre Dame so well, or, to use a better figure, he planted the acorn that has grown into the wide-limbed oak that so sturdily stood the storms, that one fails to think7 of the men who harrowed and plowed around the roots, that watered them with their tears, that tore from trunk and limb and bough and twig and leaf the death-dealing worms, the parasites that might have meant death. It is to these men that T ask you to turn. While you weave your cypress or laurel for the dead, I shall shower my bays

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
upon the living. My mother was wont to say: “You will never be what your father was, my boy.” “What a wonder Adam must have been,” was my answer. Comparisons are odious. Nor is there need of such. The treasure-house of Notre Dame is piled Atlas on Pelion high with honors and with men most worthy to wear them. These men are its Cavanaughs and Crumleys, its Quinlans and Maguires, its Schumachers and Nieuwlands, its Frenches and Connors, its O’Malleys and Farleys, its Hudsons and O’Neills, its Scheiers, its Heisers and .its Kirches; its Hoynes, its McCues, its Edwards and its Steeles, its Farabaughs, Funks and Greens. I have named none that should not have been named; I have left out some that should be inserted. It is a case not of carelessness but of time. The hour is late.
It has been said that such and such was Notre Dame’s greatest day. This day, to-day, after that day in the wild woods of Northern Indiana, when Sorin, surrounded by his faithful sons of our blessed Alma Mater, and the wild men of the woods, laid its foundationstone, is the greatest day in old Notre Dame’s history. Make no mistake—this is the greatest hour in her history, the greatest hour in her life; it is the last and noblest hour in her growth. A year from to-day she is to be higher and higher than any altitude reached thus far. Let us, in cherishing the memory of'the past and putting forth our hopes for to-morrow, remember that the hour in which we live is at once
the treasure-house. or home of all that was and is, the glorious promise or prototype of all that is to' be. Grateful then to the Sorins and Corbys, I can not but call attention to the splendid men around us as leaders,, and our great Provincial, Andrew Morrissey; our gentle Father General, whom we are all learning to love, as you older men loved Sorin and Corby, and dur own— what shall T call him and not offend?— cultured and high-souled Father Cavanaugh.
A word as to Notre Dame’s spirit. How, it is frequently, asked, does Notre Dame succeed so often ? Even against odds she goes in and wins. She has taken both sides of the same question in debate and won on both sides. She has gone out against other schools and has come back bearing an almost overwhelming burden of laurels. Nor is it in any particular line. President Butler of Columbia says an education consists in entering into our inheritances, that these
Very Rev. Dr. Morrissey, C. S. C., ’78, Notre Dame.
are literaiy, scientific, institutional, esthetic and religious. In all these Notre Dame excels; in some none surpassing; in one or two, the religious, few equalling her. :-But education goes beyond Butler’s limits.
It consists in the symmetrical building up of the boy and girl along the physical, moral, social, intellectual, esthetic and religious. In these it is that Notre Dame excels. It is in the healthy and happy and harmonious blending of all these great forces that she
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
is fairest. Not one is neglected. The boys that play ball the best are among the most famous scholars. It is in this way that she has won her present proud position. I saw it here when I came. I felt it in every hour of my life here. It is what I call Tesprit de Corps—the spirit of Notre Dame. It was said of Latour d’Auvergne, that he died on the field oi honor. It may be said of all our
Very Rev. Dr. J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., ’90, Notre Dame.
boys, that they are at work in the world’s great walks of honor. If I have plaited bays into chaplets for our churchmen it is not because I am unmindful of our laymen. On the coast, where the empire of the Pacific is being builded, ex-U. S. Senator, John Guerin, a Notre Dame alumnus, is in the lead. His is the most eloquent tongue among the men of those parts; his life, as citizen or states
man, the model that men point to—that is in the West.
The gifted young man to whom all eyes were turned just now, Byron Kanaley, is to be to Chicago and the Middle West—let us hope as I believe—what Guerin is to Oregon, Washington and California.
Turn your eyes now to the East. We are in Washington, in the Bureau of Labor. The
head of that office is Charles P. Neill, a loyal and beloved son of dear old Notre Dame. What shall I say of him? His work is the best that that office ever offered to the country. It is untainted. Of him Father Cavanaugh has said: “No lie will ever sully those lips, no falsehood fall on the pages of reports from his fingers—Truth is as natural to Charles P. Neill as is the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
i5
breath he breathes.” No; Notre Dame has no need to fear. Her fate is a glorious one, made so by her boys. Did time permit I would carry you in imagination to Washington, and show you how we win or won. Father Bums’ boys down there are continuing to do what they learned up here; that is, to do well whatever they do. It is the way we win at ball, at the bar, everywhere. In our practise games we go in for all that we are worth. This is the . spirit of Notre Dame. It is the spirit that makes the success of the boys at the ball games, of young men, like O'Flynn and Donahue, down in Washington, D. C. It is the splendid spirit that plays when it is time to plav, that works when work is the thing that has to be done—it is the Notre Dame spirit.
Nor need I pause. I could go on and on and on, and gladly would I do so. The temptation to talk is upon me. But the ball sfanie was set for this hour, and I have said the one strong thing that I wanted to say. I wanted to tell you how much it has meant in my own life, this mingling with men like those I see around me. In other years I used to be a builder of Spanish castles. .One of them always put me where God has so kindly put me—on your faculty. I wish I had time to tell you how generously I have been helped. I hope I have caught the spirit of Notre Dame. It is among the Minims of St. Edward’s, it is in Carroll, Brownson, Corby, Sorin and St. Joseph Halls. It is in the air. Hence I say: Vivat, crescat, floreat. May it live on and on and .011; may it go on increasing.; may it flourish as the bay tree from whose boughs we ' pick to-day: and of this splendid Notre Dame spirit, let me say with Judge O’Brien, Esto perpetual	. ’ • '	‘
The Boys of Notre Dame.
Rev. John Talbot Smith.
(Special to the New York Freeman's Journal.) Notre Dame, Indiana, June 8.	_
I happened to be visiting the University of Notre Dame about the time the baseball team returned from a victorious tour through the Eastern States, and had the opportunity of witnessing the rather picturesque student • life of this peculiar and remarkable institution at close range. As topics of this sort rarely come before our own people, it .may interest Catholics generally to get some account of. the life a student leads at Notre Dame. If I begin with the physical and end with the intellectual, let the high-minded console themselves with the fact that nature acts in the same fashion. It was not a trifling matter to the students of Notre Dame that their baseball nine had snatched victory from the finest teams in the East. I am a firm believer in the national game, which should be made a prime feature of every boy’s training, and I sympathize with the enthusiasm seething in the student body when the victors returned home. It was a pleasant May evening, with a clear sky and the wonderful grounds of the University- in full bloom. The victorious and untuneful nine were met at the gates by a cheering crowd of some hundreds, who used up all the college yells in their possession, accompanied the players to their various residences, and called for speeches at each stopping-place. They got them, and yelled for more. A mob is a mob, some one has well said, even if it would be composed of poets. It is - like a wayward boy. in good: humor, which may change at a wink into bad. I thought it a rather good test of .the discipline of Notre Dame, under which over a thousand young fellows live, and waited with interest for the end. ’
No one interfered during the hour of recreation. The mob moved about cheerfully demanding speeches and got them. When the bells began to ring for the study hour the lads gathered in front of the Main Building^to hear a few remarks from the
i6
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
President, who congratulated them on the victories of the team, thanked the victorious nine for their manly conduct on the tour, felicitated the crowd on their handsome reception, and reminded them that they should now disperse to their various homes promptly and in good order. They dispersed with laughter and cheers. In ten minutes darkness and silence together settled ovei-the grounds. Two days later I saw the victors in a curious pickle. Indiana University team came down to play them, and at the ninth inning the score stood 4- to 3 in favor of the visitors. The last half of the ninth inning disclosed a situation dear to the
That night Corby Hall gave a reception to the athletes, which astonished me by its elegance and novelty. The .guests were received in a large hall decorated finely with the University colors, blue and gold, from one end to the other. The floor was covered with rugs contributed by the denizens of the Hall from their own rooms. The pennants of various colleges figured in the decorations. The electric lights were of blue and gold. The receiving body occupied one end of the hall, the athletes were grouped on the side, and the visitors had the other end. Among them were Bishop Alerding of Fort Wayne, a prelate of
hearts of the “fans.” Notre Dame was at the bat with two men on bases, two out, and two strikes called. The yelling crowd on the grand stand became silent, either appalled or stupefied at the situation. I sat near the coach on the bench, watching for some sign of discomfiture.. He showed no uneasiness, no strain, although the issue depended on the next strike. The batter knocked the ball out of sight with one swipe, and the game closed 5 to 4 in favor of Notre Dame. Then pandemonium broke loose; the grand stand shook with cheering and dancing, and throwing loose garments into the air, the mob surged in on the players, and carried them off the field, and the band .played on.
graceful appearance and charming manners, President Cavanaugh, and the former Archdeacon Wilbur, who has just entered the Church. A lively program was carried out, and a pleasant lunch served. I had the honor of shaking hands with the nine, not the Muses, but the others, big fellows, who seemed nowise embarrassed by the luck and. the honors coming so thickly their way. The work of getting up and carrying out the reception had all been done by the inhabitants of Corby Hall. The interesting point is this: that no professional caterer could have beaten it. And the boys admitted next day that in social matters Corby Hall never lost the lead. I was told that on every side. My
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
*7
Scene on the St. Joe. rather solemn appearance never daunted them. Wherever I encountered them, they chatted with the -interest and unconcern peculiar to members of a family, and seemed to count the stranger within the gates as one of their own.
The boy is always best in spontaneous utterance, bu't on formal occasions it is not easy to get that utterance. I. asked the Rector of the Seminary, Father French, to hold a symposium in which the program would be left largely to the moment, in order to discover what young fellows can do with a discussion, an address, an entertainment, which has not been planned beforehand. The result must have surprised himself. I was the only guest. About a hundred students sat around the room. The orchestra played a few minutes. Then I gave the subject of debate as fellows: The study of the Greek ’and Latin classics is an essential factor in modern culture. Four men were named to debate it, and were permitted to sit apart and prepare their arguments during the delivery of the program. Then a young fellow was called upon to welcome me, which he did very neatly. Another read ten or twelve poems composed by the students to showr me what they could do in verse; he prefaced each poem with an account of the author, who rose and bowed. The verses were good, often witty, and the impromptu biographies of the reader were excellent. The debate was most amusing. The arguments mattered little. It . was the readiness, the fluency,
the self-possession of the disputants which delighted me. They went at it hammer and tongs as if the fate of nations hung on their success, and fretted because the limit of time shut off their brightest ideas on the important topic. I have attended soirees in the luxurious halls of the Waldorf which did not. display as much ability, or hold half the interest of this outburst in the Seminary at Notre Dame. •
A similar incident occurred later in a hall where the Freshmen and Sophomores were holding an imitation Memorial or Decoration Day meeting. It was most amusing to s e and hear these voungsters orating and speaking with all the dignity and seriousness of their elders. At the close I offered a question for debate: Resolved, that the United States should abolish child labor in the States. The presiding officer called upon a young man to open the discussion. The question of child labor has been sufficiently popular to enable the most indifferent to learn something about it from the newspapers, and therefore I am not surprised to learn that the various disputants knew at least the outlines of the general argument. What did surprise me was first, the production by one speaker of the printed report of Senator Beveridge’s speech on child labor in the Senate; and second, the acute discussion of the means by which the Federal Government might compel the States to abolish child labor. Senator Beveridge hails from Indiana of course. The. speakers had some acquaintance with his attack on a widespread abuse, and I listened to a rather
Scene on the St. Joe.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
18
sharp dispute on the powers of the Federal Government, the range of the Interstate Commerce laws, and the tricks of manufacturers to secure child labor. The ability to write, to compose creditable verse, to think and speak on the spur of the moment, is highly appreciated at Notre Dame, and the results of training in the arts of expression seem to be worthy of consideration.
The territory of the University covers a square mile, having within its limits two lakes of beautiful water, which streams from secret springs upward through a bottom of marl and flows into a noble river a mile distant, the St. Joseph. The buildings are scattered about on the shores of the two lakes, facing roads which all run into the. quadrangle formed by the main buildings. This quadrangle is a noble park, filled with shrubs and shaded by noble trees. It is the public square of Notre Dame, and witnesses at times most impressive scenes. On workdays, it is alive with students passing from one class to another, or-from one duty to another. On festal days the religious processions march around it. I witnessed the celebration of Ascension Day, which looked. like a bit of old Europe, touched up by American briskness and seriousness. At eight o’clock a sonorous bell gave the signal. Then you could see the seminarians coming along the smaller lake, the novices from their home on the larger lake, the students pouring out of the various halls, the graduating class in cap and gown, the Brothers of ’ the community, all hastening into the quadrangle in front of the Main Building. Then from the church came the altar boys and the clergy on their way to the corridor of the same building, whose walls are ornamented w’ith the frescoes of Gregori. When all were assembled, the signal was given, the college band began to play a O'	O	O	X J
solemn march, and the procession wound its way through the park, appearing and vanishing among the trees, a beautiful mass of color, which vanished slowly in the dense green of the distance. It appeared again like a many-colored thread, weaving itself into the: shrubbery, and then slowly all the figures came out again clearly, as if a tapestry -weaver had done his work swiftly on a curtain of brilliant green.
The procession entered the church in a characteristic way, some by the doors of the apse, others by the side doors, the main body through the grand entrance. The students took their places at will, without order and without disorder, some taking the first seat that offered, others choosing, a few seeking out the friends beside whom they kneel with contentment. The sanctuary filled. rapidly. The Bishop being present the ceremonies were longer than usual; but there was no delay, no dragging, the strong voices of the seminarians intoned the rubrical parts of the Mass, the choir sang in plain chant the usual parts, and no one wearied over the beautiful, dignified, swift-moving drama. The preacher spoke hardly fifteen minutes, with no discussion or exposition of points, with no thesis to prove; an expression of profound emotion, a rhapsody on the life of our Lord, so penetrating in its utterance, so sweet in its diction, that the most indifferent listener felt moved as if by the sound of far-off pathetic music. It is not often that one hears such a discourse. Few would venture into such a field, but it suited the occasion, the great church, and the beautiful scene.
The secret of Notre Dame lies in the fact that it has been able to keep up in a large household the spirit which usually belongs to a small one. The fine locality, the noble buildings, the thousand students and teachers, enable the directors to produce really enchanting scenes almost at will; and the abounding life of these youths, expressed in such variety and with such freedom, and yet with such restraint, keeps all things sparkling, scintillating like stars on a frosty night in the Adirondacks. To my mind this buoyant life is the most precious natural treasure owned by mankind. To be. near it, to enjoy it, is the reward of the parent and' the teacher, who renew their own lives in the fountain of immortal youth.
They have a parrot at Notre Dame who “ laughs like a boy that has just succeeded in playing April fool on his chum. It is the richest thing of its kind on earth. Adam must have so laughed in the days of his youthful glory. Merely by imitation this bird has caught the echo of true human joy. How many, wise, successful men have missed it!
r
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Alumni Reunion.
Nothing of recent years has given greater satisfaction to the Faculty of the University and all the well-wishers of Notre Dame than the reunion of the Alumni, held on Wednesday, June 17th. The President of the University had during the course of the past winter taken up and discussed with many of the old students the advisability of the formation of an Alumni Association
course. of the College and for all who had received from Notre Dame degrees in honorem to meet for this object.
The response was most satisfactory both in the number and the representation of the Alumni who were present. Practically every class that the University has sent forth was represented by at least one member. In fact, with the exception of the classes .whose members are all dead, only seven classes, those of ’64, ’69, ’71, ’72, ’73, ’76, and ’82, failed to be represented. The
which should meet at Notre Dame. His aim was practically to revive the old Society of the Associated Alumni, since the new Association was to have like purpose and aims.
The Society of the Associated Alumni, formed in 1868, had for certain reasons ceased to exist during the course of the SO’s. The last meeting of the society was held June 24, 1890. Considering the organization of a similar society wise, Father Cavanaugh sent out a request for all graduates in
gathering gave ample promise that the succeeding years would see the Alumni in greater numbers returning to the annual C ommencement s.
The gathering was a source of intense pleasure to the old boys, from the representatives of ’59, who for the first time since that year met face to face, down to the boys of ’07. Old ties were renewed and the memories of past days revived. The bonds of attachment to Notre Dame were strenghtened for all by . the meeting among
20
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the old scenes of those who had gone forth and become engrossed in the cares of dailylife. The enthusiasm and devotion of her sons for Notre Dame was greatly increased.
The informal talks of those who were called on during the business meeting and the remarks of those who responded to the formal toasts at the dinner were a source of great pleasure to all. The members were especially delighted with the remarks of Healy and O’Brien, the men of ’59, redolent of the olden days and full of fond recollections, and the eloquent words of Kanaley,
professors in the University and all students of the University who subsequently received Holy Orders. The meeting rejected the article and framed one of its own. Alember-ship is to be active or honorary. The active members are to be the Presidents, VicePresidents and Directors of Studies of Notre Dame; graduates in those courses requiring for their admission high school requirements, Masters in course and Doctors of Philosophy of the University. The honorary members are to be those receiving honorary degrees from the University, and anyone
The Alumni 'Team.
of ’04, the representative of the younger men, who told of Notre Dame’s future.
The meeting itself was harmonious. The only topic that aroused debate was the determining of the membership of the association. None but graduates of the academic courses of the University had been invited to the meeting. The committee appointed bvthe Chairman to draft a Constitution and submit it, reported - ah article . on membership which enlarged the body. In addition to graduates, in course. and. in honoreni they proposed to admit all at any time
who at any time was connected with the University as professor or student and who upon application has been elected a member at a regular annual meeting. There was no disposition to keep out those once connected with Notre Dame, but who had not received her degrees; but there was a decided opinion that they should not become the governing element in the Association, and that they should be submitted in each case to a vote of the -members. With these restrictions, their admission will, in a desired case, be but a matter of form.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
_ Those who responded to the call of President Cavanaugh came with pleasing anticipations. They left filled with pleasant memories, and look forward to future meetings when they can again renew the friendship of college days and show the love and loyalty that they will ever feel for Notre Dame. The gathering was an undoubted success and reflects credit on all who were instrumental in bringing it about.
The formal minutes of the business meeting and the responses to the toasts at the dinner will be found elsewhere in these columns. The Alumni present at the reunion were the following:	.
Class ’59—Gen. R. W. Healy, Chattanooga, Tenn. Hon. James B. O’Brien, Caledonia, Minh.
Class ’62—Hon. T. E. Howard, South Bend, Ind. Class ’65—Rev. John R. Dinnen, Lafayette, Ind. Class ’67—Rev. John G. Bleckmann, Michigan City, Ind. Class ’68—William T. Johnson, Kansas City, Mo. Class '70—Rev. Denis A. Clarke, Columbus, Ohio. Class ’74—Thomas A. Dailey, Adrian, Mich.
Class ’75—Cassius M. Proctor, Chicago, Ill.
James F. Edwards, Notre Dame, Ind.
Class ’77—William J. Hoynes, Notre Dame, Ind. William P. Breen, Fort Wayne, Ind. John G. Ewing, Chicago, Ill.
Class '78—Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C.S. C., Notre Dame, Ind. Very Rev. Dr. Morrissey, C. S. C.,Notre Dame.
Class ’79—William L. Dechant, Middletown, Ohio. Martin J. McCue, Notre Dame, Ind.
Class ’80—Dr. John B. Berteling, South Bend, Ind. Class ’SI—George E. Clarke, South Bend, Ind.
M. J. McEniry, Moline, 'Ill. .
Class ’S3—John C. Larkin. Johnstown, Pa.
Class ’84—John J. McIntyre, Milwaukee, Wis.
Class ’85—James J. Conway, Ottawa, Ill.
Class ’86—Samuel T. Murdock, Lafayette, Ind.
.Class ’87—Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Mich. Hugo C. Rothert, Huntingburg, Ind.
Class ’88—Rev. T..D. O’Sullivan, Chicago, Ill. - -Patrick J. Nelson, Dubuque, Iowa.
Class ’89—Vincent E. Morrison, Chicago, HI.
. Class ’90—Rev. James French, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind. E. R. Adelsperger, South Bend, Ind. , Very Rev. Dr. Cavanaugh.C. S.C.,Notre Dame „ Henry L. Prichard, Charleston, West Va. John S. Hummer, Chicago, Ill.
Class ’91—Rev. A. B. O’Neill, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind. Hugh O’Neill, Chicago, Ill.
.	Francis' J. Vurpillat, Winamac, Ind. ’
Class ’92—Dudley M. Shively, South Bend, Ind. .
D. A. Cartier, Ludington, Mich.
Otto A. Rothert, Louisville, Ky.	,
P. J. Houlihan, South Bend, Ind. ’ L
Class ’93—Hon. C. P. Neill, Washington, D. C."‘ " Rev. M. A. Quinlan, C.S. C.,Notre Dame, Ind, .	, Edward J. Maurus; Notre Dame, Ind.
21
Class ’94—Rev. John S. Schopp, Cold Water, 0. Hugh A. O’Donnell. Chicago, HI. C. S. Mitchell, Olivia, Texas. James F. Kennedy, Chicago, Ill.. Maurice D. Kirby, Lansing, Mich. ’ Class ’95—Daniel P. Murphy. Chicago, Ill. , Daniel V. Casey, Chicago, III. .
Arthur P. Hudson, Dacota, W. Va. Ryell T. Miller, South Bend, Ind.
Class ’96—Rev. T- A. Crumley, C.S. C.,Notre Dame, Ind. .Rev. J. A. Maguire, C.S C., Notre Dame, Ind. George F. Pulskamp, Celina, 0. ■
Class ’97—Rev. John B. Scheier, C. S. C., Notre Dame. Martin J. Costello, Chicago, Hl. Jesse W. Lantry, Duluth, Minn.
Rev. John A. McNamara, Milford, Mass. Joseph V. Sullivan, Chicago, Hl. Sherman Steele, South Bend, Ind.
Class ’98—Rev. Dr. M. J. Oswald, C. S. C., Notre Dame. Dr. Michael R. Powers, Jeffersonville, Pa.
Class ’99—Dr. John F. Fennessy, Boston, Mass.
Rev. Dr. J. Nieuwland, C. S. C., Notre Dame. Rev.Dr. M.Schumacher, C.S C.,Notre Dame. John J. Dowd, Bristol, III.	-
Thomas M. Hoban, South Bend, Ind.
Class ’00—Rev. John M. Byrne, Waxahachie, Texas. Rev. Vincent D. Dwyer, Indianapolis, Ind. George Stuhlfauth, Chicago. Ill. James P. Fogarty, Philadelphia, Pa. Francis O’Shaughnessy, Chicago, 111.
Class ’01—Rev. Dr. G. J. Marr, C. S. C., Notre Dame. John J. O’Connell, New York City.
.	Rev. Matthias Oswald, C. S. C., Notre Dame.
Rev. M. Szalewski, C. S. C., Chicago, Hl. Robert L. Fox, Fort Wayne, Ind. John P. Hayes, Chicago, Hl.
-Joseph J. Sullivan. Chicago, 111.	. .
' Vincent B. Welker, Gambier. 0.
-	William A. McInerney, South Bend, Ind.
Class ’*02—Rev. Leo J. Heiser, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind. Vitus G. Jones, South Bend, Ind.
:	Edward D. Gilbert,' Chicago, Ill.
Francis B. O’Brien, South Bend, Ind. , Orrin A. White, Hanover, Hl.
John L. Corley, St. Louis, Mo. William F. Dinnen, Fort Wayne, Ind. . Oscar Lippmann, South Bend, Ind. C. C. Mitchell, Chicago, Hl.
Class ’03—Robert E. Lynch, Chicago, Ill. Francis H. McKeever, Chicago, III.' J,. Rev. D. K. O’Malley, -C. S. C., Notre Dame. Rev. Dr. M. J. Walsh, C. S'. C., Notre Dame. Edward C. Wurzer, Detroit, Mich. - -Harold H. Davitt, Saginaw’ Mich,
. William P. Higgins, Boston, Mass. ' Class ’04—Francis X. Ackermann, Notre Dame, Ind.
Daniel "C. Dillon, Notre Dame, Ind. '	-
Gallitzin A. Farabaugh, South Bend, Ind.
■	- - Rev. George ,E. Gormley, Kenosha, Wis.
Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, Hl. .	.
. Rev. Maurice F. Griffin,. Rochester, N. Y, ' ’	Dr. Thomas. J. Swantz,.South Bend, Ind.
"	Thomas L. Donnelly, Bay City, MichX--
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
22
Anton C. Stephan, Chicago, Ill. • Harry G. Hogan, Fort Wayne, Ind. Robert E. Proctor, Elkhart, Ind. •
Class ’05—John Worden, South Bend, Ind.	.
Edward H. Schwab, Mishawaka, Ind.
Class ’06—Walter J. O’Donnell, C. S. C., Notre Dame. Alex. W. McFarland, Dayton, 0.	-
Arthur S. Funk, Notre Dame, Ind-Harold P. Fisher, Nortonville, Ky. John P. O’Shea, Sharonville, O. Evaristo R. Batlie, Chicago, Ill. -Dr. Michael J. Brown, Notre Dame, Ind. Thomas F. Healy, Rochelle, Hl. Ralph C. Madden, Mendota, Ill. Lawrence W. McNerney, Elgin, Ill. Ernest M. Morris, South Bend, Ind. William E. Perce, Hanover, Ill. Joseph E. Valdes, Washington, D. C.
Class ’07—Edward J. Kenny, Chicago, Ill. Robert A. Kasper, Evanston, Ill. Matthew J. Kenefick, Michigan City, Ind. James T. Keefe, Iowa City, Iowa. Edward F. O’Flynn, South Bend, Ind. Joseph T. Lantry, South Bend, Ind. Joseph A. Dwan, Notre Dame, Ind. Oscar A. Fox, Fort Wayne, Ind. John Frank Hanan, Lagrange, Ind. Walter L. Joyce, Ashland, Wis. Thomas . Paul McGannon, Corning, N. Y. . and. the Class of ’OS.
The Official Minutes.
In accordance with a call issued by Very Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., the President of the University, the Alumni of Notre Dame met at 10:30 a. m. on Wednesday, June 17, for the' formation of an Association.
President Cavanaugh in happy and well-chosen words bade the gentlemen assembled welcome. Hon. Timothy E. Howard, ’62, was chosen temporary chairman and Daniel P. Murphy, ’95, temporary secretary.
On motion made and carried the chair appointed Hugh A. O’Donnell, ’94, Thomas A. Dailey, 174, and.Rev.Thomas A. Crumley, C. S. C., ’96, as a committee of three to report a Constitution for the Association. The Constitution as reported was discussed and the same after amendments made was duly adopted. The text of the Constitution is as follows:	-
Art. I—This organization shall be known as the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame.
Art. II.—The officers shall consist of an honorary president, a president, six vice
presidents, secretary, treasurer, and a board of eight trustees. All the officers shall be elected annually except the members of the board. The: President of the University and the President of the Association shall be ex officio members of the board. The remain^ ing six members shall be chosen, three for a term of two years and three for a term of one year, their successors to be chosen for a term of. two years.
. Art. III. — The Association shall meet annually in connection with the Commencement Exercises of the University.
‘Art. IV.—The object of the Association shall be to promote friendly relations among the Alumni of the University and to further the interests of Alma. Mater in such ways as may be considered best.
Art. V.—The members of the Association shall be active of honorary. The active members shall be: first, all graduates of Notre Dame University in those courses which demand the high school diploma, or its equivalent for admission; second, Masters in Course of the University and Doctors of Philosophy; and third, present and past presidents, vice-presidents and directors of studies of the University.
The honorary members of the Association shall be: first, all who receive from the University degrees in honorem, and, second, anyone who has ever been actively connected with the University as professor or student and who on application is elected a member at a regular annual meeting.
Art. VI.—The members of this Association' shall pay an annual. fee of five dollars to defray the expenses of the yearly reunion.
Art. VIL—This constitution may. be changed at any annual meeting by a vote of two-thirds of the members present at such a meeting, . provided the proposed change be published in ,_the Scholastic at least three months in advance.
The following officers of the Association were then chosen:
Honorary . President—Very Reverend A. Morrissey, C. S. C., ’78, Notre Dame, Ind.
President—Wm. P. Breen,’77, Fort Wayne. Vice-Presidents—Hon. James B. O’Brien, ’59, Caledonia, Minn.	.
Gen. R. W. Healy, ’59, Chattanooga, Tenn. Rev. Timothy D. O’Sullivan, ’88, Chicago. Hon. Timothy E. Howard, ’62, South Bend.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	23
Rev. Denis A. Clarke, ’70, Columbus, Ohio. John G. Ewing, ’77, Chicago, Ill.
Secretary—Rev. Michael A: Quinlan, C. S.C., ’93, Notre Dame, Ind.
Treasurer—Warren A. Cartier, ’87, Luck ington, Mich.
Trustees—Very Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind., and William P. Breen, ’77, Fort Wayne, Ind, ex officio. For oneyear—Hon. John M. Gearin, ’71, Portland, Oregon; Gustavo L. Trevino, ’08, Monterey, Mexico, and William M-. Deschant, ’78, Middletown, 0. For two years—Samuel T. Murdock, ’86, Lafayette, Ind.; Byron V, Kanaley, ’04-, Chicago, Ill., and Hon. Charles P. Neill, Washington, D. C.
The elected members of the former Society of the Associated Alumni were declared elected members of this Association. Those living and thus made elected members are— Rev. Thomas L. Vagnier, C. S. C., Elect., ’68, Notre Dame, Ind.; Rev. John J. O’Keefe, C. S. C., Elect., ’81, Austin Texas; Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C. S. C., Elect., ’81, Notre Dame, Ind.; Rev. Thomas F. Leyden, Elect., ’81, Aurora, Ill., and Bernard J. Clagett, Elect., 81, Lexington, Ill. Membership was voted to the following'once students of Notre Dame— Most Rev. Patrick W. Riordan, D. D., Archbishop of San Francisco, Cal.; Rev. Patrick Crawley, Marion, Ind., and Augustus, F. Meehan, Chattanooga, Tenn. "
It was voted that on the day of the annual reunion a Requiem Mass be offered for the deceased members, the Mass next year to be sung by the Honorary President of the Association. It was voted that the dues of the Association shall be payable by Jan. 1st each year. On motion the meeting adjourned.
Rev. M. A. Quinlan, C. S. C., Secretary.
. William P. Breen, President.
The Gas Engine Course.
■Leo J. Cleary, ’10.
With the modern developments and improvements in machinery and its application, the field of engineering has become greatly enlarged. Following upon this there has come a demand not only for engineers but for men who have made special studies in some of the different branches of engineer
ing. The theory that a man can turn his hand to anything has been disproven. He can not turn his hand to many things effectively; for the man who has prepared himself particularly, adding to his fundamental training, there is a broad field of application which is not only inviting but insures success. Through specialization each student can estimate with some certainty the need for the specialty he chooses, and, being completely equipped, be sure of employment in his own line. And usually in the individual who starts out to become an engineer there is a dominant tendency for some phase of the profession.
A field of engineering which has become of' more than usual importance, during the last few years is that which deals with the design and construction of gas engines. These simple mechanical devices, with their adaptation to the supplying of power for almost every requirement,-have revolutionized some of the most ancient industries of the world.
The high thermal efficiency of the gas engine over every competitor is recognized by all engineers. For accurate and sympathetic regulation and general reliability the gas engine is a peer among prime movers. It has also the special advantages of simplicity of construction and lightness. Its mechanical efficiency has, by the proper employment of scientific methods of design, reached a level with that of the very best reciprocating steam engines. It has been found by actual . practice to furnish the best power for driving blowing engines, rolling mills and pumps. Its application in central stations and. in water plants is by . far the most economical of all known methods, the total cost of* operation having been reduced to about one-third of the value of steam drive. Because of the consideration of superior economy and convenience as compared with other motors, the gas engine has become firmly established. In the marine field for small pleasure boats, and even comparatively large ones, another outlet has been developed for motors of that type to a degree with which the steam launch engine has failed utterly to keep pace. With such evidence of the rapid strides the gas engine has taken in the last few years, it is but a matter of . time until its use will be universal. .
24
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Because of the importance of the economic utilization of gas power in engineering there has been provided in the curriculum of the University of Notre Dame a program which is devoted exclusively to the study of explosive motors, considering the subject, in theory, design, construction and operation.
A student entering this course must have completed at least one year of high school work together with one year of shopwork. It is sometimes taken by students who have completed their general culture high school course and do not -wish to spend over two years in becoming proficient in one . of the more advanced trades; although it is usually studied by those who have been
unable to finish their preparatory course and who have not the time to take a regular college course. Moreover, it is often taken advantage of by electrical engineers who find it a valuable asset in their future work. During the first year a general study is made of the different types of engines, supplemented with discussions on the uses of this special type of motor. The general construction of vapor, oil and gas engines is studied together with their adaptation to various uses. The results due to change in ignition, compression'and variation of working fluid; methods of speed regulation and govern. ment and the details of auxiliaries, as pumps, carburettors, hot tubes, ; batteries, spark
coils and dynamos are dwelt upon. During the second year a complete study is made of the theory and design of the gas engine by lectures and text-book, special stress being laid upon the power, efficiency, economy, forces due to gas pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine parts.
The accompanying cut represents a . gas engine which was built this year by. one of the students in the two-year program in engineering. It has been designed particularly for this course, being developed as a result of a number of years’ trial with many other types of motors. It is a two-cycle marine engine, three and one-half horse power. In a test a twelve-inch propeller was driven 855 revolutions a minute, while in a test for speed alone the number of revolutions reached 1370. The class this year built eight of these engines.
Each student is required to make the core-boxes and patterns, machine the rough castings, assemble the complete engine and write a detailed report of the work he has done. The student takes great pride in the fitting up and polishing of his engine, and, " as an added incentive to work, it becomes his . property at the end of the year.
The location of the University allows advantage to be taken of the extensive and varied manufacturing establishments in South Bend, and a familiarity with constructive work on a scale and variety impossible in one shop is thus obtained.
The principles of carpentry and the uses of the turning lathe are taught first. Pattern making is then taken up, which involves the application of both carpentry and turning. When sufficient skill has been attained the work of the blacksmith shop is taught. Iron and steel working are followed up in detail until the student is prepared to make the machine tools needed in the shop.
The machine work, which finishes the course, extending over two years, is designed to acquaint thoroughly the student _ with iron and steel work of any kind. Chipping and draw-filing are first taught, and this is followed by easy exercises on the. lathe. More accurate work is then required on the lathe, planer and milling machine, and. the student is taught to depend as much as possible upon his own
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
I I $
A
I resources and abilities in exercising his ! ingenuity.	,
The equipment is thorough in all respects.
- The wood-shop is supplied with circular and jig saws, lathes for turned ’work, a pony .	planer, a joiner, an edge moulder and sharper,
'	a universal trimmer, circular saw with dado
1	and drilling attachments and band saw,
i	with a full complement of all the smaller
.	tools necessary. In the iron shops nine of
:	the latest improved lathes have been pro-
•	vided. There are also two drill presses, a
sharper; a planer, a Brown and Sharpe ; * ' milling machine, a high-speed bench lathe, one twenty-eight inch Sibley and Ware drill press, one horizontal 8x12 slide valve steam engine, a Seneca Falls lathe of fourteen inch swing and eight inch bed, a Crown high speed lathe, a Toledo punch press and a ■ complete set of taps, drills, mandrels, chucks j and lathe dogs. In the shops practical [	methods and principles are presented by
I	exercises of ultimate value as parts of
i machines or apparatus.
The professors in charge of this department, besides being graduates of the best engineering schools, have had several years’ experience in the practical work of mills -and shops. Thus they are able to keep the I students in close touch with all the latest improved methods of manufacturing, without neglecting the theory which is essential; for the most beautifully worked out plans of the theorist will fail completely unless he has had the knowledge to be gained by application of principles. Again, by careful correlation of work and by individual attention, engineering students at Notre Dame receive advantages that students at larger schools can not receive; the result is added interest in the work and a knowledge and satisfaction that when their work is completed they are able to handle similar work in a creditable and successful way.
Obituary.
Walter R. Ward of St. Edward’s Hall has the prayerful sympathy of the University in the sudden death of his brother William in New York, during the vacation. Mr. Ward had just come of age. The bereaved father and brother will not be forgotten in our prayers.	’
25
Priests’ Eucharistic Congress. .
On July 28, 29 and 30 there was held at Notre Dame a Convention of the Priests’ Eucharistic League. This sacerdotal confraternity has a membership of more than five thousand, all of whom are priests.
The object of this world-wide brotherhood is the perfection of the priestly life through imitation of the Saviour hidden in the Sacrament of His love, and the furtherance, by every possible means of devotion to the Blessed Eucharist, thus to unite more closely the body Catholic to its Head and Lord, Jesus Christ. For as the adoration of the mystical Christ is the fount of the spiritual life of every Christian, it must necessarily have a current influence in the life of the priest. Indeed, wherever there' are hearts penetrated by a tender and glowing love for our Lord on the altar, there also will dwell the spirit of peace and light, directing and governing all things. What great benefits and blessings may we not expect from this new movement towards more intimate union with God!
Besides about sixty priests from all parts of the country, the following prelates attended: Most Rev. Henry Moeller, D. D., archbishop of Cincinnati; - the Rt. Rev.' Herman J. Alerding, D. D., bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind.; the Right Reverend C. P. Maes, D. D., bishop of Covington, Ky., president of the Eucharistic Congresses; the Rt. Rev. Thomas F. Lillis, D. D., bishop of Leavenworth, Kan.; Rt. Rev. Regis Canevin, D. D., bishop of Pittsburg-; the Rt. Rev. Philip Garrigan, D. D., bishop of Sioux City, la.; the Rt. Rev. J. Koudelka, D. D., auxiliary bishop of Cleveland, O.; the Rt. Rev. Monsignor Nelson Baker, of Buffalo, N. Y.; the Rt. Rev. Michael J. Lavelle, D. D., vicargeneral of the New York diocese; the Very Rev. Anthony Lamelie, New York; and the Rt. Rev. Mgr. Reilly, Schenectady, N. Y.
Thursday evening the deep, sonorous tones of the 16,000 pound bell in the Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame announced the close of the activities of the convention at Notre Dame. At 7:30 p. m. the delegates, vested in surplice and stole, proceeded to the foot of the altar where the Blessed Sacrament was exposed. As they knelt in prayer sur-
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
26 rounded by a throng of worshippers, the scene was impressive, the silence intense. The proceession then formed, wending its way through the college lawn which was one mass of beautiful swinging lanterns. The dome, too, was a crown of glory.
At the steps of the main entrance to the University, where an altar had been raised, Solemn Benediction was given, after which the long line wound toward the church where the final Benediction was imparted and the evening’s exercises closed with the chanting of a grand Te Deum by at least 500 voices.
Changes at Notre Dame.
Some important changes' have been made in the faculty and in the courses during the summer. Brother Urban, who for the past fifteen years has greeted the visitor on his arrival, has been permitted to retire to a well-earned rest. There is probably no city or important town in the United States which does not hold warm friends of this devoted Brother, whose courtesy has committed him to the respect of all who have met him. Not in vain was he named Urban, for urbanity was his characteristic. No hour too late and no hour too early for him to serve the chance visitor or to dispense to the public the hospitality of the famous University. The public as well as the immediate personnel of the University feel that in his enforced retirement a distinguished and courteous official has been lost. He is succeeded by Brother Maurilius of St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati.
Rev. Father Heiser has been appointed to an important position in Columbia University, Portland, Ore. This genial and devoted priest will be missed from his college classes and from Sorin Hall, where he has been a valued and highly respected prefect.
Rev. AValter O’Donnell, C. S. C., has also been appointed to Portland, leaving an important vacancy in Corby Hall. Father Lavin, formerly of Corby Hall, returns as a prefect. Father Dalton of Sacred Heart College, Wisconsin, also comes to Notre Dame, after much experience in college work. .
Brother Vital of Carroll Hall has been transferred to Holy Cross College, New Orleans, where his kindly disposition and
his sympathetic understanding of the college boy will doubtless make him many friends. Brother. Louis, also of Carroll Hall, is transferred to Watertown. He will be missed by the Students as will also Brother Vincent of Brownson and Brother Ernest of St. Edward’s Hall. Brother Prosper of the Cathedral School, Fort Wayne, and Brother Sebastian of Watertown, have been appointed to Carroll Hall, and Brother Aloysius comes from Texas. to Brownson.
The teaching staff has also been strongly reinforced. Rev. John Talbot Smith, LL. D., New York, author of the “Training of a Priest,” “His Honor theMavor,” “Saranac,” and a dozen other strong volumes, comes to the University for the work of the English classes for one month. Dr. Smith has already won his way into the hearts of all at Notre Dame. Seumas MacManus, the distinguished Irish litterateur, will also come to Notre Dame for a month’s work in the English department. Mr. MacManus is well known at Notre Dame, where his literary work is very highly appreciated. The Honorable T. E. Howard, former chief justice of Indiana, has been added to the faculty of the law school, and will devote his entire time to teaching. Dr. James C. Monaghan, former chief of the Consular Service of the United States, has again been engaged for the department of History and Economics. Dr. Monaghan’s erudition is a proverb throughout the country, and his remarkable gift of exposition makes him an invaluable professor. 'The Rev. Dr. Leonard Carrico, C. S. C., whose thesis on the “Ethics of the Modem Drama” has attracted such favorable comment,,is a valuable acquisition to the department of English. Mr. George Speiss, formerly of Villanova, comes to take charge of elocution and dramatic reading.
Another very important announcement is the beginning of a course in Mining Engineering. The first two years have already been organized and the last two years will be offered as soon as demanded. Mining Engineering is one of the most popular and remunerative careers of the present day, and the new course is sure to attract many students.
Prospects for the coming year are bright in spite of the depressed condition of business and the uncertainty of a presidential year.


!
£ .
'
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	27
Notre Dame’s Champion Team.
The Wabash game yesterday marked the end of the college baseball season at Notre Dame. The year has been the most successful one on the diamond that the Gold and Blue has ever enjoyed, even eclipsing the splendid record of last season #when the team lost but three out of twenty-eight games, thereby establishing a clear claim to the western championship.
Although the schedule this year was not as extensive as that of former years, owing to the eastern trip and a conflict of dates, still the quality of ball put up and the
the claim of the Hoosiers to the western laurels seems deserving of attention.
Purdue, for the first time in many years, did hot try conclusions with Notre Dame oni the diamond, but the victories won by the Catholic school over Wabash and Indiana leave no doubt as to whom the state honors belong. Wisconsin was missing from the schedule owing to the new ruling of the faculty limiting the season to seven games. Minnesota failed to take an eastern trip and consequently did not appear on Cartier Field.
. A new departure in the coaching line was inaugurated at Notre Dame this year. Heretofore some professional coach was
decisive scores of the games demonstrated the superiority of the team over any of former years. Illinois, the strongest opponent of Notre Dame for championship honors in the West, assigned no reason for not meeting the Hoosier school this year, and it is the belief of students of college athletics that had the two teams met Notre Dame would have again won an undisputed claim to the flag. Last year the two teams split even, Notre Dame winning the first game 6-4, and losing the second 1-0, and when the fact is taken into consideration that Notre Dame is stronger this season while Illinois has undoubtedly dropped back,
secured to instruct the team in the gymnasium before the men went out of doors, but this year the coach remained with the team throughout the season and directed the plays from the bench, the same system beingin vogue at Illinois and other prominent schools. Harry Curtis, the ’07 Varsity catcher and now a member of the New York Giants, was selected by the athletic board to teach the men the fine points of the game, and his experience and able ' direction contributed much to the success
of the team. In view of the results obtained this year it is probable that the system will be permanently adopted at the University.
1
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Curtis is a graduate in law this year and will be with the team for at least another rear.
The invasion of the East, the most notable feature of the season’s schedule, clearly demonstrated the superiority of the West over the East, and ranked Notre Dame as one of the fastest college teams in the country. The record of six victories and one defeat is not only remarkable because of the trying conditions under which the team was travelling, but also because of the strength of the nines which went down to defeat. Fordham, accorded first rank among the eastern colleges, was blanked 2—0, it being the first defeat sustained on the home grounds in two vears and the second defeat of the season.' Syracuse, Williams, Dartmouth and Georgetown, representing the cream of the East, were numbered among the vanquished, and the one defeat registered by Vermont was unquestionably due to the favoritism and partiality exhibited at all times by the umpire. Unfortunately a game could not be arranged with Holy Cross.
The list of eastern victories was due in great measure to the phenomenal' work of Dubuc and Scanlon, who alternated in the box. Dubuc played in the field when not pitching and led the team in hitting on the trip with an average of .357.	.
In the West Notre Dame has gone through the season without a defeat. They have won 15 games, six of which were shut-outs. During the season the team has scored 184 runs, while their opponents have been able to pile up but 33. Six men batted over the .300 mark and the batting average of the entire team reached the remarkable figure of .275 The fielding results are no less astonishing, as four men fielded 1000 and the general, average totaled .934. Daniels led the team at the stick with an average of .386.
The. wonderful record has attracted attention throughout the country, and several members of the team have already received tempting offers from the . big leagues.
. Dubuc was sought after by the White Sox, New York Giants, Boston American, and Cincinnati Reds; finally-he signed with the last-named team. Daniels, the speedy first-sacker, has received inducements from Cincinnati and other eastern teams, but he
will finish school before entering the 'professional ranks. Scanlon, Cutshaw, Ruell and Brogan have also been under the eye of league scouts for some time, and are undoubtedly booked for fast company.
Captain Brogan, who was graduated in lawj is the only man lost this year, and with practically the same line-up the outlook for next year appears most promising. Graduate Manager McGannon, to whom the success of the eastern trip . was largely due, will not -return next year; his successor will be Hariy Curtis. .
The scores of the. victories this year are as follows: Winona 19—0, Albion 18-0, Kalamazoo 19—0, Beloit 3—2, Michigan Aggies 4—2, Wabash 5—2, Indiana 1-0, Indiana 13-3, Knox 22—3, Rose Poly. 5-0, Syracuse 2—1, Williams 8—1, Dartmouth 8—3, Boston College 9-0, Fordham 2—0, Georgetown 11—2, Indiana 5—4, Wabash 2-0, Wabash 18—2, Wabash 8—2. The only defeat was met at Vermont, 6—3.
J. B. Kanaley.
John Brogan (Capt. Third Base).
Brogan had the honor. of captaining the best baseball team Notre Dame ever turned loose and the best college baseball team in the country. The duties of a captain detracted not in the least from his playing, and he was the same brilliant fielder around the third corner as ever. In the hitting department Brogan came fast at the end of the season, and although he did not quite reach the three hundred mark he nevertheless hit at the right time and when hits were runs. Unfortunately the local fans did not see Brogan at his best as his best performances were away from home. Brogan graduated from the law school in June, but will ever be remembered as the man who captained the ’08 baseball team.
Batting, .270; Fielding, .833.
Douglas Bonham (Left Fielder).
“ Bonnie ” has_still another year in school but his baseball career is ended. He has played on the team . three years and has ever been one of the stand-bys. A good man to get on bases, a fair hitter, a fast fielder ' and a man with a sure arm made him a valuable asset to the team. Bonham’s hitting and fielding were both a little off fohnjhe past year compared with what he

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
has done in former years, but withal he was a good man for the team and one whose place will be hard to fill.	.
Batting, .186; Fielding, .700.
John Dubuc.
Dubuc was perhaps the most brilliant college pitcher in the country during the past season. He and Scanlon in turn pitched every other day on the eastern trip, and although Dubuc suffered-the only defeat on the trip the defeat was the result of a steal rather than a beating. Not only was Dubuc a pitcher but he was a good outfielder and a good batter, hitting over the three hundred mark. He has played but two years on the team, and at the end of the past season joined the Cincinnati team of the National League. His loss means much to the team as he. was one of the greatest ball players’ we ever had.
Batting, .308; Fielding, .894.
’ \ . i	Frank Scanlon.
. Scanlon shared with Dubuc the honors in the pitching staff. Both men were good, and although Dubuc received credit for being the. better man, and probably was, owing to his ability to hit and field, Scanlon nevertheless would grace any team and can be truly classed as one of the best college pitchers in the country. Scanlon has another year and will return. During the past season Scanlon hitLetter than the year before, and his great speed and. curves, coupled with a good head made him a hard man to beat.
Batting, .228; Fielding, .931.
John McKee.
Injuries kept McKee out of the game most of the season, but when able to get into action - he played the same brilliant fielding game as ever. As a run getter he was the best man on the team; was always on bases, and once he reached first he was almost sure to score. McKee knew the game from every angle, and was what might be termed a “foxy” ball player. He has another year and will return.
Batting, .175; Fielding, .1000.
Ray Scanlon and Edward McDonough.
Scanlon shared with McDonough the honors behind the bat. Both men were good, both were good throwers, good hitters, fast fielders, and both able to take
29
a turn in the outfield. They caught in . turn . as the pitchers worked, and the hardest job any man could tackle would be to make a choice between the two men. Both will return, and as long as the Varsity has two such men in school as Scanlon and McDonough the backstopping will be well taken care of. Notre Dame never boasted of two such men before and probably never will again.
McDonough, Batting, .279; Fielding, .971;
Scanlon, Batting, 279; Fielding, .943.
Bernard Daniels.
Daniels was perhaps the most brilliant. man on the team. He won the gold medal for the man with the highest batting average and also finished with the highest fielding average—in the infield. He was a fast man on the bases, a sure fielder, had a good arm, was a clean player and was everything that a good man could be. He will return next year as the past one was his first on the team.	.
Batting, .386; Fielding, .985.
George Cutshaw.
Cutshaw was a brilliant fielder and .300 hitter, a fast man on the bases, the best man on the team in a pinch, as evidenced in at least three games when his hits came just at the time when hits meant runs, had a good arm, was always in the game and was so good that there is nothing more to say about him.
Batting, .314; Fielding,'.933.
Uric- Joseph RueLl.
Riiell completed the infield. A man like Cutshaw, a .300 hitter, a fast fielder, a good
• man on the bases, had a good arm, a good head and had everything a baseball player could use. He was the smallest man on the team, but hit for as many extra bases as the largest. The past season was his first, and he will return.
Batting, .353; Fielding, .902.
Carl Centlivre
played in nearly every game and fielded .1000, hit over .300, had a good arm, was fast on the bases, and like the rest of the men on the team had everything he could use and used it all to advantage. This was his first year on the team and he will return. Batting, .303; Fielding, .1000.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NiLTAxyi Ryan.
Ryan was given but few chances to show what he had, and in the few chances showed to advantage. This was his first year on the team, and the experience he had the past year will nicely fit him for a place next season. Batting, .286; Fielding, .1000.
Wendell Phillips.
Phillips, like Ryan, was used but little in the box. In fact he was not worked as a pitcher as much as Ryan, but was an outfielder of ability and was also a good hitter. He will return and will make a valuable man. Batting, .333; Fielding, .1000.
Coe McKenna.
McKenna was given a chance at short and third in several games and showed up well in both positions. He was not strong with the stick, but was improving in that line. He fielded well and looks like the man to cover the third sack next year.
Batting, .134; Fielding, .875.
R. L. Bracken.
Track Team, 1908.
Captain Leroy Keach.
Captain Keach had the honor of leading the best track team that Notre Dame has turned out in years. He made an ideal captain and also performed indoors and out remarkably well. In the 100 and 200 yards Keach proved to be a point winner in every meet. Indoors the 40-yard dash was his long suit, and in every meet of the season Captain Keach won his share of the points. He graduated from the Law School in June.
John Scales.
“Long” John Scales will be remembered at Notre Dame as one of the fastest indoor hurdlers we ever had. The 40-yard low and high hurdles were always easy money for Scales. In the high and broad jump he also annexed many points for the Varsity. Towards the end of the outdoor season his track work suffered, occasioned by the pressing duties of class-work. Scales finished Mechanical Engineering in June.
James O’Leary.
O’Leary hit his gait this year and proved
to be one of the best point winners on the team. The 100, 200 and 440 all looked alike to O’Leary and he was good for points in any or all of the events. Coach Maris will have him for another vear, and the chances are that he will develop into one of the best’men Notre Dame ever turned out.
Lee Moriarty.
Moriarty broke into track athletics as a
Captain Bill Schmitt.
pole vaulter and made good, but during the past season Coach Maris. turned him into a hurdler of no mean ability. In the indoor meets Moriarty and Scales won both places in every meet and he gives indication of developing into a fast man. For a pole
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
vaulter Moriarty is a big man weighing nearly a hundred and eighty and for his weight did remarkably well.
Clarence Cripe.
Cripe’s best work on the track was in the runs, both short and long. Indoors Cripe was a good man in the 40 and in the 440. Outdoors Maris used him in the 440 and also in the discus. He was a strong man in the relay races and could always be counted on to hold up his end.
William Schmitt.
Schmitt was elected Captain for next vear. Until the past season Schmitt had . always been used as a long and middle distance man, but Coach Maris turned him into a fast quarter miler and a good low hurdler. He is a hard worker and a good trainer, and will without a doubt make an ideal man to lead the team next year.
Frederick Dana.
Dana was the classy performer of the team. The half mile, mile and two mile were his races, and any or all of them he won. Indoors he broke the gym record for the mile and established a new state record, going the distance in 4:37. Likewise outdoors he broke the state record for the mile. One week before the conference meet Dana met and defeated Carr of M. A. C., the conference winner in the tvro mile, and defeated him easily in 10:08. As a distance man he was without question the best man Notre Dame ever had, and this season was one of the fastest men in the West. In another year Dana should be one of the best distance men in the country.
Edward Shea and George Roach.
Shea and Roach proved, to be good running mates for Dana. • Both men were new at the game, but both showed all kinds of promise. In the mile and two-mile Shea showed best, and his time in both events was faster than any Notre Daine man had ever done. In another year Shea should .make a sure point winner in both events. Coach Maris ran Roach in the half mile at the end of the season; and although he got started late he showed promise, and
with Dana and Shea to work with he too will make a valuable man in another year.
Fay Wood.
Woody was- best as a heavy man, and performed well in the shot, discus and hammer. In every meet of the season Wood was a sure point wanner, and in each event he showed marked improvement over his form of the season before. He will return and will make another “strong” man for next season’s team.
Harry McDonough.
McDonough was best in the high and broad jump. The former was his best event, and in the last meet of the season he won the high jump easily from a good field. McDonough has another year and will return.
Jesse Roth
Roth won his monogram as a broad jumper. In the indoor meets he gave promise as a lowr hurdler, but was unable to go the distance outdoors. Roth will return and should develop into a good man.
John Devine
Devine was compelled to quit track w’ork during the middle of the season, an injury . to his ankle putting him out of the running. In the half-mile run he gave great promise, going the distance indoors in 2:05 1-5. He will return next year, and if in shape to run will make a valuable man for the team.
John Roach. <
Roach won his monogram as a 40-yhrd man and was one of the fastest men for that distance that Notre Dame ever had.
Bernard Daniels.
Daniels was a good indoor man and might have been outdoors; but owing to the fact that he was a member of the Varsity baseball team he was compelled to pass up track work. He won his monogram indoors as . a broad jumper and gathered several points in the dash and also in the shot put.
Such men as Allen, McDonald, Duffy, Gunster, Murphy, Parish, Hutzell, Moloney, are all men who showed good promise and who in another year will .make good men for the team.