The Notre Dame
Scholastic
September 27, 1957
WELCOME TO GILBERTS
CAMPUS SHOP!
Gilbert’s have served the clothing needs of more Notre Dame men in the past quarter century than any other clothing store in America. While the Campus Shop is only two years old, it has given us the opportunity to become even better acquainted with the clothing wants and needs of the men of this great university. If you are new on the campus, we say, “Welcome!” ... if you are one of our old friends, please come in and say “hello!” Old friends or new . . . come to the Campus Shop for the finest men’s clothing and furnishings obtainable in today’s world markets.
On the Campus — Notre Dame

£

&
CHARGE IT-
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY!
PAY
JAN
PAY
No Carrying Charge


V
■
As a Notre Dame man you automatically have a charge account at the Campus Shop. You are invited to use this account to charge your clothing needs. If you wish, you can select what you need now and pay nothing until January 1958. In January pay one-third, pay one-third in Febru- ■ ary, and pay one-third in March. Naturally, there are no carrying charges. Use your Campus Charge Account to help you “Dress Right —you can’t afford not to”!	.

^GILBERTS

On the Campus — Notre Dame
September 27, 1957


On Campus Max Shulman
{Author of “Barefoot Boy With Cheek,” etc.)
THE MIXTURE AS BEFORE
Today begins my fourth year of writing this column and, as before, I ^vill continue to explore the issues that grip the keen young mind of campus America—burning questions like “Should housemothers be forced to retire at 28?” and “Should pajamas and robes be allowed at first-hour classes?” and “Should proctors be armed?” and “Should picnicking be permitted in the stacks?” and “Should teachers above the rank of associate professor be empowered to perform marriages?” and “Should capital punishment for pledges be abolished?”
Philip Morris Incorporated sponsors this column. Philip Morris Incorporated makes Philip Morris cigarettes. They also make Marlboro cigarettes. Marlboro is what I am going to talk to you about this year.
Before beginning the current series of columns, I made an exhaustive study of Marlboro advertising. This took almost four minutes. The Marlboro people- don’t waste words. They give it to you fast: “You get a lot to like in a Marlboro ... Filter ... Flavor ... Flip-top Box.”
Well, sir, at first this approach seemed to me
a little terse, a bit naked. Perhaps, thought I, I should drape it with a veil of violet prose, adorn it with a mantle of fluffy adjectives, dangle some participles from the ears ... But then I thought, what for? Doesn’t that tell the whole Marlboro story? ... Filter... Flavor... Flip-top Box.
Marlboro tastes great. The filter works. So does the box. What else do you need to know?
So, with the Marlboro story quickly told, let us turn immediately to the chief problem of undergraduate life—the money problem. This has always been a vexing dilemma,
The makers of Marlboro take pleasure in bringing you this free-wheeling, uncensored column every week during the school year ... And speaking of pleasure, have you tried a Marlboro?
even in my own college days. I recall, for example, a classmate named Oliver Hazard Sigafoos, a great strapping fellow standing 14 hands high, who fell in love with a beautiful Theta named Nikki Spillane, with hair like beaten gold and eyeballs like two tablespoons of forgetfulness.
Every night Oliver Hazard would take Nikki out to dine and dance, and then to dine again, for dancing made Nikki ravenous. Then they would go riding in the swan boats, and then Nikki, her appetite sharpened by the sea air, would have 8 or 10 cutlets, and then Oliver Hazard would take her home, stopping on the way to buy her a pail of oysters or two.
To raise money for these enchanted evenings, Oliver Hazard took on a number of part-time jobs. Between classes he cut hair. After school he gutted perches. From dusk to midnight be vulcanized medicine balls.
From midnight to dawn he trapped night crawlers.
This crowded schedule took, alas, a heavy toll from Oliver Hazard. In the space of a month he dwindled from 260 to 104 pounds—but that, curiously enough, proved his salvation.
Today Oliver Hazard is a jockey, earning a handsome living which, combined with what he makes as a lymph donor after hours, is quite sufficient to curb Nikki’s girlish appetite. Today they are married and live in Upper Marlboro, Maryland, with their two daughters, Filter and Flavor, and their son, Flip-top Box.
©Max Shulman, 1957
WSND News
The Student Voice of Notre Dame— call letters WSND—640 on the dial heads into its eleventh year of broadcasting this fall with a variety of programs designed to please followers of everyone from Beethoven, to Boone, to Brubeck.
Mingled in with the musical selections, will be five daily newscasts, four sport shows, a little drama, and a number of special programs and remotes, it was announced by Jerry Slater, station manager.
Back again as program director is Tom O’Reagan, an AB senior and three year veteran of the announcing staff. Although the complete program listings for the year are yet to be completed, O’Reagan says that present plans call for jazz to be featured on the “12:30 Club” and the “Jazz for Sympathizers” show starting at 7:15 p.m. Classical selections can be heard on “Invitation to Music” at six each evening.
The station’s most popular program, “Requestfully Yours,” comes on right after the eight o’clock news and will spotlight the popular standards. An hour of mood music on “Penthouse Pops” rounds out the WSND night-time programming from ten to eleven p.m.
News and Sports
George VanKula, an AB senior, returns to the campus station as head of the news department again this year. He and his staff will prepare and air daily newscasts of world and campus news in addition to presenting the popu-s lar “Editor’s Notebook,” a report and: analysis of the week’s important news,* at nine o’clock each Thursday evening^
Bill Chesson, also an AB senior, heads) the sports department for the third| straight year and with his staff will? be airing sport’s news four times daily.) During the football season they will! also be doing remote broadcasts of the) pep rallies and a Saturday afternoonf roundup of grid scores, the latter ten-) tatively set for four until five p.m. |
Behind the Scenes	1
2
The engineering department hasl successfully completed hooking up| WSND with the Morris Inn and will| have the new residence halls wired to| receive the station’s signal within two| weeks. Plans are underway to again| produce the live dramatic show, “Oni Stage.” Bill Chesson, director of the| series, reports the first production willf probably be “The Devil and Daniel^ Webster.” Dates for tryouts have not| yet been set. Also on the planning stage is a weekly dramatic serial which! will serve as a satire on Notre Dames life.	U
The Scholastic^

good manners
Since the beginning of the school year a strange sight has appeared on the Notre Dame campus. Each evening and all day Sunday students parade to the University Dining Halls dressed neatly and wearing coats and ties. Strangely enough as students go they look almost human. This to many of us is a wonderful change. Gone from the scene for at least one meal a day are the old t-shirts, the sloppy sweaters, and the dirty jackets.
Quite naturally the University ruling in regards to coats and ties has brought complaints from some of the students. In at least one instance there was a minor protest demonstration. The complaints and demonstrations were expected. That they are dying out rather quickly is a compliment to the good sense and basic social respectability of the majority of the student body. Anyone who really thought about the situation in the past must have come quickly to the conclusion that the University’s ruling was long overdue. Notre Dame students have often been criticized for their lack of social maturity. This absence of good manners was vividly reflected in the shabby manner in which many of the students dressed. To dress neatly is simply to be polite to the people who are around you. And it is, after all, the human thing to do.
Why college students somehow feel that when they arrive on campus all the decor of polite society goes out the window is a mystery. I am certain that most of the sloppy individuals are quite neat and proper while at home. But among the peer group at college, sloppiness suddenly becomes, as it seems, the thing to do. This, of course, is an improper attitude. Good dress and good manners are not things that are to be turned on while at home. They should be demanded, not only by the University but by the students, here at school.
It is perhaps unfortunate that the University in this instance had to enforce neatness. But that they had to do so is a fact. The students simply were not tending in that direction. Now perhaps an awareness of the need for social respectability in dress and manners has been created. It is hoped that the student body will realize more and more the need for such social respectability and that the present improvement will continue. If so, it will be a great compliment to the students and a demonstration of their increased social maturity.	—J. S.
the task
The student who enters a university puts himself into a position of responsibility to himself, to his school, and to his family. His most important duty which sometimes he does not realize is to fulfill his vocation as a student. A vocation to the life of a student which we have all accepted includes the awe inspiring task of developing an intellectual attitude. Educators all over the country have adopted a highly sceptical approach toward the quality of the American graduates. One of the most discussed personalities in this circle is Monsignor John Tracy Ellis of Catholic University. Monsignor Ellis in his lecture which is now published in a cloth volume, American Catholics and the Intellectual Life, accuses all universities of failing to develop in their students this “intellectual attitude.” However, the majority of his accusations center upon the Catholic student and university. Monsignor Ellis becomes too pessimistic while surveying this situation, but there is definitely-a need for vast improvements.
Now the question: what is to be done?
We believe that we are only qualified to answer the question on behalf of the student, not the university or the faculty. The basic problem lays in the fact that the student has failed to perceive the most important aspect of an education. He feels that an education is only a means to an end, a period of time spent in an apprenticeship in order that a larger income may be assured. This is a conception that is dangerous to the well-being of education. It fosters an anti-intellectual attitude rather than the opposite, an unrelenting search for the material goal, and a rejection of a liberal education as ‘impractical.’
At the beginning of the undergraduate years, the student must begin immediately, if he has not done so before, the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake, as well as for its value in developing himself as an individual. Many interests appear during the college life which are apt to divert the attention of die student from his vocation and goal. These interests have their rightful place in education, but the proper values must be levied upon them. Too many men • are foiled by certain superficial extra-curricular activities, and at the end of four years find that they have neglected the most important part of their undergraduate years.
The student, no matter in what field of education he finds himself, must learn to venture forth into other academic knowledges. He must cultivate other interests besides his own specific study and dispose of the bourgeoise attitude toward life in order to attain intellectual maturity.
Monsignor Ellis’ criticisms as well as the others cannot be brushed aside. They should be investigated, and we think, acted upon. If we as students do not attempt to improve ourselves in this vein, we have worked in vain toward a degree, and this degree will only signify time wasted.	—D. L. K.
5
September 27, 1957
The Notre Dame
Going to Philadelphia For the Army Game?
Make the Penn Sherwood at 39th & Chestnut Sts. your Headquarters
Bus service direct to Stadium Shortest distance to Stadium Nearest the Pennsylvania Railroad Nearest the International Airport Nearest to the Municipal Stadium
Single rooms with bath ......................  $6.00-	10.00
Twin beds with bath .......................    10.50	- 14.00
Suites with bath ..........................    13.50-	18.50
Additional persons ............................ 3.50	each
Radio and television in every room
PENN SHERWOOD HOTEL..............PHILADELPHIA, PA.
A Carpenter Without His Hammer—
— or a surgeon without his scalpel — is something like a student without his book. For books are the basic tools of the student’s trade. Nothing has ever replaced the professor in the classroom, and nothing has ever replaced the main tool of teaching and learning—the book. You may forget, but your books won’t. At 4:00 a.m. before your exams, your professors are getting their much needed rest. But your books are working with you —that is—if you have your own books.
Presumably you are in college because you want to learn. Your books are your tools. Don’t be like the carpenter with a borrowed hammer who must finish his work at the convenience of
the man who owns a hammer!
Penny for penny, page for page, books are the best
buy of your college career. We have then. Come inspect them, and buy your own books today.
Notre Dame Bookstore
Scholastic
Vol. 99 September 27, 1957 No. 1
$
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23. 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER
Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
George Clements ...... NEWS	EDITOR ;
Harry McKee ........   COPY	EDITOR
Bob Early
FEATURE
EDITOR
Mike Fitzpatrick
Bob Williams
Loran Sheffer
SPORTS
EDITOR
PHOTOGRAPHY .... BUSINESS I?
Member of Catholic School Press Association and^ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for na-,W tional advertising by National Advertising Service,yS Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York. City.
fig
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the)^ school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame.^ Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year. Volume 99: No. 1. Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11;	No.	4,	Oct.	18; No. 5,	Oct.	25;	No.	6,
Nov. 8;	No.	7,	Nov.	15; No. 8,	Nov.	22;	No.	9,
Dec. 6; No. 10. Dec. 13' (Football Review’); No. 11 Jan. 17;	No.	12,	Feb.	7; No. 13.	Feb.	14;	No.	14=
Feb. 21;	No.	15,	Feb.	28; No. 16,	March 7;	No.	17=
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19. March 28 No. 20, April 25; No. 21. May 2; No. 22, May 9 No. 23, May 16: No. 24, May 23.
ON THE COVER: Ivan Osorio returns after a summer vacation in which he studied people. He also looked at sev-j eral hundred incoming freshmen andH together with his summer observations decided this is what the human specie really looks like. For the benefit of the freshman class Neo-Osorioism is a type of art which found its start on the pages and covers of the SCHOLASTI last year. However, we do not wis to start a new controversy; we ju want you to enjoy Ivan.
The Scholas
by BRYAN WOODS
a plea of sorts
For those of you who have arrived for the first time this fall both at Notre Dame and at St. Mary’s across the road, and for the first time are reading the Scholastic, I will try and explain the purpose of this column. It is a humor column. Herein are to be found witty penetrating comments on life under the Dome as well as life across the Dixie. Herein are to be found sardonic quips about St. Mary’s, the dining hall, (Two gold mines right there) the freshmen, student government, the rules, the town of South Bend, tired old seniors, (Seniors are usually referred to as being tired and old), mixers and other social get-togethers, plus a number of other customs, institutions, and everyday occurrences.
UNTOUCHABLES
There are a few things, such as the various teams, pep rallies, and some others which are not ordinarily mocked, since that is considered to be bad form and not quite showing the true spirit. Unkind things may be said about them other places, as for example the Back Page or the Editorials, but you probably won’t read those parts of the magazine anyway. Most people just look at the pictures to see if they got in any of them. If so, they save that issue and collect those discarded by the guys whose picture didn’t get in.
I am speaking mainly to you new types since evei-ybody else probably remembers that I wrote this column last year. If they read it they already knew what I have just said, and if they didn’t read it then they will see the name at the top and skip it again. However they may be reading it out of surprise
September 27, 1957	.
since it was announced that I would not be writing it again this year. Well that is easily answered. I’m not going to write it again this year. This you are reading is the only one I plan to do. I enjoyed writing it last year and I think a lot of people enjoyed reading it. At least I got some favorable comment on it. Naturally I suppose many agreed with the fellow who told me that the only funny thing about it was the fact that I thought it was funny. I thought his remark was funny too, so I guess I must have a rathei- broad sense of humor.
Anyway I am not writing it again because I think it’s time for a fresh approach. I’m afraid all I could do would be say the same things I said last year, and nothing kills a joke like having it repeated. Surely someone else finds a lot of the things that go on around here pretty hilarious and is willing to share the joke with the rest of us. If any of you, or even several of you, since there is no rule that says one man has to write this column, want to try, step forward. It’s not really that much work and it’s kind of a boot to see your own stuff in print. I leave it to our esteemed editor to supply you with the details like where and when and how long, details so abhorrent to a liberal (Trans: Lazy) mind such as mine.
* * *
Thank you, Mr. Woods, you lazy rascal. Since I am a quasi-engineer (I’ve worked in shops with other engineers) I have been assigned the task of supplying details. So please sit tight for a little while. Bryan is sound asleep in some little corner of his room by now
so this writer can say pretty much what he pleases about this column.
When the editorial staff was originally presented with the problem of no “humorist” for the weekly Escape, we thought of running pictures suitable for an Audubon society magazine. Many people seem to feel that this column - always tended in that direction anyhow.
Be that as it may the staff decided in the negative since we didn’t have enough pictures. There were several other suggestions as to turning this page into a column of collected humor from other colleges.
This, however, is a grave indictment of the lack of creative activity here at Notre Dame. Last spring the Scholastic made its annual appeal for writers for this page and received only three tryouts. All were found wanting. Upon returning to school this fall other attempts to find a qualified writer for a humor column also failed. But enough said. The fact of the matter is that if no one is found within the next few days this column will have seen its last days. The problem is not really that of the editorial staff. It rests with some talented student or students who feel they could write this column every week, every other week, or even every third week. The style definitely need not be similar to that of the esteemed Mr. Woods. All it need be is funny.
Anybody who feels he would like to try has only to submit one or two manuscripts. They should be approximately 1200 words in length and have to be humorous. Anyone who wishes to submit such manuscripts should send them to the Scholastic, Box 185. No box tops are required.
7
the .
Social Security

that pays off every day !

SHU LTON New fork * Toronto
Or use the new OLD SPICE SPRAY DEODORANT— in travel-light plastic, 1.00 plus tax



'p!' ¥ 4] .,^4 * i i -.ai. K. M :
*..* 4

fem * ♦
*<4 * * ^4 4 4
fes.4 4 4
*4
• 3^-4' 44 st a ■
4 4 i
STICK DEODORANT
For absolute security, all day, every day. So quick and clean ... melts in instantly. Gives you Social Security in just 3 seconds!
1.00 plus tax
AVAILABLE' AT THE
Notre Dame Bookstore
ON THE CAMPUS
<4

&

DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
FOR
713 EAST LASALLE CE 3-0951
Real Italian and American Food
OUR SUPERBLY DELICIOUS OLD-WORLD PIZZA WAS CREATED FOR THOSE WHO ENJOY THE FINEST IN ITALIAN DELICACIES
Enjoy a Private Party in the Seclusion of Our Hideaway Room

8
The Scholastic]

SOLEMN HIGH MASS MARKS
OPENING OF ACADEMIC YEAR
University President Alerts Faculty, Students To Dangers Which Accompany Materialism
Man must not allow himself to be “seduced by the material benefits of science to the exclusion of the deep spiritual values that he cherished long before the advent of modern science and its accompanying technology,” Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of the University, declared last Sunday at the formal opening of the school year in Sacred Heart Church.
Father Hesburgh said that science should be viewed “in the total perspective of man’s life and destiny, not as an exclusive blessing.” Chronicling the “literally fantastic” results of modern science, he insisted that “there are other good and even better things if <man does not live by bread alone.”
A man who is well-fed, well-clothed and well-housed can be “ignorant, prejudiced and immoral, too,” the Notre Dame president pointed out. “A healthy man can be as unjust as an unhealthy man. A long life is not necessarily good or fruitful. Vastly expanded communications devices do not guarantee that much worthwhile is being communicated, and a world brought close together is not necessarily a world at peace. Simplified housekeeping does not guarantee happy marriages; easily accessible amusement cannot banish the boredom of a pointless life; and vitamins are no substitute for virtues,” he said.
Father Hesburgh, a member of the National Science Board, stressed the difficulty of the University’s task “in a world that is essentially secularistic and scientifically oriented in its forward march.”
He told more than 500 Notre Dame faculty members and a capacity congregation of students that “our greatest challenge and opportunity is to understand both the vital importance of our heritage and the growing importance of science, so that working together, instead of at cross purposes, our heritage may be enriched and science will become a fruitful instrument of man, not his master or destroyer.”
“No person can be liberally educated today,” Father Hesburgh observed, “without a reasonable grasp of science
and the great new vision of the universe, in its innermost and outermost parts, that modern science has brought us.” On the other hand science needs the othei- academic disciplines too, he said, “for there is more to human life than the understanding and manipulation of nature.”
Recently appointed Vatican City delegate to the new International Atomic Agency, Father Hesburgh deplored the lack of communication among'specialists in the various arts and sciences. He lamented that theologians and physicists, for example, “have not been on speaking terms for centuries — so much so that they no longer speak the same language.” He cited evidence, however, that the climate has now begun to change — and on both sides. “The time is ripe,” he urged, “to take up a fruitful conversation left aside centuries ago.”
The Notre Dame president charged his faculty to “cherish the task of seeking and imparting truth in every way possible that we disdain no truth, be it theological, philosophical, historical, poetic or scientific; that we ourselves may be examples of the kinds of minds and hearts, the kinds of human persons whom we try to fashion by the educative process; and that we try to appreciate all that is good in the past while we bring its wisdom to bear in directing and giving ultimate meaning to the powerful forces that are awakening in our world today.”
Victory Dances to Open With Purdue 'Prance1
The first of the season’s victory dances will be held tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30 pan. in the Drill Hall. Gene Bertoncini and his Lettermen will provide the music for the Purdue Prance.
Jerry Brady, student body president, will be master of ceremonies at the intermission which will feature the Glee Club Octet and a medley of their favorite songs.
Price of admission to the dance is one dollar per couple.
REV. THEODORE HESBURGH Science and Man
University Appoints 64 New Professors
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president for academic affairs, recently announced that 64 new members have been appointed to the Notre Dame faculty for the 1957-58 school year. Thirteen of the new professors are Holy Cross priests while eight are armed forces officers assigned to the University’s ROTC units.
Among the new teachers are five scholars who have been named visiting professors, Father Moore said. Thomistic • philosopher Charles DeKoninck, of Laval University, Quebec, will teach at Notre " Dame during the fall semester. Mathematician Kurt Mahler, an authority on numbei- theory from the University of Manchester, England, also will teach during the first term.
Prof. Thoralf Skolem, of the University of Oslo, Noiway, a specialist in the foundations of abstract set theory, also joins Notre Dame’s mathematics department as a visiting professor for 195758. James M. Cameron, an expert of the philosophical backgrounds of English literature, has been granted leave from the University of Leeds, to lecture in the Notre Dame English department this year-. Prof. Louis Artau, dean of the schbol of music at the University of Partland (Ore.), will be a visiting professor of music at Notre Dame.
The new faculty group includes twenty-two assistant professors and thirty-three instructors.
September 27, 1957
9
Brady Announces Senate Program For Year; Plans of Academic Commission to Head List
According to Jerry Brady, student body president, there are more than a dozen new projects that the student government will try to complete this year.
Heading the program are the plans of the Academic commission which expects to start discussion groups in most halls, sponsor a series of cultural movies and lectures and establish an academic honor society.
“We feel that there is a definite need to recognize the outstanding scholars and believe we are ready to set up a society which will do just that,” Bill Griffith, Academic commissioner, stated.
The Social commission, under Pat Rogers, is sponsoring the Broadway play, “No Time fox* Sergeants” on Oct. 16 in the Navy Drill Hall. The commission also plans more telecasts of away football games, big-name entertainment during the second semester, social events with near-by girls schools and a special dance fox* sophomores in the spring.
Rogers will work with Physical Facilities commissioner Don Corbett in planning special social-cultural record sessions, featuring classical and jazz records in the Student Center, Brady commented.
A new committee headed by Paul Coffey will attempt to bring better students to Notre Dame by writing, visiting and assisting outstanding high school students.
The Senior-Freshman Advisoi- program, begun during orientation by Seniox- Class President Don McNeill, came undex- special comment by Brady.
“We feel this is potentially and initially a great thing fox- Notre Danie,”
Engineering Council to Hold Election For New Chairman
The annual election of chairman of the Joint Engineering council has been slated fox- early in October. Tom Fogax"ty is now the acting chairman of the council.
As governing body of the College of Engineering, the council is again making plans fox- an active year fox- engineering students. Two of the many functions of the council are the organization and management of the Engineering Ball and the Engineering Open House.
The council consists of 17 members including the senatox- from the Engineering college, two representatives of the Technical Review magazine, president of each of the seven campus engineering societies, and an additional representative from each of these societies.
said Brady. “If freshmen and seniors take advantage of the opportunities this program offers, it can change the character of the school,” the president asserted.
Among other plans are those of the Public Relations commission which plans to publish pamphlets on student activities and the facilities offered in the Student Center, especially fox- the use of freshmen, publish newsletters and conduct a weekly radio program.
The Spiritual commission will arrange
PRESIDENT BRADY
Baby-sitters for Vetville
for special retreats and encourage subscriptions to Catholic magazines. A bus service from the Circle to trains and planes at vacation times and from Notre Dame to St. Mary’s on wintex- week-end nights will be run by Physical Facilities.
Among othex- programs ear-marked foxattention by student government were lowex- summex* storage rates, a personnel and entertainment bureau to help students use their talents in extra-curricular activities and a campaign to acquaint students with school songs, particularly the alma mater, “Notre Dame, Oux-Mother.”
The student governing body also plans to set up a student travel bureau, a senate committee to help acquaint students with international problems and a program to provide families in Vetville with student baby-sitters.
“Remember,” Brady emphasized, “that these are programs which are eithex- entirely new ox- only partly completed. Student government will continue to carry out and improve traditional functions such as providing all social activity at Notre Dame.”
Lt. Col. Merkle Heads
Local AFROTC Unit
The appointment of Lt. Colonel Matthew H. Merkle as commanding officer- of Notre Dame’s Aix- Force ROTC unit and as professox- of aix- science and tactics at the University has been announced by Aix- Force Headquarters and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
A 1939 Notre Dame graduate, Col. Merkle has been serving as a logistics officex- at headquarters of the U. S. AirForces in Europe, Wiesbaden, Germany. He succeeds Colonel Milton M. Towner
who is retiring from the Air Force afterthirty years of service.
Col. Merkle, who holds the rating of senior pilot in the Air Force, is a native of Tacoma, Wash. He is a graduate of Bellarmine High School there and was 1 graduated from Notre Dame’s College of Commerce in 1939. Entering the AirForce two years later, he completed pilot’s training and was commissioned in January 1942.
His overseas tours of duty include New Guinea, the Philippines and Hawaii 4 from 1944 to 1947 and Germany for the past three years. Col. Merkle is married and has two sons and two daughters.
Col. Towner has been Air Force com
manding officer at Notre Dame since 1954. Born in Raton, New Mexico, he is a 1927 West Point graduate. His military awards include the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star and the Croix de Guerre.
Another addition to the Air Force ROTC staff is Captain Robert F. Ambrose, who has been transferred from pilot duty at Ashiya Air Base in Japan. Capt. Ambrose graduated from U.C.L.A. in 1949 and gained his commission from the AFROTC unit there. Holder of a master’s degree in Business Administration, Capt. Ambrose will instruct Sophomore cadets.

Upperclassmen to Advise AB, Commerce Freshmen
6
Within the next ten days, freshmen of the colleges of commerce, and arts Ml' and letters will receive visits from S| upperclassmen who will sex-ve as their ® senior- advisors during the coming year. Wjj
This service provides the student with someone in his same course to help him O’ with problems of adjustment. Any j 1 freshman in commerce or arts and letters X I who has not received a call by the end I of this period is asked to contact Larry 3 > Wentz any afternoon between 3:30 and 10 I 5 p.m. in the Blue Circle office of the *3 ? Student Center, or room 306 Sorin Hall. @ l(
There will be a very important meet-^a'’’ ing of all the freshman advisors in theW i Law Auditorium Tuesday evening at® ) 7:45 p.m.	W
10
The Scholastic&i
li
i
JM
Thanksgiving Vacation Schedule Announced; Rev. Joyce Reveals New Policy at Pep Rally
Last night at the first pep rally of the football season, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, announced that Notre Dame will have a Thanksgiving vacation.
Instead of having days off from class for Founders’ Day and the Immaculate ' Conception, students will be given a holiday from the end of classes on Wednesday, Nov. 27, until the resumption of classes on the following Monday, Dec. 1.
This new policy came about as a result of a Student Senate resolution passed by the current Senate at a-meeting last May and presented to the University Council for sanction. Father Joyce’s announcement confirms the Council’s approval of the Senate resolution.
The usual vacation regulations will be in force for the four-day holiday, similar to those used at Christmas and Easter. No cutting of classes will be allowed two days before and after the vacation, except for those on the Dean’s List.
Reasons for the new vacation policy are numerous. Among them is the fact that over 60 per cent of the students cut classes during previous holiday periods when only Thanksgiving day
Meehan Fund to Benefit New Southern Students
One student from each of six southern states will be eligible for a four year scholarship at Notre Dame beginning in September, 1958, it was announced recently by Rev. Richard Murphy, C.S.C., chairman of the University scholarship committee.
The Meehan scholarships, founded in 1936 by the late Augustus F. Meehan of Chattanooga, Tenn., provide an annual grant of $750 for four years for one qualified high school graduate from Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. Neither religious creed nor financial necessity are determinants in selecting the scholarship winners.
The home of the applicant’s parents must be within the geographical limits of the state for which he applies. Each applicant must be a high school senior and must apply for admission to Notre Dame as well as for the Meehan scholarship prior to January 1, 1958. He must prestent a birth or baptismal certificate attesting that he is a native bom American citizen. The applicant must take the College Entrance Examination Board tests on January 11, 1958.
was a holiday. This indicated that students would probably prefer the Thanksgiving period off rather than the other two single holidays.
Father Joyce also announced at the pep rally that if the usual high spirit and sportsmanship of the student body continued throughout the season, students will not have to come back to classes on Saturday, Jan. 4, as previously scheduled. Classes will resume, instead, on the following Monday, Jan. 6th.
The executive vice-president was one of three principal speakers at last night’s rally where the student body exhorted the Irish gridders to win their initial game with Purdue tomorrow.
Coach Terry Brennan and Student Body President Jerry Brady were the other two who spoke to the assembled crowd in the fieldhouse.
ND-Army Grid Renewal Planned For Student Trip
The annual Student Trip this year has as its destination Municipal Stadium in Philadelphia, where the classic Notre Dame-Army rivalry will be renewed. Six hundred Notre Dame students will leave South Bend on Friday, Oct. 11, via the Pennsylvania Railroad, to attend the game. The early ticket sale was on Wednesday and Thursday of this past week.
The arrival time in Philadelphia is 9:45 a.m., which leaves time for those making the trip to attend a late Mass and then take in a few of the sights of Philadelphia. All will meet at the stadium at 2 p.m. for the game. After the game they will leave directly from the stadium by bus in order to catch the 6:15 train to New York City.
On Sunday morning there will be Mass at St. Patricks Cathedral to start the day. The rest of the day will be left free so that there will be time for sightseeing and leisurely wandering about New York. At 4 p.m. the train departs from Pennsylvania station to return the six hundred students to South Bend. Arrival time is set for 7:20 a.m. Monday, October 14.
Total cost of the trip has been kept to less than fifty dollars. Included in this is round trip transportation between South Bend, Philadelphia, and New York, busses to and from the stadium, meals on the train, lodging, and the reception in New York. Walt Huurman, Student Trip chairman, has made all the arrangements.
PROF. DAVIDSON
At the Embassy Waltz
Bob Davidson to Play For 'Embassy Waltz
Bobby Davidson, a well known local campus performer, but a newcomer to Notre Dame, will be featured at Embassy Waltz, the 1957 Arts and Letters Ball which, will be held on Friday, October 4, in the LaFortune Student Center.
A professor of music at Western Michigan University, Davidson has played with such band leaders as Dick Jurgens, Teddy Phillips, Ted Weems, Bob Strong, and Anson Weeks. After playing in the United States Army Dance Band during World War II, he toured the country leading an all GJ. Band which he disbanded after a year on the road in order to teach at Western Michigan.
The Davidson Band has backed such artists as Pat Boone, Julius La Rosa, Marion Marlowe, Charley Applewhite, and Guy Mitchell on their various mid-westem tours. This summer Bobby played a series of band wars in the Michigan area with the well-known Buddy Morrow. The band has been very popular at the University of Michigan, Michigan State, his own Western Michigan, and numerous colleges in that area. He has also played in ballrooms, night clubs, and country-clubs throughout the midwest.	_
Davidson has added a number of arrangements to his widely varied book in order to increase the group’s appeal as a college dance band. His arrangements come from men who work for Les Brown and Les Elgart, as well as an arranger for the late Tommy Dorsey.
September 27, 1957
II
M
THE NEW DINING HALL Where freshmen feast
Two Residences, Cafeteria Put in Operation; Keenan, Stanford Halls House 600 Students
Two new residence halls and a cafeteria, comprising a $4,300,000 construction program at Notre Dame, have been completed and put into operation with the opening of the 1957-58 school year.
The buildings, originally scheduled for completion in the spring of 1958, were finished ahead of schedule for the opening of the term. Housing a total of just over 600 students, the residence halls make it possible for virtually all freshmen, sophomores and juniors to live on campus.
The cafeteria serves the eastern portion of the campus, which houses about one-third of the student body. The remainder of the students eat in the old dining hall.
Connected by a foyer and chapel, which will serve both halls, the residence halls are gifts of Mrs. Grattan T. Stanford of New York City and of Mr. and Mrs. James Keenan of Fort Wayne, Ind. Mrs. Stanford’s husband, who died in 1946, was a Notre Dame graduate of 1904. He was general counsel for the Sinclair Oil Corp, and had served on the Notre Dame Board of Lay Trustees from 1937 until his death.
Mr. and Mrs. Keenan donated Keenan Hall in memory of their son, James Keenan, Jr., who died in an accident prior to beginning college in 1941. The elder Keenan is president of the Keenan Hotel Co. and has been a hotel executive for 50 years. The dining hall has not been donated to the school and was con
12
structed ■with funds borrowed from the University endowment.
The buildings, designed by Ellerge and Co. of St. Paul, Minn., are of buff brick construction with limestone trim. The dining hall will seat 1500 students, 1000 of them in the main room which can be divided into four- separate rooms by sliding doors. There are also two other dining rooms. Each room is served by its own cafeteria line, six lines altogether.
Students in the halls are housed in double rooms, 150 rooms in each hall. Rooms are furnished with single beds, two desks and chairs, a dresser, built in hanging and drawer space, bed spreads, and drapes for the closet and windows.
The chapel, opening off the foyer between the halls, is due for completion in mid-October. It will be fully air conditioned and will have a pipe organ. The office for the freshman chaplain, Rev. Dan O’Neill, C.S.C., also opens off the foyer. The basement of Keenan Hall contains a laundry distribution center for the east halls and the basement of Stanford Hall contains the new offices of the Notre Dame publications.
Rector of Keenan Hall is Rev. Michael Murphy, C.S.C. Floor prefects are Rev. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C., Rev. Bernard G. Murchland, C.S.C., and Rev. Harry Eichorn, C.S.C. Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C. is rector of Stanford Hall, and Rev. Thomas Bill, C.S.C., Rev. Dan O’Neill, C.S.C., and Rev. Joseph Gaub-inger, C.S.C., are floor prefects.
Orientation Program Welcomes Freshmen
Incoming freshmen began their week of orientation with the annual President’s Reception held in the Student Center on Friday, Sept. 16. The reception gave both the freshmen and their parents a change to get acquainted with the officers of the University’s administration.
Following the reception the rectors of the four freshman halls gave brief talks to both the students and their parents.
On Saturday, the sports program got underway with a 36 hole golf tournament and also- a classwide basketball tourney. After the program had been completed the class was officially welcomed by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University in a brief address at Washington Hall.
A mixer in the Student Center and a lawn party at St. Mary’s Academy were held Sunday afternoon, while the class mission was opened by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, on Sunday evening.
During the last few days of orientation, various members of the administration gave talks to the freshmen, hall smokers were held, and the week was climaxed with both a picnic at Pottawatomie Park and activities welcome in the Fieldhouse.

M
I
Debating Team Plans Schedule For Activities
Discussing the topic “Be it resolved that required membership in a labor organization as a condition of employment be illegal,” this year’s Notre Dame debating team plans to have a full and interesting schedule of activities.
Projected plans for the team include trips to Southern Methodist University, the University of Miami in Fla., Spring Hill College in Mobile, Ala., Georgetown University in Washington, D. C., and Boston University in Boston, Mass. The team will fly to many of their debates this year for the first time, according to President Jack Martzell.
In two weeks, Bob Dempsey, vicepresident of the team and Freshman

coach, will conduct classes in the evening for the freshmen interested in § debating. There will be debating sessions four days a week, Monday through J Thursday at 4:30 p.m. Scheduled also 3 are frequent intersquad debates with J St. Mary’s College.	3
On Oct. 5, Paul Coffey and Jack 3 Martzell will travel to Butler* University ® in Indianapolis, Ind., to give a demonstration to 50 high school debaters. They g will discuss last year’s debating topic, Ig “Foreign Aid.”	S
The Scholastic
New Head Appointed For Navy ROTC Unit
Behme, of the Navy, is general chairman of the Ball, and is assisted by Hugh Murphy of the Army and Denny D’Alelio of the Air Force.
Fall Festival of Arts Planned For Oct. 6-10
' Capt. Leonard T. Morse, USN, naval attache at the American embassy in Moscow since 1955, has been appointed j commanding officer of the Navy ROTC I ' unit and professor of Naval Science at , Notre Dame, according to an announce-j ment by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, '	C.S.C., University president.
s Capt. Morse, who assumed his new । - duties on Sept. 3, succeeds Capt. Thomas L. Greene, a veteran submarine com] mander and head of Notre Dame’s Naval ROTC unit since 1955, who is retiring after thirty years service in the Navy.
A native of Portland, Me., and a 1929 Annapolis graduate, Capt. Morse has ; been decorated for his service during 1 World Wai’ II and the Korean conflict.
He was navigator and air officer aboard the aircraft carrier- “Hornet” during • 1943-44 and later served as staff plans i officer for Navy air units on Guam and with the Pacific fleet. In Korea, where . he was senior naval liaison officer, he ; was cited for “skillfully coordinating the operations of naval aircraft with those of the Fifth Air Force.”
Capt. Morse has been a Naval aviator since 1932. His tours of duty during the past twenty-five years have included assignments with Navy air units and commands of ships and bases serving the i Navy’s air mission. In Moscow he held the dual posts of naval attache and naval attache for air. His decorations include the Bronze Star Medal with Gold Star in lieu of the second award.
Other new personnel receiving duty at the University are Major R. J. McGlynn, USMC, Lt. F. A. Rogers, USNR, Lt. Jg. W. Delaney, USN, and L. A. / Safford, YNC(SS), USN.
| Military Ball to Feature I Music by Dick Carlton
* The 1957 Military Ball, featuring the music of Dick Carlton, will be held October 18, from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center.
The ball committee, headed by Jim Behme, promises that this will be one of the big events of the fall season and ‘ has set a goal of 400 tickets. Members of all classes of the three R.O.T.C. units are invited. All freshmen who buy tickets are guaranteed to have their uniforms in time for the dance. Bids are priced at $4.
There will also be a Communion break' fast in the Morris Inn on Sunday, October 20, after the 8 o’clock Mass. A maximum of 100 tickets will be sold for the breakfast, at a price of $3.
'Scholastic* to Determine Best-Liked Dance Song
What song would you most like to hear at a dance? This is what the Scholastic is trying to find out in a music survey that will be run this weekend.
Notre Dame will be musically saluted on the Oct. 11 Buddy Morrow Show, the night before the Army game. As part of this musical tribute, the producers of the show are interested in determining what song the student body would like to hear played at a dance.
The Scholastic will have boxes set up in the lobbies of the two dining halls all day tomorrow and Sunday and in the Huddle tomorrow only. Anyone can drop in the title of the song they like the best and thus help determine the song which will be played.
We would like to have as many students as possible contribute song titles to make the survey as representative as possible of the entire campus.
The Buddy Morrow Show will be broadcast over the CBS radio network from 10:30 to 11 p.m. (CST).
In order to make the show complete, the student body’s favorite dance song is needed. The Scholastic will have suggestion boxes set up tomorrow and Sunday. Will you help us?
UNPACKING THE EXHIBITOIN
Father Lauck, Curator Byrne and assistants
The 1957 Fall Festival of Arts, staged in conjunction with the Ails and Letters Ball, will be held this year from Oct. 6 through 10, according to a recent announcement by George Oess, Festival of x Arts chairman.
Robert Walker, director of the National Art Gallery in Washington, D. C., will be the featured speaker at the opening session in the art gallery on Oct. 6 at 2 p.m. His topic will be “Christian Ait in the National Gallery.”
Wilbur Peat, director of the John Herron Institute in Indianapolis, Ind., will deliver a lecture on Oct. 7. Both Walker and Peat are members of the advisory committee for the Arts and Letters College.
Talks Scheduled
Other talks that week are scheduled by Professors Robert Leader and John Nims for Tuesday and Wednesday nights. Nims’ topic will be Dante.
On Oct. 10, Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., will present a lecture and demonstration of Gregorian chant. The Moreau Seminary choir will assist him.
All during the week there will be on display over 120 art pieces representing early types of early Christian art, some dating as far back as the second century.
Helping Oess in handling the arrangements for the week are Joe Fan-one and John Styzinski.
September 27, 1957
13
Seven Halls Affected By Rector Changes
During the past summer, 29 changes in rectors and prefects were made, it was reported by Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., Dean of Students.
Rev. Michael Murphy, C.S.C., was changed from rector of Farley Hall to rector of Keenan Hall. Rev. Raymond Cour, C.S.C., was moved from prefect at Alumni Hall to rector of Morrissey. Rev. Edward Shea, C.S.C., was changed from prefect at Lyons Hall to rector of ■ Badin.
Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C. was changed from rector of Breen-Phillips to rector of Stanford, Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., former prefect in Alumni, was named rector- of St. Edward’s Hall. Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., was changed from rector of St. Edward’s to rector of Breen-Phillips. Rev.- Joseph Haley, C.S.C., former rector of Badin, was made rector of Farley.
Changes in prefects were: Rev. James Shilts, C.S.C., from Badin to Alumni; Rev. William Morrison, C.S.C., Morrissey to Dillon; Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., from Badin to Howard; Rev. Patrick Maloney, C.S.C., from Zahm to Lyons; Rev. Roland Soucie, C.S.C., from Dillon to Lyons; Rev. James Doll, C.S.C., from Cavanaugh to Morrissey; Rev. Thomas Bill, C.S.C., from Breen-Phillips to Stanford; and Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C., who will be prefect in Stanford Hall along with his duties as Freshman chaplain.
New prefects on the campus this year are: in Dillon Hall, Rev. Henry Guess, C.S.C., and Rev. James O’Halloran, C.S.C.; in Badin, Rev. Stanley Parry, C.S.C., and Bro. Francis Gorch, C.S.C.; in Howard, Rev. John Lubbers, C.S.C.; in Breen-Phillips, Rev. John Wilson, C.S.C., and Rev. D. James Sullivan, C.S.C.; in Cavanaugh, Rev. John Dunne, C.S.C.; in Farley, Rev. John Maguire, C.S.C.; in Zahm, Rev. Paul Wendell, C.S.C.; in Keenan, Rev. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C., Rev. Bernard Murchland, C.S.C., and Rev. Harry Eichorn, C.S.C.; and in Stanford, Rev. Joseph Gaubinger, C.S.C.
Band Plans to Reintroduce 'Notre Dame, Our Mother'
An effort to install “Notre Dame, Our Mother,” as the official Alma Mater of the University is the main project of the inarching band as it prepares for its opening performance at the first home football game with Indiana.
The first show, besides reintroducting “Notre Dame, Our Mother” to the student body, will also be a dedication to Colonel Fehr of Louisville, Ky., a member of the 1887 football team, the first
14
ATTENTION SENIORS
Letters of application for the following committee chairmanships for the 1958 Senior Ball will be accepted until Oct. 4, 1957: Business Manager, Communion Breakfast chairman, Decorations chairman, Dinner Dance chairman, Entertainment chairman, Hotel Reservation chairman, Publicity chairman, Refreshment chairman, and Ticket chairman.
Address all letters to Robert F. Duffy, 712 Cleveland Ave., South Bend, Ind., or bring them to 225 Walsh Hall.
St. Mary’s to Present NBC Opera Festival
Casts of the NBC Opera Company arrived in South Bend today with a
company of 90 players, including the orchestra. There was a parade beginning at the Oliver Hotel in South Bend at 11 a.m. which arrived at Saint Mary’s College at 12:30 p.m.
A full dress student preview will be presented tomorrow evening at 7 p.m. of “Madame Butterfly.” On Monday evening at 7 p.m., there will be a full dress student preview of “La Traviata.”
Public perfomances, for which tickets are still available, will begin next Tuesday, at 8 p.m. with a presentation of “La Traviata.” The following evening at 8 p.m. the performance will be “Madame Butterfly.” The public performances will conclude on Thursday evening, at 8 p.m. with a second presentation of “La Traviata.”
The Opera Festival will end on Oct. 5, at 7 p.m., with a full dress student preview of the “Marriage of Figaro.”
Miss Angela Fazio, St. Mary’s College student, quoted the policy concerning programs in O’Laughlin Auditorium: “Except for performances for which there is a public ticket sale, Notre Dame students can come only as individual guests of SMC students. Arrangements for this can be made through the Social Commission at Notre Dame. Preference for dates will be given to the glee club, band members, orchestra members, and students in dramatics and student government.”
fielded by the University. During their performance, the band will show the changes in music from Colonel Fehr’s time to the present day with a mixture of the old and new in musical tastes.
Robert O’Brien, band director, as-sted by drum major Richard Kopituk and assistant-director Bob Brown, has selected 112 members to march in the home opener against the Hoosiers.
University Gives Nine Burns Scholarships
Nine incoming freshmen have been awarded Rev. James A. Burns Memorial Scholarships at Notre Dame for the 1957-58 school year, according to Rev. Richard D. Murphy, C.S.C., director of 1 admissions and scholarships.
Tuition scholarships for the freshman year valued at $900 have been assigned to Joseph Costantino, John Kim, Jerome Kriegshauser, Charles Miller, Robert Nowicki, Emery Reistetter, Lyn Relph, Lawrence Schnepf, and Jerry Wolfe. <
Burns scholarship winners are selected on the basis of their academic promise, personal characteristics, leadership in extra-curricular- activities and financial need. A partial tuition scholarship and a campus job in succeeding years are assured Burns scholarship recipients i who maintain an 85% academic average as freshmen.
The Burns scholarships were established in honor of the late Rev. Janies A. Burns, C.S.C., who served as President of Notre Dame from 1919-22. In I later years he was Provincial and Assist- J ant Superior General of the Congregation ' of Holy Cross which operates the University.
Army Expansion Brings Changes in ROTC Units .
In order to meet the record enrollment I
in the Army ROTC for this school year, the Cadet Corps has been reorganized. The Army at Notre Dame has gone “Pentomic.”
The Cadet Corps will be organized into a brigade instead of a regiment and will consist of four battle groups instead of | battalions. Cadet Lieut. Col. John Hirschfeld has been named brigade com- f mander with Cadet Majors Gerald | Genovese, Richard Ninneman, John | Flanagan, and Donald McNeill being a named battle group commanders.	I
Five new men have been added to the I Army ROTC teaching staff this year, | including two commissioned officers. K
The enrollment for the Army ROTC 1 this year is nearly 800 students, the | largest in history for the Army at Notre S Dame.	S
Christian Family Movement i To Hold 'Welcome Dinner' j
Tomorrow evening, 200 members of the Christian Family movement of South Js Bend, in cooperation with the Human 3 Relations club and the La Raza club, @ will put on a “welcome dinner” for approximately 100 of the international |B students at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s 2
in the Vetville Recreation Hall.
The Scholastic
Rev. Collins Appointed Deon of Students; New Office Replaces Prefect of Discipline
During the past summer, Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., was named to the position of Dean of Students.
Father Collins succeeds the Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C., former prefect of discipline, who was recently appointed to the Provincial Council of the Holy Cross Fathers’ Indiana province. Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., had been serving as the University’s acting disciplinary officer for several months.
During the 1956-57 school year, Father Collins was rector of Morrissey Hall. He was superior of Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame from 1946 to 1949 and headed Holy Cross Seminary on the campus from 1949 to 1952. He has also served as chaplain at St. Edward High School, Lakewood, Ohio, and as director of Andre House at Notre Dame, formerly a house of formation for Holy Cross Brothers.
Foi several years, Father Collins has been director of the annual summer Institute of Spirituality at Notre Dame. The Institute attracts more than 800 Superiors and Novice Mistresses of wo-
, Rev. Walsh to Direct ] Education Department
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., was re-j cently appointed head of the department 1 of education at Notre Dame, succeeding Dr. Bernard J. Kohlbrenner who has headed the department since 1949. Prof. ! Kohlbrenner, who has taught at Notre A Dame from 1929 to 1933 and since 1945, will now give all his time to teaching and research.
A thirty-four year old native of Jack! son, Neb., Father Walsh, a specialist I in the philosophy of education, received a | doctorate from Yale University in 1953 and has been a Notre Dame faculty 1 member since that time.
In the University’s Graduate School he has taught courses in “Comparative Education,” “The School and Social Order,” and “Contemporary Philosophy of Education in the United States.”
Father Walsh entered the novitiate f’ of the Holy Cross Fathers in 1942 and ( was graduated from Notre Dame in I 1945. After four years of theological k studies at Holy Cross College, Washing-| ton, D. C., he was ordained to the priest?' hood on June .8, 1949, by the late Arch' bishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne. He ' ‘ received a master’s degree at Notre
Dame the following year. ■
Father Walsh is a member of the Comparative Education Society and is
men’s religious communities. He has edited the Institute’s proceedings since 1952.	•
A native of Revere, Mass., Father Collins entered the novitiate of the Holy Cross Fathers in 1934 and was graduated from Notre Dame in 1938. He was ordained to the priesthood by the late Archbishop Noll of Fort Wayne on June 24, 1942.
The personnel of the office of Dean of Students assisting Father Collins will be Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., assistant dean of students; Mr. Patrick Hickey, assistant to the dean of students (off campus) ; and Mr. Andrew Daley, security officer of the university.
The change of the name of Prefect of Discipline to dean of students was made to disassociate the title of the office from one primarily of policing. This change has been made on many campuses in an attempt to encourage a departure from a reference to the negative aspects of regulating, and to inspire a correlation of the title to the first purpose of the office, the positive activity of helping students with their problems.
REV. COLLINS Dean of Students
president of the Chicago region of the Philosophy of Education . Society.
Dr. Kohlbrenner, a native of Syracuse, N. Y., has specialized in the history of education. He holds his degree from Syracuse University and Harvard awarded him a doctorate in 1942. Prior to rejoining the Notre Dame faculty in 1945, he was head of the department of education at the College of New Rochelle, N. Y. From 1933 to 1940 he taught at St. Louis University. He is the author of more than thirty articles of the National Educational Association and National Catholic Educational Association.
Manager Announces Student Center Rules
Fred Holzl, manager of the LaFortune Student Center, announces the rules, which will be strictly enforced during all Center activities of this school year. The observance of these rules will help make the Center of greater use, benefit, and pride to all Notre Dame students and their guests, Holzl commented.
No T-shirts or blue jeans will be allowed in the Center. Students should be neatly dressed while using the Center facilities.
Refreshments will not be pennitted in the main lounge oi* second floor. The only area where the consumption of food is permitted is in the Rathskeller.
Permissions for all activities by clubs or other groups should be obtained from the Student Center manager. His hours will be 3 to 5 p.m. Monday thi*u Friday and 1 to 5 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. Evening hours will be 7 to 10 pun. Sunday thru Thursday, 7 to 11 pun. on Friday and 7 to 11:30 pun. on Saturdays.
Students are requested to be careful while smoking and to use the ash trays. Smoking will not be permitted on the ballroom floor during dances.
The Center manager hopes that the students will conduct themselves properly at all times so that the LaFortune Student Center will be an outstanding example of student life at Notre Dame.
Ticket Sale to Begin For Campus Theater
Season ticket sales for the three productions planned by the University Theater this year will start next Monday and continue throughout the week. The box office in Washington Hall will be open from 3:30 to 8:30 pun., Monday through Friday.
Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., faculty moderator* for the University Theater, announced that the student prices for the season tickets will be $2.50 for orchestra seats and $2.00 for the balcony.
All those who held season tickets for last year and who desire the same seats for this year’s performances can get them at the box office during the next week.
The first production will be “Time Limit,” a drama written by Henry Denker and Ralph Berkey, which is scheduled for November 13 through 17. There is a special performance slated for the 22nd.
George Bernard Shaw’s “Pygmalion” will be staged on February 12 through 16. The last production, a musical which is not yet chosen, will be held from May 7 through May 12.
September 27, 1957
15
“Adolpho Consoiinii and I conversed in French.”
A Goodwill Tour
Aubrey Lewis in Europe
Aubrey’s best quarter-mile leg for the quartet was :47.0 and the group had a best time of 3:12. 2.
Aubrey is the current National Col- • legiate Athletic Association champion and record holder in the 440-yard hurd- I les. In last year’s NCAA meet, he competed in the 220-yard low hurdles and finished third. His time of :22.7 set a new Notre Dame record in that event. f
The entire group began their toui- in London. Some of the other athletes j accompanying Aubrey were Tom Court- I ney, Fordham; Al Oerter, Kansas; Phil Reavis, Villanova; Ron Delaney, Villa- ' nova; and Harold Connelly, Olympic ! hammer throw champion.
In London the group was separated into different segments with each party visiting and competing in meets in different cities across Europe.	.
Aubrey witnessed the changing of the ( . guard at Buckingham Palace which he thought was quite impressive.
“But what impressed me most in London,” he tells, “was Hyde Park. Here, men gathered crowds around them and talked of everything under the sun.
“There was complete freedom of -speech there. One man would be advo- i eating Communism; another man nearby I would be renouncing it. All anyone i needed was listeners and he could deliver his ideas and beliefs.”
The team also visited Manchester, England. While there Aubrey saw a number of the castles still present in that area.
It was' in Manchester that he also learned an interesting aspect of England.
“One night I walked into a public dance hall, and, expecting the usual reserved English atmosphere, I was sur-
J



by TOM EDWARDS
SEPTEMBER means the return to school for Notre Dame students and the return to football for the Irish varsity. But to Aubrey Lewis, Notre Dame left halfback and captain-elect of the track team, it signified the end of a summer of touring Europe with the National Amateur Athletic Union track team. .
While in Europe he represented the United States as a member of a select group of athletes in competition against various foreign athletes.
Although he also visited France and
Ireland, he only ran in meets in England and Germany. He competed in the 400 meter hurdles and won eleven of the twelve races in which he ran.
His best time in this event was :50.5, which tied the world’s record set by Josh Culbreath, Morgan State, a few weeks earlier in another division of the tour.
He also ran the second leg on the undefeated mile relay team composed of Charlie Jenkins, Villanova; Culbreath, and Reggie Pearman, New York Athletic Club.
'That’s Al Oerter with the umbrella.’
16
The Scholastic

prised to see English entertainers impersonating such American Rock and Roll artists as Little Richard and Elvis Presley. And the audience was responding accordingly. They were mostly teenagers do—cool!”
When asked if he encountered any racial problem in England, Aubrey replied, “No. We were representing the United States, and the whole team was treated royally. We had the best accommodations possible.
“But I did talk to a couple of African boys who were students there. They agreed that things there were all right, but that they still carried an uneasy feeling.
“I asked them if they would like to remain there after they had graduated and both replied with a hasty ‘No.’ They wanted to gain their education and then return to their own homeland and people.”
From England the team traveled through France and Germany. Here athletes from Poland, Czechoslovakia, Switzerland, France, Italy and Sweden competed with the Americans and their German hosts.
“We missed the Russians by a few days,” Aubrey added. “I would have liked to compete against some of them. Our high jumpers especially wanted to see them and learn about their special shoes for high jumping which they recently came out with.
“From what we heard over there, it’s constructed something like a rocking chair. It enables the high jumper to come to a complete stop at the takeoff point and transfer almost all of his horizontal momentum to a vertical lift.”
“The shoe involves changing the entire style of the high jumper. He has to approach the bar directly from the front, as contrasted to the almost parallel approach that most jumpers employ today.
“The type of jumper that succeeds best while using this shoe is a differently built man. While most of the men who jump at the present are tall and slender in order to use their height to get over the bar, the Russian jumpers who have used the shoe most successfully are stocky fellows for the most part. They make up for their lack of height with powerfully built legs that push them up over the bar.
“From talking to the other athletes, we learned that the Russians are, for the most part, highly regarded as competitors. They train hard and are always in the best of condition.”
Track and field in Europe is a much greater spectator sport than here in the United States. A crowd of 55,000 watched one of the meets.
“Another example of the status of track and field in Europe is the different attitude towards women athletes there
as compared to those in the United States.
“In the U.S., it seems that women are often frowned upon when they compete in athletics, with the possible exception of tennis and golf.
“But in Europe it’s a different story. Over there, the female athlete is honored and given respect just as men are here. And as a result they turn out some very good women track stars.”
Competing with athletes from the various countries gave Aubrey a chance to learn various techniques and styles. It also provided him a chance to become acquainted with a number of the greats of the track world.
“One of the real pleasures of the trip was meeting Adolpho Consolinii, who along with Fortune Gordien of the U.S. is considered one of the grandads of the discus.
“He didn’t speak English and I couldn’t talk a word of Italian, but we both managed to fit enough French together to keep up the conversation.
“Adolpho, like all the athletes that I ■ met in Europe, was a real nice guy. . .
“Most of the fellows, myself included, had heard rumors about government-subsidized athletes in Europe. But those fellows are amateurs just like we are. They compete out of the love for the sport.”
“But then, of course, we didn’t get to meet the Russians,” Aubrey added laughingly.
Aubrey visited Cologne, also, and paid a visit to the Cathedral there which withstood the bombings of World War II.
A tourist traveling across Europe often finds himself in many humorous situations. Apparently an athlete does, too.
“In London, the buses stop for just a certain length of time. One night we were going into town. The bus stopped. Two of the group made it on, but the other five of us ended up chasing the darn thing halfway through London before we caught it. It’s a great way for- a track- team to stay in shape, though.
“The cars over there are a nuisance,' too. This driving down the opposite side of the street gets you down, I mean sometimes, really down. I’d step off the curb and look to my left, see that it was clear and take a step. That’s where I made my mistake. Tires would squeal, horns would honk, and I’d be back on the curb ready to try again. Give me Jersey drivers anytime.”
Visiting Europe is a great experience and thrill.
“But a bigger thrill,” adds Aubrey, ■ “is being chosen to represent your country against men from other countries. It sure makes you feel good after- winning a race to walk to the winner’s stand and hear your name announced as representing the United States.”
“Would I like to do it again? Of course. It’s a great honor. But I’m afraid my next nine months are already booked.”
And they are. Ten football games. Indoor track. Outdoor track. But through all of them will be carried the memory of the summer and .the visit to the distant lands.
September 27, 1957
17
Fres
Pi<
Photos by J OF
18
U
I
man
piic
McDonough
Catch an egg? Some do . . .
. . . some don’t.
jne to Vassar.”
How should I know where they went?
September 27, 1957
19
NFCCS
Student Reports or
Since the time of the New Deal Americans have loved to use distinguishedsounding initials for organizations to which they belong, mostly, we suspect, to prove that they know something mysterious that no one else knew.
You, for example, belong to the NFCCS, headed by a NEC, under the NCWC. Of course you do; if you listen carefully you can hear people in student government telling you that you do. So what? What does all this mean to me? Are these just more initials used to hide the purpose of something unimportant or even harmful?
We think not. To begin with NFCCS stands for the National Federation of Catholic College Students, an organization of students which operates under the Youth Department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference. The NCWC is made up of all the bishops of the United States on a voluntary basis. Notre Dame is a member of the Federation through the student government, situated in the Fort Wayne region. Every student at the University is therefore a member of NFCCS and of the Fort Wayne region.
The Federation gives the students at Notre Dame, through their student government, a voice and an outlet for the work done here on campus to be sent to other Catholic schools throughout the country. We also receive from these other universities and colleges the ideas which have enabled them to better the position of their own students. At the present time Notre Dame occupies a unique place in its own region and within the Federation. Among Catholic schools we are very well endowed with physical, academic and financial resources. We are, therefore, in a position to give of our superior resources and aid many others by what we have accomplished on campus. We can, of course, also receive much benefit, but at the present time our chief mission in NFCCS is to assist neighboring schools.
Mike Phenner, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected National Vice President of the National Federation of Catholic College Students in New York City at the Federation’s fourteenth annual congress. More than five hundred delegates were at the congress which met at the Hotel Roosevelt from August 26-31. Phenner, a history major from Neenah, Wis., will serve as
a member of the National Executive Committee and the National Council in his capacity as Vice President for Social Action Affairs.
Joseph R. Harris, a senior from La Salle College, was elected national president. Harris is the first Negro ever to be elected to this post.
As a national officer, one of four vice presidents, Phenner has taken on many responsibilities. First, he must attend all regular and special meetings of the Executive Committee, which ordinarily meets five times throughout the year. The first such meeting will be held in the national offices of the federation in Washington, D. C., at the end of October.
MIKE PHENNER
Secondly, he must attend all regular meetings of the National Council which meets three times during the year. The National Council is the chief executive body of the Federation.
In addition to- being on the National Council and the Executive Committee, Phenner is responsible for all commissions and committees in the social action affairs division of NFCCS. A national commission is primarily a sendee organization for all of the 180 colleges and universities, representing some 260,000 students, in the federation.
Representing Notre Dame along with Phenner in New York were Jerry Brady, Harry Wasoff, Dennis Conway, Tom Greene, John Hirschfeld, Jerry Murphy, John Foley, Jim Connelly, and Jack Conroy.
Three Notre Dame students attended the meetings of the National Council before the Congress. Jack Conroy was there as vice president of the Fort Wayne region. John Foley and Jim Connelly attended in their capacities as chairmen of the Catholic Action Study Bureau which is seated at Notre Dame.
The Congress convened with a keynote address by Monsignor John Tracy Ellis who stressed the need for pooling resources of Catholic colleges, particularly on the graduate level in order for us to better produce the Catholic leaders in all phases of national and world affairs which we so desperately need.
Three important resolutions were passed which condemned racial segregation in South Africa, called for a firmer support of the Church’s stand on segregation here in the United States, and the one which condemned the visit of
American youths to Communist China.
Perhaps the most significant fact which came from Notre Dame’s representation at the Congress was the idea that the University must contribute in the way of personnel and real interest to the Federation rather than simply criticize the faults of the organization. This was expressed by the Student Body president, Jerry Brady, when he said that “there is potential value in NFCCS, but we will realize this value only by first contributing to the federation, not asking that it give something to us. The sincere interest of student government must also bring the work of the federation to the student body.”
At this time, Notre Dame is perhaps in the best position it has ever been to exert a real influence in the federation. We have a national officer, a national bureau — one of the best organizations in NFCCS — and a regional officer.
However, it is important to remember that we want to look at Catholic student life in America as a whole, not primarily as a region in which to spread the name of Notre Dame. Nor do we want to develop, what is called in the much used phrase, a “ghetto mentality.” We feel that through NFCCS and its sister organization, NSA, the National Student Association, Catholic students will be able to take a share in national leadership in a student sphere which may well develop in them a sense of the responsibility for like positions in their postgraduate life.
The Scholastic
20
NSA
i Summer Conventions
The greatest single quality possessed by the almost 1,000 delegates, alternates and observers attending the tenth National Student Congress at the University of Michigan late this summer was an almost intense eagerness to demonstrate the maturity and intelligent responsibility of the American student. Representatives of approximately 290 member schools, a large number of observing schools, and the majority of the student associations of the world were assembled to discuss problems ’ affecting students in America and the world.
Following the welcoming plenary sessions, the Congress was divided into 25 sub-commission areas to discuss in detail special areas of student interest and activity. Human relations, leadership training, the educational community, relations with civil governments, athletics, economic welfare, student exchange, and educational travel were several of these sub-commission areas.
After five days of detailed investigation, discussion and debate, the subcommissions assembled into their four main commission areas of Student Government, Educational Affairs, Student Affairs, and International Affairs, where each of the resolutions from the subcommissions were again discussed and debated to develop a broader outlook for the participants.
Finally, all of the resolutions from the four commissions were introduced in the plenary sessions the final four days of the Congress where they were acted upon by the whole Congress.
The result of the whole process was that what began as a resolution of a small group of students concentrating on a small area of student activity became the voice of almost a million students through their representation at the Congress. And each of the participants had an opportunity to view and discuss the total area of student activity. In addition to these formal sessions, participants discussed these topics at all times of day and night.
Some of the most important discussions were on desegregation, academic freedom, the youths .in Communist China, and the future of student participation in the academic policies of higher education. Desegregation and ..academic freedom were the subjects of very violent
September 27, 1957
debate in all of the discussions where they were discussed. However, Notre Dame delegates felt that the final resolutions were sound.
Throughout the Congress guest speakers addressed the students at special plenary sessions. John Cogley, past editor of Commonweal, Buell Gallagher, president of City College of New York, Senator Hubert Humphrey of Minn., and several educators set a note of optimism and concern about the future of the American student. The optimism was expressed because the students could and would partake in a far greater measure in the educational process which is vital to him, showing greater intellectual interest and contributing their-outlook and experiences to the improvement of the educational standards and achievements.
The central question posed was: will the American students accept the challenge that faces them? If there was one
BOB KILEY
aspect of American education that came under attack from almost all students and educators at the convention, it was the atmosphere of conformity and “adjustment to the masses” on the campus, in fact, in the whole society. Almost all speakers urged students to “awake.”
Yet John Cogley felt that this condemnation of students as conformists was basically unfounded and urged students to “rebel against the intellectual
death sentence that has been served on you” by expressing themselves with freedom, in the true sense of initiative and search.
The representatives of the foreign student associations also addressed the Congress at these plenary sessions, giving the participants an insight into some of the special problems they were facing in their own countries. They urged the American students to continue to express their- views and work toward what is right. Many of these student groups in other countries were outlawed by the governments, and others were in greater leadership- positions than NSA.
On the final day of Congress, the elections of the national officers were held. These full-time positions hold an important part in the effectiveness of NSA, for the resolutions and mandates of the Congresses are given to these officers for execution during the year.
Since NSA is entirely -a student organization, these officers must be able to cai-ry the spirit of NSA through the year and pass it on to succeeding students.
This year, Bob Kiley, who was Commerce Senator and outstanding senator of the 1956-57 Student Senate, and graduated from Notre Dame last June, was elected Student Government VicePresident. This will give Notre Dame a vei-y close contact with NSA during the coming year and should be very valuable to Student Government and the student body.
Representatives from Notre Dame attended the Student Body Presidents Conference, the Conference on Foreign Student Affairs, and the actual Congress. From the twelve men participating in the Congress we had hoped to gain a better understanding of the areas discussed in order that they might bring back as much useful information and as many ideas to the Notre Dame campus as possible. From the many discussions we have had since returning to campus, the outlook for advancements on the campus seems broader and brighter this year. Of course, the final test of the success of the year will be next June when we hope some of the achievements will be apparent. But much of any success that is achieved can be attributed to our participation in the Congress and the information obtained during the year from NSA.
21
Iwas just about ready to leave for home when the call came in. Wayne Kelly, the late man that eventful Friday night, recorded the location as it came over the police radio. It sounded routine enough; and I noticed it wasn’t much out of my way, so I volunteered to check it on the way home. Wayne was only too happy to accept the offer, since he didn’t have much of a stomach for spot news anyway. So I grabbed my camera and headed for the Herald’s parking lot.
It was already 11:30 as I sped through the street-lighted blackness and headed for 622 East Jefferson, the deadline for the final edition just sixty minutes away. I drove straight out New York street, which is one way east, until I came to Jefferson; but as I turned south I saw nothing, save a dark, lonely street. My hand fumbled into my coat pocket for the wrinkled slip of copy
Cricket on a
Lampshade
by ED HUNNGATE
paper the address was on. Sure enough 622 East Jefferson was the right address, but there were no police cars, no red lights, no people, nothing in sight as I headed into the 500 block, nothing, that is, but an empty black passageway between two rows of trees. My foot pressed the button on the floor of the car and the bright lights clicked on spraying light into front yards and against dull brick porches.
At last I saw where the trouble was. There was an alley midway in the 600 block, and the commotion seemed to be back somewhere along it. I parked the car, and with camera in hand, approached the alley, a ragged, grey cinder path boarded on each side by small grass-patched hills. As I walked back I could see many glowing white specks from flashlights which suddenly became like nothing as a huge spotlight was turned on illuminating the whole area. The blazing beams splashed light against a large beech tree, and the leaves danced
22
green and silver in the breeze. Next to the tree, and nearly flush against it, was a large garage. It was about fifteen feet high to the base of the roof, tapering almost straight up to twenty-eight or thirty feet at the crown. Its wooden walls supporting the green shingled roof were rotten and grey with age. People crammed into the tiny backyard area surrounding the place, thrill seekers and antagonists.
On the roof of the garage was a boy who, as I learned later, was only seventeen years old. He was tall, nearly six four, and amazingly well developed. He wore no shirt, just dirty, grease stained levies and tennis shoes. His long blond hair was straight and hung in his eyes, which bothered him quite a bit.
The boy was confused and startled at the lights and at the horde of people gawking and gaping at him; and his
fingers clenched tighter around an axe he held in his hand. The weapon was a heavy, double edged blade mounted on a long white handle, but the boy used it with the ease of a forester.
I looked around, spotted Captain Rielly of the safety squad, and made my way over to him.
“Hi, Captain, how’s it look?”
“Hello, Dan. Looks pretty bad I’m afraid. The boy won’t come down.”
“How’d it all start?” I asked hoping for some angle.
“Started this afternoon,” he returned glancing up at the roof. “We got a call to pick up the boy on an incorrigible charge, just a routine pickup. The father made the complaint when the boy chopped up his bicycle with that same axe. We sent a car out but the boy wasn’t here when they arrived. Jane Tibbs and Helen Brouse made the run. They waited for him about eight hours, but when the boy returned and saw the police car
he ran and got the axe. Then he climbed that tree and got on the garage roof. The girls saw that the boy was abnormal and called for help. That’s when we came.” He kept looking up at the boy all the while he was speaking.
“Speaker’s ready to go, Captain.”
“How do you plan to get him off?” I asked more out of curiosity than anything else.
“We’ll try to talk him down, but we can’t take any chances. The boy is nuts as candy and strong as an ox, I imagine. With that axe in his hand he’s no dif
ferent than a killer.”
“What if he won’t talk down? What then?”
“Then we’ll wash him off with a fire hose,” he snapped and moved to the ' sound truck to get things started.
I followed him, eager to learn more l about the boy and about the whole situation in general when I noticed this girl. , She was a plain looking girl wearing no makeup and dressed simply in a brown and white checked dress, but barefoot. She was panic stricken, hysterical, ■ as she darted around here and there screaming and weeping and yelling and pleading. I thought it must be his girl.
“Please, Jimmy, please come down. Nobody’ll hurt you. Oh please Jimmy.” She tried and tried, but he didn’t even see her.
Then she turned to Mike Hines, a rough, hardened police sergeant, “I’m going up there and get him.”
“Sorry, ma’am, I can’t let you take -the chance.”
“But you don’t understand. He’s my brother,” and she looked like she wanted to cry again. “I’ve seen him like this before. I can help him.”
“I’m sorry. It’s out of the question.”
“Well by gosh I’m gonna get him;” she became infuriated, “before he hurts somebody,” and she started off.
Mike stopped her quickly and with a jolt as his big hand tightened around ; her arm.	I
“Look, lady, I said you can’t go up j there. I mean it. You make any more < trouble and we’ll have to take you outta | here.”
With that she fell to her knees sob- | bing, but without shedding a tear. i
The boy was sitting on the end of the g roof with his long legs straddling the £
I
t K
I1,
pointed crown of the rooftop, seemingly Wi not even conscious of the weapon in his 3 hand. He was staring down at the Sv crowd surrounding the building. His mouth hung open. Slowly, almost me- J? chanically, his gaze met every eye peer- Ol
ing up from the ground, his blond head w moving steadily from right to left as he looked. He did not miss one of us, as^/ if he were looking for someone, a friend gin maybe, but looking for someone.

Suddenly, with great alarm, he sprang up and ran to the other end of the roof. Now he stood glaring at the people at
The Scholastic
1®

gg B
that end with the same fixed stare; slow and deliberately he singled out each man.
That done, he turned again with a jerk and walked back somewhat doubt> fully. But then he paused a moment, I his eyes glassy as he stared ahead. His I breathing grew deep; and instinctively t he raised the axe. Whump! It ham-H mered into the shingles once, twice, three, four times in rapid sequence, pounding hard and wildly. Then he stood there unquavering with his head down examining the clean straight cuts in the asphalt.
Again his head popped up quickly and ? he glanced around wide-eyed, like a parakeet trapped in a web of light. Once : more he slapped the axe furiously into | the roof. Whump! But as quickly as I it came it passed, and once more he sat down peering at the crowd.
Phil Clifford, our police reporter on the night beat, came up.
' “Hi, Dan, got any art yet?”
“Not yet. Just got here. Captain Rielly says no flashbulbs, though.”
“No flashbulbs! Why not?” ' i “He’s afraid the kid’ll jump.”
“What’re you gonna do?”
I “Well that spot’s pretty bright. I can • shoot without bulbs okay. It’ll just take longer to develop the film, that’s all.”
I Captain Rielly was talking to the boy’s sister and she, clutching her head as she talked, was nodding in approval of something. Finally they went over to the sound truck.
• “JIMMY,” it blared out. It was too loud; they turned it down. “Jimmy it’s me, Sally. Listen to me Jimmy. Put | down the axe and come down. Nobody I will hurt you. I won’t let them. Please, Jimmy, come on down.”
I| The boy got up and raised the axe. . A snarl curled his lips as he glared down ' into the crowd, his eyes blazing white I' • as he stared. And looking up, the milk white skin of his torso and arms painted an indelible picture against the black night.
“Jimmy,” came the girl’s scream. “Oh ij Jimmy please come down.”
[I He dropped to his knees and leaned ।' forward on his hands, like a hungry tiger ready to spring. With eyes flashing he crouched motionlessly. A deep ( quiet enveloped the area as if the breath j had been drawn from each man’s lungs.
No one moved; they seemed hypnotized by his riveted gaze.
Finally his sister broke the spell with a shriek of horror, “Dad. Dad, get out of here. Darn you, Dad. You know he hates you.”
She ran barefooted over the cinders into the crowd to a short grey-haired, unshaven man and began to push him * backward.
“Why did you come? You know he hates you.”
The man made no answer nor did his
September 27, 1957
expression change. He simply turned slowly and left the scene.
The girl was now obviously overcome with grief. She broke away from the crowd and ran to the tree. “Jimmy, I’m coming Jimmy,” she yelled as she climbed, but a policeman stopped her before she got close enough to get on the roof. Then she started sobbing once more and screaming loud shrill screams. And seeing her that way and knowing she wasn’t injured kind of brought another hush over- the crowd. This time they handcuffed the girl to a policewoman.
It was 12:10 when the fire department arrived and began laying the hose to the fire hydrant. It was a dangerous thing to try — washing him off the roof. What would they do when they got him down? Would he try to fight with the axe? Or would he even be conscious after the fall? Each of these questions, and more, had to be answered.
Captain Rielly was talking to a man named Land, of the fire department, plotting a course of action, when they got a break. The boy, accidentally or otherwise, dropped the axe and it slipped to the ground.
The strategy was changed. It would
be easy now. Ladders were put up aty . eight or nine different spots along the . garage. A volunteer- was called for to 5 go up and get him. One man tried hut half way up the ladder lost his nerve and came down again. Another1 man. tried and he, too, lost his nerve when the boy came charging at him.	-
They had one more volunteer, a big man about thirty years old with big. arms and a broad chest. He was smiling as he took off his shirt and prepared to = climb the ladder.
Policemen were on the other ladders ' trying to distract the boy, and they were having great success. He dashed around -the roof, troubled, like a man in a boat full of holes with water coming in from everywhere, and he running around trying to stop all the leaks at once, and finally going down with the sinking vessel. So, too, with this boy. He could sense, even in his poor mind, that he was being trapped; that he soon would be caught.
The last volunteer climbed the ladder . and was on the roof still unseen by the boy. He crawled up to the peak and . lunged at him from behind. But this time he offered no resistance.
HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost
111 SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
Welcome Back
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11-1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
Symposium Planned On U. S. Catholicism
Jewish, Protestant and Catholic scholars will participate in a symposium on “Roman Catholicism and the American Way of Life” to be held at Notre Dame Oct. 18-19, according to an announcement yesterday by Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the history department.
The purpose of the symposium, Father McAvoy said, “is to examine the impact of Catholicism on present day America and to discuss some of the more important problems that have resulted from the efforts of the Catholic minority to live in the twentieth century United States.”
At the opening session on Oct. 18, the present position of religion in America will be analyzed by Dr. Will Herberg, professor- of Judaic studies and social philosophy at Drew University, Madison, N. J.; Dr. Wilhelm Pauck, professor of church history, Union Theological Seminary, New York City; and Rev. Francis Curran, S.J., Loyola Seminary, Shrub Oak, N. Y.
Several aspects of Catholicism in America will be explored at the symposium’s second session. Speakers and their topics include Rev. R. L. Bruck-berger, O.P., Dominican House of (Continued on Page 33)
‘‘Make Cyr's your headquarters for haircuts.”
Call CE 3-0678 for appointment
CYR’S
BARBER SHOP
South Bend’s Leading Barber Shop
100-102 S. MAIN St. W. E. CYR, Prop.
GENDEL'S SURPLUS SALES
CLOTHING — SHOES — WORK PANTS — JACKETS CAMPING GOODS
512 S. MICHIGAN AT 7-6277
Nearer to You
Now Just a Few Minutes From Campus
.	— Choice Food
You can have — True Dining Atmosphere .	— Pure Relaxation
of the NEW
Eddie’s Dining Room and Lounge
OPENING OCTOBER 15
1345 N. IRONWOOD ......................... ....................
24	The Scholastic]

JliAk Souu
IRISH JOURNEY TO LAFAYETTE TOMORROW
Cross Country Squad Prepares For Season
Notre Dame’s 1957 cross-country team began practice a week ago in preparation for its intercollegiate schedule which will begin on Oct. 11. Coach Alex Wilson was greeted by a veteran squad which has lost only one man, former Captain John Michno, from last year’s team.
This year’s harriers are headed by Captain Dale VandenBerg along with last year’s number two man behind the departed Michno, Mike Haverty. VandenBerg is a senior with three years of varsity competition while Haverty is only a junior. Senior Ed Monnelly is back for his third season and is expected to run with the first seven men.
A pair of outstanding prospects from this year’s sophomore class should provide the biggest boost for the team. Dave Cotton and Galen Cawley are the sophs, and both are expected to make the jump from the freshman squad to the first seven on the varsity team, just as Haverty did a year ago. Senior John Burns should make the first squad this fall and the last spot will be contended for by seniors Stan Wegrzynowicz, Bob Huetz, Bill Newell and Vic Dillon with Dillon favored to get the nod.
On Oct. 11, the Irish journey to Milwaukee to open the season against (Continued on page 28)
JACK MOLLENKOPF
Purdue Head Coach
September 27, 1957
Sullivan, Prendergast Lead Veteran Squad Into Most Important Opening Game in History
by GREG ROGERS
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish open their 69th season of intercollegiate football competition tomorrow against the Purdue University Boilermakers at Ross-Ade Stadium in Lafayette, Ind.
Experience, lacking in last year’s squad, will be the all important factor in Notre Dame’s hopes for- returning to their winning ways. Bolstered by 21 returning lettermen and a good crop of sophomores, the Irish face the 1957 season with some of the depth needed for a winning record. The lineup that will probably face Purdue is the same that started in last year’s finale against Southern California, with one notable
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
PURDUE	NOTRE DAME
Barnes ......... LE	.... Prendergast
Dwyer _________  LT	   Geremia
Saba I ........ LG  — Schaaf
Habig  .........C  - Sullivan
Jardine ........ RG	    Gaydos
Farmer ......... RT	   Nagurski
Franckhauser .. RE ______ Wetoska
Spoo ........... QB	  Williams
Fletcher________ LH	   Lewis
Barnett ........ RH	    Lynch
Dillard .......  FB	  Pietrosante
KICKOFF—1:30 C.D.T.
exception. Paul Hornung will be missing from the Irish backfield. Bob Williams, who took over the signal calling job against the Californians when Hornung shifted to halfback because of two dislocated thumbs, will be in the quarterback position. Williams made a favorable impression in the Trojan game last year, hitting with ten of 13 passes in that contest. Behind Williams will be two fine sophomore prospects, Don White and George Izo.
Leading the returnees are Co-captains Dick Prendergast and Ed Sullivan. Prendergast, a two-yeai’ letterman, will be in the -left end slot which he has held for the past two seasons despite a
series of injuries. Sullivan, also holding two monograms, will be starting in the center spot again. Leading off in the right end position will be Bob Wetoska. Wetoska who holds a monogram, will be backed up by juniors Dick Royer and Gary Myers. Returning lettermen Bronko Nagurski and Frank Geremia will be in the tackle slots. Both saw considerable action as sophomores last year. Also expected to see duty at the tackle spots will be Don Lawrence and Pat Dolan. Starting in the guard positions will be Bob Gaydos and Jim Schaaf. Schaaf, although bothered by a knee injury, will be on the left side. Returning lettermen Dick Shulsen and John McGinley are also expected to see action.	,
Aubrey Lewis will operate from the left half position where he has played for the past two seasons despite numerous injuries. Lewis is the fastest member of this year’s squad. Backing up Lewis will be Frank Reynolds, a junior, and Pat Doyle, a promising sophomore. Starting in the right halfback spot will be either Dick Lynch, a double letter-
(Continued on page 29)
MEL DILLARD Boilermaker Co-captain
COACH JAKE KLINE
His Infield a problem
Baseball Drills Begin; Five Lettermen Return
Forty players were invited to try out as Notre Danie’s baseball team began fall practice last Monday. Coach Jake Kline holds fall practice every year because of the inclement weather expected in the spring. Also, in the coming season, the club will make an early southern tour.
The men he will have to work with are headed by five monogram men from the 1957 team which finished fourth in last summer’s NCAA tournament. Captain Bob Senecal returns to his outfield position as do Gene Duffy and Bob Giarratano, while Chuck Symeon should be the mainstay of the pitching staff. Jim Morris will probably be a starting infielder.
Graduation losses last June of his entire starting infield, his ace pitcher, Tom Bujnowski, and his two-year AllAmerican catcher Elmer Kohorst have confronted Coach Kline with some serious problems. Morris should help out in the infield this year and Kline is considering returning Senecal to the infield, where he played in high school.
Infield reserves returning are Pete DeVito, Joe Geneser, and Harold Trapp. Pitchers returning beside Symeon include Jack Connors, John Casagrande and Tom Marquez. Bill Reissert is back for a try as a starting infielder. Three returnees will try for the vacated spot in back of the plate: John Merlock, Jim Bodensteiner and Marty Deignan.
Of the sophomores, Ed Wojzik appears to have the best chance to break into the starting lineup. Wojzik is a catcher. Other soph hopefuls are pitchers Frank Carpin, Charles Scrivanick, and Jim Hamman; infielders John
26
Frosh Squad Has Heavy Line, Fast Backs; Makes Impressive Showing Against Varsity
Impressive in last Saturday’s scrimmage against the varsity, this year’s freshman football squad is heavy through the middle of the line and fast at the halfback positions. The only score for the team, composed of third and fourth stringers and freshman, came when Ray Ratkowski took a punt on his own 25 yard line and, with the help of a key block by Bob Scarpitto, scampered the rest of the distance untouched.	‘
These two halfbacks are the speedsters in the backfield. Ratkowski, from St. Francis Prep in Brooklyn, can run the 100 yard dash in :09.8 and the 440 in :48.3. Yet Scarpitto is even faster in the wind sprints. Their breakaway threat is shown by Ratkowski’s punt return last Saturday.
Red Mack from Pittsburgh has shown up very well defensively since freshman practice started two weeks ago. Last Saturday the 5'9" 160-pound outside linebacker repeatedly broke up end sweeps and dumped the ball carriers for losses.
Fullback Myron Pottios from Charleroi, Pa., has been the defensive standout among the backs. He holds down the middle linebacker position. Not as fast as his halfback colleagues, Pottios is more powerful than elusive. After watching the 219-pounder perform in the annual Wigwam Wiseman All-American High School game in Memphis, “Pappy” Waldorf, former head coach at the University of California, exclaimed that Pottios was the “hardest and most effective high school runner I’ve ever seen.” Pottios also handles the kick offs. Behind him is Rich Boyle from Chicago.
Of the quarterbacks, Bill Hennigan is the biggest and the best runner while Rich Fardin has impressed with his passing.
The most noticeable of the tackles is 281-pound Joe Scabelli from Springfield, Mass. He is not only the largest tackle but the fastest. Teaming ■with him at tackle is Ted Romanosky, a 240-pounder from New York.
Center is well stocked with talent with Rich Walsh, at 6'3", 235, and Pete Ro-
Caretta, James Cruse and Frank Finnigan.
Kline rates his outfielders and pitchers as fair to good, however, he stresses • that the infield is the key to the 1958 team’s hopes. The forty men invited out are well spread around the three classes, but juniors and seniors will carry the big load. Of the monogram men, Senecal, Symeon, and Morris are seniors, Duffy and Giarratano are juniors.
mer, who was a freshman here last year but broke his arm and dropped out of school. Romer bears a marked resem-semblance to former Irish pivotman, Jim i Mense.
At the ends are Maravich, 245, from Pittsburgh and Al Comancho, 6'1", 190, from Washington, D. C. Maravich does the punting for the freshmen.
Bill Pents and Paul Nissi are taking care of the guard chores with Mike Reardon of Chicago right behind them.
FROSH BASKETBALL TRYOUTS
Head Coach John Jordan has announced that freshmen basketball tryouts will begin sometime next week. The Fieldhouse floor is not yet ready, but practice will start as soon as possible.
All freshmen interested in trying out for the team should watch their hall bulletin boards for the announcement.
Tryouts will continue until Oct. 15 when . Jordan will call out his 195758 Varsity which opens its campaign on Dec. 3 against St. Ambrose of Davenport, la.
Pents and Pottios played together at Charleroi High last year while Nissi was a teammate of sophomore quarterback Don White two years ago at Haverhill (Mass.) High. Pents and Nissi are both about 190 pounds; Reardon weighs in twenty pounds heavier.
Lou Loncaric and Gene Hedrick, two of last year’s senior lettermen, aided by assistant coach Bill Earley, are in charge of the squad this fall.

Irish-Boilermaker Highlights
by Joe Bride
\ This is the first in a series of । articles by Joe Bride, assistant to
Charlie Callahan, Sports Publicity 'i Director, giving some of the background on the games between • Notre Dame and the opponent of the tveek. This week the author i] highlights the Purdue-Notre Dame series.
It all started between the Irish and the Boilermakers on Nov. 14, 1896. In that game, for the championship of the state, the Boilermakers won out, 28-22. - In those days, touchdowns were worth four points and extra points two. The Irish scored five touchdowns and made only one conversion, while the Boilermakers only scored five times, but made four conversions.
In that first game, Purdue surged to a 28-12 lead, but the Irish fought back to score twice in gathering darkness, but time was called before the game ended as darkness settled down and the first-one went to the Boilermakers.
j Since that time the Irish have gained | revenge'' for the first defeat and the series record now stands at Notre Dame 19 wins, Purdue 7, and two ties.
But; the Boilermakers, despite being on the-short end as the series goes, have won, a-strong reputation as the scourge of the Irish, as Notre Dame’s last two coaches, Terry Brennan and Frank Leahy can well verify.
Leahy-coached teams met the Boilermakers on the gridiron eight times and were victorious seven.
Four of those victories came between 1946 and 1949 when the Irish were the New York Yankees of college football. ' Notre Dame won National Championships in 1946, 1947 and 1949, and built ■ up a string of 39 games without a loss. * Yet, only once in those four years, 1946, did the Irish completely dominate the Boilermakers.
In 1946, seven touchdowns by seven men, including present head football coach Brennan and end coach Jack Zilly, gave the Irish a 49-6 victory.
The following year the Boilermakers out-rushed and out-played the Irish, but lost, 22-7.
In 1948, John Panelli had to gallop 70 yeards with a punt and Steve Oracko had to kick a last quarter field goal for the Irish to come from behind and win, 28-27.
In 1949, Coach Leahy commented that everything went right for his team, but the Irish only won, 35-12.
Thus, while Notre Dame was trampling
over every conceivable form of football strategy and talent, their downstate neighbors gave them more than a battle.
The efforts of the Purdue team was finally realized on Oct. 7, 1950. A light, drizzling rain fell from a dark, heavy sky in the Notre Dame stadium that day.
The Boilermakers surged to a 21-0 lead behind sophomore quarterback Dale Samuels, whose brilliance outshone Notre Dame’s senior star and All-American Bob Williams. The Irish fought back, but the final tally was Purdue 28, Notre Dame 14.
The end of Notre Dame’s consecutive streak of 39 games without a loss had come.
Head football coach Brennan had his first taste of defeat from a Purdue team, and in the three times his teams have met the Boilermakers, the Irish have only one victory.
In 1954, Terry Brennan won his first game as a college coach defeating Texas, 21-0. The following week Notre Dame was favored by 14 points over Purdue, but another Boilermaker sophomore passing whiz, Len Dawson, outshone a Notre
ONE OF MANY
Kerr naps Dawson aerial in 1954 game
Dame All-American quarterback, Ralph Guglielmi, and the Boilermakers won, 27-14.
Brennan’s first team went on to win eight consecutive games after this defeat and Notre Dame finished its first year under Brennan with a 9-1 record.
In 1955 Aubrey Lewis galloped seven yards for Notre Dame’s third and clinching touchdown as the Irish won, 22-7. Lewis picked up 60 yards on 8 carries in that game, and Dick Prendergast and Ed Sullivan, Notre Dame’s 1957 co-captains, received high praise from Boiler-maker coach Stu Holcomb for their inspired play in the Irish front line.
The contest with the Boiler-makers tomorrow is an important one, even more important than the 1951 game, following the ending of the streak. Notre Dame won, 30-9, in 1951.
The destiny of the Irish comeback season will be told by the Boilermakers. Purdue has been tough, but over the years the Irish have been tougher, and it’s about time for Notre Dame to win a spectacular one.
September 27, 1957
27
TIME OUT
It doesn’t take much genius or imagination to conclude that tomorrow’s opener with Purdue is one of the most important in the University’s 69th football season. Coach Brennan and his squad are certainly on the spot, probably more than any Irish team in history. Stating the problem frankly, there has to be a marked improvement over last year’s dismal record.
The schedule this season is tougher than last year. Certainly no one plays a tougher ten games than Notre Dame, and for each of the ten, Notre Dame is the one they are pointing for.
On the brighter side the Irish will start players who have seen action, and also will have more experience on the bench. Then, too, Aubrey Lewis is unhurt and should have his greatest season. Finally, Bob Williams should direct the attack with poise and ingenuity, giving the Irish a potentially sound offense.
So let’s look at the team, then render a decision. If they beat Purdue it is quite possible that they will have a fine season. If not, it may be last year all over again.
TYLER IS BACK
We received a phone call the othei* day from the illusive Tyler, our somewhat shady prognosticator. He says that he will be back with us each week with inside information concerning the sports scene across the country. He would have called sooner, he said, but he was in a bit of a mix-up with the police. Something about a fight fix. Anyway he’ll be with us the remainder of the year.
TIDINGS ALL-AMERICAN
We received a letter from Chuck Johnson, sports editor* of the Los Angeles Catholic weekly, The Tidings. In a recent issue seven former Notre Dame greats were named to his all-time All Catholic Independent football team. Those named were ends, Leon Hart and Wayne Millner; tackles, George Connor and Bob Toneff; guard, Jack Cannon; quarterback, John Lujack; and halfback, George Gipp.
WORLD SERIES
The baseball season is rapidly coming to a close and it’s Series time again. The perennial champion New York Yankees are in it again against the upstart Milwaukee Braves. This is a real tough one to figure. The Yanks have coasted again with pressure from no one but the Sox (if you can call that pressure) and the Braves have been fighting the first five in the league. It is quite possible that the momentum that they gained throughout the season will carry them to their first world championship hut I find it difficult to choose against the Champions.
The Yankees always seem to win the big ones, even though at times they seem to be outmanned. Still, this year they have the horses and with Ford’s return to form, the Yank pitching will be better than many believe. Another factor in my choice is Yogi Berra’s late season batting surge. This should both take the pressure off Mickey Mantle and force the Brave pitchers to throw to him.
The Braves have the potential pitching to beat the Yanks but one wonders if Haney’s boys can take on the added pressure of playing the Bombers in their first Series. We’re afraid they might wilt come next Wednesday. Whether they do or don’t will be an anti-climax in Milwaukee. The best fans in the league have had their dream come true.
So here it is. The Yankees in six. It worries me a little though, ’cause Tyler says the Braves in seven.—M. F.
Cross Country
(Continued from Page 25) Marquette. A week later, the team hosts Indiana on the University’s four-mile course. Last year Indiana defeated Notre Dame in the State meet. Following the Hoosiers, the Irish are at home on Oct. 24 to compete against Bowling Green, Loyola, Central Michigan, and Western Michigan.
Saving the toughest competition for last, Notre Dame travels to East Lansing, Mich, on Oct. 31 for a meet with defending NCAA champion Michigan State. Aftei* this come the big tournaments: the Big State meet at Indianapolis, Nov. 8; the Central Collegiates at Chicago, Nov. 15; the IC-4A at New York, Nov. 18; and the season-ending NCAA championships on Nov. 25, at East Lansing. In 1956, Notre Dame won the Central Collegiate run, placed second to Indiana in the Big State, took fourth in the IC-4A, and finished sixth at East Lansing.
With a veteran squad plus the promising sophomores, Wilson expects to surpass last year’s record of four wins in six dual meets. His main goals are the avenging of the 1956 defeats by Indiana and Michigan State as well as improving Notre Dame’s team positions in the season ending big meets.
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Arkansas over Tulsa Army over Nebraska Baylor over Houston	I
Washington State over California Clemson over North Carolina Colorado over Utah	-i
Duke over Virginia	>
Georgia Tech over SMU Michigan State over Indiana Iowa over Utah State UCLA over Illinois Oregon State over Kansas Michigan over So. California Navy over William and Mary Stanford over Northwestern Pittsburgh over Oregon COP over Fresno State	;
Princeton over Rutgers Syracuse over Iowa State	♦
Tennessee over Aubum Texas A&M over Texas Tech Tufts over Bowdoin Wisconsin over Marquette Washington (St. Louis) over
Mo. Mines
UPSET OF THE WEEK
Notre Dame over Purdue
28
The Scholastic
FOUR PROBABLE STARTERS
Bob Gaydos, Aubrey Lewis, Ed Sullivan,
Dick Prendergast
Irish Face Purdue (Continued from page 25.) man, Jim Just, who saw considerable action last year, or little Bobby Ward, the team’s seatback. In the fullback spot will be either Chuck Lima, who was the regular most of last year, Ron Toth, or Nick Pietrosante. Toth was out most of last season with a knee injury. Pietrosante is an excellent punter.
Purdue has lost the key figures of its effective aerial offense of the past three seasons but retains the mainsprings of the sound running attack that was the big factor in enabling the Boilermakers to outgain all nine opponents on the ground last year. Lennie Dawson is gone after leading the Big Ten in both passing and total offense for three straight years. But on the other hand, the Boilermaker’s thirteen returning lettermen include Purdue’s four leading ground gainers in rushing from 1956.
Running from the fullback slot will be Co-captain Mel Dillard, who led the Big Ten in rushing and ranked sixth nationally with 873 yards in 193 carries for an average 4.52 yards per try. The left halfback slot will be filled by Tommy Fletcher and Kenny Mikes. Fletcher rushed for an average of 4.47 yards per try last year while Mikes ran for an average of 3.75 yards per carry. The right halfback spot will be dominated by sophomores with the exception of starter Tom Barnett, a breakaway possibility who appears to have recovered from last year’s crippling ankle injury. Sophomores Frank Amato and
Gerry Mau will also see action. The important signal calling job, in the Boilermaker’s straight “T” attack, vacated by Dawson, will be handled by Bob Spoo. Spoo, a capable passer, will be backed up by sophomore Ross Fitch-ner.
Co-captain Neil Habig will be the starting center and is expected to be one of the country’s leading line backers. The loss of Bob Classy, Jim Shea, and Ed Voytek, a great trio who monopolized the guard slots last season, has necessitated the shift of Ron Sabal from the tackle position. Sabal will start at the left guard spot. John Sabine, back from last year, will'be the other starting guard. Juniors Nick Mumley and Wayne Farmer will handle the tackle assignments. Erich Barnes, shifted from fullback, will be the starter at left end. Tom Franckhausei- will start on the right end. Captain Habig will take care of the punting duties with Jardine moving over from the guard slot to pass the ball from center. Tackle Fanner will probably kickoff while halfback Fletcher will take over Dawson’s point after touchdown job.
The key man on the attack will be Dillard at fullback. A real workhorse, he set a new Purdue record for rushing last fall. Dillard is an explosive starter who was stopped behind the line of scrimmage only twice last season for a net loss of three yards.
The Boilermakers will have a rather light line, averaging 207 pounds, ten pounds lighter than last year’s squad. Farmer is the heaviest at 235 pounds. The Irish also weigh in light at 208
pounds with Nagurski the heaviest at 230.
Tomorrow’s meeting of Purdue and Notre Dame will be the 29th engagement of the two clubs. The Irish have won 19 games while losing seven. There have been two ties. The Irish will be out to avenge last year’s opening game defeat, their first opening game loss since 1934 when Texas beat the Irish 7-6. Last year, the Southern Methodist Mustangs beat the Irish 19-13. Notre Dame will also be out to avenge last year’s loss to the Boilermakers, 28-14. Purdue won three, lost four and tied two last year.
Garside Cracks Par Twice
To Build Lead in ND Tourney
Firing his second successive two-under-par 69, two-year monogram-winner Tom Garside opened up a five stroke lead in the 27th annual University of Notre Dame Open. Garside clipped one stroke off par on each nine of both his rounds, turning in identical cards of 35-34—69.
Leading after the first 18 holes, Garside is the only contestant to break par either day. Rain fell intermittently Saturday afternoon, wetting the greens enough to throw the golfers off a little. The sun didn’t come out all Sunday afternoon.
Terry Lally, second after Saturday’s play with a par 71, had trouble on the first nine on Sunday and slipped to a 73. Tom Adamson moved into second place with a 36-hole total of 143. Shooting a one-under-par 34 on the back side, he was one of four who matched par last Sunday. Christy Flanagan, Marty Carroll, and Ray Patak also turned in 71’s.
Flanagan, winner of last year’s Open as a freshman, skidded to a 39 on the back side Saturday to finish with a 75. This gave him a 146 total and tied him for fourth with Carroll, who also has had rounds of 75 and 71. Patak is one stroke behind at 147.
The third and fourth rounds of the ND Open, which will conclude the tour- * nament, will be played tomorrow and Sunday over the Burke Memorial Course. There will be 18 holes of competition -each day.
36-HOLE LEADERS	IN ND OPEN
Tom Garside			.... 69-69—138
Tom Adamson 		... 72-71—143
Terry Lally 		... 71-73—144
Christy Flanagan ....	... 75-71—146
Marty Carrol 1 		... 75-71—146
Ray Patak 			... 76-71—147
Joe Grace ...1			... 72-75—147
Lloyd Syron 		.... 74-73—147
Joe Leslie 		... 72-76—148
Frank Crowe 		... 73-75—148
September 27, 1957
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented 7 days before insertion date.
FOR RENT: Two very nice student rooms. One double, one . private, newly furnished. Extension phone, parking lot. Across from Sunny Italy, at 520 Crescent. CE 4-9881.
BREEN’S JEWELRY . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds. Silverware Men’s and Women’s Costume Jewelry
Four Ways to Buy: Cash, Charge. Layaway, Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing 325 South Michigan	AT 7-3630
Chests, Book Cases, Record Cabinets
SAVE ONE-HALF BUY THEM UNPACKED WILLIAMS
755 SO. MICHIGAN FREE DELIVERY
University Awarded Ring Court Decision
Last June, Judge W. Lynn Parkinson ruled in U. S. District Court that the University of Notre Dame has exclusive control of the manufacture and sale of an “official” class ring bearing the seal of the University, a replica of the “Golden Dome” and the words University of Notre Dame on its crest.
Judge Parkinson granted an injunction to the University prohibiting the John Roberts Manufacturing Co., of Norman, Okla., from further manufacture and sale of such a ring.
The court reserved the right to determine at a later date and assess against Roberts damages the University suffered in the sale of nearly 700 Roberts rings through the Royal Hawaiian Jewelers, 125 N. Michigan St., South Bend. The costs of the court action to the University were also assessed against Roberts.
The judge said the University has clearly identified itself and its academic reputation with the name, the University of Notre Dame, its seal and symbol of the “Golden Dome” of its administration building. He said the ring has come to symbolize the academic achievement to the wearer through restriction of its sale
by the University to juniors, seniors, am alumni.
Judge Parkinson found that Robert: obtained one of the rings througl fraudulent representations of an agent copied it and purposely sold such copies in competition with the University’s bookstore outlet. Many of the copies were sold to sophomores in violation oi the University’s regulations, he said.
Senate, YCS Supervise Frosh Hall Government
For the second consecutive year Y.C.S. and the Student Senate are supervising freshman hall government for the first few months of the school year.
Jim Merz, of the Y.C.S., and Bruce Babbit, freshmen co-ordinator for student government, have representatives in each of the freshman halls. These representatives will help set up temporary governments until class elections are held the first week in December.
The basic aim of both the Y.C.S. and Student Senate is to develop capable men for positions in student government or work in the lay apostolate.
With their freshmen program both groups are trying to bring about an awareness of social responsibility on the part of Catholic college students.
Welcome Freshmen!!
KING SIZE Cheese PIZZA
a special for $ 1.00 N.D. Students only
Every Day of the Week • Just Show Your “I. D”
And have you tried our HAMBOYS? • They are really Ham Scrumptious!
ALBANO Restaurant
Open 11a.m. to 12 p.m. 415 No. Michigan St. Closed Sundays
iO	The Scholastic
„IU4J
1003 N. Notre Dame CE 3-0444
DRESS YOUR PART for dress for play for every day! $9.95 to $19.95
START WITH
CAMPUS CLUBS
All campus clubs, whether they were registered last year or are new this year, must file application for registration in the Student Senate office. This can be done, Monday through Thursday between the hours of 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. Applications must include a list of the officers of the club. Bank statements can be picked up at this time.
Welcoming Party Initiates Graduate Student Program
A welcoming party started the activities of the Graduate Student Association last Thursday evening, in the Rathskeller. The dean of the Graduate School, the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., delivered a brief address to the new graduate students. Rev. Roland Soucie, C.S.C., and Rev. Robert Callan, S.J., were introduced as this year’s chaplains for the group.
Charles’ Noel, student president, has announced a second party for the scholastic year to be held tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Veterans’ Recreation Hall. The program includes football movies and refreshments.
Graduate Student Sunday Masses will resume this Sunday at 9 a.m. in the Lyons Hall chapel.
Lee, Vondrasek Place First In Duplicate Bridge Tourney
The weekly Duplicate Bridge tournament began last Sunday at the LaFor-tune Student Center. Tom Lee and Bob Vondrasek edged Brian Moran and Ron Vardiman for first place.
Mr. John Turley, tournament director, invites all players to attend the sessions which start at 2 p.m. every Sunday at the LaFortune Student Center.
‘SCHOLASTIC’ MEETING
All freshmen and sophomores who were unable to attend the Scholastic meeting' held last Wednesday night are cordially invited to attend a news meeting this coming Wednesday night. This meeting will be held in the Scholastic offices in the Student Center. Others interested in writing for sports and features should leave their name at that time.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
1011 VIS
LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
September 27, 1957
MOST OF MY STUDENTS ARE BUSINESS MEN
NATURALLY THEY WANT TO LEARN TO DANCE QUICKLY...AND THEY DOTHANKS TO ARTHUR MURRAYS MAGIC STEP.
Over a million people have found new popularity and confidence thanks to Arthur Murray and his Magic Step method of teaching dancing. Why not visit Arthur Murray’s today and see for yourself how quickly you can become an assured dancer.
Come In for a Free
Trial Lesson
Studios Air Conditioned J



•)
120 E. Wayne ARTHUR MURRAY CE 2-3339
31
Nationally Advertised
Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
South Bend, Indiana
Courtesy Barber Shop Welcomes Notre Dame Men
YOU WILL LIKE OUR SERVICE AND FRIENDLY ATMOSPHERE FRED CRAVEN—JOHN ZENTZ
Basement—112 E. Wash. Ave.
FISH FRY FRIDAY
Pizza, Spaghetti, and Ravioli Italian Style
Simeri's Cafe 410 NORTH HILL STREET
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJM.S. Bldg.
LET US DO YOUR LAUNDRY While Shopping or at a Show CONVENIENT LOCATION
208 E. JEFFERSON JEFFERSON LAUNDERETTE
WANTED TO BUY
Four copies of 1957 DOME wanted. Will pay $5.00 per copy. Must be in good condition. Phone 555 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
At the Movies
COLFAX
Run of the Arrow is the dramatic story of a confederate soldier, Rod Steiger, who decides he would rather try his luck with the Sioux than pledge allegiance to the Union. Passing the initiation ordeal Steiger performs as a member of the tribe until he is finally persuaded by his Indian wife to return to his countrymen. The movie excellently portrays the manner in which all Southerners ultimately embraced the Federal Union.
GRANADA
Man of a Thousand Faces traces the hectic career of Lon Chaney, the master of grotesque impersonation. Not much as biographies go it nevertheless should have a tremendous appeal to the followers of Ivan Osorio.
AVON
The Happy Road starring Gene Kelly is a low budget travelog of France. A group of impish French children provide the only bright spot in an otherwise dull film.
Loser Takes All (Oct. 2)
.	STATE
Gun For A Coward is a new twist to dramatic films. Fred MacMurray stars as a not-too-rugged gunslinger.
Co-hit: A Day of Fury.
The Kettles on Old MacDonald's Farm (Sept. 29). All Kettle fans will really enjoy this jewel.	'
Co-hit: The Incredible Shrinking Man. A subtle portrayal of modern man confronted by his complex environment.
The Great Man (Oct. 2) A fine dramatic portrayal of the trials of a high-pressured press agent. Stars Jose Ferrer and features some fine acting by Julie London.
Co-hit: The Tattered Dress. Nothing.	'
RIVER PARK
Beau James. It’s a long way out to the River Park.
Co-hit: Dino.
An Affair to Remember (Sept. 29) Cary Grant and Deborah Kerr. It’s still just as far to the River Park.
Co-hit: Emergency Hospital.
Bambi (Oct. 3)
This is rather an old flick, but one in which Satirist Disney is at his best. The annual ‘Oscar’ winner, known to own an avid hate of the outdoors, reaches the ultimate in social satire of the beloved animal order. This classic is only outdone by Orwell’s Animal Farm and Kelley’s Pogo. We do not advise this account for “The Lover of the Woods,” for it is sure to destroy all his illusions.
Co-hit: Yaqui Drums.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Wrong Man (Sept. 28). Starring Heniy Fonda and Vera Miles is an excellent example of the Alfred Hitchcock type of movie. A Cinemascope production that should keep you sitting on the edge of your seat.
—George Oess
32
The Scholastic

Notre Dome Schedules World Trade Meeting
J. Peter Grace, president of W. R. Grace and Company, New York City, and Dr. Stephen Kertesz, head of the Committee on International Relations at Notre Dame, will be the principal speakers at the tenth annual World Trade Conference on Oct. 22, according to an announcement by Dean James W. Culliton of the College of Commerce.
Symposium
(Continued from Page 24)
Studies, River Forest, Ill., “A European View of American Catholics;” Msgr. E. E. Swanstrom, executive director, Catholic Relief Services, New York City, “The Newer Catholic Immigrations;” and Dr. Aaron I. Abell, professor of history at Notre Dame, “Catholics and Social and Economic Reform.”
Speakers at the final session will be Rev. Raymond Cour, C.S.C., assistant professor of political science at Notre Dame, “Catholics and Church and State”; Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., head of the department of sociology, Loyola University of the South, New Orleans, “Americanization of Catholics”; and Dr. Jerome G. Kerwin, professor of political science, University of Chicago, “Catholics and the Field of Higher Education.”
• Eyes Examined
• Glasses Fitted
Dr. R. W. TURBOW Optometrist
207 W. Washington (Oliver Hotel) CE 4-5777
STEAK SPECIALS
— on —
Tuesday and Thursday
A Long-Time N.D. Favorite
$18.88
Flamingo Restaurant 610 NORTH MICHIGAN Open Sunday
/or Students who WEAR GLASSES
As a service to ND students we will make . a record of your Rx. In case you break your glasses while in school we will be able to replace them promptly and accurately for you.
Complete Optical Service
• Optical Repairs • Contact Lenses
ALL-WOOL
SPORT COATS
South Bend Surplus Mart
320 So. Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
JEWELERS
YOUR NAME BRAND JEWELER IN SOUTH BEND

Open Your
Checking Acount
at the
FIRST
BANK
and Trust
Main
Company
Street
next to Court House
Only 772 cents per check
No other charges
Your money goes farther When you manage it in a First Bank checking account.
Bulova
WATCHES
watches
3 WAYS TO BUY
• HANDY-CHARGE
• LAYAWAY
OMEGA
WATCHES
THE W08ED S MOST HONORED WATCH
lONGim
^.rtcarvec
DIAMOND RINGS
PATEK PHILIPPE
The Vorld’i Foremost Fateh
• CREDIT (With No Interest} •
121 W. Washington
September 27, 1957
33
Hack
i
E
i
t
by JOHN KEARNS
fall, football and education
The coming of fall is signaled by the beginning of school and of the football season. These are probably the surest signs—you can’t trust the weather any more. For a large part of the population the first of these signals is not a happy event, it is a very dreadful one.
Football, the second signal, gets a better reception, being eagerly awaited by millions of fans. For them it seems that it is football that brings fall rather than the other way around. In this sports-minded United States the football is certainly a more appropriate symbol for autumn than a group of brightly colored leaves.
Sports and social activity alleviate the rigors of education for many without succeeding in making it pleasant. It is unfortunate that something so important as school is so distasteful to such large numbers of students. Even in college there is a widespread dislike of learning. While almost everybody enjoys the outside activities concurrent with American education, very few find pleasure in the education itself.
When this dislike is seen in relation to the nature of man, it is quite startling (in a sedate, academic way). This is because a kind of perversion of human nature is revealed. For the chief aspect of man’s nature is the rational or intellectual one; and its development is man’s true perfection.
The secondary nature of man, his animal nature must not be neglected. However, this very rarely happens. It’s the animal nature that demands to be fed, clothed, and housed; and though a person can live without cultivating his mind, he cannot do so if he neglects the calls of his stomach. It is impossible for anyone but a practiced ascetic to overlook the demands of corporal nature. It is this half of man’s nature to which he devotes the greatest part of his attention. But it does not deserve so large a part.
Man’s animal nature is made the end of almost everything he does. Our ma
terialistic culture is chiefly responsible for this over-emphasis of the secondary nature. It is this culture which makes its god a brand new Cadillac. Food, drink, and sex are the things that matter, and any worthwhile activity must be able to get these. Thus it is that “practical” learning is the only kind that is admired, although in itself it isn’t much fun. For “practical” learning teaches you how to make the money which is necessary to obtain the materialistic goals.
This precedence of man’s animal nature is a serious disorder. This nature is a subsidiary one, not of primary importance. Its function is to act as a means for the development of the intellectual part of man. To make an end of .this means is to neglect just that side of him that separates man from the other animals.
It is man’s rationality that distinguishes man. To use this merely to serve his physical nature is to deny his humanity. Such a person seems more animal than man. To develop precisely as a man is to develop as a knower. (Man is also a social animal — as evidenced by his community living — but this aspect is more of a necessity than an ability which must be developed.)
The perfection of man is accomplished in his rational nature. It is his mind which must be worked on. To be disrespectful of this perfection is to be disrespectful of what you are — it is to rebel against being human, and such rebellion is unnatural. To become more of a knower is to become more of a man.
Knowing is the activity that is proper to the human intellect. Knowing, is achieved through the process of learning, • and is the goal of this process. It is by learning that one develops his intellectual self. There is no upper limit to this development — it is possible to continue indefinitely. Thus no one can consider himself to have developed his rational nature — he must continue this self-improvement throughout his life.
But this process cannot be a dull, grinding routine. It is exciting, exhilarating. Nobody can be truly bored with learning — for to be bored would be against his very nature. Learning and its goal, knowing, fulfill man’s potentiality.
The common distaste for education is of a rather sinister importance. Small children can hardly be blamed for not liking school, for they resent the regulation to which they are subjected. But this resentment should fade as they become big children. However, most often it does not. School may “be good for them,” but they don’t see how unless it has some practical aim.
Such feeling is only a reflection of our materialistic civilization. All are affected by it. It would be difficult to live in a brothel and retain one’s purity. In an atmosphere of hostility to learning, it’s rather difficult to develop an appreciation for it. The pleasures of the senses stake their claim at an early age and don’t give it up. The mind’s pleasures remain foreign to most intellectual soil.
Although intellectual pleasures are largely unknown, there is a natural tendency towards them. This inclination can easily be concealed, but its absence can never be compensated for. On the other hand, the difficulty involved in learning is balanced by an accompanying pleasure. It cannot be a hardship to conform to your own nature — a rose doesn’t mind being lovely.
To devote all of one’s efforts to obtaining sensible pleasures is essentially unpleasant. The debasing of human nature in this way can never satisfy the human person. Only by conforming to your own nature can satisfaction be discovered. Sensible pleasure ought not to be omitted, but it is insufficient.
Knowledge, then, is a legitimate goal for man. No justification is needed for its pursuit. One cannot spend all of his time in its sei-vice, but its quest must not be held in disrepute. The search for knowledge is man’s search for himself.
34
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
“Pretty soft!”
This new Arrow University-styled shirt is a deft blend of the old and new .. . traditional styling in smart new feather-soft Arrow Cambridge Cloth . . . bound to become as popular as our famous Oxford cloth. Collar buttons down, front and center back.
Mitoga®-tailored body and sleeves fit smooth and neat, without bunching. Full
.new Arrow Cambridge Cloth
length box-pleat in back. Your favorite colors in solids, checks, pencil-line stripes. At your Arrow dealer’s. Shirt, $5.95 j Tie, $2.50.
ARROW—
Shirts and Ties
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend