THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	579
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A LITERARY—NEWS WEEKLY PUBLISHED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
—ILLUSTRATED—
Bifte Quart temper 1?Kturu£ : 9ibe Quart Crag jHoriturug
INDEX
PAGE
The Bells of Ireland {Frontispiece) _______Charles Phillips 580
The Week ________________________________James Armstrong 581
Editorial ........-_____________________________________ 589
Ireland—The Mother of Medieval Universities_____________ __________________________________________________________ Rev. John M. Ryan, C.S.C. 591
Mist Before The Sun {A Poem)_______________Norbert Engels 593
Propheticism (A Play)______________________Harry McGuire 594
The Knave of Hearts {A Poem) --------------Anthony Shea 596
Henry Edward Manning _________________James A. CarroU, ’25	597
Symphony {A Poem) _________________________Norbert Engels 599
Book Leaves___________________________Joseph P. Burke, ’25	600
The Mail______________James E. Armstrong, Thomas W. Coman 601
Sports _______________________________________Tom Coman 602
Advertisers in Notre Dame publications deserve the patronage of Notre Dame men.
Entered as second-clasa matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance tor mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1108, October 3. 1917. authorized June 25. 1918.
580	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
£
^t73x%«vT7a^axt«\£¥vt^«^^^»
&
The Bells of Ireland
St. Patrick’s Day, /925
I hear the bells of Ireland Chiming across the tide.
(Asthore, asthore, your grief is o’er, Now peace with you abide!)
I hear the bells of Ireland Ringing across the sea, Till all the greening world awakes
With joyful melody:
Matin bell and vesper bell, Chapel bell and fane,
Silver and bronze, and mellow brass, And gold from ancient Spain;
Wedding bell and christening, And deep the death-bell’s toll;
And over all the bell for Mass, Voice of the Irish soul.
0 bells of Holy Ireland, Because you still have rung
Dauntless and proud and bravely loud, With power of angel’s tongue—
Because, above the grieving night, High over Erin’s fears,
From darkened skies you summoned still
Stars for her countless tears—

Because you would not silenced be Through all the ages’ wrong,
Well now you ring, well now you sing, Faith’s dear and deathless song.
I hear the bells of Ireland
Break through the crimson morn.
(Dark Rosaleen, my eyes have seen
The bud upon the thorn!)
—CHARLES PHILLIPS.



THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
581
“Some-day, perhaps, I’ll say farewell to Winter, And shovel off the last gray patch of snow;
I’ll lay away at last these darn red flannels
If Spring comes ’round again—but I don’t know.”
This unfortunately is not original. But the vicissitudes of temperature on the eve of the week that marks the official entrance of Spring inspired the quoting of this touching quatrain from the beloved pen of West African Lizzie. '
Sports are in the grip of a lull. The basketball team closed the season with a pair of victories, Columbia and Loyola furnishing the short ends. The track team fared not so well at Wisconsin, dropping the dual meet to the Badgers decisively. The long year rather scratched parts of the mirror of Notre Dame life, but with baseball and Spring football practice in operation, the looking-glass is being re-silvered and a new and fine reflection of Notre Dame “as is” will soon be forthcoming.
In the meantime, other organizations have taken up the w. k. torch. After months of preparation, the Student Varieties of 1925 took the boards at Washington Hall on Wednesday and Thursday nights and justified all that the firmest believer in the ability and energy of its promoters had predicted. The Minstrel Show started things off at a pace that would have kept Primrose on his toes. The succeeding numbers contained enough pep, quality, and variety to appeal to any type of audience. Which was well, for there were the usual Blackstone brains scattered in the audience—and the reference isn’t to law.
Notre Dame’s debating teams split a pair of appearances in a triangular meet with Wabash and Depauw. The affirmative, ap
pearing here, defeated the powerful Wabash negative team, which numbered among* its members, Ross, winner of the State Oratorical Contest. The negative lost a good debate to Depauw at Greencastle.
Everything else seems to be suffering from suspended animation waiting* for the actual declaration of Spring. The exodus to Niles last Saturday of large numbers of students gave that town a false alarm of Spring. Notices for invitations for the Seniors are posted. Orders have to be placed, with full payment down, before March 16. This takes an order out of the realm of investment into that of speculation and this appeal to the gambling instinct has resulted in the placing of a gratifying number of orders.
Blackstone’s venerable ghost hovered about the campus Monday night watching with the keen interest of a law clerk, the polished manner in which the murder trial, growing out of a few incidents in the gym, was conducted. Among other famous men “murdered” at Notre Dame recently are Judge Carberry and Gus Desch. There’s no fooling where “men are men, and he-men at that.” The solemnity of this trial was only rivalled by the burial of the Walsh Hall alligator, which, like so many former residents of Walsh, got in “hot water” once too often.	•
It seems that Coolidge once refused to allow a glee club to sing for him. One more proof of the democracy of Notre Dame is the scheduled appearance of the Glee Club in Washington Hall on St. Patrick’s night. Now that the organization has passed the tests in Michigan, Wisconsin, and various parts of Indiana, there seems to be no organized objection to an appearance locally.
582	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
S. A. C. Notes
John Moran, ’25, and Dan Brady, ’26, President of the Junior Class, will attend the Midwest Student Conference at the Kansas State College of Agriculture, Manhattan, Kansas, on April 30, May 1 and 2, as representatives of the S. A. C. They were elected at last Sunday’s meeting of the Council.
—nds—
President Bischoff read a letter from L. L. Countryman, Secretary of the Midwest Conference, who is a student at Northwestern University. Mr. Countryman told of present plans for the business of the Conference and for the entertainment of the delegates.
—nds—
A letter from St. Benedict’s College, Atchison, Kansas, asked for a copy of the S. A. C. constitution. St. Benedicts’ is contemplating the formation of a student governing body similar to that at Notre Dame.
•	—nds—
Permission was granted the Senior Class to conduct its boxing show, previously planned for March 6, on March 31.
--NDS
Sundry matters were dug out of their Testing places for a post-mortem airing, but nothing resulted except discussion. At the suggestion of some of his constituents, William Daily broached the subject of a distinctive mark for Freshmen. He discarded the cap idea as lacking in originality but rather facetiously proposed instead “a green necktie with ’29 on it.”
As in the past, the opinion prevailed that no Freshman identification was necessary at Notre Dame, that it would tend to bring about an ill-feeling between classes and eventually the undesirable hazing.
.	---NDS---
The election rules, which appear in the following columns are published here for the information and guidance of that part of the student body which will take part in the elections this spring.
BY-LAWS OF THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES COUNCIL.—ELECTION RULES.
To assure order and harmony in the student elections and that they may be conducted with as much efficiency as possible, the rules herein contained were adopted by the Student, Activities Council, at a meeting held for that purpose on the First day of March, Nineteen Hundred and Twenty-five. These rules are subject to change u.nd amendment by proper action of the Council.
ARTICLE I.
ELECTIONS—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1. ELECTION COMMITTEE. — The Election Committee shall consist of three members of the Student Activities Council, appointed by the President of that body and shall continue in office at the discretion of the President. The Election Committee shall have direct supervision over all elections as herein provided.
Section. 2. WHAT ELECTIONS GOVERNED. —The Election Committee shall have power to supervise the following elections:
a.	Of all class officers as follows:
1.	The Junior Class, its election of officers and S.A.C. representatives for the following year.
2.	The Sophomore Class, its officers and S. A. C. representatives for the following year.
2.	The Freshman Class, its officers and S. A. C. representative.
b.	The Juggler Staff as provided in the by-laws governing the Juggler.
c.	The Dome Staff as provided in the by-laws of the Dome.
d.	All other student elections which the student Activities Council shall see fit to supervise.
Section 3.	ELECTION OF CLASS OFFICERS FOR THE INCOMING CLASS.—It shall be the first duty of the Election Committee, upon its appointment, to call a meeting of the men entering the University as Freshmen, for the purpose of electing their class officers. This election shall be held the second week in October.
Section 4.	ABSENTEE VOTERS.—Only those students away from the University, in the interests of the University, shall be entitled to vote by an absentee ballot. This ballot will be furnished to the voter who is to be absent from the University on election day, upon application to the Chairman of the Election Committee. The voter must present his excuse foi- absence and the Chairman shall decide whether it is a valid one or not.
Section 5.	STANDING OF LAW STUDENTS. —Pre-law students shall vote according to the year of their attendance at the University. This will give Law students the privilege of voting twice as Seniors.
Section 6.	CONTESTING AN ELECTION.—
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	583
To contest an election a written statement must be handed to the chairman of the Election Committee not later than two days after the announcement of the result. Statement shall set out the irregularity and must be signed by at least five voters of the class of which the contested office is in question. In case there is an irregularity a new election will be called.
ARTICLE II.
ELECTIONS—PRIMARY
Section v. CANDIDATES TO BE NOMINATED BY PRIMARIES.—The Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman classes of the University shall select their respective candidates for the various offices, for the following year, by a primary election as herein provided for. No candidate’s name shall appear- upon the official ballots, to be elected, unless such candidate shall have been numinated as herein specified.
Section 2.	TIME AND PLACE OF THE PRIMARIES.—The second week in May, of each school year shall be known as the primary election week, at which time each class shall nominate their candidates for all elective offices as enumerated in the preceding Article. The Freshman class shall nominate on Monday of that week, the Sophomore class on Tuesday, and the Junior class on Wednesday. The hour and the place of the nominating meetings to be announced by the Election Com- ' mittee.
Section 3.	NOTICE OF THE PRIMARY.—The Election Committee shall post notices, on the various bulletin boards, announcing the time and the place of the primaries, at least one week before the date set for the beginning of the primary.
Section 4.	MANNER OF NOMINATING THE SENIOR REPRESENTATIVES TO THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES COUNCIL.—A meeting of the Seniors in each college and the Senior daystudents shall be called for the purpose of nominating their respective representatives to the Student Activities^Council. The candidates from each school must be members of that school. The two nominees receiving the highest number of votes cast shall be the candidates for representative of that college. The meeting of the various colleges shall be held the week preceding the regular primaries. The time and place of the meetings will be announced by the Election Committee.
In the case of a vacancy in the Senior representative body, the member to fill the vacancy shall be elected by the class as a member at large.
Section 5.	THE MANNER OF NOMINATING.—The Chairman of the Election Committee shall have charge of the proceedings during the nominating. Regular rules of order shall govern except that no ‘second’ shall be needed to nominate.
Section 6.	METHOD OF VOTING.—After
nominations for all of the offices have been made, ballots shall be passed out. The elector shall place the name of one nominee for each office on the ballot as provided.
Section 7.	CANDIDATES.—The two nominees receiving the highest number of votes, for each office, shall be the candidates to be voted upon in the general or final election.
SECTION III.
ELECTIONS—FINAL	.
Section 1.	TIME AND PLACE OF FINAL ELECTION.—The final election shall be held on Friday of the second week in May. The polls shall be open from nine o’clock in the forenoon until five o’clock in the afternoon. The location of the polls shall be announced, by the Election Committee at least three days before the day set.
Section 2.	METHOD OF IDENTIFYING THE VOTERS.—The members of each class shall be registered in a poll book of that class and upon appearance of voter his name shall be checked on the book as having cast his ballot.
In case of any dispute as to class standing of the voter, the voter shall present a note from the Dean of his College and the poll books shall be . corrected to agree.
Section 3.	METHOD OF VOTING.—The members of each class shall be presented with a batlot bearing the names of the candidates from his class. The elector shall check the names of the candidates he wishes to cast his vote for and deposit his ballot in the box provided for that class. The Juniors, in voting for S.A.C. representatives,, shall be allowed to vote for only the representative from his college, except the day-students, who shall vote also for the day-student representative.
Section 4.	CLERKS OF THE ELECTION— The members of the Election Committee and the presidents of the three classes shall act as clerks of the election.
Section 5.	ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE NAMES OF THE ELECTED CANDIDATES— The counting of the ballots shall be left in the hands of the Election Committee and the Student Activities Council. The result of the count must be made known not later than the Monday after the election, except where there has been a contested election.
JOSEPH SCOTT TO LECTURE AT NOTRE DAME
On the afternoon of Friday, March 20, Joseph Scott, of Los Angeles, will lecture in Washington Hall. The hour of the lecture will be announced later.
584	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NATIONAL INTERCOLLEGIATE ORATORICAL CONTEST ANNOUNCED
The Better America Federation of California is about to conduct a National Intercollegiate Oratorical Contest in which Notre Dame has been invited to participate.
The purpose of the contest is to increase interest in and respect for the Constitution of the United States. The rules permit any bona fide undergraduate student in any college or university in the United States to enter. Each participating school is to select a candidate, and only one candidate is allowed to each school. The final awards will range from $300 to $2,000 and will be distributed among seven finalists.
The contestants will be judged according to manuscripts as well as according to oratory. In fact, manuscripts will count as much as oratory.
Any Notre Dame students who wish to enter this contest must submit their names to the Director of Studies not later than March 20. All manuscripts must be handed in to Mr. Mark Nolan by April 5. For detailed information concerning this contest, entrants may consult Mr. Nolan, 223 Sorin Hall.
THE FRESHMAN DEBATE PRELIMINARIES
For the first- time in the history of the University, members of the Freshman class, under the direction of Mr. Mark Nolan, are being organized into debating teams. During the try-outs for the Varsity teams so much capable material was found among the Freshmen that the time was thought propitious for the organization and training of these men to represent the University in the future.
With this purpose in view, Coach Nolan ehose the question: “Resolved, that the American people should adopt Senator Robert La Follette’s proposal for the curtailment of the power of the Supreme Court over acts of Congress.”
Preliminaries were held last week. Those who survived these preliminaries and were eligible for entrance into the second series
were: John Cavanaugh, Edward B. Burke, John Igoe, Joseph McNamara, William O’Neil, Bernard Crowley, George Coury, Donald Corbett, Robert Fogarty, William Hurley, Morris Conley, John Murphy, Arthur Stenius, Bernard Zepperer, Janies Maloney, Emmett Donahue, Robert McHale, Patrick O’Connor and Gerald Conaghan.
From these men, the official teams will be selected. It is probable that two or three debates will be arranged to be held before Easter.
VARSITY DEBATERS WIN AND LOSE
Engaging in two debates on Friday night, March 6, Notre Dame won from Wabash in Washington Hall and lost to DePauw at Greencastle.
The affirmative team received Professor Frank Carlton’s decision here after a closely fought and thoroughly interesting battle with Wabash. The visiting men were clever and convincing speakers, particularly the unheralded Mr. V. W. Brown. He, with Mr. L. M. Ross, winner of the State Oratorical Contest, and Mr. W. H. Johnson, presented a remarkably strong negative case.
Ray Cunningham, William Coyne and Oscar Lavery, representing Notre Dame, though burdened with the unpopular side of the question, argued their points with extraordinary skill and offset the somewhat superior speaking ability of the Wabash team. They demonstrated an amazingly deep knowledge of their subject. .
Dean Thomas J. Konop of the Hoynes College of Law was the chairman of the debate here, and music was furnished by the Big Five.
At Greencastle the debate was equally as hard fought and the judgment, favorable to De Pauw, of Professor Woolbert of the University of Illinois, came as the climax to an evening of extremely hot argument. David Stanton, Seymour Weisburger and Joseph Hogan comprised the Notre Dame negative team.
“The question debated in both cases was Resolved, that Indiana should adopt in principle the Wisconsin plan of unemployment insurance, constitutionality waived.”
&:i

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	585
K. OF C. INITIATION SCHEDULED FOR MARCH 20
Minus Professor Manion, who was unable to appear for his scheduled comment on “Feminine Foibles” the members of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, met in their Walsh Hall chambers Tuesday night, smoked cigars, transacted business, listened to music as served by the Knightingales, and enjoyed a palate teasing lunch.
The Council’s next initiation is to be held on Friday evening, March 20, and on Sunday afternoon, March 22. The first degree will be exemplified on Friday and the second and third degrees on Sunday. A banquet, honoring the newly initiated Knights, will be served in the LaSalle Hotel, Sunday night.
VILLAGERS TO BANQUET MONDAY EVENING
Mr. Frank E. Hering, former Notre Dame football captain and coach, and Mr. Rome C. Stephenson, President of the St. Joseph Loan and Trust Company, will be the speakers at the Villagers Club banquet in the Oliver Hotel next Monday evening, March 16. The entertainment, consisting partially of music, and the decorations, arranged by Walter Condon, will be in keeping with St. Patrick’s Day. The Villagers orchestra, under the leadership of Seymour Weisburger, will play.
The officers of the Villagers hope to announce their plans for the spring activities of the Club at this meeting.
FATHER M’NAMARA ADDRESSES ENGINEERS
The monthly meeting of the Engineers’ Club, held on Thursday night, March 5, in the Carroll “rec” room, was in charge of the Civil Engineers under the direction of Tino Poggiani.
Father George McNamara was the principal speaker. He told of the fine spirit of fellowship and generosity that had always existed among the Engineers and of the Notre Dame traditions that in his belief had been started by them. He mentioned
especially, the tradition of breaking a last cigarette to share it with a friend. .
Refreshments were served and two important announcements made. One was that the next meeting would be in charge of the Chemical Engineers headed by George Ludwig. The other was that an Engineers’ number of the Scholastic would be issued on April 4. This number will be made up entirely, it is hoped, of the work of the Engineers.
A committee, consisting of George Driscoll, chairman; George Ludwig, Roland Menou, George Rohrbach and Eugene Sullivan was appointed to co-operate with the editors of the Scholastic. Any Engineer wishing to contribute to this number should hand his copy to one of the above men by March 22. Contributions to all departments of the Scholastic, literary, news, sports, verse, are solicited. The Engineers’ contributions are by no means limited, to engineering subjects.
NOTRE DAME AGAIN CHAMPION
“Resolved, that, under existing conditions, the abolition by all the civilized’ nations of the world of their armies and navies, other than those required for domestic policy, is feasible.”
Such was the question in Notre Dame’s first intercollegiate debate, held in Indianapolis on May 3, 1899, with Butler as the opponent. Matthew A. Schumacher, now Father Schumacher, C.S.C., President of St., Edward’s College, Austin, Texas, Sherman Steele and Hany P. Barry, represented Notre Dame. These three pioneers won that first debate—and Notre Dame has been winning with marvelous regularity ever since. The precedent was all-powerful.
In the twenty-six years since 1899—not including the 1925 season—Notre Dame has won forty-six out of fifty-five debates. This is a percentage of 83.6. Dining the first ten years of her debating history, she did not lose a single contest.
An accomplishment so unique is liable to be overshadowed, by the more conspicuous and popular athletic accomplishments. Partially because of that danger, to unveil hidden facts and to give due credit to able de
586
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
baters and able debating coaches is the purpose of this article.
On the basis of these figures, Notre Dame may lay fair claim to the debating championship of the country. Of other schools, the most impressive record, so far as is known is that of Bates College. Its record was compiled two years ago during an investigation, by the Literary Digest, of debating among American colleges. At that time Bates had won forty-two out of fifty-five debates for a percentage of 76.4.
With whom, you ask, has Notre Dame debated all these years? Has she sufficient grounds for claiming a championship? Before any justification of her claim is attempted, this should be noted: That the numerically larger schools do not always develop the best debating teams. Bates, with comparatively few students, is a brilliant example of this fact. And St. Viator’s, not a large school, is one of the very few credited with two debating victories ■over Notre Dame.
But if you will have “bigger proof,” here it is. Iowa, Georgetown, Ohio, Detroit, Western Reserve, Indiana and Purdue are among the numerically larger schools whose debating teams Notre Dame has met. Of these neither Ohio nor Iowa, Purdue nor Detroit has ever defeated Notre Dame. Georgetown has gained one victory (incidentally, Notre Dame’s first defeat) Western Reserve, two and Indiana, two.
Much of the success of Notre Dame debating must unquestionably be attributed to the ability of capable coaches. Professor William Carmody organized the first team in 1899 and remained in charge for two years. He was followed by Rev. Thomas Crumley^ C.S.C., a member of the University faculty at present, who guided his teams through the undefeated seasons of 1901 and 1902. Professor Sherman Steele directed the teams of 1903 and 1904 and Professor John B. Reno those from 1905 to 1908. With the close of the 1907 season Notre Dame had won fourteen debates and had not been beaten.
Canie 1908 and the first defeat by Georgetown at Washington after Notre Dame had -already beaten Ohio. Rev. William Molo
ney, C.S.C., now pastor of St. Patrick’s Church in South Bend, assumed charge of the debaters in 1909, and during that year avenged the Georgetown defeat. He continued without an adverse decision for two seasons.
In 1912, Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., the present coach, became tne director of debating activities at Notre Dame. His genial personality, his knowledge of politics and economics in which fields he is a nationally known authority, a piercing insight into involved issues, his ability to communicate his knowledge to others and to inspire them, all these attributes of Father Bolger have combined with the qualities of capable students to produce “the golden age of argumentation at Notre Dame.”
The war caused an interruption of four years in debating. In the other eight years since 1912, the Notre Dame teams have won thirty-two out of thirty-eight debates. Professor Shuster assisted Father Bolger in 1924 when there were four teams debating two different questions.
The teams of this year give every indication of living up to previous standards. Competition during the tryouts was markedly hot and an unfailing interest was evidenced by all the contestants. It was a most difficult task to select those men who were to represent the University on the varsity teams.
There is much satisfaction in the fact that the Freshmen displayed an unprecedented interest in these tryouts. Indeed the interest was so great that tryouts for the Freshman-debating teams, an innovation at Notre Dame, are now going on and meets for them are being scheduled.
All this is encouraging. If Notre Dame is to continue in her place as debating champion of the country, interest and zeal must be kept alive. Champions need much moral assistance especially in the way of packed Washington Halls.
Note:—The author is indebted to Frank Wallace, ’23, for many of the facts contained in this story. Mr. Wallace’s article on Notre Dame debating appeared in the South Bend Tribune two years ago.
,	—W. R. DOOLEY.
I*?
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Administration
Morrissey Hall is to be the name of the building now under construction just south - of the Library. Rev Andrew J. Morrissey (1860-1921), in whose honor the building will be designated, was active for many years in the service of Holy Cross. He was officially connected with the administration of the University as Director of Studies (1885-1893), and as President (1893-1905). For fourteen years (1906-1920) he was Provincial of the Congragation of Holy Cross. .... Says the Dome of ’22—“He labored deligently for a greater Notre Dame,— greater not only in size, but in educational value and spiritual training.”
—v d s—
Laetare Sunday falls on March 22 this year. On that day, the committee will make known the name of the recipient of the Laetare Medal for 1925. The award is made annually by the University to some distinguished Catholic layman.
--V D S
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., President of the University, has returned from his vacation.
--NDS---
Arrangements for Commencement are being completed by the committee. Excellent music seems assured, as it is planned to combine the Glee Club and the Moreau Seminary Choir for the occasion.
—nds—
Morrissey Hall, despite rumors, will be occupied by Freshmen. One half the accommodations are already reserved.
STUDENTS’ VARIETY SHOW PLEASES
The annual Students’ Variety Show played to crowded houses in its two performances in Washington Hall on Wednesday and Thursday evenings. The entertainment was in the nature of a potpourri, ranging from the ridiculous to the sublime, from the satisfying rythm of jazz-dancing to the sober philosophy of a morality play. Dick Lightfoot, who had charge of the direction of this play, saw to it that all tastes were catered to, and the large audience seemed
587
well satisfied with the result. .	. ■
“Moments of Minstrelsy,” the opening act of the show, was particularly well received. With Pat Manion in the role of interlocutor' and Irving Hurwich, Ed Luther, John Corcoran, Hogan Morissey, and the Subway Seven, all featured with special numbers, this was perhaps the most elaborate act on the program.
Another high spot in the evening’s entertainment'was the unexpected appearance of Jimmy Crowley in “Capers by the Four Horsemen.” Jim responded to the reception with a few moments of clog dancing. Harry Denny’s Collegians, assisted by the delightful Miss Bernice McGowan, and Musical Diversions, with Raymond Sheriff, John De Mott, and George Higdon, were very well received.
Several youthful dancers from Miss Corinne Seegmueller’s Palais Royale School of Dancing, presented an extremely pleasing number called “A Grandmother’s Dream of a Minuette.” Betty Fefferman was cast as the grandmother, Virginia Babcock, June Michael, Samuel Dunnock and Carl Kuehne assisting with dancing. They were followed by Miss Maxine Eaton who very ably gave several novelty dances.
In connection with the Varsity Show, special mention must be made of the work of Mr. Richard Lightfoot. To him, for his ceaseless efforts and splendid ideas, should, go a great portion of the credit for the success of the production.
Assisting Mr. Lightfoot back-stage were J. T. Quigley, F. C. Bunce, A. G. Adrian, Lester Lovier, Frank Murray, George Vincent, Meredith Doyle, George Sheehe, Jack Kane, Al Hockwait, John Mahon, and John Gallagher. The Art Department of the University, especially Professor and Mrs. Ernest Thompson were of great assistance in the preparation of the gorgeous stage settings which were a feature of the production. Wilbur McElroy, George Krispinski, Joseph Foglia, and John Gaiwin assisted in the art work.
The aid of Mr. Richardson , of the Palace Theatre and of Miss Corrine Seegmueller of the Palais Royale Dancing School, among the many South Bend people who assisted, is especially acknowledged.
c
588	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Music
The Glee Club will give its first campus concert of the year Tuesday night, March 17. Mr. Joseph J. Casasanta will conduct one group of the program, and Dr. J. Lewis Browne will direct the remainder.
Mr. Casasanta received his degree of Bachelor of Music in 1923 from Notre Dame and since that time has been employed in the Musical Department of the School. Besides his work as a teacher of piano, he was this year appointed director of the University Band. The Band, under the conduction of Mr. Casasanta, made several trips to football games played away from Notre Dame, and it was more than favorably received upon every such occasion.
Besides his work as director of the Band and assistant director of the Glee Club, Mr. Casasanta is a composer of several musical numbers, the most prominent, perhaps, being “Hike, Notre Dame,” which the Glee Club has included as a regular number of its program. This song has lately been accepted as one of the official football songs of Notre Dame. ,
—n d s—
The University Orchestra has recently been reorganized and now has thirty members, who are working on the program to be given in spring concerts. The Orchestra is conducted by Dr. J. Lewis Browne, assisted by Mr. Joseph J. Casasanta. The officers of the organization are: Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., Honorary President; Jay Masenich, President; Walter Houppert, Vice President; and John F. O’Donnell, Business Manager. The other members of the orchestra are: Weisberger, Eder, Schilder, Roemer, Benning, Dardes, Dombey, Duffy, Braun, DeMott, Lemmer, Endress, McDermott, Favero, Worthington, Short, Miller, Schuh, Gilles, Ferguson, McNamara, Broussard, Howland, Wood, Reichert and Haney.
The Orchestra will hold its first smoker Wednesday evening, March 18. All men interested in orchestra work are invited to join immediately.
Added impetus has been given to the ■work of the organization because of the re
cent visit upon the campus of Miss Hayes of the Hayes Travel Co. This company will take an orchestra of twelve men from the Notre Dame organization to play during its summer voyages between this country and France. The first trip will be made
• early in July.

BOY GUIDANCE NOTES
Miss Jones, of the Placement Bureau of the South Bend Vocational Guidance Department, gave an interesting talk to the members of the course on the efforts being made to place students, who desire either part-time or full-time work, in positions for which they are best fitted. She explained the efforts being made in the schools to help the boy determine the work he intends to take up in life.	-
---NDS----
St. Casimir’s Young Men’s Club received Holy Communion in a body last Sunday. Hogan Mor-sissey and Hector McNeil, supervisors, attended church with the members of the club.
---NDS
Mr. Kremp recently bloomed forth in a new spring outfit. Contrary to expectations he retained his clod-hoppers as part of his spring attire.
---NDS----
Mr. Peachey, Scoutmaster of Troop 1, South Bend, paid Graduate Hall a visit last Sunday. Mr. Peachey spent thirteen years “before the mast” and was a most interesting guest.
---NDS----
Messrs. July and Hughes received flags for Troops number 33 and 35, respectively, at the Court of Honor held recently in the Elks Club.
---NDS----
Hogan Morrissey was a decided success in the Student Varieties.
---nds----
Messrs. Walsh, Becker and Lacey are continuing their important work in connection with the Juvenile Court in South Bend.
---NDS----
Mr. Eugene McVeigh has been appointed to take charge of engineering details connected with the extensive survey being made by the South Bend Recreation Bureau, under the supervision of Col. C. B. Bullock. Mr. William K. O’Donnell, a graduate of Villa Nova, will be associated with Mr. McVeigh in the work.
---NDS----
Drs. Bonelli and McVeigh, well-known physicians, were visitors in South Bend during the past week. They gave several talks before the “400” of the neighboring city. Both men are well known to the Boy Guidance students.

‘	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
589
ST. PATRICK
It is fitting that St. Patrick be honored in an especial way at Notre Dame. The great patron of Erin is a symbol of the invincible faith to which the forefathers of so many Notre Dame men clung through adversity and oppression.
The blessing that God has given to Ireland—the glorious fact that Irishmen constitute a nation, united in ideals and religion—is a result of the Catholic faith of its people. St. Patrick carried the torch of faith to Ireland to light the ardent fires of religion in the noble hearts and souls of the Irish people. And this faith has preserved them a nation.
May we at Notre Dame remember that St. Patrick—idealized as an historical figure or a religious hero—is, nevertheless, a powerful saint whose greatest merit lies in the power of his sainthood. Few pray to St. Patick, though he, who placed the most constant and most beautiful jewel in the crown of God, must be all powerful as an intercessor.	—M. c.
A “DISGRACE”
This is the time of year when fervent pleas and dire threats are usually made for the safe-guarding of the campus. This, however, is neither an entreaty nor an attempt to sling harsh language. We are firm believers in the theory that the Notre Dame man is most reasonable and can best be approached in a reasonable way.
Until walking upon the grass shall be considered a disgrace for a Notre Dame man. Our Lady’s campus will never attain that perfection of beauty with which nature has endowed it.	—j. w. S.
OUR FRESHMEN IN THE COLLEGE CYCLE
Economists of this generation have attached considerable importance to the fluctuating Business Cycle, which, they maintain, is divided into the periods of ascendency, prosperity, descendency, and depression. College graduates, too, that is those who have been active in campus activities, when reminiscing upon their college life, become cognizant of a similar College Cycle through which they have passed. Their Freshman year naturally was that period of ascendency into the spheres of activity prominence; their Sophomore and Junior years represented their period of highest and greatest activity achievement—-their season of prosperity; while their Senior year marked their period of descendency from the throne of the reigning activity, because by that time they considered they had enjoyed their share of honor and glory and that it was time to turn over to their under-classmen the opportunities they had had to win popularity and laurels of eminence.
Now the economists, when the period of depression is prevailing, have no doubts that the succeeding period will be one of ascendency because it has been proved that the theory of the Business Cycle actually functions in practice. The graduating students, however, when they realize that soon they must relinquish their positions of activity honor, and at the same time do not see any under-classmen with outstanding capabilities to assume them, are not so certain that this College Cycle will function as smoothly and as regularly as it should. They feel assured that in time, due to necessity, someone will exude from somewhere to shoulder the responsibilities and keep the
590	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Cycle in motion; but they are skeptical about it all unless they have witnessed an under-classmen develop gradually as the logical one to “fill their shoes.”
With a sudden realization that opportunities galore await those ambitious enough to make the effort, it seems that the present Freshman class has had its awakening. Suddenly they seemed to have become aware of the need of their assistance in athletics to fill the gap left by the graduating “horsemen” and “mules” and they have lost no time answering the “spring football” call. They seemed to have sensed that there were very few interested in dramatics among the upper-classmen, and so with the impetus provided by a senior activity, they flocked out to organize a dramatic club and to cast for several one-act plays. The debating team they noticed was constituted chiefly of men who would be receiving a diploma this year, and so these Freshmen formed a debating team to “season” themselves for the gruelling tests of the Varsity preliminaries next fall. In short, they have realized the school’s present need of their services and the benefit their services will be to the school and to themselves in later life.
The Freshman class seems to be conscious of the fact that the proper functioning of this College Cycle depends not on external conditions as does the Business Cycle, but on conditions brought about by individual initiative.	—R. c. c.
have their student governing body conducted. George Bischoff is a man of ability, of action, the possessor of unlimited energy; all of which have been at the disposal of the student body this year. Mr. Bischoff is responsible for the publicity which filled Washington Hall for the Wabash debate, and we congratulate him for his success.
Concerning the debate, there is only this to write: Notre Dame’s debating tradition, like her athletic traditions, is a good one. And we are confident it has been intrusted to safe hands this year. The work of the victorious affirmative team bespeaks oratorical ability and arduous preparation. Like the defeated negative team, which brilliantly oposed De Pauw at Greencastle, they are to be congratulated.
The new Players Club, with an enrollment of one hundred, is making an excellent start under the direction of its officers and advisory board. We see nothing but certain and impressive success for this distinctively Notre Dame project.	—J. W. S.
THE STAFF
J. W. SGALLAN
Editor
WILLIAM R. DOOLEY Nezes Editor
TOM COMAN
Sports Editor
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG
Literary Editor
GERALD HOLLAND
Ass’t Literary Editor
IS THIS THE AWAKENING?
It is pleasing to note the interest in debates at Notre Dame this year. Not so much among the debaters, the spirit of sacrifice and enthusiasm has always been there, but in the student body itself, this spirit of interest is present. The audience for the Wabash debate was the first respectable turnout for a debate in Washington Hall within the last two years.
Part of the credit for this belongs to George Bischoff, the President of the Student Activities Council. We sometimes wonder, with all the criticism piled about the S. A. C., like so much mud, impeding its action, just how the student body would
THE NEWS
JOHN F. STOECKLEY JOHN GALLAGHER LESTER GRADY MARK NEVILS JOHN CULLINAN
DEPARTMENT
ANDREW MULREANY JAMES WITHEY JOHN F. O’DONNELL ALFRED MEYERS CARLOS D. LANE, JR.
THE LITERARY DEPARTMENT
harry a. mcguire R. G. GUNNINGHAM JOSEPH P. BURKE FRANCIS C. MILLER
ANSELM MILLER EUSTACE CULLINAN BERT V. DUNNE ALBERT SOMMER
BUSINESS
DEPARTMENT
CORBIN PATRICK Business Manager
ALFRED DIEBOLD JAMES WITHEY Local Advertising Mgr. Foreign Adv. Manager
RUPERT WENTWORTH Circulation Manager BUSINESS STAFF
CHARLES CASEY FRANKLIN CONWAY CLAYTON LEROUX BERTON TOEPP GERARD SMITH JOSEPH HILGER DAVID HICKEY WILLIAM GALLIGAN GEORGE J. SCHILL
JOHN LOFTUS ROBERT ROY JOSEPH DUNN EDWARD BRODERICK ROBERT STRICKEL EDWARD CUNNINGHAM LAWRENCE WINGERTER HERBERT WALTHER DOROTHEUS MEINERT
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	591
Ireland—
The Mother of Medieval Universities
REV. JOHN M. RYAN, C.S.C.
IT is commonly believed that some 700 years ago, when a body of Norman knights conquered Ireland, they found there an ignorant and degraded people to whom they brought the first knowledge of the arts and sciences. Nothing could be further from the truth.
The Irish people have a long record of wrongs done them as a nation, but the most ingenious and refined of all is precisely this: their oppressors systematically destroyed all knowledge of their past. They robbed a noble and gifted people of the very memories of their ancient glories. They made-trembling slaves or savage beasts out of them, and then they proceeded to kill in their souls the one gleam of comfort and hope, the reminiscence of the ages they were the schoolmasters and apostles of nations which today look disdainfully down on the little island whence they received, 1200 years ago, the divine lights of faith and science.
Long before the Norman set foot on English soil, when he was yet a Northman, a sanguinary robber of the weak and defenseless all over Europe, Ireland had earned the splendid title of ■‘Island of Saints and Doctors.” She had numerous famous schools in which countless thousands from all over Europe came as students and acquired a knowledge of religion, philosophy, history, languages, exact and natural sciences, fine arts, music, law and medicine; such a knowledge as could not be obtained from one end of Europe to the other. The whole island was covered with establishments of piety and learning from the sixth to the tenth century. Numberless teachers taught all the sciences of antiquity. Numberless others transcribed the teachings of the scientists. All— both teachers and students—felt a thirst for knowledge such as perhaps has never before or since existed among any people.
Had these peaceful arts been allowed to flourish, had the human mind in the West been allowed to evolve its gifts under the guidance of these Irish Christian teachers, who knows what might have been the course of the world’s history. We might have been spared much of the barbarism and ignorance of the Middle Ages. Christianity might have been left more free to develop the better qualities of man; the transition from the antique to the modern society would have been accomplished with fewer convulsions, and in briefer time. We would not have had to await the fall of Constantinople for a re-awakening of interest in the learning and culture of the polished nations of antiquity.
In order to understand why the Irish people ought to be proud of their ancient reputation for scholarliness and refinement, we must go back to the history of the period from the yeai- 500 to
800. It was the time of the barbarian invasions of the Roman Empire. Multitude after multitude of brutal heathen people, without law or culture, fell upon the fairest provinces of the great empire. -They deluged with blood the soil of Gaul, of Spain and of Italy. They reduced the populations to slavery or at least, to misery. They visited upon the subjects of mighty Rome an awful retribution for the wrongs she had wreaked upon, their forefathers. In one dread night the light of civilization, fed by a thousand years of Greek and Roman culture, went out, and an appalling darkness hung over the world.
So vast was the ruin and so complete the collapse of all that the intellect and the skill of man had produced in southern and central Europe, that the writers of the day could find no words to describe it, and for our knowledge of it we are reduced mainly to the evidences of our eyes—the tremendous wreckage of antiquity, whose disordered heaps are yet visible to every traveler.
It was in this period, some 1200 to 1400 years ago, from the fifth to the ninth centuries of our era, that the schools of Ireland flourished. The great Greek and Roman schools were closed, the civilization they nourished destroyed, the libraries consumed or scattered, the teachers driven into the desert places and made slaves or wanderers on the face of the earth. Had it not been for the whole hearted devotion with which the children of St. Patrick took up the dying torch of science and handed it on from one to another, Europe would have sunk into its original barbarism. Charlemagne and the medieval papacy would have been impossible; the great universities would not have arisen; the classics would not have come down to us in fragments; and the task of Christian teaching and discipline would have been well-nigh hopeless. If the man who opens a school-house in the wilderness is a public benefactor, how deserving of public gratitude was that multitude of holy men who built their schools, little and great, in every sweet valley and on every rounded hill of Ireland; who dotted the islands of the lakes -with schools and wove around the picturesque coast of the entire island a splendid girdle of monasteries, like so many beacons of welcome and safety to the thousands who fled- from the wars and the disorders of the continent.	-
The ancient Irish, though war-like in their tastes, were a people of great refinement, generous, gifted, and impressed by the mystic and spiritual sides of life. They were deeply versed in the sciences of poetry and history, in the weaving of narratives and romance, in such knowledge of the natural and exact sciences as was then attainable.. We need not therefore wonder at the sudden blossoming of learning which took place within a century of St. Patrick’s death. The soil and the time were admirably adapted. The learning of pagan Ireland had been in the hands of the Druids and the Bards. Among the Christian Irish the priests
592	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
at once stepped into the places and the privileges of this high literary caste, and thus, by the easiest of transitions, the whole system of teaching became at once Christian, Ecclesiastical, and Roman.
Twenty years after St. Patrick’s death the chief king of Ireland was converted, and Armagh was made the chief See of Ireland. Monasteries sprang up everywhere and were the centers of learning and piety, not only for Ireland, but for all of Europe, during the early Middle Ages. There were many communities founded for girls and women; that of St. Brigid, particularly, became famous. Thus Ireland fully merited the title of “island of saints and scholars,” for from it was spread the learning that preserved Europe to the Faith and re-converted the greater part of it after the barbarian invasions.
The most venerable of these ancient schools is that of Armagh. All the Christian learning of the Gael comes down from the swelling heights of Macha, where Patrick built his church and fixed his episcopal chair. Long before St. Patrick, it had been famous as a school of poetry and romance, for Armagh was the classic land of the ancient Celtic chivalry—the home of the Red Branch Knights—and close by was the splendid palace of the northern kings. The piety and fancy of the Celt have woven the facts of the foundation into the tenderest of legends.
It is told how when Patrick was ascending the slope of the sacred hill, book in hand, surrounded by.the clergy and.the people, a startled deer with • its little fawn broke from the thicket nearby. The attendants wanted to kill them but the gentle old bishop forbade it. He took the little fawn upon his shoulders, the timid doe followed after him, and thus went to the convent of the Nuns of Na Fearta where the fawn and the doe were caressed and cared for. Even in this Patrick was a teacher, for he impressed upon the rough warriors about him lessons of Christian mildness. “He showed himself the Good Shepherd, of whom he spoke to them so often, and they were taught that the gospel of Patrick was a gospel of love—of love of God, their Great Father in heaven, and for all their fellow men on earth.”
Beside the little Cathedral there arose the houses of monks and students; the library and the archives were soon added, and in a short while the Hill of Macha was a busy center of Christian students and studies. The material wants were well provided for, and the discipline was closely looked after. A prison for the refractory was built upon the grounds. For the protection of his church and school, Patrick surrounded them with a huge earthen mound, and in the neighborhood he planted a large grove in whose shade the clergy might refresh themselves after their labors.
The first president of this school was Benignus, an.affectionate youth especially beloved by St. Patrick. In the first days of Patrick’s mission Benig
nus had abandoned all to follow our Saint, and now Patrick placed him over the most important of his foundations, the new Cathedral school of Armagh. Benignus was a sweet musician; he was the psalm singer of St. Patrick; that is, he directed the musical services which the wise apostle established wherever he went. The ancient Celts were passionately fond of music and highly gifted with musical talents. In the school of Armagh, we may well imagine, the ancient church music flourished. The wild-eyed Celtic youth learned to submit to strict training, and the throats which had loved to chant the sorrows of Deirdre, or the high deeds of Cuchullian, now learned to pour forth the solemn, majestic church song of Rome.
The Christian sons of the Bards tuned their harps and their pipes to the classic harmonies of Greece, and the children of the proud Celtic chieftains, who had scorned the Roman yoke, began to learn Greek, Latin, and Hebrew. They escaped the yoke of the pagan only to bear the sweet and salutary yoke of Christian Rome. The Sacred Scriptures were studied daily. They were copied with accuracy and devotion. The only complete copy of the New Testament which the old Celtic Church has handed down to us was made in the school of Armagh. The theological students were well acquainted, too, with the works of St. Jerome. Countless priests and bishops were schooled at Armagh on the writings of Gregory the Great, notably his Moralia, the most successful work ever written on the relations of bishops, priests, and people. The writings and the sayings of St. Patrick were for centuries part of the teaching at Armagh. The autographs of the Apostle were preserved with reverence by the professors, as well as the writings of Benignus, the first president, who brought peace among the discordant clans by his Book of Rights, which established the revenues, rights, and privileges of the various civil rulers in Ireland, from the chief king to the lowest chieftain. It is a work which may compare in interest with the Doomsday Book of England; like it, it throws a flood of light on the manners and habits of the people. Benignus wrote also a life of St. Patrick, which has been lost in the period of wild disorder that came on in the ninth and tenth centuries. We may well regret its loss, for who could so well depict the gentle Apostle of Erin, as his bosom friend, his constant companion, the beloved Senen?
For a thousand years the school of Armagh was a busy center, where books were written, transcribed, and given away. Copies of the scriptures, the Fathers, the classical writers, the grammarians, the geometricians, and the natural scientists of the old classical world, were sent over the continent. Today, as a result of all that incessant activity, there remains but one volume—the Famous Book of Armagh, copied in the year 807, over 1000 years ago, by the scribe Ferdomnach. It contains the oldest and most authentic account of the life of St. Patrick. Even in the Middle Ages this book
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	593
was looked on as a priceless treasure.
At once the school of Armagh became the intellectual center of northern Europe. Swarms of students came across from Wales and Britain. A whole quarter- of the town was given over to the Saxon students, just as centuries later they had a section of Rome for themselves. They were the sons of the fierce German pirates who had scoured the great waterways of the north; but they learned refinement, gentle manners, and the arts and sciences from the Irish school-masters. Armagh was chiefly a school of theology. It was to be expected that the Christian learning of Ireland should be based on Christian principles and an accurate knowledge of the teaching of Jesus. But no narrow nationalism presided over- its development. One of the early presidents was a Welshman, Gildas the Wise, whose piety and learning did much to make the school popular among the neighboring Kymri.
Armagh has always been the true center of Irish national life. When, at the end of the eight century, the Danes began their murderous career, that closed only with the opening of the eleventh, Armagh at all times was the objective of their piratical raids. Nine times in two centuries this ancient seat of learning was pillaged by the Northmen. On every occasion they brought the books of the professors and students into the open court of the cloisters and made bonfires of them. Within five centuries it was burned to the ground sixteen times. No wonder that the literary labors of
its inmates have disappeared- The sword, the flames, neglect, ignorance, barbarism, and, worst of all, the contempt of later centuries have made sad havoc with the thousands of manuscripts that once adorned the shelves of the library. The Irish, annals mention frequently the death of famous professors at Armagh. They are called learned scribes, professors of divinity, wise doctors, moderators of the school, paragons of learning, and the heads of western Europe for piety, devotion, and scientific acquirements. Some of their names, such, as O’Hagan, O’Drugan and St. Malachia—whom St. Bernard pronounced the most accomplished priest of his age—have come down to us. For over a thousand years this venerable school spread the light of religious and profane science. It really belongs to the order of the Christian schools of Edessa and Nisibis, with those of Alexandria and Antioch. As the light of the Faith grew dark in the Orient, it blazed up with new splendor at the extremity of the west. Oxford and Cambridge are of yesterday with Armagh.
In those days of Celtic culture and independence, reedy swamps and great oak forests covered the soil where now rise the proud turrets of the great schools which owe their existence to the earlier labors of Celtic students How ungrateful they have been, let countless legions of Irish martyrs tell before the Supreme Court of the Judge of Nations; let the sorrows, the wanderings, the manifold woes of seven centuries be witnesses before the tribunal of humanity.
Mist Before the Sun
You say there is a mist before the sun, Veiling its glory?
Well, what of that?
A careless veil makes woman more alluring-For me, it may linger there forever.
We do not miss the winter in the spring'.
And I prefer the mist to the sun. .
It is more beautiful.
It is a melody.
—NORBERT ENGELS-
594’
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Propheticism
A High Drama in One Scene As Witnessed Through the Keyhole by
Harry McGuire
SCENE—Mount Olympics. The Prophet room of the Palace. It is large and bare, except for a huge throne in the center, which is flanked by tivo lesser seats. The plush padding on the lesser seats is not as thick as that on the big throne. Neither is it as worn. A telephone rests on one arm of the throne seat, and an engraved card neatly fastened to its base says succinctly, “Jove and, Other Connections.”
A blare of trumpets. The Prophet enters, the V. Rev. W. R. Inge, sometime Dean of St. Paul’s, London, Earth. On his right hand walks a pale little man with a goatee, John Ca.lvin. On his left a nice man with a ruddy, jovial countenance and black eyes— Luther.,
As the V. Rev. ascends the steps to the throne his ermine skirts trip him. He falls with dignity.
V. REV.—Damn!
LUTHER—Pardon?
V. REV.—Tush, tush. Escort me yon. • (Luther and Calvin pick him up and carry him to the throne. He rides their arms with dignity and reserve.)
V. REV.—(Seated, in a loud voice)— Bring him in, men! (Four servants pant in, lugging by the feet a large man whose monstrous back cleans the dust off the floor, but whose tawny head is so firmly planted on a footstool that the footstool is carried right along. The servants drop his feet at the foot of the throne, and scamper out. The large gentleman lies contentedly, his head raised on the footstool.)
LARGE GENTLEMAN—My pipe?
(Silence and severity.)
LARGE GENTLEMAN—I say, my pipe?
V. REV.—Your pipe, dribble, I am about to prophecy your future.
LARGE GENTLEMAN—I have no future without my pipe.
V. REV.—(Suspiciously)—My knees, my sacred knees! Your voice is like that of a
Papist I once knew—a certain Chesterton.
LARGE GENTLEMAN—I am him.
V. REV.—Tush, be grammatical.
G. K.—Before you, I had rather be humble. But my pipe?
LUTHER (He and Calvin have been standing rigidly on either side of the V. Rev.)—One of the brethren took his pipe when he was captured. . I will give him the cigar that Henry gave me the day he divorced himself. (Pulls frowzy black cigar out of the crevice between the padding and the back of his seat, 'runs down the steps, pokes cigar in Chesterton’s mouth, lights cigar, mutters “Don’t smoke, myself,” and mins back up to his place.)
V. REV.—(Meditatively)—And I thought we had captured the last Papist.
G. K.—So did Cromwell.
V. REV.—Well, if we haven’t, I have at least settled the future of Papacity.
G. K.—Where?
V. REV.—In a dignified and distinguished American monthly.
G. K.—Ah, I remember. You referred to the improbability of “America being swamped with low-grade Catholic immigrants.”
V. REV.—I believe so. (Indifferently.)
G. K.—Forgetting, apparently, that one cannot be an immigrant without being a Catholic. You may be an itinerant, an egocentric, or almost anything else But you can’t be an immigrant unless a Catholic, because immigration is an entering into something, and the essence of your sects outside of Catholicism is the leaving of everything behind them. Which may be all very well, but it is not immigration.
V. REV.—Pure quibbling.
G. K.—To a quibbler, (flicking ashes from cigar) yes.
V. REV.—You are imperious. You manifest what I have called that “spiritual arrogance which gives so much satisfaction to Catholics.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
595
G. K.—Arrogance becomes the spiritual —particularly arrogance toward the flesh.
V. REV.—Of which you appear to have plenty.
G. K.—But, as you see, I lay it low.
V. REV.—'Twill be lower yet. You are at present a man whom only a miracle could save... and you will remember that in my article I proved the ridiculousness of miracles.
G. IC.—Then that was a miracle.
V. REV.—And I proved that your “religion of magic....”
G. K.—The Wise Men were called Magi.
V. REV. — (Scorning interruption) — ‘“.... of magic, miracle, and idolatry cannot succeed in the twentieth century.” It makes no attempt to come to terms with science and humanism.
G. IC.—And must God bow before His own laws, my dear Dean? Must He ask science what He may or may not do? (Crossing his knees with uncbccustorned energy.} If God would appear to Moses on a mountain top must He first consult the law of gravity? If God’ is not above the little standards of His own creation, then only is religion not independent of science. Are the words of Christ, “Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after justice” to be refuted by the “Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow you may die” of your humanist? You say we must come to terms with humanism. Do you mean that to become divine we must be human? Do you mean that the’ road to heaven is the pathway of the flesh?
V. REV.—(Haughtily)—I mean that God does not want us to be ignorant and unreasonable.
G. K.—And you are wrong, for it is ignorance that has made saints, not learning —ignorance of their ego, ignorance of the mean bow by which atheists pay homage before altars made in their own images. As for unreasonableness, what is it? To you it is an opinion different from yours...
V. REV.—(After sneezing by design}— Tut, tut. The very popularity of a man like Eucken, who upbraids Catholicism....
CALVIN (Interrupting eagerly}—Who was that?
V. REV.—Eucken. Yoo-ken. CALVIN—Oo-ken?
V. REV.—No. Yoo-ken. Why do you ask, John ?	’
CALVIN—Because some patriotic Americans have asked me to recommend a new text-book in theology. I’m sure Ooken will do very well.	'
V. REV.—Mind you spell it correctly, John. It’s E-u-c-k-e-n.
CALVIN—Yes, your reverence.
V. REV. (Glancing at the comfstable and recumbent form of Chesterton below him}—And why, Papist, do you lie thus, if not as a sign of the fall and decay of Rome ?
G. IC—I would be humble before your prophecies, Very Reverend Dean. And I would be like the man on the desert who lies on the ground till the sand-storm is past.
V. REV.—Or like an ostrich with his head in the ground?
G. K.— (Sending a big round puff of smoke to the ceiling)—But my head is raised on this footstool, as you see. And most appropriately, for a footstool is no more made for feet than a toadstool is for toads. A footstool is an instrument of God. He made it so that the man who was fallen might keep his head out of the dust. But man proudly tried to shove his head as high as the God-head, and made the poorly little Christian headstool a footstool, that his height might be higher and his pride prouder. That is one way in which some so-called Christians have become fools. They have used footstools for their feet instead of for their heads.
V. REV. (Flicking a fly from his ermine} We have much business for prophesying today, and no time for nonsense. So I will now prophecy about you and the .Papists. Are you ready?
G. K.—Wait a minute (Adjusting footstool.} All right.
V. REV.—I see the imminent fall of the Papacy....	-
G. K. (Interrupting)—Dear dean, but a moment. Before I am judged and found wanting may I tell a yarn?
V. REV.—(Sternly) —No!
G. K.— (Blowing a strong column of
596	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
smoke into Calvin’s face)—Just a little one.
V. REV. (Magnanimously) — Well, be brief.
G. K.—There was once a man who had a dream. In the dream a red bull chased him up a mountain and boosted him down into the valley from the top. It was a painful dream. Next morning as the man was walking down the road he saw a dark speck coming toward him. “It’s not a bull,” he said bravely, and walked on. But a few moments later he saw that it was, surely, a bull. “It’s not a red bull,” he said, “it’s a white one.” The dark object came closer, and again the man assured himself, “It’s a white bull.” Closer, closer, came the bull, dark red and ferocious looking. “ You’re a white bull!” shouted the man. The bull stopped and looked at the man. “White bull! White bull!” cried the man, in a frenzy. Then the big red bull rushed for the man, and gored him. When we picked him up his red ecclesiastical robes were in shreds.
V. REV.—There’s no meaning to it.
LUTHER—Maybe it was a papal bull. I had a fight with one once.
V. REV.—Poppycock.	I must get on
with my prophesying.
CALVIN—The hour grows late, very reverend, and I’m tired of standing.
G. K.—Then use a footstool, dear Calvin, a footstool.
V. REV.—Enough of banter, or my
prophecy will be stale. As I have said, I see Rome in collapse.... the Nordics triumphant. ... the Irish turned good Presbyterians. ... (At this moment a wild-eyed servant rushes in and throws himself at the feet of the V. Rev. W. R. Inge.)
SERVANT—Very reverend, 0 master, I have bad news.
V. REV. (Clenching his hands on his breast, and taking courage from the bare ceiling)—Speak.... speak.
SERVANT—He of our brethren who took the pipe from the captured Papist has now gone and.... (hesitates).
V. REV.—Speak....
SERVANT—.... turned Papist.
LUTHER, CALVIN, AND V. REV. (In horror)—Shades of Henry. (A moment of hard silence. Then the V. Rev. unclenches his fists and acts with decision. He seizes the telephone with the neatly engraved card on it, which says succinctly, “Jove and Other Connections.” He jangles the receiver.)
V. REV.—I want Jove.... yes, Jove. Hello—that you Jove? This is Inge, your Prophet. Now see what’s happened. You could have avoided the whole thing if you had taken my advice about abolishing all forms of tobacco and....
G. K. (Dreamily)—Footstools....
CURTAIN.
The Knave of Hearts
A black-haired maid, framed by the moon, Sat on the balustrade,
But stopped her lilting, jazzy tune,
And said, quite unafraid,
“I see a thief no longer wears
A mask, and where’s your gun?
I always thought they worked in pairs— But—maybe you’re not one?”
“I come, madame, to steal your heart,
If that is burglary,
Although, I think it is an art—
So be it, thief I’ll be.”
—ANTHONY SHEA.
b'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
(t
J
Henry Edward Manning
JAMES A. CARROLL, ’25
ENRY EDWARD MANNING was England’s greatest Cardinal since Wolsey. He was one of the greatest
men of the many great men of the nineteenth century. Receiving his office at a time when the Catholic faith in England was reviving, he had just the qualities of •administrative ability, stern will, and suave confidence to give the Cardinalship its old distinction.
But because he made a good Cardinal, he makes a poor saint. His sincerity is questioned. and to ambition and love or adulation are ascribed some of the purest motives of his life.
Truly his good was interred with his bones, and men only keep the memory of a severe, tight-lipped prelate, dominating others, and compelling them to do as they did not want to do, by the force of his position, and by his very strong will. They remember his wilfulness, his sarcasm, his belligerent nature, and forget his charity and his kind heart. He was greatly misunderstood, and men are only slowly losing the resentfulness they hold towards Manning, and are but slowly learning to love him. Shakespeare’s tribute to Wolsey might well be reapplied to Henry Edward Manning:
“The Cardinal
Was fashioned to much honour from his cradle; He was a scholar and a ripe and good one; Exceeding wise, fair-spoken and persuading; Lofty and sour to them that loved him not;
But to those men that sought him sweet as summer.”	•
An account of Henry Edward Manning’s personality is an explanation of many contrasts and contradictions. He could be harsh, when he was resisted. He could be kind and gentle when the heat of the battle cooled. In the many conflicts his career brought him, he could sweep over adversaries with a ruthless disregard of their sentiments, and could overwhelm them with a ferocity that brought him their hatred. Once convinced that he was right, he attacked with all his power.
You speak of many-sided men! Here was
597
a man who all his life was the very personification of versatility. He was an able Churchman, a masterful diplomatist, a man of letters, a wise student of sociology; he won the respect, by his talents and accomplishments, of kings and statemen, of scientists and men of letters. And withal, he was a very holy man. He mingled with the world, shouldered its burdens and helped fight its battles. He became a fiery, militant leader of a rejuvenated faith in England.	■
Henry Cardinal Manning, was born at Totteridge, Hertford, England, July 15, 1808. He was of a family which referred its origin back to the Norman Conquest. His mother, who was Irish, was the second wife of William Manning, a banker, later Governor of the Bank of England, and later a tragic bankrupt. The Manning line boasted of an escutcheon, and was mentioned’in Burke’s “Peerage.”
At the age of ten, Manning went to Harrow School. Among his schoolmates were a number who were to distinguish themselves as ecclesiastics. The Headmaster at the school, a Dr. George Butler, an unusual character, made a deep impress on the young Manning. The pedagogue was an eccentric, nervous man, .with splendid principles. “He impressed character more than scholarship on his boys.” Manning was a robust youth, and was active in all the sports. His crowning glory was his elevation to the captaincy of the cricket team. Years after he "was to cherish this honor more than some of his greatest triumphs.
In 1826 Manning entered Oxford. The next few years were to be years of the hardest intellectual labor. Here, too, as at Harrow, he won recognition as a debater. Gladstone was a fellow student, and the friendship between them was to last, with more or less firmness, all through life. It vvas odd that while at Oxford, Gladstone, and not Manning, was regarded as the coming Churchman. Manning was not all religious, and Gladstone was “the sober and sound young man.” Manning’s ability in debating completely eclipsed the future leading statesman of England. The following lines, from a letter of his to his closest
598
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
friend and adviser, William Anderson, are very revealing of his character, and his attitude toward the future: “Hang me, Jack, if I do anything by halves. Hereafter I will endeavor to be Caesar; I know I can be Nullus. But never will I be Nullo-Caesar, which is an amalgam of craving ambition and yielding softness, inadequate exertion and harassed tranquility. Just enough to make one miserable, and too little of the other to succeed in any attempt.” As a student he was ambitious and enterprising; he was imaginative, and he had introspection to see and weigh his faults and his shortcomings.
His career at Oxford was followed by a period of doubt as to what profession he should enter. His interests had been political more than religious. . The real clew, perhaps, to his ultimate selection was his friendship with a Miss Bevan. She was a pious and gifted lady, who was, in a really large way, to shape Manning’s later career. She set out to save Manning’s soul. The Henry Manning at Oxford had been worldly and not at all religious. Governments and nations and peoples meant more to him than ecclesiastical things. The indifference to holy things which had worried him at Harrow had become a chronic thing. But by Christmas of the year 1831, Miss Bevan could write: “Henry Manning is in the bands of One who can guide by His counsel and fit for His own work by His Spirit. Who knows but that after being tempest-tossed for a season he may seek the services of his Master?”
In January, 1833, Manning, now an Anglican minister, accepted an obscure Sussex curacy, at Lavington. His years at Laving-ton were years of effort and sacrifice, but. he found here a peace and an opportunity for reflection that made Lavington dear to him in after life. Long after his departure for a career in the big world outside, the yeomen of Sussex, sequestered in their lonely meads, remembered the tall, thin-faced man who labored among them. The legend of Manning was to survive among them for many years. Here he married, and here he lost his beloved wife. There came to him at Lavington those first doubts as to his
faith. Here the fearful inner struggle took place. Manning always held Lavington dear to his heart. When he bade it goodbye, ir was a touching farewell.
Gladstone and Newman, it can be safely said, were the most important characters in the life of Cardinal Manning. The relation of both to him was interesting. Gladstone accompanied him along the first steps in their examination of the Anglican faith, and their leanings toward Catholicism. Gladstone promised, and broke his promise, while Manning continued to follow the path lighted by the lamp of Truth. Manning always afterward insisted that Gladstone was guilty of a breach of faith. Newman and Manning were naturally irreconcilable to each other. Their minds were of different casts; they were exactly different from each other on questions that called for individuality. This barrier to compatibility was a source of sorrow to both, but it could not be razed. The two great Churchmen continued their irreconciliation to the end. Ultimate harmony of mind and thought for them was impossible.
The Oxford Movement had brought about the conversion of Newman. Anglicans feared the reaction, and Manning, now the sturidest of Anglican Churchmen, became the oak of the storm. But the oak was to fall soon enough. The old subject of ritualism presaged the metamorphosis in Manning’s views. In 1847 he began what proved to be a journey of utmost importance to Rome. It was a leisurely trip in search of health. The trip brought much solid reflection, but no immediate result. It eventually brought him the health he really sought, health to an ailing soul. Doubts of Anglicanism were crystalized and Roman Catholic conviction succeeded. His conversion took place in April, of the year 1851. Ten weeks later he was ordained a priest. He deemed his active life was. brought to a close but he was mistaken in this, and very greatly mistaken.
For twenty-five years Manning served as spiritual leader of Catholic England. These years brought multitudes of trials and hard experiences, which put the man to a severe test. The positive proof of his ability and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
sterling- metal was at length unquestioned. He attained the Primacy of England, and became Cardinal to the whole world. He was the first to measure accurately the force of Catholic democracy. He was one of the first to condemn Prussianism, and the evils of military autocracy. He was the friend of the poor, and the champion of the oppressed. As Cardinal, so zealous was he for the help of the needy in the London slums, that he never could afford to build a cathedral.
Henry Edward Manning’s life was one of many accomplishments and personal triumphs. Through his sole endeavor, almost, the opposition of a faction in the College of Cardinals to the doctrine of Infallibility, was overcome. He used his great influence in helping the cause of Ireland, and the oppressed island found him a valuable friend. Manning’s work among the poorer Catholics of London was far-reaching in its effects
599
and results. He built up a school system, the educational system of the London Catholic schools today having his as a basis. One of the most outstanding and signal triumphs in his life was his successful arbitration of the London dockworker’s strike. When all other measures had failed, the aged prelate was called to settle the difference, and his wisdom brought the desired result.
Cardinal Manning was a wonderful, wonderful man. He had his faults; he knew he had them, but his good qualities far outweighed these. He was one of the kindest and most thoughtful of man, the most benevolent, the most tender-hearted. Manning was strong, strong in mind and soul. He was a great and original thinker. He was a born ecclesiastic, and it was as if Providence had chosen him to be the man to lead Catholic England out of its dark night into its glorious and unfading day.
Symphony
Even though I might, I would not want to be Perfect as you are;
For our two lives would be as two perfect melodies Played together.
They would be harsh, and disonant. '
For you are a perfect melody;
So let me be the humble counteipoint.
And our two lives shall sing and live A perfect symphony.
—NORBERT ENGELS.

600	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ernest Boyd is writing for Harper’s Magazine a series of papers bearing the general title, “A New Way with Old Masters.” The first of these on “William Shakespeare” appeared in the February number. It is explained that the series is “an effort to rescue our great classic writers from that academic veneration in which they have been enshrouded and then neglected, and to show their enduring interest and appeal when sensibly approached.”
V ❖	❖	❖
In the new book of Rev. Edward F. Garesche, S. J., “The Training of Writers,” the learned Jesuit aims to be helpful to those who write, and he is successful in carrying out his design.
In “Followers of St. Francis,” by Lawrence Housman, are contained four plays of the Early Franciscan legend. Their titles are: “Cure of Souls,” “Lover’s Meeting,” “The Fool’s Errand,” and “The Last Disciple.”
*
Little, Brown and Co. announce as the most important novel on the spring list, “Soundings,” by A. Hamilton Gibbs. Major Gibbs is a brother of Sir Philip Gibbs and of Cosmo Hamilton.
“The Carolinian” is Rafael Sabatini’s new novel. It is a story with. an American setting and an American hero. The year of the story is 1774 and the black clouds of the Revolution darken the sunny landscape. Harry Latimer, a young planter, espouses the cause of the rebels, and by so doing, he loses his financee, Myrtle, and loses also the friendship of her choleric old father. His subsequent adventures are set against the vivid background of the Revolution.
The first publication of the newly organized International Publishers Company will be a volume of eleven stories translated from the Russian, representing the work of a group of young writers who have come to the front since the Russian revolution.
“The Bookman’s Glossary” is a compendium of information relating to the production and distribution of books. The author is John A. Holden. Nearly the whole of the book is filled by the glossary, in which about one thousand terms are defined and their use explained.
. “A Study of War” by Admiral-Sir Reginald Cus-tance reflects the author’s theory of war. For the German doctrine of the so-called “will to power,” he substitutes the British doctrine of the “will to security.”
Prof. Stephen Leacock recently described modern fiction as being in a bad state. He compared the fiction of today with that of a century ago. The old love stories came in for a particular criticism— “in the month of June with the birds singing, the girl always self-reliant and the hero all boots and feet, but terribly brave.” Today, he said, the hero and heroine are always married before the story begins, doing away with that old-time ending of wedding bells and “living happily ever after.”
A group of portraits of the Italian Renaissance is published by Brentano’s under the title of “Beatrice D’Este and Her Court.” It is translated from the French of Robert de la Sizeranne by one, Captain N. Fleming.	.
Mr. Edward Bok’s latest effort is called “Twice Thirty: Some Short	and Simple	Annals of	rhe
Road.” These short	and simple	annals	run	on
for five hundred and	twenty-four	pages.	An	interesting document republished in	this book is a
letter of advice to soldiers about to leave for overseas service which Mr. Bok is said to have written. “I would be mighty wary,” he advises, “in those play hours, of the wines of France. A man never needs alcohol in his being, and he never needs it so little as when he is up against the ‘trick’ that you and your fellows are going to ‘put over’ in France.” This is the best joke we can think of with which to close.	.
The editor of “Book Leaves” will publish any contributed book review of merit.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	601
THE EXAMINNATION QUESTION GOES ■	TO US!
In the absence of a correct solution to last week’s Notty Problem we have awarded the handsome prize to ourselves.
Here's the Problem—If the B m t, put more:
Ans.—If the “grate be” empty, put more “coal on."
---1V D S--
Buck: (Deer, Male)
The Liberal Arts seniors at Illinois are carrying candy canes to spite the seniors in the Law school, who have reserved to themselves the privilege of carrying ordinary canes. Isn’t it about time for the annual spring controversy to begin here? I think the situation at Illinois is perfectly sweet— so typically collegiate. Heba (A male Sheba)
---.v D s--
LIFE’S AMBITIONS
I’d like to be a little kid And sit on papa’s knee, So every time he’d bounce me up A thousand stars I’d see.
I’d like to be a college guy
With pants twelve inches wide, So when I’d get excited much I’d crawl in them and hide.
I’d like to be a little rime
In the center of a big verse
So Scribblers could argue
Which of us was worse.
I’d like to write a decent line
To finish off this hash,
Alas ’twould only put to shame
The rest of this printed trash!
—Aristotle II.
---iV D s--
Father O’Hara reports a heavy attendance at the Novena for a happy marriage. It seems that the younger generation will never learn. At any rate, they’re starting the wrong thing right.
---nds-----
Dear Mail:
In a criticism of the “Rivals,” it was mentioned thar Sheridan’s works could never grow old because they were never new. Your jokes will live.
The Fourth Blind Mouse.
Joe Burke: (In Library) I’d like to get a war novel—some Boyd wrote it.
Librarian: (Knowing “Fighting Joe” Boike’s geographical derivation) Don’t you know the author’s name?
-----iV D s-----
TO THE UNIVERSITY SEAL
I’d always thought they were doves, But now I find the’re eagles, So I suppose heraldic lions .
Must look like a brace of beagles.	.
—e. g.
---D s----
The Mail:
I am writing this surrounded by peril. No one must know. If they find me out, I am lost. Promise that you will never tell on me. Guard the secret with your lives. Before you divulge it even to the chosen, extract from them a vow of secrecy. If the officials learn of it, your liberty is imperilled. Knowing that any moment may be my last, I must hasten to confide in you. Heed my warnings. Know, then, that Tuesday is St. Patrick’s Day.	■
False Peter (English of Shamrock)
---NDS----
AiV OWED
If you are a bird
Fly high, fly high, No tellin’ when you’re
Goin’ to die.
If you are drinker,
Look well, look well,
For many a drinker
Thirsted in -----
If you are a man
Walk fast, walk fast.
The beans get cold
Toward the last.
If you are a fish
Swim deep, swim deep,
And don’t forget
To look then leap!
—Aristotle II.
602
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME-COLUMBIA BASKETBALL
Coach Keogan’s Notre Dame basketball team dedicated the new gymnasium at Columbia college, Dubuque, Iowa, by defeating Eddie Anderson’s quintet, 44 to 25, Friday night, March 6.
Notre Dame, after trimming the Aggies in masterly fashion, picked up their stride again at Dubuque and ran through Anderson’s light but fast quintet for an overwhelming score. The count at the half stood, 31 to 13. After waiting more than half an hour for the second half to start, while the dedicatory speeches were being delivered, the Irish returned and played the Westerners basket for basket.
Nyikos registered eight field goals and was ably assisted by McNally and Crowe with four and three field counters each. Kizer and Conroy counted for two goals apiece.	*
The gymnasium, with a seating capacity of 3000 and costing a sum well up in six figures, was filled to capacity.
Notre Dame	Columbia
Crowe________________F_________________White
McNally______________F_______________ Morgan
Nyikos-----------------C_____________Kellogg
Kizer----------------G________________Dorsey
Conroy_______________G________________ Smith
Mahoney______________F
Field goals—Notre Dame—Crowe 3; McNally 3; Nyikos 8; Kizer 2; Conroy 2; Mahoney 1.
Columbia—White 4; Morgan 2; Kellogg, Dorsey 2.
Free throws—Notre Dame—Crowe, McNally, Nyikos, Kizer 2; Conroy.
Columbia—White 4; Morgan and Kellogg.
Referee—Young; umpire, Norr.
NOTRE DAME-WISCONSIN TRACK MEET
The Wisconsin Badgers, entertaining the Notre Dame track team on the Madison track, Friday night, March 6, evened the score for the football drubbing of last fall, by defeating the Blue and Gold runners, 61 to 24.
Notre Dame was able to take only two first places, Paul Harrington going over in the pole vault at 12 feet, 6 inches, and Wayne Cox winning the half mile. Mil-bauer who has won the shot put in two dual meets this season, lost to Schwartz, Wisconsin’s premier weight man. The Badger tossed the shot 45 feet,l 1-2 inches. Boland of Notre Dame took second place.
Summary of the events:
40-yard dash—McAndrews (W.) first; Layden N. D., second; Riley N. D., third. Time: 4 2-5 seconds ties record.
Pole vault—Harrington N. D., first; Carey N. D., Schmidt (W.), and Krieger (W.), tied for second. Height: 12 feet 6 inches.
One mile run—Bergstresser (W.) first; Shutt (W.) second; Cassidy (W) third. Time 4 minutes, 33 2-5 seconds.
40 yard high hurdles—McGinnis (W.) first; Roberts (W.) second; Casey (N. D.) third. Time: 5 2-5 seconds.
Shot put—Schwartz (W.) first; Boland (N. D.) second; Milbauer (N. D.) third. Distance 45 feet 1 1-2 inches.
High jump—McGinnis (W.) first; Tustar (Wl) and Robei-ts (W.) tied for second. Height: 6 feet 4 inches.
440 yard dash, Kennedy (W.) first; Flueck (W.) second; McTiernan (N. D. third. Time 53 3-5 seconds. New record.
Two mile run, Kubby (W.) first; Wendland (N. D.) second; Piper, (W.) third. Time, 9 minutes 49 4-5 seconds. New record.	.	.
Half mile run—Cox (N. D.) first; Carter (W.) second; Vallely (W.) third. Time, 2 minutes 2 1-5 seconds.
One mile relay—won by Wisconsin, (Hill, Flueck, Kennedy, Hilberts). Time 3 minutes, 35 2-5 seconds. New record.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
60S
JIMMY CROWLEY VISITS CAMPUS
Janies Crowley, Notre Danie’s All-American left half-back and member of the Four Horsemen backfield, returned to Notre Dame this week to appear in the official football picture of the team of 1924. Crowley’s visit is the first since he was forced to leave school at the beginning- of the year, due to a serious illness.
The football picture taken in the gymnasium brought together for the last time, Notre Danie’s national champion football team. It was the first complete reunion of the brilliant array of gridiron that eclipsed all football history by defeating Stanford on New Year’s Day aftei* completing the regular schedule untied and undefeated.
Jimmy Crowley appeared with Layden, Stuhldreher and Don Miller in the Student Varieties show on Wednesday night, and the great half-back was accorded one of the greatest ovations ever tendered a gridiron idol. The student body in the audience applauded Crowley’s appearance on the stage for several minutes and at the close of the act, vainly cheered for his return.
NOTRE DAME-LOYOLA BASKETBALL
Playing the last game of the season, the Notre Dame basketball team defeated Loyola 19-11, at Chicago, March 7. The local five won a decision ever the Chicagoans early in the season, and the final game found Notre Dame toying with the ball and piling up the count almost at random.
Nyikos, Crowe and McNally, the ever-dependable forward trio, led the Notre Dame attack. Nyi-kos registered two field goals at the start of hostilities that put Notre Dame in the lead,, never to be threatened thereafter. The game marked the last appearance in college sports of Capt. Noble Kizer and Phil Mahoney.
Line-up and summary:
Crowe_______________________________ Schlacks
Forward
McNally_____________________________McGraw
Forward
Nyikos______________________________Conelly
Center
Kizer_______________________________Denlin
Guard
Conroy______________________________Wiatrock
Guard
Field goals—Nyikos 1, McNally 2, Crowe 2. Conroy 1, McGraw 2, Schack 2, Wiatrock 1.
Foul goals—Nyikos 1, Conelly 1.
DIENHART TO LEAD 1926 VARSITY CAGERS
Joseph Dienhart of Lafayette, Ind., a junior in Commerce, was elected captain of the Notre Dame basketball team of 1926 to succeed Noble Kizer, at a meeting of the monogram eagers, Wednesday, March 11.
Dienhart had played forward with the Irish quintet all during the past season and part of the season of 1924. He is also a football guard, being awarded an “N. D. A. A.,” at the close of the 1924 gridiron season. He will be available for football next fall, and should prove to be one of Rockne’s most dependable linemen. Dien-hart’s ascendancy to the pilot position of the basketball team gives Lafayette the distinction of claiming two athletic captains at the University of Notre Dame. Clem Crowe, captain-elect of the 1926 football team, is also a resident of Lafayette.
SPRING SPORTS MAKE START
Spring football practice at Notre Dame was officially opened last Wednesday afternoon when Coach Rockne met his squad of 200 candidates on the practice field for the first time this year. Rockne was assisted in the first workout by many of the veteran gridders who will be graduated and by Captain-elect, Clem Crowe.
The baseball team, under the direction of Coach George Keogan, has taken over the gymnasium for preparatory practice while awaiting the improvement of the weather conditions.
The Notre Dame baseball club will start south for the annual training trip on April 8, and the Notre Dame coach is endeavoring to give as much training as possible before that time. The southern clubs will have a distinct advantage over the northern clubs in the fact that they already have favorable weather conditions in which to train outdoors.
The mile relay team will enter the Cleveland scholastic track meet on March 21, and will go to Houston, Texas, on March 28. The outdoor track season will open on April 18 at the Ohio relays.
1
604
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
HARRY STUHLDREHER TO COACH VILLA NOVA
Harry Stuhldreher, quarterback on the championship 1924 Notre Dame football eleven, has signed a contract to coach the Villa Nova College grid team for three years. The amount involved was not stated. He will succeed “Dutch” Sommers whose contract expired this year.
Stuhldreher, picked unanimously by sport critics for the quarter position on All-American grid teams in 1924, will finish his studies at Notre Dame university next June. It is expected that he will attend a coaching school, probably one of Rockne’s during the summer and will proceed to Villa Nova in September to assume control of the early practice.
As field general of the nationally famous “Four Horsemen,” Stuhldreher came to be known as a “second Rockne” and critics predict the same success for this plucky little quarter as head of the Villa Nova coaching staff as that which marked his career at Notre Dame.
INTERHALL SWIMMING MEET TO BE PADDLED MARCH 20
Final preparations are being completed for the annual interhall swimming meet to be held in the University tank the evening of March 20. The recent announcement by Coach Goss, that a trophy will be awarded by the Athletic Board to the winning hall and that gold, silver and bronze medals will be given to the first three men in each event, has given an added impetus to the interest centering in the meet.
The contest will consist of eight events including the 40 yard free-style, 100 yard free-style, 200 yard free-style, 40 yard backstroke, 40 yard breast-stroke, 160 yard relay (four men, each to swim 40 yards), plunge for distance and fancy diving. In each of these events the three winners will be awarded medals for which they will compete as individuals. But the placing of the contestants will be counted on a basis of five points for first place, three points for second place and one point for third place. These scores will be added to the total of
the various halls to decide the winner of the trophy.
Coach Goss will hold an elimination meet in the University tank on March 19. This will be done to narrow the list of contestants in each event to the three best men, thereby insuring the finals of being fast and of a high order. Anyone wishing to enter the interhall meet should see one of the following men before March 17, the last day that entries will be received for the contest; Rhodes, Carroll, McCaffery, Freshman ; Royce, Sophomore; McKiernan, Corby; Alvarez, Walsh; Hudson, Brownson; Rodgers or McLaughlin, Badin; Weibel, Sorin; and Bryckzynski, Day.
The only men ineligible for this meet are those who have earned a monogram or numeral in swimming or are members of the swimming team. The men announced by Coach Goss as ineligible are Weibel, Royce, McCaffery, Alvarez, Rhodes, McKiernan, McLaughlin, Bryckynski, Seivers, Houpert, Hudson, Rodgers, Corey and Graves.
Carroll Hall is conceded to have a slight edge on most of the other halls, and at the present time is considered as the probable winner of the inter-hall trophy. However, Freshman Hall will make a strong bid for the winning honors, and in pursuing the Carrollites will be hard pressed by the Day Dogs who boast of several tankmen of considerable merit. Badin and Walsh are also expected to make a strong showing. The number of contestants registered for the' meet has insured the success of the affair.
FRESHMEN-CULVER TRACK MEET
The Notre Dame freshmen took an indoor dual, track and field meet from Culver Military academy by a score of 62 1-2 to 32 1-2, Saturday, March 7.
The superiority of the collegians was most apparent in the track events, the cadets scoring but one first place on the track, while Notre Dame scored a slam in the half mile. The cadets gathered a majority of the points in the vault and broad jump, winning all three places in the latter event.
Lahey of Notre Dame was the outstanding performer of the afternoon, winning the 220 yard dash in 25 2-5 seconds and taking first in the high jump with a jump of 5 feet 9 inches. The mile run developed into a pretty race between Gilmore of Culver and Phelan of Notre Dame, the latter winning by a scant yard.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
605
VARSITY SWIMMERS MAKE EXCELLENT PROGRESS
Some idea of the progress of the Notre Dame swimming team may be had by a comparison of the tank records of the squad for 1925 and those that were made last year, the first season that swimming was officially sponsored at the University. The majority of the new marks were made in the regular weekly inter-team meets held in the University tank. Only one record remains from last year, that established by Fuite in the 40-yard back-stroke.
The records for 1925 are:
40-yard free-style in 19:1 seconds by Brykczynski. 100-yard free-style in 60:2 by Hudson.
220-yard free-style in 2-39:0 minutes by McCaffery. 100-yard back-stroke in 1-25:3 by Fuite.
100-yard breast-stroke in 1-16:0 by Rhodes. 40-yard back-stroke in 26:2 by Fuite. ' 40-yard breast-stroke in 24:4 by Rhodes.
200-yard breast-stroke in 3-5:4 by McKiernan.
Plunge for distance 60 feet in 26:1 seconds by Seivers.
A new mark in the relay has not been attempted as yet, but Coach Goss announced that the squad would try for a new record before disbanding for the year.
The records for 1924 were:
40-yard free-style in 21:1 seconds by Weibel. 40-yard back-stroke in 26:2 seconds by Fuite. 40-yard breast-stroke in 26 and 7-10 sec. by Rhodes. 100-yard free-style in 1-4:1 by Alvarez.
220-yard free-style in 2-56:3 by Anderburg. 200-yard breast-stroke in 3-18:1 by Fogarty. Plunge for distance 41 feet in 60 seconds by Seivers.
160-yard relay in 1-25:5-10 minutes by Baiers, Alvarez,. Terhune, and Corey.
KRAUSER ‘‘RUNS WILD” FOR CIVIL ENGINEERS
By Dan O’Neill
With Krauser running wild, the Civil Engineers defeated the Mechanicals, 36-6. Playing like a Crowe or a Nyikos, he garnered ten goals from the field, a sufficient number of points to win many a ball game. Bradley played in his customary stellar fashion emplyoing to good advantage his ability to dribble through the opposition. Hood did well at the guard position, gathering three field goals and otherwise showing basketball ability.
In spiite of a handicap in weight the
losers put up a much better fight than the scores would indicate, Cavalle, Reilly, and Campbell handling a large percentage of their team’s work. They showed to some degree the lack of training which their opponents experienced in previous games.
Lineup:
Civils	Mechanicals
Bradley___________________________ Cavelle, Browne
Poggiani__________________________________McBride
Krauser___________________________Marguet, Eggert
Herlihy____________________________________Reilly
Hood ___________________________________ Campbell
The present standings:
Won Lost Percent Electrical________________________3	0	1000
Chemicals_________________________2	1	*	667
Miners ___________________________1	2	333
Civils ___________________________1	2	333
Mechaincals_______________________0	2	000
CHEMICALS DEFEAT CIVILS
With a fast running attack, employing Repasky as a nucleus, the Chemicals defeated the Civil Engineers in a net battle scoring 31 points to the Civils' 15. Repasky, small but exceedingly rapid, was the individual whose astronomical qualities dazzled the opposition into submission. His marvelous accuracy and floor work sent the Chemists’ cheering section* into a delirious uproar. Miller functioned well on both offensive and defensive play while Foohey, a newcomer, handled himself in able fashion at the guard position.
Krauser was high point man for the Civils garnering baskets from all positions, while Bradley and Herlihy shone on the defense. The lineup:
Civils	Chemicals
Poggiani, Gonzales__________________-____Miller
Bradley-------------------------------- Repasky
Krauser___________________________________Mootz
Herlihy__________________________________Foohey
Hood, Bergeron Kaiser
The Electrical Engineers remain undefeated as yet and appearances indicate that they will acquire the flag.
The Chemicals emerged victors in their annual struggle with the Pre-Medics, 14-11. The game was fast and hard played, the big feature being the excellent guarding of both sides. The lineup:
Pre-Medics	Chemicals
Lukas  Repasky
Lane____________-O’Connor
Arnett_-Simonin, Mootz Mayer__________________Field Alt, Petrone___________Kaiser
* The Scholastic reporter counted twelve people in the gymnasium upon the occasion of this game —ten players, a referee, and a spectator.

606
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

U' £1
s
8 i
8
i
8 si &
C. S. M. C. To Give Boxing Show March 24
Tommy Gibbons, Harry Greb, Bud Taylor and Sidney Glick are among the more prominent boxers that the local unit of the Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade are considering for its annual boxing show in the Gym on March 24.
8
Mark Mooney and Maurice McNulty who are arranging the bouts, announce that Coach Springer’s Notre Dame gladiators will stage an additional few rounds. A ferocious finale is promised in the contemplated battle-royal. The source of talent for this part of the program is receiving much consideration.
8
§
A

I 8
Brother Alan has granted his services as chairman of the Gym committee. Joseph Menger, Gilbert Uhl and John Ryan are assisting him. James A. Ronan and Tom Leahy form the ticket committee. John P. Hurley is chairman of the publicity committee which consists of Bill Broderick, Paul Harmon, and John F. O’Donnell.
ft I
§ g a &
§ i
A ft

COLLEGIATE TAILORS Maurice Steinfeld : R. Marks Merchant Tailors
BRING your Cleaning and Pressing on the car when you come to town—you will find us three doors east of the Interurban Station.
113 East Washington Street
---- ------------------------
S. R. EDWARDS, M. D.
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
209 NORTH MAIN STREET, SOUTH BEND
TELEPHONE L-2122
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	607
LUXENBERG
CLOTHES FOR. THE COLLEGE MAN
The ULSTER
BIG, full cut, rugged coat to ward off Winter blasts. The rich woolens, both imported and domestic, endow them with distinction as well as comfort.
^3950 to ^4950
nat LUXENBERG ^bros.
841 Broadway, New York
I* WRITE FOR ? I EXHIBITION DATES I
Our style memo, book sent free on request
5srfU>w«“J
Blue-Black
—the kind you will use in business
All Sizes and Colors
For Real Fountain Pen Satisfaction, Use WORD'S WFOUNTAIN PEN INK
"The Ink that Made the fountain Pen Possible'*
...Patronize Our Advertisers...
OLD HOMETOWN BOWS TO JIM CROWLEY, HERO
BY RICHARD S. DAVIS.
Green Bay—Mrs. Agnes Crowley’s boy, Jimmy, had his day here Thursday. Yes, sir, he certainly did have a day to remember.
If you’ve never heard of Mrs. Crowley’s boy, Jimmy, which heaven forbid, this will describe him. A fine Irish lad of 22 with a sturdy pair of legs and good shoulders, honest eyes set wide apart, a slow grin that reveals a tooth missing over at the right end, a square chin with a cleft in it and a solid head that’s filled with brains that really count, football brains. That’s Mrs. Crowley’s boy.
The Notre Dame club of Green Bay gave a banquet in “Sleepy Jim” Crowley’s honor Thursday night, and something like 350 folks crowded into the Hotel Beaumont’s dining room for the affair. It was a great party, with Mother Crowley, aunts and uncles, doctors, the clergy, lawyers, merchants, everybody there. They think well of young Mr. Crowley up here. They wanted to show it, and the world should be told that they did.
Knute Rockne, aside from Jimmy, was the big boy of the evening and the meat course in the oratory. The Notre Dame coach, as red as a lobster but as cool as a ham, said a few things about his pupil and the unguarded halfback was thrown for a loss. All he could do was sit and take it. Nobody but a game kid could have kept his head under Rockne’s wallops of praise. But, man, how the audience liked it.
The famous coach put over his best yarns—pop, pop, pop, like that---and they were a wow. He told how football makes real men, and everybody looked at Jimmy. He listed the high qualities required by a gridirn star and everyone looked at Jimmy some more. There was punishment for you.
A round faced, jovial Irishman whom everybody calls Bobby Lynch was the toastmaster. Back in the old days Bobby used to play

r Why do you comb 0 your hair? | For neat ap- | pearance, the § great aid to 0 success. Keep 3
combed all! day with |
fIMP
THE ORIGINAL UQIHD HAIR DRESS
I - FOW	p
____Real Menand Boys E
Send for Sample Bottle
Mail coupon To-day for generous i trial bottle. Normany Products Co., 6511 McKinley At., Los Angeles, Cal.
Name_____________________I
Address__________________I
The Scholastic is your magazine. Give it the support it deserves. . . .
‘ ■ ■■
4
1
'60S	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
baseball down at Notre Dame.
Attorney John V. Diener made a presentation speech and “Sleepy Jim” received a watch. Judge Henry Graass read letters from people who couldn’t come. “Silent Jim” McGillan, another lawyer, introduced Coach Rockne. Crowley, in spite of -the fact that he, too, plans to be a legal sharp, spoke never a word.
Grace before the banquet was said by the Rt. Rev. Paul Peter Rhode, bishop of Green Bay. His honor, Wenzel Wiesner, mayor of
the city, was somewhere in the offing, as also was Councilman Z. J. Van develd.
The dinner wasn’t all by any means. In the afternoon Crowley and Rockne were carted over to East Green Bay high school, where Jimmy went to school. Pershing a hero? Don’t be foolish. Just ask those high school kids who are heroes and who aren’t.	•
The whole town’s that way, it appears, except, perhaps Miss Minie Kelleher, who used to be on the high school faculty, but who
has now retired. The reporter asked Miss Kelleher to comment on Jimmy’s high school days and what she came back with was this:
“The less said about it the better.” Now what did she mean by that? Only the twinkle in her eyes and the chuckle in her voice gave a hint.
You can’t find a Green Bay resident who doesn’t know Jimmy Crowley and who hasn’t followed his football career. The porter in the barber shop can give the number of touchdowns scored by the halfback and you have to watch
At Sea, R. M. S. “CATONI A
Talk about
him while he illustrates the Crowley method of using the stiff arm. You learn as you amble about that Jimmy never cared a hang for pool, that his hook bowling isn’t worth much, that he doesn’t give a whoop whether his pants are pressed or not and never did, from a little shaver on into fame.
Jimmy’s going back to school shortly after some weeks of recuperation at home. Mayor Wenzel Wiesner’s job is safe for the time being.
’i
sport
March 13, 1925
Today I had three sets of deck tennis with Kitty Purmew, the pretty co-ed from Catalpa College. Then afterwards we both had a plunge in the open air tank. Kitty looks stunning in a bathing suit. I have a date to take her to the Catown Strutters Ball tonight and Kid McKat and I are getting the Third Cat Steward to change her to our table. And say, fella, did I tell you about the meals—lookit:-
BREKKER
Grapefruit Stewed Peaches Oatmeal Porridge Grilled Fresh Herrings Breakfast Bacon Fried and Boiled Eggs Saute Potatoes .
Marmalade Preserves Hot Rolls Tea Coffee
DINNER
Puree of Split Peas Haricot Ox Tail—Jardiniere Grilled Fresh Codfish Navarin of Lamb Corned Brisket of Beef Cabbage Boiled Potatoes Ice Cream Apples Nuts Rye Bread Cheese Biscuits
Wrigley’* increase* the flow of saliva and relieves that “stuffed” feeling. Clears the throat, steadies nerves and sweeten* the breath.
Clean* teeth too.
’Costs little-helps much"
WRKiim
Apricot Tart SUPPER
Hors d’Oeuvres Cream of Tomato Salmon Mayonnaise Filet of Sole Mutton Cutlets Peas Chicken-Parmentier Salad
Peaches—Melba Patisseres
Coffee
Send for the Three Prize Winning Stories written by Collegians who crossed this way via Cunard last season.
an* cheese, coffee ’n crackers later. Yours, FELIX.”
Write for further particulars about Cunard College Special to: Dr. . Charles Mercier, care University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind.
CUNARD & ANCHOR UNES
140 N. Dearborn St., Chicago, or Local Agents
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
mr^1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	609
Dr. Frank J. Powers
University Physician
Office: Main 887	Residence: Main 3561
Dr. John A. Stoeckley
Extracting and Dental Surgery
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
Dentistry
511 J. M. S. Building y. —... -------—. — —. —
[BE POPULAR
LEARN TO DANCE WELL
FROM
.. Corinne Seegmueller.. Palais Royale Ballroom A member of the National Institute of Social Dancing.
New steps each month direct from New York.
- -	■	---A
f1	■■	-	-	=?
REDUCED PRICES
ON HIGH GRADE
Mens Furnishings and Hats and Caps
HARRY J. PFLUM
l I 3 W. Colfax Ave. Next to Palais Royale
“GET THE IDEAL HABIT”
DR. F. L. AXTELL
DENTIST
315 UNION TRUST BLDG.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
This is our
9th
year oj
I
S. R. EDWARDS, M. D.
Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat
209 NORTH MAIN ST.. SOUTH BEND SELEPHONE L-2122
v	......
SERVICE
The IDEAL LAUNDRY
sag;
610
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Lively—and right
Z^OLLEGE MEN are after light colors— Windsor greys, biscuit fawn and Antwerp blue. They want the new British lines, too— shorter coats, snug hips, square shoulders, easy trousers. These new Spiro-Hart Schaffner & Marx Suits are that way. $QC $^>0 Come now and see them, at W UV
Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx Stylish Clothes