
The Campus Shop knows

On (tapas MocShahun
(Author of “I Ilas a Teen-age Dwarf”,“The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH, DEAR FRIENDS
Today, if I am a little misty, who can blame me? For today I begin my seventh year of writing columns for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes.
Seven years! Can it be possible? It seems only yesterday I walked into the Marlboro offices, my knickers freshly pressed, my cowlick wetted down, my oilcloth pencil box clutched in my tiny hand. “Sirs,” I said to the makers of Marlboro—as handsome an aggregation of men as you will find in a month of Sundays, as agreeable as the cigarettes they make—mild yet hearty, robust yet gentle, flip-top yet soft pack—“Sirs,” I said to this assemblage of honest tobacconists, “I have come to write a column for Marlboro Cigarettes in college newspapers across the length and breadth of this great free land of America.”
We shook hands then—silently, not trusting ourselves to speak—and one of the makers whipped out a harmonica and we sang sea chanties and bobbed for apples and played “Run, Sheep, Run,” and smoked good Marlboro Cigarettes until the campfire had turned to embers.
“What will you write about in your column?” asked one of the makers whose name is Trueblood Strongheart.
“About the burning issues that occupy the lively minds of college America,” I re
plied. “About such vital questions as: Should the Student Council have the power to levy taxes? Should proctors be armed? Should coeds go out for football?”
“And will you say a kind word from time to time about Marlboro Cigarettes,” asked one of the makers whose name is Honor Bright.
“Why bless you, sirs,” I replied, chuckling silverly, “there is no other kind of word except a kind word to say about Marlboro Cigarettes—the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste—that happy
combination of delicious tobacco and exclusive selectrate filter—that loyal companion in fair weather or foul—that joy of the purest ray serene.”
There was another round of handshakes then and the makers squeezed my shoulders and I squeezed theirs and then we each squeezed our own. And then I hied me to my typewriter and began the first of seven years of columning for the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes.
And today as I find myself once more at my typewriter, once more ready to begin a new series of columns, perhaps it would be well to explain my writing methods. I use the term “waiting methods” advisedly because I am, above all things a methodical writer. I do not wait for the muse; I work every single day of the year, Sundays and holidays included. I set myself a daily quota and I don’t let anything prevent me from
"Welcomes All Notre Dome Men"
Your Headquarters For
o OMEGA WATCHES
BULOVA WATCHES
////////J
W atches
PATEK PHILIPPE The World's Foremost Watch
achieving it. My quota, to be sure, is not terribly difficult to attain (it is, in fact, one wrord per day) but the important thing is that I do it every single day. This may seem to you a grueling schedule but you must remember that some days are relatively easy—for example, the days on which I wTite “the” or “a”. On these days I can usually finish my wrork by noon and can devote the rest of the day to happy pursuits like bird-walking, monopoly, and smoking Marlboro Cigarettes.
© 1960 Max Shulman
FINE WATCH
EEPA1R
P L. C/> rLe:d 1 yr.
v err
14 Kt. Gold Charms Bracelets - Pendants Crosses - Wedding Bands
Charge accounts available
* * ♦
The makers of Marlboro are happy to bring you another year of Max Shulman's free-wheeling, uncensored column —and are also happy to bring Marlboro Cigarettes, and for non-filter smokers—mild, flavorful Philip Morris.
4
The Scholastic
I please read j carefully
I. Students. We first call your attention to the diagram of the old Dental Academy Building (more commonly known as the Drill Hall) located somewhere on this page. This is your official guide for the ordeal ahead. Do not misplace it.
^;II. Before entering the hall make certain that you have all of your IBM cards, certs and plenty of food and water. Follow all directions given in your official university schedule of courses which is printed on the reverse side of your dining hall card. If at any time you should become confused simply report to the information booth in sector D, section 77.
* $ *
I A. Enter here
1.	Pay entrance fees and tuition for four years. Receive •’ tuition cert. Find tuit. cert, box and insert tuit. cert intuit. Students with first names beginning A-M at gate 1. Students with last names ending N-Z at gate 2.
2.	Take at least one copy of all immaterial material.
3.	Proceed to infirm table and get shot.
4.	Proceed to ID table and get shot again. Have ID shot taken with white cert, and tie. (NIGHT STUDENTS ONLY-, use black cert.).
B.	Block house—all students must enter.
1.	Obtain ROTC information here.
2.	Sign and turn in your enlistment IBM card making '* certain that you have indicated the seiwice of your choice, i 3. Get measured for uniforms.
!	4. Proceed double time to station C.
C.	Student Government (those interested in student government should run; all others may walk.)
1.	Pay all student government fees here.
2.	Purchase dance bids and Mardi Gras raffle books.
3.	Shake hands with your student body president.
4.	Exchange remaining money for your student government credit card.
5.	SENIORS ONLY: give Nee the nod.
6.	RUNNING STUDENTS ONLY: Congratulations, you have won! Turn in IBM card No. 4892 indicating which committees you will serve on and which offices you desire to hold.
7.	ALL STUDENTS: Proceed directly to sector “D”. Do not pass Go. Do not collect §200.00 (MOST GREVIOUS PENALTY).
D.	Class enrollments.
1.	Students must arrange the seventy-six IBM cards in their packet according to the diagram of sector D. Proceed to each table in correct numerical sequence and obtain a class card. Have the department head sign cards for those courses which you desire credit for.
2.	Students with “SEE YOUR DEAN” on front of packet proceed to either: I. Engr. Dean, II. Comm. Dean, III. AB Dean, IV. Sci. Dean, V. IBM Dean, VI. ROTC Dean, VII. God.
E.	Relief Area
1.	Optional for all students. Those desiring to enter area marked “BAR” must turn in notarized birth cert. IBM card. Enter only at the sound of the bar bell. All students who are either lost or have lost something should go to area marked “lost.” Those who have found eithei' themselves or the essence of being should report to area marked “found.”
2.	Proceed to E. (BOOKSTORE AREA) and purchase sufficient textbooks for all courses.
F.	Pass out here.
1.	Place your student ID number, laundry number, dining hall number, health number, room number, locker and mail box combinations, social security number, telephone number, and selective service number on all IBM cards. Place cards back in packet and exchange for sheepskin document at either of the following exists: 1) B.A., 2) B.S., 3) B.S.A.
42 Q. W
4	^12
D

is m $

&
75
/o
11
SZ


2
02
lb
&
&
7
99
MM IMMffiV —4-1
£
DKIU. -HALL-
^September 30, 1960
3
ON THE COVER: The goal of the editorial staff is expressed in this illustration by Art Editor Denny Luczak. We hope to bring more reading enjoyment to the student by offering him greater coverage of his activities here at Notre Dame. This goal will be achieved by intense employment of the facilities of the SCHOLASTIC, all of which are represented in the sketch.
Contents
Ancient Editor .......15
At the Theaters ....  16
Back Page____________ 26
Campus Scene__________ 9
Commentary
Critical Horizons ______ 13
Escape _________________  5
Our Cover_______________  6
Sports Picture___________19
.......  7
F FRENCH 1-2
Objectives of Adjectives Prof. Amour
A broad study of the adjective bon in syntax with bon soir, bon ami and bon grooming. Lecture on bon grooming with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic illustrating the fact that ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic replaces oil that water removes. Examination of adverse effects on hair resulting from drying
action of water compounded by hair creams and alcohol tonics. Exhibition of how bad grooming puts you out of context with the opposite
sex. Special emphasis on how ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic keeps hair neater
longer and attracts women as Paris does tourists. Homework drills on Saturday evenings stressing plurals rather than singulars. Course aims at getting along in any language . . . especially the language of love.
Jeune filles prefer hommes who use ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic for bon grooming!
Vaseline
TRADE MARK-J
HAIR TONIC
In the bottle and on your hair the difference is clearly there!
Vaseline
'VASELINE' IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGH-PONDS INC.
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
6
The Scholastic
M The Notre Dame
Vol. 102
No. 1
SEPT. 30, 1960
Founded 1867
CONCRETE PRAISE: If anyone had any doubts about Notre Dame’s growing national influence and ranking he had only to glance at the headline announcement of the Ford Foundation’s six million dollar grant. Brochures and catalogues sometimes tend to show their lack of impartiality when it comes to self-praise and evaluation, but this is not a charge that can be levelled against one of the nation’s leading foundations. We are confident that this gift was not made without a sound study and a comparison of the University’s present academic and research programs, as well as a consideration of her expansion plans. The prestige of this vote of confidence may far outweigh the actual financial benefits.
In anything as large as a fund-raising drive where everything has a vital influence, from the number of professors to the quantity of articles published, it is difficult to point to any one individual as being responsible for success. However, we sincerely feel that President Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., deserves a great deal of credit. By his vision of academic excellence, his personality, his academic and political positions, Father Hesburgh has sparked a program of improvement that ranks number one in Notre Dame’s long history.
iw
editor-in-chief
CHARLES
RIECK
associate editor.. C > ROY RUBEH
news editor : < 7..-^' THOMASWEISS
SS^OA^s^iirW
jameskilroy
copy editor	5 'S
THOMASMARCiNIAK
’exe^ve? assistant
WILLIAMVEEDER
arteditor C DENNIS LUtZAK

businessmanager v;
?3JiQ^EPH^INi^WM
circulationmdnager
JAMES HICKEY
^moderatet
REV. CHARLES CAREY c.s.c


4
3
*
FREQUENCY ADULATION: Most of the time the burden lies upon little heard-of campus plans to provide foundation for our pride in Notre Dame. In this week of ecstatic delirium over the Ford Foundation’s bequest, some people have congratulated the University while holding their footing and inquiring whether the school is prepared for the growth that the grant tokens. In response, several fresh cultural breezes can turn them to an answer. Among these was the news that WSND is beyond the planning stage in its efforts to build an FM branch, as a complement of Channel I and an attempt at higher quality transmission of Channel II. WSND officials refuse to lay bare their plans or even set a target date — perhaps last year’s sad experiences in the ETA’s of Channel II still gouge their memories — but there is every probability that this academic year will see the operation in use. Although improvement in sound reproduction — which will be the immediate result — is only a technical success, yet the entire project shows the determined willingness in the student body to provide a more attractive spreading of the fruits of the cultural groups that so often turn into coteries. Not less importantly, WSND’s move represents a victory over factions in its own ranks and vested interests on campus. The attitude of the Administration favoring WSND shows the school’s determination to give the student opportunity to stimulate and develop tastes proper to a university . . . and	-
ACADEMIC MIXER: .... and let us note the most significant local event of the week—or is there need to point out that over five SMC students have enrolled for credit in an undergraduate English course. Nor, it seems, is this to be a one-way invasion. Those unknown administrators who make the decisions both here and across the Dixie have seized the chance to use the distinct achievements and inspiring personalities present on both campuses to aid their home programs. It is apparent, for instance, that the stiffer and more vital campus academic spirit of Notre Dame will find parched ground in the SMC student; on the other hand, the uniqueness of such SMC programs as Christian Culture can do nothing but awaken the local campus imagination. Further, daily student contact with SMC will bring home the obvious but little appreciated disgrace that our combined Lecture, Concert, and Drama schedule is but a shadow of SMC’s extensive program. Fortunately, only minor details remain to be disposed of before the trip to a class at the Aero Building becomes among the shorter of some men’s daily hikes. However, anything other than a small exchange of students must not be expected; even granting the benefits of a large-scale mingling, rules in the Holy Cross Constitutions seem to allow nothing but a highly restricted program.
But, in the final analysis, the administrations of both schools can make only the IBM adjustments and give the proper permissions; the burden lies not only upon the Notre Darners but also on those across the road to use the first opportunity for “cultural mixing” and assure that the prerequisites of good conduct exist.
PROGRESS: Compliments and congratulations are in order for the physical improvements the Administration has made this past summer. Most obvious, of course, is the double row of modern lights along Notre Dame avenue. But not to be overlooked are such relatively minor but expensive items as more blacktopping of roads and parking areas as well as new beds, desk tops, etc. We are happy to see that the fund-raising drive is not going to initiate an era of austerity that involves the safety and necessary comfort of the students.—R & R
4>

I
ELECTED!
By a landslide...the new Esterbrook “101”! Now—a different type of cartridge pen! It carries 2 cartridges in the barrel—one is a spare—so there’s no need to run out of ink.
32 points in its favor! Every point custom-fitted to a different handwriting personality. Choose your personality ... choose your pen point... 32 in all!
$1.95 is the low, low price of the Esterbrook “101” Renew Point Fountain Pen...so there’s no opposition to the fountain pen budget this year! Get on the Esterbrook bandwagon.. .pick your pen and pen point now! 5 colors. Squeeze-fill available, too!
♦T. M. The Esterbrook Pen Co.
The Esterbrook “101”
*1.95
Other Esterbrook pens slightly higher
THERE'S A POINT CHOICE OF 32-ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTED FOR YOU I
BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
a
Swingline stapler
Including 1000 Staples
A do-it-yourself kit in the palm of. your hand! Unconditionally guaranteed, Tot makes book covers, fastens papers, does arts and crafts work, mends, tacks...no end of uses!
Buy it at your college book store.
Swingline Cub stapler,$1.29
Long Island City, New York. N.Y.
The Scholastic
8
FORD TO AWARD UNIVERSITY $6,000,000
Gift to Aid Research, Development Program
by TOM WEISS
Recognition by the Ford Foundation of Notre Dame’s potential as one of the world’s leading centers of higher education has led to a conditional grant of $6,000,000 from the Foundation. To receive the full $6,000,000 Notre Dame must obtain an additional $12,000,000 from its alumni and friends.
Notre Dame is one of five privately supported American universities singled out by the Ford Foundation for participation in its new $46,000,000 Special Program in Education announced recently in New York City. The other institutions and the unrestricted grants alloted them are Stanford University, $25,000,000; The Johns Hopkins University, $6,000,000; University of Denver, $5,000,000, and Vanderbilt University, $4,000,000.
President Henry T. Heald of the Ford Foundation said that the objective of the new program is “to assist institutions in different regions of the country to reach and sustain a wholly new level of academic excellence, administrative effectiveness and financial support.” He said the five schools were selected because they had “already embarked on future development programs commensurate in scope, imagination and practicability to the vast needs of American society.”
Biggest yet. Speaking for the University, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, described the Foundation grant, the largest in the University’s history, as “an answer to our deepest hopes.” It will, he said, enable Notre Dame “to take a great leap forward in its striving for academic excellence.”
In connection with the challenging new Ford Foundation program, Father Hesburgh designated five “top priority” projects in a three year, $18,000,000 fund raising effort. At the head of the .list, of course, is the Notre Dame Memorial Library to be built next year at a cost of $8,000,000 (see story on page 10). Of the remaining $10,000,000, $4,000,000 will be earmarked for the construction of two graduate residence halls;. $3,500,000 for increased faculty salaries and endowed professorships; $4,200,000 for fellowships, scholarships and student loans and $500,000 for special administrative purposes.
Terms of the Special Program in Education specify that all of the universities except Stanford are required to raise two dollars from private sources for each dollar of the Ford Foundation
grant over the next three years. Stanford must match the grant three-for-one over the next five years. All funds used to match the Foundation grant must come from private sources.
First lump. Notre Dame will receive $1,075,000 of its $6,000,000 grant immediately, subject to the matching provision. This fund has already been allocated by the University to certain pressing needs as follows:
Faculty addition and graduate research fellowships in humanities and social sciences, $260,000.
Improved academic and student personnel program. $60,000.
Faculty salary increases, $100,000.
Faculty additions in engineering and science, $100,000.
Nonacademic employee retirement plan, $250,000.
Doubling size of language laboratory, $30,000.
Initial costs of the new library, $275,000.
Excerpts from Father Hesburgh’s statement follow:
“The participation of the University of Notre Dame in The Ford Foundation’s Special Program, in Education announced today is, in a sense, an answer to our deepest hopes. This program will make it possible for Notre Dame to take a great leap forward in its striving for academic excellence. The grant is not, however, merely an answer. It is even more a challenge, by making un
ARTIST’S CONCEPTION OF NOTRE DAME MEMORIAL LIBRARY Saints and scholars to see Dome at eye level.
usual help available if we can first help ourselves. Some years ago, The Ford Foundation awarded Notre Dame more than $3,000,000 for faculty development. On that occasion, we were able in the three subsequent years to double the fund, thanks to our many loyal alumni and friends.
fills urgent needs. “Now the challenge has been broadened and deepened. The $6,000,000 earmarked by The Ford Foundation for payment over the next three years to Notre Dame is contingent upon our raising an additional $12,000,000 from our alumni and friends. The total will provide funds at an early date for Notre Dame’s most urgent needs: a magnificent new library, faculty development, graduate and undergraduate scholarships, exciting new academic programs that deepen the impact of the University.
“We are indeed grateful to The Ford Foundation for this far-sighted bene-ficience: for helping us and . others, in the broadest sense they are demonstrating how much we need to be helped to achieve our dreams for many great universities across this land; to be beacons of intellectual achievement, to raise up competent scholars, scientists, professional men, teachers, leaders in public and industrial life, to set the sure pattern of morally responsible and capable persons emerging from among the greatest resource of America: our young people.
September 30, 1960
To Begin Construction of New Main Library; Structure to Dominate Future Campus Scene
Fulbright Group Sets November I Deadline
The University recently announced plans for a 13-story library to be erected beginning next year at an estimated cost of $8,000,000.
Notre Dame Memorial Library, as it will be called, will house 2,000,000 volumes and will provide study facilities for nearly 3000 students at one time. It will be situated immediately north of Cartier Field, east of the present campus, where it will head a new quadrangle of buildings to be developed there as a
nearly two acres. The central cruciform tower, measuring 140 feet square, will consist of ten floors devoted principally to specialized University research units.
The most prominent architectural feature of the Notre Dame Memorial Library will be a soaring, multi-colored granite mural on the central axis of the tower. The mammoth work of art, rising nine stories above the library’s entrance, will emphasize the grandeur, complexity and timelessness of man’s search for
Only one month remains to apply for 800 Fulbright scholarships for graduate study or research in 30 countries. Applications are being accepted until November 1.
Inter-American Cultural Convention $ awards for study in 17 Latin American countries have the same filing deadline.
Recipients of Fulbright awards for study in Europe, Latin America and the Asia-Pacific area 'will receive tuition, maintenance and round-trip travel. IACC scholarships cover transportation, tuition and partial maintenance costs.
General eligibility requirements for both categories of awards are: 1) U. S. । citizenship at time of application; 2) a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent by 1961; 3) knowledge of the language of the host country and 4) good health. A demonstrated capacity for independent study and a good academic record are also expected. Preference is given to applicants under 35 years of age who have not previously lived or studied abroad.
Applicants will be required to submit a plan of proposed study that can be carried out profitably within the year abroad. Successful candidates are required to be affiliated with approved institutions of higher learning abroad.
Enrolled students at a college or university should consult the campus Fulbright adviser for information and applications at the Dean’s Office of the Graduate School.
Competitions for the 1961-62 academic year close November 1, 1960. Requests for application forms must be postmarked before October 15. Completed applications must be submitted by November 1.
part of a ten-year $66,600,000 “Program for the Future.”
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, has described the projected library as “the University’s most urgent and critical need.” He pointed out that the present library, filled to capacity with nearly 400,000 books, was erected in 1917 when Notre Dame has an enrollment one-fifth its present size. The Notre Dame Memorial Library, Fathei' Hesburgh said, “will be the center of a whole new development to the east of the present campus, the academic heart of a University destined to become a real center of excellence in higher learning in the very heartland of America.”
Designed by Ellerbe and Co., St. Paul, Minn., the new library will be the largest structure on the campus and one of the larger buildings in the state of Indiana. It will rise 180 feet, nearly as high as the famed Golden Dome atop the Administration Building. The first two floors- which will house the undergraduate library, will occupy an area of
truth. It will depict a multiplicity of saints and scholars, stretching back into time, who have dedicated themselves to the preservation of truth and the education of new generations.
According to the architects, the new library will conform in style to the traditional functional buildings existing on the campus today. It is being designed, however, to serve the University for decades to come. The first floor will be built of ledge rock limestone and glass while the second floor will consist principally of Notre Dame brick in diagonal bond. The tower will be constructed of Mankato stone.
In addition to the undergraduate library, the new air-conditioned structure will include an auditorium, the University Archives, the Mediaeval Institute, the Jacques Maritain Center, offices of the Committee on International Relations, special University collections, the audio-visual department, other research facilities and offices and the headquarters of the Notre Dame Library Association.
Appoint Five Members To Loy Trustee Board
Five new members were appointed to the University of Notre Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trustees during the summer.
They are Robert Galvin, president of Motorola, Inc., Chicago; E. J. Hanley, president of the Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp., Pittsburgh; Paul F. Hellmuth, Boston attorney; Joseph Martino, president of the National Lead Co., New York and Edmund Stephan, Chicago attorney. Messers. Galvin, Hellmuth and Stephan are Notre Dame alumni.
The Associate Board of Lay Trustees is composed of twenty-seven alumni and non-alumni members. It is charged with the responsibility of holding, investing and administering Notre Dame’s endowment funds. Joseph LaFortune, Tulsa, Okla, oil executive, is president of the Board which convenes each spring and fall on campus.
The Scholastic
10
Bookmen Open Membership Drive Among Juniors, Sophs
A limited number of memberships are available in the Notre Dame Bookmen. This group has as its purpose the serious discussion of English fiction of a certain period, this year’s area being British and American literature since 1900. At each biweekly meeting of the Bookmen one of the members presents an essay on the work of a particular author, attempting to define the questions with which the work is concerned and the resulting view of man and the world. The reading of the paper is followed by a discussion of the subject among the members and the faculty moderator, who this year is Professor Alvan Ryan of the English Department.
At the initial meeting of the yeai- on Thursday, October 6, Jerry Kriegs-hauser will give a paper on three novels of D. H. Lawrence. Subsequent meetings will deal with Steinbeck and Eugene O’Neill, among others.
Students wishing to be interviewed for membership in the Bookmen may write letters of application to the secretary, Bill Hanley, 311 Walsh, by Monday, Oct. 3. The present interviews will be limited to sophomores and juniors in all colleges. The only requirements are a sincere dedication to literature and a desire to communicate with others on an intellectual level freer than that of the classroom.
ND Senior Elected Head J Of NFCCS at Congress s' This summer Tom Geil, Notre Dame r. senior, was elected national president of / " NFCCS at the 18th National Congress . in Louisville, Ky. Geil, selected by the congress delegates from universities and colleges throughout the country, was Religious Affairs vice-president for last ' year’s organization.
। Extensive work was carried out by j Geil at the Congress in the field of lay missions. Information was given to the ; delegates on how to set up a lay mis-i V sion program on campuses throughout • the country. This consists in interesting { the student in lay missions and placing | them abroad in such fields.
( Traveling will be a main duty of the new president as he will hold many fi speaking assignments at the various member schools. It will also be Geil’s &	job to interest many non-member schools
|	in the NFCCS.
| The various programs of the NFCCS | will also be directed by Geil. Pluralism in America, a national problem, will be ;! discussed on the basis of living in a s pluralistic American society. This prob-I lem will be stressed to all students inf terested in a project of this type.
j Geil, a Dean’s List history major, became a representative to the NFCCS as j chairman of the Catholic Action Study Bureau here at Notre Dame. He will represent the Catholic college students in America at the NCWC convention later this year.
September 30, 1960
Newly Organized Presidents' Conned Meets; Integrated Activity To Keynote Group's Plans
The Hall President’s Council is preparing for anothei* year under the chairmanship of Mike Hai-tnett as the Oct. 11 voting date grows near. The Council passed its own set of bylaws at the end of last year, and, in this way, the Council will be an organization in itself with the potential to aid the student more than was possible in previous years.
A uniform hall constitution, which was also passed last year, was recently approved by the rectors and will be in full operation for the current year. In this way there will be no divergence in the make-up of each hall council. Because
JUNIOR JUBILATION
A Junior Class Party will be held in the Student Center on October 8 at 8:00 P.M. The entire Center will be used, and live music will be provided. Only 300 tickets will be made available at $1.00 each. Girls will come from St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross School of Nursing, Barat, Mundelein, Rosary, Xavier, Nazareth, and possibly Marygrove in Detroit. Tickets will be sold in the Junior halls and also at the door if any remain.
of this constitution, these hall councils will have better organization.
Although the Council is distinct from the Senate, John Keegan, present Student Body President and a former hall president, has promised full support and cooperation with the Council.
DICK HENDRICKS, FATHER McCARRAGHER, MIKE HARTNETT, JOHN CHRISTIAN, DENNY SWEENY
Uniformity of hall governments a goal achieved.
Inasmuch as the Council is composed of representatives from each hall, it has the potential to carry out plans on a campus-wide basis. If one 'particular hall wishes to hold a lecture, it may seek aid through a member of the Council in charge of this element. He in turn will work with the international and acedemic commissioners to obtain the most prominent speakers while avoiding conflicts.
Aid to other campus organizations is another way in which the Hall Presidents’ Council helps the student. Again, since its members represent every sector of the campus, the Council’s support and aid to such organizations as the Mardi Gras committee, Blue Circle and many others is quite feasible.
Presentation of the Hall Presidents’ Trophy to the outstanding hall in all intramural athletic events is also a duty of the Council. It works closely with the various hall athletic commissioners to help further the development of the intramural athletic program.
Chairman Mike Hartnett, who hails from Seattle, Wash., is in the General Program. He is the first junior to hold this position in the Council. In addition to Hartnett, there are three stay members: Dick Hendricks, a science-pre-med major from Moline, Ill.; John Christian, AB-engineer from Lovalette, N. J. and Dennis Sweeney, an economics major from Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Rev. Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C., Assistant to the Vice-President of Student Affairs, is the moderator to the Council.
11
Take my shirt, my lit. notes and my cuff links... but get your own
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL*
ARMY-NAVY AIR FORCE Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
GENDEL'S SURPLUS SALES SPECIAL—A Used Alpacca Lined Parka—Only $7.95
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
YOU TELL HEI. MAN. The Court King is yaw shoe...professional traction-tread soles, flexible instep, full cushioning. A pro on the tennis court, but just as right with slacks. ~
Need a Chest, Bookcase or Record Cabinet? .
BUY THEM UNPAINTED!
Save ¥2 or more
Don't forget we are on Student Discount Card!
Odorless, fast drying paint $3.49 gal.
Less Student Discount
WILLIAM’S
312 S. Michigan St.

A GUN. MS BKMS. Like having a Champion Oxford made just for women. Comes with fashionable new taper toe-or round toe, if preferred. Light in weight, cool and colorful.
Get U.S. KEDS—male or female—at any good shoe or department store.
*Both U. S. Keds and the blue label are registered trademarks of
NOW you CAN GET
EDITIONS IN ENGLISH of Latin, Greek, and Modern Foreign Language High School and College texts.
We ean supply the translations and dietionaries and modern language phonograph records, of; all publishers at lowest prices!' Write for Free Catalog
THE TRANSLATION PUBLISHING CO., INC.
HT Irvin, Mac.	Naw York 3, N. Y.
Rockefeller Center. New York 20, New York
The Scholastic
12
i
1
>
THE STUDENT CHALLENGE: AWARENESS AND ACTION
Every year in this issue the newly _ elected Student Body President presents / Student Government’s program for the: - J-coming year. This also is my intention ; _ r -but I will utilize a different approach 1	~
from what has been used in the past. f ? A few of the multiple problems which . \ directly affect us as students will be mentioned. It will be our responsibility as your duly-elected leaders to either ■	.
reject or implement these existent stu- / dent conditions with all of their ramifications into our programming. From .	-
the discussion, of these pertinent affairs Z,: one may formulate his own conceptof what Student Govemment should beand :Z;: the . course'of action that it should follow. Once our. philosophy of Student Z A Z Government' is'formulated, theemana-tion of practical programs will msfly;ZZ-:B follow. ,	.	. ' ';
Today in the perplexed, diaotic woodd^Uz in transition students are assuming a very significant and important •'roifcZ'Z^?. they are dissolving and forming governments. They are becoming mine reemi^W -	-	-	' 'A-
September 30, 1960

sible leaders and less passive constituents. They are becoming more devoted students and less of the unassuming class. But still their present role is a debateable one. Some feel that this is their role and some do not. Thus there exists a vast dichotomy of thought on this issue. Who then is to decide whether their role is a valid one or not? Who then is to analyze and solve this interminable problem? I say, the concerned as opposed to the unconcerned; the informed as opposed to the uninformed—no one but us, the members of the student world.
So I submit to you for your inspection a concept of the educational world and our role in it. Our first premise must be the acceptance of an educational community wherein its members are bound together' by common goals, problems, ideologies and needs. From this it logically follows that if the former be time then there does exist an educational community which extends far beyond Notre Dame reaching the national and even international scope. The members of this community are begging us to enter in order to fully actualize its potential. To contribute to this community is to strengthen studenthood: a concern which should be utmost in our minds.
We are students primarily dedicated to the acquisition of knowledge through our contribution to the academic process. In the local educational community the primary stress is placed upon the individual to attain these goals. Our minds are young and for the most part our ideals and beliefs are still in their embryonic stage. This formulative stage is guided by our education. Our minds must be “open forums,” judging, evaluating and analyzing all facts in order to facilitate our national growth. The intellectual option must be emphasized, not de-emphasized. The student must be acutely concerned with the joy of learning and the satisfaction of ful
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
. . . the Student Government office will be open Tuesday and Thursday of this week to accommodate those students who have not paid their Student Government fee. Each student to be eligible to attend any S-G mixers, dances, etc., must pay this fee.
filling his responsibility to himself, his institution and his society. For to educate is to make strong: the wellspring of human progress and a world’s hope.
One might say that this is all well and good but where does it lead us to. Its thought makes us scrutinize the concept of studentship and citizenship. This concept must not be inseparable from but embedded in the mind of the individual student. We must be concerned with both—not one or the other. We do not cease to be students upon graduation nor do we commence to
14
accept the responsibility of citizenship upon the reception of degrees. We are citizens of a world which requires us to know its direction and asks us to help guide it and formulate its goals. We should always have the minds of students, curious minds searching for what is good and true. No matter how idealistic this may seem, its intention is purposeful not purposeless; its results are prolific not barren; its effects are rewarding not unrewarding.
But how do all of the fore-mentioned ideas fit into the scope of Notre Dame’s Student Government? The idea of this world student community in juxtaposition with this studentship—citizenship concept makes for a program which affects every aspect of the student’s life here at Notre Dame. If the international student world is to be strong, then each nation’s student governments must be representative and dynamic. However each nation’s student governments depend upon strong local student governments and these local governments depend upon you, the individual student. The world rests upon each one of us; our position is commonplace and not embedded in obscurity. No matter whether you are chairman of a small senatorial sub-committee or attending an ordinary lecture you are still needed and your contribution is a positive one to your student government. The important thing for us to see is that the world student community rests upon a confederation of strong student governments; and these student governments rest upon you, their constituents. They call upon you to be aware of and act for a goal, a purpose and a meaning in life.
So now we have reached the foundation of the pyramid—our own local educational community. At Notre Dame we must fully exercise and exploit our four senatorial commissions: academic, international, student affairs and social.
Student Governments’ primary role is
to make a significant contribution to the academic process. We must strive for academic excellence no matter how far short we may fall nor how far-fetched this may seem. Maybe this goal is impossible to reach. The important thing, however, is not the attainment of this goal but rather the progressive steps that we make in striving for it. This is worth something to the individual student. Our academic program for the coming year will be the following. There will be a symposium on “Power in Democracy” featuring many noteworthy
dignitaries in the areas of political science, economy, and sociology. The success so far for this symposium must be attributed to Andy Lawlor and Jack Walsh, the past and present Academic Commissioners. The “Distinguished Lecture Series” this year will feature such educators, controversial figures and theologians as Mortimer Adler, Harry S. Truman, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen (we hope), etc. The Student Forum will continue to serve the Notre Dame student body by stimulating thought on issues of local, national and international importance; for example, the Algerian, the Lebanon and the Hungarian crises; the Cuban turmoil; nuclear disarmament; Federal aid to higher education and Student Rights to mention
John Keegan, Student Body President 1
only a few. A student-faculty curriculum board will be set up in order to improve some of our present academic courses—a measure which is so important to the attainment of our student goal, academic excellence. Students, both foreign and domestic, along with faculty members will be expounding on. many topics this year in all of the halls.'? In order for this program to be a success your active participation is needed. We urge you to follow the feature section • of the Scholastic whose high academic spirit is very laudable and commendable.
The International Commission will sponsor many programs this year depicting a vast panorama of world events. It will, be concerned with the international student mirror reflecting the cultures, policies, educational systems and beliefs of the sundry nations and • peoples of the world. The Commission . will sponsor an International Student Fair, a “foreign students’ day” and many lectures by students and professional men such as foreign ambassadors^ A definitive study has been made in the . international scope by the Commission and we hope that the resulting programs will be beneficial to you, the student. Jr-
The Student Affairs Commission will? be concerned with many new projects
The Scholastic;:
11
; the sublime TRADITION
=	“THE MOVING FINGER”
A Sampling of Recent Excursions Into the Not-too-Distant Past, History “Without Tears” and With
i	Significance for Our Time, Prepared by the
1 t
; INTRODUCTION: THE HERITAGE
E veryone likes history — that is, everyone who is interested in the story of man. But not everyone understands history. Some think of history as dates and names, a series of causes, results, and a chronology. Unfortunately, these tools of history are all that some a youngsters retain from their history courses — chiefly because they did not learn to read the story for themselves. -Others do not understand history because they do not like these dates and names and causes and effects. They like fictionalized accounts that are not really history but the oratory or the dreams of some fast talker. But if man is worth studying, he is worth knowing the facts about. These facts are the very essence of history. And no really educated man can talk about anything intellectual without depending on history for his information.	..
।	My friend, Professor Carlton Hayes of Columbia, keeps
1 " repeating that history should be the chief delight of the Catholic because the Catholic talks so much about tradition in defense of his faith. And I do not mean — nor does Professor Hayes — mediaeval tradition — but the doctrine and the tra-~ dition of the Church in her effort to keep alive the dignity
! of man and his supernatural destiny. After all, the Catholic Church can claim to be the only successful teacher of the
I supernatural dignity of man, and of being consistent in this tradition throughout the ages.
In the United States, Catholics have not been very strong a in history. One reason is because we in earlier generations 11" were all raised on history books that were written by persons with a bias against the Church. We were so accustomed to brushing aside their opinions about our Church that we tended to brush the historians aside also. As Americans, a young people, we have also been so boastful of the modern world that we have not been conscious that ours is just one of a series of civilizations. In America we do not have any mediaeval history, or ancient history, and our prehistory does not seem to have anything to do with the people that now inherit the land. Consequently, when a writer like Arnold • Toynbee or Eric Voegelin writes those sweeping accounts of :! civilization succeeding civilization, about challenge and response, and about the rise and fall of peoples, we are unprepared to discuss them. For the present let me say that I ad-
; mirp the wide learning of Toynbee and of Voegelin, and of Will Durant, but they are not writing history in these grand accounts. The information which they bring to their writings is available in the works of the historians, but the grand sweep from long before Homer to the last king of Arabia is fictionalizing in about the same way that the historical fiction writer fills out the, known historical picture with the fictional heroes and events. Ah! they make such grand readings and seem so majestic!	-
Unfortunately, history is down to earth. There are world histories and histories which begin with the first known ages ... of man and come down more or less to the present day. But if these are well done they are the work of hundreds of men, each historian writing the account of the period of whichT he has made years of study. Now, you will say that these accounts are dull. At times they are. If they are, it is not always because of the story- they, tell, but because the writer does not have a good style. There is nothing in the nature of , history that should make it dull, although some pages are not as exciting as others. The important thing is that this is the
An intellectual service of the University of Notre Dame for the constant enrichment of the minds'\ of Notre Dame's diverse family.
History Department Under Marshall Smelser
By Thomas T. McAvoy, CS.C.
history of men, not fiction. It is the fact, not a dream. And in speaking of historians here we are talking about educated men, men who really talk about the world of the past; and in the real world there is nothing higher among men than the story of men.	_
Because American Catholics are trained so much in religious and philosophical thinking, they like to have their history reduced to some kind of science. One philosophy teacher I know insists that historical knowledge is not scientific because it is particular. Once a thing happens in history the same thing is another fact if it happens again. Such a philosophy teacher* insists that the only real science is the kind that can be generalized, rationalized — even moralized — about. Unfortunately the generalized “man” he keeps talking about never lived, never voted, never built a home, or walked the streets. And whether history is science according to such a philosopher or not, does not matter much. At least the events of history did take place in the real world.
* *
But are there no general rules for history? The answer is there are none, but there are historical generalizations, which we make all the time and from which we draw our philosophical generalization and our rules of conduct. Because nations rise and fall and usually go into some kind of decline or decay before falling, history seems to offer some general rules for this sort of reasoning. Whether one believes in the total evolution of man’s body or only in the later evolution ■ of man’s bodily qualities, the desire to fit things into a plan '	;
makes us try to draw up a philosophy or science of history. We desire to leave no question about the past unanswered.
But here history should teach us to be wise — to know the i limitations of human knowledge.	i
American History, likewise, has received slighting treat-	j
ment from overzealous apologists who think that all great	i
heroes and grand men and ideas existed only in a never-never_	|
ancient or mediaeval world. Of course the real history of	I
those ancient, and mediaeval peoples is quite a different story,	I
but our Americans need also to come down to earth if they	j
are to understand American government, American economic and religious freedom and even the story about the coming of their ancestors to this country and the conquest of this ~ bountiful land. They need, to read Charles M. Andrews on colonial, Maryland, Edward Channing on the Eevolution, , Henry Adams on Jefferson, Schlesinger on Jackson, Thomas . on Lincoln, Freeman on Lee. They should not be dependent . j on those who read history for their knowledge about the. Declaration of Independence, the Bill of Bights, the Monroe Doctrine, any more than they take the word of their com- - ; petitor in business on what is in the fine print of the contract. ” It is good for Americans to know historically what an American is. .
It is the unpleasant task of the historian to tell us that " the human story cannot be reduced to a scale or to a scheme or to a set of rules. There are two basic reasons for this stand of the historian. The first fact is simply that the /total scheme or plan of the world must come from the Divine Mind which planned all and that Mind has not given us, except in revelation, such a plan. We know now worldy wisdom which is only a part of the total picture of human activity. The second fact is the freedom of man. No matter how logical it may have been for Napoleon to have quit after Leipzig, we do know that he chose to come back at Waterloo. No matter how we reason about the next election and make pre
dictions, the free votes of Americans will decide it then, once and for all time.	-
There have been many attempts to write all history into a grand story with a majestic sweep. Real historians, on the contrary, now for nearly a century have been combining their efforts in preparing gigantic histories of the world in which each historian writes that portion of the story in which he has mastery. Such are the Cambridge University histories published in England and the cooperative histories published in Germany, in France, and in this country.
Unlike these real histories are the writings of such Hegelians as Arnold Toynbee, and Eric Voegelin, and Will Durant, who use historical dates and events at the start but who go on to a superworld of theory in which they seek to explain, by some law that they alone know, the rise and fall of nations or civilizations. They are quite logical within their own rules, and, if one accepted their niles as facts, their conclusions might be valid. These philosophers of history are usually very tolerant of Christianity, of Moslemism, of Buddhism, of any other religious development, but do not grant any religion as a real manifestation of God.
The great Christian philosopher of history was and is Saint Augustine of Hippo. The essential difference between St. Augustine and these modern philosophers of history lies in the fact that for St. Augustine the Christian religion is tnie and only God can give the full meaning of the human universe. In recent years other Christians, such as Jacques Maritain, have used the phrase, “philosophy of history” in this Augustinian sense — but in reality they speak like him of a theology of history.
St. Augustine was primarily interested in the GraecoRoman world and in the question of evil and sin in that world. The modem theologians of history must be more aware of other'civilizations and of the problems of the atomic age. Western culture and Western civilization and the techniques of the pre-atomic age have been the chief elements in the Christian world until recently. The new world — while still Christian— must be Eastern and Western and embrace even the space dreams if they become real.
But to return to history, there are some valuable books which give theories about the relations between religion and
culture. There are, . for instance, besides St. Augustine’s City of God, and The Philosophy of History of Jacques Maritain, the books of Christopher Dawson, the Age of the Gods, The Making of Europe, and the Religion and the Rise of Western Culture. They are written for the philosopher who is trying to establish a philosophy or theology of history. Besides these, there are the histories themselves.	'
* * * .
To those who want to study history it is necessary to remember that the first and essential quality of history is । that it must be true. After all, history studies real man — the flesh and blood of other days in their humanity — good or bad. Consequently, to read history with understanding the reader should choose'his field of interest. He may first read the broader history of a country or an age and then of individuals in that country or age, or, if a personality of the age attracts him, he should first read the best account of that person. Unless he gets to know the men of the past as real [ human beings, he has not entered history but fiction. The sensible way to read history is first to read books that are interesting. As a second guide, he should choose a book that . is written by an authority in the period, especially one who । writes well. On occasion, to get the facts the reader may v have to read a dull book. He must remember that the only authority in history is evidence, that is, witnesses or the testi- ( mony of witnesses. If he takes just anybody’s or just any writer’s word he will waste much time and learn much foolishness. History is strict like truth and hard like facts, but it gives its reader the thrill of knowing reality.	’
One reads history to learn about life. Of course that is ' why all of us read history. It is our presumption that human nature is essentially the same at all times and places even . though each man is free. Just as one is constantly learning LJI from his own experiences what to do the next time, so man- " kind learns mostly about the future from the study of man’s past. History is good news when it tells us of good men and of success; bad news when it tells us of bad men and of i failure — but it is news about men — and concerning no one . else do we like to talk so much as men (and, of course, that includes women).	,
ENGLAND: THE BRITISH GENERALS REFIGHT WORLD WAR II*	>
By Walter D. Gray 7	- (
7 '
After most major wars it has been a pastime of re-k tired generals to refight the war. they had just fought on the battlefields in the pages of their memoirs. These memoirs have rarely, if ever, been known to describe the author in unflattering terms and they usually leave the reader with the strong impression that the author’s views on the war were unusually sound. The reader, if-he is uncritical, is convinced that any defeat or reverse resulted from someone not following the author’s advice. Since 1945 the generals of World War II have been actively turning to the peaceful pursuit of writing their memoirs. In general, these memoirs are extremely interesting, although often contradictory. They do reveal much about the conduct of the war and especially about the major disagreements between the Allies. These disagreements, although hardly mentioned in the public press during the war, have been the'subjects of numerous controversies since the war as each new wartime memoir is published.	,
*The Turn of the Tide, A History of the War Years Based on the Diaries of Field-Marshal Lord Alanbrooke. By Arthur Bryant. New York: Doubleday, , 1957. 624 pp. $6.95.
Triumph in The West, A History of the War Years ' Based on the Diaries of Field-Marshal Lord Alan-z brooke. By Arthur Bryant. NewYork: Doubleday, 1959. 438 pp. $6.95.	'
The Memoirs of Field-Marshal-The Viscount Montgomery of Alamein. Cleveland: The World Publishing Company, 1958. 508 pp. $6.00.	.
Although the American generals, Eisenhower and Brad- fJ ley, published their memoirs almost a decade ago, it is only * recently that the two leading British generals of World War ' II have published theirs. These volumes provide a significant i addition to the literature about World War II. The two I British generals are Field-Marshal Lord Alanbrooke, Chief / of the Imperial General Staff, and Field-Marshal the Viscount Montgomery, the victor of El Alamein. Alanbrooke’s < memoirs are really his wartime diaries and they have been edited by the noted English historian, Sir Arthur Bryant. >3| ' Alanbrooke’s diaries are 'extremely interesting as they I discuss with amazing candor his problems as militaiy head d of the British war effort. Here he not only had to reconcile J the divergent views within the . English and Commonwealth <1 forces but also he had to inform, cajole, and humor Churchill. | He also served on the Allied Combined Chiefs of Staff where J he participated in' formulating the global strategy of World - J War II. Later during the wartime conferences, which he at- 1 tended as Churchill’s military advisor, he negotiated with the J Russian military leaders. Alanbrooke considers MacArthur ‘I the great military genius that the war produced in any army, g He idolizes Montgomery as a brilliant but, at times, irascible j leader of ground forces. His analyses of bothi Churchill and | Eisenhower are frank; candid, and,controversial. Alanbrooke j feared that Churchill’s captious and1-unpredictable moods I would undo months of staff planning while Eisenhower, al- I though regarded as an1 extraordinary gifted and respected I staff officer, is described as one knowing “nothing about >1 strategy.” i 'v _ ’	'	"•	'	/	' -I
'	■	! ■	' •	*	*	* : ■	'	'	1-1 I
I	'	-	(I
Montgomery’s memoirs are equally interesting as they ' I state his view of the campaigns in North Africa, Italy, and J
x	1	'	1	' SI
p , western Europe. Montgomery, who was never reluctant to | state his opinion, is as testy as ever and his frank comments U are not calculated to be devoid of controversy. He like Alan-brooke, is critical of Eisenhower’s handling of the Battle of
I; the Bulge, a reversal which could have been avoided. Monti. gomery has' the highest praise for Alanbrooke’s direction of ■ the war, although, he has reservations concerning Churchill’s
grasp of strategic matters. Both of these men have written memoirs which are particularly valuable for their frank discussion of interallied disagreements on the conduct of the war. Although these memoirs will strike Americans as highly controversial, nevertheless, they are the memoirs of two brilliant generals, whose devotion to the'Allied cause, helped to achieve victory.
FRANCE: DR. GUERARD AND THE BIOGRAPHY OF A NATION* By Leon Bernard	,
j
Until his death a few months ago, the acknowledged “grand old man? of French historical studies in । this country was Professor Emeritus Albert Guerard j of Stanford University. French-born and educated, Dr. | Guerard camle to this country as a young man and spent the rest of his life teaching and writing at a succession of 1 distinguished American universities. All told he produced twenty-two books on the history and literature of his native land. Shortly before his death, in awarding him an honorary ; ® degree of Doctor of Letters, Brandeis University cited Guerard as a “civilized rebel, a sensitive nonconformist, a genuine renaissance man, a genuine lover of people, a blend of Gallic ; wit and American pragmatism.” ;
During his last years, Dr. Guerard worked on a comprehensive history of France which would in effect sum up more than half a century of study and meditation. This work has . now been handsomely published by the University of Michigan Press as one volume in its projected fifteen-volume History of the Modern World, designed, “to help prepare the literate American public for its role of leadership in the modem £ world.” Dr. Guerard’s swan song is indeed an eloquent one. His book is lucid, succinct, well-balanced, and brilliant in its interpretations. Also important from the point of view of the general reader, the author does not presuppose in his reader more than a casual knowledge of French history. One does not have to be a specialist to enjoy this book.
. * * *
As one would expect, Guerard has written a history of French civilization in its broadest sense. It is neither old-fashioned political chronology nor impersonal economic history. Guerard is a humanist and his frame of reference is A man. History for him is the product of man’s endeavors. For example, the French nation which began to emerge in the
High Middle Ages is for Guerard the work of the Capetian dynasty, a rather shocking oversimplification for those historians who explain the growth of a nation in geographical, racial or mystical terms. The author is at his most brilliant ' in his word-pictures of such great figures of French history as, Charlemagne, Richelieu, Louis XIV, Napoleon—and Charles De Gaulle.
While Dr. Guerard’s book starts with prehistory, the major emphasis is on the recent period. Almost a third of the text is devoted to the period since World War I. The reader ' will find an excellent background of the Algerian crisis and of De Gaulle’s other historically-rooted problems. Also, of interest is the author’s calm prediction of the imminent doom of the French national state. In his opinion the worldview will supercede the national in the same way that in the Middle Ages the national'view replaced the parochial. But what is most lasting and, especially to Guerard, of greatest , .importance, the French' spirit and culture, will live on in a !new world framework.	.	'
No better short history of France can be recommended to the reader.
*France: A Modern History. By Albert Guerard. Ann Arbor: The University of Michigan Press, 1959, 616 pp. $8.75.	\
Related Reading:
On the Game of Politics in France. By Nathan Leites. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1959. 190 pp. $2.50.
Three Against The Third Republic. By Michael Curtis. Princeton, N. J.: Princeton University Press, 1959. 313 pp. $6.00.	,
IRELAND: A PEOPLE UPROOTED WHEN POTATOES WERE NOT*
By R. E. Burns
THE GREAT FAMINE is a book that no student of Irish affairs can afford to ignore. It is in fact one of M the most important, if not the most important, work on nineteenth century Irish history that has been pub; lished, during the past twenty years. The book is a collection . of x studies by specialists from both British and Irish uni, versifies on all major aspects of the terrible famine experi>	ence. The work has been so arranged that its introductory
•’	chapters analyze the social and economic conditions of Ireland
' on the. eve of the famine and the bewildering complexity of 1 Irish agricultural organization. Next, a chapter on the polit-( ical background of the famine tragedy -closely studies the < political reactions of Irish agricultural organization. Next, j a chapter on the political background of the famine tragedy
1 । , 1 > ■ '
• *The Great Famine. B?/ R. Dudley Edwards and T. Desmond Williams. New York: New York University
' Press, 1957. 517 pp. $6.00.
Related Reading:	.	\	,
; Ireland and The American Emigration, 1850-1900. ;	By Arnold Schrier. Minneapolis: University of Min!	nesota Press, 1958. 210 pp. $4.50.	x ,
„ The Uprooted. By Oscar Handlin. New York: Grosset
and Dunlap. (Universal Library paperback, UL-23). 310 pp. $.95.	,
closely studies the political reactions of Irishmen to the food crisis and the effect of that crisis on Anglo-Irish relations. The manner in which relief was organized and distributed is considered in detail. Both the medical history of the faming and the beginnings of the great overseas emigration receive careful attention. The work concludes with a scholarly mram-ination of the famine tradition, preserved in popular folklore. Although the editors have styled their volume as no more than a contribution toward a history of the famine, the scope and quality of the book belies their modesty. The Great Famine has superseded all previous works on the subject.
Between 1845 and 1852 more than 500,000 men, women, and children died in Ireland from the famine or from its consequences. Those years were more than a noteworthy period of greater misery endured by a generationalready ' conditioned to suffering. Those years were a testing time for the nineteenth century state. The famine times reveal very clearly the limitations 'of men in public office who were unwilling or incapable of rising above the economic conventions of their day. Blinded by an excessive solicitude for the rights of private property, by the mythology of self-help, and'by an ' unshakable faith in. the efficacy of private charity, English . and Irish ministers struggled unsuccessfully with a. disaster \ that was wholly contemptuous of the laws of political economy. The potato fungus that visited the country in 1845 and rotted the crop in the ground, was not the cause of the famine. That same' fungus visited other places in western and central
Europe without destroying seven per cent of the population and driving another eighteen per cent overseas. The cause of the famine was that ordering of human affairs which condemned so many people to a life-long dependence upon a single crop. The potato economy, the unprogressive state of Irish argiculture, and the bitter relations between landlord and tenant were expressions of the same evil, that of poverty. When the distribution of the product of Irish soil had ceased to bear and relation to the needs of its occupiers, disaster awaited only an opportunity.
* * *
No one or no class in Irish society really escaped from the hardships of the famine. Typhus and relapsing fever were amazingly democratic and the costs, of famine relief and the encumbered estates’ courts were extremely effective dis
solvents of the traditional Irish landlord system. In the last analysis, the picture that emerges from The Great Famine has much, in common with James Connolly’s sketch in Labour in Irish History written nearly fifty years ago. “No man,” wrote Connolly, “who accepts the capitalist society and the laws thereof can logically find fault with the statesmen of England for their acts in that awful period.” Apart from providing some solid scholarly support for Connolly’s intuition, The Great Famine has a powerful message for all of its readers — even for those with only a passing interest in
- Irish affairs. It shows what can happen when the minds of { men have become enslaved by slogans and addicted to cliches.
. It shows what can happen when even the best intentioned public men have become, the prisoners of an ideology, any ideology.	.
THE U. S.: AMERICAN HISTORY AND AMERICAN FOLKLORE*
By Philip
When old friends meet in alumni gatherings and exchange reminiscences of earlier days at Notre Dame — tales, perhaps, of the History Department’s “Tuffy” Ryan, of “Goof” Hines’ amiable ineffectiveness, or of Rockne’s half-time histrionics — they are no doubt unaware that they are enriching the broad stream of American folklore. Yet they are doing just that, for as Richard M. Dorson’s American Folklore makes clear, folk tales still flourish in our mechanized and unfolksy century and no--where more vigorously than in the oral traditions perpetuated on college campuses. We are so accustomed to associating folklore with the remote past or with the isolated hollows of the Great Smokies that it startles us to see the term applied to these contemporary college traditions, to modern legends of the automobile age (like the widely circulated tale of the Ghostly Hitchhiker), to reports of messenger boys lost in the mazes of the Pentagon, or to classic accounts of goldbricking in the army.	•
Professor Dorson brings the study of folklore up to date with these examples of modern folk tales. He also teaches us to view more critically the folklore purveyed by the mass media of conununication; in a highly revealing discussion .of “Twentieth-Century Comic Demigods” he traces the rise of “fakelore”: the "manufacture and exploitation by advertisers and commercial interests of such spurious folk heroes as Paul Bunyan and Pecos Bill. Stories of these and similar colossi are usually the fabrications of copywriters intent on selling a particular brand of lumber or attracting tourists to some fabled “Pecos Bill Country.” -Indeed, their closest authentic * relation to American life is that these pseudo folk heroes ** represent a variety of American salesmanship and reflect our national obsession with supersize and superstrength. 1
* * *
In showing that present day folklore —and fakelore — are conditioned by some of the major currents of modern society, Professor Dorson is simply employing the same technique by which he examines the whole of American folklore, for he is convinced that “the only meaningful approach to the folk traditions of the United States must' be made against the background of American history, with its unique circumstances and environment.” It is his expert and graceful weaving of folk traditions into the tapestry of American history that makes Professor Dorson’s American Folklore a significant contribution to the study of American history as -well as a rewarding introduction to the often misunderstood world of folklore. In the pages of this bookwe see the experiences of colonists, patriots, frontiersmen, slaves, and immigrants froma new perspective, the-perspective of those who lived these adventures and then repeated their tales of sprites . ' and demons, fights and frolics. - v	.
The earliest settlers in the American colonies brought as part of their intellectual baggage a. large and fanciful assortment of folk legends and beliefs which, in time, were molded , by contact with the new environment and'the aboriginal lore-of the Indians. Reports* of preternatural happenjngs were commonplace, and thewitchcrafthysteria of -the late seventeenth century was only the'most climactic episode in the run- -
Gleason ning engagement with the powers of darkness in colonial -America. Belief in witchcraft declined after the horrifying g spectacle of Salem,* but the struggle for independence stimu- < lated a new current of folklore. Yankee Doodle and tales of . the Blue Hen’s Chickens reflect the emotions of the revolu- £ tionary movement and at the same time presage the search for the unique American identity which preoccupied the young ' republic.
Professor Dorson sketches the rise of native folk humor against the early nineteenth century background of westward expansion, Jasksonian democracy, and the growing influence^ of popular journalism. Although much of this is relatively familiar material, we gain a new insight into the homely^ facts of frontier life upon learning how often tall stories of * the period dealt with the extravagant shaking that accompanied the fevers and agues of the backwoods. There is also a deft characterization of Lincoln as the “star. backwoods ‘ < humorist” who once got up in the middle of the night and aroused a friend to pass along a good' story that came into; ^ his mind. Yet the freshest and most arresting material comes : in Professor Dorson’s topical discussions of regional, Negro, and immigrant folklore.
* * *
The survival of regional folk cultures — surveyed by^ the author in German Pennsylvania, the Ozarks, Spanish,* New Mexico, among the Mormons of Utah and the Yankee ' ; islanders off the coast of Maine — bespeaks the tenacity of*= local traditions and reveals the surprising degree of cultural diversity that exists in the United States in spite of massive 4 pressures tending toward uniformity. The two chapters on J the folklore of the Negro and the immigrant give further < evidence of the diversity of American culture and of the ; close interaction between historical forces and the oral tradi- 2, tions of the people. The description of the mingling of dif-^ ferent racial and ethnic folk traditions in the United States makes fascinating reading — especially the account of the i-multiple immigrant cultures that exist side by side in Mich- '2 igan’s Upper Peninsula — but more than that, these chapters^ show us the melting pot in action-and open a new perspective onto the racial and cultural adjustments of American society.^ ' American Folklore is, in short, an admirable contribu-^ tion to the University of Chicago’s inexpensive and readable^ “History of American Civilization’.’ series. It can be recom-f mended with confidence to any reader who has even the most M casual interest in the American past and the development of $ the American mind. / '	- g
—————•—;——------------------------------------i
*American Folklore. By Richard M. Dorson. Chicago: I
University ofChicago Press, 1959. 320 pp. $4.50. | Related Reading :	_	|
American Humor. By Constance Rourke. New York: ^
Doubleday, 1953. (Anchor paperback A-12). 2531 pp. $.75. j J..	-;	■
The Comic Tradition in America. Edited byKennethf> S. Lynn. New York: Doubleday, 1958. (Anchor | paperback A-187). 416 pp. $1.45.	'	1
x	" I
Z	• *	'* ‘	-	'	>*l
.■	' .	-2	-	-	#4
this year. A few of these will be: a Student Government newsletter, a Student Amateur Show, a football card stunt program, the institution of a mock senate and the election of a homecoming queen. The Student Discount Plan now has eighteen merchants under the direction of Charles Murphy. The Jazz Festival and the bonfire pep rally committees will seek new ideas in order to improve their already established programs. Under the leadership of Dave Sommers the jazz festival should attain its greatest success. Many polls and referendums will be conducted this year in order to unite more closely our Student Government and student body. A compatible union rather than an inseparable breech must exist between the two. A Public Relations Committee has been set up in order to alleviate the communication problem on campus and among other student governments throughout the world. A new subcommittee under the auspices of our present Student Responsibility Committee has been formed whose purpose will be to examine the lights of the student in all areas affecting his membership in the Notre Dame educational community.
the inactive student will become active. Inevitably the thought will be more profound and the examination and evaluation more critical. From the shell of obscurity and chaos will emerge the luminous educated student mind. To educate is to know and to know is to be aware. An aware mind can formulate and build beliefs, not opinionate and destroy them. The individual must truly exercise his intellectual commitment to the utmost; he must practice what he preaches, he must act for what he believes.
JUGGLER
. . . the editor and staff of the Juggler, student literary quarterly, are engaged in their annual subscription drive. Students may obtain subscriptions in room 327, Walsh Hall. The price for three issues is one dollar, fifty cents.
. . . students who have manuscripts which they wish to have considered for publication in the Juggler should submit them at room 327, Walsh Hall.
There is no need for me to reiterate what has already been said but I would like to leave you with this last thought. The world in transition rests upon the educational process, and it in turn is contingent upon the responsible student. We are not the leaders of tomorrow but rather the leaders of today. The challenge before us is a great one but the end is not unattainable for the means are available. The challenge is truly a student challenge; its goal we must seek, its means we must support.
John Keegan
• The Social Commission will be engaged in its usual multi-farious program of dances, balls and concerts. Our fall • campus-wide dance this year will be held on the Pitt, week-end which is also homecoming week-end. The big name entertainment program should be unprecedented in the months to come with such names as the Twi-Liters, Frank Sinatra, Bob Hope and many others. (Although we have strong hopes of featuring the fore-mentioned names, they have not been definitely confirmed as of yet.)
w This is a general outline of our program for the coming year—a Student Government for you. I presented a philosophy about what Student Government should be and then implemented a complementary program to this concept. It is not meant to be a panacea for all the problems of the student but rather a positive program advocating responsibility, awareness and action. The people ■ A who will help make this program a reality are the following: Don Rice, Tom l; Colleton, Jack Clark, John Clark, Jack I	Walsh, Mike Nash, John Kromkowski,
-	Brian Tuohy, and others.
However, the only real way for this program to materialize is by the student government and student body working in unison. We must work together in order to test the efficacy of a needed ’ challenge in the student world—awareness and action.
indent Visitor
[9 Even if this program only achieves ; one iota of the expected goal, still it will , be a success. This is not a program designed for a year but for a lifetime.
!	We might have to wait a decade to see
;	its fruition but even this will be well
:	worth waiting for. Due to a program
such as this the uninformed student will become informed, the unaware student • will become aware, the unconcerned student will become concerned, the inarticulate student will become articulate and
! September 30, 1960
I
i
75 YEARS AGO — The South Bend Register felt that college life, judged by Notre Dame standards, is not as dreary as it may seem. The students could always find beneficial activities in the gym, the quiet billiard rooms or, of course, the “stag” dance. The dance was a must to see when you visited campus; the best orchestra available played for these dances, and one saw how gentlemen could dance with gentlemen without breaking the rales of decoram. It seemed that in those days the boys got as much of a kick at the “stags” as at dances with girls.
25 YEARS AGO — The investigation to track the pilot of the plane who was using the field behind the Law Building to land his plane was successful. The owner was an athletic man named Max Conrad. A 31-year-old, who had suffered brain damage while trying to save a woman who entangled herself in the propeller of his plane, he couldn’t talk and it took him three years to relearn pronunciation. Enrolling in the University to take speech and engineering, he intended to compete in Notre Dame athletics. A high-jumper having cleared 6'74", no mean height today, he had beaten the world record holder of that era five times without a defeat. '
10 YEARS AGO — Mr. Evelyn Waugh, one of England’s best known authors, visited the campus. He spoke on Chesterton, Knox, and allowed himself to be questioned by 15 students in the Dining Hall Lounge. He was deeply impressed by student piety, the number of students who visited the grotto, and the daily conununions. He was also struck by the fact that no wine or beei- was served in the campus “tea room.” He felt wine or liquor should be found in the tankards at the ends of the cafeteria lines. He stated, “You know one should consume great amounts of wine while eating.” After being informed of the University regulations on alcohol, he said, “I still think it is better than having them take swigs of gin in their lodging. Which they probably do, don’t they?” Oh, no! Mr. Waugh, not us.
The Ancient Editor
Miniver Clieevy
The blasting- static of a radio from across the courtyard woke him. He lay on his back coughing slightly and watching a fly trace lazy circles in the sunlight from the window. In the next apartment a man argued with his wife. It ended suddenly with a last blur of angry words and the slam of a door. Then there was silence but for the distant rumble of the el and the hum of the fly. He glanced at the other beds in the crowded room. They were empty. Jackie and Terry his sons both gone, Jackie to work and Terry to school. Rita his daughter, glided about in the kitchen cleaning up their breakfast dishes. She heard him coughing and hollered in to ask if he wanted something to eat, he growled a negative reply and dismissed her from his mind.
He was thinking about his wife. Cancer had eaten her away because he couldn’t afford a doctor. He had watched her die. And now he sulked, Jackie thinks he’s the big man in the family because he brings home a regular paycheck and his old man is too sick to hold a regular job. And Rita always complaining about having to quit school to take over the housework when her mother worked all her life for her, the both of them are no good. Terry’s the only decent one and that’s because he’s just a kid yet. Even he’s starting to change now. Jackie and Rita’s influence on him, they’re trying to ’ turn him against me. He coughed and cursed his fate.
He thought about the life he would have had if he only didn’t sell his share in his father’s farm in the old country to his brother. His brother was a rich horse breeder now and here I am, he mused, living in this lousy tenement worrying about food money. He sighed and dreamed about what might have been his; he coughed and cursed his luck and thought about what should have been his.
Life has been all bad luck for me, he whined to himself, crammed into this rotten apartment with a bunch of ungrateful kids talking back all the time, lousy luck on jobs, yeah life has been too tough on me.
He lay there quietly for a little while longer. He coughed and cursed his fate then reached under the bed for the bottle.
Bill Wilders
16
At the Theaters
It’s that time of the year again when we wish that the rain that was lacking last Saturday won’t show up tomorrow, and when the Scholastic starts enlivening your school days, and when I show up to tell you what’s what at the downtown cinemporia.
The Avon has yielded to the theory that quality does not necessarily mean low returns at the box office. This week, they are showing the screen version of Arthur Miller’s splendid The Crucible, with the husband-wife team of Yves Montand and Simone Signoret in the starring roles. This wise combination should provide thorough entertainment for anyone who ventures onto Michigan Avenue starting tonight.
Next week, the Avon has a pleasant surprise for lovers of British comedy — Peter Sellers in I’m All Right, Jack.	,
The Colfax is throwing several hundred minutes of celluloid at you this week in the form of a double bill: Gigi and Around the World in 80 Days. Both of these pictures are very well known and won a boxful of Academy Awards each, but showing them together might prove to be too much spectacle at a single sitting. Gigi, naturally, is the awfully sweet girl who grows up overnight, much to the consternation of Grandmama, Gaston, et al. Starring Leslie Caron, Louis Jourdan, Maurice Chevalier, Hermione Gingold, Eva Gabor, and Isabel Jeans. The music is the same, the color is the same, and it all adds up to a lot of entertainment.
Its co-feature, Mike Todd’s rewriting of the Jules Verne travelogue, runs for 178 minutes and stars everybody who’s anybody with only a couple of notable excep- । tions. It still should be interesting, though, to watch David Niven, Cantinflas, Shirley MacLaine, and Robert Newton run out of breath time and time again.
Hell to Eternity, showing at the Granada this week, tells the true story of a gutsy Marine who singlehandedly captured 2000 Japanese during the Saipan and Tinian campaigns. Jeffrey Hunter is the almost-too-brave-to-be-true hero, Vic Damone and David Janssen play supporting roles in the same Army, and Sessue Hayakawa is again typecast as a Japanese officer. After dwelling for some time on the hellish aspect of war, the camera accompanies our hero on a 48-houi- leave in Hawaii and there the fun begins. The girls who are in charge of boosting Marine morale in Hawaii are headed by Patricia Owen, Michi Kobi, and Reiko Sato, and it was at this < point that the movie was shot one way for the American market and another way for exportation. One way of finding out what’s missing from the version you see is to imagine a later fadeout of a couple of key scenes.
Coming up soon at the Granada, though the date is still uncertain, is the screen adaptation of William Inge’s hit play The Dark At The Top Of The Stairs, starring Robert (Music Man) Preston. Watch for it.
The State is giving Walt Disney an airing this week by presenting his latest True Life Adventure: Jungle Cat. This is, in short, a pictorial story of your neighborhood tabby’s Amazonian cousin, the jaguar. To those of you who have seen similar movies of other animals, the technique is not new; but it is still exciting. Together with this movie, a 45-minute “featurette,” also by Walt Disney is being I shown. This one is called (and take a deep breath) The Hound That Thought He Was A Racoon, and is nothing more really than a live fairy tale about a “hound dawg” puppy lost in the woods and raised by a Mama Racoon. Naturally, when he returns to civilization, he is unable to hunt racoons as any self-respecting hound should do. The movie’s appeal is much more limited than that of Jungle Cat, but since kiddies can’t go by themselves to the movies, nobody should complain except the parents who are bodily dragged into the theater.
In closing, I wish to express a parting thought, rapidly gaining significance in these days of extreme political crises. Should a Quaker be President?
Tony Wong
.	The Scholastic
SPECIAL
STUDENT
DISCOUNTS
Open Dance Night ’till 8:30
'Your Assurance of Satisfactory Fit
FORMAL WEAR IS OUR BUSINESS, NOT A SIDELINE
the scholastic
. . . invites collegiate humorists to jump into the day-
light from their niche of oblivion, submit escape
manuscripts to rubeli in 309 walsh.
. . . does not forget the talented campus critic nor his cultural insecurity, make offerings for the back page, again, to 309 walsh.
. . . realizes some wish to be intellectual and affluent simultaneously, for a position of ad salesman contact finnigan in 220 alumni.
THE BOOK SHOP
DOWNTOWN IN SOUTH BEND
1
No Deposit for ND Students
See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
COME IN AND BROWSE IN OUR NEW ENLARGED PAPER BACK BOOK SECTION
★
ALSO A COMPLETE LINE OF CONTEMPORARY CARDS AND GIFTS
1 >
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
5
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
130 No. Michigan St.
7 Doors North of the Bus Stop
September 30, 1960
Wes Roberts can tell you:
“THERE’S NO CEILING FOR A SELF-STARTER
IN THE TELEPHONE BUSINESS"
When Wes Roberts was nearing the end of his senior year at San Jose State College, he was looking for a job with a wide open future. He found it when he joined Pacific Telephone in San Francisco.
Here’s how Wes tells it: “I remember one of my first jobs. The boss said, ‘Wes, I want you to work out a plan showing where we’ll need new field operating centers to keep up with Northern California’s growth over the next 10 years.’ I didn’t know whether I was more happy or scared.”
Wes didn’t tell us (but his boss did) that he handled the report like a pro. And today, as a
division supervisor, he’s holding down a key telephone job.
Wes Roberts’ story is not unique in the Bell Telephone Companies. The telephone business is growing fast—and men are needed who can grow just as fast.
Wes can tell you: “We get good training. But no one nurses you along. We hire managers —not errand boys. So far as I can see, there’s no ceiling for a self-starter in this business.”
Z/ you’re a guy like Wes Roberts—if you like to bite off more than you can chew and then chew it—you’ll want to visit your Placement Office for literature and additional information.
“Our number one aim is to have in all management jobs the most vital, intelli-' gent, positive and imaginative men we can possibly find.”
Frederick R. Kappel, President American Telephone & Telegraph Co.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
The Scholastic

SfMU Pict***
VICTORIOUS IRISH ENGAGE BOILERMAKERS
e All-American Beabout Leads Purdue Squad
by JOHN BECHTOLD
Notre Dame’s football team, afteropening the season with a 21-7 triumph over the California Bears, host the perennially tough Purdue Boiler-makers tomorrow in Notre Dame Stadium. The A game will be the second of the season for both clubs.
Purdue opened its season at home last week by tying a strong UCLA ballclub for the second straight year, 27-27. In that game, the Boilermakers came from behind twice to tie the Bruins.
After UCLA exploded for two touchdowns in the first minute and 45 seconds of the first quarter, Purdue came right back with a scoring plunge by alternate quarterback Maury Guttman and a " seven-yard touchdown run by Jim Tiller.
UCLA gained a 20-13 halftime lead on a 70-yard pass play.
Purdue had a chance to catch up in the third quarter after sophomore fullback Tom Yakubowski plunged for a touchdown but the conversion failed.
UCLA added to their lead in the final quarter with another- touchdown pass play. They kicked the extra point, making the score 27-19.
• With only 2:58 to play, Bernie Allen, veteran Purdue quarterback, passed 28 yards to sophomore Joe Harris, then completed a two-point conversion pass to John Griener that produced the final tie.
JACK MOLLENKOPF
Veteran Purdue mentor
LIND DRIVES INTO BEAR FORWARD WALL
Mike Lind, Irish sophomore fullback, drives hard with the aid of blocks by John Powers (80) and Mike Magnotta (70). Cal defender Lauren Bock (61) moves in to halt Lind’s progress.
Rebuilding task. Coach Jack Mollen-kopf is in the process of rebuilding the Boilermakers, a team that graduated 23 of 41 lettermen from last fall’s balanced squad. The 1959 Boilermakers lost only two games and defeated the Irish handily, 28-7.
Mollenkopf retained only two regular linemen. The biggest losses are regularends Dick Brooks and Len Jardine. Jardine was the most valuable player on the team while Brooks was the leading pass catcher.
The backfield losses include a great pair of fullbacks, Jack Laraway, leading ground gainer, and Bob Jarus, who shared scoring honors; three outstanding halfbacks, Leonard Wilson, Joe Kulbacki, and Clyde Washington, who ranked two-three-four respectively in ground gaining; and quarterback Boss Fichtner, a daring runner and steady passer.
Top returning ends include Manzie “The Wedge” Winters and John Griener. Winters, a powerfully built six-foot, five-inch senior, and Griener, a junior, are both recovering from leg injuries suffered last year. John Elwell, a junior speedster, is another seasoned pefoi-mer.
All-American. Co-captain and AllAmerican candidate Jerry Beabout heads an experienced group of tackles. Beabout has been one of the most consistent tackles in the Big Ten since he first started playing for Purdue in 1958. Purdue fans feel that there isn’t a better tackle in the nation. Senior Dale Bems from South Bend and Pat Buss are other seasoned tackles.
A pair of proven performers, Bon Maltony and Stan Sczurek, are at
guard for the Boilermaker eleven. All-American pick Maltony has fully recovered from a shoulder injury which handicapped him last year although not enough to keep him off many all-sectional teams. Sczurek was named “sophomore of the year” as a result of his outstanding play last fall.
Phil Kardasz is the only returning letterman at center. Adding depth to the position is Don Paltani, named “most valuable” on last fall’s freshman squad.
A pair of proven seniors, Bernie Allen, versatile two-sport star, and co-captain Maury Guttman are at quarterback. Last fall Allen passed for four touchdowns and handled a good share of the punting and place-kicking. It was Allen who led the Boilermaker’s victory over Notre Dame in 1959.
Speedster. Mollenkopf is rebuilding a halfback corps depleted by the loss of five graduated lettermen. Jim Tiller, smallest man in the Big Ten at 151-pounds, is ticketed to start at left half. His amazing speed makes him a constant touchdown threat. Hard-running Dan Donahue starts at right halfback. Donn Mayoras, Tom Bloom, and Bob Wiater head the reserves.
While Jarus and Laraway have departed, fullback has a seasoned performer in Willie Jones. Jones starred in the latter part of last season and gives the Boilermaker offense good power up the middle.
Mollenkopf hopes to make it three in a row over the Irish tomorrow. Notre Dame has defeated Purdue 20 times in the past while losing nine and tying two.
September 30, 1960
19
KAMPUS KEGLERS
The Kampus Keglei- bowling leagues of Notre Dame initiate their 1960-61 pin schedule the first week of October. The leagues again promise to offer interesting fun for all those participating during the 1960-61 season.
Thus far, there are five scheduled leagues. Each of these leagues still has openings for those interested in joining. There is also the possibility of instituting new leagues if there is sufficient response to the idea. Bowlers interested in joining should contact anyone at the Bowling Lanes Office or see one of the following league officers.
President............  Ron	Dvorak
Vice-President .......Dan Halloran
Secretary.............Jim Lewis
Treasurer ............Bob Miller
For the higher-average bowler, the CCND Classic League is available on Monday night at 9 p.m. This is a scratch league with an 830 maximum team average. Inquiries for this league may also be made at the Bowling Lanes or with its league officers:
President .............Ted	Nekic
Vice-President ....Chuck LeRose
Secretary-Treasurer...Ron Dvorak
—Dan Halloran
CARY CALLS ’EM
Saturday
Army over California Clemson over Virginia Tech Boston University over Holy Cross Duke over Maryland Georgia Tech over Florida Oregon State over Houston Illinois over West Virginia Auburn over Kentucky Minnesota over Indiana Washington over Navy Georgia over South Carolina Wisconsin over Marquette Tennessee over Mississippi State Iowa State over Nebraska Pitt over Oklahoma Air Force over Stanford Northwestern over Iowa Syracuse over Kansas Alabama over Vanderbilt Yale over Brown Texas over Texas Tech Penn State over Missouri Ohio State over Southern California Notre Dame over Purdue
Game of the Week Michigan State over Michigan
Last Year's Totals 98 right, 54 wrong, eight ties 60.9 per cent
20
JIM STAHL
Senior returns to action
University Open Begins With Kitch Leading Way
Terry Kitch shot a three-under-par 68 and Tom Grace a two-under 69 to become the leaders after the first round of the annual Notre Dame Open.
Kitch posted a 33 and Grace a 37 on the par 36 front nine while Kitch matched the Burke’s course’s par on the back nine with a 35 and Grace had a red-hot 32.
With some exceptionally low scores being recorded in the University Open and in view of some of the performances turned in by golf team members this past summer, Rev. George L. Holderith, now in his twenty-ninth season as Irish golf coach, expects a fine season in the spring.
Father Holderith pointed out some of the reasons for his optimism. These included a nucleus of veteran players, among them six monogram winners of last year: Captain Ray Patak, Tom Grace, Bruce Odlaug, Phil Schuster, Eddie Schnurr and Jim Stahl.
Of these, Patak and Grace qualified for the National Inter-Collegiate Golf Tournament with identical scores of 152 for thirty-six holes.
Captain Patak says that he is “very optimistic” about the chances for this year’s team, and goes on to explain, “Although we lost four seniors through graduation, Jim Stahl, who was in-enligible last season, will help us a lot.”
Others expected to bolster the squad this coming season are seniors Jim Kenny, Jack Palumbo, and Bill Wetzel; juniors Russ Beaupre, Al Highducheck, and Craig Vollhaber; and sophomores Terry Kitch, Pete Bisconti, Bob Farrell and Jack Vandewalle.
The remaining rounds of the Notre Dame Open will be played this Sunday, and Saturday and Sunday, October 8 and 9.
Sailors Place Second ; As Wolves Triumph |;
In their first regatta of the season last : week end, the Notre Dame Sailing Team ( finished second, close behind Michigan. ■ In strong winds on Saturday and light ■! airs on Sunday the eight schools enjoyed fine sailing in the Club’s new Flying !’ Dutchman Junior class sloops on Dia- ' 1 mond Lake near South Bend. Wayne ! State University took third. Marquette, ! Detroit Institute of Technology, De- ■; Pauw, the University of Detroit, and . • Indiana also competed.	■
Dan Schuster, Commodore, and “Weenie” Kuras, Secretary, skippered for the ! Irish while John Zusi and Paul Kelley crewed. Chuck Finnegan, Fleet Cap- H tain, did a fine job in repairing break- ; downs and keeping the fleet sailable, f j Frank Courrages and Ed Bukowski also J helped out.	•
This week end the team will be in • Detroit for the Wayne State Invitational i 1 Regatta on the Detroit River.
The Club’s boats were brought to the I ■ campus this week end and are available I to members for sailing. Those who would ! like to join the Club so that they may ; sail are invited to attend a meeting any Wednesday night at 7:30 in 209 Engi-^ p neering Building, or by seeing any club J officer at St. Joseph’s lake. All persons, regardless of past sailing experience, are welcome.
Nucleus of Capable Veterans Pace Irish Track Prospects
In the not-too-distant future the Notre Dame track team, under the competent a leadership of Coach Alex Wilson, will once again resume the sweat and strain routine in preparation for the 19601961 indoor track season.
Notre Dame was represented in the June N.C.A.A. National meet at Berkeley, Calif, by Ron Gregory, ace middledistance and distance man, and Tommy Reichert, the now-graduated pole vaulter from Minneapolis. Gregory was plagued by a bad back, while Reichert’s fourteen-1 foot attempt failed to place in the meet.
The 1960-1961 Notre Dame track team should be fairly strong, although suffering mainly from the losses of Reichert and Glen Cividen in the pole vault, and Dave Cotten and Galen Cawley in the distance runs. Bill Yaley, a sophomore, is being counted on to help fortify the distance weaknesses caused by graduation.
The schedule will be much the same as last year’s, with the omission of the* Missouri meet and the addition of a triangular meet with Hoosier state rivals Purdue and Indiana.
Although freshmen are not allowed to participate in Notre Dame’s intercollegiate meets, they are invited out to compete with the other freshman track members. Here, they gain valuable experience for the future varsity campaigns while also improving their track specialties. -	<
The Scholastic11
I
CALLING ALL SWIMMERS
Any student interested in joining the Varsity or Freshman swimming team who did not attend the organizational meeting last week is urged to contact Dennis J. Stark, swimming coach, in the Rockne Memorial Building.
TIME OUT
ODDS and ENDS
Notre Dame’s Carl Yastrzemski went wild this season for the Minneapolis Millers in the Triple-A American Association. Carl was named both Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player. He also finished second in the race for individual batting champion! Carl’s next job — to replace the great Ted Williams of the Red Sox. . . .
If size is what matters, Minnesota’s Golden Gophers should be unbeatable this year. Murray Warmath’s line, largest in Ski-U-Mah history, averages 230 pounds end to end. That’s BIG. . . .
QUOTE OF THE WEEK: Ray Norton, disappointed Olympic sprinter, “Man, after Rome, I don’t ever want to run to catch a bus.” ...	•
Navy is the most time-honored team on the Irish schedule this fall. The two teams have met every year since 1927, making this the longest continuous intersectional series in football. . . .
The Golden Bears of California discovered a bright new star in sophomore quarterback Randy Gold, who was nothing less than brilliant in Saturday’s losing effort against the Irish. . . .
Notre Dame can expect spirited games from both the Michigan State Spartans and the Pittsburgh Panthers judging from last week’s nationally televised free-for-all. .. .
DUFFYISM: Spartan football players eat as much at evening training table (2,200 calories) as the average office worker does in a full day. . . .
Mike and Marlin McKeever, Southern California’s “twin terrors,” have much in common. Both have the same major and are members of the same fraternity. . . .
Notre Dame’s football team initiated its 1960 season in a successful manner as it handed its surprisingly strong California Bears visitors a resounding 21-7 defeat. The victorious Irish were led by the adept broken-field running of senioi- halfback Bob Scarpitto. Scarpitto not only amassed a total of 83-yards on seven carries — he also scored the first two touchdowns for the Irish. Fullback Mike Lind, playing in his first collegiate contest, also was an outstanding performer. While adding 36 yards to the Notre Dame rushing totals, Lind was even more sensational as a blocker, several times opening the way for key runs.
The above paragraph is probably the way many a sportswriter throughout the country began his commentary on the beginning of a new football season here at Notre Dame. When adding more information to their columns, these writers might have added that while the Notre Dame running attack looked polished, the Irish passing attack certainly lacked consistency. Their summary: Notre Dame had a mediocre afternoon against California, both offensively and defensively.
KUHARICH HAS ANSWERS
But it was really Coach Joe Kuharich who had all the answers and rightfully so. For none of these writers had spent the month of September working with this fall’s Irish eleven. Mere statistics and figures do not tell the answers. Experience, ability, desire and performance do!
Kuharich’s evaluation went like this: “It was a typical first game. Of course, we made mistakes, both offensively and defensively, but then, you expect this in the first game. The boys were tense, especially in the first half. The heat also caused quite a problem. We had to substitute freely because we just couldn’t leave eleven men in there to play the entire game.”
Probably the criticisms most often raised against the Green’s opening performance were centered on their offensive aerial game and also against their pass defense. Offensively, the statistics show that Irish quarterback George Haffner completed only three of eleven passes for 26-yards. But two important considerations have been omitted.
EXPERIENCE NEEDED
First, consider Haffner’s experience. Remember that last season he was a sophomore and did not play veiy much due to the presence of two men named Izo and White. His game action was, for the most part, limited to filling in while the regular quarterbacks took a rest. Noi- did he really gain any passing experience while he was playing. He only attempted 22 passes. Consider also that passing is an art that requires timing. Such timing does not just “up and develop.” It is a long process requiring both experience and perseverance. Experience, I discussed above — perseverance, I did not. George Haffner does have perseverance!
The criticisms dealing with the Irish pass defense do have a solid basis. While conceding the fact that Bear* quarterback Randy Gold was an outstanding passer, it is not wrong to assume that he and his coach, Marv Levy, found some serious weaknesses in the Notre Dame defensive secondary and therefore put the pass to use as their primary offensive weapon. Add to their thinking the fact that Irish defensive ace Clay Schulz was out of the lineup due to an injury. I think that Joe Kuharich recognized the weakness — there will be improvement!
— J.K.
CORRESPONDENCE WELCOME
The sports staff of the SCHOLASTIC welcomes all comments and । inquiries concerning information and opinions expressed in the sports section. Please address all correspondence to:
Sports Editor SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
Letters received by this office will be printed if we feel they are of interest to the students.
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES
Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477
DON’T MISS THE NEW FALL T.V. SHOWS
•
Rent-A-Television
AS LOW AS 50c a DAY
Bradley's
606 N. Michigan CE 2-7211
September 30, 1960
21
RUBIN CLEANERS
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card ★
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
Complete Laundry Service
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
Future Irish Opponents Demonstrate Grid Might
Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish, although victorious in their initial encounter of the season, could not gain any consolation from the games that their future 1960 opponents played last Saturday.
Purdue’s Boilermakers, the Irish opponent tomorrow, staged a remarkable comeback to tie UCLA, 27-27.
North Carolina, another future opponent of the Irish, lost a tough 3-0 decision to North Carolina State. The Tar Heels had driven within the State ten-yard line three times during the game but a magnificent Wolf pack defense protected the slim margin.
In a hard-fought contest, the Spartans of Michigan State and the Pittsburgh Panthers, both future opponents of the Irish, battled to a 7-7 tie. The game
featured a fist-fight between Bob Clemens of Pitt and Tom Wilson of State.
Northwestern, happy about the return of quarterback Dick Thornton to action, played near-perfect football as they rolled over the Oklahoma Sooners by a 19-3 score. Thornton passed for two touchdowns and fullback Mike Stock booted two field goals to clinch the victory for the Wildcats.
Joe Bellino was the whole show as the g Navy Middies roared to a 41-7 victory over Villanova. Bellino continuously broke into the open throughout the after- I noon while also scoring two touchdowns. The Middie victory, viewed by President Eisenhower’ and a large homecoming crowd, was really secure by halftime when the victors held a commanding 27-0 margin. Playing with their second and third units during the second half,
(Continued on page 24)	fl
T H E
v
** GUARANTEES
A FASTER, CLOSER, LONGER. LASTING ELECTRIC SHAVE
B £ F 0 R E ■ S h A . E
SHAVE LOTION
Mister... you’re going to wear that shave all day!
START WITH THIS NEW FORMULA BEFORESHAVE LOTION, stop 4 o'clock stubble trouble! You con shove blade-close, all-day clean, without "tenderizing" your face, when you use Pro-Electric Before-Shave Lotion. It contains ISOPHYL® to give your shaver extra glide-power —refreshes you with that brisk, bracing Old Spice scent. 1.00 no federal tax.

PRO 4 ELECTRIC
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
22
The Scholastic
i Announce Eight New Rectors | For 1960-61 Scholastic Year
J
J Students from eight of the seventeen ; residence halls were greeted by new | rectors as the school year began last i-| week.
Seniors in Walsh Hall will now be ^ guided by Rev. Raymond Cour, C.S.C., ! while last year’s rector, Rev. Ferdinand j Brown, C.S.C., will serve as religious | superior at Notre Dame.
• Rev. Michael Gavin, C.S.C., will now I guide Fangborn Hall while his prede-; cessor, Rev. Michael Murphy, C.S.C., • travels to Columbia University for ad; vanced study on a National Science Foundation fellowship.
Rev. Henry Geuss, C.S.C., has trans-j ferred from Lyons Hall to Cavanaugh i Hall succeeding Rev. William McAuliffe, ; C.S.C., who was recently appointed pas; tor of Sacred Heart Church on the | campus.
; Other Holy Cross priests with new asi signments as hall rectors include Rev. j Thomas Jones, C.S.C., Fisher; Rev. Ed-• ward Shea, C.S.C., Lyons; Rev. Clarence ! Durbin, C.S.C., St. Edwards; Rev. James fShilts, C.S.C., Zahm and Rev. Charles ■ Weiher, C.S.C., Badin.
1 Retaining their posts as hall rectors are Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., Alumni; Rev. Joseph McGrath, C.S.C., Sorin;» Rev. Charles Harris, C.S.C., Howard; Rev. Thomas Engleton, C.S.C., Morrissey; Rev. Laurence Broestl, C.S.C., Dillon; Rev. Paul Wendel, C.S.C., Breen-Phillips; Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C., ^Farley; Rev. Joseph Hoffman, Keenan, .and Rev. Matthew Miceli, C.S.C., Stan. ford.
NOTHING HOLDS LIKE SPERRY TOP-SIDERS
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS Jewelry
HAMILTON • ELGIN • BULOVA LONGINES • WITTNAUER WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY, JEWELER “Joe the Jeweler?’	.
104 North Main Street
For your personal safety afloat and ashore
for non-slip safety highest flexibility greatest comfort
White or Navy Men’s & Women’s Juniors’ 1J4-4J4
ON ANY DECK OR COURT
At Shoe, Sports, Marine Dept Stores. Write for ______________________ dealer name, style folder
Box338T Naugatuck, Coan.
ToPMSM*
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
on - the - campus
September 30, 1960
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS. Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
CYR'S BARBER SHOP
Michiana's Leadin? Barber Shop •
Specialists in the Art of Cutting Hair
•
100-102 South Main Street Opposite Court House
5 BARBERS	MANICURIST
Future Opponents
(Continued from page 22)
Navy continued to widen their advantage. Villanova managed to salvage a little pride by scoring a last-quarter touchdown.
In an exciting battle at Iowa City, Coach Forest Evashevski’s Hawkeyes used all the speed that they are known for as they rolled to a 22-12 victory ovei-an upset-minded Oregon State eleven. Junior halfback Larry Ferguson added the insurance that was needed when he sped 85-yards for a fourth period touchdown. A week before, the visiting Oregon State team had pulled the major upset of the season by defeating Southern California, 14-0. The visitors also unleashed a potent offense against the Hawkeyes, gaining a total of 312 yards, 222 of this total coming on the ground.
WELCOME NOTRE DAME STUDENTS
See Us for the
FINEST IN UNUSUAL GIFTS
For the Whole Family
HansARintzsch
MICHIGAN AT COLFAX
I
NOW! Come Up...All The Way Up
to the MENTHOL MAGIC of KOOL!
ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT
FILTER

When your taste tells you it's time for a change, remember: Only Kool— no regular filter cigarette, no other menthol cigarette-gives you real Menthol Magic!
YOUFEEL A »E* SMOOTHHESa DEEPEN YOURWOATi
01960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
24
The Scholastic
N.D. SPECIALS •
See Mr. Flowers For—
PORTABLE PHONOS HI-FI and STEREO WESTINGHOUSE MAGNAVOX WEBCOR $49.95 UP
•
See Don For— ALBUMS and 45’s Join The RECORD CLUB
•
1 Record FREE For Every 10 Bought
136 No. Michigan St. Ph.CE 41184

J EC Sponsors Program To Orientate Freshmen
Freshman Orientation for Engineers, sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council of Notre Dame, met with success at the beginning of this school year. The program began with a talk by the Acting Dean, Dr. Hany Saxe. Later, all departments of the Engineering College held meetings with their respective heads, followed by tours of the departmental laboratories.
In conjunction with the orientation activities, last Wednesday night the JEC continued its year long program by sponsoring a smoker in the Engineering Auditorium. In attendance at this informal gathering were Dr. Saxe, many members of the engineering faculty, and also the senior advisors. This practice of senior advisors was reinstituted this year by Joe Ogurchak, chairman of the JEC.	;
Last Sunday, the JEC held its first organizational meeting of the year. Jim Kaval, senior chemical engineer, was appointed chairman of the Engineering Open House, and a program was announced to evaluate the College of Engineering from the viewpoint of all students.
The JEC, presently engaged in a reorganization and rebuilding program designed to enhance the importance and influence of the Council, will direct its efforts this year to keep the general student body and the engineer aware of the group’s activities.
STUDENTING
Students planning to make reservations for the student trip are urged to watch for final announcements of the trip committee’s plans. Estimated costs for the trip are in the range of $45, and the outing is scheduled for October 11. See next week’s Scholastic for a detailed story.
Classified Advertising
PART TIME WORK—P. F. Collier & Son Corp, are looking for men with previous experience with the Company. Call Mr. Edwards, CE 2-1353 between 9:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m.
McDonald Studios
“The Finest in Portraits”
129 N. MAIN
Temporary location
WELCOME!
'61
*63
We know what you in class and out . . and we have it for
need
you:
Once again the Bookstore is ready and willing to serve your every need. Class and campus supplies are displayed in a manner that makes your ‘‘self - service” shopping quick and convenient.
COME IN AND GET ACQUAINTED
Notre Dame
BOOK STORE
September 30, 1960
25
4
Back Pap
the student.
X
in society
In an articulate or constituted society where the people are in agreement on basic values and purpose, and the government is representative of this common consensus and rules in accordance with it, the citizen has two primary responsibilities: first, he must conduct his own private life in the best possible manner, live out his vocation as a member of a family and as a job holder in the socio-economic complex; and secondly, he must keep a watchful eye over the conduct of the affairs of his society and the direction of its leadership. The citizens must see that the root beliefs of his society on values and principles of government are kept alive and vital while the society meets all the problems confronting it.
STUDENT QUA STUDENT
The student fulfills both of these citizen-responsibilities primarily by proper dedication to his vocation as a student. His society has seen fit to establish and support institutions of higher learning and to give some of its citizens the time to attend these, knowing that if these citizens use properly the opportunity given them, they will be of much greater value to the community in later years —valuable both as articulate members of the society—as leaders in the pursuit of purpose and value and in confronting the challenges of the times—and as job holders in the socio-economic life of the nation.
Thus the student serves his society as a whole primarily by being a student. It is the will of society that the student serve by preparing himself for his future twofold citizen responsibilities.
However, the student does have other limited, immediately-active, social obligations. As a member of an educational community, he has a responsibility tp society as a whole and to the community of which he is a part to see that it carries out its purpose as effectively as possible. The student has an obligation to actively seek the welfare of the academic community of which he is a part insofar as this is compatible with his primary responsibility—dedication to his
26
student vocation, the pursuit of wisdom and practical skills.
Besides this, in as far as it is compatible with these two primary duties, the student has a responsibility to be active in society at large. Certainly he has an obligation to remain infowned and be aware of the vital issues before his nation and to consider these within the context of his total educational endeavors. The question arises though as to the extent of the active leadership which the student community should give to its society. How much of this is commensurable with its primary social duties of the pursuit of an education and the well-being of its own academic community?
The justification for the degree of student involvement in the affairs of society at large depends on the condition of that society.
Given a largely illiterate society which is currently striving to take its place among the world’s civilized nations and is also trying to exercise self-government, much active leadership by students—as the most educated class of a community—can be required. However, even in this case, the student must be cautious. Most of the time a few years of learning does not measure up to the years of actual experience of the culture and way of life of a people. Students can easily exercise wrong, hastily-thought-out leadership. They can be the damnation much more easily than the salvation of a society. Do we think the activity of the leftist students of Japan to be truly wise? We don’t, but rest assured they are dedicated and convinced of what they are doing. They see themselves as the salvation of their people, when actually they are leading them into destruction of all that has been good in their culture. Students do err, and often.
JUSTIFIED ACTION?
In America, where semi-constitutional government reigns and there is a highly literate and educated populace, there seems to be little justification for such active student efforts. In imitating students of other lands, in crusading for
social justice, American students are actually undennining the orderly functioning of our society, for society is ordered only where each individual responsibly attends to his individual vocation. And students neglect this in impassioned crusades.
NON-ACTIVISTS
Though students have no place in this* society of ours to take such activist roles, as these interfere with the proper carrying out of their vocation as students, they do have an obligation to give serious thought, discussion and consideration to the real issues of our time. They have an obligation to keep up with world affairs and problems and to give thought to these in the light of timeless truths. They have a duty to investigate the perennial social thinkers—Plato, 4 Aristotle, Augustine, Hobbes and Rous-seau—and to read what contemporary political analysts have to say of our time and of the moral-spiritual collapse of Western culture. In other words, students should strive to truly and frankly confront the real issues of our times and should consider the proper course of action in the background of their total educational endeavors.
Students could very well discuss these v issues with their parents and elder citizens, asking their advice, giving their own suggestions. They could do well to follow the editorials of their home papers, and upon thoughtful consideration, offer advice in letters to these papers. They could write their congressmen and do their best to stimulate deep thought on issues among every strata of society with which they come in contact.
These means of rendering active service to society at large are more in harmony with the student’s current intellectual vocation—more in harmony than active crusades, impassioned demonstrations and revolutions. And also, these means do not interfere so greatly —but rather complete—the student’s more immediate social responsibilities to his student vocation and academic community.	j
The Scholastic ,
Just What You’ve Needed for Your Books!
S3
easy...So economical!
You don’t have to be an engineering major to design and assemble your own bookcases, room-dividers, or TV and Hi-Fi units with Erecta-Shelf. It’s fun . . . simple . . . practical and inexpensive!
Design it yourself. To Fit Your Space and Needs
Countless Units can be designed with these 4 PANEL SIZES
By combining just 4 panel sizes in satin black or gleaming brass wrought iron, there’s no limit to the number of arrangements you can design to fit = your space and needs. Note that straight panels can be used horizontally or vertically ...and horizontal panels may be attached at any desired height on the vertical panels.
EASY TO ADD TO OR TAKE APART
Vertical Bookcase Consists of 7-20" Panels, 4-30" Panels, 4 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 50" H X 22" 1.
Television and Phono Unit/Bookcase *
Consists of 6-30" Panels, 6-24" Panels, 6-20" Panels, 8 Bases. Assembled Size 30"H x 72"L.
Horizontal Bookcase Consists of 11-30" Panels, 6 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 30" H x 63" L.
Anytime you wish to make your unit taller, longer or deeper simply add more Erecta-Shelf panels . . . or change the arrangement completely. It’s a cinch to disassemble for moving too. Plan your unit (we’ll help you if you wish) and come in for your Erecta-Shelf panels and free detailed brochure.
ERECTA-SHELF PRICE LIST
Panel Sizes	Satin Black Finish	Gleaming Brass Finish
20" Panel 24" Panel 30" Panel Corner Panel (24" x 24") Wood Bases		
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Corner Step-down Wall Case or Room Divider
Consists of 4-20" Panels, 5-24" Panels, 2-30" Panels, 6 Corner Panels, 7 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 50" H x 50" L x25"L.
Room Divider/Beokcase Consists of 4-20" Panels, 8-24" Panels, 7-30" Panels. 8 Wood Bases.
Assembled Sim 40" H x 82" L.