DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER- VICTVRVS- VIVE - QUASI- CRASMOR1TVRVS
Vol. LIV._
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, October, 16, 1920.
No. 4.
Hope.
-	_S. M. .	.
THE day
Will dawn again.
The robins sing; a-lily
From the earthly sheath of death, my soul
May spring.	’ .
Harding or Cox?
The following discussion of campaign issues by the respective presidents of the local Republican and Democratic clubs was bound by certain conditions. Mr. Stffren wrote with Mr. Dempsey’s paper in hand; the latter was then permitted to read Mr. Storen’s paper and write a brief rejoinder.—The Editor.
REPUBLICAN ARGUMENT
BY JOHN T. DEMPSEY, PRESIDENT, REPUBLICAN CLUB.
HE vital issue in this campaign is clearcut? Shall we or shall we not enter the Wilson League' of Nations? Senator Harding, as the Republican
nominee, favors staying out of this League or any League which in any way will surrender American: independence of action. Governor Cox, the Democratic nominee, in accordance with the wishes' of President Wilson, imparted to him at the famous "White House Conference,” favors going in. Other questions become insignificant in comparison with this issue. It is paramount.	.	~	’
- President Wilson asks for a "solemn referendum.” on the question, and he appeals for support on the ground that it is America’s-"duty to humanity” to ratify the League of Nations. The Republican • position is that the League not only endangers American institutions and will involve our country in the various racial wars of Europe, but that it is also so constructed that it will, in fact, be a burden to that part of humanity which needs assistance most of all,— those people at present subjected to the onerous yoke of a foreign state from which they wish to free themselves. .	-	.	’	.
Under Article X of the League we would be bound by a moral obligation, which President Wilson has said is more sacred than a legal one, to fulfill the instructions given by the Council. These instructions might be to send military aid to a Balkan state threatened with aggression by a belligerent neighbor. If Congress refused, it would be repudiating our . sacred pledge.. The choice would be between sacrificing our soldiers in a war neither of interest nor of consequence to us, and committing dishonor.	■
Have you ever heard of Hedjaz? Most Americans have not. But if the little, unim--portant state . of Hedjaz became boisterous, American troops could be ordered half across the world to spank this naughty principality. They might be sent to China, or to Russia again—to repeat once more the gruesome deaths of-the Michigan-lads. They might be shipped anywhere. And if the Council said, go,—it would be either go—or. dishonor. Such is Article X of the League of Nations. “Duty to humanity!” Hedjaz and Russia are parts of humanity—yet what do we owe them? We had heard only of our debt to France,—well we’ve paid France, and to whom do we owe something now? .	'	•
The' decision of the Council must be unan- . imous. The representative of the United States could nullify a declaration of armed intervention by. voting negatively. But if. he does this the League would be impotent. It would be stripped of its power; it would be lifeless. The trouble which it sought to stop would continue. If our representative votes negatively conditions would be the same as without the League. If he votes affirmatively we will be catapulted .. into the maelstrom of war. What is there to gain? Why take the chance of his voting affirmatively?
-The odds are that after the first few times he will vote affirmatively, for the suave diplomats of European governments .will work
Norre dame ^cholasnic
upon .him as they so cleverly did upon our president. Theyt will have him hobnob with potentates and dignitaries, with premiers and Lords; they will raise his vanity as only those z dissemblers versed in the gentle art of chicanery know how to raise vanity; and then,when the moment arrives they will remind him of his ‘‘ duty to humanity.’ ’ Our ‘ ‘ duty to humanity ’ ’ would never be paid, for it is a permanentstock argument and could be used on every similar occasion.
Article X, the sine qua non of the League, means war to the United States. It is a firebrand of strife. It is a declaration of battle which would bind us morally regardless of the opinion of the American people and regardless of Congress. Instead of the dove there would be the vulture.	'
President Wilson bids us enter because of our “duty to humanity.” Why, Republicans ask, enter a league where humanity has no rights? Ireland, .for example, would have no chance under the League covenant. No opportunity is given Ireland to present her case; someone else would have to do so. Suppose the United States became her sponsor and entered her plea under Article XI; all that
' England would have to do would be to refer to Article XV, Section VIII, and say that the
question is a domestic one between Ireland and England. The matter would have to be dropped instantly. It might be brought up repeatedly but the same procedure would kill it every time. England is too crafty to take a chance on a covenant which would leave a possibility . of losing Ireland. England doesn’t gamble.
She makes sure of her bet. The League is a guaranty' to the preservation of the integrity of all England’s conquests. The League is so-worded as to deliberately keep every small nation in thraldom.' And yet the cry: “think of our - duty to humanity’ ” 1 It would be so if the League were founded on the justly celebrated 14 points. But the 14 points are dead/ The. Treaty of Peace and the League of Nations area direct betrayal of them. Think of Korea
. arid Shantung. In a peace conference dominated ■ independent action; that is, the signing of the - | by nations determined to keep intact their treaty will give the sovereign power in our | unjust possession of subjugated, peoples the country to the league Council: that the League i / 14 points were quietly suppressed./ . has the power to precipitate us into war without 1
, Because of the obligation imposed by Article the consent of congress; that we may be called
. X the League would not hesitate to invoke all upon.to “’spank haughty Hadjez” whether she its power to help Great Britain repel external needs it or riot. / .	'	<	j
aggression dedicated to the cause of Irish iride- First,* it should be noticed that a careful ’
pendence. If there had been a League of Nations in the revolutionary days France could not have assisted the colonies. No nation could assist Ireland today. Such is the soulless and despotic method to stifle the aspirations of an oppressed people.	.
The Republican Party is unalterably opposed to a League of Nations such as this, which gives subject peoples no opportunity for freedom, which will involve us indiscriminately in foreign wars, and which will compromise our national independence.
* — * * ■
CONSTRUCTIVE DEMOCRACY
BY MARK STOREN, PRESIDENT, DEMOCRATIC CLUB
It is to be regretted that the League of Nations has been made a partisan issue, but the fact remains that it is such by the acts of the Republican Senate. It is the crystallization of the best in our civilization. The. League is the “open sesame” to a new world of peace, progress, and prosperity. As President Wilson says, “This thing lies too deep to admit of any political skull-duggery; any attempt to sidestep or evade moral and humanitarian responsibilities is too solemn to treat lightly or ignore.”	‘
Yet the opposition, in its article makes three principal accusations:
1)	The League will cause us to sur
3
i
render America’s independence of action and will endanger American institutions,
2)	Article X will bind us morally, regardless of the opinions of the American people, to fulfil the instructions of the Council,
3)	The League will be a burden instead of a help to oppressed peoples, and under it Ireland can never hope to get her freedom.
Let us understand that war is the last thing contemplated by the League. Its purpose is to “achieve international peace, and security by the acceptance of obligations; not to resort to war.”
The opposition claims.that joining the league will cause us to surrender our national right to
i


^ne Moure dame Scholastic	. -	51
reading of the League will disclose no power' vested in the assembly or council to declare war. It has only the power to recommend (Article VI). Furthermore the constitution is superior to any treaty or alliance. A treaty made in violation of our constitution is void. As evidence it is only necessary to consult the decisions of the U. S. Supreme Court; Thomas vs. Gay ’ (169 U. S. 271). No American institution is threatened and our Congress can act independently, if the League is accepted. But to emphasize the fallacy of the Republican argument it may be noted that some of the most brilliant men of the party, men trained in law and practiced in interpretation, have said numerous times that the League of Nations does not take away any of our National Sovereignty. Taft said, “I did not think, and do not now think, that anything in the League covenant as sent to the Senate would violate the constitution of the U. S. or would envolve us in "wars which it would not be to the highest interest of the world and this country to suppress by universal , boycott, and, if need be, by military force.”
(New York Tribune, Aug. 2, 1920.)
As we have shown'before, the covenant at no point gives the council of the League any power to declare war. The League does not maintain either an army or navy; it controls no munitions of war; it is simply the aggregate moral f<5rce of the world, crystallized into the most splendid organization the world has ever known. Yet in the face of those facts the Re. publican spell-binders still assert that . Art.
X will bind us morally, regardless of the opinion of the American people. If we are to consider Art. X justly, we should observe it intact. ‘‘The members of the League undertake to preserve and respect against external aggression the territorial integrity and existing poli-. tical independence of all members of the League. In case of any such aggression or in case of any threat or danger of such, agression the council shall.advise upon the means by which this obligation shall be fulfilled.”
Note that the League undertakes to respect and preserve from external aggression and not • . internal aggression. It upholds and. maintains the independence of any nation once established, but does not prevent any dependent nation from becoming independent. Observe that the Council advises and does not command. As for the responsibility’of carrying out that a'dvice, reflect that such advice is not given without the un
animous consent of the council and that consent includes the vote of our own representative. The League Congress is not a single meeting as was the peace conference; it is a living, continuous institution.
Our representative, in the council, will be directly responsible to the President and Congress, and thereby, to the people." He will not be in a League of ‘‘crooks,” as the opposition would have you believe, but there among enlightened men who have the spot-light of public opinion constantly on them. If he feels that the procedure is not* fair or just, he can give it world-wide publicity, for the covenant provides for just that thing, Art. XV, Sect. 5, “Any member of the League represented on the council may make public a statement of the facts of the dispute and of its conclusion regarding the same.”	-
If the Representative shows signs of having been contaminated by-the “suave diplomats of Europe”; if those “dissemblers versed in the gentle art of chicanery” have raised his vanity by having him “hobnob with potentates and dignitaries, with premiers and lords,” to such extent that his head is in the clouds but his ‘ feet not on the ground; he has only to be recalled.
The opponents cry about settling disputes between the “Balkans and their belligerent neighbors” and say werare not concerned with them. Have we forgotten that we sent two million men to France, spent twenty billion and sacrificed a hundred thousand lives to settle a Balkan dispute? There was no league existing at the time to “involve us in the European quarrels,” but though we exhausted every honorable means in an endeavor to remain at peace, we were finally drawn in. We could not ignore European disputes in 1917, we could not do so now. League or no league Europe’s proximity is a-matter of fact. The progress of transportation is bringing her nearer and nearer. There is only one way that U. S. can remain out of European conflicts, and that is by preventing them. The League is the only vehicle through, which that can be achieved.	.
The opposition contends also that the League will be a burden to the oppressed and under it Ireland can never get her freedom. The covenant does not take away the right of revolution from any portion of a people that is oppressed/ There is no guarantee against internal^ disturbance. The guarantee is against

one- Nocre ^ame Scholasric
invasion, such as the invasion of Belgium. For the first time in the history of the world oppressed nations have a tribunal before which their cause may be presented. This is specifically provided for in Art. XI, Sect. 2,” It is ■ also declared to be the' friendly right of each member of the League to bring to the attention of the assembly or of the Council any circumstance whatever affecting international relations which threatens to disturb either the peace or the good understanding between nations upon which peace depends.” But our • opponents say that when any nation brings up
Ireland’s cause, England will say that it is a domestic question and not within the jurisdiction of the League. Again they misrepresent the covenant. Art. XVI, Sec. 8, says “If the dispute between the parties is claimed by one of them and is found by the Council, to arise out of a matter which by international law is solely within the domestic jurisdiction of that party, the Council shall so report and shall make no recommendations as to its settlement.” Do you .observe that the article says if the dispute “arises out of a matter which by international law is solely within the domestic juris-
diction of that party?” If Ireland has cause for autonomy, the international comprised of men in calibre similar to Justice White, will never refuse her plea.
a just court, Chief By a
constant exhibition of the facts regarding her treatment and with the spot-light of world opinion shining on the Council procedure, England will lose courage to vote down justice and face the League boycott. .
Our opponents cast a jealous eye upon the great power vested in the League in the first part/of their article and then turn completely around, and bewail its accused impotency. In part of their article they shiver at the possibility of haying to “paddle Hedjaz,” and in. the latter part object because they think the League will keep a force out of Ireland; They are not consistent. Where do they stand?
-	. -	.REJOINDER	. \
My Democratic opponent has either failed _ to familiarize himself with the subject matter of the debate or else he.is deliberately misusing. . the truth: His manuscript is evidence of this charge.	. . / .	<	:
In-paragraph five, my opponent states that. Article VI gives . the Assembly /arid Council merely the power to recommend war. Article
VI.of the Constitution of the League of. Nations refers to no such power. It concerns itself with the location of the Seat of the League and the duties and powers, of the Secretary General. The twelfth paragraph of my opponent’s document gives a direct quotation that is supposed to be in Art. XVI, Sec. 8. A mere glance at the Constitution of the League is enough to show that there is no such section in the Article. Shall I attribute ignorance to my learned opponent or be forced to accept the conclusion that he has misused the truth?
In giving Ireland’s right to independence an hypothetical classification, my opponent shows that he has failed to familiarize himself with the definition of a nation and the rights of a nation. In this respect, he is merely following the men who are regarded as the leaders of his party.
Varsity Verse
’Lectioneering Ballade.
It is unwise to dogmatize, And indiscriminately guess;
Wild weather-prophets may surmise .
That two and two make five—or less, '
And general perfidiousness
Alone would reckon the demise
Of some pestiferous poetess—
So, will the Democrats ; get “Ayes”?
With deep surprise I realize •	.
The donkey’s often seen distress;
While elephantine enterprise *
Has done some woeful foolishness:
It’s really useless to express
That - fishes may have pretty eyes—
So, by the be'ard of good Queen Bess, ’ Will all our Democrats get “Ayes”?
- In deep disguise I exercise A platitudinous bashfulness;
Why don’t the girls use nets for flies .
- That flit about their.comeliness? -
-And songris jolly, I confess; . •
Old Burgundy I idolize— . .
. So, why the dickens should I guess If alF our. Democrats get “Ayes”?
’	Envoi1. - .	'	■
. .It macht nix aus who reaps success ;
If Jennie loves me! : . -. otherwise
In some , moment of peevishness
, I’ll, swear: the Democrats get ".Ayes.” -
■ ’ ' . '	- - - '	. ■ '	' ' ... : -M. E. w. .

Hollyhocks
- As ’ you ~~•'’.	\’ ’V ' ’
.' Pass by the ; green/ > . y
. , Of cool, indifferent trees/. . ...
. From unexpected... hooks they flash
= - Warm red/ yV-'V-'-- - . - - ’’ ■
2
Moure dame Scholastic
53
The Inadequacy of Sensism.
, Dockaeiler Prize Essay, t
WILLIAM C. IIAVEY, *20.
_	-	[ CONCLUSION ]
English empiricism, after Voltaire had taken up the task of popularizing it, permeated the philosophy of France. Speculative Sensism was represented by Condillac, but objective Sensism became the dominant doctrine during the eighteenth century, and, to such a degree, that even the masses -were persuaded that there was no reality above the material. The principles of the national materialism were pronounced by La Mettrie in “L’Homme Machine,” the substance of which can thus be summed up: “Such so-called entities as the soul, human liberty, God, are a delusion: religion is an evil: the atheistic state is the ideal of society: the. purpose of life is egotistic pleasure, which we/ should hasten to enjoy before it is too late and the ‘comedy of life is at an end.’” In the notorious L’Encyclopedic, D’Alembert, Diderot, and D’Holbach contributed to the literature of Sensism. They “raised atheism to the standard of a demonstrated thesis. . . . and belief in God came to be regarded not only by the educated but also by the masses as a thing unworthy and harmful.” Jean Jacques Rosseau applied Sensism tb the natural law and to social philosophy. The natural effects of this philosophy in France—and all thingsz are reasonably judged by their effects—are stated by M. De
righteousness. The foregoing resume makes■'/ plain the proposition that Sensism does not . conduce to the happiness or the betterment of . man, but usually draws on some crisis.
Next, the chief claim of the Sensists, namely, that sense knowledge is an adequate explanation _ of all knowledge, must be proved erroneous. -The argument can be conveniently formulated as follows: Every object grasped by the senses dr reproduced. by the imagination has certain particularizing notes proper to concrete things. But the consciousness attests that, beside them, we have other cognitions in which an object is stripped of all particularizing notes and made representative of a class? Hence there is a kind of knowledge higher than sense knowledge; a knowledge which deals with the ratio or the quidditas of things. In proof of which let this illustration of a ' common-place incident be presented. A man leaves his car at the curb while he goes into the club for luncheon.'-When . he comes out the car is nowhere in sight. Immediately by an abstractive process the disappear^ ' ance of the car flashes on. the notion of theft, and he proceeds to the police station where he . complains that a right of his has been violated, and he wants the persons liable to be punished . on grounds of justice. Here are three abstract notions, theft, right, and justice—immaterial	,
entities and reasonably assumed to be produced ’ by an immaterial faculty—transcending the sensible order, and each one incited by the concrete fact of a stolen automobile. The briefest
Wulf: “This French Sensism appeared not only in its speculative forms, especially in materialism, but also it became a popular philosophy spread throughout the masses, and by being applied to religion on the one hand and to morality on the other, it quickly de-Christianized ■ the people and prepared the way for the Revo-
lution of 1789.”	•	.
In Germany, Positivism and Kantianism are the two systems which have had a far-reaching influence on modern philosophy. And Kantianism in its elemental solution is a species of empiricism. “Kant’s criticism results in the denial of real knowledge of everything trans-cendihg experience.”- Vogt, Buchner, Haeckel, and Moleschott gave materialism considerable vogue in Germany and what have. been, the ultimate effects is plain. For it helped to foster a government founded bn unjust principles and eaten up. with an ambition to win- material, prizes, no matter what the cost to morality and
. introspection is sufficient to convince any person : • that intellectual cognition- exists, and of its ;	’
very nature is distinct from sensuous cognition. Again, true knowledge consists in knowing, the ,. - . .essences of created things—those underlying \ foundations of properties and operations. But -knowledge of essences can be reached only by a . supra-sensuous faculty, _ (effectus suce causce. .
. proportionari debet)._ Therefore, true knowledge . ’ is perfected by the intellect. No, sense faculty .	-
is capable of generating an intellectual concept. '	:
For, unless an intellectual process takes place, .. ' from ten thousand instances of alms-giving, , a concept, of charity can -never be formed. -Mere: multiplication of concrete facts or -sense .	'
images will never reach an abstract truth. v ’ _ Moreover, Sensism-does not-benefit, mankind, .	'
for it logically eventuates in .scepticism.^ “Dis- .. .	.
belief in the validity of knowledge ‘ developed . / into moral scepticism which recognized no. good’ but pleasure; no right but might.” History ,	'
54
'fife Moure dame Scholastic
bears witness to the fact that Sensism in all the various phases in which it has presented itself inevitably leads to the philosophy of doubt. “Hume. . . . built the most complete system of scepticism human reason has ever framed.
If from ideas
we cannot infer the existence of
matter, then, he argued, neither can we from them infer the existence of mind.” Furthermore, it is remarkable that the principle of causality is ultimately affirmed by logical sensists to be but a hypothesis of conjunction or sequence. '
If all knowledge be the product of the senses, then there is no certain or ultimate criterion of truth, for from 'Objective things every person receives varying impressions. Thus under the sensistic system there could never be an immutable measure or constant standard of truth.. Again, Sensism would deal a deathblow to science which it professes most to' help. For science is a knowledge of things in and by their causes. But no sense faculty is of its nature able to perceive a cause. Therefore, if the sensible were the only object of knowledge, no universal ideas could be formed and “science would thus be finally nothing but a co-ordination of empirical judgments.” Sensism, then, as an epistemological doctrine must be rejected, for (i) it is at variance with the conscious experience of the individual; (2) sense knowledge is neither complete nor true knowledge; (3) its logical terminus is scepticism; (4) it destroys the validity and possibility of truth, and (5) it is contrary to the interests and advantage of science.
As a religious and ethical force what claim has Sensism on mankind? The historical sketch has shown that Sensism falls below all rational . standards.- It ultimately demolishes morality and religion. It negates the presence in man of an immaterial faculty, thus making man level with the brute beast. “For a large number of psychologists” (modern sensists) “there is no longer any essential difference between perception and understanding. .	. Hence, follows
the natural inference that there is only a difference of degree between the animal and man.” The theories of empiricism, positivism,. etc. leave no room for the soul’s spirituality, because , the only world is a sense world, and man consequently can occupy himself with material entities . only. And if the soul is not spiritual, it cannot be immortal! Si anima Humana a materia non est'distincta, ideo, sicut res omnes materiales,





corrumpitur per se et inter it. There is, then, no God, no hereafter; and while life is on, there may be much marching .and merrymaking, but when it is over, everything is enveloped in an
_ eternal emptiness. In removing religion, Sensism plainly makes a mockery of life; for the things striven for are ephemeral, and the whole world a vain show—not a means to an eternal end. And in snatching from men belief in God and hope in immortality, the mightiest impulse to noble living is shattered. For what avails it to live meritoriously if the end is disintegrated matter and the reward an impenetrable black
ness? “The actual is a mockery'-,.unless it may'" ; be looked upon as the means to a higher state. j If all things come forth only to perish. . . were it not better that the tragedy should	'
cease?” To destroy the idea of God and the	•
hope of a higher life, to blandish or to bully • -man into believing that his longings for the	,
supra-material can never be gratified, to per-	:
suade man that he is inseparably bound to matter, that he is a “child of circumstances,’.’ ■ is to disseminate despair, and to deny the distinction between the poet and the poodle, the wit and the .worm.	i
In ethics Sensism leaves no basis for justice	:
or rights. For these, it asserts, are abstractions,	;
and abstractions cannot even exist, much less have a bearing on things material. How dis- ] crepant.are these theories and actual practice I is exhibited by the conduct of the party in power i in Russia. For the Bolsheviki profess the ; Sensistic philosophy''; Their very actions show 'j that. They deny genuine morality—for they' ? have set aside the marriage relation in favor of ’ free love; they repudiate real rights—for they' have confiscated private property and slashed down with the sword any who dared protest; they have disregarded elemental justice—for	;
they scorned the suggestion of compensating ; despoiled property-owners. Yet Bolshevist i leaders use the words right and justice extrava- J gantly in their addresses. They incite the ; proletariat “to strike off his shackles and 5 sustain his rights,” and still they remain crass | materialists! .	.	j
The theory of knowledge that takes direct . ] issue with that of the Sensists is the Aristotelico- | Scholastic theory of abstraction. Like the Sensists the Scholastics posit the starting of I all knowledge at sense experience, but, unlike I the Sensists, they ‘do not stop there. They go | further and explain the origination of ideas by I

ssw


Noire &ame Scholastic
55
the abstractive process of the intellect, so that their theory coincides with the conscious experience of the individual, and does not culminate in epistemological contradictions. In man “the sensuous faculties have their source in a soul endowed with intellectual aptitudes.’’ The difference then lies in the fact that Sensism • is without a soul, whereas in Scholasticism the soul is the entire explanation. In the former the existence of a spiritual faculty is denied; in the latter it is regarded as the only way to account for the fact of intellectual activity, or supre-sensuous function. Sensisti realitatem animce denegant, Scholastic! affirmant!
The spirit of the age is inimical to the ideal and the intellectual. This is tantamount to saying that the prevalent principles are sensistic in nature and in purpose. A turning aside from things of the mind to things of the sense has taken place, and the outcome is purely conjectural. Past experience has shown that a forsaking of the spiritual puts doubt into the minds of men and wilfulness into their hearts. And a philosophy of doubt ends in a philosophy of despair—in a Revolution of 17S9 or a ruined Russia.	,
Since Sensism is the philosophy whose principles are pervading the present order of things, and as philosophic principles, whether men take the trouble to know them or not, are forces which govern thought, control conduct, and shape courses, it is not unreasonable to conclude that of the. grave problems' arising from present industrial unsettlement, domestic discontent, increasing irreligion, and reconstruction difficulties, this pervasive and prevailing philosophy is the fountain-head. Hence, if society is to be healed, a change must come to pass in philosophic principles—a change from the principles of the present,^ which in their elemental solution are pagan proclivities, to the Christian principles that prevailed in the past. And this means that Sensism must be supplanted by a system which does not do violence to the validity of truth, a system in conformity with the consciousness and- the conscience of mankind, a system which does not disparage metaphysics, destroy ethics, and demolish religion. Obviously such a change can be brought about only by religious men. But even they must be careful. “The most religious men, unless they are especially watchful, will feel-the sway of. the fashion of their age, and suffer from it, though unconsciously.” And
if the change is not soon accomplished, if religious men are not beforehand with the dominant doctrine, there is no warrant that • the land will not be made desolate “because. . there is none that considereth.”
-* *"	I
On Us.
It was evening. The dull, cold shadows of . Winter filled the room. It was a library room, maybe. One cannot see plainly when those dull cold shadows are about. It was immense and decidedly French; perhaps, a storied mansion of romantic times. Presently, a servant entered. She was followed by a man, evidently a stranger. The servant went noiselessly to a table in the center and lighted three slanting candles. Motioning to a chair near the candles, she silently disappeared. The man strolled, even as a stranger strolls, toward the tables. The room was still dull and cold in spite of the candles, for it was immense and the candles, few. Standing by the chair, he surveyed the room. As he seated himself he noticed just within the light of the candles a magazine whose cover was overlaid ' with the inevitable black and white. His hand reached for it but instinct forbade. He sat down. . “Noy No,” quoth that sixth sense. “The room is dull, and cold, and immense; there is silence, rather solemn, too; and those candles! No, No.” One does not like to think of death. A footstep is heard. The dim outline of a man appears through the dull cold shadows. “Greetings” shouts he, as he approaches the table.
The other looks at him and points to' the magazine: “A Morgue account?”
“Ah, no,” answers the newcomer; and picking up the magazine he continues, “A treasure house of wisdom; a box of jewels; a collection' of masterpieces; a something wherein “all the charm of all the Muses!—,”	■
. “Well! Why don’t they change the cover.”
_ -	—KEILLEY.
. ------------------------- . . , .
'	Triolet.	.
I was eating ice cream,	. -
And it spilled down my vest.	.	-
With Rose,—she’s: a dream,	’	?
- I- was eating ice cream.
When she, all agleam, ■	.
Said, "You’ve such a nice chest.”'. .
. I was eating, ice cream, w	- -J
And it spilled down my vest.—v. E. . .


Nocre dame Scholastic -
i
& r

DISCE-QUASI-SEMPER-VICT1/RUS-V1VE- QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the UVIVERSITV OF NOTRE DAME.
VOL. LIV.
OCTOBER 16, 1920.
NO. 4.
and every man shares in the glory of a victory. Every man—that is, every man-who plays his part as well as he knows how and strives to learn to play it better. All others are interlopers and thieves, for they ‘ ‘ take on to themselves what belongs not to them.” Tlie part of ever}- N. D. man is clearly outlined in the words of one of our great football heroes, words which every one of us should, adopt as his slogan— “I’ll do the best we can.”—h. u. s.	’
is


S®
Board of Editors.
Alfred N. Slaggert, ’21
Walter M. O’Keefe, ’21
Morris Starrett,’21
Henry Stevenson ’21
M. Joseph Tierney, ’21 Emmett Sweeney, ’21 Edwin W. Murphy, ’23
Vincent Engels, ’23
Edward B. Degree, ’23
We wish to make just a few practical suggestions to those who intend to be here for the Purdue game, especially those who have made up their minds to stay a To Those Who Are day or two. You probably ■
Coming.


Notre Dame is a famous university throughout the world. Students flocking to her gates from China and the Philippines, from all the republics -	in.the Central and South Americas,
Com’ cal from Mexico, from Ireland and
. Canada, and from every state in the Union are witnesses to this. Notre Dame’s football team is hailed as the pride of the West. Her graduates go forth into the world, and the world crowns- them victors in every line of endeavor. Less than a hundred years ago an unknown college in the backwoods, Notre Dame to-day holds a recognized position among the great universities of the world.
What is the secret of this phenomenal success ?
running over.
that so much
know that the University is filled to the brim and There isn’t a room on the place as looks vacant. So, this year
at least our friends will have to stay in South Bend. Sometimes rooms there are hard to get on. account of the numbers _ passing through the city. To be safe you ought to reserve rooms before hand. If you will address the Secretary of the Alumni Association, Notre Dame, stating your needs and preferences,'he will be glad to make the necessary reservations for you.
Yes, Mr. Hamilton of-the Wayne County Civic Association, this is addressed' to you. There has been, goodness knows, no dearth of torrid atmosphere in Ameri-

What has made Notre Dame so far-famed as a seat of learning? What has made her teams so consistently victorious even against heavy odds? What has made the world open up its treasures to her graduates and yield them places among the powerful of all lands? The secret is—the Notre Dame man’s way of getting along with the “fellows.”
It is a way that rejoices in the fight of an unequal battle; it is the spirit of hang-together, the spirit of teamwork. ‘‘ If a house be divided against itself, it will fall.” Notre Dame has never been divided against itself. Priests, brothers, professors, instructors.and students, ' - all; work together for a greater and better Notre'
; Dame. This is the N. D. tradition. This is bur
' To a Blue-ribbon can politics, in the German Wind-jammer. army, in the life of the famous Tartarin of Tarascon; but nowhere have words been used so futilely as in your attempt to justify the school law now before the voters of Michigan. Were you any , sort of man you would come out openly and declare that the Catholic Church is.a menace; you would cite horrible cases from a waspish journal which.all the world calls vile; you would admit that the very presence of the sinless women now in danger of legal ostracism gives you the ague; you would avow that there is no case to be made out. against the private
school except the one which every decent I -American since Washington’s time has branded I
heritage. This is burs to cherish and to increase, as bigotry. If you were genuine you would 1 Avoid criticisms. Avoid selfishness. Give when belong in the. honorable army of Cromwell J
you can and what you can; above all, give and go about your business of destruction with a	I
willingly of the best that is in you.	fanatic sword. But you are simply—James	I
. : At Notre Dame every man has a part to play, Hamilton. “ One flag,” you say,, and trample |

we Noure Same Scholastic
on the Catholic soldier dead: ‘ ‘ one language, ’ ’— which means that you are a hypocrite: “one school,” which is certainly" what you heed. We believe that you are. mistaken, that if all the Catholics stayed at home, the Protestants of Michigan would from their generous love of democracy, fairness and religious peace adjudge you worthy of the afore-mentioned title. You really are something, a marvelous something, of a wind-jammer.—s. a. g.	■
There has been some misunderstanding of the functions which the ticket-inspectors at the gates, of Cartier Field are obliged to perform.
People have been slipping in Now, Now— without making, the necessary delve into their bank-accounts.
So, don’t attempt to make the “ You-know-me-. Al ” trick an open-sesame, even though you are a perfectly respectable Senior with a ticket somewhere in Sorin. Above all, don’t fly into a rage. Get the ticket and make the hard job at the ’ gates as easy as you can for the men stationed there.	.
I	I * ♦ ——■ —— --
A good many college-men, grappling with duties, social engagements, and the general improvement of the mind ,are likely to forget the importance of physi-An Ounce of Ozone, cal exercise. The body is a restless creditor: neglect of it will result in petulant moods and virulent ailments which sometimes abide with . the victim for life. Get out into nature as often as you can; move those arms and legs; find the rhythm in well-poised limbs and clear minds. An ounce of ozone is worth a pound of drugs.
.	—E. b. D.
It is not always the student who holds his head the highest that knows the most about the subject.	'	"
Considering that green is the symbol of hope, the freshmen should have great expectations.
McSwinney, the Irish patriot, must be a man after the Food Administration’s own heart.
Some persons are natural-born pests; others play their victrolas all day.
We should never go as far as we like without considering'the return trip,	.	-
Watch-ing the Grades. .
Since the development of the Nuremberg egg into the marvelous chronometer of here and now, watches have been but to a good many uses. The South Bend Watch Company, however, has recently done something entirely new: its. products will keep time with academic progress at Notre Dame. Through the kind agency - of its secretary, Mr. F. -H. Wellington, the neighboring watch - company has presented to the University five high-grade gold watches, each valued at one hundred dollars. These attractive time-pieces, known everywhere for their accuracy, beauty and serviceableness, will be given to the honor men of each.graduating class. The conditions are: one watch is to go to that student in each of the four colleges who shall have completed a four-year course with the highest average. The colleges are: Arts and Letters,. Engineering, Science and Law.' The final chronometer shall be. awarded the athlete who wins a monogram in some major sport for three consecutive years and whose scholastic record is better than that of any similar athlete. This is a magnificent-award, worthy to be ranked with the best prizes offered by the University. Our hearty thanks are due to the gentlemen whose generosity has led them to take such a deep interest in the progress of Notre Dame,	'
---------«<•»------ -
The Legion of Honour.
Never before has Notre Dame offered so many prizes for scholastic achievement. The very number and worth of - these awards is likely to make us forget that they are gilt- ' edge, securities both .to the student and the folks at home. Their value lies, however, in the fact that there is keen competition for them..
Some, like the- beautiful’ Dockweiler and . Meehan medals, are given to Seniors whose literary effort is adjudged^ exceptionally worthwhile. Others like the Breen and Barry awards are pinned to the breasts of those whose gallant presence has saved the day on the rostrum. Still others, particularly the Martin McCue medal for Civil Engineering and the Jose Caparo. medal for Electrical Engineering go to the student who has made the best record in all the courses on the four year program leading to the degree. The Quan medal confines itself^ to a-scrutiny of the Seniors in classics,
5§
Norre dame Schdascic
Every medal offered by Notre Dame is
Men You Remember.
intrinsically valuable, is a work of art, and has been donated by someone who had the interests of the school very .much at heart. Scholarship is after all the only purpose for which a University can legitimate^ exist, and if these prizes serve as incentives to that end the givers will be satisfied.
In Advance of the Retreat.
Notre Dame is ready and waiting for Father Bernard J. Mulloy, who will conduct the students’ retreat from October 20 to 28. Fresh-
men need have no fear that a stranger is being thrust upon them,for Father Mulloy is a local product from toe to crown. He received his degree here, and -was ordained in 1916, after studying theology at Holy Cross College in Washington. In that year he was also connected formally with the Mission band. Since then, his labors have carried him from Salt Lake City to Washington, and he has worked extensively in Iowa, Illinois, Wisccn sin, Indiana,
Michigan and Ohio. His work has been rewarded with unusual success.
Students here during the summer are familiar with his distinguished bearing and mellow, pleasing voice. For the past few years, he has conducted laymens’ retreats at Notre Dame. At present, missionary work holds him at Ann Arbor, but he will return to the University on
. Monday.	*	, /
—J. Lyle Mussmaker, Ph. B., ’20, is following the study of law at Iowa University.
—Father Burns represented the University last Wednesday, October 13th, at the Ohio State Jubilee and on the following day he acted in the same acpacity at the inaugural ceremonies for the new president of Michigan University.
J—William C. Henry, LL. B. ’16, journeys to the university from Chicago for an occasional visit. “Bill” is administering Blackstone in ever-increasing doses.
—The Reverend Michael Moriarty, Litt. B. ’10, acted as Notre Dame delegate at the dedication of the new observatory at the Case School of Applied Science.
—Mr. Frank Swift, E. E. ’15, has accepted a position as instructor in Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame. Frank is an exceptionally good man and the University is fortunate in getting his services.
—Leo Valker (B. S. ’20) spent a few days at Notre Dame recently. Led has decided not to rest content with his Maxima cum Laude and Tias embarked for Columbia University to take a Master’s degree in Architecture.
—It will be pleasant information to men of several years ago when we tell them that Mr. Charlemagne Koehler, former director of dramatics at Notre Dame, is now in charge of the school of elocution at the University of Detroit. Program announcements prove that Professor Koehler has not weakened in his devotion to the art of Booth and Barrett. .
—Augustin Basave, student 1901, has been appointed Director of Secondary and Professional Education in the State of Jalisco, Guadalajara, Mexico.
—Robert Cushman Carr, M. A: ’17, recalled memorable incidents in his life as a Notre Dame student during the past week. Mr. Carr has’ entered the legal profession and is working with
his father.	' ,	.
—“Pat McGuire is back again,” was the word passed around the campus on Friday when the . jovial face of the familiar Celt once again beamed from the steps of Sorin. More genial than ever, none suspected that he had visited many of the seething spots of Ireland since he left Notre Dame last June. Ee reports constant dastardly operations carried on by the ! black and tans.’
Noure dame Scholastic
Conditions in Ireland are verging nearer and nearer to a break when England will have to take drastic action or evacuate. McGuire, who took his M. A. degree at the last commencement, is to enter a seminary in Denver, Colorado.
—According to messages coming to various members of the faculty a large number of “old grads” may be looked for at the Purdue game on November 6th. Among others who will be back is Thomas A. Havican who is now acting as secretary of the Registrar and Transfer Company of Pittsburg.	-
--------
The Active “Ag’s.”
The uninterrupted progress of the university agricultural department, proceeding unnoticed and unhampered, has finally forced itself into-the- attention of local observers, much ’ after the fashion that the energetic mustard seed, after a long period of expansion beneath the sod, impresses us by its -first appearance in Spring. Three big projects are being pushed to completion under the direction of Professor Scheib, head of the agronomy school. A $5000 structure, to be used for experimentation in the culture of vegetables for market sale, is almost ready for occupation. This.new adjunct to the agricultural course will have a complete power plant in addition to other, technical facilities, including sprays and hydraulic presses. The university “aggies” will have the opportunity to apply science in practical commercial experiments, which will be of unusual importance to those expecting to specialize in truck farming.
For purposes of instruction on the upkeep of numerous gas engines, the old gynmasium will be equipped with plenty of combustion apparatus, the operation and repair of which will be taught as well as construction plans and relative practicability. Certain types of tractors will be installed in the
machine shop and ‘aggie’ students will be obliged to go through an .extended course in the handling of the catapillar motors, under all manner of conditions. The Delco lighting system will be used at the farm shops. •
Modern hen coops, capable of sheltering a flock of 500 fowls have already been completed, and- will shortly be in use. More than 450 laying hens are'to be added to the farm assets. Russell O’Hara is to be in charge of The coops, which are situated just north of the refectory kitchens. “Aggies” studying the feeding and
newly acquired agricultural of cattle, condition of markets, and cattle
59
scientific sheltering of poultry’- will have a practical and experienced instructor, with the added advantage of an up-to-date laboratory. For the majority of men*in the agricultural course—those who will go on farms in the central west, where poultry- raising is one of the main sources of revenue—-development of the poultry section of the course will bring much material benefit.
Two new subjects have been added to the curriculum of the department. Professor Kaczmarek is conducting a class in plant pathology in Science hall, where an extensively equipped laboratory has been turned over to the agricultural department. The research room is furnished with a glass innoculating chamber and autoclave microscopes, along with a set of exhibits demonstrating the treatment of various plant diseases. An optional class in agricultural physics is also, taught by Dr. Kaczmarek.
Another feature introduced into the farm department this year, is an experimental course in diseases of animals taught in connection with animal husbandry. Prof. Richard Vogt, who recently received a doctor’s degree in biology’-, is in charge of this subject. The agricultural chemistry laboratory is also being operated under the direction of Mr. Vogt, who was appointed to the place in September.
Fruit from a young orchard pruned, sprayed and cared for by the “ag” students of last year,. won several prizes at the St. Joseph Horticultural exhibit, held two weeks ago. The instruc? tion in this work was furnished by Brother; Paulinas, in charge of the orchards on St. Joseph farm, owned by the university. Upkeep of the 200 head of registered cattle on the university farm was explained to the students in a series of talks, delivered by Brother Leo, field director. His,special information on marketing
/transportation will be of value to the class of ’24 when he gives his scheduled addresses in November. He presided at the auction of pedigreed shorthorns raised on the university -farm, which took place in the barns, Friday.
.	---E. W. M.
. D’you want to see Hector and the Trojan .wall and King George? Be at Notre Dame on November sixth.	-	•
. Are toes hereditary? See DeGree the younger on Nov. 6th and judge for yourselves, -
St
§
&
IS
60
Novre dame Scholastic
Kable-talk.
“The ‘caf’ is open; hurray> hurray,” sing 582 seniors, juniors, sophomores, and others who have been walking, riding, and dragging to town three times a day for the purpose of stuffing themselves with wheat cakes, roast beef, and chocolate eclairs. For the haven of stomachs under beautiful Badin was opened on Friday by the Kable managers.
Since late in August the new chefs have been working to get the cafeteria in shape before Christmas: they have succeeded in remaking ' it into a modern hash-house within the space
of six weeks. Only those who knew the cafeteria can appreciate what this means.
The walls have actually been painted, counters have been entirely rearranged, dining room has been enlarged to hold
old
the the six
hundred students, and best of all, connections between the kitchen and counter have, been realtered so that a customer must wait but fifty two seconds before his order is ready. This sendee was made possible by installing service windows, and transferring the stoves to positions nearer the dining room. ’	.
For those gentlemen who crave an ice-cream or two after every class, a malted milk or a . bar of candy, the management has provided by installing a sanitary “sody” fountain. All drinks from mineral water , to near-beer will be on hand, and a, special mixer will be there to serve them.—v. E- .
Ourselves.
—Election of officers for-the year and a discussion of plans for the Indiana game occupied the attention of the Indianapolis Club at its first meeting. Arthur C. Shea,.’22, was elected president, Robert Rink, ’24, secretary, and
Edward Doyle, ’21, treasurer. The club, made their ability trickle to his ear. The organization up of students from the capitol city, will have will be affiliated with the glee club, and will unofficial charge of the program of events pre- travel with it:	/ M
ceding-the game at Indianapolis, November	—More than one hundred, men turned out
13th, and will co-operate with the Board of to the trysting of the Republican Club on last Athletic Control in making the necessary Friday. The meeting was called by President arrangements.	/	.	. Dempsey to fill the vacancies caused by gradua-
L —Senator Charles Haggerty, ofSouth Bend, tion .of some of the officers and to start the spoke at Notre Dame Friday evening under Republican ball rolling. It was announced that ■ the auspices of the Democratic Club, and put speakers of national reputation will come to the old Democratic ‘kick’, into rthe campus Notre Dame directly from the headquarters of campaign. Mr. Haggerty was introduced by the -Republican National .Committee and the MarkStdren, president of the club. TheSenator State Central Committee.; The other officers
recalled pleasant memories as .a student at Notre Dame, and then in his usual forceful manner made a strong plea for the League of Nations.
—Harry Denny gathered sundry old soldiers together for a chat the other night, with the result that he was selected “magno cum tu-multo” president of the Notre Dame Service Club. James Murphy will be vice-president, and Wilcox is the sergeant-at-arms. The club plans an offensive on society and a general advance towards the- quota needed for the Soldiers’ memorial.	J
—A large turnout and unprecedented spirit marked the year’s first gathering of the Junior Class held last Thursday. The third year men chose the following as officers for this year; President, Frank Blasius of Logan, Ohio; vice-President, Ralph Coryn of Davenport, Iowa; Secretary, Alphonse Scott of Los Angeles; Treasurer; Thomas Keefe of Raub, Ind.
—With a special ‘train ’n everything Valparaiso Varsity is planning to escort its doughty eleven to Notre Dame for the fray on October 23. It is rumored that the famous fifty piece band, from drum to piccolo, will be part of the delegation. .
—The Brownson Hall “rec” room was the scene of a snappy meeting Friday night when the farmers met to organize for the year. Professor Scheib was at the plow with a ripping _ speech, and further entertained his disciples with dough-nuts, cider, and cigars. The election of officers was postponed untilji later date.
—The lisping strains of “Juanita,” and the stirring tinkle of “Sebastopol” will no-longer be songs unknown to. the men at Notre Dame. . Joseph Cassasanta.says so; he is organizing a mandolin club. All ticklers of the silver strings and catgut are implored to let an inkling of
^5


ftp


'tone Notre ©ame Scholastic	61
of the organization are; ist vice-president, Frank Blasius; 2nd vice-President, Edward W. Gculd. Treasurer, John M. Montague; and Secretary, Maurice J. Dacy. The Executive Committee is composed of Alfonso Scott,-Harold McGee, and George Meredith.
—The university glee club is undergoing a thorough ' weeding process to reduce the personal to forty members. The warblers have been trying out for several days in Washington Hall, and the selection will be made soon. Professor John-Becker expects to have an unusually successful year, both from the stand-point of material and tours. The club will travel to Chicago, Fort Wayne, and other cities. inIndiana, Illinois, and nearby states.	.
—Cactus and Cordovan are the symbols which were adopted by the officers of the Forum following the meeting Thursday night. Cactus stands for argument, and cordovan for healthy lungs, of course. During the meeting Emmet Sweeney and Paul Breen spoke with their customary effectiveness. Tommy Howard’s hu-v morons sketch of the Pearly Gates demonstrated his familiarity with the Apocalypse. The fine literary program was appreciated by an audience of sixty-five.	*
—The Republican convention last June had nothing on the Sophomore meeting last Thursday. “Dark Horse” Leslie Logan was elected president; George Barry, vice-president; Edward Degree, secretary, and Al Ficks, treasurer. “A nice time was had by all.”	'
—Harry' Flannery, ’23, has had an article, “The Roman Woman-,” accepted by the “Classical Journal.” Frank Wallace ’23, is represented by “The Steel-Heater” in an anthology, “Poets of the Future.” -	*
—Followers of the Rod and Stake gathered in Chemistry Hall Friday night, and elected Al Rhomberg president of the Surveyor’s club. J. Martin was chosen for vice-president, and L. Kennedy found himself voted into the secretarial office. James Hayes was picked for treasurer, and “Hunk”' Anderson was given the “Strong Arm” job,—sergeant-at-arms. A committee-on rules and entertainments was appointed consisting of R. Dempf, Dan Young, and Mark Foote. The next meeting of the club will be held October 22.	.
—Al Slaggert created real excitement when he i appeared at. breakfast Tuesday morning with- one grey hair shining amidst his dusky.
locks. “It’s all the fault of the men who don’t -learn their yells,” he said. “Those cheers must be memorized and, the song must be memorized, r if we intend-to out-yell Purdue or anyone else.” He estimates that only sixty percent of the student body can recite every N. D. yell perfectly. . “Learn ’em, for Rock’s sake, learn ’em.”	-
—The tribe of Ike Walton is celebrating the ' return of cool nights, and crisp mornings. The pursuit piscatorial has become more remunera- , tive lately, and it’s all because of the chilly nights. Anyway that’s the reason given by the local anglers, who have been bagging a number ’ of bold, black bass.
—Father George Finnegan,.C. S. C., was the the speaker at the first regular meeting of the — Knights of Columbus held last Tuesday night.. In describing the morale of the knights, he-drew from his varied experience as. an army chaplain and also from his knowledge of present conditions in America? Everybody was-interested.	.
—Thomas Daley, poet and humorist will lecture in Washington Hall on October 20th. Mr. Daley has visited Notre Dame frequently and has gained a large number of admirers for his work.	. -	■
—Men from the Hawkeye state met last Friday to reorganize the Iowa Club at Notre Dame. Emmett Sweeney, Walter Klauer, Joseph Rhomberg and Edmund Tschudi were endowed with dignities. A large number of enthusiastic speeches, and plans for *future' activities occupied the attention of the meeting. All lowans are urged to hand their names and ‘ addresses to Secretary Joseph Rhbmberg of Sorin Hall. -	-	-	-
—The boys who journeyed from Pennsylvania ; to Notre Dame this year met.Monday evening and organized the Keystone Club. James O’Toole, Business Manager of the 192 t Dome, heads the list of officers. William Miner is
. vice-president. Robert Follet was chosen to keep the. records and guard the treasury. A smoker is being planned.
—Professor Montraville Wood very ably entertained the students and faculty in Washington Hall on Wednesday October 6th. His demonstrations of electrical phenomena, the Gyroscope and Torpedo, gained the attention of the audience in a way that is seldom noticed ' in Washington Hall. The expressions of appreciation of the lecture were genuine.	.
62
Noure dame ^cholasnic'
Gridiron Gossip.-
Notre Dame, 41; Western Western Normal, dazed by
Normal, o.
the crushing
offensive and defensive maneuvers of Rockne’s Gold and Blue steam roller, stepped off Cartier
Field last
Coach Rockne
Saturday afternoon a hopelessly outclassed team. The final score was 41 to o and, had it not been for heavy penalizations not to speak of the depressing heat, the count would undoubtedly have been doubled. Three times the Varsity backs crossed the Normal line but the touchdowns were ruled out on technicalities. Numerous off side decisions also tended to curb the slashing advance of the “Rockmen.”	*
Except for a bit of fairly good defensive work in the first lap of the brush, the Normalites were helpless both when facing Notre Dame charges and in
and in their feeble attempts to dint the Varsity forward wall. Normals’ few first downs were made possible by penilization gains, and, as a result, the Celery City gridders were pitted deep in their own territory’' most of the time.
The work of Gipp, Mohardt, _ Phelan and Castner, four of Rockne’s back-field Taubes, ’ was particularly conspicuous. Gipp tore through on every chance for a long gain, hanging up
two goals and three goal kicks. Mohardt was -blond chief then injected
equally successful in eluding the Normal ends and forwards. Phelan slipped through' tackle in the fourth frame and sprinted fifty-five yards for a ringer and Castner plantedothe oval behind the enemy trench in the third, following, a thirty-five yard line plunge. Captain Coughlin, Smith, Anderson and Shaw tumbled the Normal
K forwards at will and. cut wide paths for the back charges. Schiele, Cornwell and Bennet -bore- the .brunt of the fray for the Cowboy squad.	' .	-
In the first quarter Gipp booted the oval to the Normal three yard line. The opposition failed in several attempts to pierce the line and was forced to punt out to their, forty yard ,line. Gipp, Mohardt, Wynne and Brandy then got into, action and pushed. the pigskin up to within a few yards of the Normal goal. . Mohardt
crashed through for the first six points and Gipp added another with his trusty toe. Gipp and Mohardt romped away with several snappy gains on the next kickoff but for almost every gain there was an accompanying penalization. In the second quarter Castner and Barry jumped in at half and full and this pair along with Gipp cut through the Wolverines, for another touchdown. Gipp failed'at goal. -On the next lunge, Western Normal returned Gipp’s offering to their own thirty-five yard line and, failing again to make the slightest impression on the Gold and Blue forward barrier, resorted to a punt. Brandy took the kick and with the aid of • the aforementioned coterie of backfield Howitzers, registered Notre Dame s third touch down. The whistle ended the half shortly after Phelan made a sensational fifty-five yard sprint from kickoff. In the third frame, the second string group played with the Normal outfit with the same ease as did the Varsity. Castner carried the ball over for the fourth ringer, going around left end for twenty-five yards. Brandy kicked goal. “Rock” ordered the veterans out on the . rectangle again in the last frame but promptly withdrew . them when Phelan left a horde of would-be tacklers in his - wake and went over the top again for his mates. Gipp also scored in this period and kicked both goals. The
his third stringers. The Normalites, however, fared but little better with this crowd of classy fledgelings,	.
,	■	Capt. Coughlin
and Walsh, Logan, Shea
and Wilcox were well on their. way towards the enemy zero line when the tocsin sounded.
Following is	a summary of	the game.
Notre .Dame	(41);	.	Western- (0)
Hayes	.■	Left End *	Cameron
Coughlin (c)	Left Tackle	Waterman
Smith -	Left Guard	Messenger
Larson.	. Center	.	Tabrahan
H. Anderson '	Right Guard	, Hulscher
Shaw	;	Right Tackle	Crow
E. Anderson	Right End	Westgate
Brandy -	Quarterback	.	Bennett
GipP *	. .	. Left Halfback	Crull
Mohardt -	. Right Halfback	. .	Cornwell
Wynne .	..’Fullback .	, Schiele
Moure dame Scholastic
Touchdowns: Mohardt, Gipp, 2; Brandy,. Castner, Phelan. Goal from touchdown: Gipp, 3; Castner, Brandy.
* . * * , . Sure Signs.
• All indications point toward a record breaking attendance on Cartier Field for the Notre Dame-Purdue game which is to be the event of the first home-coming celebration at Notre Dame. Every box seat put on sale for that game has been spoken for, and the public demand for reserved seats is steadily increasing. It has been decided to limit the “Alumni section” to include about 500 of the best seats in the stand which will sell at $2 instead of scattering them through several sections to include lower priced seats. ■Reservations can be made by alumni and old students exclusively, by mail until October 25th, when the reservation charts will be opened to the student body and the public.
***	1
Beat Nebraska!
This afternoon Notre Dame’s football team faces the crucial test of the 1920 schedule. A victory on Nebraska Field at Xincoln will do much to insure the Gold and Blue followers of another western championship eleven and na-
tional recognition. A victory today will break down-. Later in the same period, after, an ex-
' the five year record tie between Notre Dame and Nebraska. Each team has" won two matches and one was a scoreless tie. .
A defeat today will not mean failure for the “Rockmen”; it will mean harder fighting and more work. Notre Dame defeated today is the dream of the “Cornhuskers.” Coach Schulte has been willing to risk all that his men may be fit to “trim the Irish.” He allowed his team to dare a meagre 7 to o victory over Colorado to save his stars for today’s effort. Notre Dame’s gymnasium should echo today with reports of the hardest game played in the West in years.
Coach Rockne and twenty-two of his best men are in Lincoln today. Never has a Gold and Blue squad been so well drilled and trained so' early in the season, and never has one been more eager to win. The team spirit is flawless; they will fight to win to the last whistle. Nebraska won in 1915 twenty to nineteen, and in 1917 seven to nothing. We have “brought home the bacon” in 1916, twenty to nothing and in 1919 fourteen to nine. In 191S a scoreless tie marked the game. “Rock” and “Willie” will win today too.	;
• *** -■ - -
During the rest period between halves of the
Carroll-Walsh game a team made up of Browti-son Hall recruits and one representing the day students engaged in a lively'two-quarter scrimmage which ended 7-0 in favor of the off-campus men. Both teams'were evenly matched. The. only score of the game resulted from a blocked kick behind Brownson’s goal line.
* * * '
Interhall Football : Walsh, 7; Carroll, 20.
In a game more hotly contested than is indicated by the score Walsh hall went down to defeat before the machine-like onslaughts of the Carrollites to the tune of 20-7. Carroll was outweighed by Walsh but was faster and outplayed its opponents in every department of the game excepting forward passing. Walsh’s touchdown was the direct result of a series of neat passes and several substantial gains by Joes. Carroll’s three touchdowns were made during the first half. Five minutes after the kick-off McGovern, Carroll quarterback, had planted the oval behind Walsh’s goal line. Soon after the beginning of the second quarter, Walsh attempted a punt deep in its own territory but the kick was blocked and recovered by Carroll’s left end, the play resulting in Carroll’s second touch
change of punts, Carroll’s fleet half backs, Connell and De Corps, carried the ball to a point within striking distance of the goal. A pass, Johnson to Walsh, gave Carroll its final score.	"	-
The outstanding feature of the game was the playing of Connell, the Carroll left half. Besides smashing off tackles and tearing.off good gains' in the open field he played a strong defensive game, getting into practically every play and . making his presence felt. He was ably assisted by McGovern, De Corps and Brennan.
For Walsh Driscoll, Joes and Keenan bore the brunt of the attack: Cochran played a heady game from the pilot position but .was forced to retire early in the second quarter because of a dislocated jaw bone.	.
■ ' * • - * *
. BROWNSCN, I; SORIN, O.
At ten o’clock last Sunday Morning Brother Allen’s gridiron hopefuls were cavorting about Cartier field in preparation for the impending “tangle” with the knights of Sorin but the opposition failed to appear.	.
1 Whether or not Sorin Hall is to enter a football team in the interhall league seems doubtful. -• Long after the scheduled time when the specta
Notre dame Scholastic
64
tors, who liad remained to bask in the sunlight and to observe the Brownson team at practise were leaving for dinner, the Sorin Captain, Coach and trainer presented themselves in street clothing and announced that owing to a diversity of reasons it would be impossible to gather together a sufficient number of Sorinites to constitute a complete team. After Brownson’s refusal to play off the game on the following Wednesday, Sorin forfeited, 1 to o.
slaggert-starrett.
Safety Valve.
Naughty! Naughty!
A Sophomore admits that he said “Fudge”! and "go to the dickens.” to one of his prefects.
* *
Heard in Brownson.
I don’t mind being the goat but I hate like ever-so-many-things to have people think I’m an old cow.
* *
Private Stock.
One room in the basement of Sorin Hall was reserved for Brandy.
* *
A freshman reports that he heard Rock say “gosh darn” when his team was offside for the tenth consecutive time in The Kazoo game. •
*
At Saturday’s Game.	’
Abram’s bull dog would probably have been attacked by a much larger dog had not Abrams looked the other dog square in the eyes and scared it.
* \ * * ‘
-	More Bunk than Poetry. „
These be .
. Three noisy things:
The shivaree—the mob
Before the jail—the mouth of one
Just born. •
- * • • * - * * .
. The student who wanted to know if he couldn’t -substitute a penmanship credit for a class in metaphysics might have to be told that the eating of an ice cream cone will not take the place of an operation • for gall stones.
• ■ - * . /
- ’ ; ■ * *
Professor (emphatically)—t want to tell you young ’ men this morning, that hereafter I shall not repeat anything in this class.	.
. Student-—What’s that, professor? ’ ~
Professor—I say I shall not repeat anything in this class.	.	.
•	Neither Do We Know. ’
The eyes are used to guide the feet The hands protect the head.
•	The ears will let a person in
■	On everything that’s said.
The pate would shiver were it not Adorned with silky locks—	.
But whaduthink are big toes for .
Except to ruin socks?
- * ' ' * *
See Father
It’s not always as easy to make a “touch” as it is to make a touchdown.	'
The Badin Hall crew pulled something altogether original last week at a meeting of Freshmen. They elected two Sophomores as officers in the Freshman class.	-
* *	\ X	.
'	The Double Shuffle.
She was just the sweetest maiden that a youth would meet in weeks
No one ever saw a countenance more fair. • All the roses of the summer were reflected in her checks And the sunshine seemed to nestle in her hair, Men adored her from a distance and their heartbeats fell like rain .	•	*	~
But when introduced to her they always balked.
Though she tried hard to impress them all her efforts were in vain	.
■ For her teeth were always slipping when she talked.
’Twas an old set she had purchased from an auctioneer ‘ one day ’	.
. And two thumb tacks wouldn’t hold the teeth in place, For the set was rather narrow or ‘.'petit” as one might say	-
' And the maiden had a chasm in her face. • So the teeth would click and rattle When this fairy tried to speak -
And to watch her struggle wasn’t any joke,
And the strongest of her suitors lost all courage and grew weak
For her teeth almost turned turtle when she spoke.

* - • - , * * -
From a Story Written by a Mexican.'
He wore a dark blue suit, a soft white silk collar and a scoreless tie.	.	-
' * -
. * *
' How Would'. You Parse This?
Reginald Oberst was off side. Don’t parse it. Penalize him. . ■ /' ' ,	'	■	.
* ' ,• ■ - -* - . - . ' •
Pest :No. 12689	■
The student who tells you about the wonderful Pierce Arrow.. he drove all summer after he has borrowed your last quarter to buy tobacco.
NOTRE DAME WANTS TO ENTERTAIN YOU.	1
Alumnus, old students and friends, warn us you are coming. Box seats for the Purdue 1 game are sold out. All alumni center section seats will go.at $2 while they last. Get 1 yours in a hurry. Send letter, with check enclosed, to K. K. Rockne, Notre Dame, Ind. 1