
is
CHARGE IT. THE
CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY
PAY
PAY
Every Notre Dame man has an open charge account at the Campus Shop . . . where you’ll find the suits, topcoats, sportcoats, shoes and furnishings you want — by America’s finest makers — at the price you want to pay. Select your new wardrobe now and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in July, one-third in August, one-third in September. No carrying charges, of course.
Ji
k
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
April 25, 1958
Never Before - Such a Spectacular Offer In Writing
SHEAFFER SPECIAL - STUDENTS ONLY
$3.44 VALUE
now
•w 75 c
INCLUDES $2.95 SHEAFFER SKRIPSERT FOUNTAIN PEN, 49c PACKAGE OF 5 SKRIP CARTRIDGES, HANDWRITING IMPROVEMENT BOOKLET!
In a special offer for students only, the W. A. Sheaffer Pen Company is making it possible for you to obtain one of their $2.95 Skripsert fountain pens, a 49c package of 5 Skrip cartridges and a booklet to help you improve your handwriting for only 75c. The pen and the cartridges have a combined regular retail value of $3.44.
Sheaffer Skripsert pen never goes near an ink bottle, uses drop-in cartridges of famous Skrip writing fluid.
This offer is limited — one only to each student — and is not available to the general public.
Unbreakable Skrip cartridges can be carried in pocket. To refill Skripsert pen, just flip out the empty and flip in the new!
Don’t forget the SHEAFFER sponsored Bulova Watch Contest For details see previous Scholastics or: Notre Dame Bookstore
The Scholastic
The Notre Dome
Scholastic
’ Vol. 99 April 25, 1958 No. 20
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cru Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special ram of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorised June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER
Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS_______________News	Editor
HARRY McKEE___________________Copy	Editor
BOB EARLY Features	Editor
MIKE FITZPATRICK__________Sports	Editor
BOB WILLIAMS----------------Photography
LORAN SHEFFER__________Business Manager MIKE KURAS_____________Assistant Business
JOE DEZELAN___________Circulation Manager
WALT RUDGE ______________Assistant	News
RON BLUBAUGH____________Assistant Copy
BILL CONWAY-------------------Assistant	Copy
TOM EDWARDS____________Assistant Features
TOM LAMONT Assistant Features
BOB SEDLACK__________Assistant Features
ED ROHRBACH-------------Assistant Sports TED THOMPSON -----------Assistant Sports
News Staff: Ken Baumgartner, Alan Bosch, Ken Brown, Jack Devney, Bill Kelly, Bill Lehr, Bob Maruyama, Bernie McElroy, Gil Paprocki, Lyn Relph, Chas Rieck, Tom Romans, Roy Rubeli, Milt Streifel, Tom Swanstrom, Dick Zang.
Sports Staff: Bob Briggs, Jim Brogan, Jack Dolan, John Koch, Bob Miller, Mike Murphy, Tim O’Reilly, Tom Rose, Bob Schaefer.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, John McMahon, Greg Rogers.
Business Staff: Bernie Dobranski, Pete Hasbrook, Bob Horn, Conrad Suski.
o
s
Why not buy your car RIGHT HERE in the Middle West and save the extra freight you would ordinarily pay if you bought elsewhere?
BEN MEDOW
Satisfying customers since 1919, offers you the ONLY COMPLETE line of automobiles in this area. Choose from a fresh stock of PLYMOUTHS - DODGES DESOTOS - CHRYSLERS or IMPERIALS
Member of Catholic School Prem Associatioa and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented lor » tional advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.,. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
cObody...BUT NOBODY underset
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and tkm periods, at die University of Notre Dame. Subscription rate, $4.00 a year. Address all manuscripts to the Editor. Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year, Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3, Oct. 11; No. 4, Oct. 18; No. 5, Oct. 25; No. 6, Nov. 8; No. 7, Nov. 15; No. 8, Nov. 22; No. 9. Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football Review); No. 11, Jan. 17; No. 12, Feb. 7; No. 13, Feb. 14; No. 14, Fab. 21; No. 15, Feb. 28; No. 16, March 7; No. 17, Match 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, Match 28; No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.
• 222 N. LAFAYETTE
• 233 N. WILLIAM
See the Ben Medow advertisement every evening on Lamplight Theater—WNDU-TV, Channel 16


April 25, 1958
Where there’s a Man... there’s a Marlboro


The cigarette designed for men that women like
A long white ash means good tobacco and a mild smoke.
Mild-burning Marlboro combines a prized recipe (created in Richmond, Virginia) of the world’s great tobaccos with a cellulose acetate filter of consistent
The “filter flower” of cellulose acetate (modern effective filter material) in just one Marlboro Selectrate Filter.
dependability. You get big friendly flavor with all the mildness a man could ask for.
Marlboro sH
Sturdiest box of all—
YOU 6ET A LOT TO LIKE-FILTER-FLAVOR-FUR-TOP BOX
Srunfinf box all— with the exdaxioe
tril-Hultr,
6
The Scholastic
in jesting
by BOB COLAIZZI and GERRY PASTULA
Welcome back troops! Now that the Easter Vacation has become nothing more than a ghastly memory of either fruitless job-hunting or a case of severe * sunburn, we can all settle down to the more pleasant things of scholastic life; overdue term papers, fighting the urge to sunbathe in the middle of the quad, and trying to turn off the radiator in your room.
The vacation again this year mani-i* fested itself in suntans spaced around various nooks and crannys of the cam-
I pus, reminding us of better years in i better climates. We, unfortunately, t spent our vacation in a place called Bermuda. . . . The Bermuda Lounge and
; Rib Joint.
One unfortunate thing though, since • we found out that we weren’t needed । quite as badly as we thought in the business world, we ended up in a shady spot in the Unemployment Line and as a re. suit, still sport our barroom pallor.
SOLUTION
Just in case some of you seniors are having a tough time finding rooms for the people who plan to come down to see your graduation (your mom and dad, four sisters, two brothers, Aunt Minnie, Uncle Harmon, cousins Phinius, MayBelle, Butch, Stinky, Angostoria, Granddaddy Moe, the neighbor next door, and the milkman, who has been like one of the family) we have a suggestion. If you think for some reason that it would be too crowded for them in the accomodations provided by the committee—the double in Fisher—take our advice: graduate in August, then there will be plenty of room.
IT’S THE SEASON
Yes, here it is . . . wonderful springtime! (you can always tell when it’s springtime at Notre Dame; they staid;
serving cold-cuts in the Dining Hall.) The time of the year is upon us when a Notre Dame man’s fancy turns to thoughts of things dear to his heart; chasing that little white pill over the links and/or sitting around with a quai-t of suds discussing the diiferent ways to beat the draft. But betvare troops! the Monsoon Season is just around the corner, and here in Indiana, it makes the Deluge seem like a summershower.
HAPPY DAYS ARE HERE AGAIN
Welcome to the depths of the recession, campus. Even though the current conditions are going to make it tough for all concerned, we hear that it’s almost over. The economists claim that it can’t last, and we’re inclined to agree with them. The current recession should be over in a few months or so, and then we can look forward to a real good large-scale depression.. Anyone for selling apples?
BIG CHANGE
We’ve heard from various sources that there will be a few changes in the graduation ceremonies this year. Instead of the usual pomp and circumstance as in years past, they have the band working on a very solemn rendition of the theme song of the seniors, “Get a Job.”
THE NEW FAD
By the way, have you heard of the new Parlor Game that has won much pouplarity in the past few weeks among the underclass halls? It’s called “Try --To - Ditch - Youi- - Local - Girlfriend -Before - You - Import - For - Your -Class - Dance.” We don’t know the exact rules of the game, nor how it’s played, but we understand that one of the highlights of the game is that little square
where it says, “Do not pass go, do not collect $200 but go directly to Thil-mans.” We promise to get further information about this current rage in the near future.
WE’RE UNLOVED
We’d like to give a great big Notre Dame hello to the sweetheart at St. Mary’s who gave us such a fine review in the Crux. It seems that this young lovely didn’t particularly approve of us kidding St. Mary’s in this column. Well, just for the record, we would like to repeat that this column is written “in Jest,” and is meant to be taken in that spirit. Remember, honey, “If the shoe fits, put it on.” Actually, we’re surprised to see that so many of you girls wear the same size.
HELPFUL HINTS
Instead of using the usual lotions to promote that suntan, why not use Bob and Ger’s Sure-fire Tanning Fluid. All you do is mix two ounces of vermouth with five ounces of gin, add a dash of bitters, and an ounce of vodka for base. Then rub it all over your body, and lay in the sun. You may not get the best tan, but you’ll have the happiest skin in town!
SHORT SHORTS
Since many are doing it already, why not declare April 30th, or the next sunny day thereafter, “Campuswide Bermuda Short Day”? In this way, everyone will have the same opportunity to show, off their hairy legs and knobby knees, and besides, you might be able to get out of a class or two by doing it. If you think it’s a good idea, just take the shears to your suit pants, and let’s.
That’s about it for this time around, campus. See you in two weeks, weather permitting.
7
April 25, 1958
RESTAURANT
127 N. Main Street
Welcomes Notre Dame Students
TO TRY OUR FINE FRENCH AND AMERICAN FOODS
•
Prepared By Our French Chefs
•
Call For Reservations CE 3-5606
LOAN PAYMENTS DUE
Don Hoodecheck of the John A. Morrissey Student Loan Fund announces that all Joans must be paid without exception by May 5.
Accounts not settled by this date will be turned over to the University authorities. Office hours are 1-3 p.m., Monday through Friday, in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 309 South Michigan St. Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
Marion Marlowe. of shoes for dress, play and every lovely star ' day! See {or yourself—today!
of radio and
after every shave
Splash on Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Feel your face wake up and live! So good for your skin... so good for your ego. Brisk as ah ocean breeze, Old Spice makes you feel like a new man. Confident. Assured. Relaxed. You know you’re at your best
AFTER SHAVE LOTION
when you top off your shave with Old Spice! JOO
phis tax
by SHULTON
The Scholastic
‘educators’
‘beat’
Recently one of the more widely circulated magazines / \ in the country has been running a series of articles on- x: education in the United States. The series has evaluated : ~ the American school system and has been quite critical of / certain features of America’s “mass education.” It has
Great quantities of magazine and newspaper space have been given over of late to publicity on the “Beat Generation.” This is most unfortunate. In the minds of many people this “group” has come to serve as the image of our entire generation. And speaking for many members of our generation, we would rather have nothing to do with k these people. The nonsense and the emotional protests which they spew forth are not to be emulated. Their main characteristic seems to be an unwillingness to face the responsibili-
1 ties which a complicated world presents.
No one can deny that the situation which faces our generation is a serious one. But it will not be solved by retreating into the sanctuaries of Greenwich Village or one ; of the West Coast citadels. It demands an answer which, | can only be given by boldly meeting the challenge presented. | To simply reject the realities of the world is a sign of | immaturity.	.
i The very seriousness of the “Beat Generation” can be ! challenged. Are things so much worse now then they were । in the years of the “Great Depression?” It certainly would * seem not. Nor are they worse than they have been on many other occasions in the history of the world. The waning of
: spiritual values has recurred through history. Such situations ’ have faced other civilizations. When they are met by re-■ sponsible leadership in the fields of business, politics, education, and the arts, they have been overcome. When they have found man turning into himself die civilization has crumbled.
i But perhaps it is best that the “Beat Generation” retreat into the hideaways and moan to themselves about the illway they have been treated. Their lack of emotional and mental stability certainly could never allow them to be re-
14 sponsible leaders. They and the world are probably better off without them. Let us hope that they are ignored and that the mature and sensible people of our generation will meet the challenges before them. There is a world of differences between a sensitivity to the problems before us, and the pathetic retreat of the “Beat Generation.” Give us rather one “Good Ole Charlie Brown” in place of all these insecure “Linuses.” At least he will have the courage to take up die challenge.
-J. S.
April 25, 1958
pointed out that in many areas America is producing “inferior” students due to the laxness of the system. .
In response to this criticism a national association of . high school teachers sent out letters to its members urgu^ them to write the magazine and condemn its action. The : association even went so far as to suggest that die teachers cancel their subscriptions to the magazine and even encourage / ■
the families of their students to do likewise. This “boycott” j would affect the particular magazine and another well known ' =j weekly published by the same company.	. j
The action of this association is most reprehensible.
Unfortunately their stand is common to many ;cf the na- . / tion’s “educators.” (These “educators,” by the way, are usually the same people who bray and prattle about “Gvil / -/ Liberties” and “Academic Freedom.”) They protest that it ' is more important to see that a student “adjusts” socially, / i.e., that he knows how to dance, swim, and be “nice,” than / to be intelligent. They are die people who argue that it is '' / not important to teach children history or mathematics be- I cause these things will be of no real importance to the majority of the students anyhow. These are die people who -have helped to produce an educational system which instructs ? all students at the “average” — an average which is fre-qendy below the minimum.
But these “educators” are not alone in their errors. They ? ? . are, perhaps, too much influenced by what seems to be an T .
American characteristic. This characteristic was recently expressed in a poll which found the parents of high school students favoring die lowering of college entrance require-, ments. After all, it is the right of every American to get
education become a right? Since when is die purpose of the school to see that a student “adjusts” socially? And

students “adjust”? Unfortunately such feelings are deeply embedded in American thought. They can only be over-
and righdy so, are more concerned with putting real education back into the schools and true social adjustment back into the homes.	.	. • / / :

There are more ways than one to be a leader
AS OUR NAME clearly indicates, we are in the telephone business.
We own and operate 1,696 central offices in 30 states.
We manufacture telephones, switches, relays and other communications equipment, for our own use—and for the 4,400 other “independent” telephone companies in the United States.
And while — by the yardstick of size — we cannot claim to be the leader, we find ample opportunity for leadership in other ways.
Take the telephone pictured here as an example. It is our own design.
At first glance, it may look quite a bit like other modern telephones.
But you will find three important differences.
The surfaces just above the dial on each side are contoured to guide the mouthpiece-receiver or “handset” into place unerringly.
An extra quarter of an inch is added to the tapered mouthpiece and earpiece.
And the cradle which receives the “handset” is lower in front than in the rear.
The result: It is almost impossible for an “off-the-hook” interruption to service to happen.
This is, as we said, one example of how we seek to do whatever we do better than it has been done before.
And this same ambition guides every phase of our operation, from the development of better equipment for telephone central offices, to the courtesy-training of the people who represent us in dealing with our customers.
GENERAL TELEPHONED
One of the World's Great Communications Systems
10
The Scholastic
“THANKS”
Dear Editor:	,
* To say “Thanks” is comparatively simple; but to express gratitude ever makes me feel inadequate. Still, I would appreciate it were you to permit me the use of the Scholastic to thank the Knights of Columbus and the men who took part in the Bengal Bouts for the assistance that they made possible for the men of Notre Dame who are working for Christ and for souls in the archdiocese of Dacca, East Bengal, Pakistan.
Notre Dame has many fine traditions. Her football teams have captured the hearts of America. Her alumni are among the best in the country. Still, the Bengal Bouts express something even deeper: young men willing to give of their best, no matter what the physical cost, in order that men of Notre Dame, Holy Cross priests and Brothers, might k the better do for Christ and for souls in a Moslem country where 18 millions have been entrusted to Holy Cross in order that they may the better know of Christ and His Mother.
• In the name of Archbishop Graner, . C.S.C., a Notre Dame alumnus and a « Knight of Columbus of the Notre Dame Council, and of the more than seventy-five priests and Brothers of Holy Cross, all Notre Dame men, and my own: the gratitude of all Holy Cross to the Knights of Columbus, especially their Grand Knight, Bob Porst, and the chair' man of the Committee, Jerry Wells; to | all the Knights, the students who did so ► much to make the Bouts a success; and to the Boxers, above all. They were, as . always, tops!
Gratefully,
,	The Reverend Thomas
M. Fitzpatrick, C.S.C.,
.	Director: The Holy Cross
Foreign Mission ' Society
«***»«»» ************
ON THE COVER: This is the week end of the annual Engineering Open r House. In salute to the efforts which those hard working gentlemen have put into this week end’s activities and displays, Joe McDonnell ' captures some of the spirit and • theme. Many of the typical symbols of the engineering profession plus k such traditional local displays like the Chariot Race are included in the design. For more information and details on the week end see the lead article in the news section.
WHEN YOU’RE GOING FOR FUN
VAGABOND
GO MAN GO IN
. VISCOUNT
U.S. KEDS BOOSTERS
SUPON BOOSTER
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL
Now you can enjoy cool comfort and look your casual best—in U.S. Keds Boosters®. Breathable fabrics allow cooling air to circulate freely. And you walk on the plush comfort of Keds’ Full-cushioned Insole. So go for a pair off U. S- Keds Boosters. Narrows and mediums from $5.95.

April 25, 1958
12
ENGINEERING ‘EXPLORAMA’ OPENS TODAY
Open House Features Departmental Exhibits
The seventh annual Engineering Open *• House, featuring an auto and air show, chariot race, guided tours, and exhibits on all phases of engineering, started today.
The Open House got under way this afternoon at 1 with the first of the directed tours for high school students 4 in the South Bend area. Under this year’s theme, “Explorama,” departmental displays will portray the results of the engineer’s search for improved techniques, and their application to new products for the use of man.
“The purpose of the Engineering * Open House,” according to Bob Norris, chairman of the exposition, “is to better acquaint ND students, and the people, especially the high school students, of South Bend with the various phases of engineering itself, and the engineering work being done here at the University.” - Featured at the auto show, to be held in the Navy Drill Hall today, tomorrow, and Sunday, will be Ford’s experimental
‘LA GALAXIE’
Ford’s experimental car featured at Open House
car “La Galaxie,” an engine display by Chevrolet, and an automotive engineering exhibit by Ford. Also, there will be some General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler products. For the sports car fans, there will be a Mercedes-Benz 300 SL, a Packard Hawk, and a German DKW.
There will be an interdepartmental chariot race on Cartier Field about 2 p.m. on Saturday. The chariots are modeled after those of ancient Rome, and the “horses” and drivers, representatives from each department in the Engineering College, will be wearing togas. Trophies will be awarded to the winner of the race and to the team with the handsomest vehicle.
Sunday afternoon at 2, the field behind the Aero building will be buzzing with planes in the air show. Over 60 members of the South Bend wing of the Civil Air Patrol will be on hand to answer questions and conduct the exhibition. An L-17 Air Force primary trainer will be one of the several planes in the show.
At 1 p.m. on Saturday, the Engineering Show will take place in the Engineering Auditorium. Donald Wright,
plan extension engineer from the Indiana Bell Telephone Company, will speak on “National Defense.” Roger O’Neil, director of the show, will then introduce Dean Raymond Schubmehl, who will give a brief talk and present the Technical Review’s “Engineer of the Year” awards.
Guided tours of the exhibits will leave from the Drill Hall and the Engineering Building lobby approximately every 20 minutes. Guides will conduct visitors to such displays as the Aeronautics Department’s exhibit, “Exploring Space,” a display comparing Sputnik I, Sputnik II, the Vanguard, and the Explorer. A picture display will illustrate some of the more recent advances in aviation, such as exhaust noise suppressors for commercial jet transports.
The Department of Metallurgy has a display from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, which depicts the fuel element assembly for atomic reactors. There will be a physical testing exhibit, demonstrating the part played by such machines as the tensile tester and the impact testing machine in modern metallurgy.	.
The Electrical Engineers will demonstrate stereophonic disc recordings, the newest attempt to obtain the “living presence” of the concert hall. A microwave cooking exhibit will show how modern technology has cut down the housewife’s time in the kitchen. A microwave oven will do a medium-sized roast in fifteen to twenty minutes, a lot faster than the hour or more taken by an ordinary oven.
A model of a prestressed concrete beam, demonstrating the methods of forming prestressed concrete and showing its uses in construction, is scheduled by the Civil Engineers. A surveying exhibit will show how the general types of sui-veys are made. Another feature of the display will be a beam scale, which gives a person’s weight by measuring the. amount of deflection in a steel beam.
A demonstration of fractional distillation using luminescent materials, and an exhibit of ion exchange with radioactive, particles will be presented by the Chemical Engineering department.
The Architects’ display will give visitors a bird’s-eye view of the entire: architectural course, from freshman to senior year.
Continued on page 211. ..
April 25, 1958
Engineering Science Program Inaugurated; New Department to Train 'Flexible Student'
An undergraduate program in engineering science will be inaugurated in the University’s College of Engineering in September, it was announced by The Rev. Phillip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president of academic affairs.
Father Moore also disclosed that the department of engineering mechanics, exclusively a graduate unit until now, has been renamed the department of engineering science and will administer the new program of studies. Dr. Adolph G. Strandhagen will continue as head of the newly designated department.
According to Strandhagen, today’s complex engineering systems, such as those required by rockets and nuclear installations, have created the need for engineering graduates with an over-all perspective. While specialists in the several traditional branches of engineering are still very much in demand, modern engineering systems also require that someone coordinate and properly balance the various specialists for smooth operation of the whole system.
Notre Dame’s new engineering science
'Oklarama1 Scheduled By Senate for May 11
The Student Senate Social Commission is sponsoring a new idea in the field of student entertainment. Called “Oklarama,” this event is a gigantic barbecue to be held on Cartier Field, Sunday, May 11.
As the University Theater’s presentation of Oklahoma will depict the music and merriment of a fictional group of Oklahomans, the Social Commission’s “Oklarama” will bring this music and merriment to life for the students of Notre Dame and their guests. Chairman of the event, Crane Day, stated that plans are being made to insure that “every minute of this huge picnic is packed with fun-filled activities.”
Among the scheduled events for the barbecue, which lasts throughout the afternoon are: jazz concerts and a variety show in a large circus type tent which is being erected for the occasion, games and races of every description, and, of course, the picnic style lunch which will feature expertly barbecued beef. The emphasis will be on fun and informality.
Because of the necessity for preparing the proper amount of food, tickets must be sold on advance basis only. The ticket sales will be held next Tuesday and Wednesday. There will be no ticket sale at the gate.
program, Strandhagen continued, will be geared “to produce a flexible student, one who can adapt himself to the rapidly changing technology of modern times. It will provide the student with a broad foundation, a preparation, a potential for entering and advancing in new and as yet undeveloped fields of engineering, not as a specialist in any isolated portion, but as one who can grasp, visualize and coordinate the whole.”
Students successfully completing the engineering science program will be equipped for competent participation in research and development work, Strandhagen said. They will also be qualified, he said, for graduate work in engineering science or in one of the specialized engineering areas.
The four-year engineering science program will consist of a total of 151 semester hours of class work, Strandhagen said. Although the emphasis will be on a general and fundamental approach, there will be an opportunity for a limited degree of specialization in particular areas through approved courses in the professional departments.
The Engineering Synthesis course, to be taken in the last semester of the senior year, culminates the new engineering science program. According to Strandhagen, it is designed to inculcate in the student the professional method of attacking whole engineering problems. It will also serve to integrate the broad background of engineering sciences which the student has already acquired.
Most of all, Strandhagen points out, it will develop the student’s creativity “by challenging his imagination and shaking him loose from the implicit assumptions and from routine habits of thinking.” The student will be presented with problems cutting across many fields, some of them far removed from his own previous education and experience.
Sorin Bridge Team Retains Interhall Tournament Title
The Sorin Hall Bridge team composed of Lou Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Burke Carley, and John Smith captured the interhall team-of-four bridge tournament which was held on March 29 and 30. The team also won the tournament last year when they represented Lyons Hall.
The first three teams were Sorin, Off-Campus, and Pangborn. A trophy was awarded to Sorin Hall and smaller trophies were presented to the members of the first two teams.
MISS BETTY JOYCE Queen of Law Ball
Law Week End to Begin With Annual Spring Ball
The annual Spring Law Ball will be held tonight in the gala settings of the South Bend Country Club. The dance, which will last from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., will open the student lawyers’ week end.
Miss Betty Joyce of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, a senior in the Nursing Division of St. John’s College of Cleveland, will • be the queen. Miss Joyce will be escort- ’ ed by John Marchal, a native of Greenville, Ohio, and president of the Notre Dame Student Law Association.
Ken Morris and his orchestra will entertain the dancing couples. “Springtime” will be the theme of the ball.
Sunday Mass in the Alumni Hall Chapel at 9 ajn. will round out the week- * end activities. The Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., chaplain of the Student Law Association, will be the celebrant.
Terry Brennan, head football coach, will speak at the Communion Breakfast to be held in the Morris Inn following the Mass. Raymond Tam, a third year ? law student from Wahiawa, Oahu, Hawaii, will serve as the master of ceremonies at the Breakfast. Tam is also the vice-president of the Student Law Association.
COLUMNISTS
Contributions are being accepted for next year’s SCHOLASTIC “Back Page” and "Escape.” Interested undergraduates may apply by sending sample manuscripts of about 1,000 words to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Ind. It is imperative that they be sent in as soon as possible to facilitate selection before final exams.
14
The Scholastic
Two Grants Awarded Philosophy Professor
Dr. A. Robert Caponigri, professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, has received grants totaling $4,200 to support his research and writing.
A grant of $3,Q00 from The Grace Foundation of New York will enable Professor Caponigri to complete and publish Modem Catholic Thinkers, an anthology of the most recent and advanced Catholic thought in the areas of theology, philosophy, and the humanistic studies.
The American Philosophical Society of Philadelphia has awarded the Notre Dame philosophy professor a grant of $1,200 to conduct research for an intellectual biography of the late Benedetto Croce, the noted Italian philosopher. Caponigri has previously published a book on Croce as a historian entitled History and Liberty.
Modem Catholic Thinkers will include selections from about thirty eminent Catholic thinkers. Among those represented in the volume will be von Batha-sar, von Rahner, Sturzo, Scheier, Joli-vet, Jedin, and Hughes.
According to the author, the purpose of the book will be to make clear to the American audience the breadth, range, and elan of contemporary Catholic thought. Many of the selections, which are drawn from five languages, will appear in English and in the United States for the first time. The Rev. Martin C. D’Arcy, S.J., the noted British philosopher and former visiting professor at Notre Dame, has written a preface for the work.
Caponigri will conduct some of his research on Croce at the Italian Institute for Historical Studies in Naples where Croce’s manuscripts and correspondence are housed.
Semifinal Round Scheduled For Moot Court Monday Night
The semifinal rounds of the Moot Court competition will be held at 8 p.m. Monday in both, room 100 and the auditorium of the Law Building. The case to be argued is an appeal to the United States Supreme Court involving a narcotics conviction. It is based on two ' actual cases which are presently before the Supreme Court.
The participants are the eight survivors of two previous elimination rounds. They include Al Alteri and Milt Munk who will contest Jerry Lynes and Kos Glavas while Dana Devoe and Art Perry are pitted against Bob Mone and Jim Durkin.
April 25, 1958
New Deon Appointed for Engineering School; Dr. Morio Goglia to Assume Position July 1
Dr. Mario J. Goglia has been appointed the dean of the College of Engineering at Notre Dame. He will take over his duties July 1.
Dr. Goglia has been serving as Regents’ Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta. He succeeds Dean Karl E. Schoenherr who leaves Notre Dame at the end of the current school year to become technical director of the hydromechanics laboratory at the Navy’s David Taylor Model Basin, Carderock, Md.
A specialist in thermodynamics and
DR. GOGUA
Appointed Dean of Engineering co-author of a text on the subject, Goglia joined the Georgia Tech faculty in 1948 after receiving his doctorate from Purdue University.
He taught mechanical engineering at Purdue during 1947-48 and at the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana, from 1938 to 1946. The 42-year-old engineering educator received the Naval Ordnance Award for his World War II research in munitions development laboratories at Illinois.
Currently Dr. Goglia is a consultant to the K-25 technical division of the Union Carbide Nuclear Co., Oak Ridge, Tenn., and to the Redstone Arsenal Research Division of Rohm and Haas. One of his current research projects is concerned with the thermal diffusivity of rocket propellants. He has been a frequent contributor to professional engineering journals.
Dr. Goglia was elevated to the post of Regents’ Professor by the Board of Regents of the University of Georgia in 1955. In addition to his teaching and
his work as a research associate *! Georgia Tech’s Engineering Experiment Station, he has served on several Institute committees including the Committee on Educational Aims and Objective^ the Graduate Council, the Administrative Council, the Nuclear Energy Committee, and the Curriculum Committee.
He has also served as faculty advisor to a number of Georgia Tech student organizations including the campos chapter of the American Society ol Mechanical Engineers, Tau Beta Pi, Pi Tau Sigma, and the Newman Club.
Notre Dame’s new Engineering dean is a member and former chairman of the Atlanta section of the American Soeietj of Mechanical Engineers. He is chairman of two of the ASME’s national committees.
These committees are the Heat Transfer Division Committee on Theory and Fundamental Research and the Instruments and Regulators Division Education Committee. He is a member of tht inspection committee of the Engineers Council for Professional Development Region IV, and has been vice presides! of the Pi Tau Sigma National Counci since 1953.	<
A registered professional engineer Dr. Goglia is also a fellow of the Amer ican Association for the Advancemeni of Science. His other affiliations ineludt the American Society for Engineerinj Education, Pi Mu Epsilon, Sigma Xi Phi Kappa Phi, and Tau Beta Pi.. D 1953 he was chosen by Time and Atlanta Chamber of Commerce as one of Atlanta’s “100 Leaders of Tomorrow.” .
Dr. Dooley Gives Lecture On Experiences in Far East
Dr. Thomas A. Dooley, M.D, return ed to Notre Dame last Monday nigh and spoke on his experiences in the Fai East.	’
His topic was, “That Free Men Ma] Live,” which is also the title of a bool he has written. The lecture was spon sored by the Tri-Military Council in con junction with the Student Government.
Dr. Dooley is a 1953 graduate--ji Notre Dame and holds his medical de gree from St. Louis University. Twi years ago he visited the campus onri Navy-sponsored lecture tour and spoki about the medical needs of the peopled Laos. He has spent much time there in a medical missionary. ' J:
He has been awarded the Legionoi Merit, also the highest awardofthi Viet Nam nation and the Christophe! Award.	~
■ . . -
Clusserath, Coffey Given Fr. Cavanaugh Grants
Thomas Clusserath and Paul Coffey have been named recipients of The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh Law Scholarships, according to Dean Joseph O’Meara of the Law School.
Established in honor of the former Notre Dame president, the Cavanaugh scholarships provide tuition for three years in the law school. They are awarded annually to two seniors in Notre Dame’s liberal aits and commerce schools “who have demonstrated exceptional scholastic ability.”
Clusserath will receive a bachelor of aits degree in economics in June. He is a member of the debate team, the Student Government Academic Commission, and the Notre Dame-St. Mary’s Concert Orchestra. He is president and former secretary of the Fort Wayne club.
Coffey, an accounting major, also will graduate in June. He is president of the debate team and is Midwest regional president of Tau Kappa Alpha, the.honorary debate fraternity. He has been a feature writer for Scholastic and is chairman of the Student Government committee for enrollment development.
'Oklahoma1 Scheduled For University Stage
Rodgers and Hammerstein’s musical sensation, Oklahoma, will be the University Theater’s annual spring production. The famous musical opens Wednesday, May 7, with performances running until May 11. The curtain rises at 8:30 each evening, and a matinee performance will be given on Sunday, May 11, at 2 p.m.
The Washington Hall box office will be open daily beginning Monday, May 5, from 3:30 to 8:30 p.m. Mail and phone orders, at extension 608, are now being accepted.
The Rev. Arthur S. Harvey, C.S.C., will direct Notre Dame’s production of the world’s longest running musical show. Assisting Father Harvey are Gilbert Rathbun, technical director; Fred Syburg, performance coach; Allan Powers, choreographer; The Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C., choral director; and Dr. Charles Biondo, orchestral conductor.
The cast is headed by Dan Ferrone as Curley, and Anne Rody as Laurey. Barbara Benford portrays Ado Annie Carnes —“The gal who can’t say no,” and Dave Shanahan plays her boyfriend, Will Parker. Other principles include George O’Donnell as Jud Fry; Jim Cooney as Ali Hakim; Eleanor Murphy as Aunt Eller; Dave McDonald as Andrew Carnes; Bruce Junius as Ike Skidmore;
New Staff Named for Campus Radio Station; Albright Appointed WSND Station Manager
Warren Albright, a junior marketing major from Merchantville, N. J., has replaced Jerry Slater as WSND station manager. Albright is the vice-chairman of the Ohio-Indiana region of NS A and is a member of the National executive committee of that organization.
For the past three years, Albright
WARREN ALBRIGHT New manager of WSND
has been doing work in announcing and most recently in public relations. He is also a member of the Student Senate Dining Hall Committee.
A junior marketing major from Lake-
Rudy Hornish as Slim; Pat Wilson as Gertie Cummings; and Bill DeSeta as Cord Elam.
Members of the singing chorus are Maureen Sheehan, Donna Sullivan, Joyce Robinson, Mai*y Jane Marquis, Lori Twombly, Elizabeth Nash, Frances Voorde, Sally O’Brien, Claudia Cronin, Madonna Leen, Bill Diedrich, Jim Feeney, Warren Ginda, Brace Junius, Bill Kane, Jim Koiopus.. Bill Oelerich, John Oliver, Charles Stoffel, and Theodore Witt.
Heading the dancing chorus are Jerry Dodge and Mary Laska, supported by Al Haesche, Carol Lucas, Rudy Hornish, Anne Raymo, Tom Karaty, Terri Cros-ina, Anthony Mileto, Mary Jo Shipp, Gene Pisano, Fran Tetaz, and Donna-Sullivan.
Mike Koch will direct the student production staff as stage manager. His assistants are John Carlin and Felix Isherwood.
wood, Ohio., George Hahn, has been appointed business manager for the next year. He is a member of the Commerce * Forum and has served for two years on the announcing and business staffs. He will manage all the finances at the radio station next year.
Program director next year will be John Casey, a junior modern languages major from Louisville, Ky. During the 41 past year he has been responsible for a number of program ideas used on the station. He was the originator of “Fiesta,” a program of Spanish-American music. Casey has had professional experience and plans to work in radio after graduation. He will be in charge A of planning program schedules and deciding formats next year.
Mike Ahern, an Arts and Letters sophomore, becomes head of the sports staff. He is from Indianapolis, Ind., and has had two years experience with WSND. During the past year he has ’ broadcast remote basketball and baseball games.
The WSND announcing staff will be headed by Jim Rhadigan next year. He is a junior economics major from Port Huron, Mich., and has been with the station for three years. He has had pro- ? fessional experience at home. His job will be to supervise all announcers including trainees.
Director of the news staff next year will be Jim Bennett, a sophomore in Commerce from New York City. He has been with the station one year and will handle all news interviews as well as the regular programs as news director. ’ Tony Chessick, a freshman electrical engineer from North Arlington, N. J., will be the new head of the technical engineering department. He will be in charge of maintenance, purchasing, and all technical equipment.
Assuming the position of chief pro- ’ duction engineer will be John Edwards. Edwards is a junior electrical engineer from St. Louis, Mo. His duties will entail the responsibility for all tapes and other engineering aspects.
The head of traffic and control department for the station next year will ' be Neil Statler. Statler is an Arts and Letters sophomore from Wilmington, Del., and will be responsible for writing and scheduling of all programs over the air.
Mike Divney, a sophomore mechanical engineer from Hartsdale, N. Y., will be '
•the new public relations director. He will be in charge of advertising and station relations. ’	-
Continued on page 24
16
The Scholastic
I
Students Given Voice In University Councils
, As a result of a Student Government il request, the administration has agreed A to allow student government representa-; tion on University councils. This was ;. announced in a letter to the Senate [from The Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., • the vice-president for Student Affairs.
Pei-mission to appear will be on an E; “invitational basis.” The Student Body | president may make the request to the t vice-president for Student Affairs and it will then “be left to the discretion of him and the committee in question when they desire the student representatives to appear.”
The committees involved are the AcaI demic Council, the Committee on Discipline and the Student Affairs Advisory Committee.
The administration also agreed to a joint resolution by St. Mary’s and Notre Dame on extending late permissions to : any Notre Dame students who attend 1 the St. Mary’s Junior Prom or Senior Ball. The permission will extend to one . half hour after the close of the dance.
This is also granted to the Holy Cross Central School of Nursing’s formal dance in February. This year, only St.
. Mary’s Junior Prom on May 2 is in-/ volved.
; In actual business, John Kennedy se-[ cured the appropriation of over $300. I Some of it was for sending students to | the NS A conference in Ohio, other for i plaques to be awarded to Hall Presi-। dents and yet another as an advance for ■ the Summer Storage concession.
I	------------
! Architects Challenge Talents : With La Beau Costume Ball
f One hundred student architects are , expected to attend the 1958 La Beau ' Costume Ball tonight at Erskine Coun-7 try Club in South Bend. The Architects’ ; Ball, the only costume dance sanctioned ; by the University, will feature Gene > Bertoncini’s six-piece combo. The usual :	car permissions will apply to those at-
i tending the dance.
A buffet dinner starting at 7 p.m. will ‘ precede the dance. Immediately follow-= ing the dinner, the attending couples , will decorate the dance floor with the ' theme of “pseudo,” implying the architectures’ dreams and abstract ideas.
The dance is scheduled from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Three prizes will be awarded during the ball to those with the most original costumes.
The general chairman for the ball is Tom Kristopiet, a fifth year student from Davenport, Iowa.
April 25, 1958
Daily Appointed Manager of Student Center; Sullivan. Gugerty Named to Assistant Posts
Bob Daily was recently named manager of the LaFortune Student Center for the coming school year. He will be assisted by Wayne Sullivan and Tom Gugerty with Lennie Muller in charge of the labor crew.
Daily is a Business Administration major from Skokie, Ill. He is a member of the Junior Prom committee and a Dean’s List student. In his sophomore year he served on the Center labor crew and this year assisted manager Fred Holzl.
The House Committee of the Center,
BOB DAILY
To direct Student Center operations
Christian Culture Meet Opens Tonight at SMC
In an attempt to provide unity in the study of liberal arts, St. Mary’s College is sponsoring a symposium on Christian Culture.
The program begins this evening at 7:30 with a welcoming address by Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s. Following her address, Ewart Lewis, of Oberlin College, will speak on “The Mediaeval Contribution to the Western Political Tradition.” A second paper, “On Reading Dante in 1958,” will be presented by Francis Fergusson from Rutgers University. -
The Symposium resumes tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. when J. M. Cameron of Leeds, England, speaks on “The Enigma of Totalitarianism” after which, the “Spiritual Aspects of Psychotherapy” will be discussed by Karl Stem of Montreal. Allen Tate, from the University of Minnesota, will conclude the lectures with “How Not to Read Poetry.” The public is cordially invited.
Holzl and Don Corbett, named Daily to . the position. The Committee also selected the assistant managers and labor foreman.
Sullivan, a sophomore from Chicago^ Ill., will major in finance next year. He is currently president of Howard Hall and a member of the ten-man committee of the Chicago club. He has worked on the Center labor crew for the past two years.
Gugerty, from Ohio, Ill., will handle the othei* assistant manager post. He will major in economics next year and has also been a member of the Center’s work crew for the past two years.
Heading the labor crew next year will be Lennie* Muller. Muller is a resident of Riverside, Ill., and will major in accounting. He is president of Morrissey Hall and has worked in the Center during his first two years at the University.
If the Student Senate approves, Daily plans on reorganizing the house committee of the Center. According to Daily, this reorganization of the committee will help obtain more student participation in Center activities.
“The new management will work toward making the Student Center more accessible to all students by inaugurating and promoting greater use of the Center in its role as the living room of the University,” emphasized the new manager.
Anyone interested in managing the Center during the summer, especially Vetville residents, is requested by Daily to see him in the manager’s office.
Spiritual Commission Plans Lectures on Mary's Positions
The Student Senate Spiritual Commission is sponsoring a series of lectures discussing the position of Mary in rda-tion to the soul of the individual and the world. Mike Crowe is the chairman.
The first lecture is tonight at 7:3O in the Law Auditorium. The speaker is The Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., and his topic is “The Woman Whom Even God Dreamed Of.”	.
Second in the series will be on May 2, again after the Novena, in the Law Auditorium. John Logan will speak on '• “The Marian Imagery in the Nature of Poetry.” The third and final lecture is on May 9, when The Rev. Edward O’Connor, C.S.C., discusses “The Si*-nificance of Devotion to the Blessed Virgin in the New Era of Human History.”
F
aiffim'wiaw iFmama
Eighteen Seniors Named For Wilson Fellowships
Eighteen Univei‘sity of Notre Dame seniors have been awarded Woodrow Wilson National Fellowships for graduate study during the 1958-59 school year. About 1,000 grants were made throughout the nation to June graduates interested in a college teaching career. The Notre Dame group is believed to be the fourth largest in the country and the largest at any Catholic college or university.
The expanded Woodrow Wilson Fellowship program, which includes grants in the humanities, social sciences and, for the first time this year, natural sciences, has been underwritten by a grant of nearly 25 million dollars from the Ford Foundation.
The Notre Dame winners are Robert Bowman, Michael Crowe, Peter DeVito, William Dorenbusch, George Francis, Gerald Goodwin, William Griffith, Ernest Haberkern, David Karnath, John Kearns, James McDonald, Paul McGraw, Paul Moran, George Oser, Steve Piacsek, Michael Schork, John Steczynsky, and Thomas Walsh.
Martzell, Whitney to Debate In National Debate Tourney
Senior Jack Martzell and Freshman Jay Whitney will represent Notre Dame this week end in the National InterCollegiate Debate Tournament to be held at West Point. Attending the tournament will be the top 34 debating teams in the country, vying for the title of national debating champion.
Notre Dame, along with Northwestern, Wayne State, Xavier, and Illinois (Navy Pier), will represent district 5. Last year Notre Dame was defeated in the quarter-finals by Fordham.
The Notre Dame team of Martzell and Whitney took fourth place in the Judge Marx Tournament at Xavier University last month. They were beaten in the semi-finals by Augustana. In the offing is the Marquette University Tournament on May 9 and 10.
DANCE TOMORROW
A Senate-sponsored dance will be held in the LaFortune Student Center from 8 to 11:30 tomorrow evening. The dance floor will have a night club effect. Entertainment during the intermission will be provided by students presenting short skits. The music will be provided by Gene Bertondni and his band. The admission charge is $1.25 a couple.
18
Meeting Held Here By Architect Society
Architects from four Midwestern states convened here April 17, 18, and 19 for a regional conference of the American Institute of Architects.
“Urban Planning and the Architect” was the theme of the sessions which were held principally at the Morris Inn. Frank Montana, head of the department of architecture and president of the Indiana Society of Architects, was host to more than 100 members of the AIA’s Great Lakes District which includes Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, and Kentucky.
Highlighting the conference were addresses by Albert Mayer, New York City architect and city planning authority, and Dr. Henry D. Hinton, professor of chemistry at the University of Notre Dame. Mayer spoke on “City and Town Planning” and Hinton spoke on “The Nuclear Age and City Planning.”
Twelve men engaged in architecture, city planning and allied fields participated in a seminar on “Urban Design and Planning.” Charles J. Marr of New Philadelphia, Ohio, president of the Architects Society of Ohio, served as moderator for the discussions.
Mayer has directed housing, redevelopment and city planning projects in New York City, St. Louis, and Cincinnati as well as in - British Columbia, Israel, and India. He has served as a consultant to the United Nations and UNESCO, the Ford Foundation, and federal housing agencies.
Freshmen, Sophomores Take Mathematics Test Tomorrow
Freshmen and sophomores will take part in a 2’/>-hour mathematics competition tomorrow at 2 p.m. in Nieuw-land Science Hall. The examination will consist of eight mathematical problems, and will be judged on the basis of the ingenuity, imaginativeness, and originality employed in the solutions.
In the years that the contest has been held, the winner rarely solves more than three or four of the difficult problems. Most of them require a proof, and test the students’ mathematical ingenuity, rather than achievement.
I<ast year’s winners iri the freshman division, Tom Banchoff and Herb Moeller, will be hack to compete in the sophomore division.	.
MICKEY CARROLL
Vocalist at Freshman Formal
Frosh Dance with Laine At 'Formal1 Next Friday
Freshmen at the Freshman Formal will swing to the music of Buddy Laine and his “Sweet Band” next Friday night. Featured is Mickey Carroll, female vocalist.
Before Buddy Laine broke into his , own, he was under the guidance of Sammy Kaye. His music is reminiscent of Kaye with the added “whispering” style that Laine is famous for. Laine has recently appeared at the Chevy Chase, the Aragon, and the Oh Henry ballrooms in addition to his other appearances at major night clubs and colleges.
Laine is under contract now with Decca Records. His latest hits are Everybody's Doing it Now and If it Hadn't Been for You. His band has ten pieces in addition to his conducting and the singing of Mickey Carroll.
The Frolic committee has completed its final preparations for a raffle of free bid, accomodations, tuxedo, car, memory book, and Communion Breakfast ticket. The raffle will take place when 500 tickets are sold.
Last year, 75 students vied for the j prizes, a choice of several books from a I list of classic mathematical works. Jun- I iors and seniors will compete in the I .William Lowell Putnam competition, an | intercollegiate contest held later in the V year.
, No registration is necessary to enter : the contest, and students of any college are invited to enter. •	’
The Scholastic
his death, Prince Albert, the nation’s style setter wore one to an affair of great importance, the arrival of Bismark.
The cummerbund dropped out of the picture for some 30 or 40 years after this until it appeared in The United States around 1920. It has been theorized that the idea was brought over by the AEF returning from Europe after the war.
An intense reading of the literature of the Gay Twenties reveals that this generation popularized this piece of ap-
ruinmcdinnils:
their history and progress
parel. In the earlier novels of Scott Fitzgerald and Sinclair Lewis the word “cummerbund,” seldom appears although the word “sash” is rather frequently mentioned. Near the end of this era it ’ seems that the cummerbund had evolved j to its present form.
After the stock market crash and be-cause of widespread poverty the cummerbund was not heard of very much. -However, after World War II it return-ed in its present form. It is now many* ■ hued and is almost always worn on -formal occasions.
The history of the kummerbund (variation of cummerbund) has been long and intei'esting. Webster gives a common definition of this highly developed piece of wearing apparel as a “sash or band worn around the waist.”’ This, however, gives little evidence of its origin. A thorough investigation of the word itself reveals that it is derived L from the Hindustani kamarband mean-| ing loin bandage.
Tracing this back into history we find that the word came into popular usage after the disastrous defeat of the British in India during June, 1756. On June 20, 1756, the defeated English troops were thrust into a small cell later to become j the infamous Black Hole of Calcutta. [ Of the 146 prisoners, only 23 survived I the night. Leftenant Edwin Wilson was one of these.
When he returned to England shortly afterwards he first used the word, giving it the English pronunciation. His j knowledge of this word appears to have been garnered from the night in the ? Black Hole.
Because of the intense heat in the I cell all the prisoners, English soldiers, 1 stripped down to keep cool. They wrapped rags around their middles (in order to preserve the English sense of propriety) in imitation of the natives whom they had seen.
The intense nationalistic spirit of latter 18th century England picked up this mode of apparel and used it as a symbol of English pluck in the face of tremendous odds. Soon the nobility took up the cummerbund and began wearing a variation of the present cummerbund at state affairs.
It was not until the reign of Queen Victoria, however, that the cummerbund received official recognition. Just before
April 25, 1958
At the Movies
COLFAX
Run Silent, Run Deep: (Apr. 25-May 1) Submarine commander Claris Gable is pitched against his executive officer Burt Lancaster in a rift over tactics in hot Japanese waters. The theme is standard, the plot never goes . below the surface, but the action of a few good sea battles keeps it interesting.	7 j:
GRANADA
Bridge on the River Kwai: (Apr. 25-May 1) William Holden and Alee Guiness provide the action and color for this wide screen spectacular that pulls the viewer into the Burma jungle during World War II.
PALACE
Beautiful But Dangerous: (Apr. 24-May 1) Gina Lollobrigida puts European and Russian landscape into the background while she decides on . a mate from three Continental eligibles. She even trys to sing and joke on occasion. If you like dubbed-in sound, it’s all yours.
Along with Gina: Count Five and Die. Jeffrey Hunter and Anne Marie s Duringer.
RIVER PARK
Sad Sack: (Apr. 24-27) Jerry Lewis dons a uniform and portrays the unforgettable dupe of wartime mis-maneuvers.
Also: Hear Me Good. Hal March drags himself through a con-man role.
Mister Rock and Roll: (Apr. 28-30) Eighty-six minutes of the popular topic of the generation, starring everyone in general, no one in particular.
Co-feature: Devil’s Hairpin. Cornel Wilde is the retired king of the speedway, and Jean Wallace is his Jaguar-type sweetheart. A little slow in . the long stretches.	:;
STATE	..
Operation Mad Ball: (Apr. 25, 26) Military merry-go-round with jack Lemmon and Mrs. Bing Crosby (Kathy Grant).
Also: Count Three and Pray.
Drag Strip Riot: (Apr. 27-30) A winner from way back.	.
Co-hit: The Cool and The Crazy.	:
WASHINGTON HALL	? IS
Slaughter on Tenth Avenue: (Apr. 26) One of the best casted and di-',/:-rected films of the year, barring some of the frightening aspects of New v. Oyj York’s waterfront. Richard Egan and Jan Sterling. 1:20, 3:30, 6:20, 8:35.
—Terry Shea. -T.'
■ - -	s
- ' . - * ' ' -
The South Bend Tribune has made available its facilities to seniors in the Department of Communication Arts who are interested in going into newspaper work. For several hours each week, during the second semester, students cover news beats with reporters and photographers and edit stories and write headlines on the copy desk. This project was arranged through John Powers, managing editor of the Tribune, who is a former Scholastic editor and a graduate of the class of ’52. Depending on their interest, other seniors in the Department of Communication Arts are working on magazine projects, radio and television production, and play production.
Mfl» Mathews, left, edHs a story with Ray Kemper and George McCarthy, ‘Tribune'
copy edfton.
22	~	The Scholastic
Ito dorff- have to go to college, to kn»f too! after eoftog, drinktog orri smoking die best-hreoth Irtsh&os c^oft ore,&^^^SBEVG
&W! Ohly gr
;«-NEW YORK
Ideally located—within minutes of all shopping, entertainment and the business districts. Steps from Riverside Drive and Central Park.
•••••••••••••••••••• Newest and largest on Upper Broad-
way — 650 attractive, comfortable rooms each with radio and telephone.
Coffee Shop — fine food moderately priced.
Smart Cocktail Lounge—excellent food and beverages, TV.
Personalized, friendly service.
Banquet and Meeting facilities — 25 to 750 persons. jjK
25 stories of Hospitality § . from $3-50 per person, double
HOTEL MANHATTAN
TOWERS
BROADWAY AND 76TH STREET PHONE: SUSQUEHANNA 7-1900
CABLE: MANHOTOWERS.NEW YORK

Open House
Continued from page 13
Displays will be judged Saturday-morning. There will be prizes for the best department and individual displays, which will be awarded on the basis of originality, public appeal, engineering challenge, and the student demonstrator’s knowledge of his subject.
WSND will broadcast Saturday and Sunday from the lobby of the Engineering Building, and will do a remote coverage of the chariot race from Cartier Field on Saturday.
The behind-the-scenes work of the “Explorama” has been handled by Norris, a senior in chemical engineering from Middletown, Ohio. Norris is a member of the Joint Engineering Council and business manager of the Technical Review. Assisting him with the planning and handling of the Open House are: Ted Amberg, auto show; Chet Ray-mo and Frank Moore, program; Vince Naimoli, business manager; Steve Sweeney, outdoor display; Joe Higgins, secretary; and Bill McAdam and Dick Ken-ville, publicity.
Also Jack Adams, chemical engineering; Chuck Kappart, aeronautical engineering; Guy Weismantel, displays, tours, and guides; Jack Lano, chariot race; Denny Ready and Bob O’Shea, metallurgy; Ron Koontz and Virg Minnick, electrical engineering; Dick Smale, mechanical engineering; Brian Quinn, air show; and Bob Hoffman, architecture.
WSND
Continued from page 16
Heading the sales department next year will be Pete DeGross, sophomore in the College of Commerce from Mountain Lakes, N. J. He has been with the staff for two years and will be in charge of all sales, both local and national.
“Every station manager in the last 10 years,” said Albright, “has expected and predicted great success for the next year. I too look forward to a successful year in all aspects of radio programing, finance, and new improvements to the physical plant. I am quite certain that our goals can be reached and WSND will be serving Notre Dame better than ever before.”
CLUB ELECTIONS
Campus clubs are reminded by the organizations commission of the Student Senate that elections must be held by May 1. The names of the newly-elected officers must be submitted by May 7.
24
The Scholastic
L
Scotto

GRACE, FR. HOLDERITH, AND THURN ( Goff coach and two co-captains
Baseball Team Avenges Loss to Michigan For Their Fourth Wm In First Six Games
Golfers Undefeated; Play Here Tomorrow
Tomorrow morning and afternoon on the Burke Memorial Course at Notre Dame, the Irish will host Northern Illinois State and Western Illinois College in a golf match. The Irish carry a perfect 4-0 record into the meet and are favored to escape tomorrow with an unblemished mark. A morning round, based on best ball, and afternoon play, based on medal play, will determine the outcome of the triangular.
The’ golf squad won all three of its matches in a meet involving Wabash, Bradley, Bellarmine and the Irish in a quadrangular last Monday aftemon in Crawfordsville, Ind. The golfers scored triumphs over Wabash, 2454-1154; Bradley, 29-7 and Bellarmine, 2154-14J4.
Co-captain Chuck Thum tied with Bill Locker of Wabash for medalist honors, shooting a 147 for the 36 holes. Thum turned in scores of 77 and 70. Irish senior Lloyd Syron, holder of two monograms, stroked a 150, based on two 75’s. Sophomore Frank Hund equaled Syron’s total, also accomplished on a pair of 75’s. Marty Carroll, a senior who picked up his first monogram last spring, was fourth best for the Irish with a 75-76—151. Tom Kose, another sophomore, carded a 79-78—157 and Gary Webster, a junior, had a 78-80— 158.
The Irish opened their season successfully last Saturday at Burke Memorial Golf Course by defeating-' Bellar- -Continued on page 28
A smashing 18-11 victory over Michigan at Cartier Field Tuesday gave Coach Jake Kline’s baseball nine their fourth victory in six regular season games.
The Irish started fast and scored seven runs in the first two innings. In the first a walk, to Dick Selcer, Bud Trapp’s triple and a sacrifice fly by Jim Morris produced a 2-0 lead.
After Michigan had scored in the top of the second, the Irish broke loose for five in the bottom half of the inning.
Bob Broemmel opened with a walk, catcher Ed Wojcik singled and Gene Duffy walked to fill the bases. Selcer’s walk forced in a run, and Trapp singled in two more. Morris then drove home the final two runs of the inning with a single.
Notre Dame made it 12-1 in the fifth as the Irish scored five more runs. Singles by Trapp, Morris, and Captain Bob Senecal produced the first run. Then successive singles by Broemmel and Wojcik drove home two more tallies. Pitcher Chuck Symeon drew a walk and Duffy’s hit up the middle plated two more runs to cap the rally.
Michigan scored three in the sixth on Bob Sealby’s long home run to right field.
In the last of the seventh the Irish put the game on ice. Broemmel drew a walk, Wojcik was safe on an error, and Duffy walked to load the bases. Selcer cracked a base clearing triple down the left field line. Morris singled for another run, and scored on a wild pitch after pinch-hitter Frank Finnegan’s single.
Michigan scored its final runs in the last two innings to make the score read 18-11 in favor of the Irish.
Symeon got credit for the win although he needed relief help from Frank Carpin in the late innings.
The win gave the Irish a split with Michigan in the two game series. Monday at Ann Arbor the Wolverines dealt the Irish a 13 to 7 defeat, as footballer John Herrnstein set down Notre Dame with just seven hits.
Carpin started for the Irish but was relieved by Ed Kirchmier who was charged with the loss. Morris had a pair of hits and Trapp hit a home run for the Irish.
Coach ■ Kline’s basebailers, ;who? finished fourth in the NCAA tournament last year, opened their preseason slate with a southern tour during Easter vacation.
In the fourth game of the tourney, FSU again decisioned Notre Dame, this In the six games played the Irish could do no better than an even split.
They opened the tour on April 4 with a four to two victory over Georgia at Athens.
Symeon, and sophomores Carpin and Jim Hannon split the pitching chores with the victory going to Carpin.
First baseman Morris drove home the winning runs in the seventh inning with a two run double.
Next, the Irish moved on to the Florida State Invitational Tournament in ~ Tallahassee to face Wisconsin, West Virginia and Florida State.
In the opening round of the tourney, Irish miscues afield gave FSU a 5-2 vic- , tory over Symeon. Duffy led the'attack with a triple and a home run.
Notre Dame found its batting eye in the second game of the day as they trounced Wisconsin, 11-8.
Carpin was the winning pitcher and helped his own cause with a pair of hits. Senecal, Morris, and rightfielder Broemmel all had two hits apiece. The big blow was Senecal’s long home run in the eighth inning.
Shortstop Joe Genesser’s triple in the ninth inning sparked a three run rally that gave Notre Dame a 6-4 win over West Virginia.
Symeon, third, of four Irish hurlers, got credit for the win.
Continued on page 32
COACH JAKE KUNE McGraw off Cartier
April 25, 1958
PICTURE DAY OPENS PRACTICE
Co-captains Ecuyer and Puntillo lead the charge
90 Candidates Report for Spring Practice;
25 Lettermen Foretell 'Representative* Season
Spring practice for the football squad got underway April 14th as approximately 90 candidates answered Coach Terry Brennan’s opening call. Missing will be thirteen monogram winners of the 1957 team, but 25 lettermen are returning.
Lost from the team through graduation are Co-captain and end Dick Prendergast, tackles Pat Dolan and John McGinley, guards Bob Gaydos and Paul Djubasak, centers (Co-captain) Ed Sullivan and Frank Kuchta, quarterback Carl Hebert, halfbacks Dick Lynch, Aubrey Lewis, and Bob Ward, and fullbacks Chuck Lima and Ron DeNardo.
Monogram men returning are ends Jim Colosimo, Gary Myers, Monty Stickles, Bob Wetoska and Dick Royer. Tackles are headed by Co-captain Chuck Puntillo, Bronko Nagurski, Don Lawrence and Frank Geremia. Co-captain Al Ecuyer leads the group of returning guards with Jim Schaaf, Ken Adamson and Al Sabal backing him up. Bob Scholtz and Dave Hurd are back at center, while Bob Williams, George Izo and Don White return at quarterback. Halfbacks include Jim Just, Frank Reynolds, Jim Crotty and Pat Doyle. Halfback Dick Selcer is currently the second baseman on the Irish baseball team. Nick Pietrosante and Ron Toth at fullback
finish out the list of returning lettermen.
A total of twenty practice sessions will be held, and the spring session will be ended by the annual Old Timers on May 10, in Notre Dame Stadium, with the varsity taking on a team of graduating seniors and many former players who return for the occasion.
Despite the number of monogram men returning, Coach Brennan had this to say about the situation: “This probably seems like a large number of returning monogram winners. However, it is to be remembered that a good many boys earned monograms as a result of seeing considerable service in the final two games of the season, which we won by rather large scores. Also, these are the same boys who a year ago made up the squad which was expected to do well if it won half of its games. Now, one year later, I trust they are not expected to be world-beaters.	,
“At the same time, I’d never undersell any of these boys, nor any <of those being graduated, who made so many all-out efforts last fall that resulted in our gaining a record of seven wins and three losses.”
During the twenty days that are allowed to them by NCAA rules, Coach Brennan, and his assistants will seek to accomplish three things. First they will
be trying to improve individual performances, polish players in the fundamentals, and correct any weaknesses noticed last year. Second they will be ‘ trying out some new ideas and patterns to find out if they are worth adding to the team’s assortment of play. And -third the spring session will be used as a proving ground for freshmen and will give the coaches an idea of the ability of the younger players.
There has been some shifting around of freshmen players, in an attempt to find out what position each individual < is best suited for. In some cases the changes may be permanent, but in other cases there may be further changes before a player1 finds his best playing ( position.
Among the older players there has been only one shift in position of note. J Ollie Flor, a junioi* from Seattle, Wash., has been moved over to tackle from his former spot at end.
Jim Colosimo, a senior from Eveleth, Minn., has sustained the only serious injury so far this Spring. Colosimo was hurt on the first day of practice, and j this is the third year in a row he has been hurt on picture-taking day, the first day. His dislocated shoulder will keep him out for the remainder of the Spring practice period.
■ I	■	■	♦
Bengal Boaters Meet k § To Form Campus Club ;
Last Monday evening in the Student Center students who performed in the i 1958 Bengal Bouts met to discuss the ; possibility of forming a club, exclusively for Bouts boxers.	/
Ed Ricciuti, winner of two welter-	f
weight championships in the last two	;
Bengal Bouts, conducted the meeting.	i
Because election of officers and a con-	*
stitution and requisites for the forma-	<
tion of any club on campus, elections	f
for the offices of president, vice-presi-	r |
dent, treasurer and secretary were held.	|
Ricciuti was elected president, Leigh-	3
ton Young, vice-president, Ross Franco,	d
secretary and Mick Gorham, treasurer.	'
The boxers agreed to ask Dominic Napolitano, coach of Bengals, to be moder- < ator of the proposed club.	}
One of the main purposes of the club, ! besides social functions, will be to turn the sponsoring of the Bengal Bouts back to the boxers themselves. This had ■ been the case before the Knights of Columbus accepted the duties of sponsor- < ing the bouts several years ago.' Ric-ciuti stressed that while the boxers appreciated the work of the Knights, the general arranging and conducting of the Bengals could best, and should be, performed by the boxers.
26
The Scholastic
RON SCHOENBERG
Irish Captain
Tennis Team Defeats 1 First Seven Opponents
By winning five matches on its annual Easter tour and knocking off its first two regular season opponents, Notre Dame’s tennis team has compiled a perfect 7-0 victory slate.
* Two of the seven victories were accomplished in the Cherry Blossom Tournament in Washington, D. C. The finals of the tourney which were to be between Notre Dame and Michigan were rained I out and consequently the championship round will be included in the dual match between the Irish and the Wolverines here at Notre Dame on May 5.
> The Irish opened the season in Louisville, Ky., against Bellai-mine College. The Irish swept the match by a 9-0
, count. Max Brown, Ron Schoenberg, the team captain, Hector Carbello, Sergio Garza, Chuck Vanoncini and Charlie Stephens swept to easy victories. Then ’ the teams of Brown and Carbello, Schoenberg and Garza, and Vanoncini and Stephens teamed up to complete
, the shutout. The next Irish victim was the University of Cincinnati who also fell by a 9-0 score. The Irish then swept by Marshall College of Hunters-
P ville, West Virginia, by a 10-0 count. Dee Stephenson added the tenth point with his singles victory.
The Irish continued their winning ways in the Cherry Blossom Tournament in Washington. They whipped George Washington with their fourth * straight shutout by a 9-0 score. In the semifinal round, however, Georgetown managed to score one point. Brown easily won the opening match but Schoenberg fell before Pete King in a three set match, 2-6, 6-2 and 6-4. The
Irish then went on to sweep the rest of the matches and won handily, 8-1.
This past week end, the Irish began their home season with victories over Kalamazoo and Western Michigan by 5-4 and 8-1 scores, respectively. Brown lost his first match of the year to Jerry Dodson of Kalamazoo by 8-6 and 7-5 counts. Schoenberg won but Carbello and Garza lost to leave the team behind 3-1. Vanoncini and Stephens then came through for Notre Dame and knotted the score but Brown and Carbello lost the first doubles match. Rebounding, the Irish swept the remaining doubles matches to gain the 5-4 victory. Carbello lost the only match to Western Michigan as the Irish swept to an easy 8-1 victory.
Vanoncini and Stephens are the only members of the team that have not suffered a defeat. Brown, Schoenberg and Garza have been beaten once while Carbello has been defeated twice. The team has only lost one doubles match.
Today, at 2:45 pan., the Irish will meet Dennison College of Ohio here at Notre Dame. Dennison is not expected to be too strong but their top player, Shaw Emmons, is highly regarded. Tomorrow, at 1:30 pan., the Irish will meet Toledo University also here at the Notre Dame courts. On Monday, Northwestern will visit the Irish. The Wildcats beat ND last year and are expected to be one of the strongest teams that the Irish meet this season.
Track Team Travels To Drake Tomorrow
After opening their outdoor season last week at the Ohio Relays in Columbus, the Notre Dame track team journeys to Des Moines, Iowa, this week end to participate in the annual Drake Relays. After showing well at Ohio State the Wilsonmen have high hopes for a very successful campaign.
There were no team points awarded in the Ohio Relays. Although Indiana, Ohio State, Western Michigan, and the Detroit Track Club dominated the meet, the Irish cindermen achieved one first place and some other impressive performances. The sprint medley relay team, composed of Joe Foreman, Pete Salsich, Barclay Ewart, and Dale VandenBerg, garnered first place in that event. Ron Gregory, not yet eligible for the varsity and running unattached at Columbus, finished second in the mile run. Tom Sanfacon placed fourth and basketball ace Tom Hawkins fifth in the high jump. Jack Cote was the runner-up in the broad jump while Ken Scar-
JOE FOREMAN
Relay ace
borough heaved the discus far enough -for fourth place in his specialty. The Irish two-mile relay team finished third and the 880-yard relay combination.. wound up fifth.	:
After the Drake classic, Notre Dame , will travel to East Lansing for a dual meet with Michigan State on May 3. ■] The following week the Irish return ] home for a Cartier Field clash with Pitt’s Panthers.
Keglers Plan Banquet I After Excellent Year
With competition for the 1957-58 sea- | son concluded, the Notre Dame Kampus \ I Kegler Leagues will top off a most sue- J cessful campaign by holding a banquet. I Chairman Lew Solomon disclosed that I the event will take place on May 1 it l the Knights of Columbus Hall.	I
Team champions in the Kegler Leagues I included: Detroit “A” Club, California j Club; Architects; Cleveland Club No. 2;	|
and the Padres. The latter squad was ! composed of faculty priests. Many of ] the league races were not decided untfl l the final two weeks of action. Probably ? I the most interesting fight took placein l the early Wednesday league, with - the'. "I Detroit “A” edging the Michillos. f >1
In the special Kampus Keglersl957- | 58 tourney, the California Club defeated ^1 the Holy Rollers five for the title. In tim l final standings of the Classic Leagu^ ^ which is the top league on campus,ViTg=;| Minnick’s squad nipped the Brunswick ^ l Shop by one half point. In additioa to /1 Minnick, the champs’ roster induded i l Fred Vida, Kirk Wagensellery Dan HiJ-; ^l loran, and Mick Redohl.
■ -■ -
April 25, 1958
Spring Interhall Program Features Outdoor Sports
The interhall softball, volleyball, and baseball leagues all started play a week ago last Tuesday, and each league has a number of undefeated teams. All three leagues have competition Tuesday through Friday each week.
The softball league, which has the most teams of any of the three leagues, has five different divisions. The schedule in the softball league runs through May 2, and the teams play a round robin schedule to determine the winner in each division. There will be an elimination tournament at the end of the season for the winners of the various divisions.
The Rochester Club and Calumet City have both won two games without a loss in the first division. Capital District has won its only game.
Keenan is the only unbeaten club in the second division. Keenan has taken its first two contests.
Howard (Gold) and Breen-Phillips both won two contests without a setback in the third division, and Dillon shows the same record in the fourth division.
No team in the fifth division has an unblemished record with the possible exception of Stanford, which has won one and has a disputed contest with Badin. The outcome of this game is still undecided. Badin, in the fourth division, also has won one and has the disputed decision on its record.
The New England Club is the only other team in the first division to win a game, and it has also dropped one game.
Morrissey, in the second division, sports an identical 1-1 record while no team in the third division, other than Howard and Breen-Phillips, has won any games. In the fourth division, Lyons has won one game and dropped one and is in second place in this division. Badin trails Lyons with its record of one win and the disputed game.
In the fifth division, Farley has won one of its games and is in second place behind Stanford.
The Rochester Club, along with the Capital District Club, rates as the favorite in the Club division of the softball league. Rochester won its first game by the lopsided score of 28-9 and took its second game, 8-7, by scoring four runs in the last inning.
The Rochester Club was led in these two games by pitchers Jerry Curran and Mike West and by West and Tom Glavin who supplied a good part of the batting power.
The game between Rochester and the Capital District, which could decide the
Continued on page 32
TYLER PICKS THE PENNANT RACES
AMERICAN LEAGUE
1.	NEW YORK ..........This will be the biggest runaway in baseball history. I
2.	DETROIT ............Most improved dub in the league. The switch of Kuenn - -
to the outfield and the addition of Billy Martin will be the difference.
3.	CLEVELAND ...........Not as bad off as everyone thinks. Newcomers will help.
4.	CHICAGO ............Who cares?
5.	BOSTON .............No pitching with little or no hitting except	for	Ted.	1
6.	BALTIMORE ..........Last year's finish was a mistake.	J,'
7.	KANSAS CITY________.They’ve improved a little but not much.	I
8.	WASHINGTON .........They should quit investigating baseball and	get	them- s
selves a team.	1
NATIONAL LEAGUE	j
1.	ST. LOUIS...........It will be tough beating the Braves but better pitching
plus Stan spell pennant.
2.	MILWAUKEE  ________Will not be as tough as last year.
3.	LOS ANGELES _______Even with the short fence, they’re a good club.	!
4.	CINCINNATI .........Big league hitting with minor league pitching.
5.	SAN FRANCISCO ......Antonelli and Mays are not enough.
6.	PHILADELPHIA .......They just don’t have it.
7.	PITTSBURGH .........?????	f
8.	CHICAGO ..........—.It should happen to the White Sox.
Golf
Continued from page 25
mine College of Louisville, Ky., 24^2-2/2. The Irish swept every match, with Webster leading the way in the afternoon play with an even par 71 for the 18 holes.
In the morning best ball match, Thurn and Carroll turned in a 73 and 74, respectively, to beat Vance Kennedy and Jim O’Hern of Bellarmine, 2^a to J6.
Hund and Co-captain Joe Grace parlayed a 74 and an 81 into a best ball 71 to defeat Jerry Flannery and Bud Jae-
1958 BENGAL BOUT CHAMPIONS
120 pounds
Roy Williams, Keenan Hall
127 pounds
Dennis Landry, Keenan Hall
139 pounds
Ross Franco, Farley Hall
147 pounds
Ed Ricciuti, Sorin Hall
157 pounds
Bill Moore, Dillon Hall
160 pounds
John Steinberg, Pangborn Hall
167 pounds
Bill Brelsford, Dillon Hall
177 pounds
Jerry Baugh, Pangborn Hall junior Heavyweight
Pat Healy, Breen-Phillips
Heavyweight
Dick Shulsen, Alumni Hcdl
ger of the visitors, also by a 2/2-/4	{
count.
In the third match of the morning, I sophomore Tom Adamson (76) and two- i year-monogram winner* Tom Garside 1 (74) won again by a 2^-j4 score over l| the Bellarmine team of Don Hinkelbein and Marty Donlon. The ND entries had : a best ball 69.
The afternoon matches, based strictly f on medal play, saw the Irish score four j victories. Syron carded a 73 and sophomores Christie Flanagan (74), Bud , Zesinger (75) and Tom Rose all scored 3-0 victories over their opponents. Rose was even par when his foe, Hinkelbein, ; withdrew. He went on to tally a 73.
Webster and sophomore Terry Lally, who had a 78, each won by scores of 2^2-in their matches.	,'
The prospects for a fine season are bright, according to The Rev. George L. Holderith, coach of the team. He has eight returning lettermen plus an outstanding sophomore group.
The monogram winners are headed by Co-captains Thurn and Grace, and other seniors Garside, Carroll, Syron, Joe Leslie and Jim Mrus. Don Williams is the only returning junior monogram winner, but Webster has shown considerable improvement. Top sophomores are Rose, Flanagan, Adamson, Lally and Zesinger.	.	.;
“We should be improved with the i additional help from the sophomores,” 1 said Father Holderith, “but it will be | hard to equal last season’s record of 13	|
and two.”	3
The Scholastic
Irish Handball Club Ties For Intercollegiate Crown
>, The Notre Dame Handball club tied for first place with Rensselaer Poly-* technic Institute in the National Intercollegiate Handball Championships, held in the Town Club of Chicago, April 5, 6 and 7.
Members of the team were Tom Mark, f	Ed Banks, Bill Scanlon and Ray Hal-
’ ing.
4 Mark, playing in the number one singles, went all the way to the finals before bowing to Don Perez of Roosevelt of Chicago. The scores of the match were 21-13, 16-21 and 21-5. Perez has now won the Intercollegiate two years in a row.
> Dick Beeler of the University of Texas defeated Banks in the first round of the number two singles by scores of 21-13 and 21-15. Beeler was the eventual winner in this division.
In doubles competition, Scanlon and Haling of Notre Dame won their first > match but were eliminated by the eventual winners, Ed Koshner and Stan Goldstein of Washington University of St. Louis. Koshner and Goldstein won the same event last year and are termed by many experts to be the best doubles team in the history of college handball. > RPI scored four points in the number one singles and four more in doubles play. Their doubles team lost in the i first round, which was double elimination, enabling them to continue and finally tie Notre Dame in total point honors.
GERITY GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
The annual Gerity Golf championship will be held on the Burke Memorial Golf Course during the next four weeks. Players must qualify for the tournament by turning in one 18-hole score to the golf shop no later than tomorrow evening.
The tournament will be a match play event with players divided into flights according to. their qualifying scores. Players will be assigned handicaps also on the basis of these scores. Two-thirds of* the difference in handicaps will be used during the individual matches.
Two matches must be played every week. Matches should be regular 18-hole rounds, but they can be either nine-hole contests or 18-hole putting contests if an 18-hole play-off is impossible.
Trophies will be awarded to the winners and the runners-up in each flight.
TIME OUT
One of the leading sports stories of the week concerned an old friend of Notre Dame’s, John Castellani, who did a fine job in directing Seattle U.’s basketball forces over the past two years. It seems that John had a little trouble with the fathers of the NCAA concerning illegal aid to athletes. Castellani upon resignation claimed that he felt himself to have been in--nocent of the charges claimed against him.
Because I don’t know all the facts I would hesitate to make judgment upon his guilt or innocence. However I would express the opinion that Castellani was acting in good faith both in his actions while Athletic Director at Seattle, and also in resigning for the good of the University. Look for another school to grab him quickly. He brought Seattle from mediocrity in two years and there are other schools who can use this service.
BASEBALL
After a mediocre southern tour, in which the basebailers were rained out several times, Coach Jake Kline’s troops have shown well winning four and losing only two. Their only losses have come at the hands of a pair of fine clubs, Ohio University and Michigan.
The only two real weak spots seem to be lack of pitching depth and one more outfielder who hits sharply. Chuck Symeon has turned in several fine efforts but after him the rest would seem to leave more than a little to be desired. With Senecal and Duffy in left and center fields, the Irish have power but right field so far has been something of a disappointment. Several have been tried and none has hit with any consistency. If the Irish get help, on the mound and in right, they could be as tough as they were last season.
FOOTBALL
With the opening of spring practice last season, Coach Brennan stated that the Irish forces should be representative next season, but we expect that his hopes and enthusiasms must run considerably higher than this.
The Irish are loaded. They should be within the top two or three teams in the country at least. Barring injuries and other unforeseen incidents they might well go undefeated.
It is difficult at present to see where any sophomores will break into the first two strings. Myron Pottios and Ray Ratkowski seem to have the best chance right now though it is too early to really tell.
Too, it is a shame that scheduling difficulties made it unable to play Michigan State and Oklahoma next year, when for the first time in quite a while we would have been able to face both of them on an equal basis.
GLOBETROTTER TOUR
Basketballers Bob Devine and John McCarthy both expressed complete satisfaction with their recent tour of duty with the College All-Stars. McCarthy made the whole trip while Devine was limited to 13-games because of a pressing speaking engagement.
TYLER PICKS THE BASEBALL RACES
In conclusion we would ask you Sox and Cub fans to be a little under-standing about Tyler’s appraisal of your ball clubs. You see he’s had several unfortunate social relationships in the Windy City and it has bittered him against the whole place.—MJ1.
April 25, 1958
CANOE TRIPS into Quetico-Superior Wilderness. Only $5.75 per diem. For com-plete information, write: Bill Rom, Box 717C, Canoe Country Outfitters, Ely, Minnesota.
ESTABLISHED 1SI*
from our University Shop ATTRACTIVE SPORTWEAR FOR LATE SPRING AND SUMMER
Our Navy Blue Flannel Blazers, $40 Our Cotton Corduroy Odd Jackets, $30 Odd Jackets of Hand- Woven India Madras in Unusual Plaids or Strifes, $35 Tropical Worsted Odd Trousers in Oxford or Charcoal Grey and Olive, $19.50
Washable Dacron*-Rayon-and-Mohair Odd Trousers in Oxford or Medium Grey, or Brown, $17.50
White or Khaki Chino Odd Trousers, $ 10.50 Plain or Striped Lisle Polo Shirts, $4 Jacket sizes 35 to 42. Trouser waists 29 to 34
*Du Pont’s fiber
Ifto fhmisMngs^ats Stoots
74 E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. JJM.S. Bldg.
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Servins ND Students and o
Faculty for the Ninth Year
•	1,500 suits in stock
•	All the newest styles
•	Boys’ size 2 to Men’s 56
•	No Deposit for ND Students
•	See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. ,. . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
. Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
Special price on new Single Breasted Tropical Tux including all accessories $59.95
LOGAN'S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
The Scholastic
PROM TIME ....
Louie’s Tuxedo
Rental
9 Blocks West of Bus Stop on Washington 222 LAUREL AT 7-0575
Lowest Prices in Town
Picnics
Outings Any kind of trip
CHARTER A
BuJLd.
JOHN BIRK, agent 158 Alumni Hall
WHERE NOTRE DAME SHOPS WITH CONFIDENCE
Fine Quality Diamonds
Nationally Advertised Watches Jewelry and Gift Items
Jewelry and Watch Repairing

am
126 N. Michigan. Ph. CE 2-1202
AQUINAS
UBIAIY aid BNKSMP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend A Non-Profit Organization
Human Relations Series Opens Wednesday Night
Dr. John Kane, head of the Sociology Department, will open the Human Relations Seminar Wednesday evening at 8. The seminar will continue on May 8, when the speaker will be The Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., and on May 13 with Professors Thomas Coflfee and Donald Barrett, both of the Sociology Department.
The purpose of the program is to create an awareness and better understanding of social problems in the United States as they affect Catholic college students. Dr. Kane will present a summary of the integration of ethnic and minority groups in American society in a paper entitled “The Changing Nation.”
“The Foreign Student and the University” will be discussed by Father Pelton, who is the vice-president of the Catholic Committee on .Inter-American Student Problems.
Professors Barrett and Coflfee will conclude the Seminar with “What Can Be Done at Notre Dame.” Their views will be followed by a discussion.
The Human Relations Club is sponsoring the program with financial assistance from the Student Government. Each discussion will take place in the Student Center. All students at St. Mary’s and Notre Dame are invited.
BOOKMEN MEMBERSHIP
The Bookmen have opened their drive for new members. It will run until May 6. Anyone interested may send his application to, or inquire at 5 Sorin Hall.
Over 500 Summer Courses...
SCHOOL Of COMMERCE, ACCOUNTS AND FINANCE
•
SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
DIVISION OF GENERAL EDUCATION
SCHOOL OF RETAILING •
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCE
•
WASHINGTON SQUARE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCE
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
A NOTH DANK TRADTHOtC
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NIUS AVENUE
WILBU2 JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HESlN PASS!
m Aim mA tmu point Avmw
Don't let that "drowsy fed-jpg” cramp your style in class ... or wben you’re "hitting die bools**. Take a NoDoa Awakener! In a few minutes* you’ll be your normal best... wide awake... alert! Yout doctor will tell you—NbDos
15 TABLETS, 35e
Ndpoz
A W A K E N E R S
are offered to undergraduates in good standing. Morning, afternoon and evening dosses. Dates vary for early summer,, mid-summer and post sessions in the various divisions.
o
Send for new, combined Bulletin SS57
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
Undergraduate Summer Sessieas CoumMtlee
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
April 25, 1958
Basebail
Continued from page 25
time on a wild pitch in the ninth inning with the bases loaded.
Symeon, who came in in relief of Charlie Scrivanich in the seventh, walked the bases full and then uncorked a wild pitch to give FSU the win.
Selcer’s triple with two on had tied the score in the top of the seventh.
The final two games of the tourney were cancelled because of rain.
In the final game of the road trip the Fort Knox (Kentucky) service team walloped the Irish, 10-2. Carpin was the losing pitcher.
The home opener at Cartier Field April 15 saw the Irish jump out to a 7-2 lead then have to call on reliefer Hannan to save a 7-5 triumph.
Scrivanich, who had pitched three hit ball until the ninth, got the win.
Genesser and Scrivanich led the Irish
Smedley
Mennen Spray Deodorant for Men keeps on working all day long—working to prevent odor, working to check perspiration. For this non-stop protection, get Mennen!
60c and *1.00
hitters with three hits each. Selcer and third baseman Finnegan had two apiece.
The sophomore lefthander Carpin was the whole show as Notre Dame took its second win of the regular season from Indiana, 12-10 in ten innings.
Carpin fanned 19 batters, drove in five runs, and won his own game with a three run homer in the last of the tenth inning.
The Irish had jumped out to a 9-3 lead after six innings but the Hoosiers broke loose for six in the top of the seventh, then went ahead on an unearned run in the tenth.
A week-end series with Ohio University last Friday and Saturday saw the Irish split a pair of games, winning 15-2 on Friday and losing their first regular season game, 8-5, on Saturday.
Friday, Symeon hurled two hit ball, struck out 14, and the Irish hitters went on a 15 hit spree.
Trapp, and catcher Wojcik, with three
hits apiece, and Senecal with a triple and a home run, paced the attack.
Saturday, the Ohio nine turned the j । tables on the Irish, winning 8-5 in a j rain delayed contest.	jj
Ohio pitcher Bob Russell cooled off
Notre Dame with only 5 hits while his ” L
teammates collected ten.	I J
Wojcik singled home two runs and j scored another. Scrivanich was the losing pitcher.
Interhall
Continued from page 28
championship, is this coming Tuesday, April 29.
The interhall volleyball round robin tournament has six teams still in competition for the championship, which will be decided May 14. This is the last day of the season in the volleyball league. Of the six teams, three are still unbeaten, each with 2-0 records. These three are Stanford, Farley, and St. Edward’s. Badin and the Old College are 1-1, and the Kentucky Club is 1-2.
The interhall baseball season ends on May 14 after a round robin schedule, very similar to those in the other league. Of the six teams, three are still so far, but no team has won more than one game.
Sorin beat Farley, 12-0, Howard (Gold) topped St. Edward’s (Gold), 9-4, and Lyons handled Pangborn, 3-0. Badin, Breen-Phillips, Stanford, Keenan, and St. Edward’s (Blue) all won their games by forfeit.
Sorin, on the basis of its strong showing against Farley, gives indications of being the top nine in the baseball league, but Lyons may give Sorin a fight for the championship.
Junior Class Schedules Help Week for Thursday
The Junior class is sponsoring a Student Help Week on May 1, 2, and 3. Help Week is open to all members of the Junior class. Bob Cox is chairman of the committee.
The purpose of Help Week is to promote good relations between the people of South Bend and the students of Notre Dame. During Help Week, members of the Junior class make visits to local organizations such as the YWCA, the Crippled Children Center, St. Joseph’s Hospital, and others. At these times, the students take ,on jobs such as painting, raking leaves, cleaning windows, etc.
As in the past, Saint Mary’s girls will be present to help out in the work. Members of the Hall Councils will contact all interested persons giving them the details at that time. Special buses will be provided for transportation.
The Scholastic
32
Brigadier General Reviews Army Cadet Corps Recently
Brig. Gen. L. S. Bork, as the representative of the Fifth Anny Commander, held an official inspection of the Army ROTC detachment here at Notre Dame last March 31.
Gen. Bork is the former chief of the Michigan military district and is now en route to Formosa. There was a brigade parade in his honor.
On April 14, Army cadets listened to a talk on missiles by Brig. Gen. John A. Barclay who is the commanding general of the Army Missile Agency in Huntsville, Ala.
Gen. Barclay was here in conjunction with the Gridiron Banquet and took the time to pay Notre Dame an unofficial visit.
Six Students Travel to Ohio For Regional NSA Meeting
Six Notre Dame students traveled to Wilmington College in Wilmington, Ohio, last week end for the spring assembly of the Indiana-Ohio region of NSA (National Student Association).
Those attending the two-day conference were Denny Shaul, John Dewes, Armando Loizaga, Ren Farley, George Clements, and Warren Albright. Albright was vice-chairman of the region for the past year.
Anne Sheehan and Ann Dunlevy, representing St. Mary’s, were elected chairmen of two of the five regional commissions. Mary Carpentei’ and Kathy McCoach were the othei- St. Mary’s delegates.
^kWTURBOW
\OPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces” EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Be a Magician
Write
Dr. Meyer Bloch
President
Eastern Magical Society 240 Rivington Street New York 2, N. Y.
HEADQUARTERS FOR MAGNIFICENT GIFTS
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
Our displays are so arranged as to make shopping and gift selecting an easy and a convenient chore. We package, giftwrap and ship at no extra cost.
Ill SO. MICHIGAN
Open a Convenient Charge Account
FOR BOYS & GIRLS, MEN & WOMEN WITH “PROBLEM” SKINS!
ELIMINATE
PIMPLES
WITHIN 30 DAYS
Or Your Money Back!
The all-NEW, amazing “CAMPUS” Facial-Treatment Kit offers IMMEDIATE relief from the embarrassment and discomfort of unsightly acne, pimples, blemishes and other skin disorders! What’s more, we’ll PROVE that the “CAMPUS” Kit will clear up that “problem” skin____ or show DEFINITE IMPROVEMENT within 30 days ... or YOUR MONEY BACK! Fair enough?
you probably thought impossible! . . . ier, smoother, glowing complexion . .
wonderful, new feeling of perfect grooming!
Over a month’s supply, postage-paid direct-to-you for only .....................................................
FILL OUT THE ORDER FORM BELOW AND MAIL TO-DAY!
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD LABORATORIES, INC., 700 Prudential Building, Houston 25, Texas.
Enclosed is $4.95 (Check, Money-Order, Cash) for CAMPUS KIT.
NAME (Print)
ADDRESS:
CITY.
Careers
Overseas
American companies abroad pay high salaries plus living allowances and free transportation. Choose a career with travel and adventue in Europe, South America, Africa, Asia. New booklet lists American companies and Government agencies employing college graduates in administrative, technical and professional positions. Also hotel, radio, newspaper, travel, personal business leads from on-the-spot research, plus geographical listing of rnuitrurti— projects employing engineers, teachers, penounel and public relations representatives, etc. Send $1.00 to Hill International Publications, Dept. 33, P. O. Box 229, Long Island City 1, N. Y.
The “CAMPUS” Kit consists of 6 different effectively-medicated component parts: Face Soap, Blemish Cream, Facial-Pack, “Coverall” Blemish-Stick, Face Lotion and Vitamin A, 25,000 USP Units. The most complete and thoroughly effective complexion-care preparation ever created!
Simple to use—just a few minutes a day—will give you amazing results
A clearer health-and with such a
$4-95
No ■ Fed. Tai
ZONE.____STATE.
April 25, 1958
Jr
criticism of criticism
by JAMES L. McDONALD
- I suppose that most of us are sick and • tired of writing about mediocrity, con. formity and the plight of man in the modern world. I am, anyway. And those of us who write about it all are probably • even more sick and tired of reading and hearing about it. But the truth is that mediocrity, like Patti Page and Minute Maid Orange Juice, is here to stay and we either have to accept it or we have to do something about it. If we can manage to accept it, then there is no problem at all. But if we do not accept it, if we regard it as a definite and pervasive evil, then we cannot simply turn our backs on it. Some kind of act is required.
One of these acts is criticism. Many > of us, dissatisfied with things as they ■ are, seek both tnith and improvement | through this process. Unfortunately, it often remains merely a process. The acts which should follow the criticism are seldom forthcoming. In our society, it is difficult and even impossible to indulge in these necessary acts. Our criticism must remain criticism on Back Pages, in letters-to-the-editor, or in con-■ versation with one another. It only goes ', further and becomes a more definite and ; concrete act when we can become mem-i bers of a Student Senate or a City
Council or whathaveyou.
But the fact in all this is that action ■ must begin with criticism. Without it, i you are simply nowhere. Even the well:. known and oft-derided “griper” is in-J - dulging in a form of criticism—he does ! not approve of existing conditions, so he h rails and rants against them.
)!. . Whether we indulge in criticism in its highest forms, or criticism in its lower forms, we are often labeled, derided, and dismissed as fanactics or radicals.
34	' .	. ' •
Often this is due to our methods. In our criticisms, many of us commit the most blatant sophistries, logical anomalies and psychological aberrations imaginable. This is too bad. It would perhaps be fine if all of us possessed the technical knowhow and intellectual profundity of thosewhoarewisei-thanwe.
But the truth remains that we do not. If we did, if we never made these mistakes, then we would hardly be students: we would be congressmen, scientists, businessmen or educators.
So we do make mistakes, particularly in our methods. And yet I wonder if these mistakes are unforgivable. I wonder if the student should not have the right to make a mistake, even a logical mistake. I wonder if it might be well to examine not merely our manner of criticism, but what it is that we are criticizing. Even students, illogical and disordered as we may seem to be, are sometimes capable of seeing some form of truth. And we are also capable of noting that something needs to be improved.
If this is so, and I believe that it is, then our criticisms cannot be easily dismissed. They should not be lumped into a basket, labeled and tossed aside. And our dissatisfaction cannot be cured by herding us into a corral and spoonfeeding us intellectual and spiritual babyfood.	~
What we are trying to do is to examine, to ask the important questions, the questions that really matter. Those of us who are not content to live .a complacent, secure, unexamined life must never give in to the influences that urge us to do so.	.
The truth is that no two of us are alike, and we should not be coerced into
believing that we are. We are, each of us, distinct and original human beings even after 17 or 19 or 21 years of mass life. And since I am not you, and you are not somebody else, then none of us will ever develop in exactly the same way. So while we are in this process of development, our intellectual and spiritual leaders should realize that our disorders cannot be cured by treating us as an illogical and illiterate mob. Whether their panacea is the teargas bomb or the pious mouthing of meaningless drival, it is not going to cure our ills. And it is not going to aid our development. What this panacea may do ' is help us to sit back, complacent and self-satisfied, and smugly place all confidence in a god who squats in his ranch house quietly sipping a martini. But I do not think we want to, or should, be led into the belief that all is right with oui* society. To be so led is to be stifled both intellectually and spiritually.
Our first duty is to know ourselves, to realize and understand what and who and where and why we are. And the corollary of this is the knowledge of these same elements in our society. Thus if we note that something is in need of improvement, our duty is to do something to improve it. This reform must begin with criticism.
Finally, perhaps to repeat, we are students, involved in a process of learning. And if our logic and psychology sometimes proves deficient, we should not be too discouraged—we should not shut up. And we should realize that our deficiencies will never be overcome by . blindly swallowing words that have become semantic blanks. They can only be overcome by a genuine, persistent spirit of inquiry and criticism.
The Scholastic
Double-play!
wear the
ARROW
Bi-Way Sport open or closed
Either way, it’s smart strategy. The Ei-Way’s exclusive Arafold collar looks as good as it feels (has stays to keep it trim and neat). Perfect, too, when worn with a tie. And the cool open-weave fabric is yours in a smart stripe or basket weave. Long or short • sleeves. F rom $4.00. CluettyPeabody
& Co., Inc,
ARROW^
Casual Wear
Pick a winner from our
ARROW Bi-Way Sports
They’re the world’s most comfortable shirts ...particularly when the heat’s on. Mighty cool-/oo^mg, too. You’ll find their convertible Arafold collars and airy fabrics come in many smart patterns.
^GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend .