
SACRED Heart church Honor Bishop will be filled far be-O'Hara Monday yond normal capacity on Monday morning when the consecration of the Most Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., as Titular Bishop of Milasa and auxiliary to Archbishop Spellman of New York will take place.	(See page 5)
THE ANNUAL Junior Juniors Name Promenade will be held Date For Prom in the Palais Royale
Ballroom, Friday evening, Feb. 2. Class President Clarence Marquardt and General Chairman Larry Burns are dangling the hook for the fabulous “Name Band.” (See page 9)
❖
COACH George Keog-Keogan’s Face an’s Fighting Irish Busy Weekend basketeers finished preparations this afternoon for impending tilts with two outstanding scoring machines. Kentucky University, pride of the blue grass region, invades the Fieldhouse tomorrow night, and Butler’s Bulldogs will call, Tuesday.	(See page 14)
❖
THERHYTHMof Ring Bell For shuffling feet, the rat-Bengal Boxers tat of the punching bag, and the swish of the jumping rope, soon will be real “swing” music to the ears of campus boxing enthusiasts. Bengal Bout training begins in earnest Monday afternoon.
(See page 14)
Most Rev. Francis Spellman, D.D. — Archbishop of New York and Ordinary of the Army and Navy Diocese.
Most Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
College Parade by Jack WUlmann
Postlude of a Parade
A parade which saw a caravan of collegians going to that nebulous place called home, but usually connotated as the girl friend’s door - step, the corner coke joint, the Christmas formals, toboggan slides, jaunts into town for that last-minute present, and, well perhaps, a few meals with the folks at the family vitamin board. Many of us departed on trains, some chose buses, few ox-carts were used, and a few day students flagged a trolley or paced off the space afoot. “Ah yes, it was nice to get away, but it is great to be back again.” That’s what we said.
Not by a Jug-full
Things are not what they used to be at the University of North Carolina. We wept sympathetically with a friend who reported a change in the disciplinary policy of the Tar Heel school. Now that “Gone With the Wind” has had its premiere and the Civil War is really in the truce stage the college administration has decreed that it shall be henceforth unlawful for a student to have more than one gallon of corn likker in his room. There’s a rule that should really be enforced.
How We Know It
There is no reliable substitute for study. That is the conclusion of Dr. Horace B. English, of Ohio State’s department of psychology. Under his direction a study was made of the use and effects of the so-called “pep” tablets which are ballyhooed to so stimulate the student that his powers of attention, concentration, and retentiveness will be greatly improved. Intelligence tests were given to a group of students, some of whom had taken the pep pill while others were given only sugar pills. The scores of the two groups were similar enough to prove that the tablets in no way stimulated mental activity. Such drugs are habitforming, and despite a momentary uplift, they are definitely inferior to a good night’s sleep.
Strictly on the Off-beat
Aside from the dances that we attended over the holidays, let’s look about to see who’s playing for whom on the college band - stands. Villanovans will have a right to dance to the blues of Jackson Teagarden’s music at the Belle Air Ball.... Tommy Dorsey was a guest at the Christmas Open House on the
Northwestern campus.... Larry Clinton commercialized on the rah-rahs by staging special group nights for his saddle-shod patrons at the Meadowbrook.... U. of Detroit had Charlie Barnet for the J-Prom. ... Minnesota’s Collegiate Charity ball had a musical show headed by that fast rising band of Bob Chester.
❖
My Iron Mask, Jeeves
Not just a cheap bunch of glamour boys are the men on the University of Texas greensward. There’s a big contest raging in the land of the Longhorns— to decide almost literally which man is just that. Students and faculty members compete in the Ugly Man contest w’hich finds more votes being cast, more ugly faces been seen, and more girls not giving a darn whether it’s leap year or not. Can’t you imagine some hulk of humanity running excitedly to the heart-beat who wears his frat pin, “Darling, I’ve done it. They voted me the ugliest man on the campus!”	_
“Then Mr. Connelly came and took poor old Grandmother away.”
Moral — Have Clean Fingernails
Four long years he worked and sweated, Labored conscientiously.
Crammed for tests and wrote his papers, Then he won his Phi Beta key.
Now he's working at a counter,
And while waiting to make sales Reaches for his gold insignia
And calmly cleans his fingernails.
—Sundial.
❖
Just Another Roads Scholar
Jeff Davis, America’s “King of the Hoboes,” visited the Chicago newspaper offices to proclaim to the world that Jeff Davis lives on despite rumors of his demise. A reporter from the Loyola News asked him as to the future of college men in the ranks of the wanderlusters. Davis commented, “Nope, I guess they’re just no good in my line. I’ve met a lot of college fellows on the road, but very few of them make good ’boes. They usually hit the highways because they want to see how the other half lives. Most of them come from good homes and aren’t used to my kind of life. They make easy pickings for the older and more experienced boys.”
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Week By Frank Wemhoff
OPINION
Top of the Week
Bromo Seltzer up twelve points.
A dear reader
It is always a debatable question as to whether the Scholastic is worth reading or not. Being egotistical we think it is. As if to prove our point we discovered while home a cute little miss named Joan who told us that each week she reads the Scholastic from cover to cover. We were afraid to ask her why, fearing that she might be paying off a bet or starting her Lenten mortifications early. Perhaps it would not be such a bad idea to include a few recipes and fashion notes once in a while since we have evidence of a feminine following, or follower. Besides, a few new recipes might be welcome, somewhere—around.
Linger aivhile
He begged his prof for an extra cut before Christmas so that he could leave Friday evening instead of waiting until after class on Tuesday. The professor coldly reminded the student that if he did not have the necessary cuts left it was extremely unfortunate. So the student waited until Tuesday and obediently went to class, only to find—that his prof had a cut left himself.
Bronco Buster
The usually sedate and stagish Ray Sadlier exhibited a little of the old frontier spirit when he arrived at the South Bend station last week. Ray was in such a hurry to get out to school that he jumped in the path of the first cab to pull into the curb. The force struck the Atlasish fellow mightily but Ray brought the cab to a halt by a skidding twenty-five foot tackle. Interviewed later by a scout of the Chicago Bears, Sadlier admitted, “I guess I was just a little hydraulic at the time.”
Hither and yon
Joe Mulligan’s quickie about pocket battleships being sonamed because they carry subs a la kangaroo.... Fr. Coyle reports that a group of people from Akron or some such place in Ohio came to N. D. for the sole purpose of scouting “Brother Orchid” for a civic theater venture. .. • Hutch Forth wondering whether the year 2500 mentioned in the text *vas A. D. or B.C.....Hank Blauvert
claims that he has the power of getting a date with any girl at “the rock”.___ Hear in Zahm: “Tennessee called themselves Volunteers before the game but they were calling for them in the fourth quarter”.... Paul Vignos was called the best dressed man on the campus by the Periscope but he wears a necktie for a belt.... Dr. McMahon sports a Christmas hat which will be called “being” from now on.... and the caf girls who pass behind Dillon wonder who owns that big white teddy bear, Carbine....
Love Limerick
An All-American named Nile Whose clippings filled a huge file Was snapped with a miss But the trouble is this
She was golfer Donaghue’s style.
Campus prophet
Ed Huston’s brother, the energetic Huston, ’ gave Ed a ouija board for Christmas. He started knocking immediately so he could place his bets for the Bowl games. The predictions were as bad as Henry McLemore’s but the board did come up with one bit of information that Ed swears is true. Fr. Ward is supposed to give Ed a 91 in Philosophy. How about that, Father Ward?
❖
Rambling
It’s time to start drinking cokes to get in shape for the Prom.... There is a rumor that the South Bend girls still have their mistletoe up—an emergency measure.... The juniors will be very popular during January.... And remember, chums, if your best friends won’t tell you, you’ll flunk.... “Now pass all your papers to the end of the row; have a carbon sheet under each one, and I can correct all the mistakes at once.”.... Dan Kelly turned up the tidbit of the week—a tack in his spinach.
Ode to an Oberbrunner
I hope you win
I hope you play
I hope the team plays
I still love you
—Irene
Bottom of the Week
Remembering the Top of the Week.
Question of the Week: Will Roosevelt try for a third term? If so, zvill he be re-elected? Man-on-campus votes* “No” by 5-1, but believes Roosevelt will continue to dictate democratic party policy.
Morrissey — Charles Gehris: “Yes, I think if sufficient pressure is brought to bear upon Roosevelt he will run again. Supposing that he does choose to run, there will be a mighty close race for the election. Vandenberg should be in the running all the way, and should defeat Roosevelt by a very slight margin.”
Howard—Thomas Perry: “The almost sacred precedent, which has existed from the time of Washington, will not be broken this year by Roosevelt. I think, though, that the Democrats will put up Garner. He should have enough support from the backers of the New Deal to elect him to the presidency.”
Brownson—Jim Farley: “I don’t think Roosevelt is the kind of a man who would, for his self interests, break a precedent that has lasted for so long. He will, however, try to get in a man who will carry out his policies. In this way, Roosevelt •will be able to almost dictate the policies of the next president.”
Cavanaugh — Edgar Steeb: “For two very obvious reasons I don’t think that Roosevelt will try for a third term. One is that his health is failing pretty steadily before the demands of his high office. The second is that he seems to be evading the issue at the present time and bringing forth some of his proponents in order to get the people acquainted with them. He will probably push one of these men to the foreground and give this man his support.”
Badin — Fred Hoover: “If Roosevelt follows what seems to me to be the wisest policy, he will not run for a third term. I think he realizes that eight years as president is enough and that the people are ready for a change in leadership. Knowing this, he will leave the field wide open for the other candidates and retire to private life.”
Off-Campus—Albert Plotkins: “President Roosevelt has built up a moral prestige during the past eight years that equals that built up by all great presidents. In his own mind, he has done a good job while in office, and I think he will leave the presidency at the end of this term as a job well done. Furthermore, he has been strangely quiet about his third term intentions, thus indicating that he will not run for a third term.” .
—Ray Donovan
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z 188
Volume 73
January 12, 1940.
No. 13.
A BISHOP WILL KNEEL WHERE A POPE PRAYED
His Holiness, Pope Pins XII, who recently raised Bishop-elect O’Hara to the Episcopacy, is shown above on the occasion of '	his visit to Notre Dame, as Papal Secretary of State, October 25, 1936.
Sacred Heart Church will be filled far beyond normal capacity on Monday morning when the consecration of the Most Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., as Titular Bishop of Milasa and auxiliary to Archbishop Spellman of • New York will take place. .
The Most Reverend Francis J. Spellman, D.D., Archbishop of New York, and ' Bishop Ordinary of the Army and Navy Diocese, will serve as presiding prelate, assisted by the Most Reverend John .F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, and the Most Reverend Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., Bishop of Indianapolis, as co-con-secrators. The sermon will be given,by the Right Reverend Monsignor Thomas V. Shannon, pastor of St. Thomas the Apostle Church in Chicago, and a close personal friend of Bishop O’Hara for many years.
In preparation for his consecration,
CONSECRATE BISHOP CHARA, MONDAY
Bishop O’Hara has completed a retreat of eight days in private spiritual exercises and contemplation, as prescribed by age old tradition for newly created bishops. This is considered preparation for the new duties he will assume as Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy diocese, designated as Bishop O’Hara’s active field at Pope Pius XII’s first secret consistory, held at the Vatican on Dec. 11. At that time ArcKbishop Spellman was named ordinary of the Army and Navy diocese.
Since the morning of Dec. 11, when the news of his elevation to the episcopacy was flashed from Rome, Bishop O’Hara has received thousands of messages of congratulations from all over
the world. Perhaps the most treasured of these is one from Bishop Ritter of Indianapolis, presenting Bishop O’Hara with the episcopal ring worn formerly by the Most Rev. Joseph Chartrand, D.D., of Indianapolis, who died in 1923. The late bishop was a life-long friend of Bishop O’Hara and ordained him to the priesthood in 1916. The ring is a large amethyst set with diamonds; another ring is to be presented to Bishop O’Hara by the lay faculty of the University.
Due to the large number of the hierarchy and members of the clergy who will be in attendance, and to the limited facilities of Sacred Heart Church, the number of laity invited to the Consecration will be somewhat restricted. According to present plans, not even the entire faculty of the University can be accommodated at the ceremony. The faculty will be represented by the deans of the-
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
five colleges of the University and by all department heads. The student body will be represented by the Students Activities Council.
Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter
The Consecration ceremonies will be attended by the majority of ranking Catholic hierarchy of the United States, as well as by many of the outstanding statesmen, educational, business and industrial leaders of the country. Some of those attending will be:
Archbishops—Most Rev. Francis J. L. Beckman, Most Rev. Moses E. Kiley, Most. Rev. John G. Murray, Most Rev. Joseph F. Rummel, Most Rev. Joseph Schrembs, Most Rev. Samuel A. Stritch.
Bishops—Most Rev.- Karl J. Alter, Most Rev. Henry Althoff, Most Rev. Gerald T. Bergan, Most Rev. Stanislaus V. Bonn, Most Rev. Hugh C. Boyle, Most Rev. William O. Brady, Most Rev. Francis R. Cotton.
Bishop Cushing, Auxilary of Boston; Most Rev. Stephen J. Donahue, Most Rev. John M. Gannon, Most Rev. James A. Griffin, Most Rev. William R. Griffin, Most Rev. Edward F. Hogan, Most Rev. Francis W. Howard, Most Rev. James E. Kearney, Most Rev. Francis M. Kelly, Most Rev. Francis P. Keough, Most Rev. Louis B. Kucera, Most Rev. Charles H. LeBlond, Most Rev. William F. Murphy, Most Rev. William D. O’Brien, Most Rev. Joseph C. Plagens.
. Most Rev. George J. Rehring, Auxiliary Bishop of Cincinnati; Most Rev. Joseph H. Schlarman, Most. Rev. Stephen Woznicki.
Abbots — Rev. Frederic M. Dunne, O.C.S.O.; Rt. Rev. Stanislaus F. Gmuca, O.S.B.; Rt. Rev. Justus Wirth, O.S.B.
The members of the committee cooperating with Rev. J._ Hugh O’Donnell, ■C.S.C., vice president of the University,
in handling the details incident to the Consecration are as follows:
Rev. James Trahey, C.S.C., general chairman; Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., reception for the hierarchy and clergy; Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C., and Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., in charge of programs, souvenirs, and seating lists for the church and banquet; Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., in charge of invitations, admittance cards and notices; Rev. William Carey, C.S.C., in charge of autos and traffic; Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., and Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C., ceremonies within the church, Mr. Thomas J. Barry, press and radio arrangements; Mr. James Armstrong, reception of alummni; Mr. F. W. Lloyd, reception of Lay Trustees of the University and non-alumni laymen; and Dean James E. McCarthy, reception of University representatives and lay distinguished guests.
Rt. Rev. Thomas V. Shannon
Huge Banquet Honors
Bishop Elect O’Hara
With three rooms crowded to capacity, the Oliver Hotel was the scene of a huge testimonial banquet tendered Bishop-elect O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., last Tuesday night. Sponsored by a South Bend civic group, the banquet numbered among its guests many prominent men who had come to honor the president of Notre Dame on his appointment as Bishop of Milasa and Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy Diocese. Notre Dame—past and present—was represented by many members of the faculty, D. S. Hilgartner, Jr., president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and the Student Council.
Army and Navy Diocese
Totals 50,000 Persons
At the ceremony in Sacred Heart Church on Monday morning the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., will be consecrated Titular Bishop of Milasa (an extinct see in Turkey) and auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy diocese. In the latter capacity he will serve under his consecrator, the Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D., archbishop of New York, and bishop ordinary of the Army and Navy diocese.
According to the Official Catholic Directory for 1939 the Army and Navy diocese comprise (a) all Catholics on active duty in the military and naval service of the United States, as so recognized by the U. S. government; (b) all civilian employes of the U. S. government having residence within the confines of a station, post or reservation, or like place belonging to the military or naval service of the United States ; (c) all immediate dependent relatives of those in (a) and (b); (d) all members of the military and naval units during the time they are under the supervision and pay of the military or naval services of the United States.
Under Bishop O’Hara’s supervision will be 31 commissioned chaplains in the U. S. Army; 19 commissioned chaplains in the U. S. Navy; 67 chaplains in veterans’ hospitals; 24 auxiliary chaplains; 212 military reserve chaplains; and 64 chaplains in the National Guard.
The number of Catholic officers, soldiers, sailors and civilian employes, and their families, located on the reservations, in the U. S. Army, U. S. Navy, U. S. Marine Corps, Air Corps, and veterans’ hospitals—is estimated at 50,000 persons.
Most Rev. John F. Noll
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
Notre Dame Depicted On
Bishop O’Hara’s Shield
In choosing the coat-of-arms that he will use as Bishop, the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., has again shown the deep regard and affection that he feels for Notre Dame. At the base of his shield is the Latin scroll with the inscription “Following her, you will not lose your way,” referring to the Blessed Virgin, patron of Notre Dame.
In the jurisdictional (right) half of his shield, Bishop - elect O’Hara has chosen the arms of the University, consisting of a star, symbolic of Our Lady, Star of the Sea; a cross, symbol of Catholicism; a book, symbolic of the edu-
cational activities of the University; and waves to represent the lakes on the Notre Dame campus.
The upper quarter of the left half of the shield is occupied by the arms of the Congregation of Holy Cross, two anchors and a cross, while in the lower quarter is the arms of the O’Hara family, consisting of a black lion rampant on a gold saw. As with all bishops’ coats-of-arms, the shield is topped with a mitre, a cross and crozier, the latter being symbolic of the shepherd’s staff. Dropping from a green bishop’s hat are two cords, one on either side of the shield, each of which ends in six tassels.
NO CLASSES MONDAY
In honor of the consecration of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., classes will be suspended on Monday, Jan. 15, according to an announcement made by the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies.
“Receive the Holy Ghost”
Consecration Recalls Pentecost
By Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C.
The ceremony for the consecration of a bishop is a visual representation of the marks of the Church—One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic. With sign and sacred symbol it bodies forth the Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 5-7), the last discourse of Christ to his disciples (John 14-16) and the descent of the Holy Ghost at Pentecost (Acts 2). It is the supreme act of the Liturgy in the sense that it secures the Church in its organic growth — the perpetuation of its ministers and its sacraments. Whether one assists in person or only in spirit, the liturgical words and actions reveal the doctrinal basis of the ceremony.
The episcopate is of divine origin. The manner of choosing the Apostles was very simple. Christ said, “Come, follow me.” Later he gave them and his other chosen disciples the power to do all things in his name (Mark 16, 15-18). At Pentecost they were confirmed in this power (John 14, 26; 17, 7). Some fulfilled the office of ministry only; others were appointed to govern designated places and to transmit the powers they had received (1 Timothy 5, 22; Titus 1, 5). The Greek word episcopos means overseer or guardian. From this through the Saxon bisceop we get our word bishop.
The Pope, the visible head of the Church on earth, is the successor of St. Peter. The bishops are the successors of the other apostles. With the Pope they constitute the Teaching Church. The prerogative of appointing bishops belongs to the Pope alone. The bishops throughout the world send the names and the history of those priests who possess the canonical requirements of age, learning, holiness, etc. to the Consistorial Congregation of which the Pope is the head. This Congregation has the duty of selecting three names which they present to the Pope in the order of their choice. The Pope may appoint one of these or any other he may prefer.
The episcopate is the completion of hierarchical orders. It is the fullness of the priesthood. From the point of view of Sacred Orders there is nothing higher. It constitutes the subject in the state of perfection.
The bishop thus becomes the minister of Holy Orders, Confirmation and such
ceremonies as involve consecration. He celebrates mass in some parts according to a slightly different ritual; in solemn pontifical rites he wears the tunic of the subdeacon and the dalmatic of the deacon in additional to the priestly vestments and the episcopal insignia; he wears dress distinctive from the other clergy. He must be assigned to some see. In the case of an auxiliary bishop the see is called titular, that is, one that no longer exists as a Christian community. For instance, the titular see of Bishop O’Hara is Milas, the ancient Mylas, in Turkey. Once a flourishing diocese, it is now chiefly inhabited by infidels and dissident Greeks.
It is the duty of the Pope as Chief Pastor to consecrate bishops. This duty he usually delegates to another bishop chosen by the bishop-elect. The consecration takes place on a Sunday or the feast of an Apostle unless the Pope by special indult appoints another day. The consecrator and the bishop-elect observe the vigil as a day of fast. The assistant consecrators are two other bishops. The bishops and priests who attend the ceremony indicate the unity of all with one another and with the Holy See.
The essential matter of episcopal consecration is the imposition of both hands by the consecrator and his two assistants. The form is the words which they pronounce, “Receive the Holy Ghost.” The other parts of the ceremony to be described later belong to the integrity of the consecration.
Within this space it is not possible to give the history and symbolism of the whole ceremony. The Liturgy, the thing done, is fundamental. The manner of its doing is the slow growth of centuries as dictated by the circumstances of time, place and the interpretation of doctrine. The main outlines come to us from the Apostolic Constitutions, a book of the fourth century which crystallized liturgical ceremonies up to that time. The consecration is fitted into the framework of the Mass, the central act of divine worship. The consecrator and the bishopelect begin the Mass each at his own altar. From the Offertory onward the bishop-elect continues at the Epistle side of the consecrator’s altar. This concele-bration of Mass is of Apostolic times and the only other instance of it in the
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Western Church is at the ordination of priests.
We shall here set down the parts of the ceremony in sequence with the prayers recited by the consecrator, either in whole' or in part. The prayers for the essential and integral parts will convey their meaning. The simply tremendous thing is that we are here united with God the Father to whom everything is addressed, with God the Son speaking to his disciples at the Last Supper and with God the Holy Ghost at Pentecost.
The Preliminaries
The Bishop-elect takes the oath of fidelity to the Holy See and recites the profession of faith.
The Notary reads the Apostolic Mandate of nomination.
. The Consecrator examines the elect on the duties of his office and his adherence to the articles of faith to which he answers, I will or I believe.
All recite the prayers for mass at the foot of the altar. The bishop-elect then goes to his own altar, puts on the pontifical vestments and continues the mass to the end of the Gradual.
The Consecrator admonishes the elect, prays God to bestow His graces upon him.
The bishop-elect prostrates and the choir sings the Litany of the Saints. Toward the middle the Consecrator intones three of the invocations the while he blesses the elect.
The Consecration
The Consecrator and his assistants place the book of the Gospels upon the neck and shoulders of the candidate.
The imposition of hands. Receive the Holy Ghost (The candidate is now a bishop).
The Consecrator recites a preface which relates the mystical significance of the office. It concludes: Fill up in ■ Thy priest the perfection of Thy ministry and sanctify with the dew of Thy heavenly ointment This Thy servant decked out with the ornaments of all beauty.
The Consecrator begins and the choir continues, Veni Creator Spiritus.
The Consecrator anoints the head of the elect with Holy Chrism saying: May thy head' be anointed and consecrated by heavenly benediction in the pontifical order. A long prayer follows for the graces, virtues, powers of the sacred office.
The Consecrator intones and the choir takes up Psalm 132 which praises the glory of the high priest Aaron.
The Consecrator anoints the palms of
both hands and prays: May these hands be annointed with the sanctified oil and the Chrism of sanctification, as Samuel anointed David to be King and Prophet: so may they be anointed and consecrated. He then recites another prayer which ends: Whatsoever thou shall bless may it be blessed, and ivhatsoever thou shalt sanctify may it be sanctified; and may
TO THE STUDENTS
My everlasting gratitude is yours — for everything:
•	For the charming symbol of authority which you have placed upon my breast;
•	For the prayers and Holy Communions, by which you are imploring God’s blessing on myself and my work;
•	For the good example and inspiration you and other students before you have given me for the past thirty-one years; and most especially
•	For your devotion to Our Lady and to Our Divine Lord in the Blessed Sacrament, a devotion which has brought untold blessings to the school we love.
It is hard to leave Notre Dame, but the pain is lessened when one who loves the school knows that it is in good hands. When an older brother goes to war, he wants to know that the younger boys at home will love and support their Mother and protect her honor at all costs. I am leaving Notre Dame in your clean hands. I know your hearts are right. I pray God to give you the grace to know what to do for your Mother, and the courage to do it. I beg remembrance daily in your prayers and Holy Communions, and I pledge you a memento at the daily Sacrifice of the Mass. God Bless You.
Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., January 8, 1940.
the imposition of this consecrated hand or thumb be profitable in all things unto salvation.
The Consecrator blesses the crosier and bestows it with the words: Receive the staff of the pastoral office, so that in the correction of vices thou mayest be lovingly severe, giving judgment without wrath, softening the minds of Thy hearers whilst fostering virtues, not neglecting strictness of discipline through love of tranquility.
He blesses the ring and, putting it on thering finger of the right hand, says: Receive the ring, the symbol of fidelity,
in order that, adorned with unspotted faith, thou mayest keep inviolably the Spouse of God, namely, His Holy Church. The Consecrator gives him the book of the Gospels saying: Receive the gospel and go preach to the people committed to thee, for God is poiverful to increase His grace in thee.
The Consecrator and his assistants receive him to the kiss of peace. He then retires to cleanse his head and hands. They continue the Mass until the Offertory.
The newly consecrated presents to the Consecrator two lighted candles, two loaves of bread and two small barrels of wine. (This is reminiscent of the ancient custom whereby the faithful brought gifts at the Offertory for the support of the clergy. “... the Lord ordained that they who preach the gospel should live by the gospel.” (1 Corinth-
They continue the Mass to the blessing, the new bishop to the right of the Consecrator at the Epistle side.
The Consecrator blesses the mitre and places it on the head of the newly consecrated with the words: We, 0 Lord, place on the head of this Thy bishop and champion the helmet of protection and salvation, so that his face being adorned and his head armed with the horns of both testaments, he may seem terrible to the opponents of truth and through the indulgence of Thy grace may be their sturdy adversary, etc.
He blesses the gloves and says: 0 Almighty Creator, who has given to man, fashioned after Thy image, hands notable for their formation, as an organ for correct workmanship; which Thou hast commanded to be kept clean, so that the soul might worthily be carried in them and Thy mysteries worthily consecrated by them, vouchsafe to bless and sanctify these hand coverings, so that tvhosoever of Thy ministers, Thy holy bishops, shall humbly wish to cover their hands ivith these, Thy mercy shall accord to him cleanness of heart as well as of deed.
The Conclusion
The assistants lead the elect to the throne (in this instance the faldstool, or ceremonial chair) and the Consecrator places in his left hand the pastoral staff.
The Consecrator intones, and all sing the Te Deum. Meanwhile the new bishop, accompanied by the assistants, goes around the church to bless the people.
The Consecrator prays God to bless His servant that both by word and example, he may edify all those who are under his charge, so that with the flock
The Notre Dame Scholastic
entrusted to him, he may attain unto life everlasting.
The new bishop gives his first pontifical blessing, this being the ritual blessing of the mass he has just celebrated.
The Consecrator and his assistants stand at the Gospel comer of the altar. The newly consecrated at the Epistle corner begins the three salutations to the Consecrator. He genuflects, rises and sings, Ad Mziltos Annos! (For many years) At the middle of the altar and again in front of the Consecrator he does the same, each time in a higher tone. The Consecrator and the assistants receive him to the kiss of peace.
They begin the last Gospel (St. John) and continue to recite it as they retire to unvest. (This is the usual ritual for bishops when the pontificate.)
Thus ends the ceremony. And we all join in saying most heartily to Bishop O’Hara, Titular Bishop of Milas, Auxiliary to the Bishop - Ordinary of the Army and Navy Diocese, Ad Mziltos Annos!
Prom Slated For Feb. 2
Juniors Seek Name Band
The annual Junior Promenade will be held in the Palais Royale ballroom, Friday evening, Feb. 2. Class president Clarence Marquardt and general chairman Larry Burns are dangling the hook for fabulous “Name Bands.” Rumor shifts from Gray Gordon to Henry Busse, to Dick Jurgens, and back to Zeke Shapiro. Certain it is that the
price of bids will be §5.50. The Tea Dance tax will be one dollar.
Names of committee chairmen and their assistants are still an unknown quantity. Best bet for further information is the aforementioned Bums, a resident of St. Edward’s Hall.
Secret agents (committee men) harbor strong hopes there will be no repetition of the Lopez-Little episode of last year, when a last-minute telegram from Vincent Lopez expressing regrets necessitated a quick change of bands — entered Little Jack Little and his Bolero rhythms.
Glee Club Dedicates
Concert to New Bishop
The University Glee Club presents its first campus concert of the season on Sunday night in Washington Hall at 8 o’clock. The club is proud to dedicate this program to its honorary president, Bishop-elect John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., in recognition of the great interest he has always shown in the Glee Club, and in appreciation of the many favors he granted it.
The Glee Club has attracted many favorable comments on its past performances this season, and this coming program promises to be even better. Appropriate numbers have been chosen and well interpreted; and the whole group has practiced diligently in order to present a program marked by delicate shadings and perfect unity.
For this concert a special section of the auditorium will be occupied by visiting bishops and other guests who will attend. The 60 members of the Glee Club cordially invite all their fellow students to come.
Dr. Francis McMahon
Heads Philosophy Group
Notre Dame’s illustrious lay faculty attracted another great honor last week when Dr. Francis Edward McMahon, professor of philosophy, was elected president of the Association of American Catholic Philosophers. The election came at the end of a two-day conference, December 28 and 29, at the Catholic University of America, in Washington, D. C.
Dr. McMahon was one of the four member - philosophers who represented the University of Notre Dame. Dr. Waldemar Gurian, associate professor of politics, read a paper entitled “The Phi- -losophy of the Totalitarian State.” Dr. John J. FitzGerald, University philosophy instructor, read another paper, “Metaphysics as the Basis of Political Action.” Dr. Daniel C. O’Grady, also a professor of philosophy, acted in the capacity as chairman at the Round Table discussions on metaphysics. Dr. McMahon had his share in the activities too, presiding as vice-president at the annual dinner and at the election.
The general theme of this 15th annual meeting of the Catholic philosophers was “The Philosophy of State.” The ques-
The Glee Club — They will honor Bishop O’Hara Sunday evening
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Student Forum
Food and Drug Control in the United States By Frank Bright
Popular lack of information manifests itself in many ways, but perhaps this phenomenon is more seriously apparent
in the field of
food and drug legislation than in any other. Even the best seller, 100,000,-000 Guinea Pigs, has had too little effect in arousing and educating the American public to an intelligent appraisal of a very real
Frank Bright Problem. Perhaps this is due to the obvious limitations of any “muck
raking” effort; perhaps it is due to the lack of any effective support from other sources of public education.
Recently, when the new Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 was being considered in Congress, only three newspapers, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, the Christian Science Monitor, and the Emporia Gazette gave the act any real support. Although Congress was considering its various provisions for over five years, few people know anything about the law; in fact, five months after the act had been passed, various consumer organizations here in the United States were writing in to the secretary of agriculture asking what had become of it. That the bill was competing with the president’s “must” legislation during the period when it was before Congress, is a possible explanation of the aura of secrecy surrounding it; but so is the fact more often viciously advanced by its advocates that the provisions were felt by many to be inimical to advertising revenues. The act should have been of interest to most readers of news, for it affects the great mass of consumers and several industries doing about ten billion dollars worth of business a year— industries which are, for the most part, spread out in small local units.
Briefly, the law represents the best compromise with an ideal that the advocates of reform in the field were able to extract from the powerful interests opposing it. It is divided into two parts as finally passed—The Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and the Wheeler - Lea
Amendments to the Federal Trade Commission Act (the latter dealing solely with the regulation of false advertising in the field). The first of these acts provides that there must be adequate directions for use, and warnings against misuse and deterioration, placed on the labels of drugs. Labels must state the names of the active ingredients of nonstandard drugs, such as patent medicines, and the percentage of habit forming drugs. Further, variations from promulgated standards must be stated on labels of standard drugs. There are provisions prohibiting the adulteration of foods and deception of the public with regard to food products. Harmful cosmetics are outlawed, and administration officers now have control of “reducing” drugs and their sale. Traffic in new drugs is prohibited until they have been adequately tested to show that they are safe for use. No longer does the government have to prove that the manufacturer of a drug sold under a false label knew that the label was false. The Wheeler - Lea Act allows the Federal Trade Commission to prosecute those who advertise falsely in the food and drug field without proving that the false advertising injures competition. Formerly, no matter how much the false and misleading advertisement injured the consumer, the government could not interfere unless the deception so practiced gave the wrongdoer a business advantage over some competing manufacturer. These are the important provisions of the new legislation.
There is still room for vast improvement in the control of these vital industries. Greater control of advertising is necessary. The manufacturer of drugs should be compelled to disclose how his product will help as well as how it may injure. Cosmetic manufacturers should be compelled to disclose how the product will help as well as how it may injure. Cosmetic manufacturers should be compelled to list all the ingredients of their preparations. So should the consumer be educated to recognize the problems involved and seek the enforcement of more rigorous laws. The honest manufacturer ' and advertiser must be made to realize by word and example that he has nothing to fear and everything to gain (through elimination of unscrupulous competitors) by a fair though stringent enforcement of such legislation.
tion was discussed with a view toward a comparison between the philosophy-of the totalitarian government and that of the democracy, with special regard for the rights of the individual. As was pointed out to the association in Dr. Gurian’s keynote speech, the discussion on such a subject was not only timely but a direct constructive step toward remedying social and economic ills which are threatening world security.
Besides Dr. McMahon, the other officers who will head the Catholic philosophers for the new year are: vice-president, the Rt. Rev. Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen; Secretary, Dr. Charles A. Hart. Both are of the schdol of philosophy of the Catholic University of America.
On January 21, Dr. McMahon will lecture before a group of Catholic laymen in Fort Wayne, Ind. The text of his speech will be a review of the pamphlet, “Snuffed Out,” prepared by the newly-founded Notre Dame Commission for Peace.—Tom Powers
Exam Schedule
The semester examinations in all the colleges of the University will be held on the Friday, Saturday morning, Monday, and Tuesday of January 26, 27, 29, and 30, according to the following sched
ule:
CLASSES TAUGHT AT
8:00 on Monday
9:00 on Monday
10:00 on Monday
11:00 on Monday
1:15 on Monday
2:15 on Monday
3:15 on Monday CLASSES TAUGHT AT
8:00 on Tuesday
9:00 on Tuesday-10:00 on Tuesday 11:00 on Tuesday
1:15 on Tuesday 2:15 on Tuesday 3:15 on Tuesday
WILL BE EXAMINED AT 8:00 on Friday 8:00 on Friday 10:00 on Friday 10:00 on Monday 1:15 on Friday 1:15 on Monday 3:15 on Friday
WILL BE EXAMINED AT 8:00 on Saturday 8:00 on Tuesday 10:00 on Saturday 10:00 on Tuesday 1:15 on Tuesday 3:15 on Monday 3:15 on Tuesday
A class taught after 4:00 p.m. on any day is to be examined at 8:00 p.m. on Friday or Monday.
Any examination outside these four days assigned in the University calendar will not be valid for credit. The period for each semester examination is one hour and fifty minutes. Monday in the left column of the schedule above means Monday, Wednesday, or Friday, and Tuesday means Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday. Students must take their examinations with their proper sections in all instances.
The registration of undergraduates for courses in the second semester will be on Wednesday, Jan. 31. The registration of graduate students will be at 3:45 p.m. on Wednesday, Jan. 31, in Room 123 of the Main Building. Each student must register in person.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
IN THE
“In The Juggler Vein,” c/o The Scholastic, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dear Mr. Juggler:
You are goin to have to pardon the English in this letter because I am an engineer and don’t pay much attention to snap courses such as English like the A.B.’s and Phy Ed’s an the rest of them slick fellows you run into floatin ’round the campus. On a slide rule I’m pretty slick myself, even if my room does look like Mexico City on flag day on account of all the pink slips I got nailed to the walls. But seein as I am in a little trouble and since you’ve always impressed me as a man who has been in a fog before, I would appreciate your advice and guidance.
Well, I get home for Christmas vacation all pepped up about drivin the car, and stayin out past twelve o’clock, and doin a little nippin, without fear of increasing my mail to the extent of a little white slip that bears the title “Official Summons.” Of course there are a few other reasons, too, for bein glad to get home cause I ain’t an ungrateful chump an am glad to give the folks a blow now an then.
The first day I go down to my fathers office to see if I can’t argue him out of a few bucks. It seems that while waitin between trains up in Chi I consumed a few liquid assets and put a bigger dent in my supply of rubles than I had counted. Well, I no more than get through sayin Merry Christmas to the office force and explainin why we lost to Iowa, than he shoots the old proud-father glance and asks do I need any clothes. I says yes, I could use a few shirts and socks. He gives me the raised eyebrows and asks what I did with all the new shirts I got last summer for my birthday. Then I have to explain that it wasn’t my fault, but that after two or three weeks wearin they just got so awful dirty that I had to send them to the laundry. Even after I got them back the shirts were all right, of course the collars were gone but I don’t wear a neck-tie anyhow. The socks were holey all right—that was the trouble. Well he fusses a while and
hands me a line about how he did things
when he was in college. Finally he tells me to go get some clothes and have the bill sent to him, even though I told him that it would be much better if he gave me the cash right now so as I could pay for them and he wouldn’t have to worry about bills at the end of the month. The trouble with this older generation is that they don’t trust us.
I’ve just figured out a way of leavin the office so as I can pass by the desk of dad’s secretary when he suddenly interrupts his conversation and says he wants to see my finger-nails. So I wipe off my hands on the seat of my pants and stick them out on his desk blotter. Well, I’ll admit my nails did look a little ragged but that was because I had been doin a lot of work in the 'machine shop. That work is just about as hard on hands as those soap advertisements claim dishwater is. He shudders a little
"Herman, for the last time, is it me or the fossils?”
bit and then says very firmly that he wants me to go down to the barber shop and get a manicure. Can you imagine that? A manicure. I start to give an argument but he gets that look in his eye like he had the day I brought his car home with fenders that would make a prune look like the fountain of youth, so I turn to go. To add insult to injury he says he is going to check up with Betty, the cookie that does the work, to see if I was really there. I jam my hands down in my pockets and beat it before he thinks to ask if I ought to go to the dentist. I’m so mad and humiliated I almost forgot to wink at the new Jane out in the office.
Well, Betty is one of these gabby dames. She is busy with snappy lookin guy of about 50 so I pass the time by glancin through those barber shop magazines to see if there was anything that the anti-smut boys should be informed about. There was.
After about a half hour this old geezer leaves and Betty gives me a pearly smile and a “You’re next.” that tinkled like a nickel music box. She tells me to sit down across her work bench from her and then whips out a piece of sand paper and goes whittlin around my nails like she’d done it once or twice before.
—Turn to Page 25—
12
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
William Kelleher, Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
Ad Multos Annos!
SOMETIMES the complexities of writing an editorial become almost overwhelming, as for example, when we attempt to tell a story which involves our retiring President and Bishop-elect John F. O’Hara, a pair of mouldy blue swimming pants, and ourselves. To speak of our pants in a story which involves two individuals would be, we feel, highly ambiguous; so, in the interests of accuracy, we shift briefly to the first person singular—
On a bright, warm, sunny Indiana afternoon (there was a blue moon that night) four autumns ago I went swimming in Lake St. Joseph. Approaching the dock, I waved a genial left-handed hello to a bronzed, white-haired gentleman sunning himself on the divingboard, the while I yanked up with my right the blue swimming pants borrowed for the occasion from roommate Ed McDermott.
To this day my only objection to McDermott as a roommate is a certain rotundity which always made the wearing of any of his pants a challenging problem in suspension. On this occasion, as I dived into the water, McDermott’s copious pants fell down on the job en-
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
tirely. Some deep sea work in four fathoms rescued them, however, and, after heaving to in shallow water for repairs, I retreated to the dock—
The story is inconsequential. Perhaps we would have forgotten it long ago, had it not marked our first meeting with Father O’Hara. We lay there in the warm sunlight of the dock, and we talked to him drowsily of the weather, and football, and freshman English. As we write now, we realize how fortunate we were to stumble upon him during one of the rare moments he enjoyed most, when he was relaxing in a student atmosphere.
For more than three decades he has been a familiar and well-loved campus figure. In that time, his Sorin tower room was a friendly refuge where any lonesome or worried boy might talk “off the record” to a manly priest whose absorbing and constant interest was boys and their problems.
' Consequently, we shall merely name a few of the material accomplishments of his presidency — the campus expansion, the increased enrollment, the many distinguished additions to the faculty, his own important work as a delegate appointed by President Roosevelt to the Inter-American Congress at Lima, Peru,
in 1938—before going back to his earlier labors as prefect of religion.
We have heard many times how reluctantly he gave up his religious prefectship for the presidency. He wished to keep on with the Religious Bulletin which he had begun and, more important, he wished to develop further the love for the Eucharist and the ideal of daily communion which his own unflagging efforts and personal example had made a tradition among the students.
Almost ironically, the very zeal of his saintly work in their regard carried him to the presidency of the University; and, gradually, his fears were realized. He found himself absent more and more from the students. There were fewer evenings in his Sorin tower room, as the press of business bound him to his office and to many off-campus commitments.
And now His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, has bestowed upon him the episcopal ring. Because Father O’Hara devoted to University matters the same zealous care he formerly bestowed directly upon the students, he now finds himself further separated from them. As Bishop of the titular see of Milasa and auxiliary to Archbishop Spellman of New York his contact with the campus will be largely vicarious.
However, in his added capacity as supervisor of Army and Navy chaplains, he will continue in the patriotic tradition of the Congregation of Holy Cross, which a former president of the University, the late Father William Corby founded at Cemetery Ridge and Gettysburg.
Father O’Hara’s predecessor, the late Father Charles O’Donnell, accompanied the famous Rainbow Division to France, in 1918. Father Matthew Walsh, Father John McGinn, and Father Edward Finnegan—all yet active on campus—saw front-line action as chaplains in the first World War.
And so Notre Dame loses a distinguished president as the Church gains a saintly bishop. Monday morning, the sermon of Monsignor Thomas Shannon, a life long friend, will say better all that has been written in these last weeks. In parting, we add a few words to the lines which appeared beneath Bishop - elect O’Hara’s picture in the Christmas issue of The Scholastic: “The lights have gone out in the Sorin tower room nearest the doors of Sacred Heart Church... they may not be lit again in our genera-
• tion.”—William C. Fay
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
It is in the deep tropical twilight that we get our first glimpse of Madagascar, nestling like a sleeping beauty in the warm stillness of the Indian ocean. As we draw near, we see—
Gosh Johnnie—look, it’s one of those travelogue things. Gee, that scenery is pretty. Look at all the funny boats floating around. Gosh, I wish I could travel around and go to all those funny places with crazy names. Y’know like Zanzibar and Vladivostok and them things. They got romance, not like South Bend and Niles.
What’s the matter with South Bend? We get along all right without, any of them fancy names and all. I wonder what you’d look like wandering around in one of them sarong things like Dorothy Lamour wears. Some of them don’t even wear that.
Oh shush! You wouldn’t look so good in one of them turbans either. Now shut up, I want to look at the pitcher.
We tie up at the dock of Tamatave amid a bustle of activity and for a few moments we have a chance to observe the life around us in this, the greatest of the island's commercial ports. Around the ship swarm natives who yell for us to throw coins which they dive after and bring up in their teeth. We toss them a few and watch them fetch them to the surface. Over to one side we see—
Gee, look at them go down after them coins Johnnie. I’ll bet they make a lot of money that way. I wonder how they catch them in their mouth. Don’t they swallow a lot of water that way?
Aw, they’re used to it. I guess they can stand it after a while. Besides, they don’t have to go down very deep. I bet I could do it after a little practice. I swim, down in.the. “Y”.a.lot.y.’know. _ .
After leaving our luggage at the luxurious Colonial Hotel, we decide to take a tour around the city that evening and see some of the sights at night. As we wander along the main streets of the city we marvel at its modern appearance, for the French have done everything possible to make this city truly a metropolis of the tropics.
Gee, Johnnie, look at the crazy buses they have there. They have two stories on them. I wonder how they get them under the bridges.
Aw they don’t have bridges there. What do they gotta have bridges for?
Oh Johnny!
by Joseph Smalley
They ain’t got no railroads like we have here.
Yea, I guess so. Gee they’re funny though.
As we wander along our footsteps lead us toward the Street of Lights so named because it is there that the entertainment of the island takes on full swing. Sailors and natives mix in a careless carefree crowd and from each doorway is waifed the pungent odor of strange and exciting foods and the curious tinkle of native music. We decide to stop in at one place and see the native dancers perform.
Boy, this ought to be real good. I’ve often wondered what the real shimmy looked like. Say what are they doing?
They’re dancing, you dope. This ain’t’ Hawaii, that’s where they do the shimmy. Gosh look at them, they look like a bunch of old ladies with a bad case of lumbago.
Yea, they’re not so hot, are they? I’ll bet we could show them a trick or two, heh?
The next morning we are up bright and early for our tour of the interior of the island. The principle crops include rice, coffee and sugar, grown along the fertile sides of a range of extinct volcanoes that extend the entire length of the island.
Aw, Johnnie, let go of my hand. Not in here. We can do that later. Someone might see us.
Say what’s the matter with you. No one will see us. It’s too dark. Who cares about rice fields and the rest of that stuff? All these things are just about the same.
How do you ever expect to get educated? No wonder you’re so dumb, all you ever think about is stuff like that.
All right if you feel like that. Go ahead and look at the darn picture. I guess I’ll go to sleep or something.
The main inhabitants of the island are members of the Malagasy race, of whom the Hovas are the predominant tribe. Besides farming these people engage in mining. On the island are fine deposits of gold, graphite, mica and many precious stones. As the road turns higher into the hills we decide to stop at one of these mines and see how the precious rubies are brought to the surface.
Aw Johnnie, what’s the matter? Gee,
I don’t wantcha to get mad at me. Why don’tcha say something to me?
Sure. Nice weather we’ve been having, ain’t it?
Aw Johnnie!
The rubies are not only red in coloring but also pink and violet and sonie-times a deep purple. These stones are second in value only to the diamond and in the case of large perfect stones are sometimes worth even more. In the office of the mine, we see several gems already cut and polished, showing their great beauty. These stones—
Gosh, Johnnie, ain’t they pretty? I’ll have jewels like that some day, won’t I Johnnie?
How should I know? Maybe you will.
Aw Johnnie, don’t be mad. I didn’t mean what I said about your being dumb. I think you’re swell, you know that. Put your arm around me Johnnie.
Along some of the slopes of the island deep forests are in evidence and many valuable woods are taken from these. The government is very careful about the preservation of these trees and only mature trees are cut down. In their place young trees are planted.
Gee Johnnie do you think we’ll ever be able to visit all them nice places.
Sure we will, honey, just you wait. I won’t always be making eighteen dollars a week, y’know.
I know you won’t, you got ambition Johnnie. Gee it’s nice here in the dark, ain’t it?
As we pass through the mountains we get our first glimpse of Antananarivo, the capital of Madagascar. In the warm sunlight the white buildings of the colonial government present a beautiful spectacle in the valley below us. Within the city we notice that here again the entire city is modem in aspect. Wide streets, beautiful parks, and fine buildings are everywhere in evidence. But we cannot linger too long for our ship is calling us back to Tamatave, our visit will soon be over.
Johnnie, do you think anyone can see us?
Naw, it’s too dark.
As the sun sinks low behind the mountains of this enchanted island we bid a fond farewell to this gem of the Indian ocean. It is with deep regret that we watch the shore fade in the distance of a glorious tropical twilight.
Oh, Johnnie.... Oh Johnnie, Oh, O.
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Rejuvenated Irish Face Kentucky, Butler Quints
CLANG! Bell Sets O1
Southeastern Champs Play Here Tomorrow
Coach George Keogan’s Fighting Irish hasketeers finished preparations this aft
ernoon for impending tilts with two out
Rex Ellis son—All-American
standing scoring machines. Kentucky University, pride of the blue grass region, invades the Fieldhouse tomorrow night, and Butler’s Bulldogs will call, Tuesday.
Kentucky will be minus five regulars from last year’s Southeastern Conference Champions, who bowed to the Irish 42 to 37. Coach Ad Rupp has lost Opper and Thomp-choices—along with
Curtis, Head, and Captain Goodman.
Kentucky dropped a close opener to Cincinnati when sickness weakened the
squad, but since then the Blue and White has recorded major victories over Ohio State, Kansas State, and West Virginia.
Marion Cluggish, six-feet, eight-inch center will lead the invading team tomorrow evening with Lee Huber and Layton Rouse, guards, backing up the offensive strength. Keith Fainsley, Jim King and Walter White are other stellar players on the Kentucky squad.
Coach Tony Hinkle’s Butler Bulldogs will put full steam ahead in an effort to win the first of the home and home series with the Irish, when the whistle blows at 8 o’clock Tuesday night. Jerry Steiner a veteran of last year’s impressive team which defeated Notre Dame 35 to 27, is captain of this year’s team.
“Now that Notre Dame has come through a tough ball game with a victory over Syracuse, the boys should regain some of the confidence lost at the expense of Michigan, Southern California, Illinois, and Northwestern during the Christmas recess. Those four defeats came at the hands of four real floor squads.” That was the dictum of Coach George Keogan following Notre Dame’s conquest, over Lew Andreas’ Orange eagers, 33-29, in the fieldhouse last Saturday evening.
George Sobek, sophomore, and Rex
Ellis, senior, who has needled the Fighting Irish since replacing Captain Mark Ertel at the center post, paced the home club with 12 points each. Dudley Thorne, Syracuse forward, led his mates in scoring with an even dozen points. Syracuse nearly caught Notre Dame with but a minute to go as Sobek registered his fourth field basket to give the Irish a restful night.
Benny Oosterbaan’s Michigan Wolverines dealt Notre Dame its first defeat when the Keoganmen visited Ann Arbor on December 16. The score was 41-39. Captain Rae at center, and Pink, guard, were high point men foi’ the victors with 10 and 11 points, respectively. Notre Dame’s Eddie Riska more than equalled the sum of both figures as he basketed ten goals and three free throws.
Southern Cal led Notre Dame all the way as Troy made a clean sweep of its first five games on a tour through the East, stopping at Notre Dame on December 22 to defeat the home club by 55-38 before 5,500 witnesses. Ralph Vaughn and Keith Lambert, citizens of the state of Indiana, totalled between them 19 points for Sam Barry’s coastmen. S.C. subsequently downed Long Island U. after the Blackbirds had amassed a record of 42 successive triumphs. Ellis and Captain Ertel, alternating at center, counted 23 points between them.
Tommy Wukovits, Notre Dame ’38, suggested to his brother Vic that the younger Wukovits enroll at Illinois U., and Vic did. When Notre Dame visited Champaign on the evening of December 27, Wukovits and Captain Bill Hapac of the Ulini, plus John Drish, divided 30 of Illinois’ 42 markers as Ellis was getting 10 of Notre Dame’s 29.
Northwestern’s floormen scored more baskets against Notre Dame on the evening of December 30 than a Wildcat quintet has done in many years as sophomore center, Dick Klein, tallied 21 of a 47-point total. Forty-two fouls were detected before 6,000 fans in Patton Gym. The victory gave Northwestern its fifth straight.
In the first nine games of the campaign, Eddie Riska, junior forward, is heading Notre Dame’s score column with 38 field goals and 97 points; his mates come in this order: Ertel, 62 points; Sobek, 54; Ellis, 46; Ryan, 31; and Klier, 29. Klier has played valuable defensive ball to thwart the opposition.—Eddie Huff .
The rhythm of shuffling feet, the rat- c tat of the punching bag, and the even t swish of the jumping rope soon will be real “swing” music to the ears of campus boxing enthusiasts. For on Monday afternoon, Jan. 15, earnest training in preparation for The SCHOLASTiC-sponsored Bengal Bouts will begin in the j boxing room of the Rockne Memorial.
Judging from previous turn-outs, it is d probable that 150 potential champions of all weights will step into fighting togs	>	v
and begin the long training session	I	e
which culminates in the final bouts on	r	c
March 15. Of those 150 there will be,	,	f
according to past statistics, about 90 fl contestants ready to step into the ring	f.,
on March 11, 12, and 13, the dates of	j
the preliminaries.	„
For these, the tenth Bengal Bouts, six a of last year’s champions will again climb through the ropes where they first re- 1 ceived the crowd’s plaudits. Bill Dil-	o
hofer will defend his 115-pound title;	fi
Johnny Duffy is back with his dynamic si punch to' retain the 125-pound championship; Rod McGuire, last year’s 145- c-pound sensation, has returned; Harry fl John, who defeated Bill McGrath for p the 155-pound title, is in harness; Jerry y Ryan’s boxing skill in the light-heavy q; division can be appreciated again; and fl Johnny Ford, the ponderous but tricky heavyweight is a defender.
But be not discouraged by this im-	t<
pressive array of talent. New cham-	Ii
pions are certain to be crowned. Each	tl
year sees apparently unbeatable men go	tl
down to defeat before the superior skill	si
Bengal Bout Finals—Weeks of
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
Off Bengal Swingfest
of unknowns. Upsets are the rule rather than the exception.
Requirements are few. To insure the physical soundness of all competitors, Mr. Dominic Napolitano, instructor and trainer of all fighters, requires that each man secure a medical approval from Dr. James McMeel, and that from then on each man train seriously until the day of the first bouts.
For freshmen and any upper classmen who have little experience but -wish to enter, Mr. Napolitano will conduct special classes in boxing on week nights in the Memorial. “Nappy’s” experience has aided many a novice in the climb toward a championship recognition. Jerry Ryan is a good example of a beginner who clicked due to hard work and a fine instructor.
The weight groups are 115, 125, 145, 155, 165, 175, and heavyweight. Anyone, whether a midget or a giant, can find a division to suit his physical structure.
Incentive to win is given by the special monogram sweaters given to all finalists. The letters “N D” are set in a pah' of yellow boxing gloves to indicate that “Fightin’ Irish” have won them. To each contestant a bronze medal will be given for participation, win or lose.
An incentive to attend the bouts is the fact that all receipts are turned over to the Holy Cross. Missions in Bengal, India. The tenth year should be one of the most successful. An anniversary is the best time to make something a real success.—John Patterson
s of Training lie ahead.
Splinters From The Pressbox by Frank Aubrey
The question has been bandied about recently ‘Why don’t we have a hockey team around here?’ Before jumping to wrong conclusions and immediately administering a verbal bastinado to the persons, places, or things to blame for this delinquency, let us take time for a short, pocket-sized history of the whys and why-nots we do or don’t have certain sports here. Who knows, it may put us in a better frame of mind for accepting philosophically the ultimate, unconditional “no” in answer to our puckish request. (Well you asked for it.)
Apparently the conditions appropriate for inaugurating various sports are widely divergent in nature. For instance, the school does not sponsor a varsity crew fox* geographical reasons, that is, no sizable body of water or reasonably navigable stream exists for ideal rowing conditions. We haven’t had a swimming team for the reason that Notre Dame had no swimming pool up until a few months ago. Incidentally, the primary condition would be an economic one if you account for the absence of a pool. Then, too, we have had no boxing or wrestling teams for the same reason—facilities were inadequate, though we suppose they are suitable now. Finally, we have no polo team, and this might be due to a cultural or social condition. Let’s not be hypocritical about it, but admit that the poloplaying set does not flourish in the hardy Indiana climate.
Along this line of thinking—‘no facilities, no sport,’ we run into an exception to the rule. We have no hockey team. But why not? We have the ice (outdoors at least); we have the players; we have the interest. With all this on the affirmative side, what can the negatives say in rebuttal? Well, vaguely we do remember hearing the remark that intercollegiate hockey was ostracized almost at its inception here by the decree of a president of the University. He said he could see no future here at Notre Dame for a sport -which “put a shillelagh in the hands of an Irishman.” Begorra, that remark must have bin made in the daze whin we Irish were fresh from the auld sod—ran’ the railroads were buildin’—an’, sure iny broth of a lad would be-labor the livin’ daylights out of the spalpeen whut crossed him. Credence to such an idle remark
nowadays is an affront to the great Irishmen like Jim Farley, Frank Murphy, Joe McCarthy, and the rest. Do we expect them to lay about them with a club if somebody opposes them or kicks their shins?
Let the absence of an indoor rink be no handicap. Weather permitting and God willing, a home schedule could be played on our lake-side rink. If not, we must necessarily contract games with schools possessing a machine-age rink. Then we at least could play the game. Usually, we do have sufficient cold weather here to afford several weeks of skating and thereby worry over the possibilities of hockey practice can be virtually eliminated. Besides you can’t expect to start off with the best of everything— manufactured ice, warm locker rooms, the band playing ‘The Skaters’ Waltz,’ and a full house banked around the rink. In the days when Rockne et al were putting Notre Dame on the football map, as Rock said, the boys had to take the good with the bad.
*
After we returned from our happy vacation we were saddened to learn that everybody’s vacation had not been so fortunate. Over in the gym we noticed four new white hairs on the head of George Keogan— which were definitely not there when we left. Drifting about we learned the causes of these unwelcome heralds of old age, calamity, and infirmity. Tossing about in the avalanche of words were the phrases—flack of height, inexperience, no vacation for the players, up against unbeaten teams, etc.’ It seems white hair number one appeared suddenly one night in Ann Arbor w’hile those thereabouts were sitting in at the demise of an Irish six-game winning streak. We could understand that since we knew Michigan had five starters back from last year and they had beaten us then. Another one of Southern Cal’s unconquerable teams came to town next, and left the way they had come. We could understand that N.U. won their last annual quota of sports contests from us before a partisan crowd in Patten Gym. We could understand that too. Illinois beat us because we got only three baskets in the first half. We could not understand that; So why the four white hairs? George should have only one. Pull ’em out, George, and let’s start fresh, with Wildroot and Kentucky.
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Introducing By Pete Sheehan
Gene Klier played high school basketball down in Washington, Ind., where he is still referred to as, “the coach’s headache.” This is no reflection on Gene’s basketball ability. He was selected on every possible all-star team during his senior year. Long shots were his specialty and holding down high scoring forwards was his hobby.
In fact it was Gene’s greatness that caused his coach so much concern. The
worried mentor never sat
quietly on the bench until Gene walked out on the floor to take his warm-up shots.
The cause of Klier’s eccentricity, and. the coach’s gray hair, was Gene’s love for hunting. He belonged to a party of coon hunters and coons, like owls and formal attire, come out at night. Consequently Gene would be playing basketball while he was thinking of the night’s expedition. As soon as the gun had sounded he would make for the dressing room, don his hunting togs and proceed to make life miserable for the racoons.
These huntsmen would usually stray far from home and when Gene would return, his team would be trailing by a few baskets. Whenever the team traveled, however, they were forced to depart without their star. But Gene always found a ride and never missed more than the first half. His teammates
never became angry with him because his presence was just what they needed for that last minute rally.
Inhabitants of this basketball - mad community spend the afternoons around the cracker barrel in a speculative mood. Most of them maintained that Klier would join Frank Buck’s entourage after his graduation but Gene’s ambition to become a metallurgist and his love for basketball prompted him to put aside his gun.
Gene came to Notre Dame in ’36 after he had been picked on the All-Southern Indiana Athletic Conference team. Along with Ertel, Ellis, and company, he immediately made life more difficult for Moir, Nowak and Meyer. As a sophomore he failed to win a monogram but last year he substituted for Captain
Earl Brown and was in action every game. This season he has teamed with Ryan and both of them seem to be certain of their starting positions for the remainder of the season.
Gene came to Notre Dame to study and play basketball. He has fulfilled these duties so faithfully that he has had little time for any other activities. The spotlight, he believes, is something to be avoided. Banquets are his pet
aversion.
During summer vacations Gene has toiled as a railroad laborer, life-guard, and swimming pool manager. Last June he spent ten days at Culver attending the Red Cross Swimming School. These ten days, Gene asserts, were the hardest he has endured.
Statistics: Full name — Eugene Paul Klier. Born January 4, 1919 at Flora, Ill. Moved to Washington, Ind., in 1923. Height, 6 feet, 1 inch. Weight, 185 pounds. Gene will receive his degree from the College of Engineering in June and would like a position as a metallurgist in the steel industry. A basketball playing brother will carry on at Notre Dame.
Irish Hockey
Winter came to Notre Dame over the holidays and with it the annual hockey problem.
For years all students from above the Mason-Dixon line, who owned a pair of skates and a stick rejoiced with the freezing of the lake, and for years these enthusiasts have been sadly disappointed in the local ice activities. Regularly the more ambitious of the players have fostered a movement to • obtain University backing, but in recent years any advancement made with frowning authority has been slapped back by an early spring.
It seems that there was a time when Notre Dame was ready to step onto the ice in a big way. The high point of the program was to be an eastern Christmas trip; however, the boys seemed to be starting out a bit too fast and got so badly tangled in the Ivy league that the authorities deemed it wise to limit the winter sports activities to handball and bowling.
The Irish icemen got to work two winters ago and upon obtaining the school’s backing went to Illinois and in spite of their lack of practice won, 1-0. Thus ended their ’38 season — successfully. Last winter again a team was assembled and a return engagement was played with the Ulini, who avenged the previous defeat, 6-0.
This year newspapers carrying promises of a new deal in meteorological cycles fanned the ever-present spark of the hockey players and they set out on their campaign for University action on the question. Realizing the problems involved the players are ready to compete with local clubs if an intercollegiate schedule is found impossible. One of the players of the historic “game-a-year” team remarked, “We’ve got the spirit out there, all we need is University cooperation. At present we haven’t even got the rink we had last year — maybe the boards are on the bottom. If we could only get some sort of coach to keep order and system—as it is now, anybody with a stick wants to swing it and we don’t even play shinny — we could work up a team capable of representing the school.”
Among those remaining from the team of last year are Don Stapleton, Jim Brown, Jack Frost, and Jack McIntyre. With a large number of prospective players coming down to informal practices there is no lack of material. Chet Grant has been the coach in the past, and Father Kelleher has been eager in offering his aid to the boys. -
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
Swordsmen Open Season
Here Against Detroit
Notre Dame’s fencing team will swing into action tomorrow afternoon when they face Detroit U. at 2:00 p.m. in the gymnasium in the opening match of the season. Professor Walter M. Langford, who this year1 succeeded Pedro de Lan-dero as coach, is somewhat hesitant about stating the prospects for the season. "We’ll have a steady team,” he said, "but thus far I see no prospects of brilliancy. Then too, this early in the season we cannot possibly know the calibre of our opposition.”
On past performances the Irish fencers should be favored over Detroit as they have four’ lettermen returning, who last year* participated in victories over the lancers from the auto city. Coach Langford plans to use this opening match as a criterion by which to judge his prospects for the remainder of the season. Several inexperienced men will square off against the Detroit fencers and he is anxious to learn their reactions under fire.
The four lettermen, Sayia, Gavan, Smalley, and Donovan, are experienced fencers and have shown well in practice. Smalley is the only man participating in two events, handling assignments in both the sabre and epee. Other men will have single assignments. This assures a well-balanced team with no one man bearing the brunt of the work. The team as a whole is in excellent shape, having trained since early October, with no letdown during Christmas vacation
Irish fencers open a new season with a new coach
despite the fact that practice was suspended for the holidays.
The tentative starting lineup is as follows: Foil — Gaither, Wallace, Harris, Sayia, Schlafly; Sabre—Gavan, Smalley, Donovan; Epee—Smalley, Corbett.
The schedule for the 1940 season follows:
Jan. 13—Detroit at Notre Dame.
Jan. 20—Northwestern at Notre Dame.
Feb. 3—Michigan State at East Lansing.
Feb. 10—Chicago at Chicago.
Feb. 17—Ohio State at Columbus.
Feb. 24—M i c h i g a n State at Notre Dame.
Mar. 1—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Mar. 2—Wisconsin at Madison.
Mar. 16—Washington at St. Louis.
—Chuck Farrell
Rockne Memorial News
William Cotter of Dillon hall, who last Spring almost alone won the Interhall championship for Lyons, annexed new swimming honors in the all-campus meet of December 13th, winning first place. Bill scored a total of 15 points, finishing ahead of the other swimmers in the 50-yard breast stroke, and in the high board diving. Three contestants, Lee Hastings and Frank Pollnow of Morrissey, and Tom Hoyer, Off-campus, tied for second place with six points apiece. Four records were broken in the five swimming events of the meet. Robert Russell, off-campu, won the 100-yard free style in :57.5, bettering the old record of Hastings who finished
second. Bill Burns of Alumni finished in third place. Cotter’s time in the 50-yard breast event was :31.9, breaking his old mark of :32.4. Pollnow and Larry Donovan of Lyons finished second and third.
Rob Levernier of Morrissey won the 50-yard back stroke in :31.8 in the one swimming event in which a new record was not established. The record of :30.6 is also held by Levernier. John Griffin of Badin and Bob Finneran were in second and third place respectively.
Another record held by Hastings was cracked in the 50-yard free style. Tom Miller of Cavanaugh beat the record of :26.1 by only two-tenths of a second, in a time of :25.9. Hastings was second and Joe Haas of Zahm was third. In the 75 yard medley, John Doerr set a new mark of :49.6, bettering his old record of :51 by :.1.4. Pollnow and Finneran trailed Doerr. Cotter scored a total of 184 points in the low-board diving contest, in which there were eight dives. Hoyer and Russell followed with 163 and 135 respectively. There were only six dives in the high diving, Cotter scoring 134 points to Hoyer’s 127 and 113 for Joe Geidemann of Badin.
The newly created pool records in the meet compare very favorably with Intercollegiate records in various parts of - the country. Taking into consideration that the competitors trained under their own ititiative, the times turned in were exceptionally good.
Robert Russell, off-campus freshman, bettered the 100 yard time made in the Mid-West Conference meet in 1939 by one-tenth of a second. He swam the distance in :57.5
Tom Miller of Cavanaugh, also a freshman, broke the Missouri Valley Conference record of :25.7 in the 50-yard event in establishing a new Rockne Memorial pool record. Miller’s time was :25.9, or eight-tenths of a second faster. However, it is nothing to get excited about as they swim the same distance in :23.1 in the Western Conference; :24.1 in the Bix Six, and :24.3 in the Pacific Coast.
Doubles Handball
Entry closes Monday in the first doubles handball tournament ever held at the Memorial. Already 23 doubles teams have signed up. Judging from the type of play in the recent singles meet, this tourney should prove very interesting.
Squash
Monday is also the deadline for entry in the singles squash tourney. The entry is light thus far and all players are urged to get their names in before Mon
18
The Notre Dame Scholastic
day. Both last year’s champion, George Alfs, and the runner-up, Duke Murphy, have signified their intentions of fighting it all over again.
Senior Lifesaving
Ed Slezak, swimming director, has asked that all those interested in taking an American Red Cross senior lifesaving course or preparing for an instructor’s course, please file then* entry card at the Rockne Memorial. Date and time of course will be announced shortly.
—John E. Lewis
Trackmen Face Hardest
Schedule This Season
A depleted squad, including only 10 of last year’s 22 monogram winners, provides the nucleus for Notre Dame’s representation in the initial track meet of the 1940 season, against Marquette here the first week in February.
“Prospects indicate that the schedule this year will be the hardest a Notre Dame team has ever encountered,” Coach Nicholson commented.
Heading the list of 10 monogram winners returning are: Ted Leonas, high jumping ace, Steve Coughlin and Bob Saggau, sprinters, Dave Reidy, hurdler, and John Dean, pole vaulter. Two middle distance men will move into longer races, the coach announced.
Kenny Collins, a quarter-miler a year ago, will run the half mile while Curt Hester, one of the best half-milers, will compete in the mile run.
Other monogram men back are: Hank Halpin, quarter-mile, Bob Lawrence, hurdler, and Tom O’Reilly, high jump. Red Martin, Bill Bogan, and Scully are leading candidates for Greg Rice’s successor in the two-mile run. A trio of football linemen, Cliff Brosey, Ed Sullivan, and Herky Bereolos, head the shot putters. Joe Olbrys is a half-miler while Bill Tucker leads the broad jumpers. Leading new-comers are: George Schiewe, Ray Roy, and Joe Prokop, sprinters and hurdlers.
In addition to Marquette, the Irish will participate in the Butler Relays and will meet Michigan State, Indiana, and Michigan. A complete schedule for this season’s track campaign is not available at the present time.—Bill Scanlan
“SCRIP” NEXT WEEK
The Scholastic will not appear again until Friday, Feb. 2. However the second issue of Scrip, the campus literary quarterly, will appear next Friday afternoon.
The Scholastic extends sincere sympathy to Scrip Editor John Meaney on the recent death of his father.
FACES HARD SCHEDULE
John P. Nicholson
Class of 1943 Elects
Maloney President
The Class of 1943 may now rest in peace, or make a name for itself, as the case may be. They have chosen their officers, all of them, after a bit of campaigning, and a great deal of shouting and predicting. The elections were announced a week ahead of time, and gradually the news spread, until it finally reached the freshmen. After a day or so sinking in, it brought sudden and violent results. Posters blossomed, interhall tickets were drawn up, and knowing talk was bruited about, concerning “the football crowd,” “Brownson unity,” “the Chicago bloc,” and such. Marvelous organizations were built in 24 hours — “sure-fire winners,” — which died a quiet death the next day.
The preliminaries and December 12 finally rolled around, and the crowd invaded the Dining Hall basement. There they chose their nominees. The following Thursday saw the finals in progress, but this time the results were more predictable. The class’ opinion had solidified, or been solidified, with the help of a poster here and there, and an offer to bring Ann Sheridan to next year’s Sophomore Cotillion. Optimistic lad, — the nominee who promised that.
However, after the dust cleared, the Dining Hall basement emptied, and all posters were torn down (or almost all), the following results appeared. Anthony Maloney, freshman trace ace of Brown
son and New York City, defeated William Reagan for the presidency. The new vice-president is George Dreier of Zahm and Oakland, Calif., who came out on top over William Carroll. Gail Fitch, Jr., of Zahm and Oak Park, Hl., the new secretary, won over Joseph O’Dea; and Fred Neagle of Freshman Hall took Walter McNamara for the treasurer’s job.
Freshman student council officers were: Steve Puffer, Zahm; Neil Green, Breen-Phillips; William Hearn, Cavanaugh; and John Kelly, Brownson and Freshman.
A student council election committee, headed by Dave Sprafke, has charge, and deserves great credit. There was no bloodshed although 500 votes were cast.
Local Boys Make Good
On WBBM “Bull Session”
Two Notre Dame juniors, John O’Loughlin of Bangor, Me., and Frederick Holl of Honesdale, Pa., will represent the University on CBS’s regular Saturday noon “bull session,” on January 13 over Station WBBM, Chicago. The program is sponsored by De Paul University, and two representatives each from that school and Loyola University will also be on the program. The subject to be discussed is, “Working One’s Way Through College—Its Advantages and Disadvantages.”
Both Notre Dame students are members of the varsity debating team, and both are in the College of Commerce. Mr. O’Loughlin is a member of the Commerce Forum and the Wranglers. Mr. Holl is in the band and a member of Howard Hall’s championship interhall debating team.
New Records Available
Phonograph facilities in Washington Music hall are available to all students each afternoon, Monday through Friday, from 1:15 to 2:15. Several famous symphonies as well as prominent vo_cal numbers can be heard. Included in the repertoire are selections by Beethoven, Tschaikowsky and othed noted composers. Lawrence Tibbett is among the vocal soloists. New records are being added to the library each week, and students may play their own selections if they desire.
Speech Profs Convene
Two faculty members of the Department of Speech, Professors William J. Coyne and Ronald C. Cox, attended on Dec.. 27, 28, and 29, the annual convention of the National Association of Teachers of Speech in Chicago.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
Howard 4-Time Winner
Of Interhall Debates
Ralph A. Gerra, chairman, has announced that Howard Hall won the final interhall debate on Deb. 15, and now has possession of the silver cup. The topic was: “Resolved: That the United States should follow a policy of strict military and economic isolation toward all nations outside the Western Hemisphere, engaged in armed international and civil conflict.” Jack Walsh, Jack Burke, and Fred Holl upheld the winning negative side for Howard Hall; and Bob Coleman, Neil McCarthy, and Roger Young upheld the losing side for Morrissey Hall.
This ended the two months’ series of interhall contests begun in October, and conducted by the Wranglers, whose members coached each hall team and judged all debates. The tall silver cup, given annually to a winning hall for one year’s possession, has been won four times by Howard Hall, and twice each by Morrissey and Brownson, out of a total of 13 years. There are only two spaces left for winners’ names, and at best Howard can only be tied. What will happen in 1942 will have to be decided by the Wranglers iff the future, according to Chairman Gerra.
Oratory Contest Pays
Winners Cash Awards
The Goodrich - Cavanaugh Oratorical Contest will be held in the middle of February. Prizes are money awards of $100, $36, and $15 to the winners of first, second, and third places, respectively.
This contest is open to any undergraduate student of the University. Orations must be original, and must deal with the fundamentals of American Government, — particularly the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States.
Professors Albert L. Doyle and Frank W. Kelly, of the Department of Speech, have charge of the contest. They recommend that those who desire to enter should hand in their names to some W. Kelly, of the department of speech, as soon as possible. Further details will be announced later.
O’Connell Wins Dome
Photography Prize
Thomas Carty, editor of the Dome, announced that the pictures of the individual members of the Junior class have been taken and sent to the engraver. For four days, after the semester exam
inations, the remaining pictures of the Senior class will be taken. Any seniors missed during this period will not be included in the Dome. Following this, pictures of remaining campus organizations will be taken.
Carty also announced that any organizations wishing to have snap-shots of their dances in the Dome, should see him.
Jack Burke, snap - shot editor, announced that Quentin J. O’Connell of Chicago won the award of $2.50 for pictures of the Cleveland trip.
—Don Heltzel
Ex-Notre Dame Student
Trains at Randolph Field
A report from the Army Air Corps Training Detachment, Glendale, Calif., brings news that Edward J. Tuma of Lonsdale, Minn., and a former student at Notre Dame has successfully completed primary training as an Army pilot and will leave at once for the “West Point of the Air,” Randolph Field, Texas.
Flying cadets, enlisted under the Army’s current expansion plan, spend three months at Grand Central Flying school in primary training. Survivors of the “weeding out” process then go to Randolph Field for three months’ basic training, followed by three months’ advanced instruction at Kelly Field, Texas. At the end of this nine month’s total
“Yassuh, dem Irish tackles is too tough for me!”
training period they gain their commissions as second lieutenants and their wings as full-fledged Army Air Corps flyers.
Of the 400 men at the Glendale school 300 are receiving training as mechanics and the remainder as flying cadets. The base was established in the Army’s recent expansion program.—Jack Dinges
Interhall League Opens
With Close Contests
The Inter-Hall basketball league got underway last Monday and Tuesday nights at the Rockne Memorial with eight games being played. The closest of these was the contest between Sorin and Zahm, with the seniors ekeing out a 25 to 24 victory.
Other results in the heavy division follow: Howard 22, Carroll 15; Walsh 34, Dillon 22; Cavanaugh 20, St. Edward’s 14; Lyons 39, Breen-Phillips 22; Brownson 34, Off-Campus 19; Alumni 33, Morrissey 21; Badin 21, Freshman 16.	.
The schedule for next week and until after examinations is as follows: Heavyweight Division, Monday, Jan. 15—7:45, Howard vs. Sorin, and Carroll vs. Zahm; 8:45, Walsh vs. St. Edward’s, and Dillon vs. Cavanaugh; Wednesday, Jan. 17, 7:45, Lyons vs. Brownson. and Breen-Phillips vs. Off-Campus; 8:45, Alumni vs. Badin, and Morrissey vs. Freshman.
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Busy Theatre Season
For Washington Hall
The new year’s parade of educational entertainment is ready to march across the stage of Washington Hall. Beginning with a University Glee Club concert on Jan. 14, the campus theatre’s program will offer noteworthy musicians, lecturers, dancers and various other types of entertainers for student appreciation.
Lieutenant Wev of the United States Coast Guard will come to Notre Dame Jan. 17 to lecture on the Coast Guard’s service—past, present, and future. Movies illustrating the Guards in action will accompany the lecture.
The world-touring Don Cossack group of choristers and dancers will be presented on Jan. 24. This is the second American tour of General Platoff’s celebrated Russian enemble. The Cossacks were honored in America last year by being the only artists chosen to inaugurate the music season of the Golden Gate International Exposition.
The month of February will bring South Bend’s Chester Bragg, “the man of a thousand hobbies,” Frank Sheed, noted lecturer and publisher, and Virgilio Lazzari, noted basso singer.
Early spring promises include George Kendall, lecturing on the opening of King Tutankamen’s tomb, and the renowned Tony Sarg Marionettes. This year the Marionettes will offer their own version of the story of Robin Hood.
... Bell Telephone engineers developed a better microphone
DID you realize that much of the technique of radio broadcasting is an outgrowth of Bell System research? Through the years, Bell Telephone Laboratories and Western Electric (manufacturing unit of the System) have produced many advanced types of equipment for better broadcasting.
Consecration Recalls
Feat of Archbishop
In 1931, the late Pius XI wished to publish an encyclical condemning the Italian government. The then Rt. Rev. Monsignor Francis E. Spellman smuggled the document—tucked in a secret pocket of his bag—into France. It was Monsignor Spellman who, as Auxiliary Bishop of Boston, delivered the baccalaureate sermon here in 1935.
One of the most recent is the Western Electric
Cardioid Microphone. Built on revolutionary principles, it is now helping many stations to put your favorite programs on the air at their best. Just one more Bell System contribution to your daily life.
Glory
Blue veils of gas float over the hills And settle in tranquil seas over the valleys.
Gas sifts like fine slanting rain through the thick orchards,
Sears the leaves brown.
The guns rattle and spray lead over unseen bodies
Lying in grooved gutters fertile with gas.
Lights twist into aching rainbows Arching over the reality of young death. Dawn comes with creeping glory Over broken bodies lying in the wheat And fertilizing stalked bread with blood.
—Walter Hagen, Jr.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
21
<»O>	111 ~	IW>
The Men's Store
AM	■	•	I ’
Remodeling and Expansion SALE
In the near future we will start work on our store — remodeling and installing new equipment — new, modern front, etc. Everything in our stock of readymade garments: Shirts, Ties, Hats, etc. are now on sale and must be sold at once.
Your choice of any Ready-Made
Suit or Overcoat
Group I	Group II
$24.50	$28.50
Group III
$32.50
Group IV	Group V
$34.50	$37.50
OTHER READY-MADE SUITS, TOPCOATS and OVERCOATS $42.50 and up
No charge for alterations.
Gloves 20% off Pajamas 20% off Shirts 20% off Hosiery 20% off
Hats 20% off Robes 33 ^3% off
One Group of SHIRTS — (values $2 to $3.50)....$1.65
All Suits fitted by O. M. Rasmussen wes—....
Renfranz - Rasmussen 106 -108 S. Main St. (Opposite Court House)
Knights of Columbus
The Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus will sponsor a ' dance on Saturday night, Jan. 20, at the Progress Club in South Bend. Only council members will be allowed to attend. Tickets to the dance, which is to be informal, are selling for 50 cents. Bill Regan and John O’Laughlin are co-chairmen for the dance.
Last night the officers of the Notre Dame K. of C. Council held a joint meeting with members and officers of the La Porte Council at the Knights of Columbus offices in La Porte, Indiana.
Round Table: Next Monday evening Professor Thomas B. Campbell will talk before the Round Table on some phase of economic history. Following his talk the organization will discuss activity plans for the remaining school year.
Pittsburgh: On Thursday, Dec. 28, 44 undergraduates of the Pittsburgh-Notre Dame club were guests of the alumni at a luncheon held in the Army-Navy room of Hotel Henry in Pittsburgh. John J. Ryan, ’28, president of the alumni, and Edward G. Huff, ’40, president of the club, were the principal speakers.
On the evening of January 1 the Christmas Dinner-Formal was held in the Chatterbox of the Hotel William Penn. Johnny Long’s orchestra entertained the guests. The proceeds of this affair went to an academic scholarship fund.
Sociology: The Notre Dame Realists of the department of sociology held a business meeting last Monday for the
EXCELLENT FOOD
and
PERFECT SERVICE
in the newly decorated
Bavarian Room
Luncheon and Dinner
at the
HOTEL LaSALLE
Corner LaSalle and Michigan
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
Epiphany, the Christmas of the Gentiles, is the showing forth of the Christ-God, the Christ-man, the Christ-King. All this is implicit in the words of the Magi: “Where is he that is born King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the East, and are come to adore him.” (Matthew 2.2)
Everything about the birth of Christ was insignificant, obscure, save the Angels’ message which only the shepherds heard. In simple wonder at this mysterious manifestation they must needs adore. “The glad tidings” the Angels brought were not for the shepherds alone but “to all the people.” (Luke 2, 10) as Isaias (60, 1) had foretold: “Arise, 0 Jerusalem; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee!” So Herod came to know, and he told the High Priests, and presently flowed the first blood of martyrs, the Holy Innocents. Wanton waste indeed, for “No earthly crowd he comes to take, who heavenly kingdoms doth bestow.” (Vespers Hymn for Epiphany) The Preface of the Mass for Epiphany couples his manifestation with our own glorification:: “When thine only begotten Son showed himself in the substance of our mortal nature, he restored us by the new light of his own immortality.”
Mass Calendar: January 14-20
Sunday, 14—Second after Epiphany. 2d prayer, St. Hilary, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor; 3d, St. Felix, Priest, Martyr; 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 15—St. Paul the First Hermit, Confessor. 2d prayer, St. Maurus, Abbot; 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 16—St. Marcellus I. Pope, Martyr. 2d prayer, Bl. Virgin; 3d, the Church or the Pope; 4th, Against Persecutors, etc. Votive or Requiem.
Wednesday, 17—St. Anthony, Abbot. Mass: Os justi (in Common) Gospel proper. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Thursday, 18—St. Peter’s Chair at Rome. 2d prayer, St. Paul; 3d, St. Pris-ca, Virgin, Martyr; 4th Against Persecutors, etc. Credo. Preface of the Apostles.
Friday, 19—Sts. Marius, Martha, and Companions, Martyrs. 2d prayer, St. Canute IV. King, Martyr; 3d, Bl. Virgin; 4th, Against Persecutors, etc. Votive or Requiem.
Saturday, 20—St. Fabian, Pope and Saint Sebastian, Martyrs. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
purpose of electing a membership and program committee. Elected to the program committee were: James Moylan, Chicago; Donald Hosinski, South Bend; and Alexander Tihay, Aurora, Hl.
—Don Heltzel
RECORDS from RODIN’S
Complete Stock DECCA
35c each — 3 for $1.00
Examine our stock of DECCA complete albums.
RODIN'S
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184 Needles and Record Accessories Open Saturday Evenings
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, ind.
ICE SKATES
Nestor, Johnson and Spalding
$3.50 to $9.95
Featuring Hard Toe Hockey Skates $5.95 to $7.50
SONNEBORN'S
SPORT GOODS 121 West Colfax Avenue
Youngstown
The campus Youngstown Club held its annual Christmas dance on December 27 at the Stambaugh Auditorium in Youngstown. Music for the dance was furnished by Larry Funk and his Band of a Thousand Melodies. A song written especially for the club was featured, with Betty Harris singing the lyrics. Four varsity football men attended the dance: Joe DeFranco, Jim Brutz, John O’Brien, and Chuck Riffle. Each varsity man was given a small football as a door prize. A large crowd attended the dance, the most successful in the history of the club.
A formal dinner party was held at the Hotel Ohio in Youngstown, on New Year’s Day. This party was given in appreciation of the members’ hard work on the Christmas dance. After the turkey dinner the club members and their guests enjoyed an evening of dancing.
Metropolitan
On the night of December 27, the Christmas holidays- reached their peak for the boys who make their homes in and around New York City. On that night the Metropolitan Club staged the biggest dance in their history. Promptly at nine p.m. the delightful strains of George Olson’s music filled the beautiful Belvedere Room of the Hotel Astor.
Among those present were many star athletes, old and new, prominent members of the Notre Dame Club of New York, and many well-known figures of other Catholic colleges in the East. At one a.m. President Doug Bangert introduced some of the prominent guests, after which Paul Lillis, varsity tackle, awarded the door prize—a football autographed by the members of the 1939 squad.
Among the many girls present was Joan Halladane who accompanied Myles Walsh, general chairman; Miss Jane Clark, guest of John Martin, financial chairman; and Miss Dorothy Haus, Queen of the Ball, who was the guest of Doug Bangert. Miss Haus is a student of Notre Dame College of Maryland.
In addition to being a huge social success, a satisfactory profit was reported. Doug Bangert expressed the desire to increase the present scholarship award from 100 to 200 dollars. This is one of the Club’s most creditable activities and is a new and desirable effort among campus clubs. The success of the Christmas Dance is an accurate reflection of the fine spirit and cooperation that exists among the boys of the Metropolitan area. A very active winter program is planned by the administration.
For your Satisfaction and Pleasure!
EMERALD ROOM
and
COFFEE SHOP
•	Fine Service
•	Excellent Cuisine
•	Friendly Atmosphere
For many years "The Oliver" has been the outstanding favorite of Notre Dame men and Notre Dame guests.
We invite you to try our FINE SEA FOODS — the best to be found any place.
No Armor Bullet-Proof
Against Cosmic Rays
The next time you spy one of those propaganda stories in the papers describing a bomb-proof shelter that is absolutely safe against all kinds of projectiles, j’ust turn the page and continue your reading, for “’taint so.” The Rev. James Baldwin, C.S.C., professor of physics, will attest to that. He knows, for he’s been doing a bit of detective work in counting these proj’ectiles.
Strange enigmas of nature, these speeding missiles! They travel 186,000 miles per second. Four and five feet of solid lead fails to stop some of them. In fact, many have been detected 2,000 feet below the surface of the earth and still going. Yet they are so small that it takes three hundred million of them laid side by side to stretch along one inch.
Now before some foreign spy breaks his arm turning the page to get the address of this paper with hopes of stealing our secret, I might add that these proj’ectiles are harmless. If they weren’t, we should have already felt their effects, for at this moment hundreds of them are zipping through our bodies at terrific speeds. Every square inch of the earth’s surface is pierced by at least thirty a minute.
The answer to this riddle is the cosmic ray. The man who can give you details is Father Baldwin, who has experimented with them at the Universities of Chicago and Texas, and is now continuing his work at Notre Dame. To detect these high-speed particles Father Baldwin is now building a piece of apparatus which will be capable not only of detecting the cosmic rays but actually counting individually the cosmic particles that flash past. Known as a “cosmic-telescope” this apparatus consists of four “counters” placed one below the other in a glass tube. As a cosmic particle passes through the tube, despite its blinding speed, its passage through each of the counters is recorded. The “telescope’s” principle of detection works along the same principle as the “electric eye.”
The experiments with the cosmic ray follow the general purpose of the entire study of economics, namely, to check the theoretical equations which have been theorized by other scientists. Because the science of cosmic rays is new, any information as to mistakes in these theoretical averages or the discovery of new elements in the cosmic particle would be invaluable to the study of physics. Father Baldwin, who has observed the action of the rays in this region of the United States for a year, will com
The Notre Dame Scholastic
pare the information and statistics gathered here with those observed last year at Texas University, in Austin, to see if there are regional differences.
On the Central Missouri State Teachers College campus, cornerstones of all but one campus building bear the Masonic emblem.
YOUR RELIGION
Religion is essentially active, dynamic, transforming, creative. This is so whether you consider it in God its ob-j’ect or in man whose mind it enlightens and whose will it fortifies or in the Church which teaches and administers it or in society which is made both possible and peaceful in the measure in which it recognizes its basic truths.
In all the long history of religion, the concept of a “do-nothing” God has never exerted the least appeal. Nothing is more foreign, even to the mind of the primitive man’s understanding of God
clothes — under this MARK OF DISTINCTIVE QUALITY — ARE ALWAYS A SMART BUY.
NOW — BECAUSE OF A SUCCESSFUL SELLING SEASON — WE OFFER YOU	= ^OCfjEStEf SUITS AND TOPCOATS AT
AN UNUSUAL PRICE ....
*3300
OUR ENTIRE REMAINING STOCK OF famous ^(Ner=Mocbe5ter clothes is INCLUDED IN THIS SPLENDID OFFER.
SHETLAND TWEEDS AND FINE WORSTEDS IN 3-BUTTON BROOKS MODELS ALL INCLUDED AT . . . 533 FINE, RARE WOOL FLY FRONT COATS . . . 533
PARKER - WINTERROW (upstairs shop) 115% - 117% North Main Street
WE INVITE YOU TO CALL AT OUR UPSTAIRS SHOP OR SEE OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES:
GEORGE L. HA1THCOCK—MAIN BLDG.	TAD” HARVEY—11 MORRISSEY
HARRY STEPHENSON—109 SORIN	JACK DEMOSS—309 SORIN
_____________________________________23
than that. In the whole gamut of errors concerning his nature, from the crudest animism on through magic, fetishism, totemism and nature worship to the • vague conception of God as a kind of world soul, the whole emphasis or overemphasis has been placed on his active presence in things and men. To the primitive He is ever the Creator, the Life-Giver, the Law-Giver, the Power, however hidden, however mysterious and ill-defined, behind all other powers that manifest themselves in the world of experience. And in the Christian conception, which is the completion and rectification of all other conceptions, He is both immanent in the universe, present to all and in all by His illimitable essence, by His sustaining and concurring power, and by His all-piercing knowledge, — immanent, but also transcendent, containing all, contained by nothing.
When true understanding of God enters our minds, it does not and indeed cannot, like the knowledge of so many other things, leave us indifferent. It
24
The Notre Dame Scholastic
either creates a revolution followed by a complete reorientation of our thought and action, or a rebellion as against a force which disturbs the easy-going ways of our self-love and self-indulgence. As Our Lord, Himself the source and fountainhead of religious truth and the living model of the religious way of living, de. dared: “Either you are for Me or against Me,” so it can be said of religion as possessed by the minds of men: either you accept it and so make its teachings the supreme motive of your living, or you set up a resistance to it and, in Saint John’s phrase “prefer darkness to light.” At any rate, even though you reject it, it will return again and again to disturb you; it will give you no peace; it will dog your footsteps and silently
Hotel Hoffman Barber Shop
120 West LaSalle St.
Headquarters for Delicious
Sea Foods
Fried Chicken
Spaghetti Dinners
HOWELL'S CAFE
Skate for Health ... and Enjoyment...
PLAYLAND ROLLER RINK
(Melody Gardens Ballroom)
TWO SKATING FLOORS — ONE FOR BEGINNERS Every Night Except Monday — Matinee Sunday and Thursday Students always 25c “A Good Way to Make Money for Your Club”
reproach you as persistently as rejected mother love.
How could it be otherwise? God Who is religion’s first source and supreme object, must claim to be what He is. He must be a jealous God. He cannot without contradicting Himself brook a rival. Because He is the Supreme Good, He cannot suffer us to subordinate our lives to anything less worthy than Himself. Because He has revealed to us the fullness of religious truth, He cannot permit us to be content with mere fragments of it. Because He loves us, He cannot bear to leave us orphans.
So He built us a home, He set up His tabernacle on earth, His Church, and placed over it Peter as His vice-regent, to whom He gave full authority and the injunction to teach all men till the end of time what He Himself had taught. Peter, living on in his successors, has not been idle. The Church over which He presides is not a “do-nothing” Church. She too is vigorous, creative, dynamic. She has gone forth from Jerusalem to the ends of the earth. Where her doctrines and her* discipline have been accepted, she has transformed the life of the societies in which she has dwelt. Where she has been assailed — and to some extent she has always been and always will be assailed — by forces from within and without, beaten down till her enemies have announced her demise, she has, when these forces have spent themselves, risen again in the full vigor of a renewed youth. Human in her members and, to that extent, full of weakness and infirmity, she is yet divine in her Founder Who, though invisible, has never deserted her, divine in her soul, the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Truth, that animates and sustains her.
The dynamism of religion in society, while everywhere present, is not easily seen. Like the foundations of a building, its support, though hidden, is indispensable. For the foundation of society is authority, that moral power without which a multitude of men cannot unite with one another to seek a common end by the use of common means. Without it, no law nor just administration of law nor adequate sanctions of law nor courts of justice nor police powers nor military powers nor any other social in-
TAN WOOL scarf lost in East Dining Hall, Sunday at Dinner. Return to Tom Atkins, 127 Breen-Phillips. Reward.
RECORDS from RODIN’S
VICTOR - BLUEBIRD
from 35c
Largest Stock in Michiana • Musical Masterpieces • Symphonies
• Concertos
• Opera
Needles and Record Accessories
RODIN'S
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184 Open Saturday Evenings
A”C.O.S” . . . .
The COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES will help you in your examinations — available in most all subjects — at the Bookstore.
General Supplies for the second semester.
e
SHEAFFER Monogrammed Pens and Pencils.
Other Pens, 25c and 50c.
Esterbrook Pens, $1.00.
•
Notre Dome Bookstore
Badin Hall
The Notre Dame Scholastic
25
stitution is possible. And when authority is not from God Who, because He is the ultimate source of our being, is by that fact also the ultimate source of law whose function it is to direct us to the end of our existence ? There is no power but from above. Who among men by nature equal can claim that superiority over another necessary for the existence of authority? There are no supermen; there is only God above mankind. From Him then alone can come the authority which animates and organizes the society in which we live. No dull or dead theory then is your religion, but an active, dynamic force for good in the individual and in society itself. And it is active and vigorous and creative because it is a new life given to men, the life indicated by Our Redeemer when He said: “I am come that you may have life and that you may have it more abundantly.
—Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.
THE HUDDLE
Headquarters for Coca-Cola, Pipe Tobacco and Candy
Juggler
(Continued from page 11)
For a while she talked as though I ought to pay her double because as she said my nails were not in the very best of shap. But we get to talkin about how good she is and that was evidently a subject in which she was very interested because she forgot all about wantin a good sized tip. She was tellin me about how all the men in the office building liked to come to her to have their nails worked on, and how two of the men always kidded her about not cheatin them and holding their hands just as long as she did her other customers. Then she grabbed up a chisel and curled off little strips on the face of the nails. So she talked and worked and chewed gum all at the same time. All her regular customers had been tremendously good to her this Christmas with presents and

Drink
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TC
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
Everywhere Coca-Cola carries a conviction of quality. Four generations have known and enjoyed this drink. Millions of times a day, people the world over experience the thrill of its taste and the refreshed feeling that follows.

D e 11 c i < > u
R. e r r e s n;
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
26
The Notre Dame Scholastic
tips. Of course she said she was always glad to get new customers like myself so I told her that I would come back in two or three years for another manicure even if I didn’t need it. My enthusiasm must have carried me away. Some men, she told me, only got a manicure when they got married—before the altar they didn’t need it and afterwards they couldn’t afford it.
She droned on and on, just like some professors I know, but I was so inter-
SLIDE, KELLY, SLIDE!
BUT IT’S EASIER TO TAKE
THE SOUTH SHORE
On icy, wind-whistling days you appreciate South Shore service the most.
Cozy cars, convenient schedules, fast runs — dependable service to and from Chicago despite Old Man Winter's most contrary efforts.
Ride the South Shore to Chicago. For detailed information call
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
ested in watching her whip off the dead skin with a small pair of sissors that I didn’t hear everything she said. In fact I was so interested that I only let out one yell when she looked out the window to-see if it was snowing and took off a chunk of skin that wasn’t so dead.
Well, she whittled and cut and scrubbed for quite some time. She was all for puttin some varnish on the nails but I put my foot down on that right away. If I had to have my fingers all sissied up I was goin to have it done as inconspicuously as possible.
Now the question, Mr. Juggler, is— is it safe for me to stay at the University now that Christmas vacation is over? If so, should I try to hide my stigma or should I bravely place my hands on the table and assume a “if-you-don’t - like - it - you - know - what - you -can - do - about - it,” attitude. Or, on the other hand, do you think Bill over in Badin sub could increase his intake if he put in a staff of manicurists?
I will be anxiously awaiting your reply.
Yours truly,
Ben Hur
DISC - CUSSION
Despite the interpolation of “El Rancho Grande,” I think, even Rossini would enjoy Matty Malneck’s caricature of his “William Tell Overture.” “Carnival of Venice,” its mate, includes strains of everything from “Vieni Vieni” to “Vesti la Giuba.” Together, the two make up one of the cleverest records of last, or any, year. Malneck’s arrangements show talent, imagination, and a sense of humor. Even if you like your classics straight, you’ll enjoy these— plenty.	.
Ray Noble has done “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling,” with plenty of “Phil, the Fluters Ball.” Here, again, Noble shows why he is one of our topflight band leaders. His latest song, “Till I Kissed You Goodby,” the other ide, is distinctly Noble. Between the two there is something to satisfy .all. Here’s a good bet for you “Fighting Irish.”
You’ve all hear at least the first chorus of “Let’s Dance.” Get Benny Goodman’s record of his theme and hear the rest. You won’t be disappointed. I don’t like “Boy Meets Horn” but Downbeat does and its critics get paid.
From “Gulliver’s Travels,” I like Goodman’s “Bluebirds In the Moonlight” and “Faithful Forever.” Benny’s band is getting really good and—well, Mildred Bailey is ranked high. Ray Herbeck records “All’s Well” and
RECORDS from RODIN’S
COLUMBIA-VOCALION
from 35c
75c Brunswick Artists, now 50c
Largest Stock in Michiana
▼ '
RODIN'S
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184 Open Saturday Evenings
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters
Books
Stationery
Pens Pencils
Greeting Cards
130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
years of experience at /I your command.
x^X-z years of reliable, compe- tent service.
Devoted exclusively to the examination ’ of the eyes and the ' making of fine glasses.
Optometrists and Opticians 314 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
27
“We’re All Together Now,” from the same show. I haven’t seen the movie but I’m sure Herbeck plays them in the right spirit.
Hoagy Carmichael’s “Vagabond Dreams” has been done by Gene Krupa with “After All,” and Irene Daye. They seem to get the most out of a song that has chiefly a good title and the “Stardust” tradition. “After All” is a better song, and Krupa forgets the Panther Room influence long enough to play some dance music. Benny Carter does an even better job on “Vagabond Dreams,” and his “Love’s Got Me Down Again” will keep you warm this winter.
Al Donahue made a good dance record of “My Silent Mood” and “Street
Learn AVIATION at an AVIATION School
U. S. Civil Aeronautical Authority’s approved methods used.
COMPLETE FLIGHT AND GROUND SCHOOL COURSES FOR ALL LICENSES.
See your Hall representative or Don Marietta, 232 Alumni Hall.
INDIANA AIR SERVICE
Phone 3-2455	(Incorporated)	Bendix Field
GOING HOME?
SEND THAT LUGGAGE
byFAST RAILWAY EXPRESS!
Just phone the Railway Express agent when your trunk or bags are packed and i off they will speed, I

in all cities and prin- ’ cipal towns. You can send "collect” too, same as your laundry goes. Use this complete, low-cost service both coming and going, and enjoy your train trip full of the proper Holiday spirit. When you phone, by the way, be sure to tell our agent when to call.
RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY
506 W. South St., So. Bend, Ind. Phone 3-6121
Railway Express
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
in Singapore.” If Phil Brito’s vocals aren’t marvelous, neither are they annoying. Donahue plays songs as written which in itself is a rarity.
Columbia has issued both a selection of popular Strauss waltzes and an album of the Rediscovered Music of Johann Strauss. The former is by the Debroy Somers Band of London; the latter by Howard Barlow and the C.B.S. Symphony. It’s a shame to waste such beautiful music on your roommate, but you should have these. You’ll know many of the melodies and enjoy them all. Incidentally, Strauss music is helpful in making you forget anything from New Year’s Eve to being as such. Try it!
—Bill Geddes
I*
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
J. M. S. BUILDINS
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
QaaiBaaaaiaiaaaiiaaiiiiaiiiaaiaaaaiaaiiniiaiiiaaaaaiaaaaiiaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaiMB^y OFFICE 4-5661	RES. 3-4080
tj)r. P.	^ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS 702 J. M.S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
(o}<aiiiiiaaiisaatiiiiii«iiiii«iii'aiiatiaiaatiaai(iaaiiaaiaaiiaaiiiaaiaiuaBaMQ
CDrs. Probst and Singler DENTISTS 405 Associates - South Bend
Phone 3-1254
i	i
?	SOUTH BEND	|
I X-RAY LABORATORY |
3	825 SHERLAND BUILDING I
I	I
a L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON. 1
I M.O.	M.D.	|
4"-----------------------———
ose
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDS., SOUTH BENO
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -LEMMONIER LIBRARY-
NOTRE DAME, LOCAL/
Copyright 1940. bGGETTftMmS Tobacco Co.
Patty
Laverne

... and Fm happy to present the combination of the Andrews Sisters and my band for your pleasure every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.”
...GLENN MILLER
Ifs a great tie-up... America’s No. 1 Cigarette for more smoking pleasure ... America’s No. 1 Band for dancing.
Chesterfield is the one cigarette with . the right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos. Thafs why Chesterfields are DEFINITELY MILDER TASTE BETTER and SMOKE COOLER.
Everyone who tries them likes the cigarette that satisfies. eYou can’t buy a better cigarette.

SW«onS
hesteriield
the cooler, better-tasting, DEFINITELY MILDER cigarette
*