o
— Che —
Dotre Dame Scholastic
b	DlSCe ^ASI-SCmPeR-VICTV^^ • VIVG OVASl-CRAS-MORITVRVS*
3	-— —■ .	~	___■	-	•— ' '	'..u .- / - ~
Vol. XLIV.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, April 22, 1911.	No. 28..-
of presentation.
.	THE	■	■
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	■
.	TO	.	•	-•
MAURICE FRAN CI'S EGAN	■ •
GREETING.. '	•	,
IR:—Many years ago our forefathers in the University founded the Lsetare Medal to be awarded, each year to a member of the laity distinguished for services to the Church, to the State, to humanity, to arts, letters, science, or civilization. The list of men-and won-pn who have been thus crowned with the highest honor within the gift of the University,-is
long and illustrious, and each recipient in turn has added honor to the gift that efewnfed him.
Today, Sir, the University turns to you as cue of the worthiest sons of the Church in America. The titles by v.bich we reverence you are many and great. As poet you have sung the simple and wholesome things of life, always putting into practice your own fine preaching that ‘‘Art is., true art when art to God is true.” As novelist you have shunned the morbid and the abnormal outlook that sees the world only as a charnel house and the abode of lepers; - you have tumed away from the brutal, the foolish and the'vicious things cf experience, and, illumined by'the light of divine faith, you have interpreted the werth cf life, the dignity of man’s spiritual nature and the destiny of his imperishable soul. As journalist you have been a swerdsman for the truth, the expositor of doctrine, and the champion cf Justice against the myriad forms of wrong. As 4 educator you have proclaimed gloriously that to be is better than to knew, that character is more than knowledge, that the Christian man is greater than the scholar, though the scholarly Christian man is the ideal, and that the world is saved by the cross and not by culture; that-true hope lifts its eyes not to Parnassus but to Calvary. As statesman you have wern the white flower of a blameless life amid a thousand peering littlenesses, and have lived without reproach in the blaze of that white light that beats upon a throne. And this above all: as poet, novelist, journalist, educator and statesman you have been to the youth of America an example of that intelligent faith and’ ’ that public and domestic virtue which it is the privilege and the duty of a great school to .nurture and reward.	’
Therefore, the University of Notre Dame confers on you, Sir, the Laetare Medal for-the year of Our Lord nineteen hundred and ten, and wishes you length of days to enjoy the fruits of your genius and virtue and to shed strength and solace and edification on the paths of your fellowmen.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
442
Response by Recipient.
..MAURICE FRANCIS EGAN.
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen :
If there is anything in this world that can make a man feel humble, it is praise such as that given by the very eloquent speaker representing the trustees, and the faculty, and I may hope the students of the University of Notre Dame. At my age a man either indulges in reminiscences or moralizes. In the one case, he is likely to be a bore; in the other case he is a self appointed preacher, and unless he has a special vocation for preaching he .finds himself repeating the obvious, and disgusting everybody. However, in this home of eloquence, a man who has no gift of speech must either “reminisce” or moralize, and take the risk.
In listening to your cordial words, I feel that the affection you have for me, is the affection of one member of a family for another, and we all know that the members of our own family, no matter what their defects are, have in our eyes both a halo and a nimbus. We can never look at them dispassionately; they are part of us; and I was for so long a member of the family of this great University, that I almost felt it would be indelicate for you to offer me this high honor. I have been so near to you, so much a part of you,—a member of the Third Order of. the Holy Cross, in fact— that it appeared as if I was so much of your circle as not to be included among the laity on the outside. But you have willed it otherwise, and I, who know you by heart, am most deeply touched by this token of your affection. • To be one of the long line of Lsetare medalists,—among whom shines glowingly the name of that prince among American laymen, the Hon. Wm. J. Onahan,—is to be truly of the elect,— to be truly honored; but in my case, I am more grateful than if only a most distinguished honor were intended. - And to be named, on this occasion, almost in the same year with the most brilliant essayist of her time, Miss Repplier, is indeed a priceless distinction. I feel that the cool, logical intellects of Notre Dame may be at fault in marking me among the elect; but I am quite sure that in this case its heart is all right, and as a gift from heart to heart, I accept it. When I look
around me, I am sad and happy at one and the same time. And as I gaze back I am convinced more and more of the immortality of the good deeds that men do, and that death is merely an incident in life. I do not hold with Shakespeare’s dramatic utterance, that the good that men do is often interred with their bones. Like most utterances that become proverbial, it is only a half truth; for each man, if he does not resist the teachings of the Holy Spirit, is a living link in the chain of true progress.
The noble founder of this University, Father Sorin, was one of the great ones of this nation. He brought into this new country the traditions of a gentle and polite world that had been moulded by the traditions of Versailles. It was my privilege to know him in his old age, and I never met him without recalling one of the few sincere utterances of Talleyrand,— “That not to have known the world which existed in France before the Revolution, was to have missed one of the greatest delights in life,” and Father Sorin was a descendant from that world. He, coming here, had no endowment, nothing but faith in the divine mission of Christ for the betterment of our earth, an instinctive knowledge of the American temperament and of American conditions, and a firm determination to unite his love for the culture of France with the opportunities of raising the ideals of education in the new country in which he had deliberately chosen to live. A lesser man might have attempted . to force his opportunities and to impose the ideas of an older civilization on a newer, not less in many ways, but different; he was wise; he and his associates kept their torches burning in spite of the rough winds that blew across the prairies, and the light from these torches ■ has ever since burned and been passed on, 1 from year to year, until the humble cabins of the first Notre Dame have become the palatial	1
buildings of the present; but the spirit is the	I
same. That union of the spiritual life with	|
the practical life of our day still continues.	>
We see here a.beautiful city and a noble uni-	|
versify, proud of each other, hand in hand,	I
growing together. Religion, which in the past	:
was made, too often, a weapon of hatred and	:
discord, is working in both the university	;
and the city, in complete harmony, fulfilling	,
both at once the highest Christian and the	3
highest American ideal; for neither Father	J
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Sorin nor one of the noblest creatures that God ever' made, Thomas Walsh, believed in that narrow doctrine which would confine all the heirs of heaven to the members of a visible church.
Catholic as they were, in every fibre of their being, they knew the teachings of their Church too well to wound the all-embracing heart of charity with the vulgar utterances of a bigotry which Christ Himself denounced and which is utterly foreign to that institution, ever-hvm^ and e\er gronm^, which we call Roman Catholic and Apostolic, which in all countries, when properly understood, has been the source and conservator of that very progress of which Notre Dame is so shining an example.
I can not speak, even to this day, of Father Walsh, without emotion. He passed away only too quickly, with the knowledge, however, that there was one of his own training, who is here present, to keep the torch alight and to pass it on. I dare not speak of the living with the affection I feel for them. But I must say a word in memory of one dead whose like may exist in the creative brain of God, but who has not yet appeared on earth.
His courage, his culture, his power, his generosity, his gentleness, his humility,—and that saving sense of humor which prevented his wit from ever being bitter,—many of us knew and re*’ ember. .
There is one,—one of these torch-bearers,— lying not far from us, waiting for the sight of the Beatific Vision, who loved him passionately.
But the passing away of Father Walsh was, after all, as I have said, only an incident in the upward progress of the University. And to it we owe the impetus which has resulted in what we see around us today, and it was the cause of giving to Notre Dame and the world a classic oration which deserves to be reckoned with the greatest sermon of Bossuet’s, the most human of Henry Ward Beecher’s, and that finest of all, the oration of Padre Ventura on the death of .Daniel O’Connell. The funeral oration made on the passing away of Father Walsh by Archbishop Spalding is a monument truly more enduring than gold or brass. ’
One of the gravest questions of today, a question which at present is exercising the greatest minds, the most far-seeing brains of both Europe and the United States, is that of uniting religion with life. It has become evident that society • can not exist unless a basis for
443
an effective code of morals can be found. And even the more thoughtful among the Eastern peoples are asking themselves whether Buddhism will stand the strain which new conditions of thought, the results of European contact, are forcing upon it. And in all western countries the line is being • more clearly Mrawn between the negation of religion, between the belief that only the material exists, • and the creed which holds that there is an Absolute and Perfect Being, the subject of no law but His own, and the Giver of laws. It has become plain,—perhaps it is more plain in Europe than America,—that the voice of. the people who reject a belief in the absolute and personal lawgiver, is not the voice of the God of righteousness. We are just beginning to perceive it in our own country, where- the founders of this nation, the Pilgrims and the Puritans of New England, the Catholics. of Maryland and the Episcopalians of Virginia, made traditions that have hitherto been sufficient; but we are beginning to find that they are not enough. In Europe the Zeit Geist is abroad,— and very much alive, and very strong and powerful,—demanding that men shall be happy in a world where there is no happiness,: asserting that there is no other world but this, and therefore, that the main object of the human race is to enjoy what fruits it can grasp, without thinking of the future. To this Zeit Geist, Christianity is merely a bit of ou.wom material sloughed off in the precess of evolution-; but. we who have lived through the various phases of life,—who know . that humanity left to itself is not perfect and can not be perfect,—understand that no society, can exist or progress in which a belief, like, this forms the ethics of everyday life.* The ethics of Marcus Aurelius could not save the Roman Empire; the philosophy of.- Confucius has not. touched the lives of the toiling millions in newly awakening China;: the- splendor of the intellects of Plato -and- Aristotle could not save the civilization of Greece. ■. All- history and all experience teach us=that the only foundation of society,—of a permanent society,— is belief in a great Ccnservator whom we must obey either from love or fear. There can be no fixed, no progressive, social, condition without this union of faith with practical life. Creeds are being watered and diluted, but in the heart of man there exists a mystic desire for union with the Perfect, for solace
444	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and consolation in absolute goodness and absolute love,—which can never be eradicated,— and on this all men who see the terrible dangers ahead for our nation, must count. It must be cultivated; it must be cultivated by those who are experts in the science of religion, and. by those who accept religion as a tradition and a staff.
Many sermons and many essays have been written on this, subject. In Europe monarchs and parliaments are beginning to concern themselves with it, and even those philosophers who twenty years ago held that physical science was the test and the response to all questions, are turning their eyes' somewhat hopelessly, to that force which the Christian Church, at its highest point, represents. Many sermons and many essays, have been written, as I have said, in the hope. of finding a way toward the synthesis of faith and morality. But I have read or seen no such evidence of the complete union between the highest ideals of man and practical progress as I find here at Notre Dame. It is a reproach often uttered that men of high ideals are impractical, well intentioned, but unconsciously destructive. Here, gentlemen, I find a concrete answer to these reproaches, an answer which might well be considered by all our fellowcitizens .of this wonderful country. Here at Notre' Dame, written in letters that every man can see, is the result brought about by the most -spiritual piety and the principles of that piety applied to the common duties of this work-a-day world.
I might praise, and seem to over-praise, without getting near the truth; but I fe.el that in saying what I have that I have spoken without exaggeration, and even with too much OO	7
self-repression. If there is any place in this western world of ours which offers an answer •to the demands of a- retrogressive socialism, it is here within the precincts of this University which I trust will continue to bear and to pass on the torch of faith, of wisdom, and true Americanism, until our'world shall be no more.
.“The debates this year have, been-interesting and closely contested. Among the nine men who are to struggle for final honors are a number of..;excellent speakers.. When the teams that are. t,o represent the University are selected we may. count on having worthy, representatives?’
The University of Notre Dame and the Laetare Medal. *
William J. Onahan.
The occasion and ceremony in which we are privileged to have part this evening, is of deep interest and widespread significance. The distinguished gentleman who is to receive the Laetare Medal, awarded to him a year ago, is of national fame and celebrity,—indeed, I may say of world-wide fame, which he has won by diversified claims.	-
Maurice Francis Egan is widely known and honored as an author of high-class literature in prose and poetry; and of late years he has claim to another title,—that of diplomat. These are no doubt sufficiently honorable distinctions. They are not the only ones. Air. Egan has gained in other fields’ of duty honorable renown. He has maintained and vindicated the truth and wisdom of Catholic principles from the editorial chair, and from the professor’s desk; and he has consistently in his life, his character and conduct, illustrated and been faithful to his elevated ideals of principle and duty. All this, you will hear " from more authoritative lips, so that I need not dwell at length on this subject.	. •
We all rejoice in this deserved honor to Dr. Egan, and we may congratulate Notre Dame in thus honoring her old-time professor.
It was a happy inspiration on the part of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame to establish and perpetuate a notable and significant testimonial in recognition of remarkable public services by members of the Catholic laity, without distinction of sex or condition.	'
In determining the qualifications for awarding the Lsetare Medal the authorities of Notre Dame have shown the large-'mindedness, breadth of view and magnanimity, which have characterized the institution from the beginning. This characteristic was stamped on it by its great and venerated founder, Father Sorin.
Like most great religious leaders, Father Sorin was a man of deep reflection and of generous and expansive ideas, and he impressed
^Address delivered at conferring of the Laetare	J
Medal, Tuesday.evening, Apiil i8, 1911.	Ji
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
his spirit and lofty aims on the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and nowhere perhaps more strikingly than here in Notre Dame. •
This spirit and influence still governs and guides the men who succeeded the venerated founder, and I believe I am justified in saying that the embodiment of Father Sorin’s ideas and aims is exemplified in the character and exalted ambitions of the present honored President of the University of Notre Dame, Rev. John Cavanaugh.
These large and generous ideas are seen, if I may cite one example, in the thought and plan laid down in founding the Lastare Medal. The University did- not undertake to limit the distinction to its own students, as might have seemed reasonable and appropriate. No; with a noble and generous public spirit it was laid, down that regard should be shown for high character, eminent capacity, and distinguished services, wherever shown within the limits of the United States; and this too, as I said, without distinction or discrimination as to sex or condition.
Every Catholic, then, I am persuaded, must have felt a sense of joy and pride to see this unique and appropriate recognition of the character and services of members of the Catholic laity who have by unmistakable title distinguished them: elves in one or other form of public activity and usefulness. The’ University, as it were, thereby paid a public debt by this token and testimony c-f appreciation; and so it doubly deserves the gratitude of every Catholic.
And just here let me disclaim for myself any exceptional claim to this high honor, for which I was singled out twenty-one years ago. I suppose I was included on the score of general utility.
See how various are.the lines and professions appearing and recognized in the list of the Lsetare Medalists, living and dead,—historians, ■ litterateurs, journalists, orators, architects, engineers, soldiers, surgeons, physicians, artists, statesmen, judges, diplomats, philosophers, philanthropists, or perhaps I should say,— benefactors, of education and charity. It is indeed a legion of honor—American and Catholic.	-
Mark what signal wisdom has been shown in the choice of men and women thus honored, from the first to the latest; from John Gilmary Shea, the faithful and painstaking historian, to
445
the brilliant, inimitable essayist, Agnes Repplier!
All those who preceded, me in the distinction have passed from earth, hence I regard it as specially fitting and my duty on this occasion to recall-the brief roll of their honored names, so that I may bring to mind what we owe them,—remembrance and gratitude.	.
The first Laetare Medal, as I have said, was with happy fitness, awarded to John Gilmary Shea. This was undoubtedly a most felicitous choice, and was so regarded and applauded by the entire country.
His lifelong devotion to the investigation of the sources of American history, and the value and importance of his writings and translations, have long won the recognition of the learned, and entitled him to the gratitude of every student of history, as well as to the special respect and homage of the Catholics of the United States. Notre Dame', always alert to the fitness of things, was quick to recognize what was due to this modest and capable historian and scholar; and by the distinction of the first Laetare Medal, as well as in other ways, gave him in his declining years proof and testimony of her high appreciation.
The renowned New York architect, Patrick J. Keeley, known and famed as the designer of innumerable churches and cathedrals, was the next to receive the Medal. The following year my dear friend of holy memory, Eliza Allen Starr, was chosen for the honor. She was the first woman thus distinguished, and most appropriately. The singular beauty of her life and character, her notable sendees as a writer and teacher, especially in the line of art, and her happy influence within, the limits of her favorite pursuits, made the selection most felicitous.
It was my privilege, representing the UnL versity of Notre Dame, to make the presentation address with the Medal, the ceremony being held in her well-known St. Joseph’s Cottage, Chicago. I recall that our friend Dr. Egan, contributed distinction to the occasion by his presence and by a poem in honor of the recipient of the Medal.
Next year Gen. John Newton, the renowned, engineer and soldier, was chosen; and then followed Patrick Valentine Hickey, editor of the then well known Catholic Review. His: recognized editorial ability, and his power and capacity in the journalistic field, together-
446	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
with his efforts and zeal to promote the spread of sound Catholic literature, also won for Mr. Hickey the high tribute of a Papal distinction. He deserves to be gratefully remembered by the American Catholic public whom he served so faithfully.
Next was Anna Hanson Dorsey, whose writings were well- known a generation ago, and who did faithful service to the cause of sound Catholic literature.
The Medalist who followed' Mrs. Dorsey stands before you.
The following year the choice for the Medal was that prince of orators, the silver-tongued Daniel Dougherty. His speech at the Baltimore Catholic Congress was one of the triumphs of oratory, felicitous and inspiring. Who that had- the privilege to hear it can forget its power and electrifying effect on the great audience? .
Next year the faithful champion of religion and nationality, as of every worthy cause, found recognition in Patrick Donahoe, the founder and editor of the Boston Pilot.
Then succeeded Augustin Daly, who won the esteem and gratitude of the thoughtful public by his . persevering efforts to uplift the stage and to .maintain the dignity and decency of dramatic art.
Mrs. J. Sadlier was next chosen. Her well-known name and talent as a writer, and the value and popularity of her books, established her. title to recognition in the ranks of the Medalists. .....
. The following year the Medal was awarded . to Gen. William S. Rosecrans, the famous soldier and Christian gentleman.
. My death roll closes with the names of Mary Gwendolin Caldwell and John A. Creighton. The munificence of the former made the long-desired Catholic University of America a fact, for which that lady deserves grateful remembrance from the American public.
John A. Creighton was during his life a princely benefactor to the cause of charity and Catholic education,—witness the .noble monuments to both he has left in the city of: Omaha. These will surely cause his name and generosity to live for ages to come in the • city and state he so benefited.	.
Of the living Laetare Medalists I hesitate to . speak,—indeed there is no need that I should characterize them individually. Their names and the public repute in which they
are held by the Catholics of the country, vindicate their title to the honor conferred by this distinction.
And so my grateful task draws to a close. This happy occasion is a joy for all here. It is a pleasure to welcome back to the United States and to Notre Dame especially, the professor who in these halls added to his renown as teacher and lecturer. It is especially grateful to me to have this opportunity to greet my dear friend who is bound to my heart by long-time association, and the links of early and enduring friendship.
The fact that he is my friend, and that he is here in my presence, necessarily restrains my speech. I rejoice, as we all do, in the honor-he receives from the University of Notre Dame this evening.
I have watched his career as he climbed the uncertain pathway’- to fame and honors. He has established his merit as an author, and has demonstrated his high capacity as a lecturer and teacher in this and in another great University. It was a great satisfaction to his friends, and I think I may add to the public in general, when the President of the United States selected him to represent this country as -Minister to Denmark. I am confident he will demonstrate in this new sphere his eminent qualifications as a trusted diplomat, and do honor to his country in Copenhagen or elsewhere.
In whatever sphere or public station he may be placed Maurice Francis Egan will do his duty and prove to be the accomplished gentleman, loyal American, and the faithful, high-principled Catholic, that we here tonight greet, and honor with pride and joy.
“To turn to the world of thought after battling with the follies and obstinacies of men is like passing from the blustering winds of winter to the quiet air of spring, like leaving foreign countries for one’s native land, like quitting the company of strangers for the society of those we love, like the blessedness of happy homes to those who, at the fall of evening, lay down the burdens of the day, and seek the welcome of sweet voices and smiling faces. And when years have passed, and we are worn and wearX, and the end is near, what refuge have we but high faith and thought, and the presence of those who love us for ourselves?’’

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Soldier-Priest.
447
Letters and Telegrams.	'
RALPH C. DIMMICK, ’ll.
’JWAS a cloudless day in Autumn, When before the cannon’s mouth
Rushed the fierce contending legions From the warring North and South.
Like unto spray-sea tt’ring torrents, Leaping to some gulf below,
Rushed the armies,—reared as brothers— Now arrayed as deadly foe.
Loudly roared the murderous cannon, Shot and shell flew sure and fast;
And brothers fighting against brothers, Fell like trees before the blast. >
But a brave, devoted patriot In his priestly garb of black
Stood amid the roaring cannon While the foe were driven back.
High above the kneeling soldiers, As thev gathered round the stone,
Giving general absolution— Father Corby stood alone.
Now the fighting days are over • And the cannon’s voice is stilled, While the flag of peace is waving
Where the blood of men was spilled
Flag of peace and truth victorious, Floats on Freedom’s freshening breeze, O’er the valleys, hilltops, mountains, And the broad majestic seas.
Peace has come to you too, Father, Sleeping o’er St. Mary’s lake.
From the waters mid the rushes Winds a mellow music take.
Peace has come, and- we remember ' One great heart and one dear name.
Father Corby, sons we greet you— ’ Soldier - priest of Notre Dame!
Those whose countenances have been illumined by the aureole of glory, find all other things insipid, for nothing but heroic virtue can give such pure delight as the tes--timony of. the wisest^and best to one’s 'surpassing worth. — Bishop Spalding. .
The following letters and telegrams of congratulation on the occasion of the, conferring of the Lsetare Medal cn Minister Egan were read in Washington hall Tuesday evening. We publish these messages to give an indication of the interest felt in Dr. Egan and his work by his friends in every rank of life. They are selected from a very large list received from all parts of the country in which the recipient and the University are ■ equally. congratulated. .	.	. . ■
■	The White House, .	.
Washington, April 13, 1911. .
Mv Dear Mr. President:	- ■	-
I take great pleasure in extending through you a message of congratulation to Doctor Egan" on the formal conferring of the Laetare Medal upon him as an indication of the esteem in which the University of Notre Dame holds him. I do not know any one upon whom voir could confer this who more deserves it.
■	Sincerely ,‘yours, -
William H. Taft. -
Baltimore, April 13, 1911.
Dr. Maurice Francis Egan,
United States Minister to Denmark, '	/
Notre Dams University, Indiana. .
Dear Dr. Egan:—I am most pleased, to learn' that on Tuesday evening, the iSth of April, the ceremony of the formal conferring on you cf the Laetare Medal for 1910, will be held in Washington Hall, Notre Dame. I beg to offer you my most sincere congratulations for this well - deserved honor, not' only on account of - my personal esteem and longstanding friendship for you, but also on account of the great merits you have gained by ycur writings which have always been marked by their spirit of loyalty to our faith. I also congratulate you on receiving such an honor from such a noble and famous institution of learning as Notre Dame' University.
With sentiments 01 esteem, I remain . t .•	■/ ■
Most faithfully yours in Xio., .	,
.	Cardinal .Gibbons,
Archbishop of Baltimore.
‘	St Paul, April 17, 1911.
Very Rev. Dear Father:— -	..
I regret very much that I am not able to be tomorrow evening at Notre Dame, there to take part in’the festivities amid which the Laetare Medal will be conferred by the University upon Hon. Maurice Francis Egan.	'	• ■	’	.
It were for me a great pleasure to be one of the many friends and admirers of Mr. Egan who will be gathered together to do him honor, to tell him of the affectionate esteem in which they hold him, to bid him still onward in his ascensions as the scholar,
448
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the lojal son of holy Church, the distinguished and successful envoy' of his country to foreign courts and peoples.
Notre Dame, in electing into the ranks of its heroes Hon. Maurice Francis Egan, has proven its correctness of judgment, its keenness of scent in discovering: true worthiness. I congratulate Notre Dame on its rare luck in being able to inscribe upon its scroll of fame a name so bright, so worthy, as that of Mr. Egan. I congratulate Mr. Egan in the distinction shed upon him by the approving smiles of the great University of Notre Dame.
I need not rehearse the titles of Maurice Francis Egan to high recognition from Church and from country. Those titles none who see and hear may • ignore. To one, however, I shall plead the right to refer, as, from particular circumstances through which I have passed, I have been permitted to observe it more anear than others of his friends. This is his very marked success in the diplomatic service of America. This success was in a large measure foreseen. Maurice Francis Egan in the several stages of his career—it was courtliness of manner, sound common sense amid flashes of wit and versatile culture, tact in word and act as skilled with the most exalted as with the lowliest, rich and mature in scholarship—it was the rich material out of which to weave the silken threads of diplomacy most exquisite. Success had been predicted of Mt. Egan: success has come to him. Today Copenhagen tells the triumphs of Mr. Egan: well will it be for America if along future years other and larger capitals be allowed equally to tell his triumphs.
AVere I writing for Mr. Egan’s ear, I should whisper as another reason of my present rejoicing the unbroken friendship of many years linking together him and me.
May all be mirth and happiness tomorrow evening in the halls of Notre Dame!
Sincerely yours, John Ireland, .	.	Archbishop of St. Paul.
Very.Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Dubuque, Iowa, April 12, 1911.
My Dear- Father Cavanaugh:	.
How I wish that I could be with you next Tuesday, to share in the solemnity of conferring the Laetare Medal on Dr. Maurice Francis Egan! As an old friend, and an honored associate in the days gone by, he is very dear to my heart.
God bless the University of Notre Dame for bestowing on him this so well merited honor.
■	'	’ - Cordially yours in Christ,
’	John J. Keane,
. Archbishop of Dubuque.
‘	..	Peoria, April 17th, 1911,
Very Rev. and‘ Dear Dr. Cavanaugh:
It is a matter of . sincere regret with me that an engagement to be-present at a corner-stone laying
in Louisville, Kentucky, makes it impossible that I should be at Notre Dame April iSth to participate in the conferring of the L.etare Medal on Dr. Maurice Francis Egan. You could not have chosen a more worthy man on whom to confer this distinction.
Very sincerely yours, ^Joiin L. Spalding,
Bishop of Peoria.
The Catholic University of America, Washington, April 14, 1911.
Very Rev. Dr. Cavanaugh, C. S. C.
Notre Dame University, Indiana.
My Dear Dr. Cavanaugh:—I regret very much that I can not be present at the conferring of the Laetare Medal on Dr. Egan. He has surely earned this coveted distinction by an unbroken line of service, not only to his religion and his fatherland, but also to his “alma mater” and to the Catholic University, to both of which schools he gave for many years a loyal and undivided devotion.
I rejoice with him and with you that the choice has fallen upon a man so eminently worthy of the honor, and I beg you, on that auspicious occasion, to associate with Notre Dame University the Catholic University of America as a partner in the happy responsibility you are assuming.
Very sincerely yours in Xto.,
Thomas J. Shahan,
Rector.
Executive Department, State of Indiana, April 15, 1911.
Father John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,
President, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
My Dear Father Cavanaugh:
I am in receipt of the invitation to be present at the conferring of the Laetare Medal on his Excellency, the Hon. Maurice Francis Egan, on Tuesday evening, April 1 Sth, at half past seven o’clock, and 1 egret exceedingly that I can not be present upon that interesting occasion, when the medal is to be bestowed upon one whose loyalty to Church and State well merits it.
Thanking you for the courtesy of this invitation, believe me to be
Very sincerely yours, Thos. R. Marshall,
Governor.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Danish Legation, Washington, D. C., April 13th, 1911.
My Dear Sir:
I have had the honor to receive your cordial and courteous letter of the 11th inst., inviting me to be present at the formal conferring of the Laetare Medal on His Excellency, Dr. Maurice Francis Egan, American Minister to Denmark, at. your University on April 1 Sth.	.	.
In reply I beg to say that it is a matter of profound regret to me to find myself precluded from attending

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
449
this solemn and interesting ceremony, having promised to deliver a lecture on the following day in Jacksonville, Florida.
I would, indeed, have considered it my duty and a prhilege to honor, on this occasion, with all the means in my power—however limited they may be— the recipient of the highest distinction within the gift of your Faculty, because 1 know and appreciate in him the rarely gifted man of letters as much aS the truly upright and loyal friend and colleague.
I wish, therefore, to congratulate the University, and through it also His Excellency, on this memorable event.
I venture to send you all my best wishes for the day.
Very cordially yours,
G. Moltke,
■	Danish Minister,
Hon. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
En Route to St. Paul, Minn., April 13 th, 1911.
My Dear President Cavanaugh:
I wish I could be present to witness the giving of the I.aetare Medal to Maurice Francis Egan. Mr. Egan is my close personal friend, and he represents the highest type of scholar and diplomat; and moreover, he represents what is- even higher than scholarship and diplomacy, for he represents the highest type of citizenship. By the way, you may be amused to know that on this trip of mine West one of the books that I have been re-reading is Mr. Egan’s series of essays gathered together in the title of “Hamlet’s Ghost.” There is no position in the diplomatic service which he could not fdl with distinguished ability, and I wish him a long career in that service; and yet I hope he will not permit his diplomatic duties to divert him from his literary work. He is the type of good American of whom all good Americans must feel proud.
Sincerely yours,
Theodore Roosevelt.
President John Cavanaugh,
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Consulate of Denmark, ‘ New Orleans, April 12th, 1911.
To .the President and Faculty, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Sirs:—I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your highly valued invitation to be present at the conferring of the Laetare Medal on His Excellency, Doctor Maurice Francis Egan, United States’ Minister to Denmark, and to. say that my daily duties here will not permit me to be absent.
I sincerely regret my inability to attend, all the more so as the Minister represents not only the United States Government, but the best in American thought and character as well, and, through his occasional
public utterances, has come to be highly valued by all seriously thinking people of my nationality, in and outside of Denmark. '
Thanking you for your courtesy, and assuring you of my appreciation, I beg to remain
Yours respectfully, ' T. Soegaard.
New York, April 15th, 1911.
To the President and Faculty, University of Notre Dame.
Gentlemen:—I am exceedingly sorry that my engagements prevent my acceptance of the invitation with which you have honored me, to be present at the conferring of the Laetare Medal upon His Excellency, the Honorable Maurice Francis Egan.
It would give me particular pleasure to witness-this ceremony—first, because of my intimate friendship of thirty years with Dr. Egan, and secondly, because it is a recognition of a distinguished American man-of-letters, who, by his.poetry and his criticism, as well as by his influence, has done much to support the best standards of literary style and content. His admirable poetry—especially his sonnets—and the wide reach of his literary appreciations and sympathies give Dr. Egan a unique position among American writers. Compared with the attitude of foreign public sentiment toward literature and the arts, that of our country is still provincial. We have much curiosity concerning writers - of note, but have not yet learned to pay them the honor of serious and well proportioned respect. Dr. Egan has always felt the first responsibility of a critic: to find and set apart from meretricious work the genuine promise as well as the best achievement of his time, and at the same time he has kept steadily in view the fact that both promise and achievement are to be judged by artistic as well as human standards.
In the honor which you are conferring upon him, you are paying tribute to exact and resourceful scholarship, to a sincere and conscientious professional career, and to a personality which is of extraordinary usefulness to its day and generation through wise moderation of judgment and an unfailing and inspiring tone.
Renewing my regret at my inability to accept your invitation, for which I cordially thank you, I have the honor to remain,
Respectfully yours, Robert Underwood Johnson.
WasHiNGTON, D. C., April 17, 1911.
Reverend John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Am sorry can not be present in person when Notre Dame bestows on Dr. Egan the well-earned tribute of merit, the Lietare Medal. I have been associated with him in his work for nearly twenty years with constant growing appreciation of his devotion to Catholic ideals and his work for the Catholic cause, and I know of no one more worthy of this honor than he.
Charles P. Neill.
450
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter
Published every Saturday during the School Term at the University of Notre Dame
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: The Editor Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. XLIV. April 22, 1911.	No. 28.
Board of Editors.
THOMAS	A. LAHEY, ’ll
AHTHUR HUGHES, ’ 11	CHARLES C. MILTNER, ’ I I
JOHN F. O’HARA, ’ll	FRANCIS WENNINGER, ’ll
JOHN C. TULLY, ’ 11	RALPH C. DIMMICK, ’ll
JOHN P. MURPHY, ’l2	PETER P. FORRESTAL, ’ll
PAUL RUSH, ’I 2	EDWARD J. HOWARD, *12
SIMON E.	TWINING, ’13
—The Laetare Medal awarded to Dr. Maurice Francis Egan one year ago was formally conferred on Tuesday evening. The occasion was a notable Conferring the one, bringing together Laetare Medal, many friends of the distinguished writer from near and far. Ver)’ fittingly, too, Mr. Patrick O’Brien, that life-long friend of Dr. Egan and of the University whose name has ever stood high with the people of South Bend for sterling Catholicity and civic worth, was selected to preside at the exercises. The presence on the stage of the Bishop of Fort Wayne, Father Provincial Morrissey, former Medalists, Judge Howard and Mr. Onahan, added much to the impressiveness of the presentation. The ceremony was unique and picturesque—one not readily to be forgotten. The letters received from prominent ecclesiastics, educators and statesmen indicate that Maurice Francis Egan takes rank among the most popular Laetare Medalists.
—Easter Monday for a number of years past has come to be considered the Seniors’ Day. Clad in the conventional cap and gown, the seniors assume the large Seniors’ Day. responsibilities of University ,	hosts. It is safe to say that
the varied program of exercises this year will hold high rank among the most sue-cessful programs of past years. The annual play was bright and brilliant, even if it did bear the burden of a great theme. It was the average American comedy, in which there was some wit and repartee, even if, like most comedies, there was not a vast deal of originality. The senior class and their director worked long and faithfully to round the performance into perfection, and to them we extend our sincere appreciation for the smooth elegance of the interpretation. Only those who have actually undergone the experience understand the “ double, double toil and trouble” of getting up a college play.
The senior ball, as one would expect, was a dignified affair. The plan of limiting invitations to advanced men should be adhered to even if financial considerations tend to pull the balance in another direction. It is the highest students’ social function in the calendar of the University, and the senior class of each succeeding year should make a unified effort to keep it so.
—But lately is : due consideration given to the revival of the Irish language which began its decline .shortlv after the bloodv wars of Cromwell. Not only
Anent Celtic, is it receiving an impetus from manv such men as Douglas
Hvde in our own countrv, but even the British * ■*
government, which once forbade its use, has already introduced it into the national schools throughout the island. This movement is to be commended not only for the reason that a distinct language is the chief constituent of a distinct nationality, but likewise because of the remarkable beautv of Celtic literature.
J
It is second only to Russian in its wealth of sounds and, with the exception of Basque, Irish is the oldest of European languages. We may be able to form some idea of its richness, in sounds and in native words when we consider that it has twice as many of the former as we have in English and that it is capable of producing countless terms from primitive stems. Although in one of the western counties alone it is spoken by nearly ten thousand people the task before its revivers is by no means an easy one, and we trust it will meet with hearty*.co-operation. .
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
45i
The Laetare Medal Conferred on Dr. Egan.
There, are certain occasions on which.the ideals for which Notre Dame stands are .given fuller expression than seems possible at other times, occasions on which the noblest and the best that is in us seems to come to the surface, occasions which seem to rise out of the magnetism of the situation. The presentation of the Lietare Medal for 1910 to Dr. Maurice Francis Egan, American Minister to Denmark, at the University last Tuesday was such an occasion. It assembled in person or in spirit some of the most distinguished figures of the clergy and laity of our country, and brought forth the most cordial expressions of con-
gratulation and good-will. The University took on festive dress: the neat attire of the military, the colors and cap and gown of the faculty and seniors, the brilliant and formal dress of the guests, the music and the lights, gave a delightful setting to the function. It was a splendid exemplification of one of the highest ideals of the University: that of doing honor to a distinguished Catholic layman, arid through him to the Catholic laity of America.
The formal ceremonies began at five o’clock in the evening, when the Reverend Provincial and President, Right Reverend Bishop Alerding of Ft. Wayne, and other guests, accompanied by the battalion, moved in procession to the Niles road to greet Dr. Egan and escort him to the University. On the .return the
members of the different halls were grouped in front of the Main Building, and there tendered an ovation to the guest of honor. After a lunch in the east dining-room of the University, the assembly dispersed for a brief recess before the ceremonies of the evening.
At eight o’clock the academic procession of seniors and faculty moved from the parlors of the Main Building to Washington hall, escorting Dr. Egan and the speakers who were to take part in the formal act of presentation. On the stage with Dr. Egan were the Rt. Rev. Bishop Alerding, Provincial Morrissey, President Cavanaugh, Vice-President Crumley, Mr. Patrick O’Brien, of South Bend, Chairman of the meeting, and Hon. William J. Onahan and Judge Howard, former recipients of the Laetare Medal.
After the overture by the University orchestra Mr. Patrick O’Brien made the address of welcome, in which he remarked with fine thought and felicity of expression, the particular fitness of Dr. Egan to receive the honor for which he had been designated by the faculty of Notre Dame. In closing he introduced the Honorable William J. Onahan, Private Chamberlain to the Pope, who received the Laetare Medal twenty-one years ago. Count Onahan’s address, which is printed in another part of the Scholastic, was delivered with fine feeling; its reminiscent spirit awakened emotion, and the audience was not slow to display its appreciation for the address and the man who made it. A vocal selection by Joseph Murphy, Law Ti, was next in order on the program; in this the success of past performances on the local stage was repeated.
Before the reading of the formal address of presentation, Vice-President Crumley read a number of letters and telegrams from men of prominence who found it impossible to be present at the ceremony. From these^we select a few for publication. The very nigh character which marks these messages shows the universal feeling of esteem in' which the Christian erudition and scholarly qualities of Dr. Egan are held. The long-continued applause which greeted the signatures to the letters and messages was a proper testimonial. of regard for the men who sent them. i
President Cavanaugh then advanced to read the address of presentation which is reproduced in these pages. He then presented the Medal amid a great ovation. The reply of Dr. Egan
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
4
452
with its classic phrasing toned by pleasant reminiscences, was heard with marked attention.
In closing the exercises the Right Reverend Bishop added his words of congratulation to Dr. Egan and to the University on its happy choice of a LaMare Medalist, and Expressed his confidence that with a body of Catholic laymen of the type of Maurice Francis Egan the Church in this country would forever be free from the dangers which beset it in France and southern Europe. After the Episcopal benediction an orchestral selection closed the program.
A reception was held in the University parlors after the return from Washington hall, and several hundred guests met and chatted with the guest of honor. The warmth of affection and general good feeling among those present were characteristic of the manner in which the selection of the Laetare Medalist for 1910 has been regarded, o
Prof. Ritchey’s Astronomical Lecture.
On the evening of April 19, Prof. G. W. Ritchey of the Mount Wilson' Solar Observatory, Pasadena, Cal., delivered a very interesting astronomical lecture in Washington hall. The professor had some excellent pictures thrown on the canvas illustrating the different kinds of telescopes. Also he spoke with the knowledge of a specialist on the forms and movements of the planets. He kept the close attention of the audience throughout. The defective light on some of the pictures made it difficult to give them a complete measure of appreciation.
Lecture by Dr. Egan.
On Wednesday afternoon, April 19, we had the pleasure of listening to a lecture by the Hon. Maurice Francis Egan, United States Minister to Denmark and a former professor in the University. The lecture was an embodiment of sound counsel and practical advice rather than an academic discussion,—“a few words of practical value from a man of the world to students preparing for active life.” The question confronting the college man turning from the sheltered idealism of college life to the stem actuality of world life is this: "What am I going to do?” The Minister
then outlined briefly his own career of student journalist, novelist, litterateur and diplomat. He made it quite clear to all that what' the world wants most is a strong sense of honesty. “No- ‘bluff’ ever pays in the end,” said Dr. Egan. He also warned the students of two dangers,—the drink habit and the habit of gambling. He expressed satisfaction at the gradual dying out of the former evil, but sounded a note of a'arm at the steady increase of the latter. A few side-lights on Danish customs and habits concluded the lecture.
EaenaHEHHai
Obituary.
Many at Notre Dame and elsewhere will be sorry for the death of John P. Curry, LL. B. ’01, LL. M. ’0’2, which took place at his home, 67 Congress St., Hartford, Conn., the evening of April 8. Mr. Curry was one of the best and most versatile students of his time at Notre Dame. He made an excellent class record, served on the editorial board of the Scholastic, and taught stenography and typewriting in the commercial department with marked success. On leaving the University he took up the practice of law with Duer, Strong & White, New York City, in whose service he remained until last January when ill health forced hin to return to Hartford. Medical treatment and the loving attention of home failed to restore him. He bore up manfully, however, accepting his suffering in a Christian spirit, winning grace and spiritual strength by frequently receiving the sacraments. The end found him prepared and unafraid. With him in his last moments were his confessor, his devoted parents, brothers and sisters, and he died with a prayer to Jesus and Mary on his lips. So passed away an appreciative and loyal alumnus of Notre Dame. May his soul rest in peace!
On Tuesday, April 18, came the sad news from Washington of the death of Edward A. Moseley, LL. D., Secretary of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Dr. Moseley received the degree of Doctor of Laws from the University last commencement and made a wide circle of friends while visiting here on that occasion. The Scholastic in behalf of the University extends sincere sympathy to the family of the deceased.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
453
The Senior Play.
On Easter Monday the senior class presented the traditional senior play. It may be said without the suspicion of flatter}' that the students who took part in the performance showed grace of manner in their acting and good judgment in the interpretation of their lines. Of all those in the cast, there is not one who could be singled out for any severe adverse criticism. We have riot the same high praise for the play itself. Much of its success was due to the artistic stage setting and the fine reading of the’student actors under their painstaking director, Father Moloney. In the “Dictator” we have the usual matrimonial mixups; the young man who is good by instinct, in trouble as the result of accident; and so on as in the endless chain of modern American comedies. The piece lacks probability. The treatment of South America is farcical. One is amazed at the suddenness with which the manifold complex situations are righted at the conclusion. Also we do not relish the matrimonial point of view. When we say the piece is not decidedly mere high class than the endless procession of our presentday American comedies we probably best express our appreciation.
William Ryan, as we should expect, played the part of the “Dictator” in a manner that left little to be desired. He was natural at all times and decidedly fitted for the part. Claude Sorg, as Charley Hyne, entered into the spirit of his part to such an extent that he seemed to live rather than to act his part. John O’Hara as the secret service detective was clever and. natural throughout—decidedly better than in the play of last December. Joseph Murphy as Colonel Bowie, Jasper Lawton as “Simpson,” Arthur Hughes as Gen. Campos, and Thomas Havican as Senor Dravo, deserve special commendation for the creditable. handling of their respective roles. Cecil Birder tightened his claim to be classed as our premier “leading lady.” He gave us an intelligent and enjoyable presentation of Lucy Sheridan, the young American missionary zealot. Paul Rush surpassed his former performances on the local stage and is deserving of high .praise.. He portrayed the character of Mrs. Bowie in a natural and pleasing way. Harry Zimmer was the third female member
of the cast, and his work was in keeping with that of the other two. Playing the part of an irate seriorita he carried the house by his skilful handling of the difficult role. It is now many a season since we have had a trio of “actresses” as capable as Messrs. Birder, Rush and Zimmer.
The supporting players displayed much talent and showed that they are capable of development.
The quartette made a decided hit and was obliged to respond to an enthusiastic encore. It might be said in passing that the encore was rendered in better form than the first piece.
Father Moloney, under whose direction the play was produced, deserves the gratitude of the seniors for his untiring efforts and splendid spirit of devotedness. To him must go a large share of credit for the splendid presentation of a drama, the success of which depended upon its staging rather than on any high intrinsic merit.
The music was furnished by7 the University Orchestra and was of the same high class as that presented on former occasions. Prof. Petersen deserves hearty compliments. We append the cast of characters.	■
Brooke Travers, alias Steve Hill.... William Ryan Simpson, his valet, alias Jim Dodd—Jasper H.’Lawton Charley Hyne, Wireless telegraph operator for the
Red C. Line ....................Claude	A. Sorg
Colonel John T. Bowie, United States Consul at
Porto Banos...................Joseph B. Murphy
Duffy, A secret service detective. . John F. O’Hara Rev. Arthur Bostick ................John	H. Kuhle
Lieutenant Perry, U. S. S. Oregon. .Raymond E. Skelly Samuel Coadman, Captain of Bolivar Red C Line
William E. McGarry General Santos Campos, President of San Manana,
Arthur J. Hughes Dr. Vasquez, Health Officer at Porto Banos,
1 cseph C. Goddeyne Senor Jose Dravo, Proprietor of Hotel del Prado,
Thomas L. Havican Colonel Garcia, -Aide to Gen. Campos,
Nicholas A. Gamboa Steward of the Bolivar..........Edward K. Delana
Lucy Sheridan ..................Cecil E. Birder
Mrs. John T. Bowie ....................Paul	Rush
Senora Juanita Arguilla.........Harry J. Zimmer
On the intermission between Acts i and 2, the University Quartette sang.
James Wasson	Paul Darrel Murphy
Walter Sydney Yund	Joseph Benedict Murphy
The following musical program was rendered: Selection—‘‘Girl of My Dreams” .......K. Haschna Selection—“Foxy Quiller” ....Reginald de Koven Selection—“Sweetest Girl in Paris” . .Jos. E. Howard March ................................ Selected
454	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Senior Ball.
An original and picturesque decorative scheme distinguished the annual ball of the senior class, given Monday evening in Place hall.. The affair' is always the culminating social event of the University year, and Monday’s function attained unusual success. ’
The setting was a pretty garden effect achieved by four pergolas erected in each corner of the ball-room. They were of white lattice work covered with southern smilax and clematis and the top hidden in a mass of evergreen. Colored incandescent lights were interwoven in the evergreen.
Within the pergolas were furnishings of wicker and the floors were covered with Japanese mattings of many colors. College pillows, banners and blankets within the pergolas and about the walls gave quite the air of a students’ function. In the center of tire hall four large Notre Dame streamers hung from the ceiling and directly7 opposite was suspended a hanging basket of southern smilax and tiger lilies, blending beautifully with the pergolas on either side. Within the entrance of the hall were two large white pillars and outside in the hall were banks of palms and bay trees.
The ball opened at 9 o’clock with the grand march led by Miss Mabelle Stokes, of Chicago, and John C. Tully, president of the senior class. A program of 20 dances with eight extras followed the march. The Wheeler and Seymour orchestra, Michigan City, Ind., played the program from one of the pergolas.
At 11 o’clock the serving of the supper began. The guests were served in four divisions at little tables in the dining-room, daintily appointed in green and white. The menu was served in two courses.
Nearly 200 guests were present, among them the Misses Mabelle J. Stokes, Adelaide Washburn, Catherine Steers, Agnes Ganz, Ruth Hamm, Alice McDonough, Julia Hollearan, of Chicago; Ada and Helen Stanton of Elkhart, Ind.; Catherine, Isabelle and Aloise Hinde, of Sandusky, 0.; Helen Kruger, of Michigan City; Marie Prahl, of Mishawaka; Louise Brotherton, of Ashtabula, O.; Anna Dederich, of Toledo, 0.; Marill Cahill, of Boston, Mass.; Pauline and Elizabeth Maloney of Crawfordsville, Ind.; Irma Weber, of Cincinnati, O.; Ruth Martin of Peoria, Ill.; Miss
Kelly, of Morris, Ill.; and Miss Garrity, of Chatsworth, Ill;. Marie Kramer, Canton, Ohiol
The patrons and patronesses of the bal. were Judge and Mrs. T. E. Howard, Prof, and Mrs. William Benitz, Mr. and Mrs. F. Henry7 Wurzer, Prof, and Mrs. J. J. Greene, Capt. and Mrs. R. R. Stogsdall, Dr. and Mrs. J. B. Berteling, Mr. and Mrs. Dudley7 M. Shively7, Mr. and Mrs. E- J. Twomey, Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Wheelock, Senator and Mrs. R. E. Proctor, of Elkhart, and Mr. and Mrs. M. J. Kenefick of Michigan City7.
Personals.
—Among the visitors at the University last Sunday were Mr. and Mrs. Fordyce and Mr. and Mrs. Byron V. Kanaley. Byron is an ’04 man.
—Mr. Frank O’Shaughnessy (’00), president of the Alumni association, was here last Wednes-day7 completing details for the Alumni gathering next Commencement.
—John F. Heffernan, a student at the University last y7ear, is now located in Williston, South Dakota, where he is engaged in the Feed, Livery7 and Hack Line business.
—On March 8 our well-known Max Adler, of the firm of Peterson and Adler, - a student in the eighties, was united in matrimony7 to Miss Lillian Strauss of Buffalo. Congratulations to Max and his accomplished young bride.	,
—Mr. B. B. Hesse (Com. ’90) is the President of the firm of B. B. Hesse & Sons, the largest clothing and tailoring establishment in Fort Madison, Iowa. , The new store is one of the show places viewed by7 visitors to Fort Madison.
—Many out-of-town guests were present at the presentation of the Laetare Medal to Dr. Maurice Francis Egan last Tuesday evening. Among them were: The Rt. Rev. Herman J. Alerding, Bishop of Ft. Wayne, Father McMillan, C. S. P., Chicago, Rev. Thomas Shanan Chicago, Ill., Rev. Dr. O’Connell of Toledo, O;, Rev. Father Ducat of Niles, Mich., Rev. John DeGroote of South Bend, Very Rev. Dean O’Brien, of Kalamazoo, Mich., Very Rev. John H. Guendling of Peru, Ind., Count W. J- Onahan and Mr. P. T. Barry (A. M. ’90) of Chicago.	.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
455
Calendar.
Tuesday, April 25—Glee club practice, 7:00 p. m.
Wednesday, April 26—Bi-Monthly examinations begin.
Varsity vs. Arkansas at Notre Dame.
Thursday, April 27—Varsity vs. Arkansas at Notre Dame.
Friday, April 2S—Second day of Bi-monthly exams.
Varsity vs. Arkansas at Notre Dame.
Saturday, ?>.pril 29—Varsity vs. Armour Institute at Notre Dame.
Local Items.
—The ex-Philopatrians had a dinner at the Oliver last Thursday.
—During the past week a telephone system was installed between, the offices of the President and Director of Studies.
—Tomorrow evening at 8 o’clock, Brownson Society debates St. Joseph Society in the Assembly Room of. Walsh hall.
—The freshman track team meets Culver Military Academy soon. It is expected that the freshies will give good account of themselves.
—Eugene Connolly has been selected to coach Brownson in baseball this season. He feels that the prospects of a fast team are very bright this season.
—The Rev. Provincial .Morrissey and Rev. President Cavanaugh attended the banquet of the New York Notre Dame club at the Waldorf Astoria last Thursday.
—The Corby baseball team opened its season with a game with South Bend high school. The game showed the possibilities of Corby for a strong team. They won 7-3.	.
—Examinations will be. held on Wednesday April 26, and Friday, April 28, of this week. Christian Doctrine examinations will be held Thursday evening, April 27, at 7:30.
—The Varsity baseball diamond is being put in shape for the season. Owing to the condition of the field, the Varsity has been compelled to use the Brownson diamond.
—Coach Maris announces that the annual wrestling and boxing contests will be held in Washington hall during the coming week. The coach states that the card for that evening will be fast and interesting. •
—The home going at Easter time showed a marked decrease especially among the college men. The University as an Easter social
centre is increasing in popularity. The annual Easter ball was a credit to the senior class.
—Plans are now on foot to put a minstrel show on the boards in Washington hall. The great success we have had in this line will no doubt be equalled if not surpassed. The date for its performance will be fixed for some time in May.
—Rehearsals begin next week for a play to be given by the Dramatic Club for the benefit of the Athletic Association. It is expected that one performance will be given at Washington hall and another in some South Bend theatre.
—The interclass oratorical contests will soon be in order. Competition for the prizes given will be very keen. The debate between the freshman lawyers and freshman arts and letters men will be held first. Labor Unionism will be the subject of discussion.
—Through the munificence of J. M. Studebaker, Jr., a beautiful silver loving-cup is offered to the hall which can put forth the best outdoor track team. The cup is to be called the “J. M. Studebaker, Jr., Trophy.” The hall winning the cup this year will be allowed to hold it until the following year. Each year the cup will be competed for until' some team can succeed in winning it three times, when it will be held permanently. The trophy is a massive silver loving-cup lined with gold. It stands two feet high and one foot in diameter resting upon a block of solid ebony. The engraving is of first-class workmanship. The beautiful designs of oak-leaves entwining bunches of grapes lend a richness which is seldom found in athletic trophies. The hall being so fortunate as to secure this handsome trophy may well be thankful. .	-
Athletic Notes.
Albion Humbled.
In the second collegiate game of the season the Varsity succeeded in running up a total of 28 runs against Albion college. This breaks the record for high scores on the local diamond. The first two innings of the contest promised a variety of baseball which it pleases the fans to witness. The superior ability of the Notre , Dame men soon prevailed, and from the second inning on the affair proved’ to be a walkaway, Coach Kelly’s men scoring at will. Twenty-
456
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
one hits in all were secured by the local men off Mr. Carr. Cy Williams led in the hitting with five bingles out of seven times up. Quigley had three to his credit, and Farrell, Philips, Ulatowski and Heyl, two. Bill Heyl pitched a good, consistent game, holding the visitors to eight hits. One of the features of the game was Ulatowski’s catch of a foul ball back at the screen. Score by innings:
Notre Dame
Albion
0025531 10 2—28 21 2
o o o 1 o o 1	1 1— 4	84
First of South Bend Series.
In the first game played with the South Bend Central association team last Wednesday the Varsity held the leaguers to a tie score, three runs being the extent of both team’s activities. The locals started their scoring in the second round when Williams walked. In attempting to catch “Cy” at second on Phillip’s bunt Holmes threw wild, both men being safe. Williams was caught at third on O’Connell’s bunt, but Sherry brought Phillips home with a two bagger.
In the sixth Connelly’s single, Quigley’s sacrifice and Farrell’s double netted one run. In the next inning Ulatowski hit a liner over the road for a home run and the score was tied.
Score:	.
South Bend.	B R H O A E
Craven, rf......................... 2	o	o	o	o	o
Kroy, cf........................... 2	2	2	1	o	o
Kelly, ss.......................... 3	1	1	2	1	o
Geier, If.......................... 3	o	o	4	o	o
Koehler, 2 b....................... 2	o	1	3	1	o
Schmick, ib........................ 3	o	o	7	o	o
Varley, 3b......................... 2	o	o	2	1	o
Holmes, c.......................... 3	o	o	2	4	o
Meyers, p.......................... 1	o	o	o	2	o
Martin, p.......................... 1	o	o	o	o	.0
Totals..........................22	3	4	21	9	o
Notre Dame.	B R H 0 A E
Connelly, 3b....................... 4	1	1	1	o	o
Quigley, cf........................ 2	o	o	2	o	o
Farrell, ib........... .:.......... 3	o 1 10 o o
Williams, If....................... 2	o	o	1	o	o
Phillips, ib....................... 2	1	1	o	o	o
O’Connell, ss.......................2	o	o	3	1	o
Sherry, 2 b........................ 3	o	1	2	2	o
Ulatowski, c....................... 3	1	1	4	3	o
Summers, p......................... 2	o	o	1	5	o
Totals..........................23	3 52411 o
South Bend..................00020 1 o o—3
Notre Dame..................01 o o o 1 1 *—3
Innings pitched—By Meyers, 5; by Martin, 2. Hits—off Meyers, 2; off Martin, 3. Sacrifice hits— Kroy, Kelly, Geier, Koehler, Quigley, Phillips. Struck out—By Meyers, 1; by Summers, 4. Home run— Ulatowski. Two base hits—Kelly, Koehler, Sherry,
Farrell. Hit by pitched ball—Craven. Bases on balls—Off Summers, 4; off Meyers, 2; Off Martin, 1. Double plays—Summers to Farrell. Time of game— 1 .'30. Umpire Ryan, Notre Dame.	.
Benders Win Second Game.
When the former Notre Dame coach, Ed. Smith, finished his duties as the hurler in the second game of the South Bend Notre-Dame series last Thursday afternoon he walked off the field victor with a 3—2 score. There were two happenings in this game which because of the stellar light which surrounded them caused all other work to loom back in the shadows. The first of these was William’s
home run over the right field fence. The second was Quigley’s throw to the plate in the sixth inning from deep center after catching Lindsay’s fly. By this piece of stellar work Holmes was
caught at the last station.
Notre Dame	B
Connelly, 3b....................... 4
Quigley, cf........................ 4
Farrell, ib........................ 4
Williams, If........................4
Phillips, rf........................4
O’Connell, ss...................... 3
Sherry, 2 b........................ 4
Ulatowski, c........................3
N. Ryan, p.......................   4
Totals.....
South Bend. Craven, rf.. . Kroy, cf...... Kelly, ss. ..
Geier, If....
Koehler, 2 b..
Schmick, 1 b.
Wetzel, 3b.. .. . Holmes, c.. ..
Moffit, p....
Lindsay, p.. ..
R H O A E 00240 1 1 2 1 o O Oil o o I O I o o 01302 O I 0 2 O O22IO OO3OI OOO3O
R o o
I I
I o o o o o
E o o o o o
10 o o
34 B
4
H o o
O
o
o
4
o
I
6
4
o
o
o
4
o o o
o
o
Totals.......■......31	3 9 29 6 2
Notre Dame.......o 0020000 o—2
South Bend.......1 o o o o o o 2 *—3
Innings pitched—By Moffit, 3; by Lindray, 6. Hits made—Off Moffit, 1; off Lindsay, 4. Struck out—By Moffit, 4; by Lindsay, 7; by Ryan, 1. Home runs—Williams. Sacrifice hits—Ulatowski,.
Lindsay, Holmes, Schmick. Stolen bases—Ulatowski, Geier. Two base hits—Koehler, Holmes. Bases on balls—Off Lindsay, 1; off Ryan, 2. Double play—Quigley to Ulatowski. Time—1:35. Umpire— Meyers.'
The Third Game Goes to South Bend.
“Mike” Summers pitched the finest kind of ball against the Bender aggregation in last Tuesday’s contest, and after eleven innings was forced to see the game taken by the visitors.
South Bend.1020000000 1—4.
Notre Dame....o o' 1 00 100 1 o o—3..