THE NCTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
In This Issue:
NEWS
Disputation on Thursday evening . . . Bengal Battlers in High Gear for Prelims . . . U. Theatre's Efforts Applauded . .. The Week . . . College Parade.
SPORTS
Cagers Tangle with Marquette Tonight... Illinois Relays Tomorrow ... Report Dissension in Race's Camp . . . Introducing . . . Splinters.
BASKETBALL COACH GEORGE KEOGAN His "greatest team" last home appearance tonight
March 4.1938
—s Enjoy the Post Tonight
HES BASEBALIS TOUGHEST
Yoh youngsters’ll have to fight blizzards, Indians, drought, mebbe starvation
Introducing “Muscles” Medwick (ex-“Ducky Wucky”), the fightingest fighter in the Cardinals’ Gashouse Gang. The National League’s most valuable player and leading hitter is apt to fight anybody, friend or foe. Why? How did he quiet even Dizzy Dean? Here’s a story for the Hot Stove Leaguers.
Lord Medwick, of Carteret by J. ROY STOCKTON
YOULL PAY HIGH
Cowboy, don't get roped by that
DUDE-RANCH GIRL I”
The boys in the bunkhouse shook their heads when Buck Langdon fell for a wealthy Eastern girl. Maybe Eleanor was different —but suppose it turned out she just went for the big hat, and the spurs, and the ■scenery? What then? Buck knew a way to find out, and he staked everything on it. A short story, Country Boy.
OUNG DAVID BEATON joined the rush when the thrilling cry of “ Free land! ” lured homesteaders westward. There lay opportunity, and adventure. His bride, Mary, felt the excitement of it. She trembled when she heard about the perilous land ahead of them —the tough, lonely land that might break them before they could break it. . Turn to your Post today and begin “Free Land,” a new full-length novel of pioneer life in the Dakotas.
Beginning a New Novel of Adventurous

by OLIVER LA FAROE
ALSO . .What’s happening to America’s crusade for peace? Stanley High tells you in Peace, Inc._____Guy Gilpatric describes a battle, octopus vs. octopus, and Garet Garrett reports on just what caused the “recession.” Plus the second installment of The Gay Banditti; stories, articles, cartoons.
Pioneer Days by ROSE
WILDER
LANE
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Z188
Vol. 71
March 4, 1938
No. 18
WASHINGTON EASTER TOUR PLANNED
"NATURAL LAW" IS SUBJECT OF PHILOSOPHY DISPUTATION; REV. SHANNON GUEST
The fifth bi-annual tour of Wash-ignton, D.C., sponsored by Professor Paul C. Bartholomew of the department of politics will extend this year from Saturday, April 16 to April 20.
The itinerary of this tour, which is open to all students of the University, has been carefully prepared and includes all the key points of governmental activity in the nation’s capital.
On Saturday the group will leave South Bend on the “Liberty Limited,” crack train of the Pennsylvania railroad. Upon arrival in Washington, Sunday morning, the students will attend Mass in a body. Sunday afternoon will be taken up with a tour of Arlington and Alexandria with tentative plans for that evening calling for a reception of the tourists at either the Italian or British embassies.
On Easter Monday morning there will be a tour of the Federal Bureau of Printing and Engraving after which the students will witness the annual egg-rolling on the White House lawn. Following this the party will witness the workings of the Fed-- er al Bureau of Investigation. Luncheon will be served in the Senate private restaurant. In the afternoon, Supreme Court, Decision Day, sessions will be heard as well as sessions of the House and Senate. A tour of the Congressional library and the Folger Shakespearian library will follow.
On Tuesday, Representative Pet-tingill of Indiana will conduct the party through the House office building. The students will listen-in on congressional committee hearings and will again lunch in the Senate restaurant.
The convening of either the House or Senate will be witnessed and the party will then hear further Supreme Court sessions. The Smithsonian Institute, Commerce and State buildings, as well as other points of interest will no doubt be visited if time permits.
The individual expense of the trip will be $42.50 which includes transportation to and from Washington, tours in Washington and to Alexandria and Arlington, meals, hotel accommodations, and all necessary expenses. Professor Bartholomew will welcome any further inquiries concerning the tour.
The third annual philosophical disputation, to be held Thursday at 8 p.m. in Washington hall, will feature a week of programs honoring the memory of St. Thomas Aquinas, patron of Catholic schools. Sermons at all masses in Sacred Heart church on Sunday dealing with the merits of St. Thomas will ____________________________________ A usher in the week of philosophical activity.
Disputant McGrath Object of objectors’ picks.
Freshman Scholarship Prizes Announced
•
Announcement was made this week by Scott Reardon, president of the S.A.C., of the recipients of the annual Freshman scholarship awards offered by that organization. These awards of $25.00, are made each year in an effort to encourage and reward scholarship in the freshman class. The basis for choosing the recipients is the selection of the sophomore in each of the colleges having the highest scholastic average for all courses of his freshman year.
Those receiving the awards this year are as follows: in the College of Arts and Letters, Thomas Marker of South Bend, 96.2 per cent; in the College of Science, John Reback also of South Bend, 95.3 per cent; in the College of Engineering, Russell Harris of Little Rock, Ark., 94 per cent; and in. the College of Commerce, James Sandmaier of Lakewood, Ohio, 94.5 per cent.
Tuesday night at 8:00 o’clock in Washington hall Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., professor of the history of Philosophy and editor of Publications in Mediaeval Studies will deliver a lecture on “St. Thomas in Major Conflict.”
Father Moore, in his lecture, will discuss the verbal battles St. Thomas with Siger of Brabant after the works of Aristotle had arrived in Western Europe in the late 12th and early 13th centuries. Siger was the chief representative of the Latin-Averroism school which accepted the doctrines of Aristotle without question. This group arrived at philosophical conclusions in many cases opposed to Christian teachings.
The other school of thought, Christian Aristotelianism, that developed concerning Aristotle’s beliefs was headed by St. Thomas Aquinas and St. Albertus Magnus. These two men accepted the teachings of Aristotle which they thought to be true, but they did not hesitate to reject those doctrines that they knew to be wrong. As a consequence of these two diverse groups the two chief representatives of each engaged in vital controversies on several important doctrines, e.g., the unity of the intellect.
Rt. Rev. Thomas V. Shannon, pastor of the Church of St. Thomas the Apostle, Chicago, Ill., will be the honorary guest at the disputation Thursday night. For 22 years Msgr. Shannon was editor of the New World, diocesan paper of the archdiocese of Chicago.
Msgr. Shannon studied at Saint Mary’s Seminary, Baltimore, and Catholic University, Washington, D. C. He received an LL.D. degree at Notre Dame in 1921.
The subject of this year’s disputation is, “The Natural Law: Existence, Mutability, Knowledge.” The formal defender will be Edward Mc-(Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CAPACITY AUDIENCE WELCOMES INAUGURAL OF UNIVERSITY DRAMA CLUB PRODUCTIONS
By Robert A. Sheppard
Last night the stage of Washington .Hall echoed to the year’s first presentation by the University Theater players. As the hall lights dimmed and the footlights brightened, the crude interior of a Kentucky mountaineer’s log cabin was revealed. The one act play “Moonshine” was in progress. The action of
the play described the adventures of a revenue officer and a gun-toting hillbilly engaged in brewing “pure-corn.” The part of the officer was played by Art Mulhern while the role of the moonshiner was acted by Vernon Witkowski.
The next sketch, a highly dramatic play entitel “The Other Side,” left the impression that, for once, the revenue agent had gotten his man. This play was an enactment of an execution in the dismal setting of the death chamber of a state prison. Those in the cast included George McDermott as the executioner, Bill Arnold as the assistant executioner, Vernon Witkowski as the warden, and Frank Winninger as the reporter.
A comedy entitled “Refund” concluded the evening’s dramatic entertainment. This drama depicted the character of “water on the brain” Wasserkoph. This individual found on entering the business world that he had not been educated while in college. His antics on his return to ,his alma mater and his activities in attempting to recover his tuition fees provided a ^hilarious scene. Harold Sitt was starred n the role of the student. The various professors were acted by Ray Sadlier, Jerry Hogan, Vincent Doyle, and George Wallace.
The group of plays were well received by the large student audience. The start of the season, although very late this year, was nevertheless notable and it is to be hoped that the later productions will be as well-presented and as well received.
The next appearance of the Notre Dame dramatic club, as announced by Professor Mills, director of the group, will be on March 17. On that date a light, fast-moving vaudeville show, featuring songs and short skits, will be presented. The cast for this show has not been completed.
“Journey’s End,” the well known war play by Robert Cedric Sherriff, English dramatist, is also in production. March 29 is the date scheduled for its presentation.
A coed at the University of Chattanooga wore a hat composed of one white lampshade, one bathtub plug chain, one shoe lace, two paper clips and a skimpy bouquet of artificial flowers, during all of one day. The only impression she created was the envious stare of a waitress in a restaurant.
Hangman Arnold
Makes “hot seat” hotter;
Plan Commerce Forum Trip to Chicago
It was announced by President Charles Brosius at the Thursday meeting of the Commerce Forum in the Faculty dining hall that the necessary plans for the Chicago trip have been completed. The date has been set for Thursdaay, March 10.
The trip will include a visit to the Chicago Board of Trade at the opening morning session, to the Federal Reserve Bank, and a short trip through the plant and the editorial offices of the Chicago Tribune. The club will lunch at the Armour Meat Packing Plant, and the remainder of the afternoon will be spent in touring the various divisions of the Armour Company.
After the short business meeting which began at 7:45, the pictures of the Notre Dame-Ohio State game of 1935 were shown to the members of the club and the several members of the faculty that were present.
Miltner Addresses Club
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will address members of the Bookmen club at their next meeting, March 16.
The group held a social meeting Tuesday evening at the home of Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell, faculty advisor. It was decided that keys would be purchased for members; several designs are being considered, John Schemmer, secretary of the club, announced.
A new set of books being read and
G. K. ONE OF MODERN GREATS: WARD
By Martin Donovan
Mrs. Maisie Ward Sheed, one of the foremost Catholic women apologists and wife of the eminent British author and publisher, Frank J. Sheed, ascended the lecture platform in Washington Hall last Friday evening to speak on the late English Catholic man of letters, Gilbert Keith Chesterton.
Chesterton, known to his millions of admirers as “G.K.,” was bom May 29, 1874 at Campden Hill, Kensington, England. His earlier life was spent in agnostic surroundings, and in a generation that had almost cast aside religion in favor of home worship and individual interpretation of what scraps of religion remained.
As Chesterton grew to manhood, according to Mrs. Sheed, he became proficient in literature and philosophy, although his original intention was to become an artist. His faculties of mind and character were “good from the beginning,” but he sensed the incompleteness of his life without a clearer and more motivating concept of the teachings of Christ. He turned to the Catholic church, read its history, examined its doctrines, associated with its members, and with his wife’s encouragement became one of its greatest defenders.
“Chesterton loved to be taken in,” said Mrs. Sheed in commenting on the author’s yearning to get at the bottom of things and discover truth. Chesterton saw the Church from the outside; he saw things that those within could not; he freed himself from the mire of ignorance, and he did discover the Truth.
In concluding her lecture Mrs. Sheed made the significant statement: “Chesterton was a movement.” She enlarged upon the statement by saying it was her firm belief that the British apologist, whom she had known for 30 years, was one of the greatest figures of our modem age. He was mainly instrumental in starting a new era of Catholic intellectual and literary interest. This revival of Catholic letters, as evidenced by the growing list of Catholic works in libraries the world over, must justly be attributed to a great extent to the man who was called “G.K.”
discussed by Bookmen includes:
What Man Has Made of Man, by Mortimer Adler; Not So Deep as a Well, by Dorothy Parker; Northwest Passage, by Kenneth Roberts; Selected Poems, by Edith Sitwell, and Bolshevism, Theory and Practice, by Dr. Waldemar Gurian.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MARCH 27 IS DATE OF ROCKNE PROGRAM
TWO WEEKS AWAY, BENGAL BOUT INTEREST JUMPS TO NEW CAMPUS HIGH
By Graham Starr
At the meeting of the Kansas-Oklahoma Club last Tuesday night definite plans were made for the Rockne Memorial Program to be held Sunday evening, March 27. The club has been granted permission to use Washington Hall, and the time of the program was set at 8:15 p.m. so as not to interfere with Lenten services.
Bernard Peterson, chairman of the pictures committee, has arranged for the showing of some of “Rock’s” great teams in action. News reel pictures have been obtained and again the great Notre Dame teams of the past—the national champions of ’29 and ’30—will flash across the silver screen. Once again Carideo, Brill, Schwartz, and the others will demonstrate the undying Spirit of Notre Dame.
Ferris Saffo has announced that the Glee Club will furnish music for the program. Renditions of the “Hike Song,” “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By,” and the “Victory March” will be given. Efforts are also being made to secure copies of “Twenty Swedes Ran Through the Weeds,” a nationally popular song during the ’29 football season.
Other committee chairmen appointed by general chairman Richard Stueve are: Charles McNamara, speakers; Jim Graham, publicity; and Jerry Donovan, decorations.
The program is opened to the public and no admission will be charged.
Bostonians Hear Fagan
Charles Callahan, president of the Boston club, announces that the novel smoker program provided for the Bay Staters last week drew a welcome group of 37.
Mr. Christopher Fagan of the economics department, a former resident of Fall River, Mass., was the guest speaker. He expounded the belief that campus club’s should exist not only for the express purpose of providing social functions, but also for scholastic and constructive purposes. Mr. Fagan’s mention of the value of historical radio skits which the club members might compose and act out met with approval.
Movies of the Notre Dame-Minnesota game were shown through the courtesy of the athletic association and Phil North of the Camera club who ran the projector. The program was concluded with the serving of ice cream, cake, coffee, and free smokes.
Just two weeks from tonight, on March 18, in the Notre Dame field house, almost 3,000 students will gather around a canvas ring to cheer a husky crew of Bengal Bouters on to victory—in half the cases at least. The Bengal Mission will be the beneficiaries of the proceeds and, in the name of sweet charity,
Wiil Stage Basketbail Banquet March 22
•
The Jefferson Plaza in South Bend will be the scene of the 1938 Notre Dame basketball banquet to be held Tuesday night, March 22. This was announced Monday by John Monahan, general chairman of the banquet.
Traditionally the Villagers’ Club of South Bend has been in charge of the affair. Committees for this year, as announced by Paul Howard, president of the Villagers, are as follows:
Thomas Webster heads the ticket committee, assisted by Richard Alberts, Robert Rodibaugh, Fendall Froning, and Alexis Coquillard. Arrangements will be in charge of Don Hickey aided by Walter Broadbeck, Robert Fankboner, William Gibbons, Joseph Miller, and Lawrence Eby.
Richard Garab, chairman of the committee on decorations, will be assisted by Edward Young, Sam Lawler, Ben Murdock, Don O’Neill, and Ed Delehanty.
Getting set for the Prelims.
the “boys” will listen to the sound of lefts and rights, and the satisfying thud of inert bodies on padded canvas.
Just what it is that makes the Bengal Bouts one of the outstanding events on the campus will again be demonstrated for the cash customers. The purpose for which the bouts are held is a worthy one, but the Scholastic asks no one to attend on that account. After all, the Madison Square contests are held to provide milk for thousands of babies!
Honorary judges of the bouts will be Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, and Mr. Frank Lloyd, comptroller of the University. “Chet” Grant and Jim Quinn will keep track of the time. Announcing chores will be handled by Joe Boland, line coach.
For both the preliminaries and the finals, Amateur Athletic Union registered judges will be employed. The date for the weighing-in ceremonies has been set for the afternoon of March 14. All contestants must pass a medical examination before entering.
Tickets are already on sale, and f Continued on Page 23)
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
IOWA TOURNEY ENGAGES DEBATERS1 INTEREST; WIN 18. LOSE 4 AT MANCHESTER
TO PRESENT UNIQUE ART EXHIBIT
The University of Notre Dame debating team is in Iowa City, Iowa, participating in the Invitational debating tournament being held at the University of Iowa. The meet began yesterday morning with colleges and universities from all parts of the Midwest entered and the champions will be crowned tomorrow.
Only the members of the “A” squad composed of Thomas Mulligan, and Charles Osborn, negative, and Albert Funk and Frank Fitch, affirmative, made the Iowa trip.
Saturday night the Notre Dame debaters ■will wrangle with the St.
Debater Frank Fitch
Out where the tall con grows.
Ambrose college team at Davenport, la., before returning to the campus.
This • is the second tournament within a week in which the Irish wranglers have taken part. Last Friday and Saturday they were at the Indiana State tournament held at Manchester College, Manchester, Ind. The result was 18 victories against four losses.
A practice debate with Western State Teachers’ college will be held at Notre Dame next Wednesday afternoon, March 9. The first home decision debate is scheduled for March 10 at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering when Michigan State meets the Irish in the first of two debates. Prof L. S. Winch, debate coach of Purdue, will act as judge.
The question for debate is “Resolved that the national labor relations board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes.”
Every third Saturday at 4:00 a.m., Arthur D. Loessin of Columbia, S.D., starts a 300-mile drive to attend the special classes for public school teachers held at the University of North Dakota. He travels the greatest distance of any in the class.
Announce Formation of Military Club
•
The second and organizational meeting of men interested in securing Army, Navy, or Marine Corps reserve commission will be held in Badin Hall recreation room at 7:45 p.m. Thursday, March 10. The preliminary meeting was held Feb. 5 during which most of the time was devoted to the Marine Corps preparatory to the return to the campus of Lieut. Col. Roy C. Swink, U.S.M.C.
Colonel Swink will interview candidates for the platoon leaders training camp on March 16, when anyone interested in learning about or applying for admission to this training course may see him.
The Marine Corps allotted a quota to the University three years ago and because of the interest shown by students the quota has been increased. The course consists of a six weeks camp between the sophomore and junior years and a similiar period between the junior and the senior years. Candidates completing these courses successfully are commission lieutenants in the Marine Corps Reserve upon graduation from college. They are paid as privates first class plus all expenses while in training and receive the pay of the commissioned grade in camps subsequent to their being commissioned.
As soon as the Marine quota has been filled, a club will be formed of students interested in any military activity looking toward commissions in the various services, and also to carry on a military tradition of long standing at the University. The club will also take over the annual Memorial Day program, which originally was a student activity.
Application blanks for the Marine camp may be secured from Charles J. Beasley j 8 Morrissey Hall. Students interested in Coast Guard cadetships or in the Army Air Corps cadetships may get information from the Registrar’s Office.
• According to a recent study, summer jobs paid Vassar girls $7,187. Twenty-four per cent of the girls had paid jobs and 11 per cent engaged in volunteer work.
Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, associate professor of art, announced early this week that the Art department of the University plans to present a Library exhibit of special reproduction prints corresponding to the outstanding paintings by the modern French masters. This movement has been undertaken to bring about a more extensive student contact with paintings of the Impressionist School up to the modern period.
Two prints will be exhibited weekly in the Library bulletin boards. A brief comment concerning the outstanding qualities and technical characteristics of each print will be added by Mr. Sessler. If student response warrants an extended exhibition, the Art department has consented to continue the series of illustrations for an indefinite period of time.
Stanley Sessler Impressionists get a blow.
In presenting a brief introduction of modern art, Mr. Sessler declared, “About the year 1850, there began a revolutionistic movement in the art of painting, so startling and audacious, that it made its mark on the entire Western world. A number of the French painters like Pisarro, Monet, Renoir, Manet, Degas and others, realized that the art of their day was superficial, uninspiring, and bound by certain out-dated classical traditions which did not reflect the spirit of their times.
“This group of men, whom we now call Impressionists, presented to a very antagonistic and jealous society their sincere interpretations of Nature in her inexhaustible variety of moods. These Impressionists broke a tradition of their period and branded themselves as rebels.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
-------------------------\
Music Notes
X_____________—-------------------/
By Paul R. Locher
Notre Dame did go to the opera Wednesday night, — but found it vaudeville for the most part. The three members of the Chamber Opera troupe, during the course of the evening, imitated almost every type of character, excepting W. C. Fields, which would have been an easy undertaking for the baritone soloist, to follow after “The Green-Eyed Dragon.” However, there were also some very effective numbers, ranging from Mozart and Handel to Moussorgsky and Gershwin. Even the accompanist, who had evidently given up cigarettes for Lent, in drowning out the soloists, showed some of the most intelligent knowledge of the art to which it has ever been my pleasure to listen. But the greatest question in every one’s mind was probably whether or not “The Prodigal Son,” the promised one-act opera by Debussy, would be found left behind in the same place as the tenor’s upper register. — And yet, all in all, it was really enjoyable, even if it were scarcely adult concert entertainment.
* * *
Now that Arturo Toscanini’s ten scheduled appearances as conductor of the NBC Symphony have been concluded, the National Broadcasting Company can look back with pride to one of the most successful and praiseworthy experiments in musical history. Last winter, NBC officials, together with the Radio Corporation of America, planned to assemble the first full-strength symphony orchestra ever to be maintained by an individual American broadcasting company. This orchestra was to consist of outstanding instrumentalists, at whose head only the greatest of conductors should be chosen. Arrangements were completed to allow concert-length time on the air, with finest technical facilities available, and world - wide dissemination assured.
When, from Milan last February, Toscanini cabled his acceptance to participate, the orchestra rapidly took form. Pierre Monteux was engaged to guide the orchestra in its initial stages of organization and in its preliminary performances. He was succeeded by Artur Rodzinsky for three weeks, and then, on Christmas night, the incomparable Toscanini mounted the podium for the first of ten successive Saturday night concerts.
Thus, by bold and imaginative vision, the National Broadcasting Company has made possible the ultimate popularization of great symphonic music.
Law School's Practice Court Scene of Many Heated Make-Believe Trials
By John J. Kohn
Every Friday evening from seven until nine o’clock, the court room of the Law Building is the scene of a vigorously contested trial. Although the facts for the cases presented and tried in this practise court are hypothetical, the student attorneys for both the defendant and the plaintiff must be able to defend their side.
In charge of trial practice and court procedure is Judge John P. Mc-Goorty, of the Superior Court of Cook County, Chicago. Judge Mc-Goorty fills the post left vacant by the recent death of Judge Cain. The senior law students draw from Judge McGoorty’s suggestions and advice, the sound knowledge of court procedure that is his from his many years of work in the Illinois courts.
From the time the facts of a case are made up by the judge, the procedure followed is identical with that of any court in regular session. Four senior lawyers are appointed to argue each case. Two are selected as attorneys for the defense while the other two are appointed to plead the case of the plaintiff. The points of issue are made known and the actual trial begins. If the case requires a jury, members of the Law school are chosen to serve as jurors.
As the case progresses and various arguments are presented by both sides, the presiding judge carefully listens to the contentions of the attorneys and observes their manner of procedure. The evidence used by the attorneys for both sides must be substantial and accurate so that it would not be denied in an official court of law. In a word, the young lawyer is being trained, with the helpful suggestions of the judge, to present his case clearly, as well as logically and completely.
Although most of the cases argued at the court are those involving equity and civil law, the criminal case provides a wealth of experience for the attorney-in-training. Both sides are free to call as many witnesses as they may choose. These witnesses, in turn, are examined and thoroughly
Knights Plan Week
The Notre Dame council of the Knights of Columbus have made extensive preparations for the campus celebration of the national Founder’s week.
The meeting of last Thursday, March 3, was addressed by Mr. Staunton, professor of English. John Kelley of Walsh Hall also rendered several vocal selections.
cross-examined by the opposing attorney. Even though the witnesses are students of the law school bent on breaking up the case, questioning on the part of the attorneys often bring out facts that render decisions possible. Very often the yearlings of the law school wilter visibly under a barrage of questions hurled by Stars Robert Schmelzle and Rex Weaver.
The cases brought before the trial court usually require from two to three weeks before a decision can be rendered. If a jury is sitting for a
Lawyer Schmelzle “For the defense.”
particular case, its decision is requested as in a court of law.
The chief function of the practice court is not only to test the knowledge of law of any student but also to equip him with a certain amount of confidence and familiarize him with the procedure that is followed in the court where he will work. This function is admirably fulfilled, not only because of the criticism of the “teaching” judge, but also by practicing in a model court room. During court session, the judge sits on the bench, the witnesses mount the witness stand, and when required, jurors fill the jury box. Added to this atmosphere of the solemnity of a court, the gallery is often filled by the undergraduates who are eager to hear an interesting case in the hands of capable students.
Navy Talk by Visitor
Friday, March 4th, at 4:30 Lieutenant Rhodes of the United States Coast Guard will lecture on the “Nature and Opportunities of Coast Guard Work.” The lecture will be held in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
As a special feature of the program, sound movies will be shown depicting the life of the guard.
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTED CHEMISTS TO ADDRESS A. S. M.
•
The Notre Dame Chapter of American Society of Metals will mark their monthly meeting with a dinner to be held Wednesday, March 9 at 6:45 p.m. in the University dining hall. The technical session will begin at 8 o’clock in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. The two guest speakers of the evening, Mr. C. 0. Thieme and Dr. G. P. Halliwell, will speak on the subject of “Manganese Bronze.”
The two speakers have had wide experience in the field of Metallurgy. Mr. Thieme was a chemist with the Ohio Brass Company, Mansfield, Ohio for two years, after which he served for ten years as chief chemist and research metallurgist with Michigan Smelting and Refining Company, Detroit. He has been with H. Kramer . & Company since 1928. He has contributed numerous papers, dealing with problems on non-ferrous metallurgy, to the technical press.
Dr. Halliwell is a graduate of Worcester Polytechnic Institute. After serving for three years as chemist with the Bridgeport Brass Company he completed graduate work at Yale University. Serving for ten years as metallurgist with Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Corporation he went to Carnegie Institute of Technology, where he was assistant professor of metallurgy from 1930 to 1936. Since 1936 he has been with H. Kramer & Company.
The technical program will include illustrated discussions of the relations between chemical composition, microstructure and mechanical properties of the various classes of manganese bronzes. These alloys are alphabeta or beta bronzes of high tensile strength, containing varying quantities of aluminum, tin or iron, and manganese. The discussion will include the susceptibility of manganese bronzes to thermal treatment and the possible inter-penetration of tin during babbitting processes.
The two addresses will be followed by the presentation of a sound film illustrating features of the manufacture of non-ferrous alloys.
The next meeting of the society on April 13 will be addressed by Dr. Kent R. Van Hom, of Aluminum Research Laboratories, Aluminum Company of America. His subject will be “Industrial Applications of X-Rays.”
Police questioned 13 University of Tulsa students recently whom they suspected of being “grave robbers,” only to find that they were just filling a hell week assignment—copying data from tombstones on order of their fraternity “brothers.”
z------------------------------
Man About the Campus
< _____________________________/
William Thomas Mahoney, Jr., the “I distinguish” duellist, came from Notre Dame high school in Chattanooga, Tenn., to the University of Notre Dame in Indiana. This southern Irishman (with a true family coat of arms) will fight the Civil Wai* Battle of Chattanooga matching strategy for strategy with any “dam-yankee.” Once the unreconstructed rebel flew a Confederate Union flag over Lyons’ arch.
He has received one phone call in four years — some one calling the other William Mahoney. He had hoped it would be from a Wellesley miss whom he desires to escort to the Senior Ball.
Backed a losing candidate in last year’s elections. Did better in a club
election, because his manager inveigled enough votes to make him president of the Schoolmen. Said manager’s reward ought to be the chairmanship of a philosophic dance.
By reason of Will’s position he must assume the burden of whipping into order the philosophical disputation. This student St. Thomas knows twice as much philosophy as other students because he studies it both in Latin and in English. His Latin distinctions will stop any argument.
He is a member of Coach de Lan-dero’s “one, two and a third in your bosom” squad. During Christmas vacation he practiced his passados and punto reverses on a little red ball, bouncing at the end of a string. (Not a scratch on the ball when he returned here).
The Bookmen and Chesterton Clubs take care of his few idle moments. He is in line for graduation with a magna cum laude, and as is the custom for these lads, has no plans for the future.
APPLICANTS FOR AIR CORPS SOUGHT
•
If a sufficient number of students are interested and if the University officials approve, the U. S. Army Air Corps will consent to send a Special Flying Cadet Examining Board to the nearest airport to consider all those who wish to become pilots in the Air Corps Reserve.
The U. S. Army Air Corps can offer a limited number of Notre Dame students who can qualify, an opportunity to choose aviation as a career* by becoming a flying cadet.
Providing that the candidate passes the rigid physical and mental examinations, the Air Corps undertakes to train him to become a pilot. The flying cadet is subjected to a year of intensive training at Kelly and Randolph Fields in San Antonio, Texas. If he completes the course, he is commissioned a second lieutenant in the Air Corps Reserve.
Upon successful completion of flying training, the cadet is offered the alternatives of either applying for 3 to 5 years active study in the Air Corps Reserve or returning to civil life, retaining his commission and being eligible for assignement to active duty for two weeks of each year.
Candidates for appointment as flying cadets must be unmarried male citizens of the United States who at the time of application have reached the age of 20 and who have not reached their 27th birthday. Candidates must apply to the Adjutant General, Washington, D.C., to receive their application blanks.
The first year the flying cadet is paid $75 per month and furnished shelter, food, clothing, equipment and medical care without cost. Transportation is also furnished from place of enlistment to the flying school at government expense.
Ledvina Speaks
The members of the Cracow club were addressed at the last meeting by Jerry Ledvina who gave a lecture on the life of Paderewski, the famous composer.
The speaker discussed Paderewski’s life and concert work. The material for the lecture was taken from a book written by Charles Philips, formerly a member of the Notre Dame faculty and author of many books on Poland.
President Sniadowski announced that a guest speaker would be presented at the next meeting. The preliminary rounds of the club ping pong and pool tournament have been completed and the semi-finals will be played following the speaker’s address at the next meeting.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
GYM SQUAD TO GIVE EXHIBITION
THE WEEK
The annual home exhibition of the gymnastic teams of the Department of Physical Education will be given in Washington Hall soon. The demonstration will last for about an hour, with work being done on the heavy apparatus and in tumbling as well as drills with the Indian clubs and wands.
Gym Coach Scannell His boys tumble and tumble.
The exhibition season of the team was opened at Fort Wayne, Ind., February 8, and closes with a showing in Toledo on the 20th of this month.
The personnel of the group is as follows: Bob Sullivan (Cap’t), Richard Ames, Ed Broscoe, Hugh Burns, Mike Corgan, Gene Ely, Phil Gal-letta, Don Hennessy, William Kerr, Joe Kuharich, Pat McCarty, Joe McKeon, Andy Puplis, Joe Schulz, Joe Strnad, Phil Walker, and Lou Zon-tini. The coach of the team is Professor John Scannell, head of the Department of Physical Education.
Italians Sing, Plan
With one of the largest crowds of the year attending, the Italian Club, convening in Badin Rec on Thursday evening, Feb. 24, formulated plans for a general open meeting, at which moving pictures of last season’s football games will be shown. At this meeting, to be held within the next two weeks, refreshments and cigarettes will be served, while music will be supplied by different members of the club.
Professor Pasquale M. Pirchio, club moderator, entertained the members with a talk on present day life in Italy. His address was followed by a lecture by Professor John P. Turley, who spoke on his experiences in Italy while studying there, at the University of Pavia.
The entire club took part in the community singing accompanied by the guitar of Thomas Delia and the violin of Peter Alonzi, who further entertained the members by singing a solo.
By Harold
Notes on the Prom
We had a lovely time at the Prom and the dinner dance, but from the reportorial point of view, the exciting week-end was a flop because we didn’t hear one Prom story. Possibly we are running into the same difficulty Kennedy had when he was conducting “The Week” three years ago. He said that he would walk into the caf or into a bull session and the boys would say, “Don’t open your mouths. Here he comes.”
However, we do have a few notes, and here they are: We were disappointed in the decorations (six Monogram blankets and that old stand-by the electric monogram) because the Scholastic said “The decorations are somewhat extensive and novel, and according to the members of the decorations committee there is a surprise in store for everybody. Something new and something different is the motto.”. . . No one was seen asking Little Jack Little for his autograph . . . There was no Grand March, for which everyone seemed to be thankful . . . Mr. Little wanted $75.00 to orchestrate the Prom Song, and George Sauter, the composer, told- Mr. Little to go jump in the lake. . . The last number played by the orchestra at the dinner dance, “Twilight in Turkey,” was somewhat of a blow to the sentimentalists who like “There’s no Place like Home,” for a finale.
•
Mailman
Possibly here’s a plot for a Scrip short story. A mailman in one of the sophomore or junior halls is desperately in love with one of the girls across the road. He’s that jealous type and if she so much as looks at a St. Mary’s watchman he goes up in smoke. Here’s the rub. Recently one of the fellows in the hall where he delivers mail started going around with his girl. Now the mailman, with a heavy tread and a broken heart, is forced to deliver one or two letters a week from his girl to his rival.
•
Waiter
There are a lot of unrecognized outstanding men around this place who haven’t a Chinaman’s chance to make “Man About” but who deserve some ’ form of recognition. One of these is our waiter, Sully. We’d had something like nine or ten waiters throw food at us for four years, but this Sully is certainly outstanding. We don’t mean outstanding when it comes to speed or service—in that we’d rank Sully ninth or tenth—but outstanding when it come to knocking coats off the backs of chairs. We’ve
A. Williams
seen Sully on his way to the kitchen with a load of untouched food get five and six coats without even trying. He says there’s nothing to it, and he claims that if he put his mind down to it he could probably get twice as many.
If the waiters ever get together and hold a field meet in which they compete for the East and West hall championship in slowness, wittiest repartee in talking back to the fellows at their table, carrying the most pitchers, breaking the most 'dishes, dropping the most trays, and knocking coats off chairs, we’d certainly bet our dish of ice cream on Sully to win that last event hands down.
•
Senior
Here’s another one of those fantastic stories we get hold of every now and then. It come by way of Bill (Man About) Mahoney, The Week’s best contributor, so if there are any doubts as to the authenticity of the story see him. After a rather stiff surprize quizz a senior groped his way to a room on the third floor of Walsh. He put the key in the lock, but the key wouldn’t fit. He talked to the key and the lock for a few minutes and after a few futile jiggles on the door knob and a few desperate kicks at the door he got the janitor. The janitor couldn’t make the key work either. He examined the key to see if the number corresponded with the room number. It did. Then the janitor noticed that the key was for Sorin Hall. He mentioned this to the Senior. The senior gave the janitor a sheepish look, and said, “My goodness. That’s right. I live in Sorin!”
•
Songs
The boys who keep Matt’s going have whiled away many a pleasant evening recently by making parodies of famous songs. They started out with a South Bend version of the Yale Whiffin-Poof song and then came up with a few philosophic thoughts set to the tune of “You’re My Everything.” The next time you are in the shower you might try it, but don’t blame us if you get in trouble with the prefect or some serious-minded philosophy major. It goes something like this:
You’re my substantial form My prime matter too You’re my accidents They inhere in you
You’re my essence, my existence My reality
My idea of a perfect substantiality (We forget the last three lines).
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
/---------------------\
I College Parade |
By John A. Callaghan
Joust in Fun
Every once in a while one of the exchanges comes through with something that we catalog in our “Things-that-leave-us-slightly-aghast” department. Such a story is this one, taken from a better than average column in the Daily Trojan.
Once upon a time, two knights met in a jousting tournament.
The first impact almost unhorsed one knight as his opponent’s spear* cut away half his saddle. The first knight drew away and charged once more. This time, his opponent’s spear caught him square in the face and tore off the first knight’s visor.
This incident gave birth to a modern day expression, as the knight was left “a little saddle, but no visor.”
—o—
With the Folks in History
Where did most of our present day sayings originate? Why with the famous folks of history. The Index gives us the following quotes of what famous people said on historic occasions:
Samson—I am strong for you, keed.
Jonah—You can’t keep a good man down.
Helen of Troy—So this is Paris. Nero—Keep the home fires burning. Sir Walter Raleigh—Step on it, kid.
Lucrezia . Borgia — It must have been something they ate.
—o—
Purty Purtry
She frowned on him and called him Mr.
Because in fun he merely Kr.
So out of spite The following night The naughty Mr. Kr. Sr.
Jottings
There’s the one about the dim-wit who said as he walked through the hospital ward, “Good moaning, boys.” . . . Add something about the college lad from the St. Mary's Collegian: The college man is too honest to steal, too proud to beg, too lazy to work, and too poor to pay cash; that’s why we have to give him credit. . . A spendthrift is one who pinches his pennies with greasy fingers... Newshawks on the Holy Cross Tomahawk are running a Poverty dance. The dance gives any girl an opportunity to crash the portals of Worchester society. The first gal to apply gets the editor, then down the line of staff members until all are taken. Why the Poverty dance? The gals kick in two dollars. . . and the dance is on April 1!. . . Add similies from the Ram: as far apart as Martha Raye’s
CHILEAN TRIP WINNER TALKS TO CLUB
Luis Montero, graduate student of the College of the Sacred Heart, Santiago, Chile, and recipient of a trip to the United States, was the honored guest at a combined meeting of the La Raza and Spanish clubs, Tuesday evening, March 1, in the Cavanaugh Rec.
The four month journey through the United States was a result of a prize winning essay submitted by Mr. Montero in a contest sponsored by the Grace Line of New York City.
The 19-year old Santiago graduate engineer, spoke briefly on his three
Prof, de Landero Host to Chilean.
weeks journey. He has traveled from his home to New York and South Bend. He expressed the opinion that the University of Notre Dame was a great school, and that the American universities curriculum was in no way similar with those of Chilean schools. He further went on to say that the idea of students boarding on the campus was entirely new to him.
Following the address of Mr. Montero to the group, Professor Pedro de Landero faculty advisor of both clubs, introduced Mr. Arthur Perez de Lara, connected with the advertising department of the South Bend Lathe Works, who pointed out the great accomplishment of Luis Montero in winning a trip to the United States, and a few of the high lights he will encounter while abroad.
right and left premolars; as transitory as lapel watches; as unforgivable as a flunk in religion. . . From the same source we find that Dr. James R. Angell says, “College boys turn on jazz and study to its accompaniment. How they do it I don’t know.”. . . We won’t beat about the bush, Doctor. Occasionally the studying does seem to interfere. .'. Fashion note: there will be little change in men’s pockets this year. . . There was the Wisconsin senior who pinned a five dollar bill to his blue book and below it the note “Let your conscience be your guide.”. . .
I Calendar
Friday, March J
Meeting, Scholastic, editorial staff 6:30, general staff, 7:00 p.m.; First Friday; Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.; Basketball game, varsity vs. Marquette, field house, 8:00 p.m.; Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to services; Talk, “Nature and Opportunities of Coast Guard,” 4:30,- John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering.
Saturday, March 5
Movie, Washington Hall, “Charlie Chan on Broadway” with Warner 01-and, first show for freshmen only, 6:40, second show 8:20; Fencing, Wisconsin at Madison; Track, varsity at Illinois Relays, Champaign; Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.
Sunday, March 6
Student Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6, 7, 8:30, 10 a.m.; Meeting, Vincentians, Knights of Columbus Chambers, Walsh Hall, 11:00 a.m.; Devotions, Sacred Heart church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, March 7
Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Meeting, Patricians, 7:45, Law building.
Tuesday, March 8
Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Meeting Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall; Lecture, Washington Hall, Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., “St. Thomas in Major Conflict.”	'
Wednesday, March 9
Adoration, Lady Chapel, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; Meeting, A.S.M., Engineering Building, 7:45.
Thursday, March 10
Meeting, Wranglers, Law Building, 7:45 p.m.; Philosophy disputation, Washington Hall, 8:00 p.m.
Met Club Smokes I?I
The Metropolitan Club held a smoker in the faculty dining room last Monday evening. Almost 200 lads from out of the East came to view the pictures of the Minnesota-Notre Dame football game. Jim Mulhern gave an interesting description of the game as he shot the pictures on the screen.
Immediately after the pictures, refreshments were served. Ed Condon, president of the Gotham Club, arranged to have music while the boys sipped their coffee. However, a meeting in one of the adiourning rooms prevented the usual “jam” session.
George O’Neill, treasurer of the club, was pleased with the attendance and promised to have another smoker very soon. He also promised to have smokes at the next smoker.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	11
4 IN THE JUGGLER VEIN h
How to Torture Students.
Professor: “Good morning gentlemen. Have you a lot of paper and a pencil handy?”
Students: (In a frantic attempt to stave off a surprise quizz chorus), “No.”
Professor: “Well then,” with a sadistic grin, “how are you going to take notes?”
Gosh! Another day?
Sal Dominici Andriacchi, of Ishpeming, Mich., understands the dullness of those small Michigan towns. A U. P. correspondent from the village of Olivet, Mich., sent out the following piece. “Olivet, Mich. — In keeping with tradition and the present liveliness of the village another day in the routine of the villagers and students of Olivet college has passed with merely the rising and setting of the sun.”
Faculty Bows
News story: “. . . and students in our American colleges, for the most part, lack a solid foundation in the fundamentals of learning.”
Another news story: “Temple university students beat their professors in a spelling bee. Final score: Student errors, 22; faculty' errors, 29.”
Observations
Infirmary: “Sister, may I have something for a sore throat, a cold in the chest, and a headache?” Sister’s raised eyebrows dropped with relief when the student explained that all he had was the headache— the other chaps shared the other ailments ... In “The Huddle” on Saturday evenings between 5:30 and 6:00 p.m., you can find a mob of freshmen munching “Nabs” and drinking a malted milk. About 6:10 they make a mad dash to the front door of Washington Hall and stand around waiting for the doors to open for the first show. Imagine giving up those steaks and mustard pickle for a good seat. Tsk, tsk . . . Cafeteria: Sly lads buying cheese sandwiches who remark loudly when giving their order, “And I DO like cheese.” They say it pays off in thick slices	and Nowak steps out
into the end zone and the pass is no. good.” Lee Douglas giving the play-by-play account of the Notre Dame-N.Y.U. game over WSBT . . . Sign in Badin Hall: “Jafsie Condon and his Mellow Deers will provide the music for the Metropolitan Club Get-
Together.” . . . The two youngsters in front of the Colfax: “It is too a double feature. It says W. C. Fields and The Big Broadcast of 1938.”
Helpful Hints
“How to Win Friends and Influence People” is going to make us a gushing and disgustingly agreeable lot. Now what sheep attracts the most attention in the fold? The black one, of course, answers the bright lad. So, in keeping with this department’s policy of keeping the Notre Dame man always in the limelight we have prepared a list of suggestions that will make you stand out above others. Of course, kiddies may throw stones at you and dogs may scurry away with their tails between their 1 egs at your approach but brethren you will, yes you will, be noticed.
1. You have accepted an invitation to dinner. When the meal is nearly finished and you have received your coffee, throw it over your left shoulder. This will bring immediate
“. . . then turn, look at the moon, and say, ‘Wonder if it’ll be ham tomorrow?’ ”
attention from the hostess and special attention from those not lucky enough to get out of range.
If the hostess reproaches you then pull the sugar bowl down over her head and clamp the edges over her ears. You wall undoubtedly receive more attention than you ever got before. 2. When dancing, deliberately step down hard on your partner’s foot. Then remark: “You don’t dance very well, do you?” She may make a sharp retort to which you reply: “Oh, don’t feel self-conscious about it — I’ve danced with even worse dancers than you. 3.. Greet all friends and acquaintances, even chance ones, with a jovial salutation such as, “Hello Beetlepuss.” This goes over big with professors too since they prefer informality outside classes.
You get the idea now so carry on for individuality’s sake. More suggestions will be printed on request and after results have been noted— especially in relation to the mortality rate.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C................Faculty	Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT..........................Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA.............................Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams_________________________________The
John Callaghan_____________________________College Parade
John F. Clifford_________________Splinters from the Press Box
Thomas Healy_____________________________In the Juggler Vein
•	News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey______________________________News	Editor
George Haithcock______________________Assistant News Editor
Freder:ck Sisk_______________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard____________________________Vernon	Sneider
Joseph Miller------------------------------Thomas	Marker
James Dempsey__________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay__________________________Fructuoso	Barreda
James Gorman-------------------------------Richard Anton
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitchell_____________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby_______________________Assistant Sports Editor
■Nick Lamberto------------------------Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe-----------------------William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson---------------------------Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan-----------------------------Ed Brennan
Eddie Huff
Art Staff
George Elmore-----------------------------------Art Editor
Tom Powers--------------------------------------Ed Kort
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collesiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York City— Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco.
Vol. 71	March 4, 1938	No. 18
White Plague
VERY OFTEN, in the history of our country, newspapers have started many worthwhile reform movements. When reforms first start they are usually talked of as sensational bids for attention. But then, after the first breath taking period, which starts everyone talking, and no one thinking, the movement settles down and people agree that the particular reform is built upon a firm foundation of hard common sense and good judgment.
Such is the case of the latest reform, and one of the greatest, we believe. We speak of the campaign against syphilis, -which has reached such proportions now as to merit attention by the Congress of the United States.
In Our Sunday Visitor of a few weeks ago we read where the N. C. C. M. has pledged its support to the furthering of the move.
Syphilis is essentially the enemy of youth. Logically then, it is the part of youth publications to forward the program of education and prevention that has been so ably started by the daily newspapers.
And what organs other than collegiate publications are more ideally situated to serve youth and inform them? Direct contact with the youth of the nation, which innocently and unwittingly often falls before this scourge of mankind, will serve to protect future generations as well as insure the happiness and well-being of our own.
So, the collegiate press will take up the cudgel. Youth by education and preventive measures will be protected. The proper co-operation can most certainly be secured from all quarters, we know that. The first movements should be Wasserman tests. Not necessarily compulsory, they wouldn’t have to be. Anyone would be akin to primitive man who would not be willing to undergo the Wasserman for not only his own protection but the happiness of his friends and future children would be at stake. We would like to see such a practice at Notre Dame started, if possible, immediately. It would be an admirable task and would serve this country and its people in a manner that couldn’t be expressed in mere words but in thankful pravers.
* ▼
Into His Own
AT LONG last some one organization has taken the first step towards a meritorious celebration of the feast day of the great intellect among the saints, St. Thomas Aquinas. For come Monday, March 7, the Schoolmen, philosophic group of the University, will honor the patron saint of Catholic schools and education, with fitting and appropriate ceremonies. And from the hidden recesses of the school rooms, from the intellectual laboratories of philosophy, metaphysics, psychology, ethics, epistemology, cosmology, and logic, and the stacks of tomes and treatises and books the great patron will rise into the limelight of day, into the view of all those who study and research under his protection.
Too few of us know and understand the pre-eminent position of this saint, outside of the frequent citations one is given to his philosophic thought, as patron of the Catholic schools. One of the first things which the Schoolmen, under the able supervision of Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., accomplished was a cross-section survey in a sort of man-about-the-street style as to how many students knew that St. Thomas was the patron saint of the Catholic schools. They were amazed as to how many were not aware of the fact. Immediately the began to lay plans to remedy this defect. Their work will unfold during the early part of next week, beginning with church services Sunday, a public lecture Tuesday evening in Washington hall, and the annual philosophic disputation on Thursday, March 10.
This scholarly campaign merits attention, merits student support. The Schoolmen are not going to stop here. They are out to make this celebration of the feast day of this saint an annual affair, one worthy of the high place, influence, and guidance which he sways over Catholic education generally and Scholastic philosophic thought particularly.
If one casually notes the world about him, he will see with what anxiety and avidity that lay individuals and societies plan and work to have “days” for secular heroes from great presidents to the ephemereal hero of the moment, a great aviator, baseball player, or flag-pole sitter. Is it not shabby indeed that in recent years no individual, no campus organization, or academic body has done anything to perpetuate and celebrate the feast day of the patron saint under whom they labor and learn? Is it not about time that he shall come into his own? The Schoolmen think so and are going to do something about it. And when Monday comes he will be something more than one in the whole catalogue of saints; something more than one to whom one goes for proof of a knotty problem; and he will assume his real station: St. Thomas Aquinas, Patron Saint of Catholic Schools!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Night Shift
Paul Hesser, Jr.
T’M JUST closing up my repair shop A for the night, it bein’ about midnight Monday night and nothin’ has been doin’ for hours, when I hear the telephone in the office ringin’.
“Mike’s Service Station,” I say, yawnin’. A dame’s voice on the other end of the wire breaks my yawn off in the middle and makes me sit up and listen. What she sayin’ ain’t important, but the way she’s sayin’ it—her voice I mean—kinda makes me sit up and listen. She sounds like she’s scared and is forcin’ herself to talk. Kinda like she wants to yell or sumpin’.
“Can you come out on the lower river road right away? My car is here in the garage and it won’t start.”
“I can leave right away, lady,” I tell her, “how do I find the place?”
She don’t answer for maybe a minute and then she comes back with: “It’s a big white house with a tile roof. It’s about five miles from the edge of town. If you look for a driveway with a stone arch at the entrance you can’t miss it.”
“Okay, lady, I’ll be there in about twenty minutes.”
I throw a kit of tools and a five-gallon can of gas in the service truck, check up on the spare battery and start out. I’m only a couple of blocks from the lower river road and pretty soon I’m on it and makin’ tracks.
As I’m rollin' along I’m wonderin’ what made the dame sound so scared. Finally I decide that she must want to go to see somebody who’s sick or sumpin’ and you know how a dame does when she’s scared or excited. You can’t tell much by her voice whether she is excited, or glum, or gettin’ ready to cry, or scared, or what. But before I get it doped out I see a big white house in the moonlight about a half a mile down the road and in a second my headlights pick up the driveway with the stone entrance. I pull into the driveway and I see the garage not far back at the end of it.
Before I go to take a look at the cai- I go up to the front door—there bein’ no lights on in the back of the house—to tell this dame I’m here and ask her what seems to be the trouble. I ring the bell, and after a while a little dame no taller than the breast pocket of my dungarees opens the door.
“I’m the man from the service station,” I say, “what seems to be the trouble with this car?”
She looks kinda relieved when I tell her who I am, but she really is scared about sumpin’.
“You got here quickly,” she says, “the car has plenty of gas, but when I press the starter the motor won’t budge. Can you fix it soon, I’m in a dreadful hurry?”
I tell her I’ll see what I can do and she walks back to the garage with me. You can fix a car for a dame without her cornin’ along to watch. Some of ’em just stand by quiet and watch, but most of ’em .get in your hair askin’ questions and tellin’ you what they think is the trouble. She just stands there and watches, but she acts kinda jumpy. I check her battery, but it has plenty of juice. I then begin to trace the wirin’ and I soon find she has a bum coil. Appreciatin’ her keepin’ quiet I tell her what’s the matter.
“Will that take very long to repair?” she asks.
“No mam,” I tell her, “I’ve got one in the truck that’ll do until you can stop by the place for the right one. I always carry this just in case I run into one of these things.” As I’m crawlin’ out of the car she bums me for a cigarette and then perches herself on the running board to wait while I put the coil in.
I walk back to the truck to get the coil and while I’m lookin’ for a piece of tape in the tool box a car pulls into the driveway and stops behind the truck. A couple of mean lookin’ mugs jump out and start for the house. All of a sudden they see this little dame sittin’ in the garage and they head for her. As soon as she sees them she lets out a little yelp and tries to run past these babies, but one of ’em reaches out and grabs her by the arm and yells:
“No you don’t! Don’t run away from your only cousins like that. At least not until we’ve had a little talk.”
She squirms and starts to let out a yell until she spots me watchin’ and then she says quiet and dignified,
“I don’t see where there is anything to talk about so please release my arm.”
At that one of the bozos, the smallest of the two, lets out a funny laugh
that sounds pretty dirty to me and fishes a letter out of his pocket.
“According to this letter from the old man’s lawyer there is plenty to talk about. He says the old boy made another will just before he died in which he left everything to you and only a dollar apiece to us. He also says that he has no copy of this last will and that you have the original.”
“I have the original,” answers the little dame, “and I’m going to keep it.”
Well, they stand there arguin’ for another ten minutes and I gather from what is said that this little dame’s uncle, who just died, was the father of these two birds. It seems that the old boy made a will a few years before givin’ all of his dough to his sons, but—accordin’ to this dame—they turned out bad later on and he made another will and left his dough to this niece. About the time I get this much these guys hustle the girl into the house and I can’t hear any more, but I hear enough to make me think that these birds are gonna try to pull a fast one. They are not in the house more than a minute when a light goes on in a back room and I can see the three of them strugglin’. I slip up to the window and look in and what I see don’t help my disposition any.
Her little playmates have this dame tied to a chair and from the look on their faces I can see they’re not tellin’ her bedtime stories. Thinkin’ sumpin’ rotten is goin’ on I slip through the door they went in and when I get inside I can hear ’em talkin’ in a room not far from where I’m standin’. I look into the room and the big guy is lightin’ a cigar.
“When you feel the hot end of this against your face,” he says, “maybe vou’ll be willin’ to tell us where that will is.”
But before he starts to burn her she tells him to stop.
“Before you go any farther I suppose I’d better tell you,” she says. “You won’t stop at anything and the money won’t do me any good when I’m dead. The will is behind that picture over the fireplace.”
The picture is over a high old-fashioned fireplace and the little guy has to get a chair so the big one can climb up and reach it.
“As long as nobody can prove that (Continued on Page 21)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Week in Sports
y?—- ■ 11,11 1 . ■ i. ■ । ■■■ ■ । — '-mm
MARQUETTE HERE TO END BASKETBALL SEASON; NINE IRISH SENIORS IN SWAN SONG
* DRAKE TIES THINLIES IN WIERD MEET
By Andrew F. Wilson
The Notre Dame basketball team ends its home season tonight against Marquette, with three seniors in the starting lineup—Moir, Nowak, and Wukovits t—and six others among the reserves—Captain Ray Meyer, Mike Crowe, Jordan, Carson, O’Connor, and Shields—playing for the last time before the Irish
student body. The Irish quintet received its third and latest defeat of the present season, February 9, up at Milwaukee. Of the three defeats, this was the easiest to take, for it was managed by Marquette in peak form, and it was avengable in a return match—the game tonight. The games against Illinois and Minnesota were lost by poor play on the part of Notre Dame, rather than by exceptional play on the part of the Gophers and Ulini and unfortunately are the only ones of the season scheduled with these rivals.
Both Notre Dame and Marquette should be “up” for each other tonight. For both teams hit their peak about the same time — the Irish against Pitt February 5th, and the Golden Avalanche against Notre Dame February 9th—and should now be back in top form again. This is Marquette’s last game of the year, and comes after a poor trip to the Cornlands, where the Hilltoppers barely beat Creighton by 33-32 Saturday night, then went through two overtimes before beating Columbia College Monday night by 32-30. This Columbia team is the same “breather” which Notre Dame defeated in the season’s opening game, 49-18. The Milwaukee visitors, having been foi-tunate enough to work out all their worst basketball against definitely inferior opponents, should now be set to play their best against the Irish.
That game up at Milwaukee February 9th was won at 45-43 when Center Paul Sokody scored his only field goal of the night from close in, about 20 seconds before the gun. The Irish were having a little let-down after the marvellous exhibition against Pitt four nights earlier, and the Golden Avalanche was playing its biggest opponent of the season with"a victory streak of nine out of their last ten games to protect. The score, was tied ten different times, finally at 43-43. Then Sokody made his shot to settle things.
Marquette has won 14 and lost 4. Its most notable achievements have been a home-and-home split with
Eddie Sadowski
Home-towners were pleased.
Northwestern, two wins over Wisconsin, and of course, the victory over Notre Dame. The visitors lost to Northwestern by two points at Milwaukee, and to Chicago four nights later away by eight points, but won both return games. Then they lost to Canisius and to Kentucky on the road by 42-44 and 33-35. The Golden Avalanche is one of the two teams that have scored over forty points against the Irish defense all year, Pitt having lost at Pittsburgh by 41-51. In the all-time series, Notre Dame has won 19 games to Marquette’s 6, and only once has Marquette beaten the Irish in their own home gymnasium — 35-32 in 1933.
In the last event, the Drake Bulldogs rallied last Saturday night at Des Moines, la., to deadlock the Irish, 52-52. Harrison Kohl, Drake anchor- -man in the relay, was responsible for the unsatisfying final score.
Kohl was behind when he took the baton for the final drive to the tape, but he soon closed the gap and then sprinted ahead of Pete Sheehan on the straightaway, to win by one foot.
Drake entered the relay on the short end of a 47-52 score. The Bulldogs had an early lead, but that was soon disposed of when the Irish took firsts in the 50-yard dash, the 440-yard dash, the mile, the two-mile, and the high-jump.
The Irish were leading 28 to 27 at the half-way mark, when the Bulldogs won the 50-yard hurdles and took second and third in the 440 to bring the score up to 31-32. Then they took the lead in the 880-yard event when the long-legged Bob Paterson broke the tape at 2:01.1 to finish first. But they didn’t keep the lead for long. Greg Rice and Szuma-chowski took the first and second honor berths in the two-mile. Drake took two other first places, in the broad jump and the hurdle events.
Two Drake fieldhouse records were smashed, one by the Irish and another by the Bulldogs. Greg Rice chalked up a record run for the mile with a 4:23.2 count, two-tenths under the old record. And the Drake relay quartet cut four-tenths of a second from the mile record with 3:31.8.
The Drake meet was the second in the history of John Nicholson’s coaching at Notre Dame. In his ten years as coach, his teams have tied twice in the same manner. In 1933, Notre Dame tied Ohio State 52-52, in the final event of the program—the mile relay.
Form Basketball Team
A meeting of the Iowa club, under the leadership of President Dennis Emanuel, was held Wednesday evening in Badin Rec.
Arrangements were discussed as to a date for a group picture of the club in the Dome. A basketball team is also being organized by the group and .will challenge the Met club outfit soon.
Pictures of the Minnesota-Notre Dame football game provided the entertainment for the evening.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
RACE AND KOVALCIK SPLIT RUMORED
•
(Editor’s Note: This is the fourth of a series of articles coming from the training camps of “Pzmch ’em Paul” Kell and “Our Boy” Race, contenders for the Bengal Bout wrestling championship, to be held in the Notre Dame field house on Friday evening, March 18. “Joe Jab,” scholastic special correspondent, writes personal letters to Mark Mitchell, sports editor, describing the antics of the principals. Unknozvn to Kell and Race, “Jab” is public relations man for both camps, and henceforth, he is qualified to write a personal angle of the impending match.)
Dear Mark:
“Killer” Kell and “Racehorse” Race get down to serious work this week. A fortnight hence they will square off against each other in the grudgingest grudge match of the decade. These boys don’t like each other nohow. “Punch ’em Paul” tells me that he will lift Race very high and then give him to the laps of the spectators in the back row.
“Our Boy” Joe Race is no less confident. He differs only in his method. He tells me that he will push the “Killer” right through the canvas mat; “I’ll drill ’im,” he says in short.
In practice this week, the “Killer” lifts a 200-pound tackling dummy and tosses it from the fight ring in the center of the basketball court to the fifth row of the balcony in the end of the field house. Later, we measure the distance and finds it to be some 200 feet. That’s par for the course. Kell’s terse comment is, “If it hadn’t of slipped it would uv gone further.”
In the Race camp on the same afternoon, “Our Boy” is grapplin’ with a sandbag which weighs in the neighborhood of 250. When we look for
Kell zvon’t like this.
NICK TAKES MYSTERY SQUAD TO ILLINI GAMES POINTS FOR C. I. C. MEET NEXT WEEK
The Notre Dame track team will participate tomorrow evening in the first big relay meet of the indoor season, the newly reinstated Illinois Relays. In practice earlier this week Coach John P. Nicholson told his track squad that he would not announce until the last minute which men would make the trip, ________________________________________and that he would not even tell these men in which races they were run-
V/CTOR/OUS FENCERS TO MEET BADGERS
•
Coach Pedro de Landero is not happy. No, he is overjoyed. Why? Last Saturday he and his swordsmen met the Boilermakers of Purdue for the second t.me this campaign. Purdue was the heavy favorite to conquer the Irish in even a more effective manner than they did earlier in the year. The Lafayette boys were slated to sweep the epee but they just managed to nose out the Irish in this event, 5-4. The invaders were superior in all other departments and very easily came up on the long end of a 17-10 score.
The meet with the Badgers in the apparatus room tomorrow promises to be a hard test for the Irish in the sabre and epee departments. Keften, Big Ten sabre champion for two years, and Bittermen are two of the best sabremen in intercollegiate competition. In the epee both Alberts and Nowakowski have scored many victories.
the first time, “Our Boy” is on top. Our attention is momentarily deflected to another part of the camp and when we turn around again to see what progress Race is makin’ we find the sandbag to have disappeared. In the floor of the ring—canvas matting, floor board, and all—there is a sizeable hole through which the “Racehorse” has drilled the sandbag. That’s prowess.
Well, as we have intimated, the principals are pretty much in a confident frame of mind. Neither man thinks he can lose. Well all we can add to that is: since we are handling the public affairs of both men, and since we own a “piece” of Race; all we can say is that WE are the one who can’t lose.
When “Our Boy” Race comes back from a little pleasure sojourn in Chi last week, him and Mgr. Kovalcik had a little tiff. Mgr. “You-Can’t-Rob-Us” Kovalcik intimates to us that “Racehorse” might have to look elsewhere for a new mgr.
“Racehorse” gets wind of the rumor and says, “Oh yeah? See how fast I can pick up a new mgr.”
And we think that he means it.
Your star reporter,
“Joe Jab.”
ning until the race was almost at hand. His object in this rather rm-usual procedure is to prevent his men from developing any nervous tension through pre-race worrying. Nick wants his team to do well at Champaign, but he is pointing for the C. I. C. meet in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse on March 11 and 12. Naturally he doesn’t want any of his stars to jeopardize their chances in that meet by over-extending themselves tomorrow.
The very uncertain list of entries in the individual events has Bill Mahoney and Bob Lawrence in the high hurdles, Ted Leonas in the high jump, Dan Gibbs, Hal Langton, and John Dean in the pole vault, Bill Faymonville in the shot put, Dan Gibbs in the broad jump, and Bill Clifford, Steve Coughlin, and Bill Tucker in the sprints. It is possible though not probable that Dan Gibbs will compete in the all-around championship which consists of the 75 yard dash, the 75 yard high hurdles, the high jump, the broad jump, the shot put, the pole vault, and the 880 yard run.
In the relays there is a choice of the four men for the mile relay among Hank Halpin, Ed Bernard, Pete Sheehan, Bill Mahoney, and John Francis, for the two mile relay among John Francis, Greg Rice, Curt Hestor, Pete Sheehan, Bill Donnelly, and Steve O’Meara, and for the mile team race among Greg Rice, Bill Donnelly, John Francis, Gene Gormley, Steve Szumachowski, Curt Hestor, and Jack Martin. The mile team race is a variation of the four mile relay in which everybody runs at once with the four men from each team counting in the manner of crosscountry scoring. Indiana with its great trio of milers is an even more heavy favorite in this event than it would be in a four mile relay.
The tentative team for the distance medley relay consists of Hank Halpin in the quarter mile, Curt Hestor in the half mile, John Francis in the three quarters, and Greg Rice in the mile. In the 320 yard shuttle high hurdle relay Notre Dame is entering an excellent team consisting of Bill Mahoney, Bob Lawrence, Dave Reidy, and John Else. In this event a four man team shuttles back and forth over two separate rows of hurdles.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
(	INTRODUCING	1
\___________________________/
By Mark J. Mitchell
A few years ago, four to be exact, a spindle-shanked lad romped around the Cartier Field oval in the neighborhood of fifty seconds for the circuit. He ran faster than anybody else in that event, so they gave him a gold medal inscribed, “National Catholic Tnterscholastic Track Meet, Notre Dame, Indiana, June 2, 1934, 1st Place, 440 Yd. Run.”
Sometime this May, Pete Sheehan will. be running the quarter mile on old Cartier for the last time. He is the same Pete Sheehan who was the first National Catholic quarter mile champion, but a lot of cinders have flowed under his feet since then.
John P. Nicholson was a spectator at the first Sheehan appearance in these parts. And Nick liked that appearance. He has since gotten to like it even better. Anyway he liked it well enough the first time he saw it to persuade the lad from Cathedral Latin in Cleveland that Notre Dame was the university for him
Pete’s first race carrying the colors of the Irish was the quarter- mile against Chicago in 1936. He had ran a lot of quarters in his time—three years of them in high school— but this one was nothing short of startling. For, running in the same race was a sophomore from the University of Chicago named Ray Ellinwood. Now, Alex Wilson, another of Nick’s proteges had held the world’s record in the indoor quarter mile for a long time. 49 seconds flat was going pretty fast, and no one expected the record to fall for a good many more years. Young Ellinwood, however, had different ideas. And when the judges compared their stopwatches, they found that the Chicago lad had clipped a tenth of a second off Alex Wilson’s time to establish a world’s record which still stands. Needless to say, Pete was left somewhat dazed by his first taste of intercollegiate competition.
Pete won his monogram that year and the next too, running a consistently good quarter aaginst some of the best competition in the country. This year, he has turned out to be the best quarter miler Nick has. Despite the unfortunate occurrence at Drake last week, Pete has turned in satisfactory performances in all the meets this year. His best time in college competition has been a fraction over 49 seconds, which wins races in any man’s track meet.
That Drake meet has been hashed and rehashed, but we bring it up again, in order to throw a little light on Sheehan’s personal difficulties with the Bulldogs. We recently saw a picture which appeared in one of the Des Moines’ papers. It showed clearly that the Drake man was at fault in trying to cut Sheehan off. Of course that is not the justification for Pete’s infraction of the rules, but in the interests of fair play and good sportsmanship, the properthing for the officials to have done would have been to disqualify both Sheehan and the Drake runner, which, as you all know, they didn’t.
Pete thinks Nick is a “swell guy and a good coach,” which is a compliment of the highest degree, coming from the taciturn Cleveland lad. He is majoring in Business Administration and living in the Mecca of Notre Dame athletes, Sorin sub.
PURDUE DOWNED BY BLADE WIELDERS
•
Notre Dame’s musketeers more than matched Purdue’s Boilermakers in last Saturday’s sword skirmish— they outmatched them 17 to 10. This unexpected comeback, after having lost their first meeting with the Lafayette boys 15 to 12 was due primarily to Coach de Landero’s tactful seasoning of the squad in intermediate tourneys.
Mercado inaugurated the foils with a 5-2 win over Reynolds of Purdue. Purdue’s co-captain, McWilliams, then took De la Vergne 5-1. Retaliating, Leising quelled Hoffman 5-2 followed by De la Vergne over Reynolds 5-3. Leising then lapsed to McWilliams, 3-5. Mercado scored over Hoffman, 5-3 while Leising lost his second bout to Reynolds, 3-5. Mercado silenced co-captain McWilliams 5-0 to file away his third victory; de la Vergne collected from Hoffman 5-4 to give the Irish six to Purdue’s three.
Purdue’s upset was in epee; they were expected to walk off with an easy win. It looked that way too when Levin of Purdue trounced Graham 3-0. The latter, however, was somewhat unsettled by a certain Prom element on the sidelines. Mc-Enearney beat Matthews 3-2. The next two losses of Guerin to Meier, who came from behind 0-2 to win 2-3, and McEnerney to Levin 2-3, were regained by Colgan over Matthews 3-2, and Graham over Meier 3-1. While Purdue’s Levin won his third in taking Colgan, Graham, after trailing 0-2, was again chalking up 3-2 over Matthews. Meier drew the last bout 3-1 over McEnerney to give the Boilermakers the epee match by one point.
With Notre Dame’s ten and Purdue’s eight the Irish needed four points to clinch the tourney—this was turned over to the sabres. Captain Zerbst set the pace by carving out a 5-0 win over Stepath. Scarlata outpointed co-captain Seaborg 5-3 while Gavan took in McWilliams 5-1. Zerbst then piled up his twelfth successive victory of the season by outwitting Seaborg 5-3. Donovan, substituting lost to Reynolds 3-5; Smalley, also substituting, requited by taking Stepath 5-3. After Seaborg had won 5-2 over Donovan, Smalley slashed out a 5-4 from Hoffman to terminate the match—totaling 10 for Purdue and 17 for Notre Dame.
Mercado, high-point man in foils, was outstanding in his 5-0 bout with co-captain McWilliams an dhis triple victory. Spectacular was Graham’s three beautiful—successive and clean touches, which brought him from behind, 0-2, to win the Irish’s tenth point. Zerbst, being touched but twice, scored his revenge on co-captain Seaborg, who had defeated Jack in his first bout of the season.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Brushing Up
Bengal Field Enters Final Training Stretch
Preliminaries Scheduled for March 14,15.16
By Nick Lamberto
Clipped or Snipped:
Gas House Gus, a long-legged frog from the Florida Everglades, holds the frog broad-jump record of 19 feet—the former record of 14 feet was held by a California frog since 1936. (That’s carrying that state rivalry a little too far.)
Wes Allen, Michigan’s sophomore track star, recently tied Dave Albritton, world’s record holder in the high jump, at 6' 4%". Michigan’s Bill Combs holds the state A.A.U. 145 lb. wrestling title . . . he’s a candidate for the wrestling ■ squad in the 155 lb. division.
Bill Remsen, basketball captain at the University of Southern California, fractured his knee cap in a recent game. Trojan basketball fans think that sophomore Ralph Vaughn is S.C.’s answer to Stanford’s Lui-setti—Vaughan got his prep training at Frankfort, Indiana.
The California Bears baseball team opened their season last week by trouncing San Francisco, 19 to 5. The Bears meet the Irish in May. (Get the boys ready, Jake.)
Frank Hill, Northwestern’s track coach for the past 17 years, will referee at the Illinois Relay carnival tomorrow . . . Archie Williams, Olympic runner ran a 48.7 quarter mile in a workout the other day.
Jim Rupel is one of the standout basketball players at St. Edward’s (Texas). Jim hails from South Bend. He is also a varsity football candidate on Bill Pierce’s squad.
Chuck Jaskwich, former Notre Dame quarterback was recently appointed backfield coach at the University of Mississippi. Harry Mehre, another Notre Dame player of old, is the head coach at the same institution.
Santa Clara claims that their yell king, Jack “Dink” Hayes, is the best dressed cheei- leader on the coast. We’ll nominate our own Frankie Farrell for the midwestern title.
Nowak and Moir and Co. showed Gothamites how big-time basketball should be played a week ago, but for the first few minutes it looked as if the Irish were shooting with reverse English on the ball. Even Gentleman George was nonplussed . . . Eddie Sadowski’s home town fans from Westfield, Mass, got to see then-boy in action against Colgate’s Red Raiders.
By Charles Callahan
“Be here everyday fellows from here on in,” was the command issued last Monday to the Bengal Bout hopefuls by Coach Napolitano. Three-quarters of the training course is over, and the boys are coming around the bend leading into the home-
Bantamweight Champ Dolce
Dynamite in a small package.
stretch. From here in it’s going to be a case of work and plenty of it.
Coach “Nappy,” being an old hand at the ring game, realizes that condition is the prime requisite in boxing. The result is that this year, spectators will witness the best fighting in the history of the tournament for the
Keoganites Take Violets into Camp for Third Year; 17.400 Gothamites Cram Garden
The netmen of Notre Dame invaded New York last Friday night and in more ways than one wrought havoc in that havoc-stricken city.
After trailing the Violets of New York University by nine points in the early part of the game, the Irish came back and whipped them, 50 to 38.
They took the sports scribes by storm and forced them to admit that
boys are really being “whipped into shape.”
When your correspondent visited the workout last Monday, he was greatly impressed at the improvement made by many of the Bengalees of past years. Tommy O’Malley, the boy who put up the gamest fight that these eyes have ever witnessed when he tangled with Golden-Glover Johnny Noto two years back, is doing the best boxing of his brief ring career. Phil Dahar, still possessing a hammer-like punch in both hands, is' the murderous knockout lad he was as a freshman. “Ollie” Helland, champ in the 147 lb class last year, and of the 142 lb division two annums back, has a wonderful opportunity of retaining his welterweight title.
Probably the most improved boxer of them all is Vince Dollard. A junior now, this will be his third tourney and he has yet to reach the finals. However, if he retains his form of Monday,-there seems to be little likelihood that he won’t be battling somebody the night of March 18 for the 160 lb. championship. Jim Brown is another titleholder back after more glory. He seeks again to triumph in the 142 lb. class, and his backers claim that he can’t miss.
No write-up of the forthcoming tournament would be complete, as far as individual mention goes, without the mention of Russell “Sammy” Dolce and Vince Gurucharri. They were the finalists last March in the bantamweight division, with the award going to Dolce. Sammy is an almost prohibitive favorite to be the hit of the 1938 show. He possesses a deceptive swing-from-the-floor style, and watching him provides entertainment for all but whoever is his opponent at the time. He works out frequently with Gurucharri, a sophomore all the way from the Philippines, and they are the best of pals —outside the ring.
the Notre Dame quintet was one of the greatest teams ever to play in Madison Square Garden.
They sent a capacity crowd of 17,463 fans wild with excitement as they mastered a Violet team that was playing the best game of its season.
For the third successive year, Paul Nowak, recently named on the all-time All-American team, played one of his best games against the New-Yorkers.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
f
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
HALL TEAMS PREPARE FOR FINALS
By John F. Clifford
ROSE BOWL OF BASKETBALL
The inauguration of the first annual intercollegiate tournament to be conducted by the Metropolitan Basketball Writers Association takes place in New York next week. The eastern prelims start the ball moving on March 9; they will be followed by the semi-finals on the 14th and the finals two days later in Madison Square Garden. In this tournament six of the country’s outstanding teams will be invited to participate in what the promoters hope will become the “Rose Bowl of Basketball.”
Four of the leading teams in the East, including one or two teams from the metropolitan district, will be paired on March 9. The winners will meet the two best teams representing the rest of the nation in the semi-finals. In the finals a grand climax to the basketball season will find the March 14 winners meeting for what purports to be the National Championship. Semi-final losers will meet in the third and fourth place play-offs.
It is extremely doubtful whether this tournament will be the determinant of the National Championship, since both Notre Dame and Stanford, reputedly the two strongest quintets in the country, are not open to accept bids. Likewise with only two teams representing the West, the eastern sector has a numerical advantage in having four representatives in the tourney. Colorado U., Santa Clara, Oklahoma, Toledo, and Bradley Tech of Peoria are being seriously considered as the Easterner’s opponents. Marquette, with thirteen wins in sixteen games this season, has a very strong following among the sportswriters in New York and will also be a serious contender if chosen. Temple, NYU, and City College are the strong teams in and about New York, and at least one of this trio will see some action in the Garden during the latest “Rose Bowl” festival there.
V
SLAMS AND SALAAMS
During our three and a half years of watchful waiting we have oftentimes wondered why the bulletin announcing basketball games read in part: “The center section of the student stands will be reserved for seniors until 7:30,” then found said center section at five minutes after seven interspersed with howling non-seniors brazenly flaunting their 40’s, 39’s and 41's—and not a seat in the lot. But the idea of reserving a section for the seniors is a thoughtful one—about as noble a gesture as the NO SMOKING signs on the rafters. As such the Managers Association deserves our thanks. ... To Captain Jack “Slasher” Zerbst of the fencing team, whose string of 12 straight victorious bouts in the sabre makes him worthy of some recognition, we tender our congrats. ... Not many knew it, but last week’s game with NYU was dedicated to every Fightin* Irishman’s St. Patrick—and believe it or not the score was 10-1 at one time!
V
BENGALESE
With the Bengal preliminaries less than two weeks off instructors Napolitano, Walker and Broscoe have their leather-pushing proteges rounding into shape fast these days. There are some sleek-looking boxers in the lighter weight classes, the group that has always been a favorite with Bengal followers. 1938 should really turn out some great slug-fests from this year’s crown now in training. In the past at least one famous member of the boxing business— which Jimmie Braddock likes to term the “greatest profession in the world”— has appeared on the Bengal Bout card as referee for one. of the bouts. The late Packy McFarland, Danno O’Mahoney, and Barney Ross received a big hand from the crowd during their appearance at Notre Dame. This year Promoter Callahan is contacting some of the big-wigs of fistiana to visit the Fighting Irish in action, and when Callahan’s contacting, Bengal benefits.
Mid the echoing calls of sweating athletes the gymnasium saw the last round of the 1938 inter-hall basketball league last Sunday. With the scheduled games completed, the unsuccessful halls will retire from court competition for another year. In these luck-less sanctuaries basketball gear will be hung in battered lockers and the sport will be soon forgotten as the crack of bats and the spat of fast ones in waiting mitts rings through the dust-filled gym. ’
But over in Carroll and Brownson basketball talk is not over—not by a long shot. The Carroll heavyweights wound up their season undefeated and consequently enter the finals with an outright optimistic air. Who their opponents will be is yet to be determined.
In the Senior league Howard and Lyons, the two “arch rivals” will settle a deadlock some time before Sunday’s finals, with the Howardites holding a 3 to 2 edge in the betting.
The odds are based on the beating Howard handed Lyons last week which brought about the tie. So, with prospects of a red-hot match with Carroll luring them on, these two halls will forget their traditional manners and fight it out in a play-off during the week.
Besides these two outfits a Walsh Hall team is also in the running with a past record of two victories and no defeats. This week officials will determine ways and means of either lengthening Walsh’s past or else eliminating them through the play-off method.
Moving into the lightweight division we find the smaller-waisted men of Alumni the disputed champ — of Group I that is. By trampling down the efforts of lesser halls to aspire to the prominence of elite Alumni, the oft-called “gold-coasters” proved that leisure is no incentive to loaf. The Alumni (official next June) compiled the classiest record of any team in hanging up five straight wins.
Disputing Alumni’s claim are the Walsh basketeers who have won one less game, but are also unbeaten. Possibly before the week is out they will displace Alumni as lightweight champion and enter the finals.
Only slightly under these records are those of Carroll and Brownson in the junior section. Each of the dorm outfits has won five and lost one— necessitating another battle - royal early this week to decide who will trot out on the floor next Sunday p.m. against the Alumni or Walsh.
(Continued on Page 20)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
NATIONAL CHAMPS BOW OUT TONIGHT
Senior members of Coach George Keogan's National Championship basketball squad who make their last appearance on the hardwood floor of the Notre Dame Fieldhouse tonight.
Top Row: left to right, Johnny Moir, Tommy Jordan, Captain Ray Meyer, Paul Nowak. Bottom Row: Mike Crowe, Jimmy Carson, Tommy Wukovits.
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CAGERS TURN IN TWO VICTORIES ON EASTERN
JAUNT; N. Y. U. AND COLGATE FALL
The Notre Dame basketball team, led by the high-scoring Eddie Sadowski, defeated a stubborn Colgate team at Albany, N. Y., last Saturday night, by a score of 49-38. A crowd of 6,000 spectators watched the fighting Colgate quintet keep George Keogan’s boys stepping for two busy periods.
Paul Nowak, the Irish All-American, was kept in close check throughout the game. While the Colgate aggregation crowded around Paul, his teammate Johnny Moir cut loose and scored 14 points. Eddie Sadowski played his best offensive game of the year for the trainload of his home-town friends who came from Westfield, Mass., to see him play. He scored six field goals and four free throws.
The Colgate attack was led by Dieffenbach, a guard, and Hazzard, a center. Both of the lads were a constant threat, Dieffenbach scoring 14 points and Hazzard 10.
The first period started slowly. Hazzard dropped in a free throw before the Irish began to function. Then the fast Irish offensive went into action. By the end of the first half Notre Dame led by three points, 20-17.
The scoring was more irregular in the second half, and at times it looked as if Colgate might have won, although they were leading only once during the entire period. In the closing minutes, Johnny Moir cut loose and began sinking baskets from every part of the court.
Coach Keogan used ten men in the game, substituting heavily in the last few minutes, while the Colgate quintet remained practically intact.
The Irish showed the effects of the gruelling game the night before when the crushed the brilliant New York University team. This was no doubt the cause of the slow start. But, at moments when the game became close, and Colgate threatened, the superiority of the Irish attack became noticeable, and they showed the championship style that has carried them through their heavy schedule with but few scratches.
INTERHALL CAGERS (Continued from Page 18)
GROUP I
HEAVYWEIGHTS	LIGHTWEIGHTS
W	L	W
Carroll -----4	0	Brownson __5
St. Ed’s_____4	2	Carroll ___5
Cavanaugh —.4	2 , Freshman ____4
Brownson ----3	2	Zahm ______4
Off Campus	—3	2	Cavanaugh _1
Zahm---------1	5	St. Ed’s __1
Freshman_____0	6	Off Campus___0
GROUP n
L 1
1 2
2 4
4 6
HEAVYWEIGHTS	LIGHTWEIGHTS
W L
Howard________3	1
Lyons 3	1
Walsh_________2	0
Alumni 1	1
Morrissey_____1	2
Dillon________1	2
Badin 0	2
Sorin 0	2
w L
Alumni -------5	0
Walsh---------4	0
Morrissey ____1	1
Sorin --------2	3
Dillon _______2	4
Howard--------1	3
Badin---------0	2
Lyons —-------0	2
N. D. HOCKEY SEASON BEGINS AND ENDS
•
Led by Bob Magee, the Notre Dame hockey team triumphed over the Illini 2-1. According to all reports, it was a bitterly contested game interspersed with fights and ragged playing by both teams.
To some Notre Dame students this item may come as a surprise, because it was not widely known that we had a hockey team, let alone a team that could win.
The organization of a team, however, has been under way for three months. Organized by Joe Sullivan when the cold weather set in, it has been holding practice whenever the conditions would permit. The team soon became sanctioned by the A.A. and to Chet Grant fell the job of Coach.
News of the team spread to the U. of Illinois campus, where the first hockey team in their history was being organized. Notre Dame was invited down there to play, and our boys jumped at the chance to play on and indoor rink. After the playing date was set the weather took a change for the better (?) and all the ice on St. Mary’s Lake vanished. The team went without practice for a month before their only game of the season. Feb. 20 they went out on the Illinois rink and won for the glory of the “Fighting Irish” amid the howling of 1200 fans, a capacity crowd.
For the hockey team the season is over, and they have a perfect average. The future of the sport, however, is very indefinite. The Athletic board has not as yet made a decision as to its future status. Because of the unpredictable weather in this section of Indiana, the team cannot schedule games very far in advance. These points must be straightened out before any definite action is taken. There is no doubt, though, that the game is popular, and will be continued, if possible on a larger scale, next year.
Katharine Hepburn, when she visited the campus of Bandolph-Macon । College, was well-nigh mobbed by the I college boys.
RECORD ENTRIES FOR WINTER TOURNEYS
•
For the past week the bowling alleys in Walsh Rec have been kept warm by the ambitious bowlers, all rolling for a chance at the trophy which will soon glitter on display in the Caf. According to Chairman Mulhern, of the 275 aspirants registered, 150 have bowled in the qualifying round so that in a few more days the competition will really get under way. In the doubles competition 70 teams await the completion of the singles before they start their rollings.
In all other winter tournament, action will begin next week. For the bruising pingpongers Don Fisher has already posted the pairings in the Brownson and Carroll recs and play will start immediately. The billiard tourney entries have been coming in so well that the registration is to exceed that of last year. Bill Condon has, however, arranged for a thinning of the ranks to begin Monday in all the recs. The handball pairings will be put up tomorrow in the field house and competition will get under way as soon as possible under the supervision of the general manager, Donnelly.
In all these sports the play is going to be fast and furious and many hopes will be shattered throughout the coming weeks as class respect is forgotten, as senior may fall before freshman as the battle of brain and brawn is again waged.
Irish in Bowling Match
This afternoon the Notre Dame bowling team will engage the University of Syracuse in what is probably the first intercollegiate bowling match Notre Dame has entered.
The meet will be a telegraphic affair. With the Irish bowling on the downtown alleys in the LaSalle alleys and the Syracuse outfit bowling in Syracuse, the results will be obtained when both teams file their scores at the local telegraph office.
The bowling team of the local chapter of the Knights of Columbus will represent Notre Dame. This is the same team that won the South Bend K. of C. bowling tourney a few weeks ago.
After the Syracuse event the bowlers will entrain for Cincinnati where they will compete in the national K. of C. tourney, an honor they won automatically when they emerged victorious in the local K. of C. tournament.
The University of Arizona recently enrolled four new “students” from Africa. They are rhesus monkeys who will be used to study tooth decay.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
NIGHT SHIFT
(Continued from Page 13)
this will exists we can collect on the other one,” the big bozo explains. “And as soon as we burn this one we’ll say good night to you.”
Now it’s clear to me what these birds are gonna do and all of a sudden I get mad. Here is a nice, sweetlookin’ little dame 5vho inherits some dough and here also are two bozos tryin’ to take it away from her. I decide it’s about time I do somethin’. I tell myself I may be stickin’ my neck out, but before I scare myself off I step into the room and go to work. These guys hear me and as I step in I almost step into a right swing that the little guy is throwin’ at me.
I grab a big screwdriver out of my hip pocket and before this right connects the screwdriver makes a bloody mess out of his face. The big guy ain’t so slow gettin’ started either, and if I hadn’t tripped over one of them ash stands he woulda wrapped a chair around my neck. Well, swingin’ that chair takes him off balance and gives me a chance to put a neat tackle on him. He goes down and the screwdriver gets another chance to prove that it is a very valuable tool in more ways than one. I jump to my feet ready to swing again, but neither of these boys want to play any more. I turn around to the dame and I see she’s fainted, and I begin to get excited myself. I never could do anything with dames who are faintin’ or cryin’.
Well I untie the dame and before long she comes to. I’m holdin’ her head up tryin’ to get some Scotch down her throat when she puts her arms around me and says that she couldn’t thank me enough if she tried all the rest of her life. Then she tells me to call the police, and while I’m doin’ this she is tyin’ these mugs.
While we are waitin’ for the police she hangs on to me and says a lot of mushy things about bravery and that stuff, all of which I listen to just to humor her.
All this happens about three months ago and since then this little dame—by the way her name is Jane
Dodge—and I have been seein’ a lot of each other. She hangs around until I’m closin’ up at night and then takes me home in her car. She also tells me that she thinks this business is interestin’ and she is learnin’ a lot about it. I ain’t too dumb to figure that out. I’m gonna ask her a question and if she says “Yes” . . . d’ya think I could learn to talk and act like a gentleman so I won’t feel out of place in that big house?
Chemistry Symposium
On Monday, March 7th, in Room 213 of Chemistry Hall, the sophomore members of the Notre Dame Chemistry Club will conduct a symposium on “By-Products.” During the past few weeks the club, an organization of 85 members, has been turning over each separate meeting to a different class in an effort to stimulate the interest and develop the potentialities of the individual. The coming meeting promises to be a large one. Refreshments will be served.
This symposium is the beginning of a very active spring session for the Chemistry Club, which has tentative plans for two spring dances, and a series of inter-club baseball games.
Specializing in the examination of the eye.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor To
Rogers
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8211
We Nod
Last week’s Scholastic carried a story to the effect that the Junior Prom song had been written by Art Davidson and Jack Collins. This was erroneous. The song was written by George Sauter, senior in the music school, from Indianapolis. Sauter also wrote the prom song of last year. The discrepancy occurred because of a last minute change of plans on the part of the dance committee.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
420 Associates Bldg.
Dewey School of South Bend
Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
TOBIN says:
T	IRISH MIXTURE
o
B	CORKTOWN
I
COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
Devoted exclusively to the examination of the eye and the making of fine glasses.
----♦----
Intelligent service
Reliability
34 years' experience are our endorsements.
h. CARBURETOR
U. S. Pat. No. 2,082,106
YELLOsBOLE
New way of burning tobacco — better, cooler, cleaner. Carburetor-Action cools smoke. Keeps bottom of bowl absolutely dry. Treated with honey. Get the genuine.
Optometrists Est. 1903
314 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
UPDRAFT m tn±e°
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the trai
one
ever
RE-STAKING CORONADO’S TRAIL
...with telephone poles
Masked and goggled against the dust, telephone men have old trail
a desert
1 followed the 400 year of Coronado in building the new transcontinental telephone line recently completed. The Span iards took many days to cross ickiess Southwest, driving
stakes to guide their return
this desert in-
You can span stantly over the new line, because the pioneering spirit of Coronado
still lives.
Oceans,mountains, deserts yield by one to that spirit, bringing closer the Bell System goal: dependable telephone communi cation with anyone, anywhere!
PHILOSOPHY DISPUTATION ______(Continued from Page 3) Donough; the formal objectors are Jerome Ledvina, William Botzum, Frederick Crollard, James Blunt, and Thomas Kavanaugh.
Robert McGrath has been appointed to answer all questions raised by the general student body in the informal discussion at the conclusion of the formal arguments.
Included on the same program are two other talks: James K. Nerney, will speak on “St. Thomas, Apostle of the Modern Mind.” and George Keenan will talk on, “Positivism and Thomistic Notions of the -Natural Law.”
This year’s disputation is in charge of the faculty advisers consisting of Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C.; Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.; and Rev. Albert A. Schlitzer, C.S.C. The general chairman of the affair is William Mahoney, president of the Schoolmen.
Gamma Nu’s at the University of Oklahoma have an unwritten code that no girl may date a boy whom a sorority sister is already dating.
GENUINE FILTERS PACKED ONLY IN THIS RED AND BLACK BOX
MADE MEDICO
WORLD’S SMOOTHEST SMOKE
FILTER-COOLED
MEDICO
p
fbotitk.
SEE MEDICO
CIGARETTE A
OGAR HOLDERS
a
NEWEST STYLES* FINISHES
FINEST V ■ BP’AR ■ MONEY CAN BUY
SOMETMING WONDERRM. GOES ON INSIDE:
It has the only Pat’d filter combining moisture-proof Cellophaneexterior and 66 Baffle absorbent mesh screeninterior; resulting in greatest scientific pipe smoking invention ever known. Prevents tongue bite, raw mouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent expectoration. No breaking in. Improves thetasteand
tobacco.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
BENGAL BOUTS
(Continued from Page 5) may be bought from any member of the Scholastic staff for only a quarter. According to a warning issued last week tickets should be bought as early as possible to avoid disappointment, for the Bengals won’t be broadcast.
This year witnessed the greatest turnout of pugilists in the six years of Bengal Bout history. Almost 80
RIGHT OF WAY
AH the Way
boxers have been working out daily in the field house.
By now the Race-Kell physical argument has been so widely publicized that it need hardly be mentioned again. But Race supporters recently brought out the fact that if “Terrible Joe” blows his nose in the ring as well as he does on Cartier field, Kell will be blown up into the bleachers without any need of physical contact. On the other hand it is rumored that Kell has plenty of weight himself and won’t float around like a feather in a breeze.
The best way to fiind out just how true these stories published in the last few weeks are, is to drop around at the local field house, Friday night, i
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
... on the SOUTH SHORE LINE
No traffic to delay you and no dangerous intersections when you GO by South Shore Line. You are clear of the highway— you ride safely and comfortably in all kinds of weather. It actually costs less than driving your own car.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
©
The Safe, Fast Dependable Way To Chicago
"What shirt on the market absolutely defies shrinkage — is known for high style, and is reputed to give lasting wear?"
"Why, Arrow, of course. Your Arrow dealer has a large assortment — $2. and up."

ARROIV SHIRTS
A new shirt if one ever shrinks.

'Radio Features
LAWRENCE TIBBETT
ANDRE KOSTELANETZ
PAUL WHITEMAN
DEEMS TAYLOR
PAUL DOUGLAS

ongest statement— the best advertising — is to tell something about a product that the user can prove for himself. . .
A lot of smokers have found that Chesterfields have a taste they like ... that Chesterfields are MILDER. You can prove for yourself that Chesterfields SATISFY.
Co,

EtTE
-,t«-<oa:kCC
Weekly