The Notre Dame Scholastic
163
CCMMENT
Last week, if we remember rightly, we were talking about Music. We ended our little discussion with the remark that “Music sweeps us into the rhythms that swept us on the stage . . . and speaks the essence of reality.”
Well! That may sound a little “high-flown” and yet, strangely enough (and probably, reflectingly enough—on us!) we can think, at the present, of no better way to say it.
And, you may quite reasonably ask, why say it at all?
Because this is a college magazine; because a college magazine is supposed to present college life; because the function of college life is to heighten and intensify the life of the individual; and finally, because Music, really fine Music, is one of the most valuable aids to heightening and intensifying that is known to men.
Now: if you have had the patience to follow us, we would like to suggest a method, a scheme, of pursuing the end set forth in the above block of words—namely, the intensifying of our awareness of the universe—and the things therein.
Great Music has a meaning! To merely listen to' a flow of beautiful sounds is like listening to a great masterpiece of literature, say The Divine Comedy, read in Italian—the words, as they come from the reader are beautiful, but we do not know what they mean. However, is there any reason preventing us from setting about the mastery of Italian?
And the mastery of Music Meaning is, and is not, as difficult a task as the mastery of a foreign language.
It all depends on the hearer. And every effort he or she makes to interpret the sounds heard, is, besides being the expression of a most de-cided trend towards a higher manner of living, a tribute to, and a proof of, the universality of the musician.
And Music, being the most universal of all the arts (sound being the most common medium of expression) invests its speakers with its own qualities, in greater or less degree, according to the measure, of their genius.
But again space trips us up. If you can still bear with us, we have something more to say, on this subject, next week!
Editor Editor Editor
Gke
Dame Scholastic	1
Diseer- Qua5i>Sermper-Vic?;UFUs«Vlve>Quasi-Cras-MorjiunLs	I
Founded in 1872	E
Murray Hickey Ley...................  .Editor-in-Chief	=
Harley L. McDevitt.......................Graduate Manager	:
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire....Managing
Emil L. Telfel....Assistant Managing
Thomas A. Cannon..Assistant Managing
J. Archer Hurley..............The	Week
Walter Langford.........The College Parade
Joel Egerer..............Music and Drama
Ramon G. Smith.............Campus	Clubs
all...............Script	Editor
llinan...........Features Editor
NEWS STAFF
John Bergan. Metes Editor Richard J. O’Donnell	George Allen
Neil Hurley	John Motz
Joseph Reedy	Leslie Radditz
SPORTS STAFF tor William J. Magarral, Interhall Sports Editor
Harry A. Sylvester	James McFeeley
Henry B. Asman	Robert C. Balfe
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon.Local Circulation Chester M. Ashman. .Foreign Circulation Frederick N. Davis.Local Advertising James L. Rizer.....Foreign Advertising
James H. Rorke	William Sherman-
Frederick J. Bauer	Frank J. Conboy
Merle V. Baldwin
Alfred E.
Paul J. H.-
James J. Kearney
James Collins
Howard Webster
John A. Kiener, Sports Edit
Manager Manager Manager Manager
Joitx Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
i VOL. LXIII.	OCTOBER 25, 1929.	No. 6.	|
TABLE OF CONTENTS
E Frontispiece ______________________________________________s 164	=
E	The Week—Archer Hurley_____________________________________ 165	=
E	Sophomore Cotillion at Palais Royale Tonight_______________ 166	i
E	Guests at Sophomore Cotillion______________________________ 168	E
=	Committees for Cotillion_________________________________   169	5
! Coming Events______________________________________________’ HO E
:	Music and Drama—Joel Egerer_______________________________ 173	=
E	Notre Dame to Have New Magazine—Vincent	McIntire----------- 175	=
E	A Journey to the Shrines—Paul J. Hallinan_________________ 176	|
E	Campus Clubs—Ramon G. Smith________________________________ 178	|
r	College Parade—Walter Langford----------------------------- 179	E
| The Wink_______________________________________________— 180	|
1	Editor’s Page______________________________________________ 181	;
E	Badgers Caged by Fighting Irish—John A. Kiener------------ 182	E
E	Splinters From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr------------------ 191	;
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may he addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building-
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
E	The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of	:
E	All Notre Dame Men	E
Qll I mimi 111iiiiiiiimn uiniunni mu ■ i> mmimmmmmmmmmmmmm 11n n> I laimnliHiilllll ■ <>< imniimH
164
The Notre Dame Scholastic
' —Drawn by Joe Lopker.
yen
Your hair .... slow black music gently flowing,
Dark wine quietly splashing ....
Your eyes . . ; . tarns churning under orange moons,
Black roses waving tinder red suns at high noon.
Your mouth .... crimson dipped halves of a cherry
Cut in twain by an ivory knife.
Your fingers .... flute solos in a delicate symphony.
And you .... my dear .... strangely and peculiarly .... just yourself!
—M. H. L.
J

165
The Notre Dame Scholastic
L* k
A « 1^--
'J.
D OGS and literature, men and angels, cheese and roses— any two things taken from anywhere have their* similarities. If they didn’t have columnists would resort to something stronger* than gold vasser for their inspiration before the weekly onslaught. Dogs and literature in their species and specimens are alike. Newfoundlands and the pompous good nature of Dickens, spaniels and the dexterity of Chesterton, English bulls and the tenacity of Emerson—down through the galaxy of writers and dogs we could run and link every writer there with a dog who typified that master’s pen pups.
And one little whelp, that has been mistreated because of his youth and helplessness, whose color seems at one time to be the soiled yellow of a mongrel and at another the turning coat of a young thoroughbred, is at last to have a kennel all his own. This whelp is campus literature, for so long compelled by a ruthless master of hounds to squeeze into a house already overcrowded by animals of a sturdier and more easily recognized breed. We have heard his shrill squeal even as far as Sorin when the dollar cleated feet of advertising and news carelessly crushed his tender tail.
Notre Dame is to have a new literary magazine. And it was rather fitting that the last issue of the old regime housed a specimen entitled “Stray Dogs.” Literature in the Scholastic has long felt as lost as any dog, and its feeble howl has hit the campus ear for the last time. With the new kennel the old whine will be more ridiculous than justified. Long live the literary quarterly!
Orestes Brownsen edited a quarterly literary review here ages ago—before you and I knew the joy of rising to a Notre Dame morning. His publication was known from end to end of the English speaking world. His greatness went over into his work. And it has been so with every publication since the day when the prehistoric editor gnawed the end of his stone chisel in perplexity. One good man will make a good magazine, and usually a board of editors make for bored readers.
Seniors are bringing their senility to the lens over in Carroll’s old dining hall. Most of those who sit before the camera will be concerned with trying to make a good impression on the negative, and on posterity. Some will try to look intelligent, others will try to look like themselves, or what they think to be themselves, and the majority will look at the lens as though they expected some divine revelation to flash forth from under the dark cloth. But there
really isn’t anything to worry about. A cap and gown will cover a multitude of sins, and when your parents proudly gaze at their son resplendent in the weeds of erudition the transfiguration will seem to warrant theii* extravagance in educating you.
D ESPITE the fact that blotches of paint daub the glass front of the press box at Soldier’s Field, that Wisconsin’s weak opposition made a rather uninteresting game, and that the grapefruit in the Auditorium Hotel are much too sour* for any healthy Irishman, I had a good time in Chicago. And you probably did, too—for Chicago, like the clever woman, can be all things to all men. The Buckingham Fountain, with its lights of fairyland, sprouts a stream as pure and colorful as any that flowed down Parnassus— and is the only place in the city where one can find a fluid that intoxicates the spirit without inebriating the flesh. South Shore service, though it may have won the Coffin award—rather a morbid name for a potential cemetery filler—certainly is not famed for sanitation and cleanliness. Three baths and a large bottle of Listerine failed to restore me to that condition which is the boast of our fumigated democracy.
HILE we were in Chicago the rains and the chills of the season took the leaves from the trees. And now that we are back and almost normal nature has been pouring her tears on us for three days in one great regret. But don’t talk about the weather—it’s a subject that belongs in freshman themes, and freshman halls. An upperclassman should take the weather and the rest of life’s petty nuisances as something that will be dished out as regularly as refectory food and accept it with the stolid grin of the Roman stoic who lost his toga in a poker game.
(3 LASS dances will start with the Sophomore Cotillion tonight. Dancing as it is done in Indiana by Indianians is not a thing of grace and beauty, rather it verges on endurance and contortion. J. P. McEvoy harped on the right string when he said that Notre Dame lion? were not famous in South Bend for their social growls. Perhaps because of the dialectic differences between Sorin solecisms and Chapin cant. Be that as it may, we all hope that the sophomores are successful in their first attempt at Americanization.
166	The Notre Dame Scholastic
E
Sophomore Cotillion Ai
If there were girls coming from here and there all over the United States to dance at a Notre Dame social affair, it would be something to write about. If the beautiful ballroom of the Palais Royale were especially decorated to welcome the happy visitors, this would be an occasion of importance. If Jack Crawford’s band were here to play his cleverest arrangements for the dancers, this would be news. And, as a result of the three—this story on the Sophomore “Cotillion of Charm.”
The sophomores present this affair tonight—their first class dance of a formal character—without the shyness of a debutante who awaits the approval of a social world. Many an hour has gone into the planning of the Cotillion; capable chairmen and hard-working committees have been busy for five weeks. The product of their efforts will, they are sure, be pleasing to the class of ’32, to the University and to the honored visitors —the guests of the men who will attend the dance tonight.
Autumnal Setting
One remembers the splendor of the Palais Royale ballroom when it was dressed as a Spanish garden for the “Prom Beautiful” of the Juniors last February; and later, the attractive settings for the Senior Ball in May. Frank Conboy’s decorations committee has not promised a pretentious scheme; it is quite probable that the refined element of the name, “Cotillion of Charm” will influence its work. It is hinted by Conboy’s men that the spirit of autumn will predominate — gold, red, and yellow effects. Since nothing has been announced about the designs in the minds of this committee, it is natural that this point will be one thoroughly
discussed when the ballroom and lounge echo with gay voices tonight.
Jack Craivford’s Orchestra
More is known about the musical background. Those who have heard Jack Crawford’s orchestra over WPG
at Atlantic City, where he has pleased hundreds at the Steel Pier ballroom, say that the band is, and will continue to be, the sensation of the current musical season. ‘ Many have enjoyed the melody and rhythm of his Victor records; everyone who follows the paths of popular American orchestras has heard of Crawford and his orchestra. The 300-pound director is an excellent saxophone artist, as well as versatile entertainer. He is a disciple of Paul Biese, of Chicago, and after the latter’s death, Crawford became known as “the fattest, friski-
James K. Collins
Sophomore Class President
est orchestra director in the Windy City.” The prominence of a Notre Dame class dance and the fame of an orchestra of this kind present a striking combination.
Patrons and Guests of Honor
Six couples—faculty members and their wives—and three individual
members of the faculty are to be patrons for the Cotillion. These are: Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Mills, Mr. and Mrs. Philip Riley, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Casasanta,. Mr. and Mrs. Robert Riordan, Mr. and Mrs. William Holton, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond
Miss Rosemary Gies
Guest of James Collins v
Schubmehl, Mr. Andrew SmithbergeM Mr. Williams Shors, and Mr. Camilla McCole.	|
As usual, the class will honor cei tain students of the upper classes— editors, president, and officers of t S. A. C. and Blue Circle.
Guests of the class this year will include the following prominent campus figures: Robert C. Hellrung, chairman of the S. A. C.; Robert J Kuhn, chairman of the Blue Circle J ack Keefe, secretary of the S. A. C. A Harold Duke, treasurer of the S. A. C.; John L. Nanovic, editor-in-chief of the Juggler-, Murray Hickey Ley, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic i Robert L. Pendergast, editor-in-chie E of the Dome; Archer Hurley, direct"-* of Public Relations; Frank Kersjes,j chairman of the S. A. C. dance committee; Ray Reardon, president of the senior class; and Vernon Knox, president of the junior class.	\
Week-end Program ,
This year there will be lacking tl color of a varsity football game—al most a tradition of former years—bui the committee has planned to give thl visitors' another treat. Arrange
The Notre Dame Scholastic
167
Palais Roy ale To-Night

Miss Rosalie Herman
>4 Guest of John Litcher
ments have been made to accommo-
date the sophomores and their guests
I (in a special section reserved at the | Grid-graph in the University gym-L^asium, tomorrow afternoon. Notre J’Jame is playing Carnegie Tech at ’Pittsburgh and the play-by-play account will be given to the Gridgraph audience. Following this, many will attend the “B” Varsity-Wisconsin , battle on Cartier field. This will give l-lhe visitors an opportunity to see I* football as it is played at Notre
Dame.
1 Tomorrow evening there will be a ) dance given by the senior class, to be
i ilsnown as the “Tech Hop,” and will be /held at the K. of C. ballroom. It is K'xpected that this will be an impor-tan event on the week-end program
of the sophomores. The Notre Dame “Jugglers,” campus orchestra of dis-
tinction, will play for the dancers.
.* Sunday morning at 9:30 o’clock
u there will be Mass said in Morrissey >Chapel for the sophomores and their /guests. Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S.C., will be the celebrant.
After the Mass, breakfast will be /served in the Lay Faculty Dining hdall at 10:15. During the rest of the
day the campus paths will be well trod as the lakes, the quadrangle, the halls and buildings are pointed out.
Programs for the Cotillion were distributed to the sophomores Tuesday afternoon. There are no favors for sophomore dances, but the attractive blue leather programs lead one to believe that many will become permanent keep-sakes in memorybooks, or whatever it is in which girls keep such things. The programs selected by Bernard Heitz and his committee are a clever detail, fitting into the plans of the “Cotillion.”
On the cover is stamped the figure of the Dome and the name of the dance. The programs are in book-
John C. Litcher
General Chairman
form, with a small pencil attached. In the middle are the two pages which will be filled as the Cotillion goes on with “Jim” and “Ronny” and “Harry.” Simplicity and attractiveness—again the keynote.
Behind the Scenes—
All the committees have worked hard and James Collins, sophomore class president, and John C. Litcher, general chairman of the committee, more than others. Publicity . was
well handled under the direction of Neil Hurley and John Kiener, who took care that such things as posters and newspaper stories and cuts were prominently displayed. John Ryan’s ticket sellers have insured the dance’s success financially. Music (Rowland McNamee, chairman) and floor (John Totten, chairman) have already been mentioned. Invitations were in charge of Budd Dyniewicz.
That leaves three committees to be considered. The reception committee, headed by Francis Oelerich, will be on hand tonight to welcome the sophomores and their guests. Herbert Georgio is chairman of entertainment, and Frank Reilly and Joseph McCabe, of arrangements.
The dancing will begin at 9 o’clock, with the grand march at 10:30, led by the general chairman and class president. John Litcher will have as his guest, Miss Rosalie Herman, of Maywood, Ill., and James Collins’ guest will be Miss Rosemary Gies, of Great Falls, Mont.
At one o’clock the dance will close as the last strains of Crawford’s orchestra fade away. All sophomores must be in their halls or residences by 2 o’clock. Automobiles are permitted for the week-end if the student notifies his rector.
From Twenty States
From the East, from the South, from the Far West and, of course in larger numbers from Indiana, Illinois and Ohio, guests began to arrive today. Twenty states are named in the guest list, including New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Iowa, Virginia, Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee, Mississippi, Nebraska, Oregon, Minnesota, Arizona, Texas and Montana; also Toronto, Canada.
Miss Louise Kerr, of Balboa, Panama, will come the farthest for the Cotillion.
All of which indicates that not only will the dance have a national (even international) setting, but that it will be talked of in many places when the actual event is only a pleasant memory to the sophomores and their guests.
168
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Quests at the Sophomore Cotillion
Rosalie Herman, Maywood, Ill. Rosemary Gies, Great Falls, Mont. Betty Claire Waltz, St. Mary’s College Josephine Hoerstman, Mishawaka. Honar Chudleigh, East Orange, N. J. Marie Malony, St. Mary’s College Mary Ruth Fairman, Oak Park, Ill. Eleanor Franck, Joliet, Ill.
Mary Bradley, St. Mary’s College Ruth Grootfelt, Elkhart, Ind. Ann Gardner, St. Mary’s College Mary Louise Gibson, Waukegan, HI. Mary Robinson, St. Mary’s College Wanda Bayley, Battle Creek, Mich. Virginia Montgomery, St. Mary’s Col. V. Van Deckeyden, St. Mary’s College Mary Elizabeth Hayes, St. Mary’s Margaret Costello, Binghampton, N.Y. Helen Hanley, St. Mary’s College Loretta Kremer, Cleveland, Ohio Martha McMahon, St. Mary’s College Zola Webster, South Bend, Ind. Dorothy O’Connor, Chicago, Ill. Loretta Cooper, St. Mary’s College Julia Huff, Oak Park, Ill.
Mary Ruth Webb, St. Mary’s College Isabel M. Crass, Detroit, Mich. Alice Havron, St. Mary’s College Margaret Jacobs, South Bend, Ind. Jean Boardman, Evanston, Ill. Joan Seiser, South Bend, Ind. Nancy Fedon, St. Mary’s College Ann Rohde, South Bend, Ind. Harriet Wilson, Chicago, Ill. Eleanor Brown, St. Mary’s College Mildred Smith, Chicago, Ill. Mary Distel, St. Mary’s College Florence Seifert, Massillon, Ohio Annabelle Mahon, St. Mary’s College Alice Rice, Chicago, Ill.	'
Elizabeth Irwin, St. Mary’s College Mary Elizabeth Dacey, Duluth, Minn. Marybelle Denny, St. Mary’s College Mary Fogarty, Springfield, Ill. Rose McManus, St. Mary’s College Mary M. Nielody, Wyandotte, Mich. Agnes Mitchell, St. Mary’s College Mary L. Harper, St. Joseph, Mich. Lucy Beasley, St. Mary’s College Mabel Hayes, South Bend, Ind. Mary McGown, St. Mary’s College Mary Frances Ryno, St. Joseph, Mich. Anne Webber, St. Mary’s College Dorothy Stover, Hubbard Woods, Ill. Margaret Westenberger, St. Mary’s Wilma Harvey, Wilmette, Ill. Patricia Duer, St. Mary’s College Mary Durm, Niles, Mich.
Emily Leonard, Elkhart, Ind. Edna McCarthy, South Bend, Ind. Elizabeth Proctor, Elkhart, Ind. Olive Geise, St. Mary’s College Mary Donohue, Chicago, Ill.
Alice Braunsdorf, South Bend, Ind. Edquina Liebner, St. Mary’s College Marge Brannon, Elkhart, Ind. Margaret Hoera, Akron, Ohio Ilene Zinger, Detroit, Mich. Helen M. Laier, South Bend, Ind. Catherine Fitzpatrick, St. Mary’s Clara Reaum, Chicago, III. Peggy Burke, Fond du Lac, Wis. Edna McCarthy, South Bend, Ind. Vivian Bower, Milwaukee, Wis.
Mary Jane McClain, South Bend, Ind. Margaret Smith, Cleveland, Ohio Irene Sommers, Chicago, Hl.
Helen O’Donnell, St. Mary’s College Helen Hoover, Oak Park, Ill. Mary Rupp, Quincy, Ill.
Marjorie Longinotti, St. Mary’s Isabelle Martin, Chicago, Ill. Kathleen O’Connor, St. Mary’s Winnie Mitchell, Aubnrn, N. Y. Norma Heide, St. Mary’s College Henrietta DeJoughe, Madison, Wis. Colette Smith, St. Mary’s College Margaret Daele, South Bend, Ind. Mildred Moller, St. Mary’s College Ruth White, East Lansing, Mich. Sarah Davis, Gary, Ind.
Helen Gish, South Bend, Ind.
Mary Wagner, St. Mary’s College Isabel Petzel, Chicago, Ill.
Mildred Ternus, Humphrey, Neb. Mary Reeland, St. Mary’s College Louise Kerr, Balboa, Panama Florence Thilman, South Bend, Ind. Margaret Loss, Oak Park, Ill. Julia Jacquith, South Bend, Ind. Mary Grass, Elmhurst, Ill.
Virginia Armstrong, South Bend, Ind. Virginia Kappus, Elmhurst, Ill. Helene DuBriel, Cincinnati, Ohio June Heane, St. Mary’s College Natalie Chaiere, Detroit, Mich. Elinor Elliot, South Bend, Ind. Dana Richardson, Detroit, Mich. Frances Minnear, Syracuse, N. Y. Selma LaCraix, Mt. Clemens, Mich. Elinor Buck, South Bend, Ind. Geraldine Harvey, Wilmette, Ill. Margaret Marr, St. Mary’s College Dorothea Gilbert, Princeton, Ind. Beatrice Myers, Mishawaka, Ind. Eloise Welbonn, Princeton, Ind. Ramona Weigel, Ashland, Ky.
Lucille Witzel, River Forest, Ill. Mildred Smith, Princeton, Ind. Mary O’Leary, St. Marys of Woods Gertrude McCarthy, Davenport, Iowa Elizabeth Lauerman, Marinette, Wis. Rena Gregory, Elsing Green, Va. Marjorie Callahan, St. Mary’s College Sophie Smagus, Chicago, Ill.
Mary Winzeler, Bryan, Ohio Mary Cass, South Bend, Ind. Jane Cole, South Bend, Ind. Florence Goodwin, Detroit, Mich. Mary Vinson, Mishawaka, Ind. Dorothy Gustafson, South Bend, Ind. Dorothy Wegner, Detroit, Mich. Myrtle Gaylor, South Bend, Ind. Loretta Anvszkiewicz, St. Mary’s Joanna Fink, Auburn, Ind.
Lulu Bowers, Oshkosh, Wis. Maurayne Bolt, Frankfort, Ind. Geraldine Strouk, Cleveland, Ohio Marie Fitzgerald, Cleveland, Ohio Charlotte Schubert, Chicago, Ill. Ruth Miller, Lakewood, Ohio Josephine Goetz, River Forest, Ill. Christine Wass, Phoenix, Ariz. Gertrude Wickko, South Bend, Ind. Marion Leske, South Bend, Ind. Marion Kellogg, Lafayette, Ind. Virginia Kosh, Menominee, Mich. Ruth McLain, South Bend, Ind. Olive Oelerich, Wilmette, Mich. Theresa Sinkle, Ypsilanti, Mich. Henrietta Wysirick, South Bend, Ind. Anita Fox, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Helen Gibbon, South Bend, Ind. Jean Murphy, Memphis, Tenn.
Margaret Schoemaker, Auburn, Ind. Jewell Darling, Auburn, Ind. Janet Macintosh, South Bend, Ind. Louise Potter, South Bend, Ind. Dorothy Brill, Racine, Wis. Dorothy Brown, Rosary College Betty McDonald, Gary, Ind. Roberta Mace, St. Mary’s of Woods Pauline Julleret, South Bend, Ind. Florence McKensey, Detroit, Mich. Julia Hosart, Benton Harbor, Mich. Francis Kotteman, South Bend, Ind. Leota Meyers, Houston, Texas. Mary Galleger, St. Mary’s College Francis Dietch, St. Mary’s College Dorothy Pilotz, Chicago, Ill. Florence Schener, Princeton, Ind. Dorothy Herbert, Evanston, Ill. Audry Marsh, Chicago, Ill. Margaret Hall, Evanston, Ill. Alma Munson, St. Mary’s College Muriel Willett, Mishawaka, Ind. Kathleen McInerney, South Bend, Ind. Bernice Simpson, South Bend, Ind. Cathlyn Corell, Evanston, Ill. Shirley Hamilton, Chicago, Ill. Dorothy Murphy, Mishawaka, Ind. Gladys Vaudreuil, Milwaukee, Wis. Gertrude Lyons, Oak Park, Ill. Helen Niblett, Battle Creek, Mich. Elizabeth Link, Norwalk, Ohio Helen Ridenour, South Bend, Ind. Bernice Whitmeyer, South Bend, Ind. Ruth Botkin, South Bend, Ind. Virginia Ryan, El Paso, Texas Rose Dowling, St. Mary’s College Lillian Brown, Detroit, Mich. Veronese Beatty, Highland Park, Ill. Margery Luxem, Chicago, Ill. Rosemary Collins, Detroit, Mich. Isabel Edelen, St. Mary’s College Mary Lou Spencer, Mishawaka, Ind. Carmella Kahl, Davenport, Iowa Margaret Copeland, Houston, Texas Mary Burns, Pittsburgh, Pa. Margaret Bergan, St. Mary’s College Mary Davis, Cleveland, Ohio Kathleen Gillespie, South Bend, Ind. Marian Shamo, Mishawaka, Ind. Betty Seebirt, South Bend, Ind. Dorothy Weber, Olney, Ill.
Lucille Hanley, Roseland, Ind. Margaret Ross, South Bend, Ind.-Mary Feely, Joliet, Ill.
Heldine Kahn, Naperville, Ind. Helen Bradley, Whiting, Ind. Dorothy Dee Denman, Chicago, Ill. Alice Coen, Davenport, Iowa Fay Walker, Hollywood, Calif. Neta Kem, Davenport, Iowa Elizabeth McCabe, Iowa City, Iowa Eleanor Borgemmier, Chicago, Ill. Gertrude Fleurry, Indianapolis, Ind. Jean Morgan, South Bend, Ind. Jane Buckner, Columbus, Ohio Mary Fogarty, Detroit, Mich. Dorothy McCullough, South Bend Alice Murphy, Gentryville, Iowa Cathryn Rae Comeford, Cleveland, O. Winnie Mitchell, Auburn, N. Y. Pauline Fisher, Cincinnati, Ohio Eleanor O’Bryan, LaSalle, Ill.
Virginia Harfst, Ravinnia, Ill. Nora Mullins, Pasadena, Calif. Mabel Higgins, New Orleans, La.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
169
Committees for Sophomore Cotillion
Herbert Georgio Chairman Entertainment
Bernard Heitz Chairman Program
Francis Oelerich Chairman Reception
John Ryan Chairman Tickets
Frank Conboy Chairman Decorations
Budd Dyniewicz Chairman Invitations
Program — Bernard Heitz, chair-’ man; Thomas Mahaffey, Leonard Donohue, John Hamilton, Russell Torrell, Edward O’Mahoney.
Entertainment—Herbert Georgio, chairman; Herbert Anderson, James Dubbs, Jack Geddes, Florence McCarthy, Thomas Finnigan, and Francis Madden.
Reception—Francis Oelerich, chairman; Robert O’Connell, Vincent Cavanaugh, William Byrne, Walter Terry, John Connolly, Alex Wilson, Paul Dailey, Bernard Keeney, and Richard Mahoney.
Ticket — John Ryan, chairman; Charles Bauman, John Collins, John Senger, James Gleason, Maurice Murray, Frank Treiweiler, Robert Gorman, Clayton Duerr, Joseph Laughlan, John Crowe.
Decoration—Frank Conboy, chairman; William Murray, Joseph Kennedy, Timothy Sullivan, Joseph Lop-ker, Lawrence Broestl.
Invitation—Budd Dyniewicz, chairman; Andrew McGuan, Maurice Griffin, Marchmount Swartz, Charles Hitzelberger.
Floor — John Totten, chairman; John Werner, William Harrington, Jack Cooper, Louis Odessa, Ronald Armour, Frank Miller.
Ei mail 11 iiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiin ii 11 in 11	iiiii mu iiiiiiitn, I iilmlill I iiiuli 1. mi i in iiii.i.liiiiiiiiuui iiiinitiiiiiiiiiiiofi ■tanntr n i iiiin.iiii.n uiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii,iiiiiai,iIIIulilll„l,
j Programme -> -> =	FRIDAY NIGHT, October 25, 9 o’clock—Sophomore Cotillion, Palais
i	Royale Ballroom.
1	SATURDAY—Notre Dame vs. Carnegie Tech, Gridgraph, Gymnasium,
i	2:00 p. m.—Football, Notre Dame “B” vs. Wisconsin “B,” Cartier field.
i	Informal Parties, South Bend.—Senior Class Tech Hop, K. of C. Ball-
e	room, 8:30 to 11:30 p. m.
e	SUNDAY—Mass, Morrissey Hall Chapel, 9:30 a. m.—Breakfast, Faculty
1	Dining Hall, 10:15 a. m.
Arrangements—Frank Reilly and Joseph McCabe, co-chairmen; John Kramer, Edward Rhadigan, Frank Donalty, Francis Dillman.
a„..............    .......................a..........................................................................                      „jg
Music—Rowland McNamee, chairman; Oliver Powers, Henry Tholen, Albert Captor, Robert Brenner, Frank Burke, William Stewart, James Carmody.
Publicity—Neil Hurley and John Kiener, co-chairmen; Paul Hallinan, Myron Crawford, Joel Ostrander, Neil Rau, Joseph Petritz, and Peter Trolio.
John Kiener Neil Hurley Co-Chairman	Co-Chairman
Publicity	Publicity
Joseph McCabe Co-Chairman Arrangements
Francis Reilly Co-Chairman Arrangements
John Totten Chairman
Rowland McNamee Chairman
Floor
Music
170
The Notre Dame Scholastic
«£♦
II Coming Events II «£♦ ♦$» *♦*
FRIDAY, October 25 — SCHOLASTIC editorial staff meeting, Publications’ office, 7:00 p. m.—Movies, Richard Dix in “Redskin,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.—The Cotillion of Charm, Palais Royale, 9:30 p. m. —Connecticut Valley Club meeting, Law building, 7:45 p. m.
SATURDAY, October 26—Football, Carnegie Tech vs. Notre Dame, at Pittsburgh, on Gridgraph, Gymnasium, 1:30 p. m.; Notre Dame Reserves vs. Wisconsin “B” team, Cartier field, 3:00 p. m.—Cross Country, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, at Lansing.—Last day for contributions to the Football Number of the Juggler.—Scribblers’ Inaugural banquet. — Nebraska Club meeting, Badin “Rec.” room, 7:30 p. m.—Tech Hop, K. of C. ballroom, 8:30 p. m.—Movies, Emil Jannings in “Betrayal,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, October 27—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00 and 8:00 a. m.; High Mass, 9:00 a. m.; Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Interhall Cross Country.—Interhall Football, 9:40 a. m. and 2:00 p. m.—Masses for Cotillion guests, Morrissey Hall Chapel, 9:30 a. m.; Breakfast immediately after, Faculty dining room.—Utica Club meeting, Law building.
MONDAY, October 28—K. of C. meeting, Council chambers, Walsh hall, 8:00 p. m.—New Jersey Club meeting, Law building, 7:45 p. m.
TUESDAY, October 29—Last day for handing in applications to the Spectators’ Club.
WEDNESDAY, October 30 — West Virginia Club meeting.—Wranglers Club meeting, Walsh hall, 7:45 p. m.
THURSDAY, October 31—Spectators’ Club meeting, Journalism room, 7:45 p. m.
FRIDAY, November 1 — Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Publications office, 7:00 p. m.
CHICAGO TRIP DECLARED SUCCESS
The first invasion of Chicago by Notre Dame students took place last Saturday when over 2,300 saw the Wisconsin game. Week-end permissions were numerous; some stayed only Saturday. The campus that afternoon was deserted.
There was a large attendance at the dance given by the Chicago-Notre Dame Club at the Stevens Hotel, Saturday evening. The guests were entertained by the company of “Follow Thru.”
The bands of both universities appeared on Soldiers’ Field between the halves. The Notre Dame band, after marching, formed an “ND” monogram and then a “W.” The Wisconsin organization played the songs of both schools.
FORMER STARS SEE BADGER GAME
Among the guests at the game in Chicago last Saturday were many former football stars of Notre Dame. Jolin Fredericks, center of the 1926 team; John Mohardt, all western halfback in 1922; Paul Castner, full-back on the same team; James “Red” Heamden, captain of the 1926 team and one of the greatest defensive half-backs in football circles; Elmer Wynne, full-back of the 1927 team; Charlie Riley, quarter-back on the same team; John McMullen, tackle of the 1923 team; John McManmon, of the 1926 varsity and present line coach of Boston College; Fred Miller, captain of last year’s varsity; Harry O’Boyle, half-back of the 1925 team; Bud Boeringer, All-American center in 1925 along with many other prominent alumni.
E. Maurice Starrett, ’21, of Seattle, Washington, was a visitor on the campus this past week. He came to Notre Dame to renew acquaintances and to view some of the football games. While at school here, Starrett was a member of the track and football teams and a member of the Scholastic staff.
CARNEGIE TECH CELEBRATIONS ILLUMINATE CAMPUS
Wednesday and Thursday night of this week were set aside by the Students’ Activities Council as “Pep Meeting” nights to give the team a hearty send-off to the Carnegie Tech game Saturday at Pittsburgh.
The plan of each hall having its own celebration was started at Wednesday evening’s festivities. Cheer leaders from each hall who had met Tuesday night, were on hand to keep the students of their respective halls in an uproar with their antics. Flares and flash bombs were in order for the evening’s celebrations when a large bomb was set off at 6:45 p. m.
The campus echoed and re-echoed with cheers and in fifteen minutes time, the entire University was in a , veritable bedlam, as 2,200 lusty voices howled their defiance to the skies—“Crush Carnegie!” “27—7” and “Beat Tech!” Upperclassmen vied with underclassmen in making noise. The halls were silhouetted	’
against a dark sky by the scintillat-	j
ing red tinge of the torches and flares, and the proceedings were highly colorful.
Each hall had a varied program. Speakers for the occasion were either football monogram men or students prominently associated with campus activities. Sorin Hall, however, won the unofficial prize for the evening. Her set of speakers included Bob Kuhn, chairman of the Blue Circle, Murray Hickey Ley, editor of the Scholastic. Bob Hellrung, chairman ' of the S. A. C., Spike McAdams, chairman of the Vigilance Committee, „ Joe “Doc” Abbott, Varsity Trainer, John Quinn, Senior Football Manager, and Jerry Parker, Stunt chairman, who acted as cheer-leader, and the Reverend Walter Lavin, C.S.C.,-Rector of the Hall.
GOLDEN TORNADO HOP TO
BE HELD NOVEMBER 8
The Golden Tornado Hop, preceding the Georgia Tech game, will be held at the Palais Royale Ballroom, Friday evening, November 8.
The dance is sponsored by the Junior Class which has made elaborate plans for the success of the event. Music by the Indianans has been arranged, and all those who heard them at the last Scholarship Dance can vouch for their ability.
Vernon Knox, president of the Junior Class, has also secured permission for St. Mary’s College to attend. Committees have been appointed to see to all decorations, ticket sales and publicity.
Bulletin boards will be posted about the campus early next week with added information as to the price, the obtaining of tickets in residence halls, and other added arrangements which have not, so far, been arranged. Joseph F. Deeb has been appointed chairman of the committee and has announced the subordinates as follows:
Tickets—Joseph Karby and Walter Cahill; Arrangements—John Zaback and Robert Kennedy; Publicity— James Kearney, John J. Kuhn and Bud Tuohy.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
171
| ( College of Law Notes | [
Seven graduates from the class of 1929, who took the bar examination in Michigan, passed. Several weeks ago it was reported that only six of them passed. Dean Konop, of the College of Law, was informed last Saturday that the one who was supposed to have failed also passed.
—%♦—
Judge M. M. Oshe, of the Chicago Title and Abstract Company, has been secured to deliver a series of lectures to the law students on the subject of Abstracting and Conveyancing. Judge Oshe delivered a series of lectures last year to the law students on the same subject.
Bob Eggeman, president of the Law Club, is making arrangements for a meeting of the club, which is to be held some time in the near future.
Judge Orlo Deahl, who has charge of the court work at the law school, is now holding sessions of court in the court room of the law building every Wednesday evening from 7:30 to 9:30. This is required for the Senior class in the School of Law.1
Jack Kilkenny, of the class of 1925, was a visitor at the law school last Friday. Mr. Kilkenny is now practicing law at Pendleton, Oregon. Incidentally, Jack took in the Wisconsin-' Notre Dame game last Saturday.
BUSINESS BOARD ADDS NEW MEMBERS
The Scholastic announces the election of Mr. Merle V. Baldwin of the class of 1932 and Mr. Norman E. Duke of the class of 1933 to the Business Board.
RHODES ELECTION IS SET FOR DECEMBER 1
The 1929 elections for the Rhodes scholarship award in the state of Indiana will be held December 1.
A Rhodes scholarship is tenable for two years, and in some cases for three years. The allowance given the fortunate applicant is about $2,000 a year. No restriction is placed upon a Rhodes scholar’s choice of studies. He
NOTICE!
All members of the Scholastic Editorial Staff will please be at the meeting this evening in the Publications Building at 7 o’clock. Important! Be there!
is appointed without examination on the basis of his record in school and college.
A candidate to be eligible must be: (1) a male citizen of the United States and unmarried; (2) between . the ages of nineteen and twenty-five; (3) finished with at least his sophomore year in college. The qualities which will be considered in making the selection are: (1) literary and scholastic ability and attainments; (2) qualities of manhood, truth, courage, devotion to duty, sympathy, kindliness, unselfishness and fellowship; (3) exhibition of moral force of character and instincts to lead and to take an interest in his schoolmates; (4) physical -vigor as shown by interest in outdoor sports or in other ways.
A candidate may apply either in the state in which he resides or in the state in which he has received at least two years of his college education.
DR. RAEMERS TRANSLATES FRENCH TEXT
A translation of “A Psychology of Education” now in press from the original French marks the ninth masterful work of this nature by Dr. Sidney Raemers, Ph. D., professor in the philosophy department of the University. The French work was the composition of J. DeLaVaissiere.
Dr. Raemers’ other translations include: “Manual of Patrology,” by Tixeront; “The Mass,” by Abbe Sicard; “The Soul of Liturgy,” by Abbe Sicard; “The Three Sacraments of Initiation,” by Abbe La-bauche, S. S.; “The Trinity,” by Jules LeBreton, S. J.; “Experimental Psychology,” by DeLaVaissiere, S. J.; “Orders and Ordination,” by Tixeront and “An Ordination Retreat,” by Bishop Dadolle.
Before Dr. Raemers came to teach at Notre Dame in 1928, he was head of the department of philosophy at Nazareth College, Mich. He received his education in London schools, Louvain and Luxemburg universities and the Catholic university of America, Washington, D. C.
SENIOR DANCE TO BE HELD TOMORROW
The “Tech Hop,” annual football dance sponsored by the Senior Class, will be held Saturday evening, October 26. The dance will be held in the K. of C. ballroom between the hours of 8:30 and 11:30. The music will be furnished by the Notre Dame Jugglers, under the direction of Jack
Faulkes. Judging from the strains that come from the Music Room in Washington Hall every evening, the Jugglers have an exceptionally good orchestra this year.
Tom Purcell, general chairman of the dance, and his committees, are working hard to make the dance a success. The sale of tickets is under the direction of Joe McCabe, Con Carey and Frank Corbett. The admission will be $1.50 a couple, or S1.00 for “stags.” Tickets .may also be purchased at the door the evening of the dance. Inasmuch as this dance is held the night after the Sophomore Cotillion a special invitation is extended to all sophomores and their guests.
COSGROVE ADDRESSES ’ PRESS CLUB
A round table discussion of editorial style and the problems that make the lives of editorial writers interesting, took place Tuesday evening, when the Press Club had as its speaker, Gerald Cosgrove, editorial writer of the South Bend Tribune. Mr. Cosgrove first gave a short outline of the qualifications of this type of newspaper work and then invited open discussion.
“An editorial writer,” declared Mr. Cosgrove, “is not an ‘intellectual slave,’ bound to the policies of his paper. Through the research necessary to writing an intelligent editorial, his mind will become open to the right view of the topic discussed.”
Herman Cohen was chairman of the meeting, which was held in the Lay Faculty Dining Hall.
[■^uiimiimtiiiiiim titiiiimmmiimmmimiiimmmiijiii□ | NOTICE! I j As announced in last week’s .= E Scholastic, applications for = E membership in the Spectators’ E E Club must be in the hands of 3 E the secretary, Robert M. Dinkel, E E 45 Sorin Hall, on or before = E October 30.	=
= The club, which was organ- = E ized last April, has for its pur- E E pose the discussion of “current E E events and developments in the E E arts, science, politics, philoso- = = phy, religion, and like fields of j E knowledge and endeavor.” Mem- e E bership is open to the entire E 1 student body, and applications j E should state such qualifications : E of the applicant as are in har- E = mony with the purpose of the E E club.	|
172
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Cotillions of Yesterday
Someone who was in a quandary wrote to the “Safety Valve” (predecessor of the “Wink” )in 1910 and advanced the following questions.
“Will somebody distinguish between ball, prom, hop and cotillion? How is cotillion pronounced? By what must you divide cotillion to reduce it to a dance?”
Apparently no one bothered to answer' the perplexed sophomore, for the files of the Scholastic were more concerned with literary papers and St. Mary’s bulletins than with class dances. Why they named the first sophomore formal dance a “Cotillion” is a matter of philological conjecture. Perhaps the marching cadets of those days influenced the choice and the word was chosen as a companion to the metrical-militari term “battalion.” The choice, nevertheless, played right into the hands, or the mouths, of the theme-song writers, for the word “cotillion” calls to mind rhyming quatrains of “million,” “billion,” “trillion” and “vermillion.” With a few strokes of the composer’s pen, a masterpiece could be turned out that ran along the lyrics of “Girl of My Cotillion—You’re One in a Million.” But even the ticket committee hopes that there won’t be that many here.
But we started to tell something about the past Cotillions. A side note of that same 1910 dance reveals how “copy was a rare commodity when some of the Scholastic editors got foolish and went to the dance.” There is a pathetic story about a chairman who became all befuddled when the shield that bore the sophomore numerals could not be found the day of the Cotillion. And here is the straight news account taken from the Dome. As in later years, it was written by strictly unprejudiced scribes:
“For the last three years it has been customary for the junior class to do their share of the entertaining in the fall, sometime around Thanksgiving, but this year the juniors . . . allowed the sophomores an opportunity to show that they were made of the right stuff, and they did.
“It was a very happy crowd . . . Place Hall . . . Nov. 30, 1910 . . . about 80 couples . . . never before at any dance by Notre Dame students had the hall been so beautifully decorated ... a veritable summer garden ... music by Professor Petersen’s orchestra . . . the “sophomore special” dance during which spot
lights were flashed. There were guests therefrom (countthem) South Bend, Chicago, Mishawaka, Peru and Indianapolis, Ind., and Richmond, Va.”
Here is part of the musical program: “Call Me Up Some Rainy Afternoon,” “Every Little Movement,” “Meet Me Tonight in Dreamland,” “Silver Bell,” “H Trovatore,” “Grizzly Bear,” “Abie, Take Example From Your Fadder,” “Ideal of My Dreams,” and “I’d Trust My Husband Anywhere But I’d Like to Stick Around."
Then there was a Cotillion in 1911 which heralded “the class’ debut into the world of society”; again in 1913, held on April 13; and in 1916, when “everything went off smoothly with the exception of the photographer’s forgetting to open the shutter in the camera when he took the flashlight picture.” After looking at the photographs which found their way into some of the records, we believe this inadvertent act of the photographer-was a break for the sophomores.
Even the hilarity of a class dance couldn’t completely shut out the drama of war that absorbed the University’s attention in 1917. Simple but striking is the doggerel in the Dome calendar of that year:
“The sophomore class in bold advance,
Collects some dough and gives a dance, ■
A wicked hip the future captains shake
Before the oath and olive drab they take.”
The “last manifestation before Lent” in 1922 was featured by Jor-den’s Louisville orchestra and a sample of “real nigger jazz.” Three sophomores who were committeemen for the Cotillion of 1923 later became famous knights of the gridiron— Adam Walsh, captain of the ’24 team, and Harry Stuhldreher and Elmer Layden, one-half of the Four Horsemen.	'
There have been great committees. There have been clever orchestras. There have been novel decorative schemes; also ingenious selling methods. Each Cotillion, as would be supposed, surpassed all previous Notre Dame dances. But the “Cotillion of Charm” is this year’s idea to be left in the records until an energetic reporter of 1939 writes another “Cotillions of Yesterday” story.
COMMERCE FORUM PLANS INTERESTING YEAR
Last week the directors of the Commerce Forum met to discuss and -formulate the future plans for the organization. Preparations for the Forum were started early last spring when it was first conceived by a small body of students in the College of Commerce. Since then, much progress -has been made, and the meeting last week marked the completion of the most important preliminary plans.
The two weeks between October 25 and November 8 have been set aside for those desiring to apply for mem- ) bership in the Forum. A scholastic average of 80 percent has been set as a preliminary requirement for those who wish to apply; furthermore, an applicant must have been enrolled in the College of Commerce, for at least one semester before he will be allowed । to make application. The application must be made by letter, and must contain the applicant’s reasons for desiring membership, the activities he has participated in, if any, his class rat- , ing, and his home address, together with his campus address and full name. These letters may be sent or delivered personally to the Commerce i Forum, Room 214, Walsh Hall. These applicants will then be notified concerning further requirements.
The purpose of the Commerce Forum is to promote the individual betterment of its members in every . way possible. Furthermore, it is intended to supplement the information offered in Commerce classes in order, if possible, to give a broader view of the many branches of business activity which are so closely related to these classes. An attempt will be made to give to the members of the Forum a better understanding of current events in the commercial world, and at the same time to enable the student to analyze current trends in business and industry. 'Very few students of commerce are entirely famil- I iar with the numerous trade journals and commercial magazines in existence. A tremendous source of information lies in the diligent perusal of these publications, and an effort will be made to acquaint the members with the facilities offered in the University Library. Finally, the Commerce Forum will make it a practice to invite men actively engaged in business, or the teaching of business practice to address the body in its regular meet- t ings from time to time.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
173
i MUSIC AND DRAMA
[■JniiiiitiiiutiiiuiiiiuituinniiiHtiiinniiniiitniittttttiintiiiiiiittttniiiiiiiiiiitmii'iniiitiiiitttititiiiiinttiin
Of interest to many will be news of an Irish theater movement in New York City. It has budded for a sea, son or so and just recently has burst into bloom. A group of ardent young f'- Hibernians has formed a company . and titled it The Irish Guild Players. The organization has purchased the - Greenwich Village Theater and the first fruits of its labor will be Sean , O’Casey’s “The Silver Tassie.” All this summer the leaders have been scouting for a suitable list of plays and consider themselves very fortunate to have obtained rights to “The Silver Tassie.” The second of its four acts is written in blank verse . . which has caused no end of flurry. A certain Michael Walsh is the motivating power of the group. For* a number of years he has gleaned neophytes from the University of Dublin and the Abbey Theater. These people are all writers, in fact two of Mr. Walsh’s - plays are to be made known at the aforementioned theater this season. Among the other productions this (	winter will be “Diedre of the Sor-
'	rows,” “The Prodigal Son,” and “The
Old Lady Says No.”
For the last week the American Opera Company has been deploying at the Majestic theater in Chicago. The selections have been sung in English. Possibly not as musical to the ear as Italian or French, but at least a bit more understandable to the general American public. Five operas were sung, “Carmen,” “Butterfly,” “Faust,” “Figaro” and “Yolanda of Cypress.” The last named is a new production.
Marcel Dupre, the internationally famous French .organist, is giving a series of concerts at Wanamaker’s Auditorium in New York . Monsieur Dupre is organist at the Cathedral of Notre Dame, Paris. His rendition of Bach is especially remarkable.
Last week the cream of New York’s musical world stood in Carnegie Hall and proudly began the expected ovation to Arturo Toscanini. The little Italian took one snappy bow, turned, and gave the Philharmonic the signal to begin Schumann’s “Manfred.” The second numbei- on the program was the “Don Quixote” of Richard Strauss .and the conclusion was the immortal and otherwise
stupendous “Seventh Symphony” of Beethoven.
“A Hundred Years Old” is the play in which Otis Skinner is opening in the Metropolis this fall. It is interesting to note that this is Mr. Skinner’s seventy-first birthday and that during his career on the stage he has appeared in three hundred and twenty-five plays. Most notable among his performances are listed “Kismet,” “The Honor of the Family,” and “Richelieu.”
The first Saturday evening program of the Chicago Symphony was presented to the public on October 19, Frederick Stock conducting. The selections, although good, were generally not up to expectations. Instead of a Beethoven Symphony opening the program, the “Lenore” overture was chosen by Mr. Stock. Poor Beethoven never had any success with the opera and to be perfectly frank he. had no business trying to compose one. The opera form is for the lesser masters who need to use the adulteration of obvious dramatic incidents. The magnificent German scarcely falls under this category.
The next number was Brahms’ “Second Symphony” in D major. We can not say that we care as much for Brahms’ second symphony as for his first. The second has none of the exaltation of the first symphony, but at any rate Stock showed the superiority of good direction over ungainly music.
Even I can be permitted an occasional pun so you can take it that the •piece de resistance of the program was the Ravel “Rapsodie Espagnole.” Regardless of what has been said for or against the modernistic school of music, Ravel is a composer capable of evoking the mood of the generation. Technically, since music must always be considered as a set of geometric patterns, Ravel is magnificent. The glissandos of the harp and the bassoons were, to say the least, overwhelming in the third movement.
For* the Wagner, we can say nothing except that the interpretation which’ Mr. Stock gave the selection from Tannhauser was somewhat out of the ordinary.
On Monday afternoon WGN broadcast a concert on the Theremin, the invention of that young Russian of
the same name. They say that one stands in front of a loud speaker from which a flock of static issues. Then, gently waving the hands at varying distances .from the box, one can produce music. The resultant tone has the resonance of a cello although it sounds something like a heavenly zither.
ARMSTRONG APPOINTED AMERICAN ALUMNI
CHAIRMAN
Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, was appointed chairman of a committee to select convention sites for the American Alumni Council for the years 1931, 1932, and 1933 at this year’s convention of the council held at Muskoka Lakes, Canada. Mr. Armstrong also has the distinction of serving as vice-president of the council.
The chief purpose of the American Alumni Council is to organize alumni development in all the colleges of the United States and Canada, and to create an intelligent relationship between the alumni and the colleges from which they are graduated. The Council is divided into districts. The University of Notre Dame, which was the first Catholic university to be represented, is located in district five, and this district is made up of the following states: Hlinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, West Virginia, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Minnesota.
COLFAX THEATRE HOST TO STUDENT BODY
Through the courtesy of Mr. Baker, the manager of the Colfax theatre, students of the University were guests of the management at a gratis performance yesterday afternoon. Besides the sound news, and vita-phone acts, there was a feature picture, Sophie Tucker in “Honky Tonk.”
This is the second of a series of free performance given to the student body by managers of the South Bend theatres. The first of this series was given at the Palace theatre a few weeks ago. According to the schedule arranged by the Student Activities Council there will be two more free performances during the course of the year. The innovation of these shows was begun this year as part of the S. A. C. annual “Hello Week” campaign.
174
The Notre Dame Scholastic
“ALUMNUS” FOR OCTOBER MAKES APPEARANCE
The October issue of the official organ of the Alumni Association appeared on the campus this week.'This is the second edition of the Alumnus in its new layout and enlarged size.
One of the principle articles in this issue was written by the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., and is entitled “A Reading Guide to Philosophy.” It is a comprehensive outline of current philosophical works, intended to assist the reader in keeping in touch with' the academic status of scholastic philosophy today. Reverend Miltner reviews a number of books dealing with the fundamental questions of scholastic philosophy, its history, and its relation to other currents of thought. A bibliography of philosophical works in classified form is added to the article “for the sake of those who may feel inclined to build up a working library in the field of philosophy.”
The conferring of a knighthood in ;	the Order of St. Gregory at the di-
rection of Pope Pius XI, upon William
!	F. Montavon, A.B. ’98, Director of
;	the Legal Department of the National
!	Catholic Welfare Conference, in a
j	ceremony at the Apostolic Delegation
;	to the United States in Washington,
s	D. C., on September 15, is told in
J	another article. It continues to relate
(	in detail the bestowing of the dec:	oration of the Order upon Mr. Monta>	von by His Excellency the Most Rev-
i	erend Pietro Fumasoni-Biondi, Apos-
tolic Delegate to the United States. An announcement is given of Mr.
s	Montavon’s efforts on	the	religious
|	controversy in Mexico	and	the im-
|	portant part he played	in the recent
<	settlement of that question	and the
j	bringing of peace to Mexico.
“Bits of Early History of Notre v	Dame” is the heading of an account
dealing with a family whose connections with Notre Dame began with its founding. Many of the experiences of William Good, one of the first students at Notre Dame, are related. The article also includes a letter written
'	by Thomas J. Dundon, B.S. ’73, des-
cribing the Notre Dame of 1870.
The October Alumnus publishes a !	letter written by J. W. Eggeman to
J	the editor, James E. Armstrong, con-
J	gratulating him on the splendid ap-
;i	pearance of the September Alumnus,
h	the first issue to be presented in the
V	new enlarged size layout.
“Teeth” is the title of one of the editorials in the Alumnus describing the growth of the association and various difficulties encountered in its growth. The editorial, “Spirit Is Up” dispells the fear that football games away from home might dampen campus ardor. Editorials on Knute K. . Rockne and on Notre Dame’s Catholicity fill the editorial section of this issue.
REVEREND FRANCIS WENNINGER SPEAKS BEFORE
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
The Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., moderator of the Notre Dame Academy of Science, gave an illustrated lecture on the Holy Land to the members of the Academy. He visited that place little more than a year ago, while on a leave of absence from the University.
Reverend Wenninger traveled with a large pa^ty through the Holy Land in the summer of 1928, taking his own photographs from which all of his slides were made. He has one of the most complete sets in the Middle West, all in colors, and illustrating the different races inhabiting the Holy Land, their habits, and living conditions. Types of architecture were illustrated in the various mosques and churches found in Jerusalem and Nazareth, besides places where, supposedly, Christ was born, and lived.
The lecture, which took almost two hours, was well attended.
PRESIDENT ADDRESSES N. C. C. M. CONVENTION
The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University, gave a very spirited address on the subject of “The Catholic Advantage in Education,” last Tuesday morning, before the National Council of Catholic Men in the Community House, Fort Wayne. Representatives from all. parts of the country were present at the gathering which convened for three days.
The assembly was addressed by many prominent churchmen and laymen; among them were: The Most Reverend Pietro Fumasoni-Bondi, Apostolic .Delegate to the U. S.; Archbishop John T. McNicholas, of Cincinnati; Right Reverend John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wayne; Right Reverend Joseph Schrembs, of Cleveland; Admiral William Benson, U. S. N., retired; Walter Johnson, president of the N C. C. M.; Reverend
Edwin O’Hara, President Catholic Rural Life Work and a member of the 1929 summer school faculty; John T. Boland, secretary of the Catholic Truth Society of England and Quinn O’Brien, prominent attorney of Chicago.
Knute K. Rockne, director of athletics at the University, was scheduled to speak but this was prevented by his recent illness.
CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT RECEIVES TESTER
According to an announcement from the Chemistry Department, Mr. C. P. Craine, president of the Craine-Schrage Steel Company of Detroit, Michigan, is presenting the division of metallurgy in the department of Chemistry, with a new Brinell hardness tester for use in performing physical test upon metals. This is the third hardness tester to be added to the equipment. The department already has a Rockwell tester and a Shore Scleroscope.
•;«
11 Book Review 11
♦J* «£♦
Since 1918 our representative Journals have daily devoted a column or two of their front pages to accounts of Versailles, Locarno, Geneva and The Hague, Reparations Commissions, World Court, League of Nations, Disarmament conferences, protocols, treaties, concordats, visiting diplomats and war novels. We have heard the belligerent chauvinism of the Chicago Tribune and Liberty and the practical pacifism of the Eastern press. It is high time that political philosophy overhauled its pre-war principles and provided us with some theoretical guidance for the conduc- -tion of our international affairs.
Accordingly it is a delight to announce the publication of “The Ethical Basis of International Law” by William Roemer of our Department of Philosophy. Comprehensive and yet succinct, this little book contains an able treatment of a difficult subject. The author takes his cue from Aquinas and Grotius in basing the Jus Gentium on the Natural Law. He appends the report of the Catholic Association for International Peace and acknowledges indebtedness to Reverend Miltner, the late Judge Wooten, and former Professor McGregor.
Daniel C. O’Grady, Ph. D.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
175
Literary Publication to Appear Soon
The Reverend Patrick Carroll, C.S.C., Chairman of the Board of Publications, with the approval of the President of the University, announces that, due to the increased demand for advertising space in the Scholastic, the Literary ,v section will be removed and incorporated into an exclusive Literary quarterly magazine. The first edition of the new publication will appear shortly after Thanksgiving.' With the > innovation of this literary monthly, the Scholastic will become a purely news and sports medium.
The change will be to the advantage of the contributors to the literary section. Heretofore, the limited time allowed for composing the sec-> - tion has caused many talented articles to be omitted. Since the new publi-cation will be a quarterly affair, each contributor will be given every attention. It will also allow for more carefully prepared articles, since only the best talent of the student body will be used.
The new magazine will be under the personal supervision of the Rev-erend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S C. His constructive criticisms of the Scholastic in the past have been largely responsible for the enviable position it now holds. His untiring work has been repaid with gratifying results since his advice and labor have made the new format possible.
------------------------------------*
INITIAL “CATALYZER” OUT TOMORROW
The first issue of the Catalyzer, the monthly publication of the Department of Chemistry, will be ready for distribution at the end of this week. The publication is edited by the Chemists’ Club of the University, and the staff is composed of the following men: F. C. Ryan, editor-in-chief; T. G. Murphy, assistant editor; and W. L. Terre, associate editor.
Featured in this first issue of the publication is an article based upon an illustration found in the original > Amsterdam publication of Hortus ■ Cliffortianus, two copies of zwhich s may be found in the J. A. Nieuwland Library. This illustration is dated 1738 and pictures what seems to be a centrigrade thermometer. This date is five years before Celsius published
K his paper wherein he is first known to propose a centrigrade instrument
The latest campus publication comes at an opportune time. For many years the University has needed some outlet for the literary endeavors of the student body. During the past three years, mounting orders for advertising have greatly crowded the literary section and caused frequent inconvenience and embarrassment.
Mr. Harley L. McDevitt, Graduate Manager of Campus Publications, is responsible for the heavy space in the advertising section. During the summer he contracted with many influential agencies who were quick to realize the advantage of direct advertising appeal to college students. In his capacity as business manager, Mr. McDevitt has given advertising space to several prominent cigarette companies, fountain pen and pencil companies and aeroplane manufacturers. Figures taken from files since his taking of office show an increase of about thirty five per-cent local advertising and about forty five per-cent foreign. Most of the foreign advertising is nationally known.
The name of the new publication and the board of editors will be announced in the next issue of the Scholastic. With the additional space given to news and sports, the staff of the Scholastic will necessarily increase. New members of the staff will be admitted at the discretion of the Editor-in-chief.
of this type. It was Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., who noticed this remarkable discrepancy.
Besides this article the Catalyzer contains six pages of news of interest to all persons associated with the Department of Chemistry.
“DOME” BEGINS WORK
The Dame photography studio opened its new quarters in the west room, first floor, of the Main Building last Monday. The studio has been newly equipped with special curtains and lighting apparatus. All seniors and juniors as well as activities men should report immediately to be' photographed by the Dome of ’29.
Active campaigning for subscriptions will be started among the student body within the next two weeks according to Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of the publication.
VILLAGERS’ CLUB TO HOLD DANCE NEXT FRIDAY
The Villagers’ Club will hold its first dance of the season November 2. The dance will be held in the Oliver Hotel. Fred Faust and his Music Masters orchestra will furnish the music. Forrest Hazer is chairman of arrangements. Tickets for the dance can be secured from any Villager. The following committees have been chosen:
Entertainment—Howard Webster, James Ash and George Bryan.
Publicity—Lloyd Waterson, Tom Brandon, Max Pascoff and Jack Shively.
Music—Jack Fritzer, Kenneth Ko-nop and Roland Paulin.
Decorations—Robert Holmes, Tim Benitz and Merritt Otto.
Tickets — Chester Franckowiak, Edward Everett, Ed Riley, Gerard Crockett, James Swift, Romine Hors-pool, Bill Case, William Collins, Charles Hafron, Bill Hennings, Jack Reed, George Eichler, Charles Cashman, Kenneth Rerick, Loren Hess, George Hennion, Waldemar Nehrling and Bud McNulty.
TRYOUTS FOR BREEN MEDAL CONTEST SOON
Announcement has been made by the members of the speech department, that the preliminary tryouts for the Breen medal contest will be held November 14 and 1-5. The place of the tryout and other particulars concerning the preliminaries will be announced at a later date. The final contest is to be held some time during the second week in December.
The contest is to be open to any undergraduate, freshmen included, in the University. The speeches which the applicants make at the preliminaries are to be at least ten minutes in length. The winner of the preliminary contest then participates in the state oratorical contest, which is to be held at Notre Dame this year.
No one can win the Breen medal more than once; however, he who has won the medal once is permitted to participate in the state contest. All those who wish to enter into the preliminary contest are to submit their names to a member of the speech department some time before November 5th.
Last year, James Roy, a Senior of the University, won the National Inter-collegiate Oratorical Contest; and Francis Duffy, C. S. C. (Moreau Seminary) was awarded the Breen medal.
1
176
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Chapel
.Exterior of the Log Cabin

A Journey
HE Crusaders who weren’t noveltyseekers used to plod across Europe in the twelfth century to save the sacred places of the Holy Land from the Turks. Sometimes they were successful; more often they were not. Crusading became less popular as continent-discovering grew in importance, but pious men and women have still practiced pilgrimages: some out of pure devotion and others in retribution for plundering churches and people. Every year, thousands go to Lourdes in France to seek cures, to pray, or to scoff. We suggest a pilgrimage—mostly historical and descriptive—which will include Notre Dame’s three outdoor shrines.
A journey of this kind is certain to con-vince one that monasticism with its quiet, philosophical possibilities and its meditative silences, still remains at Notre Dame. Nevertheless—“If there is a contemplative silence around here,” declares the Brownson freshman, who can’t study his elementary electricity, “I haven’t been able to locate it.” But the older men know that there is more of the monastic spirit about Notre Dame than the campus aversion to chintz curtains and raccoon coats. There are places of restful quiet: the solemn Gothic arches of the Sacred Heart church are easily conducive to meditation and prayer; the hall chapels breathe a constant air of peaceful reflection.
There is need for a guide, however, to the outdoor religious shrines. Maybe the freshman who discovered the Palais Royale, the Granada, the campus post of the Western Union, and the mezzanine of the La Salle all in one evening, - ended' his investigations too soon. There was a senior of last May, who hurriedly consulted one of the library assistants the Sunday morning after the Senior Ball. He wanted to know the location of the “logcabin or something” which his guest had been advised by relatives to see. To lead the freshman past the routine walks of the campus, to supply the senior with a few sources of interesting Notre Dame history —that is the idea behind this journey. It
will be a historical ex-.cursion because a religious pilgrimage should be void of such things as note-taking and the close scrutiny of tablets and inscriptions.
The Grotto—Tieplica of Lourdes
Nearly everyone knows where the grotto is. Does the student-pilgrim know that it was the result of a dream of Father Sorin to reproduce the Lourdes grotto at Notre Dame? The zealous founder, attracted by the beauty of the French shrine, often hoped that some day Catholics of the Middle West would come to the University to pray at such a grotto. It was not completed, however, until October 17, 1896, on the Feast of Oui- Lady of the Snows, three years after the death of Father Sorin.
An interesting incident happened during the foundation work. The diggers suddenly struck a spring of clear water in the left side of the shrine—the same relative location of the Lourdes spring. Since there had been considerable argument over the place to build the Grotto, the discovery of the gush of spring water was considered at the time as significant.
The formation of the shrine out of the huge boulders near the Presbytery was the result of- a gift of the Reverend Thomas Carroll of Oil City, Pa. He had been a theological student here, and evidently realized the strong spirit of devotion. A slab of marble on the south wall of the rock commemorates the benefactor.
It’s autumn now at the Grotto. In the winter, the pilgrim will find a blanket of snow, broken by the evergreen trees over the top. On May evenings, just after supper, he’ll see a group of boys there. They’ll be singing hymns, led by one of
the priests.
The sounds carry clear across
St. Mary’s Lake. But now, as one kneels there, it is quiet and unpretentious. The rugged rocks and the iron rail and kneeling benches are strangely characteristic of the “sincere, unaffected devotion” of Notre Dame. The campus murmur is absent; only the swishing waves and the chimes of the Church above can be heard.
The “Cradle of Catholicity"
One doesn’t find the Log Cabin Chapel until he has circumvented the old College, the Library or Morrissey hall. It is hidden . back of these three buildings; a rough loghouse with chinks of tar and clay between
View of the Groi
the logs. Probably feet by 40 feet.
But mathematical
it measures about
information won’t
terest the pilgrim. Here before his eye Indiana’s cradle of Catholicity. This i-\< spot where a Jesuit priest, Rev. Cla Alouez, said Mass in 1686 before a bap’ fascinated Indians. The Jesuits were sequently driven out when the post taken in one of the skirmishes between British and French. Years later came first priest ordained in the United Stat
“Calvary
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The
Hallinan b
St. Mary’s Lake
ither Theodore Badin; he built the chapel lich was used by Notre Dame priests unit was burned to the ground in 1856.
venty years later, an old log-cabin church is moved here from Bertrand, Michigan, "had been the first church to be erected the area -west of Detroit and north of the io River. Time and tradition had their y, finally, when the present chapel was It in 1906—an exact model of Father din’s.
that is the story of the chapel. Inside,
!n the Lakes
Shrines
much more is learned. The room is filled with the memories of these heroes—the priests Badin and de Seille.
The latter, of whom not
much is remembered, was a worthy companion of the other pioneers. The portrait on the north wall tells vividly of his death, in the following story:
Father de Seille had been dangerously sick and his companions left to seek medical aid for him. In the room were only a few Indians faithful to the last. When death approached, the priest crept to the altar and in his dying moments gave himself the Viaticum, expiring soon after. The terrified Indians refused to let the authorities take away their beloved leader and for days stood guard over the body. Finally, civil officers intervened. The canvas, first sketched by Paul Wood and later finished by John Worden, depicts the last moment’s of de Seille’s life.
But it is really the chapel of Father Badin. Here are his peculiar candelabra, whose bases were images of Indian chiefs holding the bowl for the candles. Here is his Prie Dieu, upon which he knelt as he prayed for the success of Notre Dame and the Catholic church in America. On the back wall are the canopies which were a part of his chapel’s adornment. Here is his altar, simple and lighted only by the red glow of the sanctuary lamps. The pilgrim has knelt dowm; history and description are insignificant in the light of this man’s zeal and prayer.
The Stations and “Calvary”
Between the two lakes runs a cindered path that begins directly in front of the Community House. Here stand at intervals the posts which bear the bronze images of the Stations—Pilate’s verdict, the three falls of Christ, the meeting with the Blessed Mother, and the rest of that sorrowful course. With Christ and the angry mob of Jews, the pilgrim walks along until the end is reached—a hill in the dark gloom of the woods. Here the Crucifixion is portrayed. A life-size figure of Christ on the Cross is silhouetted against the skies; below kneel the forms of the Mother and St. John. '
Very little can be told the visitor about Calvary and its history. The statues were erected in 1875, for the following note is found in the annals of that year: “The large Crucifix on the west side of the Upper Lake was, as all know, presented to Notre
Inside the- Log Cabin
Dame by a pious lady in France. Lately, the same lady and two other persons made an additional present of two statues (lifesize) of the Blessed Virgin and St. John the Evangelist, to be placed at the foot of the Cross. The statues are in bronze.”
A meditative quiet surrounds the pilgrim here, too—only the waves of St. Joseph’s lake in the background can be heard. Then the leaves rustle as one returns to the .paths below the hill.	.
Journey’s Encl -	■
We are back at the campus again now— the quadrangle is eager with the hum of gridiron talk. The student-pilgrim feels that he has been away for weeks or even
months. He makes an effort to link the Wisconsin victory with the spirit of Badin, of Sorin and de Seille. And in a moment he sees the connection.
It is all Notre Dame. Here on his left, in Science Hall are the shrines of knowledge were Vergil, Aquinas, and Einstein, are sought. Over there on Cartier field and in the gymnasium are the temples of virile American manhood. And back there are the real shrines—where scholar and athlete both pray.
The pilgrim is over in Corby hall now; he turns and glances through the rear window. It is dark at the Grotto now. The evergreen trees stand in grotesque forms, contrasting with the yellow and red of autumn. Beyond is Calvary, and to the left the lake that washes the. shore near the Log Cabin. Some boys are there praying; others are walking the paths between the shrines.
The pilgrim remembers a little verse by ■C. A. Richmond, who didn’t know of Notre Dame men and then- prayers and shrines when he wrote “The Lord’s Prayer”:
They were ordinary soldiers,
Just the common Jeans and Hans;
One from the valley of the Rhine
And one from fair Provence.
They were simple-minded fellows, Every night each said his prayer.
The one prayed Vater Unser, And the other Notre Pere.
178
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
The Connecticut Valley Club will meet in the Law Building to-night for the purpose of continuing the business which was begun at the initial meeting. President Tim Toomey plans to announce an important office at to-night’s gathering. The added inducement to be present will be refreshments and cigarettes.
The first meeting of the club brought to the center of attention the fact that many new men have come to the university from the region drained by the Connecticut River. These new men are expected to be present at tonight’s meeting, and to help the older members in conducting the affairs of the club. A further invitation is given to any New Englander at school who resides within 75 miles of Hartford, Conn., but who has not yet become a member of the club.
NEW JERSEY CLUB
All freshmen and upperclassmen are asked to be at the second meeting of the New Jersey club to assist in the discussion of plans for the Christmas dance, other important business in the form of election of the Freshman vice-president representative, and the arrangement of a program of future activities. All Jerseyites, not members of the club, are invited to attend, Law building at 7:45 p. m.
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB
The last meeting of the Grand Rapids Club was held last Wednesday, October 16. The Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., was unanimously re-elected honorary president of the club.
Plans for the banquet which is to take place early next month were discussed and a committee was appointed to start preparations for the annual Christmas dance. This dance is to be an important event for all men living in this vicinity, consequently, they are asked to attend the next meeting, the date of which will be announced in the Scholastic very soon.
DETROIT CLUB
Announcement was made at the last meeting of the Detroit Club concerning the first banquet of the year to be held in the College Inn of the Hotel LaSalle, November 7. The committee in charge has promised an unusual entertainment for the affair, including several prominent campus speakers. James Sullivan, president of the club, anticipates an enjoyable evening for the members and requests that everyone be present. A special committee for the Christmas formal will be announced by Edward Nobel, general chairman of the dance.
ROCHESTER CLUB
A meeting of the Rochester Club will be held within the next two weeks to finish discussions and plans concerning the Christmas dance. Plans concerning the securing of watch charms for club members are also to be concluded. All members are therefore asked to watch the Scholastic for the next meeting date. •
METROPOLITAN CLUB
Arrangements for the testimonial banquet to be held December 12 in honor of John Law, football captain, have practically been completed according to announcement made by John Fogal, president of the Metropolitan Club. The committee in charge of arrangements has extended a special invitation to Mayor Walker of New York and Grantland Rice of Brooklyn, nationally known sports writer. Tickets for the banquet will be on sale in the halls within the next two weeks.
A meeting will be held Thursday night in the Lay Faculty dining hall at 7:45, and final discussions will be taken up concerning a special train to the Army game. Professor Charles Phillips, of the English department, and Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., will address the club.
UTICA CLUB MEETING
Matters relative to a Christmas dinner dance will be decided at the meeting Sunday morning in the Law building. Dennis Morgan, chairman of the dance, reports that arrangements have been partially completed and final announcements will be made soon. A definite date for the banquet to be held in the Rose-Marie Tea Room will also be decided upon.
SCRIBBLERS
In their meeting in the Journalism Room of the Library last Tuesday evening, the Scribblers listened to Murray Hickey Ley read a paper on “Eugene O’Neill—Mystical Agnostic.” Plans were perfected for a banquet, tomorrow night, in the Oliver Hotel, at which Mr. Benjamin Musser, editor of Contemporary Verse, and Mr. Charles Phillips, of the University faculty, will speak.
SPECTATORS
Last night the Spectators met in the Journalism Room of the Library. Victor Martzel spoke on “Humanism,” and Thomas Keegan discussed economic subjects. Both of these topics were followed by heated discussion. The President spoke concerning the coming election and certain of the earlier applications were discussed.
WRANGLERS’ CLUB
Last Wednesday evening in Organizations’ Hall plans for this year’s debates were discussed by the Wranglers. Thomas Keegan, chairman, feels that everything points to an excellent year. Concluding this, a very informal initiation, not, however, without its serious aspects, followed. Messrs. Kirby and Andree are the new members.
TEXAS CLUB
A new organization, the Texas Club, came into existence Wednesday evening, October 16, with an enrollment of thirty-five members at the first meeting. It was agreed by the members of the club that all activities will be held here at Notre Dame or in South Bend, due to the distant residences of the members in their home state. A smoker has been planned and announcement as to date will be made in the next issue of the Scholastic.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
179
COLLEGE PARADE
Our illusion in regard to that muchly-ballyhooed California weather is shattered. The Southern California Daily Trojan brought the brutal truth in a news item stating that the mercury registered 99 in Los Angeles recently. Even in Indiana we don’t have anything that bad—at least not too often. And really, the rainfall here to date this year has been almost negligible. (We hope conditions will not return to normalcy before this achieves publication). Southern Cal, by the way, seems quite satisfied with their grid prospects for the current season, as Howard Jones appears to have produced another typical Trojan team. Well, you know Rock doesn’t exactly have a bunch of tid-dledy-wink boys on his team this year, either. The proceedings at Soldiers’ Field on the afternoon of Nov. 16th will undoubtedly clear up this little matter.
§ § §
Columbia University is conducting a symposium on religion, the purpose of which is to acquaint the students of the university with the ideals and beliefs of the Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant faiths. Rev. Francis P. Duffy will be the spokesman for the Catholic Church, Dr. Fosdick will be the exponent of the Protestant Church, and Rabbi Wise will discuss the Jewish religion.
§ § § ■
The Green and White of Ohio University has this to say of us: “Notre Dame has refused admission to many this year. The school is overcrowded, and only those who rank in the upper third of their high school graduating classes have been accepted.”	■
§ § §
The weatherman at Bloomington must be a newcomer, but he has already learned something of Indiana weather. On one day he predicts “Possible Showers Today,” and a few days later he has changed it to “Probable Showers Today.” Soon he will realize that showers are not only probable but even likely in Indiana, every day.
§ § §
St. Thomas, our Minnesota relative, has this year as its athletic director and head football coach, Joe Boland, who is well remembered here as one of Rock’s mainstays of a few seasons back. Joe certainly has our heartiest wishes for every success in his new position.
§ § §
“Greeks Clown, Grades Down, Deans Frown—No Parties.” Thus briefly is told the sad story of eight Greek letter houses (five fraternities and three sororities) at the University of Missouri which are to be without social privileges for the coming year as a result of their failure to make.the scholastic average necessary for participation in social activities. The average required of the sororities is 220 points (whatever that means), while the fraternities must extend themselves only to the extent of 190 points. This looks like a just concession to the long-suffering men, but maybe it’s just an open poke at their scholastic ability or lack of same.
One of the most interesting papers to reach us is the Tulane Hullaballoo, a very peppy, complete, and well-built periodical. The sports section is easily the best we have encountered, and one item in particular attracted our attention. This was a story about our Johnnie Niemiec, who for three years did some splendid half-backing for Notre Dame, and one Raleigh Drennon, who served brilliantly as a guard on the Georgia- Tech team during the same period. After being deadly gridiron enemies for these three years, Johnnie and Raleigh are now rooming together in Ashland, Ky., where they are employed by the Armco Steel Company. They are also co-starring now on the company’s football team.
• § § §
According to the Daily Texan, everyone at the University of Texas is quite elated over the signing with Harvard of a grid contract calling for a game between the two schools at Cambridge in- 1931. It will be the first time since 1904 that the Longhorns have invaded the North; in that year they came up and absorbed a 68—0 beating from the University of Chicago. That was way back in the days when Stagg’s team could still beat even a good team every now and then.	'
§ § § •
Taxicabs must be an extremely rare luxury at Northeastern University. From the school paper we have the story of a freshman who recently came to mass meeting via taxi, to the complete surprise of the entire student body. It seems that until that moment no one had ever been known to come to mass meeting by such methods. This Northeastern place goes in for soccer in a.large and successful way, having lost but one game during the last two or three seasons.
§ § §
Ohio University has just completed a new stadium, and henceforth the men and the women are to be seated in separate sections. The men will smoke their cigarettes in section five, while the women will crack their gum in section three. Maybe this move is calculated to insure more attention to the game from all concerned. •
§ § §
At Denver the men may be men but the women are horseshoe throwers, so much so that they had to have a tourney to determine the champion tosser.
§ § §
In the Manitou Messenger of St Olaf we read that a “Former Coach turns Chicken Raiser.” We have heard of coaches being driven to almost everything, but never before to fowl production.
' § § §
At Southern Cal they are beseeching every student to put a school sticker on his car.
180
The Notre Dame Scholastic
We are bold and fearless, believe it or not, but we cannot reply to No. 55 lest we become as esoteric as we did in our exchange of correspondence with Sans Gene (et Sans Souci). But as Mary said in the Oliver Sunday, when she was introduced to Wazmus, “I’ll bite you.” That goes for you too, No. 55.
—o—
The other night one of the “Fratie Boys” was seen rolling on the ground in a paroxysm ($2.87) of laughter. Tsk! Tsk! That Indiana moon.
Ah! Another contrib. Derfla Llag wants to know: “If I carried a tray of bread out of the refectory, would I be well bred?” No, Derfla, you’d be thrown out of school.
—o—
One day the essay professor, yes, THE essay professor asked for a definition of “shibboleth.” Up shot the hand of Dan McGrew, a smart young southerner from Washington. Sez he, sez he, “Fathuh, a shibboleth is an Ahish waw club.” Sez you?
—o—
IF I WERE “WINK” . . .
When I read all the wise-cracks
’Bout my home town and such; -
‘Bout all the high flood waters;
My j)oor poetic touch;
The “padded cell,” you said, where I should slink;
My rotten contributions to the WINK;
My talent for high-jumping;
My eccentric native state,
I think the WINK’S bland editor
Must be an addlepate;
A daft, bewhiskered, frenzied missing link (Who jumbles ozit a jargon called the WINK);
A dithyrambic Scribbler;
Bzim; dullard; booby; nut;
Delirious, simple, common, Unphilosophical mutt.
All this and more .... I’d tell you what I think If you. were FIFTY-FIVE and I were WINK.
—Number 55.
—o—
Benchley in the New Yorker: “I sometimes wonder if we have progressed very far since Sheridan. If I really thought we hadn’t, however, I would go in for raising elk and let the theatre shift for itself.”
Is that a threat or a promise, Robert?
—o—
It is rumored by our department of statistics that the write-up of the Sophomore Cotillion (The Cotillion of Charm) will contain between 84 and 1000 dots.....
--...	....	_-- ' ■--■--nrM-r^wwmn-n---im
Some day we are going to run a column which will resemble closely the agony column of the London Times. At present we do not care to have any hurt feelings on our hands, but will the smart young men please let us have their best wit and humor and will the young ladies (here or elsewhere) let us have their best wit? Poppa’ll gonna kick baby by the mouth from the foot if it doesn’t geeve a few more from contributions. Like the young man who woke up the Shakespeare class by asking a question, we want action. Looey, dot dope, hadn’t a thing for us; Wazmus .... well, Wazmus has got a mad on us (as our neighbors in New Jersey would say) and as for our other pals .... well, they and I is pals in name only.
How can I be humorous (Please, girls, drop those eggs) with Beethoven’s seventh symphony making me feel all cosmic and such. And another thing, if we can’t get contributions any other way we are going to begin offering prizes. Of course, to lend some suspense we won’t announce the prizes until the winning contributions are published. Anyone is eligible who has read this far .... even New Yorkers, English majors, and Freshmen. To be really fair about it we will include even S—nt M—ry’s G—rls. Unless the Freshmen and New Yorkers think that unfair. (English majors are resigned to anything.)
We almost forgot to tell you that Jake says that someone at school had an invitation to the Trumbull-Coolidge wedding. Of course, we haven’t the slightest idea who, in Sorin Sub, would get that invitation. On the other hand, we may be wrong. Anyway, ask us and we’ll tell you everyone in Hartford whom we know.
" And Beattie Queerquax is ready to answer your personal problems if you will send them to her in our . care.
Dear Miss Queerquax: Last night I dated a fellow in Lebanon, Indiana, who took me for a ride on the Big Four and brought me home at 9:30 . . . . last night. What shall I do?	—(Miss) S. A. Peel.
Dear S. A. P: Shuffle and re-deal.	—Miss Q.
—9—
If the dues aren’t paid to the class treasurer’ by the first we suggest that Bob institute “Collection Week.” If the project be a success we intend to charge the Senior Class one dollar for the idea.
A rather neat one we heard at dinner Sunday: “Pass down the dishes. You’re slower than a U. of Washington hop.”	.
—o—
Bertrand Russell and Will Durant, with John Dewey as Chairman, will debate the question, “Is Education a Failure?” After wondering how Russell and Dewey got in that company, we can say only, “Well and well, well.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic	181
- II I I KIIIM ll lfl -
The term “Fighting Irish” has been applied to Notre Dame football teams for years. It first attached itself years ago when the school, comparatively unknown, sent its athletic team away to play in another city. Sports writers used the term in an ironical, unsympathetic way. At that time “Fighting Irish” held no glory or prestige. It was given by sports writers in the same sense that the crowd would give a head of cabbage to a “ham” actor.
The years passed swiftly and the little school began to take a place in the sports world. Journalists suddenly woke to find the cabbage transformed into a beautiful bouquet of shamrocks. The “ham” actor no longer took his bow to an indifferent audience but answered the curtain to an enthusiastic crowd. “Fighting Irish” took on a new meaning. The unknown of a few years past had boldly taken a place among the leaders. The unkind appellation became symbolic of the struggle for supremacy in the field.
“Fighting Irish!” Recall the associations of the term. Think of John Mitchell, Robert Emmert, Wolf Tone, or Edward Fitzgerald, fighting Irish all! Review the struggles of an indomitable race crushed under the cruel heel of an empire’s boot. What does the term imply? Does it not recall the Easter of 1916 when sixteen “fighting Irish” were backed against a wall in Dublin barracks and shot to death? " Does it not recall the gallant struggle for existence while famine .and foreign law clutched savagely at the throats of a stricken but unconquered Ireland?
The term while given in irony has become our heritage. The implications of “Fighting Irish” are too much like our own struggles for recognition to be so easily ignored. We are criticized on every side for using the term but the critics gave us the name. They too, see that it has more than one application. Too late they seek to retract what they gave in irony a few years ago. Realizing that the name “Fighting Irish” has taken a significance they never dreamed of, they now seek to disparage us again by other terms. “Wandering Nomads” we are called. “Ramblers,” “Galloping Gaels,” and “Fighting Irish-Italians” are made use of to describe us. None of the terms stick. We hope they will not. One by one the sports writers will come back grudgingly to the old name. -
The ethnologists object to the name on the grounds that the Irish are in the minority on the football team. The Savoldis, Carideos, and the Schwartz’s, they say, are not Irish, and so are not fighting Irish. For that matter Yale teams are not “Bulldogs,” Wisconsin players are not “Badgers,” or Northwestern “Wildcats.” Our name is merely an identifying one which has been glorified on many a field of battle. So truly does it represent us that we are unwilling to part with it. With the Moynihans, the Leahys, the Cannons, and the Collins’ to justify the name, let us go down through history as the “Fighting Irish” of Notre Dame. The term is our legacy, won by grim unyielding struggle. The name honors us. Let us honor the name. And we are sure the Eichenlaubs and the Rocknes, the Eggemans and the Stuhldrehers of the past will be with us; and, too, the Carideos and the Schwartz’s and the Savoldis of the present generation.	—T. V. M.
182
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Badgers Are Caged By Fighting Irish
Savoldi Leads Teammates in Stirring 19-0 Victory
ITJiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiniiiiiiimitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifi]
I	STATISTICS OF THE	I
1	GAME	i
e	First Downs:	e
E	Notre Dame, 12.	E
E	Wisconsin, 9.	E
5	Passes Completed:	e
E	Notre Dame, 2 of 14 for	66	e
E yards.	E
E	Wisconsin, 2 of 9 for	12	E
= yards.	E
E	Yards from Scrimmage:	e
E	Notre Dame, 395 yards.	e
E	Wisconsin, 130 yards.	E
E	Penalties:	e
E	Notre Dame, 105 yards.	E
E	Wisconsin, 50 yards.	E
was nuthin’ at all.
I Watch me go through Car-
-*■ negie Tech the same way!” And if Joe Savoldi does as he promises to do, Notre Dame need have no fears, for the way this galloping ghost tore up and down Soldiers Field last Saturday was just a shame—so says Wisconsin.	.
Savoldi scored only two of the three touchdowns against the Badgers because he was put out of the picture by one fast fellow with the name of Jack Elder, who scored the other one.
Savoldi Was “It”
Joe was the whole works last Saturday and let there be no doubts about the matter. His runs of 40 and 72 yards to touchdowns were certainly picturesque in their action.
Savoldi found a path through the holes excavated by that devastating line for numerous gains during the game, but the most successful runs were the two for the touchdowns.
The first run of 40 yards came in the initial quarter. Savoldi had just seen his teammate, Marchy Schwartz, go around right end for 35 yards so
he followed suit and sliced off the right tackle through the hole opened by Metzger and McManmon, then shook off several of the would-be tacklers and the forty-yard journey was on. Before he reached the goal line the Badger safety man who had been chasing him, lunged at Savoldi but missed him by several feet and the flying Italian was safe across the goal line.
And Savoldi Can Gallop!
■ Savoldi’s second run evoked the greatest applause from the tremendous crowd present chiefly because of
The Coolest Man on the Team Hails from the Sunny South
Marchy Schwartz
his doggedness and supreme effort.
In the middle of the third quarter, Savoldi was handed the ball on a quick play and again he ripped thru right tackle and with excellent interference outdistanced the entire Wisconsin secondary. He roared down the field faster that he had ever gone before and when he reached the five yard line, only a few steps away from the goal, he found his strength suddenly leaving him. Savoldi did not quit there, but mustering enough courage he bravely galloped, (and how he galloped!) across the line where he fell utterly exhausted.
That last five yards of Savoldi’s was surely a wonderful sight. The way he galloped along, swinging up and down for that last short stretch brought the crowd to its feet with a roar of mighty approval.
Elder Shows His Elusiveness
Jack Elder’s canter of 43 yards took the Badgers by surprise. After the Flying Colonel’s interference broke through ahead of him they found several Badgers close in on the runner, one succeeded in grabbing him, but a twist of the hips and he was flung aside. Elder cut in close and away from the secondary and then with a violent burst of speed raced down the field to the goal line.
It is surprising to note that a resume of the ganfe shows that Notre Dame was in possession of the ball only about one-third of the game. Although Wisconsin held the ball the greater time it finished on the short end of the score.
This is explained by the fact that six of the Notre Dame plays totaled over 225 yards. Notre Dame made 395 yards from scrimmage compared with 141 for Wisconsin.
Interference Is Biggest Aid
Perfect interference with every player “getting his man” was the rea
The Notre Dame Scholastic
183
son for the Fighting Irish’s crushing victory.
On every one of those long runs of Savoldi and Elder, several of their teammates could he found leading them through the close binding web of the Badger defense.
It was indeed fortunate for Notre Dame that Wisconsin found it opportune to fumble the ball when it would have benefitted them the most to hold on to it. At least four times they miscarried the ball dangerously close to the goal line, only to have it recovered by Notre Dame, who punted out of danger.
Carbon Copy of Four Horsemen
The reincarnated Four Horsemen appeared in their best performance of the season. They had the rythm, snap and agility of the original quartet down perfect. One could almost imagine Stuhldreher and his buddies out there on the field, so perfect was the first string backfield in its executions of the plays.
Deception is playing a large part in Notre Dame’s victories this year
[■jittiitiiitmiiinmi.itiiiiiiimimmmiiiiimiiimmiiifT] 1 ATTA BOY, JACK! i
E IOE SAVOLDI played fine i E football against Wisconsin E | Saturday, mainly for the reason E | that “he kept on going.” And E j the reason he “kept on going,” E | was because Assistant Coach e E Jack Chevigny spent the better E i part of the previous week E E pounding it into him, that to E | get anywhere as a fullback, it E E would be necessary for him to E E “keep on going,” after hitting e | the enemy line.	E
E “Keep on going, Joe!” barked E E Jack at the big fullback in the E E practice scrimmages. “Don’t E E stop when you are tackled! E E Keep those legs going! Don’t e | stop even when you are on the E | ground, with half of the other E E team on top of you! Keep on E E going until you can’t wiggle a E E toe! Don’t stop till the referee e E takes the ball from you! Keep e E on going! Keep on pumping E E those legs!”	E
= It must have been a pleasing E E sight to Jack, on the sidelines, E E to see his pupil “keep on going” | = as he did Saturday, once, at E E least, with six or seven Badgers E I on his back, clawing at him. E I A beautiful bit of coaching, | E Jack, old timer!	E
(gmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiminuninuiiiHiiiiii.nm>iiiniiinl«|
and it is getting rather difficult to follow even the ball-carrier. On numerous occasions last week, the spectators were watching a fast cross-buck play, to see the ball presumably passed to
He Played the Best Game of His Career Against Wisconsin
Jack Cannon
a half around left end, only to notice the carrier come up through center with it.
Plays Too Deceptive
Something will have to be done to the plays or else the spectators will become peeved over the fact that they cannot follow the ball readily enough. So have pity on the money customers, Kock!
If Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish team performs the rest of the season the way it has in its first three contests there will be no doubt as to the outcome. It is a wonderful team and it will play some wonderful football before the time comes for the Army game.
Coach Knute Rockne and his chief assistants, Tom Lieb and Jack Chevigny, in particular, deserve a great deal of praise for the pains-taking efforts they are taking in the drilling of the team. Their only reward will lie in the success of the team. They are expecting a lot this year, and the team is not the one to cheat its tutors of their just reward.
The line-up:
Notre Dame		Wisconsin
Collins	LE	Jensen
McNamara	LT	Witte
Kassis	LG	Liethan
Nash	C	• Krueger
Metzger	RG	Parks
McManmon	RT	Ketelaar
Conley	RE	L. Smith
Gebert	Q	Behr
O’Connor	RH	Oman
Schwartz	LH	Bach
Savoldi	F	Gnabah
Q iiiimiiiiiimii tin in tin mini । miminim mu iiimiiimiii|«| 1 KASSIS AND O’CONNOR e I OUT FOR TWO WEEKS I
E Two members of the Notre E E Dame team will be out of the e E game for several weeks at least, = E while the remaining two on the E E hospital list will be ready for E E action tomorrow against Car- E E negie Tech.	E
E The most seriously injured is E E Bucky O’Connor, who suffered a E E dislocated shoulder last zveek, E E and he will not be ready for E E about two weeks. Tom Kassis E E is hobbling around on crutches E E with a sprained ankle and he E E may be forced out of competi- E E tion for more than that time. E | Manny Vezie suffered an e E aggravation of his bad knee in E E the game with Wisconsin, and = E Moon Mullins underwent the E E same injury in practice before E E the Badger game. Hoivever, E E both players are expected to be E E in the lineup against the Skibos E E tomorrow.	'	=
Score by periods:
Notre Dame ................6 0 13 0—19
Wisconsin .................o 0 0 0— 0
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Brill for O’Connor, Kaplan for Brill. Carideo for Gebert, Golrick for E. Collins, Moynihan for Nash, Cannon for Metzger, Elder for Schwartz, Donoghue for McNamara, Law for Kassis, Twomey for McManmon, Vezie for Conley, Vik for Vezie, Kaplan for Brill, O’Brien for Colrick, McManmon for Donoghue, Howard for Savoldi, Kassis for Cannon, Kaplan for Brill, Conley for Vik, Gebert for Carideo, Schwartz for Elder, Nash for Moynihan, Vik for Conley, Colrick for Collins, Locke for Kassis, Metzger for Law, McNamara for Twomey, Donohue for McNamara, Shay for Howard, O’Brien for Colrick, Leahy for Schwartz, Kenneally for Gebert. Wisconsin—Gantenbein for L. Smith, Pacetti for Bach, Lubratovich for White, Lusby for Oman, Casey for Jensen, H. Rebholtz for Gnabah, Baer for Hardt, Swiderski for Parks, Kyr for Pacetti, R. Reb-holtz for Lusby, Warren for Gantenbein, Shoemaker for Lubratovich, Hardt for Leithan, Hansen for Swiderski, Linden for Hardt, Casey for Warren, Sheehan for Linden.
Touchdowns—Savoldi 2, Elder. Point after touchdown—Carideo.
Officials: Referee—Masker (Northwestern). Umpire—Schommer (Chicago). Headlinesman—Lipp (Chicago). Field judge—Daniels (Loyola, of Chicago).
CHAPEL-CAR AGAIN USED
The “traveling chapel” is being used by the football team again this week on their trip to Pittsburg and return. This is the same car which was built by the Baltimore and. Ohio Railroad for use during the Eucharistic Congress several years ago.
184
The Notre Dame Scholastic
CARNEGIE TECH IS NEXT FOR NOTRE DAME
Another rip snorting football session is in store when Notre Dame takes on Carnegie Tech tomorrow at Pittsburgh in the fourth of a string of gruelling contests.
It’s time that someone takes the wind out of the sails of Carnegie Tech and it will be Notre Dame’s golden opportunity. The Skibos have been riding along on the crest of the heap for several seasons, chiefly because of their victories over Notre Dame for the past two years.
Like Wisconsin, Like Carnegie
The Fighting Irish will not forget those two victories—at least, not any more than they did against Wisconsin . —and a very friendly little battle will ’ be contested on the Tartan gridiron.
Carnegie Tech has had only medio
cre success thus far this season. Two easy games marked the opening of the year for them. They defeated Thiel and Western Reserve, 27-0 and 33-0, respectively.
The Skibos played more or less of a loose, ragged game of football last week against the Presidents, threatening to score on numerous occasions, but lacking the punch and drive to push across a touchdown.
No More Harpster
With Bull Karcis, the huge, burly, crushing fullback are Dutch Eyth and Thayer Flannagan at the halves. To replace Howie Harpster, the great quarterback of last season, Coach Wally Steffen is relying upon Harry McCurdy.
An end, center, and guard were lost last year and Steffen has had his greatest problem in replacing these men. Captain Dreshar and Fletcher
are situated at the two guard positions with Ducanis at the pivot post. Highberger and Schmidt, two big bulky linesmen, are playing tackle. The ends are English and L. Flanagan, two fleet, shifty wingmen.
Skibos Have Pozver
Carnegie Tech has been drilled in somewhat the same offensive methods as was seen last week in the Wisconsin game. Notre Dame will be bucking up against a well-coached outfit, a strong passing offensive and a deceptive line attack.
This game is one of the pointed contests on which Knute Rockne has his eyes fastened. He will instruct his team to make amends for the double loss of the past two seasons and to regain the fame lost when the unblemished Cartier Field record was marred last year with a crushing defeat by the Tartans.

THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
o
St. Joseph County Savings Bank
o
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
| GILBRO’S SPECIAL — Corduroy Sheep Lined Coats I
$8.85
Coat is wind and rain E proof. Blue corduroy with E sheep lining. If you’re in- E tending to buy a corduroy : sheepskin lined coat you’ll E buy this one. This coat is E 36 inches long and has two E large pockets with flaps as E well as two warm flannel : lined muff pockets. Has E one-half wool knit wrist- E lets to keep the wind out E of .the sleeves.	E
Blue corduroy pants to = match—Cream, Buff or = two-tone §2.95 and up. E • - . $3.45 |
GILBRO’S
FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE	|
330 South Michigan Street	E
itmmimmmiiiaiimmMMiiitmuiiiammmiiMiiiimtiimiiuttiMMiiiiaMMnimifBBMawiiMwQ
o
122 W. Washington, J. M. S. Bldg.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
185
^vja •■ ■ ■ a a a a ■ ■ it ta a a ■ ■ ■ a ■ a n a aa a a a a a a ■ ■ ■ a a a a a a ■ a a a a a a a a a a a t a a a a ■ a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a ■ a a a t a i a a a a aa a a a a ■ a a a a t a a a a a a a as t a Q
| DeLUXE SERVICE |
I Parlor Car and 1 I Dining Car Trains	I
E	From	E
I	SOUTH BEND	j
i	to	=
|	CHICAGO	|
1	For detailed information	E
E	talk to Charlie Wood in the	=
5	Book Store . .	=
I . CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE	|
I	& SOUTH BEND	I
I	RAILROAD	1
QittiiiuiiiHiiittintiiiitiiiititiiiiuuiiittiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiitiiiiiitttntiiiiiniitttiiiiitiniiiiiiiiiiiiQ
i For school supplies 1
]	appropriate reading material	|
[	patronize	I
I	The Book Shop	|
|	119 North. Michigan St.	|
[■pitiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiiiititiiiuinitiiiiiiitiiiiiititiiiititiniiiiiitiiiiiiir g j QUALITY BY I IK U p P E N H E I M E Ri
LUCKY?
Contest now open $25 in merchandise
FREE
To the lucky guessers of the score of the next Notre Dame football game.
The following Notre Dame men were winners last week—
Robert Driscoll Herbert Crowe Thomas Games J. H. Flanagan Bernie Heitz Wm. Redmand
Come .in—place your guess.
(QiiittiiiiiiiitHaiiitittiiHtiiiiiititiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitHittmiitiuiitiuitttiBiunituitiiHiiiiitiiiiiiiHuiiaaQ
186
The Notre Dam eScholastic
NOW YOU HEAR The famous smile that makes millions merry!
faaaaaaaactBimmaaaaaHaaaHaaaaiaimaaaiaaafmiRaaiiiaafmaaaaaaaaiiaaiiiaiiinQ \ R. K. 0.	1
GRANADA
=	The Students’ Favorite Theatre . =
The world’s greatest comedian talks for the New Show World. You see and hear all the split-second action of “Speedy,” the glorious fooling of “Grandma’s Boy.” Lloyd at his supreme and laugh-making best, and.
HAROLD LLOYD talks in “Welcome Danger”
A Paramount
ALL-TALKING
COMEDY tvith
BARBARA KENT
• PARAMOUNT SOUND NEWS “The Eyes and Ears of the World”
Today’s Outstanding Humorist ROBERT BENCHLEY in one of his inimitable monologues.
ONE ENTIRE WEEK
Beginning Saturday c«u»x Home of Paramount Pictures
4 DAYS COMMENCING SATURDAY
LIFE—
Its Heights!
Its Depths!
Its Drama!
Richard Barthelmess
SPLENDID!
As big as you’d expect from the screen’s most popular star!
“YOUNG NOWHERES”
With
MARION NIXON and a Great Cast.
A First National Vitaphone Picture.
3 DAYS ONLY COM. WED.
INA CLAIRE
(Mrs. John Gilbert)
in
“The Awful Truth”
Her first speaking role on the screen.
The
Notre Dame Scholastic
187
I ii -
INTER-HALL RUNNERS IN MEET NEXT WEEK
Coach John P. Nicholson has announced that unusual stress will be placed on interhall and freshman crosscountry tins year. When the call for Varsity candidates was sent out this fall, the smallest number- of men in history reported. This is due, Coach Nicholson believes, to the lack of interest in the sport shown by freshmen of last year.
Heretofore, the men-not in actual Varsity competition had not much of an opportunity to take part in crosscountry races, not even to watch them. Naturally, this did not help to create interest in the sport. “Nick” promises, however, that things will be different this year.
Two series of dual interhall meets have been arranged, the first of which will be held on Oct. 27. The winning teams in each one of these contests will be awarded five points to be counted in the scoring for the Interhall Championship Cup.
On November 3rdj the Interhall Championship men will run. All teams competing in dual meets earlier in the season will be eligible for this final race. The winning team will be awarded 10 points; second place will receive 5 points; and third place, 2 points. The hall with the greatest number of points scored during the season will be presented with the championship cup.
Each member of the winning team will receive gold medals, while those of the second place will get silver ones.
A hall to be eligible for competition in a meet shall be represented by a team of five men. Four men will count in the scoring.
The dual meets scheduled for Sunday, October 27th are: Freshman vs. Sophomore; Carroll vs. Brownson; Badin vs. St. Edwards.	.

SUNDAY	NORMA
Thru	SHEARER
TUESDAY	IN
“ The Trial
OF
Mary Dugan”
A woman with a past —a woman giving her AT J,	life to the greatest self-
sacrifice — before the TALKING bar of justice with no one to speak for her . '. . . what happens?
WEDNESDAY	‘
THURSDAY	‘
COLLEGE
COQUETTE
With
RUTH TAYLOR WILLIAM COLLIER, Jr.
| XTRAND J
QmmmnummminmimiummmimHiJUinuimnmminnimiinmntmiiiiiiiuimHinHuiQ
i R. K. 0.
|PALACE
| Sunday-Monday-Tuesday
I SH! SH! SH!
I	MYSTERY! MURDER!
i	A pistol shot—
. =	A piercing scream—
1	A crumpled form
I	in a house of mystery—
i	And a woman on trial for .
1	her life in the strangest
1	murder ever recorded.
|	“The Drake
| Case”
i	With an all-star cast including
I	GLADYS	BROCKWELL,
1	FOREST STANLEY and
1	ROBERT FRAZER
i	Pius
I	5 RKO ACTS OF
I	VAUDEVILLE
|	Including the spectacular song and
I	dance revue	=
| STOP! LOOK! USTEN! |
I FOUR DAYS—COMMENCING WED. I e	Beatrice Joy and Star Cast in	i
I “A Most Immoral Lady” |
1	On the Stage—	1
|	Bobby (Uke) Henshaw	|
e	and His Relatives	I
|	25 —PEOPLE —25	|
SaaaiaaaaaaaaaaiiaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaasaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaBaiaaaaaiBaaiiiaaBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaQ
..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUI|||||	II..Ill....Illllllllllllllllllll.Illlllllllllllll.Illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll..
188
The Notre Dame Scholastic
JOE QUIGLEY ELECTED CROSS-COUNTRY CAPTAIN
Joseph Quigley, a Junior in the College of Commerce, was elected to the captaincy of the cross-country team for the 1929 season, prior* to the opening meet of the season last Saturday.-	.
This is Quigley’s second year of varsity competition, and he is one of the two veterans from last year’s squad who returned for this season. His good showing last year against more experienced opponents, and his early season form this fall, made him the outstanding candidate for the honor.
Quigley is one of the very few wearers of the Blue and Gold monogram who have been honored with the captaincy of a varsity team during their third year at school. Joe Jachym, who captained the basketball team in his third year and cocaptain with Frank Crowe in his senior year, was the last one to hold such a distinction.
Besides running cross-country, Captain Quigley runs the half-mile on Coach Nicholson’s track team. Last season, he turned in the best time of all the varsity men in the half-mile
event when he covered the distance in 1:58 3-5 in the invitation meet on June 1.
FALL HANDICAP MEET IS HUGE SUCCESS
The annual Varsity-Frosh fall handicap track and field meet was held Wednesday, October 16, on Cartier field. An unusual number of likely-looking candidates took part in the meet this year, according to Coach Nicholson, and some very good times and distances were recorded.
Gold, silver, and bronze medals were presented to the winners of first, second, and third places respectively in. each event.
The results were:
100-YARD DASH (finals) — Won by Kelly; second, Trandell; third, Madden. Time—:10, winner running from scratch.
300-YARD RUN—Won by Casey; second, Smith; third, McCormick. Time—:31 4-5; winner’s handicap, 25 yards.	•	.
600-YARD RUN — MacBeth and Rudd tied for first; third, Scanlan. Time—1:18 5-10, MacBeth running from scratch, Rudd from 30-yard handicap.	'
1000-YARD RUN—Won by Little; second, Grimes; third, Hoyt. Time— 2:28 1-5, winner* running from scratch.
120 YARD LAW HURDLES (finals)—Won by Reinbolt; second, R. Vaughn; third, Kohut. Time—:14, winners’ handicap 7 yards. 1
BROAD JUMP—Won by Abbate-marco; second, Giordano; third, Frey. Distance 20 ft., 5 in., winner’s handicap 3 inches.
HIGH JUMP—Won by Darling; . second, Abernathy; third, Abbate-marco. Height, 6 ft. % in., winner’s handicap 2 inches.
SHOT PUT—Won by Branfort; second, Beudine; third, T. McDonald. Distance 43 ft. 9% in., winner’s handicap 3 feet.
DISCUS—Won by Branfort; second, Moreau; third, T. McDonald. Distance 127 ft. 6 in., winner throwing from scratch. ,
JAVELIN—Won by R. McDonald; second, R. H. Smith; third, Branfort. Distance 167 ft. 3 in., winner throwing from scratch.
POLE VAULT—Won by Vessely; Terry, St. Clair and Schmidt tied for second. Height 12 ft. 1 in., winner’s handicap 12 inches.
^miiiiiiiniiiiiittitiiiititttiiiiiiiiiiiiitiitiiitiiiinttiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiniiiiitMMtii>{a|
|	HELLO MEN!	[
| SMITH’S CAFETERIA I
1	111 East Jefferson Boulevard	=
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The Home of Quality
tiHiiiiittiiimiiiiiBiiiiiiittuiiitiiiiiiatiiiiiiKitsiiiiititiiMitiiiiiit in tiniiiiiiiiiiiinitiiiQ
| Notre Dame	j
i	vs.	|
I	Carnegie Tech	j
| If you cannot attend the game you | e	can get a play by play report in the	I
|	News-Times “Pink” Football Extra,	I
j	containing final scores of all games; on	=
e	the street Saturday night at 7 o’clock.	I
1 WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
| SMITH’S COFFEE SHOP
f	West Washington Ave.
THE
NEWS - TIMES
The Notre D am e Scholastic
189
r
1 1
*
I -

Nunn-Bush cAnkle-FashionedOjcfords
qou can see and feel the difference
KLINGEL’S MENS’ SHOE SHOP 112 NORTH MAIN ST.
Ankle-Fashioning, exclusive with Nunn-Bush, eliminates unsightly gapping at the ankle and uncomfortable slipping at the heel. Result: Nunn-Bush oxfords look better and feel better. ~	~	~
SAWYER'S Rainwear FROG BRAND SLICKERS
CHEWING GUM
y
VAL BLATZ BREWING COMPANY
With an exclusive flavor that’s refreshing and lasting. Save the wrappers. See inside for list of premiums.
VAL BLATZ BREWING CO. Milwaukee, Wis.
Read the SCHOLASTIC

O AWYER*S Frog Brand Slickers bavceslab-lishcd a lasting reputation on the campus among uell-<lrcsbc<l college men and women *hcrc rain garments of good appearance as well as long life are essrniiaL
Sawyer slickers arc all good-looking, roomy.' Mcll-eut garments, guaranteed to keep you ab«olutely dry and uarm and are to be had lined or unlincd.. but tons or clasps as you prefer, in a wide variety of style* for every purpose. Your choice of colors. Shopsevery-where carry' them.
H.M. SAWYER^ & SON
EAST CAMBRIDGE. -------------MASS.
(Jfitfi *
Srw\«wkN.Y Chf«r«.M- 5i. Low*. >J® S»a Vwoma.
WHEN MAKING PURCHASES, REMEMBER THAT OUR ADVERTISERS DESERVE YOUR PATRONAGE.
• HARRIERS PLACE SECOND IN QUAD MEET
The Blue- and Gold harriers of Notre Dame took second place in the quadrangular cross-country meet run last Saturday morning at Northwestern University, in Evanston. The meet, which was the season opener for all teams entered, was won by Wisconsin. Illinois took third place, and Northwestern trotted in fourth.
Alex Wilson, Notre Dame’s sophomore star, won the three and one-half mile event in 18 minutes and 42 seconds. Four Wisconsin runners crossed the finish line before Captain’Quigley scored for Notre Dame. Cavanaugh in ninth place, Biggins in eleventh, and Bauers in seventeenth, were the others to figure in the point scoring for the Blue and Gold.
Illness Forces Out Howery
Howery, running in second position until the three mile mark was reached, became ill and was forced to leave the race at that point, spoiling Notre Dame’s chances of a dopeupsetting victory.
Coach Nicholson said that he is very well pleased with the showing the team made against the Big Ten leaders, but at the same time, realizes that he cannot expect the team to equal last year’s record. The schedule this year is much too difficult for Notre Dame’s inexperienced team.
Team Leaves for Lansing -
A squad of eight men, together with Coach John P. Nicholson and Student-Manager Kennedy, left today for Lansing where they will meet Michigan State College to-morrow afternoon. Michigan State has practically her whole team back from last year, and Nicholson says that he expects this meet to be even tougher than last Saturday’s.
It was announced early this week ’ that a meet with Butler University, of Indianapolis, has been arranged for November 2, in place of the one with Marquette which had been tentatively arranged for that date but later cancelled. The Butler team will be met here at Notre Dame on the newly laid out University course.
AN INDIAN MESSAGE OF THE
VANISHING AND THE COMING FAD It will be our pleasure to mail you. free, at your request, the story of the treacherous Apache Indian Chief. “Geronimo,” Indian Symbols and their meanings, together with our catalog consisting of Indian and Mexican made goods, such as Indian Designed'Jewelry. Pottery, Navajo Rugs, Etc. It will ■ also be our pleasure to mail free a token souvenir of Indian Jewelry or pottery to the first two students who answer our Ad.	-
WIGWAM CURIO, RATON. N. M. ’
190
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Crisp as football weather!
Here's a great new cereal with all the snap and tang of sparkling autumn Saturdays.
A cereal so crisp it actually pops and crackles when you pour on milk or cream. Each golden bubble packed with wonder flavor.
Try Kellogg's Rice Krispies tomorrow. Ask your fraternity house steward or favorite campus restaurant to serve them. They are particularly delicious with fruit or honey added.
RICE KRISPIES
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg's Corn Flakes, all-bran. Pep Bran Flakes, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
SINCE 1854
Daniel Hays Gloves
♦ I 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ♦ | On Down the Line |
* I 1111111111111111111 i I ❖
. .. Three dots . . . that means three straight victories . . . next week we intend tc use four . . . Carnegie Tech boasts of the biggest hands and feet in college football . . . Leonard Schnupp, a lineman, and “Bull” Karcis fullback, respectively, hold those obvious distinctions, . . . The golf capital of the world—so claims Pinehurst, N. C. with six courses within a two-mile limit . . .
BEAT
. . . “Babe” Herman is going to ask the Brooklyn Robins for §100,000 for next season’s work . . . and Lou Gehrig draws only §25,000 at present from the Yankees . . . Six feet and 7% inches and 225 pounds of captain . . . such is Paul Jessup, 1929 leader of the Univ, of Washington outfit . . . Promoters of boxing matches in Illinois are required to have two stretchers at the ringside . . . they are not for the spectators but for knockout victims . . .
CARNEGIE
. . . Great Britain does not boast of a single paid expert with the comprehensive knowledge required to coach athletes in all forms of athletic events . . . The University of Louisville has lost ten straight games and in these losses has not scored a single point . . . their last victory, ■ the initial contest last season, was 72—0 . . .
TECH
45 of the 59 men on the Univ, of Chicago roster hail from local territory . . . Notre Dame has but 3 Indianans on its squad of 90 odd ,. . Pitcher Goldsmith of Newark pitched only one ball against Baltimore recently and was charged with the defeat . . . Ray Watson of the I. A. C., one of the greatest middle distance runners from 1921 to 1923, is minus his right arm from the.elbow down ...
TO-MORROW!
. . . Six brothers form part of the University of Iowa football team . . . Douglas and Silas Tompkins, two of them, weijgh 445 pounds aggregately . . . Coach Bill Wood of Middletown (Conn.) Wesleyan, <>has his players step in front of a full length mirror in the dressing room and view themselves . . . fully dressed ... it is supposed to have a psychological effect on them . . . makes them more brutish ...
The Notre Dame Scholastic
191
k.
♦Js	♦♦♦	♦♦♦	A
Splinters from the Press Box
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
As we draw near to the middle of the season, things in general seem to run in their ordinary courses; upsets are fewer, and class is beginning to tell. As far as we can make out, there was not a real upset in any part of the country, save possibly one or two in the South. W. and J. tying Carnegie might be classed as one, but . Harvard was expected to give Army quite a go; in fact, the Crimson’s -line was ranked above that of the men from The Plains. And when one Christian Keener Cagle got going, his elusive hips and stuttering feet accounted for Army’s three touchdowns.
We read five accounts of last Saturday’s game, and to us it seemed that none of them gave Jack Elder the credit due him for his run to a touchdown. We have been watching football games for some ten or twelve years, but never have we seen a run equal to the Colonel’s. We have seen longer ones and runs that have been made under more melodramatic conditions, but for sheer shiftiness and the slipping of tackles, we have never seen its equal.
When the pickers of All-America teams get together some two months hence, it seems to us that they will have to give a lot of consideration to Douds, captain and tackle of W. and J. What he didn’t do to Carnegie’s much touted line - last Saturday, wasn’t on the books to be done.
Coach Nicholson seems to be bringing his cross-country men along at a fast clip. Last Saturday, the hill-and-dalers placed second to Wisconsin in a quadrangular meet with the Illini and Northwestern trailing. But for a general attack of stitches from which almost the entire squad suffered, there might have been another story to tell, but as it was, it was indeed a fine showing for a team composed of sophomores and juniors, to make. Alex Wilson, blond and bland Olympian, showed his ability to run almost any distance from the sprints on up, by leading the crack field home.
Speaking about records: Penn State, under the tutelage' of William Jecrey, has lost but three soccer games and tied six in the last fourteen years; Schenectady High School, of Schenectady, N. Y., won the Manhattan College Interscholastic CrOSS-
Ready-mado And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES
I '	-	«
Charter > onse
•	Suits MO, *45, *50 ) vercoats
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE
Charter erase
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
The character of the suits and ; overcoats tailored by Charter House i will earn your most sincere’ liking. ”
:	MAX ADLER :
—	Inc.	«
■* .	«
3 On the Corner	Michigan and Washington —
BEAUTIFUL ALAMAC CARDS MAKE SELLING A PLEASURE
Selling ALAMAC Christmas Greeting Cards is an easy, pleasant way for college men to make money. This distinguished line opens every desirable door. Intelligent selling plan, sample book of personal cards and dollar box assortment start you off to Christmas profits.
FREE SAMPLES.
The Alamac Company s/'NewTork Dept. CW—6 Varick Street—New York
192
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Perfect-Fitting Sweater with permafitr seam
SAMUEL SPIRO & CO., South Bend, Indiana.
Country Run fox' the fifth successive year last Saturday; and Manual Training, of Brooklyn, N. Y., lost a football game for the first time in four years, and, incidentally to the only team that beat them four years ago.
WE NOMINATE FOR THE HALL OF FAME:—
John Joseph Elder, holder of records, who is known as The Flying Fenian, who is one of the greatest of modem sprinters, whose modesty is exceeded only by his ability, who is a leader and an inspiration, but who, most of all, overcame his inability to cut on a football field, and now stands out as one of the country’s leading backs.
Teams come and go, but the crosscountry teams of Penn State seem to go on forever. Off-hand we cannot recall the last time a Penn State cross-country team was beaten. The tradition of Bill Cox and Blondy Romig, Alan Helfrich and Schuyler Enck, Olympians all, is strong with these teams.
Last Saturday we were pretty lucky, which gives us four out of five this season. To-morrow we pick Dartmouth to beat Harvard, Navy to beat Princeton, Army to beat Yale, and Iowa to trim Wisconsin.
^^tretch the Check from home. Spend less for food ... have more for fun. Shredded
^FREE
Wheat—for breakfast and for midnight supper. Delicious and economical. Helps you work and
lets you sleep.
Shredded
Wheats
Keeps you active and alert
The New SCREEN
. GRID
1 models i
■ Write for latest I catalog just off I the press—148-page book offering hundreds of radio bargains —New
Humless Screen Grid, A.C., allelectric and battery operated sets —beautiful consoles, accessories, parts and kits—all at wholesale prices.
rwpiaWsf $11S95 . as law a* - -
Chicago Salvage Stock Store 500 Sa. State St Tech. Bept. Chicago

The Notre Dame Sc h o 1 a s t i c	193
i
Kindly Rei d-1 fe ■•:• > 1 -^jK‘ vC'A FRANK COUGH Republican CITY JU “A Notre Damt President 1921 Senior Class Capt. ' 1	member . ILIN for DGE ? Man” 1920 Foot Ball Team
194
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
196	The Notre Dame Scholastic
Beat
DRAKE
down at Chicago next Saturday—the gang is figuring “SOUTH SHORE” because they know it’s their railroad* Talk to Charlie Wood in the Book Store! ▲
$3*05 Round Trip {Day of the Game)
S4.25 Round Trip
(Over week-end)
Special Rates Offered,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
197
JUDGE
Chester L. DuComb
— for —
Republican Candidate
A man who everyone knows is the man for MAYOR — qualified, able and experienced.
‘djote ^Republican
198
The Notre Dame Scholastic
students overcoats with the real campus air single and double breasted
35.00
40.00
45.00
o
adler brothers