I
Disce quasi semper victurus ; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MARCH 22, 1884.
No. 28.
A Maid of the Mountain.
I see her standing, those bright tresses playing Loose at the pleasure of the summer gale, Or brown or golden, as the sunbeam, straying
-From wave to wave, is luminous or pale. Around, great rocks, above her warm, blue skies, Beyond, dark mountains where the eaglet cries.
Down to her feet, in swells of silvered green.
The mountain meadow rolls its living tide, All crested, as sea wave has never been, With the rich color of its flowering pride. Ah, child, come with, the future sun or showers. Not twice the cold world grants such happy hours!
No close, dim bondage blanched that rounded cheek. Where health’s brown beautv laughs at envious art. i Or checked the step, or taught the lips to speak The idle falsehoods of an empty heart.
Slender and tall, as ancient art has drawn, The proud young Huntress of Arcadian dawn.
Her childish playmates were the gray winged doves. ' Red fragrant roses and the hare-bells blue;
Beneath the boughs of shadowy alcoves.
She learned but God's great lesson,—to be true; And, laughing, tosses back her wind-blown hair. Deai- to mv heart, most innocent, most fair!
Marion Muir.
----	♦ -«J!> •	...
The Study of History- *
The acquisition of historical knowledge may he considered in two lights: as a source of mental pleasure, and as a means of advancing our interests in the practical affairs-of life.
It is always a pleasure to recall the actions of our fellow-men. Even as a matter of curiosity, there can be nothing more interesting than to explore the paths of ancient empire and renown—to read over tlic exploits of the great ones of Judea, Assyria, Persia, Egypt, Greece, Rome, and the kingdoms and republics of the Middle Ages and of modern Europe, as well as those of our own Continent. What names we meet with in such a review! The heroes of Asia, Europe and America pass before us, and we look with admiration upon
* From a Lecture delivered by Prof. T. E. Howard, March 16, 1884.
. their God-like forms, and contemplate with enthu-I siasm the deeds that have raised them to the very I stars. They are the actors in the great dramit of j time, and seem to pass before us for our amusement i on the ever-moving stage of human action. The , play is al wavs waiting for us, the actors ready, the | scenery up: lift the magic curtain, and, lo! there i they are,—warriors, statesmen, discoverers, orators, poets, painters, sculptors, architects—the wise, the good, and the great—whatever they have thought, or said or done is always present to the I Christian. Call them up at pleasure, for you may ! open at what page you will.. Do you wish for tragedy? Turn to the history of Caesar, the Conquest of Jerusalem, the English rebellion, or the French Revolution.
Do you prefer the ennobling epic? Read the wonderful story of the Jewish nation, cull in the glory of the Saviour of the world. Or, listen in history, as well as in romance, to the tale of those Crusaders, when all Europe moved as one man to the recovery of the Holy Land. Or. watch the stead v, strong growth of the great Roman Republic, until, from a small spot in the swamps of the Tiber, it passed out to the uttermost bounds of the known world. Or, look again, from that Jewish nation, from that Holy Land, from that Roman Republic, see that other and more wonderful growth: bathed in their own innocent blood, behold that despised people, still flourishing as they are trodden upon, until the great ones of the earth are fairly won by their supernatural humility; and the magnificent concourse of Christianity becomes the glory and the beauty of humanity.
And if you would fain look for the sublime and the pathetic in the annals of your own land, take up the story of the discovery; live over with Columbus the weary years of preparation, of disappointment, suffering and hope, and then start with him and his three small ships with their little crews, bearing out boldly with the blessing of Heaven, into the unknown western waters; hope sinking and rising in their timorous breasts, but ever flaming in the great heait of their leader, until at length the long-looked-for landbursts upon their vision, and a new world is added to the domain of God’s people; while the untold glory of future nations looms up to gladden the soul of the hero.
Have the epics of Homer and Dante anything more grand in them than is to be found in these in
434
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
spiring epics of history? and are not the tragedies of history as heart-moving as those of Shakspeare? Has aiiy ancient or modern poet ever equalled the sublime pathos of Joseph making himself known to his brethren? Is there any tragedy equal to that of the funeral pyre of Joan of Arc? Has any fictitious heroine ever equalled the real Mary Queen of Scots?
And, indeed, when we come to look closely on the matter, from what sources but those of history have the poets drawn their beauties and their sublimities? The history of man’s mind, as exhibited in his actions, is indeed the subject-matter of all that is excellent in literary composition—that is, the beautiful poetry of all time is but the history of all time newly-formed in the creative mind and heart of men of genius. How, then, without a knowledge of history shall we be able to enjoy the beauties of the fine arts,—of poetry, of oratory, of music, of painting, of sculpture, and of architecture?
Is it possible for me to apprehend the beauties of Homer and the other Grecian poets, unless I know the history of Greece itself? Everyone of those old bards has constant allusions to the customs, laws and wars of his country; and shall I sit down now, in.this age of the world, and try to read Greek poetry with pleasure, when I understand little or nothing of the history and character of the Grecian people? And what to me is the grandeur of Roman poetry if I understand nothing of that grander Roman history? And when we come to modern poetry—French, German, Irish, Italian, Spanish, English, and American, our inability to enjoy it without a knowledge of history becomes still more apparent. For modern poetry not only overflows with allusions to modern history, but is also brimful of references to that of antiquity.
So of Oratory. Who can appreciate the excellence of the oratory of Demosthenes, Cicero, Burke, Chatham, O’Connell, Patrick Henry, or Daniel Webster, unless he first has a knowledge of the leading facts in the history of their respec' tive countries? To take pleasure in the Philippics of Demosthenes, we must know the history of Philip; to be swayed bj’ the orations of Cicero against Cataline, we must know something of the history of Cataline; to be fired with the eloquence of Burke and Chatham, we must peruse the history of England, of the American and French Revolutions, and of Hastings in India; to be moved by O’Connell’s grand voice, we must know the cruel wrongs of Ireland; and to take pleasure in our own great orators, we must know the history of our own great country.
In like manner may we speak of al!the fine arts: we cannot thoroughly appreciate or enjoy them if we do not know the history of the people and age that produced them. Have you ever reflected why it is that the Italians, the Spaniards, the Flemings have produced the great masters of painting? The solution is to be found in the character of these peoples and the countries they inhabit, which you can learn only by a careful study of their history.
Only from such a study can we have a rational enjoyment of those painters, and distinguish the Spanish from the Flemish, the Flemish from the Italian, and all these from the rest of the world.
Again, why has Germany produced the great musical composers? The secret is contained in the history and character of the German people; read and you will know. Or, why did the Gothic architecture originate in central Europe and during the Middle Ages? The history of those countries and ages will furnish the answer.
The ancient sculptors were Greeks; the modern, Italians—and, latterly, Americans. Are there no reasons for these things? have matters turned out so by chance? Not by any means. It is history alone—the history of race, of time and of place, which holds the keys to all these mysteries; and if 1 you enjoy the beauties which the art of ages and j of nations has left us, you will study history’s pages that your enjoyment may be the more .complete and rational.
The student of history can see that the poets, the artists, the philosophers, the statesmen, and the warriors, could come only when and where they did come. They were the product of their age, their people, and their country, even more truly than are the fruits of different climates the necessary products of their respective soils. The olive .or the vine may be transported from Italy to another land; and, though slightly modified, may still | flourish another and the same. But only Italy and Middle Ages could have produced Dante and Michael Angelo. From no civilization, from no climate, from no people but his own could Homer or Alexander have come forth. Were Corsica not annexed to France a little before the French Revolution Napoleon would not have been the Napoleon that we know. So Shakspeare might have been a possibility instead of being a reality. Had his parents fled from England during the religious disturbances of the sixteenth century, and he been thus accidentally born and brought up a Frenchman, he would never have been Shakspeare, the first of poets. The eighteenth century and the French Revolution were necessary to develop the warrior as he was; the sixteenth century, the English character and the English language were necessary to develop the poet as he was.
Thus, the mere pleasure we take in contemplating the exploits of heroes and the creation of art is very much heightened by a knowledge of the circumstances, the times and the people—in a word, the history that has.produced them.
But if history affords so much ennobling pleasure to the mind, how much more worthy of pur attention does it become when we consider- the advantages to be derived from its perusal, in.guiding us to a just knowledge of the practical duties of life by holding up before our eyes the mirror of the past in which the future is reflected! Considered in this light, history becomes one of the great teachers of.men and nations; and it is in this light, especially, that I would ask your attention to the claims-which its. study hasupon us, as' the. teacher of the past and the guide of the future,—the. lamp
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
435
of experience by which the great orator said his feet were ever guided.
You will not always remain the happy truants of academic halls. You will go forth’ to take your places in assisting to mould the society and to form the laws of vour country. You may have great influence on the destinies that are in store I for the coming years, or you may have but little; ! but you certainly will have some influence, and it is important to consider what that influence shall be. What vou need more than all else, except wisdom, is experience, or knowledge, without which wisdom itself is useless, for wisdom is nothing but the ability to use knowledge well.	i
But as vou arc vet young, your experience in the affairs of actual life amounts to very little, and you must rely, nc»t upon vour own knowledge, but upon that of others. The experience of ages is ready for you on the pages of history; and it is that knowledge, more than any other, which will give you large and just views of life.
We have often heard that history is repeating itself, that there is nothing new- under the sun; and so it is: as men have done in the past, even so, or very nearly so, will they do in the future, and he who thoroughly understands the past is the prophet of the future. He who is looked up to as a far-seeing statesman is but a wise man who has the knowledge of the past, the history of the ages, ready to apply to the history of his own age and country.
Who are those wonderful beings that we call self-made men? The term is applied in common to the majority of those who rule in the leading walks of life,—the great merchants, lawyers, statesmen and others, who are the Solomons of their day and generation, doing everything at the right time, in the right place, and in the.right way; so that they stamp the age and the people with the impress of their personal character. They are often thought of as uneducated persons, who have, as it were^ roughly shoved their way through the crowd until they have attained a place of honor and wealth among their fellows; but, as a matter-of-fact, they are of different origin, and of various training; some born of wealthy and honorable, { some of poor and honest parents; some having received the education of the Academy and the University, and some that of the farm and the workshop. Their distinction from the rest of the world does not consist in these things, or in any mere circumstances, hut rather in themselves.
Self-made men arc simply those who have made the most of themselves, and of circumstances in which they were placed. They obtain a University. education, if that be-possible; if not, they do the best they can in educating themselves; but, at any rate, their education is practical, always at hand td serve them in the emergencies of afterlife. History, the example and the experience of mankind, is the lamp of wisdom which has guided the best of these men, and history itself is full of them. Indeed they may be said to have moulded history to their own will, for history is little more than the biography of great- men. From their
lives, and from the examples which they have left us, we may learn the practical lessons of success in life. It was the history of the great things of past times that nourished in their souls the desire of« executing the wonders which they afterwards achieved.
History, thus spurring on the great ones of eypry age by its splendid examples, appears in the light of the most practical of the sciences—a science that teaches us how to live well. The poet has the long array of sacred anti profane writers, from David and Homer down to the mo§t renowned bards of his own day; the sublime wits of the. ages aie his rivals, and he achieves his success—if success he possible—by emulating, by striving to equal or surpass, the time-tested productions of their genius. The astronomer has the grand results of the past heaped up in wonderful brightness upon the historic page; and his aspiration is still to add new light to all this glory. The General has before him the heroes of the past, whose deeds and whose fame it is his ambition to rival; and it is well known that Hannibal and Napoleon, as well as many other great ones in every state of life, were fond of comparing themselves and their deeds to the men and the deeds of history. What patriot has not been inspired by the story of Alfred, of Hampden or of Washington? what orator has not grown emulous of Cicero or of Burke? what statesman has not become wise with Pericles, with ' Chatham and with Hamilton? Even in private life, we have before us the record of the good and wise of former days. What man or woman has not become nobler and better from reading the life of Isabella of Spain or Thomas More of England? History is universal in its examples, and has something in its pages for the improvement as well as the admiration of all persons.
(conclusion in our next.)
Little Minnie.
Little Minnie prattled near me
On the flow’ry speckled lea, Picking up the tiny flow’rets, Sporting in the highest glee.
In her hand she held a bouquet, With a tiny ribbon bound, And she asked, in childish accents: “ Are such flowers, in Heaven found?”
“ Yes, my child, such tiny, flow’rets Even bloom above the sky,
But their fragrance is much, sweeter— “ ’Tis the breath of th’ Most High.”
Since that day that little angel
From this world has passed away
To the everlasting gardens .Where there shines etern’l day:
There she.’s happy, singing sweetly ’Mong th’joyful Cherub, band,
And her, little.face is.beaming In that ey’r-bloomingland.
J. McC.
436	THE NOTRE 'DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Our Common-School System.
BY CHAREES F. PORTER, ’85.
One of the great questions of the day for us Americans is that of a proper system of education. The vital importance of this question cannot be spoken of too much, or set forth too strongly. The future of our Republic depends on the system adopted for the education of the young. The Catholic Church has, at all times and under all circumstances, been the patroness and fostering mother of education. Almost all the great universities of Europe were founded and liberally endowed by the Catholic Church. Thus she has conferred incalculable benefits on mankind—bene-' fits which we even now enjoy.
From the time of Charlemagne, in the ninth century, to that of Leo X, in the beginning of the sixteenth, free schools were instituted nearly all over Europe. During the whole period designated by Protestants as the “Dark Ages,” laws were ■enacted by the Roman Pontiffs and bishops which required that wherever a church was erected schools should also be established. And if these laws could not always be carried into effect, it was not the fault of the Church, as the civil commotions—then so , frequent—sometimes prevented it. Hallam, Turner, Guizot, Schlegel, and other learned men of various religious beliefs recognize this fact.
The opposition of the Church to our present common-school system does not arise from a disposi-tionto check the education of the many—which, on the contrary, she always endeavors to promote—but it is founded on other and altogether different reasons. As regards the Catholic parent, our commonschool system is grievously defective and faulty, and infringes upon the religious liberties, guaranteed by the Constitution. It compels him to pay taxes for the support of schools of which he cannot conscientiously avail himself. He is forced to incur the enormous expense of erecting and supporting other schools for the education of his own children, and thus is doubly taxed! A sound religious and moral training is infinitely the most important element of an education, and this is not, and cannot be taught in our present common-school system, which either ignores religion altogether, or teaches principles which are certainly false and pernicious. Youth constantly needs to be under the care and moral influences of religion. Teaching the young merely the elements of reading, writing, spelling, and arithmetic, will not teach them to be virtuous and self-denying.
In the United States there are about three hundred religious sects, and, of course, it would be a very difficult matter to so regulate the commonschool system as not to infringe on the religious belief of anyone. However, we think the difficulties are not altogether insurmountable. If the system can be so regulated in European countries as to be satisfactory to all, why can it not be done in this, afree country? No system which violates religious belief can permanently succeed. Most
of the European governments which have established common-schools have understood this; and nearly all of them have adopted provisions to secure those rights.	-
In not one of the educational establishments of Europe, whether Catholic or Protestant, is there to be found anything exactly similar to our own system, either in respect to compulsory taxes to support a system of which the minority do not approve, or in regard to teaching any particular religion in the common schools, which would be conscientiously disapproved of by the parents.
Religious teaching is made in nearly all of them an essential part of a common-school education, and is imparted to the children of the-different religious persuasions by their respective-ministers; yet no parent, not even in Germany, is-compelled by law to send his children to a school1 of which he disapproves, provided he is able and willing to educate them in schools of his own. choosing. It was reserved for our own free country to adopt a system which has no provision for religious instruction. xA. bigoted, but frank English Protestant,* who examined the educational’ systems of Europe, in speaking of Austria, says:
“The most interesting and satisfactory feature of the Austrian system is the great liberality with which the Government, although so staunch an adherent and supporter of the Romanist priesthood, has treated the religiousparties who differ from itself in their religious dogmas. It has been entirely owing to this liberality that neither the great number of the sects in Austria, nor the great differences of their religious tenets, have hindered the work of the education of the poor throughout the empire. . Here, as elsewhere, it has been demonstrated that such difficulties may be easily overcome when a Government understands how to raise the nation to civilization, and wishes earnestly to do so. In those parishes of the Austrian empire where there are any dissenters from the Romanist Church, the education of their children is not directed by the priests, but is committed to the care of the dissenting ministers.”
Whenever the minority of any parish, whether Catholics, Protestants, or Jews, desire to establish a separate school for their children, and to support a teacher of their own denomination, they are at liberty to separate from the majority, to provide alone for the education of their children.
Here is a system of common-schools, in a country fully three-fourths, if not four-fifths, Catholic, under the control of the State-, which is probably more perfect, and less open to objection, than any with which we are acquainted. It distinctly recognizes, and practically carries out, the “ two great principles which we believe essential to all sound education in a mixed community composed of Catholics and Protestants—(i) The teaching of religion as the first and most essential department of education; (2) The perfect guarantee of religious liberty, which in this system is fully recognized with religious differences among the population.” J
Formerly the educational system in France was practically the same as that of Austria, provision haying been made by law foi" separate schools; and that, too*, by an overwhelming Catholic major
* Joseph Kay, Esq., M. A. •
Archbishop Spaulding.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ity in favor of a very insignificant dissenting minority ! Under the present atheistical Government, the educational institutions which are not directly under the supervision of the Catholic Church are almost entirely devoid of all religious teaching. Only about six years'ago, a pamphlet was published in which were detailed the efforts made in France to spread irreligion by means of.bad education. The letters of eighty of the prelates of France are appended to the pamphlet. The most extraordinary efforts have been made to spread impiety, immorality, and the most anti-social theories, under the pretext of spreading education. Education is merely the cloak under which is hidden the great wave of infidelity.
Disputes about separate or mixed schools are unheard of in Prussia. Separate schools are allowed by law, and even in the mixed schools a teacher is elected by each sect, and in case there is not, the children of those parents who differ from him in religious belief are permitted to be taken from the school during the religious lessons, on condition that their parents make arrangements for their religious instruction by their own minister. In Switzerland and Saxony similar provis-•iohs exist, whereby the children are brought under the influence of a religious education.
In Bavaria, the kingdom of Wurtemberg, the Grand Duchy of Baden,’all over Germany, and even in Holland, separate schools arc allowed, and the children religiously and morally educated. Catholic Spain may be viewed as in a very fair condition in regard to common school education; while her numerous universities and higher schools are justly celebrated, and rank with the best in the civilized world. .
A distinguished Protestant traveller,* who examined thoroughly the various educational systems in nearly all the European governments, speaks as follows of education in Italy and other Catholic countries:
“ In Catholic Germany, in France, and even in Italy, the education of the common people in reading, writing. Arithmetic, music, manners, and morals, is at least as gen-v erally diffused, and as faithfully promoted by the clerical body as in Scotland. It is by their own advance, and not by keeping back the advance of the people, that the popish (!) priesthood of the present day seek to keep ahead of the intellectual progress of the community in Catholic lands: and they might, pei haps, retort on our Presbyterian clergy, and ask if they, too, are, in their countries, at the head of the intellectual movement of the age? Education is in realitv not onlv not repressed, but is encouraged by the popish (!) Church, and is a mighty instrument in its hands, and ably used. In every street in Rome, for instance, there are, at short distances, public primary schools for the education of children of the lower and middle classes in the neighborhood. Rome, with a population of 158,678 souls, has 372 public primary schools. 482 teachers, and 14,000 children. Has Edinburgh so many schools for the education of those classes? I doubt it. Berlin, with a population about double that of Rome, has only 264 teachers. Rome has also her university, with an average attendance
* Samuel Laing, Esq., a Scotch Presbyterian. According to him, Rome, the capital of Catholicism, and the chief city of Italy, is far in advance of Edinburgh, the capital of Presbyterianism, and of Berlin,- the capital of German Protestantism,, in the important matter of CommonSchools.
of 660 students: the Papal States, with a population of two and a half millions, contain seven universities. Prussia, with a population of 14,000,000. has but 7.’’ *
Even in England, where but a few- years ago, the Church was subject to so much persecution, Catholics are allowed their own schools, and the Government rather favors and helps them along than otherwise.
It is a remarkable fact, and well worthy of consideration, that Protestants have no cause of complaint in regard to common-school education, in countries where Catholics are in majority; while, on the contrary, Catholics are often aggrieved in their religious liberties in countries or communities where Protestants have the political ascendency. A striking example of this was shown, some years ago, in regard to Upper and Lower Canada. In Lower Canada, where the Catholics are in overwhelming majority, the Protestants were allowed separate schools; in Upper Canada, where the Protestants are more numerous than Catholics, the latter were not allowed the freedom of separate schools.	.	.
Thus far we have considered the educational systems of the principal European governments. Coming back to our own, the question again arises, are the moral influences of our public schools good? Can any impartial man say that they are? Can he say that the children are as well off as if they were placed under a Christian education ? It cannot be concealed or denied that our common-schools foster a taste for bad literature, which has anything but a .wholesome, moral influence. The frightful increase of immorality among the vouth of the rising- generation, proves that there is something radically wrong with the system. It is based on erroneous principles, and is subversive of parental rights and religious liberties, and we need not be surprised at its working so badly, and that the public have begun to discover its evil influence on the morals of the rising generation. Let us profit by the example of Europe, whether Catholic or Protestant, and let us have the liberality, the justice, and the moral courage to do what other nations have so wisely and successfully accomplished.
To conclude, I will quote from Archbishop Spaulding:
“ Education, like all other human pursuits, should be free, and a matter of free and general competition, leaving religion untrammelled. Let the State establish a system of Common-Schools, if it will; but let it not Infringe upon either parental or religious rights. Let it even enact laws, if it will, requiring all parents to -educate their children, as is the case throughout Germany, either in the CommonSchools, or some others of their own choosing. Let it levy an equitable tax upon all; but let it guarantee to all the benefit of the tax. Let it not adopt a-school-system. which practically closes its doors against the children of any among the tax-payers. Let it make religious instruction, to be given in detail by the accredited ministers of the different religious denominations, an essential element of the educational system. Let it. like almost all other Christian countries—whether Catholic or Protestant—acr knowledge the right in every denomination of Christians to establish ‘ Separate Schools,’ whenever they are in
* “Notes of a Traveller." Although these statistics may have changed somewhat since the book was written, they will serve for comparison..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
r	*
sufficient numbers iii particular localities to warrant them in sustaining such schools. Let these separate schools be erected and sustained like the rest of the Common-Schools, and be subject to the inspection of State visitors, in regard to the standard of education therein adopted and carried out but entirely free in the department of religious instruction. Let the provision be general for all religious denominations: for Catholics do not ask, and would accept of, no favor or exemption. Let the children be taught in these separate or parochial schools, up to the standard adopted by the school law, as applied and enforced by the school visitors or superintendents, receive their quota of the Common-School fund, created by taxing all, in proportion to the number of children so taught. This would be fair, and satisfactory to all.* 1' * •
If this system be adopted in this country, as it Ras been adopted by nearly all the nations of Europe, we have no doubt of its complete success. It is the only effectual remedy to the evils of our present school-system. This wise and just system has been tried elsewhere, as we have shown, and resulted-in success, and it is well worthy of a trial in our own happy, prosperous, and free country.
* Vol. I, Chap, xxxvii, art,—Common-Schools.
Ireland.
I saw in vision, centuries ago—	*
“ Divinely tall and most divinely fair ”—
A radiant maiden; and with her everywhere, To sun-lit heights from noisome depths below. Religion, Science, hand-in-hand did go Following: and, as shines in early twilight Jupiter, her beauty shone in Europe's night— A pathless darkness, fading all so slow That centuries had flitted by, and still
She reigned bright Queen and Teacher of the West! Alas’ that glory destined to decay
With wealth and learning, youth and beauty, till Her heart be broken,—can never give her rest From struggling for a iuster, happier dav!
,	.	‘	* T. E. S.
Notre Dame, March 17.	’
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Miss Bertha Von Hillern has received two thousand dollars for one of her forest scenes recently exhibited in Boston and Philadelphia.
—Very high prices were obtained recently at a sale of a collection of Burns’ works. The first (Kilmarnock) edition of.poems, chiefly in Scottish dialect’(1780), fetched £51.
—Mr. Leopold Lippmann lias left to the city of Luxemburg, to form a museum, a collection of paintings valued at one million francs. His wife retains possession during her lifetime.
—-Mr. Henry Baerer has completed the model of a colossal bust of Beethoven, which has been accepted by the Park Commissioners, and is to be cast in bforize and placed in Central Park.
—An English edition of “ GTSy’s Elegy;” with
illustrations taken principally from the scenery round Stoke Pogis, and with fac-similes of the author’s early'manuscript of the poem, is soon to be published.
—The throwing open of the archives of the Vatican Library to “ men of letters” has led to the publication in Vienna of a volume on the deliverance of Vienna by Sobieski in 1683. The work contains about three hundred and thirty-five documents and letters relating to that period.
- -The only authentic manuscript of Raphael is owned by the British Museum. It is that of his sonnet, which will shortly be published in facsimile in London. It is written on a sheet containing sketches for some of the figures in “ Theology,” painted in the Vatican about the year 1508-9. -
—A unique production in the annals of printing is Dr. Bj'brhstrom’s (Stockholm) work “On Diseases of the Mind and Abnormal Psychical Conditions, as Viewed from a Medico-forensic Standpoint.” The author is a physician for the insane, ' and the composition, printing and get-up of the book with all its technical requirements, including the binding,.are the work of the inmates of the lunatic hospital, Konradsberg, at Stockholm.
—One of Mrs. Carlyle’s letters, recently published, throws some new light on her personal habits. “I spend my life,” she writes, “chiefly in writing letters, smoking cigarettes, and loving the devil out of a Yorkshire kitten,—as credible an account of one’s self as my husband’s, anyhow, who spends his life, he writes to me, ‘ chiefly in sleeping, and in drinking new milk under new forms.’ Very bilious work that, I should sav: but everyone to his mind.”
—A new fragment written on papyrus of a New Testament manuscript has come to light. It is a single leaf written on both sides, in so-called minuscule cursive letters. It'was found at Fayyuni, and is now the property of Theodore, Count of Wien. Experts suppose it to be a production of the sixth century. One side contains Luke vi, 36-44, and the other Luke x, 38-44. It has some peculiai- readings^ which are of interest to critics. Only one other fragment of the kind is known to exist; that mentioned by Tischendorf in 1867. —Home Jortrhal.
—When Signor Silvani, the celebrated dancer who accompanied Taglioni on her first coming to Dublin, in 1835, bounded on the stage of the old Hawkins Street Theatre, Lord Mulgrave, then Lord Lieutenant, and his court, who were present,. ’ were startled with wonder at the joyous shout of “Bravo,-Pat Sullivan!” which came from the gallery to welcome then* countryman. If many other distinguished artists were scratched, the Hibernian would be found beneath. Signor Foli, the popular basso of the Mapleson troupe, oh liis first visit was baptized Tom Foley, and Sighor Ricci, a basso of splendid vblume and richness of voice,- who has j‘ust joined him after a full training in Itaijq is a Mr.; Griffin, of whom Cork is v&ry proud.—Ne'W York Sun. .	■	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	439
College G-ossip.
|	—Dr. Knox, has been given the presidency of
I - Purdue College, Lafayette, this State.
I.	—A Catholic Medical College has been estab-
hshed by the Jesuit Fathers at Bej rout. ’
f ’	—Students of the Advent College, at Battle
I,	Creek, Mich., have been expelled for flirting.
t	—$40,000 has been given to Boston University
;;	to endow a chair in the College of Liberal Arts,
j.	— Varsity.
lj:	.	—The Alabama State University is so crowded
J	that no more students will be taken until additional
d	buildings are erected.
I’	—Father Alfred Weld, the distinguished Eng-
lish Jesuit, is about to establish a college in the ’■	Southern part of Africa.	•
j;	—Illinois College, at Jacksonville, has recently
received a gift of $1,000 from Mr. E. AV. Blatch-J	ford, an alumnus of the Class of ’45.—Ex.
r	—Parents and guardians are requested not to
•I	send secular papers to their sons, or wards at St.
i	Mary’s College, Ky., because the columns of such
j	papers are filled with detailed descriptions ofcrimes
'	and outrages.
—A Catholic college is being built at St. Bruno, ’	Madawaska district, New Brunswick. It is pro-
‘	posed to complete it in time for the next annual
:	convention of the French Canadians of Maine.
|	—St. Mary’s Sentinel.
(•	—The Trustees of Dartmouth College lately
j	voted to erect a library building at a cost or $50,-
i	000. Funds for the immediate construction of a
1	chapel were obtained yesterday from the Hon. E.
y	Ashton Rollins, of Philadelphia.
(	•—By the will of the late Mr. Julius Hallgarten,
I	a banker of New York Citv, fiftv thousand dollars
S	has been left to the University. This legacy. is
4	• unconditional, to be used in whatever way the
j * Council mav deem best.—High-School Index. >	-j	o
I	.	’	.	’
|	—A Junior, as he knelt by his bed-side, the
|	other night, preparatory to retiring, discovered
4	that the slats had been removed from his bed, and
j	that the bed had been stacked. His devotions had
j	saved him a fall. Moral: Always pray before
|	* retiring'.—Ex. .
I-—A valuable addition has recently been made to the apparatus of the Physical Laboratory in a large comparator. This machine weighs 1600 ' pounds, and was built by the Ballou manufacturing company of Hartford, Conn., at an expense to the I	University of $800.— Cornell Sun.
,	, —While there are dozens of papers published
r	by the students of our American colleges, there is
i	actually but a single periodical of the sort issued
1in Germany. This is the Allgemeine Deutsche Studentenzeitinig;,vAxvA\ appears weekly in Berlin. But even this is not intended exclusively as an un-(dergraduate affair.—Haverfordian.
I1	. —A General Convention of exchange-editors is soon to
J	.assemble somewhere, in the West. Why cannot. Notre
Dame so renowned for open-handed hospitality, secure it?
—Williamette News.
Why, thanks, perhaps she will. But the truth is we are having scr much excitement of late—“All -things to their seasons are,” you know. ’
—A writer in The ' Varsity finds fault with the two o’clock dinner at the college residence refectory, and wishes the dinner hour changed to noon. However, on account of the quantity of midnight oil burned at the University he and the many others like him will hardly be accommodated. “Late to bed and late to rise ” seems to be the order at Toronto.
—Rev. Father Weldon, lately of Germantown, Pa., has been appointed first Prefect of Discipline at St. Vincent’s College, Cape Girardeau, vice Rev. B. V. Driscoll, who has been called to another field of labor. Father Weldon has already won the confidence and affection of the students, and the d general verdict seems to be that he is very gentle in his rulings.— College Message.	-
—It is reported that only one member of the Senior Class of Hamilton College is now in attendance. His fellows, owing to the unpleasantness existing between them and the Faculty, are temporarily absent from the institution. But a college class composed of one person is no new thing. When Harvard college first opened its doors the entire number of students was three. Of these two were seniors, and the other was a freshman. Of Juniors or sophomores there were none. We give these figures upon the authority of an emeritus Harvard professor, Dr. Holmes. In one of his occasional Harvard poems occurs this verse:
And who were on the catalogue -When college was begun ?	.
Two nephews of the president, And the professor’s son: Lord! how the seniors knocked about That freshman class of one!
—Herald- Crimson.
—There is no branch of studies, or of intellectual work of anv kind, which does not continue to engage the attention of Leo XIII amidst all the press of political and diplomatic business. He has lately reorganized the Seminary of St. Appollinare, to which he has added two new faculties, one for the Semitic studies, especially Hebrew; Syriac, and Arabic; and another for Indian studies, and especially Sanskrit. The Pope has further the intention of selecting the most talented of the students who have finished their course in the above Seminary, and sending them for two or three years ’ of travel and practical study in the East. It is • especially in the direction of Assyrian and Babylonian exploration that Leo XIII intends to direct the work of his scholars. For the same reason he has already begun in the Vatican Library a collec-‘ tion of cuneiform inscriptions, which will be the basis of an Assyrian Museum, destined to take its place by the side of the well-known Egyptian and Etruscan Museums. St. Appollinare has the advantage of being placed under the direction of one of the most intellectual men in Rome—Mgr. Talamo.— Catholic Standard. '	. -	'
44°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Marell 22, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetrv, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it: parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
-	Terms. Si.^o fer Annum. Post-paid.	'
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.	■
J. A. McIntyre, ’84. W. H. Bailey, ’84. Elmer A. Otis, ’84.	. C. A. Tinley, ’84.
James Solon, ’84.	W. H.Johnston,’ 85.
* C. F. Porter, ’85.
—Last Sunday evening, Prof. T. E. Howard entertained the students with an able and instructive lecture on “The Study of History.” We are glad to be able to present our readers with his remarks upon the occasion.	•
—The Faculty has honored itself by the series of resolutions drawn up and passed at its last meeting, regarding the recent arbitrary and unlawful act of the Italian government in confiscating the - property of the Roman Propaganda. If there is one thing more than another that commends itself to us here in liberty-loving America, it is a proper regard for personal rights, and especially, as against socialism, a regard for the inviolable right of property. Such action as the Italian government has. taken, we venture to say, would not have been thought of in America. What a protest, indignant and full of meaning, would rise up from all parts of the country were the Government, National or State, to invade the rights—personal or proprie-
tarv—of an individual, no matter how -insignificant he might be! As His Eminence, the Cardinal Archbishop of New York, so well said, in a recent letter: “It is just the same as if the United States Government were to seize upon the property of the Methodist Book Concern and confiscate it to its own use.”	•
—The Festival of St. Joseph—one of the principal festivals of the Congregation of the Holy Cross—was celebrated with great solemnity, last Wednesday. Solemn High Mass, at which all the students attended, was sung at 9 a. m. by Very Rev. Father General Sorin, assisted by Very Rev. Father Granger as deacon, and Rev. D. J. Spillard as siibdeacon. Rev. A. M. Kirsch preached an eloquent sermon appropriate to the occasion. Fittingly enough, a general holiday was observed, and heartily enjoyed.
We regret that unexpected press of matter in our columns this week compels us to forego a more extended notice of the celebration of this great day. We, with all at Notre Dame, realize, that the two grand festivals of the year—as far as the Congregation is concerned—are, and must be, the Feast of St. Joseph, and that of the Sacred Heart of Our Lord—the latter being the Titular Festival of the Congregation.
* - $ & ■ .
During the evening of St. Joseph’s Dav, the Orpheonic Society of the University gave an en-tainment, complimentary to Very Rev. Joseph Reze, Ass’t Superior-General. The programme followed will be found in our local columns, and for the present we must content ourselves with say -ing that the concert was successful, and showed the great resources of our Vocal Department. A beautiful French address to Father Reze was read by Master C. Cavaroc. We shall present it next week.	.
—It is formally announced that the Solemn Dedication of the New Notre Dame and the crowning of the colossal statue of' Our Lady is fixed for the 14th of September next. The day chosen for this imposing ceremony is one beautifully appropriate. The Feast of the Exaltation of the Holy ’ Cross is one of the great titular festivals of the Community, to whose direction our Alma Mater. and its surroundings are entrusted. The day, therefore, will fittingly mark the establishment of the new era of prosperity and Heavenly blessing upon which Notre Dame has entered. It is expected
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
441
that the celebration- of the day will far surpass the grand celebration of ’66, when, as many of our readers are aware, Bishops and priests and distinguished visitors from all parts of the country were in attendance.
It may not be out of place here to speak of something intimately connected with ' the completion and perfection of the plan of the New Notre Dame. It goes without the saying that no eftbrt or expense will be spared to have all in readiness for the grand dedication of next September. The buildings in connection with the college proper are erected, or rapidly approaching completion. But there is one thing upon which Notre Dame prides herself, while she is willing that others—living in a country especially placed under the protection of Our Lady Immaculate—may share in the honor and glory. It is to the perfection of the grand monument to the holy Mother of God in this country that attention is now called.
The Dome is finished, the grand, colossal statue has been placed thereon; and, as the venerable Founder—to whose direction all this is due—expresses it, “ Out of the great outlay, $25,000, not a dollar is regretted.” Signor Gregori who is quite familiar with the best domes in the world is delighted with the new Dome of Notre Dame; but, he says, he is bound to vindicate the veracity of the inspired declaration: Omnis gloria ejits ab intus. One thing more is necessary to complete the design of the monument to the Blessed Mother of God.	.
Who that has seen, the Dome of the Hotel des Invalides^ in Paris, can forget the power and brilliancy with which its burnished surface reflects the J	.
rays of the'sun? That this splendor may be reflected upon the statue of Notre Dame is the last remaining wish of Father Sorin and the Community of Holy Cross. That this material representation of the glory of the Immaculate Virgin may be extended as far as possible by day, and by night, through its reflected light of electric stars, is a thought that must commend itself to all who love God and honor His Blessed Mother.
We shall publish in our next a communication on this subject, which will express better than words of ours what should be the general sentiments of all in this regard. ’
—Within the past few years the custom has been inaugurated at the University of Notre Dame of conferring, on each recurring Lcetare Sunday, a medal
upon some one Catholic distinguished in either -Literature, Science, or Art. Needless to say, this . is an adaptation to the domain of secular knowledge of what papal custom has from time immemorial made famous in -the sphere of religion. The Golden Rose of Lcetare Sunday bestowed by the Pope upon some Catholic dignitary renowned for services in the cause of religion has always been esteemed by the recipient as among the highest of earthly favors, and gained from the world at large the most merited applause. The University has honored itself in establishing a similar custom as regards those most distinguished in Literature and Art.
This year, the Lcetare Medal will be bestowed upon Mr. Patrick Charles Keely—the greatest of our American architects. He is a man humble and modest as he is great. Mr. Keely was born at Thurles, Ireland, August 9, 1820. and he has built over 700 churches, including 15 cathedrals; also monasteries, schools and colleges without number. He is now engaged on the final plans for the great Cathedral of Brooklyn, which is to be larger and more elaborate than the cathedral of New York. When finished, it will be the grandest work of architecture in the New World. < ■
Mr. Keely is a fervent and practical Catholic, and has done more for Christian architecture than any other: man in the country. He is a man of talent, great works, and of a fervent and sincere piety, which has a basis of humility as strong as any that he has placed under the great cathedrals he is building everywhere.
The Medal is accompanied by a beautifully-illuminated parchment address, the first page of which represents a figure in well conceived Grecian costume, typical of Architecture, bearing in one hand a scroll, in which is skilfully depicted’ the plan of the great St. Peter’s at Rome; the whole surrounded by garlands of oak and laurel intertwined with shamrock. The inside page contains the poetical address, with illuminations by an artist of St. Mary’s Academy. ,
The address is illustrated by a garland of Roses intwining a scroll, on which is written in golden letters from the Gradual of Lcetare Sunday—Fiat pax in virtiite tit a, et abundaritia in turribus inis; “ Let peace be in thy strength, and abundance in thy towers.” The centre flower is the “ golden Lcetare Rose;” around it cluster and intwine . the scroll half blown roses and roses-buds of the pure white~ Nim photos, the delicate sapano, the “ Countess of Pembroke” with its beautiful half reflected silvery petals, the deep brilliant blush—
442
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Souvenir de Molmaison. The larg^e canary shaded Marechal Neil buds; the soft satin peach-bloom of La France; the deep rosy bon silene and the rich crimson Jacqueminot.
The address is as follows:
All hail to the Builder that buildcth so well
The shrines where the Holy of holies may dwell:
The temples designed with His praise to resound.
Glad homes for the faithful to gather around.
At his feet shall our tribute of homage be laid;
Due praise by Religion and Science be paid;
His brow the bright laurel shall fitly adorn—	•
•Bv merit obtained and with modesty worn.
The poet's proud pages the moth shall consume:
Gav painting shall meet with an earlier doom:
'Die work of the sculptor in fragments shall fall:
The architect’s triumph outliveth them all.
In Egypt's broad vale see the Pyramids stand, From time unremembered the pride of the land Laid waste by Greek. Roman, French, English and Turk, Surviving sublime see the architect’s work.
Still nobler in mien, though more recent in date.
Fair Europe’s Cathedrals our wonder await, Grand masses of thought in solidified form Our souls to lift upward, our pulses to warm.
Among them the chief see the glory of Rome, High poised in the air is that marvellous dome;
And while Peter shall thence^divine mandates proclaim, Unsullied and bright shall be Angelo’s fame.
And here in the newly found land of the West Magnificent temples already are bless’d, God’s praises to sound, and His doctrine to teach, That words of salvation the humblest may reach.
And thine ’mid the rest shall pre-eminent be,
Fair Brooklyn! the shrine of the “ Star of the Sea; ” And the Child of the Future, admiring, shall hear Of Keely, while learning his name to revere.
Accept, then, the token we offer to thee;
And with it the sentiments all will agree
In cherishing. Bless’d both hereafter and here.
May e’er be our Architect’s noble career.
■ Obituary.
JAMES CEAFFEY, BERTHAND, MICH.
On Saturday, the 15th inst., Mr. James Ceaffey, one of the oldest and most respected citizens of Bertrand, passed to his eternal reward. Mr. Claffey was the father of James, Francis, John and Daniel Claffey, former students of the College, and of the Misses Claffey of St. Mary’s Academy. He had been a resident of Bertrand for the last fifty years, where he was universally esteemed and respected, and.the remains of the bld pioneer were followed to their last resting-place by an immense concourse of friends and neighbors. The heartfelt sympathy of the deceased’s many and old friends-at Notre Dame are extended to the bereaved family.
May he rest in peace ’	• .
Spoliation of the Propag-anda Property by the Italian Government.
RESOLUTIONS IN RELATION TO THE MATTER BY THE FACULTY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF j	NOTRE DAME.
I	■ 	•
! At a meeting of the Faculty of the University j of Notre Dame, held Tuesday, March 18th, to ; take action in reference to the recent decree of the ; Court of Cassation, a mere creature of the Italian I government, authorizing that power to proceed in I carrying into effect the outrageous scheme of selling | the property under control of the Sacred Congre-| gation of the Propaganda, and using the proceeds i to supply with money the emptj- treasury of the j state, the following preamble and resolutions, drawn j up by Prof. William Hoynes, of the Law DeparP-! merit, were, on motion, Signor Gregori seconding the measure,.unanimously adopted as the sense of the members:
Whereas, The Sacred Congregation of the Propaganda, instituted by Pope Gregory XV, 262 years ago, to promote the propagation of the Christian religion and enhance the welfare of mankind, by fostering education, enlarging and strengthening the foundations of morality, seeming to society protection and tranquility, bringing all races to the clearer recognition of a common origin and brotherhood, and advancing the best interests of civilization throughout the world, has invariabh" been an agenev of great power and utility in achieving the salutary objects of its creation, thus deserving well of humanity and recommending itself to the special favor and confidence of more than 200,000,000 Catholics distributed throughout all nations of i the globe; and, :	Whereas, The Sacred Congregation of the Propaganda,
though primarily established at Rome, under the sanction and direction of the Holy Father, and there having its necessary lands and institutions of learning—its chairs of literature, philosophy, theology and philology; together with its large and valuable library; its polyglot printing establishment, and the .like—has nevertheless founded missions in all quarters of the earth, and by them exercised great influence for good, and wrought praiseworthy achievements, in spreading the light of Christian faith, bringing-new lands into friendly intercourse with the rest of the world, and everywhere promoting the interests of solid education, sound science, and true civilization;. and.
Whereas, The Congregation of the Propaganda," having-been uniformly supported and maintained by the voluntary contributions of the faithful of all nations, and having received from them all that it has or controls, never having been the recipient of gifts or favors from the Italian government, but, on the contrary, having been required annually to pay to the state enormous and oppressive taxes, may be viewed as a corporation recognized by the laws, existing i by express authority of the preceding or Papal government, fortified by a prescriptive right reaching into the past for ihore than two and a half centuries, cosmopolitan in character and world-wide in scope, and in no manner local in its objects or dependent upon the Italian power for more than mere toleration; and,
Whereas, The Italian government, skulking behind the subterfuge of a sentence rendered the 29th day of January, 1884, by the Court of Cassation, at Rome, decrees that the lands and buildings—all immovable property— controlled by the Congregation of the Propaganda, shall be disposed of at public sale, despite the emphatic protests of many millions of Catholics throughout the world, who virtually own the property, and for whom it is, as it were, held in trust by the said Congregation of the Propaganda; and, as is likewise decreed by the Italian government, the proceeds derived from the sale of said propeity shall be converted into Italian rents or public funds—a Species ol
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
443
securities greatly depreciated in value, if not practically worthless. Therefore, be it	•
Resolved, That the Officers and Faculty of the University of Notre Dame, in the State of Indiana, and United States of America, hereby unite in condemning and expressing their abhorrence of the base and infamous conduct of the Italian government in ordering the seizure, sale and virtual confiscation of the aforesaid property, the same being in its nature private, and merely under the control of the Congregation of the Propaganda.
Resolved, That, inasmuch as the elementarv rules of international law recognize the. inviolability of private property and private rights when one government succeeds another, whether by violence or otherwise; therefore, the Italian power, which bv violence supplanted and succeeded the Papal government that for more than a thousand years had existed in Rome, violated the plainest principles of law and justice in seizing the private property aforesaid, and converting it to the uses of the state.
Resolved. That the contemptible subterfuge of the Italian power in preten’ding to be influenced bv the sentence of the Court of Cassation in decreeing the virtual confiscation of private property Held in trust for the Catholics of the world by the Congregation of the Propaganda—property to which the state has no better right than that derived from the possession of superior might—is regarded and hereby characterized as mean, cowardly and wholly indefensible; and, that it is believed this act of the Italian power is tantamount to robbery, and indicates that the rulers of misgoverned Italy are not above borrowing suggestions. if not manners, from their notorious banditti.
Resolved, That the settied principles of international law, which the Catholic Church did so much to foster, meliorate and humanize, have been grossly violated by this totally unjust and flagitious act; and that, in the violation of the law of nations, the Italian government shows a disposition to return to the barbarism which authorized piracy, consigned to death or perpetual slavery prisoners of war, and wantonly destroyed works of art, institutions of learning, and the cherished monuments of civilization.
Resolved, That we invite to this flagrant act of vandalism on the part of the, Italian authorities the attention and candid consideration not only of our own fellow-citizens, but also of impartial men the world over, fully assured that they cannot fail to concur iii denouncing this iniquitous proceeding, and applying to the present rule in Italy the strongest terms of reproach and obloquy: and it is presumed that they cannot fail to unite in expressing the hope that a power capable of sanctioning a proceeding so unjust and wicked, so selfish and disgraceful, may receive the reward due to its outrageous course—a reward as complete and timely as seems just to the Great God, who still determines and directs the destinies of men and nations!
The Columbian Entertainment.
According to a time-honored custom which divides the scholastic year between’ the Literary, Dramatic and Musical Societies of the College, the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club of ’84, assisted by the oratorical and musical associations, made due preparation to honor the eve of St. Patrick’s Festival with an Entertainment. An elaborate programme was mapped out—part of it choice, part of it popular—and, to the credit of all concerned, it was carried out almost to the letter. Everything passed off nicely, and a very’pleasant evening was enjoyed by the audience. -
The grand central event of the evening was, of course, the drama presented by the Columbians; but while this was in preparation — the costuming etc., requiring no little time—the audience were entertained with music, songs, arid addresses, besides the Oration of Mr. T. E. Callaghan, an able
literary effort, of some length, but none too long, presented in a free, flowing and graceful style of • oratory. With a continuance of the training so well begun, and a further strengthening of his vocal powers, Mr. Callaghan will undoubtedly some day be able to move the hearts of a larger audience than that assembled before him on St.
Patrick’s eve, 18S4.
The curtain was rung up promptly at 71^ p. m., and the University Cornet Band opened the programme. Bearing in mind the fact that the members of the Cornet Band are amateur students, and not professional musicians,’as manv visitors seem to imagine, we think it will be admitted that they do very good work, the more creditable because they can spare but little time for practice. On this occasion they gave us some good music, before the play as well as between the acts, and we think must have amply compensated their self-esteem for the little contre-tem-ps later in the evening which provoked a good-natured laugh at the expense of the Band.
T. I. Cleary’s solo in “ The Last Rose of Summer” was given in good voice, and was handsomely backed and framed by the trio—T. Cleary, G. Schaefer, and J. Murphy—and the chorus by the Orpheonics. This latter Association, by the wav, is one that cannot be too well spoken of. It is doing good work, and contributing not a little towards breaking the monotony of school-life.
Mr. W. E. Ramsay’s song, “The Very Latest,” was in Mr. Ramsay’s usually happy style, and took immensely, closing with rounds of applause, and a call for an encore. Mr. Ramsay is a general favorite in song-and personation, and always manages to set the house in a roar of laughter.
The address from Mr. L. Mathers, which foi-. lowed, was well wiitten and delivered in fairly good style.
And now comes the prologue of the play, “The Retribution,” by Mr. F. E. Combe, which will enable us to witness the drama with increased satisfaction. There is a double plot, hatched by one of those tyrants and breeders of discord between landlord and tenant, an Irish land agent. Tn the first, the aged Squire, a land-holder of an old and distinguished family, is led to misconstrue the conduct of his only son, Marmaduke, bv the designing and unscrupulous villainy of Belhaven, the land agent, in consequence of which the son is disowned and quits bis home and country. Belhaven in the mean time works himself into the good graces of old Squire Hilton so far as to have a will made in his favor. Fearing that the son may return, and the old gentleman change his mind about the will, the villain Belhaven lays a .
I plot to have Squire Hilton carried off by a party j of smugglers and confined in a lunatic asylum in Normandy. The Squire is abducted by night, carried to a cave in the mountains, by the seashore, there to await the smugglers’ vessel. At this juncture young Hilton, the dispossessed heir, returns to Ireland, arid while on a visit by night to the old mansion is, bv Belhaven’s representation to the authorities, taken captive as his father’s
444	^OTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
murderer. To give a coloring to the charge, Bel-haven had the will in his own favor concealed in Marmaduke’s luggage at the house of the widow O’Connor. Marmaduke is visited in prison by his servant, Teddy O’Neil, who against his will rescues him by night. Belhaven twice attempts the young man’s life in prison, but is frustrated once by Major Lookout, an officer in the British army, and once by Teddy O’Neil. This Major Lookout —a man with a great and noble heart beating-under the queen’s red-coat—is a fine specimen of the soldier: disdaining all approaches on the part of the scheming land-agent, he holds him in supreme contempt—tells him to his face he is a “blasted scoundrel ”—that all the brood of land agents are “ unmitigated scoundrels, ye know,” and that he probably knows more of the whereabouts of the old Squire than does the alleged criminal. The Major was admirably personated by Mr. P. Howard, who in full military uniform made a fine looking soldier, and in a cool and self-possessed manner was always turning" up “where he wasn’t wanted, ye know ” by the plotters.
Mr. John W. Rogers was “fixed up” in good style for the old Squire, and personated him to the life. The bald pate and thin grey locks disguised him so completely that for the nonce John was a real old gent. of the olden time. The outbursts of rage when confronting his son. charging him with misconduct, and afterwards in the hands of Belhaven and the smugglers, were spirited and natural—true to life. Mr. D. Reach, who took the character of Marmaduke, the hero of the play, left little to.be desired, and Mr. W. Dennis, as Capt. de Balzac, of the French navy, was a fine-looking officer and played his part well. In build and stature, Mr. J. Shields as Sergt. Dundreary, as well as Howard in the character of the Major, looked every inch the soldier. Messrs. L.-Gibert (Alonzo Belhaven) and P. Galarneau (Dick Harvey) had difficult character roles. but both did well. Teddy O’Neil was rather rakish in “ make up”— too much of the low stage Irishman about him, but in the character of the Widow—drugging the smugglers and knocking down the “ Captain ”— he was perfect. Messrs. W. Mahon, F. O’Kane, J. McMurray,, and W. Bowers did very well.
We had almost overlooked the spirited oratorical performances of young Benjamin B. Lindsey and Joseph Garrity between the acts. Ben. Lindsey’s “Lift up the Flag” and young Joseph Garrity’s “Maniac35 gave evidence of fine parts and good oratorical training—much more than is usualty expected from boys of their age. They took us rather by surprise.	.	.
■ The interest with which the play was followed by the audience,—and, it may be added, the skill with which -the actors lost themselves in their -- -	•	,	- ,	•.	- UJ
parts—was evident in the third act, when, in the smuggler’s glen, the land agent, stealthily advancing behind Marmaduke to take his life, isdevelled to the ground by'a blow from the Major (who . again happens upon the scene when he isn’t wanted ) .in the simultaneous shout from the junior, portion of the audience. The realistic effect .was undoubt
edly heightened by the wild scenery surrounding the smuggler’s glen. The brush of Prof. Ackerman and the genius of the stage carpenter told with admirable eflect in the tiers of rocks—rising ridge above ridge, looking sb natural, and permitting passage between them, and the rest of the splendid scenery that had been prepared for the play. The room in the prison, the sea-side, and other of the scenes, were also .very fine.
Once again we are under obligations to Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, for to his painstaking care and management the success of the Columbians’ Entertainment is chiefly due. Among those present we noticed Prof. James F. Edwards, who, we believe, founded the Columbian Literary and Dramatic Club in his own schooldays in the College, and who no doubt was much pleased at this new evidence of the success of the Club in its nth annual Entertainment.	• B.
Local Items.
—“ Ye gods and little fishes! ”
—George is an honorary member.
—The Drum-major looked immense! /
—The Junior Football Club practise daily.
—The Philopatrians are preparing their play.
—Competitions next week in the Commercial . Course.
—St. Patrick’s Day was most enthusiasticallv celebrated.
—The astrological predictions are in process of verification.
—The “Major” was the acknowledged star, Saturday evening.
—Read Professor Howard’s lecture on “ The Study of History.”
—The Columbians maintained their reputation last Saturday evening.
—Let us soon have a repetition of Wednesday evening’s entertainment.
—The Band made a serenading tour St. Patrick’s Day. They paid us a visit.
—Badges-on the lyth were more numerous and ornamental than ever before.
—Science Hall is going up. lively. It 'will be ready-for dedication in June.
—It is said that the Philopatrians have discovered the “Prince of Portage Prairie.”._
—The Crescent Club Annual Latare Banquet will take place to-morrow evening.
— We have not heard from the Junior T. A. U. for some time. What has become of it?
—Lost—A Plato. The finder will be munificently rewarded by returning to room No. 61.
—Rev. R. Maher visited the College during the week, after his return from Holy Cross, Iowa.
—Messrs. Johnston and Kolars were the efficient stenographers who reported Prof. Howard’s lect-ure.	- ‘ .	- '-J;.'. -	.	’■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
445
—So horrible, we are told, were some noises the other evening that one of the victims became— gray- F act! -
|	—Mast. Ernest Trepannier, has the thanks of
j	the Curator of the’Museum for a large penang
|	from South America.
'	—The Juniors’ reception, on Monday evening,
f \ was an occasion of much enjoyment. Elbel’s orI ' chestra furnished good music.
• J	'
1	'■	—The Columbians return an unanimous vote of
thanks to Rev. President Walsh, Bros. Emman-i,	uel and Paul for favors received.
j! .	—The Class Historian for ’84 is already at work.
From what we have seen and heard we judge that his production will be voluminous, but at points I	monotonous.
—Prof. Edwards has presented a handsome medal to be awarded at the end of the- session to the \	student making the most improvement in his class
j . in composition writing.
|	—At a recent meeting of the Junior Baseball
5	Association, Masters D. G. Taylor and W. Murphy
i	were elected captains of the “Mutuals” and the
?	“ Actives,” respectively.	.	.
J	—On the occasion of Prof. Howard’s lecture,
i	. last Sunday evening, Prof. Paul.improvised sev-
•	eral choice morceanx on the piano, which were re-
l	ceived with great applause.
j .	—It may be said that seldom has an exhibition
j	at Notre Dame evoked such interest as that mani-
I	fested by the audience which greeted the Colum-
bians on last Saturday evening.
1	—Ground has been broken for the foundations
5	of the western wing. During the week the work
j	has been actively pushed forward, and the masons
|	can commence operations early next week.
I	—Master John Monschein fully sustained his
I	claims as a rising Euglossian last Monday night.
The selections which he gave at the St. Patrick’s j	Day celebration in Elkhart took his hearers by
j,	storm.	•
r	—After the lecture on last Sunday the members
I	of the Band surprised Prof. Paul, by the presenta-
|	tion of a handsome silver water-set. Mr. D. C.
I	Saviers, made a neat presentation speech to which
I	the professor happily responded.
B • • —Solemn High Mass .was stingy on St. Patrick’s I	Day. Rev. Father L’Etourneau, was celebrant
is	with Fathers O’Hanlon and Toomey, as deacon and
I	subdeacon. The panegyric of the Saint was
•’	preached by Rev? Father Spillard. ’
I	—The -25th and 26th regular meetings of the
. St;‘Cecilia Philomathean Association were held |	. 1 Feb. 2*3d and March the 4th, respectively. Messrs,
i,.	C. Porter, D. Taylor, AV. Schott, H. Foote, and F.
I	Hagenbarth presented well-written essays. Dec-
p ' :;lamations were delivered by F. Dexter, Geo. S.
' .Schaefer, W. Mui kern, J. Fendrich, J. Monschein, .and; j. McDonald.,. Public readers were E. Porter,
J. Devine^ W. Schott, T. Cassilly, ,C. Stubbs, and D. Taylor.	‘	.
—The 23d and 24th regular meetings of the St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society took place Eeb. 15th and 25th, respectively. A Moot Court formed, the principal exercise of several meetings. Those who took part are Masters Curtis, Devereux, Harris, McGordon, Mason, Fitzgerald, Kelly, Cava roc, Nester, Menig, Crawford, Rhodus, Lewis, Scheuer-man and Garrity. Master Harris gave a well-written criticism on the previous meeting. J. R. Devereux and J. Garrity, appeared well in declamations.
—The members of the Lemonnier Library Association return grateful acknowledgements to Richard H. Clark, A. M., for a fine copy of his work in two volumes entitled, “Lives of-the Deceased Bishops of the Catholic Church in the United States”; to the Rev. W. Gleeson, for a copy in two volumes of his work entitled, “The Trials of the Church, or the Persecutors of Religion ”; to the Rev. Editor of The Ave Maria. for “The Eternal Priesthood,” by Cardinal Manning; “Stoneleighsof Stoneleigh,” “What is Castle Government?” and several valuable pamphlets.
—A grand Lcetarc Banquet will be given tomorrow evening by the members of the Crescent Club, complimentary to the popular President of the University. Everything possible has been done by the committee of arrangements to make this banquet one of the pleasantest affairs of the year. Tcetare Sundav is the only day in the Lenten season that the students of the University permit themselves to enjoy the luxuries of the table. After the banquet is over, a number of speeches will be made by our local celebrities. All.the members of the Faculty are hereby invited to be present at six and a half p. m., in the Juniors’ reading-rooms.
—“Joseph Haydn: The Story of his Life.”-;— A touching story, and well told. The young musician, artist, or author, especially, will follow with keen interest the early struggles of this di-vilely-gifted, sensitive, unworldly youth with bitter poverty, misunderstanding, and a later patronage which daily insulted the genius that it helped to keep in mortal tenement. . . . Haydn’s genius was pliant, ardent, and vigorously creative even to old age. He had passed his sixty-fourth year before his “Creation,” his “Seasons,”, and Austria’s National Hymn were written. His long and honorable connection with the house of Ester-hazy, the magnificent triumphs attained in his advanced age in London, his friendship with Mozart and Beethoven, are all briefly but appreciatively touched upon. His life has’ found a sympathetic chronicler in Franz Von Seeburg, and the beautiT ful story does , not suffer as done into English by Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C. The narrative appeared from week to week in The “ Ave Maria” It was a happy thought of Prof. Lyons to bring it out in this attractive and enduring form (Notre Dame,-Ind. : J. A.-Lyons).—Boston Pilot. \ ■.
446	THE HOTHE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—On last Wednesday evening, the Orpheonics gave a very interesting entertainment, complimentary to Very Rev. Joseph Rez<5, Assistant General of the Congregation of the Holv Cross. The following is the
PROGRAMME:
Overture—“ Caliph of Bagdad ”.............Boieldieu
Orchestra.
Address................................ C. Cavaroc
Homage to St.Joseph (Anthem)..........Lambillotte
Solo, G. Schaefer; Chorus, Orpheonics.
•‘The Alpine Shepherd” (Three-Part Chorus)....Abt. Senior Vocal Class.
The Last Rose of Summer ’’—Solo, Duo, Trio and Chorus . T. J. Clearv. G. Schaefer, J. Murphy.,
Piano Solo—“Grand March”..............Geo.	Schaefer
•• So Merrily over the Ocean Spray! ” (Grand Chorus)
. Vocalists of the Three Departments.
“ Hear Me, Norma!” (Duo)..................Bellini
T. Cleary, G. Schaefer.
Flute Solo, with Piano Accompaniment......A. Adler
“Dreamy Eyes”—Song and Chorus.............Rutledge
W. Ramsay, T. T. Cleary, T. Murphv. G. Schaefer, H. Foote.
“ Beats there a Heart!”........Lc	Dieu ef la Bayadere
W. Ramsay.
•• Dreaming the Happy Hours Away!” Serenade Quartette {Faster'). T. J. Cleary, G. Schaefer. H. Foote, J. Murphy
“ Barber of Seville”—Duo, Piano and Violin, ...............................Prof. Paul, W. Schott
“Moonlight on the Lake!”—Grand Chorus.....Seniors, Juniors, and Minims.
Appropriate closing remarks were made by Rev. President Walsh, and Rt. Rev. Mgr. Benoit, Vicar-General of Ft. Wavne.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Banigan, Baca, Bowers, Brosseau, Barron, Becerra, Bailey, Browne, V. Burke, F. Burke. F. Combe, J. Carroll, C. Carroll, Coll, Cass, Cartier, Cusack, Crawford, Callaghan, Creel, Dunn, Delgado, De Groot, De Wolf, Dolan, A. Dennis, W. Dennis, Delaney, Daily, Ewing, Feltz, Fogarty, Farrell, T. Fenlon, E. FenIon, P. Frain, J. Frain, Grothaus, Gibson, Gooley ,Gonser, Gandrup, Goulding, Gonzalez, Guthrie, Geiser, Gutierrez. Gray, F. Gallagher, Galarnean, Hyde, Howard, Hellebush, Hausberg, Hetz, Hamlyn, Johnston, Jones, Jackson, Kelly, Kavanaugh, Kolars, Kleiber, Lister, Lasley, McGinn, McErlain, W. M. Mahon, J. J. McCabe, Jno. McCabe, Mc-Kinnery, Mathers, Marquez, C. Murdock, S. Murdock, Mittendorf, McMurray, McIntyre, T. McNamara, J. McNamara, McLaughlin, Mahoney, Madden, Morris, W. P. Mahon, Neeson, Nadeau, Norfieet, G. O’Brien. Ott, O’Dea, O’Rourke,'Orchard, Otis, O’Kane, H. Paschel, C. Paschel. Pour, Quinlan, Rudge, Ryan, Rogers, Reach, Ramsay, Solon, Steis, Slattery, Scholfield, Spencer, Steele, Saviers, J. Smith, G. Smith. Sanchez, Tinley, J. Uranga. F. Uranga, Wilson, Warren, Zahnle.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Arnold, Anchondo. Borgschulze, Berthelet, Barela, Brown, Baur, Barclay, Breen, Cohen, D. Cartier, Courtney, Crawford, .Curtis, Chaves, Cavaroc, Crillv. Cleary, Clarke, Costigan, Devereux, Devine, Dexter, Dennis, Deaderick, Ewing, Eisenhauer, Fitzgerald, Fendrich. Fehr, H. Foote, Finckh, Garrity, Gerlach, Grunsfeld, Hemisbaugh, Hagenbarth, E. A. Howard, E. J. Howard, Halligan, W. Henry, Houlihan, P. Hagen, Houck, Hetz, Holman, Hagerty, Jensch, J. Kelly, Letcher, R. Lewis, Loescher, Luther, Mulkern, Monschein, Mullane, Menig, McGill, Mason, J. McGordon, C. McGordon, G. Moye, A. Moye, McDonnell. Marcotte, C. Metz, Murphy, Mug, Muhler. McCabe, Major, McCullough, Martinez, Norfolk, O’Brien, Plischke, E. Porter, C. Porter, Perley, Quill,
Rogers, Reynolds, Ryan, Ruppe, Shea, Sedberry, L-Scheuerman, M. Scheuerman, Schmauss, Schott, Schaefer, Stubbs, Saunders, Strauss, Shields, Sumner, Talbot, D. Taylor, G. Tarrant, Tewksberry. Uranga, H. Warner, W. Wagoner, Wabraushek. Weiler, Wright.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters .Ackerman, Adams, J. Addington, H Addington, Amoretti, Boose, Bunker, Butterfield, Benner, Brown, Comins, Crawford, Curtis, Ciotry, Cole, Costigan, Cummings, F. Coad, M. Coad, Dirksmeyer, Delaplane, Devine, Dungan, Devereux, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Fulwiler. W. Grimes, A. Grimes, Gibson, Garrity, Grunsfeld, Henry, Harris, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Johns, Jones, Kraus, J. Kelly E. Kelly, La Tourette. Landenwich, Lewis, B. Lindsey, C. Lindsey, Loya, W. McCourt, M. McCourt, T. McGuire, W. McGuire, J. McGrath, E. McGrath. McGill, McPhee, McVeigh, Murphv, Muessel, Manzanares. Meehan, Monison, Morgan, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, F. Nester, A. Nester, Noonan, M. O’Kane, B. O’Kane. Otis, O’Connor, Perkins, W. Prindiville, D. Prin-diville, R. Papin, V. Papin, Padden, Quinlin. Quiggle, Quill, Rebori, Studebaker, Sumner, Stange, Schmitz, Salmon, Spencer, Schoneman, Sok up, L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Servis, Smith, Thomas, Uranga, West, W. Welch, .A. Welch, Wright, Weston, C. Young.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. Whalen, Fox. Gonser, McErlain, Wagoner, Pour, Spangler, Lucas, Cusack, Sykes. Creel. Gonzalez, J. Uranga. Marquez, J. Anchondo, F. Uranga, Spencer, O’Dea, Jackson, Mittendorf, Orchard. ‘Hausberg, J. McNamara, F. Combe, Sanchez, J. Kelly, Dunn, Feltz, P. Frain, Halligan, Finckh, Sedberry, S. Barrons, Dwenger, J. Garrity, Schott,’Hagenbarth, P. Wagoner, Schaefer, Schmauss, McGill, Luther, Ewing, Martinez, E. Porter, G. Cartier, Chaves, Cavaroc, Lane. Jensch, C. McGordon, Cleary, Loescher, L. Anchondo, W. Manga, Fierro, G. Moye, A. Moye, Barela, G. Costigan, W. Wright, Rhodus, Yrisarri, Clarke, W. Murphy. Williamson, Marcotte, Metz. M. Kelly, C. Combe, Houck, Trepannier, Houlihan, Perley, E. McCabe. Major, Legnard, D. Cartier, Strauss, Gibson.
List of Excellence.	■
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL "	BRANCHES.
German—Messrs. Ott, Steis, Harris, Weiler, Baur, J. Crawford, F. Rogers, H. Porter, Dexter, Hagenbarth; French—Messrs. Schott, C. Combe, W. Cartier; Spanish —Messrs. Creel, Dexter, Gonzalez, J. Uranga; Instrumental Music—Messrs. Mahon, Orchard, Delgado, Spangler, Howard, Mug, Rhodus, Muhler, Williamson, Schott, C. Porter, H. Porter, Coll, C. Murdock, Schaefer, Adler, Dickerson, Foote,’ Sykes, W. H. McCarthy, Reynolds, Hausberg, F. Burke, N. Ewing; Vocal Music—Messrs. Cleary, Schaefer, Foote, Gibert, Ramsay, H. Porter, O’Kane, Mahon, J. M urphy, Orchard, J. Gallagher, H. Paschel, Kaufihan, Wilson; Linear Drawing—Messrs. Foote, H. Porter, H. Fitzgerald, Sykes, Saviers, Marquez, C. Murdock, Creel; Painting—F. R. Morris; Telegraphy —Messrs. O’Rourke, Berthelet, Cussen, Gooley; Phonography—Messrs. Celia, Sykes. G. O’Brien, Ancheta, CI S. Warner, Ott, Wilson, McErlain; Elocution—Messrs. Tinley, Otis, Solon, Spencer, Ramsay, D. Taylor, Conway, Saviers, Steis,Devereux, Coll, Browne, Dexter, Bannigan, McDonald, Ancheta, C. Porter, Callaghan, Reach, Hagenbarth, Monschein, Fendrich, J. Rogers, Gibert, Garrity, Orchaixl, Wheatly, Galarneau, P. Howard, O’Dea, J. Carroll, W. Henry, Rudge, Costigan, Harris^ Devine, Mulkern.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	447
Saint JHary's Acabemy.
One. Mile West of Notre. Danie University.
—In • the Second Senior Composition Class, Miss Udall deserves especial mention for fluency and grace of expression.	'
—In the First Preparatory Composition C.lass Lilly Durlacher, is noteworthy for a pretty poem entitled “ The Mosaic Cross.”
—The pleasure of a visit from Judge Scully and daughter, and Mr. and Mrs. Richard Gannon, of Chicago,- was much enjoyed on Sunday last.
—Morning walks are the order of the day at present. The long, cold winter which has held the pupils close prisoners in the Academy buildings is gladly dispensed with.
—The Roman mosaic Cross was drawn for by the Misses Bailey, Dillon, Fehr, Helen, Ella and Sibyl Jackson, Keyes, Metz, Richmond, Regan, Shephard, Sheekey, Snowhook, Voradenburg, L. Van Horn, and Campeau. Grace Regan won the prize.
—The Librarian proffers grateful acknowledgments to Judge Scully for“ The Cabinet of Irish Literature.” This superb gift is appropriately bound in green, and consists of four volumes. The portraits with which the work is pro.fus.ely embellished are of rare beauty and perfection. These volumes-form a valuable addition to the Library.
—Tuesday afternoon, the Juniors who have been anticipating a sleigh-ride since the close of the examination in February, assailed the small remnant of snow that had resisted the-thaw, and, in three picturesque sleigh-loads, disappeared up the avenue leading to South Bend. Very little snow was left for their return, but tk.c bright eyes,"and rosy cheeks gave good proof that the’ ride was a “decided success,” even minus the snow.
—In St. Teresals Literary Society the question was discussed, “ Whether Columbus Deserves Greater Commendation for the Discovery of the New World, than Washington for the Securing Our National Independence”; the Graduates throwing down the gauntlet for Columbus, the First Seniors espousing the cause of the Father of his Country. The question was.left open, but the banner of the First-Seniors:was somewhat disposed to trail.
—At the regular Academic reunion, sprightly recitations .were given, Miss L. St. Clair appearing for the first time, as^a reader. .Miss Williams gave a selection warmly commendatory of skill in “ Domestic Economy.” Very Rev. Father General followed with some important comments upon personal behavior, and impressed the importance of a modest, lady-like bearing in. order to forestall the respect and esteem of The good .and virtuous. In the instruction, given by;him .on Monday morning to the children of Mary in the House of Loreto, he enlarged upon the subject, and spoke of the
necessity of cultivating the interior spirit which reveals itself in a modest exterior.
—On Wednesday afternoon, the Juniors gave a very interesting concert in the Music Hall. The following is the
Programme:
Song—“ The Harp that once through Tara’s Halls”. .Pape , M. Ducey.
Recitation—“ The Ride of Jennie McNeal ”....Carleton
Hannah Stumer.
“Recollections from Tanhauser”.............Spindler
Lily Van Horn.
Song—“ Forest :Fairy ”......................Venyano
Agnes English.
“ JEolian Harp”.............................Kruger
B. Morrison.
Song—“I Love to Sing"......................M.	Ducey
“Grand Polka de Concert”....................Wallace
Helen Jackson.
Recitation—“ Bernardo del Carpio ”.....Mrs. Hymans Agnes English
“ Printemps d* Amour................:L. M. Gottschalk
Ada Shephard.	.
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. .
1st Tablet—Misses M. Adderly. Beal, Black, Bruhn, A. Babcock, Billings. Burgher. E. Call, Cummings, Carney, Dunn, J. Duffield, Dowling, L. English, Fitzpatrick, M. Fisk, F. Fisk, Fogerty, Gove, Gavan, Heckard, Helpling, Hack, Hale, Hetz, B. Johnson, Keenan, Kearns, Keating, Kenny, Kearney, King. Kearsey, Legnard, Lintner, Lea high, Munger. M. Murphy, McHale, McNamara, McCarthy, Neu, Platte, J. Reilly, Ramsey, Reynolds, Sheridan, Sheekey, Scully, Sear, Stacked, Thomas, Taylor, Tynan. 2d Tablet—Misses C. Babcock, Crawford, Danforth, Fendrich, Addie Gordon. Alice Gordon, Horn, A. Murphv, A. Mooney, O’Connell, Peak, Quill, Rvan, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Todd, Udall, Williams. '
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
rst Tablet—Misses Best, R. Bailey, Chaves, Campeau, Dillon, Eldred. Fehr, Halsey, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, McEwen, Richmond, Regan, Schmidt, E. Sheekey, B. Snowhook. Voradenburg. 2d Tablet— Misses Cox, Durlacher, Duffield. Lord, Lucas, Morrison. Metz, Otis, Shephard, Wolvin. .
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
1st Tablet—Misses E. Chapin, English. V. Johns, M. Lindsey, B. Murray. M. Paul. G. Papin, M. Reynolds, A. Schmauss, S. Van Fleet, L. Johns.
SCHOOL OF DRAWING AND PAINTING.
HONORABLY MENTIONED---OIL-PAINTING.
isr Class—Misses Campbell, Papin, Beal.
2D Class—Miss L. Williams.
2D Div..—Misses E. Sheekey, Dunn, Heckard, Udall, Stacker!.
3D Class—Misses Chaves, C. Fehr.
PAINTING IN WATER-COLORS.
Misses Shephard, A. Duffield, Van Horn, Hale, Dowling, Leahigh, Murphy, Ashton.
PORCELAIN PAINTING.	.
Miss M. Tynan. .	-
DRAWING.
ist Class—Misses Beal, Campbell, Papin. .	,
2D Class—Misses Udall, Legnard, English, Williams, Fehr, Chaves, Black, Danforth.
3D Class—Misses Dillon, Richmond, M. Reynolds. GENERAL DRAWING.
r	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Best, I. Allen, Barth,.Moshier, M. Muiyhy, Halsey, Regan, N. Sheekey, Wolvin, M. Allen, Bailey, Dur-lacher, Roddin, Keyes, Stumer, Metz.
48	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKENDORF
FLORIST.
Catholic Music
.OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
AIWAl'S ON HAND.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
MASSES, VESPERS,
‘ CLASS and CHOIR BOOKS, etc., etc.
The Most Complete Stock
WEST OF NEW YORK CITY.
Send for Catalogues, o
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
John Church & Co.,
CINCINNATI, O.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (Cla.«S Of’78).	W. H. LAN DVOIGT.
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law.
UMAX
4?o Louisiana Avexi e. N. W.. WASHINGTON. D. C.
L S. & K. S. Railway.
«
On and after Sunday, Nov. 18. 1883. trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.: Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.
10.54 a-m., Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.07 p.m.: Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.	I
8.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. .Arrives at j Toledo, 2.17 a.m.; Cleveland,6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m. 1
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 942 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo. 10.00 p.m.; Cleveland. 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 541 a.m.
4.2S a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m.
Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m, Limited.Express. Arrives at'Laporte, 7.52 a.m.
Chicago, 10.11 a.m.
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.31 p.m.
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. .Arrives at Laporte, 4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
■ F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
f. W. CARA', Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
. ,P- ’ P- WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’gervCleveHnd.
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THfS COUN
TRY WILL SEE BY EXAMINING 1 HIS MAP THAT THE
CBICiGR, ROCK ISLAND SPACWICR’Y Calls the attention of travelers to the central posi-tion of its line, connecting the Hast and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Beelining Chair .Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains between Chicago and Missouri Hiver Points. .Two Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
•A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Kichmond, N orfol k, N ewport N ews, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta, Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis ana Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage cheeked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advantages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE,
At your nearest Ticket Office, or address
R. R. CABLE, E. ST. JOHN,
• . Vice-Pres. 4 Genl M'g’r, Genl Tkt. 4 Paia. Agt.
CHICAGO.
