This
is not to be from the Library
Ghe NOTRE DAME
NOVEMBER I. 1935
Scholastic
1
Better
than
a
Letter/
Have the SCHOLASTIC sent to your ■family every week.
tobacco.
IDEAL GIFT!
RECOMMENDED BY
MILLIONS
OFUSERS
LATEST SHAPES
FINEST ? ■ BRIAR ■ MONEY
CANBUY
UNHEARD OF VALUE
FILTER-COOLED
MEDICO
(PATENTED)
This simple appearing yet amazing absorbent filter invention with Cellophane exterior and cooling mesh screen interior keepsiuices and flakes in Filter and out of mouth.
Prevents tongue . bite, raw mouth, k wet heel, bad Bodor, frequent expectoration.
No breaking in. Improves thetasteand
n Fitter in the .
FOR RECREATION, SWIM AT THE
Natatorium
1044 West Washington Ave.
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BERRY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
South Bend
For Ladies and Gentlemen
WE DO ALL THE WORK FOR YOU
One of the finest Swimming Pools in the country.
Week days, 12 to 9 p. m.
Sundays, 2 to 6 p. m.
- Established 30 Years
LEMONTREE9
OPTOMETRISTS 222}z South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
Information from the
Publications Office
MAIN BUILDING
■ (Next to Brownson)
Two	.
Admission Fee includes X \ /C suit, towel, locker, sunlamps and plunge. •
One Low, One High Springboard.
Private Parties can be arranged.
Phone 3-8611
REASONABLE
DEPENDABLE PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES DUPLICATED IN OUR OWN LABORATORY.
The Scholastic
COLLEGE PARADE
By Robert L. Grogan
N. D. Spirit. An announcer of the Pitt-Notre Dame contest ended his dissertation with the declaration that South Bend theaters would suffer that night, that show windows would he broken, that the students were bent on having a rip-roaring time and nothing would stop them.
Whether or not South Bend did suffer that night is not known to the writer, but certainly some thousands of listeners thought that was what was going to happen.—Indiana Daily Student.
—o—
We thought it was Elmer. We often read in the newspapers what wonderful teams Andy Kerr, or Mike Layden, or Howard Jones, or Pop Warner put on the field.—Sentinel.
—o—
Who cooled the Collegians? Music for the mixer tonight will be furnished by Joe McCartney of DePauw University. McCartney has played over a national broadcasting chain and WLW in Cincinnati this summer. —Purdue Exponent.
—o---
McCartney, who has become quite popular among the colleges within an extensive radius of DePauw, played a full summer’s engagement in Cincinnati under the name of Johnny Courtney. His orchestra, composed of DePauw students, has brought inexpensive music to all DePauw social affairs and at the same time makes expenses for its members. If a school the size of DePauw can develop a dance band with the class of McCartney’s aggregation, why cannot Notre Dame produce a similar or even better band? Such an organization can save money for the University, and also allow the players to earn expenses.
—o—
What, no classes or anything? Students planning to graduate with the class of 1936 should file applications for candidacy immediately. The application forms may be obtained in the Registrar’s Office. This applies to candidates for the B.S. Degree, the three year Normal diploma, and the two year certificate.—Student Life.
—o—
Campus Notices from the Syracuse Daily Orange:
University Outing Club will leave at three Sunday from Slocum rain or shine.
Boy wanted to sell ideas and more ideas.
Hiking, WAA. All who signed up and any others interested meet at 8 Sunday at Alpha Chi Omega House. Bring money.
November I, 1935
ARE YOU JOINING THE ARROW FRATERNITY THIS YEAR?
Five reasons why two out of every three college men zvear Arrow Shirts:
1.	Because Arrow shirts are authoritative in style.
2.	Because they are tailored with deft, inimitable skill.
8.	Because Arrow shirts are made of durable combed cloth.
4.	Because every Arrow shirt has the most famous collar in the world—an Arrow collar.
5.	Because every Arrow shirt is Sanforized-Shrunk —to insure permanent fit.
^Prices begin at S2
ARROW ------------->
FOLLOW ARROW AND YOU FOLLOW THE STYLE
All that's New in
Arrow Shirts for Fall
at Ellsworth's . . . Arrow Headquarters
• the Kent Collar
•	the Tab Collar
•	the Aroset Collar in plenty of new Fall patterns
Ellswortfr’a
Three
MORRISSEY HALL
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LXIX
November I, 1935
No. 6
"SCRIP" MAKES ITS FIRST APPEARANCE OF YEAR
Honorary Doctorate To Be Given Nov. 13
LITERARY QUARTERLY WILL FEATURE
STUDENT ESSAYS, FICTION. AND POETRY
On Wednesday, November 13, as a part of the ceremonies for the celebration of Philippine’s Day, the University will confer the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws and Letters on Carlos P. Romulo, who has been instrumental in obtaining American efforts in the granting of independence to the islands. Now in America, Doctor Romulo is studying recent developments in this country’s journalism which he hopes to promote in his own Philippine syndicate, the D.M.H.M.
Besides Gilbert K. Chesterton and Guglielmo Marconi, Doctor Romulo will be the only possessor of an honorary degree awarded by Notre Dame in special convocation. Mr. Chesterton received this distinction while he was visiting the University in 1931. Two years later the second bestowal was made upon Marconi.
November 13, the day of the celebration, marks the inauguration of Manuel L. Quezon as the first president of the Philippine Islands. Since the relations between Notre Dame and the Spanish sepaking countries have always been very cordial, it is hoped that this observance will furnish a tribute to this long amity.
Men nationally prominent in political and diplomatic sets, and eminent members of the Catholic hierarchy will participate in the ceremonies.
On the roles of Notre Dame alumni are the names of more than fifty residents of the Philippines. It is believed that in recognizing the independence of the new republic, the University will take a big step towards forming a closer bond of union between America and her offspring island republic.
CENTRAL NEW YORKERS
Six new members were introduced at the first meeting of the Central New York club held Wednesday, Oct. 18, in the Commerce building. The meeting was conducted by President John Cashin.
During the short business session the club discussed plans for their annual dances but no definite dates were decided upon.
PRESENTS NEW "SCRIP"
Maurice Tombragel “A fresh note this year.”
AERO CLUB MEETS
Marking another step in the advance of engineering at Notre Dame the pioneer Aeronautics’ Club held its second meeting Monday evening in the Engineering building. The meeting, at which there were approximately twenty-five present, was conducted by F. P. Shapiro.
It was voted to postpone the election of officers until a later date. For the present the business of the club will be handled by a committee of three composed of Mr. Shapiro, R. A. Schram, and Lawrence Schibel. It was also decided that the dues should be set at $2.00. Membership is open to all students on the campus who are interested in the field of aeronautical engineering. The purpose of the club is to stimulate interest in this branch of engineering.
The first project to be taken up by the society is the design and construction of a remote control, flying model airplane. Additional projects to suit the interest of the members will be organized from time to time. Neither power nor glider flight is at present contemplated as a society project.
The first project to be taken up by the group is the construction of a remote control, flying model airplane.
(Continued on Page 8)
To Be Distributed Nov. 8
By Gregory Byrnes
A preview of Scrip, the campus literary quarterly which will make its initial appearance of the year on Nov. 8, reveals much to merit the prediction that this issue will compare very favorably with those of the past. The high standard of fiction is well maintained but in addition this issue will feature several essays of note. The fact that students have availed themselves of this valuable opportunity to write for publication is illustrated by the variety of the material submitted.
“In consideration of the many students who have unfinished manuscripts on hand we have decided to extend the deadline until Sunday night. All work submitted will be given careful consideration and students are urged to get their work in as soon as possible,” stated- Editor Maurice Tombragel.
An examination of the title page reveals the names of some veteran authors and some who are contributing to Scrip for the first time. Paul Foley, author of “Sandwich Man,” appears again with a short-short story on the reactions of a theater cashier entitled “Double Feature.” Tom Proctor, also a veteran contributor, has written a story called “Momma Gets Her Phone Call.” John J. Lechner, an off-campus pre-law student, is the author of “Hildy,” a character study of a psychopathic personality of a young woman, and of her emotional life from childhood through adolescence.
Professor Daniel C. O’Grady of the department of philosophy has contributed a philosophical essay and it is expected that Professor Desmond Fitzgerald, who has been ill in the hospital for the past week, will be sufficiently recovered to contribute to this issue.
“We are seeking a new and fresher note in the appearance of the magazine this year. Some changes in the cover design are being considered with a view to a new note of simplicity,” Editor Tombragel said.
November I, 1935
Five
Sheed Will Lecture
THIRTY CANDIDATES RESPOND TO CALL
Here November Fifth
FOR VARSITY DEBATE TEAM POSITIONS
Mrs. Masie Ward Sheed, distinguished English writer and lecturer, will return to the campus to deliver an address before the student body on Tuesday evening, Nov. 5, in Washington hall. The subject of Mrs. Sheed’s lecture has not yet been selected.
Mrs. Sheed last appeared here on Nov. 22, 1934, when she spoke on, “Writing My Parent’s Biography,”
Mbs. Maisie Ward Sheed A popular visitor returns.
which dealt with the effect of the Oxford Movement and the changing social conditions in the latter part of the 19th century on the lives of her father and mother.
She is the leader of the England’s Catholic Evidence League, chairman of the Practical Training Committee of the Catholic Evidence Guild, and is the author of several books among which are Saint Bernadino, and the People's Preacher—Father Maturin, a Memoir. In addition, Mrs. Sheed is the editor of the Catholic Evidence Training Outline and the English Way.	.
Her husband is Francis J. Sheed, English author, publisher, and leader in Catholic action, whom she married in 1926. Mr. Sheed is well-known to the campus having lectured here in the past. His last talk was given on Oct. 14, 1934 on “The Importance of Catholics in Co-education.”
Mrs. Sheed is co-partner with her husband in the great Catholic publishing concern, Sheed and Ward, which has branches in London and New York. Its list of authors include such impressive names as Chesterton, Belloc, Martindale, Ronald Knox, Ma-ritain, Claudel, and Christopher Dawson.
She has been best known during the
Six .
LECTURES ...
Professor Francis E. McMahon, of the department of philosophy, will speak Nov. 10 before the Catholic Association for International Peace at Detroit on the subject, “The Philosophy of Peace.” The association, the ethics committee of which Prof. McMahon is a member, is convening under the auspices of the University of Detroit.
Stressing the nature of peace, Professor McMahon proposes to define peace in the words of St. Augustine, “Peace is the tranquillity of order.” He will show “in what order consists, namely' a place for everything and everything in its place. The function of wisdom is to keep order in things. And wisdom flows from charity. Herein lies the great power of Christian charity, and the importance of a peace movement emanating from Catholic sources.”
Professor McMahon will speak again in Cleveland during the Christmas holidays.
UNIVERSITY BAND
The University Band, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Cas-asanta, has been invited to play at a smoker to be given by the St. Joseph’s Valley Alumni Association on November 22. The smoker is to be held at the Knights of Columbus hall in South Bend. On the night before the Southern California game, Thomas H. Grady, a junior in the College of Commerce, will be with the band at the smoker in the capacity of a drum major. Grady was one of the drum majors in the All-Star band at the All-Star game in Chicago last August 29. The All-Star band itself was composed of 175 men from 52 different universities throughout the country. The other drum major in the latter band was from Northwestern university.	.
L. Giragi has joined the baritone section of the University band since the publication of the personnel of that organization.
past fifteen years as a forcible speaker for Catholicism, holding numerous outdoor meetings in which she appeals to her audiences by revivalistic and intellectual methods with effective results.
Mrs. Sheed comes by her writing ability naturally, as her father, Wilfred Ward, is Newman’s biographer and was for ten years editor of the Dublin Review.
By Louis Da Pra
Thirty candidates, including four veterans of last year’s squad, answered Varsity Coach Wm. J. Coyne’s call for tryouts for the 1935-36 varsity debating team last week.
Around the nucleus formed by Robert Schmelzle, John Heywood,
Professor Wm. J. Coyne He’ll weed out candidates.
Eugene Malloy, and Richard Meier, the veterans, Professor Coyne will select a squad of ten or twelve men, who will face another stiff debating schedule.
The weeding out process will probably begin on Monday, Nov. 11, when the actual try-outs will start. The question to be discussed this year is: “Resolved, that Congress should have the power to override, by a two-thirds vote, a decision of the Supreme Court holding an act of Congress to be unconstitutional.”
Professor Coyne has arranged a tentative schedule which includes dual meets with Michigan State, Creighton, and participation in the Sixth Annual Invitational College debate tournament at Manchester College, in addition to the Phi Sigma Rho debate tournament at Iowa City. A complete schedule will be issued later.
First round debates in the interhall league, postponed from October 28, will begin on November 4, according to Richard Meier, chairman, in order to allow hall coaches adequate time to select their squads. Judges for the interhall debates will be chosen from the members of the faculty. Critic decision will be given after each debate.
Chairman Meier announced the (Continued on Page 22)
The Scholastic
Alumni Office Takes
Survey of Students
"THE WORLD WAITS" WILL BE FIRST PRODUCTION BY UNIVERSITY THEATRE
By Paul Foley
A student survey of the Freshman class to determine pertinent facts about the personality and activities of the students is being conducted by the Alumni Office under the direction of James E. Armstrong, secretary of the organization.
“We hope to accumulate facts about the individual student which will throw more light upon his personality,” Secretary Armstrong said. “Hitherto our facts have been confined in most cases to a routine record of academic standing. We have had little or no knowledge of a student’s extra-curricular activity. Under the system invoked this year we hope to bridge this gap.”
The records of this year’s freshmen are being taken every afternoon in the Alumni Office, second floor of the Main Building. Appointment cards have been mailed to all first year men. In the future the appointment system will be eliminated and the information will be secured at the time of registration.
When the information file of any student is complete it will become part of the University records until the time of his graduation, it will then be transferred to the files of the alumni organization where it will be accessible for purposes of business or professional recommendations.
“We have always had the problem of being unable to fulfill accurately the queries of prospective employers,” Secretary Armstrong said. “They are often interested in a student’s extra activities while at college, his initiative in outside work, his adaptability to surroundings, his sociability with those around him—none of these facts could be gleaned from a bare academic record.”
PRESIDENTS’ COUNCIL
Campus clubs which have not submitted a list of members, a financial .statement, a program of activities for the coming year, and obtained their charters, before Nov. 8, will not be allowed to hold any meetings on the campus, or use the name of Notre Dame in any of their activities, it was announced by the Presidents’ Council this week.
The information required of the clubs may be given either to Carmi Belmont at 1 Sorin hall, or Robert Cavanaugh at 307 Walsh hall.
“SCHOLASTIC” ENVELOPES
Don’t roll up that "Scholastic” when you mail it home. Official envelopes, twelve by nine inches, are on sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore for only a cent apiece.
CONDUCTS SURVEY
Alumni Secretary Armstrong Getting the facts on the Frosh.
STUDENT TRIP
Five hundred and twelve students will entrain Saturday morning at seven o’clock on the Pennsylvania Railroad’s Football Special for the student trip to the Notre Dame-Ohio State game at Columbus, Ohio.
Students making the trip will arise at 5:30 a.m., Saturday, in order to attend Mass at 5:40 a.m. in the hall chapels or in the Main church. Breakfast for those going to Columbus will be served at 6:10 a.m. ‘
The S.A.C., through the studenttax fund, has provided street car transportation from the Notre Dame campus to the Pennsylvania railroad station at 6:30 a.m. The special train is due to arrive in Columbus at 12:30 p.m. E.S.T. From the Pennsylvania depot, street cars will transport the students the two miles to the Ohio State campus at the north end of Columbus. Game time is scheduled for 2:00 p.m., E.S.T.
The student special will leave Columbus promptly at 1:00 a.m., Sunday, in order to arrive in South Bend at 6:25 a.m. to allow the students to reach the campus for the 7:00 o’clock Mass. No transportation will be furnished by the S.A.C. Sunday morning from the station to the campus.
Accompanying the students will be the University’s 85-piece band, under the. direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casa-santa. The sophomore, junior and
Call For Candidates Posted
By J. Hurley -
“The World Waits” by George F. Hummell has been selected as the first play to be given by the University theater this year, Professor Albert L. Doyle, director of the theater, announced Monday. Though an actual date has not been set, the play will probably be presented the second week in December.	■
This play, which calls for a cast of 15 male actors, is the story of a group of men on an antarctic expedition. They are anxiously waiting for the ship which is to come to carry them out of the land of snow and ice. By means of radio they can hear their wives and loved ones speaking to them. The whole world waits for the ship to plow through frozen waters to reach the stranded men.
The initial call for those wishing to try out for parts in “The World Waits” was posted during the week. Professor Doyle is hoping for a large turnout of students to stimulate interest. Every candidate will be given an opportunity to show whether he has the ability to fill one of the roles called for in the play.
“There are many students who have the ability to act but are unaware of it,” Mr. Doyle stated, “and, therefore, I would like to see all who have a desire to take part in a University production answer this call for candidates.”
Friday noon, Oct. 25, the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University, spoke in Washington Hall to those interested in dramatics in general and the University theatre in particular. Among other things Father O’Hara said that he would like to see the return of male impersonations of female characters.
senior managers will make the trip. The cheerleaders will also attend. Contrary to previous years, the Notre Dame “B” football squad will not make the annual student trip since they are engaging the Illinois “B” team Saturday afternoon in a game at Notre Dame.
The Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, together with a group of faculty members, will be in charge. Actual arrangements of the trip are in the hands of Hal Stine, S.A.C. chairman of the student trip.
The football special is carrying not only the students but also a number -of coaches containing South Bend people making the trip to Columbus for the game.
November. I, 1935
Seven
Scientists Hear Talk on Electrical Work
Mr. Edward A. Coomes, of the department of physics, addressed the Academy of Science on Monday evening, October 28th. His topic, “Researches in Higher Voltage,” was an informal talk on the work accomplished by Dr. George B. Collins and . himself, together with other members of the department, in the construction of an apparatus designed to bombard the atom.
In one of the rooms in the Engineering building the visitor may see a giant copper sphere supported by three legs, and a belt leading to an aperture in its side. This queer looking monstrosity is what is known as an atom-smashing machine. As yet it remains incompleted but will be ready for full operation within a few weeks. Its purpose is the bombardment of atoms of one element with a resultant disintegration to another element.
The sphere is made of copper with a wood framwork and is twelve feet in diameter. Inside there is room for several persons and also equipment for the necessary recordings. The sphere rests upon three legs each 21 feet in length and made of compressed paper which act as excellent insulators. The belt is used to induce the electric charge on the sphere and travels at a rate of 75 miles per hour at top speed. At present the research group has been able to obtain a voltage between a million and a million and a half volts, and it hopes to reach two million within a few months. The room itself* is able to withstand a maximum of three million volts.
At the conclusion of his talk Mr. Coomes conducted the members to the room in which the apparatus was located. He explained and gave an actual demonstration of how it worked. The party viewed the phenomenon of man-made lightning from a nearby balcony.
AERO CLUB (Continued from Page 5)
Other members of the organization not interested in this project will work on another one not as yet selected.
Professor Walter Schilts, of the engineering school, suggested that papers be presented at each meeting of the organization. Professor William Brown, of the aeronautical engineering department, suggested that the papers be on current improvements in airplane design.
The next meeting of the club will be held on Monday evening, Nov. 17. Thereafter sessions will be held twice each month.
Although living among the intellectuals and muscle men of Walsh’s fourth floor, Paul Doyle manages to retain his individuality . . . Probably the quietest man on the floor . . . But likes radical things . . . Takes a couple of papers that worry his
neighbors, often expounding theories that would scare even brain-trusters.
The second of the Doyle tribe from Chicago to edit N. D. mags. . . . Brother Jerry headed the Juggler before its untimely death. . . . Paul, being more serious minded, edits the Catalyzer . . . Started out in A.B. but decided the profs, would expect too much from him following Jerry so closely . . . Changed to chemistry and has maintained an 85. . . .
Hits in the league across the lake, but plays the field . . . Spends part of the summer in school, not from force but from choice . . . Likes the lake, and holds about half the school tank records . - - Cavorts about with the Walsh Hallers on the gridiron . . . Once had a scheme for trotting about the lake in the early dawn, but something went wrong. ...
Loafed about on a farm part of the summer . . . Keeps the remains of the spade he leaned on ... Is a pretty fair man in fourth floor sessions, even without the spade. . . .
FRENCH CLUB
Under the chairmanship of Vice-president Vernon A. Tetrault, the Cercle Francais of the University held its first meeting last Monday night in the basement of the Library. Plans were made for an active year. A large number of students were in attendance. Everyone seemed eager to start formal activities which will commence with the next meeting.
Bookmen Broadcast
Made Weekly Feature
The Bookmen program, that fifteen minute literary pot-pourri that was broadcast from the campus radio studio for the first time last week, was so well received by the students and by the outside public that it will be made a permanent feature and will be heard every Wednesday afternoon at 3:15. Harry J. Cozad, president of the Bookmen, wishes to emphasize the fact that it is the aim of the society to make these programs sufficiently varied to please everyone.
The programs presented from the local studio during the past week were as follows: On Monday afternoon James Foohey continued the series of question-and-answer programs entitled “The Man Who Knows.” Tuesday afternoon featured a talk prepared by the Department of the Interior and delivered by Tom Kavanaugh and Gerry Schaefer. The Tuesday evening period was devoted to a musical program featuring John Saggau, tenor soloist, and Paul Locher, pianist. Wednesday afternoon listeners heard the second Bookmen program under the direction of Harry Cozad.
Jack Robinson renewed his series of interesting sport talks in the Thursday afternoon period. This feature has gained quite a following and as the football season progresses will no doubt prove to be one of the most popular programs. The Scholastic of the Air, the quarter hour summary of news from the column of the campus weekly, occupied the Friday afternoon period.
N. D. BROADCAST
For several weeks, football will continue to provide the highlight of Kellogg College Prom broadcasts heard over a WJZ-NBC network on Fridays at 8:30 P.M. (E.S.T.).
On November 2nd one of the year’s outstanding games, that between. Notre Dame and Ohio State, will feature the College Prom broadcast. Both Elmer Layden, coach of Notre Dame, and Francis Schmidt, coach of Ohio State, will be heard on this program, speaking from Columbus, Ohio. Since the Rose Bowl choice may hinge on this game, football fans have indicated enough interest in it to have purchased all available tickets, while hotels in Columbus have reported a sell-out for the week-end.
The following week, November 8th, the Kellogg College Prom is dedicated to the St. Mary’s-Fordham game, being played in New York City. Jim Crowley, Fordham’s football mentor, will be present at this broadcast to discuss the Fordham Ram’s chances.
Eight
The Scholastic.
"Catalyzer” Introduced By Editor Paul Doyle
By Lindsay B. Phoebus
Today, the Catalyzer, edited by Paul J. Doyle, a senior in the College of Science, will make its initial appearance for the year. Assisting Editor Doyle in the publication of the Chemistry Department’s monthly periodical are William J. Darcy, assistant editor, and Francis W. Burke, associ-
Assistant Editor Darcy Breaks into print.
ate. These men are students in the College of Engineering. Darcy is a senior; Burke, a sophomore.
The feature article in the October issue was written by Doctor Robert L. Jackson, of the Department of Pediatrics in the College of Medicine in the State University of Iowa. Entitled, “Chemistry and Clinical Medicine,” the article is a scholarly treatment of the important role played by chemistry in the field of clinical and experimental medicine. Doctor Jackson has selected diabetes to illustrate the application of chemistry in clinical medicine. The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry was conferred upon the doctor by the University some years ago.
In another article, the high voltage generator constructed in the Engineering Building by members of the Department of Physics and of Electrical Engineering is described and explained in some length. A third interesting article entitled “Color Chemistry” was contributed to the publication by assistant editor Darcy.
Of_ the Catalyzer, its editor says: “The publication is following the same conservative lines of other years.” In the past, students have not been permitted to contribute to the publication. This year, for the first time, student authors are allowed to publish in the pages of the periodical their knowledge of subjects chemical. The subscribers to Catalyzer are, almost exclusively, members of the College of Science and of Engineering of the University. The publication is mailed to more than 250 alumni of these colleges.
FITZGERALD ILLNESS
Desmond Fitzgerald, after a short illness, was released from St. Joseph Hospital, Wednesday. Mr. Fitzgerald will resume his Washington Hall lecture series early next week.
Just Who is "Bearskin"? Athletes Aren't Sure But Have Theories
Ed. Note: This is the sixth in a series of snap-shot interviews ivith students about campus topics. The winter this week chose eight upperclass athletes at random and asked:
“Who do you think is Bearskin?”
Mike Layden, Sorin. “Father Tom Burke and Father Lahey are suspected. Whoever he is,-tie has a lot of influence with the players.”
Joe O’Neill, Walsh. “Person or persons unknown are having some fun at the expense of Notre Dame football players who, in this case, can’t strike back.”
“Sonny” Church, Walsh. “I think Bearskin consists of our entire coaching staff, the sports writer, Jack Led-den, and some priest at the University who is well acquainted with the boys.”
Johnny Michuta, Sorin: “That’s a question I have asked myself a number of times and have yet to find a satisfactory answer. I’ have often thought it might be either Father Farley or Coach Keogan since I believe that they are both capable of writing the column the way it appears every Friday in the “Trib.”
Johnny Lautar, Corby: “The column is certainly written by someone who knows his football. My guess is “Cap” Edwards who answers that qualification.”
Frank Kopczak, Walsh. “I think Bearskin is our entire coaching staff, plus the president of the University, plus the sport writer on one of the South Bend newspapers. I’m more convinced of this after reading an article by Gallico on the origination of Bearskin.”
Frank Kopczak
Likes Bearskin steaks.
Bill Shakespeare, Walsh: “I believe that it must be some writer getting his information from one of the coaching staff. The articles contain too much of intimate details to allow the belief that it is some merely clever writer handing out a line.”
George Moriarty, St. Edward’s: “The comments of ‘Bearskin’ are those of a keen observer gained through close contact with activities at daily practice sessions and games. Jack Ledden misses none of these, so, with no malice intended, I say Jack ‘Bearskin’ Ledden.”
Engineers .Make Merry At Club Initiations
On October 21st, under the sovereign eyes of King “Pete” Batrow and Queen “Norm” Tinnis, the Engineers’ Club of Notre Dame held its annual initiation rites. Seniors in the College of Electrical Engineering provided the implements of torture used to bring the “Frosh” into “contact” with their fellow engineers. King
President Tom Hines The “King and Queen” icere there.
Batrow meted out just punishment to those aspirants who failed.to answer correctly all the mathematical problems given them.
The most interesting diversion of the evening was provided by a freshman who attempted to outwit the veteran paddle wielders by a clever stuffing of his trousers before he participated in the “warming up” ceremonies. When his ruse was detected the King immediately brought all other activities to a standstill for the purpose of using the yearling to demonstrate to the others the folly of trying to out-think one’s superiors. The united efforts of the royal brigade of paddlers furnished ample conviction that no more “brainstorms” should be attempted.
The entire ceremonial arrangements were in the hands of Joseph Kumler, while refreshments were taken care of in a completely satisfactory manner by George McNeile and Carlos Henkel. Tom Hines, president of the Engineers’ club, was in general charge of the annual ceremony. ,
DOME
Individual pictures for the Junior class section of this year’s Dome were finished this afternoon, according to Editor Delancey Davis.
The Senior pictures will be taken by appointment every afternoon from 1:30 to 5:00 p.m., in the Walsh Hall studio. The charge for Senior pictures is to be $1.00, and four exposures will be made.	’
Any changes in appointments after they have been made, may be arranged by sending a card to Managing Editor George Feeley, 346 Alumni Hall.
November I, 1935
Nine
NOTRE DAME'S ACTIVITY IN WORLD WAR REMEMBERED IN MEMORIAL CHURCH PORTAL
By Anthony F. O’Boyle
/ or on their way; uniforms were on the bodies of several hundred of her alumni, and six priests were working as chaplains in army posts.
The first Notre Dame man to give his life in the great struggle was William J. Egan, of Ontario, Canada, who was killed in action on a French battlefield in the first week of May, 1917. To the Reverend Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., Vice President of the University and later President, belongs the distinctive honor, of being
We wonder sometimes as we pass under the East portal of Sacred Heart Church how many students have ever grasped the noble and beautiful sentiment that is expressed by the motto “God, Country, Notre Dame” above the entrance. It is the real Notre Dame spirit that is there etched in the stone. Eighteen years ago students like ourselves went gallantly and courageously into the muck of European battlefields that this principle might be substantiated. To these true men of Notre Dame the University has proudly and tenderly dedicated the doorway.
The University of Our Lady gave not only her stalwart sons to the American army but she also came forward with what children she had left and assisted in the work of bringing to a successful conclusion every Liberty Loan and War Saving Stamp Drive that was launched on her campus. A splendid single example of this whole-hearted cooperation on the part of the student body during the hectic war period was the collection of sufficient funds to purchase an ambulance to be used overseas.
Shortly before the United States severed diplomatic relations with the Central Powers the War Department sent letters to the presidents of the leading American universities inquiring “if war were declared would your students fight?” In answer to this the late Reverend John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the president of the University, replied “why wait for war?”
This assurance of loyalty was neither z^ew months after we entered, the war ’ approximately three hundred Notre / /Dame men were either at the front1 ^the first chaplain to be assigned a post.
While the general trend of mind expressed in the letters of Notre Dame men who were in active service seemed to be that of “grin and bear it,” occasional flashes of personal reminiscences indicate their love and loyalty to their school. It is from The Scholastics of this period that we are able to obtain a clear picture of campus life during the war days. In reading these issues one comes across such interesting articles as these: The University Glee Club was abandoned, owing to the fact that so many of its members were being t r a n s f e r r e d to Officers Training Camps—the Dome of 1919 would not be edited since George Haller, to whom the editorship had been given by his classmates, was transferred at the beginning of the school term to an artillery training school — insurance policies taken out by Notre Dame men in the S.A.T.C. averaged (Continued on Page 22)	’
Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C. Another Notre Dame Chaplain.
exaggerated nor misplaced, for m a '
Uniformity Is Shown
In Early Bible Texts
Between the invention of printing in 1550 and the first of all Protestant Bibles in 1522, there were 626 editions of the Bible under the auspices and supervision of the Catholic Church. 198 of these were in modern languages. In German alone there were 29 printed editions of the Bible before Luther’s. Nine of thse were printed before Luther was born in 1483.
In spite of these many editions there was only One Bible, as we have it in the Catholic Church today; for all were true copies or translations of the same sacred text; because the Word of God must not be changed even in the least.
It is not so with Protestant Bibles, which differ considerably from one another. Most of them leave out these - seven books: Tobias, Baruch, Judith, Wisdom, Ecclesiastious, I. Maccabees and II. Maccabees, besides omitting or changing other portions according to their private judgment. It is safe to say that practically no two Protestant editions of the Bible agree exactly.
Yet it-should not be so; for there is only one Written Word inspired by God for all times and all nations. Hence, there can be only one authentic, complete and reliable Bible for all today, and that is the one which the Catholic Church has preserved for us during nearly 1900 years.
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., and Rev. Ernest Davis C.S.C., Chaplains in the the World War.
Altar erected for Mass in Memorial entrance of Sacred Heart Church.
Ten
The Scholastic
Exhibit Rare Bibles
In Library Display
By Bertram J. Smith
In keeping with the universal Bible observance in Catholic universities from October 4 to December 8, Mr. Paul Byrne, librarian of the University, has placed on display in the catalogue room some rare biblical texts which are part of the Notre Dame collections.
Included in the display is a copy of the very rare Rhemish text; it was from this text that the original Douay version was made. A note on this volume written by an early collector reads: “This volume is one to be looked upon with reverence. For generations it could be read in the British Isles only by stealth, as its possession was punishable by death.” It was printed by Gregory Martin at Rheims, France.
Another unique exhibit is a copy of the Breeches Bible, printed in 1608. This edition contains three embroidered plates to illustrate important parts of the text.
Of rathei* timely interest is a rare edition of an Ethiopian Bible. The text is encased in a broken wooden box which has been traced to ancient Ethiopia.
The Rosen Bible, one of the first complete Douay Bibles, accompanies the English exhibit, and was printed in 1610. A large pre-Lutheran text in two volumes with 73 illuminated wood cuts, probably printed prior to 1480, and a German Bible by Sen-senschnid and Frisner done about 1470 complete the collection.
DEBATING
(Continued from Page 6)
schedule for the first round debates:
Monday, November 4—Badin Negative vs. Carroll Affirmative, Freshman Affirmative vs. Morrissey Negative.
Tuesday, November 5—Sorin Negative vs. Carrol Affirmative, Brownson Affirmative vs. St. Edward’s Negative. ’
Wednesday, November 6—Alumni Negative vs. Walsh Affirmative, Lyons Affirmative vs. Dillon Negative.
All debates will be held in the Law Building at 8:00 p.m. The debates are open to the public.
INDIANA STATE CONFERENCE
Notre Dame will be represented at the 44th annual session of the Indiana State Conference on Social Work, by Professors Frank T. Flynn, Jr., and R. A. Hoyer, of the Graduate Curriculum in Social Work. The 1935 meeting will be held in Indianapolis, Nov. 7-8, with representatives from all parts of the state.
THE WEEK
By Andrew D. Hufnagel
We understand that St. Mary’s is soon to have a post office of its very own. Don’t let that news phase you habitual frequenters of the college across the lake. You’ll still be able to write the girls, only now it will cost you three cents instead of the customary one cent. The cost of living is going up!
Winchell Goldman and his chief stooge, Fatty Farrell, are always getting themselves into hot water. But they’ve been rather quiet lately. That is, especially since Prof. Cooney chased them out of one of his journalism classes for acting more nonsensical than usual. If we had been the professor, we would have made them stand in a corner.
• '
The boys who haunt the bowling alleys are a constant source of wonder to us. Night after night we’ll watch the bowlers do their stuff in the Walsh basement, expecting them to pull a stunt to which we’ve been looking forward with great anticipation. Time after time they’ll mightily swing the heavy balls in a tremendous arc and send them booming down the alleys. But never, no not once, have we seen a bowler get his thumb stuck in a ball and go sailing down the alley with it. We almost accomplish the trick every time we handle the ball ourselves, but we’ve never gone quite the full distance. That would be a sight to see!
Billy Fish found reason to make comment on our recent suggestion that a holiday be set aside in honor of each of the members of the football team. He observed that since he had recently won a case in court, homage should be paid to him by naming a holiday after his own tag. We reminded him that he should have no complaint to make as long as every Friday is recognized as a fish day.
•
Anyone interested in seeing just how that certain Howardite made his escape from the clutches of our own unmounted police should see Tony Mulvaney in Lyons. Tony, a very clever artist, has drawn and hung on his walls a number of pictures which most aptly portray the event. One must make an appointment with Mulvaney, however, before being admitted to his private art gallery.
Reading the newspapers, we notice that a Mr. P. W. A. Grant has been supporting the building programs of
many of the universities and colleges throughout the United States. In fact he’s financing a whole new college back in New York City. We wish he’d show a little of that generosity on the local campus. It would do our heart good to know that he was going to help stall work on the Rockne Memorial. Not that we seniors would ever get any benefit of it, however. What do you say, Mr. P. W. A.?
* © .
Also come to the attention of this department is the malicious attack made by Bearskin on the Notre Dame cheerleading squad. We can take with a grin whatever insults Mr. Bearskin chooses to shower upon the football team or the band, but when he aims his barbs at the cheerleaders, there, ah there, he hits our tender spot. Our sensitiveness on this point might merit this columnist’s being called Bareshin, but we just can’t stand having our yell leaders lampooned. Anyway, though the anonymous commentator might know all there is to be kenned about Notre Dame football, he knows very little, and probably nothing, about the cheer leading situation on this campus. So hands off, Bearskin, or we’ll ferret you out and hoss whip you within an inch of your life.
»
Has anyone observed how deserted the campus becomes on those Saturday afternoons when the team is playing away from home? The stay-at- homes are much too busy hovering over their radios as the report of the game comes in to do any roaming about the campus. Last Saturday only three students were seen on the quadrangle during the course of the broadcast. Then, as soon as the game ended, the quad became alive with yelling touchball players, pipe smoking collegians, and strolling girls.
9
Scraps:
Warning! Leo Hofschneider is our ace operative. Be careful of your deportment in his presence, fellows!
Did you know that, the town of Phoebus, Virginia, is named after Harrison Phoebus, grandad of Lindsay? By the way, Lyn never communicates with that girl friend back home in any other way except through the mail. He uses the phone merely to contact his creditors.
What drum major never missed any Notre Dame formal affair during the last four years, except the recent cotillion? And which of the drum majors, during the same space of time, has never attended a formal of any kind?
November’ I, 1935
Eleven
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
CAF SMOKE
Statistics on Present Scholastic Year
President Robert “Herman” Trousdale of the musical Trousdale works up a tremendous appetite marching with the band ... We wonder how Bud Bonfield can emerge from his popular place of residence with a
The relay runner takes his diploma
ninety-eight in Money and Banking. . . . Chris Matthews has apparently (very apparently) established contact at the new Oliver Coffee Shop (not with a doughnut either!) . . . Jim Callahan is the Cleveland laddie who gets those twelve-page daily sugar missives (maybe her dad manufactures stationery) . . . Wimpy Schoen-feldt says that rumors to the contrary he is not a member of the “treacherous twerps” who are making life miserable for “what rector?” . . . Felix “Curly Top” Zaczek will, on the second of November, function (if he functions at all) as the best man at a Chicago wedding. . . .
We had a peek at Francis Wallace eating breakfast the other day and for Prof. Fenion’s short story classes we submit the Wallace breakfast menu—two glasses of water, one pot
of tea and three glasses of orange juice (check the oil too, please) . . . Frank Sini turned sissy; we caught him smoking a Phillip Morris . . . Art Geis is another ex-bartender . . . Bob Puryear and Jack Wallach may
come to blows some day all because they want to sleep in the lower berth of their double-decker. . . .
Bull Jakop is going Finchley in order to surprise some little Delta Gamma at Columbus Saturday . . . Joe Corcoran was chased around the Stadium by the town girls for cheering dear ol’ Mishawaka; we hear he did it on purpose . . . Gene Ling, after helping Jim Waldron with The Scholastic broadcast, is under the impression that he is possessed of a platinum plated palate. . . .
We can’t waste any more time on ‘youse guys’ this issue because Lay-dent has invited us to assist in coaching the team just for this week (and why not when’ one considers that the Buckeye’s team is really a joke and can the Irish crack jokes!). . . .
Until Christmas—54 days.
Until semester exams—who cares?
Until Easter—151 days.
Until June exams—again who cares?
Advice to the Frosh
Don’t worry about the future, The present is all thou hast.
The future will soon be present, And the present will soon be past.
You can always tell a Senior By his strut around the town.
You can always tell a Junior By his foolish looking frown.
You can always tell a Sophomore By his color, hair and such
You can always tell a Freshie, But you cannot tell him much.
Studies
The sofa sagged in the center;
The shades were pulled just so,
The family had retired, The parlor light burned low.
There came a sound from the sofa As the clock was striking two, And the student slammed his textbook—
With a thankful, “Well, I’m through.”
There’s at least one in every stadium who:
Knows the first names of all the players and wants to teach them to everyone else. . . Who comes late and sits in the middle of the row. . . who pops up in front of you to take a picture of every fourth down. . . who sells “Peanutschewinggumcigarettes chocolatetencents.”. . . Who wears a derby. . . . who pokes his knees in your back. . . who admits that, “Both teams ARE just TOO DARLING for' ANYTHING.” ... who is sitting in the wrong section, is a loyal supporter of his own team, and has a cast-iron, case hardened nerve. . . who incessantly repeats, “Pardon me, may I see your program a minute?” . . . Who doesn’t know the cheers. . . who throws apple-cores. . . who wonders where the old fight is. . . who knows a good back when he sees one. . . who wants to give a locomotive for the team, toot, tosh.—Pelican.
Tragedy
Speaking of sad cases—how about the English prof who received a theme with no punctuation marks, and died trying to hold his breath until the last page!
Twelve
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Gas Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 421 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C................Faculty Adviser
JOHN S. MORAN ......................     Editor-in-Chief
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST .................. Managing-Editor
Departmental Editors
Andrew D. Hufnagei______________________________The Week
William V. Ellis________________________________A rt Editor
News Staff
Paul Foley News Editor
Robert L. Grogan______________________Assistant News Editor
Clifford F. Brown Anthony O’Boyle
Lindsay Phoebus---------------------------Gregory Byrnes
Joseph Ratigan----------------------------Irwin L. Goldman
John A. Gillespie---------------------------------Bertram	Smith
Harold A. Williams___________________________________John	Hurley
Sports Staff
Cyril F. Stroker Co-Sports	Editor
James A. Waldron Co-Sports	Editor
John Cackley--------------------------James M. McMullen
Eugene Vaslett____________________________________Michael	Crowe
Allen Bride__________:__________________________Arch Gott
John Glanzner
William R. Dooley, '26_____________________________Business Manager
Member Associated Collegiate Press Distributor of Collegiate Digest
November 1, 1935
AFTER SEVENTEEN YEARS
w
’ ’ HAT does Armistice Day mean to the average undergraduate? Little more than a speech or two. . . editorials in the papers. . . taps. To the college man of 1935 the World War is only a second-hand tale of death and^ destruction—something that just couldn’t happen to him. Nothing worries him. Ethiopia is too far away— Italy will be defeated or will get what she wants and that will be all to that back-yard squabble. The college man of 1914 said almost the same thing. . . only then it was Serbia that was too far away.
The war generation of collegians today regrets its indifference to the gathering storm of 1914. With the outbreak of hostilities the colleges were transformed into military institutions and their student bodies forcibly turned from their books and set to the sterner task of learning how to jab a man with a bayonet so that the blade could be easily disengaged after piercing the vital organs.
The present generation of college men may yet regret its indifference to the activity of the war-seeking minority in this country and elsewhere. The government should be shown that the college man will not be swayed by blaring bands, high sounding but empty speeches, and all the other agents of war time propaganda. Should the college men of the next decade have occasion to observe a new armistice day each year, it is very likely that mighty few” of the present generation of undergraduates will be able to join in the ceremonies honoring the dead.
November I, 1935
THE VICIOUS STRUGGLE
ALE and Harvard undergraduate feuds make the front pages of this country’s newspapers with surprising regularity. Something of a national furore was created recently when the Harvards stole the Yales bulldog mascot and snapped a picture of it licking the foot of the statue representing Harvard’s founder. Now the ACP informs us that three Harvard men the other day kidnapped a canary bird, mascot of the Yale Daily News, in the latest outrage of this struggle for supremacy between the two universities. Fear of reprisals from the Naval Academy Log, for the 14-0 defeat administered to Navy Saturday, has led The Scholastic to mount a 24 hour guard over its most treasured possession—the office clock.
R. I. P.
•^^•NOTHER link in the chain between the traditional Notre Dame and the present-day University was broken recently with the passing of Michael F. Calnon. The student body of today knew of Mr. Calnon principally through the talk of oldsters and writings commemorating the loyalty of those two genial partners, “Hully and Mike,” for the “Fighting Irish.” “Mike” Calnon was one of Notre Dame’s most ardent supporters back in the days when “Fighting Irish” applied necessarily off the field as well as on—when bigots and anti-Catholics ignored sportsmanship and fair play if Notre Dame was ahead. “Mike” was loved and respected by generaations of Notre Dame athletes as a friend and a gentleman through and through.
•
One feature which always draws large student audiences to Washington Hall is the showing of collected newsreel “shots” depicting Notre Dame football squads in action throughout the season. To Director of Athletics Elmer Layden and the Athletic Association we suggest that the A.A. game-length films of the contests be shown in Washington Hall for the general student body, in addition to the private unreelings for the football squad. Unless copyright or other technicalities bar their showing, they would be a very welcome addition to the usual Saturday night program.
•
SaTURDAY’S contest with Ohio State has assumed all the importance of a national crisis for the majority of the student body. We point to the remaining games on the schedule to remind you that an excess of the “do-or-die” spirit is likely to prove fatal should Ohio State emerge on the long end of the score. Don’t place too much importance on this one contest—a loss might result in a vital blow to the morale of the team as well as that of the student body.
•
Next Friday the first edition of the 1935-36 Scrip will be distributed on the campus. We haven’t seen this first born as yet, but we have been assured by the staff that it will be more interesting and more readable than that of any other year. To Editor Maurice Tombragel and his capable assistants we extend our sincere wishes for a successful edtitorial year, and a better and greater publication.
Thirteen
ATHLETICS
FOOTBALL FANS AWAIT COLUMBUS CLASH
BOTH ELEVENS UNDEFEATED AS THEY	Strenuous Practices
ENTER CRUCIAL CONTEST TOMORROW	Handed |rish Squad
First Game Between Schools
By Gene Vaslett
•The answers to a great number of questions will be furnished to football fans, tomorrow afternoon at Columbus, Ohio when the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame clashes with the Scarlet and Gray of Ohio State in a football game that has been looked forward to since early last spring by all the fans of the country.
Has Notre Dame really reached the top once more? And is Ohio State as great a team as the sport writers of the country seem to think it is? These are two questions that are on the lips of every follower of the gridiron wars on the eve of the Ohio State-Notre Dame Clash. These same followers are not overlooking the fact that tomorrow’s clash will in all probability settle the problem of the mythical National Football Championship and close to 87,000 people will be on hand to see the outcome of this issue.
The Scarlet Scourge, conquerors of Kentucky, Drake, Northwestern, and . Indiana have yet to be really pressed to attain victory. Last week the Buckeyes met Indiana and although the Bloomington team scored first in the early minutes of play the Bucks had but to turn on the pressure to win by the one sided score of 28-6. On the other hand the Irish have had to display a great fighting spirit in order to win their games with Kansas, Carnegie Tech, Wisconsin, Pittsburgh, and Navy. In fact some sports writers attribute the Notre Dame victory over Pitsburgh only to the fight displayed by the Irish during that game.
Two different types of football will be played tomorrow. Notre Dame ’ which has employed only fundamental football in its games will have to face a team that is accustomed to tossing the ball around in lateral and forward passes at all stages of the game. Whether this policy employed by the Bucks will disconcert the Irish spirit remains to be seen tomorrow at Columbus.
There is no tradition connected
VICTORY BOUND
Elmer F. Layden
“I’ll be down to 135 pounds.”
with the Ohio State battle if we overlook the fact that Notre Dame traditionally meets the strongest teams in the country year after year. This will be the first clash between Irish and Buckeye football teams, and spectators are coming to view a great football game, not to witness a battle of traditional rivals. The game tomorrow is, what might be termed, a football “natural.”
Notre Dame will meet a team that is four deep* in reserve strength in every position. Such men as Tippy Dye at quarterback, Hamrick, AllAmerican tackle, and “Jumping Joe” Williams, sensational half back will confront the battered Notre Dame team.
The stage is set for the years’ football classic. The Irish varsity, used for only a quarter in the Navy game, is completely rested following their grueling Pittsburgh encounter. The Bucks are on edge as they have been pointing for the Irish conflict_since early season. The game will be the high point of each team’s schedule and both are determined to win.
All phases of football were re-heai’sed this week as Coach Elmer Layden groomed his undefeated team to face the also undefeated Ohio State eleven at Columbus, Saturday afternoon.
Those two most important fundamentals, tackling and blocking, were not overlooked in the drills. The team has shown a decided improvement in these two departments of play as the season has progressed.
For some time the reserves have been equipped with Ohio State formations. They were used repeatedly against the varsity teams this week. At first glance, the varsity had trouble in diagnosing the plays. However, they seemed to improve after watching the Ohio State offense as executed by the reserves.
Pass defense came in for its share of attention too. Coach Francis Schmidt’s offense is filled with lateral passes. They have also been completing many forward passes in recent performances. The Irish have been fairly successful against passing attacks in their first five games. How well they perform against laterals will be answered when dusk settles
Joe Boland, Line Coach.
over the Ohio stadium Saturday afternoon. Notre Dame’s passing attack, which has clicked effectively . this year, was also reviewed. With Shakespeare, Layden, Pilney, and Wilke tossing passes, the Irish proved that they will hold, their own against any opponent that specializes in forward passing.
Joe Boland, line coach, gave much attention to his linemen this week. Their ability to out-charge the Ohio State forward wall will have a lot to do with the outcome of Saturday’s (Continued on Page 20)
Fourteen
The Scholastic
Notre Dame Reserves
Play Here Tomorrow
OHIO STATE SPORT SCRIBE GIVES HIS VIEWS ON IMPORTANT TILT
By Arch Gott
After a lapse of four years the Notre Dame ”B” team is to play a game at home tomorrow in the stadium. Some might recall the last tilt played here in 1931 between the “B” teams of Indiana and Notre Dame when the Irish piled up a score of 25-2. Again possibly there are some habitual students who recall the “B” team game in 1928, Northwestern against Notre Dame, which was featured by the running wild of one sophomore, “Jumping Joe” Savoldi by name. Joe, then a member of the “B” squad, plowed.through for four touchdowns that afternoon and the result was a 31-0 victory.
To delve back a bit into “B” team history at Notre Dame we discover that the first intersectional “B” team contest to be played by Notre Dame was in 1931 against Buffalo U. varsity when the Blue and Gold won 33-6. Since then the Irish “B” outfits have taken on at times, Texas Tech, Niagara U., Ouachita U. of Little Rock, Ark., and St. Thomas of Scranton, Pa. Besides these, numerous other sectional games have been played.
Tomorrow while their compatriots are over in Columbus arguing with the buxom Buckeyes, the boys of the “B” squad will try to show the illustrious Ulini just who is the better team. The Illinois “B” team consists of twenty-twb lads who are capable of a pretty tough scrap so it looks like a swell setup for tomorrow. Genial Bill Cerney has his Notre Dame squad all groomed for battle and the game should rival the Ohio State tilt in thrills.
The Irish hope to be able to present their strongest lineup but a few injuries have been sustained in scrimmages against the Varsity and some of the fellows may be unable to play. Paul Smith, regular guard for the Irish, has been out of the game with an injured ankle for the past week, but Bill Cerney hopes that he will be ready to start against the Ulini.
The probable starting lineup for the “B” team will be Hoban at quarter, Saffa and Magee at the halves, and Schmidt at fullback; on the line Crotty and Gibbs will be at the end, McGovern and Macaluso at the tackles, Smith, Mulcahy, or Fox at the guards, and Battaglia at center.
CHEERLEADERS
Walt Nienaber has been chosen chief cheerleader for the Notre Dame games for the remainder of this year. Andy Hufnagel, Howie Barnett, and Robert Siegfried make up the remainder of the squad.
By Jerry Brondfield
(Ohio State Lantern Sports Editor)
COLUMBUS, 0., Oct. 31—(Special) —Fever Heat! Thus may be described the feeling of Ohio State football fandom over the impending clash between the Bucks and Irish. Not since New Years’ Day, 1921, when the
Coach Francis A-Schmidt	Capt. Gomer. Jones
Scarlet played in the Rose Bowl game at Pasadena, has local football interest been at such a height.
The Ohio-Notre Dame game is a natural. For years the two schools have been trying to get together on the gridiron, and finally before what should be one of the biggest if not the biggest crowd of the season, the battle of gridiron titans will take place.
The contest will bring together two of the strongest teams in the land, and will put on display, four or five
potential All-Americans from both teams. Without a doubt the winner will go on to an undefeated season and a possible national championship. The odds seem to be slightly in favor of Francis Schmidt’s Scarlet Horde, but odds will go by the board when
the opening whistle blows at 2 p.m. Nov. 2.
It is hard to state right now if the Bucks will be at full strength by Saturday. Jim Karcher, regular right guard is still nursing the shoulder he injured against Northwestern, and Merle Wendt, stellar end will be hampered somewhat by a slight fracture of the nose.
Francis Schmidt isn’t the sort of coach who gives people an idea of (Continued on Page 18)
November I, 1935
Fifteen
MIKE DALY’S PLACEMENT KICK IN 1897 WAS BACKGROUND FOR PETER'S PITT SCORE
	SO THEY SAY
By Cy Stroker
(Apologies to Scholastic readers for tardiness of this sport feature.)
When Marty Peters scored his now famous placement kick against Pittsburgh to effect an Irish victory over the Panthers for the first time in three years he revived a lost art in Notre Dame football. For some reason the placement kick has been
Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C.
Played end in 1897
unpopular as a means of getting points although its successful use by Peters shows it to be highly valuable at times. The placement kick originated at Princeton, hence it was known as the “Princeton kick.”
The placement kick had a colorful beginning at Notre Dame. The first record of its successful use in the middle west was in the Notre Dame-Chicago game of Nov. 5, 1897. The game was played at Marshall Field in Chicago and the Irish opponents were making a grand day of it, administering a sound beating to the team on which the Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C., played end. On one of the few occasions in which Notre Dame received possession of the ball, the Irish started a drive toward the Chicago goal posts which advanced the ball to the enemy thirty-yard line. There, to the infinite astonishment of the spectators and the Chicago team, Mike Daly booted the ball from placement midway between the goal posts for the only Notre Dame score. In those days the placement kick scored five points instead of the present three. In spite of this surprise play, however, the Chicago team finished what they started out to do, namely to beat Notre Dame.. For, to quote
The Scholastic of that year, “In consequence of their inability to remember the signals, the men bungled dreadfully at times.”
So notworthy was this incident that a poem was written to commemorate the feat of Mike Daly. Teaching at Notre Dame at that time was an old type Irish schoolmaster, Mr. Michael McGrisken. He is described as be-whiskered, ponderous, and pompous. Equally at home in Greek or Geography, Latin or logarithms, he was also famous for puns, parodies, and proverbs. He lived at the house called the “Lilacs” being the first house outside the college grounds at the left of the road as you ‘ go to town. He was later killed by a street car in Chicago.
In “Seventh Latin” class on the Monday morning after the game with Chicago he stopped during the roll call and announced to the class that he had an inspiration. Going to the board he wrote:
Mike Daly’s Kick
Chicago's pride came down a peg
At that outrageous mystery;
How Daly ever kept his leg
When his kick went down to history.
He felt his calf. There was a cheer That boded much security.
As Daly kicked, and sent the sphere Revolving through futurity.
Up through the azure hurled. And, lo, another satellite. Revolving 'round the world.
(We are indebted to the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C., for the poem from memory. Perhaps some old-
timer may be able to supply the missing lines from memory or scrap book.
The play was not used again by Notre Dame until 1900. On Thanksgiving Day of that year the College of Physician and Surgeons brought a team from Chicago to Notre Dame with the determined intention of continuing their dissecting experiments (Continued on Page 20)
Elmer Layden, one of the old “Horsemen” of Notre Dame, now running the football stock farm at South Bend, opens his barn doors here this afternoon, and out pops the liveliest lot of gridiron colts you could hope to find in a month of Sundays.
Elmer lets ’em run loose in the Baltimore pasture against all of Lt. Tom Hamilton’s Navys fromo down Annapolis way, and the result is 14-0 in favor of the old ‘Horseman’s’ herd.
He convinces 65,000 spectators that he has the makings of a great football stable after his two years experimenting in Indiana.
He displays some rare yearlings, and some corking two year olds. As the cowboys used to sing:	-
“They’re wild and wooly, and full of fleas and never been curried below the knees.”
Well, probably not fleas. A flea would have a tough time catching up with one of the old ‘horseman’s’ colts long enough to light on him. The colts are that fast.
It looks as if Notre Dame is back on the football earth again. This bunch of the old ‘Horseman’s’ is reminiscent of the great days, when Layden himself was running as wild against the opposition as his colts run today.—Damon Runyan, in the Universal Service.
One of the great teams of the country came out of the West today and defeated a Navy eleven that had courage as solid as the armor plate of one of its battleships—and had to have in order to hold the score down to 14 to 0. That was the count by which Notre Dame downed the Middies in hte Municipal Stadium before a howling crowd of 63,000. And Notre Dame earned each of its points with smart, fast, driving football.
Two times in the second period Notre Dame crossed the Navy goal line. The first touchdown came on the end of a pass play that gained 54 yards and sent Francis Gaul over the goal standing up, after he had caught a pass on Navy’s 46 yard line and run from there behind amazingly good blocking.
The second score was made a bit later when Francis Layden, brother of the team’s coach, Elmer, grabbed a short pass from Andy Pilney to top
The Scholastic
Sixteen
off a fine march.—Robert F. Kelley in The New York Times.
INTRODUCING
The football power that belongs to Notre Dame was turned loose on the Navy today and Uncle Sam’s sea force, as represented on the gridiron by the midshipmen, was completely bottled up by 14 to 0 before 63,000 in the Municipal stadium.
The 63,000 including the entire Annapolis corps and even the Navy goat
with his brass trimmed horns, packed into the stadium in expectation of a real fight. The fight didn’t materialize. The Irish, after feeling their way, suddenly opened up, scored two touchdowns in the second quarter, and then went back into their shell contented with the amount of damage done.— Irving Vaughan in the Chicago Sunday Tribune.
On The Enemy's Trail
TO DATE:
Ohio State has defeated Kentucky, Drake, Northwestern and Indiana. .
Northwestern has defeated De Paul and has lost to Purdue, Ohio State and Minnesota.
Army has defeated William and ■ Mary, Gettysburg, Harvard, and Yale.
Southern California has defeated Montana and College of the Pacific, and has lost to Illinois, Oregon State, and California.
THIS WEEK
Northwestern plays Illinois.
Army plays Mississippi State. -
Southern California plays Stanford.
SPORT BITS
Jim Leonard, powerful fullback on the Notre Dame varsities of 1931, ’32, and then guard in 1933, is the first string fullback in the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Professional League. Jim beat out Izzy Weinstock/ former Pitt star, for the starting berth. Clark Shaughnessy, coach of football at Chicago U., once said that Joe Beach who did all right by himself as a basebailer in the Texas League the past summer, was the greatest quarterback prospect he saw in the last 15 years.
November I, 1935
By Cy Stroker
This is the story of big Don Elser, fullback, basketball guard, weight thrower, hurdler, crooner, and feminine impersonator. He began his colorful career in Gary, Indiana, twenty-two years ago. At Horace Mann high he played football, basketball, and
baseball, serving as captain in the first two mentioned sports. During his freshman year at Notre Dame he attracted wide attention as a fullback and the following year started right in on the varsity of Coach Anderson’s 1933 team. His speed and power were the source of many gains for the Irish in that year, and because of them he made All-American mention. Last year found Don developing into as good a defensive as he is an offensive threat.
It was during last season that Elser figured in one of the most spectacular
plays enacted on Cartier field in several years. During the Wisconsin game, the Irish gained possession of the ball deep in their own territory. The Notre Dame aerial attack hadn’t been working well up to that point, but a heavy Badged line was holding
back advances by rushing. Elser stepped back in punt formation and the Wisconsin backfield prepared to receive a punt. Instead of kicking the ball, however, Elser crashed through the line for a first down. The play was repeated but this time the Badgers realized that Elser would not kick, so they prepared for the rush that came a mpment later. But the defense was not strong enough, for Don again went over for a first down, carrying four men on his back for a distance of almost ten yards.
(Continued on Page 23)	.
Seventeen
MANY HARD FOUGHT GAMES WITNESSED IN TWO INTERHALL LEAGUE GROUPS
By Gene Vaslett
Upsets and ties were the order of the day in the Interhall football wars last Sunday. The leaders of both groups found themselves still on top after the last man had been carried from the field and the smoke of battle had cleared away. Howard and St. Edwards, the two leaders, are finding their positions harder to hold every week.
The Howard team has yet to be beaten in Group 1, but last Sunday on Cartier oval it looked as though
James Dwyer Brooklyn and Sorin benefited.
they would topple from their perch, in fact, they considered themselves lucky to be able to tie with Walsh. The Walsh boys who had made many dire pre-game threats, came on the field with a murderous gleam in their eyes only to meet with equally threatening glances from Howard men.
The battle surged back and forth, neither team gaining any advantage, until Joe “Curly Top” Weiss of Walsh tossed a pass into the waiting arms of a Howard backfield man who immediately set out for the goal line but only reached the_20-yard marker where he was smothered by Walsh men. Walsh made a brave stand and prevented a Howard score. Walsh was able to gain freely through the line until it reached the vicinity of the goal then Howard would make one of their famous goal line stands and stop any score. The game ended in a 0-0 tie, the second draw for both teams.
St. Edwards, Group II leaders, didn’t play over the week-end but their position was not jeopardized as they are the only team in the group that is undefeated.
Corby by the Lake, demolished their classmates from Alumni under a 20-2 avalange while Sorin and Lyons battled 60 minutes to a 0-0 tie with Jim Dwyer’s end play the feature of the game. This completes the games played in Group 1.
The Freshman “gold coasters” from Dillon scored their first victory of the (Continued on Page 23)
Eighteen
FENCING ...
Entering their third week of practice, Coach Pedro de Landero’s varsity fencers are rapidly rounding into shape for their coming season. To date the procedures have consisted mainly of conditioning exercises and calisthenics. Although no definite schedule has yet been released, it is problematical that the Irish will virtually encounter the same opponents as those of last year.
Producing a championship array of saber wielders in their third winter of intercollegiate competition is quite, a feat in itself. Thus the situation of repeating an unmarred card of seven consecutive victories in 1935 is the task that confronts Coach de Landero and his men.
Having lost three regulars through graduation the Irish mentor will no doubt build his attack around cocaptains Kehoe and C. de Landero, Grosso, Caresio, T. de Landero, Seco, McAuliffe, and Snooks.
Negotiations are under way in an attempt to arrange a match with Army in New York. Although the initial meet will not occur until the last of January, nevertheless Coach de Landero is determined to have his proteges ready at the opportune time.
SPORT SCRIBE (Continued from Page 15)
what his starting lineup will be for any particular game. He usually doesn’t know himself until just before game time. Six positions in the line are fairly certain, namely Wendt and Rees at the ends, Harre and Hamrick at the tackles, Inwood Smith at one guard and Captain Gomer Jones at center.
Uncertainties galore prevail in the backfield situation and it would be a guess at best for anyone to name the starting quartet. If Stan Pincura is still physically fit he’ll get the quarterbacking job. And that’s where we stop when it comes to naming any more starters.
However, from Dick Heekin, Frank Boucher, Johnny Bettridge and Joe Williams, will come the halfbacks, with the choice for fullback narrowing down to Frank Antenucci and Johnny Kabealo.
Michigan State Tops Cross Country Team
Coach John P. Nicholson took an optimistic group of runners to Michigan State last Saturday to encounter the harriers of that school.
Nicholson’s men were optimistic because they had displiyed better form than any of Nick’s in recent years. Besides this, they were anxious to end Michigan State’s long string of successive triumphs in crosscountry. Michigan State’s crosscountry team had not been defeated
Leo Paul McFarlane Led Irish at Lansing.
since 1931. The Irish were convinced that they had an outside chance to win.
Let us imagine ourselves at the finish line. Five runners have completed the course and none are representative of Notre Dame. These Michigan State “greyhounds” are certainly champions. Leo McFarlane finishing sixth is the first Notre Dame man to finish the long grind. After the remainder of the field comes in, statistics tell the story. The score is Michigan State 44, Notre Dame 15.
It will take an exceptional squad of runners to defeat Michigan State this year. Coach Nicholson and his men aren’t downcast over the result of the Michigan State meet. It will be a long time before they meet such powerful competition again. Very seldom does a college have such a powerful array of runners as those Michigan State presented last Saturday.
Francis, McFarlane, Gormley, McKenna, Hennessey, Gott, Kenyon, and McGrath are now rounding into their best form. These eight men are out to capture the rest of the cross-country meets.

SPORT SHORT
The Central High School football team of South Bend was defeated by Mishawaka High in the Notre Dame Stadium last Saturday, 6-0. The game marked a continuation of the intense sports rivalry between the two schools.
The Scholastic
By Joe Prendergast
CROSS COUNTRY
BUCKEYEING
What promises to be the greatest game of the year is on tap in Columbus, Ohio, tomorrow afternoon. Taking the records of the two elevens this season, it seems to shape up as a battle of tricky deceptive play against straight power football. Coach Layden has a few tricks of his own which as yet this year he has not used. The only play in which the Notre Dame backfield has wavered from the straight football path was that play about midway in the second quarter of the Pitt game when Shakespeare tossed a short pass behind,the line to Millner who proceeded around his own right end for about fifteen yards only to have the gain nullified by a hurdling penalty. Coach Schmidt will spend most of tomorrow afternoon trying to skirt our ends. Most of their scoring plays this season have shown that their end sweeps are particularly dangerous. Peters and Millner ought to be able to cope with the situation and if' they do your scribe looks for a Notre Dame victory.
The odds are all for Ohio State but judging from the really wonderful performance of the second string eleven last Saturday, and from the fighting spirit that this year’s varsity shows we’re stringing along with Elmer Layden in confident style.
WRANGLERS’ NOTE
That 62 yard run by Randour in the recent joust with the Panthers has caused quite a furor. Everyone from Gandhi to Dr. Dafoe has been listed as making the tackle. From the motion picture version of the play it can be plainly seen that Marty Peters and Fred Carideo were responsible for hauling Randour down to earth. Incidentally James Kearns, of the Chicago “Daily News” and former i editor of “The Scholastic,” was the {only correspondent at the game that had the disputed play correctly reported, in full.
Bearskin’s self - styled authentic scoop that Shakespeare made the tackle is decidedly off-balance. The contrary being confirmed to us by The Bard, himself. Costin, a few days after the contest arrived at the right solution and the broadcasters— well, they are still foggy.
•
BALTIMORE BACKWASH
There is a story making the rounds of those who were fortunate enough to make the Baltimore trip concern-(Continued on Page 20)
November I, 1935
NOTRE DAME MAKES IT FIVE STRAIGHT
AT THE EXPENSE OF MIDSHIPMEN, 14 -0
“I pick no soft sisters on my schedule,” said Coach John P. Nicholson, “but they certainly are on my squad this year.” He was referring to the miserable showing the Notre Dame cross country team made against Michigan State.
After the Michigan State meet the coach asked Mr. Nicholson, “Did the Notre Dame boys get lost in the woods?” It seems as if they did, or maybe they’re still running. Nicholson hopes to have them corralled for the Illini meet in Champaign on Nov. 9.
Only fellows who want to run will be entered and the rest will comprise the health squad in search of the pure air of the wide open spaces.
The Blini harriers impressively opened their season by trouncing Purdue. Wayne and Blaine Rideout, the tornado twins, expect to finish miles ahead of the Irish, and Mike Galland and Johnny O’Connel are also rated superior to the best Notre Dame has to offer, unless the Irish boys be given a handicap of half the distance to the finish line.
“Maybe we’ll win another meet but we don’t have much of a chance,” said Nicholson. “An intrasquad meet is our only hope of victory.”
After the Blini Indians knock off the Irish, the Wisconsin Badgers take on the Notre Dame hill and dale team here Nov. 16.
ALEX WILSON
Alex Wilson, former Notre Dame track’ stai’ and present mentor for Loyola U. cinder team, is a man who believes in keeping in practice. Wilson finished coaching the Loyola squad last June and then dashed back to his home in Canada for a vacation. The vacation consisted of coaching the track team of the Hamilton club, an outstanding team in Canada’s sporting world.
Wilson was without a doubt the greatest track man that ever ran for a Notre Dame team. After graduating in 1932, he participated in the Olympics of that year. Even to-day Coach Nicholson recalls the feats of Wilson with a longing look in his eye. “All we had to do in those days,” says Nick, as he knocks the ashes out of a venerable pipe, “was to put Wilson in when we needed some points, and the result was always certain.”
By Al Bride
The defensive breakwater thrown up by the Navy eleven could not check the strong Irish wave which rolled over the gridiron at Baltimore and washed back the Navy to the tune of 14-0. The future seamen could not cope with the brilliant overhead game and running attack which the first
Frank Gaul
“His first touchdown” four Notre Dame teams threw at them. The second team, paced by Andy Pitney and Frank Gaul, proved to be the heroes of the day when they scored all the points collected in the 60 minutes of play.
Over 63,000 fans jammed their way into the huge stadium to watch the Fighting Irish avenge the defeats suffered at the hands of the sailors in the past two years. It was one of the most colorful games of the year. Before the game the students of the Naval Academy put on their ever pleasing formation drill and cheers and then marched to their seats. More color was added by the open game played by both teams as well as the fact that both coaches employed so many players that the spectators were kept busy thumbing their schedules to determine who tackled whom.
Coach Elmer Layden might have planned to rest his regulars as much as possible so that the Irish machine would be fully conditioned for the important game with Ohio State next week, but after the performance displayed by the second team there might be some doubt as to just who is on the first team. The second stringers did all the scoring and showed such fight as well as both offensive and defensive power that they completely overshadowed the regulars. Andy Pilney gave one of the best exhibitions of running shown by any Irish back this year, and figured on both scoring plays by tossing perfect passes to Gaul and Layden. The sec-
(Continued on Page 23)
Nineteen
STRENUOUS PRACTICES
(Continued from Page 14)
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX (Continued from Page 19)
ON DOWN THE LINE
ing the irrepressible Josh D’Amora, ’35. “Josh” dwells in Lower Meriom about 15 miles outside of Philadelphia so he journeyed down to Baltimore without much difficulty. In Baltimore just before game time he ran into the Notre Dame managers who offered him a job as a “spotter” for one of the sport broadcasters at the game. Josh with his confidential air took the job and proceeded up to the broadcasting booth.
As the game got under way, D’Amora began calling off the names of the players who made the run and the tackle for Notre Dame depending, of course, on whether we were on the offensive or defensive. Josh would call off his particular announcer (and it wasn’t Jim Britt), “Church made the tackle” and the announcer would broadcast, “Pojman made the tackle.” On another play Josh would call out, “Pilney carried the ball” and the radio interpreter would say, “Layden carried the ball.” This sort of thing went along for about half of the first quarter with the broadacster not paying much attention to “Josh’s” correct spotting. Our spotter, who was very much vexed by now, finally turned to the announcer and shouted, “Say, fellow, you don’t need a spotter. What you need is a prevaricator.” And saying this “Josh” sauntered spryly out of the booth.
The Annapolis Midshipmen really put on a show for the attendants between halves. Their silent cheering was very clever. One of their displays showed a goat in one corner, and an Irish shamrock in the opposite corner, all portrayed on a dark background. This display was then trans-formed so that the goat advanced and started nibbling at the shamrock. The Middies also put on their excellent drills between the halves.
SCORECASTS
Our heads are high this week for of the twenty-five contests we took a stab at last Saturday only four came out in the red. Tomorrow we find:
NOTRE DAME 21; OHIO STATE 7.
Harvard 20; Brown 0. Yale 14; Dartmouth 7. Navy 7; Princeton 0. Columbia 19; Cornell 0. Carnegie Tech 13; Duquesne 0. Pittsburgh 21; Fordham 7.
New York University 13; Bucknell 7.
Army 26; Mississippi State 0.
Penn State 7; Syracuse 0.
Temple 19: Michigan State 13.
Villanova 19: Detroit 13.
Northwestern 14; Illinois 7. Pennsylvania 21; Michigan 7. Iowa 14; Indiana 0
Marquette 13; Iowa State 0.
Minnesota 14; Purdue 0. Nebraska 27; Missouri 0. Kansas 19; Oklahoma 9. Colgate 14; Tulane 6.
Georgia* 20 ; Florida 0.
Duke 21; Tennessee 19.
Southern Methodist 10; Texas 0.
Santa Clara 10; Stanford 7.
California 7; U. C. L. A. 6.
Twenty	*
By James A. Waldron
DID YOU KNOW:
BILL LEE, former Alabama tackle, once blocked a punt with his stomach and the impact was so terrific that the ball burst. . . BUD BOERINGER, former Notre Dame All - American center, and now line line coach at the University of Detroit, scouted four opponents within 24 hours . . . HARRY MARTIN, Va., left half-back, ran 47 yards against Davidson without making a first down. Penalties had set the ball back to where it was third down and fifty yards to go . . . The Captain of Ohio State’s current football team, GORMER JONES, has been picked on the second team of the All-Time team at Ohio State by GEORGE TREVOR . . . When Lebanon Valley football learn met Fordham it was a case of Professor meeting pupil. CAPTAIN JOE MANIACI, of Fordham, taught AUGUST LOS-CAKI how to catch forward passes. . . . FRANK HANNA, the star back of Kirksville Teachers, never had played on a losing team in seven years until the Teachers were defeated by St. Louis a few weeks ago. NICK LUKATS, star Irish halfback in 1933, is in Hollywood, and at the moment he is working in a new picture of which EDDIE CANTOR is the star . . . There are four potential All-Americans in the Ohio State line —CAPT. GORMER JONES at center, DICK HAMRICK at tackle, MERLE WENDT at end, and INWOOD SMITH at guard . . . Opponents have decided to change the Ohio nickname from Buckeye to Werewolves . . . They have a back on the New York University football team whom the experts are classing with the forward passing mortals of the gridiron. ED SMITH has completed twenty-one passes in three games, nine out of ten passes against Carnegie Tech ... BOB ZUPPKE, Illinois mentor, has personally scouted Ohio State. The little Napoleon is concocting another package of poison like the tricks he used to upset the Buckeyes last year, 14 to 13, for the team “that can’t be beat.”
MANHATTAN’S DIZZY DEAN
JIM WHALEN, the Manhattan back who drove the Jaspers to their fourth period tie with Holy Cross, is a fine player, but he is not a regular, because he does things, that turns a coach’s hair gray. For instance, he slowed down during a hundred yard -run from a pass interception against C.C.N.Y. last year to enable a pursuer to catch him—just to prove he could outrun him from an even start.
game. The linemen were instructed on how to halt “Jumping Joe” Williams, sensational sophomore halfback, and Dick Heekin, a crashing-halfback. If Notre Dame can stop Williams and Heekin, Ohio State’s effectiveness will be considerably decreased..
Every Notre Dame man from Coach Elmer Layden down to the last substitute has been looking forward to this game. Two great elevens will take the field Saturday without a defeat chalked up against either of them. A crowd of about 90,000 will fill the Ohio stadium to capacity. This is undoubtedly the outstanding game of the year. If smart, aggressive football determines the winning eleven, Notre Dame can provide the answer. The Irish are ready to battle to the finish. Let’s whip those Buckeyes, Notre Dame.
Harry Becker “Tough luck dogs him.”
PLACEMENT KICK (Continued from Page 16)
on the local campus. The battle was hotly contested as both sides tried for a score in the first half, but to no avail. P. and S. as the.Irish opponents’ team was called, had former stars from Chicago, Northwestern, Yale, and other colleges but their experience did them little good as they tried to batter the Notre Dame line into submission.
Finally, in the third quarter, the tension broke when Notre Dame used the “Princeton Kick” to good advantage. Winters, the Notre Danie right guard, stood on the P. and S. 40-yard line and for the second time sent a placement kick sailing through the goal posts of a Notre Dame opponent. The Irish won the game on the strength of that kick by the score of 5-0.
From that time on, the placement kick was used very infrequently by Notre Dame teams. Rockne considered the kick a poor play because its successful execution netted the kickers only three points, while the same energy expended in a drive for a touchdown had the possibility of rolling up twice that score.
The Scholastic
s
NORTHWESTERN WILDCATS TO INVADE '	STADIUM FOR RENEWAL OF FEUD, NOV. 9
By Jim McMullen
The Wildcats of Northwestern are going to try it again a week from tomorrow. Season after season, the boys from Evanston have been trying to achieve that highest of Northwestern goals—a victory over Notre Dame. A little case of a mid-afternoon nap lost them the chance last year, when the Irish took advantage of an apparent lull in the proceedings to pull out of the bag the old sleeperPlay.
Now Northwestern didn’t like that. It seemed to them not the ethical thing to do. Nor would it seem to be exactly ethical if the Wildcats would come down here and hand the Revival of Notre Dame a severe licking. Nevertheless the alumni of the Evanston school have that very thought in mind and have sent that opinion for whatever it is worth to the Wildcat campus.
Northwestern is not a weak club, and are far from falling into the category of a Notre Dame breather. They’ve dropped their last three games, but have improved steadily, last week-end handing the Gophers of Bierman one of their biggest scares of the current season. And when you consider that two of the last three setbacks were at the hands of Ohio State and Minnesota, and the Wildcats playing under- the handicaps attendant to a crippled eleven, you lay
the background for that possible unethical affair that is set for the stadium, Nov. 9.
In Steve Toth, director of the Northwestern attack, the Wildcats present one of the ablest punters in Big Ten football circles. Bob Swisher, who has dazzled his opponents with his broken field running, is hoping to repeat his Minnesota performance against the Irish. Wally Cruice and Kovatch bring a formidable passing attack with them, and Heap and Duvall furnish the line-bucking dynamite in the Wildcat attack. The Northwestern line is big and fast with the center post ably manned by Co-captain Al Lind, flanked by two fighting guards, Tangora and Reid.
Despite the apparent strength of the starting Northwestern lineup they have a lack of reserves, and that should be a deciding factor in the tilt with the Irish. It will be a “punt, pass and prayer” against the fighting Irish.
MISSISSIPPI-LOUISIANA CLUB
President Arthur C. Davidson, of the Mississippi-Louisiana Club of the University, says that the club has an ambitious program for the comingyear. During the past two weeks members of the club have congregated at two meetings.
STADIUM FINDINGS
What do people lose at football games besides money bet on the wrong team? A set of false teeth heads the list of strange articles found in the stadium, after the Pitt fracas. If it was a Cotillion guest who lost the hardware, the fact will nevei- be revealed to an amused public. The eyes of stadium employees must have popped when they collected wallets, but even seam-ripping disclosed no contents. Probably they were left by Pitt rooters, who had lost the contents to Notre Dame supporter's.
Hairpins are still in vogue if one can depend on the assortment uncovered late Saturday afternoon. It is to be expected that bottles will be found, but when full containers are abandoned, the situation defies explanation. An old toothbursh, reduced to a few bristles, might have belonged to a patient fan who wanted to be prepared for a long wait for tickets.
COMMERCE FORUM
Plans for the establishment of a Commerce Forum lounge in the Commerce Library were discussed at the last regular meeting of the organization held Wednesday night, Oct. 30, in the Carroll Hall recreation room.
The business session was followed by refreshments and a program of entertainment given by members of the Forum.
NOTRE DAME 20, NORTHWESTERN 7; EVANSTON—1934
November I, 193 5	Twenty-one
WORLD WAR ACTIVITY
(Continued from Page 10)
S.A.C. Conducts Drive
For Rogers Memorial
Led by President Thomas Murphy, the S.A.C. will begin next week the Notre Dame activity of the national Will Rogers Memorial Fund Drive.
WILL ROGERS
A room to room canvass for donations to the fund will be conducted. Inasmuch as Will Rogers was always a good friend of the University and paid a visit here last year during the Aeronautical conference, President Murphy expects that the Notre Dame contribution to the nation-wide campaign will be a substantial one.
Headquarters for the drive are in New York City, and from there it is being carried on among all the people of the country from November 4 to 11. The national committee has not yet decided in just what form the memorial will be executed.
SPANISH CLUB
The Spanish club met in the Commerce Library Tuesday evening, Oct. 29, to discuss plans for the coming year. It was decided to have talks and motion pictures on the life and customs in Spanish- speaking countries.
Joint meetings with the Santa Teresa club of Saint Mary’s and the La Raza club of Notre Dame will be arranged at frequent intervals. It is also planned to hold monthly communion breakfasts. At the next meeting, Thursday, Nov. 7, plans for securing Carlos P. Romulo, Philippine diplomat, as guest speaker will be discussed.
CALENDAR
Thursday, October 31
Movie, Washington Hall, “David Copperfield” 6:30 and 8:15 p.m.
Friday, November 1
All Saints’ Day, no classes. Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. University radio broadcast by Scholastic staff, 3:15 p.m.
Saturday, November 2
Student trip, Ohio State-Notre Dame football game at Columbus; Radio broadcast WSBT starts at 12:45. Movie, Washington Hall, “The Last Gentleman,” 6:30 and 8:15 p.m. Notre Dame-Illinois “B” team football at Notre Dame Stadium.
Sunday, November 3
Student Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a.m.; Officers’ meeting, Knights of Columbus, Walsh Hall Office, 10:30 a.m. Interhall football 2:30 pan.
Monday, November 4
Knights of Columbus Council meeting, Walsh Hall Council Rooms, 7:45 pan. University radio broadcast over WSBT 3:15“ p.m.
Tuesday, November 5
Lecture by Mrs. Maisie Ward Sheed, Washington Hall, 8:00. Broadcast over WSBT from Campus radio station in Engineering Building, 7:30 pan. Chas. Phillips Cracow club meeting, Law Building, election of officers.
HALL DECORATIONS
Since the Northwestern game is rapidly arousing the interest of the entire student body, it was decided by the S.A.C. to make this game the occasion for the annual hall decorating contest. The basis of this selection is the intense rivalry that has existed between the two schools for many years.
It is planned to have all the halls decorated, and the competition should be keen, as an award for the most attractive and novel hall decorations will be made. Complete details regarding this matter are not available at this time, but they will be ready by next week and this inforamtion can then be secured from the hall rectors.
After supper on the eye of the game, an elaborate fire-works display will be held on the practice baseball diamond south of the gym, following which there will be a pep meeting in the gym.
There is nothing definite regarding the speakers, but an appropriate program is promised. The success of the whole matter rests entirely with the students, and it is hoped that everyone gets in the swing of things and puts forward his best so that this competition will be the most successful ever held.
$10,000 a month—nearly five thousand books and innumerable periodicals were gathered and sent to the soldiers by the students under military age on the campus — Captain Phelan, outstanding veteran of that year’s football squad, left for an army camp just one hour after his brilliant battle against Nebraska.
Notre Dame justified her right to that descriptive phrase “a man’s school” when our country called for her warrior sons. At this time there was a student enrollment of nearly 1400, consisting of 700 college men and approximately 7 0 0 “preps,” “minims,” and seminarians. Of the seven hundred above high school standing only about four hundred were of acceptable military age, yet more than three hundred immediately volunteered. Another illustration of
Statue of Father Corby at
Gettysburgh
the patriotism that swayed the college is the fact that every Notre Dame monogram man for the years of ’14, ’15, and ’16 was in the service. Monogram men of subsequent years served too but we mention • those of the earlier period because they offered their services before conscription bcame effective. When a call for chaplains was issued twenty-five priest-professors immediately responded. The courage and fealty of American youth is honored everywhere; Notre Dame did her share gloriously to maintain the tradition.
BASEBALL
Although the attention of most athletically minded students is centered on football at this time of year, Jake Kline, head coach of baseball, has been giving the candidates for the battery positions on the baseball team a daily workout to keep them in shape for next season. The practice session lasts only an hour a day but Kline considers this sufficient to keep the kinks out of the arms of his pitchers.
The Scholastic
Twenty-two
NAW GAME (Continued from Page 19)
ond string line displayed great defensive power by holding the Navy backs in check, and opened broad holes for Pilney, Layden and Co. to dash through.
The regulars with Fred Solari as acting captain started the game. The Irish kicked off to the boys from Annapolis and downed the receiver after a short’gain. Neither team could get far through the others’ defense and it developed into a kicking game with the Irish ace, Shakespeare, having the upper hand. With the score nothing to nothing Layden withdrew his first stringers and sent in the second team.
I
Fireworks started the minute the second team took the field and at first it looked bad for the Notre Dame team. Pilney fumbled a punt and Navy recovered to gain possession of the ball deep in Irish territory. But the second string line put up the same valiant defense that stopped Pitt cold the preceding week, and stopped whatever scoring ambitions Schmidt, Price or any of the Navy lads had.
Soon after the second quarter began the Irish carriers worked the ball well up the field, and then Andy Pilney dropped back and rifled a perfect pass to Quarterback Frankie Gaul who proceeded to twist and squirm his way the remaining 35 yards to the goal line. It was a brilliant run aided by as equally brilliant blocking, especially on the. part of “Sonny” Church, the diminutive guard, who downed the last man who had a chance to stop the Maine quarterback. Ken Stilley left his position at tackle to make the conversion and add another point to the score. Again the boys in the green jerseys took possession of the ball and started pushing the Navy back toward their own goal line. Pilney, Layden, and Carideo carried the ball to within a few yards of the sailor’s zero line when Pilney again shot a pass, this time into the waiting arms of Mike Layden who was playing his first game since the Carnegie Tech contest. Mike was in the clear for the short pass that dropped into his eager hands. Stilley again stepped back and added the extra point. The half ended without any further scoring.
The second half again found the first team on the side lines and the second stringers fighting on the field. Although they could not get their .offense to result in any more scores, . still, with Pilney as the main cog, the Irish team was able to outgain the tars. No score was registered in either the third or fourth periods although Navy tried vainly to score by the air route.
Layden gave all the players making the trip a chance'to gain more experience as well as chalking up more minutes towards the coveted mono-
November I, 1935
gram. Bob Wilke took up where his rival for the left half position, Pilney, left off and made several fine runs. Larry Danbom, the power house fullback, crashed through the line for repeated gains of seven, six, and four yards.
In defeating the Navy the Notre Dame team showed a strong defense plus a varied offense, and a wealth of reserve material. Mike Layden returned to actual competition after being out three weeks with a leg injury and should be in first class condition for the Ohio State game next week.
INTRODUCING (Continued from Page 17)
When the football season is over Don reports to Coach Keogan and puts in a busy season as guard on the basketball team. In this sport he pairs up with his former room-mate, Marty Peters, to make things uncomfortable for the opponents.
In the spring it’s another quick change from the basketball uniform to a track suit and in this sport Don shines to such an extent that Coach Nicholson’s otherwise lukewarm heart warms considerably. His record in the shot put is fifty-one feet, one inch, a distance to be reckoned with in any meet. Don holds the Notre Dame record in the 220 yard low hurdles "with a time of 23.6 seconds. He throws the discus for a distance of 145 feet.
But we would not have you, gentle reader (I have a reader, haven’t I) think that Don’s activities are confined to athletics. On the contrary his interests are many and varied. He is working hard for an honorary degree in Physical Education . . . boasts of his dramatic powers in high school . . . rolled the boys in the aisles at the Monogram Absurdities last spring with his feminine impersonations . . . swears that he is true to Phyllis . . . stopped the show at the Monogram Ball with his crooning . . . serves warrants on the good citizens of Gary during the summer . . . greatest ambition is to lead a band when he graduates.
INTERHALL FOOTBALL (Continued from Page 28)
campaign at the expense of Carroll by a 6-2 score and Freshman defeated the Off-Campus aggregation in one of the best games of the day, 13-7. Brownson drew a bye from the nonexistent Morrissey Hall team.
Mr. Scannell, physical education department head, wishes to inform the teams scheduled to play Sunday morning, Nov. 3, that because of the Student trip the morning game will not be played then but at some later date. The afternoon games will be played as usual at 2:00 p.m.
The standings:
Group 1	W	L
Howard ___________________2	0
Corby 2	1
Walsh 1	o	■
Sorin 2	0
Lyons 1	1
Alumni 0	2
Badin______________________0	3
Group 2.	W	L
St. Edwards----------------2	0
Brownson 3	1
Off-Campus 2	2
Freshman 2	2
Carroll _____________,___2	2
Dillon 2	2 ’
Morrissey 0	4
Schedule for Sunday: Group n—2:00 p.m.: Brownson vs.
T Pts.
2	6
2	6
2	4
2	4
2	3
2	2
0	0
T Pts.
0	6
0	6
0	4
0	4
0	2
0	2
0	0
St. Ed-
wards, Cartier N; Dillon vs. Off-Campus, Cartier S; Carroll vs. Freshman. Cartier Oval.
AFTER THE NORTHWESTERN game/
. . . You’ll want to run over to Chicago. Everybody ’ll be going! Don’t miss the fun . . . and to make sure you will get there safely and quickly, ride a South Shore electric train.
GO VIA SOUTH SHORE LINE
Avoid the auto traffic that is bound to jam the road to Chicago after the game. Relax and keep warm on the South Shore Line.
Twenty-three
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
-LEMMONIER LIBRARY-NOTRE DAME, LOCAL
iey ain’t stream lined or air conditioned—
but they sure are mild