

I NGWIS I 
I C I I I 
KUFN 



I GIBABDN I 
111 I 11 C 
I SUICMLSA I 
OIIIIIKJ 

trnm 



» ND Cribs by Katie Solan 16 » Campus Watch byThe Gipper 18 » GreatT~ai Food,and for Peanuts by Nick.Kolman-Mandie 25 
From the Editor • . • . . . . . 2 ND Notebook . . . . .... 4 Splinters . . . . . . • • . . . 20 Out.of Bounds. • • • • • • .• 26 

Calendar .. 27 Final Word 28 
fa~!n~rat~re~ig~ 
. . . • 
·c.ovER: Fpur.. prtifessc;,r.s:~hc:i··haye)led theit hom~lands ·, ed1:ic~te. Notr~ .Dame· ... ,students about)~eif exp~r:iencE!s:::.·
' ' ;.·,•,,:. ··>-~....:/.'.:< ;:; __ ;,., . ··!-;: '", ., 


••··1·:~tit:~i1&tt1

Sollmann.._ . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 
......·2·•··-4·.·::, 
. . . _,. ·.. 



On The Road Again 
The first time I remember it happening was just after first grade. It hap­pens to everyone eventually, but I wasn't expecting it. The Air Force had relocated my parents from Wiesbaden, Germany to San Antonio, Texas. So everything went into boxes and suitcases, we said our goodbyes to friends, and we were off. I was apprehensive about going to a new place with a new school and new friends. My dad tried to comfort me with a watertight argument: I really liked my old school, Hainerberg Elementary, so I was sure to like my new school, Harmony Hills, because it had not one, but two H's. I wasn't convinced. Things worked out, though. I said, "Let's be friends," to some neighbor­.hood kids, which, at that age, is as good as brotherhood. My new teacher Mrs. Goodenough (no kidding) was just that. After almost no time at all, things had returned to your typical, idylic childhood bliss where life's biggest concern is whether your tree fort is cool enough (it was). Then we moved again. 
ff rook for Moving can be tough, even for little kids, and Scholastic's Kelly Faehnle 
J ~EXT ISSUEexamines the stories of four professors who moved from their homelands THE FALL for more serious reasons. One left to escape Communist Russia, another to leave behind South African Apartheid rule, one to find opportunities unavailable to women in Senegal, and the last to teach about the Troubles era in his homeland, Northern Ireland. Now all of these professors are at Notre Dame, teaching history from a special perspective: personal expeh­ence. To hear a par~ of their story, move yourself to page 9. 


Until N:extTime 
This is the last Scholastic ofthe school year. Wipe the tear from your face -we'll always have the Gipper. With so few days left in the semester, now seems like a good time to hit the books hard to make up for a semester of slacking. Don't worry -I hear all the smart kids are doing it, too. In any event, good luck with those tests. Seniors, best wishes for whatever life brings you come graduation. As for the rest ofyou, enjoy the summer. Let's do this school thing again next fall, OK? 
~½ 
Ryan Greenberg, Editor 
Vol.145,No.12• 15APR2004 

SCHOLaSTIC 
.: 
·', 
. · · , : 
_:. ·: 
/ 
•,, :: ·. 
•.• 
Editor in Chief 
Ryan Greenberg 
Managing Editor 
Sean Dudley 
Executive Editor 
Jim Ryan 
News 
Kelly Faehnle 
Campus Life 
LaurenWilcox, editor 
Kade Solan, assistant 
Sports 
Christopher Mesklll, editor 
-Entertainment Nick Kolman-Mandie, editor Beth Murphy, assistant 
Departments 
Mike Healy. editor 
Design 
Nick Abrams, editor 
Nell Ryan 
David Redenbaugh 
Photography 
Phil Hall, editor 
Brenna Mannion, assistant 
Graphic Design 
Christine Graham, editor 
Copy 
Mo Ertel, chief 
JenniferWadkJns,asslstant 
, Anna Schmall Darlene Luebbert 
Distribution 
Phil Hall. manager 
Business 
Jessie Potish, manager 
Online 
Jimmy Atkinson, manager 
Advisor 
Robert Franken '69 
Disce Quasi Semper Victtmts Vwe Quasi Ci·ns Mo1·it1m1s 
Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame and printed atAve Marla Press, Notre Dame; IN,46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is copyright 2004 University of Notre Dame.All rights reserved. No 
contents of this magazine, either in whole or In part, may be reproduced In any manner without written consent of the publisher, Scholastic magazine does net assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts. or material.All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, 
LaForrune Srudent Center; Notre Dame, IN . 6556.To be published In the next issue. letters must be received . by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue.And they rode off into the sunset.All letters must include the writer's name, , address and phone, number.All letters must be signed. 
Names will be withheld upon request In certain Instances. Scholastic reserve.5 the right to edit letters for space. 
Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year.Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number; or date. Coples of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy.Adve"' 
tising rates available en request.The opinions expressed 
in Scholastic magazine are·not necessarily those cf the 
University of Notre Dame or the student body. 

2 SCH0LASTICFROM THE EDITOR 
IS APRIL 2004 


Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. Ordination Class of 2004 



Discover You 


www.nd.edu/-vocation 

"In the discernment ofGod's call, we are a brotherhood at the senJice ofthe universal church under the pastoral direction ofthe Pope." 
---Constitutions of Holy Cross, V.51 


ITeam No. 347's Real Name Alumnus compiles an on-line list of censored Bookstore team names 
RYAN GREENBERG 
For some teams in Bookstore Basket­ball, a name is all they've got. Alumnus Dan Delgado under­stands, and when the number ofcensored team names peaked at 110 last year, he decided to do something about it. "I acquired a team list and contacted each team captain asking what their re­jected name was," Delgado says. Within a day, 85 percent ofthe captains responded. Delgado compiled a list of the rejected names and posted them on his website with commentary. Delgado, who has seen more than 300 Bookstore games, was concerned by stu­dent activities' inconsistency in censor­ing. In 2002, the team name "Baller, I Just Met Her" was okayed, but the same name was rejected in 2003. "When I saw the censored names last year versus some of the ones that got through, I just didn't understand their criteria," says Delgado. This year, the Bookstore Committee's criteria is more clear, but still somewhat subjective. Names are rejected if they have offensive, ethnic, racial, heterosex­ist or sexually-explicit material. Using names of the university or its community without permission or "anything your mother would deem disrespectful" are also no-no's. 
Delgado hopes that ·' people will try to push the limits of the process: "I'd like to see a team 

placement name is "I Don't Know What's 
Worse ... That Our Name Was Censored 
or ThatThe Bookstore Committee Knew 
What We Were Talking About." Other teams failed to submit an alternate name; 20 teams -down from 110 last year -are known simply by their team number. Delgado hopes to com­pilealistofrejectednames again next year. He says, "I'm not a vehement pro­ponent of free speech. 
name like 'Janet Jackson's , ' :,: :·~ I'm just doing this for Breast' get through. ~~:,,:~"c-~ _-__---~--' laughs." Would it be censored? r_=--~~ >0 ---~~:::fi/fli Until this year's list Or would it be revealed, !,,, ·-::·:_, <:, ·-7~ is posted online, we'll 
~!:;d~s:;it:::e:,t::~ tn1.~~~!li;1i;~/,it{m.~tim:1-?i ~:s; !:;c~t;h;~t~~~: 
name malfunction?"' ;?.,•;;~:o;;,c:.~ ,, c~~&,,.,,,;;2_~ between two clean-cut 
When team names were rejected this year, the respective teams had the option to submit aii alternate name -which was not the case last year. Some tearr-s are · making the best of the situation; one re-teams like "Fruity Booty" and "Ralph Nader and the Other 4 Guys Voting For Him." D 

To see Dan Delgado's list, visit http:// www.verminnet.com/news/news032.html 
Ten Questions 
with the man who buys the bread and wine 
John Zack 
Making the church look good 
The acting university sacristan this year, John Zack is in charge ofthe building, staff, security and church services at the Basilica 
ofthe Sacred Heart. He also oversees the upkeep and supplying ofdorm chapels across campus. During Easter weekend, he and only a handful offull-time, part-time and student staff members were able to convert the atmosphere ofthe Basilica from bleak to vibrant in just one day (or three, ifyou count like Jesus). On Monday, Scholastic spoke with Mr. Zack about his work. 
What are the best and worst parts about your job? 
The best part is just dealing with all the people and the workers here. The worst part is the hours. 

What'syourfavorite partaboutdecorating the Basilica? 
When it's done. When everything gets in place, like, [Holy] Saturday afternoon when we finally get every single last detail done. That would be my favorite time. 
What is your favorite service to prepare for and participate in? 
The Easter Vigil, I guess really for the emotions involved more than for the work involved. 
What services draw the biggest crowds? 
The biggest service we would have is about 2600 people. I would say Good Friday is probably our largest crowd. 
15 APRIL 2004 

"You nev~r knpw whoyo~'.ie going to.run.into in_ the men's room. . Yestei-'day it was a.two-incl{toc;~oach.Today it was Mike B~ey:• · ··· · c:'.:..'ti~ei-heard staff member 
"If you're in my Communion line, you're going to get Communion. Spread the word to all the infidels:• 
-priest, discuss.ing the intricacies ofsin and receving the Eucharist 
For all the students soon to be graduating from this institution, Notre Dame must indeed seem a very different place from the one they encountered four years ago as freshmen. Here are some excerpts from the 2000 freshman summer issue, the very first Scholastic the class of 2004 ever got their hands on: 
''Afterwitnessinga 5-7football season that included losses to rivals such as Purdue and Boston College, many Irish fans were ready to hang up their shamrocks." 
"We're going to 1~,money from people who have money:• · · · ·· ··· -phllosophy professor 
"The tests are graded a~dl've got goo~ news:Everybody passed. Of course, some people p·assed other people:' 
· -theology professor commenting on class exams 
.·.. . -.•:-. 
Then the 10:00 a.m. on Easter Sunday. Actually all the Sunday Masses are large on Easter Sunday. And obviously after football games at 5 p.m. 
How do you hang the large ribbons from the ceiling? We have two guys up in the attic. We have wires up in the attic and two cranks up there. They lower the wires down and we hook up the bunting[...] and then they crank it up. It's quite the process. 
What's your favorite dorm chapel? Alumni. Its just a beautiful chapel, verywell decorated. I like St. Ed's, too, and Dillon. · All ofthem are nice, butthose three I would have to say would be my top three; 
What's the oldest thing in the Basilica? 
The relics [ ... ] back in the reliquary. That would have to be the olde:st thing. 

Whose relics are under the main altar? 
St. Marcellus and his companions, I be­lieve. I don'dmow the history. 
What's your favorite artistic aspect ofthe Basilica? 
I'd have to say the stained glass itself, the whole collection. I can look at a window for the thirtieth time and see something different. They change so much with the light coming from behind them. 

Who do you feel is the most important 
"The men's basketball team [had] wins over several top 10 teams [ ... ] and posted a winning record, making an appearance in the National Invitation Tournament." 
"It was a bizarre, controv~rsial year for student elections at both Notre Dame and St. Mary's." 
What a difference four years make, eh? 
-Mike Healy 


person to have said Mass at the Basilica? 
Fr. Hesburgh.Just because ofhis status in the world of academics and of peace. His peace institute speaks for itself. 

Who plays the songs on the church bells? 
Dr. GailWalton records those. She's the di­rector ofliturgical music here at the Basilica and the head of the Liturgical Choir. 
What is the most important part ofyour job? 
Making sure people feel comfortable and welcome coming into the Basilica for services, and making sure everything is provided for. 
-Sean Dzidley 

15 APRIL 2004 
SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 5 



IJudgment Calls Opinions and observations 



AWESOME IRISH TEAMS 
The women's lacrosse and men's baseball squads are establishing themselves as national powerhouses this year. 



BANDS AT LEGENDS 
Legends pulls in a lot of great talent, but low weekend turnout may make that harder to do in the future. 



LATE SEMESTER PROJECTS 
Would even spacing of assignments just make too much sense for professors, or do they really enjoy watching us suffer? 



23 DAYSTILL SUMMER 
The last day of final exams is only three weeks away. Get ready for the Olympics, wherever the heck they'll be. 


STEPAN COURT 

CONSTRUCTION 
A classic Bookstore Basketball site is gone for the sake of a new building, and they didn't have the decency to tear down Stepan Center. 
IDomeLights COMPILED BY MIKE HEALY 


NOTEBOOK 
ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY 



LhQl~o,~y~·sµliim.;;f:ciH~~~-':•:·:~••~)>,, i?,.I 
~Ill! 
Action movies dominate this year's lineup, so 1J· strap on your spandex and start pumping iron 
IRYANGREENE ­
Frisbees are flying. Flip-flops are tium claws and leather X-Men outfits for flapping. And those ladybug things are silver bullets, crossbows and trenchcoats, once again infesting campus. This can as the title character of Van Helsing. Based only mean one thing: Summer is almost extremely loosely on the vampire-hunt­upon us. ing doctor from Bram Stoker's Dracula, 
And with the warmer months comes, Jackman butts heads with the Wolfman, as ever, Hollywood's annual onslaught Frankenstein's monster and the Count of budget-baffling blockbusters ... and himself. time-wasting disasters. Knowing what Troy, starring just about every attrac­to hit and what to miss can be a tricky tive, young male actor on earth, promises business, so here's a look at some of the stunning visuals, expansive plot and, from movies coming soon __________ what I hear, a war. And in to a theater near you. The Day After Tonzorow, the
Jackman butts heads k
If you're as tired of world ends. Sounds Ii e Dawn of the Dead and with the Wolfman, Fran-fun. 
The Passion as you kenstein's monster and For those without an ap­should be by now, the Count himself. petite for death and destruc­then things are look-__________ tion, The Olsen twins' New 
ing up as early as this York Minute and Mike My-weekend. For the action-hungry among ers' Shrek 2 offer trite, saccharine fluff that us, grab a helping of The Punisher, based should never have been filmed in the first on the cult-favorite Marvel Comics place. Enjoy. anti-hero. When an evil mob boss Gohn Other summer highlights include The Travolta) kills the family ofFrank Castle Stepford Wives, a remake of an awful B­(ThomasJane), the latter goes on an all-movie and novel about a town in which out war to punish the killers -and any-the men have replaced their wives with one else who gets in his way. Ignore the home-making robots (no comment), star's embarrassing surname and enjoy all and I, Robot, which promises to use Will the mob-murdering mayhem. , Smith's "cool factor," as it were, to finally 
And then wash that down with a tall, make the work of Isaac Asimov hip and frosty glass of Kill Bill: Vol. 2. The not-with it. Thanks, Hollywood! so-long-awaited second half of Quentin At least there's always Spider-Man 2, Tarantino's fourth film, starring Uma the much-anticipated sequel to 2002's Thurman as a bloodthirsty ex-assassin record-breaking hit. This summer has out for revenge, also hits (and slashes, plenty of movies, good and bad, to offer, hacks, disembowels and decapitates) but nothing beats a spandex-clad teenager theaters this weekend. with spider-powers squaring off against a 
May offers yet more carnage-heavy murderous lunatic with four metal arms. fare. Hugh Jackman trades his adaman-Am I i;ight or am I right? 
Source:The University Archives, a calendar and a calculator 
This is the last time Scholastic will be published while this year's seniors remain on campus.While they may seem to have passed by quickly for our upperclassmen, the past four years have been loaded with major national events: President Bush was inaugurated, the country entered into major armed conflict, and Keifer Sutherland's career saw a resurgence ofTravolta-like proportions.That being said, here are some numbers that the outgoing seniors of 2004 can lay claim to for the last four years here: 
832 Number of days spent on campus by an average senior over four years 7 Home football losses 
1189 Number of meals eaten at the dining hall, at an average rate of IO per week 49 Issues of Scholastic indulgently enjoyed over the course of one's college 
17 Home football wins education 
6 SCH0LASTICNOTEBOOK 15 APRIL 2004 

TnE STUDENT AcnvmEs Ornu SALUTES ITS 2004 INDIANA (OLLEG·IATE PRESS AssOCIATION AWARD WINNERS: Juggler magazine -2004 Literary Magazine oftheYear Editor: Kelly Ninneman Staff -Best single issue, first and second place Mercy Bachner-Reimer-Best rhymed poem, first place Kate Maich ­Best free verse poem, first place Liz Melly-Best short story, first place Design staff ( Crispin Prebys, Krista Lehmkuhl, Nicole Kenney and Katie Hakenewerth) ­Best overall design, first place Stephanie Hanna ­Best hand-drawn illustration, first place Kelly Ninneman -Best short poem, second place Tarrah Krajnak -Best photo illustration, second place Katie Boyle ­Best short poem, third place Michael Rampolla ­Best free verse poem, third place Design staff/ Ally Klutenkamper ­Best cover design, third place Megan Denby-Best hand-drawn illustration, third place Dome yearbook -runner-up, 2004 Division I Yearbook ofthe Year Editor: Sally Hosey Staff -Best execution oftheme, first place Meaghan Denney-Best album/portrait section, first place Nicole Phillips ­Best student life section, first place Sally Hosey and Molly Walsh ­Best academics section, first place Tina Robinson ­Best organizations section, first place Jennifer Morgan ­Best sports section, second place Kate Dinardo ­Best special section, second place Sally Hosey-Best overall design, seco.nd place Dan Robinette ­Best feature photography, second place; best sports photography, third place -----------------------------------·----··----------------------------··--·---·-------·-·---------------------------··-··-···· Scholastic magazine--: runner-up, 2004 News Magazine oftheYear Editor: Matt Killen§Qtl0L8STIC .2'1 Sarah Childress ­Best editorial or essay, first place Kelly Faehnle ­Best in-depth story, first place Tracy Evans ­Best entertainment review, first place Nick Abrams ­Best cover design, first and second place Ryan Greenberg ­Best feature photo, first place; best informational graphic, second place Ryan Greene ­Best feature story, second place Christine Armstrong ­Best Entertainment review, second place Joe Muto ­Best column, second and third place Staff -Best single issue, third place Annie Robinson ­Best in-depth story, third place Jimmy Atkinson ­Best sports story, third place Phil Hall -Best sports photo, third place Mike McNary and Liesl Marx -Best photo essay, third place Matt Killen ­Best informational graphic, third place  


f ' 
i' 

•
•
•
•
•
. 
•
• •
•
• 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
The Standing Committee on Gay and • Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu 

University Counseling Center 

(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 
• 



Scholastic's Business Department is hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Advertising Coordinator 

• 
Distribution Manager 

• 
Website Development 



• Technical Manager 

Call 1-7569 or email scholast@nd.edu for more information. 
Tuesday,April 20: .. 11 :30-5 in Room .108 Lafortune 4:30-7:30 at North Dining Hall (south porch)· 
Wednesday, April 21: :_ 11:30-5 in Room 108·Lafortune
/ 

4:30-9:30 at South DinirigHall(mainlobby) 
Thursday,April 22: . · 11 :30~5 in Room_ 108 lafortune : 
•. No,charge·to undergraduat~s (just show ID). AU others.$5o; . . . .. . .• . 
• 
. 20,01, 2002 a_nd 2003 yearbooks will he available in 108 Lafortune while supplies last.. 

• 
Studeritswho are abroad may have afriend pick . 
. up acopy for them, or they may come to 315 · Lafortune nextfalL . · . . ' 

• 
.·. For 111ore information, e~mail dollle@nd,edu ·or · • phone 1.;.7524'. 


Thankyou and enjoy your yearbook! 
I 

SHE LEFT Senegal with dreams of living in _her own apartment and being free to relax in a cafe. 'fl HE LEFT southern Africa with a wife and three 
--children when the Apartheid regime proved too much for the Catholic bishops running the university where he taught. 'fl HE LEFT Russia to get out from behind the Iron Curtain. 'fl HE LEFT Northern Ireland to further his education and advance his career, having lived through the worst of the Troubles. 'fl Where are they now? DeBartolo, Decio, O'Shaughnessy, the Hesburgh Center . . . These are the stories of just a few of the professors here at Notre Dame-who come from foreign countries and now are teaching about them. They have experienced some of the most troubled times in those countries, and just hearing about their lives is almost a history lesson in itself. They have all made it part oftheir life's work to study their respective countries' culture and/ or history. And now they are in classrooms, sharing all this with students in the American Midwest. 


"In Senegal, Women Don't Go to Cafes" 

Growing up in Dakar, Senegal, in western Africa, Ayo Abietou Coly used to write and dream abouthaving her own apartment, herowncar, a job, the freedom to do what she wanted -and to do it all alone, ifshe preferred. For awomanin the extremely patriarchal Muslim culture of Senegal, however, these sorts ofliberties that Americans tend to take for granted justwere notpossible. Her road has taken many turns, but at the young age of 31, she has realized these dreams. 
Coly is an assistant professor in Notre Dame's Department of Romance Lan­guages & Literatures and a fellow ofthe Nanovic Institute for European Studies. In her two and a halfyears here at Notre Dame, she has taught various classes in French, including several focusing on French-African literature and culture. 
The distance that Coly has traveled to Notre Dame is not merely geographical, either. Her father, well-educated himself, anchored her as she grew up, but it was trulyhermotherwho inspired and pushed her along the way. IfColy was not first in her class, this was a "problem." Her moth­er told her, "As a woman, you do not have a choice; you cannotfail atschool." When Coly almost got married at the age of 18 and again at 24, it was her mother telling her to wait until she had the Ph.D. that had eluded her mother because offamilial 


! I 

1' 
'' 


,._:·--s?J~;+~!'.~/ :·:; _· ... ­
responsibilities. Coly promised that she would get her doctorate. 
When she graduated high school at 17, Coly spent a year in South Carolina studying to be a journal­ist, but returned to Senegal when her family determined that she "was not behaving properly." The early return did not deter her, however, and after earning a degree at the University of Dakar in Senegal, she returned to the U.S. to study at Mount Holyoke College in Massa­chusetts, then worked in Georgia at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change, and moved around the deep south ofthe 
U.S. before returning to Dakar for her Master's degree. 
Coly then was going to get her doctorate in Lyons, France, but she "got into other things" there: French fashion, disk jockeying at a night club, and hosting a talk-ra­dio show. Coly is especially proud of the radio show, Akody (slang for "What's Up"), which addressed 

FEMINIST MOVEMENTAyoAbietou Cely left the paternalistic society of Senegal for the liberties of the U.S. 
African and French issues and was geared toward the African immigrant population in Lyons. She vividly remembers her show about female circumcision in Africa when she had numerous callers, some denouncing the practice as inhumane, some defending its mean­ing and tradition. 
She still had her dream -and promise -of gaining her Ph.D., however, and returned to the U.S., where she felt the university system to be more structured and more personal. Coly decided on Penn State University and finished her doctorate in only four years instead of the usual five or six. 
Having achieved her 
educational goal, she could have returned to Senegal, but one major thing kept her in the U.S.: She had her space. She had gotten used to independence and the space to be herself, and did not want to give these up. Coly decided that Notre Dame had the best position available to her and, despite caveats from advisors and others that it was too conservative a campus for her, she came to Notre Dame in the fall of 2001. 
"The Racist Cocoon of South Africa" 
Though Peter Walshe also came from Africa, his story differs greatly from Coly's. An English-speaking native of South Africa, he lived on the whit':! side of the color barrier of Apartheid. He's been at Notre Dame since 1962, when Father Hes­burgh was president of the univer­sity and only men could be students. Walshe has seen many changes at Notre Dame and in South Africa, and he has played at least a small part in those changes. 

A professor of Political Science and fellow of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Walshe teaches classes on the politics of both tropical and southern Africa. Besides teaching here for 40-plus years, he remains deeply involved in events in southern Africa, though he is "in exile." 
"Notre Dame gave me the chance to pursue my interest in South Af­rica. But South Africa formed me," he says. He remembers the extraor­dinary wildlife, especially in Zimba ­bwe (then Rhodesia) where he went to high school -lions, elephants, antelope, zebras, buffalo -that are now rare due to poaching and the guerilla wars that have flooded the area with small firearms. Then there were the school days that went from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., followed by "afternoons in glorious sunshine" playing rugby, cricket, tennis, squash and field hockey and practicing riflery. 
Walshe also remembers being profoundly touched by the human­ity, decency and patience of the Africans that he had contact with -who were mostly servants. While living in South Africa and Rhode­sia, he knew nothing ofthe protests against Apartheid: He experienced segregation, but the separation of the races was just "the way life was" in the 1930s and '40s. Itwasn'tuntil he left for the University of Oxford and had contact with people from all over the British Commonwealth -the Caribbean, India, Pakistan and other parts ofAfrica -that he became aware that there was some­thing seriously wrong with the race relations in South Africa. 
So when the first mass protests began in South Africa while he was at Oxford in the 1950s, it was dif­ficult to see the unrest in his coun­try from the outside, but he found it easy to relate to the black South African cause. 
After Walshe finished his degree 

10 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 







at Oxford, he returned to south­ern Africa and began teaching at Pius XII College, a small Roman Catholic university in the coun­try of Lesotho. Lesotho is a small country completely surrounded by South Africa, and the Catholic bish­ops of southern Africa had opened Pius XII there as a non-racist, non­Apartheid school where black and white southern Africans could work together. Being in this environment convinced him of the need for full equality of the races under the law and for the black South African ma­jority to "take control of their own destiny." He became very interested in and began his study of the black protest movements. 
After Walshe had been teach­
ing at Pius XII for a few years, the Apartheid regime in South 
'-"-{Africa withdrew support of all schools that the 
Size: 84,400 sq km 
(slightly larger than 
WestVirginia) 
Population: 5,610,000 
"'The Troubles' were a period of political and social conflict starting in the late 1960s with civil rights marches and ending with the Good Friday Agreement of 1998. According to BBC reports, over 3,000 people -mostly ci­vilians -were killed during this _ time as the Irish Republican Army and other paramilitaries battled in the streets." 
Catholic bishops were running. In order to.keep their mission schools in South Africa open, the bishops were forced to close Pius XII. Af­ter Walshe had contacted several 
American universities, Notre Dame 
was the first to reply, offering him a 
one-year contract for 1962-3. With 
a family of five to consider, Walshe 
jumped at this chance. 
At the end of that year, George 
Shuster, then special assistant to the 
president of the university, made a 
deal with Walshe: Notre Dame 
would support him in the pursuit 
of his doctorate on the condition 
that for each year he took to do so, 
he would come back and teach at 
Notre Dame. Walshe accepted the 
opportunity and returned to Oxford 
for his doctorate. When he came 
back to Notre Dame, he started 
the African Studies program and 
stayed for his obligatory five years. 
He has been here ever since. 
"We Were Living Behind the Iron Curtain" 
What made Semion Lyandres 
leave his native land was not Apart­
heid rule, but a different sort of op­
pressive government: Communist 
Russia. He speaks matter-of-factly 
about the evils of this regime that 
punished people "for being people." 
And he insists that although he is 
culturally and linguistically Rus­
sian, South Bend is his "home." 
Some 20 years ago, 19-year-old 
Lyandres found out about a chance 
for a limited amount of people 
-many Jews -to leave the Soviet 
Union. Suffering political repres­
sion and the lack ofbasic freedoms, 
he weighed his prospects in the 
Soviet Union. He decided that he could not allow this small window of . opportunity to pass. Lyandres had · the choice between Israel and the 
U.S. Considering himself a Zionist atthe time -though that "fascina­tion" didn't last very long, he laughs -he chose Israel. It seemed more attractive to him, an "interesting challenge," even. 
After about five years of living in Israel and serving in the army to support himself, he realized that he wanted to go back to school topursue a serious study of history. He was driven not by thoughts of a career, but rather by a deep and sincere interec1-;n 

Size: 196,200 sq km (slightly smaller than South Dakota) Population: I 0,580,000 

"On Thursday, September 26, 2002, the state ferry running be­tween the Senegalese ports of Dakar and Ziguinchor capsized. Designed to hold a maximum· of 550 passengers, the vessel carried 1,034 people when it encountered a storm and sank well off the coast of Gambia ... Despite divers' rescue efforts, all but 64 died." 
which he was born and educated, why people were leaving, and why the 1917 revolution happened in the first place. Not unable to study and support himself at the same time if he stayed in Israel, he wrote to friends in Boston and Washington, D.C., who helped him settle in the 
U.S. He soon realized that the only way for a serious study ofhistory to happen would be to become a pro­fessional historian, and that became his goal. 
Lyandres reached that goal after some undergraduate work at Bos­ton University and finishing his doctorate at Stanford University. He then taught at East Carolina University in Greenville, N.C., for six years. Then he became aware of a position at Notre Dame and, since jobs in Russian history "just don't exist," Lyandres says it wasn't a matter ofchoice, itwas a matter of 

SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY 11 





WORLDSAPART PeterWalshe's experiences growing up in a segregated South Africa have allowed him to educate South 
Africans and Notre Dame students alike. 

pursuing opportunity. For the past three years, he has been an associate professor of history and a fellow of both the Kellogg Institute for Inter­national Studies and the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, and is currently working to improve the program in Russian history here at Notre Dame. 
"I Was Quite Nearby" 

A colleague ofLyandres in the De­partment ofHistory and a fellow of both the Nanovic Institute and the Keough Institute for Irish Studies, Professor Jim Smyth is originally from Belfast, Northern Ireland. While his homeland's "Troubles" had "nothing to do, whatsoever," with his reasons for leaving the country, this Catholic Republican's adolescence directly coincided with the outbreak of that turbulent era. 
"The Troubles" were a period of political and social conflict starting 
in the late 1960s with civil rights marches and ending -for the most part -with the Good Friday Agreement of 1998. According to BBC reports, over 3,000 people -mostly civilians -were killed during this time as the Irish Republican Army and other paramilitaries battled in the streets. Bloody Sunday, re­membered in the U2 song ofthe same name, was one of the major events during this time, involving much blood­shed and bombing. As . unimaginably difficult as the events seem to many people, many of them happened while Smyth was not too far away, and some he even 
witnessed. 
But there is more to 
Smyth's life in Ireland than bombs and turmoil. He went to Trinity College Dublin for his undergraduate degree and left in 1985 to pursue further educ~tion in England-not necessarily to get out of Ireland, but rather to go to the University of Cambridge. After spending 10 years inEngland getting his Ph.D., being a research fellow at Cambridge, and teaching at Oxford, he was attracted to Notre Dame by the Irish Studies program. 
Smyth has been here teaching Irish and British history for eight years now, but still goes back to the United Kingdom at least once, usually twice per year, especially to Cambridge and Dublin and to the mountains ofDonegal. 
What does he miss about Ireland? "Draught Guinness," he quips, "which is undrinkable outside the is­land oflreland." But he really misses every facet of life there, from such niceties as listening to BBC Radio 4 and reading the print version of the Guardian to the larger sense of ironic wit that pervades Irish society. "I miss irony," he says. "America is largely irony-free." 

But Smyth is glad to escape Dublin traffic and the economic strains in the schools ofthe United Kingdom. He appreciates the resources that Notre Dame has,.and the resulting "can do" mentality when it comes to organizing conferences and intellec­tual endeavors. 
And Smyth does find the whole Notre Dame Fighting Irish phe­nomenon "quite entertaining." Not only is there ''almost zero connec­tion" between the Fighting Irish and Ireland, but he says that Irish journalists have joked that "[Notre Dame] got their Celts mixed up with their kilts." The specific reference is to the Irish Guard, who, Smyth says, look like "a Walt Disney version of a Scottish regiment in the British army." 
"But who cares?" he says. "It's 
harmless." In fact, he can appreci­. ate that the leprechaun mascot origi­nated in the attempt to put a positive 
spin on a negative stereotype. 
Tragedy and Triumphs 

While Smyth was right in the 
midst of the turmoil for the worst 
of the Troubles, Coly, Walshe and 
Lyandres were at Notre Dame when 
some far-reaching events happened 
in their respective countries. 
OnThursday, September 26, 2002, 
the state ferry running between 
the Senegalese ports of Dakar and 
Ziguinchor capsized. Designed to 
hold a maximum of 550 passengers, 
the vessel carried 1,034 people when 
it encountered a storm and sank well 
off the coast of Gambia, according 
to BBC news reports. Despite divers' 
rescue efforts, all but 64 died. 
Coly lost 15 members of her ex­
tended family that day. 
And they still are affected deeply 
by the tragedy. One u1.1cle lost his 
wife and five children. One cousin 
. . 
12 SCHOLASTICCOVER STORY . 



survived the capsizing and has yet the South African situation. says. to recover fully after spending hours "And the hair on the back of my Lyandres says that the event was in the water before his rescue, hear-head just stood up," Walshe says. one of the most emotionally impor­ing and watching others suffer and "!,couldn't believe it. One felt very tant events that he'd ever witnessed. drown. useless at times in exile. To know He was in graduate school at the 
Coly spent three weeks in Senegal that the book had been used by the time, and says that there was a sense then, after being away for four years, prisoners around Mandela, part of of incredible relief watching the stat­and was able to attend the national their ongoing educational program: ues of soviet leaders being torn down funeral. She had been afraid to go It sort of m a d e -in much the same fashion as was back, not only because she had been /--~if(t:~::j· the statue of Saddam Hussein in 
::;i:~~:1~:!a~~:~~e~~~:;:i!o-_'.:ji'.\:\'.E/'' ..···••··•·,:;:it//•:•.. ··•.· ·c:,:·..·.···.•i··,.,,. Baghdad, Iraq, last year. reality of the tragedy. Coly was //" -\~f~ £uridamental1.: :. >..\ Under the Dome: 
especially grateful for the sup-· /:'. ·•-:" '> ,.:,.,... <· •~ · .'·c,: /·:<>·> -· 1:,::. <C:\ Impressions 
port and understanding from Rart-·of our education,.'. \ So, after growing up in her students and the Notre .·-._.. '.. -~; /._. '·• ·---~. -·i .> '·.· ;···'·.'·" i\ parts of the world very Dame faculty as she dealt •is tlia:t we· areJ:not-the .. \ different from our little
;:~~r~~f::::;.i~hb~~~ ,~~;i/f;i,~~,;~~ijf ..i =1:~;:~i:~ti;; 
In a very different time neither~• as<.A.111.etiriaris" .· Here are some opinions
i;i:!;!:1!i~5o0;!~:,. •~;;:;~;~i~~~PZ,( .·. i~?~~;~:~:::::•:~~ 
Phones didn't work. People work ethic ofNotre Dame stu-.
:inlliviqµal§)'~-.scrambled all over. The noise was dents. Colysays that Notre Dame deafening. students are extremely receptive, It was 1990: Nelson Mandela generous and well-behaved, add-recently had been released from James McAdams, ing that, ifshe ever left, she would prison and the African National director of the Nanovic lnstitute miss the students the most. Smyth Congress (ANC) was rushing to for European Studies appreciates the dutiful attitude of put the headquarters -declared Notre Dame students, but he la-illegal and abandoned for 3 0 years merits the American system's way -back on line. Walshe had come life worthwhile." of stretching them too thin, erring to Johannesburg, South Africa, and In 1994,. the white Apartheid re-on the side ofbreadth ofknowledge. it was in this office building that he gime stood down, a new constitution And while Walshe. has seen many agreed to meet up with a man named was put in place, and Nelson Man-improvements in the quality of the Inlade Seke, who had been in prison dela gained presidency by winning student body over his years here, he with Mandela. the first non-racist elections in the does wish that current students were 
As they were walking out of the history of South Africa. more concerned with international building, Seke told Walshe the rea-And Walshe was here at Notre affairs, as students tended to be in son for his wanting to meet. In 1971, Dame, applauding wildly. the '60s and '70s. While realizing Walshe had published the first aca-The fall of another oppressive that their students may represent a demic study ofthe African National regime came in 1991, two years minority in the student population, Congress -Nelson Mandela's po-after the fall of the Berlin Wall and Lyandres and Coly both commend ·· litical organization. The book, The just after a major coup, as Mikhail the genuine intellectual curiosity Rise ofAfrican Nationalism in South Gorbachev ceded power to Boris about the non-Western world. Africa: The ANC, 1912-1952, had Yeltsin, thus ending decades of . While Coly is delighted about the been banned in southern Africa. Soviet Communism, the USSR and open-rnindednessofNotreDarnestu­Seke wanted Walshe to know that in the Cold War. dents, she has encountered resistance the early 1980s, the prison authori-"Almost nobody expected that this from some fellow professors, at times ties had permitted the prisoners to monolith one day would fall apart feeling all too aware that she has five get a copy ofthe book, and that they like a house of cards -and that's "differences" working against her: used it to teach the prisoners about exactly what happened," Lyandres she's a young, black, Muslim, African 

SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 13 



woman. She attributes the occasional 1 awkwardness to the fact that they may . not be used to such a close encounter 
with diversity. Coly insists, however, that being 
Muslim is not difficult at Notre , Dame. In fact, she has become more '. devoted to practicing her religion, · praying and fasting more since com­. ing here. She says that this is perhaps 
the result ofbeing touched by Notre Dame's religious environment. 

Playing Fair 
All four professors seem to agree on how to approach teaching about 
• their native countries: acknowledge that the viewpoint is not-and nei­ther can nor should be -objective; embrace the fact that it is subjective, and be fair to the other side. 
Walshe believes that part of his

i. 
mission is to teach not only about 
• 
Africa but also about the values involved. He stresses the ethical issues involved in African politics, especially in the struggles against 

• 
racial injustice and the polarization ofrich and poor. He says that teach­ing is "not a value-free operation. 




RUSSIA -­
Size: 17,075,200 sq km (approximately twice the size of the U.S.) Population: 144,530,000 

"In 1991, two years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and just after a major coup, as Mikhail Gorbachev_ ceded power to Boris Yeltsin, thus ending decades of Soviet Communism, the USSR and the Cold War." 
We all bring our values to what we do, and we better make them explicit and talk about them." 
It is also important to try to un­derstand the other side ofthe battle, however. Walshe gives the example of the Dutch Afrikaaners who domi­nated the Apartheid regime: While one can write them off as power­hungry "demons," it is more impor­tant to take an empathetic approach and find out why they were such a defensive minority, how even the deepest thinkers could promote the idea of "separate, but equal," and why it was always separate, but devastat­ingly unequal and discriminatory. 
Smyth and Lyandres agree that whether one was raised in the cul­ture about which one is speaking or not, true objectivity is unattainable. Smyth prefers the label "fair-mind­ed," while Lyandres uses "scholarly" to describe his treatment of opposing sides and views. 
Coly adds that it is sometimes in­teresting being an "insider" teach­ing about a culture and hearing the "outsider" views of students, all of whom have very different cultural and intellectual "baggage." She insists upon not "taking custody of meaning" just becaus~ she comes from the country ofstudy: I The interpretation taken by the i students can also be quite valid. 



Diversity Support 
All four ofthese professors are 
fellows ofone or more university institutes -but what does that mean? George Lopez, the director ofpolicy studies for and senior fel­low of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, explains that the various institutes supply organizational support and funding, describing the institutes as "horizontal weaves through a vertically organized departmen­tal system," since the institutes corroborate and strengthen the 
work done by the Departments of History and Political Science 

and various foreign language 
de­partments. The institutes have the 
resources and manpower to attract professors to Notre Dame who may 
not consider Notre Dan The Kroc Institute, for ample, "is an institut, that takes seriously 

SOUTH 
AFRICA 
Size: 1,219,912 sq km·• (slightly less than twice the size ofTexas) Population: 42,770,000 

"In 1994, the white Apartheid regime stood down, a new constitution was put in place, and Nelson Mandela gained presidency by winning the first non-racist elections in the history of South Africa." 


the prospect that religion can be a source of peace-building or of vio­lence," Lopez says, adding that this _perspective of peace and religion is 
a strong attraction of the institute, , 
and therefore Notre Dame. · 
James McAdams, the director of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, expresses how valuable these professors are: "As wonderful an edu­cational environment as Notre Dame is, we tend to get a pretty rarified view of the world from our isolated cam­pus. Most of us haven't had to deal with the challenges of a tumultuous society in our day-to-day lives." He adds, "Afundamental part of our edu­cation is that we are not the center of the world, neither as Americans nor as ordinary individuals." 


All in all, these professors are happy to be at Notre Dame. In the eyes of each, the advantages heavily outweigh the disadvantages. And the students, faculty and administration of Notre Dame are happy to have them here, embodying a little bit of history and current events from outside the American sphere. D 


14 SCH0LASTICCOVER STORY 








c·oming Soon:ATheater N-earYou 
The future home of performing a,rts at Notre Dame is stacked with 21st-century features 
KATIEBARON 
W
. en you think of the "Notre 
Dame Experience," what 

omes to mind? An outstand­ing education? Action-based spirituality? Football weekends? Theunh:ersityhas long provided its students with a wide variety of both academic and extra-curricular oppor­tunities to enhance the Notre Dame expe­rience. With the completion of the Marie 
P. DeBartolo Center 
for the Performing 
Arts, Notre Dame will be able to provide its 
students an even more 
comprehensive college 
i'Tffliliilll--• .,. <: f-1/,
experience. ¦ 'i · D The new addition 1(~~,DLIII! JF,J· ­to campus will offer ~~~a"«jih1\iv
academic and cultural ====~ .:1..___L :L...t..:•.t-­
CONCEPTTO REALITY As its completion approaches, the new DeBartolo Performing Arts 
opportun1t1es to stu-Center on the south end of campus looks very similar to this concept drawing. 
dents, faculty and the 
surrounding community. In the words · · ofJohn Haynes, the Judd and Mary Lou 
Leighton-Director.for the Performing 
Arts and Executive Director ofthe Marie 
P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing 
Arts, "We are not replacing anything in the life ofNotre Dame, but merely add­
ing to it." · Washington Hall, the current per­
forming arts building, was constructed 
in the 1880s. The fact that Notre Dame's current main stage was built in the 19th century illustrates Haynes' belief "that 
the arts have not received adequate at­
tention at Notre Dame." Haynes and 
many others agree that Notre Dame 
has done a wonderful job in other areas, including science, ethics and athletics. The arts, however, have not benefited from the same amount of attention; this lack of attention inspired the creation of the new Performing Arts Center. In -May 2004, the Performing Arts Center 
will be completed, adding a masterpiece 
of modern technology to Notre Dame's 
campus. The new facility is outfitted with profes­
sional equipment and up-to-date technol­ogy. As oppose~ to Washington Hall, the 
main stage in the Performing Arts Center 
is fully trapped, has 10 times the capacity in 
lighting and has a greatly improved sound system, which includes adjustable acoustics 
that permit acoustic quality to be altered from event to event. 
The building features highly specified performance rooms, including a main stage theater, a concert hall, an organ and chorale hall, a studio theater and a THX­certified cinema. The 200-seat Browning FamilyTHX Cinema is equal to the best 
movie theatres in the Midwest; in fact, it is only the fourth THX-certified cinema in Indiana. 
The building is constructed on seven separate foundations to ensure that sound is not transmitted from one stage to an­other. As Haynes explains, ona given night there may be "a loud movie in the cinema and a symphony playing in the concert hall, and one will not disturb the other." 
Although the Performing Arts Center will function primarily as the main stage for the Notre Dame campus, its uses will vary. Haynes asserts that the Perform­ing Arts Center also will serve as a tool for enhancing the education ofall Notre Dame students. In particular, the facil­ity will serve as the new home to Notre Dame's Film, Television and Theatre Department. Students will benefit from this mc:ive, as they will be able to practice and perform on fully rigged, professional stages and make use ofthe dozen state-of­the-artfilm and video editing bays located in the basement. "There is a big difference between working on 15-to 24-year-old equipment and working with thoroughly modern equipment," Haynes says. 
The equipment housed within the Per­forming Arts Center is so modern that student-run productions will continue to take place in Washington Hall. The Performing Arts Center is not suited for student performances, as the stages in the new facility must be attended to by profes­sionals due to the costs and dangers ofthe modem technology. However, because pro­fessional performances will be moved to the 
Performing Arts Center, student-booking 
time in Washington Hall should increase dramatically (pun intended). 
The Performing Arts Center also will benefit 
the general community ofNotre Dame and South 
Bend. Haynes says, "There 
will be almost continuous opportunities available [for the community to take ad­vantage ofthe Performing Arts Center]." 
Among these oppor­

tunities are a number of performances already booked for next year. The impressive list includes the Chieftans, the Emerson String Quar­tet, Ladysmith Black Mambazo·and Emanuel Ax, as well as various musical groups from both Notre Dame and the South Bend community: The South Bend Symphony Orchestra has already sched­uled a chamber music series for next year. Haynes feels this wide range of classical and world music will help· to further broaden the Notre Dame experience for all students. "Whether you're a biology student, in the School ofArchitecture ... or a graduate student, the number ofcul­tural experiences available to you is about to go up tremendously," he says. 
The Performing Arts Center has some­thing for everyone: For those interested in film, the Performing Arts Center will programanewseriesoffilmstoplayonFri­dayand Saturday nights. The ND Cinema series will also relocate to the new center. 
Haynes and his colleagues have great expectations for the new Performing Arts Center. The expected benefits will make the university, as Haynes puts it, "a campus where the arts are not merely available, but become a cherished part of Notre Dame life." . 

IS APRIL 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 15 
HITTHE BOOKS Parents concerned by the amount of beer paraphernalia in this Zahm quint need not worry. The residents are fine, upstanding American boys who, as this tidy desk attests, devote time to both work and play. 
16 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 




Let the Good Times Roll 
KATIESOLAN 

N,y dutiful Notre Dame bar-hopper begins his Thursday 
night ofrevelry atLegends, lured in by the bar's surpris­
ngly potent $2: margaritas. However, tucked away at 459 Zahm lies "the other campus bar" -Good Time Charlie's -complete with a hand-made bar-top, a signature drink and, of course, a certified beer master. 
The idea for Good Time Charlie's, as residents Joe Het­tler, Bryan Logan, Matt McConnell, Eric Tarnowski and Drew Updike term their unique living space, arose from the need to have "a place where everyone knows your name," Logan says. 
The spacious common room is the heart of Charlie's, the northeastern corner ofwhich features a smooth wooden bar-top hand-crafted by Tarnowski. Always fully stocked, the bar has a small fridge snugly fitted behind it, above which is proudly displayed Tarnowski's certificate ofmastery from the Budweiser Beer School (fully accredited, of course). 
Pull up a barstool, gr~b a coaster, gaze at Sports Center on 
I 5 APRIL 2004 

Location, Location, Location Bottom Left: Beer signs mingle with a Morrison poster and plush seating;Top Left:The residents of 459 Zahm recline and grin -it's the Charlie way; Right:The foreboding door belies th~ room's inviting atmosphere; Center:As if the bar and the decorations are not enough, 459 Zahm even has a clear view of the dome. 
the m~unted TV b~hind the bar, and the bartender will serve you "Charlie's Special:" 24 ounces ofcold Natty Light in a tall pilsner glass. _ 
With much for the wandering eye, Charlie's decor is as much kitschy as it is classic. On the left ofthe entrance is a large tie­dyed print ofJim Morrison, basking in the eerie glow ofa black light; on the right is a rustic wood-cut of the Anheuser Busch logo and its graceful, proud eagle. 
Next is a framed image of a wood-carved, slightly toothy old man in aJohn Deere cap with a pint in his hand. The cap­tion below him reads, "I spent most ofmy money on beer and women -the rest I just wasted." The men of 459 nicknamed the old wooden man Charlie, and he serves as general overseer of the bar. 
Although there is an eclectic mix of Zahm pride (a flag with Zahm's token "Z" takes up a large portion of the north wall) and Americana, beer paraphernalia is, of course, 459's dominant decorating theme. The room features a Jack Daniel's clock, an elegant Miller Lite mirror behind the bar, a neon Michelob sign and Budweiser beer flags hung from the ceiling.. 
Situated in the room's southwest corner, a rather charming Moosehead beer 3-D picture box is displayed and is aptly de­scribed by one resident as a "moving-light-picture thing." 
McConnell describes Charlie's as "a bar on the weekends or at night, but a lounge during the week." Attesting to its rriulti­functionality, Charlie's has a certairi. coziness created by its plush green carpet, two large sofas across the west and south walls, and a floor lamp between the two, bathing a well-worn recliner and Jeff the Plant in soft, white light. 
Jeff the Plant, who proudly guards an autographed poster of Carmen Electra, is seen as something of an oracle. Resi­dents maintain thatJeffmiraculously came back to life after a near-death experience during the World Series -a sure prophecy, Tarnowski says, of a triumph for the Cubs next season. 
Although Charlie's always welcomes a good time, residents insist that Good Time Charlie's is more than just a site for par­ties, fight nights and poker tournaments. "Charlie's is more like an attitude, a state of mind," says Tarnowski. "It's like Jimmy Buffet and Margaritaville." 
So the next time you're at Charlie's enjoying a tall, cold Natty Light, glance away from the game once in a while to behind the bar and take note of the vintage Jimmy Buffet poster. Let Island Jimmy, perhaps the quintessential pro­ponent of good-ol' fun, remind you to return often to the Charlie's good-time state ofmind. Just don't forget to tip the bartender when you're there. · . 
15 APRIL 2004 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 17 
Ahoy, Gipplings. Jesus is back. Spring is in the air. Thanks to an ad that recently ran in the campus 
daily rag, I hear the sports office at Scho­lastic has been flooded with applications for editor. And the Gipp's e-mail box is full of good tips. Speaking ofe-mail, does anyone else find it ridiculous that OIT is asking us for our help? Many ofyou more astute Gipplings may have noticed a news bullet on the WebMail login page that reads: "URGENT: Please help the OIT reclaim disk space ... " I don't know about you, but OIT is near the bottom of the Gipp's list of people to help. Could you imagine ifother deparments behaved this way? "GRAB 'N GO EMERGENCY: Please take only one side item today." Anyway, on to the good stuff. 


Soviet Takeover 
It looks like the collapse of the Berlin Wall almost 15 years ago may not have done away entirely with our comrades to the East after all. A Gipplingvisiting South Quad shot these predawn photos one week­day morning, immortalizing an act that left the Gipp wondering, "Whydidn't I thinkof that?" You see, the Gipp always has taken a fancy to Communism and all that it has to offer. The Gipp suspects that the culprit is none other than the vice president for stu­dent affairs. He's already brought Stalinism to campus in practice; propaganda is the next logical step. For that, the Gipp would like to award this distinguished gentleman with the 2004 inaugural Gippie Award. Congratulations! 


An Unholy Trinity 
So two roommates, let's call them Neo and Morpheus, are watching The Matrix: Reloaded and get a little too into it, want­ing to act it out themselves. N eo brings his 

11·•. 
girlfriend, "Trinity," to the room, and µe

I 
i! 
enters her matrix. While reloading, how­ever, alcohol levels unplug his mind, and he 

I 
passes out. Morpheus, feeling lonely and 

I 
L 
ready for action, decides that Trinity isn't 

'i named Trinity for nothing, so he joins in 

the struggle. Neo re-awakens to a strange reality, and because of a mental short-cir­cuit, he pulls the trigger on Morpheus' gun instead ofhis own -teamwork at its most unfortunate. Luckily, Trinity is more clear­headed and helps Neo convert his software to hardware, so he can finish the mission. The Gipp doesn't really understand what all tl1is means, but is sufficiently disturbed and can't wait for the sequel. 



Pac-Man Destroys Fountain 
Apparently, Pac-Man, after escaping the Gipp's TVscreen, dashed through the Coleman-Morse Center last month and mistook the main pipe that routes water to the granite ball fountain for his ghost nemesis Blinky. No news as to when the water will once again be flowing. 


Reflections at the Grotto 
The Grotto: a reverent place ofprayer, a mecca for Notre Dame visitors, a strip club? Apparently a young Gippling in training for his new gig as a bachelorette party dancer thought it would be a good idea to practice his act by candlelight ... prayer-candle light. Well, after strip­ping himself down to his boxers in front of St. Bernadette and all the world, our soused stripper swooned, having to be awakened by students who had come to the Grotto to get some praying done. 

The nerve! After coming to, strip­per boy alertly made his way to Corby Hall, only to pass out there, as well. Good idea, pal! Minutes later, a priest found our protagonist, brought him to his senses, and escorted him back to his dorm. On the way, they recov­ered the articles of clothing that he had left at the Virgin Mary's feet. And some say the Gipp has been ir-· reverent at the Grotto. Just 

PS -the Gipp is unsure ... isn't strip­ping at the Grotto one of those instant­damnation sins? 
Well, Gipplings, unfortunately, that's the end of this year-long chapter of Campus Watch. We're all done until the fall. In the meantime, I have to get back to manipulating the movements of a big yellow ball through a maze of dots. If you can't find me, I'll be at Q*Bert's conspiring with communist penguins. OK, bye. . 
18 SCHOLASTICCAMPUSWATCH 
15 APRIL 2004 


Notre DamcgraduaJc rdaisn1g lruseco,1d album. 10pm 
APrM 16 Bill Bushart . 
· Detro# comic who has worked wit!, tire b~tCStnanu:s 1i1 COmf'.{/y. 10pm 
APril 17 WVFI presents Saturdav Looks Good To Me 
Witl1sptdalgutif, Whatever You Want 10pm 
, APr~ 20 Business Drinking Etiquette APi"il 21 Theology on Tap APril 22 Live at Legends -The Very Best of Acoustic Cafe APril 23 Swing Night with Bopology ,r/-L EC [ N D S 
!! 0 \•'••h\ ... 
n \ · /() F NOTRE DA ;Vt E
APi,.il 24 SUB presents Slainte Mhath (TBA) '<-..~l;t:'>~, 
-----~--~---­
" ....., --­
--~--------­



Everyone beware: Notre Dame is in a_n emergency. One year removed from a 9-3 season, the Fight­ing Irish football team finished with a depressing record of 5-7. Despite excuses about adjustment to a new offensive system and a true freshman quarterback, this past season was simply unacceptable. Obviously, Notre Dame football has hit rock bottom, a position from which it is incapable of escaping. The only possible way to ameliorate the current situation is to compromise the university's standards in a misguided, racist crusade, right? Wrong! To most people, this statement is simply ridiculous. Notre Dame has a reputation for being a football school, but above all else it is an institution of higher learning. However, Notre Dame's 1956 Reisman winner, Paul Hornung, sees no other way to fix the football fiasco than to undermine the distinguished academic standards of the university. On a Detroit radio station, Hornung said, "[Notre Dame has] gotta get the black athlete. We must get the black athlete if we're going to compete." His solution for "getting the black athlete:" Notre Dame must relax its academic requirements. First ofall, I would like to note that the best way to NOT"get the black athlete" is to insult his race's collective intelligence across the airwaves of a city with one of the highest black populations in the na­tion. In addition, Notre Dame's gradu­ation rates for both black athletes and white athletes have been largely even, 

I Under the Scope Academic Standards -An Obstacle or an Accomplishment? 
by Christopher Meskill -cmeskill@nd.edu 
rendering moot the issue about whether African-Americans, especially those in­volved in varsity athletics, can succeed at this university. 
Notre Dame's recruiting methods have traditionally been able to attract athletes ofvarious ethnic backgrounds. This year, Tyrone Willingham, the first black head football coach at Notre Dame, recruited a talented class comprised ofboth black and white athletes. In the past, Notre Dame to lower the academic standards for all ofits athletes, not just blacks. However, this is still an ill-advised comment. Notre Dame's tradition has a dual nature -for the last century, we have been both a great football power and one of the most academically rigorous universities in the nation. Notre Dame is the only university to rank among the top five schools in the nation for both the graduation rate of football players 

The only way to ameliorate the current situation is to compromise the university's standards in a misguided, racist crusade, right? Wrong! 
football teams have been led by such re­nowned white players as George Gipp, Joe Montana and Paul Hornung himself, as well as by outstanding black athletes, including "Rocket" Ismail,Jerome Bettis· 
and Julius Jones. 
Hornung's comments elicited criti­cism from across the coutnry and drew a response from Notre Dame's administra­tion. Notre Dame spokesperson Matthew Starin commented that "[the University] strongly disagrees with the thesis of these remarks" and that "[Hornung's remarks] are generally insensitive and specifically insulting to our past and current African ­American student-athletes." 
Likely pressured by the university, Hornung retracted some of his com­ments. In his latest press conference, Hornung said that Notre Dame needs and the number of players bound for the NFL. Notre Dame is also one of the only universities to be a top-20 uni­versity both in academics and in overall athletics. Our academic and athletic traditions should compliment, rather than oppose, each other. · 

Notre Dame's balance of academics and athletics is one of the things that makes the university unique. Notmany universi­ties can offer an athlete the opportunity to play on television every week, to receive one of the finest educations in the land, and to walk away with a degree that is highly respected by employers. Notre Dame's academic standards are the most attractive facet of this university, and a return to football glory should not come at the expense ofNotre Dame's tradition of academic excellence. D 


STATZONE 
Christopher Meskill brings you ... 

~,~~~:~, ··· ·, c,ALLTI-IESTAT·s~,· 
you need to know. 


20 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
Baseball (25-4, 7-1): After losing their home opener on March 23, the No. 4 Fighting Irish baseball team has been in the zone, winning 12 of their last 13 games. The streak began with a 16-6 win over Detroit and continued as the Irish defeated Big East rivals West Virginia, Villanova and Boston College. Notre Dame's lone loss during the stretch was at home against Boston College on Saturday, April I0. This loss was the only conference loss for the Irish so far this season, and they currently are atop the Big East standings.At noon this Saturday.April 17, the Irish will face Georgetown in Bethesda, Md. 

Softball (31-1 I, 6-0): The Fighting Irish have been making up for lost ground lately, winning eight of their last IO games, 
15 APRIL 2004 


Senior captain Meredith Simon has·piloted the;i,rish women's lacros~e ..· . team;t:o a No. 2,:r._anking in the 11atiorf1;J,is seasbn;Jhe midfielder from ._Flemington, NJ, l~idsNot~e·bame in ioals anci'Jsists this s'eason.This . 
· ic:omes·as no surprise, since Simon is the top returning.goal scorerJroni ..... , t~e 2003 squad,Al,ready ~ahkeel in the ,t;p IO.in the lr;ish.wc:ime~'s lac:rossl . . r:eiori:l ,books in_ four differ:~nt categories.Simon is a prirhe•candidat~ .to . 
.• :win' all-Big East; ail-region·an:cJ AII-Am·erican ho'n~r~ this y~~(. \ ... 
· What are your go.als for yo~1i~season unde~ the D~n:i_~~·Nuinber . · --· 
:9negoiilis.to win)l !lational cli~pionship:.Fi~st/wehave gofto w,iriBig. '=:, ...·.·. East, though. I want to have a great 'season, ha~e a lcit offun, and to .µave a--­good team.when~ everyone ill united. I think thi!,t,so far,.we·are on .theright 
·..···.·tr·a~L.· .. .·" . . ·.· .· ' .., ... .-...,;· --..
. CK ·,·::···:-:_/··· ·.• 
I••••~ ,• ·,-._.,
S • 
.. ;.·, .. 



[J~~itlii~~rft~~li~~le 
,i, 
-···­
~'.t' •._:: 

.•;~at.do:y<>u'. enjoy most about playing uµdfield?I)ike· ~OW it;rnJkes ~e··.
;;/~:el!!l~~:r~:ee~tire.-gairie: defense; ?ffense:~d transitiqri'. I can:·: . 
. f ii<>w 4~:you i>repai~ yo~clffot.:·;.g~e?. ~~Jry g~ni{{~~ar the .· . : /sime so#~sand spari.de:i. Right befofe.:the game; µie and·a couple o.f.:..: :...'my teainµ1ates da1,1ce'in th~·focker room..After· wat,:I ~lways eat a.:: .•. :.. ·. : ·,:· :: ~ftic~ersMarathori>ba:(right. before I ~ik out onto the field. I am pt~tfy
',c superstitio~; . .·, . . -. . . . .• .. . . . -. . . ·.··; .. 
, .· W}iat are your p~for life after N:otie Day:ie?I w6~d·1ike, fo ·coach ·· \ Division:11acrosse. ;Then I would ev¢rinially like to get my teaching . .. certificate, teach high school and coach high schoollacr(lSSe.. . . 
.:Who is your favoriteatltlete? Bernie Williams of the [New York] Yankees .. ~s defi.ajtely my favorite athlei:e,·because·he is modest, he is awesome, and · he is a greai:'leader., I just think that he.is the perfect athlete. . . 
: CVVbat is your most•memorilble morilent as a Notre Dame atlilete? . · · Sophomore year was the :first time we gotinto tl:ie NCA,A:Toumamerit. We : played Ohio State at. home and we had a great game. We won arid advancecl: ;' : :to the sei::ond round.I~ wasjust a great day. · ·.· 
including five of six this week. The Irish this month. On Thursday, April I5, Notre recently swept . Connecticut, Boston Dame will host Illinois-Chicago at Ivy Field. College and Syracuse, each in two-game Game time is 5:00 p.m. series. Sophomore pitcher Heather Booth and junior pitcher Steffany Stenglein have Women's Lacrosse ( I0-0, 3-0}: With been untouchable during the month of its best start in the program's eight-year March, allowing three runs or less in all but history, the No. 2 Notre Dame women's one game. Meanwhile, the Irish bats have lacrosse team looks to finish the season with been alive, averaging over six runs per game an untainted record. The Irish have only six 
Our Calls 
Softball Double-header 
OPPONENT: PROVIDENCE WHERE: IVY FIELD -NOTRE DAME, IN WHEN:APRIL 18, 11:00AM.& 1:00 P.M. 
> 
In this matchup, the Irish carry a better record than Providence and 
do so with a tougher schedule. On 
Sunday, the Irish will continue their 
home dominance and will improve 
their record to 9-1 at home by 
winning both games ofthe;double­
header. Look for the Irish to prevent 
the Friars' offense from getting off 
the ground.Also expect offense from 
Meagan Ruthrauff and Megan Ciolli 
early in the game to give the Irish 
momentum that will carry them 
through the long day.The Irish will 
win with scores of 6-2 and 7-3. 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL SPORTS EDITOR 

KEYTOTHE GAME: 
Conquering the Mound 
The Irish pitching has been remarkable so far this season, carrying a 1.73 combined ERA and holding opponents to a stifling .198 batting average. If Heather Booth ( 15-4) and Steffany Stenglein ( 11-7) show up with their "A" games, the Friars have no prayer against Notre Dame. · 
games standing between them and perfection. So far, the Irish have defeated powerhouses such as Stanford, Duke and, most recently, Ohio State (all ranked higJ,er than the Irish in preseason polls).The Irish have been led by senior co-captain Meredith Simon, who has the most goals and assists for the Irish this season. Their next match is at I :00 p.m. on Saturday.Apr. 17, at No. 5 Georgetown. D 
15 APRIL 2004 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 21 






Down One but Not Out 
Irish baseball continues hot season, despite losing captain Steve Sollmann to injury 
CHRISTOPHERMESKILL 
At 19-3, the Irish had everything going their way. The Notre Dame baseball team sat atop the Big East Conference, was on a five-game winning streak, and, most importantly, was solidi­fying a solid team chemistry. It appeared as though the Irish could overcome any obstacle that stood in their way. On Satur­day, March 3, the Irish faced the first real test ofthe team's unity and determination, when senior team captain Steve Sollmann was knocked out of Irish baseball for an indefinite period oftime. During the fifth inning of the series opener against Vil­lanova, Sollmann -the starting second baseman -broke his jaw after colliding with Irish sophomore right fielder Cody Rizzo on a shallow pop-up. Sollmann 
22 SCHOLASTICSPORTS 
was sent home to Cincinnati, where he is scheduled to have surgery. Now, the Irish have to make their way without their team leader. 
In a preseason interview, Irish head coach Paul Manieri said, "This is the · deepest team -in terms of quality of talent more than simply the quantity of players -that we've had in my 10 years." However, with Sollmann's injury, ques­tions remained unanswered. Will the Irish depth be enough to fill the void at second base? Can Notre Dame continue this dream season without Sollmann's talent and leadership? What will each individual player need to do in order to compensate for this loss? 
Pointing out some of Sollmann's strengths that will be missed, Manieri says, "Steve is tough as nails, loves pres­sure and always delivers in big-game situ­ations, in addition to his amazing consis­tency the past three seasons." Sollmann's day-to-day consistency has been pivotal to the Irish success both offensively and defensively. 

To open the 2004 season, the Irish trav­eled to Los Angeles, Calif., to play in the USC Public Storage College Classic. In a soggy series, Notre Dame defeated San Diego State, 7-1, and Southern Cal, 3-1, before their third game -against Louisville -was rained out. Sollmann's presence was felt, as he went 2-3 with two walks and two runs against San Diego State. He also was involved in a pivotal play that gave the Irish a two-run lead against the No. 20 USC Trojans. Junior first baseman Matt Edwards was another big performer in that series, driving in 
IS APRIL 2004 

four RBIs against San Diego State, in­cluding a two-run homer in his first at-bat of the season. 
At the Florida Atlantic University's Doubletree Diamond Classic in Boca Raton, Fla., the Irish continued their perfect streak, adding high-scoring victories over Winthrop and Minnesota, as well as a close 3-2 win over No. 12 Florida Atlantic. During the tlfree-game road trip, Sollmann recorded three runs and two RBIs and played flawless defense at second base. 
At the Alamo City Irish Baseball Clas­sic in San Antonio, Texas, the Irish faced Southern Illinois, Texas-San Antonio and Penn State. The Irish took three of four games, defeating Southern Illinois, 12-11, and Penn State, 8-2, but splitting a two-game series with Texas-San Antonio. Sollmann continued to lead his team to victory by scoring seven runs, driving in five RBIs and getting hit by three pitches in the series. 
The Irish continued to roll at the Round Rock College Classic in Round Rock, Texas, the last of the regular season tournaments on Notre Dame's schedule. The Irish swept the competi­tion in this three-game series. In one of the best pitching matchups of the year, the Irish defeated Penn State, 4-2. Freshmen pitchers Derik Olvey and Jeff Samardzija combined for a two-hitter, and junior third baseman Matt Macri drove in three RBIs. The Irish finished the tournament with a 4-2 victory over No. 19 Arizona and a 6-1 win over Texas Tech. Junior pitcher Chris Neisel and sophomore pitcher Tom Thornton shut 
-down Arizona and Texas Tech, respec­tively, as Sollmann had four hits, a run and an RBI in 10 at-bats. After opening 11-1 in tournament play, the Irish hit a rough 

patch and split their 
a productive series with a first four matches in triple, a home run and the cold, Midwest three RBIs. weather. Despite Following two home solid efforts on of­wins against Western fense, the Irish went Michigan and Hillsdale, 1-1 against Southern the Irish were set to host Illinois in Carbon­Big East rival Villanova dale, Ill., and 1-1 in for a three-game series. their first two home However, Sollmann was games -against injured in the first game Central Michigan ofthe series, and the Irish and Detroit. Over this needed to compensate for four-game stretch, the the loss. In the first game, Irish showed their power, hitting seven home runs, three ofwhich were the work of sophomore designated hitter Matt Bransfield. Macri added two home runs, and sophomore shortstop Greg Lopez and Sollmann each added one. After losing to Central Michigan, the Irish finally came around in the game against Detroit, with a definitive 16-6 victory. 
With momentum coming off of the win against Detroit, the Irish marched into Morgantown, W.Va., to open Big East play in a three-game series against the West Virginia Mountaineers. In the series-opening double-header, the Irish swept the Mountaineers by scores of 5-3 and 4-0, with Thornton shutting out the Mountaineers in the second game. On the next day, the Irish completed their three­game sweep of the Mountaineers with a 
6-2 victory. Sollmann had Macri tripled twice, and sophomore des­ignated hitter Steve Andres and Brans­field both hit home runs, leading to a 15-7 victory. In the second game, the I~ish edged the Wildcats, 6-5, in 10 innings. Macri and sophomore right fielder Craig Cooper each had two runs, and Thornton pitched five innings and allowed only two runs. The Irish finished the series with a 13-1 routing of Villanova. All of the Irish contributed to the victory with eight players driving in at least one RBI. This performance proved that the Irish could adjust and win without Sollmann. 

The Irish continued to win in Soll­mann's absence as they defeated Chicago State, 15-5, and Valparaiso, 9-3. In the contest against Chicago State, six players batted in at least one run, with Edwards and Cooper leading the team with four RBIs each. Notre Dame also defeated Valparaiso in a group effort, with seven Irish players scoring runs and five driving in runs. In last Saturday's doubleheader against Boston College, the Irish had trouble in the first game, scoring only four runs. However, the Irish returned to form in the second game, winning 6-4. 
Despite the possible problems that could have arisen from the loss of Soll­mann as a player and team leader, the Irish have found success. Their 6-1 re­cord since Sollmann's injury shows that they do indeed have the depth to continue their dream season. D 
RUN, MATT, RUN Junior third baseman Matt Macri advances to third base. 

15 APRIL 2004 SCH0LASTICSPORTS 23 

Student Stand-up 
An unofficial comedy group lets young talent get experience and a few laughs 
BETHMURPHY AND 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDEL 

Beer.Jesus. Sex. Politics. Ugly babies. These were only some of the topics covered by student comedians who performed at Legends onApril Fool's Day, and some ofthe same subjects undoubtedly will resurface atthenext comedic event on April 17. Featuring five young comics, the April 1 show was a major success and drew a bigger and more responsive crowd than the first show, held in September. Leading the student stand-up troupe is Peter Wicks. Originally from London, Wicks studied at Oxford, and it was there that his comedy career took off. After working with the prestigious Cambridge University-based group called Footlights, Wicks relocated to Princeton University, where he left his mark by forming an in­formal stand-up group that is now a full­clubs who struggle to get people to go to best material," Nardino says. "You have to fledged student club. Currently studying activities. We go through Legends and have a presence on stage." Bottom line: No at Notre Dame as a graduate student in. have a full crowd every time." practice means no laughs. "You could tell philosophy, Wicks is attempting to work The student comedians are learning as the funniest joke in the world," Nardino his magic once again. theygo thatthere is much more to comedy says,. "but if you tell it wrong, it'll sound "Essentially there's no real 'group', than jumping on stage to tell a few jokes. stupid." underground or otherwise," Wicks says. "You need to have material polished and· Mike Bradt, who helps Wicks lead the "There's just an e-mail list onmylaptop of performable;' saysNardino. "Funnypeople group, has a good deal of experience with people who have told me thatthey're inter­often fail atstand-up."Thereis a big differ­stand-up and even won a competition in ested in performing stand-up comedy." ence between being funny with friends and Chicago before attending Notre Dame On that list are 57 people, although getting up in front ofpeople and generating 
Law School. ~-·~-----·· 

Wicks says there are only 12-14 active participants, many of whom are also members ofthe Notre Dame HumorArt­ists (HA). One of these dual members is seniorJoe Nardino, who has performed in HA shows, as well as in several stand-up routines. According to Nardino, Wicks "got his hands on the HA listserv and just said, 'Hey, there will be a stand-up show. Ifyou're interested, e-mail me."' 
Right now, the stand-up comics are not an official Notre Dame club, and neither Wicks nor the other comedians are rushing to become one. ''At the moment, there isn't any pressing reason to become one," Wicks says. "Most of our shows are at Legends, and we don't need to be a recognized club to perform there. Becoming an official club would probably just generate unnecessary meetings and paperwork." Nardino is also content with the group's status. "Thereare laughs. "You have to really own the crowd and know it so well that you're comfort­able," he says. 

FreshmanJustin Smith, another student comic, admits that he only uses one-third ofhis prepared material and usually prac­ticesin front offriends to see what does and does not work. One of Nardino's friends from home practices his material on his grandmother. "She's dirtier than all ofus," Nardino laughs. 
Another comic, Jack Kichura, says he prepares for approximately four hours before stepping in front of a microphone and admits to being extremely nervous before a performance. Audience reaction is "touch and go," he says. Nardino agrees, saying that every audience is different and the comic needs to adjust accordingly. "You could tell your worst joke, and de­pending on the audience, it could be your "currently trying to decide whether to be a funny philosophy professor or a co­median who knows an awful lot about Aristotle." Nardino aspires to teach, and is considering practicing his material on his future classes. He addresses an invis­ible student: "Don't think that's funny? Participation: F." . . 
Nardino is look­ ·Wicki:-en~ourqges}nterest~:  
ing to follow in Bradt's footsteps  ·. •·ed·si:ij~_enfrt~\fifaailhim:: ••·• ·. (pwick~@nd;edu) cir Mike .  
at a club in New  Brad((rnbradt@Jfld,edu)  
York City.  He  ,totry:~ut mcit~rial or ... ·  
hopes  to  catch  paitid{;:ate in ·a $t_gnd.,;  ...  
the eyes of the  up''f'ibrk~hop.;Aspedal  .·  
scouts, who usu­ . performancew(i/be held  

:~~edit~~:: nights. For the fu­ ·:·•i:~ittd1!/{J~1nt:•-·•: ·.·••:•.·· Hesburgh Library: : ·. : .. ,  
ture, Wicks is  

24 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 15 APRIL 2004 


,GreatThai Food, and for Peanuts 
For a hole-in-the-wall downtown restaurant, Siam has a big heart and tasty food 
d f TRADITIONAL FOOD, MODERN SETTING The one-room interior of the cheesecake and truffles for ra t. restaurant is both elegant and relaxed, good for intimate meals and casual dining. 
NICKKOLMAN-MANDLE _ 
The next time you want a special eve­ning out, for goodness sake, skip Grape Road. Skip Olive Garden. 
Skip Houlihan's. Siam Thai Restaurant is the perfect place for a date. No date? 
A friend or two will do just as  ,,  
well.  
Siam is small, with only  
about 20 tables, and it is  
hardly visible from the road.  
Inside, the owners have done  
an impressively subtle job of  
transforming a bland block of  -,  
space into a casually elegant  
dining room. The only thing  
that separates the front door  
from the rest of the room  
is a small folding partition,  
though, so ask to be seated  
toward the middle or back  
of the restaurant to avoid a  

The ambiance is contem­porary with an understated Asian flair. It is definitely an ethnic restaurant, but instead of traditional Thai tunes, you'll hear classical piano. Upon entering, din­ers are captivated by the sweet, tangy and spicy smells wafting out of the kitchen. Tinted candles burn on tables covered with white tablecloths. The silverware is tucked neatly inside folded napkins. Servers wear traditional-looking outfits, 
and even if the uniforms aren't native Thailand attire, they still look sharp. The service is excellent: quick and at­tentive (but not overly-so). No bread is 
=== ing plate ofnoodles, shrimp, eggs and veggies has a curiously sweet flavor that is unexpected and deli­cious. For curry fans, the Masaman Curry is a great stew-like concoc­tion of chicken, potatoes and veg­etables in a peanut curry sauce, topped with raw onions. The sauce itself is very mild and the onions give an added "oomph." The charbroiled chicken curry is also a popular dish. Don't necessarily trust the 
IS APRIL 2004 
unique peanut sauce. Ifyou're allergic to peanuts, an equally delicious appe­tizer is the Siam Combo, which offers a sampling of Thai egg rolls, fish cakes and fried tofu. 
Under "Typical Dishes," avoid the Pad Ka Prow. The promised chicken was scanty, and the heap of vegetables were rather bland. We recommend the Ka Tiam Prik Ta -chicken with garlic, onions, peppers, and carrots. The chicken with ginger sauce is also very good. 
If you prefer noodles, order the Pad Thai, another house specialty. The heap-served, but the food arrives very soon after being ordered. 
Peanuts play a major role in Thai cooking, so we recommend ordering at least one dish that features them. For an appetizer, try the satay-skew­ered marinated chicken smothered in a spiciness scale shown in the menu: one star for mild, two for spicy. The Pad Ka Prow, labeled spicy, was craving some kick. The Masaman, with no stars, was actually a bit spicier than the PadKa Prow. Ask the server for a more accurate guage of the spiciness ofmenu items. 
For tea connoisseurs, Siam will not disappoint. The restaurant features an entire menu devoted to different types of hot bev­erages, especially herbal teas. Try a glass mug of Thai herb tea, which smoothly counteracts the mild Thai spices, with less of a temperature shock than a cold drink. 
For dessert, Siam's home­made specialty is "fried banana," a surprisingly tasty treat. They also have 

the less adventurous diner, but the fried banana is the only dessert actually prepared in the restaurant 
Siam caters both to the couple look­ing for an 
intimate  (  
evening  
and to the  
h u n g r y  ,  

circle of ! friends . i It's fancy enough to dress up ; for, but L 
don't hesi­tate to go in jeans and sneakers. The prices are very 
reasonable, and the food is interesting, different, and delicious on the whole. 
Siam only accepts reservations for par­ties of six or more. Ifyou have a smaller group, call ahead to make sure there is room. With a distinct style of Asian cook­ing, Siam is a must for anyone looking to get a taste of Thai food. . 
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 25 
Mon. -:-' Fri,' 11-2, 5-9 , · .. ·· Sat. .5-9 . 
Credit cards ahd large res-I ervations accepted. .,
. . _J 
--·-·----· ' --. ··--~·--·-·:_;_
,, 
\ 
I 
·***Siam 
outofS 
Location 
211 North Main St ' {Downtown South Bend) 
Prices 
Entrees range from 
$8.95 to $12.95 
Hours 






The Passing of the Torch 
A new women's interhall basketball champion is crowned 
Over lunch the other day, I became engaged in a heated leading Team Curb Your Enthusiasm, 11-9. Coach Chris­argument with a female acquaintance of mine about tensen is very upset by this and gently informs us that we are theunquestionedsuperiorityofmaleathleticismover "getting beaten by a bunch of girls." Only less calmly and their more attractive counterparts (women). Don't get me with more swearing. Faced with the prospect ofour ultimate wrong, I admitted that there are many areas in which women emasculation, we resolve to play a more physical game in the are far superior to men, such as multitasking and making out second half, thus catering to our strengths as athletes and with guys, but in this one facet of our society it would seem concealing our deficiencies as basketball players. that the Y-chromosome is the ultimate trump card. I contended 8:lS p.m. With the second half well underway, Team Curb thatmyfriendsandlwouldbeabletodefeatanygirls'teamin Your Enthusiasm has jumped 01,1t to a commanding 16-14 the upcoming Bookstore Basketball tournament, despite not lead. Inspired by our brilliant coach, we have redoubled our having played organized basketball since efforts. In the 15 minutes directlyfollow­8th grade. Little did I know what cruel tsJ>. ing halftime, I personally grab roughly 34 surprises the gods ofBookstore Basketball \@ rebounds, but unfortunately I am able to had in store for my friends and me. After convert a mere two of them into points. 
'2vf an easy, yet eventful, opening round vie-', Furthermore, our newly emboldened style tory over Team Shawn Kemp, we were j/ of play has heightened tension between
fl slated to take on The Bares, otherwise j . the teams, and the McGlinn Courts are known as the McGlinn interhall basket-quickly becoming a battlefield. ball tea,m, campus champions. ' 8:17p.m.Kentonmayormaynothave 
When we learned ofthis, we were not just been deliberately struck in the face afraid, as Team Curb Your Enthusiasm by the McGlinn point guard. Whether (us) consisted of five able-bodied and ornottheblowwasintentionalmaynever strapping young men: Alex "Stingray" be known, but all I can say regarding the Staffieri, Kenton "Dirty V" Villano, matter is even strong men cry, Kenton. Sean "Stingray" Cahill, myself, Mike --------------·Even strong men cry. "Hollywood" Healy, and our intrepid captain, Andy "Mr. 8:21 p.m. Yet another one of my ill-fated lay-ups rims out. I E/' Astuno. Focusing our formidable abilities was our coach, haven't missed out on this many easy scores since my last trip Erik "Stingray" Christensen. So it was on the fated day of through Chicago's red-light district. Thankfully, the rest ofthe April 7, 2004, thatTeam Curb Your Enthusiasm was to enter team seems to have escaped their shooting woes, as Kenton and a battle with the finest unit offemale basketballers this side Staffieri have carried us to a "commanding" 20-16 lead. of the JACC. The account of the game is as follows: 8:23 p.m. Mr. E. executes a beautiful alley-oop to Cahill, 
7:lS p.m. We arrive at McGlinn Courts brimming with as Team Curb Your Enthusiasm registers a ·21-17 victory. confidence and undaunted by The Bares' flagrant home court This is something of a pyrrhic victory, as we defended our advantage. gender, yet had to play like barbarians in order to do so. 
7:20 p.m. The first basket is scored, a ten-foot jumper by the Even worse, I re-aggravated an Achilles' tendon injury that girlMr. E. was guarding. Coach Christensen breaks his clipboard I incurred playing football the previou·s week, leaving me in disgust and switches our defensive scheme. As the first half vulnerable and immobile like some type of stuffed bear. progresses, it becomes clear that while we may be bigger, stronger In retrospect, I realize that The Bares were in fact much andfaster, these girls are clearly more polished basketball players. · more skilled basketball players than we were. We were im­They are running a premeditated motion offense and crashing pelled to victory .by nothing more than. our terrible fear of the offensive boards like cyborgs. Conversely, we can do little losing to girls. Bearing that in. mind, we could conceivably more than steal the ball and hope to convert an easy lay-up, but take the tournament, provided that there are no teams con­even that is no easy task, as our team misses roughly half of our sisting of guys or girls that are better than us. lay-ups, with me contributing at least four misses. Hollywood Healy's Final Stats: 2 points, 71 rebounds; 
8:00 p.m. The first half comes to a close with The Bares 3 assists, 1 destroyed Achilles' tendon. . 
Q u T 0 F 
26 SCH0LASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 15 APRIL 2004 
I . .• • • • :.., . ' • I • • ,. ) J • ~ f
J 


COMPILED BY MIKE HEALY

~_\\'<3/(l{Mjl\.[$J:.,)G.•?t:(J);(l.-•·si.T:'iRY~{eiJ1(:.1<_'(:)_llSj}}S:/lit,·8ill 
. . 

EDITOR'S CHOICE 


SeniorWeek 
Sunday May 9 -Sunday,. May 16, all week. 
Be sure to say goodbye to -or exact your vengeance 
upon .:..... your favorite seniors as they prepare to go out 
into the real world and become grown-ups ... or at least 
try to. Ifyou're lucky enough to !!till be on campus, 
the week after finals is a glorious opportunity to enjoy 
Notre Dame as it should be experienced: sans homework 
(that means "without"). The week culminates-in 
graduation, May 16 at 2:00 p.m. in theJACC. 
ATHLETIC 


Blue-Gold Game 

Saturday, Apr. 24, 1:00 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Enjoy a briefreturn to the football season as the Irish conclude spring practice with their annual intrasquad scrimmage. 

Fisher Regatta 

Saturday, Apl'.. 24, 11:00 a.m. at St. Mary's Lake. Come 
and watch all the swashbucklin' adventures on the low seas . as Carroll Hall looks to win for a fifth-straight year. 
·TROPICAL 


Hawai'i Club Luau 

Saturday, Apr. 17, 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are on sale in the LaFortune box office for $7. 
MUSICAL 

Notre Dame University Band & Brass Ensemble Sunday, Apr. 25, 3:00 p.m. in the Rotunda ofthe Main Building. Come and listen to the spring concert ofthe band. Admission is free. 
LIBERATING 

Last Day of Classes Wednesday, Apr. 28, all day. Drag yourself to your last classes ofthe year, and get ready for study days and finals. 
SPIRITUAL 


Holocaust Remembrance Day Prayer Service 
Saturday, Apr. 17, 7 :00 p.m. -8:00 p.m., · in Dillon Hall's chapel. All are welcome. 

A SUBMIT your event for 
A 
Scholastic's Coming Distractions. 
E-mail your submissions to Mike Healy at ehealy@nd.edu 
15 APRIL 2004 SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 27 

by Matt Killen


Meaning Found 
The past several weeks have been unusually quiet. The chaos and demands of Scholastic having fallen by the wayside, days once 
packed with meetings and projects are now empty. It!s a feeling both wonderful and hollow, having absolutely nothing to do with my time but sit in my rocker quietly watching the birds, waiting for someone to put me in an institution somewhere. 
·Like any person slowly slipping into senility, the blank canvas ofthe mind finds itself overcome with occasional bouts ofalliteration and reflection. 
I'm fairly fearful ofthe former, but I am notori­ously awful at the latter. 
As slow as the past few responsibility-free weeks have been (school work hardly counts), it has orily served to highlight just how quickly it all passed byin the first place. Nearly four years have passed since I first stepped foot on this campus as a fresh­man. That's about 42 months, 1,248 days, nearly 30,000 hours and almost 1.8 million minutes as a Notre Dame student. Ofthat time (which admit­tedly includes those all too brief summers), only about 6% was spent in the classroom. A bunch of the remaining percentage I probably spent sleeping. 
·what's the point of this, other than the fact that really, really big numbers look cool and ·important? That the Notre Dame experience is .about-much more than the classes we take. However, thanks to the Cohesive narratives are illusory. aforementioned inability It's the details that stickwith us far to effectively self-reflect, I have no due, after four 
beyond the general experience. 
Matt Killen is the former Editor in Chief ofScholastic. He is a political science major and 
plans to attend law school · nextyear. He would like to consider himself a master • ofself-deprecating humor, but he'sjust not that smart.. 

years '.here, what this all actualiy means. 
There seems to be no cdbjective standard as to what embodies the Notre fDame experience, which evidently is the point:ITt is what you make .ofit.This doesn't help someone who is terrible at ;meaningful reflection, so I.tried making a list of ,-whadhe typical student is-supposed to do before ,g1:aduation. However, the ·typical student prob­abiy•wouldn't include "spend.30 hours a week on :a;m~gaiine, trolling away imthe basement of the diriing'hall" as an important aspect of the Notre 
Dame.experience. The list idea quickly died. 
J?.erh~ps_ the Notre Dame .experience is akin 
to .Star Trek: The Experience, the interactive 
ridezshow in the middle of0 nowhere where 
peqple pay large amounts of money to live in 
an ,isolated fantasy where the :real world can't 
reach them and everyone dresses the same. No, 
that doesn't sound familiar at all. 
Maybe I can find out what my Notre Dame ex­perience was like by looking at my writings over the last few years. But by this account, my Notre Dame experience is pretty wellsummed up by an irrationally frothy, obsessive anger with reality television in all its forms. That doesn't seem very accurate, either. 
Let's go back to that list idea. Perhaps the experience really is nothing more than the aggregate knowledge learned .since the fall of 2000, a conglomeration of seemingly random thoughts, ideas and mt'!mories that the frail mind retains. The question becomes: What sticks out the most in my mind .as I think about the last four years? I've narrowed down every­thing I've learned as a Notre Dame student to several more or less comprehensive memories, lessons and experiences: 
• 
The dining hall scrambled eggs are always too runny or too hard. 

• 
Unlike everyone else, I enjoyed my Core class. 

• 
The surest sign of a great professor is when she refers to herself in the third person. 

• 
Nobody-who isn't related to the author or required to by job description -ever reads this .magazine's Editor's Notes (turn:to page 2!). -• Give people an inch and they'll take a mile. 

• 
If there's one thing that being a political sci­ence major has taught me, it's that Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun wrote the "Poor Joshua" dissenting opinion in Deshaney v. Winnebago. 

• 
Carroll Hall has .many advantages, including ample parking and high ceilings. 

• 
People around here are, overall, fairly gener.:. ous individuals. 


Some might look at this list and thinkit awfully random and sparse. It may indeed be a random conglomeration of thoughts, but that's pretty muchwhadife is. Cohesive narratives are illusory. It's the details that stick with us far beyond the general experience, and they make that experi­ence unique and rich with meaning. Having said that, this list is more than I knew before coming here as a freshman in August 2000. So at least it represents progress. 
Overall, I'd deem my Notre Dame experience a "success," at least based on this list. Like any experi­ence, college has had its high points and low points, but these past few years have been ones to treasure and embrace. I won't soon forget them. · D 
28 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD 15 APRIL 2004 
START HERE. C:ia PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, arid leadership :_ are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and Indiana CPA Society 








