
The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC
15 Cte. a Copy $3.00 the Year
October 30 19 3 1
An Open Letter to the Merchants of South Bend
Business isn't particularly good in South Bend now, they tell us. Too many of the factory people aren't working. Or the folks have their monies tied up in a bank. Or they just aren't buying. Seems to us that a large group of potential customers who placed no dependence on South Bend factories or banks would form a mighty worth-while market.
Such a group is right at your door—more than three thousand men at the University of Notre Dame compose this compact, powerful purchasing unit. Here, then, is a market for the alert South Bend merchant to develop. How can he secure his share of the $388,000 students spend annually in South Bend?	,
Let him advertise his wares, victuals, or services to the men of Notre Dame in those publications they unfailingly read—their own newsweekly, The Scholastic, and their humorous monthly, The Juggler. One advertisement by itself will hardly do the trick—but a series of them will. And the cost is reasonable—so reasonable you can't afford NOT to plan a campaign with us. Will you claim your share of the Notre Dame business?
The Advertising Managers SCHOLASTIC JUGGLER
P. S.—Just give us a ring at 3-1121 and one of us will gladly give you further details. But remember, the-<mly economical way. to .reach the ; students of Notre Dame is through these student'publications—The .
■ Scholastic and'The Juggler.
October 30, 1931
One
WALK-CVEE
REFLECTING the change in customs which places light-weight calf models very much in the running for all but the most formal occasions. This is the season when they become a real necessity.
Williams, the Florist
Just West of the Oliver Hotel on Washington
Headquarters for
Cotillion Corsages
Flowers Telegraphed Anywhere
in the United States and Canada
PHONE 3-5 149
DRESS SHOES . . . .
Our Compliments to the SOPHOMORES
SHOWN above is the Bristol made from smooth Royalite Calf. A shoe of graceful lines that has very exceptional fitting qualities. You will find this shoe an exceptional value.
A - O \i
Let us help you make f your week end a success.
Storage—clean, dry and convenient.
Also all kinds of garage service.
W-AB_________ S-H OfS fOR M f N
ONE - ONE - ONE SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET
GENERAL GARAGE “Service That Satisfies”
. 231-239 Lincoln Way East
. South Bend, Indiana
Two
The Scholastic

THE NEW NOTRE DAME FRONTIER
A view of the New Gold Coast, as it proudly assumes its place at the outposts of Notre Dame.
The cameraman snaps the Cushing Hall of Engineering, with the other new buildings peppered in the background.
October 30, 1931
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1913.
NEIL C. HURLEY....................................Editor-in-Chief
HENRY B. ASMAN.........................Managing	Editor
«
Associate Editors
WILLIAM W. CORR JAMES CARMODY MYRON CRAWFORD LESLIE RADDATZ JOSEPH LOPKER WILLIAM BLIND
News Staff
EDMUND STEPHAN...............News	Editor
F. GRANGER WEIL_____Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY JOSEPH DEGNAN PATRICK CORCORAN LARRY DUNDA MITCHELL TACKLEY
Department Editors PAUL J. HALLINAN.............The Week
JOHN PICK................College Parade
LOUIS E. BRENNAN.........Book Reviews
JOHN CONLEY..............Campus Clubs
WALTER JOHNSON...........Features Editor
JOHN RYAN..............Music	and Drama
Sports Staff JAMES S. KEARNS..........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY IRVING B. HALPER JAMES McFEELEY, Jr. JOSEPH KURTH EDMUND MORIARTY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Business Staff ANDREW McGUAN..........Circulation Mgr.
RAYMOND J. NABER, Ass’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, JR......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY McGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY-...Graduate Manager
i Volume LXVII i
OCTOBER 30, 1931.
Number 6.
SUMMARY
COMING EVENTS
Famous men take part in Rockne Memorial drive, beginning November 4, for $650,000______________ 5
Obedience, justice, charity and interest as citizenship qualities stressed by Father Cavanaugh in freshman convocation speech_____________________ 6
Entries for Scholastic swim now open; large entry expected _______________________________________ 6
Professor Phillips, noted novelist, traveller, and journalist, to address Scholastic staff_________11
FEATURES
President of the Presidents’ council once attended St. Mary’s tea dance____________________,_______ 8
Chicago play season reaches its height____________ 9
Years from 1855-1931 included in history of St.
Mary’s Sunday visits by N. D. “Wolves,” by Walter Johnson__________________________________12
Bill Roach’s barber shop noted for gossip and famous men______________________________________13
EDITORIAL
A Case for the Constabulary; Requiescat In Pace;
Pep Meetings____________________________________19
SPORTS
Carnegie Skibos entertain Notre Dame tomorrow in Pittsburgh___________________________________ 5
Notre Dame downs Pitt Panthers last week with startling pass attack; score 25 to 12___________20
Louis Chreist gains championship of Scholastic tennis meet_____________________________________20
Walsh and Off-Campus in scoreless tie as interhall grid race becomes more complicated______________25
FRIDAY, October 30—Scholastic staff meetings: news and sports staffs, 7 :C0 p. m., 222 Main building; editorial board, 8:00 p. m., Faculty dining hall.—Boston club meeting, 6:30 p. m., West room, Walsh hall.
SATURDAY, October 31—Cross-country, Notre Dame vs. Iowa at Notre Dame.—Football, Notre Dame vs. Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh.—Movies, “Trans-Atlantic,” 6:40 and 8:15 p. m., Washington hall.
SUNDAY, November 1—Masses, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m., Sacred Heart church.—Utica club meeting, 10:30 a. m., East room, Walsh hall.
MONDAY, November 2—Texas club meeting, 6:30 p. m., East room, Walsh hall.—Met club meeting, 7:30 p. m.. Faculty dining hall.—Northern New York club meeting, 7:45 p. m., East room, Walsh hall.—New Jersey club meeting, 7:45 p. m., West room, Walsh hall.—Illustrated lecture, Dr. Averaidi, 8:00 p. m., Washington hall.
TUESDAY, November 3—Italian club meeting, 6:30 p. m., East room, Walsh hall.—Scribblers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., Howard hall “rec”.—Press club meeting, 7:00 p. m., Faculty dining hall.—Peoria club meeting, 7:30 p. m., West room, Walsh hall.—Pre-Law club meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law building.
WEDNESDAY, November 4—Akron club meeting, 6:30 p. m., East room, Walsh hall.—Spanish club meeting, 7:30 p. m., West room, Walsh hall.
THURSDAY, November 5—Wranglers’ meeting, 6:45 p: m., Law building.—Spectators’ meeting, 8:00 p. m., Law building.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ TEE WEEK ♦
IK MARVEL
• F an English professor is correct, Notre Dame men,— some of them at least,—have their sentimental moments. He states that "Reveries of a Bachelor,” by Don Mitchell (1850) has been read and much admired by a number of students. “Ik Marvel” was the rather dime-novelish pseudonym of this 19th-century author.
“Reveries” is a romantic essay of the “I-sit-me-down-by-the-fire-and - with-my-pipe-in-my-hand-I-reminisce-of-the-girl-of-the-long-ago” school. “Somewhat cloying” is the verdict of one literary critic.
Prom songs long ago began to bring out this emotional strain in our campus personalities. “My Prom Girl, You’re Some Girl” was an early, rather startling lyric that left a long progeny of sweet, sentimental tunes. Where are the bull-necked, two-fisted, barrel-chested men of Notre Dame? And where are the mastodons of yesteryear?
"That smash impulse
■ HERE is a stall at Coney Island where you pay cash to smash dishes and cups with a baseball. No prize, no honors are offered. Yet the place is packed with customers who have elemental inhibitions against breaking the china-service at home.
This instinct to smash is strong. It’s much easier to write a.destructive editorial than a constructive one. And that probably accounts for the many boys who delight in watching the old castle of the Engineers battered into a pile of bricks this past week. Of course, the building itself was hardly more than a pile of old bricks, but it was fun to watch them fall.
The rats which scurried therefrom, having no Pied Piper to lead them, fled other places for shelter. With that true mechanical engineer impulse, they immediately devised the shortest line between two points. Most of them probably retired to Sorin sub to become domesticated.
A RS EST LONGA
' 'N exhibit of remarkable paintings catches the eye of even the retired senior as he enters the library. Art Becvar, back at school after a summer of European artstudy, has on display 19 rich sketches.
Most of them were made while Art was in Italy. There are boats and sea-scenes that have brilliant tones. There are several paintings of streets from Italian villages in the lot.
Art is art-editor of this year’s Dome. His work on the end-sheets, which is being held sub rosa by astute Editor Raddatz, is based on a clever idea. So we hear.
NOW WHEN I WAS------------------”
EVER, said Poor Richard, is the Golden Age the Present Age. Alumni wear themselves hoarse telling people who have no desire to listen what transpired back in the good old days “when men were men and not a bunch of Sunday school kids, no sir!”
If this Anderson-directed machine keeps up its Satur-day-afternoon string of victories, the senior of this year will have a rare distinction. To underclassmen he will be able to crow: “I was a student back when Notre Dame lost a game!”
Sophomores will stare incredulously; freshmen will stop in awe. Notre Dame lost a game? Not one, but four, back in that disastrous fall of 1928, when they dropped tilts to Wisconsin, Georgia Tech, Carnegie Tech and Southern Cal. Remember? But who wants to?
SWING” INTO “MARCH”
ONGS of the campus are potent advertisements for Notre Dame. The stirring “Victory March” has turned many a high school senior Dome-wards. The other chants are alluring tempos to the boy who spends a football week-end here.
Two weeks ago, Joe Casasanta added a new number to his famous “Hike Song,” “Down the Line,” and “Irish Backs.” It was to be called “The Monogram Swing,” a rollicking tune to greet the warriors’ as they pranced on the field before the game.
This week, St. Thomas Military Academy has a new song. No longer “Monogram Swing,” it is now the “Forward March of S. T. M. A.” Notre Dame has lost a good number, but the University has an ample repertoire and with Joe still on hand, there are probably a few more tricks in the musical bag, awaiting his baton.
Eternal verities
VERY Catholic in the audience Monday evening must have felt the simple power behind the words of Dr. John A. Lapp, the Catholic representative in the four-sided forum. It was assuring to hear those eternal tenets of Catholicity lucidly, unwaveringly and concisely stated.
The facile eloquence of Rabbi Stern, the elegant oratory of Rev. Elmer Cole, and the comical bombast of Mr. Darrow fell short of conviction. More strongly entrenched in his religion was the intelligent Catholic after a consideration of the four beliefs.
Three faux pas brightened an evening of earnest rhetoric. These were furnished by the speaker who called Mr. Darrow Mr. Darwin, the chairman who referred to “Catholics, Jews and Christians,” and the speaker whose power worked him up to such a pitch that he told why he was something entirely different from what he was.
October 30, 1931
Five
CARNEGIE HOS T TO N. D.
COTILLION TICKET SALE ENDS THIS SATURDAY
Fighting Irish Continue Nine Year Rivalry With Skibos Tomorrow
Corsages Banned In Sweeping Vote of Class.
Informative announcements by committee chairmen were made at a meeting of the sophomore class last Tuesday evening in the basement of the library. J. Albert Smith, chairman of the Ticket committee stated that the sale of tickets to sophomores will close tomorrow. Distribution of left-over tickets to upperclassmen commences the first of next week. Tickets will be distributed to graduate students on Monday, seniors on Tuesday, and if the complete quota is not filled by that time, the juniors may procure the pasteboards on Wednesday.
Corsages, as far as this year’s Sophomore Cotillion is concerned, were condemned by a unanimous vote. Prompted by an editorial in a recent issue of the Scholastic, the sophomores gathered Tuesday and demanded a vote to make the sentiment official and conclusive.
Although John P. Ffrench, class president, refused to voice his opinion on the movement against bouquets, Lawrence Licalzi, general chairman of the Cotillion committees, was not in favor of corsages. Licalzi asserted that a practical, as well as social viewpoint should be taken this year, and therefore advocated their abolition. A few members of the class were in favor of leaving the choice to the individual. These objections, however, were overruled by the majority.
Edward Butler, co-chairman of the Arrangement committee, acquainted the class with several of the details and procedures of the week-end from the standpoint of expenses. He also cited various accommodations that have been secured.	-
Invitations are now on hand and may be had by any one presenting a ticket. Edward Fisher, 155 St. Edward’s hall, is in charge of the invitations.
Rockne Drive Campaign To
Open on Nov. 4
Frank E. Hering In Charge of Drive Publicity
By Walter Kennedy
Definite plans for the opening of the formal campaign for the Rockne Memorial fund were disclosed today by the committee in charge of the drive. The opening gun will be fired next Wednesday, November 4, when the committee machinery of the entire nation will get under way in an effort to raise $650,000.
World famous figures in all walks of life will assist in the opening night of the campaign, which will be broadcast over a nation-wide hookup by the National Broadcasting company. The broadcast will take place between the hours of nine and nine-thirty, central standard time. Local stations, as well as the nation-wide broadcast, will present special fea-
(Continued on Page 7)
Blue and Gold Favored To Win From Plaid; 70,000 To Jam Tech Stadium For Game.
By James S. Kearns'.
Some 70,000 Pittsburgh grid fans seem destined for a liberal football education tomorrow. With the Skibos of Carnegie Tech furnishing the opposition to the rampant Ramblers, the home town backers are turning out in force to look over this team that thrashed their native pride and joy last week.
There is little reason to think that the string of four consecutive wins over Smoky City talent that the Fighting Irish have pieced together in the past few seasons is going to be snapped tomorrow. Rather, it seems to be an odds on bet that the string will be let out another length.
So far this season the Scots have not been impressive. W. and J. trimmed them 10 to 7 in the opener; a week eleven from Georgia Tech lost a 13 to 0 decision to them and then last Saturday, Purdue’s Boilermakers topped Judge Steffen’s charges 13 to 6.
The apparent inferiority of the Carnegie team may be laid at the door of graduation. That quaint June custom cost the Kiltie outfit seven of the eleven regulars who handed out so much competition to the Notre Dame squad of a year ago. Only Fletcher, Sample, Ducanis, and Kavel are back of the team that started the game last year. Added to this quartet is Armentrout, Skibo captain, who is filling the shoes of the great Dutch Eyth of last year’s team.
With these veterans and the new men who are coming along in fine shape, it is not impossible for Carnegie to spring a big surprise tomorrow and give the Anderson squad a fierce battle. They have been doing just that for some time now. The series started way back in 1922 and has continued every year with the exception of 1927.
Spoiling a perfect record for the (Continued on Page 30)
Six
The Scholastic
FATHER F. CAVANAUGH ADDRESSES FRESHMEN AT WEEKLY CONVOCATION
INTM-HALL DEBATING SEASON TO OPEN SOON
“Religion and Citizenship” is Subject Treated in Second of Lecture Series
“Obedience, justice, charity, and interest are the four characteristics essential toward the making of a good citizen,” said Reverend Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C., to the Freshmen in the College of Arts and Letters, Wednesday afternoon in Washington hall. This lecture wTas the second of a series sponsored by the faculty committee on student scholarship at Notre Dame.
Using the the subject of his talk, “Religion and Citizenship,” Father Cavanaugh explained to the first year men in an eloquent address the con- . nection between the two and how it affects the life of the student now, and in later life.
“We believe that the state is not only essential,” said the speaker, “but it is the outgrowth of nature in itself.” By obedience we are merely conforming to laws laid down by a governmental body and directly traceable to nature. The Catholic point of view on this topic is somewhat confusing.
First of all, Father Cavanaugh explained, we need companionship. There is no time in history when men lived altogether outside the society of his fellow man. Even the state itself is associated with someone— God. St. Patrick once said that no authority has any validity that is not sanctioned by God.
Father Cavanaugh next took up the phase of justice. He said that if there were more justice in the world, there would be no need for charity. There should be closer relations with the different classes, such as workmen with his employer. This association would do much to-
Applications For Scribblers
Applications for membership are now being received by the Scribblers. Only those seriously interested in creation and critical writing are eligible to apply. Send applications, accompanied by two specimens of creations or critical writing to President Louis Brennan, Corby hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
ward eliminating this depression today and the unemployment problem.
In conclusion Father Cavanaugh marked that as one lives his life in school, so will he live it in later life.
Rev. Francis Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Who Spoke to Class of 1935
The majority of people follow this prophecy. Therefore, he claimed, we must pattern our habits now, and obey such rules as are laid down by our school. If we take no interest in our fellow students, we may expect ourselves to do likewise in later life.
With a careful observance of the laws of obedience, justice, charity, and interest, we may become the one hundred percent American in both citizenship and religion in times to come.
Mullins On Campus
.Larry “Moon” Mullins was on the campus early this week for a brief visit. The former fullback ace of the Fighting Irish is now backfield coach at Kansas university.
. Mullins was called to South Bend for the funeral of a friend and spent a short time at Notre Dame before returning to the Jayhawk institution.
Coaches For Frosh Halls Are Named By O*Shaughnessy.
Interhall debating, an annual forensic activity sponsored by the Wranglers, will get under way immediately following examinations this quarter, James O’Shaughnessy, chairman in charge, announced last evening at the weekly meeting.
Further developments included the appointment of coaches to the various freshmen residence halls, who will vie among themselves for possession of the Lemmer trophy, to be presented to the winning team.
William Kirby and William Boyle will guide the platforms of Brownson, who have twice ended victorious and captured the historic trophy. Roger Bierne, John Pick, and Francis Cawley will attend to the orators of Carroll.	-
Sophomores will have Jack Driscoll and Arthur Sandusky planning their campaign, with Thomas O’Meara and William Darrow holding sway in Frsehman hall. Dillon will be coached by John Wilson and William Macintosh.
All coaches are appointed from the ranks of the Wranglers. Neil C. Hurley, president of the organization, who last week appointed O’Shaughnessy to the chairmanship, will act as arbitrator for any disputes, and will also officiate as one of the judges, the remainder of whom will be announced later.
Brownson and the old Howard hall teams have scored triumphs with greater frequency than their opponents in the seven years that the Wranglers have conducted the annual. Interhall debating series.
A paper was read at the meeting by James O’Shaughnessy, who discussed the relative merits of Lindbergh, Edison, and other prominent men of the century. Heated debates on the speaker’s subject ended the meeting.
The Texas club will hold an important meeting next Monday night at 6:30 p. m. in Walsh hall basement. President Simmons will have some notable announcements to make regarding the future activities of the club for the year.
October 30, 1931
Seven
ROCKNE DRIVE ON RADIO NOV. 4; ROGERS SPEAKS
Mayor Walker and Fr. O’Donnell Also On Program.
(Continued from Page 5)
SCHOLASTIC FALL SWIMMING MEET
WILL BE HELD SOON; ENTRIES OPEN
Handball Tourney Postponed Until After Conclusion of Football Season
tures in honor of Knute Rockne during the evening.
Will Rogers, famous comedian and speaker extraordinary, heads the list of men who will speak over the hookup. Rogers will be heard from Los Angeles, where he is vacationing at present. The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., who is out of town at present, received word from Rogers last Wednesday that he would be present at the opening of the campaign. Rogers is a member of the executive committee of the Memorial committee.
Mayor James J. Walker of New York, will head a distinguished list of speakers who will go on the air from New York. Mayor Walker has long been an ardent supporter of the campaign, and has taken this opportunity to give his support in its behalf.
Father O’Donnell is expected to be in Los Angeles until Thursday, and will broadcast from a California station in conjunction with the appearance of Mr. Rogers.
During the broadcast a statement from President Hoover will be read over the microphone. Mr. Hoover already has given his support to the campaign, and his message should be followed with interest by the radio audience.
At the same time the broadcast is taking place, committee dinners will be held in all the principal cities of the country, including Chicago, New York, Boston, Milwaukee, San Francisco, New Orleans and South Bend. These dinners will give the various chairmen an opportunity to meet their workers and to outline plans for the campaign. Biweekly meetings will be held from the opening of the campaign on November 4, until its close on December 4.
College endowments grow larger every year. Harvard has an endowment amounting to $108,000,000, ranking first; Yale has $88,000,000; Columbia, $77,000,000; University of Chicago, $50,000,000; M. I. T., $31,-000,000; Stanford, $30,000,000; University of Texas, $27,000,000.
By Edmund L. Moriarty
Continuing with the list of activities which it has undertaken to promote this year, the Scholastic will sponsor a fall swimming meet. Entries for this event, which will be held on the evening of November 19, are now open, and those wishing to take part in the meet should file their entries immediately either by mail or in person to Edmund L. Moriarty, promotional director.
It was previously announced that a handball tournament would follow the recently concluded tennis tourney, but inasmuch as many of the football players are ardent handball fans, this event has ben postponed until immediately after the Christmas holidays.
The induction of this fall swimming meet should prove to be another great progressive step. It is generally assumed that with the completion of the Rockne field house, the University will be represented by a swimming team which will engage in competitive meets with other schools. This should prove to be an additional incentive to the first year men, who will be likely candidates for the team when it is organized.
Heretofore all meets have been held in the very incapacious pool that has
La Raza Club Active
The La Raza Club held its fortnightly meeting Friday, October 23, in the basement of Walsh hall. The secretary read the results of the last banquet tendered to the new members and thanked the club for its cooperation in making the affair a success. President Antonio Diaz congratulated the soccer team for its work on the previous game and encouraged all the players to go on in that manner for the rest of the season. Honorary President Pedro de Landero closed the session, inviting the members to join the Spanish club, which is being reorganized at present in order to help the members of that society in the learning of the Castilian language.
for years provided the students with facilities for swimming. That this pool is very inadequate for the sponsoring of a successful meet is a poignant fact, and efforts are being made to stage this fall meet in the South Bend Natatorium. Busses will be on the campus the night of the meet to transport the contestants to the scene of the meet; thus eliminating all difficulties in arranging for transportation to and from the pool.
The meet is open to all, freshman, sophomores, upperclassmen and graduate students. There will be events ranging from a forty-yard dash to fancy diving, and each individual is eligible to compete in as many events as he sees fit. There will also be the relay swims, including a medley relay, and contestants are urged to form their own quartets immediately.
An entry fee of twenty-five cents a person will be charged, which will enable the individual to enter all the events . This fee is necessary to cover the cost in part for the use of the pool, transportation to and from the pool, and for the purchase of suitable medals for the winners.
Entries will be received by mail or in person. Address all communications to the Promotion Chairman, Publications office, Notre Dame, Ind.
‘Scholastic’ to Feature Portrait
A portrait by Joseph Lopker, newly appointed Art Editor of the Scholastic, and nationally known artist, will be one of the features in the next issue of the Scholastic.
In honor of the Sophomore Cotillion, Lopker has drawn his impression of the “Cotillion Girl.” It will be the frontispiece in the next issue.
Students must shed vests in the sanctum of the Columbia University library. The students must either retain their jackets or divest themselves of both coat and jacket. The idea is that a “vestless” or a “jacketed” student body makes a more favorable appearance.
Eight
The Scholastic
A Man About the Campus»»Chas. Hitzelberger
DOME CUTS PROGRESSING
By Walter Johnson
Senior Section Nearly Finished;
Juniors Start Tuesday.
The French have a word for it. . . creme de creme they say. . .thus surpassing our ineffectual and faulter-ing superlatives. Consider: President of the Presidents’ council. . .now there is something. Hence Charlie Hitbelberger today.
Hitzie’s first year at Notre Dame, in view of his present position, was a masterpiece. Featuring it is an incident which there seems little likelihood of his ever living down. Present seniors will long remember the famous St. Mary’s “Tea Dance” of their freshman year. . .and the kick they got out of it. Invitations were received at the hall. . .neat cards, requesting one’s presence at that well known institution on the following Sunday. . .and alphabetically arranged, ceasing, strange to say, with the “g”s. Our hero, Hitzelberger by name, was chagrinned, but undaunted. . .he hunted, and rumor has it that he actually purchased the desired credential.
Sunday found him ready for the big adventure. Suit pressed, best shirt, even a flower. . .Charlie walked into the trap. Smiling confidently and expectantly, he leaned against the door. . .the front one, too. “Sister, I’ve come”. . .looking at the card . . .“by invitation, to see Susie Schultz.” The nun suppressed a smile. . .it was the sixth incident of the sort that afternoon. “But there’s no one here by such a name,” she announced. A return to the hall was inevitable, and once there. . .but let us draw the curtain.
Our press pass was the only thing which enabled us to get inside 207 Walsh. Crowds were lined up in the hall, listening to: “Seats on the bed without waiting; short delay for chairs. No crowding, please.” Wisecracks and confidences came almost too fast to record from the seven or eight “pals” who clustered about. . . helpers Corr, Cooper, Harrington, Hall and Conboy must be properly thanked for a fund of intimate information which would otherwise have been left undiscovered.
“Tell them the four best years of his life were spent as a freshman at Notre Dame”. . .“What a golfer. . . breaks 125 any day”. . “What a
break I’m getting”. . .this from Cooper. . .“Don’t forget Abbie”. . . who attends Albany Normal, and on whose letters three fourths of the floor collaborate. . .“Just a wolf in sheiks clothing—notice that wave. . . developed it in the last two years”
Charles Hitzelberger
Who Presides Over the Prexies
. . .“Dotsie and Hitzie in the Dumb Dome”. . .in the latter Charlie played only a minor part. . .but what a part! Those interested will find an inspection of the final page of their year book well worth the effort involved. This could go on for weeks and weeks.
The previously mentioned Presidents’ Council is now in its third year of existence. Under Hitzelberger the club has progressed rapidly, has become a really active factor on the campus. . .too active, perhaps, as the general opinion would indicate. That well known and much berated two dollar assessment has created something of a situation; much has been said against it and, so far, little in its favor. Therefore the following, from one who should know: “In order to have an active organization there must be money in the till. Thus the tax is essential, and, in view of dues collected by other campus clubs, certainly justified. The returns, contrary to the commonly accepted belief, do not find their way into the President’s pocket; rather we hope to be able, with such money as is raised, to provide prizes for scholastic ability among members and advance a fraternal spirit among the various clubs through a series of banquets and smokers.” Perhaps tins Presidents’ Council isn’t such a racket after all.
Individual pictures of juniors and seniors for the Dome are being taken in the sub of Walsh hall, with all senior photos being taken by Monday evening.
Those who are doubtful about their senior standing should confer with their dean immediately and obtain a note from him stating that they have senior ranking. Also, all graduates at summer school and in February, 1932, who bring a card from the dean verifying the time they will graduate are eligible for this year’s Dome.
Joe Steffel, the photographer, will begin to take junior pictures Tuesday morning at 8:15. Bulletins have been posted in each junior hall . Juniors will fill in these with the day and hour most convenient for them to sit and be photographed.
As very few people can be snapped in an hour, it is advised that you make your choice now and fill in the bulletin immediately.
Two days have been given to each Badin, Howard, and Alumni. Each junior gets four sittings, which will take up approximately forty-five minutes of his time. Fifty cents will be the fee for juniors.
Pharmacists Hold Meeting
Members of the Notre Dame Pharmacy club heard the reading of two papers on “Insulin” at their regular weekly meeting last Tuesday evening in Chemistry hall. The papers were written by Felix Wiatrowski and William Kenny.
Plans for a banquet to be held on November 14 at the Bose Marie tea room were discussed. The banquet will follow the broadcast of the Notre Dame-Navy game. Two speeches will also be included on the entertainment for the evening. Final arrangements will be made at a meeting Friday, November 6.
A joint meeting of the University Chemists’ club and Pharmacy club will be held next month and the regular meeting scheduled for November 10 will be postponed because of the quarterly exams.
The Rocky Mountain club held a meeting in the\ basement of Walsh hall last Monday evening. The usual discussion facing such organizations was held as a matter of form.
October 30, 1931
Nine
“LAWYER” GOES TO PRESS
N. D. Law Publication To Appear the Last of November.
MUSIC AND DRAMA
By John E. Ryan
Material for the fall number of the Notre Dame LAWYER, a publication of the College of Law, is in the hands of the printer this week. The magazine is expected to make its appearance on the campus in the latter part of November.
With a complete new editorial and managerial staff, work on the publication has been progressing for several weeks. Edward C. Massa is editor-in-chief of the paper and Joseph A. Moran is business manager. Faculty advisors include Professors William D. Rollinson, Clarence E. Manion, and Elton Richter, of the law school.
The LAWYER is issued four times a year, in November, January, March and May. The publication has a circulation of a little over three hundred according to last years figures submitted by Prof. Rollinson. A special effort will be made this year to increase this circulation.
Depression “Spirit” At Oberlin
Special to the Scholastic by N.S.F.A. Service.
Soup kitchens and shows will be established on the campus of Oberlin College. Hunger-stricken students will find help through this work which is sponsored by the Student Council. A coffee-house will be situated in the center of the campus and will dispense drinks to the hordes after they have negotiated the breadline.
Food tickets were handed out to the students after chapel. There will be entertainment to keep the spirits of these poverty-■stricken students from sinking too low. But don’t get excited—this is only a campus “mixer,” following out the spirit of the depression.
Princeton University has plans for a $400,000 university center for undergraduates. This building will have accommodations for the Athletic Association, the Graduate Council, student employment organizations as well as student publications. The purpose of this center is to afford a gathering place for students, the need of which Princeton has long felt.
Detroit Club Plans Banquet
The Detroit club held a meeting last Tuesday to outline plans for a banquet. ‘
Now that all the critics worth mentioning have approved of “The School for Scandal” and Fritz Leiber’s production of “The Merchant of Venice,” we might oebserve that the season is well under way with Chicago playgoers, who, none the less, have not reason yet to fold their hands upon then- breasts and say, “It was a good season, after all.”
The Dramatic League has scored with “The Venetian,” and is about to open the second of the series of seven plays, “Mrs. Moonlight.” The Civic Shakespeare Players are in the midst of their run, and “Once in a Lifetime” is not so old. To carry on this run of entertainment, “The Admirable Crichton” comes to the Erlanger next Monday, starring Walter Hampden.
Sir Henry Irving appeared in the original production of this play back in 1902. And it is interesting to note that Mr. Tyrone Power, who played with Sir Henry years ago, has lately defended him in the controversy which has arisen from the publication of the “Letters of Ellen Terry and G. B. Shaw.”
In that book George Bernard takes occasion to intimate that, if Sir Henry knew anything, it was about his own greatness. This Mr. Power denies, and neatly replies that Shaw is wreaking vengeance because Sir Henry refused to recognize his talent as a playwright. Which all goes to make a fine battle.
On a blustery day last March, shortly before the quarterlies, we summoned up a depleted faculty for hard work and with a deep sigh, decided to stay in and work on the reports for Mr. Fenion’s class in the short story. The Colfax had a good bill, but with the zeal that characterizes every English major, we set about reading the stories and pounding out opinions as to their relative worth.
Mangled volumes of O’Brien’s Best Stories, tattered volumes of Kipling, and some of the O. Henry stories were on tap for reports. Now, in all that semester I. knew only one man who began to make out his reports before
the day they were due, and that was not I; imagine my pleasure, then, when in the O’Brien collection I ran aecross a story of only three pages.
It was the find of the day, and I set about skimming over it only to find that, despite its brevity, it was filled with psychological insight. It was entitled “The Last Dive,” and was written by a fellow named Carlos Drake.
Now, putting two and two together, (or, to carry out the psychological scheme, by association of ideas), you will discover that this same Carlos Drake has written a play, the comedy, in fact, in which Mrs. Fiske is now playing in Chicago. If the editors were justified in publishing “The Last Dive” as one of the best stories of the year, and undoubtedly they were, Burns Mantle will take her cue and remember “Against the Wind” when she compiles her Best Plays of 1931. With his success as an author assured, Mr. Drake, we trust, will now proceed to round out his early work with the project nearest his heart, a novel.
Interested in what sort of man Drake might be, we looked into his record, and found that he is one of the Chicago Drakes, attended five prep schools, wrote epigrams for Mencken, left Yale as a sophomore to elope, plays golf and claims a world’s championship in croquet, is introspective and melancholy, even a bit fatalistic. Admirers of Joseph Conrad find him sympathetic in that regard.
With the winter rapidly approaching, we have expected some announcement of the plans for the University Theatre, but with the exception of this news, that several plays are under consideration, nothing has been said. However, the f^ct remains that without actors no director can produce a play, which you may take to be an invitaiton to try out for the local play-shop. If you need encouragement, Mr. Kelly will be glad to see you, and explain how the try-outs are taken care of.
A
Ten
The Scholastic
ECONOMICS SEMINAR HEARS J. L APODACA
“The Gold Standard Crisis*’ Is Subject of Talk.
Hoyer Writes Story on “Rock9 9
For Boys9 Life
PRIZE WINNING STORY PREPARED FOR BUND
George Spalding Is Contributor To National Magazine.
At the second seminar of the Economics Department held Tuesday night in the Law building Joseph L. Apodaca, of the department of economics, presented a paper on “The Gold Standard Crisis of England.” A great number of the juniors and seniors taking the course were present to hear this discussion. Other members of the faculty present were Prof. William Downey also of the Economic department and Reverend Menge of the Foreign Language department.
Mr. Apodaca in his notes on the loss of the Gold Standard which occurred recently in England, cited the main causes, placing the responsibility principally on the English situation, the great amount of taxation and the enormous expenditures of Great Britain. He said that the people of England in general will not suffer much as the chief losers will be the financial and business men of the country. He concluded by saying that at present no one has adequately provided a remedy for the financial depression, and that it would probably be some time before the gold values will be restored to their former status.
Because of the great interest shown in the weekly seminars it is expected that the teachers in this course will meet soon to arrange another series of talks on current economic happenings. The next paper will be presented by Prof. Downey, the topic of his discussion being comments on the “Present Business Depression.”
REQUIESCAT IN PACE
The faculty and student body joins “The Scholastic” in extending condolences to the family of John Bergan over their recent bereavement. Mrs. Bergan was the mother of John, a student at the University and a former managing editor of “The Scholastic.”
“The Scholastic” will have a Mass offered for the repose of Mrs. Bergan’s soul next week.
An interpretation of the life of Rockne from the viewpoint of the boy is the object of an article titled “Rockne,” by Prof. Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance department, which is to appear in the November issue of Boy’s Life, official American Boy Scout organ. Professor Hoyer was selected to write this story because of his acquaintance with Rockne as well as his knowledge of boys and their interests. He came into contact with the man himself while serving as freshman track and varsity cross country coach.
The article will also be published in pamphlet form and will be distributed among 750,000 Boy Scouts throughout the world.
Professor Hoyer has been identified with the boys’ work since 1909 and as a member of the executive committee of the South Bend Boy Scout council.
Spanish Club Elects Officers
The Spanish club held its first regular meeting Wednesday night, October 28, in the west basement of Walsh hall. Besides a large attendance of members, there were also present Rev. Father Maher, chaplain of the club, and Professor Pedro de Landero, faculty advisor, both of whom addressed the club on interesting subjects. Gilbert Augustine, retiring president, gave a short talk on his experiences as president of the club.
The election of officers for this school year was held, with the following results: Howard R. DeVault, president; Frank Slough, vice-president; August Petrillo, secretary; Frank Treiweiler, treasurer; Antonio R. Diaz, sergeant-at-arms.
The next meeting will be held Wednesday, November 4, at 7:30 p. m., in the basement of Walsh hall.
Connecticut Valley Club Meets
The boys of the Connecticut Valley convened in the ever efficient Walsh hall basement on Tuesday last to discuss some of the more important of the coming activities, and to get the suggestions concerning the Christmas dance off their mind.
“Running Off,” the prize winning short story written last year by George Spalding, ’31, is to be printed in that new form of raised type, which permits blind people to read by the use of their fingers. It will be published in the “Illuminator,” the official organ of the Pennsylvania Home for the Blind.
In the “Ladies’ Home Journal” short story contest of 1931, Spaulding won first prize with this bit of fiction. Besides this, William O’Brien, in his selection of the best short stories of the year, rated Spaulding’s story with one star.
During his school days at Notre Dame, George was an active contributor to “Scrip,” the quarterly literary paper on the campus. His work Was widely praised by all readers.
“Running Off” has become well-known in a short time. Recently the author received a letter from an admirer in Australia.
The coming issue of the “Ladies’ Home Journal” will include other stories by Spaulding.
Official Jewelry On Sale
A complete line of monogramed campus jewelry, suitable either for personal wear or for gifts, is now on sale, according to Edward J. Kelly and Robert Leppert, appointed this year by the faculty concession committee to supervise the sale of Notre Dame jewelry. It is obtainable at Room 211 in Walsh hall, or a salesman will call at your room if you leave a note at that address.
Only salesmen with letters from these two concessionaires are authorized by the University to promote the sale of Notre Dame jewelry. Students are warned to beware of imposters who may attempt to sell unauthorized jewelry on the campus.
Grand Rapids Club Meets
The second meeting of the Grand Rapids club was held in Walsh hall, Thursday, October 22. Committees for banquets and the Christmas Dance were appointed by President Paul Flanagan. Jerry Roach was appointed chairman of the dance.
October 30, 1931
Eleven
SPECTATORS HEAR TALK ON ORIGIN OF RELIGION
Pick’s Talk On Early Instincts Causes Lively Argument.
John Pick, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, addressed the Spectators at the regular meeting of the club last Thursday evening. The subect of Pick’s talk was “The Origin of Religious Instincts.”
The speaker traced man’s earliest religious impulses back to that very primitive stage when the human being looked upon the overpowering forces of nature as some sort of deities who had to be controlled by magic and witch doctors. Man adopted a defensive attitude in those early times lest nature prey upon him with her powers.
Gradually then, claimed Pick, there developed in man’s mind the early concept of dualism, that is to say, the existence of two separate entities in the forms of body and soul. Such a concept, said the speaker, can prob-baly be explained from the analysis which man made of his dreams. The consideration of the deities more in the light of protectors than in the role of aggressors slowly began to work itself into the human mind, with the result that man began to find a god for nearly all natural phenomena. Polytheism had seized the individual.
When society gradually advanced to such an extent that tribes were joined, town life founded, and educational facilities were developed, changes in the concept of the pagan deities, according to the speaker, took place. The ultimate degeneration of paganism then went in hand with the beginning and the growth of Christianity, and the fight of the Church against heresy.
The early part of Pick’s talk, which dealt with the actual beginnings of religious impulses in man, gave rise to considerable discussion among the members. The point was brought up that the speaker’s explanation of the origin of these instincts excluded the • possibilities of a primitive revelation given by God to man.
It was then suggested that the two points of view might be reconciled of.the entire history of religion be considered as a graphic curve, one end of which would indicate man’s state after a primitive revelation, and the other his religious concepts today.	.
Seniors With
Low Reports Are Warned
Seniors who will be candidates for graduation next June, but whose grade averages are dangerously low are now receiving letters from Reverend J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, calling their attention to the precarious condition they are in.
A qualitative average of 77% in all the studies undertaken during the four year course is required for a degree. Those who have averages below this level or very slightly above it, are thus being given ample opportunity to raise it and avoid the unpleasant experience of failing to graduate.
PROF. RAUCH WRITES ON AESTHETICS FOR SEPT. ISSUE OF “THOUGHT”
Interesting to the students of aesthetics is the article by Professor Rufus William Rauch entitled “The Esthetic of Maritain,” appearing in the September issue of Thought.
Beginning with a short review of Maritain’s life (his study of Rousseau and Baudelaire, his discipleship under Bergson and his later dissatisfaction with Bergsonism, his conversion to Catholicism, his influence on the thought of our day, and his various works), Mr. Rauch then proceeds with an inquiry into the aesthetic of this philosopher and illustrates his contention that beauty “is thoroughly intellectualist and metaphysical, and therefore not subjectivist and emotional.” Professor Rauch goes on to say that “the first essential in Maritain’s system is intuitive joy of the mind and but secondarily the pleasure of the senses and the stirring of the passions” and then lays the blame for the modern tendency of searching for the essence of aesthetic perception in emotion, at the door of Kant’s subjectivism.
Following this there is an interesting and extremely thorough exposition of such of the other central principles of Maritain’s esthetic as the segregation of the fine arts into a distinct group, the relation of art to the Absolute, its utility, and end, and its nature in a world in which the artist is “first a man, therefore moral, and only secondarily an artist.”
‘SCHOLASTIC’ STAFF TO HEAR PROF. PHILLIPS
First of Monthly Meetings To Be Held This Evening.
Professor Charles Phillips of the English department, nationally known novelist, traveller, and journalist, will be the principal speaker this evening as the Scholastic staff gathers for the first of their monthly meetings that will continue throughout the school year.
Walter Johnson, feature editor of the Scholastic, who has been in charge of the affair, reports that the entire staff will be on hand to listen to Professor Phillips.
Neil C. Hurley, editor-in-chief, will act as chairman of the evening, and following a few short talks that will be interspersed by refreshments, the floor will be turned over to Professor Phillips for the remainder of the program.
Henry B. Asman, managing editor, will likewise address the staff.
John A. Kiener, director of the department of public relations, and Robert Gorman, editor of the Juggler, have been invited by the Scholastic to be guests at the affair, which is the first of its kind to be held in the history of the weekly news publication.
Band In South Side Parade
The University band took part in the annual Hallow’een frolic held on the south side of the city last evening. The affair attracted several thousand local residents.
Under the direction of Professor Joseph Casasanta the band headed the gala parade. Formation took place at the corner of Broadway and South Michigan street, and a complete tour of the south side business district was made.
The celebration is held each year under the direction of Paul Gilbert, president of Gilbert’s clothing store,
New Jersey Club To Meet
The meeting of the New Jersey club, scheduled for last week which was postponed because of the death of a relative of the club president, will be held Monday evening in room one of the Main building. The club picture for the “Dome” has been postponed till sometimes in January, because of the large volume of work necessary on the Junior and Senior pictures.
।
Twelve
The Scholastic
The School Across the Road, Or What Every Senior Knows
By Walter Johnson.
On October 19, 1855, six Sisters of the Holy Cross removed buildings originally established at Bertrand, Michigan, to the present site of St. Mary’s College for young ladies. The following Sunday afternoon a group of the braver Notre Dame “wolves” presented themselves at the gates and, properly chaperoned, were granted an hour’s audience. Thus was established another delightful campus tradition, one which endures, forsooth, to the. present day.
Two o’clock any Sunday. . .1910 or 1930. Sixty cent cab fare or a ten minute walk. . .the dusty, but more or less pleasant path, with its one way traffic. Then the foreign, forbidden territory. . .local color, pairs of undated belles, trying to appear indifferent as they stroll about, eyeing the visitors couvertly. . .
The College buildings, architecturally beautiful. . .memory of your first trip over. . .that misadventure at the front entrance. . .and the superior feeling now from nonchalantly strolling toward the left wing. The unofficial reviewing stand above. . . curtained windows, each with its “bevy of beauties”. . .
Entrance. . .the reception hall, grim and formal. . .“I’d like to see Minnie Zilch, please”. . .timidly, even after these three years. A long, impatient wait. . .then Minnie appears. . . smiling expectantly, dressed to her ankles, white cuffs. . .
Better than the freshman hall, this parlor. . .eyed enviously by real Notre Dame he-men. . .rugs and soft chairs . . .heavy drapes, shaded lights. Little groups form. . .four here, six there . . .and, interspersed, twosomes, oblivious, contented, embarrassed, absorbed. . .Low laughs. . .a buzz of conversation. . .guarded, orthodox. . . an hour of it. . .(two hours this year, if you must). Minnie doing her share

The Commerce Forum met last Tuesday evening in the auditorium of the Law building. The purpose of the gathering was to have all prospective members fill out the required application blank.
. . .you haven’t seen her since last week, so there is much to discuss. “Why didn’t you write? . . .been working so hard . . .these awful meals . . .and, actually, I’m gaining weight . . .Thanksgiving week-end. . .restrictions.”
Anxious glances at the clock. . . still twenty minutes. . .almost every-
one stirring uncomfortably. Dusk, and the room becomes darker. . . lights immediately, subdued but efficient. It can’t be long now.
“What?. . .oh, yes, Wednesday afternoon. . .I’d intended to mention it . . .be there on the dot. . .and can you have a girl for Bill?” The bell. . . startling, to say the least. . .an old one, something like those which used to summon us from recess, long ago. . . .“All out now, you’ve had long enough. . .hurry there.” The hall again. . .crowded. . .goodbyes, bored, passionate, halting, brotherly, lingering. . .all sorts of goodbyes, to the accompaniment of “Hurry now, it’s way after four.” The girls gone. . . sorting out hats and coats. . .and out again.
Our “Victory March” may be better known, more traditional, perhaps even better able to inspire last minute touchdown and the like, but nevertheless, in the hearts of an inevitable undergraduate faction, “The Belles of Saint Mary’s” will strike a more responsive chord.
The Foreign Commerce club met last night in Walsh hall. Dean McCarthy of the Commerce school addressed the members on matters concerning the organization and the conditions of foreign trade at the present time.
NEW GERMAN CLUB IS ORGANIZED TO STUDY LANGUAGE AND ART
The new German club held its first meeting of the year on Tuesday, October 20th. A committee was appointed to draw up the constitution, and the aims of the club were outlined. They are: to help the student acquire a reading and speaking knowledge of German, to acquaint him with the German art, literature and science, to acquaint him with the German Republic and its institutions, to augment the German library, and to subscribe to German periodicals published in this country. Correspondence with German students was also discussed, and plans made for the staging of a German Christmas Play.
Faculty members present at the meeting were Reverend Frederick McKeon, C.S.C., Reverend Bernard J. Hl, C.S.C., Reverend Julian Sigmar Professor George J. Wack, Dr. Paul J. Menge, and Mr. Theodore Just.
lowans To Hold Banquet
The Iowa club met last Monday and discussed plans for the coming year. It was decided to hold a banquet on Monday, November 2, at the Joan Tea Rooms. All arrangements have been made and it is expected that this banquet, which will be held at six o’clock, will be a complete success. All Iowa men are cordially invited to attend.
A freshman representative will be elected at the banquet and an effort will be made to get the freshmen from Iowa interested in the Iowa club.
A. A. M. E. Hear Wilcox
The American Association of Mechanical Engineer’s held a meeting last Wednesday evening in the basement of Walsh hall. Mr. Wilcox of the Studebaker Corporation addressed the members of the organization. At the conclusion of the. speech refreshments were served.
Southern Michigan Club Meets
There was an organization meeting of the Southern Michigan club in the Walsh hall basement last Tuesday evening. Officers for the coming year were elected and the usual plans for a Yuletide dance were debated upon.
October SO, 1931
Thirteen
THOUGHT MAGAZINE TO CONDUCT A STUDENT ESSAY CONTEST
“The Thinker,” a magazine of contemporary thought, has announced an essay contest to be conducted among college students.
Essays are to be based upon the subject, “What do you hope to get out of college?” The subject is taken from a critical article “Dangers to the Teaching Art,” by Professor D. E. Phillips, which appear in the current November issue of The Thinker.
Contributions are limited to five hundred words, and must be in the mail, addressed to the Essay Editor of The Thinker, 45 West 45th Street, New York City, no later than November 15 to be included in the contest.
The college student whose essay wins first award will receive twenty-five dollars. Ten dollars will be paid for the second most interesting contribution and two five dollar awards will be awarded.
Essays winning first and second awards will appear in the January issue of "The Thinker,” published December 18th. Receipt of all essays will be acknowledged but they cannot be returned to contestants.
Bachelor*s Club At Arizona U.
Special to the Scholastic by N.S.F.A. Service.
The true spirit of American democracy is invading our American campus in a new, unusual way. Women have long demanded equal rights with men and now they must pay for them —on the campus of the University of Arizona. A Bachelors’ Club has been formed in this institution for the purpose of conducting a drive to make its co-eds share the expenses of their all-necessary dates in order to bear through the depression together. It was estimated that the average college girl had more money to spend than the male. It seems that there is a danger that the “great American date” may lose much of its color unless this plan is adopted.
The story of an Alaskan youth who travelled seventeen hundred miles from Sitka in a sixteen foot dory in order to attend school at the University of Oregon, rather puts to shame the tales of our grandfathers who boasted of travelling twenty miles for an education in the good old days.
Campus News Aired Freely While You*re Shorn by Bill
Buried deep beneath the amphitheatre in Washington hall, and located at the entrance to Brownson recreation hall and pool room, is the tonsorial parlor of one Bill Roach, hale fellow and genuine man about the campus.
For it is in the shop of Bill the
Barber that campus news has been sifted for years and years. There is no necessity for a student publication within this narrow room, for all the gossip for miles around is ferreted out, with caustic comments by Bill, long before it ever finds its way into print on these ink-logged sheets.
Bill has a bevy of campus stories. He will stand for hours, while he clips your hair, shaves your chin, or rubs your scalp, and give you intimate information on the Four Horsemen, on Joe Savoldi, on John V. Hinkel, or any of the former per- ‘ sonalities at Notre Dame.
For famous men have been the most regular of Bill’s customers. “Rock” sat in his barber chair on many an occasion, while the clippers went over what hair was to be found. Gipp, the Four Horsemen (not all at once), and Carideo have often dropped over to have that week’s growth done away with before trying a little broken field running at a football dance. The community, too, from President Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., down to the newest Brother have been seated in the barber chair here on the campus.
If you want to find out what’s good or bad with the coaching staff, what’s’ wrong with next year’s schedule, or what’s right about it, who will be the next All-American, just drop fifty cents in the register at Bill’s shop.
For nowhere is the term “barbershop gossip” more true than here on the campus.
Bill has a ready fund of information and stories. There are few campus subjects that he cannot discuss fluently, interspersed continually with much of the opinion from Mr. and Mrs. Roach’s boy, Bill.
Barber-shop-goers like to think back to the days when Joe Savoldi would sit in the seat, his bull-shaped neck draped in a much too short bib, and would exchange comment with Bill. Those were the days of real prosperity, for the Carroll hall freshmen never failed to fight for stools when Joe entered Bill’s emporium. In those times Banter was King and quick quips were the vogue.
Then there are the tradition-laden walls, with their photographs and their scenes. Hung at rakish angles are the photos of track stars in the past, football heroes of -the present, and dreamed-of buildings for the future.
Bill’s barber shop is a campus institution. You might just as well eliminate the post-office or the Main building. Down town stores may furnish bigger and better haircuts, although we doubt it, but still there would be a steady flow into the chairs at Washington hall.
Waiting is almost a pleasure in Bill’s emporium, where the sitter can recline and take his ease, and listen to a steady ceaseless flow of campus prattle. A degree from Notre Dame without an understanding of the man behind the shears, and his three co-workers, would be the same as eliminating philosophy from the report card.
Indeed, the co-workers form a certain background to the organization that would take volumes to describe. Bill’s partner in most of the discussions occupies Chair No. 2, while an industrious pair of comb weavers hold sway in the two end positions.
“Five cents a week for twenty weeks” is the new slogan for the Student Loan Fund at the University of Omaha which is now being planned. This plan is esimated to net at least $1500.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HOLD OPEN MEETING
More Than 100 Attend Annual Affair of N. De Council.
More than one hundred prospective members of the Knights of Columbus attended the annual open meeting of Notre Dame council No. 1477, held Monday evening in their Walsh hall chambers. Reverend Raymond Clancy, C.S.C., and the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., took part in the program. Reverend John Reynolds, C.S.C., chaplain of the council, addressed the members and guests.
Grand Knight Paul Butler, of South Bend council, who attended the meeting, also spoke, and issued an invitation to the knights of Notre Dame council to take charge of a meeting of the South Bend organization. Gerald Foxwell, magician of South Bend High school, gave a performance of his tricks.
The program was in charge of Lecturer John S. Wittliff, who conducted the meeting. Following the entertainment refreshments w ere served.
At the meeting of the Notre Dame council to be held November 23, there will be an exemplification of the first degree of the order it has been announced by Grand Knight James Collins. Anyone interested in joining is requested by Grand Knight Collins to see him in the K. of C. offices on the second floor of the Main building any afternoon.
Rockne Song Featured
At the Pitt game last Saturday the Notre Dame band, under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, played for the first time the new song, “Carry On For Rockne,” written by Austin Boyle and Walt Phillips. The piece was played on the field just before the game began.
The glee club is now rehearsing the number. Copies of the sheet music' of “Carry On For Rockne,” written by two Notre Dame men of the class of ’31, are on sale at the University bookstore and downtown music stands.
Bostonians To Meet
There will be a meeting of the Boston club tonight at 6:30 in the basement of Walsh hall. The plans for the Christmas dance will be debated upon, and the reports of the various committees will be read.
Law College Prof Returns To Notre Dame
Professor Clarence Manion, a member of the faculty of the College of Law, returned to the University this week after spending some time in the East addressing Notre Dame alumni groups. Prof. Manion spoke in Buffalo, Brooklyn and Philadelphia.
Clarence J. Donovan, a member of the 1931 graduating class of the college of Law passed the first bar examination under Indiana’s new law governing these examinations, according to a letter Dean Konop received from him recently.
Mr. Donovan was one of eighteen men who passed the examination. There were forty-three who tried.
John Francis Kilkenny, who graduated from the Notre Dame College of Law in 1925, and now practicing in the First National Bank building, of Pendleton, Ohio, has announced his marriage to Miss Virginia G. Sturgis, of that city.
Young Criticizes Colleges
Special to the Scholastic by N.S.F.A. Service.
Owen D. Young, in a speech at Wesleyan University, during its centennial ceremonies, in criticism of American colleges, said that most students fail to get a broad economic outlook. Students are not gaining a knowledge of the complexities of our economic relations with the world.
He stated that economic and political organizations are overreaching and to some extent paralyzing one another, and that: “We have been training men in the technique of production, distribution and finance, but not for that additional ‘overhead’ of economics which is necessary today.”
Pre-Law Club To Meet
The Pre-Law club will hold its fourth meeting of the year Tuesday night, November 3, in the Law building. Frank Fallon, president of the organization, requests all members to be present as the club has several important matters to attend to. No speaker will address the club. The entire time shall be given to the regular meeting.
SCRIBBLERS HOLD SESSION
Poems, Essays Severely Criticized At Weekly Meeting.
At the meeting of the Scribblers held on Tuesday evening in Howard hall recreation room, John Pick read a poem entitled “The Valley of Forgotten Men,” and Roger Beirne described the modern theatre world in an essay named “An Apology For Actors.” The development of Pick’s poem, in the opinion of many Scribblers, did not satisfy the magnitude of the conception. Although the imagery was not always appreciated, it had a beauty which was inetensely exotic and sensitively magical.
The paper on the contemporary drama and its players aroused much vehement discussion and amiable disagreement. Beirne, however’, has an intimate and appreciative acquaintance with the problems of the modern theatre, and capably defended his attitudes.
42 APPLICATIONS FOR COMMERCE FORUM ARE RECEIVED
The Commerce Forum held its semi-monthly meeting Tuesday, October 27, in the new Law building. Forty-two applications for membership were received and will be considered by the application committee. The prospective members will be notified next week if they are to be accepted.
Harry Moss, president of the Foreign Commerce club, addressed the forum. He discussed “The Reduction of Wages” in a most interesting manner.
Rev. J. Cavanaugh Presides
Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University, presided Thursday evening at the peace mass meeting in Central Senior High school auditorium. Speakers were Rabbi Louis Mann, of-Chicago, Bishop John Paul Jones, of Cincinnati, and Dean T. W. Graham, of the Oberlin college graduate school of theology.
The meeting was one of 150 similar gatherings taking place in the principle cities of the United States. Louis M. Hammerschmidt was general chairman on local arrangements.
I
October 30, 1931
Fifteen
ENGINEERS HAVE JOURNEY
Visit Twin Branch Power Plant Near Elkhart, Indiana.
The senior class of electrical engineers visited the Twin-Branch Power Plant near Elkhart, Indiana, on Tuesday afternoon. The inspection tour lasted for more than two hours.
Mr. W. D. Stamm of the power plant, gave a thorough description of the mechanism of each piece of apparatus and also related its importance in power distribution.
The trip was arranged by William Cass, chairman of the Trip Committee, of the Notre Dame Branch of the A. I. E. E.
Mr. Hugh Ball, president of the local branch, has invited Mr. Stamm to speak before the organization on Monday evening, November 2.
Exam Schedule Announced
The schedule for the mid-semester tests for undergraduates, to be given Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, November 9-12, was announced this week by the Reverend J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, as follows. For classes taught at 8, 10,1:15, and 3:15 MWF the tests will be given at the regular class periods on Monday, November 9; classes taught at 8, 10, 1:15, and 3:15 TTS will be examined on Tuesday, November 10; classes taught at 9, 11, and 2:15 MWF, on Wednesday, November 11; and classes taught at 9, 11, and 2:15 TTS will be examined on Thursday, November 12.
Tests not provided for in the above schedule will be arranged by the teacher some time within the four days set aside for the tests. At the option of the teacher, two class periods may be used for the test in any subject.
Montana Club Meets
Twenty members of the Montana club were present at the first meeting of the organization for this year, held Monday evening. Election of officers and "the discussion of business took place.
James Collins was elected president; Joseph Maroriich, vice-president; and Arthur _ Kline, secretary-treasurer. The next meeting of the club is scheduled for next Monday.
Campus Opinions
Question: “What do you think of night football?”
Howard Crusey, Sophomore hall, freshman: “I believe that night football is very well suited to the professional football schedule, but for college and high school football I personally prefer a daylight schedule. I think a game at night lacks something of the colorful atmosphere present in a game played during the day.”
Paul W. Carroll, Sophomore hall, freshman: “I think two or three night football games for a small college or high school are all right. From the financial standpoint it would be, I believe, a paying proposition, because quite a crowd would attend the game on account of the novelty and because more would be able to attend at night. Two or three games will not be harmful to the player, but more than that would.”
Henry W. Grubb, St. Edward’s hall, sophomore: “The greatest value of night football lies in its novelty. Certainly the lighting system could net, at best, be as efficient or afford as good a lighting effect as the sun does. The added expense is, of course, another feature to be considered.”
Ben J. Cashman, Jr., Alumni hall, junior: “For small colleges, I think it is an ideal game. Usually at such schools football does not attract large crowds, but if night football were introduced it would attract many people who could not go in the afternoon. It is also quite a novelty for drawing crowds.”
Jack Friel, Howard hall, junior: “I think that night football is a good thing in that it is beneficial to the small college or professional team from the financial viewpoint. Otherwise, I personally do not favor it because it places the players under unnatural playing conditions and keeps them under a nervous tension for a longer period. It might also lessen their ability and probably affect their competitive spirit.”
Arizona is not alone in this attempt to liquidate the “frozen date asset,” for the divided payment plan is in operation at present at Annapolis, West Point, University of Pittsburgh, and several other large institutions.
PROF. TUNNEY WRITES FOR ENGLISH JOURNAL
Recent Article Arouses Much Interest Among Teachers.
“Literature For Students or Professors” is the title of an article written by Professor H. J. Tunney, of the English department, for the October issue of the English Journal. In the article Professor Tunney comments on teaching methods especially in literature, and devises a method in which the individual tastes or preferences of the student may be taken into account, suggesting that even an anthology of these preferences by users in the course.
A request has come from Maurice G. Fulton, one of the foremost living authorities on expository writing, asking permission to quote the article in its entirety in the revised edition of his Writing Craftsmanship which the MacMillan company is soon to release. This volume will also number among its quotations an essay by Professor George Skelton Hubbell, of the University of California, sponsoring a point of view opposed to that which Professor Tunney has taken on the teaching of literature.
University Theatre Meets
Professor Frank Kelley, head of the department of speech and drama, announces that a meeting of all candidates for parts in the University dramatic presentations, or interested in dramatics, will be held Wednesday, November 4, at 12:30 p. m., in Washington hall.
At this meeting students of all the classes are asked to meet and their names will be taken for the University catalog. The faculty committee on dramatics instigated a new system by which the name, ability, and type of a student may be kept on record. The plan was put to action last year and proved very successful.
Arrangements for the University Theater productions for this year are being completed by the committee in charge.

Patricians Meet Tonight
The Patricians will hold a business and social meeting tonight at seven o’clock in the Law building. All members are urged to be present.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
BOOK REVIEWS
By Louis E. Brennan
A LANTERN IN HER HAND, by Bess Streeter Aldrich. D. Appleton & Co., New York. S2.00. (The book supplied for review through courtesy of the Bookmen Club.)
A Lantern In Her Hand is in no sense a novel. If it was meant to be so, it not only failed but departed so far from the novel form that one chapter’s reading discovers the imposture. It has no plot in even the tolerant conception of that element. It lacks craftsmanship, and is empty of all character save a few names of solid lineage, some of whom, we are told, unlike their brothers, had a sense of humor. But it is hardly saved from utter barrenness because it makes small pretense to being epic, and no effort to carry a complication. I shall explain what I mean by this as soon as you have digested the story.
Here’s the Story
The outline of the story is very neat; Abbie Mackenzie, granddaughter of a Scotch .baroness, and born of an Irish peasant mother, has at her earliest dawn of consciousness a desire to express herself, in paints, in music, in literature, it made small difference. But hex- mother would go a pioneering into Iowa, and little Abbie goes along. She grows up to be a school teacher in two oi* three chapters, is strong against the temptation to marry the wrong man and welcomes the right one home from the Civil war. With his money from the war Will Deal, who is by this time Abbie’s own, takes her and the child to Nebraska. And there Abbie and Will fight the prairies, raise five children and bury one. After Will’s death Abbie has the children to educate, and when this process is out of her hands, watches them grow important and apulent.
Book Rings False
But without this emotional conflict of a man striving with nature, with himself, or another life is not true in fiction or on a Nebraska quarter section. And untrue life is something with which a writer ought not seriously concern himself; or when he
has written of it, he cannot expect words to magically give it verity.
Such a substantial criticism seems taking the hurdle with a yard to spare when one considers the craftsmanship that has gone into the book. It belongs to the women’s magazine serial-novel school. Two devices differing not at all in kind are used to keep the story together; they constitute, I believe, the plot. One is a song that Abbie sweetly trills when her thwarted self-expressive instinct that the homestead life represses rises out of bounds. The other is a remark she addresses to the clock every time a child is born or gets married. “Run slowly, clock, run slowly.” When her daughter sings the lyric over the radio, and the clock stops, Abbie dies; that is, Will, her dead husbandj takes her by the hand and they walk into the purple twilight. Suspense, which like the woman disappearing act in a magician’s act, ought to be in every writer’s bag, but Miss Aldrich’s most sustained attempt at it breaks after five pages. Even the passages of real feeling, and there are such, are cut by recitals of facts that not only are of no value to the mood, but which are alien and inexcusable.
Emotional Element
I have mentioned passages of real emotion; there are two of them, both about Christmas. Abbie and Will, with hardly enough money to feed their brood after a crop failure, have to keep alive in their children the faith in Santa Claus and the joy of Christmas. Their Santa Claus gifts and trimmed cedar tree touch the heart and the spirit of tradition that most families preserve about the Feast. Years afterwards Abbie herself observes Christmas with her grown-up, important children. Truly simple, with the calm passion of family love, is the scene. Easter is
A Lantern In Her Hand is not necessary for those of you who will read the best of contemporary fiction. It will mean a pleasant hour or so to those who are looking for such. And for the benefit of those who demand gusty living in books as well as on streets and plains, it need never have been written. It is not a book to keep by the radio for rereading.
PROF. FARRELL’S ARTICLES TO BE PUBLISHED IN NEW ENCYCLOPEDIA
Prof. William Farrell is to make several contributions to the coming revision of the Catholic Encyclopedia. At the present time he is writing a paper on “Absolutism,” which will probably appear in the Encyclopedia under the heading “Despotism.”
Professor Farrell is known as an authority on history. In the past his articles have been published by many literary societies and magazines.
At the October meeting of the Round Table, which consists of a group of professional and business men of South Bend, Prof. Farrell’s paper, entitled “Fascism and World Peace” was read.
Bookmen Hear McCole
Camille McCole, assistant professor in the department of English, discussed the future prospects of the Bookmen at their regular meeting last Monday evening in the west seminar room of the Law building. He urged that the enrollment be enlarged but that care should be taken not to make a group too cumbersome some. Prof. McCole is the faculty director of the Bookmen.
The second distribution of the books also took place and several of the books read last week were discussed informally. The next meeting will be held at 7:30 next Monday evening.
Neeson Heads A. S. M. E.
John H. Neeson, chief of the Philadelphia Bureau of Engineering and Surveys, was elected President of the American Society of Municipal Engineers, during their convention at Pittsburgh on October 21st. Mr. Neeson is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame, class of 1903.
Neeson is a former president of the Notre Dame Alumni association. Mayor Mackey of Philadephia. planned an official reception for Mr. Neeson upon his return to the city.
Capitol Club Meets
The initial meeting of the New York Capitol District club was held last evening. All those from Albany, neighboring cities and the territory within sixty miles of the capital were in attendance. The problems confronting the organization were debated' upon.
October 30, 1931
Seventeen
COLLEGE EAEAIE
A Tempest in a Teapot
Another tempest in a teapot, not dissimilar to Prof. Charles Gray Shaw’s dogmatic classification cf whistlers as morons, is now raving at Columbia University and in the columns of the metropolitan dailies. T.he Columbian Spectator, which less than a wek ago accused members of the faculty of misusing the English language and labeled the offenders “verbal regicides,” now finds itself lined up against an opposition which includes two widely-recognized authorities on lexicography—Dr. Frank Vizetelly and Dr. George C. D. Odell.
Dr. Odell defended the usage of two expressions which the Spectator had declared grammatically taboo, and Dr. Vizetelly gave the cause a crushing blow when he declared that the student grammarians had erred even in the editorial which denounced the professors.
Like Someone Else
“Note taking substitutes the hand for the brain, and in the end offers a very poor and incomplete reproduction of the lecture,” states Professor Vaughn of Boston, Mass. The professor has banished notes from his psychology classes.
Piggle Wiggle
Canned vegetables, preserves, and jelly recently were placed on sale in Middle college, according to a report from Beloit, Wis. The improvised grocery store is the result of a down payment upon a tuition bill by a member of the Beloit student body. Hams and vegetables previously have been received in payment, and the shipment of canned goods was the third such payment of tuition. The foodstuffs were used in the dining halls of the college and the canned goods were sold to the fraternity houses.
Not Through the Mail
Harvard university has challenged the University of Texas to a chess match, to be played the week-end of the Harvard-Texas football game.
Inimitable Harvard
It is said also that Harvard will celebrate football victories or lament defeats at teas which are to be given at various dormitories following the game.	-
And Never the Twain Shall Meet
Harvard University continues to use Yale locks on its doors, but the name “Yale” does not appear on them. Harvard officials specified in a recent contract with the makers of Yale locks that the name must be omitted. Which brings up the old question, “What’s in a name?”
Page Rip Van Winkle
It has been estimated that it would take 303 years to complete all the courses offered by Yale University.
Reversals
Freshmen at the University of Florida must enter all buildings through the windows.
Guerilla Warfare
The war is on between the School of Mines at Golden, Colo., and the University of Denver Students. Recently Denverites sent an airplane over the School of Mines campus, dropping streamers and balloons bearing Denver colors to advertise the annual Rugby tilt between the two schools. Some of the Miners construed this as an insult and paid a return visit in the form of a painting party which decorated the walls and sidewalks about the Denver stadium. In retaliation, Denver students dynamited the Mines’ official “M” on Lookout Mountain with a blast that rocked the city of Golden, and when the first blast failed, set off another several nights later. Officials now are considering cancelling the rugby game and possibly severing athletic connections between the colleges.
Eighteen	The Scholastic
♦ TEE WINK ♦	|
Hark! Hark!
Hark, hark! The dogs do bark, My heels are running down.
My wardrobe’s in as sad repair As any beggar’s come to town.
Alas, the cycle’s changed once more. Oh,- sad my tale as these can be!
Shabbiness shrinks at every gust E’er since I lost my B-R-T.
Quick Winks
Pete Streb catching the second rat in Sorin sub . . . The Pitt halfback who hollered at Jaeskwhich in Polish . . . the Soph class and its officers are battling . . . Duke Millheim’s “I ain’t listenin’ ”... candidates for monograms grow silent as initiation approaches . . . Kate Carmody at the Palace; hei’ namesake takes a razzing . . . the dust on the “Welcome, N. D.” signs downtown.
Pome
Girls who make The Howdy Hop Have ecstasies o’er Lemon pop.
Smile
This was suggested by Anchorite. “As inconspicuous as a Soph class president in Junior year.” The reverse holds good too.
On The Wing
Corey Ford gets away with it, but our best man, good ole Pigeon, gets it in the neck. We guess most of you fine fellows can’t take it any more. We notice, though, that there haven’t been any denials.	.
If we knew this whispering lad, we’d shake him by the wing and give him a big blow.
Thoughts
Glad to see the sophs abolish corsages . . . but wonder why they have to hold their dance on the week-end of examinations . . . bet the Prom keeps the bouquets, though . . . funny those fifty fellows out to give the team a big send-off . . . and drafting two interhall groups at that . . . this new song “Alma Mater” is great . . . Glad to see Austy Boyle making such a hit with his opus . . . Funny that letter Head Cheerleader Kennedy received from Northwestern . . . Wonder why they don’t sell Ballyhoo on the news-stand . . . All of the boys read it anyway ... Or hear about it . . . Ha!
Birdie Whispers
A certain senior entertained an out of town guest over the week-end. But this only heads our social calendar. Still, if a certain young lady not very far from here should get a glimpse at this column, Dick could tell her that his sprained ankle healed very quickly.
The racketeers never sleep. Dillon opened today and a few of them went over to sell them radiators and store room space. But the best story is the upperclassmen who went into the room of one smart little yearling and instead of selling anything, bought a dozen neckties himself.
Next issue will be the Sophomore Number—and “Birdie Whispers” will be right here to expose all of the inside turmoil that exists within that flaunted class. Our secret operatives have been working into the work for many a day, and it looks as though lots of the second year men will be wishing they could buy up the issue. Ha!
Billy Burke likes to imitate Ted Lewis ... he has the cigar and a derby hat . . . but where’s the voice . . . whatever came of the two seniors who syncopated in South Bend, Elkhart, and Mishawaka early in the week? . . . look up syncopate in the dictionary ... we know a senior in Walsh hall who had his shoes shined under the most peculiar of circumstances last Saturday . . . and by another senior at that . . . Ha!
—The Stool Pigeon.
Reward
Rumor has it that a free bid to the prom will be given to the student who presents conclusive evidence in writing as to the identity of the “Stool Pigeon, whose calumny “Birdie Whispers” is a regular feature of this page. Official announcement, with the list of rules, will be given in next week’s issue. Ha!
Lemmonier says: “Honest Pa, some guy spilled soup all over me!” Goodabye.
—Armbo.
October 30, 1931
Nineteen
EDITCK’f I A< t
A Case For The Constabulary
At no time during the year is the recklessness of the local cab drivers more noticeable than on those Saturdays when games are played at the Notre Dame stadium. Last week-end, the fans who found it necessary to walk along Dorr road were troubled continually by drivers who apparently thought that a toot of the horn gave them license to drive through the crowd at rapid speed.
This carelessness, particularly on the part of the cab-drivers, should be stopped at once. “An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure” is an old adage, but a true one. If the speed of cab drivers, who have shown real hospitality to visitors by more than trebling ordinary taxi rates, is not slackened, a tragedy is likely to occur.
The Notre Dame police were obviously lax when they permitted such an abominable practice to continue unhampered. With two more home games, the police should justifiably exercise every possible precaution for the safety of those fans who use Dorr road.
o o o
Identifying the Players
As grid fans watched the nattily attired Pitt football team perform last Saturday, the thought must have occurred to many that the Notre Dame equipment staff could well make a minor change in the type of grid togs worn by the Fighting Irish.
The placing of numerals on both the front and back is a custom employed by most of our opponents and does much to relieve the perplexity of the fan, who under existing conditions is able to identify only those players whose backs happen to be turned toward him.
The officials in charge of football regalia here at Notre Dame might well see to it that numbers are put on the fronts of all jersies as soon as possible. Notre Dame has always used the best and latest grid-iron togs; this particular instance should prove no exception.
Pep Meetings
Something, apparently, is lacking in the Notre Dame pep rallies. There has not been the response of former years and the cheering, although loud, lacks the sincerity of the past.
The Scholastic suggested some weeks ago that the stadium be utilized for all student pep meetings, where by means of the public address system it would be possible for the students to remain comfortable and at the same time see and hear all that the Blue Circle had on the program.
A new suggestion is that the meetings be held at less frequent intervals. One grows remarkably tired of the usual parade to the gymnasium, the usual speeches and references to the “old Notre Dame spirit,” the usual torches, songs, and yells.
Student enthusiasm, grown tired of synthetic oratory, and unresponsive to S. A. C. bulletins to “meet the team” because it can stand only so much, will grow stale if not treated with intelligent psychology.
Rather than a series of luke-warm pep rallies, let’s concentrate on one grand meeting, which will last for three days, and which will culminate in a gigantic yell-fest in the Notre Dame stadium. One other may be thrown in, and possibly the approaching Pennsylvania game would be desirable, but let’s not overdo the thing lest our pep become totally synthetic and forced and our hearts stirred only by powerful band music.
o o o
Taps
The roar of the football crowd was silenced this week, as a stoic, solemn procession followed a flag draped casket from the chapel at West Point to a drab little cemetery; flags were lowered to half-mast and a nation mourned the death of Cadet Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
News of the death rocked the student body at Notre Dame; the condolences sent to the parents, to the commandant, and to West Point are sincere and from the heart.
Twenty
The Scholastic
SPCRTS
Notre Dame Whips Pitt, 25-12
Schwartz, Melinkovich Lead Blue and Gold as Panthers Meet First Setback
LOUIS CHREIST WINS ‘SCHOLASTIC NET MEET
Vicious Line Play Feature Of Battle; N, D. Scores Three Times On Air Attack.
By T. Edward Carey.
Notre Dame scored four touchdowns last Saturday, and Pittsburgh scored two. Notre Dame outclassed Pittsburgh in every department of the game and should have scored at least two more touchdowns, but despite all this it was the hardest fought, most sensational and satisfactory game seen in the middle west this year. The score of 25-12 does not indicate the superiority of the Fighting Irish, but it does connote a great battle between two powerful scoring teams.
Surprises were many; first, Notre Dame’s ability to crash through the Pitt line; secondly, Pitt’s ability to crash through the Notre Dame line, and thirdly, Notre Dame’s devastating aerial attack which accounted for three touchdowns.
The Fighting Irish scored in every period; the Panthers registered only-in the second and fourth. Notre Dame received the opening kick off, and after each team had fumbled once with the opponents recovering, they carried the ball 75 yards for a touchdown. It was just that easy. All the backs collaborated in carrying the ball to the ten yard line, where the Panthers held for three downs. On the fourth, Schwartz dropped back 30 yards and threw a perfect pass to Melinkovich who walked in from the one yard line. Murphy converted.
Pittsburgh tallied early in the second period after long runs by Beider and Heller had put the ball in scoring position. Notre Dame held on the two yard line for three downs, but Heller hit tackle for the touchdown on the fourth. MacMurdo missed the try for extra point.	.
The Notre Dame shock troops took the field near the end of the first half and scored another touchdown in practically no time at all. An end around play by Host that was good for 20 yards, and some classy ball
“Mink” Melinkovich
Battering Sophomore Fullback
carrying by Koken placed the ball on the ten yard line. ’ Pitt’s line held stubbornly, but Jaskwhich, then playing quarter for the Fighting Irish, crossed the Panthers up, and Koken threw a short pass over the center of the line to Host who fought his way across the goal line.
, Schwartz stole the show in the third quarter with a bit of all-around performing. He passed, kicked, and ran the ball, which is generally considered an accomplishment for even an All-American. Notre Dame was repulsed once after 50 yards of
■ (Continued on Page 24)
Takes Crown By Straight Set Victory Over Carl Meyers.
By Joseph Borda.
Varsity Tennis Capt. and Staff Sports Writer
Louis Chreist of South Bend, Indiana, is the new tennis champion of the University. He rose to this height after battling his way through a field of sixty-four entrants, climaxing his rise with a splendid victory over Carl Meyers in the final round, 6-3, 6-1, 6-0.
The champion for 1931 has thus been crowned, and judging from his play the title is well deserved. His steady stroking and clever court strategy enabled him to progress through the tournament without suffering the loss of a set. This is truly remarkable when one considers the class of the field which he encountered.
In the final match Chreist and Meyers battled on even terms until they stood at three all in games. At this point Chreist unleashed a few spectacular placements and his attack speeded up. He quickly ran out the set in the next three games.
The next two sets were closer than the scores indicate, many of the games going to deuce several times, but in the end Chreist would out-steady his opponent, winning the deciding point of the game. Meyers put up a game fight and strove to raise his game to the heights which Chreist had attained, but it lacked the finesse which was so apparent in Chreist’s stroking.
When pressed to make a difficult return, Meyers made use of either hand in getting the ball back across the net. Despite this ambidexterity, however, he wilted before the steady attack of his opponent.
A fair sized crowd was on hand when the boys "began the match. The '	(Continued on Page 23)
October 30, 1931
Twenty-one
Reider of Pittsburgh Finds Hole In N. D. Line
Pitt back shoivn making substantial gain through forward wall with Captain Tommy Yarr about to make the tackle.
Metzger, Savoldi, Watch Former Mates Win
By James E. McFeely.
What with Joe Savoldi, the grappling Italian, bounding around the stands in quest of something—maybe it was publicity—and the struggle taking place on the playing field, the fans had plenty to keep them occupied during the three hours they spent in the Notre Dame stadium.
Then, too, there was little Bert Metzger, the fellow whom Rockne called his “watch charm” guard, and many other luminaries in the throng —enough of them to satisfy the curious. But there was no picture of Al Capone to be taken for the Chicago Sunday papers. His fate was revealed to the fans as they tramped to the stadium.
Charlie Jaskwhich, the young man who played second fiddle to Carideo last year, showed the fans that he has profited by that experience. The manner in which he handled the team against Pitt was proof of the fact that he had profited by the experience gained last season.
One wit to be found among the many in the press coop made the crack that in spite of the roughing that Schwartz was taking, Love entered the game in the third quarter.
The Pittsburg sports writers would become all excited when one of the Panthers got inspired and reeled off several yards, but when Devore blocked out the three easterners with a battering ram movement, the scribes were almost speechless— “that guy is plenty tough,” was all that they could say.
Both Koken and Culver, when they play without the white sweat socks showing over their shoe tops, look like they are running around in their stocking feet, there being no line of demarkation between the blue stockings and their boots.
The Pitt band, 150 strong, were without sufficient seats in the stands, the boys with the big horns overflowing on the sidelines.
Mike Koken wins the admiration of the throngs with his twisting, squirming assaults on the enemy’s line. The Pride of Youngstown galloped off on two nice runs which were called back for penalties, but Mike usually made up for the loss incurred.
The report goes the rounds that the Panthers were the toughest and scrappiest that many .of the Notre Dame players have ever been thrown against. “Marchy” Schwartz, if a bird’s-eye view of the contest disclosed anything, could probably authentically state that the Pitt players were the best bunch of neck-twisters and head-smashers that he had ever encountered.
Kurth’s “powerhouse” tackle executed on the person of Reider, Pitt back, in the third period handed the Panthers a good loss—and it a*so slowed up the easterner who after the game remarked: “I was afraid to stand up after Kurth hit me; I thought that any movement I made would be followed by my head dropping off.”
Tii'enty-two
The Scholastic
STRONG CAGE SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED BY KEOGAN
Twenty Games on Winter Card;
Cagers Continue Drills.
One of the finest basketball schedules in Notre Dame cage history was announced this week by Coach George E. Keogan. Twenty games are listed for the Blue and Gold and
No poiribleir-r■ tat■ on with exclusive Friendly Five seamless lining at the heel.
For the dance, Friendly Five stylists have woven a continental treatment into patent leathers, shaping a trim shoe, at once comfortable and correct.
Baldwin
Shoe Co.
Home of Friendly Five Shoes
110 West Wayne Street
of that number thirteen are to be played on the home hardwood.
Warming up with Kalamazoo and Adrian early in December, the Keo-ganites swing into action against the-strongest array of opposition they have ever met in the brief pre-holiday period. Indiana, Purdue, and Northwestern are listed to meet the Notre Dame basketeers before the Christmas vacation sets in.
A return game with the Wildcats in Evanston on New Year’s eve reopens the strenuous grind. Five games follow in rapid order during January. Marquette and Pittsburgh
1931-32 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Dec. 4—Kalamazoo here.
Dec. 8—Adrian here.
Dec. 12—Indiana here.
Dec. 15—Purdue here.
Dec. 21—Northwestern here.
Dec. 31—Northwestern at Evanston.
Jan. 5—St. Thomas (St. Paul) here.
Jan. 9—Michigan State at E. Lansing.
Jan. 12—Marquette here.
Jan. 16—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia.
Jan. 23—Pittsburgh here.
Feb. 1—Iowa here.
Feb. 6—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
Feb. 10—Syracuse here.
Feb. 13—Western Reserve at Cleveland.
Feb. 19—Butler at Indianapolis.
Feb. 23—Michigan State here.
Feb. 27—Army here.
Mar. 4—Marquette at Milwaukee.
Mar. 11—Butler here.
will be the chief attractions at home during this spell while the feature games on the road will take the Notre Dame squad to East Lansing to face Michigan State and to Philadelphia for the annual clash with Pennsylvania.
The seven games that are carded for February are with the hardest opposition that the country can muster. Pittsburgh, Western Reserve, and Butler are slated to meet Coach Keogan’s charges on foreign courts. The home schedule is even more diffi cult.
Iowa will journey to South Bend early in the month and Syracuse will follow a week later to show the fans of this section one of the classiest quintets in eastern net circles. Michigan State will play a return game during the third week and Army will close the brilliant parade of talent on the 27th.	.
The final games -will bring return contests with Marquette at Milwaukee and with Butler at Notre Dame, early in March.
HARRIERS, TRACKMEN, IN DAILY WORKOUTS
Cross-Country Team To Face Iowa Here Tomorrow.
The Notre Dame harriers are working out daily on the cross country course in preparation for the Iowa meet to be held tomorrow. Notre Dame made a good showing at the Evanston meet last week, placing a close second to a strong Wisconsin squad. Alex Wilson, King, and Howery turned in good performances and Coach John Nicholson expects his men to give Iowa some stiff competition.
On the Cartier track the varsity track men are taking workouts, easy jogging, and limbering up before going indoors about the fifteenth of November. Captain Bill McCormick hasn’t been able to don his track shoes as yet due to a pulled tendon sustained last summer. The injury is responding well to treatment however and it is hoped that the Notre Dame speed merchant will soon be in condition. This will be McCormick’s last year of competition and his last season to add to his laurels.
Coach Nicholson has Mickey MacBeth working on the low hurdles. MacBeth has a rangy build and plenty of speed which should make him an ideal hurdler. Darling is out for his specialty, the high jump. Despite the fact the Notre Dame will be weaker than usual in the weight events this year, due to the loss of Marty Brill and Nordy Hoffman, prospects are bright for a good indoor season. Alex Wilson, British Empire four-forty champ and one of the best quarter milers in the country, should have another brilliant season.
Coach Spike England is handling the Frosh track squad which seems to boast some real talent. Outstanding is Vince Murphy of Cathedral Latin of Cleveland, the National Interscholastic high jump champion, who has cleared six feet three inches, on sev-. eral occasions.
Coach Keogan is at present driving his squad through rigorous training on fundamentals. To date there has been no hint of scrimmage but plenty of work has been afforded the veterans as well as the new members of the squad.
October 30, 1931
Twenty-three
PURDUE “B” TEAM WINS FROM RESERVES, 19-12
Notre Dame Takes Early Lead; Purdue Passes Win Game.
An overconfident Notre Dame “B” team dropped a thrilling 19 to 12 decision to a scrapping Purdue reserve eleven in a charity game, before 15,000 spectators at Ross Ade stadium, last Saturday afternoon.
With the score deadlocked 12-12 in the ebbing minutes of the game, Hoagland, Purdue halfback, tossed a 20-yard pass to McLean, stocky quarterback, who took the ball in midfield and raced the remaining distance to the goal for the winning touchdown.
Notre Dame started out with a rush and shoved across two touchdowns before the Boilermakers realized they were in a ball game. On the first play after the kick-off, Acers, halfback, dashed off-tackle and paraded 52 yards down the field for a touchdown. Six plays later Vettel swung around end, outran the Purdue secondary for 40 yards and another score. Cronin, quarterback, failed to convert in both attempts.
At this point the South Benders seemed to relax and Purdue, taking advantage of the opportunity, scored their first touchdown after blocking a punt on the Notre Dame 15-yard line.
The gun for the half ended another Notre Dame scoring threat after Rascher at end took a 35-yard pass from Dixon, placing the ball on Purdue’s 5-yard line.
The score was evened in the third quarter when Hoagland tossed a 40-yard pass to Kirk Garrett, Purdue’s platinum blond halfback, who made a spectacular, leaping catch and scored standing up. The winning touchdown for the Boilermakers occurred in the last four minutes of the game on another long pass from Hoagland to McLean.
Dilling, at tackle, starred in the line, and Garrett and Hoagland in the backfield for Purdue. In the Notre Dame “B” lineup, Schrencker and Rascher in the line and Acers and Hagan in the backfield were outstanding.
In the Pitt game last week, Notre Dame completed seven out of fifteen passes for a gain of 84 yards. Pitt made six out of twelve for 38 yards.
CHREIST IS NET WINNER
(Continued from Page 20)
spectators rewarded the type of play as exhibited by the contestants with generous applause, after a prolonged rally or beautifully executed stroke made during the match. Sparkling tennis and good sportsmanship featured the match. While Chreist is to be congratulated upon his triumph, Meyers it should be remembered,
Scholastic Photo
Louis Chreist
University Tennis Champ
played a fine game and was defeated by a worthy champion.
This ends tennis playing for the year, but it may well be said that the sport has profited greatly by the support of the Scholastic who helped to raise this minor sport to a position of prominence on the campus.
Hold Interhall Meeting
More than 150 interhall football players and coaches gathered in the North room of the library, Wednesday evening and heard John Fredericks, interhall head, offer them assurance that medical attention for all sorts of injuries occurring on the field were to be free.
“Dr. Powers Jand'Scrap-Iron’ Young will attend to all minor injuries,” Fredericks stated. “Any hospital bill, even if you are confined for three months, will be paid, Mr. Harper
assures me, by the Athletic association.”
He then went on to say that all of the interhall players would be invited out for spring practice and would be allowed to participate in the workouts that come soon after Christmas vacation.
In closing his brief address, Fredericks said, “There will be several trips this year after the close of the regular season, but only the most deserving of teams will be allowed to make them.”
George L. Miller 103 North Main St. South Bend, Indiana
V
Saturday, Oct. 31 Specials
V
All Flannellette Pajamas $2.50 to $5.00 values $1.19
V
All Arrow collars 5c
V
All Lisle Bose $1.50 to $3.00 values $.59
V
Imported and Domestic Men’s Wear
Twenty-four
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING— a	EDDIE KOSKY
Not discouraged over his failure to impress the coaches when he played freshman football, Edwin S. Kosky again tried his hand at the business in the following spring practice. It was then that he demanded attention —and now look at him!
This tow-headed Yonkers boy, always calm and collected in any grid contest, will be remembered as the flashy left end with the 1930 national championship squad. He is again proving his worth at the end position on the “Fighting Irish” regulars.
Always the first among those student swimmers who brave the chill waters of St. Joseph’s lake in the early spring, Kosky is the young man who acquires and retains a healthy coat of tan. In addition to his aquatic activities during the spring and summer, the tall blonde often plays handball in order to keep in trim for his strenuous fall duties.
Born in Yonkers of Polish parents, Kosky came west aftei' completing his prep years at Yonkers high to become a member of the “Irish.” A humorous incident, in which Jaskwhich and Pittsburgh’s right guard, both of Polish extraction, played a part was related by Kosky, who could understand the gibberish which was flung between the two during the course of last Saturday’s contest.
In a genial mood, Jaskwhich spoke to the Pole at right guard: “How you getting on, Mister?” The Panther’s answer, “O. K., Irish,” came right back to the Notre Dame quarterback in the Polish which the two understood. Jaskwhich shot the next play through his own left guard and the easterner was left reeling after the assault made on the line by Schwartz.
Unknown to the gallery and the remainder of the team, Jaskwhich, Kosky, and Krause were having their own fun at the expense of the Polishspeaking Panther.
It is nothing new for Kosky to play as a member of a championship team. Yonkers high copped the New York state title in basketball with Kosky at guard not so long ago. During the course of his high school career, Kosky
was a letter man in football, basketball, and baseball.
President of the Metropolitan club on the campus, Ed is busily engaged making plans with his assistants for the festivities at Christmas as well as for the train ride home at that time. As if football and politics weren’t enough, Kosky must now find time to send condolences to his “old friends” who wish tickets to the games that are already sold out.
Eddie Kosky
Sensational Veteran End
Majoring in Journalism, Kosky expects to coach and supplement this with newspaper work on the side after he graduates. But that’s a long way off.
In his off moments Kosky enjoys a good game of pinochle and when he feels that he should do a great deal of reading he browses in the field of philosophy and is a rabid reader of biographies.
A most dangerous pass-catcher is Kosky—so much so in fact that the opposition usually finds it a hard job keeping up with him as he races about the field, trying to get uncovered and snatch a heave from a teammate.
And the “nice” think to think about is the fact that we’ll have this towheaded chap in the lineup for one more year.	.	.
N.	D. WHIPS PITT, 25 TO 12
(Continued from Page 20)
Schwartz carried the ball to the Panther’s fourteen yard line, but they came right back to score their third touchdown. Schwartz hit center for 34 yards on a delayed buck; Melin-kobich added 16 more, and then Schwartz tossed a long, lazy pass to Jaskwhich who was standing in the end zone waiting to receive the pigskin.
Notre Dame’s final tally came in the fourth quarter. Jackwhich, who was playing a great game, intercepted a Pittsburgh pass on their thirtyseven yard line. Schwartz added 24 yards, and then 10, after which Me-linkovich plunged over.
Coach Anderson rushed in his shock troop again at this point, and the Panthers swept them off their feet to score another touchdown. A left handed pass fooled the subs’ secondary and Heller carried the ball to the three yard line. Notre Dame then held for three downs, but Johnny Luch, Pitt fullback, rushed into the game like the Merriwells of old and scored over right guard. The remainder of the game was mostly an exhibition of broken field running by Mike Koken, who did everything but score a touchdown.
Summary:		
NOTRE DAME		PITTSBURGH
Kosky	L. E.	Hirshberg
Krause	L. T.	Quatse
Greeney	L. G.	Milligan
Yarr (C)	C.	Daugherty
Hoffman	R. G.	Morris
Kurth	R. T.	MacMurdo
Mahony	R. E.	Collins
Murphy	Q. B.	Hogan
Schwartz	L. H.	Heller
Sheeketski	R. H.	Reider
Melinkovich	F.B.	Luch
Touchdowns: Notre Dame — Melinkovich (2), Host, Jaskwhich. Pittsburgh — Heller. Luch.
Point after touchdown—Murphy.
Substitutions: Notre Dame—Brancheau for Sheeketski, Harris for Greeney, Kozak for Kurth, Host for Kosky, Pierce for Hoffman, Devore for Mahony, Culver for Krause, Gorman for Yarr, Jaskwhich for Murphy, Leahy for Melinkovich, Koken for Schwartz, Cronin for Sheeketski, Leonard for Melinkovich, Wunsch for Harris, Rogers for Gorman.
Pittsburgh—Clark for Luch, Simms for Heller, Onder for Morris, Seigel for Milligan, Love for MacMurdo, Sebastian for Reider, Seigel for Milligan, Daily for Hirshberg, Tor-mey for Daugherty, Merideth for Quatse, Skla-dany for Collins, Cutri for Hogan.
Officials: Referee—Holloran (Ohio). Umpire—Knight (Dartmouth). Field judge— Daniels (Loyola). Head linesman—Bolster (Pennsylvania).
October 30, 1931	Twenty-five
Tie Games Mar Interhall Race
Walsh, Off-Campus In Scoreless Draw;
Badin, St. Edwards, Remain Unbeaten
Group I Leaders Retain Clean Slates; Situation In Group
II Muddled By Tie Games.
By Irving B. Halper
With the. announcement by John Fredericks, Interhall head, that in case there is a tie in either league the tying teams will play it off, there is an interesting light thrown on the football situation. At present in Group II there are three teams undefeated.
Until Sunday both Walsh and Off-Campus were untied. Their meeting Sunday resulted in a scoreless tie. Alumni, who in their previous two games had been tied, trounced Howard and is thus also undefeated. Alumni plays Off-Campus Sunday and this game may help to clear up the situation.
In Group I, Badin and St. Edward’s are tied for the top with three victories apiece against no, defeats. These teams tangle on Sunday, Nov. 8 in a game that should decide the championship of that league. The game falls on the week end of the Cotillion which may be a factor in the juniors’ favor.
Corby is pitted against Badin this week and Dillon goes against St. Edward’s. In the other Group I game Lyons plays Sophomore while Morrissey rests. Group II finds Walsh against Freshman and Howard opposing Carroll. Brownson after their tough game with Carroll is allowed to rest also.
Schedule, Sunday, Nov. 1
Group I—Lyons vs. Sophomore at Brownson field; Dillon vs. St. Edwards at Minims field; Corby vs. Badin at Cartier field No. 1; Morrissey, bye. (All games are scheduled for 9:00 a. m.)
Be a Newspaper Correspondent
Any intelligent person may earn money corresponding for newspapers; all or spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Hea-cock. 548 Dun Building, Buffalo. N. Y.
Group II—Howard vs. Carroll at Cartier field No. 2 at 9:00 a. m.; Alumni vs. Off-Campus at Cartier field No. 1 at 2:30 p. m.; Freshman vs. Walsh at Brownson field at 2:30 p. m.; Brownson, bye.
Walsh 0, Off-Campus 0
Thrusts off tackle, wide sweeping end runs, and fast passes failed ’co decide the Walsh-Off-Campus encounter last Sunday afternoon. The two undefeated teams battled to a scoreless tie.
The offensive attacks demonstrated
L.H.
IIMES that try men's souls call for the fizzing sparkle and mellower, smoother flavor of Clicquot Club. What a drink when throats go dry! What a drink when they don't! What a drink any time . . . . . . any place!
CLICQUOT has it!
CLICQUOT CLUB
GINGER ALES
crate '-Ury - golden - dec Qkree favorite flavors on any Campus
that|£XTRA\somethinq ....
were of equal power. It was an odd coincidence that both Walsh and Off-Campus gained exactly 92 yards from scrimmage. Walsh, however, lost 17 yards as compared to a loss for Off-Campus of 14. Murphy, scrappy Off-
Campus captain, may claim a moral victory by virtue of the fact that his team amassed a total of eight first downs while Walsh registered but five, but that doesn’t enter the percentage columns.
The blocking and tackling of both teams was especially well done. Murphy, Conlon, Dooling, and Linder played excellent defensive ball 'for Off-Campus. The Day-dogs’ onslaught was led by Donnelly, Pappas, and quarterback Whelan. Walsh retaliated with such stars as Murphy and
Ttcenty-six
The Scholastic
McCarthy, halfbacks, Crawford, quarter, and Mikes, Jane, McCann, Emerick, and Gorman in the line.
Carroll 0, Brownson 0
The Brownson - Carroll game attracted a large crowd to Brownson field last Sunday to witness the annual battle. After a bitter struggle neither team was able to score and left the championship of the Main building still undecided.
The game, hard fought as it was, was just another game until the last quarter when both teams produced their most serious scoring threat. Brownson had the first opportunity to score when O’Brien swept around end for a 25 yard gain, bringing the ball to the Carroll 30-yard line. Here the Carrollites held for downs.
The second promise to score came soon after, when Kristel, Carroll star, circled the end for 50 yards to the Brownson 20-yard line. The punch to carry on was lacking, and the ball went to Brownson after an attempt for a field goal was short.
With just a minute to play Brownson had the crowd up on its toes. Lyons, left end slid over to the sideline and awaited the snap of the ball. O’Brien threw a quick flat pass and Lyons scampered to his opponents’
Starts Sunday
She Was Gorgeous— He Was a Man—
So the Other Girl Had to Wait!
Jean Harlow
Loretta Young Robert Williams —in— 'Platinum Blonde'
	Group I Standings			
	w	L	T	PCT.
Badin			3	0	0	1.000
St. Edward’s		3	0	0	1.000
Lyons 			2	2	0	.500
Morrissey			2	2	0	.500
Corby 			1	2	1	.333
Sophomore		1	3	0	.250
Dillon 			0	3	0	.000
Results—Lyons 12, Dillon 0; St.
Edward’s 19, Sophomore 0; Morrissey
6, Corby 0; Badin, no game.			
Walsh		Group II Standings		
	W L 	2 0	T 1	PCT. 1.000
Off-Campus		2 0	1	1.000
Alumni			1 0	2	1.000
Carroll 			1 1	2	.500
Howard			1 3	0	.250
Brownson			0 2	1	.000
Freshman			0 2	1	.000
Results — Alumni 12, Howard 0; Brownson 0, Carroll 0; Off-Campus 0, Walsh 0; Freshman, no game.
18-yard line before he was stopped. The whistle blew, ending the game before Brownson had a chance to advance farther.
Both backfields managed to find
holes in the opposing lines and made several substantial gains. O’Brien and Hogen were the stars of the Brownson attack, Kristel did well in the Carroll backfield.
St. Edward’s 19, Sophomore 0
Scoring three touchdowns in the last half, St. Edward’s trounced Sophomore, 19 to 0, Sunday in an interhall game for their third straight victory in the Interhall league.
Sophomore bravely staved off the running attack of their neighbors until late in the third quarter when Shinkowitch reeled off a 30-yard gain for a touchdown when the Sophomore wings finally weakened before the well executed interference of St. Edward’s backs. The attempt for the extra point failed.
The second touchdown came when a Sophomore punt was blocked and a St. Edward’s lineman downed the ball on the two-yard line. A plunge gained one yard. On the second down, Shinkowitch sprinted around right end, cut back and pivoted across the goal. A pass to Rickard, end, was good for the extra point.
In the last three minutes Sophomore punted to St. Edward’s safety man who ran back 30 yards. Maloney then passed 25 yards to Carpenter
■>
Gay Romance Laughtei And Lessons in Love!
Hurry! * Last Two Days
CEORCiE
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
October 30, 1931
Twenty-seven
who stepped over the goal. The extra point attempt again failed.
Carpenter and Shinkowitch excelled for St. Edward’s, while Rickard, and Maloney also played good football for the victors. Shovan'and Dunn were outstanding in the Sophomore lineup.
Alumni 12, Howard 0
Alumni’s powerful running attack gave the new “gold coast” its first interhall victory Sunday when they defeated Howard 12 to 0. By virtue of their victory, Alumni entered the list of undefeated teams in Group II.
Alumni pushed over the first score in the initial period. Wallace of Howard was forced to kick against a strong wind from behind his own goal. Alumni took the ball on the 25-yard line. Three smashes at the line by Deauville placed the ball on the seven-yard line. Ackerman then circled right end for the touchdown. Cashier missed the extra point.
The second touchdown was tallied late in the fourth quarter as a result of some excellent ball carrying on the part of Alumni’s backfield. Ackerman brought the ball down within striking distance on end runs. Deauville ended the march with a five yard plunge for a touchdown. Cash
ier’s dropkick was wide.
Ackerman, Deauville, and Cashier were the outstanding men for the victors. Wallace bore the brunt of the attack for Howard’s eleven.
Morrissey 6, Corby 0
Flashing a powerful running attack, with Art Conley, shifty halfback, leading the way, the Morrissey gridders rode to a 6 to 0 victory over the Corby eleven at Cartier field, Sunday morning. Morrissey was too strong for the seniors although Corby showed a rugged defense. Devlin, Corby’s star back, got away for some nice runs, but to no avail.
The Morrissey outfit tallied in the second quarter after Conley had broken away for a 45-yard gain to put the ball in a scoring position. Conley went off tackle from his 20-yard line and twisted his way to Corby’s 35-yard line before he was downed. Morrissey brought the ball to the one-yard line on straight line plays, but the Corby line stiffened and held them for three downs. Brennan then passed over the line to Sullivan who caught the ball for the score. Morrow’s try for the extra point was wide.
The game brought out some brilliant individual playing, with Conley
of Morrissey taking the honors. Devlin was Corby’s outstanding star. O’Neil, Morrissey lineman was a tow’er of strength.
Lyons 12, Dillon 0
Lyons hall made an impressive showing last Sunday morning when they defeated Dillon hall, 12 to 0 on Minims field. Their line outcharged Dillon on practically every play and with a quartet of backs who gained almost at will, the ultimate outcome was never in doubt.
Bud Carney, left half for Lyons, climaxed a 50-yard march in the first quarter with a sweeping left end run from the eight-yard line for a touchdown. The kick for the extra point was blocked.
Aided by long kicks and a line which fought desperately, Dillon managed to keep their goal from being crossed again until the . third quarter. It was Jim Louie who scampered across this time from the six-yard stripe. A pass for the extra point was grounded.
Captain Kiley at guard, Kelley at center, Carney at half, and Sandura at end, featured the sophomores’ play. Luminaries for Dillon were Owens at right half, Strable at left end, and Moran at center.
The Stars of the Hour in a Romantic Hit!
COLFAX
Starting Saturday
She sought the sweet fruits of living, snatched at each bit of happiness . . . what if the world did call her bad?
GRETA GARBO
In the Arms of
CLARK GABLE
in
SUSAN LENOX
Get ready for the supreme, exotic thrill of your picture-going days! Here truly is gorgeous Greta Garbo in the picture that will make you forget all her previous triumphs!
PARAMOUNT SOUND NEWS
FLIP THE FROG CARTOON
OTHER NOVELTIES
Extra!
LAUREL & HARDY in “Come Clean”
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
Splinters From The Press Box
By Edmund L. Moriarty
RECLAMATION
One of the shining features of the game last Saturday was the play of Charlie Jaskwich. He rose to heights that he has never enjoyed because of his previous lack of confidence. He had confidence last Saturday, and
MAX ADLER
Presents the
Correct Formal Attire
FOR THE
Sophomore
Cotillion
That you may enjoy the Cotillon economically—be assured that you are correctly attired.—Max Adler presents tuxedos by Fashion Park and Charter House at
$25 to $40
And our special Beverly tuxedo at
$21.50
Freeman Formal Footwear $6.00
MAX ADLER
Inc.
On the Corner	Michigan and Washington
gave as fine an exhibition of quarterbacking as we have seen this year.
Jaskwich played “heads up” ball every minute, and on more than one occasion did the Blue and Gold attack profit by his alertness. One particularly fine play was executed by him after he had received a punt. He re
alized immediately that it would be impossible for him to evade a Pitt tackler who was swooping down upon him, so he passed the ball laterally to Schwartz, who was just a few feet in his rear. The play did not gain very much, but it gave evidence of Jaskwich’s mental alertness, and showed him to be the cool master when a situation demanded split-second thinking. We wonder why this play is not attempted more often!
Heretofore, the greatest fault that Jaskwich possessed was his lack of confidence. He found himself in Saturday’s game, and now seems headed for a very successful campaign. We are of the opinion that Jaskwich’s return to form will be permanent, and we hope that it will be.
❖
THOSE TIE GAMES
The interhall football season has reached the half-way mark. For the most part it has been so far, a highly successful campaign, but there is one glaring fault that we have to find with the managing of these games.
To date exactly five games have resulted in ties and most of them have been scoreless ties. This is a regrettable situation in so far as it could be remedied in such a very simple fashion. The time allotted for the playing of each quarter is eight minutes, almost half the time that is required in a regulation college game. We are not advocating fifteen minute quarters, but we do believe that they should be longer than eight minutes to eliminate the abundance of tie games.
By actual count, in a game between Walsh and Off-Campus, there were exactly ten plays in the first quarter. In a previous game the official count was nine. Certainly it is almost impossible for a team to concentrate its scoring attack on so few plays, and the not infrequent result is a tie game.
The interhall officials should cure this glaring fault in their otherwise excellent system. The lengthening of the quarters a few minutes more would be a simple thing, and fewer disputes and tie games would result.
V.ts ePWwi:.
ATHLETES FOOT To prevent nse Koch Sanitary Waterproof Slippers (Patented U. S. A.) in handy case for home, dah or traveling. Men and women sizes. 25c per pair. Mailed post free. Dealers wanted. Koch, 109 Kingston St., Boston, Mass.
October 30, 1931
Twenty-nine
SUCCESS
One of the finest efforts ever to be undertaken by a campus organization, was culminated with the finals of the Scholastic tennis tournament. It was a success in every detail. At the outset it seemed to be a dangerous undertaking, but a record entry list received shortly after the tournament was announced, immediately dispelled all fears to this effect. The whole-hearted cooperation shown by the student body is deserving of highest praise, and may serve as a criterion for future -minor sport activities that will be sponsored by the Scholastic.
The winner of the tournament, Louis Chreist, is to be congratulated. His play throughout was nothing short of sensational, as he sifted his way through the enormous field without the loss of a single set. The runner-up, Carl Meyer, is equally deserving of mention. He was not reckoned as a contender until the closing rounds, but proved himself an able competitor by reaching the finals where he succumbed only after a bitter struggle.
The success of the tournament was largely due to the individual efforts of two men, Captain Joe Borda and
John Lynch. These two men worked unstintingly, and gave much of their time that the tournament would be a success. They deserve a vote of thanks from the Scholastic and from the student body for their conscientious and well done efforts.
PROSPERITY
Out of twenty predictions last week, there were seventeen winners, two ties and one loser. The single loss was sustained with Pennsylvania’s surprise victory over Wisconsin, while Army and Stanford, both favored to win, could only eke out ties in their games. This brings the total for the year to sixty-seven wins, eleven losses and four ties. Not so good, but not so bad either, and there is still a chance to bring up the old average.
Again this week the country will be dotted with intersectional contests, with our own game with Carnegie leading the field, and the Michigan State-Syracuse combat running a close second. Five touchdowns should mark the gap between Notre Dame and Carnegie, with Notre Dame on the long end, of course.
THE FORECASTS
Notre Dame 33, Carnegie Tech 0
Northwestern 25. Illinois 0
Michigan 20, Princeton 0
Michigan State 13, Syracuse 7
Purdue 20, Chicago 7
Ohio State 19. Indiana 7
Iowa 6, George Washington 0
Wisconsin 13. Minnesota 6
Army 24. Colorado College 0
Navy 13. West Virginia Wesleyan 0
Georgetown 13. Boston College 0
Colgate 27. Mississippi College 0
Cornell 7, Columbia 6
Georgia 25. Florida 0
Vanderbilt 21. Georgia Tech 0
Fordham 40. West Liberty 0
Nebraska 13. Missouri 0
N. Y. U. 20. Oregon 6
Pittsburgh 24. Penn State 0
Pennsylvania 27, Lafayette 0
Stanford 20. California (L. A.) 0
Tennessee 26. Duke 0
Tulane 44. Mississippi Aggies 0
Villanova 19. Bucknell 0
Yale 13. Dartmouth 7
California 19, Nevada 0
0.	A. Clark’s Restaurant
104-106 N, Michigan Street
△
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House.
△
Catering to NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
△
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
△
We Have No Key.
“AU Sizes, All Colors and All Styles”
High Quality Corduroys $2.85
Field Shoes
for
Cinder Path
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan Street
Thirty
The Scholastic
Italian Club To Meet
The bi-monthly meeting of the Italian club will be held next Tuesday evening at 6:30 in the basement of Walsh hall. All those wishing to join the organization must be present at this time because memberships officially close after this date.
Business to be attended to includes the drawing up of the club constitution, the reading of several papers, and the discussion of programs to be carried out at future meetings.
Going Places?
SMITH SIGNED TO COACH FROSH CAGE SQUAD;
125 ANSWER CALL
Announcement was made early this week of the addition of Ed Smith to the basketball coaching staff. The new mentor will be in charge of the freshman cage squad.
Smith is not a new face in Notre Dame basketball ranks. Playing for three years as a regular on the Blue and Gold varsity, Smith rates as one of the greatest guards ever developed by Coach Keogan. During the seasons of ’28 and ’29 he was chosen All-Western guard by eminent mid-west cage authorities. While a member of the Notre Dame team, Smith paired with Oonie Donovan at guard. Last year Donovan coached the freshman squad here.
The first call for yearling candidates brought out about 125 aspirants to Coach Smith. Many of these men have established great prep school reputations and should develop into a strong first-year squad.
CARNEGIE HOST TO N. D.
(Continued from Page 5)
Probable lineups:
NOTRE DAME	CARNEGIE TECH
Kosky	L.E.	Stewert
Krause	L.T.	Fletcher
Greeney	L.G.	Sample
Yarr (C)	C.	Ducanis
Hoffman	R. G.	Heinzer
Kurth	R. T.	Forsman
Mahony	R. E.	Lewis
Jaskwhich	Q. B.	Dueger
Schwartz	L. H.	Armentrout
Sheeketski	R. H.	Kavel
Melinkovich	F. B.	O’Toole
Things?
The South Shore Line is one of the goingest, see-ingest railroads in these parts and there’s a train every hour to Michigan City, the Dunes, Gary, Hammond and Chicaeo-
1926 season with a 19-0 victory and returning in ’28 to snatch a 27-7 win on old Cartier Field and thus to break a record of more than a score of years, Carnegie is one of the few teams that have marked up a pair of consecutive wins from any Notre Dame elevens.
If back fence chats are the custom in Pittsburgh, then the Carnegie camp should be well informed about the strength of the Fighting Irish. Undoubtedly the Panthers had a lot to say early this week about a fellow named Schwartz who does everything at a football game but take tickets and run the scoreboard. Probably, too, they have been told of a Tommy Yarr, Ed Krause, Mink Melinkovich, Koken, Kurth. . .But why go on? Knowing about them hasn’t yet been an effective way of stopping them.
The Skibos have averaged a little better than a touchdown a game for the eight games with Notre Dame in past years. Should they stay on schedule tomorrow, Schwartz and Co. will have to make two markers to win. It may be a hard job through the 185 pound Scot line. A hinted passing strength might fill the gap. Some way or other, though, we’re sure that they’ll get at least the two touchdowns. If they stop there, Marchy might even find time to take a few tickets.
108 West Colfax Avenue
SALADS SANDWICHES STEAKS and CHOPS
Special Fried Chicken Dinner—Sunday 65c
♦
Prompt service OPULAR PRICES URE FOODS
♦
« Fountain Service »
Make Hus Your Uptown Office and Meet Them at Your Office
October 30, 1931
Thirty-one
FANS EYE N. D.-PENN TILT HERE NEXT WEEK
Interest Growing As Quakers Make Impressive Showing.
With the “Fighting Irish” away from their own back: yard this week, Mid-west fans are already looking forward to the next appearance of the Notre Dame gridders in this section. Pennsylvania is the next opponent on the home schedule of the Blue and Gold squad and will journey west to do battle with .Anderson’s charges in Notre Dame stadium next Saturday, November 7.
-Interest in this tilt has boomed during the past week at an unexpected rate. At the present writing the Quaker aggregation stands as the only unbeaten foe remaining on the Notre Dame card.
While Swarthmore, Franklin and Marshall, and Lehigh probably aren’t the best football teams in the world, at least they aren’t the worst. And by adding to that trio of victims the Badgers of Wisconsin on the week after they had toppled Purdue, Penn caused the gridiron world to sit up rather suddenly.
Should the Philadelphia team overcome LaFayette tomorrow as is more than likely, they will come to Notre Dame next week in a determined mood. A five game winning streak is a real incentive to any team. Not to mention a little personal angle concerned with revenge for a 60 to 20 trimming on Franklin field a year ago.
In addition to these growing selling points, the game will be flavored by that tinge that inter-sectionalism always adds to a contest. Penn’s large alumni body of this section will undoubtedly take advantage of this opportunity to get a look at the team that has been termed “Penn’s best in a decade.”
minutes of play the La Bazas had the game well under control.
Ed Eoxas, the captain and center forward of the winning team, distinguished himself by leading the point-getting. Leo Brias, playing a splendid defensive game, also participated in the scoring.
The game was exciting throughout and was featured by the well executed passes of the victors. Although the Workers’ club was beaten rather handily, they threatened throughout
the ninety minute period of play.
This is the first organized team in this particular sport to appear* on the campus. The ability of the Spanish youths offers an opportunity for intramural competition among the various nationalities represented on the Notre Dame campus.
The innovation of organized soccer by the La Baza club is one of the latest and most commendable moves for the introduction of the game at Notre Dame.
Sophomores
Cotillion dance next week, Nov. 6
$
i
Your cotillion guest wants to proud of you as you are of her.
be as
She
La Raza Soccer Team Wins
The La Baza soccer team, playing brilliantly, defeated the Workers’ Sport club on Sunday morning, 4 to 1. The Spanish students of the University seem to have assembled a strong team to represent their club this season.	.
The final score clearly shows the superiority of the Spaniards over their opponents. After the first few
will be, if your formal clothes and haberdashery are purchased at
Sam’l Spiro Co.
Headquarters for Correct Evening Formal W°ar
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
lb MEN
only!
NO NEED to park a “Girls Keep Out” at the top of this advertisement. They’ll shy off quick enough when they find out what it’s about.
For it’s a strictly masculine privilege —solace, satisfaction, retreat, call it what you will—the joy of smoking a pipe!
It’s the smoke “for men only,” any
She likes to see him smoke a pipe
girl will agree—one of the few rights the women haven’t crowded us on. And the only smoke for men, many a thoughtful smoker calls it. For the deep consolation and rare comradeship of a mellow, richly aged pipe are something every man does well to know.
And you taste the rich satisfaction of pipe smoking at its best when you fill up your bowl with Edgeworth. There’s a tobacco that’s made for a pipe. Cool, dry, slow-burning. Blended of fine,
mellow, full-flavored burleys.
You’ve a rare smoke coming if you’ve never tried Edgeworth. You will find Edgeworth at your tobacco dealer’s. Or send for special free sample packet if you wish.
He needs his pipe
Address Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d
St, Richmond, Virginia.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burleys,
with its natural savor enhanced by Edge
worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy Edgeworth any-whete in two forms —EdgeworthReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. AO sizes, 15^ pocket package to £1.50 pound humidor tin.
On Down the Line
“BO” McMILLEN, the Center College star of a decade ago now coaching at Kansas State, has developed a five man backfield the merit of which is shown by the fact that Kansas is one of the undefeated teams in the country. . .CARY MEYERS a finalist in the SCHOLASTIC Net Tourney is an ambidexterous tennis player. . . There are at present 24 undefeated and untied teams in the country. . .
BERT METZGER, the watch charm guard of last years championship team, is now peddling milk in Oak Park, the worlds largest village . . .The gate receipts for the WORLD SERIES were $1,000,000. . .GEORGE WATKINS’ homerun in the final game of the WORLD SERIES cost the Athletics exactly $45,000 for it proved to be the winning tally of the series. . .
Three IOWA natives, members of Minnesota’s team, were instrumental in Iowa’s overwhelming defeat last Saturday. . .DON GEORGE a contender for the heavyweight wrestling crown has lost only three matches out of 236. . .In GREENCASTLE last Saturday the Boston University team was directed by the captain of the team with the coach sitting in the stands and taking no immediate part in the game; this might be the reason for DEPAUW’S VICTORY. . .
A PLAYER in Brooklyn played a niblick shot into an apple tree, the ball imbeded itself into an apple; the apple with the ball dropped to the green and stopped a few inches from the cup. . .Over-emphasis of FOOTBALL was delivered a severe jolt Saturday when only 6,000 spectators were present at the INDIANA-CHICAGO game.. .LEFT holds down the RIGHT end position on Columbia’s football team. . .
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo J. Quinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building South Bend, Ind.
,’3-.
FLOWERS
for the
Sophomore Cotillion
Place your order early
209 West Colfax Ave.
Hello Men!
• . «
Smith 5 Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Blvd. Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you’re hungry
Better Vision. and More Comfort Thru Better Glasses
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those, particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St.	102 W. Wash. St.
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and accurately
“I want to congratulate you on your good work,” writes Jesse C. Harper. “From my point of view, I think it is the best book gotten out up to date. You really gave a picture of ‘Rock’ as the football players and students knew him.”	.	'
“A fine tribute.”
—Robert C. Zuppke
“A credit to Notre Dame and to Rockne.”	‘
—Glenn S. Warner
“A fine piece of work.”
•	—Howard Jones
Campus Representative: Thomas A. Misterly 344 Badin Hall
Knute Rockne
MAN BUILDER
By Harry A. StuMdreher
The quarterback of the “Four Horsemen” needs no introduction to Notre Dame men, nor can we add to the tributes which his book has so deservedly brought him ... It is a book you will want to read and own. For Harry Stuhldreher was successively a pupil, player, friend and confidant of Knute Rockne, and the picture he gives of Notre Dame is from the point of view of the player . . . Here is a book to place beside the autobiography, and to treasure through the years to come.
Illustrated — $2.50
Publishers
MACRAE-SMITH-COMPANY X.
P h.i I a d e I p hi a
MR. PAUL BYRNE, LIBRARY, NOTRE DAME, IND
•1MI. tMoirkMimToMCBoCow