
Phone bills too high? Your son or daughter can't find the time to keep in touch? If you want to know what's going on at Notre Dame, subscribe to 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
The best way to keep up with Notre Dame students. .. 
Read about the latest campus news and sports, check out what's happening on the weekends, and enjoy some college humor. You can be part of all this for the introductory price of$20 ayear­just a dollar an issue. Subscribe now and share in of the 128-year tradition of Sclwlastic Magazine. 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1994-95. 
Name:------­Address: _______ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $20 x _ years =$ _ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
VOLUME 136, NUMBER 17 FOUNDED 1867 MARGI 2, 1995 
Shhh!

4All at once, Notre Dame students are testing thelimits ofpersonal freedom on campus. Now, students and administrators debate about where the line should be drawn. 
PHOTO 
UNSUITABLE 
·FOR 
PRINT 



Batting the Competition
15Notre Dame baseball's prospects looked gloomy with a suicide schedule and a long road stretch to start the season. Enter the young, great Paul Mainieri. Can he lead the ND nine to the College World Series? 
Best of the Bend
20Tiredofthe 'Backer? Wanttoeatsomewhere · besidesMacri's? ScholasticMagazinepicks its favorites from lunch to late night 

FEATURES 

Entangled in· the Tape •Kate McShane .................................................................................................................... 8 The Perfect Score •Kate Telesca ................................................................................ : ............................................ 10 Irish Times Two• Adrienne Corpuz ...................................... '..................................................................................12 Bruised and Battered •Heidi Urben .......................................................................................................................27 All Toucheed Out · Stan Evans ................................................................................ : ............................................... 28 
DEPARTMENTS 

From the Editor ............................................................. 2 
Out of Bounds ..............................................................23 
utters to the Editor ....................................................... 3 
Coming Distractions .:\••·············................................. 24 
Campus Watch ............................................................ 14 
On Other Campuses ....:~............... : .............................. 25 
Splinters from the Press Box ......................................18 
Comics .........................................................................26 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE•11 MARCH 2, 1995 

Graduation may be a little sad for me, but it will be anti-climactic. After three years of living in l.aFortune, I feel like I should wear a cap and gown when I walk out of the the office for the last time. Even as! write it now, I can't picture living at Notre Dame and not being involved in Scholastic. 
I joined the staff my sophomore year mostly because I was bored. My boredom quickly turned into panic as I tried to learn the rudiments of the computer system. By the time I had finally figured out what I was doing, I had been promoted to executive editor. After that, there was no turning back. The office, as anyone who works here knows, seemed to suck hours out of me anytime I entered its doors. · 
Though I leave with lots ofmemories ofmissed deadlines, emergencies and late-night conferences, I can honestly say that what I remember most is the fun we've had. Spending long hours with a small number of people quickly breaks down barriers, and our staff has had many laughs at times when it looked like nothing was going right. 
It's also been fun taking on the administration these last few weeks over the Gipper column. Though I did not enjoy the endless meetings on the subject, I can truthfully say that I've liked the controversy and the chance to stand up to the administration. Campus media is a training ground forprofessionaljournalism, I've been toldby Student Activities and Student Affairs, and for that reason we should print the name of the Gipper. But I've learned more about what it means to be a journalist by standing up for our rights on this issue. 
I can't leave without giving a big thank you to the only person on the staff who's been here longer than I have-Chris Blanford, our executive editor. Although there are many people who deserve my thanks, Chris ranks number one on the list. His constant demand for quality made the magazine infinitely better, and his willingness to dedicate his time to Scholastic, despite the pressures of his chemical engineering major, is deeply appreciated. 
A Note about this Issue... 

The "Best of Michiana" feature running this week in our entertainment department is a spin-off from a similar feature in Philadelphia Magazine. For the idea, I thank my father, who spotted it in that magazine and pointed out that it would make a good article in Scholastic. He probably thought! wasn'tlistening, as usual. Well, Dad, it took me awhile but here it is ... 
Good Luck 

For the next year, Scholastic will be the responsibility, glory and headache of Michelle Crouch and hernew staff. I have great confidence in Michelle's ability to work at the helm of the this publication, and will be disappointed if it does not improve under her talented hand. Good luck, Michelle. 
Thanks to all my roommates, friends and family who have had to endure three years of Scholastic talk and complaints. I appreciate all your support. 
Katie Wiltrout 
Editor in Chief 


Cover graphic by Patrick E. Skidmore 
2 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE •MARCH 2, 1995 


Dear Editor: 
Thanks to Bill Beauchamp and Chuck Lennon for their insights on the "Fighting Irish Leprechaun." [cover story, February 16, 1995] Asamanwhosemother'smaiden name was Roche and who taught young Molly Lennon some Irish and Irish-Ameri­can history, you know I am very objective in objecting to the continued use of the name, logo and appearance ofthe ''Fighting Irish Leprechaun." 
You both [Beauchamp and Lennon] get ample doses ofcriticism from several quar­ters -some fair, some unfair. Let me simply say that Notre Dame should not add to the stereotyping of the Irish or Irish­Americans, now so prevalent in television and print advertisements. The leprechaun image was early-on used by the English to convey the notion that the Irish were less thanhuman-towhitsimians! Lateron the leprechaun was used in the States to convey the notion that the Irish were inferior hu­mans -to whit racism! 
Notre Dame's oft-repeated commitment to respect for cultural diversity calls for change. No stereotypingofany group,even though brewers and micro-brewers ofbeer doso! 
Sincerely yours, Rev. Patrick J. Sullivan, C.S.C, Director ofUndergraduate Studies Department of Sociology 
Dear Editor: 
We'd like to preface this letter by saying we are probably the two most unlikely people to support Scholastic. But when something most people in America take for granted -the First Amendment -is on the line, we'll put aside publication rival­ries. 
First, congratulations to the member(s) of the Scholastic staff for finding a hole in the Iron Curtain. The super sleuthing Gipper is entertaining and, more importantly, re­vealing. 

Funny how the administration didn 'tfuss four years ago when The Gipper stuck to silly campus tidbits. It's just when student publications finally have the opportunity to print what's really going on under the dome that administrators get nervous. 
TheJoeCassidy/Scholasticwarhasbeen quite,entertaining. You've been successful in holding your ground in the administration's childish game. 
Go Scholastic ... Beat the Administra­tion! 
Sincerely, Kelley Tuthill Editor-in-Chief The Observer 1992 
Monica Yant Editor-in-Chief The Observer 1993 

3 



by Michelle Mudry 
Recent events on campus have generated new debate on the age-old question: · How free is free speech at Notre Dame? 
"This should ... be aplace where all the great questions are asked, where an-exciting conversation about the most important human concerns is continually in progress, where the mind constantly grows as the values ofintelligence and wisdom are cherished and exercised in full freedom." -Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
W hen Father Hesburgh made this statement, he did not specify thekinds of questions that should notbe asked, or the human concerns that should not be addressed. He left it up to the administration to decide where the line should be drawn between what should and should not be discussed. Freedom of expression is again becoming an issue at Notre Dame in light of the recent controversy over the Scholastic Magazine's "Campus Watch by theGipper" column and campus recognition of the unofficial club, Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). Amain instigatorof thecurrentcontroversy istheadministration's attempt to restrict Scholastic' s anonymous column. The column in the February 2 issue of the magazine contained a "Clip and Save! Know yourCormpt Administrators Pocket Pal." After this column was published, Joseph Cassidy, director of Student Activities, stipulated that unless the Gipper's identity was revealed, the column could no longer be run. Three weeks later, Scholastic ran the column in its standard anonymous form, citing in an editorial that "the staff of Scholastic Magazine has decided that freedom of the press is important enough to fight for." Other incidents of the limitations on Notre Dame students' freedoms can be found outside of student media. Most recently, questions about the freedoms of speech and assembly have been revived by both the Office of Student Affairs' decision to prohibit GLND/SMC from meeting on campus and its threat to discipline the orgaaj.zers of the demonstration on beJ1a]f of GLND/SMC. "It's one thing for the university to say they're not discriminat­ing," said John Blandford, co-chair ofGLND/SMC. "It's another to say:that we can't get together and talk..That limits our free expression." The co.ntrov:ersy was heightened when William Kirk, assistant vice president of residence life, sent letters to the heads ofAmnesty International and Pax Christi concerning their organizations' par­ticipation in protests over the university's position on the issue of GLND/SMC. The letter pointed out that tney had not followed university regulations ih organizing the demonstrations, and in addition, the protest may have served as a vehicle for sponsorship by an unrecognized student group. The letter further informed them that they "¥1Y face university sanctions for further actions not in accordance with university policy. University policy requires that all student protests be registered with the Office of Residence Life, that they be peaceful and that they do not impede on the freedom of the university community. "Amnesty was fully aware of the university regulations," said senior Faye Kolly, co-president of Amnesty International. "But the whole purpose of the demonstration was to try to bring voices together in opposition to the university's decision. Because of that, we did not see the need to get permission from the very institution we were opposing." · Senior EricaEffler, president of Pax Christi, saw the univerSity's 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• MARCH 2, 1995 
......~ 

action as a definite limitation on freedom of expression. "They 're very slippery," she said. "They went out of their way to find a reason to send us that letter. It was a very intimidating letter· designed to make us wary of doing anything else in support of GLND/SMC." 
Limitations on free expression are not always negative; how­ever. Often they are deemed necessary in order to preserve the Catholic nature of the university, to protecteach individual's right to privacy or to minimize offensive materuµ. In journalism, the line between responsible and irresponsible reporting has always been fuzzy and ill-defined. Responsible reporting includes print­ing the truth, but it is not limited to that There are instances in which people could be irrevocably harmed by such reporting, and -------------the distinction be­tween the people's"Far too many "right to know" and eachindividual'sright
administrators are 
to privacy is one point on whichthelineblurs.
more concerned 

·Cassidy has various about their image defenses for Student Activities' demand.than about the pursuit He said that he espe­cially finds problems
oftruth. This has led 
in the "overall lack of professionalism by
to an intim.idation 
the Gipper." "What­ever student is com­

ofthe campus press." 
piling it needs to use 

-Ivan Holmes better judgment," he 
said. · Cassidy also -------------pointed out that be­cause student media is more ofan educational outlet, readers like to contact student writers to make comments'. "I-think people get frustrated, saying they don't feel like they've had the opportunity to do that with the Gipper, with a column thatru~s anonymously," he said. The Gipper does have an e-mail accoU11t where students can contact him. 
Du Lac states that student publications be "free of c~nsorship" as longas they"allow fortheexpression of various points of ~ew." While "censorship" may be too strongof a term, theadministration has already established,definite limits on the freedom ofthe press in its student publications, especially in its advertising. 
Both the Observer and Scholastic cannot print advertisements referring to alcohol in any way. Even phrases like "Yaleiltine's Day Specials" and "cover charge" are forbidden. The two publi­cations are also prohibited from running ads that are pro-choice, pornographic or inconsistent with the university's mission, suchas ads for contraception. · 
Observer Advertising Manager Erle Lorge said that the staff decided riot to include a U. Magazine insert in the paper because it contained an article and accompanying pictures of student "streakers.'; Observer editors "try not to run anything that will 
This piece of art work ran In a 1987 issue of Scholastic after it was censored from the Juggler, Notre Dame's literary magazine. Student Activities reacted by changing the lock on the door of the Scholastic office, so the could not roduce their next Issue. 
offend people," ac~ Limitations on free 
cording to Lorge. expression may be 
Advertising restric­
tions, although they necessary tO preserve 
may _seem inconse-the Catholic nature oif 
quential, havebeen la­
beled as censorship in the university, to 
court. In 1990, a stu-h.. 
_denteditoratStClair protect eac 
Commun~t~ College , individual's right to 
was prohibited from -• • • • 
running a nude <lane-pnvacy Or to mznzmzze 
ing club ad. She took a-If. • ,..+ • l 
legal action and won, OJJ enSlVe mutena • 
as a Michigan federal 
court ruled that her First Amendment rights hadbeen violated. The 
law is not as clear-cut at Notre Dame, however, because it is a 
private institution. 

Observer Editor in Chief Jake Peters said that the limits on 
advertising do not bother him. He stressed that the Observer does 
notallow'criticism from faculty members and the administration to 
alter their advertising decisions, although they do take any com­
ments into consideration, depending on who they come from. "If 
we're going to have restrictions on advertising or on editorial 
policy, we'll choose advertising," he said. "Editorial policy is 
what's important. Ultimately it comes down to what you can 
write." 

Even though part of the Observer's funding comes from the 
university, there are no editorial restriction.son the Observer other 
than the confines of good, accurate journalism, according to Peters. 
"Freedom of editorial content has been guaranteed," he· said, 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II MARCH 2, 1995 
explaining that Father Hesburgh sent the paper a letter when they moved into La Fortune guaranteeing complete editorial freedom. "Wecan writeanythingaslongas we write it responsibly." 
News Editor Dave Tyler agreed that the editorial content of thepaperhas never been directly threatened by the administration. "Explicitly, they really stay out of our hair. Implicitly, though, you know there are stories they'd rather not have you cover­things that don't reflect well on the univer­sity." 
Theknowledge that there are some things thatwillnotbewell-receivedbytheuniver­sity may result in a type of self-censorship. Editors may decide not to run articles or pictures that they think may anger the ad­ministration. But there is a fine line be­tween actually practicing self-censorship and acting responsibly. 
One way the university does restrict stu­dent media is by limiting the release of information, according to Tyler. ''The uni­versity is tightwith its sources," he said. "In. general, it is tough to get anyone in the administration to commentonanything that doesn't reflect well on the university." 
Scholastic has had to deal with more direct censorship than the Observer,both in 
maintaining "complete editorial freedom." 
"In some ways, it was a different situa­tion because we were never expressively told not to run the art work, and this time Scholastic was explicitly told not to run the Gipp,"saidKathleenMcKernan-Whitfield, 
"It's one thing for the university to say they're not discriminating. It's another to say that we can't get together and talk. That llmits our expression." -JohnBla,ndford, chair ofGINDISMC 
an editor of Scholastic at the time and currently a copy and travel editor at the. South Bend Tribune. "But again it's the university trying to create student media's editorial policy, and that is expressly pro-Magazine and mem­bers of GLND/SMC have expressed dissat­isfaction with the university's limitations on free expression. Some editors at the Observer, in contrast, do not find as much fault in th~ university's policies. Legally, the issue of free speech has been debated in courts around the country sincethe establishment ofthe first amendment, and it continues today. Thereareclearlynode­finitive guidelines


Stan Evans •

Cassidy changed the when It comes to free 
Student media at Notre Dame are allowed to run advertisements for bars such as CJ's, h Ul . l .
lock on Scholastic's 

but only If there are no references to alcohol.
office door, and the magazine was closed down for a week. In an editorial in its the next issue, Scholastic stated that it had agreed "to increase com­munication with Student Activities" while hibited in du Lac." 
Notre Dame is not alone in its search for the balance between free speech and re­sponsibility. Other universities across the country have had their share of problems. 

Ivan Holmes, a former journalism pro­fessor, studied censorship at the university level. After sending questionnaires to 337 public and private university newspapers in the U.S. and visiting many ofthem, Holmes came to the conclusion that censorship is thriving on college campuses. "Itseems to me that, these days, far too many university administrators are more concerned about their image than about the pursuit of truth," he told the Columbia Journalism Review. "This has led to an intimidation of the campus press." 
Mark Goodman, executive director of the Student Press Law Center, said that the number of requests forlegal assistance from college and high school news organizations has grown each year. 
''The First Amendment only limits the action of government agencies," Goodman added. "Because private schools are not government agencies, they are not con­strained by the First Amendment" But even private schools cannot censor student activitiesorpublicationsifthey havepledged not to in their student handbook, according to Goodman. 
The question of where to draw the line is one that has an unlimited number of an­swers. BothScholastic 
speec · timate Y, It is a question that all in­dividuals will have to answer for them­selves. . 
Lissa Sheldon contributed to this article. 
6 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• MARCH 2, 1995 
·­


NOTRE DAME STUDENT PLAYERS 

present 



Close! !9an 
p-ver 
A MUSICAL 
Lyrics by Music by RICHARO MALTBY, JR. DAVID SHiRE 
SUNDAY MARCH 5 
1:30 P.M. and 8:00 -P.M. 

MONDAY. MARCH 6 
8:00 P.M. 

AT DALLO\VAY'S COFFEEHOUSE on the St. .Mary's campus 
Admission Free 
Produced bbfspecial arrangement with Music Theatre lritematiorial Conceived bu STEVEN SCOTT SMITH Origiriallu produced Otf-Broadwau bu JANET BRENNER, MICHAEL GILL arid DARYL ROTH 
Developed at the Williamstown Theatre Festival 

SOMETHING TO FIT ANY SIZE APPE·TITE 
...AND-BUDGET 

54533 Terrace Ln 
277-7744 

52577 US Rt.31 
277-1024 
\ 
\ 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ MARCH 2, 1995 
' . -' ~ . , ~~~--. ~­
~~ . . -~~­



Red tape may be the culprit behind the failure ofmany student-initiated projects 
i 
i 
:I by Kate McShane 

The Guide. The Sophomore class bonfire. A summer storage faci­lity. Thebookfair. Alloftheseare great ideas. And all ofthem have been the victims of an unrelenting assailant ­bureaucratic red tape. Red tape is often necessary to ensure that things are done correctly. But in the last few years, many would say that the amount ofred tape required to implement a project has gotten a little out of hand. Student Activities has over 14 forms that may have to be filled out for a given project or event In addition, signatures ofup to five people can be necessary, requiring the approval of everyone from the student body treasurer to the Notre Dame fire departmentJoeCassidy, director of Student Activi­ties, acknowledged that there are a lot of rules to follow. He explained that, from a legal standpoint, they are necessary to pro­tect the students. "All the committees on risk management and all the forms have been created because of a change in soci­ety," he said. "Some people are just out there to 'make a quick buck' and the office wants to make sure they have all theirbases covered. They do not want to be negli­gent" 
Nevertheless, organizing and success­fully implementing a project or event at · Notre Dame has become increasingly dif­ficult This year's sophomore class offic­ers have discovered this firsthand. Last year their platform included a class tail­gate, a class bonfire and a trip to Windsor, Canada, for JPW weekend. Only one of these events was able to take place, the classbonfire,and it still wasnot assucessful as the officers may have wished as a result of bureaucratic red tape. 
When the officers were running for of­fice, they investigated and were told that all of their ideas were realistic. Once they were elected, however, the administration would not approve the tailgate because they were worried about the presence of alcohol. Although the officers explained that no alcohol was going to be served, Student Activities worried that students would bring alcohol to the event, and they did not want to be held responsible. 
TheWindsortripwasanideathatseemed more feasible. "We were told to work on the plans for the trip and we handed in all the appropriate forms," said Deborah Hellmuth, sophomore class treasurer. "It 
8 

·S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦ M A R C H 2 , 1 9 9 5 
turns out, though, that it was known all along that the trip wasn't going to happen. A lot of time and effort was wasted plan­ning the trip. They could have told us from the onset that the trip wasn't even pos­sible." Student Activities rejected the idea because they discovered that 19 is the legal drinking age in Windsor, Canada, and they did not want to be responsible when they knew that most .sophomores would be of legal drinking age. 
The sophomore class bonfire, although itdid eventually take place, was even more of an example of the phenomenon of red tape. The advisor gave his approval, forms were filled out and Student Activities ap­proved the event Then, three days before the bonfire was to take place, Student Ac­tivities said that they no longer wanted the class to have the bonfire. The event was being held across the street from the ath­letic fields on Douglas Road, and the ad­ministration was worried about the safety of students crossing the street But Dou­glas Road is the only place where bonfires are allowed to be held. There was also concern about possible alcohol consump­tion. 
Bythistime,theclasshadalreadybought food and drinks for the event and pur­chased posters and space in the newspaper to advertise. The officers argued with 
Student Activities about the money, food and time that would be wasted if they cancelled thebonfire. Reluqtantly, Student Activities did not cancel the event, but it made the class pledge that they would prevent alcohol consumption at the event and have people to help students cross the street "We understand why there are rules and why they must be followed," said BrianK.lausner,sophomoreclassvice-presi­dent. "However, there has to be a way to speed things up. It would help out a lot if there was better communication between the students and the administration." 
The junior nessed it all. 'There is a lot of red tape because there are a lot of people who must approve these activities," he said. ''Notre Dame is a very well-known institution and is always under a magnifying glass. They have to be very careful about what goes on because ifanything happens they willbe in 
class officers 

"The reasons for not approving the 
have also had problems with event or time delays is partly due to 
red tape. It takes at least 10 days the intricate set ofrules that the for financial ap­
proval, and get­administration has established ..." ting a signature 

-David Hungeling 
often takes more than a few days, 
according to Dom Amorosa, junior class treasurer. A recent class dinner planned by the officers required them to wade through much bureaucracy. After receiving ap­proval from their advisor, they completed a form toreserveLaFortuneBallroom. Then they spent a lot of time negotiating with Food Services to get an outside vendor to cater the dinner. Finally, Risk Manage­ment had to approve the outside caterer. But the process did not end there. La Fortune Ballroom was notlargeenough, so the classhad to reserve the Senior Bar. This meant filling out more forms to get the new locationapproved. Once all these steps were com­pleted, the student body treasurer had to be contacted to pay the bills. The projectwas finally approved and it tookplacesuccess­fully after months of planning. "If your idea is posi­tive and ifyou go aboutitin the right way,thingscanget done," noted Amorosa. 'There 
is just so much to learn in what to do and who to talk to. Even though I've been in office for a year there is still a lot to learn about what goes on." 
~ 
When it comes to dealing with Student Activities and Student Affairs, Student Body President David Hungeling has wit-the national spotlight." 


One of the problems, according to Hungeling, is the large number of offices and people in authority. "When a problem arises, different offic_es do not know who has the proper authority to make the deci­sion which causes people to start stalling," he said. 
Hungeling also noted that it has been brought to his attention by other students that it is very difficult and frustrating pro­cess to get administrative approval. "SUB this year has had several problems getting space for events because of the time de­lays," he said. 'Thereasonsfornotapprov­ing the event or the time delays are partly due to the intricate set of rules that the administration has established to ensure the safety of Notre Dame's reputation. Sometimes these rules backfire and cause the students and club officers much frustra­tion." 
But there are ways around the system. "Whoever is a leader of student groups must plan way ahead of time," said Hungeling. "It is possible to get things accomplished." 
The new student body president andvice president, Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy, have made promises for next year. While every class officer tries to get these promises fulfilled, sometimes there are greater forces working against them that they cannot control. As Andrea Smith, secretary of the sophomore class, said, "Oilceyou are in office, itputs a whole new light on what you promised in your plat­form, because you find out only a limited number of things can be done." D 
-

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ MARCH 2, 1995 

For a handful ofstudents at Notre Dame, receiving a 4.0 G.PA. is just another routine task 
by Kate Telesca 
Last January, 1.5% of the student body wasnotifiedby theRegistrar's office that they earned not B+' s or 
A's,but straight A's. Out of 7,731 undergraduate's at Notre Dame, 119 of thesestudentseamedaG.P.A.of4.0. While each student has his or her own strategies for success, all of them somehow manage to balance the pressures of classes and extracurricular activities. 
MargaretZimmermann,asenioraccount­ing majoring, hasreceiveda4.0G.P.A. for sixsemesters whilemaintaininga 15-credit course-load. But she doesn't spend all her time in the study lounge. Zimmermann plays whatever inter-hall sport is in season from football to softball and even goes out 

• I 1 for Bookstore Basketball in the spring. She also holds a job as a teacher's aide 12 
I.i 
I: hours a week. On top of all this, she still manages to get seven or eight hours of sleepa night "I work hard, but I don't kill myself," Zimmermann said. "I just like to know what I'm doing when I walk into a test I'm not worried about getting a job. I know that ifI put the work into school, I'll get the outcome I want" · 

Zimmermann claims that she does not never knew how well I stood until I started back, everyone always asks how I've done, feel pressure from parents or anyone else, to interview for jobs," Zimmerman said. but I've just never really been into compar­and has never had a concern for grades. "I . · ''When we leave class after getting tests ing myself to others." Her advice to those 

10 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 11 .MARCH 2, 1995 


wanting to achieve this G.P.A. is to be organized. "Know what your strengths are and use them. Find what you're good at and what keeps you interested." 
For sophomore accounting major Erin Hoffman, her busy extracurricular sched­ule doesn't seem to allow enough time for sleep or study. However, Hoffman some­how manages to fit it all in. She practices with Shenanigans six to seven hours a week, and serves as the group's general manager, inaddition. Shealso sings for the Liturgical Choir seven hours a week. On top of all this, Hoffman acts as the co­director of music for mass at Siegfried Hall. "It's not a time thing. I don't spend a lot of hours studying, but I use the time studying efficiently," said Hoffman. "I have a competitive personality. I went to a small high school and graduated with 90 students. We had no AP classes and I was one of two to apply out of state. I wanted to go farther than most of the kids I gradu­ated with. I have hopes ofsomeday attend­ing Harvard Law School or another school in theEast That's a big motivator for me." 
Contrary to what many people might think, these students do not spend all of their time cracking the books. "I study · about three hours a night, maybe four ifI have a test," said Mike Zinser, a sopho­more finance major. "I just kinda do it," added Dave Dizem, a sophomore govern­ment major. "I don't worry about grades. Whatever happens happens. We're here to learn, not to get grades. I work toward understanding." 
"I'm able to find time for a lot of other stuff,"saidZinser. Zinser playsjustabout every interhall sport there is from soccer to baseball, in addition to playing cards with his friends four to five nights a week. "I get my work done, but I never stay in on weekends to do it" 
Dizem seemed to agree. "My advice is to work hard during the week and take the weekendsoffbecause you don't want to let yourself burn out" 
"Make sure you find a quiet place to study," he added. "Late at night is the best time for me, but find what works for you. Switch classes while you study. Thiskeeps the infomiation fresh and helps when you go to review:" 
Sophomore Brian Murray, a chemical engineerwitha3.97 G.P.A., claims thatthe notion of engineers studying all the time is 
"My advice is don't do a! Fight the urge, because once you get a 4.0, you ­strive to get -it over and over again. It's just a continual road ofpressure." -Britln Murray, sophomore chemical 
•
engineer 


false. "I play in four bands, including the 
Marching Band which practices two hours 
a week during the football season. I also 
tutor Calculus 125 for the Freshman Year 
ofStudies. I'll have to tell you though, my 
advice is don't do it! Fight the urge, 
because once you geta4.0, you strive to get 
it over and over again. It's just a continual 
road of pressure." 
Robert Sever, also a sophomore Chemi­
cal Engineer, takes 18 credit hours per 
semesterandmanagestomaintainanaver­
age just below a 4.0. "I take a three hour 
breakfrom work on weeknights. You need 
that," said Sever. "I like to play basketball 
with friends and watch sports on televi­
sion. I also spend a considerable amout of 
time with my girlfriend." Although Sever 
does a great deal of studying, he manages 
to work in seven or eight hours of sleep a 
night,andclaims thatheisalwaysinbedby 
midnight "I have a personal desire to 
achieve. I'm not trying to get good grades. 
I like to learn and that reflects itself in my 
grades." 
Although she spends 15-20 hours a week 
as a student manager in addition to work­-ing as an economics tutor for the Freshman Year of Studies, Sophomore Traci Town holds a 4.0 G.P.A. as well. Town is work­ing towards a double major in Economics and Computer Applications and sums up her motivation for her grades in a descrip­tion of herself. "I'm a perfectionist I get 
mad at myself when I don't get an A. I 
guess you could say I'm extremely self­
motivated." 
Mike Zinser explained that his motiva­
tion comes from his family. "I've always 
been encouraged to do well. My parents 
also make sure that I'm challenged by my 
work." Zinser offers a little practical ad­
vice as well. "Don't procrastinate. Accept 
the fact that you are going tobe challenged. 
Ifthings are too easy for you, you're prob­
ably not getting anything out of it" 
This isjustabrief sampling ofthose who 
makeup the 1.5%ofthestudentbodywho 
achieve a 4.0 almost every semester. Stu­
dents who acheive a 4.0 are found in every 
major, and it is clear that these students do 
much more than spend all their time in the 
library or study lounge. The key to aca­
demic success, according toTraci Town is, 
"Study hard, but don't let it control your 
.life. A 4.0 is not worth it, especially if it 
meansnothav~g fun at college.'' . 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• MARCH 2, 1995 
11 



identity while at Notte Dame. Freshmen finish each other's sentences. by Adrienne Corpuz. Frank and Ed Pok have never switched · The Ziolkowski brothers have had simi­places;at college, but they did describe an.·· 1ar·experiences'.:',Toerehavebeeninstances
Last year, the St. Edls assistant rector instanceinhighschoolwhentheyswapped when I'll ask nfr parents a question, and frequently visited the Oak Room. classes. Their plan had potential, bunt . Brianwillwalk'.µitwominuteslaterandask To his surpriseand dismay he often failed whenEdcouldn'tspeakSpanish,~d the same thing," said Keith. At times they 
sighted one of his resident's girlfriends Frank knew not a word ofJapanese. ~Still, evenhavethee~cisamemannerisms. They there-with another man. He eventually others' storiesareevenmoremodest "Brian recall an instan¢e when they were on stage
6 ' ~ /' . 
decided to confront the resident. "The would never switch places. I don't think : atanawardscereniony.Abitnervous,they assistant rector got very nervousbecause he he'd want'¥> be me," said Junior Keith bothpi,ayedwith't!ieir-tie,mussedwiththeir thought I was cheating on my boyfriend,'' ZiolkowsJ«ofhis brother. , hair ahd put their hands in their pockets Karen Eckerle recalled. ''What the assis­Another' assumption about the life of a · simultaneously. 'trite inore we tried to stop·
,. ' , . 
tant rector dido't realize was that this gid twin cen~/S around whetherornotthe twq copying each other, the more it occurred." w~ actually my twin sister, Claudine!" can se,ns'e''each others' vibes; "Ifthere are,·. Manypeopiewonderwhetheromottwins :Suchmisunderstandingsarecommonfor any,we'~notattunedtothem,"responded have the same taste in members of the identical twins ClaudineandKarenEckerle. Frank 'Pok. Despite such denial, some opposi,e sex. The Samaddar brothers ad­''Tfils kind of thing happens every day," . people 's'tubbomly refuse to believe twins ipit to ·rriany times picking out the same . commented Claudine. Other sets of twins when they say that they•do not have any -peoplefromacrowd. Freshr1enHeidiand on·Notte Dame's campus can relate to-the telepathic powers. Sophomore Rachel ·-Heather:Gossard admit to liking the same EcJ.cerle's story. They have many humor-. Brodetsen recalls a Euchre tournament m guy,butatdifferenttimes. RobinSamaddar mis stories and uniqueexperiences to share. . whichsheandhersisterSarahparticipated..•commented on his brother Kris's taste in One common assumption about twins is · "Our competitofS insisted we were cheat-· women. "He's had girlfriends I wouldn't that they · often trade places, taking each ing with telepathic,"powers," she replied. ~ven·want to date, and I'm sure he feels the other's tests or switching dates. However; Still, Brodersen admits to being on the ,csarriewaywithsomeofthegirlsl'vedated." none of the twinsrevealedfantastic orscan­same wavelength as her sis~. ~ere are,' Manytimes,peopleseem tobeinterested dalou~ stories of assuming their sibling's times when they have the same thoughts or in both twins at the-same time. Juniors 
12 

SCH OLA ST I C ; M A GA Z IN E ¦ M.A R CH 2 , 1 9 9 5 
high school, competition has since died down. Whereas in high school they com­peted against ~h other, they now· co­coach Badin's basketball team. Keith and Brian have also decided to share a quad together. 

Many twins have common interests that they pursue at the college level. Both Robin and Kris Samaddar are swimmers for the Irish. Aaron and Brett Tucker are in Navy ROTC together. Heidi and HeatherGossard are both pursuing a pre-professional de­gree. . Yet all twins interviewed admit to having different personalities. Rachel Brodersen claims she is much more orga­nized than her sister. "I can't understand howshelives." Similarly,BrianZiolkowski said that he is more conservative than his brother and describes Keith as the carefree one. : 
Despite the differences and similarities between each set ot twins, they all admit to having a special realtionship with their sib­lings. "I couldn't imagine not having a twin," said Rachel Brodersen. "She's some­one I can always count on. My sister is a built-in best friend.". 
Claudine and Karen Eckerle recall one guy who couldn't decide which sis~r he liked the best After Karen rejected him, he immediately started liking Claudine. Heidi and Heather Gossard have had similar ex­periences. "Guysassurriewe'reoneand the same," commented Heidi. 
Choosingacollegedidnotseemtopresent a problem for most twins. According to Kevin Rooney, Director of Admissions, "twins usually come through with simili!,r academic and personal qualities. There­fore, they generally receive the same deci­sion, beitpositiveornegative." Freshmen AaronandBrettTuckersaidtheywantedto go to the same college, although Aaron insists it was his idea to come to Notre Dame first. On the other hand, Brian and· Keith Ziolkowski claimed that it was not a conscious decision to attend the same col­lege. Independently, they both made the decision to come to Notre Dame. 
Upon arrival to the university, housing becomes an issue for many twins. Accord­ingtoDirectorofStudentResidences,Kevin Cannon, all freshmen's names are put into a computer which randomly assigns donns according to zipcode. "Freshmen don't have a choice, so you have the best geo­graphical. distribution," he commented. AithoughJwins may request to be ii,l the samedo~,StudentResidencesgivesthem no guarantees. The Gossard twins had hoped to be rommates. Despite their re­

· quest, housing originally placed them-on ·different floors of Lyons Hall. Claudine and Karen Eckerle were indifferent to the decision, but ended up in the. same quad in· theirfreshmanyear. AaronandBrettTucker also wanted to live near each other, mainly for practical reasons such as sharing a re­frigerator as well as a computer. The impact of a college experience at Notre Dame has been different for many twins. While still maintaining a close sis­terly relationship, Claudine and Karen · Eckerle say they now have separate lives, · with different interests. "The many oppor­tunities college offers have allowed us to discover our own personalities." Both sis­ters live on different floors and have differ­ent majors. Their similarities and differ­ences are also reflected in their friendships.' "We have the same friends, but our closest friends are different," Claudine added. Keith and Brian Ziolkowski also pursue different majors, yet their relationship has changed iri. a different way. Near rivals in 
Opposite page: Dillon Freshmen Brett and Aaron Tucker. Below: Pangborn Juniors Claudine and Karen Eckerle. 
Stan Evans 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ MARCH·2, 1995 
13 

I ~ • • • ' 
~ 


safetiestozero. Thistimewewon't the renovation of the Main Building will from the search dogs) watching Notre miss!" Captain Cassidy of the yield 25 percent less office space." · Dame's winter sports embarrassments: the 
U.S.S. Oppression, a Notre Dame-class at­Truth: The Main Building is approxi-basketball and hockey teams. First, over in tack submarine. mately 150,000squarefeetofusablespace. the south boob: The Gipper just doesn't buy the story that O That arena floor couldn't get any AND TOTO, TOO elevators and bathrooms are going to take uglier except if they paint huge BIG EAST 
Unless this is Oz and the Gipper and his up 37,500 square feet The Gipp is more logos all over it-which they're bound to lovablelittledogaredreaming,itseemslike inclined to believe a high-placed source do(ittooka/otofgoodtuitiondollarstobuy the persecution has stopped Right! Yea! who said that the renovated Main Building the BigEast, we should be proud to flaunt it). Sure! More like the Student Activities is "going to make Sacred Heart look like a @ Those unifonns are really dead-bor­brain trust interpreted the Gipp's conclud­slum,"and thatmostoftheusablespacewill ing. Butthey'reahellofalotbetterthanthe ing statement of last week as not so much of be lost in palace-sized offices for Father uniforms which sports marketing has de­an invitation for them to actually place their Beauchamp and other less important ad-signed for the team's entry into the Big lips on hisposterior(which it was), butas an ministrators like Monk. East: shorts that go down to about the mid-admission that the Gipper was going into "When the Architecture and Main Build-calf range done up in electric blue with a voluntary retirement (which it wasn't). ings were tagged in need of immediate glitter-covered golden dome on each side; attention, it did not mean that they are in throw in those little T-shirts with the cut off BAD TIPPER · imminentdangerfromstructuralweakness." sleeves that go under-the jersey -in glit-
One of the Gipper's holier sources was Truth: Both buildings are in such bad tery gold Sounds like the Fighting Trans-recently at the Grotto asking Mary for a shape that heavy breezes can do serious . vestites to the Gipp. favor. Whilehewasthere,FatherHesburgh damage. TheGippteiidstobelieveasource And over in the north boob where the came down the steps to pay a visit After from the official campus architects' office SouthBendpee-weeshavewonmoregames Father Ted was done praying he picked out who said that there is a real problem in the than the hockey team: one of the big $2.00 candles, lit it, left it and Main Building ''with century-old nails fall-@ The victory over Michigan was truly walked away-the only problem was that ing out of floors and walls in the hundreds amazing and inspiring. The Gipper is sur~ he didn't give Mary $2.00 for the candle. every year." prised that with three minutes left in the The Gipp supposes that Father Hesburgh · game the coach didn't pull the goalie out of canusetheexcusethat35yearsofmeaning-Dishonorable mention for the Father habit Andiftheycanbeatthe#2teaminthe fulserviceasthepresidentoftheuniversity Pinocchio,C.S.C.,Awardthisweekgoesto nation by three goals in one of the last entitles him to a few free candles. But the WilliamSexton, vice-president for univer-games of the season, then there really is Gipp thinks that if Monlc is getting paid sity relations (chief money~grubber) for absolutelynoexcuseforthel0-22-lseason almost two-hundred grand every year, a this pearl. record. real president like Hesburgh must have Financialcontributorsbelieve"thatthere OTheGipphatesthefootballushers, but beenpushingsevenfigures,andthatshould should be more emphasis on people pro-helikesthehockeyushers-especiallythe buy a lot of candles. grams versus bricks and mortar (which one who looked like Colonel Sanders and 
indicates a need for better communication who couldn't keep his hands off the little ASK FATHER PINOCCHIO, C.S.C. about how the university accomplishes its kids. Where do they get these people? 
ThisisanewsegmentofCampusWatch, educational goals)." in which the Gipp quotes real administra­That's it, that's all for this week. The tors lyingthrough their teeth and thenawards GIPPLETTES Gipperisn'tsure if there will be a next week them the Father Pinocchio, C.S.C., award Perhaps he was drawn to the A.C.C. -that will depend on whether Student 
for creative bald-faced lies. This week the because of the gentle, maternal breast im­Activities listened to the"SingingConstitu­award goes to Father Bill Beauchamp, ex­age it casts across the eastern sky :.. what­tional Law-gram" which he sent ecutive vice-Fiihrer,forthefollowinggems. everthereason, theGipperspentalargepart 
"Due to the addition of elevators, ofthislastweekend(whenhewasn'thiding Oh, and you can still kiss my ass. D 


14 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II MARCH 2, 1995 
-....: ' • • • ..., -,.. < ,. • ' • , 

Notre Dame's suicide schedule assures a young, but talente'd power that this season will not be a 
AWalk in the Park 

by Jeremy Dixon 

Wen the Notre Dame baseball players flew west last weekend to their season-opening tourna­ment at Cal-State Fullerton, they ushered in a new era of Irish baseball. It marked the first time in this decade that the Irish were not under the direction of Pat Murphy. With the loss of Murphy, many of the Irish jumped ship, either to ASU or other pro­grams. AmongthemareRobbieKent, with his team high 82 RBIs, catcher Dennis Twombley, who batted .348 while sharing time with co-captain Bob Lisanti, and Mark Mapes, one of the leading hitters on the team. However, there does not appear to beany animosity toward Murphy or 
the transfers. "It's very com­
mon for players to leave with 
the coach," said senior co-cap­
tain Bob Lisanti. Junior right 
fielderRyanTophamremarked, 
"It was a great opportunity for 
Coach. It's like being able to 
coach footballatNotreDame." 
"I'm not going to sit here and 
say that [the transfers] couldn't 
have contributed, but they 
didn't want to be here," said 
Mainieri. ''We'regoingtoplay 
with thepeople who want to be 
here." 
The biggest asset that 
Mainieri inherited is the pitch­
ing staff. There are 17 pitchers 
on the roster, giving them the 
depth necessary to finish a gru­
eling schedule and compete in 
the NCAA tournament The 
numberonepitcher for theIrish 
is Tim Kraus, who went 9-0 
witha 2.73 ERAlastcampaign. He was also the winning pitcher in the regional victory over Clemson last year. 
Also expected to be in the starting rota­tion are sophomores Darin Schmalz and Larry Mohs. Mohs led the pitching staff in earned run average (2.09) and ended the season with 41 strikeouts, second only to Tom Price, who now pitches in the LA. Dodgers' organization. 
Thestaffis helped out byfreshmen Chris­tian Parker and Dan Stavisky. Parker was already drafted by the Cleveland Indians and has earned the number three spot in the startingrotation. ''Ouryoungerguysshowed signs of being good college pitchers in fall practice," saidMainieri. ''They are going to have an impact to take us from being a good pitching team to a great one." 
The other pitchers on the staff will be in relief roles. Senior Craig Allen and sopho­more Gregg Henebry could see some starts, but will probably be the middle relief pair during the season. Also returning are senior Rich Sauget, whoplayedcollegeballforthe first time last year, and junior submariner AJ. Jones, a pitcher of 16 games last sea­son, the most by a returning Irish pitcher. The closer will be sophomore Paul Pryblo. Pryblo led the team in saves last year and posted a 2.25 ERA. This experience and depth should enable the Irish to pull out many games towards the end of the season. 
Despite the transfers of Kent and Twombley, the Irish still have some pop in the lineup. Ryan Topham is the biggest deep threat returning to the team, having hit ten home runs last season and driving in 55 runs. "It's Ryan's time to blossom," said Mainieri. "He'llbeamainrun-producerfor us in 1995." 
Adding power is junior designated hitter GeorgeRestovich, who batted .347with six home runs last year. Sophomore slugger Scott Sollmann returns to baseball after spending the fall playing football. "Base­ball is my number one. I told Coach Holtz that, and both him and Coach Mainieri are very supportive," said Sollmann. Sollmann led the Irish with a .402batting average last season and his blazing speed enabled him to steal 26 bases in 34 attempts. 
The infield will be a big question mark for the Irish. The middle infield will be covered by shortstop J J. Brock and second baseman Randall Brooks. At third base is sophomore Mike Amrhein who played left field and pitched last season. Mainieri ad­mits that there will be some tough times on the defensive side: ''They're going to get better with experience, but I expect they'll make mistakes early on." However, he was quick to add that, "I have a great deal of confidence in them and I think they're going to rise to the occasion." 
The grueling schedule also takes its toll on the players and their academic perfor­mance. "It gets difficult," said Lisanti. "You have to learn to manage your time." Topham added, "It's a lot harder studying on the plane than at home." 
But the bottom line with this team is 
talent Everyteamhasitsweaknesses. "We . definitely have the talent to go to the World Series," said Kraus. Lisanti also echoed his sentiments: "We know what we need to do, 
wejl).St have to get it done." And if the Irish 
cangetitdonethisy~,theywillmakePaul 
Mainierrs firstseason one to remember. . 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• MARCH 2, 1995 




A New General 
With the departure ofPat Murphy, Paul Mainieri arrives on the scene with hopes oftaking an already solid program to the next level, 

by Brian Hiro 
In his eight years at the helm, fonner NotreDamebaseballcoachPatMurphy got the program off the ground and put Irishbaseball on the proverbial map. Heled Notre Dame to the third-best winning per­centage in the nation. But now that Murphy has departed for the baseball hotbed of Arizona State, Notre Dame is in need of a coach who wm help the program soar to new heights. Who better to do this than the former skipper of the Air Force Academy? Meet Paul Mainieri. The 37-year-old native of Miami was named the new Irish baseball coach last August after leaving Air Force as the school's second all-time winningest coach. Mainieri's decision to come to Notre Dame has a lot to do with a long-standing interest in the school that dates back to his youth. "I was like a million other Catholic kids growing up in that I always dreamt of going to the University of Notre Dame," Mainieri said. "And when I couldn't come here as a student or as an athlete, I figured the next best opportunity would be as a coach. So when [Notre Dame athletic director] Dick Rosenthal asked me ifl was interested, there was no question in my mind that this is what I wanted to do." Since taking over for Murphy, Mainieri has been widely compared to his predeces­sor. Both coaches are young, enthusiastic, and extremely competitive. However, Mainieri is quick to downplay such com­parisons. "I'm sure Pat coached around his own personality and the areas that he was strong in, and I'm going to do the same. So ,j from that standpoint we're the same. But 

the College World Series 

After his tenure at Air Force, the 37-year old Malnlerl makes the reality of World Serles appearances very Imminent. 
obviously our personalities are different, and the things that are important to me may be a little different than him." 
In his coaching, Mainieri stresses the importance of hard work, discipline, and good fundamentals, but he also believes that the players should enjoy themselves in the process. He combines intensity with a laid-back approach. "What I try to do is create an atmosphere where the players enjoy coming to the field every day and have fun. I feel like this should be the greatest time of their life, playing baseball and representing Notre Dame. And I think that if a player is happy, he'll perform better." 
The 1995 Irish baseball squad is rela­tively inexperienced compared to the past few teams under Murphy, partly because key players from last year, including sec­cmd baseman Robbie Kent, the nation's leading returning run producer, left the pro­gram along with their coach. Mainieri identifies team strengths as a talented out­field, a deep pitching staff, and a solid senior catcher, while a potential weakness is the very inexperienced infield. In fact, as Mainieri points out, the probable starting middle infield combination of JJ. Brock andRandall Brooks has a grand total of zero starts at the collegiate level. 

Unfortunately, the young Irish players will not have the luxury of easing their way into the college game. Notre Dame faces a f murderous early season schedule leading ~ up to conference play that includes 20 
a. ' 
; straight road contests against mainly warm-weather schools. Said Mainieri jokingly, "After I took over as coach, I looked at the schedule and I called Pat Murphy out at ASU and said, 'Did you know you were leaving when you put this schedule to­gether.'" Then, on a more serious note, he added, "I feel very confident in our team as we get ready to go out west And I don't have any doubt that_we will become a better team as the year progresses. Ifwe can stay around .500 through the early part of the schedule, we should be able to make a run on our home field in April and early May, and get hot for the tournament" Mainieri grew up around the game of baseball and he cites his father Demie, a legendary baseball coach at Miami-Dade North Community College, as a major in­fluence on his professional life. The elder Mainieri retired after 30 years of coaching as the first junior college coach to win 1000 games in his career. More than 40 of his former players eventually reached the ma­jor leagues and he has been elected to some half-dozen halls of fame. "Having grown 
16 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ MARCH 2, 1995 

realityandimagearenotthesamewhenyou view something from a distance," said Mainieri. "You hear about how great a place is, but then all of the sudden you're thrust into it and become a part of it, and it doesn'tseem to live up to the image thathad preceded it. Notre Dame has surpassed even the image that I had ofit before I came. ThepeopleherearewhatmakeNotreDame, and that's what I've come to realize. I'm very proud to be a part of the Notre Dame family." 
Mainieri has a great deal of confidencein

i 
I himself and he has set his sights high with 
l, the Notre Dame baseball program. When asked about the future of the program, Mainieri said, "I really don't have a con­crete answer to say that, in five years, we will be in the College World Seri_es. All I can promise is that each yearwe're going to recruit the best players possible, we're go­ing to workwith themas hardaswecan,and 

The lrlsh Infield will miss the gritty play of All-America shortstop Paul Failla. Failla graduated at the end of last semester and Is currently playing ball for the Single A we're going to be a very competitive pro­
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a MARCH 2, 1995 
affiliate of the California Angels. 
up in that kind of an environment and idolizing my own dad, certainly his influ­ence on me would stand out from anyone else's," said Mainieri. 
Others who have influenced Mainieri's coaching to a lesser extent include his base­ball coach at the University of New Or­leans, Ron Maestri, who taught Mainieri the value of aggressive strategy, and more recently, Los Angeles Dodgers manager 

gram on a national basis-'.' . 
Tommy Lasorda, a close friend, who has helped him handle players and get the most out of them. 
Since accepting the coaching post in the fall, Mainieri has been impressed by the warm reception that he has gotten from the university. His wife Karen Ann and their four children moved to the area in October, and they too were immediately welcomed into the Notre Dame family. "Sometimes 
~ 
f The view was a lot nicer 
8 at Kline Field (left), but the Irish are more than satisfied with thezr new home at Eck Field. After 20 straight road games to open the season, Notre Dame will be looking forward to returning to the Eck. "/fwe can stay around 500 through the early part ofthe schedule, we should be able to make a run on our home field in April and early May and get hotfor the 
·tournament," said Coach Mainieri. 



Te NCAA Tournament is still two weeks away, but with the break around the comerand no Scholastic next week, we felt it was time to say who's out and who's in for a date in Seattle. 
Josh Dickinson -The defending ~7 tionalchampionArkansasRazorbac~have 
and a wave of big men, including Ostertag. Out west, Lou Roe and Marcus Camby of UMass, still upset about being bumped from the East, will take their anger out on tourney favo~!f l!~i ~ut the champion in}.Q95·will~tljc{Keritiiclcy'Wild~l$gut dftheSoriilieast Regionaj\foac? Pitino's ··· aimyp~~-pointgunn~rs\Vgls¢orch the brothers and the Bruins have been on top of their game all season, and will not disap­point in the tourney, contrary to what the many think. UMass will be there. The Minutemen have two great post players in Lou Roe and Marcus Camby, who will ... SID1"Y them to the Final Four. Joe Smith of · 1v!ar:y)and will get a chance to show why 
played inconsistently all seaso11. Thefi~.> nets ~ S~ttle, making/Jherrr/.1;Ft muf?//C; ·hfsone o{college basketball's best players ceiveda spankingearly on ff9mMassas.~f:\ easier;~ cu_tdg\V~. \Vh~n the,y win it al!t because Maryland is my sleeper pick to go setts,showingthatmay~thefre~olonge,r.. Finat5ow: Kruisas,Massachuse.~,KenI ·..... 19 the Big Dan~. But the champion this at the top. As for theMinu~me~;.expect. 1:Ucky:·connectjGµt,National Cliampio11._:-year"."ill~theJay~awksofKansas. They them to make anoth.erfine tournament rug, ' Kentuc~< \!'· , ~ve all }?e compohe,nts of a great team:
=a!~~~;~;~~:;1"~l.ii1i!i.&i~, ~~~~E:2 
UConn to b<?w put early. The;holi:[7~~;, .. ....;.s¥l<i.s~f18c•"k· .. .tf.q,#9:~;~'hampfiJh: Kan~.
oneoff!i;~pestpartan;. .. 
thou atti~d~:;:~;.'f=.:niro~t~rill w 
. :\1~;i~;i::.y,::f:i;=:i
< ,J'0~t•?~ye Smith. In the,;same way, , :~h~e~\§.¾1!f'.s got Respett\and Snow, bgttfiese.g~tswill ~so str;tiggle ~gainst a


c~111l~ttt:=i
:rµJit~~1lti:
· terun~,but;1hey ~eal~ one'ofthe cockiest A l~~?~}J.cil~ed againeft Tulsa makes the bestpointgmrrd in the natiori~~-, ...... •...••···.···· y ,~;;g9µig,, fg&~gJherearly exit / '.; 
Stoudamire, Atjzona will put· up\~f'~i;> ·•.•.•·.•.•.•n·•.l·:·..o.~;.·.'..•.·.p.·1 ..·...•.··.•.•.•r... .. .. ·,y· ...~.·•.··.••.v·,······s·,.c.•.·.•.·.·,•.·.•an•.•.•.•.th.,...,·.•.,•.•.•.·.~, 9ff ','iJµit'Iea;es me with.f9itr. The first three
.','.···d·,.·,.·.•.·.}.·••Th··••••w•.···.•.• ···i.·.'.,•.a.pa ..
•.J.·

fight with North c;arolina. BgtGaro~?< ru 1 .· ..· <)ie,c6µegebllSketballJstopthreecoaches, just too "stacked"•f9t this;~µp}, Led,l>Y,•< ,>/ , ;fil~~:~~in't1i¥y~9~ ., , ' ct' ~}I!f~lare,. ~!acked for talent and supersophomores Stac@io~;:Wallace~d. '._all:~, >·.•> , ag,9, and t;hey ha~e two 9f the > experieile,~,>Th,e,lJ,Mass tandem ofRoeand Mcinnis,theHeelswillu~th~iryoung,,gµt,,,.Pren'.ij . ersipJli.e.c9l!lltcy inWallac Campy is"th,e,~t in basketball, and even experienced talent to bring·~,Smi~,:~, f'and Sfa~khouse.'':,''Buf:Caro . ·· ,-· ithout JvUchael Williams, UMass may third championship. Final Four:; AJii6ruitf advaq~ge is C,9ac;g5:SD!ith. v~ ~i;m.ost depth. Some might point to Maryland, Kentucq' North Carolina,,,fa~... equ@.' ii,~ is this i~, the jth the,,,' ~.PYlosses to GW, but one was w~thout tional Champion: North Carolina. .., '<;~tterc<5ach is goingfo win,and thyydor(J."""''Camby and upsets happen to everyone. If 

BrianHiro-TheEastRegionalwillbe sweptawaybyHuskymaniaasUConnand star swingman Ray Allen become the first Big East team in six years to make ~eFinal Four. In the Midwest, the chant of"rock, chalk, Jayhawk" will resonate as Kansas overcomesArkansasbehindJacqueVaughn 
18 

come:mi#;lj~~tli,llll~,,S,ffiitha",Pina/ Four: UCLA;'"'lulcansaS:'kansas, North Carolina. National Champion: NorthCaro­
lina.. 

Jeremy Dixon-Who will be there in .:the Showdown in Seattle? I'm putting my moneyonUCLA,firstofall TheO'Bannon 
Lou Roe is angry, UMass will win (see Arkansas 1994). If Carolina's sophomore threat of Wallace, Stackhouse,andMclnnis is clicking, it's Good Night City for any lesseropponent Kentucqhasbasketball's best secret in Walter McCarty, but they still have Delk, Rhodes, Riddick, etc. Why 
SCHOLASTIC MAG AZ IN E a MARCH 2 , 1 9 9 5 

THE PRESS BOX February 21 to February 28 

Syracuse? With Moten and Wallace, I just have a gut feeling. Final Four: Syracuse, Massachusetts, Kentucky, North Carolina. National Champion: Massachusetts. 
Jake Schaller-As usual, the pretend­ers will fall early-UCLA, UConn, Syra­cuse-and cause much heartbreak. Ken­tucky falls in the eight, and Georgetown surprises, but here are the final four: 
Great teams play well in the big games, and that's exactly what Kansas has done this year (see Connecticut and UMass games). TheJayhawksarestackedwith big men and solid guard play, and Roy Will­iams' teams always play well in the tourna­ment Glenn Robinson is in the NBA, so Ostertag doesn't have to worry about the Big Dog dunking in his face. Respert is having an All-America year for Michigan State, and shooters can sometimes carry teams in the tournament (Georgia Tech HOCKEY Do you believe in miracles? YES! With a victory that-brought to mind1990). 

shades of Lake Placid, 1980, the Notre Dame hockey team salvaged its season. The Irish North Carolina may be the number-one defeated the number-two ranked Michigan Wolverines 6-3 for their most significantteam. With a year of experience, Wallace victory since they rejoined the Central Collegiate Hockey Association for the 1992-1993and Stackhouse form an unbeatable duo. 
season. The win also ended an 18-game losing streak to the Wolverines. .
Williams' Final Four experience will Notre Dame struck quickly, as Jay Matushak scored the first of his two goals just 2:37complement the super-sophs, and memo­into the game. The Irish took a 3-2 lead into the third period after juniors Jamie Ling a_ndries of last year's Boston College upset will Jamie Morshead scored in the second. Junior defenseman Jeremy Coe opened the third bring the Heels to Seattle. As a resident of period with what would be the gamewinner, a slapshot from just inside the blue~e. 

the great state of Maryland, I have to go Matushak's second goal and one by sophomore Tim Harberts completed the sconng, with the Terps. Maryland has looked like giving the Irish the largest margin of victory over the Wolverines in the CCHA this year.

world beaters at times during the season, However it wasn't the offense that made the most difference. Freshman goalkeeper including during their win over UNC. Joe Matt Eisler ied the defense in turning away three Michigan power plays. He also saved Smith will dominate inside, and how can 40 shots, including a great many from point blank range. . 

you deny a team that has a guy with the The Irish are peaking at just the right time, as they have won three of therr last four and name Exree Hipp? Final Four: Michigan fouroftheirlastseven.NotreDamefacesoffinitslasthomegameagainstlllinois-Chicago

State, Maryland, Kansas, North Carolina. 

this Friday at7 p.m., and then travels to Western Michigan on March 4th. If the CCHA
National Champion: Maryland. . 

playoffs began today, the Irish would be playing Bowling Green. 

5iiliiii-ii§il•iili 
Stuck here for spring break? Tired of the same old weekend routine? Fret no more! Scholastic Magazine is proud to present its choices for the best Michiana has to offer. From restaurants and night clubs to shopping and culture, here are some hidden secrets, old favorites and a few surprises that should cure those mid-term blues. 




Video Store Morris Classic Place for Sandwiches that ·Jazz and Oysters on the great hummus, too. (303 S. Video gives you two movies Isn't Macrl's Mancino's tasty Half-Shell The Madison Michigan) for two days for two bucks, grinders on fresh bread fill Oyster Bar serves up the best even the new releases. Two you up without emptying your of both, often drawing jazz 
easy. (51333 us 31 N) walleL Great lunch choice and blues acts from Chicago. when you're tired of chicken (421 E. Madison) Carnivore Dream Come patties. (St. Andrew's Plaza True Eddie's Steak Shed is 
on Edison) great if you're the kind of person who enjoys steaks the size of your body in a hardy Hoosier atmosphere. Bring cash -Eddie's doesn't take




,. 11111a.:~~~i~~~~s 
crediL (12685 Adams Rd., #ti.. .., Vegetarian chdi, freshly Granger)\15.t.k ,;1% squeezed apple juice 


Personal Care Salon Salon Nouveau's speciality is hair design, but they offer every­thing from stress relief to aromatherapy to solar nails. Party packages, too, so you can plan that next birthday now. (1357 N. Ironwood) 
?a, ?a, ?a, 
Boutique Dazzlers offers earthy and silver jewelry. Not only will they sell you bead necklaces, but they'll tell you what the beads mean. (4215 Grape) 
?a, ?a, ?a, 
Quintessential Italian Food The Sunny Italy Cafe has been around since the '20s. Homemade fare tells why, and vinyl tablecloths add to the ambience. (601 N. Niles) Also worth checking out Cosimo and Suzie's by Town & Country. (2446 Miracle Ln., Mishawaka) 

?a, hi, ?a, 
Beach The secluded Lake Michigan beach makes the 40­minute drive to New Buffalo well worth the trip, especially for anyone tired of the view of the steel mill at the Indiana Dunes. 
?a, ?a, ?a, 
Hiking Trail Weather permitting, try walking the river path starting at St. Joe's High School and ending at the boathouse. 
Ambience and Beer The Mishawaka Brewing Com­pany gives beer 
A

dtf/,t{@ti
tqitf\gNt1
• ~"=::l:t-.-:-=i:.-.::-:::=:-::.::=­
. '-=-~~~===$~"::§:$$;$::f 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II MARCH 2, 1995 
-·-:: =::::--:-ill:·:.»'.,;
1~w~~~lttti1::,:..: 
*'$~)''" 

drinkers a break from the typical bar scene. Try some of the homemade seasonal brews, or take a case or keg home. MBC also sports a friendly homebrewing shop for the budding braumeister. (3703 N. Main, Mishawaka) 
~ ?a, ?a, 

Last Resort Liquor If you're . really desperate for some red-eye, but Indiana's Sunday prohibition laws are in your way, try Smiley's in Michi­gan. Trashy, but open seven days a week. (US 31 N, Michigan) 
Sunday Brunch You'll leave Bibler's Original Pancake House so full you'll want to skip the sundae bar. Apple Pancakes as big as your head and resonably priced. ·Worth waiting in the lines for. (1430 
N. Ironwood) 

orkout Just Aerobics 
n Miracle Lane lets 
ose "no commitment" 
xercisers pay by the 
lass. (1803 South Bend 
ve.) 

adio Station None. hasn't gone FM.) 
--~==~~ 
·wt 
Laundromat World's Greatest Laundry, complete with snack bar, big screen 
T.V. and children's play area. It's the most fun you can have with dirty underwear. (1813 South Bend Ave.) 
?a, ~ ?a, 
Country & Western Bar 
Heartland downtown offers a fresh alternative to typical rock 'n' roll bars with a lot of space inside to roam. (222 S. Michigan) 
?a, ~ ?a, 
Place to Blow a Wad on 

I
Drinks Try a watery three­

I
dollar Coke at Gipper's Lounge. Makes Mia's shake look reasonably priced. (515 Dixie Way N.) 
Golf Course Juday Creek is fairly challenging, complete with plenty of water and some beautiful scenery. The new Blackthorn course by the airport promises to be a strong contender.· (14770 Lindey Dr., Granger) 
Late Night Hangout Meijer. Where else can you get bulk food at 4 a.m. (On Grape Rd. You can't miss it) 


\ 
21 


Restaurant for Rudy Aspirants Pat's Colonial Pub. The amount of chintzy Notre Dame paraphenalia makes you feel like Mr. Ruttiger's apartment has been turned into a bar. (901 W. Michigan) 
Techno Intrigue Both Basix. (1150 Mishawaka Ave.) and Truman's (100 Center, Mishawaka) let you shake your booty to funky club grooves. 

Mid-town Distraction Al 
Bundy wanna-bes can check 
out the "cultural exposure" at 
the Glo Worm Lounge. (720 
S. Michigan) 
Fish Taco Taco Bell can't hold a candle to Cactus Jack's. Best chips & salsa and fish tacos hands down. 10le! (1827 South Bend Ave) 
On-Campus Coffee For 50 
cents get a large cappucino 
from the vending machine in 
the basement ofLaFortune. A 

''\ decent cup of java at a price you can't beat. 



Off-Campus Coffee A tight 
race between Lula's across 
from the 'Backer, the cool 
board games at Cafe Capote 
(100 Center, Mishwaka), and 
the new Cap'n Cino's which 
promises to stay open later 
than the bars (comer of 
Edison and SR 23). 
On-Campus Cinema The Snite Museum. From Casablanca to The Scent of Green Papaya to Pulp Fiction, the Snite offers something for every taste with culture and a sound system that doesn't make the actors sound like they're gargling. Shows on Mondays, Tuesdays and weekends for $2. 
Off-Campus Cinema For three bucks (with student ID), you can't beat the price of a first~run feature at the State Theatre (2141/2 S. Michi­gan). The 100 Center Cinemas in Mishawaka offer similar bargains. (100 Center, Mishawaka) 
Meat Market The sign for the Linebacker advertises steaks and cocktails. Few have ever had a steak, but many have been treated like meat. (1631 South Bend Ave.) 
Getaway for the Physically Uninhibited Sunny Haven Recreation Park, Inc. Granger's one and only family nudist park. For more info write Box 100 SB, Granger, IN 46530. Do you get color photo brochures? 
~~~ 
· 

Thin Crust Pizza Forget about Papa John's. Go to Rocco's and eat the best pizza surrounded by pictures of the Pope. In a cozy trailer-like atmosphere. (537 N. St. Louis Blvd.) 
Deep Dish Pizza Rathskeller is one of the best-kept treasures south of town. The spinach pizza rivals Chicago's, and you're served in a medieval cellar atmo­sphere. Sorry, no Pope photos. (100 Center, Mishawaka) 
Burger Oaken Bucket's patties rival CJ's. The wooden panelling and white Christmas lights, as well as a beautiful river view, capture the essence of South Bend. (1212 S. Ironwood). 
Cheesy High School Evening Out Putter's wraps up every high school weekend you could never have. Features mini golf, video games, a laser tag arena and murals capturing the seasons of Michiana. (2500 Miracle 
1f1 ~ 

Night Out with the Guys 
Beacon Bowl can't be beat for booze and bowling. (4210 Lincoln Way West) Shoe Store Money pits, 
trivia questions and surprise 
discounts: Shoe Carnival's 
frenzied buying atmosphere 
delivers everything its name 
promises. (5924 Grape) 

Cultural Intrigue The Morris Civic Auditorium downtown gives South Bend residents the chance to catch Broadway touring companies and cultural film fests. Needless to say, a step above the Glo Worm. (211 N. Michigan) 
Beer and Wine Selection 
Citywide beer divesity could 
make the choosiest Domer 
happy. Their extensive wine 
selection includes a special 
chilled wine room. (3825 
Grape Rd.) 
Indian Cuisine The Malabar offers authentic cuisine with nightly menu changes. (1709 South Bend Ave.) 

Fresh Bread The Great Harvest Bread Company offers the tastiest, including specialty Italian loaves that will make your mouth water. (5932 Grape Rd., Mishawaka) 
Ribs Archie's Place near the Commons is just what a rib place should be: sticky bones covered with BBQ sauce · served on picnic tables. (1130 South Bend Ave.) 
~ ~~ 

Fries CJ' s spicy fries is the ideal afterlife for a potato. (417N. Michigan) D 
22 

S C H O L A S T I C M A G A.,z I N E ¦ M A R C H 2 , 1 9 9 5 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• MARCH 2, 1995 
23 





Coming Distractions 
From. March 2-March 22 
Field, Rink, Court & Pool 
Tennis: ND Women vs. Michigan, Fri., 4:00. 
ND Women vs. Wake Forest, Sun., 12:00. 
ND Women vs. Clemson, Sat., 4:00. 
ND Men vs. Illinois, Sat., 4:00 
ND Men vs. Iowa, Sun., 3:00. 
·Hockey: ND vs. Illinois at Chicago, JACC, Fri. 7:00. 
Cultural Connection 
Concerts: Yin Shi, pianist, and Miriam Eckelhoefer, cellist, will 
perform with the Fort Wayne Philharmonic on March 12, Sunday. 
For more information, contact Julie Goodnow at (219) 631-6201. 
Lectures and Seminars: "Medical Ethics," Gary Mitchell and 
Gary Fromm, Tuesday, 126 DeBartolo Hall, 7:30. 
Tony Ardizonne, novelist and short story writer, Hesburgh 
Library faculty lounge, Thursday, 8:00. Open to the public. 
Entertainment: Pangborn Hall's "Price is Right," Washington 
Hall, Saturday, 7:00. Tix $3 at Lafortune info desk and at door. 
Sophomore Four, a series of four one-act plays, Mon. &Tues. 
8:00 at the Lafortune Ballroom. A $2 donation will be collected at the door. 
The Harlem Globetrotters, Sun., 6:00, JACC. For ticket informa­tion, call 631-7356. 
PARTING IS SUCH SWEET SORROW. (SIGH) 
HAVE A SAFE, HEALTHY, FIBER-RICH BREAK. 
24 

SCHOLASTIC 
Editor's Choice 



·on the Silver Screen 
March 3-March 9 

University Park West: 277-7336. "Boys on the Side," R, 2:30, 4:50. "Walking Dead," R, 7:15, 9:.20. "Brady Bunch," PG-13, 2:15, 4:30, 6:45, 9:00. "The Mangler," R, 2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9:30. 
University Park East: 277-7336. "Hideaway," R, 1:30, 4:10, 7:15, 9:45. "Legends of the Fall," R, 4:00, 6:45. "Billy Madison," PG-13, 1:45, 9:20. "Pulp Fiction," R, 2:00, 5:15, 8:45. "Roommates," PG, 12:00 Sat. only, 2:30, 5:00, 7:30, 10:00. "Man.of the House," PG, 12:15 Sat. only, 2:35, 4:50, 7:10, 9:30. "The Hunted," R, 1 :40, 4:40, 7:20, 9:40. 
Town & Country: 259-9090. "Nobody's Fool," R, Sat.-Sun. 1:45, 4:30, 7:15, 9:45. Weekdays 4:30, 7:15, 9:45. "Heavy Weights," PG, Sat.-Sun. 12:15, 2:30, 4:45, 7:00, 9:15, Weekdays 4:45, 7:00, 9:15. "Just Cause," R, Sat.-Sun. 2:15, 5:00, 7:30, 10:00, Weekdays 5:00, 7:30, 10:00. 
Scottsdale: 259-9096 ''The Hunted," R, 10:00, 2:00, 5:00, 7:30, 10:00. "Billy Madison," PG-13, 9:00, 11 :30, 1 :45, 4:15, 6:45,9:00. "Brady Bunch," PG-13, 9:30, 12:00, 2:30, 4:45,7:15, 9:30. "Man of the House," PG, 9:30, 11 :45, 2:15, 
4:30, 6:45, 9:15. "Dumb and Dumber," PG-13, 9:00, 12:15, 2:45, 5:15, 7:30, 9:4~. "Hideaway," R, 10:00, 1 :00, 4:00, 7:00, 
9:45. 
MAGAZINE ¦ MARCH 2, 1995 
• # ..~ 





King 
. The King and I 

A graduate student from the University of Illinois has recently completed an expan­sion on his doctoral thesis entitled,"Elvis after Elvis: The Posthumous Career of a Living Legend." 
According to theDaily/llini, the Univer­sity oflllinois student paper, Gilbert Rod­man is writing the book because "Elvis is everywhere. He affects our daily life with­out our even noticing." 
Of course, I have always believed the King to be a spiritual figure, and my parents have often told me that he was similar to Gabriel the Archangel. Rodman addresses this issue as well, stating that the King's status "helps to make him what any good deity shouldbe: an omnipresent forcewithin the culture that worships him." 
And if worshippin' Elvis is wrong, I don't-want to be right 
Saturday, February 25 228 Natural History Bldg Doors open at 5:30PM 

for Insect Zoo First film begins at 7:00 PM 
Featuring: Brain Eaters, Skeeters, Ticks 

12th Annual 
' . 
.· .: . .


·.· •. ·1,1·.·
~ -; ' : 
• . .v ., . ;:_,_ •. 


. Good God! Look At the Tartar Build-Up On That Poodle! 
There's good news for dogs who were always afraid to smile. George K. Stookey, the Professor of Dentistry at Indiana Uni­versity-Purdue University at Indianapolis, has turned his attention to the animal world. In an effort to help canines everywhere, Stookey has designed ''Tartar Check" dog biscuits. 
Now dogs can beautify their molars and still get that great, Stookey-cookie crunch. 
In the future, Stookey, along with his partner in crime, George P. Willis, plans to develop similar products for cats, lemurs, and baboons. 
That's great news for me, because I don't know about you, but my lemur's teeth look disgusting. 
' . ; ; . , . : ;
ml'',.·i··lJ...· 
. . . :· :': 
•. •· \ ••,,~. ><•VO ,: • : ' ' . : :•.:• ,••.,. ~ 




Dog Biscuits and The 
by Kris Kazlauskas 
Playboy, the leading men's magazine on campus, is looking for enthusiastic students to serve as campus representatives during the Spring term. Qualified applicants must be active in campus sponsored social, fraternity, or athletic activities. An interest in marketing is aplus, as is familiarity with the Internet. This is agreat opportunity for a Sophmore or Junior who is energetic and . 
resourceful and would 
IIlike to gain valuable marketing experience while earning good • money! 
To apply call 1-800-487-2434 ext. 5968 or fax a resume to 206-282-1280 attn: Event Marketing. 
.When Guns and Clam Dip Don'tMix 

TheadministrationatM.I.T. has recently taken the airport approach to campus secu­rity. The use ofmetal detectors is currently being instituted at parties on campus at whichmorethan250peopleareexpectedto attend. 
The idea is as interesting as it is disturb­ing. In aquotefrom theChronicleforHigher Education, Anne P. Glavin, the institute's police chief, says,"It' s too bad we've come to this, but this is the state of the world we live in. It would be foolish not to take advantage of available technology." 
While students claim that they enjoy the added security, some students feel that it is unfair ~t metal detectors are not being usedatoffcampus events, notably at parties thrown by M.I.T.'s white fraternities. D 
S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E ¦. M A R C H 2 , 1 9 9 5 

Grist for the Mill RICK GREY 

Grist for the Mill 
••• SI:) TIE WA'r 1HE Ul-llllaslT'i' HAS HAfSDLED Tl-IE. IA.lHOLE. 'GLND/SMC ISSUE. HAS 'REAu_y Hi)IJ\E:> ME Ol=F. I. 
MEA!j) w1wr'5 THE ADMII--.JJS­
mnoN'.s "PRO&EM ? 


1l!E. <»-X..'? THIN& 11115 1)/JJVQSIT'J' lJ/SDER.STAk)bS 15 llfE.. 130TTOH UNE, WE VOTE HEEE WlT/i OLl(. 
Tl>ITfO/-) 1X'UA1$• .4:) lf)/.J{;, A.S WE PA'< I WE'RE CONl>O~lf\) f, 
lliE. IN~IT'i! 

MAYBE. fF E/0OU9-1 
'PE01'LE. "1"Vtlu5FEJ?l'.Eb 001 OF HE:Kt::., THE. AD111~1~ 
M16HT LEA I 
RICK GREY 
IWO~S OF UC.iTTIO/vS FW-\ 


SCHOLASTIC MAGA.fINE ¦ .MARCH 2, 1995 

Bruised and Battered 
A Chilling Account ofthe Carbon's Malted Waffle Fire 
by Heidi Urben 

Tegleam in their eyes saysitall. Theystandinline patiently, waitingfor their tum. One by one they approach the waffle iron and the measuring cups full ofbatter~ Behind the long, whitetable,apetiteoperatorcladinachefsuniformadomedsubtly with a red kerchief firmly states, "Seven ounces." Delighted, they finalize this evil ceremony by garnishing their masterpieces with cherries, apples and that scrumptious whipped topping. I look away, for I do not partake. I sit in the comer, as far away as I can getfromthatevilSatanofawaffleiron. I,likemanyothers,haven't forgotten that fateful morning. YetI am strong, for I am a survivor of the Malted Waffle Fire at NDH. It started out like any other January morning. I had seen all the promotional posters, and I couldn't wait to try my first malted waffle. Little did I know that it would also be my last As I took my first bite, the terror began. Clouds of white smoke started billowing up into oursection. I ran to the railing and looked below. "The horror. The horror!" I gasped. The waffle iron table was in flames! I immediately stopped, dropped, and rolled. But it was too late. NDH had erupted into chaos. Two of my friends who had been getting bagels at the time were covered from head to toe in flaming batter. In the onslaught, Manuela, the kindly waffle iron operator-arms flailing -had been thrown into the vat of maple syrup. Saddest of all was witnessing oneof the elderly ID checkers, her headtilted ever so slightly to the left, staring forlornly into the blaze-eyeglasses covered with whipped topping. I couldn't bear to watch. By this time, people werefrantically scurrying aroundthe main floor, desperately trying to escape the burning waffle inferno. I knew I had to get out of there and fast "Must get..tray ...put away!" I said throughdenched teeth. Crawling on my hands and knees, I looked up, only to see the NDH head manager standing above me. "How can you stand there and do nothing?" I screamed. With that he threw his head back, laughed a hideous laugh, and proceededtokickmesharplyinmyribs. Tearsstreamingdownmy face, I managed to place my tray in the revolving slot Exhausted, I collapsed and lost consciousness. 

But just asIwasready tosuccumb to the swelteringjaws of death, I saw a bright light, and a figure cloaked in white stood above me. "Fear not," he said. "I am Stan, the patron saint of food service. I am with you, Heidi, but you_ must be strong. You must save yourself." 
Then he vanished, leaving only a stainless steel ladle as evidence that I had conversed with this culinary angel. I put the ladle in my coat pocket, slung the ID checker who was still staring at the blaze over my shoulder, and executed a perfect fireman's carry in a mad dash for the door. 
We survived. 

Since then my wounds have healed, but nothing can soothe the emotional scars that I will take with me to my grave. I was expecting, at the the very least, a formal apology from NDH about the whole incident Nothing. In fact, when I confronted the manager with my hospital bills, he looked at me incomprehensibly saying, "Fire? We had no fire!" He then walked away, laughing that maniacal laugh that had so haunted me before. 
I proceeded to take my case to Crimestoppers. Lt Dave Shock couldn't have been kinder. Crimestoppers did a re-enactment of that cold January morning at NDH, in hopes of finding the perpetrator, and although I've lost all feeling on the right sideofmy body, the kindness and generosity of people like Lt Dave is what carries me through each day. 
I haven't had another waffle since the fire, and I imagine that those of you who lived through the inferno haven't either. On Sunday Brunch, (the only day the beast now operates), I usually sit in the Pastaria or some other place far away from the waffle line, clutchingthe ladle St Stan gave to me thatfateful mom. Whenever Isee the dining hall manager, I hiss and spit at him,justto show that I haven't forgotten. But that's okay, justice will prevail ...I've got the personal injury team ofSweeney, Pfeifer, and Anderson on my side. . 
This is a humor column. These views are not necessarily the views ofthe editorial staffofScholastic Magazine. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 1!1 MARCH 2, 1995 
¦ir+li11 1Nlft)Hl'I¦ 
AllToucheed Out 

Sophomore sabre fencer Manolo Gall nan es catches 40 winks In the midst of the midwestern team championships In the J.A.C.C. 
Plwto by Stan Evans 
SCHOLASTIC MAGA.:Z.INE ¦ MARCH 2, 1995 


~ Scholastic wants YOU 
for the position of 

Advertising Manager Distribution Manager Business Manager Layout Manager 
Applications can be picked up at the Scholastic office on the third floor of LaFortune. · Applications are due March 6 at 5 p.m. at the Scholastic Office. 
PIZZA 
01111 


muo,uttioinN 
Open for carryout and delivery only Accepting reservations on weekends. from 4 -1Op.m. weekdays, Available for private parties 4 p.m. -midnite weekends. and banquets. 
**2 12-INCH PIZZAS WITH 6 TOPPINGS **ONE 20-INCH PIZZA FOR $9.95 FOR $10.50 EVERY THURSDAY** EVERY THURSDAY (DINE-IN ONLY)** . 115 U.S. 31 (just north of campus) 261 O Prairie Ave. 
. '273-3890 288-3320 
"All Homemade -100% Real Cheese" We offer FREE DELIVERY of our pizza right to · Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. _ 
NTERVIEW 
WITH THE VAMPIRE THE VAMPIRE ·CHRONICLES Friday & Saturday (March 3 & 4) Cushing Auditorium 8:00 & 10:30 PM Admission: $2 ·... DRINK FROM ME  
ND LIVE FOREVER  1I t  
Thursday March 2 Montgomery Theatre Admission: $1 Truly a classic. A perfect way to start the night. _..••_....,. zr••&11&11111.,uc nun  

--­ -~­ -­ - - - •  - .~ '  ~ - f  ,  •  •  •  ;  - .,  ,  
.  .  ...  ~  ~  .  .  .  .  '  
. .  .  -.,'--'  .  .  .  .  .  
- •  I  I  •  









