
Live the Tradition Together 
Subscribe to Scholastic 
FOR OVER 120 YEARS, A LINK BETWEEN PARENTS AND CAMPUS LIFE 
Please send years of Scholastic to: 
Name 

Address _________________--c-----­
City State Zip 
Please make checks payable to: Scholastic t-.fagazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is a check for $25.00x years=$ 
I 
I 
_,' 


>~·­
.: ~~i:<-· : 
·Y< ·: ::!f.<::. >.


SCHOLASTIC ,· 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine February 8, 1990 
t~J~,·

COVER Election '90 
Bettencourt 

Interviews conducted 
10 
6 and Craig Loya by Andy Hilger, Derik8 and Singh Weldon, Patrick Wat­Pasin 
kins and Mike Wieber 
12 
and Tombar Sanchez 

Cover and inside election
and Smith 

photos by Brian Schwartz 
FEATURES 
14 
The Fourteenth Keenan Revue by Marshall Armintor 
.. >•. Editri~.in Chlef:.Ci 

16 
• · • ····Andrew K Hilger •·• • .<>. •• / ~~"~~ih9eji.~r'
Tour de Campus 
.· MichaelC. Wieber>

Volunteer student guides share their knowledge of Notre Dame by giving 
tourists a look at its past and present by Kate Manuel 
Ed.itorial Staff; 7'7=.,.,..,,,.=-,,,-::-,.,,,..,,=,.,..,.,~=,_..,.,=~==,,,--,..==.,.,,,,,,.,.,.,.,,....,,,,,,.,.,.._,,,.,.,......,.,,,,,..,....,.~...,.,,.,.,,,-.,.~..,•···•:••·••·:,;):1::.:;$~.i~i~.lli~·•·•~:~91~r11·••:••<H 
·. CSport~;As.st/:E?rian.• M9Mahpri:, ..··•· 'News:. Oi:lrikWeldori • < > . 



;y ·.· M"f!~~f,!Jt?l~".z•.. 
'?'< f~aiur~.sAsstr.Kristine:Oi:l<3aiigi:l ••...... . Depattrnenls: qhris FiHio' . 
t·•.·•••.
•.·.••••}1,j~al,ih~icir~~m~JillflB.rr 
.. ··.. ,.... Ph<>toAssflan\Joharison 

~Ii: ~!{~u1a!~r1ITht~ti1~~~1e'..~t$).2S1fwst~r~~~~t~tt~,~~•··

·res "riions ofthe entire edit<irialboard of Scli8iastic or of the University iJf.N6 .·.
;/7• k} i ;;w, iihi:1n1j8rity''.ofili~ eie¢iidJb$1it6ii~l' .,;;;•·:.•··. ;;c; .••. ,.,,_, 
,........ __ , , ..... ' 
.·••··;········ .. zjmJl;i~#i~c~petMmio~ is;i,~~l:a:·r· 

LETTERS 


Asst. VP: Attacks Reported 
Dear Editor, 

A recent Scholastic editorial implied that the university was not open and candid in its handling of such matters as rapes and assaults on campus. Readers should be apprised of the fact that there is a longstanding policy governing such incidents in effect between th(? Department of Public Relations and Information and campus news media, one that guarantees openness. All rapes, assaults, attempted rapes and attempted assaults that are reported to security are made known to campus news media with daily news reporting capability (The Observer, WVFI, WSND-FM) as soon as possible. The purpose of making such incidents public is twofold: to alert the campus to possible danger and to bring forth helpful witnesses. On their part, campus news media pledge to report such incidents without sensationalizing them and to make every effort to protect the anonymity of the victim. 
Richard W. Conklin 
Assistant Vice President 


ON OTHER CAMPUSES 



Oh Give Me A Home, Of Concrete And Stone . .,@ 

EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 
Tired o.f looking at tiny little slides for your art classes? Then how about putting some ofthose classic pieces d'art on your wall? According to the National On-Campus Report, students at the University of California-Berkeley are now allowed to borrow signed original prints by well-known artists in order to decorate their apartment or dorm room. For a paltry $3 fee, the students can check out prints ranging in value from $500 to $1500 after they agree to accept responsibility for the print. 
The Freshman Fact File is a yearly survey compilation done by The Chronicle ofHigher Education. The survey for 1989 reveals some interesting attitudes and characteristics for freshmen at "4-year colleges, Catholic." Activities in which Catholic students were tops among all schools include "was bored in class (96.0)" ,"won a varsity letter (55.6)","smoked cigarettes (9.6)" ,"spoke a language other than English at home (8.3)","felt overwhelmed by all I had to do (22.6)" ,"performed volunteer work (70.9)", "worried about choosing a career (76.9)","drank beer (68.8)", and "drank wine or liquor (69.6)", Of note, the two widest margins by which the Catholic school freshmen surpassed other institutions were the last two. Bot­toms up! 
Accuracy in journalistic reporting has brought kudos once again to Brown University. A November 16, 1989, letter to the editor of the Brown Daily Herald was as follows: "We must admit, at times we have questioned the accuracy of The Herald, especially when it comes to weather. But no more! Your prediction of the weather on the night ofNovember 14, 1989, was beyond reproach. It was indeed 'dark' that night. Bravo to The Herald for excellence in reporting and research." The response to sophomores Brent Weil and Eric Rothaus was one of thanks for recognition of the paper's pride in weather reporting. 
In what may be a first in dorm food, officials at Clark University (Worcester, MA) have started offering students money back if they don't like their residence hall meals. According to a report released by the College Press Service, the program is designed to dispel the notion that all college food is bad and to better accomodate the individual tastes of its student customers. "It seems to be a common denominator for students at all colleges and universities to write home about the quality of the food," said Jack Foley, business managerof the school. Under the new plan, students unhappy with a meal can complain to the food services manager, who, if unable to concoct an adequate substitute, will credit the student's university account for the price of the meal. Breakfasts cost $1.66, lunch or brunch costs $3.32 while dinner is $4.99. 
The Roaming Buffaloes and the Asphalt Jungle. No, not another low budget B-movie from the mid-seventies. Rather, it is the topic of debate between dueling husband-wife professor teams. A story published by the College Press Service reports that Rutgers profes­sors Frank and Deborah Popper argued in a recent book that the fate of the environmentally devastated Great Plains would best be left to wild buffaloes as a national parkland. Angered by this suggestion, professors Stephen and Barbara Ragan of Minot State University in North Dakota retaliated by proposing that the state ofNew Jersey be turned into a huge parking lot. "New Jersey is a flat state," said Mr. Ragan. "It would make a good parking lot. Parking lots are typically very flat." 0 




WEEK IN DISTORTION/ROGER HIPP 



Year of the Orangutan 
Some distorted predictions for the 1990s 
T
he 1990's are finally upon us, and it's only a matter of time until the 80's seem as ridiculous as other decades. When our kids see the television re­runs, they'll think the outfits sported by last year's sitcom families were as laughable as Brady Bunch attire, and those mousse-in­spired hair creations will seem as funny as the beehive. Of course, I don't mean to make light of the 80's. The last decade created some serious national problems which threaten to haunt future generations, such as the skyrocketing national debt, the homeless crisis, Roseanne Barr, and the resurgence of professional wrestling. 
But time marches on, and the supermarket tabloids have already issued their stunning predictions for the 90's. The tabloid predic­tions used to have a certain respectability, since they were made by professional, gov­ernment-licensed psychics. Recently, though, the editors of The National Enquirer and The National Even Sillier have decided to cut costs by letting their own reporters handle the predictions issue. As a result,just about anyone can get into the predictions business, including Scholastic writers. The rule of thumb for maki_ng forecasts is "the more bizarre, the better." A bold headline proclaiming "DAN QUAYLE WILL AD­MIT ALIENS DAMAGED HIS BRAIN" will sell more papers than "LOOKS LIKE MORE OF THE SAME OLD BORING STUFF." So, in an effort to boost Scholastic subscriptions, I'm going to outdo all the tab­loids with my exclusive Notre Dame predic­tions for the 90's: 
University President Edward "Monk" Malloy will change his nickname to "Orangutan." In a press conference broad­cast to Notre Dame alumni clubs around the nation, Malloy will say, "I always thought 'Monk' was a bit brief, and now that I'm turning Notre Dame into a great research institution, I think I need something longer, more distinguished, and higher up the pri­mate chain." Malloy will take advantage of his new moniker by auditioning for a part in a sixth "Planet of the Apes" movie, in which an ape space capsule from the future crashes into St. Michael's Laundry, setting off a spectacular blaze. 
Father David Tyson will participate in the traditional snowball fight. Frustrated by broken windows in his Dillon living quarters, Fr. Tyson will don body armor, purchase a snowmobile, and attempt to run over as many snow-throwing hoodlums as possible. After the fight, the "Pummelling Provost" will shut off heat and waterin the dorms for the winter, in addition to suspending matching funds. After the pipes freeze in Orangutan Malloy's Sorin living quarters, Tyson will reverse his decision. 
The Registrar's office will abandon DART and begin choosing student courses at ran­dom. In announcing his decision, University Registrar Daniel Winicur will explain, "First, the students complained that the checkmarking system was unfair to those who couldn't stand in line all day. Then they complained about DART being unfair to those who didn't have computer appoint­ments on Monday morning. So from now on, we're going to draw everyone's classes and times out of big hat, and be equally unfair to everyone." The buying and selling of sought-after courses will replace the "Hate Miami" t-shirtindustry as the most profitable student enterprise. 
Inspired by the Colorado incident, Lou Holtz will continue to bad-mouth opposing teams. Instead of reciting his standard "They're a very fine football team" speech, Coach Holtz will tell the press before a cer­tain Navy game that "the Midshipmen have no business being on the same football field as Notre Dame. In all honesty, I'm tired of working my butt off to keep the score down against these clowns." The surprisingly candid coach will add, "I may weigh only 110 pounds, look like I have scurvy, and wear shirts with big collars, but Navy's offensive line is so puny, I could play linebacker and sack their wimpy quarterback a dozen times." 
Digger Phelps will open up the offense and allow the Irish basketball team average 120 points a game. "I don't knovrwhat I was thinking, playing that boring ball control game all those years," an embarrassed Coach Phelps will admit, predicting, "From now on, look for us to shoot, shoot, shoot, and the 1 hell with playing defense." Unfortunately, the high-scoring trend in college basketball trend continue, meaning the Irish will need to score 200 points a game to reach the Final Four. 
WNDU anchorgoddess Maureen McFad­den will run off to Bermuda with "Week in Distortion" columnist Roger Hipp. Hey, a guy can dream, can't he? You read it here first. 0 

MUSIC/DAVE HOLSINGER 


Richard Marx: Repeatedly Offensive 
0 
kay, I should probably make a dis­claimer here. Anyonewhohasever even come close to liking anything about Richard Marx in any form whatsoever should probably stop reading right now. Basically, I consider him and all of his top-40 cohorts to be the prime example of a disease that has today's airwaves in a death grip. If you have a weak back, a heart condition, or are pregnant, I again advise you to stop read­ing at this point. Let me also make itperfectly clear that I have probably never listened to Richard Marx on purpose, yet I probably know the words to more than half ofthe songs that he's ever written. This has been achieved through the wonder of MTV and another new gimmick known as heavy rota­tion. A friend of mine once defined radio overkill as "hating a song and knowing every word ofit." That, I think, is Richard Marx in a nutshell. 
As I got to the JACC, I wondered if there was going to be a sign inside the door of the press box reading, "Welcome Progressive Music Writer-This is Your Hell!" I also wondered if there could be anything more pathetic than someone who would· waste seventeen dollars of hard-earned American currency and three hours ofhis life to witness this event. The crowd seemed to be com­posed mainly of sixteen year-old girls and forty year-old guys who looked like they wanted to pick up the sixteen year-old girls. 
The opening band, Poco, seemed to be composed ofthe members ofbands where the fellow members (the ones who really mat­tered) went solo and left these guys in the lurch. They kind of reminded me of a really bad Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young. Appar­ently they're trying to earn their keep now by playing songs that they wrote for their former bands. One of the guys must have been from the Eagles, because they played "Take It to The Limit," and another was from the less succesful half of Loggins & Messina, judg­ing by the fact that they played "Your Mama Don't Dance." But at least these guys really gave the poor, overworked spotlight opera­tors a break, as they didn't budge once during their entire set. They also had every possible kind ofguitar known to man on stage, but this was quite extraneous when their music was as bad as it was. Maybe the law of diminish­ing returns took effect here. Here were six guys doing what could have easily been taken care ofby three guys with an ounce of talent. The extra musicians just seemed to make things worse. They left uneventfully after tormenting the crowd for nearly 45 minutes. 
As soon as the lights went out for Richard Marx to take the stage, I noticed something that pointed to a mostly non-ND crowd: the odor of marijuana drifted faintly past my nose from somewhere down below. That was one thing that I had noticed was absent from previous concerts at the JACC. People here just don't smoke pot at concerts; I think there'ssomethinginDuLac aboutit. Itmust have been those forty year-old guys in jeans and t-shirts that I had seen earlier. 
One of the most striking features about Richard Marx is his size. The guy's probably about5'6", 130lbs., withhishairdomorelike 5'9" and 145 lbs. I'm notsuggestingthathe's at all effeminate, but the security guard who was sitting next to me asked at one point during the show whether the person who was singing was a man or a woman. My answer seemed to startle him. 
Being a huge MTV star does have some benefits. You get huge sponsors like AT&T who build enormous stages for you and buy you loud amps and lots of lights. The stage alone must have kept our neighbors in Gary busy for quite a while. The amps weren't as loud as, say, The Who's, but they were al­most enough to cause severe discomfort, even for frequent concert goers who have already lost a good deal ofsensitivity. As for the lights, they provide substantial evidence for a theory that much of the concert experi­ence is lost on the MTV crowd. It used to be that a little bit of finely-tuned showmanship would complement the music and make the concert experience something entirely dif­ferent from what listeners had become ace us­tomed to hearing on albums. Now, the music is reproduced to sound so much like the singles and videos that it makes the cynic wonder whether it's being played or just lip­synced. This says a lot for the members of Richard's band. They have to play consis­tently every night in order to keep this video­like facade going. Richard himself seemed a little erratic, however. He sang the up-beat songs like they were ballads, and the slow songs like they were some kind of thrash­metal jams. Like Poco, there were too many musicians on stage at once. I counted two guitarists, a bass player, two keyboardists (one of whom doubled on sax), and a drum­mer. Add that to Richard's occasional guitar or piano and you get a whole lot of unneces­sary noise pollution. Teeny-bopper music definitely does not need to ·be as loud as Richard and the boys are playing it. 
I can't tell you how the show ended because I left early in a vain attempt to spare my ears for future concerts. Hopefully these future shows won't be quite as. unnecessarily pol­luted with all of the state of the art lighting and excessive instrumentation that I had to sit through at this concert. You never can tell, though. I hate to think what might happen if MTV got their way with some of my favorite bands... D 
ELECTION '90 








nc 
urt 

Mark Bettencourt and Kevin Craig are currently the co­presidentsofFlanner. Bettencourt, running/or president, is a junior majoring in government andphilosophy. Craig, an accounting major, serves as the vice-presidential candidate on the ticket. They have served on numerous HPC commit­tees including the budget committee as well as the SYR task force. Both were active in attempting to solve various crisis such as the matching funds situation. 

What is the main goal you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP? 
BETIENCOURT: We think that student government at Notre Dame possesses a great resource that can be used to have a positive impact on everyday life at Notre Dame. What we really want to do is be responsive to student needs that arise throughout the course of the year and use those resources in an effective manner to address those needs. Probably the most important task ofthe student body president and vice-president is responding to things that arise that have a direct effect on everyday student life. These situations you just can't predict. 
How do you feel your background will help you to achieve your goals? 
CRAIG: Mark and I have worked together as presidents ofFlanner in a situation where teamwork is essential. I see student body govern­ment in the same light. We need to be able to work together to get the goals accomplished which are not only on the platfonn but the situations which will arise throughout the year. In working with the Hall President's Council and this year's student body government, I really feel the background is there to go ahead and move farther ahead into student body government. BETIENCOURT: I think we're well prepared. We've taken a very active role in Hall President's Council and I've tried to take as active a role as possible in Student Government as has Kevin. I think that just being in a situation where we are the executives ofthe hall, we've had to learn to confront situations where we are directly responsible 
r I II 

whether it be petitioning the university for certain things for the hall or whether it be representing the hall in the matching funds debacle. We've had to be in a situation that is probably as similar to student body president and vice-president offices as you can get on campus. What do you feel is the most effective way of dealing with the ad­
ministration? 
BETIENCOURT: I honestly think that the administration is willing to address student needs, and, I think, if approached correctly, they are very responsive to student needs. You have to understand the position that the administration is in. If you know where they are coming from you can best deal with addressing issues of student concerns. A perfect instance was the matching funds incident. We were able to negotiate and we received a substantial portion-over 70 per cent of the matching funds back. I think if we try to understand the administration and the administration tries to understand student government, a great deal can be accomplished. CRAIG: About a week after the matching funds were taken away, the president this year, Matt Breslin, came to HPC, got the input from Hall President's Council and Mark and I had a lot of input on that, went back and presented the idea of paying forthe damage out of the matching funds, each hall took a cut in the matching funds. The main point is, everybody worked together. That's the way I feel student body government should work with the administration. We need work together and then have the leaders of student body government present the plan to the administration and we have to see it from their side. 
As SBP how would you view your relationship with the student senate? 
BETIENCOURT: I would view my relationship with the senate as one of the greatest effectiveness and on the best tenns possible. I think the senate is one of the bodies on campus that can have a profound impact on student issues. Matt Breslin has done a great deal to improve the efficiency of the senate. If used correctly it could be the most effective body on campus. It has a great deal ofpotential and I would look at the senate as something of a great friend, something 



E L E C T I O N. ' '9 0 

Lhal can be of great use to the student body. What topics would you like to cover in the Board of Trustees Reports? BEITENCOURT:This year, they are presenting a Board ofTrustees Report in May on human sexuality. They chose that topic and passed over other such pressing topics as the infirmary, and they are also working on one for academic concerns. I would like to petition the Board of Trustees with as many reports as we possibly can about as many pressing issues as we possibly can. It's all in the commitment you want to make to the job and in the time and energy you 're willing to putinto it. We think if we petition the Board ofTrustees with a well researched, well thought out, comprehensive report on the state ofthe infirmary and on education of substance and alcohol abuse and sexually transmitted diseases. We think this would be something very valuable to student life and,just because of the times we live in, would merit considerable attention. Another thing we'd really like to look into is to draft a report on class size and the size of the faculty. We'd really.like the Board of Trustees to consider enlarging the fac­ulty, possibly building another faculty office building. These are long range goals. We're reasonable, but if Notre Dame is to continue to strive to be a great international university, it is something that they must consider. If they realize that this is something students are generally concerned about, that may give them even more of an incentive to act quickly. Do you plan to generate more input into student government from the student body and, ifso, how would you do that? CRAIG: We definitely plan to solicit more input from the student body because our main goal is to be responsive to student life. To accomplish what the pressing goal is at the time. How we would go about that would be through representatives in the donns and solic-iting a response from the senators. We'd like to incorporate Hall President's Council into student government as far as not only being a disseminating body for infonnation but also the way to bring information to student government-what we need to know, when we need to know it. One ofour main goals is to get more information from the student body and go through the student leaders that they've elected. BETTENCOURT: This is something of great interest to us. I would like one of us to get to every meeting of the Hall President's Council. I would like to, at least once, get to every Hall Council meeting. There's 26dorms and there's more than 26 weeks. Just to get around to let students know that we want to be responsive. What do you see as the biggest problem with on-campus living and how do you plan to alleviate it? 

BETTENCOURT: I'm not saying it's the most haunting problem with on-campus living, but it's the way meal plans are offered to on­campus students. It has been the past policy of Food Services not to allow alternate meal plans for on-campus students. I think that one ofthe things student government could do with a new director ofFood Services coming in, is forge a new relationship between the students and food services and try to lend a new direction or personality to the way food services approaches the student body. It is a natural oppor­tunity for change. CRAIG: I think another issue or problem for students living on campus now as was evidenced in the fall, is campus security. We'd like to really advocate measure to provide better security for the students on campus. We'd like to provide a safer atmosphere whether that's putting lights around the lakes or in the parking lots. How do you plan to alleviate off-campus problems such as crime, police , harassment and tension with neighbors? 
BETTENCOURT: We'd like to create an offcam pus crime council and even to take that a step further we'd like to establish an off campus community re­lations council, too. What we have in mind is bringing together representa­tives from the South Bend Police, the St. Joseph's County police and bring con­cern of student residences. What we'd like to do is meet on a monthly basis where the students can address pertinent crime concerns to the police and police can express pertinent concerns that they have about student life, problems that community mell!bers have with student housing. We'd like to see on a more regular basis, the police making more frequent passes through a student area to make sure that student houses are heav­ily surveilled. We'd also like students to be a little more understanding of what the community would like from them. This will have to be a two way coopera­tive effort. . 
ELECTION'90 



Sigi Loya, candidate for student body president, is currently the student senator for district four. In ad­dition, he has served on the senate budget committee and the campus life council. Loya is the founder of the Minority Coalition and president of the Hispanic-American Organization. He resides in Flanner Tower and is a junior business and government major. Vice-presidential hopeful Raja Singh is currently the manager ofthe Student Union Board and has served on the student senate, its budget committee, and · the campus life council. He is a finance major with a concentration in peace studies and resides in Zahm Hall where he is an academic co-commissioner. 

What is the main goal you would like to achieve as SBP and SBVP? 
LOYA: The basic gist of what we are running on is that we are on the students' side. We're looking out for the students' interests. There are several avenues we are going to take. You have to know how to manage your organization and you have to know how to deal with the administration. That's where we feel our ticket is unique. Raja has managed SUB for the year and totally restructured it and I have had the opportunity on several issues to deal with the administration. SINGH: Our goal I think is to get student opinion reflected in more ofthe decisions. I think our experience shows that we have the ability to do that. 
How will your background help you to achieve these goals? 

SINGH: Any organization really takes two components. First, you have to deal with the environment that you are in and, also, you have to run the organization that you are in charge of. The student body president has the dual role of representing all the students to the administration and also is in charge of the student body cabinet. That's where we think our distinct advantages show up. Sigi has dealt with the administration and got results. LOYA: One thing that I think happens after you have been involved in student government since your freshman year is that you develop a student government mentality and you know what is going on because you were there. I didn't get involved in student government to this year, but I was a club president before that. This way I can take a view from the outside and work from the inside to change it. SINGH: To complement that I think that running a student organiza­tion is something I'm strong in. We added a few departments and decentralized it a bit. 
What do you feel is the most effective way of dealing with the administration? 
LOYA: There is a thing called the campuslife council that I don't think many people know about, but in student government bodies is well known because it is the policy making body and is chaired by the. student body president. This is probably the most important body in dealing with the administration. SINGH: The thing to reiterate about the campus life council is that if a resolution passes through there, it becomes policy until it is explicitly vetoed by Father Tyson. That body has only met once this year because the people in that office don'tgive ita priority. The other way of dealing with the administration is through the colleges. We recommend making positions inside the colleges like a college president and vice-president. These people would have a working relationship with the dean and could carry that concern to him. LOYA: To add to that, these presidents would sit on senate. The academic body is currently not represented at all. 
ELECTION'90 


getting more important issues and getting senate more visible than it is now. I think there are a lot of misconceptions about what senate is right now. It is important to get the decisions and the rationale out to the students. LOYA: I think it is one of the most under-utilized part of the body, the senators. They don't have a strictly defined role. For the sena­tors, the senate is their only job. We want to give them a chance to just run. 
Do you have any specific topics you would like to cover in the Board of Trustees reports? 
LOYA: One thing I would like to do is establish a complaint 
. procedure for anything, not just minorities or women. As it is you have to go through so much red tape. Another one is the college rep. SINGH: The students' role in decision making for the reasons I men­tioned before. Also, a review of the minority role at the university. LOYA: Another thing is the sexist attitudes toward women on cam­pus, definitely a problem. 
Do you plan to generate more input fr_om the student body into the student government, and, if so, how? 
SINGH: Our biggest thing is to hold an open forum monthly with student leaders and the administration. We would try to get someone, such as the provost, that students would have questions with to get an idea about what there feelings are and also to give them a chance to ask questions to us. Also, a few years ago the student government took a survey of the students for a basis for trustees' reports and I ment as tudent government hotline with events that are coming up that 

week. 
What do you see as the biggest problem with on-campus living and how do you plan to alleviate it? 
LOYA: One of the biggest things is the male-female relationship. Everyone complains that there is not enough social interaction. I think one of the avenues is the SYR, but even then everyone is always upset that we don't have enough. As far as the women's attitude is concerned, we would need to do an in-depth investigation as to what the attitudes are. 
How do you plan to alleviate off-campus problems, such as crime, police harassment and tension with neighbors? 
SINGH: I think the root of a lot of those problems is that the community sees Notre Dame as a distinct entity from the community and not really a part of it. One thing I think we can do to correct that is to form an association of off-campus students to represent Notre Dame to the community. First of all you have~ person who can follow up on issues such as police harassment when the university may not always want to. The other thing to look out for as far as security prob­lems is that the group could possibly look into hiring some type of private security. LOYA: Another idea was the weekend wheels that HPC started up. We'd like to have something similar to that for the bars. A lot of the students have problems even walking between the bars. 0 

ELECTION'90 



I Ii] 
Presidential candidate Robert Pasin, a junior history major who lives in Alumni Hall, is currently thejunior class president and was the sophomore class president last year. In addition, he boasts two years of work on the student senate as well as work with both the Budget Committee and on Board ofTrustees reports. Vice-presidential candidate Fred Tombar, a junior government major, is currently co­president ofGrace Hall, where he also resides. Tombar has been president ofthe Speech and Debate Society, a member ofthe Multi-Cultural Executive Council, an executive board member of the campus NAACP, and is also a Harry S Truman public service scholar. 

What is the main goal you would like to achieve as SBP and 
SBVP? 

TOMBAR: If you had to pinpoint one thing, we want to respond to the student's ideas. The way we feel we can do that is through protecting the student's rights, because that is the primary role we see in student government. That will be the main focus ofour campaign. This will carry over into different aspects of student life, like the security issues and fostering an intellectual community here at the University. When different issues arise, such as the cancellation of the Mexico Trip and the laundry issue, we hope to respond in favor of the students and what the students think is correct. 
How will your background help you achieve these goals? PASIN: I think that the greatest strength we have as a ticket is our diverse experience in student government For example, I am the junior class president right now and I was the sophomore class president last year. I have been on Board ofTrustees reports and the Budget Committee. Through this involvement, I know the nuts-and­bolts ofstudent government, how itworks, and how to get things done on a pragmatic level. Y ct, Fred is from a different area of student involvement. TOMBAR: I was president of the Speech and Debate team, on the Multi-Cultural Executive Council, Hall President's Council, and involved with many other clubs and organizations around campus. With Rob's pragmatic experience and my more grass roots experi­ence, we bring the nuts-and-bolts of student government and a sen­sitivity and awareness to student's issues. I think that is one thing 
which our ticket has above the others. Most of the others bring both candidates from insidesStudent government, but we bring a balance which will better help us achieve ourgoals and create a better student 
government for the student body. 
What do you feel is the most effective way of dealing with the 
administration? 
PAS IN: I think that there arc certain levels and you need to take steps. Firstofall, we need a knowledge ofwhat the students want. It is very easy when you are involved with studentgovernment,justdoing your work in La Fortune all the time, to lose perspective on what the students want. One way that we want to measure that is by having a campus-wide referendum on important issues. For example, on the laundry issue you could have a referendum with three things on it: Do you think there should be just washing machines in all the dorms and the students should not be offered laundry service, should there be an option for both males and females, or should it be required for all males as it was before? If you ran such a referendum in every donn you would get a very solid idea of what students want. Then you go to the administration and say, "Here is what the students want, what are you going to do about it?" Then you have discussions with them. lfthey keep overriding the student's needs then we have to go one step further. We are willing to do as far as necessary to protect student's rights. 
As SBP how do you view your relationship with the student 

senate? ~. 
P ASIN: The Student Body President is the chairofthe senate. I think 
that the senate is important as a forum for discussing important 
student issues. People are always trying to figure out what senate's 
role is, but I think it can be very important if it is utilized correctly. 
Senate needs to take a more vocal stand and become more visible. 
One way to do that is to discuss issues that are important in senate­
have people come in and discuss controversial issues, such as 
divestment in South Africa, and then have the senate debate these and 
come to a decision on its position in regards to these issues. 
Do you have any specific topics you would like to cover in the B~ard of Trustees report? 
TOMBAR: Class size and study days before finals are two topics which you hear brought up time and time again. I think that Notre Dame, with its reputation and the types ofschools that itlikes to char­



ELECTION '90 

actcrizc itself with, would take a lot ofpressures off the students by implementing an exam study period. Teachers give assignments due up until the Friday before exams and it is a joke to give a student two days to prepare for an exam which may be the following Monday. PASIN: Toelaborateon the class size issue, Notre Dame is now trying to become a premiere research univ~rsity, and that is a very noble goal, but I think the students are suffering. This issue is one ofthe first things we would want to cover on the Board of Trustees Report. Research versus teaching-how do they balance out? One of the ideas is for teaching chairs, endowed chairs for professors who are primarily teachers rather than researchers. Why does every professor have to be a great teacher and a great researcher? Hopefully then the class sizes would get smaller because you would have more teachers. 
campus where males and females interact You can look at it from several different angles. There was the Board ofTrustees report that came out a couple of years ago on co-residentiality. There, nearly 70% of the student body wanted co-residential housing based on a survey done for the report. PASIN: In that same survey, 90% of the students thought that there was a serious problem with male-female relations on campus, and as Fred mentioned, nearly 70% of those surveyed thought that co-ed housing was the answer to this problem. We believe that there should be a co-ed housing option. 
How do you plan to alleviate off-campus problems,suchascrime, police harassment and tension with neighbors? 

on particular issues and this can generate action in student govem­ment when we really get to see the student's position. Tying over from a previous question, the referendum is another way we can respond to student's interests. PASIN: One of the other first things we want to do when we get into office is to putouta questionnaire on issues that we feel are important, and also we would like to have an area on the questionnaire for any other comments from students. Ifwe do that right when we get in we can get a sum feeling for what the students want right now. 
What do you see as the biggest problem with on-campus living and how would you aJieviate it? 
security-related issues. PASIN: Crime, we feel, is the issue for off-campus living. A big. aspect of the crime is education-educating students about what crimes actually occur, both on and off-campus. Security Beat in the Observer comes out every few days, but it does not put enough emphasis on the crimes which are occurring. TOMB AR: It would also be beneficial for student government to put out a booklet at the beginning of the year with a list of the landlords in the area whoofferresidences to students. Evaluations can bedrawn up by tenants, much like faculty evaluation forms, which would outline how the landlord responded to security-related issues. A booklet such as this, put together by student government, would make 
TOMB AR: One thing is·male-female interaction. There a significant · it much easier for those students who are considering the off-campus problem with this because the classroom is one ofthe only places on 
option. . 
ELECTION '90 






nchez 


Presidential candidate Vinny Sanchez and Vice-Presi­dential candidate Melissa Smith have served together on Student Body Senate, Student Body Judicial Council, Stu­dent Body Executive Committee, Board of Trustees, Com­mittee on Leadership Responsibility (Chair), and the Senate Evaluation Ad-hoc Commit tee. Both candidates are juniors. Miss Smith lives in Howard Hall and is an English major with the Hesburgh Program; Mr. Sanchez lives in Keenan 
· Hall and is a Government Major. 

What is the main goal you would like to achieve as SBP and 
SBVP? 

SANCHEZ: I think our main goal would be to have a good working relationship with the administration. If you look at our proposals, many of them require negotiating with the administration to get what wewant I think that goal is very possible, considering our relation­ship presen_tly with the administration. In my two years with the Judicial Council I have worked with the administration, specifically with the Office of Student Affairs and Residents' Life, on a consistent basis. 
How will your background help you to achieve these goals? 
SANCHEZ: Many of our proposals have to deal with negotiating. Things like co-residentiality andSYR's... to get them implemented, because that's where we are (at the implementation stage), we need to deal with the University. We need to work with them, and the whole community, through the Campus Life Council, which I am currently a member of, student senate input, and the administration. And my background, working with Dr. Goldrick and Father Tyson, and the members of Student Affairs, helps us to have that relationship. We understand where they're coming from, and I think they under­stand a little bit where we're coming from. 
ith 
What do you feel is the most effective way of dealing with the 
administration? 
SMITH: I think that would be through the Campus Life Council, because the CLC is comprised of representatives of all the different aspects of community life here, from faculty to students to rectors and rectresses, and the administration. That is the best avenue forus to see some of these changes. If we can present ourselves to them, and if they can, hand in hand, through dialogue, present issues back to us, and have an open negotiation exchange on big issues that really affect the campus, the CLC is one of the best avenues. Often times students become a little skeptical of what actually can be done, and they become a bit naive of the sources that they have. SANCHEZ: One of the problems in the past two years is that the CLC hasn't been used on a consistent basis. I think we need to utilize that resource on a consistent basis from day one. From my one-on-one dealings with Dr. Goldrick, I really tend to believe that they want to work with us, that they are willing to hear us.out. 
As SBP how do you view your relationship with the student senate? 
SANCHEZ: Presently I view it as very good. I've worked with Matt Breslin and David Kinkopf, specifically on the reinstating of match­ing funds. We meet weekly as a student senate. Also presently I am the chairperson of the Committee on Leadership Responsibility, something that was recently passed by the student senate; I think it is a very important vehicle for determining what our responsibilities as student leaders are. We need to also look at the role of senators. Their role needs to be defined, because they are the members who can bring in proposals, and they have the opportunity to work on things that are campus-wide issues. SMITH: They are a good resource that haven't been utilized as much as they could have been. There are a lot of issues out there, and sometimes senators get lost in the shuffle, because they don't have an 

.. 
ELECTION '90 

avenue to express their ideas. That's why we've incorporated them into the cabinet this year, so they've had a lot larger working relationship with us. 
Do you have any specific topics you would like to cover in the Board of Trustees report? SMITH: Something that may be necessary is to define the role ofthe rectors and rec tresses more specifically. Often they have a vagueness of their role with relationship to the students, and specifically with regard to some focuses we've been working with on the Judicial System, there's this ominous "Pastoral Concerns Clause;" often times, rectors and rectresses hold on to some cases that it might be better if students, with a peer jury system, handled some of those issues. There arc various instances like this where maybe we need to define the relationship between the rectors and the students, or the rectress and the administration. SANCHEZ: Also ofgreat concern at the present time is that as Notre Dame undergoes the transition from being a liberal arts teaching institution to a research institution, there are certain changes which need to be looked at. We the students come here to be taught because of the tradition Notre Dame has in the liberal arts, and we don't want to get lost in the transition. The faculty is increasing, but the faculty that teaches is not increasing. This is a very big concern that needs to be brought to the Board of Trustees immediately. 
Do you plan tQ generate more input from the student body into student government, and, if so, how? SANCHEZ: One thing we want to emphasize is that we do need student input in every aspect of community life. With our student forum, it's going to give students an opportunity to participate in the actual changes that are going to be made, asking questions of the ad­
·mm~~ We can say, "This is what's going on, this ~ thei-'ii:;.,~~s we've made on our proposals." A lot of ~~¾ ~ ~y see is our platform, an9 then about mid­~ tt.cy ~Jestion what's going on; I think they need to ~ nc~f:=::--=j ~bout what's going on. Our suggestion line ~ :m-~lmr-,,;,,eay for them to make input about changes or ~~ We would also like to print something in the O,,,,.~'ifil ~aery Monday about what our agenda is for ~..~ ~~n set of meetings, so that if students see ~Um1gmteresting, they can participate. We need to ~~.L~~t we have an open-door policy, that students i21Il c-:ume :and talk to us about issues. SP.lt:i.~ O=eJr student senate meetings are open to every­0¥~. hut :rarely, if ever, do we have anyone attend, and ~t'~ unfrntunate; maybe that's the case because we're ••~ 'L'tt m~ ~cond floor of LaFortune in our own little w~:r-~:k.andaren't really trying to reach out to where ilie fil~:1~~ are. 
WhHt ~ you see as the biggest problem with on­~~~ lh'i:ng and how would you alleviate it? SAr'iC~~Thebiggest problem with on-campus living ~ llifi !g""~ interaction between men and women, the ~~ ~tionfor anybody, is lacking. Our strongest 

argument for co-residentiality is that it would increase interaction between men and women and alleviate stereotyping. Weneed to look again at the Board ofTrustees report ofNovember, 1988, concerning social space on campus. There was an attempt made for a twenty-four lounge in the Oak Room, but I don't think the attempt was good enough. It was not in a central location on campus, and all it did was offer the opportunity for getting food at a late-night hour. We need to direct more to the center ofcampus, and that's LaFortune Student Center. ltoffersalotforthestudents. A twenty-fourhourloungemay be difficult to implement, but we're looking more at extended hours, especially on weekends. We really need to emphasize that we need more social interaction and more social space. 
SMITH: Also, I think the R.A.'sand rectors are underutilized; I think 
they're a valuable resource but maybe they don't know how to 
connect with the students, and how to really feel on-par with students, 
so that students can feel that they can go to them with problems and 
concerns. 
How do you plan to alleviate off-campus problems, such ascrime, police harassment and tension with neighbors? SMITH: Something that was very much a heated issue last year about this time was that therewereanumberofbreak-insandproblems such as vandalism; we haven't seen that much this year with regard to off­campus situations. But that doesn't mean that it's non-existent, and that doesn't mean we can't take active steps to make sure that problems don't occur in the future. One of the best ideas is to have a more frequent patrol of those areas, specifically on the weekends. Security is definitely an issue. SANCHEZ: We need to increase student awareness as students make the transition from on-campus to off-campus. A possibility· is workshops to help them make their homes more secure. . 

REVIEW/MARSHALL ARMINTOR 
The Fourteenth 

The latest Keenan Revue showed a 
popular policy decisions. 
fine, well-adjusted group of young 

Other satires that stood out included men performing perceptive mini­
"Family Feud College Night," in which a dramas about contempo­rary issues. Ah, who am I kidding? No one, obviously, and not as well as all those Keenanites did the first three nights in February at SMC's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Once again; the residents of Keenan Hall put on a ter­rific show in the Four­teenth Annual Keenan Revue, producing an-The Fhys;cs Gods ea1curate the odds of meeting girls. 
other batch ofhilarious, inspired skits and in­ventive musical numbers. 

The staple of the show was the incessant satire on familiar controversial elements in · the Notre Dame community: parietals, the alcohol policy, hatred of the Miami football team, SMC vs ND, the mysterious blue jog­ger with the stomach cramps, DART, Digger Phelps, and especially the revocation of residence hall matching funds because of the ; Great Snowball Fight. Most of the barbs I dealing with the latter issue were aimed with no reservation at Vice President Fr. David Tyson. Sketches such as "He's In Control," "Keenan News Update," and most notably "The Convention," in which Tyson appalls a gathering of famous dictators with his ad-, ministration policies, showed some popular campus views regarding Tyson's more un-
Notre Dame team faces off against a team from Miami (guess which team wins the 
category "crimes punishable by a jail term?"), "976-DART," where the Direct Access Registration by Telephone system is used as a pseudo-phone sex service, "Tribute to the National Champions," a recapping of Miami's college football season, including highlights of their heartstopping game against the Helen Keller School for the Blind, and "Dm:ner' s Inferno," a musical tour ofNotre Dame hell conducted by head foot­ball coach Lou Holtz, where we visit Digger Phelps's mind-controlling alter ego, "Beetle-phelps;" The· characterization of Lou Holtz was so near-perfect in its depiction that I wouldn't have been surprised if it was the man himself. 
Some of the best moments in the show, however, came when the skits veered toward Monty Pythonesque absurdity. Indeed, a 

One of the best skits of the night was certainly "The SMC's Who Say 'NO.'" 
...,_ -__,. . -.. . -' ' -­


REVIEW 

: l 
Keenan Revue 
couple ofthe sketches required some knowl­edge of Python. "I Like ND," the Domer version of the Python tune "I Like Chinese," may have been a bit too obscure for some, 

Paul Webb 
Jeff Bergamotto modestly shows off . some of Keenan's hidden talents. 

but "The SMC's Who Say 'NO"," a hysteri­cal takeoff on a sketch from the popular Monty Python movie In~Qf till: HQU'.., .Grail, "The Knights Who Say 'Ni'," was im­mediately recognizable to the crowd and 
elicited some of the loudest laughter. 
There were as well other astonishing feats of 1 unacy like the downright unsettling "Fun With Chester," where a bunch of seniors torture a naive freshman ( will somebody give Chester a Purple Heart for this sketch, please?), "Inside Someone's Mouth," per­haps. the only tooth impressions ever at­tempted, "Flashdance," a showstopping se­

quel to last year's "Three 
Member Trio" (careful 
with those overcoats, 
guys), "Intellectual Dis­
course," where three men 
take an overly-enjoyable 
oatmeal bath, literally, and 
especially"The Flying 
Zambini 'sTriumphantRe­
turn," featuring various 
death-defying stunts like 
"The Can Crush...of 
Death!!" 

Other repeat gags also 
made an appearance. Re­
turning to the Revue were Keenan Revue theme, set to the Doobie Brothers' "China Grove," to original pieces by Mike Ury and Mark Allen and a Domer version of"We Didn't Start the Fire." Fur-
those er, ah, sporting cadets 1.-_________;..;....;;.;;;.;.;...;..;;.~.;.;.;.;.;-----P-a-ul_W_ebb--1 in "Full Golf Jacket II, The Kevin Kearns, Phil Courl and Pat Leroe prove that Night After" and' those oatmeal Isn't Just for breakfast anymore_ 
Physics 997 gods learning to party in ''The Gods Must Be Crazy." Also, like last year's Elvis who frequently wandered onstage at odd moments, the pink drum-beating rabbit from the Energizer battery commercials pa­raded around the floorboards to instant audi­ence reaction. But the rabbit one-upped the King by his appearance during a mime piece where he beat the performer unconcsious with a wiffleball bat, much to the crowd's delight 
The music during the show was carried off with great aplomb, from the opening's thermore, musical fillers in between acts wereareminiscentassortmentofold 70'sTV commercials and show themes, including sing-alongs from Coca-Cola, The Brady Bunch, TheJ etsons, Budweiser Beer, and the Flinstones. 
All in all, the show was polished, ingen­ious, and consistently funny. As the Revue closed with a rousing version of the classic "Stay," the Keenanite players stormed the stage, showing the same exuberance that fueled the Revue all evening. Great Revue; guys, and long may it live. O 

FEATURES 








Tour de Campus 
Volunteer student guides share their knowledge ofNotre Dame by giving tourists a look at its past and present 
BY KATEMANUEL 
A11 right all you faithful Darners out there. It's time to test your knowl­edge of Notre Dame trivia. Sure, you may know the names and positions ofall the players on all the national championship football teams, but let's see how well you fare 

on these questions: What dorm on campus served as the manual labor school? During its early years, Notre Dame made and sold what construction item to remain financially sol­vent? What is the second most popular tour­ist attraction in the stateoflndiana? Who was Phi dell Osborne and what does he have to do with something happening daily on the Notre Dame campus? 
Any one of the thirty student guides who give tours of the Notre Dame campus could tell you the answers to all these -and many other -questions. While the answers to the first two questions (Badin Hall once housed the manual labor school, and Notre Dame made and sold bricks) are interesting, the answers to the second two questions have much more impact on what is happening today at Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame campus is the second most popular tourist attraction in Indiana; it ranks close behind the Indianapolis Speed­way. According to Public Relations, in an average year, Notre Dame gets approxi­mate! y 5,500 visitors during the "peak tourist season" from May 22 to August 18. Addi­tionally, the admissions office reports that 3,000 prospective students visit the campus during each school year. Of course these visitors want to learn all about Notre Dame and its traditions. 
The practice of using student guides to show these visitors around campus began in 1933 when Phidell Osborne, a student from Wolcott, New York, who was attending summer session, was sitting on the steps of the administration building. Tourists kept asking him questions, and one grateful visitor paid him a tip. This tip convinced Osborne that he could "sell" his information about the campus to tourists. That same day, he and ten of his friends began the tradition of student tour guides. The university, rather than the tourists, now pays the salaries of those stu­dent guides who are on the work-study pro­gram, but Osborne's idea has lived on. 
Two distinct university organizations, the Undergraduate Admissions Office and the Department of Public Relations, run separate tours geared to different audiences. The Admissions Office runs two tours daily for prospective students and their families, one in the morning and one in the afternoon. While Public Relations will occasionally provide a tour for a prospective student who 



FEATURES 


well and can project their voices. Most members ofthe Campus Tours Organization are English or business ma­jors; three current members also belong to the Glee Club. Magliola thought that most students on campus would be capable of giving tours. "If you get into Notre Dame, you're pretty much quali­fied," she said. 
The student guides see themselves as bringing a variety of personal qualities to their tours. Maryann Cenedella, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been giving tours for Public Relations for a little over a year. "I think I make everyone feel comfortable and talk on their level," she said. "I love being a student here, and I think this also comes across in my tours." 
Julie Bruce, a senior in the College of Science who has been giving tours for the Admissions Office for two years, believes her strengths 

as a guide lie in her love for Tour guide Michelle Cano shows prospective students and their parents the sights of Notre Dame. Notre Dame and her honesty 
about it. "I love it here at  
·is unable to take one of the Admissions tours,  guides return that Magliola does not need to  Notre Dame, I'm so happy here. I don't have  
most of the Public Relations tours are pro­ set up a booth on Activities Night to recruit  to fake it: !likeit here and I think (prospective  
vided _on request for large tour groups.  new ones.  students) will like it here too," she said.  
Known as the Campus Tours Organiza­ The Undergraduate Admissions Office  Bruce said that she tries to be totally honest  
tion, the twenty students who give tours for  also has an ample number ofstudents apply­ with prospective students. For example,  
Public Relations are primarily volunteers.  ing to fill its ten work-study positions as tour  when a prospective student asked her about  
"We need that many (guides) to cover all the  guides. Marita Kurst, who is in charge of the  the drug and alcohol situation on campus, she  
hours because we try to provide tours as  Admissions tours,said, "It's one ofthe work­ gave him information from her own experi­ 
they're requestedt said Lyn Magliola, coor­ study jobs that are more appealing than the  ences here rather than quoting duLac' s regu­ 
dinator ofJours and Visitor Information. "A  dining hall. We choose our guides more than  lations on drugs and alcohol.  
lot of tours are bus companies and schools  take anyone who volunteers." Many admis­ Most students who became involved in  
traveling on schedule. And we need to work  sions guides are the younger.siblings of for­ giving tours for either Public Relations or the  
around the volunteers' schedules too." Al­ mer guides, and the majority of these guides  Admissions Office heard about the opportu­ 
though there are two full-time, paid guides,  keep giving tours as long as they are able to  nity through friends. Maryann Cenedella had  
the remainder are students who volunteer on  fill their number of work-study hours by  a friend down the hall who gave tours for  
Activities Night at the beginning of the fall  doing so.  Public Relations and encouraged her to vol­ 
semester, or who hear about the program  Both public relations and the admis­ unteer. Now, she said, "(the tours) give me  
from friends and offer to join. These volun­ sions office look for the same general charac­ perspective on how outsiders view Notre  
teer guides love giving tours so much that  teristics in their guides. Magliola and Kurst  Dame, allow me to clear up some misconcep­ 
many continue this activity throughout their  seek students who are friendly, who like to .  tions about Notre Dame, and make me feel  
years at Notre Drune, and some years so many  meet and talk with people, and who speak  good."  



FEATURES 
Julie Bruce had always thought giving tours would be a great idea. She also remem­bers her own arrival at Notre Dame and the poor impression her tour guide made on her. This guide was unenthusiastic and assumed 
. the visitors already knew all about Notre Dame and its traditions. "I had a really bad tour guide when I came to Notre Dame. When I first came here, I didn't know who Father Ted was. I thought I could do a much better job," she said. Although she had the desire to be a student guide, it took her some time to figure out how to go about it Finally, she met one of her roommate's friends who told her whom to contact. After repeated visits to the Admission's office, her persistence finally got her a job as a tour guide at the beginning of her jun­ior year. 
Neither Magliola nor Kurst expect the stu­dent guides to come with complete knowledge of Notre Dame and its tradi­tions. Both offices train their guides and use a script created several years ago by then-student Chris Lucey. Each mem­ber of the Campus Tours Organization meets indi­vidually with Magliola, is told of her expectations, and takes at least one tour with a veteran guide. 
While they gear their tours to different au­diences, both organiza­tions believe tours are im­portant to the university. Maglio la emphasizes that the student guide may be the only person from Notre Dame that tourists meet and that the guide's conduct can detennine a tourist's attitude toward Notre Dame. Kurst knows that a campus visit can be one of the major influ­ences on a student's choice ofwhich college to attend. "I think that any campus visit .that a student takes makes a big difference," she said. "If there weren't opportunities to take a tour, those orange maps aren't that detailed. Tours provide a more personal feeling and there's more of a give and take with the students and their parents asking questions." 

The student guides also feel they are doing something valuable. Julie Bruce be­lieves "it is very important for students to take prospective students on tours." Seeing the campus in person often gives prospective students a better feel for the school. Some students have asked Bruce about single-sex 
Standing on the steps of the Architecture building, Mike Stanis addresses a group of Notre Dame tourists. 
donns and expressed dismay at her answers. "Even if they know something is going to drive them crazy, they should know it before they get here," Bruce said. She also realizes acampus tour can help greatly in narrowing down the choices, "especially for a student with six or so acceptance letters." 
In addition to meeting many different people from places all around the world, the guides hear the strangest questions and con­duct some very unusual tours. One guest wanted to know whether "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" was filmed on campus. The golden dome on the Administration Building invariably prompts questions like "Who's that on the dome?" and "Is that real gold?" Never has there been a stranger question, however, than the one from the tourist who 
asked the Public Rela­tions tour guide where "the nude Rockne statue was." 
Maryann Cencdella particularly remembers a tour last fall with a group of male students from Germany. These students, juniors 
·and seniors in high school who spoke Eng­lish well were more in­terested in seeing girls and the JACC than the campus. Shealsorccalls a group offifth and six th graders with above-av-· erage intelligence who came from disadvan­taged backgrounds. Their enthusiasm for Notre Dame was so great that several de­clared they would come here. 

··~ The scenic cam­pus and storied tradition of Notre Dame bring prospective students, re­turning alumni and cam­era-toting tourists flock­ing to Notre Dame every year. These visitors come from a host of dif­ferent states and coun­tries. Some come to find answers to their questions about college life, some come to visit their alma mater, still others come just to see the age-old tradition of the Notre Dame mystique, and perhaps some come just to catch a glimpse of the "nude Rockne statue." D 
SCHOLASTIC 

•---~
----~, ~-~'-· __ .,..,_,...,;;___ --,..,~ ,~ -:; ,, • ... • _'.; •__ , ______ , 1-.. ,,1°~.,
•: &&&& 


SPORTS 

COMPILED BY TRACY LABIN



sportsweek 



• The women's team showed its strength in soundly defeating four oppo:1ents last week, bringing its sea-
of the 1989 season when they face-Ohio State in 
Cleveland this ·weekend. The wonien's basketball team (14-6, 9-0 in the 1 MCC), went 3-0 last week as they defeated Evansville (79-45), St. Louis (84-50), and Evansville again (70­58). The Irish were led by junior guard SARAI-I LIEBSCI-IER, who scored 20 points against Evansville on Monday. Junior guard KAREN ROBINSON was also a large contributor to the Irish wins. She was perfect from the foul line, sinking four of four against Evansville, two of two against St. Louis, andlO of!0 against Evansville again. The Irish have a tough week ahead as they prepare to face second-place Butler and third-place Detroit. The Irish travel to Indianapolis to face Butler February 13 and host Detroit February 15. 
The Notre Dame women's swim team (13-5) soundly defeated Duke last Friday, 159-83. KIM STEEL, TANYA WILLIAMS, and CHRISTY VAN PATIEN each contributed two wins to the Irish victory, with Steel taking both the 200-and 500-yard freestyle, Williams the 200-yard individual medley and the 200­yard butterfly, and Van Patten the 50-and 100-yard freestyle events. 
The second matchup of the weekend was not so decisive. Though the trio again swam impressively, Notre Dame fell to North Carolina State 168-123. 
The Midwestern Collegiate Conference Champi­onship meet takes place at Notre Dame's Rolfs Aquatic Center this weekend, February 8-10. 
weekend's MCC Championship meet after adding both a win and a loss to their season total last week, defeating Duke 135-106 and losing to North Carolina State 136­99. 
TOM PENN performed impressively against both Duke and N.C. State. JIM BIRMINGHAM also had a strong showing, taking first place in the 100-freestyle in both meets. Other firsts came from PA UL GODFREY in the 1000-yard freestyle (9:57.62) against Duke, JOI-IN GODFREY in the 200-yard backstroke 
(1:56.67) versus N.C. State and GREG CORNICK in the 500-yard freestyle (4:45.82) against the Wolfpack. 

rida 63 
soa mark to 9-0 and extending its winning streak to 15. f":TITITIITJTI[TT~~'.i~µ~~~~~A~~~~~[;fiITITITIT[[ITIT[Fl F Y's game -, as Irish freshman STERLING
Thclrish will have the chance to avenge theironlyloss L BLACK scored two of the three Irish goals. Senior 
On February 10th Notre Dame wrestles Purdue for the Shillelagh Trophy. Since 1957 this trophy has been awarded to the winner of the Notre Dame-Purdue foot­ball match up, but this year the competition will bein the hands of the Irish wrestlers. Last week's matchup against 10th ranked Ohio 

goaltender LANCE MADSON turned in another solid performance on Saturday as the Irish rebounded to defeat the Falcons 3-2. The Irish meet Lake Forest 

The men's tennis team (3-1) hosts the Notre Dame Quadrangle this Saturday, Feb. 10. The Irish will meet Western Michigan, Southern Illinois and Bowling Green. Last week, the Irish defeated Illinois and West Virginia. DA VE DILUCIA won his singles matches in both meets, hig]llighted by his win over West Virginia's Jobey Foley, ranke~12th in the nation. 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team has a break 
====:.i until Feb. 16 when they travel to Austin, TX to battle 
,>t:·•·•:::nH··' 


Notre Dame split last weekend's competition againSl the Air Force Academy. They dropped 
the Texas Longhorns. It will be the first meet of the season for the Irish. Last weekend, the doubles team ofTRACY BAR­TON and ANN BRADSI-IAW finished third at the Eck Doubles Oassic. They defeated Kentucky's pair 6-2, 6-3 and Ohio State's duo 6-4, 1-6, 6-4. 
FEBRUARY 8, 1990 

COMING DISTRACTIONS 

LECTURES 

"Catholicism and the Central American Crisis: The Role of the Church as a Mediator." Center for Social Concerns. 4:00p.m. 
Lecture by John Burgee. Architecture Building, Rm. 207. 4:00 p.m. 
"Defending Roman Loyalties and Re­publican Values: The 1848 Revolution in American Catholic Popular Litera­ture." Dr. Sandra Yocum Mize, Theol­ogy Dept., SMC. Hesburgh Lounge. 
4:15 p .. m. 
SPORTS 

Men's Basketball at SMU. 8:30 p.m. 

FILMS 

"Chocolat." Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 & 9:30 p.m. 
SPORTS 

Hockey. ND vs. Lake Forest. JACC. 
SPECIAL 

"Corky Siegel Chamber Blues." O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. 
Sophmore Class Ski Trip. 
MUSIC 

St. Paul & the Martyrs. Alumni Senior Club 
SPORTS 
Wrestling. ND vs. Purdue. JACC. 7:30p.m. 
Men's Basketball at Houston. 8:30 
SPECIAL 

Law School Admission Test. Cushing Auditorium. 
Comedy: Misfits in Disguise. Alumni Sr. Club. 9:00 p.m. -2:00 a.m. 

SPECIAL 

Mass sponsored by Emmaus: A com­munity with the mentally handicapped. Social Hour following. Moreau Semi­nary Chapel. 2:00 p.m. 
FILMS 

"The Shaggy Dog." Annenberg Audi­. tori um~ 2:00 p.m. 
"Hearts are Thumps & The Little Giraffe." 2:00 p.m. -4:00 p.m. Annen­berg Auditorium .. 
FILMS 

"M" (B/W) Anncnbcrg Auditorium. 7:00p.m. 
"Design for Living." (B/W) Annen berg Auditorium. 9:00 p.m. 

FILMS 

"The Modems." Annenbcrg Auditorium. 
7:00 p.m. 
"Report", "Quixote", "Dangling Participle.' Annenberg Auditorium. 9:30 p.m. 

SPORTS 

Men's Basketball vs. Marquette. JACC. 
7:30 p.m. 



EDITORIAL 


Vote Pasin and Tombar 
Each ofthe four tickets running for student body president and vice president boasts 
experience, diversity and an overall grasp of the issues. The ticket of Rob Pasin 
and Fred Tombar, however, rises above the field in each of the three areas. Pasin is currently president of the junior class following a year in which he served the sophomore class in the same capacity. He has been involved with multiple Board of Trustees reports and has served on the budget committee. As a class president, he has been a voting member of the senate for two years, making him qualified to chair that particular body. 
Tombar enters the election with a different perspective-that of hall government. In addition to his role as co-president of Grace Hall, he has served as president of the speech and debate club and has been an outspoken member of the Multi-Cultural Executive Council. 
But it is not simply the considerable experience of this ticket that sets them apart, it is also in the diversity of that experience. Pasin, coming from the inside of student govern­ment, will be able to work effectively on a practical level while Tombar demonstrates an unparalleled awareness of student issues and has the ability to bring them to the forefront of student government 
Finally, Pasin and Tombar exhibit the greatest overall understanding of what their jobs entail. With respect to Board of Trustees reports and the student senate, two of the most important aspects of student government, Pasin and Tombar are well versed in their power and have put a great deal of thought into how they can be used most effectively. 
As stated, one of the most notable qualities of the Pasin ticket is its diversity. Scholas­tic would like to challenge Pasin, if elected, to avoid the formation of a student govern­ment clique. Diversity of representation is essential for an informed and effective cabinet 
Each of the tickets is qualified. Sigi Loya and Raja Singh exhibit practical experience coupled with exemplary management skills. Vinny Sanchez and Melissa Smith have a tremendous knowledge of the inner-workings of student government and the ticket of Mark Bettencourt/ Kevin Craig brings a fresh perspective along with fresh ideas to the race. 
Still, Scholastic believes the ticket of Pasin and Tombar will most effectively serve the student body. They deserve your vote. 

-Scholastic 

FINAL WORDS 


Student voices his concern over the need for a security service sponsored by student government 
BY PAT RUSSELL 

I 
suppose that, as representing the 
"Anti-Escort Service" point of view, I 
probably should be expected to throw out statistics, quote important people, and, maybe with a little luck, employ poignant sarcasm-all with the intention of discred­iting the rising fear that campus is no longer safe. I thought about it, but I won't. Con­cerns over personal safety are important, and do not deserve belittlement. Suffice to say, though, that I disagree with the Escort Service because, despite all ofits money, it fails to address the two areas on campus where students traditionally are at risk: in the parking lots and around the lakes. 
Concern over campus security arose most recently from a handful of minor incidents last semester which caused a number of women to feel that their safety had been jeopardized. Although the statistics did not validate this fear, the presence of the fear itself is cause for concern. Students at Notre Dame should not have to feel that their security is compromised by a walk across campus. 
But, by and large, students are not intimi­
dated by on campus walks-especially 
during the limited hours held by the Escort 
Service. Our campus is relatively secluded 
and well protected. Even walks across 
campus late at night pose no real threat, so long as a modicum of common sense is employed. And, in this case, common sense includes making use of the escort service already provided by Notre Dame Security. Given all of this, why should Student Gov­ernment squander $20,000 on another escort service? 
Student Government's attempt to address security problems with the Escort Service is well intentioned, but misdirected. In the last few years, more security problems have arisen in the parking lots and around the lakes than have occurred on the walk from Keenan to Farley. ButtheEscortService will do little for students in these areas. Its hours are too limited to protect students who have to ven­ture to their cars during late night hours. And what couple about to embark on a romantic stroll around the lakes is going to call for two escorts? 
The primary security concern faced by Notre Dame lies not on the walk between campus dormitories, but in the peripheral areas of campus. We need to focus on these peripheries if we sincerely want to improve our security on campus, not on escorting students to the library. 
Why not be bold, Student Government? Request that parking lots have night atten­dants. It may cost more money, but it would definitely benefit student security, and could deter vandalism to cars. Increase both light­ing around campus and the number of secu­rity foot patrols, making security both more visible and accessible. At the very least, make sure that students understand the scope of services provided by Notre Dame Security, including the 24-hour escort serv­ice it already provides. But, in the mean­time, don't waste time and money on mis­guided efforts such as the Escort Service. 
Rebuttal to Breslin's Argument: 
"Car Thefts Threaten Safety of Cars at ND." This too, like those Matt uses, is areal Observer headline. Please note that Ob­server headlines-prove nothing, except oc­casional lapses in judgement. Although "accosted"-which essentially means "ap­proached"-works in the headline, it is per­haps a bit overly dramatic of a term for the situation which it describes. Petty incidents are not justification for a $20,000 expendi­ture. Nor is the fact that other universities have escort services. Other universities are located in large cities with real crime prob­lems.. Their students face weekly physical assaults. If we have one or two minor incidents in the course of a year, its big news. We are a unique school with unique concerns, and our security concerns will not be served by the Escort Service. 
;i . -" .,· r i • ..., --· ,.. • • • , • • 
... 



FINAL WORDS 



Anyone interested in applying for the. 

position of 





1989-1990 Scholastic Editor-In-Chief 
Please call 239-7569 or stop by the office in 303 LaFortune Student Center 
Application Deadline is February 23 at 5:00. p.m. 



L,-f=~ \N 
\-\~l,~ 
THE 1'+ WARMIMG SIGMS OF STRESS 

& 
]I 
l" 
.,,"' "' 
a ~ 
.,,
l 
0 
li 
0 a, 
"' 
l 
" ~ 
~ 
0 
r 
i 

l-_l__Lr.L._~~+-_..1:..JJ_~~l~L..C..L..:::.._L--l-_l_~~.L_ _µ_J_LJ~Ubr:....----l-__i!:::JIR~--I (I, 

STl Ft= M\JSC.L.fS OVEQA~ STlfnJEss ML. Of mE ABove 
. -­
;: -:,, ....--...~•.:),:~ --~~ --~ ~ ~~"­

FEBRUARY 8 : LECTURE ON THE BISHOP'S PASTORAL LETTER: ECONOMIC .JUSTICE FOR ALL 
by, Professor Charles K. Wilber, Department of Economics 
ST. ED'S HALL, 7:00 P.M. 
.­
I 
DON'T JUST SIT THERE, BE A PART OF THE ACTION 
;.. .. 

S.U.B. RECRUITMENT MEETING TONIGHT 
6:00 S.U.B. Office 2nd Floor LaFortune 







