This book is not to be taken from the Library

The Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC


TO
15 Cts. a Copy $3.00 the Year
May 6
19 3 2
Hello Men!
Smith s
Cafeteria
111 E. Jefferson Bled.
Shetland Bldg.
^he Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
The place that makes you glad you re hungry
Men’s $8 to $10 Oxfords
Formerly Selling J $8 to $10 A
Crawford— Osteo-Patik others we cannot advertise
$4-85
Practically all sizes and widths in lot. You’ll probably buy 2 or 3 pairs. For the young man as well as the older man.
All sizes in others at $1.85, $2.95 and $3.85.
GIL-BRO’S
330 S. Michigan St.
Better Vision and More Comfort Thru. Better Glasses
Glasses
Properly styled and properly prescribed to give better vision and more comfort by competent specialists.
(Exclusive for those particular people who are interested in good eye-care.)
LEMONTREE
Optometrists
222% So. Mich. St	102 W. Wash. St
Old established Optometrists who merit your confidence.
Broken lenses duplicated promptly and aeaerately
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
and
SODA GRILL
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
» >
• ■ - - -	. - -■—
May 6, 1932
One
For The First Time
A Washington Hall Stage Extravaganza
With
AL STEWART
AND HIS NOTRE DAME JUGGLERS
And
JOHN PERONE
AS THE INIMITABLE MASTER OF CEREMONIES
The photo to right is not
STEWERT and Notre Dame Jugglers, but merely the ‘Scholastic’s’ mechanical staff, no less, getting ready for the performance next Saturday.
Another Great Contribution To The Bengal Missions
The limit
day night at the Bengal Movie and even the freshmen will be allowed to stay until the last laugh has died down after the Stage Extravaganza.
the
AL
Sky is the next Satur-
In conjunction with a tremendous, gripping, scintillating, all-star motion picture—absolutely (no foolin*) the greatest ever to come out of Hollywood.
THE BIG NIGHT IS SATURDAY, MAY 14
The Adeline	i. 25 cent.
SPONSORED BY THE SCHOLASTIC
Two
The Scholastic
MAY DEVOTION- - -HYMNS AT SUNSET- - -SILENT PRAYER
May 6, 1932
Three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
I	I I B	Enter ed as second-class
I he Notre Dame scholastic
ing at special rate of postage.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Crus Moriturus section 1103, October s, 1917,
-	authorized June 25, 1918.
TOUNDED 1865
Neil C. Hurley__________________________Editor-in-Chief
Henry B. Asman_______________________Managing Editor
William W. Corr___________________Departmental Editor
Associate Editors GRANGER WEIL LESLIE RADDATZ MYRON CRAWFORD
News Staff EDMUND STEPHAN..........News	Editor
PATRICK CORCORAN, Assistant News Editor MITCHELL TACKLEY, Assistant News Editor WALTER KENNEDY	ROBERT DILLON
BERNARD COUSINO	WILLIAM DREUX
LARRY DUNDA	MICHAEL WIEDL
JOHN McELLIGOTT RAY WATERS PAUL FOLEY
Desk Editors GEORGE DUQUETTE LLOYD TESKE J. DON SULLIVAN WILLIAM FLYNN
Department Editors JAMES CARMODY. .............The	Week
JOHN PICK...............College	Parade
JOHN CONLEY..............Campus Clubs
JOHN RYAN.............Music	and Drama
JOSEPH LOPKER.............Staff	Artist
Sports Staff ■ JAMES S. KEARNS..........Sports Editor
T. EDWARD CAREY ' IRVING B. HALPER PAUL HOST	JOSEPH MORPER
JAMES PICK EDW. VAN HUISSELING JOSEPH KURTH
_ Features Staff WALTER JOHNSON.......Features	Editor
HARRY BURCHELL WILLIAM KENNEDY STEPHEN HAWXHURST TIGHE WOODS EDWARD J. O’BRIEN BRYAN DEGNAN ROY SCHOLZ	LOUIS HRUBY
Business Staff
ANDREW McGUAN.......Circulation Mgr. RAYMOND J. NABER, .-Iss’t. Circulation Mgr. FRED BAUER, Jr......Advertising Manager ROBT. FITZSIMMONS, Ass’t Advertising Mgr. JOHN P. HESS........JOSEPH SIMON
J. ALBERT SMITH HARRY MCGOWAN JOHN F. STOECKLEY... .Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII.
MAY 6, 1932
Number 24.
SUMMARY
COMING EVENTS
NEWS	'
Scholastic benefit show set for May 14 in Washington Hall; Elaborate stage show planned______________ 5
S. A. C. Presidential candidates condemn unpopular tactics of Blue Circle Committee________________ 5
University band to participate in annual Blossom Festival tomorrow 8
Many prominent men to teach at 1932 summer session 9
Drinkwater’s “Abraham Lincoln” selected by University Theatre for commencement play-----------11
FRIDAY, May 6 — Scholastic staff meeting; editorial board, Publications office, 6:30 p. m.; news and sports staffs, Publications office, 7:00 p. m.—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Tennis, Notre Dame vs. University of Detroit, Notre Dame courts, 3:00 p. m.—K. of C. Formal, Palais Royale, 9:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, May 7—Track, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, at Lansing.—Golf, Notre Dame vs. Iowa, Burke Memorial course, 9:00 a. m.
FEATURES
Men About Campus—John J. Ross—“New York bores him”—present manager of track; John E. Colville confesses weakness for Edna May Oliver and Mitzi green 12
SPORTS
Two Irish relay teams win events at Drake; two-mile quartet sets new meet record------------------------20
Grid game between “old-timers” and rookies in stadium tomorrow afternoon to close spring football practice. 21
Golfers defeat Michigan State, Detroit to stretch winning streak to twenty in a row 21
Pairings announced for Scholastic handicap golf tournament; first round deadline set for Monday, May 9th---------------------------------------------22
Western State Normal, conquerors of Michigan and
Wisconsin, add Notre Dame to their victims as
Irish none goes down to 4-1 defeat----------------23
SUNDAY—May 8—^Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 a. m.—Interhall Golf Matches.— Interhall Playground Ball, 9:00 a. m.
MONDAY, May 10—French club meeting, Main building, 6:30 p. m.—Meeting of the Bookmen, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, Cartier Field, 3:30 p. m.
TUESDAY, May 11—Concert orchestra practice, Music hall, 6:30 p. m.—Scribblers’ meeting, Howard “rec,” 6:30 p. m.—Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Chicago, at Chicago.
THURSDAY, May 13—Spectators’ meeting, Law building, 8:00 p. m.—Wranglers’ meeting, Law building, 6:30 p. m.
Four
The Scholastic
♦ THE WEEK ♦
By James Carmody
JeRRY CONWAY got himself a job as chairman of the K. of C. Ball a while back, and with more enthusiasm than a candidate for freshman class president, and about as much effect, set out to get customers. In spite of the fact that he read all the available books on promotion, and exercised his inimitable personality, the tickets went slowly, until fortune sent him ten lads in search of a big evening. Jerry smiled craftily when they offered to buy bids if the bids entitled the bearers to dates. The last view of him we had, showed him with the ten in tow (a pretty picture they made, led by enthusiastic Conway), all on their way to cabs and to ten other hopeful persons also in search of a large time. Things are at a pretty pass when a dance chairman has to sponsor a courting bureau. Come to think of it, knowing a little of Jerry and his brand of phone numbers, we have our doubts about the size of that aforementioned evening.
------44------
Out of the ashes of old Phoenix Albert, on whose passing we once wrote a little eulogy, rises a new and younger Albert to go about the business of picking up waste paper. The transmigration has produced a much more whole and healthy gatherer of refuse, but the glamor is gone that made Albert, senior, such a character. The new man has two eyes, his legs are straight and he actually picks up paper with a degree of energy; in all he’s unintresting. Before he can hope to really be called Albert,
second, or can hope to carry on the old and revered tradition, he must wander up and down dark roads at night, shaking a cane at fences and pironetting on his good leg. And he will certainly never do until it is proved completely that he sleeps off his spirits casually on the field back of Sophomore hall. That’s a lot to ask of anyone, but old Albert could do it, and there is no reason why the new man about the campus cannot keep high a pride in tradition. We only hope we won’t be around here long enough to write his eulogy.
------44------
The Jay Franklins of the future are having their hey-day now, and if nothing is really done the time is at least quickly disposed of and the prevalent species of boredom alleviated for a while. The political-minded get much satisfaction from joining with kindred spirits in calling the opponents and the out-going class officers first-class chumps; there is the surety, also, that freshmen will gape in a sort of reverence at a cluster of real upperclassmen with deep secrets to unfold and long black cigars to smoke. The whole thing is very pleasant and stimulating to those wide-awake lads who revere and perpetuate the handshake; it renews for a time their faith in their creed, which they chant regularly to give conviction. The words are something on the order of “the big thing in college is the contacts you make,” and the tune is always the same.
May 6, 1932
Five
VIGILANCE BOYS TAKE A SLAP FROM S.A C. HEADS
JOHN PERONE AND AL STEWART TO AID BENGAL MISSIONS IN BIG CHARITY ACT
Decry Practices of Unpopular Blue Circle Committee.
DATE SET FOR MAY 14TH
The thoroughly unpopular Vigilance Committee received another set-back this week zvhen all candidates for the S. A. C. chairmanship decried the practices of the group as a Notre Dame institution.
Asked by The Scholastic to ivmte a short article on their views, John Finneran, Maurice Lee, and James Gerund—all candidates Jor the S. A. C. leadership—hit at the abuses within the organization.
Their statements folloiv:
By Jack Finneran
The Blue Circle is more or less one of Notre Dame’s traditions—but what has it accomplished? It is true they aid materially in conducting pep meetings but that, apparently, is their only assignment throughout the school year. The Vigilance Committee, which is subsidiary to the Blue Circle, acts in the capacity of assistant. In other words it assists at pep meetings; aside from that, to my knowledge, they have few or no other functions.
With the sanction of the new council and the permission of the proper authorities, the Blue Circle in its present state should be altered, its membership could be reduced,—the Vigilance Committee should be abolished.
To keep intact a Notre Dame tradition a new body could be formed, principally to aid at pep meetings and other student activities. It could be comprised of approximately 15 members, say for example, each S. A. C. member being allowed on appointment. This would be less than 40% of the present enrollment of the Blue Circle. The decease in their number would by no means affect their functioning powers but rather it would assure them of more activity.
By Maurice Lee
The Viligance Committee is an organization that has been subjected to grievous abuses, in that it has been used for purposes of patronage by successful candidates. As a body for upholding tradition, conducting pep (Continued on Page 16)
Fred Waidner Will Play Here For Tea Dance
By Walter Kennedy
Fred Waidner and his orchestra, favorites of the country clubs of Chicago and vicinity, have been secured
President Gene Connelly
His chairman selected Band No. 2
as the musical attraction for the tea dance to be held on the Saturday afternoon following the senior ball, Casimir Dyniewicz announced this week.
Waidner’s orchestra has been featured at the Skokie Country club for several seasons, also playing several radio engagements over Chicago networks. With this orchestra supplying the music, a successful tea dance is in the making. The afternoon affair is to be again held at the South Bend Country club.
Tomorrow marks -the end pf the ticket sale for the Ball. With the completion of the ticket distribution, all of the other arrangements are speedily nearing a close.
Washington Hall To Be Scene of Movie and Laugh Riot Stage Show.
By Walter Johnson
Bengal will profit again on Saturday, May 14, as a result of The Scholastic’s final gesture of the year, a benefit motion picture in Washington Hall, supplemented by a stage performance under* the direction of the campus’ leading amateur humorist.
Featuring the evening will be the music of Al Stuart’s Jugglers, who are to appear at both performances, and who, for the evening, will be conducted by that scintillating, wisecracking John (Bernie) Perone. Novelty arrangements, solos and skits are promised by the “old maestro.”
The picture, historical in nature, is intended to serve the additional, purpose of commemorating the Washington Bi-centennial celebration. Its title will be announced during the coming week.
This performance will culminate a series of benefit programs, including the highly successful boxing show and equally satisfactory basketball game of earlier in the semester, for Notre Dame’s special care, the Bengal Missions.
Tickets to be sold at twenty-five cents will be distributed about the campus during the early part of next week.
Last Pre-registration Date
According to a reminder issued this week by the Beverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, the last date for pre-registration for the year 1932-1933 will be May 11. Students who have not arranged with their deans by that time will not be re-admitted to the University in September.
Six
The Scholastic
Record Ballot Expected as Classes Vote Here Monday
ROBERT BORLAND DIES AFTER SHORT ILLNESS
S. A. C. IN CHARGE
Dining Halls Manager Victim of Pneumonia.
Blue Circle Will Also Be On Hand To Aid In Handling Election Crowd.
By Peter Jensen
Student political factions broke loose this week from whatever dormant attitude they may have struck
John Kramer
Hear ye! Hear ye! the polls are open!
in the earlier campaign days, and opened up in earnest to score a victory at the polls on Monday.
Coincident with this increased interest in undergraduate politics, came word from John Perone that the Blue Circle would be on hand to aid the S. A.. C. in running an orderly election in the Dining Hall ballot room.
The spotlight for the day centers about the race between Francis Werner and George Rohrs for the presidency of the Senior class. Rohrs, who outdistanced his opponent in the primaries recently, will have to contend against the added burden of the Fiss forces, who this week threw their support to Werner.
A persistent rumor had been voiced in the Junior class last week that Fiss would remain out of the political situation, once he had been defeated in the nominations. This was confirmed by Fiss himself in a conversation with a Scholastic reporter.
But this week found the situation ironed out, and a joint ticket uniting the Werner-Fiss supporters appeared (Continued on Page 15)
Koskey Chosen ‘Met9 Club Head For Second Year
Edwin Kosky, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was reelected president of the Metropolitan club last Tuesday evening at the meeting held in the Lay Faculty dining hall. The other officers are Frank La Borne, treasurer; Douglas Georgio, secretary; Victor Schaeffner, senior trustee; Arthur Doerfler, junior trustee; and Robert Armstrong, sophomore trustee.
Due to a conflict or misunderstanding the election of a vice-president was postponed until the next meeting.
Other business concerned the plans for a summer dance, which will be released at a future date.
Professor Smithberger Talks On English and Classics
In an address, “Leaves from a Professor’s Notebook,” delivered before the Patricians last Tuesday evening, Professor Andrew Smithberger, of the department of English, treated the classics and their relation to English literature.
Broadly defining a classic as a work which contains the eternal truths of life, he pointed out the excellencies of Homer, Euripides, Aristophanes, Vergil, and a number of other ancient writers.
The speaker stressed the value to English students of translating the classics, maintaining that such work requires an exactitude of expression and unconscious appreciation of an author’s style, while it also acquaints him with some of the best thought of all ages.
FOUND!
An expensive wrist watch has been found. Owner may have same by identifying it at the Lost and Found department, Main building.
Robert H. Borland, manager of the dining halls since their completion in 1927, died Tuesday at his South Bend residence. A severe case of pneumonia constituting but a four, day illness ended catastrophically for the man whose name had become almost synonymous with efficient dining-hall service.
Mr. Borland was born in the city of Quebec, Canada. At the age of sixteen he became employed at the famous Hotel Touraine, in Boston, thus beginning a career in the hotel business which culminated in several important executive positions.
Well Versed As a Manager
While Mr. Borland had a thorough knowledge of foods as is evidenced by the fact that he was managing steward of such well known clubs as the Union League in Chicago. He was also skilled in the smallest details of hotel furnishing and equipment.
While at Notre Dame Mr. Borland was consulted on practically every major project of school and college catering undertaken since 1927. During his days here he declined several important offers, preferring to remain as the manager of the system which had grown up about him.
Mr. Borland is survived by his wife.
New Jersey Club Plans
Spring Dance and Banquet
William Murphy is to be chairman of the New Jersey Club spring dance. This announcement was made to the members of the club by the newly elected president, Sabby Addonizio, at the meeting held Tuesday. William Harrington is to be assistant chairman.
Plans for the Pre-Commencement Banquet were also announced at the meeting. Gene Ran and James Clark were appointed co-chairmen. This banquet, to be held within the next two weeks, is an annual affair held in honor of the graduating members of the club.
Sal Bontempo, the retiring president, thanked the members for their co-operation and asked for a continuation of the same spirit.
May 6, 1932
Seven
PETRITZ TO RETAIN
N. D. PUBLICITY JOB
Al Smith Is Nominated At
Lawyers Mock Convention
1932-33 Work Will Mark Third Year of N. D. Publicity.
- Joseph S. Petritz, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been appointed University Publicity director of the school year of 1932-33. The appointment was announced this week by the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
Petritz will be required to give his full time to the work of handling all University publicity. For the past three years he has handled all sports publicity while completing work for the Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in journalism. He will be graduated in June.
During the time Petritz has been sports publicity editor, he has written for the Associated Press, the United Press, the Chicago Tribune, the Chicago American, and the New York Sun.
Petritz’ new position will combine for the first time in the history of the University the work of sports and general publicity. Previously, this work has been under the direction of two different men.
S. A. C. Chairmanship . Awaits New Council
By Peter Jensen
The race for the chairmanship of the S. A. C. remained at a standstill this week, with all candidates holding back until the new council is elected.
The vote will probably be taken within the next week.
Particular interest is attached to Maurice Lee’s race for reelection on Monday. Should he be defeated at the polls, the contest will be between just James Gerund and Jack Finneran.
The entrance of Lee, however, will cast a new light on the voting and political observers on the campus are not able to predict the ultimate winner.
A movement was placed on foot this week to have the old Council elect the chairman for next year. This, however, received a hearty veto and little more was heard of the matter.

Belloc Cancels
Lecture Series For Notre Dame
Hillaire Belloc will not lecture at Notre Dame this spring, it was announced today by the university administration.
Rumors that ill health would prevent Mr. Belloc from appearing in the country at all this spring have been persistent for some time, but in the hope that the distinguished English essayist, poet and controversialist would recover sufficiently, no official announcement was made. His continued bad health, however, has caused Mr. Belloc to cancel his entire American tour. It is thought that Mr. Belloc will fulfill his engagement next fall.
Seats For Bengal Show Go To First Customers
Tickets for the Bengal Movie and Stage Show will go on sale this week, it was announced by officials in charge this morning.
Since Washington Hall holds only a certain number of seats, it will be a question of first come, first served.
Seats will be alotted out by members of The Scholastic staff in all residence halls. There will be absolutely no tickets held back. All will be sold as soon as possible.
Your twenty-five cent ticket entitles you to a seat in any part of the house. Because the entire profits are going to the Bengal Mission, The Scholastic is making a blanket rate, and is not charging more for downstairs seats.
TOOK 5 BALLOTS
George A. Higgins Gives Keynote Speech; Father Heiser Is Chaplain.
By Patrick Corcoran
If the regular Democratic convention, to be held in July, is of the same mind as the students of the
William Kirby
He threw the Brown derby into the ring.
College of Law, Alfred E. Smith will be nominated for the presidency of the United States again this year. At least he was the selection the embryo lawyers made in the mock Democratic (Continued on Page 22)
PLATFORM ADOPTED
For:
A tariff for revenue only.
Repeal of national prohibition and regulation of liquor by the states.
A tax on liquor.
Freedom for the Philippines as soon as they are fited for it.
Reform of the legal system.
Preparedness for war.
Decrease in governmental expense.
Legislation to prevent war profiteering.
Against:
Deflation of the value of the ctollar.
Cancellation of war debts.
Federal program for unemployment relief, this to be left to the states.
Eight
The Scholastic
CONCERT BAND TO PLAY AT BLOSSOM .JAMBOREE
Sixty-five Musicians Will Go To St. Joseph Tomorrow.
Notre Dame will be represented at the May Blossom Festival to be held tomorrow (Saturday) at St. Joseph, Mich., by the University concert band under the direction of Professor Joseph J. Casasanta. Sixty-five musicians will make the trip to St. Joseph, leaving the campus at 8:00 o’clock, school time, on Saturday evening.
Other than the University band, there will be fifteen such organizations who will participate in the festivities. Bands from many schools and colleges throughout the mid-west including the Michigan State and the University of Michigan bands, will be present.
March Three Miles
Attending the festival is an annual affair of the University bandsters. The members form in the parade at Benton Harbor and march to St. Joseph, which is about three miles distant. The parade is scheduled to begin at 1:00 o’clock, daylight-saving time.
The parade will be made up of floats, interspersed with the various school bands. A police escort leads the procession. A special effort is being made this year to make the event an outstanding one because the inclemency in the weather was responsible for its apparent failure last year.
Seventy-five thousand spectators from the surrounding vicinity are expected to attend the festival. Notre Dame has sent the band to take part in the parade each year since 1925.
Beg Your Pardon!
A mis-apprehension may have arisen in the minds of some of the readers of last week’s Scholastic. In the article on the appointment of the class valedictorian and class orator for the June commencement exercises it was stated that “no class poet would be appointed.” Also the story went on to say that “this is a distinct departure from traditional custom.”
According ot the Reverend James H. McDonald, C.S.C., chairman of the appointing committee, the office of class poet was done away with for this year only.	.
EDITOR
James B. Clark, an editor with a flair for politics, whose efforts on the 1932 Dome are almost completed. Managing Editor Clark declares that the book will appear in about three weeks.
Olympic Fund to Get $23,000 From Series of Final Tryouts
By Intercollegiate Press.
New York, May 5.—The sum of §23,000 has been guaranteed the American Olympic Fund from final Olympic tryouts, it was announced recently by George W. Graves, chairman of the Olympic finance committee. The boxing tryouts will be held in San Francisco on July 11, 12, 13 and 14 and the sum of §12,000 has been guaranteed.
Final men’s track and field tryouts at Palo Alto on July 15 and 16 will add §7,000 and final women’s swimming tryouts at Central Park in New York will add §3,000. The final mens’ swimming tryouts at Cincinnati on July 14, 15 and 16 will mean §1,000 more to the fund.
Hoyer Speaks At Detroit
Prof. Raymond A. Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance Department, was the principal speaker at the Annual banquet of the Tau Beta Association Settlement house, Detroit, Monday night, May 2. His topic was “Youth in Times of Depression.”
Edward P. Kames, Boy Guidance, ’31, is director of boys’ work at the above institution.
NEW YORKERS BANQUET
Rochester Club Completes Most Successful Year.
The Rochester club officially closed the most successful year in its history last Saturday evening with a banquet at the Oldenburg Inn. Members were transported to the Inn during the afternoon and after a baseball game was played, the banquet was held. Elections of officers followed the serving of the meal.
Peter Connelly was elected to succeed William Jones as president. Raymond Casareta is the new vice-president, Gerard Farrel, secretary, and Frank DeClerck, treasurer. The latter three will succeed Wilbur Seehan, Frank Norton, and Daniel Maloy, respectively.
Short talks were given by the retiring officers and the graduating members of the club.
During the course of the year the club has been one of the most active on the campus. Two summer dances and a Christmas frolic, together with five banquets given without expense to the members, attest to the initiative and energy of the officers.
Leahy Visits Campus
Frank Leahy, tackle on the 1929 and 1930 national championship football teams visited the campus Tuesday, and found many of his old friends of past football campaigns still on the campus. He spoke with many of his old teammates, coaches and teachers. Frank was one of the most popular men on the campus, and was president of the class of ’31 in his freshman year. He was graduated last year from the College of Arts and Letters.
Stewart Offers Services
Al Stewart, genial and moustached director of the Notre Dame Jugglers, was among the first to volunteer his support to the latest venture for the Bengal missions.
“We’re glad to help out,” he declared to Neil C. Hurley, editor of The Scholastic. “Call on us for, anything.”
May 6, 1932
Nine
MAY ‘LAWYER’ ON SALE
Foreign Contributions Mark Last Appearance.
By Mitchell Tackley
Featured in the May number of the Notre Dame Lazvyer are eight major articles written by members of law school faculties throughout the country as well as prominent attorneys. The publication will make its appearance on the campus early next week.
Various phases in law administration are taken up in the articles contained in the issue. Professor Felix Forte^ of Boston university, is the author of “Joinder of Civil and Criminal Relief in Indiana.”
Father Miltner Writes Article
The Reverend Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the Arts arid Letters College at the University, contributed an article, “Progressiveness of Law.” Professor John S. Brennan, of the English department, wrote another entitled “Old Age Pensions.”
“Liability for Pre-Natal Injuries” is the subject of an article written by Professor William D. Rollison, member of the law school faculty and advisor for the magazine. Professor William Ward Beer of the Brooklyn Law school wrote an essay dealing with the fifth and fourteenth amendments of the National Constitution.
Other important legal questions are thoroughly discussed in “The Divorce Evil,” written by Attorney Clarence Smith of Chicago; “The Forseeability Factor in the Law of Torts,” by Professor Fowler V. Harper, of Indiana university, and “The Genesis of the Cannons of Ethics of the American Bar Association,” by the Hon. Judge Walter Jones, of Montgomery, Indiana.
Law Notes and Book Reviews
In another section of the issue are a selection of law notes and book reviews. Such current releases as “Cases on Bills and Notes,” by Smith and Moore; “Handbook on the Law of Sales,” by Void; and “Cases on Titles to Real Property,” by Adler, are reviewed.
Contributors to this department include the following students: C. L. Randolph, John M. Crimmins, John M. Ruberto, John F. Harrison, and Leo Hodel.
The May number of the Lawyer is the final appearance of teh law quarterly. Edward C. Massa has headed the editorial staff.
INSTRUCTOR
Faculty Adviser Louis Buckley, who this week was instrumental in promoting a successful Economic seminar. Tonight, in another role, District Deputy Buckley will materially aid the annual social event of the Knights of Columbus.
Literary Taste of Our Statesmen Is Variable
By Intercollegiate Press.
Washington, May 4.—Some of the busiest public men are among the best customers of capital book stores, but the literary taste of politicians is as unpredictable as a cyclone.
President Hoover’s addiction to mystery stories, those which wind and unwind the mesh of plot rather than those of horror, bring one shop a fairly regular order for five of the kind.
Former Justice Holmes was a clocklike customer at one store for years. In addition to the law and jurisprudence, he was always wanting something to amuse him, something whimsical oi- perhaps something droll.
Senator Borah of Idaho walks to buy his own and recently finished Feuss’s life of Webster. He never brouses; he knows the volume he wants, usually a meaty tome.
To Senator Capper of Kansas repeatedly are sent old and new hooks both by and about Dickens and Emerson.
But those who have tried to plot the public man’s taste said today they knew only one type that usually would persuade the average—the muck-raking variety!
SUMMER FACULTY HEAD INCLUDES NOTED MEN
New Instructor Included In Staff For Six-Week Session.
Several familiar faces and some new ones will appear among the visiting faculty during the summer session here this year.
The Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Ph.D., now vice president of St. Edward’s university, Austin, Texas, will serve as associate professor of economics. Father Boland taught here from 1924 until 1931.
Father Bolger Returns
The Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C., Ph.B., of the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn., will occupy a position as professor of economics. Both Father Bolger and Father Boland acted as debating coaches when teaching here in former years during which time they produced highly successful teams.
Dr. Gino de Solenni, of Notre Dame college, Cleveland, will again teach Spanish as he' did last summer.
The Reverend James A. Fogarty, C.S.C., Ph.D., will be instructor in economics. He is from Holy Cross college, Brookland, D. C.
Sister M. Hieronyme, O.M., A.B., has taught in previous summer sessions also. She will be assistant professor of Library Science, and comes from St. Xavier academy, Latrobe, Pa.
Course in Library Science
Dr J. Hobart Hoskins, of the University of Cincinnati, will be a professor of botany.
Miss Ellen Downey Kistler, A.B., of the University library, will act as instructor in library science during the session.
Fred I. Myers, A.M., will again be associate professor of English. He is on the staff of the U. S. Naval academy at Annapolis.
J. M. O’Rourke will be a member of the department of education as he was last summer. Mr. O’Rourke is from the University High school of the University of Chicago.
Sister M. Veronique, C.S.C., A.M. of the College of St.-Mary-oflthe-Wasatch, Salt Lake City, Utah, will be an instructor in English.
Ten
The Scholastic
Voting On Alumni Officers Begins For Year of 1932-33
ELECT ROLFS AND HYDE TO BOOKMEN OFFICES
DEVISE NEW PLANS
Names of Prof. Manion and Harry Miller Appear On The President Ballot.
Balloting for the major officers of the Notre Dame Alumni association for 1932-33 began the first of May. Tickets with the names of the candidates for office were mailed to the members during the past week.
Clarence Manion, ’22, professor in the Colelge of Law, and M. Harry Miller, ’10, brother to Ray Miller, mayor of the city of Cleveland, will compete for the presidency. Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., ’09, and the Very Reverend Jamse W. Donahue, C.S.C., ’07, are on the ticket for honorary president.
Alumni restricted to own Districts
Other names appearing on the ballot include Timothy P. Galvin, ’06, and David V. Hayes, ’21, for the office of vice-president; Chester D. Freeze, ’10, and James E. Stanford, ’15, for second vice-president; and Hugh A. O’Donnell, ’94, and Bernard J. Vollr ’17, for director of the four year term.
Voting for districh governors and lieutenant-governors is additional according to the new constitution. Each alumnus is to vote for one man for each office in his district only. The 1932-33 lieutenant-governor will be the 1933-34 governor.
Why methods were Inaugurated
The new constitutional committee devised the plan for electing governors and lieutenant-governors because of the necessity of a system whereby an intermediate group of contact men would be national officers and would also be in a position to represent all the clubs in a given area to advantage.
The result is the division of the United States into twenty-one groups with foreign alumni comprising a twenty-second. Geographical facilities, the linking of clubs for strength in each district, and the recognition of fundamental differences in problems were the factors considered in the process of districting.
Spectator Club Elects Pick And Dreux New Heads
John Pick and William Dreaux, juniors in the College of Arts and Letters, were elected president and
John Pick
Received the Spectators' gavel.
secretary respectively of the Spectators Club last evening. Edmund A. Stephan, retiring president welcomed the new officers, and introduced the speakers for the evening.
Robert Flint in addressing the Club on the subject of “Trends in Modern Literature” flayed the modem drama as being disgustingly over-sexed, and agreed heartily with the observations that contemporary dramatists must be blamed most of all for their ten- . dency to present a psychopathic case to their audience in such a way that it looks perfectly normal.
James Dahehy in one of the finest talks of the year criticized the opera as it is presented in the United States today as being unintelligible to a large majority of the audience.
Danehy built up a constructive criticism of operatic conditions by stressing the practicability of an English opera. “The English language,” he claimed, is just as melodious as any other tongue, and could be used to advantage in any of our modem operas.”
The speaker looked with distinct favor upon the trend towards more operettas in America.	'
Both Men Are Juniors In A.B.; Murphy Is Librarian.
Samuel Hyde, junior in the College of Arts and Letters, was elected president of the Bookmen for next year at the meeting held last Monday evening.
Hyde was admitted to the organization last fall and has since been an active member. His chief contribution was a paper dealing with Bess Streeter Aldrich as a realist. He also acted on several committees during the year.
For the office of secretary-treasurer for the coming year the Bookmen selected Daniel J. Rolfs, also a junior in the liberal arts college. His choice was particularly desirable to the members in that he is considered the best suited to write the minutes in the informal and personal style inaugurated by this year’s secretary.
Edward Murphy, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, was unanimously elected to succeed himself in the position of librarian. Both men the juniors in College of Arts.
“Spirit of N. D.” Places 2nd In National Movie Poll
A poll to determine the best photoplay of 1931 was taken in January in the more progressive high schools of New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Newark, Washington, Pittsburgh, Denver, Des Moines, and Houston. It resulted in placing Cimarron (RKO) first, The Spirit of Notre Dame (Universal) second, and Skippy (Paramount) third.
The . Notre Dame picture was ranked high by both junior and senior high school students, says William Levin, Director of Visual Education, Central High School, Newark, N. J., in an article entitled “Defining the Cinema,” published in the current issue of the English Journal, a teachers’ monthly.
In the article Mr. Levin pleads for a commission of English teachers to be set up to pre-view cinema productions and rate them from the standpoint or artistic excellence. “English teachers,” he adds, “are interested not only in clean pictures, but also in good pictures.”
May 6, 1932
Eleven
ZONA GALE TO LECTURE IN SOUTH BEND SOON
University-Theatre to Give Immortal ‘Abraham Lincoln’
Noted Dramatist and Pulitzer Winner In Town May 12.
Zona Gale, well known novelist, short story writer, and dramatist, will lecture on “Some Tendencies in Modern Literature” at the Progress Club Auditorium in South Bend next Thursday evening, May 12, at 8:30.
Miss Gale is a writer and a lecturer of note. In 1921 she was awarded the Pulitzer prize in drama for the dramatization of her novel Miss Lulu Bett. She has many other novels, short stories, plays, and essays to her credit. It is perhaps for her short stories that Miss Gale is best known, her Yellow Gentians and Bhie having been very popular some years ago. Her most recent book of short stories is Bridal Pond, published last fall.
Written for Various Papers
A native of Portage, Wisconsin, Zona Gale received both her bachelor and master degrees in literature at the state university. For some time she worked on various Milwaukee papers, and then was employed by the New York World. At the present time the writer is living at her home in Portage, making lecture tours occasionally. She will come to South Bend from Evanston, Ill.
The lecture by Zona Gale is being sponsored by the Book Shop of South Bend. Tickets may be obtained there or on the campus at the circulation desk in the library from 2:30 to 4:30 every afternoon.
Bengal Movie Is Idea and Hope of Fr. John O’Hara
The Bengal Movie and Stage Show, which will be held a week from Saturday in Washington Hall was the idea of the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., prefect of religion.
“I’d like to make one more substantial contribution to the missions before the end of school,” he declared to Neil C. Hurley, editor of The Scholastic.
“I think that the boys will be glad to do their bit once again. They’ll be getting some real entertainment — and Bengal can certainly use the added income.”
Seminar Hears Weil Discuss
Finance Moves
Inflation and deflation, tax bills, the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, the Glass-Steagall bill and other administration moves were discussed in a paper delivered Tuesday evening before the economics seminar by Granger Weil.
The paper took up each one of these subjects in a short discussion and the problems that they presented. The seminar at the conclusion of the reading analyzed the problems and presented solutions.
Many new members have been taken into the class in the last two meetings and all of these took an active part in the discussions. Professor William H. Downey and Louis Buckley, of the department of economics, were present and directed the course of consideration of the problems.
Boylan Is Elected Head of Pre-law Organization
Robert Boylan and John Casey, sophomores in the College of Aits and Letters were elected president and vice-president respectively of the Pre - Law Club at the weekly biweekly meeting of that organization last Tuesday evening.
James Jenning became the new secretary by a close margin over William Struck, while Arthur Korzen-eski defeated Richard Balliet for the office of treasurer.
Two talks were presented at the meeting, one by George Reilly on the subject: “The Lawyer as a Defender” and the other by George Meyer who reviewed the life and accomplishments of Judge Elbert Gary.
The final meeting of the year is to be held Tuesday evening May 17. The session will be open to all students. A committee is at present working out some form of entertainment for the finale.
LAST PRODUCTION
Prof. A. Doyle To Play Title Role In Historic Drama To Be Given May 28-29.
“Abraham Lincoln” the immortal play by John Drinkwater has been selected by the University Theatre
Roger Beirne
Wouldn’t look right cutting logs.
as the last stage production of the year. Rehearsals under the direction of Prof Frank Kelly are now in order and the cast partially selected.
Appearing in the title role is Prof. Albert L. Doyle, of the Speech department. He will be supported by Joe McCabe who is known for his character impersonations, George Higgins who scored a hit in “The Rising of the Moon,” and Robert Nesbit.
Miss F. Theresa Chissolm of the St. Mary’s college faculty who has appeared on the University stage several times this year will play opposite Prof. Doyle. Others in the cast will include Frank Canale, Jim Carmody, Roger Beirne, and William Walsh.
The play will be presented on Saturday and Sunday evenings, May 28 and 29 for the student body and the South Bend people. Friday evening, June 3, the play will be repeated as a part of the commencement program.
(Continued on Page 30)
Twelve
The Scholastic
Men About the Campus
NEW COURSE IS OFFERED
Because of 'the short time left until graduation, and because of the many Seniors worthy of a position in this column, The Scholastic is following the policy of running two undergraduates here each zveek.
By Joe Degnan
[Picture on Page 15]
John Eleazar Colville, called J., Jan, or Barrymore, wears more jewelry on his chain than any conses-sions man, indorses Chesterfields with sincerity, and confesses a weakness for both Edna May Oliver and Mitzi Green.
On baseball trips this year the team streaks over the surrounding plains in Packards. After a day sliding bases this little innovation of Colville’s is more than something new and interesting and different. It’s insurance for John popularity as manager.
French and Scotch Ancestry
Of French and Scotch ancestry, with stronger shots of the latter, Colville satisfies one element with his penchant for the study of French humors; the other with a firmly entrenched and growing desire to become an investment broker. It’s what, in these times, they call ambition.
In his idle moments John has the pet vice of staring blankly at an open book. A manager’s life is like that.
For diversion Mr. Colville takes to riddles now and then. He has one in his drawer. It’s a picture of Bernie, and she signs her name with a “Sincerely.”
In the way of correspondence Colville has only one great concern. He is resolutely faithful to the boys on the corner. They’re all working the same beat, he explains. All the letters are directed to Jake who passes the news on. Jake can read.
Met. Club’s V. P.
Vice President of the Metropolitan club, John spent his wondering years at Yonkers High and later at Gorton where he captained the baseball team.
Colville isn’t so strong for publicity, and when he found a couple of the boys revealing everything from his unique collection of garters (his own) down to the family seal, he scared us out of the room with a powerful expletive that was short but expressive to the last degree.
By William A. Kennedy
It’s no longer news when a man bites a dog, but when a New Yorker breaks down and confesses that “the
John Ross
He just naturally disappeared.
greatest city in the world” bores him—well, that IS news!
John J. Ross (see above) is the present track manager. He started out in his frishman year to get a monogram but ran up against such stars as Wilson, Quigley, Little, and Hutton ... so he just naturally disappeared. . . .
Then, looking about for something easy, he decided to become a manager ... he soon discovered it was the toughest racket on the campus. . . . “No time for anything else . . . always busy . . . giving press releases . . . making reservations . . . traveling. . . .” Although to hear him talk about that oc-ed he met in Kansas last week — well, one wouldn’t mind accompanying him some time.
A Southern Exposure
His room in the Manager’s Corner of Sorin has a southern exposure . . . with no extra charge ... It’s a typical press agent’s office . . . great stacks of books . . . letters . . . clippings. ... If we would believe the other Sorin-mates, “He saves everything he can lay his hands on!”
(Continued on Page 24)
Managerial Cost Accounting to Be Taught By Mr. Chizek.
A course in Managerial Cost Accounting will be offered as an elective to seniors who are not majoring in accounting, by the School of Commerce next September. The subject is a yearly one covering three credit hours each semester, and it will be taught by Professor C. F. Chizek.
The aim of the course as it is to be described in the new catalogue is as follows: “This course is designed primarily for the student who wishes to obtain an understanding of accounting technique for the purpose of management, rather than for the purpose of practice in the profession of accountancy.
Since a thorough knowledge of cost control is an essential requisite for any executive, the student is at the outset familiarized with the principles and procedure of factory cost accounting.
These basic principles are then applied to the retail field—the determination of selling costs for products, salesmen, and sales areas. Financial and operating ratios which may be utilized by the management are reviewed and some time is devoted to the devising of accounting systems.
Trainmen Restore to Robin Nest and Eggs Carried in Car
By Intercollegiate Press.
Pawnee City, Neb., May 4.—A mother robin was back on her eggs today because three railroad men interrupted their routine work long enough to give attention to a bird’s nest.
A freight train picked up a box car in the Lewiston yards, fifteen miles west of this place, and brought it to Pawnee City, where H. B. Saulsbury, brakeman, noticed in the car a nest containing four eggs. He and A. B. Kennedy, railroad agent here, carried the nest into the station until a westbound freight train arrived.
' The conductor, L. L. Nuckolls, took the nest back to Lewiston and had it placed in a tree near the railroad yards.
When you get to the end of this sentence you will realize it is filler.
May 6, 1932
Thirteen
ALUMNI FACE DEFICIT
Bills Being Sent With Ballots; Members Urged To Pay.
Under the heading of Bulletin, an article appearing in .the April-May issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus, states that the Alumni office is faced
James Armstrong “Prompt remittance of dues will aid greatly.
with the necessity of suspending a portion of its work because of lack of finances.
The opening of the fiscal year in June will be accompanied by a deficit in the budget of the office. Bills for dues for the ensuing year are being sent out with the 1932 ballots.
Members of the Association are urged to cooperate and promptly remit the 1932-33 dues. The extent of the remittance will guide the office in the degree of curtailment.
In the statement, the office recognizes the conditions of the country in their full significance. Emphasis is placed on the fact that if only 40 percent of the alumni would pay their $5 dues the greater share of the problems would be solved. This plan allows 60% discount for the depression.
Senior Thesis Published
Norbert C. Schaller, a senior pharmacist, received word last Friday that his thesis, entitled “A Note on the Assay of Hyoscyamus,” will be published in either the May or June issue of the Journal of the American Pharmaceutical Association.
The work on the thesis was done in connection with the eleventh revision of the United States Pharmacopoeia.
— - —
Campus Opinions
Question.- What do you think of Notre Dame undergraduate politics?
Martin C. Moran, Howard hall, junior: “There seems to be too much partiality shown in the appointment of committees for the various class functions. More of the Mystery Man policy of less patronage in selecting committees would serve to place undergraduate politics on a higher plane.”
Robert. Van Lahr, Lyons hall, sophomore: “Undergraduate politics in my opinion is quite overdone when one considers the relative importance that it represents. It is one fellow campaigning for his best friend so that this friend may be chairman of his class dance the following year, etc. It is quite different from that which we learned in the politics course in our freshman year. So get wise to yourselves, freshmen!”
Henry R. Kozlowski, Howard hall, freshman: “As far as I am concerned, the tactics of the men during the sophomore elections were anything but uncouth and sly. The political aides-de-camp were very suave in their arguments for their respective party leaders. Perhaps next year we too will have a Mystery Man.”
Charles Quirk, Morrissey hall, sophomore: “As far as I am concerned, some of this undergraduate politics is too much on the order of national politics, being as the fellows vote for a person because he is a ‘good fellow’ instead of voting for him because he will be able to execute his job well. Still, that doesn’t matter much because the officers hold an office of honor more than of trust.”
John A. Penote, Howard hall, junior: “Too much stress is laid on campus politics; class offices no longer hold the distinction they deserve. This condition is attributable to the presence of ‘parties.’ More attention should be given to the man and less to the machine backing him.”
MUSIC SCHOOL SELECTS OUTSTANDING TEACHERS
Carl Busch To Teach Theory; Dr. Middleschulte, Organ.
Outstanding on the list of teachers engaged for the summer school session in the department of music is the name of Sir Carl Busch, who is known throughout the country for his work in the field of music. Sir Carl will teach all branches of theory.
After the recent death of John Philip Sousa, Sir Carl was left the only living charter member of the Band Masters’ Association of America. He is the founder and conductor of the Kansas City Symphony orchestra.
Knighted By Two Kings
Honor was bestowed upon Sir Carl when he was knighted by the Kings of Norway and Denmark. In the publishing field, he has over 200 selections on the market, all of which are works in band, orchestra and choruses. His latest composition is “Concerto.” He is also guest conductor of the National High School orchestra and band at Interlochen, Mich.
Dr. William Middleschulte, of the American Conservatory of Music, Chicago, will teach organ. Other than being professor of organ in Chicago, he is a musician of international reputation. An honorary LL.D, degree was bestowed on Dr. Middelshulte some time ago by Notre Dame.
Other Notable Additions
Miss Agnes Hope Pilsbury, Chicago, nationally known pianist, has been engaged as instructor’ of piano. She has made personal appearances in the leading cities of the country on the concert stage.
Madame Minnie Humphreys, Clyde, Ohio, will serve on the faculty as instructor of voice. Adrian Pouliot, of the Springfield College of Music, Springfield, Ill., will give piano instructions.
Sir Carl Busch, Dr. Middleshulte, Mmme. Humphreys, and Professor Pouliot served on the faculty last year. Miss Pilsbury taught here last in 1926.
A man walked from Missouri to Russia without any transportation whatever. Yes, Ripley told it.
Fourteen
The Scholastic
FRANCIS DUFFY TALKS BEFORE ECONOMISTS
Defends American Federation; Answers Labor Questions.
i
i
। i
I
i
I
5
Francis Duffy, First Vice-President of the American Federation of Labor, and Secretary and Treasurer of the Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, addressed students of Professor Buckley’s economics class Tuesday afternoon in the auditorium of the Engineering building on “The Function and Operations of the American Federation of Labor.”
The development of the talk was based on eight questions which were submitted by Professor Buckley: Is the American Federation of Labor guilty of charges of neglecting the unskilled laborers? Does the Labor Union impose limitations on the field of output? Why are there no separate unions for every specific field of labor?
How do company unions operate? Was there a decline in membership in the Federation from 1920-’26? Does socialism and communism play a part in the labor unions? Is there racketeering in them? How do union men benefit from the unemployment insurance?
The speaker answered these questions and in conclusion stated that the labor union is far from being unsuccessful and that “The labor union demands fair pay for a fair day’s work.”
Academy of Science To Meet
The Notre Dame Academy of Science will hold its regular meeting on Monday evening, May 9, at 8 p. m. in Boom 104 of Science hall. Bolling Bunch, a junior, will present the only paper on the evening’s program.
The final meeting of the year will be held on May 23 this will be the seventy-fifth meeting of the Academy since its inception six years ago. A special anniversary program is being arranged.
Two hundred thirty-six students have applied for the bachelor of science degree at Mississippi State college this spring.
SECRETARY
William B. Dreux, stocky Winonan, who last night was elected next year’s secretary of the active Spectators’
Seniors Must Settle Their
Accounts By June 1st
According to an announcement made this week by the Beverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, every candidate for a degree at the Commencement in June is reminded of the regulation of the University requiring the full settlement of the student’s account with the University before the conferring of the degree.
To have his name on the Commencement program, the student must have his account settled in full not later than Wednesday, June ?. Prompt attention to this matter by the student may save him serious embarrassment at the time of graduation.
Commerce Forum Meets
At a meeting of • the Commerce Forum held last Friday the members were addressed by Joseph Maronick and Ealph Carwin.
Maronick had for his topic “The Value of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce.” This speech was a refutation of a proposal of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce to abolish the bureau.
The opinion of the Forum was undecided as to whether an outing banquet would be held, so a committee under Bernard Eoethele was appointed to decide the matter.
The next meeting of the Forum will be held tonight in room 102 of the Commerce building at 7:30.	.
CLUBS HAVE JOINT MEET
Members Are Entertained With Talking Picture Film.
The Pharmacy club was host to the Academy of Science at a joint meeting held Tuesday evening, in room 213 of Chemistry hall.
The first part of the program consisted of a talking picture, entitled “7 of Every 10,” presented by the Coca-Cola company of Atlanta, Georgia. F. G. Spratling, of Louisville, Kentucky, assisted by Barney Knee of South Bend, was in charge of the presentation. The film portrayed the modem commercial side of drug store merchandising.
This was followed by a short film, “These . Changing Times,” showing the evolution of the modem drug store.
The second part of the program consisted of an illustrated paper presented by Norbert C. Schaller, a senior pharmacist, entitled “Modem Prescription Writing.” The slides accompanying the talk illustrated well the reasons for the use of Latin in modem prescription writing.
Announcement was made at this meeting that- the election of officers for next year’s Pharmacy club will be held May 17.
Candidates To Speak
Twenty candidates for membership into the Wranglers will speak before the club at a special- meeting this Sunday morning at ten o’clock in the Law Building.
This announcement was made today by James Boyle, chairman of the membership committee.
Following the speeches by the con-didates, a short business meeting ^will be held to arrange for the final banquet of the year, which will be held on May 19th.
Committee reports and miscellaneous business will bring to a close the special meeting, according to James B. O’Shaughnessy, president of the group.
TICKETS HELD UP
The football ticket sale for 1932 has been held up pending action of Congress on tlie question of taxation! Alumni will be given preference again this year.
May 6, 1932
Fifteen
PRESS FORUM CONVENES
Briggs Talks On “Newspapers As a Social Force.*’
Robert S. Briggs, senior in the College of Arts and Letters, spoke before twenty-five students of the Press Forum, Wednesday morning on “Newspapers as a Social Force.” “Newspapers,” he said, “because they mold public opinion can and do have good influence on American social standards.”	•
Paper May Curb Evils
The speaker was of the opinion that editors have it in their power to curb the evils of modern journalism. Most people go to the newspapers for information and entertainment. Editors, since they determine, what the public should have, can suppress the “yellow” news—or if the policy of the paper claims to print all it can be treated briefly in the inside pages.
Briggs gave proof that most editors in the United States favor suppression of divorce news, and all other “emotional stuff” read avidly by only the unadjusted. “Newspapers are an inexpensive means of education and can by cool editorial policies substiutte a thinking mind for the mob mind.”
Papers Exert Strong Influences
In conclusion Briggs stressed the power of newspapers to act as spokesman of the common people. Papers can exert strong influences locally and nationally. Papers that have stirred people to beautify their parks and boulevards, have moved the same people to racial hatred, war, and destruction.
NOTICE TO SENIORS!
The University commencement invitations for Seniors will be distributed beginning Monday morning at 9:00 o’clock from the Alumni Office in the Main building. •
Ten invitations are given to each Senior. * Invitations will not be dis tributed except on personal application.
MAN ABOUT
John Colville, Man About, who numbers among his feiv weaknesses Mitzi Green and Edna May Oliver.
S. A. C. IN CHARGE OF VOTING HERE MONDAY
(Continued from Page 6)
on the campus and was circulated throughout the Junior class.
Somewhat of a bombshell was thrown into the sophomores this week when it was reported that John Venables was ineligible to run for the Junior presidency. This practically assures Joe Condon of election, even should some group decide to enter a new and a surprise candidate.
Walter Brown and John Breen, who coasted through the primaries unmolested, will test their strength Monday in a battle that apparently will be one of the closest of the day.
Brown, who is supported by a faction from Brownson and Sophomore, will find considerable opposition from Breen, backed by the cohorts of Dillon and Carroll.
Political observers believe that in the upperclass elections a split ticket vote will be made, but in the freshman and sophomore ballots many are of the opinion that a straight ticket will walk into office.
John Kramer, president of the S. A. C., declared this morning that his organization will be on hand throughout the day to supervise the balloting.
GRADUATION PROGRAM NAS BEEN ANNOUNCED
Banquets, Entertainment, and Dedication Planned.
The program of the eighty-eighth annual commencement was announced this week and is as follows:
(Central Standard Time) FRIDAY, JUNE 3
Alumni Registration, Alumni and Dillon Halls for Campus Residence. Alumni Office for Senior and General Registration.
The Alumni Golf Tournament will open Friday on the William J. Burke University Golf Course.
12:30 P M. President’s Address to the Class of 1932 (Private).
3:00 P. M. Meeting of Local Club Council.
6:00 P. M. Reunion Dinners (Private Arrangement) .
7:00 P. M. Concert by the University Band, Main Quadrangle.
8:15 P. M. The University Theatre presents John Drinkwater’s “Abraham Lincoln,” Washington Hail.
SATURDAY, JUNE 4
Alumni Registration will continue as above.
8:00 A. M. Reunion Mass for Deceased Alumni, Sacred Heart Church.
9:30 A. M. Last visit of the Class of 1932, Sacred Heart Church (Private) .
10:00 A. M. Class Day Exercises and Awarding of Honors, Washington Hall.
12:00 M. Luncheon, Commerce Alumni, University Dining Halls.
2:00 P. M. Baseball, Michigan State College vs. Notre Dame. Cartier Field.
4:30 P. M. Dedication of the John F. Cushing, C.E. ’06, Hall of Engineering.
Address: the Honorable Sergius P. Grace, New York City.
6:00 P. M. Annual Alumni Banquet.
7:00 P. M. Concert, Studebaker Band. Main Quadrangle.
8:30 P. M. Musical Clubs Presentation, Washington Hall.
SUNDAY, JUNE 5
8:30 A. M. Academic Procession, Main Building to Sacred Heart Church.
9:00 A. M. Solemn Pontifical Mass, Sacred Heart Church.
Celebrant, the Most Reverend John Francis Noll, D.D., LL.D., Bishop of Ft. Wayne, Indiana.
Baccalaureate Sermon, the Most Reverend James E. Cassidy, DA)., Bishop of Fall River, Massachusetts.
Music, the Moreau Seminary Choir.
Mass will be followed by the blessing of the Senior Flag.
11:00 A. M. Raising the Senior Flag. Main Quadrangle.
Music by the University Band.
12:00 M. Monogram Club Luncheon, University Dining Halls.
4:30 P. M. Awarding of Degrees. University Gymnasium.
Commencement Address, the Honorable Owen D. Young. New York City.
Sixteen
The Scholastic
President Opens May Day Devotion In Stirring Talk
CONCERT IS POSTPONED
Inclement Weather Cause For Change To May 22.
In an address given last Sunday, May 1st, in Sacred Heart church, the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell stressed Notre Dame’s historical and religious traditions.
The text of Father O’Donnell’s speech follows:
In 1842 when Father Sorin first set foot upon this ground, it was already a consecrated and a holy spot. The very geographical names of the region attest the faith of its discoverers, the missionaries: “St. Joseph’s River,” “St. Mary’s Lake,” “St. Joseph’s Lake.”
Notre Dame, as we now know it, was then called “St. Mary of the Lakes,” “the center of a Christian wilderness,” as the early chronicler somewhat quaintly says of it.
Indians Were The Only Christians
The Christians of that wilderness were mostly Indians who had for more than two centuries been the objects of devoted missionary zeal. As far back as the great days of Louis XIV in France, while Charles II was still upon the throne in England, a hundred years before the Declaration of Independence was thought of, a full century before the first Catholic Bishop sat at Baltimore, Mass was said at Notre Dame, and hymns, sung by her first children of this Christian wilderness, rose to the Mother of God two and a half centuries ago, even as our hymns rise tonight at the opening of these May devotions.
Missionaries’ Record
The written record of the last of the missionaries reads: ‘‘The sermon was followed by an Our Father and a Hail Mary; after which the congregation (of Indians) sang a hymn to Our Lady and quietly dispersed. The next thing was confessions which lasted until evening and sometimes were resumed after supper.
At sunset the natives again assembled for catechism followed by an exhortation and evening prayers which finished with a hymn to Our Lady.” And the record concludes with this significant entry, “Many (of the Indians) practice frequent Communion.” (Golden Jubilee, page 37.)
Two centuries of devotion to the Blessed Sacrament and to the Blessed Virgin—this was the religious back
ground of the Christian wilderness which Father Sorin entered ninety years ago, in the November of 1842, to set the crown of his own great
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
". . . this was already a consecrated and a holy spot.”
love for Mary forever gleaming on the brow of Notre Dame.
He described his arrival and how he and the Brothers who were his companions first saw Notre Dame covered with snow and how it meant only one thing to them, the purity of Our Immaculate Mother. And this observation led to the fervent prayer that Notre Dame. might forever be the home of innocence and purity.
Years later, Father Sorin revealed that in that first hour of his arrival he made a consecration to the Blessed Virgin of himself and his little community and all those who in the long years ahead should ever be . drawn to this spot which he gave over to her as her own.
Renew Consecration
This private consecration of Notre Dame, both of the place and all who should dwell therein, was twice publicly and solemnly renewed, once by Archbishop Spalding in 1865, and again'by the Bishop of the Diocese on the occasion of the consecration of this Church in 1888.
Thus, as far as it lies within the (Continued on Page 30)
Because of inclement weather the band concert originally scheduled for last Sunday evening was postponed until May 22. The concert will take place on the veranda of the Main building at 6:30 p. m.
Under the direction of Professor Richard H, Seidel, the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra will present a public concert in Washington Hall, Thursday evening, May 19, at 8:00 o’clock. The orchestra has a personnel of thirty musicians.
Members of the University Glee club will take part in the program for Music Week to be given in the Mishawaka High school next Thursday, May 12. The singers will present their program at 10 o’clock, daylight-saving time.
Monday evening, May 16, the University band will give an outdoor concert on the campus of St. Mary’s college. The program will be given at 7:30 o’clock.
S. A. C. PHILOSOPHY
(Continued from Page 5)
meetings and similar activities, the Vigilance Committee is a worthy organization. But if abuses are to creep into its program so that the committee cannot forward its purpose, I believe it should be abolished.
By Jim Gerund
It seems to me that the Vigilance Committee could serve a better purpose than it has in the past. Its aim could be more effective. The work planned for it is not being done. I do not believe in “lake duckings” or other methods of force they employ. I would be .in favor of a trial system whereby a man breaking the tradition - of the University would be given a chance to talk for himself. In fact, I think the Vigilance Committee has swerved from its original purpose.

The size of the atom is to man as man’s size is to the average star.
May 6, 1932
Seventeen
James Collins
NEW GRAND NIGHT ON TAP FOR K. C.
Will Dance At
Palais Royale
Sarah VanAnderson	Winifred Moriarty
Gerald Conway
Garber Band
Is Big Feature
By Granger Weil
Last minute arrangements having been completed, all is in readiness for the annual formal dance of Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, being given tonight in the Palais Royale ballroom. Dancing will be from nine o’clock to midnight, Central time.
Jan Garber and his orchestra, at present completing a tour of the country, will furnish the music. This band has played at many other college dances, but will make its first appearance at Notre Dame for the Formal. Garber is well known, however, having played in Chicago, Los Angeles, Detroit, Miami, New York, St. Paul, and Pittsburgh.
Favors Are Novel’
Favors in the form of brass programs have been distributed by Charles Fiss, chairman of the program committee. They are of brass done in blue and gold, with the seal of the Knights of Columbus showing through an opening from the program proper.
Fiss said that the programs may be
procured from him up until 8:30 o’clock tonight in his room, 253 Alumni hall.
Plans for entertainment between the dances have been arranged with Jan Garber. His orchestra is noted for its novelties and has gained its reputation largely through them. However, General Chairman Gerald Conway has announced that soft, slow . pieces will be the order of the evening.
Decorations Not Yet Known
Decorations for the ballroom have not yet been announced by Len Don-aghue, chairman in charge.
Patrons and patronesses for the affair will be Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Casasanta, Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Buckley, Mr. and Mrs. William Ben-itz, Mr. and Mrs. William H. Downey, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice L. Pettit, Mr. Paul Fenlon, Mr. Clarence Manion, Mr. Lee Flatley, and Mr. Charles Phillips.
Honor guests will include Grand Knight Tom Collins, of Elkhart coun
cil, Knights of Columbus; Grand Knight Paul Butler, of South Bend council; Grand Knight M. C. Oried-man, of Mishawaka council; Grand Knight Ernest Ribordy, of La Porte council; Mr. and Mrs. Paul Castner, and Mr. and Mrs. Heartly Anderson, of South Bend.
Guests of Honor
Miss Winifred Moriarty, of Joliet, Ill., will be the guest of Gerald Conway, general chairman of the dance, and Miss Sarah Van Anderson will be the guest of Grand Knight James Collins, of Notre Dame council. Miss Moriarty is a student of St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods in Terre Haute, Ind.
Chairmen of committees in charge of arrangements for the dance include John Cahill, tickets; Frank Miller, music; Charles Fiss, programs; Granger Weil, publicity; Charles Quigley, reception; Francis Madden, arrangements; Leonard Donaghue, decorations; Raymond Naber, patrons; Joseph Kennedy, ballroom, and Donald Lusardi, invitations.
Eighteen
The Scholastic
COLLEGE l ALAI E
DREAMS AND BABIES
The tenth annual ping-pong tournament at quest that all dreams concerning the kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby be reported to it. The Cambridge psychologists state that they have no hope of solving the mystery by dream analysis. They plan only to add to the data on nocturnal phenomena.
79 YEARS OF ENGLISH
Seventy-nine years would be required for a student to complete all of the English courses offered during regular sessions at the University of North Carolina.
THREE-DAY RECITATION
The entrance requirements at Al Azhar university in Cairo, Egypt, include the memorizing of the Koran. The recitation takes approximately three days.
FREAKS
Six of the eleven of the faculty members of the University of Washington are of the opinion that students who aim for “A” grades in college are “barren of personality.” One said that “A” students are freaks, another declared that it is the great band of “C” students who run the country. Perhaps that’s what is wrong with the country.
STUDENT VS. UNIVERSITY
An expelled student at Miami university sued for reinstatement on the grounds that a state supported college could not put him out for low grades. He won the case in Common Pleas, but the decision was reversed by the Circuit court, on the grounds that he was retarding others.
SPARTANS
The Purdue Clarion reports that one of its students received a postcard from his father who was touring Europe; on it was “Dear Son: On the other side you will see the-rock from which the Spartans threw their defective children. Wish you were here.”
FACULTY ACCEPTS CHALLENGE
The New York university chess team has issued a challenge to the faculty for a “six-board match.” The professors accepted the challenge.
ALL-UNIVERSITY PING-PONG
The etenth annual ping-pong tournament at the University of Wisconsin began last Wednesday. The winner of the contest will be crowned all-university champion, and his winning paddle with his name on it will be placed in the school’s trophy room.
TRADITION MAINTAINED
At Michigan State college all students attending the junior prom were excused from classes at 3:00 p. m. on the day of the dance and didn’t have to attend any classes “the morning after,” thereby adhering to an old custom.	*
«
AMERICANS IN PARIS
American students are attending the University of Paris in great numbers. The most popular branch of the school is the Sorbonne or school of letters. The Americans are interested particularly in the Sorbonne courses in French history and national life.
NO CLASSES
Loaded down with books, a dejected student at Midland college trudged 30 miles to the campus only to discover that there were no classes—it was a holiday.
CRIBBING SERVICE
An attempt has been made to “raise college cribbing to the rank of a major industry.” That we thought had been done long ago but apparently not. An editorial in the last Princeton Alumni Weekly has this to say on the matter, “An organization whose name we have not been able to learn, but for want of a better title may be called ‘The National Essay Writing Corporation,’ has to place at the disposal of American undergraduates a large corps of energetic hack writers and typists who will undertake the grinding out of a snappy essay or thesis on any subject under the sun. You pay them $100 spot cash and they agree to write all your essays throughout your years at college.” The paper goes on to say that the representatives of the organization has sought recommendations from the “big three” as a basis for starting the service in colleges in the Middle West.
May 6, 1932
Nineteen
EDITED’/ PAGE
SCHOLARSHIP AND THE STUDENT
Writing in the current Harvard Graduates Magazine, a recent graduate examines the changing attitude of the student toward college life, particularly at Harvard. He finds that the average student, contrary to general belief, is genuinely interested in his work. His interest, however, is to a large extent dissipated by “convention” and the mechanical system of course requirements.
Precisely what the “convention” consists of, the writer neglects to state, but it may be taken to mean the tradition that extra-curricular activities are just as important as studies to the college man. Certainly that tradition has been a dominant factor in college life in the past, though there is good reason to think that it is less potent today.
It must be remembered, however, that the roots of that convention lie deep in American life. It is merely one reflection of the constant and characteristic demand for immediate practical return from money invested. Students are not greatly to be blamed for succumbing to a demand which had left its mark on the academic spirit itself. The congeries of technical and vocational courses in nearly all American colleges testify to a sort of pragmatic sanction which educators themselves have given to the utilitarian spirit.
Obviously the final cure of this evil depends on a change in the spirit of contemporary life in general. It is futile to talk of fostering intellectual and scholarly ideals unless society which shapes both the education and the student is upholding a similar ideal. Colleges will continue to reflect the environment in which they exist.
The real hope for a normal scholastic development lies in the possibility that due to a variety of reasons, the public attitude toward the true value of education is changing. The feeling that everything can be measured by material standards, though still strong, is, nevertheless, waning. The fact that the nation has passed the pioneering stage, and can afford to cultivate at leisure what was acquired in haste, is perhaps the chief reason. The depression will, no doubt, accelerate this trend.
And since causes and effects are interactive,
the universities will, in increasing measure, foster the ideals for which they stand. The result will, perhaps, though not necessarily, be a permanent decline in extra-curricular activity, but that would be a small price to pay for the consequent gain.
------❖❖—:—
F. HENRY WURZER
(Reprinted from the South Bend Tribune.)
To the poor boy without means, yet desirous of obtaining an education, there is inspiration and romance in the life of F. Henry Wurzer, who died suddenly in Detroit, Mich., Thursday morning.
Mr. Wurzer was a poor boy and he experienced all the trials and tribulations of a youth born of poor but respected parents. It was the ambition of the father to give the son an education that would lift him above the masses, but this he could not do. Nothing daunted, however, young Wurzer, possessed of a determination to hew his way to success, studied and worked. There were no idle hours in his life, and when he matriculated at the University of Notre Dame he found himself with empty pockets but equipped with a mind that enabled him to work his way through college. He sought and obtained employment which returned funds to meet his expenses. No matter how humble the job it was well done. Likewise was his class work accomplished, and when he received his diploma as a graduate in law from the famous university, he was so well known in South Bend that he was recommended to Congressman A. L. Brick for secretarial work. This further established him as a man of ability and character in a community which was quick to appreciate such qualities.	■
Five years out of college he established himself in the practice of law in South Bend. So well did he succeed that when opportunity called he was able to respond and found one of the leading law firms in one of America’s great metropolises. Always fearless in his stand regarding problems wherein he believed he was right and holding implicit confidence of his clients it must be said of him that he was a success.
Yes, to the poor boy there is inspiration and romance in the life of F. Henry Wurzer.
Twenty
The Scholastic
♦ SRCRTS ♦
Irish Relay Teams Win at Drake
Two-Mile Team Sets Meet Record Of 7:48.8; Mile Team Wins In 3:19.1
NET TEAM LOSES TO NORTHWESTERN, 5-3
Wilson Anchors Both Winners With Great Races; Distance Medley Team Is Second.
By James W. Pick
A group of Notre Dame relay teams had more success at the Drake Relays last Friday and Saturday than at any relay carnival in the history of the school. The Irish one- and two-mile quartets copped first places while the distance medley quartet placed second to Indiana in a run which brought a new American record home to the Hoosiers.
The Hoosiers, however, were not alone in their record performances. The Notre Dame two mile relay team smashed the seven year old Drake relay mark by clipping off almost three seconds.
Wilson Stars
Alex Wilson, member of the 1928 Canadian Olympic team and Notre Dame veteran, is deserving of a great deal of commendation for pulling his team to victories as anchor man in the one and two mile events. Eddie King, Blue and Gold sophomore, ran sensationally in the two mile and medley relays.
The two-mile relay proved to be one of the features of the meet. Alex Wilson definitely established his superiority over the rest of the field when he raced to victory and a new Drake relay record as anchor man on the team with Young, Roberts, and King.
Joe Young led off in the crowded band of entries and was in fifth place when Roberts received the baton. Roberts, who is like Young, a sophomore, advanced to third position. His time, 1:57.2, was considerably better than his usual marks.
King stepped out in the third leg of the two mile journey to pull the team up into second place by running
a 1:56.5 half
Alex Wilson
mile. But Iowa State was still yards ahead of King when he passed the baton to Wilson.
The Canadian flash took his first lap ■with a deliberate pace, gaining nothing on the Iowa State anchor man. As Wilson hit the straight - a - way, he stretched his fast pace and crept up on the first man. The crowd cheered wildly as Wilson closed the gap. He passed the Iowa anchor man before the turn and strode on to win the race as he pleased. His time
for the half mile was 1:53.7. Iowa State finished second and Michigan placed third. The time for the relay was 7:48.8, a new record. The former mark, 7:51.4, was established by Michigan in 1925.
After running second to Michigan clocked at 3:22.5 Friday in a qualifying heat, the Notre Dame one mile quartet came back to win the event in the finals Saturday. The time for the relay in which each man ran 440 yards was 3:19.9.
Charlie Kelly started frpm the blocks with a mass of quarter milers. Slipping past a few, he ran in third place as he passed the baton to Rudy Obergfall who ran his best race of the year to make his quarter mile in :49.7.
(Continued on Page 25)
Kelly Leads Irish To Pair of Twins In Second Meet.
Northwestern handed the Irish tennis team its second consecutive beating of the season last Friday in a fast match played on the university courts. The final score read 5 to 3.
The squad showed much improvement since their first appearance of the year when they were blanked and took only one set in the seven matches played.
Dick Kelly turned in the first singles victory for the Irish this season when he slashed the ball to all corners of the court to win in straight sets from Olson, 6-4, 6-0. Kelly’s drives in the final set were so accurate that his opponent was unable to win a game.
The other Blue and Gold victory was turned in by the flashy doubles team composed of Chreist and Kelly. Olson and Perlstein suffered the decisive defeat before this duet, 6-2, 6-3.
Louis Chreist, Scholastic champion, and Fuller of the Wildcats traveled at a furious pace with the result that three sets were needed to determine the winner. Chreist tired in the third set and Fuller bore up long enough to win the match, 7-5, 5-7, 6-2.
The other singles matches went to Dodge and Perlstein of Northwestern. Meyer and O’Hanlon were the victims in these encounters.
The Summary:
Singles: Dodge (N) defeated Meyer (ND), 6-0, 6-1; Fuller (N) defeated Chreist (ND), 7-5, 6-2; Perlstein (N) defeated O’Hanlon (ND), 6-4, 6-3; Kelly (ND) defeated Olson (N), 6-4, 6-0.
Doubles: Dodge and Fuller (N) defeated O’Hanlon and Meyer (ND), 6-2, 6-1; Chreist and Kelly (ND) defeated Olson and Perlstein (N), 6-3,
May 6, 1932
Twenty-one
THIRTEEN GRIDDERS WIN HERING AWARDS
Annual Spring Awards Made For Fine Individual Play.
Thirteen members of the Notre Dame spring football squad were awarded Hering football medals in the annual individual play contests held last weekend. Four of the winners were freshmen.
Ben Alexander, monogram winner last fall, won the center passing contest after a hard struggle in the pre-lininaries and finals with Johnny Ryan. Three other contests for linemen on offense went to members of the varsity squad of last fall.
Norm Greeney and Joe Kurth staged a hard fought battle in the contest for offensive line charge with Kurth getting a close decision for the award. The prize for the best exhibition of guards pulling out of the line went to Harry Wunsch, husky reserve on last year’s varsity.
In the third trial for offensive linemen, Frank Canale copped the medal for ends boxing tackles. Roberts was second in the scoring. The only other contest saw Mike Ledding nosing out (Continued on Page 25)
Win Streak Grows: Golfers Beat State, Detroit
By T. Edward Carey
That pretty good golf team of Notre Dame’s won another pair of matches over the past week-endto extend their winning streak to a point where it compares with recent records made by the football team. If it keeps up much longer the sport writers will start to cry out that something should be done about it.
The most recent accomplishment of the local linksmen concerns the vanquishing of the golfers representing the University of Detroit and Michigan State College on their respecive Jiome courses, and is recorded as the third and fourth victories for the Blue and Gold squad this season, or if your wish, their nineteenth and twentieth, for the Fighting Irish have not been defeated for the past three seasons.
Detroit put up a stubborn resistance last Friday afternoon at the Clinton Valley Country club and was put down by the rather close margin of 10% to 7%. The funeral of the Very Reverend John McNichols, pres-
Veterans Battle Rookies
In Grid Game Tomorrow
GRID LEADER
Captain Paul Host, who will lead the veteran gridders against the rookies Saturday afternoon in the closing scrimmage of the 1932 sjmng practice. Host is notv playing at right end, opposite to Ed. Kosky.
ident of the University of Detroit, on Friday, made it impossible for a morning round to be played, so both singles and doubles matches had to be based on the socring of the afternoon round.
Vince Fehlig’s fine round of 73, two over par, on the difficult Clinton Valley course put his opponent down, 3 to 0, and proved the Blue and Gold’s margin of victory. Fehlig was out in 37, two over, and came in in even pars aided by three birdies. His opponent Bud Smith, had a bad round, taking an 87, and Fehlig won seven and six on the twelfth green with a birdie four.
In the same round Fehlig was teamed with Johnny Montedonico against Whiting and Smith of Detroit and added three points in the doubles column with their eight and six win.
Detroit scored heavily in the first two matches where O’Brien, —.0. 1 man for Detroit, upset Bill Veeneman, (Continued on Page 29)
ENDS SPRING DRILL
Clash in Stadium at 1:30; Tom Yarr, Hoffmann, Schwartz to Play With “Old-Timers.”
The grand finale of the Notre Dame spring football practice period will be staged in the stadium tomorrow afternoon at 1:30. A team of “old-timers” including stars of last years team will battle an eleven composed of the cream of the so-called rookies.
Four All-Americans will grace the lineup of the veterans. Captain Tommy Yarr will hold down the center post, Marchy Schwartz will be at left halfback, Nordy Hoffmann at right guard, and Joe Kurth at right tackle. All of the men but Kurth are members of the new varsity coaching staff.
Kosky, Host Ends
The rest of the lineup for the team will include Captain-elect Paul Host and Eddie Kosky at the end position. Host will be seen on the right wing for the first time in actual play. He and Kosky both played left end last fall, but the Irish leader has been shifted to the port side this spring.
Al Culver will be at left tackle, and Jim Harriss, who played the full sixty minutes of the each of the last two games last fall, will play left guard. Besides Schwartz, the back-field will contain Norb Christman at quarter, Steve Banas at full, and Stumpy Cronin at right half.
Starting Lineup
The starting lineup of the alleged second team will have Frank Canale and Hughie Devore at the end posts. Tom Roach and all-western Ed Krause will play the tackle positions. Jack Flynn, a converted tackle, will share the guard assignment with Harry Wunsch, a monogram winner last fall.
Charlie Jaskwhich, ace of the large stac of quarterbacks will call the signals in the opening lineup. A stellar backfield will open the fray with Mike Koken at left half, Ray Bran-cheau at right, and George Melinko-vich at fullback.
Twenty-two
The Scholastic
‘Scholastic’ Handicap Golf Tourney Begins Tomorrow
AL SMITH NOMINATED AT MOCK CONVENTION
64 WILL COMPETE
Lawyers Take Five Ballots At Meeting Yesterday.
First Round Must Be Completed By Monday Night, Second By Thursday Evening.
By Henry B. Asman
First round play in The Scholastic Handicap Golf tournament, the first such tourney ever to be held at Notre Dame, will begin tomorrow will a full bracket of sixty-four competitors.
The job of handicapping the 103 entrants was completed yesterday, and the pairing made for first round. Only the sixty-four low handicaps were awarded places for the match play elimination.
Addresses At Clubhouse
The pairings and handicaps for these first matches will be found in an adjoining column. The entire bracket, together with the names, addresses, and handicaps of all competitors will be found posted in the clubhouse.
The matches announced today must be played, and cards deposited in the box provided for that purpose, by 6 p. m. on Monday, May 9. Second round matches must be played by 6 p. m., Thursday, May 12. The third round will be completed on Sunday, May 15, bringing the tournament down to the quarter-finals.
No excuse for failure to turn in cards will be accepted by the tournament committee. The winner of the match will be held responsible for the card, and it must be in the box before the deadline, unless the weather interferes with play. In this case the deadline for the round will be set back one day.
Late Matches Dropped
If any match is not completed by the day set, both players will be defaulted. The Scholastic can make no exceptions to this rule.
The handicaps have been given on the basis of scores turned in by the competitor, and are fair to all concerned. They must be accepted as final. No additional scores will be considered in order to raise or lower (Continued on Page 31)
Pairings And Handicaps For Golf Tourney
The following is a list of the first round pairings for The Scholastic Handicap Golf Tournament. These matches must be played and the cards deposited in the tournament box by 6:00 p. m. on Monday, May 9.
Cole, 4, vs. Corcoran, 7.
Kotte, 8, vs. McCarthy, 11.
Guimont, 10, vs. P. Crowley, 12.
Sheedy, 9, vs. Kempf, 11.
Becklenberg, 12, vs. Gleason, 8.
Becvar, 8, vs. Como, 10.
Snite, 10, vs. Stephan, 9.
Zimmers, 9, vs. Spalding, 12.
Ray Fox, 11, vs. Schmidt, 9.
Sander, 9, vs. McMonagle, 12.
Moscow, 9, vs. Martin, 6.
Nelmes, 8, vs. Flanigan, 10.
Pugliese, 6, vs. Kunz, 11.
Brugger, 12, vs. Osweiler, 10.
Butler, 11, vs. Lehan, 11.	.
Koontz, 12, vs. Maloy, 5.
LaLonde, 6, vs. Landers, 10.
O’Brien, 7, vs. Wilson, 10.
J. Henry, 9, vs. Olson, 9.
Siegfried, 10, vs. O’Connor, 6.
O’Melia, 8, vs. Leonard, 11.
Albert, 7, vs. Bahlman, 8.
Robert Fox, 10, vs. Kolb, 9.
Beaudin, 10, vs. Moore, 8.
Powell, 7, vs. Reese, 7.
Hechinger, 11, vs. Roney, 14.
Slough, 10, vs. Clarke, 8.
Bernhardt, 10, vs. Nagelsen, 6.
Tarasovic, 9, vs. Eichler, 11.
Meade, 9, vs. Melchione, 8.
Powers, 9, vs. Salvaty, 12.
Consolati, 11, vs. Dan Henry, 5.
FINAL GOLF MEET
The Notre Dame varsity golf team will close its home season on the Burke Memorial course tomorrow against the University of liwo. Sin- -gles matches will start at 9:00 a. m^ and doubles at 1:30 j>. m.
■ (Continued from Page 7)
national convention held yesterday in the Law Building.
Their choice for- the vice presidency was John M. Garner, present speaker of the House of Representatives.
The mock proceedings got under way yesterday morning when Harry Busscher, chairman of the “national committee” rapped the gavel for order. - The invocation was, given by the Reverend Leo J. Heiser, C. S. C., and was followed by the reading cf the official roll call by S. A. Bontempo, secretary of the Committee.
Higgins Speaks
George A. Higgins, temporary chairman, then took charge and delivered a stirring key-note address in which he pleaded for a closer adherence to the ideals of Thomas Jefferson.
He urged that first consideration be given the economic conditions confronting the nation and that the prohibition problem be relegated to second place, saying, “Let the beer ferment, and the whiskey age; they are better when they are old.”
Higgins referred to Wall street as a “legalized gambling table” and attacked the number of bureaus in the federal government.
’ “Miracle Man”
He likened President Hoover to an “economic miracle man,” who instead of pulling forth from his hat “the fat, fluffy rabbits of prosperity,” as had been promised, drew forth “the skeleton-like, mangy rats of adversity.”
He asserted that the Democratic party stands for liberty and justice for all and not for a few, and concluded by predicting that the Democratic nominee will this year lead the party’s “procession into the White House.”
. . Reports by the Credentials and Permanent Organization committees were made, and Joseph Deeb, permanent chairman, took charge of the proceedings, with a short speech in which he urged unity and harmony.
After the noon recess, the report of the committee on Rules and Order of
. (Continued on Page 31)
May 6, 1932
Twenty-three
PURDUE GOLFERS WIN IN CLOSE MATCH 10-8
Western State Downs Irish Nine In Close Game; 4 to 1
Irish Golfers Drop First Game In Twenty-one Starts.
EX-CAPTAIN
By T. Edward Carey
Notre Dame’s golf team lost its first match in three years to Purdue, 10 to 8, yesterday, on the William Burke Memorial Golf Course at the University. Fighting Irish teams seem to have difficulty in extending a winning streak beyond twenty contests.
In 1920 a good football team was upset after annexing twenty consecutive games during three seasons; the same thing-happneed to the 1931 grid team; and now the golfers, after two undefeated seasons and four successive .victories during the present year had their winning streak snapped when gunning for their twenty-first consecutive victory.
Average Strokes Close
Yesterday’s match was one of the eldest ever played at Notre Dame, so close in fact that the average strokes per team was Purdue 78.8 and Notre Dame, 78.9. Heavy scoring in the doubles matches by the downstaters cost Notre Dame the victory.
- No exceptionally low scores were recorded. Dinka’s 75 was the best single round, while Fehlig copped the medalist honors with a 154 for both rounds, shooting 77 in both the morning and afternoon.
In the doubles Notre Dame was beaten in both matches by the best ball scores of 75 for Purdue against -	77 for the locals. Notre Dame was
able to score only 11-2 points in these matches, while Purdue tallied 41-2 points.
Redmond and Fehlig Victorious
Captain Bill Redmond and Vince Fehlig were victorious in the singles, but Montedonico was able to pick up only half a point in his match, while Veeneman went scoreless, so Notre Dame’s attempt to even up the points lost in the morning round fell short by a single one.
Summaries:	.
j	Doubles—Bassett and Rousseau, 75
5	(P.), defeated Veeneman and Red-
l mond, 77 (ND), 21-2—21-2. Dinks
Ex-Captain “Denny” O’Keefe, whose play at third base this year has done much tozcard holding together Coach Keogan’s inexperienced infield. O’Keefe is playing his third year as regular guardian of the hot-corner.
and Parker, 75 (P), defeated Montedonico and Fehlig, 77 (ND), 2—1.
Singles—Bassett, 79 (P), defeated Veeneman, 83 (ND), 3—0. Redmond, 76 (ND), defeated Rousseau, 81 (P), 3—0. Dinka, 40 (P), defeated Montedonico, 40 (ND), 21-2—1-2, (scores for nine holes; Dinka won 4 and 3 on the 15th and the match was not completed). Fehlig, 77 (ND), defeated Parker, 85 (P), 3—0.
WIN ON HOME RUN
Johnson Hits Four-base Blow To Score Three Runs; N. D. Gets Only Four Hits.
By Joseph Morper.
Western State Teachers won a closely contested game from the Notre Dame varsity nine last Wednesday on Cartier field 4-1. The gamp was marred by frequent errors, each team being charged with four misplays.
Irish Weak On Hitting
As usual the Irish were weak in hitting getting only four scattered blows off the hurling of Neigenfind the Teacher’s pitcher. Joe Sheeket-ski and Bill Powell each getting two.
Capt. Charlie Palt was the opening moundsman for Notre Dame. He set the opposing batters down without much difficulty until the fourth frame when they got to him for three tallies.
Johnson Hits Home-run
Decker drew a pass. Denner sacrificed him with a bunt to O’Keefe. Palt walked Thomas the next batter, and then Johnson hit a long home run between Kozak and Russo, Decker and Denner scoring in front of him.
Western State added another run in their half of the fifth inning, on an error, a hit batsman, and two infield outs.	.
O’Keefe Scores
O’Keefe scored the Ramblers’ lone run in the sixth, on three enemy errors. Second baseman Hanna started him on his way by muffing his bounder. Denny then stole second, and when pitcher Neigenfind threw the ball out into center field in an attempt to catch him napping, he went to third.
On the throw in to the plate catcher Thomas missed the ball and Denny registered.
(Continued on Page 31)

Twenty-four
The Scholastic
TRACK SQUAD FACES SPARTANS AT LANSING
Nicholson Has High Hopes For Victory In Dual Meet
Tomorrow the Notre Dame track team, about thirty-five men in number, will journey to East Lansing for the first dual meet of the outdoor season with Michigan State.
Coach Nicholson is highly pleased with the showing of the men at the Drake Relays in Des Moines, last Saturday, and is now in position to predict a good season on the track for the Blue and Gold squad. Notre Dame, however, is still weak in the field events.
Michigan State is expected to offer stiff competition in the weight events and pole vault.
On the track, however, they have not much to depend upon with the exception of two excellent hurdlers in Liberty and Bath.
Notre Dame will bank on Huller, Kelly and Ed Gough in the sprints. MacBeth, Obergfall, Kuhn, and Vettel will probably run the 440 yard dash.
Wilson will run one of his specialties, the half mile, along with Roberts, Little, Young, and Troy. Eddie King will be shifted back again to his favorite race, the one mile. Gene Howery, Bower, and Grimes will make the two mile trip.
Jim Fagan and Poredon will see service in the high and low hurdles. “Mickey” MacBeth will also take the low sticks.
The Blue and Gold squad will depend chiefly on Finkel in the weight events and Darling in the high jump.
MEN ABOUT THE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page 12)
Evidently he tacks them all up on the wall . . .pictures . . . theatre tickets . . . more clippings ... a celluloid horse, a gift from the fellows to the “Earl” . . . ancient football ducats . . . wooden batons smothered with adhesive tape ... a lucky penny (he found this one heads up, and, as ' a direct result, Notre Dame beat Carnegie Tech) . • . just a bit of good old Irish superstition . . . Then, the rest of the suite ... a red and yel
low dresser . . . and nearly, a “Monotone” radio . . . quite capable of producing five stations at a time. . . .
Incidentally .. . Ross hails from the “City Within a City” . . . Brooklyn ... is a graduate of Loughlin High, where he was editor of the weekly . . . and earned his letter in baseball and track . . . Now in June he’ll receive his Bachelor of Arts Degree.
At present he’s taking law . . . may enter Harvard in the fall. But despite all this, he still finds the time and energy to write short stories . . . “Saratoga” his latest. . . .
Ross enjoys 0. O. McIntyre, and, consistently enough, cares little for the works of Willa Cather ... He is a member of the Monogram, Manager’s, and Metropolitan clubs. . . . Thinks Coach Nicholson is the greatest psychologist on the campus . . . and on the slightest provocation will show you the two-foot cup that the relay team just brought back from Kansas. . . .
Northwestern Nine Will Face Keoganites Here On Tuesday
Northwestern university’s slugging nine will be the next team faced by Coach Keogan’s proteges in the first game of the annual home and home series next Tuesday on Cartier field.
Several members of last year’s Big Ten championship footbzall team are playing in regular positions for the Purple. Among these are Jake Sullivan, Potter, and Dick Fencl.
Stationery
For campus clubs and
Notre Dame students
NOW ON SALE
NEIL C. HURLEY
119 SORIN HALL
(If nobody is in, leave your name and salesman will call)
FRESHMAN GOLF SQUAD BREAKS EVEN IN FIRST MEETS
A freshman golf team composed of Dan Henry, Billy Cole, Tom LaLonde and Bill Martin split even in their first two matches played last week-end. The yearlings trimmed Riley High of South Bend, 10% to 1%, on the Burke course, but lost to Culver Military Academy, 7% to 4%. Only singles matches were played each day.
Bill Cole led the way to the win from Riley with a card of 76 to win 8 and 7 from Garbaz. Cole took all three points of the match. Dan Henry added two more markers for the frosh by winning from John of Riley. Henry shot an 82 against his opponent’s 85 but John won the back nine to take one point.
Tom LaLonde won all three points in his match Baske, taking the round by a margin of 4 and 2. Martin completed the Notre Dame scoring with two and one-half points in his match with Mackey. They halved the first nine but Martin finished strong to win 2 and 1.
Playing at Culver on Saturday, the same squad lost by a 7%-4% score. LaLonde gained one point when he shot an 81, the low Notre Dame card, against his opponent’s 79. Henry had an 83 and took all three points in his match.
Cole garnered a half-point with a card of 84. Martin slipped to a 90 and was blanked in the scoring.
May 6, 1932
Twenty-five
DETROIT NET TEAM PLAYS HERE TODAY
Irish Seek First Win; Armour Meet Is Cancelled.
The Armour Tech tennis match scheduled for alst Saturday at Chicago had to be called off because of rain. This was to have been the second match played by the Irish net team in as many days. Friday they met Northwestern and lost the decision by two points.
Detroit U will supply the competition here this afternoon and the Blue and Gold are out to chalk up the initial win of the season.
Some of the boys may receive new ranking for the match today as a result of the team challanges which have been played off during the last week. If the challengers fail to replace any of the men now on the team, Louis Chreist will remain at No. 1 position and Meyer, Kelly, and O’Hanlon following in order.
Prospects of winning today’s match are much brighter than they have been before the other matches which have been played. Although the Michiganites are reported to be no set-up, the improved showing of the local squad in the Northwestern tilt brings out their claim to victory this afternoon.
RELAY TEAMS WIN
(Continued from Page 20)
Jack Scanlon grabbed the stick ' from Obergfall and with a big loose stride stepped the team up to second place one yard behind Michigan. Scanlon’s running was exceptionally well done, covering the quarter against rigid competition in :49.7.
Making a perfect pass to Wilson the team gained two yards. Wilson ran the last leg against Russell of Michigan who had eked out a victory from him a year ago. Wilson sprinted • down the home stretch to lead Russell to the tape by eight yards. He covered his lap in :49.5. Michigan finished second, and Grinnell third.
The 2% mile medley team placed second to Indiana who set a new intercollegiate record in the relay. The new time is 10:19.1. It was good enough to discard the old record, i 10:20, set by Yale in 1915.
1	Rege Kuhn ran the first 440 for
| Notre Dame in :50 flat. He came in ? tied for second. Brant Little, ran the half mile leg in 2:01.8, but
dropped back to fifth place. For the first two legs, the race seemed to be in Purdue’s favor.
Eddie King took the baton from Little and with a great bit of running, raced by four men to advance the team to within three yards of first place. He ran his three-quarter mile jaunt in 3:07, five seconds away from the world’s record for the distance.
Gene Howery took the stick for Notre Dame to begin the one mile grind. Here it was that Henry Brocksmith set a griping pace and soon lost most of the runners far behind. Howery, however, matched strides with the Indiana record-maker . until the half mile mark. Brocksmith gradually stepped away until he crossed the line just fifty yards ahead of Howery. The Irish entry ran his mile in 4:29.
Bob Darling, who competed in the hop, step, and jump and high jump evntes, tied for fifth in the latter event with a leap of 6 feet, 2 inches. He afiled when the bar was raised to 6 feet, 4 inches.
GET HERING MEDALS
(Continued from Page 21)
Joe Kurth for the award for defensive tackle play.
Eight backfield candidates merited medals in the remaining branches of competition. Johnny Young, a freshman from Texas, snagged an armload of passes during the afternoon to take the pass-receiving prize. Al Costello, another freshman, won the contest for passing after a long bit of competition with Mettler, Caldwell, Beach, and Levins.
Vic Mettler and Phil Crosson, a pair of freshmen quarterbacks, wound up the yearling group of medal winners. Mettler scored a first in the punting contest, and Crosson led the place-kicking entrants.
Ray Brancheau got the award for the halfbacks blocking ends, Jimmy Leonard won the fullbacks-on-ends prize, and Chuck Jaskwhich ranked first in the contest for quarterbacks blocking secondary defense men. The three decisions were close with Costello forcing Brancheau, Red Hagan running second to Leonard, and Laurie Vejar second to Jaskwhich.
Vejar annexed the final medal of the group, however, when he was named by the coaches as the most improved player on the squad during the spring drill. Hugh Devore, sophomore end, copped the improvement award last year. Winners of one Hering medal are ineligible for any further competition in the contests.
A
10 O’CLOCK
TREAT
TREAT yourself some night after a long period of studying to a bowl of Kellogg’s PEP Bran Flakes.
Delicious — sure — but even more, they’re one of the most healthful dishes you can find. Full of whole-wheat nourishment, and just enough bran to be mildly laxative.
Made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. In the redan d-green package. Quality guaranteed,
• • •
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in American colleges are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include All-Bran, Com Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s WHOLE wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Bag Coffee — real coffee that lets you sleep.
PEP
BRAN FLAKES
Twenty-six
The Scholastic
===============================
INTERHALL SPORTS
By Irving B. Halper
BASEBALL
Alumni went into undisputed possession of first place in Group II when, led by Pitcher Collins, they downed Howard in one of the hardest fought games of the current season, 4 to 3. Laurie, sensaitonal Howard
There s Still Time
to Wire Flowers
Drop in or call this afternoon or tomorrow and be assured of prompt delivery anywhere.
Special attention given Senior Ball corsages.
Williams
The Florist
219 Washington (3-5149)
shortfielder, was the fielding star of the game.
Alumni ................0	0 0 3 1 0 0—4
Howard ..............1	0 0 0 1 0 1—3
Batteries: Collins and Ackerman; Tobin and Matusek.
Badin swamped Sorin, 10 to 3, in a game marked with errors on the part of both teams, more notably on the part of the seniors. Badin, led by Scanlon and Pete Connelley, scored five in the first, three in the second and two in the sixth.
Badin
Sorin
5 3 0 0 0 2 0—10 .1 02 000 0—3
Batteries: Lenahan and Farris; Christman and Heitz.
Brownson’s sluggers took revenge for their hall’s defeats at the hands of their rival, Carroll, in basketball and football, and emerged on the long end of a 13 to 4 score. The game was interesting until the fifth inning when the Brownson bats started connecting . for .base hits and five runs were scored. In the next inning Brownson pushed four more tallies across the plate.
Brownson ..............2 0 2 0 5 4 0—13
Carroll ...............0 0 0 1 0 3 0—4
Batteries: Browns and Fisher; Peccora and McGeehern.
Schinkowitch and Novak of Sophomore engaged in a pitching duel which was decided in the fourth inning when the former landed on. one of Novak’s offerings for a homerun with a man on, St. Edward’s winning, 3 to 2. Emerling of Sophomore and Cohers of Sophomore also planted circuit blows.
Sophomore ................0 1 0 10 0 0—2
St. Edward’s ..........0 0 2 1 0 0 x—3
Batteries: Novak and Emmerling; Schinkowitch and Link.
In a game which was postponed for some reason or other to Monday, Morrissey defeated Corby, 7 to 2. The game was won for Morrissey by the able work of Pitcher Brost, Angsten, and Holland.
GOLF
Nineteen of the fourty-four, who turned in cards, reported scores of under 90, in what was undoubtedly
the best day, as far as scores were concerned in Interhall golf.
Alumni, led by Pugliese and O’Brien, downed Lyons, 14 to 4.
Alumni, 14 — Pugliese (85) 3, 0; O’Brien (86) 3; Sheedy (88) 3; Powell (93) %.
Lyons, 4—Landers (88) 0; O’Melia (89) 0; Kunz (92) 0; Pahlman (91) 2%.
Pugliese and O’Brien defeated Landers and O’Melia, 3 to 0, and the other foursome split three points.
Dillon with three men who broke 85 had little difficulty in downing Morrissey, 17 to i.
Dillon 17—D. Henry (83) 2% ; La-Londe (80).3; Cole (81) 3; Martin (90) 2%.
Morrissey, 1—J. Henry (89) %; Gleason (88) 0; Cronin (90) 0; O’Connell (93) %.
D. Henry and LaLonde won from J. Henry and Gleason in the doubles, 3 to 0, and Cole and Matrin won over Cronin and O’Connell, 3 to 0.
Brownson was no match for Badin and the juniors won, 15 to 3.
Badin, 15—Siegfried (93) 2; Banas (96) 3; Meade (87) 2.
Brownson, 3—O’Reilly (97) 1; Pfe-fferle (101) 0; Van Etten (99) 0; Collins (91) 1.
In the doubles Siegfried and Banas were winners, defeating O’Reilly and Pfefferle, 2 to 1, and Meade and Sullivan won, 3 to 0.
In the consolation matches, Sophomore won from Corby, 7% to 1%-This score was as low as it was as a result of one foursome failing to turn in a card. John Anthony Perone ($5 and costs) borrowed clubs from almost everyone in Corby but lost, 3 to 0, to Nagelson of Sophomore.
Walsh, led by Mcleod and Dubbs, won from Carroll, 15 to 3, and St. Edward’s defeated Howard, 15% to 2%, in other matches.
Freshmen Orators Note!
Announcement of a Freshman Oratorical contest to be held Monday, May 16, was made this week by Wil-liah Coyne, of the speech department.
AU freshmen interested in the contest are requested to report to any member of the speech department before May 11.
Details regarding the contest may be obtained from the members of the speech department.

May 6, 1932
Twenty-seven
HORN IN ON THIS
$25,000!
464 CASH PRIZES THIS MONTH -2 FIRST PRIZES OF $500 EACH
Here’s where you take your shot at some of that $25,000
Jim wants you Palmolive users to back him up. His Dad wants every Colgate shaver's help. If you haven't tried either of these famous shaving creams, start naw and get into this (23,000 argument.
Colgate Users
Palmolive Users
HERE
ARE
Sure-all except
PALMOLIVE !
AN OLIVE OIL.
SHAVING CREAM
RjR A REALSHAVE
TOUR FACE FEELING
FINE—NOTHING.
LISTEN, JIM. WHEN
TOUR BEARD GETS
AS TOUGH AS MINE
TOULL APPRECIATE
WHAT IT MEANS
TO GETA CLEAN
CLOSE SHAVE-
LIKE COLGATE'S
GIVES ME
THANKS, JIM
BUT IM STICKING
ALL BEAT-HANDS
DOWN.1
HERE DAD—TRY
A REAL SHAVING
CREAM- PALMOLIVE.
THERES NOTHING
TO MV COLGATES.
NOTHING TOUCHES
LIKE IT.'
ITS GOT ’EM
and for keeping
SEE those "blurbs” coming out of the men’s ' mouths? Can you write one? We’re putting up $25,000 in cash for those who can. Get your pencil out—now!

Here’s the idea. In a field of 176 competing brands, Colgate’s and Palmolive are the
two outstanding leaders. They have won an overwhelming preference over all other shaving creams.
We know that Palmolive users swear there’s nothing as good as Palmolive. And Colgate shavers claim that Colgate's beats 'em all in a walk
What we want is your opinion. Do you side with Jim or his Dad in the big Palmolive vs. Colgate’s argument? Are you a Colgate fan or a Palmolive booster. Let’s hear from you!.
In ONE of the empty "blurb” spaces, or on a separate sheet of paper, just say your say. In your own words, write your boost for Colgate’s —or for Palmolive—not both. 464 cash prizes each month for the best "blurbs” sent to us!
THE CONTEST RULES
Here are the prizes for each month—in all!
iMXt . 2tMrt 209 next
1st. . . .$555
2nd. ... 125*
3rd. ... 50
. . 25
. . 10
. .	5
MAIL your "blurb ’with name and address to Contest Editors, Dept. CN-189.P0. Box 1133, Chicago, Illinois.
The prize money (totaling $25,000) is divided into six sets of monthly prizes (each set totaling $4200) At the end of each month prizes are awarded (see list at right) for the best "blurbs* received during that month, as follows:
Feb. 29, $4200 Mar. 31, $4200 April 30, $4200 May 31,$4200 June 30, $4200 July 31,$4200
{ Contest dosn July yi, 1932/
Contest is open only to residents of the United States and Canada. Employes of the manufacturers and their families are not eligible to compete.
In event of a tie, each tying
contestant will be awarded full amount of the prize tied for. Decision of the judges shall be final.
Some bints to help you win Here are some facts about the world’stwolargestsellingshaving creams-Colgate’s and Palmolive. Here are some of the reasons why men prefer these famous shaving creams
PALMOLIVE
1. Multiplies itself in lather 250 times. X Softens the beard in one minute.
X Maintains its creamy fullness for 10 minutes.'
4. Fine after-effects due to olive oil content.
COLGATES
1. Breaksupoilhlmthatcoverseachbair. 2. Small bubbles get down to the base
of the beard, hold water against each hair at skin-line and soak it soft where the razor works
X Gives a dose, skin-line shave due to
■mall bubble action.
4. Gives a lasting. 24-bour shave.
fnpe SAMPLES Men! A beautiful gift box con-■ KEKi wMIvla LK9 taining generous trial tubes of both Colgate's and Palmolive Shaving Creams, as well as other useful toilet products, is being distributed. If you fail to get yours, ask the business manager of this paper why.
Twenty-eight
The Scholastic
INTRODUCING a John Gostisha
By William Flynn
It is a part of golf that caddies make good players. Walter Hagen, Gene Sarazen, and most of the leading professionals began their careers in that manner. Perhaps it is their close association with the game during the years they are best qualiled to pick up the fundamentals and their opportunities to observe the faults of other players and prolt by such mistakes that makes them leaders when they reach tournament competition.
John Gostisha, No. 5 on the present winning Notre Dame team, learned his golf along the caddy route. In his home town, Waukegan, III., he carried the bags and clubs of older players for eight years. He got his first glimpse of tournament play while carrying the club champion’s bag in Chicago dstrict tournaments.
NOTICE!
All interhall football equipment must be returned immediately to the Physical Education building. Men charged with the equipment will be held responsible for its return.
F. Clarence Tomasi, Interhall Equipment Mgr.
EVERY HOUR ON THE HOUR WEEK-END EXCURSION South Bend to Chicago _____	AND RETURN
■■ Leave South Bend station, Michigan and La->1 ■ I Salle streets, any train Noon Friday to Noon Sunday. Return on any train up to and ineluding 11:45 P. M. train, Monday. Same rate in effect from Chicago. For information phone South Bend 3-8111.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
5OUThnshorE
When the 1929 Chicago district caddy tournament came around Gostisha applied a few of the principles he had seen demonstrated in both the right and wrong ways. In that tournament he carried off runner-up honors. In the meantime he had spent two years on the Waukegan high school golf team.
Gostisha lives in Corby subway. In that environment he is an individual,
John R. Gostisha accounting duties
for he is a quiet ehap and spends the greater part of his time studying. When he isn’t doing that he is usually paling around with Paul Murphy, Sorin, or else working with Murphy.
His studying is done for courses he is taking in the College of Commerce where he is majoring in accounting. He will be graduated in June with an 89 average and a cum laude. After commencement he hopes . to enter the accounting field in Chicago with the intention of working for his C. P. A. rating after a few year’s experience.
His entry into Chicago business,
following graduation, will not be his first experience there. A few summers ago he was employed in the Continental Illinois bank. Before that he worked in a radio factory.
His first year at Notre Dame was spent between the walls of Freshman hall. The next year he moved over to Morrissey. It was during his junior year that Gostisha had for his residence a place unique in the life of a Notre Dame student.
His mail came addressed to St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Indiana. He didn’t have to wait until Sunday afternoons .to visit across the road Three times a day he was forced to put in his appearance there. He was employed in the dining hall of Notre Dame’s girl school.
Last fall when the call for candidates for varsity golf squad was posted, Gostisha entered the tournament and carried off third place honors with a card of 328 for seventy-two holes. This spring he has retained his place on the squad by consistent low-score golf.
The best collegiate golfer Gostisha has even seen was Jack Westland, last year’s champion of the Chicago district. Westland was national collegiate champion a few years ago, and last year placed second in the national amateur tournament. He was defeated by Francis Ouimet for first place honors.
During the latest road trip in which the Notre Dame team defeated Detroit and Michigan State to add to their long list of consecutive victories, Gostisha carded a 77 against the team from East Lansing to tie Mon-tedonico for morning medal honors.
But that wasn’t the extent of his work in East Lansing. During the afternoon matches he escorted the public of Fehlig, Redmond, and Mon-tedonico around the course. It was his task to explain the finer points -of the scoring system in such a manner that the feminine mind could comprehend the status of the matches.
Swim From 2 to 5
According to an announcement this week from the Reverend Raymond Murch, C.S.C., swimming in the campus lakes is to be permitted each afternoon, from tun until five o’clock. The swimmers will be under the sur-veilance of Life Guard Edward But-■ ler.
May 6, 1932
Twenty-nine
GOLFERS WIN TWO
(Continued from Page 21)
while Captain Redmond was breaking even with Mooney. The Detroit pair won the doubles match, 2% to %, by
Captain Bill Redmond
Led Irish against Spartans with a 73.
taking the sixteenth and seventeenth holes after a very close match.
At Michigan State it was Captain Bill Redmond who captured the spotlight, scoring a brilliant 73 on the par 72 Lansing Country club in the afternoon round. It took a good round to win the match, however,
Student Distributors can make real money in spare time selling Hollywood Tom in college colors.
Screenland's Greatest Fad
/ Write for details
THE WOODCRAFT CORPORATION Bay City, Michigan
since Redmond’s opponent, Mitchell, was around in 76, tying the second nine to score one-half point against Redmond’s 2%. The Fighting Irish defeated State, 13 to 5.
Notre Dame made a clean sweep in the doubles matches at Lansing with both teams of Veeneman and Redmond, and Montedonico and Gos-tisha scoring the maximum 3 to 0 victories. The Michigan State boys failed to win a match in either the singles or doubles, although Veene-.man, Montedonico, and Fehlig were forced to halve their matches in the singles.
The team average of Notre Dame at Detroit was 78% and at Lansing 78%. The University of Detroit team averaged 81%, and though they were beaten worse than Detroit, the Spartans averaged 80%.
Summary:
NOTRE DAME (10%), DETROIT (7%)
Doubles: O’Brien and Mooney (D) defeated Veeneman and Redmond (ND), 2%-%; Montedonico and Fehlig (ND) defeated Whiting and Smith (D), 3-0.
Singles : O’Brien, 82 (D), defeated Veeneman, 84 (ND), 2%-%; Redmond, 81 (ND), tied Mooney, 80 (D), 1%-1%; Montedonico, 77 (ND), defeated Whiting, 78 (D), 2-1; Fehlig, 73 (ND), defeated Smith, 87 (D), 3-0.
NOTRE DAME (13), MICH. STATE (5)
Doubles: Veeneman and Redmond (ND) defeated Mitchell and Duffield (Ms), 3-0 ; Montedonico and Gostisha (ND) defeated Mueller and Turrill (MS), 3-0.
Singles : Veeneman, 82 (ND), tied Turrill, 82 (MS),	Redmond, 73 (ND), de-
feated Mitchell, 76 (MS), 2%-% ; Montedonico. 88 (ND), tied Mueller, 76 (MS), 1%-1% ; Fehlig, 79 (ND), tied Duffield, 80 (MS),
ALLERTON HOTEL.
make this your Chicago Headquarters
Get full enjoyment out of your visit to Chicago by coming here. Billiard and card rooms, gymnasium, indoor golf course, 8 tennis courts, library. R-C-A Radio speaker with choice of stations in each sound-proof room.
A year-round social program with something doing every night if you want to join in. Overlooking Lake Michigan. Quiet surroundings. All rooms are outside rooms. A short walk to the Loop. Two blocks from the Cathedral. For a week-end or a month, or a year, you will be glad you chose the Allerton.
1932 RATES
Single—310.50 to §25.00 weekly
Double—$8.50 to $12.50 weekly, per person
Transient—$2.00 to $3.00 daily, per person
Philip E. Cobden, Manager
ALLERTON HOTEL Chicago
701 North Michigan Avenue
Thirty
The Scholastic
TEXT OF PRESIDENTS MAY DEVOTION TALK
Opens Services This Week In Sacred Heart Church. (Continued from Page 17)
power of men to declare a purpose and to achieve a result, this place was given and signed over to the Blessed Virgin, and all of us similarly were dedicated to her' before we were bom.
Likewise, all that will come after us in the generations of Holy Cross men and Notre Dame men still unborn, have waiting for them here the special accolade of Mary’s sons. .
As much as the bright Queen of Heaven may own lands and buildings, as much as the.Mother of God may claim men as her sons, this place is hers and we too in a very special way belong to her.
Progress Criticized
At this particular moment in the history of the world, talk of progress is largely criticism of progress. I do not wish to join in that chorus. I am satisfied to point out to you certain facts and leave you to draw your own conclusions.
It would be admitted, no doubt, that Notre Dame is a product and a symbol of our advanced civilization. Attention is often drawn to the practice of frequent Communion so singularly well established here, and much do we prize the evidences of presentday regard for Our Blessed Mother: these May Devotions with perpetual adoration through the month, visits to the Grotto and hymns at the Grotto in the early evening.
Communion Among Indians
Yet, two hundred years ago, as I have recalled to your mind, when civilization was not advanced beyond the wilderness stage, this place was nevertheless a Christian wilderness, and there was frequent Communion among the Indians and there were special devotions to the Blessed Virgin, with hymns that honored her the evening hours of those forgotten centuries.
Of course the explanation is that neither the past nor the future, any more than the present hour, holds the secret of progress. Approaching that question from a Christian point of view, we strike eternal verities which are not a matter of time or human measurement.
Two centuries ago, it was just as
true as it is today, just as true as it will be unnumbered centuries from now, that Mary is “Our Life, Our Sweetness and Our Hope,” because she is the Mother of the world’s Redeemer.
Christ Is Salvation
Neither forward nor backward need we strain our eyes to find the answer to life’s riddle, to find the hope of man’s salvation, his happiness, his glory. We need only to look to this altar where He dwells who is all that there is, “Jesus Christ, yesterday and today and the same forever.”
It is a fancy of Greek mythology that the Valley of Cephisus was once glorified by a visit from the goodess to whom it was dedicated. The story relates that the goddess blushed at the homage paid her there, and, as a result, the atmosphere of the valley was forever afterwards tinged with a rosy hue.
Mary At Lourdes
I thought of this story at Lourdes where the Mother of God actually appeared within human memory. It seemed to me that something of the clarity and cleanness of the Immaculate Herself is in the very air of Lourdes and in the water of Lourdes. To this day there is something like a real presence of Mary there analogous to the Real Presence of Our Lord upon the altar.
Now we have Our Lord Himself, in Person, at Notre Dame. May we not ask Our Lady herself to come in person and take visible possession of what for so many years, has been her own and will be hers forever? That she may do so is my dearest ambition for Notre Dame.
As virtue will always be the truest wisdom and the highest scholarship, I cannot conceive for this University a true success, a greater glory, than that it should become ever more and more clearly identified with the Mother of God.
Urges Dedication
If you and I and all of us this Maytime and all the days to be, accept our dedication to her and live worthily of it, who knows but, in the Providence of God, some day she may come, she who is Our Life, Our Sweetness and Our Hope, the Cause of Our Joy.
And yet, should this never come to pass, should this prayer never be • answered, this hope, this longing, backed by years of holy living, never be fulfilled, though the skies never open above us to yield a fore-glimpse
of that paradise of which she is the Morning Star, and though our eai-th should never open in streams of healing waters like those of Lourdes, though no blade of grass here should ever bear the print of her feet, nevertheless, I know that you and the generations that will follow you, will continue to receive Holy Communion frequently and,daily, to say her Rosary and sing the hymns in her honor, as did her first clients on this spot. For of such is the kingdom of Notre Dame, and the kingdom of heaven.
UNIVERSITY THEATRE TO GIVE * ABRAHAM LINCOLN’
(Continued from Page 11)
It apepars highly probable at the present time that Roger Beirne, well known campus actor, will not be among the dramatis personae in a very large role. Beirne’s finesse and splendid drawing room antics, which have for many months received the acclaim, of compus critics, would be somewhat out of place in the crude log cabin, rail-splitting background of the play.
“SCHOLASTIC” GOLF MEET WILL BEGIN TOMORROW
(Continued from Page 22)
the handicaps as published in this issue of The Scholastic. The handicaps will apply in all matches played by the competitor in the tournament.
In each match the lower handicap will be subtracted from the higher, and the result will be the number of strokes awarded to the man with the higher handicap. These strokes must be counted on the holes as shown on the scorecard.
To«illustrate this point: Suppose “A” has a 7-stroke handicap while “B” has 10 strokes. Obviously, “B” will receive 3 strokes. According to the scorecard, these strokes must be taken on holes No. 16, 18, and 9, in that order.
The .figures just below the row of pars on the scorecard give the order in which strokes are to be given. There is one correction to be made on the scorecard, however. Hole No. I is 14, while No. 10 receives the fourth stroke in the handicap.
The trophies for the winner and runner-up have been ordered, and will arrive in a, few days. They will be placed oh display in the clubhouse.
May 6, 1932
Thirty-one.
DEMOCRATS NAME SMITH
(Continued from Page 22)
Business was unanimously adopted.
The platform committee, headed by Robert Barrett, presented a platform which was approved without change. It reiterated the traditional Democratic stand on states’ rights. (This platform is to be found in another part of this issue.)
The names of candidates for the nomination were then presented with short nominating and seconding speeches in the following order: Owen-D. Young, nominated by William Weir; Senator J. H. Lewis of Ill., nominated by Robert Lee; Speaker John M. Garner, by John Bitter; • Alfred E. Smith, by William Kirby; Newton D. Baker, by John Cooper; Will Rogers, by John Voss; Albert C. Ritchie, by Governor A. Harry Moore, of New Jersey, by William F. Murphy; Governor W. H. Murray, of Oklahoma, by Thomas McKevitt; and Franklin D. Roosevelt, by Thad J. Morawski.
Kirby, in nominating Smith; stated that he has grown in stature since 1928 when he polled fifteen million
votes.” In a scoring flight of oratory, he declared that the United States is “languishing and dying for leadership,” which, in his opinion, could be given by Smith.
A riotous demonstration with banners and signs was staged by many of the delegates at the conclusion of Kirby’s speech.
On the third ballot, Smith amassed the two-thirds vote necessary for nomination, wherupon the convention declared it unanimous.
The vice presidential nomination was made immediately afterwards and required three ballots also. Candidates for this office included Gamer, Owen D. Young, Will Rogers, and Albert C. Ritchie.
The mock convention was constituted in a manner as nearly anala-gous to that of the regular Democratic convention as possible. It consisted of 95 delegates elected to represent the dicerent classes in the law school, each class occupying the same position as a state does in the regular convention. There were 23 such classes represented, such as those of Constitutional Law, Torts, Agency, Wills, Partnership, etc.
WESTERN STATE WINNERS (Continued from Page 23)
WESTERN STATE			NOTRE DAME AB R	H
	AB R	II		
Berkh’sen. ss	5 1	1	Kane, ss	4 0	0
Hanna, 2b	3 0	0	O’Keefe, 3b 4 1	0
Decker, cf	4 1	2	Russo, cf	4 0	0
Denner, 3b	4 0	0	Kozac, rf	4 0	0
Thomas, c	4 1	1	Powell, 2b 3 0	2
Johnson, lb	3 1	2	Cummings, lb 1 0	0
Quiring, rf	3 0	0	Lomasney, If 3 0	0
Pellegrom. If	3 0	1	Sheeketski, c 4 0	2
Neigenfind, p	3 0	0	Palt. p	2 0	0
Koch, If	1 0	0	McGrath, lb 2 0	0
Woods, 2b	1 0	1	Palmisani 1 0	0
			Lagger, p	0 0	0
	—	—	—	—
Totals		34 4	8	Totals	33	1	4
Palmisani batted for Palt in seventh.
Score by innings:
Western State
......000 310 000—1 8 5
Notre Dame
........000	001 000—1 4 3
Errors: Hanna 2, Denner, Thomas, Johnson, Kane, O'Keefe, Powell. Two base hits: Decker, Sheeketski. Three base hit: Sheeket-ski. Home run: Johnson. Bases on balls: off Palt 2, Neigenfind 1. Struck out: by Nei-genfind 6, Palt 8. Stolen bases—Berkhousen. Sacrifice hits: Denner, Johnson, Quiring, Hanna. Hit by pitched ball: by Palt (Hanna) ; Neigenfind (Powell). Hits off Palt, 6 in 7 innings. Double plays: Decker to Hanna. Losing pitcher: Palt. Umpires: Cleary and Elliott.
Startins Tomorrow For 3 Days
IN PERSON
THE INTERNATIONAL PERSONALITY
GEORGES
CARPENTIER
And His
GIRL REVUE
Also Other
RKO Vaudeville Acts
RKO
PALACE
I
ON THE SCREEN Helen TWELVETREES Eric Linden—Cliff Edwards Roscoe Ates in YOUNG BRIDE' RKO Pathe Picture
Thirty-two
The Scholastic
Office 3-6978 Res. 2-6741
Dr. Leo 1 Qirinlan
DENTIST
514 J. M. S. Building
South Bend, Ind.
0.1 CLARK’S
RESTAURANT
104-106 N. Michigan St.
South Bend’s Oldest and Most Reliable Eating House.
Catering to
NOTRE DAME MEN for over thirty years.
For a real man’s meal drop in any time.
WE HAVE NO KEY
On Down the Line
With Joe Morper
BARRY WOOD, would be a five-letter man at Harvard if Rugby was considered a varsity sport . . . PAUL WANER is the only big leaguer to have averaged more than 200 hits per season since coming to the majors ... 6 years, 1237 hits . . . NEWELL BANKS has been national checker champion since 1910 . . . 22,560 athletes are insured against injuries by the WISCONSIN Interscholastic Athletic Association. . . .
V	.
Five left-handers, GROVE, WALKER, GOMEZ, HUBBELL, and BRANDT, were the most effective pitchers on an earned run basis in the big leagues last season . . . Horse racing in Illinois is under the state department of agriculture . . . The new captain of the OXFORD golf team is CHARLEY SWEENEY, a New Yorker . . . And he is the second American to gain that honor ... The BOSTON COLLEGE-HOLY CROSS baseball games annually are the prize collegiate baseball classics of the year ... In a three-game series last year they played before 70,000 fans. . . .
V .
T. W. “CHICAGO” O’BRIEN made .$1,000,000 betting on horses ... He would only bet favorites to ‘show’ . . . ZANE GREY, the novelist, once caught a tunafish weighing 758 pounds. . . BILL DtCKEY and the entire Yankee catching staff had no passed balls chalked up against them last year . . . MICK THE MILLER, Irish racing greyhound, ran 600 yards in 34 seconds . . . PEPPER MARTIN, hero of last year’s series, is hitting-only .129 this season. . . .
We know why men smoke PIPES
WOMEN don’t smoke pipes. They’re not the style for wom-
en. But pipes are and more than
In 42 out of 54 American colleges and universities
that, a pipe and
good tobacco gives
a man greater smoking pleasure than tobacco in
any other form.
the style for men,
A pipe is not for girls
Edgeworth is the favorite pipe tobacco. Cool slow-burning hurleys give this fine tobacco exactly the character
A pipe is a teal man’s smoke
to Larus & Bro. <
Richmond, Va.,;
that college men like best of all.
Try a tin of Edgeworth yourself! You can buy Edgeworth wherever good tobacco is sold. Or if you prefer, you can get a special sample packet free: write o., 105 S. 22d St., ask for it.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
V
It’s DERBY DAY tomorrow at Churchill Downs . . . The first race was run in 1875 . . . EARL SANDE, and ISAAC MURPHY, a negro youth despite his name, are the only, two jockeys to saddle three winners . . . The longest priced winner was DON-ERAIL in 1913 at 91-1... TWENTY GRAND who won the historic race last year holds the time record of 2:08.8 for the mile and a Quarter....
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old hurleys,
with its natural savor enhanced by Edge-
. worth’s distinctive and exclusive eleventh process. Buy .Edgeworth anywhere in two forms —Edgeworth ReadyRubbed and Edge. . worth Plug Slice. All sizes, 151 pocket package to #1.50 . pound humidor tin.
J / “ ■
your copy of the -
DOME of 1932— « « « «
In order to give our subscribers the fastest and earliest delivery possible, we are now accepting requests for the
DOME of 1932
"the most complete and detailed annual ever printed at Notre Dame.
Address your letter to the DOME of 1932 Publications Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
THE DOME
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
iu&	L.AOKMKI