

CH 
SIC 

Notre Dame's Student Magazine February 22, 1990 
COVER 
7 
Author, Author! 
Sophomore Literary Festival gives Notre Dame students a 
chance to meet award-winning writers by Kristine DeGange 
9 
Kesey Comes to Campus 
Author Ken Kesey visits Notre Dame as part of the Literary 
Festival by Kristine DeGang 
SPORTS Cover artwork by Vivienne Padilla 
12 
Cruisin' 
Muffet McGraw's Irish have made the MCC race a one-team 
affair by Jim Kuser 
16 
Living on the Edge 
Notre Dame's thrilling win at Syracuse renewed NCAA 
tournament hopes by JonPaul Potts 
FEBRUARY 22, 1990 

LETTERS 
Estrogen Article "Distasteful and Offensive" 
Dear Editor: 
In light of recent concern with male-female relations at Notre Dame, we find it important to draw attention to the Scholastic article entitled "Estrogen," by Tim Rogers. This Week in Distortion column, published on February 15, 1990, is distasteful and offensive. Further­more, it diminishes the efforts being made to improve the status of women on campus. 
We understand that Week in Distortion is traditionally humorous and satirical. Mr. Roger's article, however, transmits a detrimental message to the community. Namely, it condones the use ofabusive and hostile language when addressing the topic of women. For instance, according to Mr. Rogers, while their "cerebral cortices" are soaked in estrogen, women "wear oversized t-shirts, drink slimfast and generally act flitty," the whole time remaining unable to "face reality without drugs." Such comments reinforce demeaning stere­otypes rather than encourage mutual respect between the sexes. 
Tim Rogers is entitled to write any number of insulting and fallacious articles. Notre Dame's Student Magazine, however, is not obligated to publish them. Scholastic magazine displayed editorial irresponsibility in giving Mr. Rogers a forum for his derisions. 
Some may consider this article too insignificant to merit a formal response. But how many "insignificant" incidents must we tolerate? Toleration is advocation: by tolerating these subtle messages, we permit the social acceptance of sexist attitudes. 
The petition circulated in response to the publication of"Estrogen," requesting an apology from Scholastic magazine, received much support from both students and faculty. This positive response indicates that the Notre Dame community will not allow the afore­mentioned negative stereotypes to flourish. 
We would like to thank Scholastic magazine for its cooperation. 
Sincerely, Tracy Birmingham Amy Thomas Alicia Sierra Megan Wade Mary Claire Malloy Teresa Menchaca Erin O'Neill Lisa Keckler 

Editor's Note 
Apparently, people were offended by the Week in Distortion printed in the issue appearing February 15. If this had been antici­pated, the article would have been revised or discarded. The opinions expressed are those of the author and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Scholastic. Scholastic holds no biases on the basis of gender and would like to apologize to any person who was offended by the article in question. 

SCHOLASTIC 
ON OTHER CAMPUSES 




ly and the Fa01ily Stallone 
The Rock invades Philly for a fifth time· 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIO 

Yo! Youse wants to be a star? Ten thousand Philadelphia area residents, including thousands of college students, responded "Yes," to Sylvester Stallone's invitation for people to participate in the crowd scenes at the filming of"Rocky V." According to a report by The Villanovan, thousands enjoyed free pizza, hot dogs, fried chicken and soda during the eleven hours of filming at the Philadelphia Civic Center. Some participants were a bit overzealous about seeing Stallone in person. "I love those Italian men ... Sly is the greatest!" claimed a 21-year-old LaSalle University computer employee who bought a 14-carat $250 gold ring for the movie star. The woman later mentioned that she was going to camp out at his hotel in order to give him the ring. 
Chaos in confusion. The following is a memorandum to deans and department chairmen at BYU, published in The Chronicle ofHigher Education: "Tuesday, February 20, 1990 is scheduled for MONDAY classes. Tuesday or Tuesday-Thursday classes will not be held this day. Instead, rooms will be assigned to Monday, Monday-Wednes­day, Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday-etc. or Monday-Wednesday­Friday classes. Because of previous scheduling commitments, however, there will be a devotional with Marvin J. Ashton on Tuesday, February 20, 1990. Thus, classes will not be held during the 
11:00 a.m. hour so that all might attend the devotional. To make the matter perfectly clear: Tuesday is a Monday for instructional pur­poses except for the 11 :00 a.m. hour which remains a Tuesday, not a Monday, hour for devotional purposes. ( I suppose that Tuesday is a Tuesday for whatever purposes you might have in mind, but you could, if you wish, choose to have two Mondays this . week in February-it's really up to you.)" 
The Holy Cross Crusader reported that the University of Southern California's student newspaper has blown the whistle on 'ringers' in their school's band. The paper found several non-students were paid· up to $5,000 per year to play in the Trojan marching band. 
University ofMiami quarterback Craig Erickson has revealed his latest offensive weapon: the uppercut and right hook. According to a front page story in The Miami Hurricane; sophomore Jay Dewing recently filed a complaint with the Coral Gables police department, accusing starting quarterback Craig Erickson of simple battery after an incident at the Rathskellar. Erickson allegedly punched Dewing four to five times in the face with his fist, according to a police report. Dewing's left eye was swollen, and he was taken to a local hospital that evening. "My eye and lip are both pretty messed up, and my eye is really swollen and purple and pink," said Dewing in a detailed and colorful statement Dewing said that Erickson approached him that evening and hit him forno apparent reason. The student admitted that while he did not speak with Erickson, he did have a conversation with the football player's ex-girlfriend. 

Newsbriefs from the College Press Service. Some University of Florida students apparently are using digital pagers to cheat on tests. Students who take an exam early have on occasion sent the anwers via a numerical code to their co-conspirators' beepers .... The Socio­Economic Research Institute of America predicts that the global warming trend will cause necktie sales to decline in the 1990s. O 
FEBRUARY 22, 1990 

MUSIC/ JEFF JOTZ 


Eleventh Dream Day 
I'm the type ofperson who loves to read musician for the Volcano Suns' last LP. take place in America's heartland. Combin­the liner notes on albums, be it on an LP Veteran studio headman Lou Giordano of ing a mixture of raging guitar with the seri­1 enjoy or something I rank down there Husker Du and Mission of Burma fame ousness of the violin, Eleventh Dream Day with Richard Marx. On the hundreds of al-mixes the finishing touches to retain the creates an Eleanor Rigby atmosphere about a temative music albums that have passed buzzing guitar feel of 1988's release on lonelyyoungladyofillreputeinaneighbor­through my hands and ears over these past Amoeba Records, Prairie School Freakout. hood that has no neighbors. few months, I've noticed a large number of From the primal drumming of the lead My favorite tune on Beet is a song that has bands thanking this group called "Eleventh track, "Between Here and There" to the an-been long overdue, entitled "Bomb the Mars Dream Day." When I made my first trip into themic Nei~ Young-like droning of "Go Hotel." The buzzing electric jangle of gui­Chicago last year, I learned that this band (Slight Return)", Beet is a conglomerate of tars, on and off tempo changes, and a fantas­hailed from the Windy City. However, it was angst-ridden vocals, warbling guitar, and tic screaming vocal that shows a state of not untill picked up their most recent release, alcohol-soaked lyrics, all crammed on a pseudo-insanity without becoming too abra-Beet, over Christmas break that I ------,----------,-,-~-----,, sive all bring out the singer's frustra­found out why so many bands hold tion and contempt concerning those Eleventh Dream Day in such high ancient but affluent leftovers of the esteem. sixties: "No more traveling micro bus Beet is Eleventh Dream Day's major hordes/Taking over my town/No labeldebutonAtlantic,alabel usually more tie-dyed underwear/No more reserved for such heavy rockers as dancing bears." This irreverent com-Phil Collins. It is also their second mentary on those misguided relics of full-length LP, and it may be consid-bygone days will be sure to ruffle a eredtheirfinesteffort. Asa follow up few feathers, but who ever said that to l988'sPrairieSchoolFreakoutand greatrock 'n' roll was supposed to be 1989's EP Wayne, Eleventh Dream reverent! Day's new album has captured the (L-R) Baird Flgi, Rick Rizzo, Janet Beveridge Bean and Eleventh Dream Day's Beet is a eyes and ears of some mighty big Douglas Mccombs of Eleventh Dream Day_ fantastic album to kick off the nine-folks. Since being signed to Atlantic, they forty-four minute LP ( 4 7 minutes if you were ties. All songs pack a power punch and have have been featured in the Chicago Tribune wealthy enough to afford the CD with the to be heard to be appreciated. Musically, the several times, and are now touring the United bonus track). band weaves guitar textures not seen since States, opening for the Meat Puppets. The unifying feature of Beet seems to be the The Feelies' The Good Earth. Lyrically and However, this whirlwind of fame would greatlyrics;probablythebestlyricsl'veheard vocally, Eleventh Dream Day combines the not be possible without the fine ensemble of since Neil Young's Freedom or Spiral Jetty's best pieces of Pete Townshend, Lou Reed, talented musicians and folks who make up Dogstar. The songs of the album try to tell a Billy Bragg, and Husker Du for a cynically Eleventh Dream Day. Rick Rizzo plays gui-story-stories about bars, parents, some guy flavorful mix of sound. Like the big city on tar and sings, Baird Figi plays the other named Michael Dunne, and other trials and the lake that this band calls home, Eleventh guitar, Douglas Mccombs is the bass player, tribulations ofbeing human. Eleventh Dream Dream Day embodies the spirit ofuncompro­and Janet Beveridge Bean sings the back-Day retains this "everyman's poet" feel with-mising, straightforward, and B.S.-free rock ground vocals and plays the drums. Beet is out becoming painfully homogenous or too 'n' roll. Today, when most bands on major produced by Gary Waleik, frontman and lead All-American a la Bruce Springsteen. labels put gimmicks before talent, Eleventh guitarist for Boston's Big Dipper. Beside's One example of this is the song "Teenage Dream Day demonstrates that in some cases, Waleik's work with Big Dipper, his other Pin Queen," a tune set in the Southwest, but talent does come before leopard-skin span­recent projects have included a spot as a guest one which sets a scene that could very well dex and hair extentions. 0 
SCHOLASTIC 
WEEK IN DISTORTION/MARSHALL ARMINTOR 

ang 

Iget headaches. So does everyone. It's all a part of going to Notre Dame and practicing to die of neurosis before you're thirty-five. But it's really nothing to worry about, because I'm going to tell you how to beat almost any Domer headache. And now, without further copy to fill up this page so we won't have to use as many insipid drawings, graphics, photographs or other such visual tomfoolery to keep you dis­tracted, like some other articles in the maga­zine, here's: 
SO YOUR BRAIN HURTS: THE USER'S GUIDE TO THE COMMON HEADACHE 
I. The Stress Headache: All live organisms have some kind of stress. To reach a state of absolutely no stress means you are, in effect, dead. Since you probably don't want to go this far to relieve the stress headache, the idea is to elminate the thing stressing you. Easy. Take any class in existentialism. Not really a system of philosophy, but more like an excuse to be in a nasty mood. As soon as you get into the readings, you '11 find that nothing really means anything at all and life is a pathetic charade. Dropped your pen? Total­led your car? Bet on Mike Tyson? No problem. You're just a powerless bit of organic jetsam in an expanding universe. See? You've got nothing to worry about! 
II. The Laundry Headache: You've got three term papers due and two tests to study for by tomorrow, but you haven't got a thing to wear and you feel the powerful urge to waste time. You do laundry, yet the guilt combined with the scent of Cheer and the 

our 
oppressive heat in the laundry room air make you feel like your head's going to explode. Actually, you don 'tneed to do the laundry in the first place. And here's something you probably didn't know: any piece ofclothing, no matter how digusting, automatically cleans itself ifyou leave it alone for five days or more. Pass iton. Anyone would be grateful for the news. 
III. The Calculus Headache: Found in any math class, this headache strikes those who make the mistake of even attempting to find some anchor to reality in what the teacher is talking about. The cure is simple. Drop the class. Think about shepherding as a career option. 
IV. Hangovers: What? You're kidding. There is no hangover cure. You can't expect a grand-scale miracle like that everyday, pal. 





Head 
I don't know ifeven a forest fire in the Grotto could help you there. 
V. Migraines: Okay, it seems nobody's ever told me exactly what these things are, but you know what I'm talking about some­thing that feels like an anvil where your head used to be, with a strange kind of Old Testa­ment-style cataclysmically foul pain split­ting your skull neatly in half without any warning or any medical reason to explain the unendurable agony. There's a perfectly rea­sonable answer, though. Ever since the mind-and-body problem cropped up in phi­losophy, it seems these two entities have grown to hate each other and make each other's existence pure unmitigated hell. The mind came up with morals and diets to con­found the body in its pursuit of pleasure, and in response the body developed this thing to completely obliterate the functions of the brain. Keeping this hate/hate relationship in mind (assuming you are still able to reason at this point), your plan of attack should be to use reverse psychology: cause as much pain to your head as possible. Bounce it off the shower stall wall about four hundred times. Audit a 900 level calculus class. Play Dirty Rotten Imbeciles records at full volume on your stereo. Sooner or later, your body will realize that you mean business and back down. Of course, the trick is knowing when to stop all this self-destructive behavior. 
Now if you'll excuse me, I'm going to trim the laundry-fungus orchard in my closet. The stench is giving me a such a headache .... 
Marshall Armintor apologizes profusely and unrenlentllngly for this article, his life , and probably everything else no one else is sorry for, if you can convince 
him enough. 



-F---~---.=--==-~~'-<>---•_:-~-=---•-_,_.... __:__ __~•--• ,' -,-;;-• ', -,•-•• • •-: ,,•~~~----~,,.,~~=.:-c ~ ~~> r,=:~," •"',_ ...~.,-•_,":~:•::;,,<.rn::~~~:~-~:.-.,7;,~Jj:t~:;;..~~-•,:-~', .. •: _.,
<, -'1-~~ ' 
. ". . . . 

FEATURES 


Aut or, Author! 
Sophomore Literary Festival gives Notre Dame students a chance to meet award-winning writers 
Author W.P. Kinsella Is a guest at this year's festival. 
ries), and Tri-Quarterly, as well as in the This award winning plot has been followed 

COMPILED BY 

anthologies Best American Short Stories of by three other novels. They include Some­

KRISTINE DEGANGE 

1980 and The Best OfTri-Quarlerly. U:ein­times a Great Notion (1964), Kesey' s Ga­
The following eight authors will . man now lives in Chicago with his wife and rage Sale (1973), and Demon Box (1986). appear and lecture at the twenty two children. The Further Inquiry will be published in May second Sophmore Literary Festival and Caverns, published in January was co­
starting February 25, and finishing on March Ken Kesey's most celebrated work, One authored by Kesey and thirteen of his crea­
3. Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (published in tive writing students at the University of Ore­
Having received the 1987 National Book gon. Award, the Carl Sandburg Literary Arts Kesey received his undergraduate educa­Award for fiction, the Vietnam Veterans of tion from the University of Oregon and in America "Freedom to Express" Award, the 1957, attended Stanford Graduate School on Society of Midland Authors' fiction award, a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship. Since 1967, and the Chicago Friends of Literature Prize Kesey has lived with his family on a farm in for fiction, L~rry Heiilman has p1:1blished a Oregon .. wide variety of works based on the Vietnam War. Twice winning a National Endowment for 
Upon returning from a tour of duty in Vi­the Arts Award for Fiction in 1978 and 1988, etnam as a combat infantryman, Heinman and receiving the PEN Syndicated Fiction attended Columbia College in Chicago and Award for her short story, "Sunday's Now published his first novel, Close Quarters in Name Band," Sara Vogan will appear at the 1977. This novel was consider~d among the Festival to read from her works and conduct best fiction from the Vietnam War. a discussion on her career. Vogan has also 
The story is about Philip Dosier, a high written In Shelly's Leg, Scenes from the school graduate who is shipped off to fight in Homefront, Loss ofFlight andBlueprints (to Vietnam. Finding himself in a violent, dra­be published in 1990). Hercollectionofshort matic world for wliich he is unprepared, he stories includes "Mozart in the Afternoon" returns to America an estranged .veteran and "Miss Buick of 1942," along with others struggling to readjust to the country he left seen in Iowa Review, Quarterly West, and. 
behind. .. 
Carolina Quarterly. 

Other stories by Heinman have appeared tum by smuggling in wine and women, by in Harper's magazine, Penthouse (as part of promoting gambling in his ward, and by Melissa Pritchard, author of a story col­the Peabody Award-winning y1etnam se-taking a fishing trip with his fellow patients. lection titled Spirit Sf!izures and a novel, . .
·, FEBRUARY 22, 1990 

1 • -_• r ----­
' ~,• -r••--------,..........,_~-~~~ 
FEATURES 


Nick Spangler 
Phoenix, has received the Flannery O'Connor Award for Short Fiction, the Carl Sanburg Literary Award, and a Pen/Nelson Algren citation. She has also been cited and anthologized in The 0. Henry Prize Stories, Pushcart Prizes and Best American Short Stories. Pritchard also has received fellow­shipsfrom the National Endowment for the Arts and the Illinois Arts Council A wards. 
Currently, Pritchard resides in Taos, New Mexico and teaches creative writing at the Santa Fe community college. She is also completing a second collection of short sto­ries. 
W.P. Kinsella's most famous novel, Shoe­less Joe, served as the basis for the recent film, "Field of Dreams." In addition to this, Kinsella has published over 200 short stories and fifteen books.Including Dance Me Out­side, The Iowa Baseball Confederacy, The Thrill of the Grass, and The Fencepost Chronicles, which won the Leacock Medal for Humor in 1987. 
Most recently published are his books, The Miss H obbema Page ant, a collection ofshort stories about Frank Fencepost and • his friends, and The Rainbow Ware house, a book of poetry co-authored with his wife, Ann Knight 
Joseph Coulson, author of poetry and shorter works, has written material concern­ing the essays of Walt Whitman, William Carlos Williams and John Logan that have appearedin various journals and anthologies such as The Mickle Street Review, The 

Greenfield Review, and The Critical Survey of Poetry. Coulson is also the author of A Measured Silence (1986), a collection of 
poetry, and The Letting 
Go published in 1984. 
Couslon was origi­nally from Detriot and was an undergraduate at Wayne State University. During this time, he stud­ied in England at Oxford. Later, he did graduate work with mentors such as poets Robery Creeley and John Logan at the State University of New York at Buffalo, receiv­ing a master's degree in creative writing and a doctorate in American literature. 
Since 1985, Coulson has taught writing and literature at Marlborough School in Los Angeles. He is currently working on a new book Graphs and Other Poems and some short fiction. 



Writers' Conference. She has a master's degree in fine arts from the University of Iowa. 
the Writer's Choice award (1985). 

Herbert Warren Mason Jr. is the last speaker of the festival. He is a professor of Islamic history and religious literature at Boston College and is best known for his four-volume translation of Massingnon's The Passion ofal-Hallaj. He also authored the novel Summer Light. 
Mason has had many recent works pub­lished by the University of Notre Dame Press. They include The Death ofal-Hallaj: A Dramatic Narrative; A Legend ofAlexan­der and The Merchant and the Parrot; Dra­matic Poems; Memior of a Friend; Louis Massignon; and Testimonies and Reflection. 
Mason holds three degrees from Harvard University and he is listed in Who's Who in America, Directory of American Scholars, International Authors and Writers Who's Who. . 
8 

SCHOLASTIC 



FEATURES 



Kesey Collles to Calllpus 
Author ken Kesey visits Notre Dame as part ofthe Literary Festival 
-BY KRISTINE DEGANGE 

Starting Sunday, February 25, the Sophomore Literary Festival features many renown authors from all over 
the country. This year one of the most well­
known is Ken Kesey, author of One Flew 
Over the Cuckoo's Nest. He has also pub­
lished several other works, including Some­
times a Great Notion, Kesey' s Garage Sale, 
and Demon Box. Kesey's most recent work 
titled, Caverns, is written under the pseudo­
nym O.U. Levon (novel spelled backwards). 
Caverns is a project that Kesey worked on 
with his graduate students at the University 
of Oregon. 
"I picked thirteen second-year grad stu­
dents and told them.We're going to write a 
novel. I have\no idea what it's going to be 
about.' So we sat down and started from 
scratch. We had to make up a plot, characters, 
the whole shot. They were all pretty 
shocked." 
Kesey generates his ideas for stories from 
many different sources. He draws from 
events throughout his life and sometimes 
plunders into ideas through mistakes. 
"I get my ideas from everything from 
Moby Dick to Shakespeare. When I start 
something, I just dive into it. Lots of times, 
I head in the wrong direction and make mis­
takes, but when this happens, many times I 
come across new destinations. I don't just 
take from my past. I get ideas from the past, 
the present and the future." 
Kesey's work (specifically One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest) was especially appealing to the counterculture of the 1960's. His plots generally center around the conflict of a strong individual pitted against a society he finds limiting and dehumanizing. Many times, he portrays women as powerful controllers, robbing men of their masculin­
ity. One criticism of University, some of Kesey's work is that he Kesey's fundamental fails to acknowledge beliefs differ with that men and women those of the Catholic 
can co-exist peacefully. Church. A credit to his work ''The lower eche­however, is that it is still lon of the Catholic read and studied as a Church has been 
classic. right on. I really "I think we're return­agree with what the . ing to the 60's attitude," nuns and the Jesuits 
Kesey said. "During in places like El Sal­that time, everyone vador are doing. The thought we were about upper echelon 
war. We said, 'No, (Rome) has been dis­
that's not what we're appointing. But doing.' I think the same spiritual stuff inter­things are happening ests me. Spiritual today. Everyone wants centers (Stonehenge, peace just like the '60's. Great Pyramids) 
We're a peace loving 
resurgence. We are in a renovation of 60's 
consciousness." 
Kesey's association with the 
countercultureof the 1960's made his work 
relevant to the changing ideqls of the time. 
Kesey himself was a character in Tom 
Wolfe's book The Electric Kool-Aid Acid 
Test, which shocked some readers in advo­cating controversial views. Kesey has been to Notre Dame twice be­
fore and has been duly impressed both times. 
"It's a place (Notre Dame) with its own personality. I've been to Harvard, to Yale, to London and to Copenhagen, but Notre Dame is the best." Kesey said. Though he is fond ofNotre Dame and the spiritual aspects ofthe 
i:i!i<.,r have a lot of juice. Some of that is bound to rub off." Kesey Iives on a farm in Oregon with his wife and children. According to a biographi­cal sketch in the front of one of his books, he is "scratching his athlete's foot on his farm in Oregon, watching his kids and blueberries grow." Kesey updated this small biography however, by adding, "I plowed thosedamn.ed blueberry bushes under. The cows kept eat­ing them." 
FEBRUARY 22, 1990 
.'; l. '. , , • ~, • ~ • 1 _____:__--:;:.__ ---­
·' . ' ~ . ~·-·::,._,, .._,_,.___ ~ ' ~ ~-""'"" ' ·-=~~-. J.: "· 
FEATURES 

1990 Sophomore Literary Festival 

~ 
~~'1m1t 
~fl~k• 
~ ~ ~ 
.:,~ 
~rrm~ 
~0{(Yr[m(lmv. 

01tlrmrm~ 
ow~~ 
w,i r:flr/l) Qyr, Ivt,1,. 
~ Gmt,ii'WlM 
~~ 
tJ,tNYm ~ 
p,;rrrmn ~ ~(}},Jn... 
{Jr)yym~ 

Sunday, February 25 
8:30 p.m. Reading-Larry Heineman. Hes burgh Library Auditorium. 

Monday, February 26 
11 a.m. Discussion Forum-Larry Heineman. Library Lounge. 
8:30 p.m. Reading-Ken Kesey. O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. 

Tuesday, February 27 
11 a.m. Discussion Forum-Ken Kesey. Library Lounge. 
8:30 p.m. Reading-Sara Vogan. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 9 p.m. Reading-Melissa Pritchard. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

Wednesday, February 28 
11 a.m. Discussion Forum~ara Vogan. Library Lounge. 
8:30 p.m. Reading-W.P. Kinsella. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

Thursday, March 1 
11 a.m. Discussion Forum-W.P. Kinsella. Library Lounge. 
8:30 p.m. Reading-Joseph Coulson and Maura Stanton. Hesburgh Library· Auditorium. 

Friday, March 2 
11 a.m. Discussion Forum-Joseph Coulson and Maura Stanton. Library Lounge. 
7:30 p.m. Reading-Herbert Warren Mason Jr. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 

Saturday, March 3 
10:30 a.m. Discussion Forum-Herbert Warren Mason Jr. Library Lounge. 

SCHOLASTIC
10 



... 


WVFJ is soliciting applications for the 1990-91. 



Station Manager. 
All interested applicants should submit a personal statement to the studio (Suite 200, LaFortup_e) by February 25th. 

/////If ///1 II ll..,;'<J111J 
. ·. 64 . 


SCHOLASTIC
12 

.., 

W 
BY JIM KUSER 
hen you look at streaks in the 
wild world of college basket­

ball, a world in which a team can beat any other team on a given night, you have to look at the University of Notre Dame women's basketball team. Beset with key in­juries to begin the ~eason, the Fighting Irish have survived the test of time and established themselves as a Midwest powerhouse by rolling to a 17-6 overall record (as of Tuesday's contest with Saint Louis). Muffet McGraw's team sports an unblemished 12-0 mark in Midwest Collegiate Conference play this season, having won 23 of its last 25 conference games and reeled off 16 straight in the process. 
But the Irish haven't achieved such success with hometown referees or buzzer­beater shots. They've done so through commitment, confidence and consistency. 

tion, and the Irish have per­formed well against one of the nation's most rigorous sched­ules. Upsets of UCLA and Indi­ana as well as close losses to Toledo, DePaul and 20th-ranked Old Dominion-three teams ei­ther ranked or receiving votes in the Associated Press Top 20 poll-provide testament to this team's ability. Notre Dame has proven itself capable of playing 
with the nation's elite. 
McGraw attributes the suc­cess of her team to the healthy attitudes of her players. She says she has "never seen a bunch of young women so determined, so persevering, so committed to ex­cellence. This team can go places with the attitude it has." 
The team is small, having a roster of only eight players. It is therefore a tightly bound group, one that McGraw says "has over­come a lot of adversity while playing good basketball." 
"Last year, we lacked the to­getherness and unity that a good team must have," comments jun:.. ior guard Karen Robinson, Notre 

Good ball movement has been one of Notre Dame's trademarks this season. 
Dame's floor leader. "(But) this year's team is small and close. We have suffered some setbacks from adversity and injury, but we continue to support one another." 
Last Thursday's 99-58 massacre of the University of Detroit manifested Notre Dame's true strengths. For one, any team capable .of scoring 99 points in a collegiate game features a potent offense. The Fighting Irish scored 113 points against Liberty and92 against Xavier earlier in the season. Ifnot for its charitable style ofplay down the stretches of these games, Notre Dame could have run up the scores much higher. Strong offensive rebounding, good shot selection, effective movement and solid ball handling have given Irish opponents nightmares. 
Second, any team holding an opponent to 58 points is playing tenacious defense. The Irish held Liberty to 35 points and Evansville to 45 earlier in the season. Again, had the Irish not shifted into· cruise control late in these games, the scores could have been held even lower. Notre Dame's post players have frustrated opponents down low, forcing teams to go outside. Often quick hands at the guard slot then force turnovers when. teams exercise this option. 

The streak is no fluke. The Fighting Irish are for real. 
Look no further than McGraw to find the one responsible for instilling the afore­mentioned qualities in her players. After coming to Notre Dame three years ago, McGraw has compiled an impressive 56­25 record for a .691 winning percentage. She coached five seasons at Lehigh Uni­versity before arriving in South Bend, boasting an overall winning percentage of .686. McGraw knows how to win, and she will use her knowledge come March when her team enters the MCC tournament and-hopefully-advances to the NCAA tournament Notre Dame's success to date has already turned heads within the NCAA• s tournament selection committee. 
Aside from its stellar play in theMCC, you may wonder just how good this team really is. Consider these distinguishing facts: Notre Dame's 49.1 shooting per­
centage ranks fourth in the na­
.,I 
SPORTS 



:SPORTS 

Paul Webb 

Prospects of a first-ever NCAA tournament berth have given the Irish plenty to smile about. 
If an opponent is lucky enough to get a 

shot off, it isn't the shot they sought coming 
down the court. For good measure, the Irish 
have been scrappy off the glass, hauling 
down defensive rebound after defensive 
rebound. Defense is this team's true strength, 
forcing opponents to abandon games plans, 
get into foul trouble, take low-percentage 
shots, and commit turnovers time after time. 
Third, the team showed .great depth 

against Detroit when 5-foot-10 sophomore 
Deb Fitzgerald came off the bench to pour in 
22 points, including a seven-of-eight shoot­
ing spree in the closing minutes of the first 
half. Fitzgerald helped Notre Dame provide 
a balanced attack against the Lady Titans as 
she and four other Irish players scored in 
double figures to pace a 59 percent Irish __ shooting effort from the field. . 
-· ·To top_ it all off, Robinson showed ex­
actly why she is looked upon as the team's emotional leader. She played the game de­
spite the pain of a sprained ankle. 
At this point in the season, Notre Dame 
has proven itself a team both exceptionally 
conditioned and well coached. By no means 
was the Detroit contest unusual. The Irish 
have played tough throughout, and their 
dominance of the MCC only stands to in­
crease. They lose only one player to gradu­
ation-senior guard Lisa Kuhns-and will · therefore be well staffed next year. 
As the regular season draws to a close, 
McGraw's team eagerly awaits postseason 
action. Last year Notre Dame drew a bid to 
the National Invitation Tournament, but this 
year's sights are set on an invitation to the big 
show-the NCAA tournament. 
"Right now, our goal is to finish the 
regular season with consistent play on the 
court," says Robinson. "Hopefully, we will 
take the MCC tournament. Although the MCC doesn't get an automatic NCAA bid, we are optimistic. But the important thing now is to take it a game at a time." 
With conference games remaining against Xavier, Dayton and Detroit (three teams Notre Dame thrashed earlier in the season), the Irish figure to enter the MCC tournament with 21 wins. Two victories in the conference tourney would push that total to 23, giving Notre Dame the magic number McGraw earlier forecasted as necessary for the Irish to earn their place in the NCAAs. 
Given the chance atthe ladies' edition of March Madness, the Irish would be ripe for the upset ofa top-seeded team. Perhaps they would get the chance to avenge earlier losses to Temple, Old Dominion and DePaul, but first thing's first. As long as Notre Dame completes its clean sweep of the MCC, the rest may very well fall into place. 
SCHOLASTIC 

Do you have too little responsibility? Would you like the weight of the world (well, a weekly , magazine) on your shoulders? Then apply to be Scholastic's Applicants should have a solid background in journalism . combined with strong( writing skills and managerial ability. Any Notre Dame or Saint .Mary's undergraduate IS eligible to apply. For information contact Andrew Hilger in the Scholastic office at 239-7569. Deadline: February 23, · 1990  

SPORTS 

!
I: 

Livin on 


,, i th 
i1 :1 
Ed e 


Notre Dame's thrilling win at Syracuse renewed NCAA tournament hopes 


BY JONPAUL POTTS 
f T
he Cardiac Kids." This could be an apt nick­name for the 1989-90version,of the Fighting Irish men's basketball team, for every time it seems their tournament hopes have been dashed against the proverbial rocks, they pull out a big win that sets Irish fans to musing of March Madness. First, after a inauspicious 1-3 start without star sophomore forward LaPhonso Ellis, the Irish defeated previously 15th-ranked UCLA De.cember 17th. And then, just this past weekend, Notre Dame snatched a huge vie­


tory by beating the Syracuse Orangemen 66­65 in the raucous Carrier Dome on a buzzer­beating, three-point shot by Elmer Bennett. Saturday's victory marked their first "major" road win in four seasons, dating back to Notre Dame's 85-81 victory on the road against­you guessed it-Syracuse. 
"There was no way we were going to lose," said senior co-captain Joe Fredrick of their latest triumph. "You got to the point where there· are only a few games left in your senior season and you got sick ofeveryone walking on you." 
Before the Irish beat the Orangemen, however, they first had to contend with a scrappy, up-and-coming Marquette squad 
16 

SCHOLASTIC 

.. 
SPORTS 

that had defeated Notre Dame 80-68 earlier in the season. Led by Joe Fredrick's 22 points, the Irish out-hustled and out-re­bounded the Warriors down the stretch to eke out a 79-76 victory. 
"Yeah, we'll take a win against Mar­quette," said Irish Coach Digger Phelps. "We knew it was going to be a dogfight. But, it's good to be home and get a win." 
And a dogfight it was. The largest lead the Irish could manage was six points, a margin they had three times. But every time it seemed Notre Dame was pulling away; Marquette would answer with a run of its own. Warrior forward Trevor Powell carried much of the load for the visitors, scoring 17 of his 29 points and grabbing four of his six rebounds in the second half. 
The key to this victory, however, may have been the defensive effort by Notre Dame against Marquette point guard Tony Smith. Smith entered the contest leading the Mid­west Collegiate Conference in assists at 6.7 
per game, and was second in scoring at 22.1 points per contest But against the five-man rotation of Bennett, Daimon Sweet, Jamere Jackson, Monty Williams and Tim Single­ton, Smith shot a miserable seven of24 for a deceptive 21 points. 
"That was a big job," said Phelps. "As 
· much as we gave to Tony Smith, he shot seven for 24. The credit to that is that we kept rotating. We had five different guys play him. We just kept throwing people at him. That was a big plus for us." 
That defensive intensity carried over to the huge win at Syracuse. Using a variety of packed-in zone defenses, the Irish shutdown the Orangemen' s powerful inside game, inducing them to shoot a paltry 27 of 65 ( 4 I%) from the field. Michael Edwards, Syracuse's highly regarded 1freshman point guard, shot a horrendous three of 16, includ­ing one of eight from three-point range. 
"We didn't want to give them transition point~," said Phelps. "We didn't want to give them second shots, and that's why we packed in the 2-3 zone and the 1-2-2 zone. We were going to live or die with them taking the outside shots and the gamble paid off." 
The Irish controlled the tempo ofthe game from opening tap to the middle ofthe second half. Then, with about 11 minutes remaining in the game, Syracuse cranked up the press and went on oneofits renowned spurts. In the span of a few minutes, the Orangemen had erased an Irish 13-point lead to move ahead. From there to the end, the teams battled back and forth with neither able to gain the upper hand. 
Finally, with 0:36 showing on the clock, Syracuse had the ball with the score knotted at 63. After holding the ball to the IO-second mark, the Orangemen then called timeout Billy Owens came out of the huddle and drove right to left, hitting a short scoop shot for a two-point Syracuse lead to seal the victory-or so the Orangemen and the 32,747 partisan fans in attendance thought 

SPORTS 


Notre Dame desper­ on the road things start  
ately called timeout, and  going the other way."  
with three seconds re- An off-court distraction  
maining designed a play ·  with potentially major  
Ellis says was perfectly  ramifications has reared its  
planned and executed.  ugly head as well in recent  
"We've been working  weeks. It happened to Lou  
on that inbounds play ever  Holtz's football squad, and  
sinceI'vebeenhere,"said  now the NCAA's investi­ 
an elated Ellis, "and we  gation of the University of  
could never get it right  Illinois basketball program  
because we could never  has infringed on the Irish  
find anyone to throw the  basketball team. Appar­ 
ball with any accuracy.  ently, Illinois may have  
Oh, that was sweet!"  tried to entice Ellis to  
Senior Keith Robinson  Champaign by offering  
took the ball out ofbounds  him large sums of money.  
and whipped a perfect  With the release of official  
pass to Ellis at halfcourt.  NCAA rules violation alle- 
Ellis then spun and deliv­ gations this past weekend,  
ered the ball to Bennett,  the press crunch and  
who drilled the three- NCAA probe itself have  
pointer to seal the upset of  pestered Ellis. None ofthis  
a Syracuse team that en- offers solace for the sopho­ 
tered the game ranked  more as the season enters  
fourth nationally.  the stretch run.  
Several positives have  The Syracuse win  
emerged from these past  breathed new life into  
few games. Bennett, for  NotreDame'sNCAAtour­ 
one, has stepped up his  nament hopes. With 14  
play, earning consecutive  wins and only six games  
starting assignments  remaining, though, the  
against Marquette and  Irish will have to conjure  
Syracuse. He has re- up some prime-time per­ 
sponded well, providing  formances at home against  
much-needed scoring  Marl Okuda  the likes ofDePaul, Geor­ 
from the point guard posi- The Irish look to continue strong rebounding in their tournament quest.  gia Tech and top-ranked  

lion to open up the offense. He netted 16 sponded by out-rebounding the Orangemen Missouri. If anything, Saturday's road vie­points and dished out six assists in the Mar-39-35. tory proves the Irish are capable of pulling queue victory and added 18 points and five Saturday's big win not withstanding, the out a big win anywhere. assists against the Orangemen. Irish (14-8 on the season entering Tuesday's Eighteen or 19 wins should be enough this 
Frontline rebounding has been another contest with DePaul) have been woeful on year for Notre Dame to be invited to March strong point Ellis has evolved into a re-the road (5-8). The Irish are perfect at home, Madness. The NCAA selection committee bounding machine-if not for the games he but with away contests to come against solid usually selects the top independent for the missed due to academic exile, he would be DePaul and Dayton teams, the Irish must tournament. The fact that the only other near the top of the national rankings in this improve and become road warriors. "indies," DePaul and Miami (Fla.), have category. Robinson has been aggressive un-"It (Notre Dame's road woes) is a com bi-struggled this season, . combined with the der the basket as well, including 11 boards nation of different factors," said Phelps fol-appeal of the Notre Dame name, may be against Marquette. Asa result, the Irish have lowing the win over Marquette. "We play enough to'pull the Irish through. continued to out-rebound their opponents all different schools from different conferences In lieu of Bennett's last-second heroics season. Syracuse threw a big, strong front-and you have different officials. It's not like Saturday, Notre Dame's rallying cry of line at the Irish Saturday, led by Owens, when you play 18 league games and you have "Remember, it's Denver" at least seems not Stevie Thompson and probable NBA lottery consistent officiating. As aggressive as we as far-fetched as it did the previous week. For draft pick Derrick Coleman. The Irish re-try to play at home, from what we've learned now, "The Grapple to the Apple" can wait. 

Looking for some practical experience to add to that marketing degree? 
Interested in the sales and contracts and want to test your skills in selling yourself and the magazine? 
WANT TO MAKE SOME MONEY REALLY QUICK? 
Come up to the Scholastic office on third floor LaFortune. We are currently hiring people for positions in our advertising department and can use people· who are motivated and excited about the prospect of testing real-world .business skills. 
Let us know by stopping by or calling 239-7569 today. 

SPORTS 

k COMPILED BY BRIAN MC MAHON

The Irish wrestling team defeated Ohio Univer­sity last weekend 25-6. MARCUS GOWENS, TODD LAYTON, TODD TOMAZIC, MARK GERARDI, CURT ENGLER, STEVE KING, CHUCK WEAVER, and JAMIE BOYD (filling in 11------,.--=--========== for older brother PAT BOYD) won matches in the 
rout 'Ibe victory vaulted the Irish back into the 11-==-===-==========--­
nationalrankings. The Amateur Wrestling News had the Irish 24th in its latest poll. Notre Dame (6-7) hosts the third-ranked Iowa Hawkeyes (17-1) in the Joyce Center Feb. 25 at 7:30 
p.m.. The Hawkeyes are led by Tom Brands, the 
nation's top wrestler at 134 lbs. It will be the first meeting ever between the two teams. 
Notre Dame finished fifth last weekend at the 
Indiana Intercollegiates in West Lafayette. BRIAN PEPPARD captured the squad's only first place fin­ish in the meet with a 1 :53.85 time in the 800-meter 
event The Irish host the third annual Alex Wilson Invi­tational this Saturday at the Meyo Track. The field, with the likes of Arizona, Arkansas, Clemson, Geor-

Inactive since winning the Midwestern Collegiate Conference title Feb. 10, the Irish head to Baltimore, MD, this weekend for the Eastern Intercollegiate Cham­pionships. Notre Dame's chief competition will come 
from West Virginia, LaSalle and Maryland-Baltimore County. 
Notre Dame defeated Goshen College 3-0 Feb. 7 in what was the earliest home opener in the school's 
history. The previous mark was March 9, 1988. Senior BRIAN PIOTROWICZ added to his school record for career wins with his 21st 
PAT MURPHY'S charges head to Hawaii for a three-game set against the Hawaii Rainbows Feb. 23­
25 

~::~~:::.;!i~~:.~i~~g~:~;·~:. 11,-,......,.,·=-=========-====t-====w~:.~:O...,.":,:,K:-:,1/:-:,E:-:,N:-:,···•.:,:,,s"'"••""'ir"'"LE"'"+•·"'"N...,.. .•~r:"'"s"'".;"'>.·.,.,;=="'
N"'"•··· 

!:;:a~~:tr~~:::ia11y representative ever to :, , :.\J~<j?~~NIS:»J\'.s~ttij~J 
~=======----------=------------:.., 
The Irish secured the top-seed for the MCC tourna­ment with victories over Butler and Detroit (see page 
14) last week. They will play the conference's number four seed March 9 at Dayton Arena in Ohio. 
Notre Dame (17-6, 12-0 in the MCC) hosts Xavier Feb. 26 and Dayton March 1. 
The men's and women's teams (18-0 and 14-0, respectively) will split squads on Saturday. Both teams will send a contigent to Piscataway, NJ to take on Princeton, Yale, Fordham and Rutgers. The rest of the squads will host Michigan State, Purdue, Eastern Michigan and Lawrence at 9 a.m. at the JACC. 
The men's squad (10-1), ranked fourth in Region 

IV, defeated Wake Forest, Colorado, Iowa and Ball State to extend its winning streak to 10. Against Ball State, DAVID DILUCIA and MIKE WALLACE iced the victory with a 7-6, 6-4 doubles victory over 
John Noble and Scott Campbell, the 11th-ranked pair in the country. 
The Irish hope to add to their winning streak when they travel to Minnesota for a match against the 25th­ranked Golden Gophers Saturday, Feb. 24. 
The women's squad went 1-2 on a trip through 
Texas, dropping matches against ninth-ranked Texas (9-0) and 19th-ranked Texas A&M (8-1) before con­quering Texas-San Antonio 5-0 in a match shortened by rain. 
The Irish (1-3) will be busy this weekend, hosting Illinois Friday at 6 p.m., Kansas State and Drake Sat­urday at 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. respectively, and Miami (Ohio) Sunday at 9 a.m. 
Notre Dame (17-13) played well but was swept at St. Ooud State last weekend by scores of 7-3 and 3-2. The Irish Jed midway through the second period of game two but couldn 'thold on, despite outshooting the Huskies 36-23. 
The Irish meet Michigan-Dearborn in a home­
and-home series this weekend. The teams play Friday at Dearborn at 7 p.m. and at Notre Dame on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. 
SCHOLASTIC 
.. 
LECTURE 

"Trees, Peasants, and the Haitian Church: The Anthropology of Environmental Reconciliation." Professor Gerald F. Murray, University of Florida. Room 122 Hayes-Healy. 4:15 PM. 
SPECIAL 

Career/Major Decision Making work­shop. University Counseling Center. 6:30PM. 
Center for Social Concerns Hospitality Lunch. Center for Social Concerns. 
11:30 AM. 
SPECIAL 

Lunch. Alumni Sr. Club. 12-2 PM. 
Opening "The Coffeehouse" 
Basement of Grace Hall, live 
entertainment, relaxed atmosphere 
MUSIC 

Band. Alumni Sr. Club. 9-2 AM. 
Indoor Track. Alex Wilson Invitation. 
Loftus Center. 10:30 AM. 
Basketball. SMC vs. Bethel College. 
PM. 
Hockey. ND vs. Michigan-Dearborn. 
JACC Fieldhouse. 7:30 PM. 
C OM ING 
Comedy: Misfits in Disguise. Alumni Sr. Club. 9-2AM. 
Sophomore Skate Night 
FILMS 

Film. "La Lectrice." Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30 & 9:30 PM. 
SPORTS 

Bengal Bouts. JACC Fieldhouse. 
12:30& 7:30 PM. 
Basketball. ND vs. Georgia Tech. 
JACC Arena. 4 PM. 
Wrestling. ND vs. University of Iowa. 
JACC Arena. 7:30 PM. 
FILMS 

Films. "Born Free." "Rikki-Tikki­
tavi." 2-4 PM. 
SPECIAL 

Sophomore Literary Festival. Larry 
Heineman. 
FILMS 

Film. "Citizen Kane." Snite Museum. 7 PM. 
Film. "Sunset Boulevard." Annenberg Auditorium. 9: 15 PM. 
D IS TRACT IO N:S 
SPORTS 
Women's Basketball. ND vs. Xavier. JACC. 
FILMS 

Film. "Great Blandino." Annenberg Auditorium. 9:15 PM. 
SPECIAL 
Sophomore Literary Festival. Sara Vogan. 
SPECIAL 
Sophomore Literary Festival. W.P. Kinsella Deadline for Financial Aid Applications. Lenten Series. Pangborn Chapel. 10 PM. 
THEATRE 
SMC/ND Theatre: The Importance of 
Being Earnest. Washingtion Hall. 8:10 
PM. 
SPORTS 
Bengal Bouts. JACC. 


Class Discussion 
W hen U.S. News & World Report came out with their rankings of the · top colleges and universities in the United States, Scholastic ran a series of articles which highlighted the excellence of the faculty at Notre Dame. Yet, Notre Dame's excellence may be on the downturn as it turns itself into a research-oriented institution. Professors, in many cases, are only teaching one or two classes per semester, packing classes to the hilt. This is putting a strain on students trying to complete in-major requirements or just trying to fulfill that ever-elusive fine arts requirement. Classroom space is scarce, and there doesn't appear to be any light at the end of the tunnel. The DeBartolo quad, now under construction, is supposed to alleviate this problem, at least to some extent. That won't be enough. Scholastic believes that students at Notre Dame deserve the opportunity to attend night classes as an alternative form of scheduling. During an Arts and Letters Workshop held in conjunction with this year's Junior Parents Weekend, Assistant Dean Robert Waddick relayed his disap­pointment with class size and scheduling problems at Notre Dame. The problem, as he sees it, is with the faculty members who teach so few classes per semester. Adding night classes could potentially add at least one section to each popular class offering. Students and faculty agree that the best learning environment is a small classroom setting, so why not use some of that sweltering heat which keeps O'Shaughnessy Hall at oven-like temperatures all night? Furthermore, not every student's schedule is the same. For instance, engineers sometimes need to take up to twenty credits per semester in order to graduate on time. The same demand may be felt by someone attempting to double-major in the Arts and Letters or business colleges. Class days should not be endurance tests, and they do not need to be with a night class option available. Scholastic challenges the newly-elected Pasin/fombar ticket to find out 0if student concern in this area is substantial, and if so, to bring the issue to the attention of the administration. Such a move by the university would be a step in the right direction. After all, a student should not need to sleep through morning classes just to have the energy for lab in the afternoon and studying in the evening. 
-Scholastic 
· 

SCHOLASTIC 

discuss the issue. We discussed the pros and 
cons of such an action, knowing that this 
would appear as if we were whining about 
the whole issue, as if we were out to get the 
Sanchez/Smith ticket. We emphasized that 
our complaint was not directed at Sanchez 
and Smith. They were not to blame, since 
they went through the proper channels to 
gain approval. Our complaint was against 
the election committee's interpretation of 
the by-law. 
Some argue that the table tents had been 
allowed before. The difference was that in 
previous years, the "joke ticket" was respon­
sible for the tents. Because of this, the tent 
idea went unchallenged. The fact that this 
year's race was closer made a difference in 
the seriousness of the matter. 
At the emergency Senate meeting (which 
by the way was not top secret as an Inside 
Column suggested) the Senate felt that the 
tents were a violation of the rules. Admit­
tedly, Rob, Vinny, and myself should have 
abstained from voting because of a conflict 
of interest. In retrospect, I would have done 
just that, and I apologize. The tents were re­
moved and this was the end ofthe issue. Or 
so we all thought. 
There is a larger issue here-the editorial power of the Observer. The fact that the majority of students at Notre Dame read the Observer gives the editors great influence. After the issue was settled, the editors blew the incident out of proportion. Despite not . having been present at the emergency Senate meeting, the editors painted a power play pictureoftheentiresenate. They had no idea ofthe arguments presented nor, to the best of 
for the record. 
After reading last week's Observer, many people may have gotten the idea that Rob Pasin, Fred Tombar, Raja Singh, and myself are a bunch of back room, cigar smoking politickers out to cause malicious havoc on the election process at Notre Dame. Sorry to disappoint everyone, but nothing could be further from the truth. 
The whole election process was marred by the "table tent fiasco." Here's our story of what occurred. On the day before the election, the Sanchez-Smith ticket began putting up table tents in the dining halls·. Before the campaign began, we were told that the'\dining halls were "off-limits." There was no vagueness or ambiguity in the rule. We weren 'tthinking in the back ofour minds-"! wonder if that applies to table tents." 
The actual reading of the by-laws states that, "Posters are not to be placed within or on the dining hall walls." The election committee did not interpret table tents as posters, although they were merely hand­bills folded in half. And since they were not on the walls, the committee members gave the okay. We felt that the spirit of the by­laws was to forbid campaigning in the din­ing halls, as we were told by the election committee a week before. Despite this, the Sanchez/Smith ticket was allowed to put up the tents based on the technicality. 
To make a long story short, Rob and I requested an emergency Senate meeting to 
FINAL-WOR.D 

Setting the Record Straight 
SBP candidate responds to charges ofpetty politicking 
BYSIGILOYA 
my knowledge, did they bother to find out. 
And yet. on two separate occasions the edi­
tors slammed Rob, Fred, Raja, and myself 
for our behavior. 
First ofall, Raja knew absolutely nothing about the issue. Because he was unavail­able, Raja did not learn of the Senate's action until much later. If the Observer editors had bothered to investigate, they could have left Raja's name out of their 
allegations. 
I-also question the editors' timing of the two articles-on the election day and the day before the runoff. Who knows how many voters, if any, were swayed by the Observer articles? Granted, the editors are entitled to their opinions like everyone else. But there is a difference. An editor's opinion will be widely read and can influ­ence many people, especially on election day. Therefore, the editor's opinion should be based on more than hearsay oron infer­
ences made. 
I must be honest. We did not appreciate the Observer dragging our names through the mud, especially when we felt that we acted justly. But, this is not my point. All editors in the media, must think before they .act It is all too easy to print something that could have great ramifications and then hide behind the title "Editorial." They must realize that the tremendous influence they wield must, I repeat must, be used respon­sibly. Only then can fiascoes like this be 
avoided in the future. And, hopefully, no 
candidates will have their names slighted 
unjustly. D 
CHRONICLE OF THE YEAR 
1987 
Complimentary copies of Chronicle of the Year 1987 will be available at the Information Desk in LaFortune Student-Center beginning Monday, February 26. Supply _is limited. Distribution will be on a first come first serve basis. 
Courtesy of the News Departments of WSND and WVFI Notre Dame student. run radio stations 

I .. 
'. 
DON'T FORGET Thurs Grad Lunch 
& Friday Lunch 
Noon-2 

24 
SCHOLASTIC 




DON'T MISS OUT ON THE. FIRST BIG SOC.\AL TRENO Of THE \990s! Ge:t off ~o"r duff and comQ o" do\,\)"' +o Akbar &Jeff·s SUPPORT GROUP FOR THE VAGUELY DISSATISFIED ff Y0\J L\KE TO TP.LK YOU'LL LIKE OUR DISCUSSION TOPICS! ,}$ ~ WE ME.E.T EV£.R~ TUEc;_ I\NO T\.tURS., RAIN OR SHINE., AT 8 P.N\. 5\.\ARf> lN 11-\t UPSTt\lRS BANQUE.T QOON\ ~· OF AKBAR &JEFF'S MU\=FINt:\TO~IUM ("ALL~°" CQNE~T0 ), C.0N\IE.tJ\E.NTL'1 L0C.~"t"e.O ON THE. ME1.1.ANlNE. LE.VE.L OF ~ THE. PAQ~t,E. OF-\=000 PAV\L\ON lN THE. NEW MALL OuT ();:,L~ B~ "'T\-\e. OLO A\~PoRT (1=cut~ 'l-\-lR.. ~AR~1..J<:, VAL,Dr.\TLo,-,J° ·· I ;p WrTt\ SuPPOllTGl>o\JI> VOI.UNTACt'j l>o,.lf>;t\oN <INI> MUFFIN PuRCI-\ASE) c;fil NO PROBLE.fv\S? NO PROBLEJv\~ WE. STlLL LOVE. YOU~  

'! 
if 
:;, 
.r, 


non-profit organization U 5 POSTAGE 
PA ID 
NOlrP Dame. Indiana Perm•! No. JO 
Sunday, 25th 
Larry Heinemann Paco's Story 
Close Quarters 
Hesburgh Libracy Auditorium 
8:30 P.M. 
Monday, 26th 

Ken Kesey One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest Garage Sale 
SMC O'Laughlin Auditorium 
8:30 P.M. 

Tuesday, 27th 
Sara Vogan Scenes from the Homefront In Shelly's Leg 
Melissa Pritchard Spirit Seizures 
Hesburgh Libracy Auditorium 
8:30 P.M. 
Wednesday, 28th 
W.P. Kinsella Shoeless Joe The Moccasin Telegraph 
Hesburgh Libracy Auditorium 
8:30 P.M. 
Sponsored by STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Thursday, 1st 
Maura Stanton • 
Cries of Swimmers 
Snow on Snow 
Joseph Coulson 
A Measured Silence 
Hesburgh Libracy Auditorium 
8:30 P.M. 
Friday, 2nd 
Herbert Mason 
translator of Gilgamesh 
Hesburgh Libracy Auditorium 
7:30 P.M. 






