~­f· 
I--. 
' 
scholastic 
! . 
9/J
,. 

RISH 

~FOOTBALL·· REVIEW
I·} . . 
February I. 1974 
l ; 
' 
I 
11 
r 
r [·:--' 
Remarks of Congressman John 
Brademas, Monday, January 21, 
1974 

In the House of Representatives Notre Dame: The Nation's Number One 
MR. SPEAKER, we have had a lot of bad news during the year iust ended, but in South Bend, Indiana, in the Di~trict I have the honor to represent, we have had, as 1973 closed and as 1974 began, some good news. 
For, Mr. Speaker, life is, in at least one important respect, back to normal. The University of Notre Dame football team, after its magnificent 24-23 victory over the University of Alabama in the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans on New Year's Eve, is the National Champion again. 
Mr. Speaker, I take this time first to extend my condolences to my col­league and friend, the gentleman from ·Alabama, Congressman Walter Flowers, who represents the Tuscaloosa district here in the House. 
I want further to extend my warmest congratulations to America's greatest football coach, Ara Parseghian, to his coaching staff and to the entire Notre Dame football team. 
Mr. Speaker, as we today begin the second session of the 93rd Congress, we all recognize that the nation has troubles, two in particular~ energy and Richard Nixon. 
But, Mr. Speaker, not everything is wrong with America today. God's in his Heaven, something's right with the world. 
Notre Dame is Number One again. 

February 1, 1974 Notre Dame, Indiana Volume 115, No. 9 ' 


The Football Review 
4  Introduction  
5  Count Your Blessings  
6  Northwestern  
8  Purdue  
10  Stadium Feature  

12 · Michigan State 
14 . Rice 
16 18 20 23 24 Four Years Later Army Southern California · Bob Thomas·· Navy 
· The oplnions · expressed in, the SCHOLASTIC 
· are those of 'tlie authors and editors of the · SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent · , the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, . its administration, faculty or the student body. 
. Second-clas/postage. ~aid at Notie D~me, . 
Ind.' 46556. The magazine is represented for . national advertising by National Educational -~·. Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Ayenue, 
New York, N.Y. 10017. Published fortnightly . during the school year except during vacation· . and examination periods, tlie SCHOLASTIC· 
· is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from . · the SCHOLASTIC. Please address all manu-·. . scripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame: Ind. . 46556. All unsolicited materialbecomes the property of the. SCHOLASTIC. 
. copyright© 1974 Schoiastlc / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be re­. · produced , without permission 
26. Clements 28 Pittsburgh 30 Coach Ara Parseghian 33 Officer Tim McCarthy 34 Air Force 36 In-Memoriam 38 -Miami 40 Statistics 42 New Year's in New Orleans ­44 Sugar Bowl 48 ·For the Record 
,, ' 
49 Prognosis '74 · 


Seholastie 
Football Review Editor: Tom Gora 
· Scholastic Editor: Kerry McNamara 
. . ·. . . ~ . 
Art Director: Jim· Purvis. 

Production Man~ger: Janet Cullen· 
• • ~ .. r .. 

, Asst. Art Directors: John Phelan & Tom Waldoch 
·Staff: Terry Bannon, Casey Pocius; Mary Siegel, . 
·Sally Stanton, ·Eileen O'Grady; Jim Gresser, . Pat Roach, Joe Runde, Jack Wenke, Pat Hanafin, Leo J. Mulcahey, Tom Birsic, 
. Nan Smith,· Bill Weyland . 

Credits: 

Cover, Bill Weyland; }>hotogr~phs, . Mike Budd, 5, 7, 9, 12, 13, 17, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29; 34, 35, 42; 43; 45, 46, 47; Joe Raymond, 
· 7, 8, 14, '15, 18, 19, 21', 31, 39, 47. ·. 
Special thanks to the Notre Dame . Magazine for. permission· to reprint the. . . article in memory of Frank Leahy and Elmer Layden . 

du lac sporting news: beginning no,tes 
One of the books that happened to find its way to 
my desk amidst the sports releases was Team: A High 
School Odyssey by ~ichard Woodley. The story centers 
around a high school football team, beginning with pre­
season practices following through to the last game of 
the year. Though the book itself contains nothing much 
to write about, there is one passage that appeared to be 
particularly insightful. As the coach is filling out col­
lege scouting reports, the author asks ~im whom he will 
suggest to Notre Dame. The coach replies rather in dis­
gust that it really doesn't matter. 
"It's interesting, but it's not important," he explains. 
"Nobody from here is going to play football for Notre 
Dame. I don't even know if I'd want them to. Big-time 
football involves some attitudes I don't like." 
Aside from the disappointment in not being able to 
develop a player good enough for Notre Dame, the 
coach exhibits a feeling which every now and then nags 
the thoughtful student of du Lac who observes all that 
goes on about him on a Football Saturday. As Casey 
Pocius put it in a previous issue of the Scholastic, one 
gets the impression that "the Notre Dame campus is a 
group of buildings located just northwest of the sta­
dium." 
The reaction, then, is to separate oneself from the 
pandemonium and rabble-rousing of -the Notre Dame 
football experience. and disclaim any connection with 
that part of the crowd. However, Notre Dame football 
is not all pandemonium and rabble-rousing; beneath it · 
all lies a firm foundation of school pride and excellence . 
in team endeavor. Aside from the unfortunate instances · where alumni and students .alike fail to realize the 
context of the situation, the Notre Dame student should 
be able to feel proud of the accomplishments of the 
team. 
This year we are number one_ in the nation, and I 
tend towards a mixed reaction. I realize that football 
will take on life~and-death proportions for some now 
that we have a prize to defend. I also understand that 
everything surrounding the game will assume symbolic 
meaning and ·inflated value. That is unfortunate~ · 

Then again, I was present at the Notre Dame-Ala­bama game and would have screamed just as loud as everyone else if my voice had not given out long before the game. 
Besides the pride, there are the people. After a year of working with the sports staffs, the players and the other writers, I've come . to know them as indiyiduals and consequently find myself rooting for them rather than for · a name. This concept of proximity unfor­tunately is not possible for everyone, and the players remain statistics. In that sense, I feel guilty about pro­viding their accomplishments rather than their char­acters in this review; let me add, however, that they are proud of the goals, their record and the people who helped them achieve these aspirations. 
Through the articles written by Frank Pomarico and Dave Casper, together with Coach Ara Parseghian, I would hope that those outside of the Notre Dame com­munity, and indeed, those within the community who still remain aloof, can glimpse some idea of the moral fiber behind the pads and uniforms, behind the clip­boards and· whistles; 
Students often complain that in conversation the immediate and automatic retort to the name Notre Dame is 'football.' Admittedly, football has done much · good for this campus in many ways we can never fully realize or appreciate, but a member-of the Notre Dame community can legitimately become disturbed with its 
· incompleteness_ and distortion. One of the goals of this issue is to let the student be proud of his school, his 1973 Fighting Irish football team, and. their accom­plishments. I would like to thank _Mr. Roger Valdiserri, Mr. Rob­ert Best and their staff from Sports Information, with­out whose assistance this issue could not have been com­pleted. I would also like to thank Mr. Vic Dorr of the . "Observer" and Ms.·Mary Jo Davis, in addition to the Scholastic and Ave Maria Staffs for their patience. 
-tom gora 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


At' the ·beginning of the season, Frank was chosen as the offensive captain for the·1973 Fighting Irisn: He was selected, by the NCAA and the De/ense. Department to tour military bases in Eur<JPe during the summer 
· with nine other college players. His ·chances for cap­turing All.;.America honors were hampered when' an injury forced him ·to watch most of the season from the.sidelines;. He came back willing and able for the Army game, and from thereivent on to make first team on the Gridiron All-America. Team and sei:on_d :team on the UPI All-America Team. 
. The Sugar Bowl classic against Alabama was t:ruly a 

·great climax to. a history~making season. It proved that all the hard work from the end of August: until Decem­ber 31 has really paid off. Our offense gelled through the season and produced ah explosive machine, and it was complemented by an equally intimidating defense; 
· To me, it has been a very rewarding experience to be part of one of the best teams in Notre Dame history. The Golden Dome of Notre Dame. Those.words mean a great deal to me, and in the following article, I'd like to explain why. ' 
FEBRUARY 1; 1974 · 
-_Count Your Blessings· 
-Frank-Poma.rico 

Four years ago, when I first enrolled at Notre Dame,· I was a rather innocent high school tioy. While here, however; I've learned a trem.endous amount about.my.: self athletically and __ socially,_ and _have developed my whole outlook on life. By putting all of these things to-· gether !feel like I;ve really grown into a well-rounded 
. . . .._ :_. ' 

person. . _ . . . 
. ·Athle~ically, I feel that rve gotten l!-S much _out of Notre Dame as was possible for me. The people-I've met throughfootball have had a major impact on my athletic. career and. my life. Those people, mainly the coaches· and other ·.players on. our . team, have. reached deep into my athletic ability and have brought out the best in me. ·_-_ : . : . ·. . . ·_ _ .. . . · 
Socially,_ I think this is· what'.·Notre DaII_le _is all about;. to be able to coe~st 'with.other people'and dis.;. cover what those people from all parts of the country are like. To he exposed to the different habits arid ideas of other people, I feel, is one of ~he greatest ways to 
become' educated. . . . ' . 
The final and, I feel, the'most.important impression Notre Dame has had on me is that it has developed my overall outlook on life. To begin with, I feel now that as long as one has his health, his i#ends' arid.loved ones, 
. well, he has all the bases· of all that's really important. The reason I say this is because money, fame, or nia-· terial success doesn't seem worth · very much if ·one doesn't: also have health and a few close friends and
-'. . , . . 

companions. . . . . . . . . . 
. So be thankfulfo/your health1and close friends be-. cause they are very'importarit; th~y can, at ieast, al-· ways help you out:.or help. you ·battle back against the tough, cold world:· ·'_ ' · . 
In looking back, I'd have fo: say· that my four years here at Notre Daine were·· tough ·years, and that· they were hard· to cope with, but they also held some· of the greatest moments of niy life~ .There were, at the same time, many good times, and I would surely relive them . if that were possible. But it's ·not, unfortunately. 
So, in closing, what I would like to say to everybody involved in the _Notre Dame family is to enjoy·your life · and count your blessings. For life is short with many disappointments which we must overcome. At this time, I would like to wish the Irish football team of 1_974 good luck in their quest for another National Championship. 


Northwestern-------------­
There was.·~ever any question whether Notre Dame could_ beat· Northwestern in their September 22 meet­ing, despite Northwestern's previous win over Michigan State, .14-10. Actually, the Wildcats handed Notre Dame a big favor, unveiling their game strategies a week b_efore the Irish _opener. There were still questions to· be answered,· though. Besides the obvious one of just how badly the Irish would win, there also was some uncertainty surrounding the young and inexperienced front four. . Freshman Ross Browner joined sopho­mores Jim Stock. and Steve Nieha.'t1s, and junio~ Mike 
Fanning to produce afrontline averagingl9¼ years. . .· Iri . addition, .the•. offerise had not .beeri. able fo OV'er­come .the _last _two iinpressive defensive units•theyfared in the 1972 season. Nor did Tom cienients·have a· firni grip on. the ·starting quarterback. position. 
.. Fortunately, Coach Parseghian _was able to turn alLthe 'unusual characteristics of this di~parate team to his··advantage_·as·_ the Irish easily'.romped ·over·the Wildcats ·by the lopsided score•of 44-o.:·Aftefa· rather uncel1:ai~· first series of 'downs; Ross Browner dispelled au·_ doubts. about his abiliti_es by scoring the first two points ofthe game and. the season, blocking a puntat­tempt by the ,Wildcats' Skarin, which rolled .in and out the·end zone. Thus, the Irishdefense proved to all that_ 'riot only were they prepared to accomplish their job, but th.ey were eager also to iake over some of the 
offensive worries.' . . . .., . . . . . • . . . 
Rori Goodman raced eighteen yards on the ensuing kickoff retum to_. provide the Irish. with. excellent. field· position for 'the riext drive." From the ND 44-yard line, Clements needed "but seven plays, bighlightedby. a fif:. teen-yard pass ·to Dave Casper and· a. sixteen-yard dash by Penick, to·· up' the_score riin~zip.•_All of -this .scoring came in less than three'minutes, setting the tone for the co'nsistent barragewhich followed, -.· . . ·_ . : 
·on tlie other· hand, the Irish defensive fronf line re­peatedly .shifted to a. five-:mari front wall, folding the Wildcat line in half like cardboard .. The Northwestern backfield ·tookturns bouncing 'iround' inside tliis trap, or,, ultimately .came ·. running· through·_ the .only .exifto the waiting linebackers: Greg. Collins seemed. to draw the honors more often than not; he tackled game hon­ors with two'. solos and sixteen assists. Johnny Pont, the new Wildcat coach, said before the game that he 

-. . . . -' . . . . . 
favored a sprint-out, option-style quarterbacking. The Irish ·front four established themselves as a fearsome reckoning force in college football at Johnny's expense, and confirmed ·the report that they also prefer this style .of game._· . . . . . -•·· ­
· With 1:49.left in the first quarter, Clements added to the Irish margin by completing a nine-yard pass to Demmerle, making the score 16-0. \At the onset of the second ·quarter,·__ ·Clements added two_ more.. tallies in rapid succession. Though the first of these drives was 
. . . . . l -. . 

sustained by an offsides penalty, the offense quickly generated its own momentum as Goodman tooka Clem, ents' handoff nine yards for the score. Three minutes later, Clements dived over from. the.one to make it 30-0, Irish;_ _ _ . _ . Not ·10 be outdone, the defense combined on· the next series of downs to completely demolish the North­western· offense and.inadvertently injure their punter, Skarin. After Boothe failed to gain on a first and _ten from their" 32, :Anderson was forced to unload a pre­mature pass, rushed ·by what seemed to be the entire defense. -Potempa and Collins finally got through to Anderson on third down and forced a thirteen-yard loss, part ofthe:reasori whythe Wildcats finished the half with a-net rushing yardage inark of negative eight. ·The punt attempt_ on the· next play was foiled by Sh·erm Smith, who-was subsequently called for roughing -_the kicker; though lie had been pushed from the side by the Northwestern fullback. · 
From the. Irish · 21, Clements took .2: 20 and . nine plays to lead Notre .Dame to the last tally of the first half. · Three passes· to Bullock, Goodman . and ·Casper for a combined .72 yards ignited the drive and helped give _Clements a .750 completion.average (9 of 12)-for 152 aerial yards. The Irish finished the half with a net 279 yards 'in offense compared to. the Northwestern 
total of only n.ine. . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . CHff BroWll took over in the second half, quickly racing 32 yards for another Irish touchdown, but the piay was called back· due to· a clipping penalty. The WHdcat defenseJ1eld on the next play anci,. as· the ball changed hands, seemingly so did some of the momen­tum..The Anderson-Craig team, which had led the Big Ten in aerial completions in the previous season: clicked for 27 clutch yards to keep the Wildcat drive . alive 

down to the Irish nine. Anderson's last pass intended for Craig found its way instead into the arms of wait­ing safety Mike Townsend, giving the Irish safety his first interception of the season and a career total of twelve. 
· Fumbles marred the next series of exchanges, and ended Wildcat hopes of ever seeing the Notre Dame end zone.· From the ND 18, Ross Browner· chased the new · NW quarterback, Girkins, all the· way to the 31, where he . forced a fumble recovered by Jim Stock. Brown found the handle on the ball, passing to Kornman for 36 yards,: where · Diminick · took over on a 21-yard run for the sixth touchdown of. the day, pushing the score to the final mark, 44-0. 
The Irish finished the game with 473 yards in total offense against the Wildcats' 146 yards. The Irish ground attack· amassed 273 yards, while the aerial bar­rage netted 200, a fairly respectable split. The Irish quarterbacking pair completed twelve of seventeen for an, impressive .630;"average, with no· interceptions. Since the sole Northwestern touchdown in the first period of their .1971 clash, the Irish defense has suc­ceeded in blanking the Wildcat offense ·for eleven straight quarters. 
-· 
_;:· .. '..:--,.-:·, 

~~-,.~:t!::~~.,.~..i~ 

NW's Anderson (12) gets the pass away just as Jim · Stock ( 1,8) lowers the boom: 
. . . . 

The victory pushed to eight the number of straight Irish defeats over Northwestern, and drew to ten the number of straight season openers the Irish have taken. · Coach Parseghian ·commented ·after the first·victory of Notre Dame's 85th season, "I was surprised at the size of the score. I thought we would win, but !was con­cerned about our inexperienced defense; and I didn't feelthat we would win by this margin." · ' . ­
Johnny Pont commented on the felicitous solution to one of Ara's preseason problems: ''Their entire of­fensive unit has the speed and balance that win ball · games. I was especially impressed with Tom Clements' . ball handling . . . Their quarterbacks did a beautiful job on their play. action passes." .· . 
Tile. other concern surrounding the inexperience·. of some of the team.also found a happysolution.•Browner made an impressive debut as defensive end with five tackles, one for a loss· of24 yards, in addition to the blocked punt which went for a safety. In all, nine· fresh­men played against Northwestern with defensive end Wihie Fry and halfback-AlHunter joining defensive halfback Luther Bradley in the second half. . 
The victory _moved the Iri.sh up one notch, from eighth to seventh place;" fo: the Associated Press _Poll of the following week. . . ­
--Purdue-------------­
~~p ·-= ·::z;~: ·• :~ 
.j 
' 
ii-.: 
it. n1!;f :t' ' 
. ·.· J;,:4;'rv" ",:;~:~~;;.;:-::,,:,~;ffit;>,'.'. •·,,:~ff1~~8~~"';;,;J~tt{~~ 

Luther Bradlcy,(20) steals from, Bob Herrick (41). 
. . --.. 
Perhaps Alex Agase hoped to find better odds against the ~ighty Irish when· he moved from North:­western to Purdue, but Ara had different ideas. The 
· unfortunate Agase· was winiess in seven outings against the. Irish at Northwestern, and he really didn't seem too interested. in changing that pattern.. In a game m_arred by :fumbles a11d int.erceptions, the Irish man.­aged to cross the goaUine considerably more than the Boilermakers en. route to capturing their second victory of·the season, 20-7. · 
i 
) 

Actually, Ara and Alex have worked closely for many • years, beginning with their years together as coach and assistant at Northwestern. Ara's big favors started in 1964 when he left the head coach position open to. come to du Lac. Since then, he's been teaching Alex all kinds of new mov~s, only, i;iow it's during the game instead of. before, and from the other side of the field. · · , (. , • : . . • . 
Art Best started thingsoff-by. thumbing a wave to the national television audience> Just to show that he merited such spoofs, he proceeded to run 64 yards on the first play of the game, setting . up the first blood of the game, a fifteen-yard field goal· by Bob Thomas. What followed was a rather haphazard exchange .of series. that saw Purdue handle the ball twice as much as the .. Irish on their way . to an 80-yard, seven-play touchdown. 
Characterizing the up-and-down nature of. the Irish play were two brilliant passes by Clements to Demmerle and Goodman, for 13 and 20 yards respectively, and the ensuing losses of 11 and 9 yards on a fumble and sack. The Boilermaker score came when Olympic runner Larry Burton · burned defensive halfback Tim Rudnick for a 53-yard touchdown reception. 
The next three series saw the ball change hands due to costly turnovers, a fumble and an· interception, . be­fore the Irish finally settled down to business. Froni the ND 10, Penickslashed over left end for eight yards, Best crossed right for 10, and Penick repeated for three. Clements went . to the ·air and found . Bullock for 14 yards, followed by an eight-yard· dash by Penick and two quick sprints of_ seven and ntrie, the last for the score, by Best. . 
On this ·drive, the Irish went 53 yards in eight con­sistent plays, averaging better than 6.5 yards per play. With 6:48 left in the first half, the Irish succeeded in capturing the·lead for good at 10-7. 
The second half-began with a pair of fumbles shift­ing the ball from one team to the other and back again. Finally, the Irish put together a scoring drive, sustained by two runs for 26 yards by Clements, and a pass to Demmerle for 13. Bullock got two calls in a row, going 
· · over from the one after breaking for a· 12-yard sprint to make the score 17-7. · Notre Danie was. able to score once more as the reserve backs contributed nicely to the drive. Kornman, Diminick and Hunter helped starters ·Best and Bullock ground out 52 yards before Bob Thomas successfully · booted a 42-yard field goal. Thus the score remained at Notre Dame 20, Purdue 7. The passing of Bo Bobrowski continued to plague 

· Bo Bobrowski. (14) loses his composure and the ball to Ross Browner (89). 
the Irish secondary as Purdue attempted to close· the 
margin to salvage a respectable loss. He completed 
passes of 19, 9, 7, and 6 yards in the final desperation 
seconds before his final pass . was intercepted. by Rud~ 
nick. .He threw a total of 26 times during the contest, 
connecting on eleven for 153 yards with two intercep­
tions. On the other hand, Notre Dame stayed pre­
dominantly. on the ground during the second half and 
came away with only 91 game yards in the air. The 
Irish thoroughly outrushed their opponents, though, 
290 yards to 33, as Best ran away with game honors of 
125 yards in sixteen attempts. The starting Irish back­
field combined· for 258 yards rushing. . 
The fumbles and interceptions, two lost and two 

stolen respectively for the Irish, proved to· be costly 
indications of offensive nervousness and slippery· fingers. 
Bullock's fumble came on the Purdue goal line after an 
18-yard run that seemed to set up the Trish's second 
•tally. The other fumble came after a Clements' run of 15 yards to the Purdue 35. . . ·" After the half, the Irish contented ·themselves with little aerial exposure and more time-consuming ground 
. work. The Irish controlled the ball for more than 18 · minutes; and ran 10 more· plays than the Boilermakers. 
After the game Parseghian commented: "It was a game we had to play; we were playing away from home;· we had to run the football, and we h·ad to conie from behind: Those are young kids we've got here, and this is a young ball club_ . . . And we got hooked 
FEBRUARY l,· 1974 
up in a real donnybrook today." 
Agase still hasn't learned realistic analysis from his former mentor, though, and his reflections on the game carried a slightly different tone: "Our defense was superb Saturday against Notre Dame and our of­fense was better but still not consistent. We were win­ners Saturday even though the scoreboard didn't show it. From here on we've got a chance to be winners on the field and on the scoreboard and that's our goal. 
"We know we can play with anybody now and that's the lesson we learned from that loss to Notre Dame." Some people just never learn. 
It seemed as if the football writers tended towards Agase's remarks, or perhaps were more impressed by the victories of Ohio State, Alabama, Michigan and Penn State. Notre Dame slipped a notch in the AP Poll to 8th place, while the UPI Poll had the Irish ninth. 
Actually, the young Notre Dame squad managed to top the Boilermakers by the largest margin since 1955 when Terry Brennan's team punched out a 22-0 win at Ross-Ade Stadium. Agase did single out two of the Irish starters for praise, both Luther Bradley, who broke up two passes and intercepted a third, and Ros·s Browner, who pulled down five tackles,· impressed the Boilermaker coach. "Browner and Bradley are two of the quickest players I've seen Notre Dame have in· a long time." 
Keep looking, Alex; they're only freshmen. 

The Stadium 
Allof this 
for 

15 hours· a year? 
,To put on a football game in Notre Dame stadium, it takes a lot more than just two teams. and 59,000 fans. It also takes a bucket of grease, 10 gallons .of paint, _900 gallons .of coffee, .. 1900 cases of Coke, 20,000 pounds · of ice,. 22,000 hot dogs, 25,000 souvenirs and hundreds of man-hours by the stadium crew, ushers, concession stand. workei:s, souvenir_ vendors,. ·and _other Notre Dame personnel. ·_ · -· 
Long before you even take your seat in the stadium; many . people have bee_n: at work preparing for your short three-hour stay~. At 6:45 in the morning, head usher ·Andy McKim; a compact bu(rugged:Scotchman with a• brogue as thick as honey, opens the stadium arid begins the day;. Soon ~fter, the first. assignments of gatemeri -and _ushers ~arrive.· Some arrive every :hour until noon·when the last of the regular ushers are· due. ­The gates operi to the public then,· about an hour and a half ·before kickoff. -Andy -first -started as• ari usher· in . ·1952 •-arid becaJrie head · usher -( or_ Director-_-of Sfaditiin · Personnel) three years ago. All his helpers are volun~ _teer:s.. Some are paid a pittance for coming early; but generally they ·an get to see the game "in, retuni"ior their services. Andy feels that the ushers gef a lot of abuse because· few people realize they are volunteers. When he was ~n ,usher he sometimes "felt like punching some people in .the nose. . . ~--I. tell· my . men· to · be courteous and firm, they never know who they. ~ay be__ hassling with." When a disorderly patron "is repri­manded for.his behavior he.then abuses· the usher for
it." . . . . . . . . 
. The ushers' biggest problems are-the students and. the drunks.-· "They'll do anything," __ the Scotchman _ laughed. The-drunks. bother Andy. tile most.. "i-think everyone can.have·a good time without going that far." -­
. Every section has ·a Junior arid Senior Captairi who wear white ~ats. Every four_sections.have a supervisor who wears a gold hat. The head gatemeri wear-white hats. All ushers are given a. brochure explaining 30 different special instructions and regulations. To make 

sure they know these rules, the brochure must be pre­sented at every game_ as an identification card for ad­mittance. 
Andy McKim spends his spare time iri the few months before the season recruiting new volunteers to fill. vacancies. He still has a-few ushers who have been at the stadium almost the full 43 years~ -_. . . ­. The next crew to arrive _in the morning is the field crew. These. people work full tiine for the Athletic De­partment as -maintenance personnel: _During football season they. take -care of the stadium· as well as all athletic fields of the University. On footbaHSaturdays, however, they are all at the stadium. . 
At 8 in the morning the plastic field cover has to be removed. In· theory the tarp goes down only if there is a threat of rain; but, because we are.in rain-soaked South Bend; it goes down before nearly-every game. It 
. -,. I . . . .. . .-. . 

takes at least twenty men to ·l;lut the tarp. down the day before the game and to roll'it back up the day of the game.·_ ' _ _ . -(.\ .. _. ·. ·_ ~-_ _ _ 
If. it does rain and it's cold and wet Saturday morn-_ ing, ·_ there is a lot. of. grumbling when the tarp has to ­be taken up; even more so when it snows. At one time the .tarps were made of canvas, much .heavier than the plastic now.: used. When it gote'wef there must have beeri a lot of cursing and swearing before the last tarp · was rolled off the field. . . 
When _the tarp is :removed, the field is just about ready to go, having· been iined before the tarp. went:. down. It takes four men two days of work to line the field: Frank Hagye, who has been' with the ·stadium crew since 1::J66, runs the machine that paints the yard ­lines. Rudy. Salinas and Owen Reynolds paint the yard-line numbers _with big cardboard stencils ,and a pump spray' painter that looks like a· fire extinguisher; 
-Hal Benninghoff, the maintenancesupervisor, takes re--· sponsibility for painting the leprechauns. He· uses . a specially mixed water-base paint and a huge plywood stencil to create the.i'Fightingirishman._" Crew.foreman Glenn Moore.usually has·Reyriolds-or Tiin-Vann'grease·· the. goalpost legs. "That's to _make si.ire no one· can. climb up :cm them," :Moore:explains, Somebociy·forgot to tell the students that after~ the Southern Cal game: . 
. As soori.~s the field is. ready ·and thihenche~,~~e i~ order along the sidelines, all the gate barriers ·and rail~ irigs have _-to-be installed'. _The bathrooms have ·to be ­checked. Every orie of the bathrooiris'is swept/mopped and sanitized ·thoroughly before Saturday, but they are in"spected __again to make sure everything is_ just 'right. .; _The concrete gate _pads are swept ·again and the con­course_ inspected to make sure all 'the ·ciebrisleft:'by,the .. fans from _the last.game has .been raked up._ •The· press 
---box is put in. order so the press· _can cover; the ·games with. a minimum· of 'dis'comfort. 'and inconvenience:~ ·. ' 
. The biggest pr~bleni this: year :has b~erijhe fi~ld grass. ~A.fungus was kiHing the grass, making th~ field brown llnd sp~tty. ut spray for-"7-different fungi;;, Benhinghoff said, "this one was one·of.ihe ones I didn't · spray for.'' The fungus. was_ detected early befor~ th_e season_ but the prescribed treatmentfailed to.retard-the effects~ The field .. will be;completely reseeded for-next season. ''Hopefuily, we'll have awhole new fieici of grass," Benningh~ff said, his f~ce showing the dis~p­
-. . .. 
.• -_THE _SCHOLJ\.S'1'.iC. 

pointment he felt because of the bad grass. _The worst Several high school students help Carl with his effect was that two home games were televised nation-. stand. Carl comes in a little after 8 a.m. and sets up ally and each time· the announcers commented about for. the game. The kids come around 9:30 to start -the poor condition of the field. -cooking the hot dogs. One of his workers, Rene, a St. 
The next operation to get started on a football Satur-Joseph High School student,· likes working the games day is the concession st!}nds. Dean Winter, 30-year-old because she meets a lot of people. She admitted that she head of the Notre Dame Vending Service, is in charge . gets a "little flustered" when lots of people are at the of concessions for the football games. "It takes 24 . window asking for food or drinks. · hours prior to the game for me to get everything ready The other place you spend your money is for souve­to go so that Saturday morning all the concession stand nirs. William G. Neubold of Chicago has been selling operators can walk in here and pick up their supplies."· souvenirs at Notre Dame since before the stadium was Dapper Dean, as one.. young female worker called him, . built. "I opened the stadium 43 years ago and I'm still enjoys working the football games. "I really enjoy here." He's a gruff old man of 82 years but he is still watching all the crazy' people at the game.". going strong. "If I didn't work I'd die," he says. He 
''We do most of our business in 45 minutes; before and his wife celebrated their 60th wedding anniversary 
the game, af halftime, and after the game." Winter this year. explains, "We have sold as much as 66,000 cans of. pop "We're the top-selling concessionaires in the nation," at one game when itwas hot. On drizzly, cold and wet he explained. "We're the only ones left who still sell a 
· days we can sell as many as 15,000 cups of coffee or pennant for a dollar." His company, WGN Flag co., is -· about 900 gallons." The coffee is brewed 100 gallons at "The largest U.S. flag maker. ·Our flags are on the a .time in huge stainless steel containers. -Joe Siuda has. · moon." 
beendoing this for 23 years. "I've never missed a game," He spends the whole year getting ready for the foot-
he announces with a smile. 
ball games: He goes to Tokyo to buy dolls and HongThere are 28 stands, 21 in the stadium and 7 out­
side.; The stands are·_-s_u__ pervised by· members of the -Kong to buy inflatable football player balloons;. They 
have 25,000 items to sell at the game. "You don't know Notre< Dame administration. : For example, Assistant 
what the public is going to buy," he says.· "If I knew'_· · Arts & Letters Dean Robert Waddick is a supervisor. ; how to get ready, I'd be a wizard." Atthe' Air Force 
Winter explained that the stands work on a 15% game he expected to sell hats;·instead it warmed up andfranchise. The University Food Service supplies ·the ­
food and the stands sell it. C'We don't have much turn-he could have sold paper sun visors but he didn't have 
over in the stand owners/' .Winter noted, :"because any. . · · 
most of them are family-operated, Some families have ,_· His souvenir operation is like the concession•'stands, beeri· here 20 to 30 years. One man, Carl Cavanaugh, a fainily affair.. His son and. daughter help with dis­tribu_ting the merchandis~ to. the vendors and collecting
had . been here . since 1930, but he had to· retire last · 
year." --the money afterward. __ Except·· for · two ·workers, .. Mr. One. family owner is Carl Knisley. His stand is sit-and Mrs. Justin, they handle everything in.their office uated right inside Gate 10: He first operated. a stand-near Gate 9. Nothing gets away from them. Even their in 1945. His wife and son both operate their own stands granddaughter, Sue, helps by ass1:mbling some c:if the i1ow. "I like it," he explains. "lt isn't as if I needed the souvenirs during the summer. ­money." . . --The hard . part-comes next -cleanup.-._. Sunday Carltakes especially good care of his stand. "I make morning at 8 a.m., 25 men and 25 _brooms attack. the sure my .counters are. dry and clean. If it can't be carpet of paper, cans, bottles and food left behind by_ . cleanedTwon't work." . the 59,000fans'. For 4 hours thecl~nging and banging Carl -usually sells about· 1300 to 1400 hot dogs a of cans and bottles and the swishing. and scratching of game. He. cooks them· 80 at a time in a special steam brooms and rakes and an occasional cry of joy~ when process. j'If you boil them/they're no good. There's a a sweeper unearths an unopened can of pop or beer (or 
grate above _the water to hold the hot dogs. We· don't if he's lucky, a full bottle of booze), dominate the let them touch the _water." In hot weather he can sell . sounds of -the stadium. · 75to 80 cases ofsoda pop. arid in.cold weather up to 60 -They sweep down the rows and into the aisles then 
gallons of coffee. · · · · the debris is pushed to the bottom in piles. Along come Many· of Carl's customers k'now him by name: H~ is the flyers to pick up the piles behind them. The con-located in a· seasonticket area. "In all my years, rve · course is raked and the bathrooms and the press box only had trouble with. ;fpeople.": ms sori Tcim, whose . get a good sweeping. The flyers, trash wagons pulled stand is only 25 yards away from Carl's, told about "one by a tractor, are pulled outside to be emptied. By noon, 
customer· (who) alwayspours·me a drink. He's cov-nearly 50 cubic yards of trash have been gathered ered .with -souvenirs from 'every opponent ND plays. from the stadium. . He's known me since_Lwas'a kid and--:worked inmy •.. -_-Now the stadium is clean and if you didn't know al­
-father's stand. He gives :me a .$5 tip every game; • r,_eady, you would neverguess a football game ever took probably a Notre Dame alumnus." -place. It takes all this to put on a football game at 
Tolri has his own ~on ''Boots," who is only. 5 years Notre Dame. Two teams and 59,000 fans are only a old, working in the ·stand. ''He begs to come out: He's a. small partof the action. character. He can't count change, but he'll take_ the money." 
_-paul colgan 

FEBRUARY 1,''.1974 




----.Michigan State--------­

"The best people don't always .win football games," 
commented Michigan State head coach Denny Stolz 
before the _39th resumption of the classic Michigan 
State-Notre Dame gridiron battle. ·"The best-prepared 
people win football games." _ 
-Thus Stolz expressed his idea of a game many were 
calling a mismatch; even the Spartans' sports informa­
tion . director Fred Stabley admitted, "State's record is 
an unimpressive 1-2, versus the Irish's 2-0, and the 
general feeling is that MSU is overmatched.i' . -. 
. The new Spartan head coach had other ideas, though, 
like repeating the upset. of 1968; in ·which an underdog 
State team nipped the Irish Jed by Terry Hanratty by 
a 21-17 courit. Though Stolz was' new, he wasn't green. 
H~_knew that the opponents of Notre Dame could rise 
to_ unexpected heights in attempting to defeat one_ of_ 
the most prestigious football prizes in the country: -He 
also knew, though, ·that·the Irish defense had limited 
its .first two opponents of the year to a mere 96 total 
yards by ground; which was State's choice method of 
attack. · , 
-Nonetheless, Stolz's ma_in concern was coming to Notre Dame prepared. Much to the chagrin and appre­hension of Notre·Dame fans, he proved just how pre­pared his team was as the Spartans capitalized · on . several key Irish. turnovers to scare Notre .Dame to . a close 14-10 victory. ·After the game, coach Parseghian pointed out that thanks ·to our fine defense, Michigan 
-Best, Pennick_ 
and Bullock, 
at rest ••• 

State's offense has not been abi~ to cross the goal line once in the past four years. {unfortunately, their de­fense did an impressive double,_ showing by preventing Irish points and adding some"of their own. 
The first quarter proved to be indecisive as the Irish were unable to sustain a drive once inside the Spartan 
40. This forced Bob Thomas to attempt field. goals of 49 and 52 yards, both of whichfell short. Though State was unable· to gain even one first down in-this initial quarter, they _did have plenty of golden opportunities, as. one Clements interception ·and one Bullock fumble, the latter coming at the ND 20, could have given the Spartans the needed momentum. 
The Irish finally awoke after a missed Spartan field goal attempt at the beginning of the second quarter, and drove 80 yards in 13 consistent plays, •using· up 5:44­of the clock. · The drive saw Penick break around left for 16 :yards and Clements fake and run for. another 
19. Clements directed the scoring march entirely on the ground, all four of the ND backs'carrying the ball, with Bullock going over from the one.with nine minutes left in .the quarter.: 
·:After the Spartans· were _unable to-move_ the ball past their own 40-yard line, Clements went to the air for two important ground gainers and -the final Irish.tally of the game. First, he hit Casper on a screen, good -for 30 yards before Taubert and Sympson caught him. Two plays later, Clements found his split-end Pete Demmerle 


.. , in action with Clements' hand-off. 

open at the ten: Demmerle evaded' one would-be tackler arid went in all alone for the score at 4:09. This ex­plosive drive covered 63 yards in four plays, and it looked like the Irish might be coming to life at last. : 
With less than a minute to play in the first half, though, Clements was decked solidly and replaced by Cliff Brown. The shake-up later got the.blame for a crucial and damaging interception early in the · second ­half. However; the first half ended with a missed 55­yard field goal attempt by Bob Thomas. The Irish had thoroughly outplayed the _Spartans, outgaining them 266 yards to 49. With -the score at 14-0 and with the momentum clearly on· the side of the blue and gold, there seemed to be no way the hapless Spartans could capitalize on how prepared they really were. · 
-But then, after State had surrendered the ball on · their first series of downs in the' third quarter, Bob Zanot fumbled the punt return and Moore recovered, placing State on the 18-yard line of the Irish. The ND defense -battled heroically, dropping Baggett and the Spartans·for a loss. But the field position was perfect, and at 8:59, the Spartans' Dirk Kryt split the posts to diminish theTrish lead to 14-3. Both teams settled down to back-and-forth football until five series later, when a Clements aerial was intercepted by the Spartanline'­backer Ray, Nester, who ran it back thirty yards for the touchdown. With 13:56 to play in-the. game, the score stood at 14-10, and the Irish were faced with an eager Spartan team which, at the moment, had all the momentum. 
When State regained control of the ball four plays later, Baggett lost no time in ~eading for the Irish goa.l line. He contributed a run of -20 for a first down on the Michigan State 36, then threw the bomb to 'Fortney for 40 yards before Rudnick dropped him at the ND 24. 
FEBRUARY 1, 1974 
The situation looked grave -until Mike Townsend collected his second interception of the season on the ND 16, picked up three crucial blocks and 47 yards to the MSU 37. -­
Two first downs later on the MSU 13, Clements and Bullock . crossed signals 'on a handoff which . bounced for a· fumble into· the hands of Michigan State's Mike Duda, thus denying the Irish security points in the first 'opportunity. -Seven ·plays ·1ater, _when· Notre· Dame was forced to punt from the MSU 47, the State safety Simp­son fumbled the' ball; quickly recovered by ND's Steve Sylvester on the Mi_chigan State 13-yard line. For the second time, the Irish were unable· to · capitalize; -and the ball went over to State on downs on the MSU 15­yard line. 
_ The last play of the game, a Baggett desperation pass, found its way to safety Tim Rudnick who returned it again to that infamous MSU ·13 ·as time ran out, leaving the score 14-10. 
jjOur offense, particularly ·in• the second half, did not execute up to our normal standards," explained Ara after the game. "Our offensive:mistakes not only kept us from scoring but gave them all of their 10 points as 
well. · 
"We won," he. added, "and that's the important thing. We lose sight of the fact that we did win. It's real tragedy that people come into the locker room with their heads down as if we had lost the ball game. We're going to make mistakes, but we're also going to improve and you have to keep things in mind."_ . _ 
The pollsters seemed to have all things in mind when they listed Notre Dame precariously holding onto ninth place, just one vote in each poll above tenth~place Louisiana State. · ­
Bob Thomas' two-point after conversions of the day gave him sole possession of sixth place in NCAA com­petition records for consecutive PAT's, raising his total to 53 straight. 

------------Rice-----­
. · Rice coach Al. Conover's _pregame" preparations seemed to . center around everything•• except football prior to the October 13 Irish-Owi' meeting, Conover in­vited every Catholic priest in the diocese to back up the team on the field. He<sent 17 ''cocaptains," all the Catholics on the team, for the opening toss·of the coin, and started a freshman quarterback (his only Catholic . quarterback). He also spent a great deal of time terror-· izing. his Owls into believing that the Irish were all · superhumans, hoping to prod a David-and-Goliath per­formance from his lagging squad. 
The Rice Owls might have come into the game look­ing for a mythical rise to triumph, but they weren't · thinking about the basics· of football until the Irish showed them· the fundamentals of scoring.. Taxed but unruffled by Con over's antics, the Irish managed. to re­cover from the sloppy baHof the previous week to stage a 28~0 thrashing of the hapless Owls. •· . · · . . . 
. At first, it looked as if the Irish offense had.. not learned its lesson from the Michigan State game. Twice in a row .the Irish fumbled the ball in Rice territory stopping otherwise impressive ·drives. While the Fight­ing Irish were trying to align their attack,. the, Owls were· pulling double _reyerses and the Hke with similar unsuccessful results. Finally, after a _Bullock midfield fumble, the. Owls' quarterback Kramer returned the Ja­vor, bobbling the. ball away .to ND's defensive end Jim Stock on a keeper. This seemed to be the needed impetus for the Irish offense, which drove 51 yards in nine plays, Bullock going over ifrom the one .for, the score with 
. 2:02 remaining iri the first quarter. . . . .. 
-. After a Clements pass intended for Demmerle was broken up by .thitOwls' Henley; Clements . stuck to the .. ground for the duration of this·scoring drive, collecting 25 yards on two runs himself, and caliing on fullback Wayne Bullock five times for 16 important yards._ 
. . . The second quarter began with .the, first of a series ·of calls that would continue to thwart Irish drives in.the next, two quarte~s. On Bob Zanot's lo-yard punt return, 

Notre Dame was assessed 15 yards for clipping, putting 
them back on their own 35-yard line instead of at mid~ 
field. Then, a Penick first-down run was erased by a 
holding penalty, sending the Irish back to their 22. A 
fine Clements bootleg of 15 yards was not enough to 
make up the deficit, tllough, \and' Brian Doherty was 
forced to punt for the first time in the game. . . 
After the ND defense shut off the Owls, the Irish 

drive was again hindered by~penalties, this time 20 
yards' worth. Rice received a· 15-yard conduct penalty 
• to offset losses, though, and with 6:32 remaining in the half, Clements found tight end Dave Casper all alone at the goal line for a 21-yar~, touchdown pass. 

'.t 
q 


Cliff Brown took control for the next set of downs and met the same kind of treatment. Ori an incomplete pass attempt to Townsend, Notre Dame was penalized 18 yards, a disadvantage they could not overcome. As the ball changed hands, Rice's Kramer took to the air and · scared the Irish fans .with completions of 13 and 33 .yards, both to his end Collins. However, ND's Reggie Barnett put a quick erid to that threat when on the ND 9, he stole a Kramer pass intended for Collins, setting up a drive which ended just before the end of the half with a missed 30-yard field goal attempt by Bob Thomas. 
-. · : During the first half; the Irish offense managed to grind otit. 271 yards in 44 plays but their substantiai gains were. offset. by more than 70 yards in penalties. The wet and humid conditions made for poor . ball handling as each team Jost fumbles, and the Irish stole one interception.'. 
·· The second half began in-fine form with the Fighting Irish , marching 81 yards, beginning with· a sharp 39­yard kick~off return by. GarY, Diminick. , Art Besf added· a scamper:of 31 yards,· breaking two tackles and setting up a Bullock blast -from "the one over left end for the score.,: After only two and one~hal.f 'minutes of play·in 
._ the second half, the score became 2i~o,-Notre Dame. ··::·The_ Notre Dame .defense shined in the seco·nd half, limiting the Owls to ~nly three first-downs, limiting six · Owl drives :to .four. plays each. --The ·front four forced ·_losses of 13 yards on two consecutive series, and stopped 
the Owls for no gain on two more. The defense allowed the Owls only 44 yards through the air for the entire second half, and destroyed the Rice running game for a negative 14 yards, leaving the Owls with a net 30 yards in total offense for the second half; Irish linebackers Greg Collins and Gary Potempa combined for fourteen tackles, and the front four got to the quarterback four times, thrice in the second half for negative 40 yards. 
The final Irish tally of the· game came with Cliff Brown at the helm, running and. passing in· four of seven plays for 59 yards, including a 38-yard keeper for the score with 1:23 remaining in the game. Junior Al Samuels also excelled, carrying the ball for ·15 yards and snaring one Cliff Brown pass for 10 yards. · 
From final statistics, there was no doubt that Notre Dame had thoroughly dominated Rice, both on the scoreboard and on the field. The Irish ran and threw for 536 yards, with Clements · netting 99 ya.rds on the ground and• 92 · yards· in the air, ·and Brown adding 55 · and 38 ·. yards, respectively;·, The Irish were ·,hurt by eight penalties. for, 103· yards. i The Owls, on the other hand,: were limited -to only -142 ·nef yards• offensively, with only 63 gained on the ground/.,:,, .· ·: • .· Pfacekicker Bob· Thomas moved·.into second place on the·. NCAAc·consecutive PAT record book with his four successful conversions·,, at Houston, · and ·Brian Doherty took ·over. first place in Notre Dame total ptint­ing·~yardage records with 4,715,· surpassing Bob -Wil­liams' 1950 record of 4,606 yards. ': ·' ,-, 


l 


Four Years ·Later 
Though he iwczs asked to switch to tight end in the spring, team captain Dave Casper did well enough at · his new position to earn the Hering Award as the Out­standing Offensive Lineman. There, his duties· were 

··primarily ·blocking, but he also turned. in a fine job as a receiver, including his three catches for 75 yard.~ · in the Sugar Bowl. · . 
. Last year, Dave was named to .the Academic All­America team. This year, he made first team on the UPI, Football Writers, Kodak and Walter Camp All­America Teams in addition· to second team in the As­sociated Press All-America Team. 
After three and a half years·at Notre Dame, I would like to express to you just a few of my own thoughts about Notre Dame as a student and as a member of the football team during this time; _When you first arrive, graduation seems so very distant but it . comes so quickly.. 
My class of freshmen came to Notre Dame on Sep­tember 5, 1970, just in time.to get a glimpse at a Notre Dame scrimmage.. We intently watched Walt Patulski, Mike Kadishand what seemed.to be an endless supply of monsters go through what we knew was -waiting for us. · The team seemed so very big and the coaches seemed so very mean .. If it was not for the fact that our mothers and fathers had come with .us, half of the class may have. gone home that first day. I remember asking-myself why I didn't just go to some reputable 
·school as a student; forget football-it seemed so im­possible that·r would ever play and·it seemed inevitable that I would suffer such bodily harm that my mother wouldn't recognize me when I finally came home. All but the bravest, and the injured, lived from day to day wondering when. we would first "prep" for the varsity. So many stories floated around the crowded freshman lockers about the <'cheap shots" reserved for this new crop. All of the frustration of the previous freshmen years would be doled. out to us unmercifully.. 
When that day finally came and passed,· we lay in our beds wondering what.was in store for ustomorrow; We found out after a couple of weeks that good football technique -was to duck as often as possible and never try • to block the varsity ballplayers too hard. Each of us prayed that the men .we were over had·. a. good game the week before and heaven forbid that we should have to play -over a second team man who had been first team the previous week. 

---Dave Casper 

Life at Notre Dame has changed· since those old days. Graduation which was once so very far away has become so imminent. Notre Dame has changed also. In my first three years I experienced a very close-knit community. People· were alldwed not only to learn in the classrooms but also to lekrn from .the experiences of interacting with their friends. Of course those were the days of the "section parties,'! where hallmates could come together in a semiprivate atmosphere and loosen up from the previous week's pressures. The section took the place of what other universities ~call fraternities. There was a bond within the section and at the center of that bond there were the old section parties. 
Progress has hit Notre Dame and the outdated "sec­

. tion party" is being pushed aside in· lieu of more mean­ingful types of participation. Parties must now be expertly planned and the rector (or I suppose some worthy surrogate) must be the guest of honor. Par­ties that are self-contained (I think that means within one room) are alright as long as you accurately predict attendance and noise levels and do not venture into the hall with a loaded glass.of alcohol. · 
Discipline at Notre Dame has also improved, or at least the effects of discipline-suspensions, probations etc. (mostly suspensions if you ask me). It is my own unscientific observation that . the average student . is afraid· to do something wrong for fear that even what seemed-to be the least act of disobedience may be blown up to a suspendable offense, Perhap~ this seems to be an. exaggeration; but ·· to many students, the idea is indeed real. · · 
The net effect of the progress at Notre Dame has been to· increase the profit margins ·of such places as the Club "C" and the Library (not the memorial one). Even the best of students may awake in the morning with a slightly stiff neck from gazing over his shoulder, and the more nervous student must be careful not to get whiplash. 
At this time I would like to sincerely thank Mr. Ara Parseghian for providing me with a close-knit group to replace the one I seem to have lost. And indeed that is the center of the success of the 1973 Fighting Irish football team. 
It was last spring when the change began; the players were closer to each other and there was a hint that the coaches might· become closer to the players~ Of course there were the usual disagreements over hafr length and such; but this has been around as long as Willie Townsend. Perhaps it was·because we knew we must make amends for the Orange Bowl; I don't really know why but throughout the spring this new phenom­
-enon could be felt. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
' 

We arrived on campus the 26th and 27th of August. Double practices were in front of us-,-not a pleasant thought. Doubles. is _more than two two-hour practices. It is also two one and a half-hour meetings; three meals with almost real food; and the 95 degree + tempera­tures. Up at 6:30 AM and to bed at 10:30 PM. The one thing that keeps you going is the honest belief that at some distant date doubles will end. They did, and finally so did those terrible scrimmages which were much worse to participate in than to watch. Maturity had dispersed the fear that we felt when watching our scrimmages as · freshmen. And there were no more freshmen to watch us because they were playing along­side of us. I for one am glad that I didn't have to scrim­mage when I was a frosh. 
In just less thrui one month the prefall period was over and Northwestern was here. I hoped and prayed for .a good game and''with good reason; this was my last charice. At pregame meal, Ara notified us of Texas' upset loss at the hands of Miami. Coach is always warn­ing us about these things and perhaps this warning helped. We won 44-0. The next two games were lack­
_luster victories, but victories _they were. Our young · offensive line was not to come around until the fourth game where we ran over . Rice for 576 total· yards. After a poor first quarter against Army (we were losing 3-0) we played a -decent game and won 63-3. After the game there were no triumphant cheers; only 
· "beat S.C." 
That we did. Our young offensive line was now a veteran one. Our defense was as good as ever. The season ·was played out in good Notre Dame fashion. All that was ahead was the Sugar Bowl. That game was witnessed by all and needs no summaries. What was not witnessed were those lonely. days practicing in the Convo and the nights spent in the Morris Inn. There was little to break the monotony except to go to the Library for a quick one. (Corby's was closed.) The work paid off .. Some of us knew that it would all along; others were fighting off thoughts ·of 40-6. But \\_'e all knew that we niust give it.our best shot-we only had one. 
What makes a season like this? Unity? This is a 

-part.· Also having two outstanding freshmen is another part. Three men . who played a great role were Mark Brenneman, Steve · Neece and Steve Sylvester~ Mark came back after a year,and a half from a broken back to lead the offensive line.-Steve Neece fought through a knee operation:· a dislocated ankle, a dismal year on the prep team; and even a "bullet hole" (gouged in· his head by his helmet) to play great ball. Steve Sylvester fought a different problem. He had his position all sewed up but refused·to believe it and worked as·hard as any of the others who were fighting to keep theirs. Dedication like this is indispensable. Michael "Duke" Fanning stuck with it a~ter. ·a half year on the prep team, to solidify a defensive line that was nonexistent the previous year. Greg Collins came off of a broken wrist, Gary Potempa stepped in after playing behind Jim O'Malley for two years, George Hayduk, in a situa­tion where most players would have quit, · replaced Steve Niehaus with no loss to the defense. 
There's much more-:--the great play and hustle of Frank Pomarico who came off of torn ligaments in his ankle in an unbelievable seven weeks. Gerard DiNardo played great. Peter Demmerle's great year, not only as a receiver but as a blocker, proved to all that the pre­vious year's fear about his speed was indeed wrong. Perhaps his dedication, great hands, and moves and his tenacity were overlooked. I'm certain that our second­

ary was the best it has ever.been; and that the offensive backfield were perhaps the best group since the Four Horsemen; They not only ran but they blocked well. I will just mention Tom Clements because words do not express his talents_ and leadership. And -of .course. the coaches enter the picture. Here again. I cannot accu~ rately express the significance of a coach who instills emotions into his players along with the fundamentals. 
After all is said, it is impossible to pick out one man or one thing that makes a great team, nor can you reme_mber every one of them. I guess all that may be said is after my four years of football-We're No. 1.· 
i" 

-------------Arm,y-.-­
The first time Notre Dame ever played Army back in 1913, Gus Dorais and Knute Rockne shocked the ca­dets and the rest of the football world with the forward pass, rocking the Cadets for a 35-13 victory. This year things were a bit different as the Irish ran circles around the Cadets for six of their eight touchdowns; en route to a 62-3 whitewashing. It was. the first time that Notre Dame played in Michie Stadium, and they seemed to acclimate.themselves very well to the new terrain; sprinting for . 485 rushing. yards compared to an Army tota~ of 10. 
Memories of the great and .unbeatable Army teams 
of the War Years survived only during the first quarter 
as the Cadets capitalized on a quick Clements inter­
ception, catching the napping Irish for three.· The pre­
ceding. series had · been tentative at best, with Notre 
Dame looking uncertain and new against an eager and 
determined Army squad. 

With a minute and twenty seconds left in the quar­ter, though, the Irish c;ame oµt and began the first of their eight unanswered scoring drives. Since it wasn't until 13:02 of the .second quarter that Eric Penick tallied for the Irish, Armydominated the first quarter, ·at least in the books./But runs of 21 yards by Penick, 11 yards by · Best and 19 yards by Clements set the 
tempo for the rest of the game. 



QB Frank Allocco (12) leads the way for leaping back 
•Al Hunnter (25. · 
Four Cadet plays later, Clements proved himself a 

proud · descendent of the Dorais-Rockne tradition by 
nestling the ball in the arms of Dave Casper for a 34­
yard' touchdown toss. Less than five minutes later, Art 
Best capped a 59-yard march by.racing around right. 
end for 5 yards and the third ND tally of the day. Not 
to·· be ·. out-performed by their. counterparts, the ·Irish · 
defense put on a little display of its own, dumping the 
Army quarterback Fink for 16 yards on the next series. 
Cliff Brown·took control for. the next.march, prov­

ing that he too can throw the ball, once for 18 yards to. 
Dave.Casper, once for 15 to Willie Townsend, and again 
to Casper for three and the score with· eleven seconds 
remaining. in the . half. ·. Incredibly, the Irish•· had • one 
more opportunityto score in the half when Ross Brown­
er recovered the · fumbled kick-off return by Army's 
Ramsberger. However, Bob Thomas' . 35-yard attempt 
went wide, and ·the Irish retired to the locker room 
holding·a 28-3 advantage ..­
. The Irish stayed on the ground for the entire.second half, but this didn't inhibit their scoring; five more . touchdowns, incluqing a nifty ·73-yard punt return by freshman· Tim Simon;. One of the quickest drives began the third quarter, when a nine-yard run by Wayne Bul­lock, a 30-yard scamper by Clements, a 10-yard dash by · Best and the six-yard capper by Penick took only:58 
seconds. · -·.. · · 
' THE . SCHOLASTIC 
. ,. 


;;, 
..e:, 

'J"t; 
!~
~. 
; . ·~ .._i 

Tim Rudnick (7) ;tra.ins to block a Barklay field goal attempt. ­
·Not'to be· outdone, the reserves came in and showed they were up to the challenge. After Bob Zanot grabbed a Witheril pass intended for Ward, Cliff Brown pitched to Samuels for 14 and repeated to Hunter for 22 yards and the sixth Irish tally ofthe day. Unfortunately, Bob Thomas missed the PAT, ending his consecutive streak at 62 conversions, good enough for second place on the all~time NCAA conversion records. 
-After third-string quarterback Frank Allocco had directed the Irish through a 42-yard, six-play drive to make the score 48-3; the Cadets mm.i.nted their first real threat of the day. The Army quarterback Fink con­nected with his tight end Ward for 24 yards, simul­taneously with a Notre Dame face mask penalty, which gave the Cadets first and 10 on the Notre Dame 35­yard line. The Irish -defense; minus the injured Steve Niehaus, still showed · tremendous power, · pushing Army back 10 yards before the fourth-and-20 punt. 
Simon's return capped the scoring and the game, as the Irish found themselves on top of the widest margin · for a Notre Dame victory ov_er Army. The score equalled-, the largest bulge recorded in Army's favor, a ·59~0 thrashing of the Irish back in 1944. -If' these records weren't enough, this· 41st -resumption· of the classic 
FEBRUAR~ 1, i974 
Notre Dame-Army gridiron·· struggle managed to at­tract: a· new record attendance of 42,503 af· Michie Stadium. · 
· Barclay's field goal, which followed Bob-Johnson's interception of · a pass by Tom Clements .and which represented the only_ Army scoring of the afternoon, marked the first time this season the Irish had been scorerl on in the first quarter. 
"After Army scored their field goal in the first quarter, our ensuing drive was probably our best drive of the ball game," · commented a happy Ara. "It was unfortunate for Army the way we scored; They kept giving tis excellent field position and we capitalized on their turnovers. Army was trying to get back in the game in the second half and· as a result, they had to gamble. That can backfire. By the end of the game we weren)t running anything except straight ahead plays."· 
"Notre Dame is Notre Dame," is all the disappointed _ Coach Tom Cahill of Army could say afterthe game. At this point, the Irish knew what' that meant, Army knew it, :and the rest of the football world was soon to find out. 

------------Southern. California 
"I just remember breaking free," said Eric Penick 
above the tumult and shouting that was the· Notre 
Dame lo~ker room, "I can't remember anything else." 
Penick's memory lapse is understandable, as he was 
busy out-racing several Trojan defenders to an eighty­
five-yard touchdown that sent the Irish winging to a 
23-14 victory over arch-rival Southern Cal. In doing so, 
the junior halfback from Cleveland gave a capacity 
crowd of over 59,000, plus an almost nationwide tele­

vision audience;. something· to remember: Notre Dame's ' first victory over the Trojans since 1966. 
· The Irish had been pointing for this encounter since 
last fall's 45-23 debacle in· California, when USC tail­
back Anthony · Davis slashed and slithered his way 
through the Notre Dame defense for a record six touch-· 
downs. That ·game arid the subsequent Orange Bowl 
rout had stung the Irish pride; to redeem themselves 
they just had to win this game. 
Actually, it was more a crusade than anything else. 
Blue-and-gold-clad knights in search of a holy grail 
that would find its rightful conclusion in the USC end 
zone. Not once, but again and again uritil the invaders 
from the west were vanquished. From head coach Ara 
Parseghian down to the lowliest equipment boy, th~ 
entire Notre Dame team had dedicated itself to a single 
goal: beat USC! 
That 'week there was talk of the "best ever" prac­
tice session; spontaneous pep rallies broke out all over 
campus; signs and banners were hung from every avail­
able dorm window, all with their single-minded message. 
The psyche job had begun. 
Unbeaten Souther.n Cal came into the game with a 
tie by Oklahoma•the only blemish on their record; the 
Irish were likewise unbeaten· through their· first five 
contests. Clearly, this game would have national re­
percussions. Perhaps a possible national championship 
even hung in the balance. 

And that balance was soon tipped in favor of Notre · Dame. Just ask Lynn Swann. On the first Trojan play 
of the game, after ND had punted, freshman cornerback 
Luther Bradley banked Swann so hard that he dis­
lodged the flanker's helmet as the intended pass fell 
harmlessly away. · 

•. The Trojans couldn't move the ball on this possession and·hadto punt. Tim Rudnick got a hand on Jim Lucas' kick and it went out of bounds on the USC twenty-eight. . The Irish, however, couldn't capitalize . on Cthis break completely. and, after ge~ting one firsf-down, had to settle for a Bob Th.omas field goal from the thirty-two and a 3-0 lead with 7: 08 remaining in the 1',rst per~od. · . Tha~ the Irish wanted no part of Anthony Davis' · kick return prowess became apparent as Thomas kicked 
. a short, spinning ball that was fielded by up-man Man­fred·Moore, who returned.it ten yards to the thirty,five. Davis then swept left· tackle for eight yards and the .. : 

Trojans got another fifteen when Rudnick was penalized 
for a late hit. From the ND forty-two, Davis got four 
more on a run and then quarterback Pat Haden flipped 
a twenty-six-yard pass to Swann down the middle. 
Working from the Irish.twelve now, Davis sped outside 
for ten yards to the two and, .on third down, cruised 
around his right end for "'th«t score: Chris Limahelu 
added the extra point and it v/as USC 7 ND 3 with 2:22 
left. ._\ . 
That score was Davis' seventh touchdown against 

Notre Dame in less than five quarters; ominous re­
minders of a year ago . came to mind. But this was 
Notre Dame stadium, not the Coliseum, and. the Irish 
defense, a year older, was able to hold the Trojan star 
in check for most of the game. 
A short second-period punt went out of bounds on 

the ND forty-four and the Irish offense began moving 
from there. Clements tossed a fourteen yarder to split 
end Pete Demmerle for one first down and got another 
at the Trojan thirty~two on a· fourth-down plunge by 
Art Best. They drove all the way down to the fourteen 
but the Southern Cal defense stiffened and Thomas 
came. in to kick his second field goal, this· one from the 
thirty-three, to make it 7-6 Trojans with 5:26 left till 
halftime. 
That could have been the halftime score but Lucas 

came up with another short punt and Notre Dame took 
over at the forty-seven. With just under.four minutes 
left to play, they began driving for the touchdown that 
would put them ahead for good. Russ Kornman, filling 
in for the injured fullback Wayne Bullock, got a first 
down on three successive .carries.· Clements hit.Dem­
merle with a thirteen-yard pass to the SC twenty-three, 
and then, on second down, Demmerle step!)ed in front 
of two. Trojan defenders for one of his patented diving · 
catches at the thirteen. This brought the stadium to its feet and a television audience to the edge of their. seats. · You could have cut the tension. with a knife as Clements ran a keeper up the middle for five yards down to the eight. ·After Penick lost a yard, Best charged over tackle to· the two where, with fifty-nine seconds remaining, Notre Dame · called its .third, and last, time-out. Sensing an imminent score, the Irish fans were going wild as all eyes were glued to .the north end :zone. Bullock almost gave them what they .wanted but was stacked up short at .the. one-foot line; Then, with thirty .seconds remaining, Clements unleashed all .that pent-up energy by leaping over left. guard on a .delay for the score. Thomas' kick made it 13~7, the ND band struck up the "Fight Song" and the. stands · became a 
jubilant, dancing throng. . . 
. The Irish ·got the . ball back . again quickly when 
Bradley intercepted· a· Haden pass intended for Swann; 
but they couldn;t capitalize on it, as a final Clements' 
pass went awry with time running out. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


Clements breaks through· the hole behind blocks from Frank Pomarico (56) and Steve .Neece (64). 
The Trojans had come into the ball game looking for the "big play." It was those two spectacular kickoff re­turns by Davis that broke ND's back last year and SC was angling for a repeat performance this time around. . They got it at the start of the second half, but not in the. manner they had hoped for. Following a Trojan punt, Notre Dame took over at their own fifteen-yard line .. After pausing for.the usual television time-out, the Irish lined up in their,power rush offense: both ends in . tight and a full house backfield. Penick took Clements' pitch sweeping to'his left, cut back following blocks by DiNardo and Pomarico, broke Richard Wood's lunging tackle try at the twenty-three and then it was katie­bar~the~door as the fleet halfback outraced three.Trojan 
defenders to pay dirt and glory. Pandemonium broke out as Thomas' point ·was good· and the Irish led de­cisively by 20-7 with: 11:12 left in the third period. Penick's long scamper was the fourth longest run from scrimmage in ND history; tying him with four others for that honor.· 
' Bui: the Trojans struck back quickly, 'displaying the talent.and poise that had kept them unbeaten through twenty-three games. Haden hit Swann for. thirteen yards right off and when Reggie Barnett was detected roughing J. K. McKay the former was ejected and the ball moved an extra fifteen yards forward. Swann, who snagged three passes during the seventy-yard comeback drive, got the. touchdown on a. near-perfect twenty-
Clements pitches to· Penick behind a blocki't},g Bullock. 

seven-yard pass from Haden over-_the leaping Tom ·Lopienski, who had comejn for the departed Barnett. · Limahelu made it 20-14 and suddenly it was anybody's 
ball game again. Still, the Irish would not be denied. The defense held again and Dave Boulware punted out at the Irish forty­one. Notre Dame got one first down on an offside pen­alty arid ·another lucky break when Russ Kornman grabbed Clements' fumbled snap on fourth down and rushed six yards for new lifeat the SC thirty-two. The Irish got one more first down but could go no further than the fifteen. Thomas carrie in and booted his third three-pointer of the afternoon to give ND a healthy 23-14 edge with twenty-two seconds left in the period. It had been a most·rewarding day for the soccer-style · kicker, who never lost· his confidence though he had . missed eight straight attempts coming into the game. Though that field goal marked the end of the scor­ing, it was certainly no climax to jhe action. The de~ fense held, the offense held onto the ball and though it 'began drizzling steadily, the fourth period was a bright one for Notre Dame fans. 
. . . 
His_ primary receivers smothered. by an. aggressive Irish secondary, Haden drove the Trojans down to the . ND twenty on passes to tight end Jim O'Bradovich. Davis, however, continued his frustrationsby fumbling the ball away at the sixteen. Tom Parise, the third Irish fullback:of the day, got a first down up ·the middle to the twenty-eight and ' Clements ran --for . another one before things bogged down and Brian Doherty boomed a high kick to Swami deep in his own territory. Sur­rounded by blue-and-gold, the shifty flanker was able to return it only six yards to his own twenty-six. Work­ing from there, the Trojans drove past , midfield into Irish territory but when· Haden fired atwenty-three­yard pass to J. K. McKay the iittle split end was hit 

he told his surprised listeners, "nothing else _to hum: hard by ''i'ownsend and Bradley, the ball was ·jarred . They won-the game. That's it. They were -well pre­loose and pounced on by Greg Collins at the ND forty. 
pared." So ·well prepared, in fact, thatthe Irish offense The Irish offense moved for one first down butthen maintained an almost 2 to 1 advantage in time of.pos­
Clements committed the first ND turnover of the game session, 39:36 minutes to20:24 for the Trojans. South­by fumbling at Hie forty-seven. Southern Cal's Monte .ern Cal was able to gairi. just 243. yards against the . Doris recov·ered and the Trojans began moving with charged~up Notre Daine. defense, with only 66 _of these just under .three minutes left _to play.

. . . . . . . ~-coming from their vaunted game. The -Irish, by con1:~ To his credit, Haden came out firing but Bradley parison, rolled up 316 yards on the ground and added intercepted his pass _intended for: Swann at the ND -· · another 85 on 7 Clements' .passes. Only' three times in 
twenty-nine and with 2:36 left to play it was all over · the final twenty-five minutes were the Trojans able to but the cheering, which had never really stopped since. ·penetrate No-tre Dame territory, each time being forced . Penick's touchdown· anyway. This· last cruciai. turn~ • into costly. turnovers by the alert, aggressive Irish de, 
. _ 

over was again caused by the_ aggressive Irish «d:'' fenders. . _ . . Since Townsend's · bump-and-rllri tactics ·had shut off "I ani tremendously proud of this footbaU team of the sideline route, Swann was forced to improvise and _ ours," .· commented coach .Ara Parseghian afterwards: slant towards the middle instead, hoping that his ~-~•southern Cal played g:r:eat footbaH during their streak quarterback.• would «read" the new maneuver. _Haden, · and'did so today .. : because their twenty-three-game however, was throwing in .the face of a strong rush streak began here at Notre Dame, I think it's appro­
and was unable to pick up his flanker's move until it priate that it endedhere as well. Our kids put forth a was too. late. tremendous effort and they deserved to win."·· 
With the clock mnriing in their favor, the Irish The, victory moved the Irish .up to fifth place fo· drove down to the· Trojan twenty arid as _time ran.out, · both polls, ·with a healthy distance. betweenthem and thousands of ecstatic students poured onto the field,. sixth-ranked .Penn .State. _However,_··.. there was . ·an hoisting the_ jubilant ·team and its coaches on-_ their equallyJmpressive·gap between Notre:Dame and fourth­shoulders. for a free ride. to the lockers. :The whole :ranked Michigan. Along about this time, there was at 
'scene was reminiscent ·-of-Shea -Stadium. during:the least one believer outside ·of . the Notre Daine com­World Series or, closerto home, Notre Danie's stunning, mimity as the Irish garnered one first-place vote in the Austin Carr-led upset of UCLA a few years ago. • ·_ -. -UPI rating;: · · 
. ; . ' . -. . -~ 
THE • SCHOLASTIC 


I ·get a Kick out of Life 
· Notre Dame kicker Bob Thomas had been expe­riencing a frustrating season until the Irish beat South­ern Cal when his three field goals proved the difference in the· 23~14 game. ·, 
And ·some ·of Thomas' biggest frustrations ·were with his coach, Ara Parseghian. · · · 
"!tall started the week of the Northwestern game," Thomas.remembers. "I made up a cheer (a Notre Dame football custom) and I was supposed to pat Coach Par­seghian on the back at the end. Instead I got carried away and slapped him on the face. . . 
"That's the first time since sophomore year I've checked the bulletin board to see if I was dressing for the game," he laughs.: . 
. '.Thomas .hasn't tried to make any alibis for his kicking this season either. ·After connecting on . two field goal attempts at Purdue he missed eight more be­fore his three-for-three day against the Trojans. 
"I had some tough tries during thatstreak. Against Michigan State I tried kicks of 42, 49 and 55 yards. in~o the wind.· Arid I just plain missed some chip shots. But calling it a slump doesn't justify it." .. 
''I said a prayer at the beginning of the season_ and told God that I didn't want any recognition all season if I could ,just have it for the Southern Cal game," Thomas. relates. '.'After breaking my PAT streak. at. Army and missing two field goals, one .of which I thought was good, Iwalked back to my sixth-floor room.' I opened the curtains. and looked toward heaven. and said, 'I know I told you I didn't wantany big games until USC, but thisis getting ridiculous.'".. . : . 
Thomas ·was granted his request buLnot before he° . tooksome 'more ribbing from his coach. . . : . 
"One day atpractice· Coach .drop-kicked a field goal 32-yards/' says Thomas. "He turned. to meand asked if I.had seen that; I nodded and hequickly :reminde~fme that I had missed a fe\\' from justthat: far. . . . .. 
. j'But then he told me not to worry about it because Iwas going to.beat USC with my field goals: Can you imagine how great that made me feel?" . . 
·. Thomas'. performance .against the Trojans. marked the fourth time in his Notre Dame career thatlie con­nected :on three field goals. That ties him with Gus Dorais. fof: the singie-game 'record. it also earned him the offensive player of:_the.game_ award from Chevrolet 
and the Notre Dame Quarterback Club. ... ·. . · · . . 
But· his mosfimportant, and certainly most:·remem­bered, field goa(of the season wai the 19-yard comple~ . tion against : Aiabama .in the~ closing minutes ofthe Sug·ar Bowl. Thomas hadalready.tried a48-yard boot that fell short.just as the first half.ended. This left the score 14-10, Notre Dame; but the extra points might. 
have meant a· bit more br_eathing room:· . . With 9:33 left in the .final quarter, Bryant showed a little of his razzl~dazzle, sending in Todd to replace 
Rutledge at quarterback. Todd handed off to Mike Stock, who turned and whipped a pass right back to the re­. serve who raced. all alone for the tally. . . 
With the score 23-21; Davis missed the PAT, leaving the Irish with a possible field goal victory. Twelve plays later, Thomas had his golden opportunity -of the_ game, of the season, and, certainly, of_his career. From 19 yards out, the senior split the uprights with a chip shot to si:?nd the Irish. ahead for good, 24-23. . 
"I thought about it during the whole drive," Thomas later explained. ''I wouldn't have minded if we s_cored -a touchdown, but_I wasn't.on the sidelines saying 'please 
score and take a burden off my head.' 
. "Normally I don't chip the ball, but I decided to this time, and I decided not to follow through as much to make sure I got it over their rush. I knew it would 
probably go aHttle to.the right or left, but at 19 yards · I knew_ it ~ouldn't drift far enough to miss. I knew I ·could put points on the board.'' 
Thomas finished the season with a bevy of records to his credit. He.has thebest career percentage for extra points, _.970 (98out of.101)· and the best percentage for one. season, 1:000 (34 out of 34, 1972) ; the most. fiel_d goals in a game, 3 (four times), most in.a seaso·n, 9 (1973), most in_ a career, 21 of 38; most kicking points in a game, 13. (vs. Northwestern, .1972), most in a sea­son, 70. (1973,. to lead the. team) and is second in career, 161. (Scott Hempel, i64) ; most field goal. at-' tempts.in a season, 18 (1973) and most in a career, 38; he connected. on·. 62 straight extra· points, 'missing_· this year in the Army . game, for a mark that was second bes·t in NCAA history..: · · · · · 
. Bob Thomas' 19-yard field goal that won. t1ie Sugar . . ... Bowl and the National Championship._ 

There was at least one apprehensive Irish fan thinking about the outcome of the 47th consecutive Notre Dame-Navy meeting, the longest continuous in­tersectional rivalry in college football. That individual was Ara Parseghian, the man who was in the position to know best. 
··"The entire campus, student body and team were caught up in the week-long buildup for the ·game with Southern Cal and the emotion surrounding this game was feverish," reported Ara. i•consequently, ·it is nat­ural to expect ·some letdown, but· we ·can't afford that luxury at this point in the season. We'll probably work twice as hard as we did last week sci we can concen­trate on what our scouts say is a dangerous Navy of­
fense." : 
a. • • . • 
Navy, under the direction of former Middie great George Welsh, surprised Air Force previous to the ND meeting 42-6 and put up a stubborn _. fight against Michigan before• bowing 14-0. "In Cleveland Cooper, quarterback Al Glenny and receivers Larry Van Loan, Bert Calland and. Bill Smyth, Navy has as fine a set of offensive tools as we have seen in any Navy team since I've been at Notre Dame," Ara warned.• "Thls is the type of. team that could shock us early in the game if we aren't mentally alert." . 
Mentally alert meant continuing the devastating offensive show of force which was amassing over 450 yards per game, and which had scored ·113 points in the last three contests. Navy knew exactly whom they had to face, though, as they had voted Clements, Penick and Pomarico to their All-Opponent team in 1972. 
The Irish didn't disappoint the Middies, nor the 48th consecutive full house ·that seemed to lift up the thunder just a little bit better. After a slow, two­touchdown ,first half, the Fighting Irish exploded· into a driving offensive machine which blasted away four second-half touchdowns and one·· safety, sealing a re­sounding victory,·44-7. . .· · 
. The Irish couldn't find· scoring· momentum until late in the first quarter, as solid pl~y on the part of the Middies left the Irish no easy advantages. Finally, Bob . Zariot began things right by returning a Stuffle­beem punt 25 yards . to the ND. 39 .. Clement_s. took over and directed a very solid ground attack until he was fac~d with a third and six from the Navy 31.. Clements couldn't find Demmerle for the crowd .and ·his pass went wide, falling incomplete .around the ten. With fourth and· six, the word was go; faking a pass, Clem.:-··­ents. zipped inside to the Navy· 20 for eleven yards and 
a firstdown. .·. · . . · '. 
-With the pressure of fourth down passed, Penick 
took a pitchout from Clements and dashed the .re­
maining twenty yar~s for the touchdown and the first 
points of the game. This first drive represented a 61­
yard march .of nine plays; ending with just 1:25 re­
maining in the first quarter. . . . . . 
· · The next time the Irish had the ball, they repeated 


Al Hunter (25) takes off against Navy. 

their consistent, ground-consuming drive. A Clements aeriai good ·for 30 yards to Demmerle helped to offset an offensiv·e holding penalty' which had the Irish ·on· their own 12 with a first and 20. The backfield con­tinued the regular gains until Clements bootlegged a nifty gain of 22. Al Hunter came in to circle right·for another i4; ·and the ·Irish· found· themselves knocking at the touchdown gates. from the three. It took three plays to cover those last three yards; though, as Best lost one, regained by Diminick, before Hunter again got the nod and this time, the taily;. to make it 14~0, Notre Dame. The Irish ground otit 78 · yards in 12 plays,running almost ten minutes on the clock. . . Navy found some initiative ~fter an aborted Irish drive, and by virtue of·a few key Glenny passes, one for 20, puttogether a promising clrive. The ND defense had other ideas, though, and after shutting off the Navy passing attack, they forced Navy to punt froin the ND 
43. Thus the half ended, Notre Dame in command,
14~0..· . . . . . 
The second half began with a bit more excit~ment as the Irish managed· to double the score within five 
.~minutes. First, ·Greg Collins flew out of the :blue to gild a Glenny pass on the Navy 32, returning it 13 yards for an Irish first down ori the 19: DemmerlEhnade a brilliant diving catch of aClements toss ori the one ("How he held onto that ball when he hitthe groimd I'll never know," said Parseghian, ."It· was a. fantastic catch.") ; and Clements dove over for the score. 
· · Reggie Barnett recovered · a Potempa-i~spired 
THE SCHOLASTIC 




·Navy---------------­

• QB Al Glenny (14) looks wary as Gary Potempa sails in for the tackle. 
fumble on the first play of the following Navy series, giving the Irish another first and ten, .this time from . the Navy 30. After Best pounded out eleven yards straight ahead, Hunter sprinted thirteen yards forthe . score, but the play was called back to. the Navy· 23 for · offensive· clipping. Clements single-handedly regained a good deal of the setback as he kept for 16 yards to the Navy seven..The tally took but one more play as the Navy defense went one way and Al Samuel went the other for· seven and paydirt. And there were· stm· 
.more than eleven minutes left on the clock. 
Southern Cal seemed like any other memory as the Irish began to play aggressively again: Drew Mahalic . cut off another Glenny aerial drive by stealing a short shot on the Irish 34, thus halting Navy's deepest pene­tration of the afternoon: The second string seemed to be celebrating a little early, though, as they gave away the . first .. of six fumbles in twenty minutes; A sig­nificant number of fumbles came on wide pitches and . though· Clements had. been quite successful in· com-·. pleting · some hair-raising· laterals. in the first forty 
. · minutes, the reserves · couldn't seem to find the handle. 
The offensive goofs kept defensive hands· full, but the dynamite defense showed it knew just what to do. After Samuels fumbled on . the_ ND 37, the defense limited Jackson to four by foot, forced a wide, out of bounds reception, · and another wide Glenny incom­pletion. Faced with fourth a,nd six from the ND 33, Navy must have had visions.of duplicating the Trish's similar situation. Mahalic and Browner brutally crushed these dreams and Glenny for a 12-yard loss as he attempted to pass. . 
··. But .another Irish fumble kept the defense on the field, this time calling on Jim Stock for· the honors and a Glenny sack worth nine. 
The final two touchdowns came in the fourth quarter as Cliff Brown passed to Willie Townsend for nine yards and the first tally, and Frank Allocco handed off ·to Tom Parise for the second. Finally, defensive end Jim Stock reminded Glenny that he was still on the other side of the ball by sacking the Navy· quarter­back for twelve yards and a -touchback. 
Unfortunately, .on the following free kick, Fresh~ man Tim Simon fumbied the ball, allowing Navy to recover on the ND 25, their deepest penetration of the afternoon. Glenny whipped a pinpoint pass to receiver Larry Van Loan in the next play for a touchdown and the only Navy points of the day. · . · 
Glenny's penchant for .the pass became evident in the final statistics, as the Middies outflew the .Irish 119 yards to 93. The Irish inore than made up the dif­ference on the ground, however, where . they rolled for 447 yards compared to 77 for Navy. The Irish accomplished this impressive total with all .of twelve runpers,-who rather evenly shared the burden. Both Clements and Best carried for 66 yards, while Samuel and Penick ·were not far behind with 52 and 46, re­spectively. 



CLEMENTS 
\"1 
t 
..".. ·. :•~:i 
··cJ
}.~J 

Coach Johnny Majors was also new_ to Pittsburgh, 

. and he was determined to steer his team to a winning season. "Our players are not going.•to iearn how' to lose,'' he said. "We certainly didn't come here to lose." 
No one comes up against Notre Dame with the in­tention of losing, Mr. Majors. It just happeiis. 
And it happened again, though -Mr. Dorsett put a little scare into the contest along· with his record running performance. The Irish were·able to get past 
. Pitt, 31-10, · though Tony Dorsett took. over the dis~ tinction of having run the furthest against the Irish -209 yards in 29 carries. Each of his carries seemed to end in some unfortunate turnover, which allowea the Irish to cross less . ground in their goal line treks, 
· leaving the Panthers with the better statistics. After the Irish had elected to kick off, the _· Pitt 
quarterback. Daniels got things off to a quick ·start. .with a 39-yard pass to Toerpe'r and a pitch to Dorsett, who sprinted 13 yards. Just a~, quh:kly as it began, it 
· . ended, as the troubled Daniels fumbled on the· next play into the hands ot' Gary Potempa. From their own 17, the Irish were still· amazed at the offensive show they had just seen. The Blue and Gold . got. nowhere and punted the ball back to· the charged Panthers. 
. Janasek ran for seven and Murphy followed for 
·. eight, but on the next play, Daniels fumbled again, and Dorsett, who recovered, was dropped for a 17­yard loss._ Daniels fumbled once more, but· this Ume Jim Stock was there to recover the ball for the Irish on the Pitt. 24-yard line~ · . . . .
Barnett (14) and Townsend ('27) head for Dorset. 

From there, Bullock ·ran three times, picking up While the Irish. were busy sinking the Middies, a the score on ari eleven-yard charge, starting the scor­small, steely team featuring a lightning-quick fresh-ing at 7:0; Tom Clements had a severely pulled groin man were also . rolling to the tune of 576 yards and muscle which forced him to rely on his running bacRs nipping a good Syracuse team.. The. Pitt Panthers ran more than usual, but they proved to be equal to tne · for 455 yards warming up for their clash with Notre challenge as the Irish put together a sustained drive Dame on their home turf. of 77 yards; Best, Bullock and Penick took turns run-Though the Irish and -Ara held a nine-game streak ning consistent, hard-hitting plays, with Thomas kick-over Pittsburgh, this 40th resumption of the long ing a field goal with 46 seconds left in the half. · rivalry proved to be no boring repetition. The Irish But there· was still time for ·Daniels :to regain his defense, the best-in the riation limiting its opponents • composure and find his end Clark for 40 yards to the to only 5.9 points_ and 164 yards per game, had sue-ND 24, setting up a field goal which put .Pitt~ on the cessfully contained the Middies' star running back, . scoreboard, 10~3, Notre Danie. . . Cleveland Cooper, with· only 30 yards. Ent this fresh-In the first half, Dorsett ·and Builock gained the man Tony Dorsett, who had deserved· UPI, AP and same yardage, 78 yards, though Pitt outdistanced tne Sports Illustrated back of the week honors after only·. Irish in net yardage by·a_' total of 191 to 147. An ob-. three weeks of• college play, was something .to _worry . •j vious absence from the :statistics was the usually fine ·· 
I 
,I 
:I I , about. He had already accumulated 1,139 yards in performance. of the injured Irish quarterback Tom 
'I eight games for an average of 142 yards per game, just Clements. Daniels' four completions <for 91 yards
'I , 
! 
short of the game average of Irish opponents. · helped to give Pitt the statistical edge, as the Irish 
"Dorsett certainly has to rank as· one of the_ best could only complete one 1:i'ass for five-yards. backs in the country," agreed Coach Parseghian. "His ... . The second half'iiegan as a battle of turnovers; Pitt statistics. speak for themselves and he can turn the fumbling _.twice and losing. once on a. Townsend inter.; corners faster .than anyone we've seen this year. On~e .ception, .· halting impressive Panther drives.. On the· 
.. he gets into. open field he's gone, Pitt has several .fourth set of downs, Dorsett managed to break for other · people in the backfield that cari cause the de-65 yards, finally hauled down by Townsend.. The Irish fense some awfully .big· problems. Daniels is clanger-were. p!:!na~ized seven yards on the following play for ous and has quick feet. He's a fine runner fora quar-pHi~g on. Who? Tony Dorsett, of ·course. · terback and their fullback Dave Janasek keeps the · · From the Notre Dame seven Pitt -found itself· in defense from keying on either Dorsett or Daniels. In an excellent scoring position,· but quarterback Daniels the last four games ·Pitt has averaged 28 . points per , could not call the right plays, Instead of directing the gaine and_ that indicated that they have had no prob-play to either of hi~ backs, he first tried two keepers lem moving the ball. Believe me, this is a dangerous which _netted him_'two yards, then threw incomplefe football team." ::: twice_ more, -losing the ball on· downs. · 
28 THE SCHOLASTIC 
----Pittsburgh---------­

The Irish defense regained their, inspiration also, 
allowing Dorsett • _9nly three yards on the following 
play,_ hefore snowing Daniels for-eleven yards as he 
attempted to pass. ·Toe next Daniels attempt was in­

complete,· arid the Panthers were forced to punt from · their own 22. 
. Two series later, Greg Collins grabbed his secon·d 
interception of ·the season and returned it · 12 yards 
to the ND 42. Bullock went to work again,< carrying 
f9ur times for 32 yards, capped by a nine-yard touch­
down pass from Clements t6 ·Bullock. Thomas'· PAT 
was good; making the score, 31-10. . . . 
· BullOck finished the gaine with · 167 yards in -27 
carries for three touchdowns. "When· the chips· were 
down late iri th'e game, we needed at least one score 
and w~'were able to drive down and get two," com~ 
mentedthe satisfied Ara. ''On that first one we got 
a good kickoff return· from Diminick' and then Bullock 
carried it in from there.,, ·, · 
Bui: the real show was Tony Dorsett. "He's some 
back," admitted Bullock. Indeed he was as lie defied 
the Irish defense, the. number:one defense going 'into 
the ga_me,-for a· record 209 ~ards· in 29_ carries. 

"Tony Dorsett's performance today was a tremen­dous accomplishment," admitted the Irish coach. "He's a super football player, a real great back, and left me very impressed." 
"It was not _our best football game, and not our most artistic defensive performance," added the Notre Dame mentor, <'obviously, but I don't want to take anything from Pitt. I was impressed with them. They executed well and 'Were well prepared. Johnny Majors 
had done an  outstanding job."  
Parseghian gave special credit  to  Mike Townsend  
for the Irish victory.  "Mike  was  spectacular  on. de­ 

fense again; he made four crucial tackles that saved possible scores, particularly the one· on Tony Dorsett's long run. Mike simply caught up with him and savea a touchdown. Mike also broke up two passes in the end · zone which were clearly touchdowns and · th.en finally intercepted one to kill another Pitt drive." 
Townsend now _had · intercepted three times · tliis season and 14 'times during his Notre Dame career, just · one short· of the career record held. by Tom · Mac­Donald (1961-63) of 15. · 

29 
j 
j 
j 
I j/· 
i: j 
I 
1 
l 
I 
' 
" 
l 
1 
I 


SCHOLASTIC: Why _did you choose to remain in foot­ball? 
P ARSEGHIAN: I enjoy working both physically and_ mentally with people, and in football, this is the chal­lenge. Football really involves a ·multitud~ of things;
Coach not only do you have the physical and mental strategy, but you also have the emotional and spiritual aspects of the game. And then there's the competition itself, to
Ara. Parseghian 

show you how well you've learned your"lesson. Football seems to me to be a total involvement.' · 
SCHOLASTIC:. You've received many offers to coac~ pro ball, yet you've turned therri all down. Do. you see 
Ara has been a head coach since 1951. He was the the professional leagues as being' a step up to the "big head man at his alma mater, Miami University of Ohio, leagues"?· from 1951 through 1955, and then became head coach ., at Northwesternfrom 1956 to 1963 (his record against PARSEGHIAN: Actually, I consider college football as the Irish was four wins to no losses). Mr. Parseghian the "big leagues." Not that I'm criticizing pro ball, but came to Notre Dame in December, 1963, to becorne the I really enjoy the university environment. There is some school's 22nd head football coach. His record of 85-14-4 pressure, but as a coach here, I am not a business places him third in the victory column behind the representative; football does not exist solely as enter-legendary Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy. Ara's 100th tainment or as a moneymaker. . . · _. career win, a 51-0 victory over Southern Cal in 1966, But what is more important to me is the role cif clinched the National Title for the Irish. His spectacular educator that a coach plays. We're dealing with boys repeat this season certainly did no harm to the Irish between the ages of 18 and 22. They have a.lotto learn, drive for this year's National Title. .-. despite what they _might. think, and I know· that we 
Mr. Parseghian was born in Akron, Ohio, on May 21, can . be a real influence on them. Football is much like 1923. After graduating from high school there, he en­the classroom situation where you have your training listed in the Navy and while in. the service played foot~ in knowledge, mental and.physical execution, and finaily, 
ball ·under Paul Brown at Great Lakes. Following his competition. Football can prepare these boys -~or many discharge, he entered Miami University where he com­of life's lessons . peted in football, baseball and basketball. He won All­. As far as th.epro offers go, they get furned down Ohio halfback honors.and received All-America mention every year, and every year they come in again. But 
in 1947 when Miami played in the Sun Bowl._ the best testimony that I'm not going fo. leaveis that 
Following· his· graduation, ·Mr.. Parseghian played I've been here for. ten years and I'm still here, still head with the Cleveland Browns until an _injury brought a coach. But, I don't. say "ever" or '_'never." Still it's ten quick end to his professional playing career. He then years that I've been here, and that's quite a.while. 
, -, . :---' . . 

moved into the -coaching ranks ·when he returned to 
Miami as an assistant to Woody Hayes in 1950, and SCHOLASTIC: How did you_ view our vi~to_ryover 
moved up to' the head coaching position when Hayes Southern Cal? 
went to Ohio State the following year. 
In the ten seasons since arriving on theNotre_Dame PARSEGHIAN: I've-been coaching:for-~4 years riow, scene, Pa:rseghian has brought the tag of excellence a, lot of exciting things have happened, and I. would back to the Irish with his squads finishing in the top 10 have to say that beating Southern Cal is :6mt6f the 
. in both wire service polls eight times and winning the most important. It's a combination of -r~asons; we 1966 and 1973 national cham])ionships. The _1970 Irish have· had such poor luck with them in recent years, finished 10~1 and No. 2 in the final .Associated Press poll.· · especially_ the occasions when :they spoiled the national 
~hampionship for us, _as in '7L _ . I SCHOLASTIC: is .there a . philosophy behind your :j I -choice of football coaching as a career? .Why did you SCHOLASTIC: It seems as if the teams we play againstI choose coaching as a profession? • · · experience· a sudden boosf in their al)ility. :Is it a real 
. ,threat that they pose, or is: it merelyithe psychological PARSEGHIAN·: Of course; the iiiost imp~;tantthing in ..threat of upsetting Notre ~ame? . life is thatyou choose_a profession that you:enjoy. You· 
. decide on a profession for the kind cifwork, but at the PARSEGHIAN: There;s no question .that the in_tensity 
. ·same time, it shouldn't be all work, but rather, enjoy-of the competition we play against makes it that much men( Coaching for me is not really a work as. alabor, inbre difficult to beat them. They are' always looking but a physical and mental enjoyment. If 'there is one for the upset: -We are the only college football teani to philosophy applicable to everybody, T would say that. be nationally video replayed, with-national radio cov­.you should select your profession as one that you couid --· erage, plus three of our. contests 'are featured. events become really involved in, that you could enjoy doing. _on national television. The opposing coaclffigures that The problem with many people _today is that they are _ .ifhe can beat Notre Danie, he cari prove exactly how. dissatisfied with their work, oz: .they jump around froni ·_ good a coach he is, because' it wili .all· be replayed,ori
job. to job. . . -Sunday. · . . . . ·. . . · . . . 
SCHOLASTIC: At the end of the season last year, and 
somewhat at the beginning of the season this year, it 
seemed as if the team would buHd. up a sizeable lead 
in the first and second quarters; and proceed to watch, 
it being pared away slowly and at times, dangerously, 
during the second half. 
PARSEGHIAN: Well, sure. If we're prepared for a 
game and go out there and score 28 or _35 points in_ the 
first half,. you know that the intensity of the second 
half is going to drop off~a bit. It.shouldn't, and that's· 
the coach's job to see that that doesn't happen. It can 
get dangerous if the other tea~ really becomes emo­
tionaily involved in catching up. Momentum and having 
things turn around suddenly are so important in college 
ball where so many of the teams are so good. This year, 
when we playecfMichigan State, we almost lost by our 
own errors. At the half, the figures were 270 yards to 
some ridiculous figure; but then we turned around and 
threw an interception for a· touchdown, .and fumbled 
for an eventual field. goal. · All of. a· sudden the.score 
was 14-10, and we _had to. play a very conservative, 
calculating game where'we couldn't do anything. • No, 
in every game we see a· very serious and potentially 
dangerous competitor.. . . 
SCHOLASTIC: You hate spoken often of execution as being ·_ of primary importance in college_ football._ How did execution figure into the first~place clinching victory 
over Alabama? · . . . ... . .. 
PARSEGHIAN: Execution. of the. plays is very iin-. 
portant;. however, the 'plays that you run areoften­
times dictated by the defense the opponent isusing. 
For example, if they .happen to be giving us an off­
tackle play, then we'll take advantage of that In other 
words, if the defense is positioned in such a way that it 
looks that the' off-tackle is there, then we're going to 
run that off-tackle play until they bring people in there 
to help, and then we'll run the sequence from that. 
It · so -happened in this game that we made them 

respect our interior game using Bullock in the first 
drive which closed them. down to the inside. Now this 
opened up_ two things for us: it• made it difficult for 
them to contain. our quarterback because we got the. 
motion halfback coming around and logging in on the 
end; and italso opened up.some seams in the defensive 
secondary, where Clements hit. very nicely with Dem~ 
merle on· the first touchdown• drive, · using two or three 
passes consecutively; very similar type passes where 
we.had a man coming:around logging in .on their con­
tained man and they had difficulty containing Tom who 
got outside as a runner. They came up to stop him as a 
run,. and he would -throw a· pass. So it was dictated a 
greaLdeal by what the opponent wanted to use· de­
fensively. 
, Now, you have.to be able·to execute the plays that 
are' called once you'feel strategically you have an ad­vantage.: Also, .they_ were giving us ,what we call an "over-revolve.'/i We would start in· a direction; they would over-revolve, their 'defense to try to stop our · present positive sweep, and _this opened .up the passing game misdirection plays. For example, ·. when we re­covered that fumble that led to the touchdown that put 
FEBRUARY"l, .1974 

us ahead 21-17-down on the 12-yard line,. the first play 
that we ran was a misdirection play. The ball was on 
the left hash-mark, but itwas a'first down for us, so 
they figured that we were going to try to run some­
thing positive to the wide side of the field. 
Well, we started an action to the wide side of ·the 
field, to which .they reacted; but we were actually run­
ning a misdirection on the short side of the field. They . 
overreacted; we walled off the pursuit and Penick ran 
into ·the erid zone behind a beautiful block by Dave 
Casper. who pulled through the hole and walled it off. 
The execution was superb; but also· the strategy that 
was used on that particular play. was in: reaction to 
what they had been doing and to the fact that. they had 
been full-flooding to the action. 
SCHOLASTIC: What went into ·the .amazing feat of 
holding the Alabama offense to zero net yards · in the 
first quarter? · · 
PARSEGHIAN: That.was a great job by our defensive. unit.· The success oLthe wishbone is built on trying to recognize what you're doing defensively. They :picked up pretty well in the second quarter, and attacked us very well. Their execution was great, in the second period and -again in the beginning of the third period. But we continued to, change our defenses during the game; that caused confusion. We finally went back in .the middle of· the third period to what. we call our "mirror-defense,'! .that we .had success .with in the Texas :game.. That confused them again and caused some bad plays for them; they weren't able to handle it, and we took the ball away from them on downs on a 
number of occassions. 
··The end result was the fact that we contained them 
very well in the first and fourth periods. · 
SCHOLASTIC: Could you compare your victories over 
Southern Cal .and Alabama? · · 
PARSEGHIAN: I think they_ were :very' similar in nature.. The Southern· Cal game was a game that had great excitement in it. because of our past failures with Southern Cal. And this game in New Orleans had 
31 
great significance because Alabama and Bear Bryant had proclaimed that this was the best football team he'd ever had, that they were the number one team in the country. They were undefeated. There'd been a constant· challenge between the caliber of ball that's played in the North as opposed to the South. And the fact that we won it and won the National Championship has to place it among any games.that we've ever been in­volved in, because there was more at· stake in this game than there was in the Southern Calgame. 
SCHOLASTIC: Could you explain your recent pro­
. posals at the American Football Coaches Association Meeting.in·San Francisco? 
PARSEGHIAN: Well, I happen to be a trustee, and I have • been championing the one cause-blocking on kick situations; kick-offs, punt returns-in these areas where I feel thatthe greater number of serious injuries occur. As a matter of fact we have followed that rule 
· ourselves in· spring drills and prefall practice. ·When we kick off and when we have punt returns, we will not permit blocking below the waist because those open field blocks are the ones where the knees become .vul­nerable to the blindside block, particularly when you . don't see it coming. The rule was finally passed. First of all, the Amer­ican Football Coaches Association has a rules commit­tee to make recommendations. We (the coaches) maRe the recommendations and the rules body votes on it; they vote<1'that they would make the recommendation to the Rules Committee which is made up of athletic directors, football coaches, NCAA members. That particular rule was approved. You'll see just as many ; exciting plays as you always have, but no blocking below the waist will be permitted on kick-offs; it'll be shoulder blocks from the hip on up. You can still deliver .quite a blow in the same area, you can knock people downthe same way, but the players won't be quite as leery about someone coming from the blind side when. you don't see him and taking you when that foot is planted in the ground. Personally, I was glad to see that rule" changed. 
SCHOLASTIC: What about the rule change concerning bowl bids?. 
PARSEGHIAN: It was a complete surprise: Apparently they felt that they have not been able to police the present rule, the one which prohibits any bowl invita­tions until something like the second Saturday in No­vember. The bowl committees in competition for teams try to make their arrangements prior to· that date. Rather than ·do anything, the c.rules. committee said, "Why don't we just wipe that rule out and then come back and discuss it next year." · 
Now, I had hoped that they would move the date back to the final game of the collegiate football season. ~~t. now there · is no rule. By the same token, that doesn't put any pressure on us from. the ·standpoint of accepting a :bowl bid because we don't·have to worry about somebody else jumping if .this is the date you have to accept it on. · This way we can try to put to­gether the top football teams at the end of the year to come closer to what would be a national,championship game. Even this year, it was sort of a hlgh risk situa­

tion. 
SCHOLASTIC: Last year about this time, Notre Dame was ranked 'number 12 and number 14 in the national polls. How does it feel to have rebounded from the depths to capture the national title in an undefeated season? · · · 
PARSEGHIAN: !twas very exciting: We're so pleased 
with the entire football season·. We started young, no 
· one expected too much of us. The_ previous year, as I had pointed out on a number of-occasions, was a re­building year defensively. We_.had graduated nine reg­ulars from that team and in the, 1972 season, we in­curred ~. number of injuries .to .the defensive players which necessitated a great number· of changes. In the process of rebuilding the defensive unit, we were not up to the standards that we were· accustomed· to. In 1973, we were very fortunate in hitting two or. three key players, freshmen, that filled in ·the spots that. we needed the most. With great leadershipJrorn _our cap­tains and great team morale, and from the ~dversity of . our disappointing loses at the conclusion of the 1972 season came the.. building of . a great football team. I think the most pleasant thing about the seasori":is that this football team continued to improve as: the season progressed. They got better both offensively and de~ fensively. They met every challenge· 'that _was hurled at them and certainly. the Sugar Bowl. . So I'm r_eally pleased and proud of the accomplishments of the 1973 
team. . . , . '. 
SCHOLASTIC: How do you,:yiew yo,ur job for the 
coming year? 
PARSEGHIAN: Well, there's that old adage that it's much easier to win a championship than to. retain it. It's certainly understandable. The very nature of man is such that he has a tendency to become complacent. We're well aware of two things: one, .that it will be difficult; but two, we would like very much to.bring to the University of Notre Dame its second consecutive na­tional championship. This is a big challenge to us, and I think we'have the nucleus of a good football team re­. turning. Our job as coaches and as well as-our players is to recognize that we cannot win one football game in 1974 on what we did in 1973; that's history and in 1974 we will have to rewrite history.· If we look back over our shoulders at the great press clippings and the great successes _that occurred, then we, can . be in serious trouble. I'm aware of it, I'm a seasoned, experienced football coach, so I know the pitfalls. My job is to con­vey those pitfalls to our squad and to start to rebuild for.-the 1974 season and spring practice when we start 

again in April. 
. · THE SCHOLASTIC 




May·,_r Have· Your Attent-ion, Please 
Thursday night-before-the· Notre Dame-Southern Cal ·game, ·Keenan Han was hosting a pep rally on the steps of ·the old· biology building. Tom Clements had already spoken,, along with Greg. Collins. The cheer­leaders_ had led the crowd through the Fight Song for their 10th or 11th time.: Now emcee Tom Parise was about to introduce.the next speaker: 
"We have a special guest, :someone you have all heard before, but have probably never seen." . 
'Parise stepped aside. and a tall Irishman took his place at _the microphone;·' Some people in the; crowd suspected who he was, others were confused.-He spoke: 
"May I have your attention, please.'' Now the cro~d knew; They cheered wildly.· · "This is Officer' Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State 

Police. ·. }' 
Many people or things are proclaimed traditions at Notre Dame, but every fan in the stadium· during a home game waits ·for that one tinie out in the third quarter when Tim McCarthy will caution the fans that "only one· road 'hog is needed to cause hamburger all over the highway,"· or whatever; and thereby warn 
.everyone_. to driye ·home safely. 1973 was McCarthy's 13th season as the_ safety jester ·of· .the Indiana State Police.. _ _ 
Where does McCarthy get his jokes? At first he in"­herited them. Officer Len Baldy of the Chicago Police Department used .the sa:rp.e kind of gimmick when he flew the traffic · copter and broadcasted rush hour re­ports for _WGN radio. Baldy gave McCarthy some of his jokes. when .the state trooper· took over the job of announcements. _at the Notre Dame . games. Shortly. after that, Officer Baldy died in a helicopter crash. 
''I first started. the Notre Dame assignment with two games left to the season. Those first two tries, ·I did just· a straight safety announcement. They· were disasters." McCarthy s~id. . 
"Who yvould want to, listen to a cop telling them to drive safely? Besides," he kids, "most of them are · drunk anyway. So ~ith the start of the next season·, 
-· I began to .use some of the jokes Len gave me and they went over really well." . · _ Since then, McCarthy has written some of the jokes · himself, while otners have· been sent in by the fans. 
"And some of those, I wouldn't dare_use," he coµiments. 
Officer McCarthy's celebrity· days didn't start in the Notre Dame stadium. Back iri 1957, he began carrying a tape recorder in his patrol car. He would record the conversations he had with apprehended speeders and drunk drivers. These tapes were then aired over WGN radio on a program called "SignallO.". 
"-When we started Signal 10; 1 thought it would run about six months or so; But· I guess they finally stopped ·broadcasting: -reruns in 1971," McCarthy re­members.' · . . 
"The idea of the program was just · to show . how ridiculous. the.. reasons -for traffic violations really were; No orie ever knew that they were being ·taped and we always· kept anonymity in fact. I suppose in this day, we could get into legal problems with our hidden ·tape. recorders,"· McCarthy says; 
His conversations with traffic violators won'· for WGN the Alfred P.: Sloan Award for public safety broadcasting. 
While McCarthy is in the pressbox during the game, 30 of his state police colleagues; along with close to 70 other · city and·· county police are stationed ·on the streets and roads • around campus, · ushering the thou­sands of cars and buses-in· and out of the game. Ac­cording to McCarthy; they carry the real burden of traffic safety. 
"Notre Dame is really in an ideal location for an athletic event with the toll road so near by," McCarthy says. "Before we had the toll road, some people would have to wait until 6 or 7 p.m. before they could leave 
-for home." .··· ·. _ 
The Notre Dame.home games are a real job for the state police. They regard the football games as the biggest events of the year for Indiaria._. · 
. .. ; Back at Jhe Keenan pep rally, celebrity Mc-· earthy is entertaining the fans with stories of past · · Southern _Cal games, and· predicting_· the results -of the 
coming contest. . . . He concludes with comments on the passing of an­other· ND football tradition: 
"I'd like to-:say that I reg~et the dis_appearance ~f the Knaked Klunker, He will be missed-at Notre Dame, especially by us in the pressbox; We had such 'a great 
-view!" · 


33 


Al Samuel /or the touchdown. 
The Irish were definitely thinking turkey and not 
falcon on Thanksgiving Day, as Notre Dame met Air 
Force Academy looking to extend their . four-game 
winning streak. The Falcons were hopefully, mostly be­
cause of their dangerously a_ccurate quarterback Rich 
Haynie, but, nonetheless, because.-of._backs Chris Milo­
dragovich, Mike Mark and.Bill Berry. Air-Force knew 
exactly who they were challenging, as Air Eorce scout 
Terry Isaacson warned: · 
"Notre Dame is better than they werea year ago. 
Their backs ·are big· and powerful. and they like to es­
tablish the running game. Tom Clements may. be the 
best quarterback we'll face this year_ and complements 
the running game with his passing. He is a do-every­
thing kind .of quarterback. Defensively, they are among 
the best in the country. Mike Townsend at safety and 
Greg Collins at middle linebacker have both been out­
standing.. They are very sound in all departments· and 
have no significant weaknesses. They,are the l:iest team . we'll face this year.'' 

For the most part, the Irish were dreaming ahead. They had captured all three of the previous Notre Dame-Air Force contests by hapdy scores, and they weren't looking for a struggle from the Thanksgiving 
·• dinner bird; The silver platter came with the bird, too, as the Falcons handed the Irish four tallies in the first quarter, coasting to an impressive 48-15 victory. ·. It was a fitting victory dedication to. Frank Leahy, the great former coach who had died during the sum­mer. Frank Leahy Jr. presided over the pregame flag­raising ceremonies and Coach Leahy's family, including his widow, Florence, attended the game and the cere­mony, as Fr. Hesburgh delivered a short memorial speech. The Irish proved to be worthy followers of the Leahy creed, as they quickly and fatally converted four Falcon turnovers into Irish scores. _The Falconswon the toss, but that was as far as they.got; on the third play from scrimmage Haynie passed .to his far end Farr for 24 yards, but Townsend jarred Farr and the ball, re­covering the fumble at the ND 46.'. Clements mixed his attack on the next series, throw~ ing a 10-yarder to Penick. to loosen the Falcon defense. Bullock and Best went at .it again,· this time on the ground, slugging out .24 yards in 4 carries. Clements · capped this initial scoring drive with a 14-yard toss to Casper, who stepped over for the tally.. -• · Two plays later, Jim Stock caught Haynie napping with the ball as he chased the Air Force quarterback 10 yards before forcing.the fumble .. Stock recovered the bobble, giving the Irish a first and ten from _the .Air Force 11. Best was held for no gain on the first essay, · buf the Falcons were called for a face-mask violation. Fi:om the six, Penick sprinted around left end for the second Irish touchdown in less than 5 minutes. · The Falcons held onto the ball a little bit longer this time, punting after they had failed to move from their · own 17-yard line. From the 46 of Air Force, Clements came back to do what he knows best. Casper· grabbed a Clements tqss for 13 before the potent backfield carved out the remaining 33 yards in seven plays, upping the score to 21-0 with 4:21to play.· ­
. Greg Collins (50), Dr_ew Mahalic (45), Sherm Smith(55J;GaryP,otempa.(40),andLutherBradley (90).:. 


-------------AirForce--­
Four minutes was enough to score again, or so thought Ross Browner, who hit the Falcon back Mark for another Air Force fumble. After Demmerle stepped out of the end zone attempting to snare a Clements pass, the spunky junior came right back with an iden­tical pass for 23 yards to the Falcon six. _Clements and Penick then hit the line for two and the remaining four as the Irish raced to a 28-0 lead before the end of the first quarter. . 
"Giving Notre Dame a four-touchdown lead was too much of a handicap," Coach Martin of the Falcons later stressed. "They're too powerful to give them that much. Concerning those costly fumbles; maybe we ·were · a little uptight, perhaps a little too tense." 
The Falcons regained thefr composure, though, as Hayriie led them in an 87~ya.rd scoring drive, highlighted by a fine 43-yard ·run by Berry. Stock and Bradley finally hauled him down, but the Falcons had enough momentum to cross the goal line after 1:28, making the score 28-6. ,Lawscm's kick went wide, but Haynie's passes of 18 and 21 yards proved that the Irish had their hands full; 
Best caused-·a little excitement of his ciwn and set up a field g·oal by breaking over right end for 69 yards. A fifteen-yard penalty for spiking the baH moved the Irish back to· first and twenty-five, a disadvantage too great to overcome. With a fourth ·an·d seventeen, Do: herty kicked a36-yard field goal to make the score 31-6. 
The first~half statistics showed the Irish in com­mand with 213 yards on the ground, 304 yards total offense: compared· to the• Falcons' • 62 · yards on the ground, 184 . total offense yards.. 
The Falcons took to the air after the intermission completing twice for 23 yards and setting up a 51-yard field goal by Lawson, the longest completion of his career.·· Play was inconclusive for the rest·of_the quarter until Lawson attempted·another field goal, this one a 62-yard :attempt.. The Irish began the drive from their own 20; moving consistently to the Air Force 25 at the end of. the quarter. Before the :period ended· Hunter broke over right end for 17 and Bullock drove for 14, setting up.a first and ten at the Falcon 25. 
. The fourth period began with a Diminick bull of 3 to _the 22, and a Brown completion to Demmerle for the remainder and the score at 14:21. Thomas kickf:d the extra point to make.the ·score 41-9, Notre Darrie. -The offense returned to the:field by virtue of a Collins fumble recovery to score from the Air Force 22, this time with 
. Frank Allocco at the helm..Samuels~cut for .7, while Goodman and Parise~combined for five.-. Goodman took a handoff from the ten for.,five more, and Samuels capped the drive·with a,left end scamper. With 9:12Jeft in the game, Notre Dame had built up :their lead to 48-9.. . The game held one·more turnover; but this time it was the Falcons who capitalized.· Deep.within Air Force t~rritory, the. Falcon safe_ty Collins picked off a Brown 
FEBRUARY 1, 1974 . 
aerial on the 14-ya;d line. Worden came in to call the Falcon. signals, putting together impressive runs of 18, 14, 9 and 7 yards spaced around a 13-yard pass for the score. The impressive 86-yard drive in 8 plays.was too 
little  too  late,  though,  as  the  Falcons_. were . soon  
grounded for good, 48-15.  
Though the Irish ­thoroughly  outran  the  Falcons  

414 yards to 114, Air Force found the airways a bit more to their liking, with 202 yards passing compared . to the Irish total of 113. ·The totals of 527 and· 316 still put the Irish far ahead,.as the final score indicated. The first noncapacity crowd since 1965 watched as 14 Irish backs ran with the ball in 70 attempts, averaging slight­ly under six· yards per carry. 
"With a. 28:0 lead, we might have had a tendency to lose our concentration,'' said Ara concerning the tre-: mendous first quarter compared to the rest of the game. "That's-very human. . . . . . 
"The· wind was. a great factor: With the exception of the . final touchdown .against our reserves, . all the scores came.at the north end of the field with the.wind behind the scoring team. . . . _ 
"Again I was very pleased with our defense.. Both Ross Browner and Jim Stock forced early fumblesto·set up. touchdowns for. us.. Browner . and Luther Bradley have been exceptionaUreshmeri and.have played better than I had ever anticipated at the beginning of the year. These two boys appear to have been made for thefr r~ spective positions. . . . . . 
"This team has as fine a team leadership aiid team unity as i have coached. They have a willingness to sac­rifice _to achieve a team goat Dave Casper, Mike Town­send. and· Frank. Pomarico have given this team out­standing leadership_and a blend of experience to go_with 
our youth." . . . 

Fra~k Leahy of Notre Dame, whose record of four national championships in seven seasons has never been matched in collegiate football, would be impatient with this lad today. . The Coach would be shaking his head, admonishing before lightning bolted from the heavens: "David Condon! Oh, David Condon, how can you ever face your good Catholic parents again? That fine father and mother who sacrificed to send you to Our Lady's school. Oh, lad, 0000000, fad, have you no regard for your obligations to Notre Dame? You'll burn in hell !oz:, this, lad." · 
Yes that's exactly how The Coach would be clucking this m;lancholy morning· that . finds ·me shockingly ·unprepared for a sad assignment. _ 
To The Coach unpreparedness was the eighth capital 
si~. Once, humbly oversimplifying an explanation for 
his great success, Coach Leahy said: ;, In my opinion, 
no football teams were ever better prepared physically 
or mentally than our squads at Notre Dame." 
For Frank Leahy, there was no excuse for not being 
prepared. The Coach's life was spent in ·preparation. 
First there was preparation to gain success and 
to enjoy it with dignity. Then, preparation to endure_ 
with the same dignity the tortures of lingering illnesses. 
Always, and ultimately,_ there was preparatio? for· 
death. · · · ' · · Frank Leahy expected no less from other Notre Dame men. But this hour finds me" unprepared to wrest the emotions and assemble the words.adequate to tell the influence exerted on so many lives by this brave man being buried today. _ . . Coach, your death was not _unexpected'. But_ none of us really, deeply,was prepared for the shock. Not the Reisman winners, not the All-Americans, not even the scrubs on your poorest (4~4-1) team._ . . · : . 
Yes Coach today I'm unprepared, not quite up to 
, ' . .. -. . . ' -~ . . 
a chore none of the other lads envy. . . 
So what do you want_me to do, put the_ typewriter under my arm and lug it around for a week? Or do you want us to forget the afternoon that John Lattner fumbled five times against, if memory serves, the Michigan State aggregation? 
. That day you kept mumbling: "Jonathan Lattner, 
Ooooooli,' Jonathan Lattner. How could-you do that 
to.Our Lady?" . _ 
. Then you gave John Lattner the football (you 
always were speaking of the football, like "how_ far .. 
can you pass the football," and "how far did we advance 
the football," and "how far does.Purdue punt the foot­
ball"), yes, you gave John Ladner the football and 
made John carry it with him for a week. John carried ·the football to breakfast, to bed. He had to-it was 
taped to him. And'he won the_Heisman trophy~ . 
You exa~ted some memorable penalties whenever 
your lads violated your code,· qoach. At this mome_nt 
I can recall only once when you admitted your wrath 
might have been too hasty. 
It was in the scoreless tie with' Army in 1946, as . they tell it, and Bob Livingstone missed a tackle per­mitting Doc Blanchard or Glenn Davis to ramble for a good gain. · 
36 



In Memoriam 

On the bench, John L_ujack was emotionally keyed up and shouted: "C?_h, Bob Livingstone, you son of a bit ..." 
You turned, Coach, and said piercingly: "Another sacrilegious outburst like that, Jonathan Lujack, and you will be disassociated with ourfine CatholicUni-. versity." 
The very next play, Livingstone missed another tackle, and you said to the bench:_ "Lads, Jonathan· Lujack was right about Robert Livingstone.". 
The Georgia Tech game of '53, Coach. The fads were crying as you were carried from._ the dressing room at halftime on a stretcher after an apparent heart attack. Father Joyce remembered to administer the last sacraments, and Joe McArdle remembered to take charge of the team. 
. Joe even remembered to improvise a defense for, Tech's "belly series.":But Joe forgot your rule against photographers in the dressing· room, and let them take pictures of Lattner. · 
That evening, when no one knew if you'dlive or die, McArdle fearfully went to St. Joseph's Hospital. You were a mighty sick man, but you snapped: "What . the hell happened with_.that belly series, Joe? ... What about that officiating? ... Why the hell did you Jet 'em in the dressing room to take,Lattner's picture?" 
Just the other night, Coach, we.were with Chuck Tanner in the White Sox dressing room, and talked; about the Frank Leahy Awards dinner. Tanner said: . 
"I'm bronzing the telegram from Leahy; the one . telling me I was a,winner. And the greatest thrill of my life came when you Notre Dame people were talking 
. to. Leahy on the telephone, and he asked to talk to 
me. "Imagine Leahy asking to talk to me?" Then, Tanner said, ''I've heard that Leahy always 
··set goals. I guess I· was sort of that way. ·Twenty years ago. I· was offered four times my minor league --baseball salary to become a public relations official -· with Coke. But I told them no, I had one goal in life­. -, to make baseball's major leagues. I guess Leahy would have done it that way, too." . I suppose, Coach, I should have told Tanner about 
· one of our recent visits, when I said you had achieved all your goals in life. You smiled: "Not quite yet, . ·. David, I have the final goal ... to be happy with my Go~•• .. Well, Coach, Thursday you made H.-David R.. Co7:don '45. Reprinted courtesy of the Chicago Tribune. 

Go quietly:· When Elmer Layden came back to Notre Da_me in 1934:_as head coach, a news release said: . "Now the most silent of the Horsemen is back at Notre Dame, having been recalled ... to carcy .on a position vacated by his beloved teacher, Knute Rockne." 
Late in his.semi-autobiographical book "It Was a. Different Game," Layden wrote, "All ot' us have pet phrases.that we have fallen into saying ..One of mine. has been 'Go qui~tly.' " . . . . .. 
.Elmer broughtit up late in his book because he . wanted to describe how he.left football after }ust about 30 .years of his._life as a_ player-high school, college and a few games _as a pr~as a coach and as. com­missioner of"the NFL. You never heard Elmer rap the 
game;. nor its· people. ' . . . . . . . . . . If he thought it unfair that he was more or less forced out of the NFL in the· prime of _life, he didn't say iL-He left quietly; .Nor in the_ remaining years _ of his Ufe; he didn't kriock other coaches, other teams·. or the people he worked with. He was not silent, of course, because' he would express'·an opinion. . · Sometimes; it was 'a s·elf~depreciating. type of thing He'd:tell you-'-jokingly-how good the Horsemen really. were,-but in_ the next breath, he'd insistthat today's .. : play_ers were iriflriit~ly better. ''But .we would still play today," he'd 'say with· a· wink or. a grin. ~· ' · . :ri'there was one trait thaf-Layden had in abun­dance, it was integrity. arid a devotion to truth, a. couple of qualities thatseem to be lacking in many places today: Like other No'tre" Dame-coaches, before and . since; Elnier was aware that officials in other areas....:::.. particularly on the West Coast-do not always seem to interpret the rules in a constant fashion. And ironically,· this "quiet" man had the courage of his convictions on a December day in the Los Angeles Coliseum. Late in the game FJth,Notre Dame leading, 10-6, Southern California mounted a yard-consuming rally on a slick passing attack. 
-. . -_ . . , 

FEBRUARY.1, 1974 -
Downfield the Trojans marched, but only seconds were left. But with time for a couple of plays left, a long pass fell incomplete, only to have an official (from the West Coast) signal interference on Bernie Crim­mins, a sophomore fullback who was defending. 
Layden was outraged at what he thought was a bad call and when the game ended-and the Irish won­seconds later, he charged across the field, challenged the official and anyone who would listen. He told the late Howard Jones (who like Layden was coaching in his last game though neither knew it) how bad it was, he pursued his. claim against Willis Hunter, the Trojan athletic director, and even protested ·to Rufus Von Kleinsmidt, the dignified chancellor of USC. 
"When I had let off enough steam," Elmer recalled much later, "I went into the dressing rooms and told Crimmins 'that was an awful call, Bernie,. but t;tiose 
. things happen.' ."But Crimmins looked me in the ey~ and said, 'Coach,· I pushed him!' 
"Oh, my Lord, I thought to myself._ What will hap­pen? Maybe they'll even call off the series because of the.way I acted. 
"So I rushed up the tunnel toward the street (Exposition Blvd.) and as I got to the street, the chancellor's car was pulling away. I ran and grabbed : it, opened the back door and in the midst of traffic, apologized to Von Kleinsmidt, telling him how wrong I had been. And-then I sought out Hunter, and Jones, and: then the official. 
"By the time I had made that trip, the players were ready to go to the hotel. And all I .can think of, even today, is 'that dang Crimmins.'" Fe:w have made such an impression on life as Elmer Layden, who left us with _his own legacy: . "Go quietly.".. Bless you, old Notre Dame.friend!-Joseph A. Doyle '49: :Reprinted courtesy of The South Bend Tribune. . 

At this point, the only thing separating the Irish from their first• undefeated, u·ntied regular season in. 24 years was Miami; and some of the players were con­cerned. Junior quarterback Tom Clements mused: 'c'We still have another game to play before the Sugar Bowl, and that's the: game I'm· thinking about right now. 
. We'll have some added difficulties playing a.t night and on poly-turf; so I'm concerned with Miami." · 
Ara had a special interest in this game, as a victory .would give him his first unblemished season at ND. He was on the verge of realizing this goal -iri 1964 when the 9~0 Irish squared off against Southern Cal. Just as ,was to· happen again in 1970 against the same team, the Trojans prevailed. -This year the Trojans were just a memory, and a happy one. There remained nothing 
·but Miami. ­Yet, Miami posed rio small problem to the Irish. The Hurricane defense had held the University of Florida 
· without a first down for over 42 minutes the week be­fore, and the passing duo of Carney and Sweeting, which had almost beat the Irish in '72, was back again. 
The Orange Bowl itself held ·no sweet memories for 
the Irish as exactly eleven months before,• they had re­. ceived athrashing there at the hands of Nebraska. --"It's funny," · said Parseghian, "how fate has a 
way of working things out. .We were embarrassed in our last two games last year, by Southern Cal out there, and by Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. This year we've erased one of those memories already. We did it when we beat Southern Cal here, in our own stadium. Now we have a chance to erase the other. And we have a chance to do it in the Orange Bowl. ­
"Miami· is an excellent team," continued Parseghian. "Just look at their record. They beat Texas, they very nearly beat Oklahoma, ~nd in that game against Ala­bama (a 43-13 Tide victory) they were close until a couple of long punt returns and ·a fumble on their 10 put 
-the game away. . . _ _ -''They're dangerous/ Ara concluded, "and we're well aware that we're going to _have our hands full." 
. Ara might have been worried before the start ofthe game; but once ·the Irish got rolling,--there ·was no doubt that they had learned well their mentor's· ad­monishments..The Irish captured their third-shutout of the season, racking up 574 yards in total offense en.route 
to a 44-0rout of the H~rricanes. . . -. . . . -. . 

· drive, though he only ran onc~_himself, gaining eight on the keeper. . 
After Miami missed a 27-yard field goal attempt, their closest scoring opportunity .of the evening, the Irish began a. drive which ended in the second quarter with another tally. This march also was limited to the ground, as Best scampered for 15, followed by moderate but consistent drives from the entire backfield.· With 
1:55 elapsed in 1 the second ·quarter, the score stood 13-0 as Thomas missed the PAT, wide to the left. 
On the next play, Carney passed to his end August, who fumbled to Lopiensk( at the Miami 49. Clements took advantage of the run-conscious Miami_ defense to drill passes of 35 and 21 yards to Casper and Demmerle, the latter stepping over for the score at 11:15. Clem­ents-ran for the· conversion, balancing the score at 21-0. 
The Irish completed the first half scoring with an­other drive, this one full oflong gainers. Best cut right for ten, followed by Bullock for fourteen. Bullock_re­versed dirEiction and rari left for fourteen .more to the Miami 42, where Penick broke loose for 20: The drive broke down at this point, but Thomas; field goal attempt from the 47 was good, making the score 24-0. . . . 
The defense had its moments, too; throwing-Carney for sixteen yards before the end 'of.the:first.half. Half­time statistics showed the Irishwith a healthy lead of 291 yards, compared with 'Miami's mark of'83. Both Bullock and Best had totals of over_ 70 yards each, lead­ing an impressive list of ·running statisUcs. · ­
The Irish contintiedto _dominate 6ri the ground ·as the second half began. Though no gain was very· sub­stantial in itself, the Irish inoved 8o·yardsin 13 plays, capped bya<l.5-yard Clements to Deinmerle'pass fo_r ~he 
·tally. -... .•. . . . . . . . . . _ . "· 
With a fourth-and-one situation, Miami gambled and attempted a ruri. However, the Irish · defense wasn't cooperative·and pushed Miami back two yards t6 their own 46. From:there it tookCleinents--eighfplays fo di­rect the Irish scoring cha~ge. Agairi Clements went to 
-· the air; 15· yards t:o Best and 7 to Demmerle _for the touchdown. With' 4:59 left in: the third quarter_ the score grew tci·38~0. . _. ·. . _ · The.. final Irish scoring' of _the evening· came on ·a Cliff Brown drive that spanned the·. two final quarters. A Parise run of.15 and a Brown to Townsend pass for 
.. 28 highlighted. the five-play drive, -~?ishing 't:he score 
_Notre Dame scored-on their first possession, ·driving. at 44-0. . . -.. · . . -. -· . --. 82 yards in 11 plays, highlighted by a Best ruri of 40 _ The third strin'g laid:claimto one more. to~chdown;, yards. Clements stuck entirely to the ground inthis but they couldn't -seem. to get the. referees to agree. . 
, , • • ' , • ~ : 


-----------------Miami---­

After. a Collins interception at the 50 and a Parise run of.29, Goodman·.i:,1unged towards the goal line, only t6 be stopped inches short of the white.< Parise · spanned .the. distance but the-play: was ·called back .because of ·mutually nullify.ing fouls.= Again Parise went over, but ·. this time the Irish were guilty of illegal procedure. Then .Townsend seemed to have the Brown pass in the end 'zone, but he.dropped .the ~all and with it; Irish ~ances 
for another score. · · · · 

Ten runners shared the 477 rushing yards and, though· the· Hurricanes outdistanced the Irish in the air .(130-126), ·· the total -offensive figures· (574-168). left little doubt· as to who controlled ·the game. · . ··· ' :-:: ···The tekrn recognized the importance of this game-all along," said Ara. •iwe had no trouble.getting them up. We respecteci'Miariii and were aware of the elusive 
,, ' ·•. ·..
al flo
go o _ -0.. . _ .. Coach Elliott -of the ·Hurricanes gave Notre Dame 

the credit-it deserved, but no more. "They beat us to death quite· badly, and are one of the great teams in the country. But I would not like to rate the teams we have played this year. Alabama and Notre Dame will 
· have to ·decide for themselves." .. . By virtue of victory over Miami and the.fortunate 10-10 Michigan-Ohio ·state tie, the 'rrish found t_hem­
. selves in third place with two first-place votes in. the :AP poll. ·.The Footbalz' News named Ara Cciach of the · Year and Mike Townsend, Dave Casper and Greg Col­lins received· individual honors from the press associa­tions. Though the honors were beginning to flow in, · the team didn't relax; for the most important game of the entire season· was still ahead of them. : . "How .does.it feel?" asked Brian Doherty after the 
· Miamivictory. "It feels like the end of four long wait­ing years. It feels like the top of the world. And ·<>rily one thing could possibly beat this:....:.. 11~0." ­
.-:•;'. 
-. . . 
F'EBRUARY i; 19_74 

-
Notre· Dame· Football Statistics·/Teri ~Games 
SCORING .BY QUARTERS TEAM• SCORING ND Opp
Notre. Dame .:.•......••..••..•. , ...... . 78 120 79 81 -358. 

Total Points ...•...•...........••••• ·.. : ................................. .. 358 66
.9pponenls ••.........•.•.••............• 10 16 13 27-66 
Average ........................... : ..........•.. ·........................ . 35.8 6.6 Touchdowns ••••••••........••••••.• ·••••••.••.•·• · ••••••..••...••••••••• 47 8
TEAM STATISTICS.· 
35 3
ND Opp. 
.· ~~ ;:ss~:~: :::::::" ::: :: : . :::::::: ::· ::::::::::::::::::::::::: . 11 . 4

. Total Offense ...................................................... :. 4614 2012 Total Plays ...... · ..•.•......•........••.•...... · .............. ·c 815 615 
by return •..•..........•....•.•..........•••..•.......•...•• · ..... . 1 1 by· recovery ....................................................... . 0 0
Yards Per Play ............................................. . 5.7 3,3 

461. Field Goals (Made•Att.) •••; .••••..•....••••••• ,~••...•.••••••• 9-18 4.9
Yards Per Game •••;••••••••••••••••••••.••••••••••••••••..'. 201 

Safeties •......••••••••••..•.••.•••••••••••..•••••• ··••• ·•••.•.••...••• · ••••• :2 0 Net Yards Rushing ............................................... . 3502 824 
PAT -Kick ..................... · ......................................... . 43 6 PAT-Run ............................................................... . 1 
·o
Attempts ................................................·.•..• 673 390 Yards Per Rush ............................................. . 5,2 2.1 

PAT-Pass .................................. , .......................... . 0 0 
350 . 82.4
Yards Per Game ·········-------­

INDIVIDUAL SCORING 
Net Yards Passing ............................................... . 1112 1188 G TD Kick R-PA FG TP Attempts ..................................................... . 142 225 Thomas ............... . 10 43-45 9.1a 70 Completions .: ...................... , .. , •••.•..•..• : ......... . 75 88 Bullock ............... . 10 11 66 Completion Percent.·····--·-·_____ .528 .391 Penick ..... , .•.••••••••• 10 7 42 
7 20 Demmerle ••.••••••••• 10 5 30
Hod Intercepted ·----··························· 

Touchdown Passes .. : ........................... : ........ . 11 4 Clements ............. . 10 4 26 Yard·s Per Comp......................, ..... , ......: ...... . 14.8 13,5 Casper ........... ; ... . 10 4 24 Yards Per Attempt ............. : ......................... . 7.8 5.3 Best .••...........••.••.•• 10 3 18 ·Yards Per Game· ••••• 111 119 Hunter ................... · 10 3 18 Interceptions Made 20 7 Samuel ·...••••••••••••• 8 2 12 · Yards· Returned .......:·........... :.: ..................... . .178 55 Brown ................... 7 2 12 Diminick ............. . 10 I 6 Punt Return Yards ....................... : ................... : ... . 269 60 Allocco .............. .. 5 1 6 
29 10

Number of Returns ______ Goodman ••.•••••,.:. 9 1 6 
Average Return ...............................___ 9.4 .6.0 W. Townsend •••••• 7 1 6 Parise ................. . 5 1 6 Kickoff Return Yds................................................. 454 851 Simon · ................. . 7 1 6 
Number of Returns ....................................... . 19 .46 Stock ••.•.......••••. : ••• 
10 ·salety-1 2 

23.9 18.5 Browner ............... . 10 Safety-1 2
Average Return ······---,·······················
Total Return Yds'. •••...•.. , . .-•••••; •••••..•.•.• : .......... . 901 966 

Notre Dame ....... . 10 · · 47 . 43•46 2 ·:I. 9.1a 358 Opponents 10 8 6·8 0 0 4.9 66
Average Punt ....................................................... . 42.4 38.1 . No. Punts ................................................... . 41 .78 

PASSING
1738 2972· -Had Blocked .••••• ;,;: •••.•.•. , ....... ____ ·o 1 G· No•. Comp; Pct.' Int. '.Yds. :,TD Clements ........ : .. ~ •......• 10 113 60 .53L 6 • 882 . 8 
Penalties Against .......... , .......... : ........................... . 54 28 

Yards Punting ·········---""-----. . . 
Brown ............•..........• 7 28 14 .500 1 ··. 228 3 . Yards Penalized ..••...•...•..;'.••.•...•••.....• · .. : ••.••.... 567 259 
Allocco ..................... . 5 I 1 1.000 0 2 0 Fumbles (lost) ......:;~······---···........................:~~---~-:. ·38 (23) 34 I19) 
Notre· Dome .:•••••;:.... : . 10 142 C75 · ;528 7 1112 . 11 Opponents .•.•.•.......... 10 225. '·ea· .391 · 20 1188 . 4. 
_\rota( First. Downs ..'.... :: .............. : ............. ; ....... .-•.. :. 244· 119 by rushing ........... · ......•..•.•.•.•• · ..................... .' 181 54 57 51 
RUSHING G TC,. Yds, :·Avg, TD long
~~. ::~~~t; .. :···--............................"..... . 
6 14 
·10 162 "752' ·4.6· 10 32

Bullock ·······---­
Best ..............·· .............. · ·· 10 118 700 5.9 '3 69
INDIVIDUAL TOTAL. OFFENSE LEADERS Plays Yards· Avg. 

Penick ............................. . 10 102 586 .· 5.7. 7 85 Clements .............. : ........•• :.: .. .-•....•..• 
.149 1242. . 8.3 
Clements ................... : ..... . 10 89 360 4.0 4 30 Sam~e1.--· ...... · ·..•. ·.•·.·•••..• 8. '·33. . 221.' 6.7 2: 42
Bullock ................-• .............-.-· •.•••••• 162 752 4.6 
: . ·1

Best ••••::•••.•••• _.__. _·-----118 700'. 5.9 ·Parise : ... ~.·---"--........ . :5 · 31 .. ·.164: 5.3 29.: Hunter ; ..................... ; .... . . 10 32 . 150 .· 4.7 ·: 3 22 
RESULTS .••• Won 10, L~st 0, Tied 0 

Brown ................... : ......... . 8 22 '• . 134, ,6;1 2 38 Diminick •...•.......•........•...• 9 19 121 6.4 ·: ': I ·44 
ND . Opp Attendance Kornmari .,•• ;••: .•.•• ::•••••••:.... . .5,/. 21 ' · 94 4;5 .'0 19 

44. Northwestern· o:.--y~ .................................... 59,075 (c) 

Allocco·••••••: .................... . 5 16 86 5.4 1 17 
20 Purdue 7 69,391 (c)

···················----Goodman ....................... . 9 21 86 4.1 1 10 
14 Michigan State I0 -59,075 (c) 

Simon ............................. . 7 2 24 12,0 0 33 
28 Rice 0 50,000 

Gbmbone ....................... . I 1 8 8,0 0 8 
62 Army 3 ·.. 42,503 (c) 1 I 7 7.0 0 7

Kilott ··········----­
23 Southern Cal 14 59,075 (c) 

Weiler ........................... . 1 I 4 4.0 0 4 
44 Navy 7 59,075 (c)

----..···•········ W. Townsend ................. . 1 1 4 4.0 0 4 
31 · Pittsburgh 10 56,593 (c) 

Hi,11 ............................ ·•••• I 1 1 1.0 0 1 
48 Air Force 15 57,236 44 Miami 0 42,968 Notre Dame ...........:......., 10 673 3502 5.2 35 85 Dec. 31 Alabama (Sugar Bowl) Oppo.nents ·10 390 824 2.1 3 65 
PASS RECEIVING TEAM DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 

·G PC Yds. Avg. TD Long HIGH LOW Demmerle ........•....•......:..... 10 26 . 404 15.5 5 30 Casper ..•........................... 10 19 317 16.7 4 35 Plays 74, Pillsburgh 50, Michigan Stale Goodman· .........................• 9 4 84 · 21.0 0 28 First Downs 19, Pillsburgh•Air Force 6, Michigan Stale Bullock ................•............. 10 8 83 10.4 1 25 Yards Rushing 266, Pillsburgh 9, Army 
W. Townsend ..•............•.... 7 4 68 17.0 1 28 Yards Passing 202, Air Force 57, Michigan Stale Best .....' ..........•..........; ..... 10 4 48 12.0 0 17 Total Yards 383, Pillsburgh 81, Army Kornman ............:............... 5 1 35 35.0 0 35 Passes Allempled 37, Air Force 16, Pillsburgh Diminick ...............•........~ .. . 9 2 21 10.5 0 14 Passes Completed 15, Air Force 4, Michigan Stale Penick ..•....•...•...........•......•. 10 2 16 8.0 0 10 Passes Broken Up 9, Rice 2, Michigan Stale Weber .............................. 9 1 11 11.0 0 11 Passes Intercepted 3, Army•Pillsburgh 
I, N'wesl'n-AF Fumbles Recovered 4, Air Force•Pillsburgh I, Michigan Stale
Samuel 8 1 11 11.0 0 11 

Hunter 10 2 12. 6.0 0 7 Tackles for Loss (No.) 12, Army 4, Southern Cal Weiler Tackles for Loss (Yds.) 66, Army 14, Michigan Stale
1 1 2 2.0 0 2 
Notre Dame ..•................... : 10 75 _1112 14.8 -11 35 

TEAM OFFENSIVE STATISTICS Opponents .........•.•............ 10 88 1188 13.8 .4 53 
HIGH LOW 

RETURNS. Total First Downs 32, Air Force 17, Mich. Sl.•Pill. 
Interceptions Punts · Kickoffs by rushing 25, Air Force 11, Michigan Stale Zanol ........' ................-·......·.:..... . 2.20 20•149 by passing I0, Rice 2, Pillsburgh Goodman .....;..........:...:.~....•....•..• 5:113 Plays 92, Rice 65, Pillsburgh Fine ............•.................... -.....•...• · 1-7 Rushing Plays 74, Army 57, Northwestern 
M. Townsen·d...................".:.........• 3.47 Yards Rushing 485, Army 164, Michigan Stale Rudnick ........................•...•......... 3.49 5-34 Most TD Rushing 6, Army 4, Michigan Stale Bradley .-....................•...............• 6•37 Passes Allempled 21, Air Force 4, Pillsburgh Diminick .............•...................•...• 8-181 Passes Comoleled 12, Northwestern 3, Pillsburgh Simon ..•.... : ......................•........• 4-86 Yards Passing 200, Northwestern 28, Pillsburgh Barne.II .• : .........•..........................•. 1.0 Most TD Passes 2, Army•Miami 0,-So. Cal•Purdue Bullock .......................................• 2-39. Passes Intercepted 2, Michigan St.-Purdue 0, 6 Teams 
Hunter Total Yards 593,Army · 287, Pillsburgh·
3-114 

Collins . -. . 3.25 · Fumbles 7, Navy-Miami 2, N'weslern•So. Cal
·················•·····················• 

Parker 1.0. Fumbles Lost 6, Navy 1, 5 Teams Penalties 8, Miami· 15, Purdue
Mehalic ..........., ......•..•...•......•..... I.Q 
Noire Dame ....-...................•...: ..•. 20•178 · 29•269 19-454 

RUSHING 
Opponents .......•.......................... 7.55 1 J.60 46•851 Player Longest Run Most Carries Best Day
DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 

·.TM -Tl•Yds. PBU. FR BK Best 69, Air Force 16, Purdue.Navy 125, Purdue-Air Force Collins .........:......•....'................. 133 11-58 1 2 0 Bullock 32, Pillsburgh 27, Pillsburgh 167, Pilisliurgh Potempa · ....: ....•. : .....................• · 75 7;41 0 1 0 Diminick 44, Northwestern 4, Northwestern-. 78, Northwestern Browner -.::..................~ .......-......• 68 15-104 1 2 1 Southern Cal Fanning · .. : ........•..•..........•.......... 61 12-76 0 1 0 Penick . 85, Southern Cal 14, Purdue 11 8, Southern Cal_ Mehalic ....................:'..;............ 59 1 • 1 2 1 0 Clements 30, Army 17, Rice 99, Rice· ­
S. Smith ...:.............•.::..............• 44 4-14 1 . 1 0 Rudnick .,.:...•........-;.....:............• · 43 1-17 10 0 0 PASSING Stock ...........•...........•................ -41 11·66 0 4 0 Niehaus ...................................• 35 3. I 2 0 0 0 All. Comp. Int. Yds. TD Barnell •.. ; ....'.::•.......................• 29 1-2 2 0
--6 Bradley .•.................................•-27 1-2 .11 1 0 Clements 18, Air Force 9, N'wesl'n 2, Purdue. 200, N'wesl'n 2, Army-
M. Townsend .......: ........•....•.•...• 23 Q.Q 6 3 0 N'wesl'n Miami Nosbusch ..............:....'..•...........• 21 -· 4.34 0 0 0 Hayduk ..........,..............•:: .......• 14 2·2 0 0 0 RECEIVING Fry -•.....••....•.•.•......••...••.....•.•...• 12 2-16 1 0 0 Parker ...........................•....:....: JO Q.Q 0 0 0 PC Yds. Play TD Lopienski ...:............., .....• : ....•...• · 9 Q.Q 1 2 0 Achterhof! .-.-..............: ...• .'.......' ..• 8 3.24 o· 0 0 Demmerle 4, Rice• 65, Air Force 30, Mich. St.-·2, Miami 
7_ 2-17 0 0 0 So. Cal Navy 
7 1.1 0 1 0 Casper 4, Army 70, Army -35, Miami 2, Army Naughton ......::..'...•....•..... : ......:-·· 5 1-2 0 0 0 
Sullivan ..-...........•......:......-........• 3 Q.Q 0 0 0 Parise .............................•.......• 2 Q.Q 0 0 0 

~r;::;:Jv···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 

longest Kickoff Return 74, Hunter (Navy) Zanol ..·:....................•.•.......... 6 0 1 0
Q.Q longest Interception •........• 47, M. Townsend (Mich. St.) 2 Q.Q 0 0 0 
Most Punts ................•.....•• 7, Doherty (Pillsburgh)
Goodman ·············"············:···· 

Tho.mas ........._. ...........:............._. 1 Q.Q 0 0 0 Best Punt Avg••..............••• 46.0, Doherty (Mich. St.) _ _ 
Q.Q FG Allempls .....:.............. 3;Thomas ·(Purdue, Mich. SI., So. Cal)
· Best ...-...............•.....................• 1 0 1 0 -Webb .......••.•................•.......... 6 1.1 I 0 0 
FG Made ........•.....·........•.•• 3, Thomas (So. Cal) . Sarb ...................••..........· ..... -3 0 0 0
Q.Q Most Tackles .......•.......-....• 21, Collins (Navy) 
Longest Punt Return ...•.....• 73, Simon (Army-TD•) Casper ...................................: .• 1 Q.Q o· 0 0 Brown ..................•..........:......, . .-•. 1 Q.Q_ ,o 0 · 0 INDIVIDUAL PUNTING Scales .................·.......• ...•.......• 1 Q.Q 0 0 0 G No. Yds, Avg. Long Sylvester_ .•...................•...•.....•.:. 0 Q.Q 0 1 0 B. Doherty .••.......••....•.•••..• 10 39 1664 42.7 66 Team ·.................-.•. : ......"......•... I Q.Q 0 0 0 Brantley •.: .........•........••..• I 2 74 37.0 38 
G. Smith .....• : •....................•..... I Q.Q 0 0 0 

_Notre Dame .........:...............•..~.  769  83-468  43  24  1  Noire  Dame  ....................  10  . 41  1738  42.4  66  
_Opponents ...........•....., .•.........•• :·  963  37.-170  25  22  0  Opponents  .............•........  10 •  78  2972  38.1  64  
FEBRUARY 1, 1974  41  

. 

Ln, 




oVew Orleans 


New Orleans has to be one· of the most enjoyable while, but soon the odds . became unbearable, and ·the party spots of the world. The $2 plus prices per: drink Irish fans settlE?d down to some serious-imbibing. ··· ···· notwithstanding, the festivity and music of Bourbon I asked one of the many policemen in the area if he 
Street and. the French Quarter. p_rovide the 'perfect anticipated any trouble. His reply was nonchalant.and atmosphere -for a party every .night. Add to this the low~key. Mardi Gras, _he said, was much more_ :dif.: suspense and pride involved in· the national collegiat~ flcult to control. Just· then -a barrage of quart cups football championship, and you· have one helluva week­complete__with beer came sailing over~our ·headsJnto end. the middle of the Tide fans .. It was only Friday night 
About 150 students joined· the same number of and I for one was. a bit·wary. alumni to take advantage of the Student Union/Alumni Association Sugar Bowl trip. :It seemed; at the time, Antoine's. for dinner, ·.Brennan's for breakfast and an excellent . method for.:alleviatingaHthe hassles of the Cafe du Mon:de for:baignets were the places to go; travel, hotel reservations and scheduling that so often . but since everybody did, there were usually· lines spoil a trip.: With visions of New Orleans already spin-stretching for blocks. The more popular establishments ning in our minds, we waited patiently about' an hour refused to. accept reservations, ·insuring ~i'large capac'... and a half for the train, Amtrak's Panama Limited,. to ity crowd every night, but also many.irritated visitors: begin ,boarding. No one thought much of the delay; Waits of two hours and more were common. .. after·an, there were about 700 cans of beer-waiting for We succeeded in finding a little cafe ·next to 'the old 
us. Commerce· building, just: outside .the.Quarter, ·that· not What began as an inconvenience developed into a only served excellent food .but also· had an incredibly . real hardship. "Thank God we don't play football, like charming atmosphere: My° loquacious. friend : prodded Amtrak runs trains" one very_ warm coed· exclaimed. _the proprietors· into ..declaring their allegiance to• the The heating that hadn't worked all night suddenly came Crimson Tide, arid then proceeded to:. convince therri on, full force, as -we were entering Louisiana and 80~ that the Irish couldn't lose. Though: they didn't believe degree temperatures. · Oddly enough, no. one seemed .!o us, I'm sure they found our persistence arimsing;. and . know how to turn it off. . . ., . . .. . . perhaps even recalled ifas tiie Fighting.Irish'exhib_iteci ·Later that evening, much later, we finally arrived at · the same ·determination on the· field the following ev~ the Branniff.PlaceHoteLAs.the extra:eight hours:on · ,-riing: ·.. -~-. .:.:-·. :: : · .· · · . · · :·_;·_.:·: the train had certainly a_dded to the gritty condition· of · · During.. the day, when most everyone. else, •was 
... th~ whole g~oup, tlie'i~~ediate drain on t~e·hotel's hot_·. '"sleeping, :we took ·advantage of-the inexpensive public.· I, 
·water supply· inust have been impressive. Much· r~ transportation (i5¢) to'discover·whaf else New _Orloons 
freshed and renewed,',we~all hit the Quarter... · --~ ,: _·: . had; to offer besides brew and ball. The saridy soil .I Unfortunately, ~1:dound that the Quarter.had.to be . necessities _aboveground burial,. ·and the-· cemeteries. t shared with the boisterous, crimsoned: rooters from . ··proved to'.; be an(·interesting paraileffo: the: histocy:of . . •,f 
. Alabama. Molly's and. Pat O'Brien's became the· head-. ec1rly America, s~ inucli,of which took place in the deep ·. · 
.. qwi.rter's.")or Irish: 'supporters, but Jhe 'Bariia' crowd . · South. Tlie City;.Park,:·complete with athletic facilities . , swelled .~o equal. numbers. just across the "Street.; . The . . . arid. Art Museum~: also_: fi_lled an: afternoon; .· as·'<;lid.·the Fight S~ng_and Irish_ -~ctory cheers prevailed 'for;: a '.(?l<:\ French' market:and:c;locks/;.. . :: .· ':<: ~-:;.:· :..:r;:;~::' 
. 42. :: '.THE_'SCHOLASTIC 
One afternoon, as we-were waiting for our lunch in a Quarter restaurant, we.happened to meet two resident businessmen who had also ventured into the Quarter for lunch. We had brought along our own bottle of wine, not wanting to pay the exorbitant prices for the restau­rant's beverages. While we waited for the meal, I at­tempted to open the wine; without a corkscrew, of course. The only way_to accomplish this feat is to force the cork down into the bottle. However, I did that so quickly that the wine exploded into my face, soaking my shirt and splattering close to one of the men sitting next to me.. Though he hadn't been touched, I felt I owed him an apology; after which we asked them why they chanced the Quarter for lunch on such a·. hectic day. The fellow whom I had missed with the wine replied, ,;to watch all the goofy people." "Well, we certainly didn't disappoint you," I had to admit. 
-Later on that evening, the Notre .Dame Marching Band led the thousands of cheering Irish fans lll:rough the French Quarter back to the Marriott Hotel for the rally and party. Even Howard Cosell made an ap­pearance on the balcony of the Royal Sonesta· Hotel as the parade passed beneath, and though he showed no. signs of partisanship, his wife was wearing a Notre Dame hat.· Of course-the crowd loved it. .. 
The day of the i.ime beganwith rather uncertain weather. The temperatures had been in the seventies for.most of our stay, but it seemedto be getting a little colder .. The sun tried desperately to appear, but the fast-moving clouds covered it most of the day. .-. 
Cafe du Monde had given way to theless crowde_d Patisserie Francaise next. to the Cathedral, ,and as :i: enjoyed . delicious . croissants, I . wondered·. what the ·Muses had in store for the· Irish. By then, the. Tide had been rolling in full strength, though_ the ·_outnumbered Irish never gave up the shouting battle. Now and then, both sides_. would be equally admonished by. a stray Oklahoma contingent, though they usually held their peace.... One Crimson rooter replied to their taunts, IIOklahoma isn't number. one; they'.re the best number 
two team money can, buy!" . . . . . 
.~-.-: . ; 



. Speaking of taunts, Ne~ Orlea:ns ·was the first place where I found ,''roo-:ull" to have two syllables. . 
The same traffic-blocking techniques went into effect later that . evening as students-and alumni boa_rded chartered busses to the game. The trip, which must normally take.about twenty minutes, to_ok more than twice as long, and though we boarded the bµsses at 5:30, I barely got to my seat before the game began. Tickets which had been selling for. as much as $100 in Tuscaloosa.the week before the game were,now to be_~ad for a buck, and. the sight of all those scalpers getting burned real bad seemed fitting recompense. for their 
pernicious intent. . . . .. .· . .. . . . . . . 
My seat happened to be in the.middle of a group of dedicated Southern sportswriters. I had absolutely no voice by gametime, but by the second half, I was jump­ing up and waving my armsevery time we happened. to click on an impressive play. They just looked at me kinda funny until after the game when ~ey started to look at me kinda strange.. 
By that time it was drizzling and the temperature had dropped 25 degrees, so -though it was Bourbon Street to celebrate, it was Irish Coffee instead of Hur­ricanes. ·But it really didn't matter. 
_ Our departure was set for four the next afternoon, so of course we didn't pull out of the station until well after seven., The heating refused to work at all, so that ice started forming on the. inside of one student car: Spirits were fagging just a bit until.the alumni saved the day with -their famous care-package run. Crackers, cheese, salami, peanut. butter, but more .importantly, Chivas Regal, Canadian Club and Gordon's began filing down the _aisles, as a hearty cheer went, up for the 
alumni.·. . .. -··-. ·_ __ . .__.· -_ 
·. -Much later, nine and a quarter hours to be exact; 
.we pulled into Union Station, only the.first leg of the 
journey for some. But here we parted; each ina differ-. 
ent ·direction, cold and tired. But beneath the chills, we 
were. all happy, for .eachof us carried: a bit oL the 
National Championship right there in our back pockets. 
,-tom gora . · 
43 
.... 

----Su_gar. BQwl, Al,1.barrta-·--__,..,----­
The Alabama-Notre Dame game would have been one of the biggest games of the;season if it had been for nothing. But considering it matched two undefeated, top-ranked teams vying for the,Sugar Bowl and,,the national championship, you have what some called the game of the century. 
The winner of this game would be the national 
champion, and each school knew exactly what -that 
meant. Alabama had three national championships to 
its credit, the last coming in '65, while the Irish had 
earned five, their last coming in '66. -.,, · ­
--Though the ._· teams were quite sirnilar in some 
aspects, their offensive techniques differed. Alabama, 
running out of.the Wishbone offense, often had to rely 
on its bench to wear down opponents; consequently, 
they won many games in the late stages. Notre Dame, 
on the other hand, used its powerful-first team to de­
_stroy its opponents very quickly inthe contest.-Against 
their one common opponent (Miami), · both teams 
played predictably.· The Tide seemed uncertain until a 
number of turnovers helped them increase the score 
while the Irish dominated the ·game from· the-very 
beginning. ­
Alabama had gone to moi:e · bowls ·than .any other 
college • in the country, but they went into the Sugar 
Bowl with afour-game Bowl l_osing streak, ·and Coach 
Bear Bryant was anticipating a change. Notre Dame 
had also lost_ its last -bowl game to national--. champs 
Nebraska in·the·orange Bowl Overall, Notre Dame 
had a 2-2 Bo'Yl record compared to-the Alabama mark 
of 12-11-3. -Under Coach Bryant, Alabama had attended 
15 straight-post-season bowls, making.them the "bowl­
ingest" college team in the country. 
The Sugar Bowl clash of the two teams was their 
first meeting, _though they. do have regular sea.son 
games scheduled for 1976 at South Bend and some time 
in the 80's for the '.return engagement. The Irish; in 
fact, have faced Southea·stern · Conference· competition 
just twice before, that being again'st Louisiana State. 
Notre Dame won the first encounter in South Bena, 
3-0, and the Tigers got even the following year in 
Baton· Rouge, 28-8. ­
· · Statistically ·. speaking, both Alabama and Notre 
Dame ranked high in regular season performance. The Irish .ranked fifth in total offense, but the Tide ranked · second with slightly over 18 yards more per game. The same held true ·for rushing offense, where Alabama racked up 16 yards per game more than the Irish. In scoring, Alabama ranked third with 41.3 ·points per game, while the· Irish · claimed eighth spot-with 35.8 points per game. • The Irish shone in defensive· statistics, where they allowed only 201.2 yards per game, good enough for second place; while Alabama maintained eleventh place with 244.8 yards per game. In• rushing defense,• the Irish placed third· with 82.4 yards per game, while the Tide didn't place at all. The Irish 

remained consistently high in scoring defense with a third~place mark of 6.6 points per gaine, while the Tide allowed a fifth-place total of 8.1 points per game. Finally, 'Barna was averaging a sixth~place 42.8 yards per punt, while ND's Bob Thomas ranked eighth· with 
42.4 yards per punt. · · Most prognosticators, professional and otherwise, 
believed that the Alabama offense would be too much for the Notre Dame _defense: Critics pointed.to a weak secondary and claimed Bear would riddle the field with long~gain .passes. Again, most of the Irish defensive 
work had come against straight-ahead,· methodical of­fenses, they claimed, while Alabama used an explosive, lightning-quick wishbone offense to offset their op­
ponents. · · · · · To a certain ·extent, .they were .right, but only as correct as any seer can be; for the Notre Dame defense learned with -eachplay; gradually holding the Alabama offense to limited yardage. .. The first-quarter statistics made believers out of all the skeptics. The Irish defense could do no wrong as they shut out the mighty wishbone-zero yardage with ·zero first downs. ·From the 20," Clements handed off twice to Bullock, ~ho broke for _7 and 15_ yards. Penick crossed over left tackle for 6, ·.followed by Bullock again for 10. · Here, -the Irish drive began to falter, as Best and Bullock could only make three yards, and Clements could: only add two, forcirig. Doherty to punt to the Alabama 16. · · ·< The defense forced aloss of two and ·a quick return of the punt to_ the NP· 40. Two series later, the Irish finally mounted a drive, tieginriing. at the_ ND 36. Cle­ments' first pass to Demmerle netted 19 yards;· followed by another for 26 and.a third for 14 yards: Clements -to Demmerle had just moved 59 yards in less than one minute. Bullock broke over from the one, putting the ·Irish on the scoreboard first, though a. missed PAT kept , the score at 6-0. . . · ._ ·
1 
Excellent field position greatly helped the Irish; but 

-theinability of the Tide to move was a little more,dif­ficultto explain: Ara credited itto the defense, though it appeared as if Alabama was scouting -the Irish de­fense _up close, looking ·for-cracks and weaknesses. They seemed to have found some. They were able immediately to put together an impressive drive that -ended. on the ten with a very fortunate fumble, re­covered by Jim Stock. · Initial sweeps of 16, 15 and 10 yards accompanied more conservative gains as_ the Tide rolled closer to the ND goal line. A bad Rutledge pitch went down as a fumble, though, and the Irish took over on their own 36. On the second play from scrimmage, a Clements­Bullock connection missed its mark, and Alabama re­covered on their own 48. It took Rutledge only seven plays ·to score, passing for 15 yards, handing off four times for 24 and keeping once for 12. The PAT was 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


'good; making the score 7-6. . 
Btit what should have been a change in momentum was rendered . meaningless on .the .next play as Al Hunter returned the · kickoff 93 yards for the second Notre Dame touchdown of the evening: The run set a. new record for kickoff returns,· originally held by Monlc Simons, who was serving as a. Sugar Bowl official. Clements . passed to Demmerle for the two-point con­version, and the Irish had the lea·d at 14-7. · 
Alabama mounted one more serious attack before the half, settling for a field goal when the Irish defense stopped them at the ND 22. 
The Irish found. themselves. within field goal range also; as Diminick's return of 25 yards gave theirish good field position: Clements bootlegged twice for 27 yards, ·but Thomas missed the 48-yard attempt, falling short as the half ended. 
The Crimson · Tide rebounded extremely well from . their weakfirst quarter by_compiling a strong 154 total offensive yards, overwhelming the Irish figure _of 67. (Kickoff returns are not figured into th.e offensive sta­tistics.) · 
.· The third quarter began with Notre Dame kicking to -Alabama,. who proceeded ·to move the entire length _of the field in 11 plays. During that drive, Tim Rud;. nickwas as·sessed 15 yards for a personal foul involving the 'Barna receiver -Jackson. As Rudnick was visibly upset; Rutledge and Bryant attempted to capitalize on the situation by sending Wheeler out long on the next play. Rudnick maintained his composure,' though, and broke up the pass at the last moment. _ . ­
. Rudnick's fine play couldn't stop the Tide, as they continued in .the air twice more· for 21 and 13 yards. Jackson completed the drive with a five-yard bolt for the score, putting Alabama ahead, i7-14. . · . 
. Back~to-back field goal attempts by Davis · and Tliomas were both no good; but, on the next series, the Tide's Shelby fumbled to Drew.Maha.lie on the Alabama 21, and Mahalic returned it to the 12. Clements handed 
.-FEBRUARY 1, 1974_ 
to Penick, who ran a beautiful counter, with the spring­
ing block coming from Dave Casper. With Thomas' 
PAT, the score turned to the Irish favor, 21-17. 
The Irish were able to sustain another drive going into the fourth quarter, but a fumble on the Alabama 25 turned the ball over just as the Irish seemed to be knocking. on touchdown gates. Reggie Barnett came right back and intercepted a Rutledge ,pass from the hands of Sharpless. Unfortunately, two plays later, Bullock fumbled to Alabama's McMakin, setting up the final.Tide score of the evening. _ . 
. From the ND 39, Rutledge handed off to Spivey, who· charged up the middle for. two. Billingsley raced aro~md left end for nine on the riext play, and with a first down, Rutledge ran the option keeper, gaining only one. A. short pass netted only two, and, at this point, Bryant yanked Rutledge for his second-string quarter­back Todd.· 
Todd handed off to Stock, who seemed to be headed into aswarm of white jerseys. Butjust before he went under, he drilled a pass to Todd, who was all alone on the other side of the field. Todd paced the 25 yards for the touchdown, making the score 23-21 Alabama. The PAT was no good, and the score held. 
From_the 19, Clements began the drive that had to bring the Irish-close enough at least to kick a field goal. Hun_ter slanted -off right tackle for 15; Penick gain'ed four around left end. _On a keeper, Clements 
found eight yards and a first down. Bullock failed to 
gain on the next play, but Clements kept for nine to the 
Alabama 45. With third and one,. Clements calmly 


Dave Casper (86)_ hauls in a. Clements pass as safety Rich Davis (19) tries to take it away. 
stepped back and passed to Casper for a come-back-and­
catch~it ·reception for 30 yards to .the Alabama 15. 
Hunter gained three, followed by eight more by Cle­
ments. Froirl the four, Penick gained one,' Best gained 
one, and a 'ciemenis pass· fell incomplete.· Thus, Bob 
Thomas entered at 4:26 and kicked a 19-yard field goal, 
putting 'the Irish ·ahead for good at 24-23. · . . . · 
... However, the Irish had to fight to defend their lead, 
when the Tide pinned them against their owri goal line 
with more than two minutes left in the game/From the 
one, Clements handed offJo Bullock, who gained three; 
the. same play gained only one, leaving the Irish with a 
third-and~six situation. On tlie next play,' Notre Dame 
was penalized two yards· (half the distance) for illegal 
procedure. Then came the amazing pass from Clements 
to tight end Robin Weber,' good for 35 yards and·a first 
down. Weber had only caught one other pass·auring 
the season, ·and this play was intended to clear out the 
zone so that the Aiabama secondary w01.i.ld ·concentrate 
on Weber. Butinstead, they let him through, a mistake ; which in Bryant's words cost them the game. , · The Irish bested the Tide in all categories: 252 to 
•1~0 in rushing :yardage, 169 to 127 in passing yardage, and 421 to·317, in total yardage. . · · _ · 
. Tom Clements 'Yas named Most :Valuab!e Player in . the.40tli. Annual Sugar Bowl Football Classic and-was awarded.the Miller-Digby Memorial Trophy. He finished theday with 74 yards in ·15 carries on the ground ·and 
-7. of 12 passes for 169 yards withoutan interception... . Coach Bryant prai:ied the. Notre Daine team: ''I think welost to a greatfootball team:! don't really feel 
'46 like we lost, just that time ran out on us. Notre Dame came up with a lot of big plays, which means they did a better job of coaching. At the half, I thought we'd win running away,· especially with the wind in· the fourth 

quarter. 
"Ara and his staff did a firie job of preparing for us. I think Tom Clements and their tight end (Dave Casper) ·beat us. They didn't' do anything new. defen­sively. They showed tis that big tight end and took the ball away from us while we stood around, but Clements won the game. . . . 
"The long pass right at the end beat us. ·If we get the ball back we're going to win the game. At least on a· field goal. When we had them backed up to the one­yard line, if I'd been a betting man I'd have bet you anything we were going to win." 
On the pass. that insured the Irish victory,·Ara also had a few comments: "The pass from Clements .to Weber with ·seconds to go was the key to the win: It was a win or punt situation. ILwe hadn't made the first down .Alabama would surely h~ve been in field goal position with us punting from our end zone. That was the same pattern we scored the extra two points on earlier in the game. 
. "I definitely feel we're the national champion; We beat the leading scoring team in the_ nation arid the team that. was leading in offensive yardage.:. They are an excellently disciplined team. W,e beat a· great foot­ball team and they lost to a great football .team.'' . . . . The Associated Press· agreed with Ara's opinion and awarded Notre Dame th_e numher~one spot in. _the na­tion. ."What has been. demanded of us, we ha:ve.satis­fied," claim.ed Ara as he learnect° of the . decision. l "Tliis 
• . 


Alabama's Wayne .Hall (50) braces as Clements turns -.. ·•.·. -·:: •,. :-the corner. 
THE SCHOLASTIC . 
---__ 

doesn't imply that the other teams are not good teams, but I think a premium is placed on going totally un­scathed." 
Notre Dame received over one hundred more votes than second-place Ohio State, and 33 of the possible 60 first-place votes. Ohio State received eleven and Okla­homa, 16. 
Notre. Dame ................................ 6  8  7  3-24  
Alabama : ....................................... 0  10  7  6-23  
Scoring:.  

ND: Bullock, 1 yard run (Kick no good).. ALA: Billingsley, 6 yard run (Davis kick). ND: Hunter, 93 yard kickoff return (Clements-
Demmerle). . .. ALA: Davis, 39 yard field goal.. ALA: Jackson, 5 yard run (Davis kick). ND: Penick, 12 yard run (Thomas kick). ALA: 25 yard pass to Todd (Kick no good). ND: . Thomas, 19 yard field goal. 
Team Statistics ND ALA Total First Downs ·,:..................... . 20 23 Yards Gained Rusliin·g .,.............. 252 190 Yards Gained Passing ................ . 169 127 Total Offensive Yardage .............. 421 317 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) ......... :.... 12-7 .·· 15-10 Interceptions by · ..................... :...... . 1 0 . Fumbles lost ...'.................. ,............ . 3 _2 .Punting (No.-Ave.) .................... 5-35.8 .6-46.3 
Total yards _I>enalized ................. : 45 32 

Attendance: 85,161, a new Sugar Bowl record. _ 


Clements spinsfrom Alabama's Woodrow Lowe (47) and heads for daylight. 


For· the Record'-~ 
Not only is Notre Dame the all-tinie winningest The Irish broke several team records in.1973, most football team (.789) but the all-time streak breaker significant was the all-time rushing mark which had in collegiate football:· Notre Dame teams have ended stood for 52 years. The '73 team rushed for 3,502 yards, unbeaten or winning. streaks five times. The,. Irish bettering the mark of the '21 team (3,430) in one less stopped Oklahoma's 48-game. unbeaten streak and 47-game (10-1-0 in 1921). In doing so the '73 Irish demon~ game winning streak with a 7-0 victory in 1957 iri strated excellent rushing balance among the starters. Norman, Oklahoma. Ara Parseghian's gridders put an Fullback Wayne Bullock · led with 752 yards (162 end to Texas' 30-game winning streak in the 1970 .Cot­atts.), halfback Art Best had 700 yards (118 atts.), ton Bowl. Georgia Tech's 31-game unbeaten .streak halfback Eric Penick gained 586 yards (102 atts.) and came to a halt at Notre Dame Stadium in 1953 as the quarterback Tom Clements totaled 360 (89 atts.). The Irish won 27-14. Army's streak of 25-straight victories 1921 team, essentially a running unit, too (1,082 yards 
. -/ . . 

was terminated by Notre Dame in 1946 in the famous passing compared to 1,112 in ,1973) was balanced but . 0-0 tie. This season the Irish ended the nation's longest not as well. Halfback John Mohardt led with 781 yards current unbeaten streak of 23 in their 23-14 conquest of 136 atts.), fullback Chet Wynne had 599 yards (96 atts.); the Trojans. halfback Paul Castner gained 449 yards (64 !).tts.) but 
Dave Casper was elected to the UPI, Football Writ­quarterback Frank Thomas ran for only 71 yards (17 
ers, Walter Camp and Kodak All-American First Teams, atts.). 
and to the AP Second Team. Frank _Pomarico :was Other team records broken include: most rushes, 
elected to the Gridiron First Team and the UPI Second 673 (663 in 1949); most rushes per game, _67.3 (66.3 
'J'.eam. · Mike Townsend was · placed on the AP, UPI, in 1949); most rushing yards per game, 350.2 (340.1 in 
Football News, Football Writers, Sporting News, Wal-1946); highest punting average, 42.4 ( 40.1 in 1965) 
ter Campand Time .First Teams. . and most first downs rushing, 181 (171 in 1968). · 
Notre Dame will enter its 86th season of collegiate Bob Thomas now holds the majority of kicking 
football next fall with an overall record of 553 -wins, records for the Irish. He has the best career ·percent­
148 losses, and 38 ties. This .789 winning percentage age for extra points, .970 (98 for 101) and the· best per­
is tops on the all-time collegiate list. The Irish have centage for one season, 1.000 (34 for 34, 1972); the 
won nine national championships (1924, '29, '30, '43, most field goals in agame, 3 (four tiines); m·ost in a 
'46, '47, '49, '66, and '73), the best among colleges, and season, 9 (1973), most in a career, 21· of 38; most kick­
have been undefeated and untied in 11 seasons. ing points in a game, 13 (vs. Northwestern, 1972), 
According to the statistics compiled-by the National most in a season, 70 (1973, to lead the team) and is sec­
Collegiate Sports Service in 1973; Notre Dame ranked: ond in career, 161 (Scott Hempel,.164); most field~goal 
5th (461.4 yds. game) in total offense; 5th-(350.2_ yds.. · attempts in a season, 18 (i973) and most in a career, 
game) _in rushing offense; 8th (35.8 pts. game) in scor­38; heconnected on .62 straight extra points, missing 
ing offense; 2nd (201.2 yds. game) in· total defense; this year in the Army game, for a mark that was 
3rd (82.4 yds. game) in rushing defense; 3rd (6.6 pts. · second best iri NCAA history. 
game) in:scoring defense; and 8th (42.4 yds. punt) in . Brian Doherty kicked all but two times for the Irish 
punting, . this season for a 42.7-yard average, best ever for a ND 
Notre Dame's appearance in the Sugar Bowl marked punter and sixth in the nation this year. Doherty is 
the _fifth time the. Irish have participated. in· post­also the career leader· in punts attempted for Notre 
season activity that now includes all four major bowls. -Dame ·with 140. He is second to·Bill Shakespeare ( 40. 7, 
Notre Dame beat Stanford in the 1925-Rose Bowl, 27-1933-35) in career average with. 39.8 (140 for 5,573 
10, its first bowl appearance. Then 45 years elapsed yards). 
before the Irish played in another classic. ND did so in Senior halfback Gary Diminick became Notre 
1970, losing to national champions Texas in the Cotton Dame's all-time leading kickoff returner. Diminick has 
Bowl, 21-17. The same teams met at the same site:the returned 30 for 711 yards. The yardage ranks hiin sec­
following year. when the Irish ended Texas' 30-game ond to Paul Castner (767, 1920-22). 
streak, 24-11; Notre Dame did not play in a bowl in Quarterback Tom Clements and linebacker Greg 
1972, and last season lost to Nebraska in the Orange" Collins were voted offensive and defensive captains for 
Bowl, 40~6. the 1974 Irish at Notre Dame's banquet, December 11. 
Ara Parseghian is the third winningest coach in Collins; who led the team in. tackles with 133, was also ' 
Notre Dame history, but he is fast approaching two of named most valuable defensive. player and All-Ameri­
the most successful coaches to qirect an Irish team -can: Dave Casper, who caught 19 passes for 317 yards 
Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy. Ara now has a record at his tight-end spot was the most . valuable offensive 
of 85-15~4 since coming to ND 10 seasons ago. He is player. Kicker Bob Thomas received the John W. Mc­
just two wins shy of Leahy, who finished his career at Mullan Award as the player whose best exemplifies the 
87-11-9. spirit of the scholar-athlete. 
48 ' THE SCHOLASTIC 

Prognosis '7 4 
The cold shadows of a January afternoon crept from 

the rear of the Athletic and Convocation Center, across · 
the empty parking lot, and through the mesh strands 
of the hurricane fence. 
They bounded the cinder track, and came to. a grad­

ual, indistinct halt i.r:i the green and straw-colored grass 
covering Cartier. Field's football practice layout. The 
shadows, the damp, muddy track, and the soggy, chilled 
grass made the five practice fields look more like a bar­
ren tundra than the complex which trained 1973's Na­
tional Champions in intercollegiate football. 
Nor did the field, stripped bare in January of the 

artifacts of autumn, give any hint of what had un­
folded there during the months of August through.De­
cember. 
There was no indication that here, on September 

first, was where guard Frank Pomarico suffered .the 
ligament tear which sidelined him for half of the season. 
No memorials. were posted on the field where, on Thurs­
day before the USC game, Greg Hill practiced as a· 
member of the preparation team, clad in a cardinal-and 
gold uniform· with the number "28" emblazoned on his 
helmet and jersey. . . 
·Nor was there ariy attention drawn to the spot on 

the astor-turf field where, during Pittsburgh week, ·Frank Allocco and Tom Clements went through an intri­cate passing drill --minus a football. "Psyche-cyber­netics," they chuckled. "Besides, it's too cold to use a 
real ball." 
The tangible reminders of The Championship Sea­

son weren't .to be found on Cartier Field, where 1973's 
best college football-team was -spawned, or in Notre 
Dame Stadium, where it performed on Saturday after­
noons. Those tangible reminders, ever since their ap­
pearance on campus, have been locked in the trophy 
cases which dot the second floor of the ACC. Outside, 
on Cartier Field and within the stadium itself, there 
was no indication of what had unfolded during the fall 
of 1973. Nor was there any hint. of what would unfold 
during the spring and fall of 1974. 
And that's just the way Ara Parseghian, the veteran 

coach who masterminded ND's drive to the National 
Title, wanted it. 
The Irish coach, a man for whom the future always 

holds an immediate challenge, has allowed himself but 
three mementos of the biggest triumph of his coaching 
career. The Sugar Bowl. game balls and a framed Na­
tional Championship.·banner adorn the inner -office of 
Parseghian's three-room complex on the ground floor 
of the ACC. 
But in ·the outer office,·· the one occupied by Barb 

Nicholas, his secretary, hangs a constant reminder that 
the successes, of last season are successes which must 
remain on shelves and in frames. On the wall of the 
outer office hangs a map of·the United States, divided 
into geographical regions for recruiting and scouting purposes. Parseghian passes· that map every time he enters or leaves his office, and its significance, even one mon.th after the New .Year's Eve triumph over Alabama, overrides the significance of the game balls, or the National Championship banner. 
"We made history last season," said Ara, with scarcely a glance at his shelf of painted and dated foot­balls. "What we did last season has been documented and written about, and has brought great accolades to our team. But it is history now, and each year we face a new individual challenge. 
"By next fall, we'll have new teams to face and new games to be played. There's an old adage in the coach7 ing profession that says it's easier to win a champion­ship than it is to retain it, and for our team to dupli­cate the performances and successes of next season will be a difficult challenge. 
"The ability to win two straight National Cham­pionships would be a great accomplishment -a chal~ lenge within itself. We're dealing with intelligent ath­letes h.ere who'll be able to recognize that fact; but recognizing it and doing something about it is the key. I've told our squad a hundred times already that next year's games won't be won on last year's performances." 
Next year's team won't begin totake firm shape until the closing days of-Spring Practice '74, but "next year's games," as Ara called them, are already waiting, There will be eleven in 1974 -beginning with a Sep­tember 21 road opener against Northwestern and ending with the promise of a November 30 showdown against Southern California. 
In between are : nine other encounters, including home games against Purdue, Rice, Army, Miami, Pitt, and Air Force, and road tests against Michigan State, Navy and Georgia Tech. But that schedule has been set. for the past several years. The team with which Parseghian must combat the schedule won't be com­pletely settled until the onset of Northwestern game week. 
For last year's roster has been depleted by gradua­tion losses, arid while the departures aren't many, they are in critical areas: the offensive line, the defensive backfield, the linebacking corps and the .kicking game. Even the glowing statistics which dotted post-Sugar Bowl reports: "strong at the skilled positions, 17 of 22 starters returning" demand replacement. of five graduating seniors, and those replacements may not be found until next September, when an incoming crop of Gridiron recruits has a shot at the open positions. 
And there are other personnel problems which con­cern the ND coach. ''The first thing we have to be con­cerned with," admitted Ara, "is rebuilding our football team, replacing losses like Frank Pomarico (an offensive guard and Notre Dame's offensive captain),· Dave Casper (tight end and team captain), and Mike Town­send (safety and defensive captain), Then we also have 
. . 

to r_eplace Tim Rudnick (right cornerback), Gary Po­teams, but Parseghian's 1974 squad will possess both tempa (linebacker), and George Hayduk (defensive the skills and the maturity to face them without flinch­tackle). And we're going to have to totally rebuild our ing. The loss of Pomarico and Casper on the offensive kicking game, because we'll be losing both (punter) line will hurt -the loss of'two All-Americans always Brian Doherty and (place-kicker)· Bob Thomas. We'll does -btit tackles Steve Neece and Steve Sylvester re­have to find someone who can kick off for us. turn, as do guard Gerry DiNardo, center Mark Brenne­
"Those are our main concerns, but we have others, man, and wide receiver Pete Demmerle: too. There are physical concerns. For instance, will we The offensive backfield will return intact, minus the 
· be able to count on· the services of players like Steve services of one regular: halfback Gary Diminick. Full­Niehaus -,-players who were injured last season and back Wayne Bullock, the team'fleading rusher in 1973, didn't see -a whole lot of action. · and halfbacks Eric Penick, Art Best, Al Samuel, and Al 
"And we're also concerned with possible ·academic Hunter all return for their senior (Penick and Samuel); -losses. · But our biggest problem .:_ other than ·that of junior (Best), and sophomore (Hunter) years. · guarding against complacency -,-is going to be filling The defensive line, like its offensive counterpart, will 
the holes left by graduation." ' build around a solid core. · Tackle George Hayduk -· a steady performer for two seasons -graduates,· but 
Thoughthe problem of complacency is the one which tackles like Mike Fanning, Kevin Nosbusch, and Steve most worries Parseghian, the team which· niust defend Niehaus return, as do ends Jim Stock; Ross Browner, ND's second National Title in the last eight years falls and· Willie Fry: .. victim to early-overconfidence:. Because Ara's 1974 Senior linebackers Drew Mahalic and Sherm Smith 
. team -,-a team whose roster 'will· be· heavily peopled will provide a similar ·nucletis for linebacker ·coach . with senior names -was born out of the· adversity of George Kelly, and deep backs Reggie Barnett and Lu­the 1972 Orange Bowl, · and so treated the 1973 season ther Bradley will do the same for Paul Shoults' second­. as something of a vendetta. . ary -a unit which must replace two-year starters 
Mike Townsend and Tim Rudnick. 
. .
Next_ year, 1974, will not demand such a drive for But if the Irish are to successfully weather ·the. vindication, for the Irish were absol_ved of the Orange challenges of the '74 season, they'll have to depend on_' Bowl debacle after their epic Sugar Bowl victory over the services of two other returning _veterans: ·quarter­Alabama. But what 1974 will demandis a drive.to stay back Tom Clements and linebacker Greg Collins. Clem-·'. on top -a drive to keep Notre Dame's football fortunes ents and Collins have been elected as co~captains for the•where the memories of 1972 have placed them.. And upcoming season, and Parseghian is anticipating· the•as the.Irish prepare for. their 86th _season of intercol~ sam_e sort of leadership from them as he enjoyed from legiate football, the memories_ of 1972 will still be there; Pomarico, Casper, and Townsend. 

and Ara Parseghian will be using. those memories to ward off any complacency generated by,_the ·triumphs "Our monogram winners made:-two great choices 'of 1973. when they voted for next year's co-captains," said Ara. 
"As we move into next season," observed Ara, "there· "Picking Tom to captain our offense -considering he's , won't be the disappointment, the humiliation that our our quarterback and considering he gets plenty of rec­· closing performances in 1972 brought us. This year, . ognition already -,-is another testimony of the respect ,:_after such successes, our team will be -proud -and our players have for him. And Greg, really, is in a very 
rightfully so. But each· year there is a challenge for us, similar situation; Clements and Collins were excellent . and each year that challenge is the .same:· since ·we choices as ·co-captains." · .aren't a _member, of any conference, our first goal is ' always to go unbeaten, secure· a bid· to a major bowl . Collins, Clements; and Parseghian helped the Irish ·· game, and win the National Championship. That· chal-lock up their National . Championship just over. one . lenge faces us every year; what changes is our attitude month ago,.and already preparations are under way for . as we face that challenge. ·Last year-:-the attitude was a· title defense in 1974._ Parseghian has, his 11-game : predictable. ·They had to ·wait one year. after those schedule. He has his co-captains. He has· 17. starters . last· games with Southern Cal and Nebraska,· and they"· returning from last season. Btit he does. not have five · felt they had something to prove, something to show. replacements· for . his departed seniors,._ and he won't 
·"This ·year's attitude will be quite:different." decide on-those replacements until well into fall prac­. That·.it ·will,. for,Parseghian's Irish no.longer have tice. "It's still too early to tell," cautioned Ara, "and ; . to ,prove anything to anycine. -_Instead of .working to re~ .frankly I'm hesitant to say who's going to be playing in . deem themselves,· .next year's Irish will ·have. to defend . the 'open spots.·· But we'll find' the. best ·football _players .their crown agairist a cluster of talented title pretenders .... to 'flt thoseCpositions, you can be sure of that'' ., ;, ' -the likes of. Oklahoma, Ohio State arid Southern· Cal,. ·:, If the _Irish coaches:can uncover the players they're .• And the twin realities of Notre Dam·e and being on,top ·· after,• and if those players can avoid the complacency : will, rea]izes,Ara,:make:the ultimate·.goal of an,11~0 · which .may be · lurking within·· the '74. schedule, . then . season, a bowl victory, and another Naticinal ·Title just Irish fans may be sure of something else, too. , They' that much more:difficult to achieve. : . . . may be sure that Ara's eleventh Notre Dame football .11The fact thafwe;re on top-how," he said, "will give· team will b_e · in a. strong. position· to pull-off what Par~ eachof-our.opponents more intensity 'when they play us. segh!an himself.. called a. "great accomplishment; a 
•.:,"They'll tie• trying to. dethrone the defending champions, challenge within itself".---a second consecutive National 
·. not just-trying.to beat Notre Dame." . . Championship. · Those realities· are ·unlike a_ny. faced by ·recent Irish ·· :•. ;;., . , ,.,-vie_ dorr 
'50. '.·: THE SCHOLASTIC 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL INSIGHTS INTO THE HUMAN CONDITION• FEBRUARY 10-16 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 10 
Stephen Spender John Hollander ........................ Lib. Aud., 3:00 p.m. Reading from Their Poetry 
Stephen Spender John Hollander ........................ Lib. Aud., 8 :00 p.m. In Memory of W. H. Auden 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11 
Robert Creeley ........................ Lib. Aud., 8 :00 p.m. Reading from His Poetry 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12 
Samuel Hazo ........................ C.C.E. Aud., 3:30 p.m. Reading from His Poetry 
Michael McClure ...................... Lib. Aud., 8:00 p.m. Reading from His Poetry 


WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13 
Bruce Jay Friedman .............. Lib. Lounge, 1 :00 p.m. Workshop on the Problems of the Multimedia 
Bruce Jay Friedman .................. Lib. Aud., 8:00 p.m. Reading from His Fiction 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14 
Jason Miller ............................ lib. Aud., 8:00 p.m. Pulitzer prize-winning playwright and Fr. Karass of THE EXORCIST entertains 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15 
Joyce Carol Oates..................Lib. Aud., 8 :00 p.m. Speaking on Humanistic Psychology and Literature 

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16 
Isaac Bashevis Singer .............. Lib. Aud., 8:00 p.m. Nobel Prize Contender speaks on The Supernatural and Literature 
ATTENTION ALUMNI, FRIENDS AND FANS 


THE FOOTBALL REVIEW 
is also available as part of a year's subscription to THE SCHOLASTIC which now includes sports coverage in every issue. Find out what happens all year round on campus; subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC, the student magazine of Notre Dame 
I would like to receive the SCHOLASTICfor l year -($5)
2 years -( $1 0) 
Name ....................................•........................ 
Address ...............................•.......................... 
write to: SCHOLAS'.lfIC La Fortune Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
THE 1973 FIGHTING IRISH OF .NOTRE DAME 
/RISH SURPRISE ALL IN SEASON OPENER . AGAINST NORTHWESTERN; 44-0. ( 
UNCERTAIN /RISH STILL TOO MUCH FOR PURDUE; 20-7. 
BRILLIANT DEFENSE PRESERVES VICTORY OVER MSU; 14-10. 
TRICKY RICE FAILS TO GAIN AS /RISH BOIL, 28-0. 


. . 
BUIE AND GOLD MAINTAIN UNDEFEATED SEASON, . CLOBBER ARMY; 62-3. /RISH SEND 'EM OUT ON THEIR SHIELDS, ND 23; USC 14. PITT RACKS UP THE YARDAGE, BUT NOT ENOUGH;
. . 

ND 31; PITT 10. FALCONS GET AIRED, 48-15. /RISH CAP REGULAR SEASON WITH RESOUNDING VICTORY 
OVER MIAMI; 44-0. NOTRE DAME ROLLS OVER 'BAMA TO NUMBER ONE •NATIONAL RATING; 24-23. 








