SUBSCRIBE TODAY
to the only student-produced magazine serving Notre Dame students, parents and alumni
2001 & 2002 Indiana Collegiate Press Association News Magazine of the Year
SCHOLaSTIC
INFORMED. INTELLIGENT. OUT OF THE ORDINARY.
Ci C)
‘ ■ ISSUES ' DOLLARS
PLEASE PLACE ME ON YOUR	; h: LIST.
NAME: ______________________;__________
ADDRESS: ________i_____________________
SEND THIS FORM AND
$35.00 PAYMENT TO:
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE
315 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER
NOTRE DAME, IN 46556
THE TWENTY-FIFTH OF APRIL	•	1	A Call to Duty by Mary Fay	. @J| Marine Major and ND ROTO alum William ; Bentley, one of the first Americans in Afghanistan during America’s initial raids, tells of his experience patrolling the Kandahar airport.
TABLE OF CONTENTS	
»	All in the Family by Lucy Marinangeli & Elizabeth Riesterer	07	i »	Expressions of Faith by Maureen Ritchey	10	; »	Ready to Run by Christopher Kelly	25	•	
»	There’s no Crying in Softball by Jimmy Atkinson	26	I »	Trendy Summer Cinema by Matt Killen	29	|	1 Color Coding I by Sarah Childress	1 ■ COVER: Campus race relations aren’t | what students or the university would 1 like them to be. What people are doing A anH what’Q Ipft tn hn dnnp
>> Hidden Voices by Tracy Evans	32	t From the Editor	2	Out of Bounds	33	j ND Notebook	4 Week in Distortion	.	34	: Campus Watch	19	Calendar	35	. Splinters	23	Final Word	36	!	ul IU VVlIdL O It? 11 IV UO UUllCt	„ I Making the Big Time	^30 H by Sheila Flynn	.	' 1 A Domer on the tube? ND grad Sean 1 Dwyer stars in an MTV show based on | the movie Varsity Blues.	-
£
FROM THE ED ITO R
RESPOND TO: SCHILDRE@ND.EDU
Vol. 143, No. 12 • 25 APRIL 2002
SCHOLaSTIC
look for
NEXT
ISSUE
in the
FALL
Why Isn’t Anybody Talking About Race?
If I know anything about race — some people assume I’m qualified because I am biracial — I know that nobody is as simple as a checkmark on a survey.
Race is never simple. It’s hard to understand, and even harder to talk about.
That’s why, at a campus where most of the students share a similar racial and socio-economic background, race becomes even an more important issue to discuss. But nobody’s talking.
Why not?
There’s plenty of topics. Some students come to campus without ever having spoken to a black person and find Notre Dame diverse. Some students think that all blacks and Hispanics are lazy. Some students think that all whites are racists. Others don’t believe in mixed marriages. There are people who use racial slurs, who think that all minorities at Notre Dame were admitted merely to fill quotas or play a sport.
But nobody wants to say those things out loud. Nobody wants to be branded ignorant or a racist. Nobody wants to offend the person next to them, or ask the serious questions they want to ask. So people stumble over terms — “African-American” or “black”? — and race-related questions. They blush, they mumble. They study the floor. They feel uncomfortable. They stop talking.
That’s the problem with race relations on campus. People are so afraid of stepping on toes that when they finally open their mouths, their foot slips right in. They don’t talk about race in relation to poverty, so when welfare comes up in class, students or professors ask the black student what it’s like to use food stamps. Nobody discusses the struggles of bilingual students, so when an Hispanic student receives a low grade on her paper, the professor asks whether she speaks English at home. Mixed marriages never come up in conversation, so when people meet a biracial student, they ask, “What happened to you?” They don’t mean any harm; they don’t mean to make the students uncomfortable. They just don’t understand.
Why not? Because nobody’s explaining anything.
Why not? Because nobody’s talking.
Scholastic attempts to break the ice on page 12 by examining how the university handles race relations. What is the administration doing to recruit and retain minorities? Is it helping? Is it enough? What has changed since the first minority arrived? And — perhaps most importantly, since most seem to agree that we’re decades from a racial utopia on campus — where do we go from here?
See You Next Time
This is the last issue of the year. I’d like to wish all the graduating seniors the best of luck with their future plans. For the rest of you, enjoy the summer. We’ll see you in August for another (liquorless) round of Notre Dame and Scholastic. What could be better?
Sarah Childress, Editor
r ] Editor in Chief
j i Sarah Childress
j । Managing Editor
! Jessica L. Daues
! Executive Editor
! Cristin E. Fenzel
■ News
! Mike Borgia
! Christopher Kelly
i Annie Robinson
i Campus Life
; Sean Dudley, editor
Carolyn G. LaFave, assistant
Sports
Gerard J. Meskill, editor Jimmy Atkinson, assistant David Murray, assistant
; : Entertainment
i Carrie E, Sweeney, editor
i Tracy Evans, assistant
Matt Killen, assistant
Departments
> Jennifer Osterhage, editor
। Meghan Gowan, assistant
; Design
■ Eric Doversberger, editor
: Ryan Greenberg, assistant
{ ; Jessica Chamberlain
i ; Brendan Condon
! Nick Dailey
j Photography
’ Mike McNary, editor
! Liesl Marx, assistant
r Beth Murphy
• ! Lesha Zielinski
! ’ Graphic Arts
J ; Maryn Necel, editor
! ; Michael M. delaRosa
j ; Matthew Ziegler
i Copy
' Cecilia Hadley, chief Soquel Harding
Distribution
Mike McNary, manager
Business
! Jessica B. Potish, manager
■ ! Online
j Jamie L. Moran, manager
! Advisor
j Robert Franken '69
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Mori turns
1 Published biweekly at the University of Notre Dame । and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN, j 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic magazine is Copyright © 2002. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic magazine, LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Damn, it feels good to be a gangsta.To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 p.m. Monday before the issue. All letters must
! include the writer's name, address and phone number, i All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right to edit letters for space. Requests for corrections made more than 21 days after publication cannot be guaranteed.The subscription rate is $35 per year. Available back issues are $2.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body.
2 SCHOLASTICFROM THE EDITOR
Cong regation of HoIy Cross
A lifetime opportunity
FOR GRADUATING SENIORS
www.nd.edu/~vocation
I The Name Game
The university plays politics as it quietly changes a popular major’s title yet again
ANNIEROBINSON
You’re perusing the table of contents in your beloved DartBook: Gender Studies ... German ... Hesburgh Program... Notice anything missing? Never fear, future lawyers and politicians, your major has not been eliminated. There was no conspiracy behind closed doors to secretly do away with the Government and International Studies department. Rather, the department appears to be getting yet another “facelift.”
Just scroll down the page until you see “Political Science,” and there you have the newly coined title for the “Government and International Studies” major.
“The primary reason for the change is that 99 percent of these departments around the country are called political science, and this is bringing the department in line with the norm,” says Joshua Kaplan, associate director of undergraduate government studies. Calling ‘Government and International Studies’ “a little clumsy,” Kaplan says the new title more accurately reflects the
program’s aim. The only change, he says, will be the name, and not the major’s content. “We won’t be making people start over,” he says.
The university’s Academic Council formally instituted the change on Jan. 17, but name revisions are nothing new for the department. The new title is the department’s fifth revision since its 1925 inception as the Department of Economics and Politics. These two departments separated in 1935, leaving its name simply as “Politics.” Lengthened to “Political Science” in 1945, the name was last amended in 1964 to “Government and International Studies.”
As far as student reaction, Kaplan says he has not heard much student opinion on the change. “A year from now, this will be second nature, and people will be used to it by then,” he says. Sophomore political science major Ashley Seow approves of the change. “It’s good for the university to offer it, because at most colleges and universities it is offered as political science, and most people are not familiar with a ‘Government’ title
on a resume.”
This year’s graduating class will be the last to see the old “Government and International Studies” on their diplomas. Considering the only other revision is the new prefix —“POLS” — it appears this change is purely a cosmetic one.	□
J Ten Questions
S with the new Leprechaun ...
MIKE
With the approach of the annual Blue and Gold game and the emergence of the springtime sun, Irish eyes are shining in anticipation of the next football season. But coach Tyrone Willingham won't be the only new face on the field. Michael Macaluso, a rising junior from Siegfried, will be the next to don green as the newly selected ND Leprechaun. You may recall Mike's appearances as the Olympic squad mascot at sporting events this past year. Here's what he had to tell us about making the jig, er, jump, to the big time.
Have you seen being the mascot of ND as your personal calling?
The seed was planted senior year of high
school during a Christmas fundraiser... the guys could pay money to let their beards grow. I knew that the girls would really like it because some of the Backstreet Boys had it. Everyone said I looked just like the ND leprechaun.
What are you most looking forward to in the 2002 season?
I can’t wait to be down on the field, next to the drums, looking up at all the students ...I can’t put into words one thing. I’m excited about everything!
How do you feel about lucky charms?
I had never had them. But since I was picked to be the Olympic leprachaun, I
4 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK
- mathematics professor,
■ after explaining a complicated proof to class
*5^
— government professor
I .“Now you are convinced.”
I “That’s politically incorrect to say that anyone is ‘stupid,’ right? Well, I’m saying it!”
Could this have been the forerunner of Contemporary Topics? It sounds like a very comprehensive task. Let’s hope the poor guy got credit for his hard work...
I “Nothing attracts naked bodies quite like a reflecting pool.”
.	.	— overheard student
‘Good afternoon, my inferiors.”
— anthropology professor
______________ ,..JdEYXQUl
SCHOLAST@ND.EDU A
“You can never find the truth in life.”
■.	.	.	— finance professor

| 90 Years Ago
1 Macho, Macho Men
The Oct. 14, 1911 issue of the Notre Dame Scholastic introduces a new feature, which promised to have “an important bearing upon the physical condition” of Notre Dame students:	...	.

It amounts to a thorough examination of each of the students, and the cdmpilation of charts showing the present stage of development of the boys. From a supply of data gathered during an experience extending over twelve years, [then director of athletics] Mr. Maris is in a position to determine the form of exercise which will prove most beneficial to each of the subjects. Rules to govern the exercise of each of the boys will be given, and at the end of the school year another examination will be made and . the effect of the year's work noted.
t
.-VAtrA
—Jennifer Osterhage
made sure I got the assortment packs that have them ... I carry a box for good luck. It’s a mental thing.
Would you say that your new role has gotten you more attention from girls?
(Laughs.) I’d like to say that girls like me anyways. But on Valentine’s Day, I got an anonymous valentine. But they never get back to me! I want you all to know, I’m single!
What is your typical routine at practice?
When I’m not doing something, I’m helping the cheerleaders. They are the ones who do most of the work. When we work on pyramids, that’s when I come in.
What are the most push-ups you’ve ever done?
Straight? Last year before tryouts, I think I did 80-85 in a row.
Honestly, is that costume comfortable?
It’s personally made to fit me, so it is. The pants are lined in flannel, so they’re warm in the cold. And I get to keep it. For every Halloween after I graduate, I’ll get to be a leprechaun!
What was your most memorable moment on the Olympic squad?
There are so many, there is no way to narrow it down ... I once made a visit to “Growing Kids” day care for St. Patrick’s
Day. I had a blast! It’s so cool to have kids naturally come up and hug me.
Do you have any ideas of how to intimidate the other mascots?
So far, all the mascots have been nice. I just think my green suit, just my presence is intimidating enough. (Laughs evilly.) I may not be the biggest, but I’ll find a way to kick their butts!
New leprechaun, new coach, new season— any predictions?
Yes! National Champions! I can predict it like it’s going to happen. This is our year— nothing can stop us.
— Tracy Evans
SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK 5
Judgment Calls
Opinions and observations
1 HOG-HEAD HOOD
▼ ORNAMENTS
A pleasant sight on an early-morning walk past Fisher: part of a pig carcass perched on a boat.
EXAM WEEK FOR ENGLISH MAJORS
Or lack thereof, that is. Reason No. 162 for science and engineering majors not to room with Arts and Letters students.
I ALLY MCBEAL
▼ CANCELLATION
Where else would we get to see Bon Jovi on a regular basis? And will he sing “Always” to Ally before the show ends?

ENTERTAINMENT FORTNIGHTLY
f BadkibOh^ Rackl
The summer’s best movies won’t be found at the local multiplex
This summer, forego the multiplex and its new releases of mindless Hollywood blockbusters. Instead, stop by the local video store and scour the racks to rediscover some old classics.
If this year’s summer blockbusters aren’t too thrilling, return to the Hitchcockian roots of the action genre with North by Northwest. Famous for its classic chase scene, in which a menacing plane chases Cary Grant through rural cornfields, this classic is as exciting today as it was 40 years ago. .
Or, turn to a more suspenseful film with Hitchcock’s The Man Who Knew Too
Much. Follow an innocent American
Stop by the local video store and scour the racks to rediscover old classics.
by
Matt Killen
Hammett’s gritty detective story, Bogart’s Sam Spade shares the screen with Mary Astor’s Brigid O’Shaughnessy in the dark detective story about greed, lust and betrayal.
Or maybe the mere mention of “O’Shaughnessy” conjures up too many vivid stressful memories this summer, and you’re just looking for some good sci-fi craziness. In that case, hunt down the 1950s classic Earth vs. The Flying Saucers. More than just an exercise in titular word economy, Flying Saucers is a great incarnation of the usual alien invasion plot. Though the effects obviously don’t
hold a candle to such modern incarnations
BLUE & GOLD GAME
Now there’s something to do on a Saturday afternoon again, but who can follow the way they keep score?
A POST-MCAT
T CELEBRATIONS
Eight months worth of preparation erased by eight hours of drinking.
NFL DRAFT
He wasn’t taken first round, but at least Tony Weaver was drafted before Eric Grouch.
couple as they search desperately for their kidnapped son, and ultimately discover who — or what — Ambrose Chapel really is.
If romance is in the cards this summer, set the right mood with^n4^z> to Remember. Pairing Cary Grant and Deborah Kerr as an onscreen couple makes what is essentially a thin story into a great romance that has been immortalized on film. Or try The African Queen, which puts acting powerhouses Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn together on a boat as they travel down the river. A classic “opposites attract” relationship, it’s still a romance that feels more natural and pure than almost anything Hollywood has come up with since.
But if 1950s romance is a bit too saccharine, pick up another Bogart classic, The Maltese Falcon. Based on Dashiel
as Independence Day, Flying Saucers had some of the best effects of its time.
The Day the Earth Stood Still provides a great twist in the plot made common in films like Flying Saucers. This time, the aliens arrive on the planet equipped with a clear warning to the people of Earth. Though it contains an obvious moral message about the dangers of the nuclear age, Earth is worth viewing if only for its unforgettable line, “Klaatu barada niktoT
Whatever the case, don’t settle for what’s sure to be a mediocre summer at the multiplexes. Avoid the rude crowds, stale popcorn and surly teen-aged employees and take a trip to the past at the local video store. These titles might not be loaded with computer-enhanced graphics and $20 million action heroes, but they won’t cost an arm and a leg either. □
g DomeLights
H COMPILED BY MEGHAN GOWAN
Source: Lost and Found, Campus Security Building
Why do students feel so comfortable leaving stuff lying around? Maybe they just forget about it. According to the folks at Lost and Found, few people claim their valuables even after they have been found — including credit cards and winter coats.
Strangest items left unclaimed at Lost and Found: retainers
Item most often turned in: bras and underwear from Rolfs
Number of people who have claimed lost underwear: Zero - these fine garments usually end up in the trash
6 SCHOLASTICNOTEBOOK
All in the Family
Does a shared sense of trust make Notre Dame a safe haven?
LUCYMARINANGELI & ELIZABETH RIESTERER
‘1 A Jhat is the deal with all these bags If If everywhere?” asked freshman V W Juliette Mott’s boyfriend, when he first visited her at Notre Dame from the University of Michigan.
Notes, books, calculators and laptops litter the tables of the library and the ColemanMorse center. At South Dining Hall, quarter-in quarter-out lockers are empty, while backpacks and jackets pile up in open cubby holes and on the floor. Students save seats at LaFortune and North Dining Hall by tossing keys or wallets on the tables and walking away. What’s going on?
Sophomore Laurie Leo doesn’t think twice about abandoning her CDs and Discman in the library while she wanders down to lower floors to check on her e-mail and chat with friends.
“I guess I just figure that most people here
CARELESS OR TRUSTWORTHY? The cubbies inside of South Dining Hall are only one of the many on-campus places where students leave belongings unguarded. ;
have a general sense of right and wrong,” she says. “.. .There’s just a general trust that we will respect each other’s stuff. I know this is a naive way to think ... but I think a lot of us were brought up this way.”
Although many freshman begin their col-
‘There is a sense of trust because there is a sense of family”
— Howard resident
lege career warily, taking the advice of parents and college guides, most grow careless after a semester at Notre Dame.
Should they be worried?
Since January, there have been a reported 86 larcenies on campus, according to Phillip Johnson, assistant director of campus security. Unattended bikes, CD players, computers and wallets top the list of stolen items on the Notre Dame campus, he says. Despite a perceived atmosphere of trust, Johnson stresses taking personal responsibility for possessions. “We can close the door on crime by literally closing the door and locking it,” he says.
Nonetheless, the nonchalant attitude toward guarding possessions persists. Why?
“I think it is all part of the Notre Dame family,” says sophomore Jennifer Morgan, who lives in Farley.
The community atmosphere of dorm life is a reason why one Howard sophomore feels comfortable leaving her room door unlocked. “There is a sense of trust because there is a sense of family,” she says. “If I am going to be living with the same girls for up to four years, I am probably going to learn to trust them.”
At the Rockne Memorial, sophomore Katie Ellgass leaves her belongings in the cubbies without us
ing a lock, even though she could check out one from the front desk. Ellgass does this, she admits, in spite of the fact that the lockers hardly go untouched.
“Some days, when the pool is busy, you have to open 10 or 12 cubbies filled with clothes, watches, wallets and other miscellaneous items before you find an empty locker.” But Ellgass isn’t worried, since nobody else puts their bags under lock and key.
“It’s quite remarkable when you think about it, and maybe somewhat foolish on my part, but until there is reason for me to be suspicious or distrust the area, I’ll probably keep using a lock-less locker at the pool.”
When things do get stolen on campus, the Notre Dame community tends to blame people outside “the family,” finding it unbelievable that fellow Domers would violate the widespread sense of trust.
What specifically is it about the Notre Dame family that creates such a trusting community? “I guess I would say that the trust people have here at ND most likely stems from our shared faith,” says sophomore Katie Murphy. “We believe in the basic goodness of people, and I like to think that because of this we all share a mutual respect for one another and the property of others.”	'
The religious spirit of the Notre Dame community likely contributes to the greater sense of security than they might elsewhere. Sophomore Tiffany Mah says she feels Notre Dame students create a community that is so different from that of her friends’ colleges by truly respecting one another. “Basically, I think students here just put the ‘golden rule’ into effect — treat others the way you’d like to be treated,” she says.
Often students don’t appreciate the unique sense of security at Notre Dame until they venture off campus to other universities. “Granted, Notre Dame is not perfect, but I have been to other schools to visit friends, and they lock their doors in the dorm if they are going down the hall to visit people,” Morgan says.
“I never realized exactly how lucky we are uritilthen.”	;	□
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 7
A call to
DUTY
-might have ..but the war .
...isfar^	and Marine pilot
^WWijl.ia^	like over there — and
w.hfei.t^-li.ke .to be back-in

MARYFAY
"	were getting ready for what was
WW/ supposed to be a normal deploy-VT ment,” says Major William Bentley ’89, a member of the United
1 So, Bentley prepared to leave his wife Rhino.
and five children: Ashley, age 15; Scott,.. Once he entered Afghanistan, Bentley' 12; Shelby, 10; Olivia, 4; and Ian, 2;	was unable to contact his wife because
“Bill’s family is the most important thing	communications at the base had not been
in his world,” Sarah explains. “He would established. Before landing, Bentley tried . choose his family over anything .„ but we to tell his wife what he was doing, but he felt he had to do this for our family arid, could not tell her where he was. “Expect that in a few. days you’remot going to hear. ,
States Marine Corps for 12 years and a
. AH-1 .Super Cobra Helicopter pilot. But for their future ”
when he heard the news on Tuesday, Sep- . Many of the Marines had thought they from me for a while,” he told her.
tember 11,2001, Bentley knew that this would get a chance to see southern Eu- “When the e-mail stopped, we knew scheduled float in the Mediterranean Sea rope on the trip,.but as they prepared ‘to they were on land,” says Sarah’
was going to be anything but normal. go into Albania at the end of October, they.	While at Rhino, Bentley and the rest of ;
was going to be anything but normal.
Bentley’s squadron, the Marine Medium Helicopter Squadron 365 of the 26th Marine Expeditionary.Unit (Special Operations capable), was ready to deploy to the Mediterranean oh a peacetime mission
at the .time of the initial terrorist attacks. 'Departing on September 19, only eight days after the terrorist attacks, Bentley and his fellow Marines did not know what ■ I the next few months would bring. The.
marines and their families prepared for the worst. \ ;	; ;.
Bentley’s wife, Sarah, admits that she wasterrified. But, she. says, “We’re a milri ; : tary family. We knew that’s what he had.
to do.” ;	' •’ ’
knew that an order to move could come his unit also prepared for their next im-at any time. And it did. The same Novem- portant mission at Kandahar. On Decern- ’ ber day they were supposed to land in ber 18, just a week after the Kandahar Albania, they were sent to the Arabian Airport had been seized, Bentley flew to
: Gulf. ”	Kandahar, andwasone ofthe firsttroops
On December 1, Bentley flew into Af- to occupy the airport. .
ghanistan to Forward Operation Base < Similar to his duties at 'Rhino, Bentley Rhino, which had been seized only about flew daily patrols around: the fields sur-a week before Bentley arrived. When . rounding the airport to fend off possible • Bentley did get to the base, he says there Taliban and Al-Qaeda threats in the*area. was a lot of uncertainty. Bentley spent -“We did a lot of raids on suspected ter-moreofhis time flying patrols around the rorist sights,” he says.:Flying real com-base, searching for enemy threats. The baf missions was. a Shew experience for. base was constantly on guard, and there ' Bentley. But, he says, after years of train-were several nights of suspected attacks’ ing' for that moment^ “muscle memory on the base, in Bentley’s two weeks at takes: over'and you know" what to do.” I
p SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE ? .
can’t say anything.
■ /4 ? On his daiiyThissidhs/aro the air-. : .port,: Bentley ,s^ ;, living - ia-.primiti^
labyrinths of/caves and hideouts', in.Jhe : mountains’ and thefemairis;of buildings / destroyed in the efforts to take control of
the area.'. : T	■??/> , Sarah —they’ll cut . ;
T ' B'entley says that the residents of these me. off.”
. areas initially were frightened by the Ma- Bentley left Af- ? rines flying overhead; “At first they would ghanistan oh Janu- . .
. grab Their children and run inside when-; ary 3.0, but he re-, they saw us coming,” he says. But as time .
. went on, they became accustomed to see-;
- ing the Marines fly their daily patrols in :
. the area. ■	. - ' . .	,,.	■	. ..
In addition to flying directly around the airport, Bentley and his fellow Marines flew to nearby mountains to look for pos-' - sible terrorist haunts and caves. “The tunnels and holes are. not just in the moun-
/. - Sarah; remem- '■ : bers worrying that . her husband would > - be1; changed by . . what he had been: thfpugh;in the war.. .
’ “He ;has'.. already z.tpld me about so? many close calls,” > she says, although Bentley did not personally witness , any casualties. De-\ . spite her worries, .
. Sarahdoesn’tre-.'
. tains.,They?re all* oyer' the.’flatlands as' 22nd Marine,Corps	* , gret’Bentley’s ser- '
well,” he says: There' was a constant en- , Expeditionary Unit : •'?.:? T .	: ,	-. J . vice. “If he had to
einyThreatfrbmt any ofthese .underground . Tn the Suez Canal. He returned to his home do.it again, tomorrow, I would totally suphideouts.	. in Jacksonville, N.C., on April 19, having port him,” she says. .
The threat from enemy forces was very been gone 211 days from his family. Bentley first became interested in the , real, but.the Marines; controlled the area This was not the first time that military as a junior in high school,'and he
well, “As time went ph we became, more, Bentley’s commitment to military service comfortable,” says. Bentley. The soldiers' had taken him away from his family. Lhst had to keep from growing complacent, \-year, he was in Italy for six months where however. “We knew that the second we - he was the Director of. Personnel Recov-
let our guard dpwn,:something . ■
was going to happen.
Adjusting-to daily life in Af- । ■ ghanistan was full of- chai- . | lenges for Bentley; “Not taking a shower for 45 days straight 1 was certainly a different expe-. rience ” he says. And though in Kandahar Bentley was finally able to make contact with his . wife, all his phone calls and e-mails were monitored so that | the military' could protect important-information. “It was *' frustrating not to be able to tell my wife, my best friend, about . what I was doing a'nd where I was,” Bentley says.
Still, both knew that in order
ANSWERING THE CALL Major William Bentley '89 flew daily : '. Kandahar airport patrols and also went in search of terrorist -hideouts in the mountains of. Afghanistan.
toThaiiitaih- everyone’s safety,, these ;pre- . .'ery: at the Balkans Combined Air Opera-:cautions needed to ;be taken. “That was ’ tion LCentef. ;Biit\ the nature, of; Bentley’s / often the hardest part,” saysSarah, re< , mission ih.Afghanistan was mp&^ membering how difficult, it;, was	any Bentley had encountered be- i;
-her-husband’say, “I '• . /; . \	/ -T '	’ ..fore’:;? ; 4 - ' <
/mairied. stationed.
C off the coast of Pa- . / < - kistan for nearly a ?. .
m o n t > h .
■ Eventually, his - .
/ squadron- returned > to the Mediterra-:
. nean, having been . / relieved. by ; the
had aspirations of becoming a pilot A commitment to military service’also funs in the family: Bentley’s father, Michael T Bentley,. ’62, also served in the .Marine . - Corps. In addition to /Bentley, there are several . other members of the Notre
*/ - ■ ■ , . Dame family who have been . on active duty in Afghanistan for the Marine Corps; one of whom is Lieutenant Colonel Jerry Lyens,. who | commanded all the ground forces of Bentley’s unit,.the 26th Marine Expeditionary 1 Unit. ..
After a long .. seven | months, the Bentley.family is now grateful to have ev- . eryone safely together again. “We are just so proud of him,” Sarah says: But : Bentley doesn’t like to focus on his individual accomplishments. Instead, he emphasizes his dedication to serving his country. He won’t even comment on the awards and honors he has received for his service in Afghanistan. “That’s 1* not why I did it,” he says, “and. I don’t want that to take . away from the real reasons I
□
was there:
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 9
Campus dorms develop new traditions to spice up your weekly
obligation
MAUREENR1TCHEY
At this Catholic university where theology classes are re quired and crucifixes hang in every classroom, the many Masses celebrated daily play a significant role in uniting the student body. Masses at Notre Dame give new life to the accepted definition of Catholicism — the myriad of services appeal to students from diverse backgrounds. No Mass is exactly alike — some are contemplative, some lively. Among them a few stand out for their unique expression of faith.
DILLON MILKSHAKE MASS
As tasty as they may be, the homemade milkshakes served after Mass are not the sole cause for the popularity of Dillon Hall’s “Milkshake Mass,” which takes place every Thursday night at 10:30 p.m. This Mass has evolved from an intimate gathering of about 30 people in years past to a much larger community of approximately 150 men and women. Crammed into the Dillon Chapel, they come from nearly every dorm on-cam-pus, locations off-campus, and St. Mary’s to pray together.
For Senior Danielle Skorich, known for singing a meditative hymn during Communion, the Mass conveys feelings of “intense prayerfulness.” Enthusiastic student participation in the communal prayers of the faithful and the altar gathering of the large congregation during the Liturgy of the Eucharist are Mass highlights. The students in attendance appear to harbor a deep desire to celebrate Christ and his ongoing presence in their lives, despite individual differences. “There is sense of moving deeper than being liberal, conservative, Catholic, or whatever,” says the Rev. Michael Baxter, CSC, a past presider at the service.
Afterwards, Dillon rector, the Rev. Paul Doyle, CSC, and assistants from the congregation whip up milkshakes for the congregation. The students who stick around pack Dillon’s first-floor lounge. Dillon’s hall government, in support of this growing tradition, has
"There is sense of moving deeper than being liberal, conservative, Catholic, or whatever"
— Rev. Michael Baxter, CSC
even recently purchased a new milkshake maker for Fr. Doyle.
ZAHM SPANISH MASS
Further extending the universality of Catholic Masses on-campus, the Zahm Hall Chapel hosts “Misa en Espanol,” a Mass in Spanish held every Sunday afternoon at 1:30 p.m. The celebration presents an expression of faith that goes beyond the norm in both its language and its lively atmosphere.
Zahm Spanish Mass provides a welcoming environment, regardless of whether one speaks Spanish. “You’re not afraid to express what you’re thinking or feeling at the time,” says freshman choir member Dennis Bonilla. The 50 or so people who regularly attend Spanish Mass — almost 20 of whom are members of the choir — find themselves part of a close commu-. nity where fellow worshippers become friends.
Although a basic knowledge of the Spanish language adds to the overall experience, the spirit of the Mass transcends the words printed in the provided Spanish missal and songbook. The Mass is energetic, enhanced greatly by the choir and guitarists. In hopes of affecting each congregation member on a personal level, each component enlivens the typical Sunday Mass obligation.
KEOUGH SUNDAY MASS
On Sunday nights at 10 p.m., the men of Keough come together in a demonstration of strong spiritual unity that has attracted residents of other dorms. The faithful have become a family — almost 200 students have made the Keough Sunday Mass their own, filling all of the chapel chairs and lining the floor against the wall.
Keough Sunday Mass primarily is a gathering of friends. Keough rector, the Rev. Peter Jarret, CSC, and resident priest, the Rev. Mark Poorman, CSC, take turns presiding over the liturgy, leading the
10 SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE
g^BKI
□
obligation so as to leave your Sunday mornings free.
PHOTO CREDIT: BETH
With all of these options, sounds like sleeping in on Sundays can fit back into your schedule. No longer will late Saturday nights leave you cursing yourself during the stumble over to the Basilica the next morning. Thanks to fellow Domers intent on tinkering with tried-and-true versions of Mass, you can fulfill your weekly
A, STANDING ROOM ONLY Over 200 Keough residents and • ..
A visitors pack Keough chapel for i 0 p.m. Sunday night mass. ■
» DRINKING WITH DOYLE On Thursday evenings at Milkshake. Mass, the Dillon Hall Rector,. Father Paul Doyle, mans the blender, mixing about 150 chocolate and vanilla:milkshakes.

’Roos in unity through faith. The camaraderie can be seen most clearly during the sign of peace, when the community crowds into the middle of the chapel, greeting and hugging each other. As Keough freshman Joe Sweigart explains, “The peace offering sets the Mass apart by showcasing its family structure.”
Despite its focus on the Keough family, the dorm’s Sunday Mass offers a strong faith experience for everyone in attendance. Lively homilies and a talented musical group, composed of a choir and several instrumentalists, are just two of the highlights that keep regulars coming back each week. Keough Sunday Mass is not just another in-hall Mass; it is a chance for any member of the Notre Dame community to be a part of a family of faith.
■
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS LIFE 11
hmh
&&&&'■

After a long history of underrepresentation on campus, minorities have university programs to make them feel comfortable. Will these efforts improve race relations?

ike most students, junior Joyce DeLeon cam&to the university from white suburbia. She attended a private, Catholic high school. In class and among her group of friends, the first-generation Filipino was one of the few colored faces in her New Jersey town. But
DeLeon says she never felt like a minority until she came to Notre Dame. "It was really surprising when I came here,” she says. “I wouldn’t say people are close-minded. ... But it took them awhile to get comfortable and understand we [minorities] weren’t much different.”
Within her first few weeks on campus, one student told DeLeon that she had been admitted only because of affirmative action. Now, DeLeon just shrugs. She hears ignorant or racist comments “all the time” — so often that they don’t faze her anymore.
1
it
Fifteen years after Provost Timothy O’Meara recommended the university make a dedicated and official commitment to improve race relations and diversity, the campus still swells with testimony similar to DeLeon’s from student minorities — underrepresented ethnic groups — who compose less than one-third of the student body.
Many of these students come from a more diverse background than DeLeon’s, making the step into a rural, Midwestern, Catholic campus even more difficult than hers.
For a national university, increasing diversity — not just for the numbers, but for the education and well-being of its student body — ranks high on the “to do” list. But for Notre Dame, attracting and keeping minorities in larger numbers might be more complicated than it seems.
Reaching Out
For many minority students, the wooing begins with an invitation to “Spring Visitation Weekend.” The university selects minority students who might otherwise be unable to afford a trip to campus and “high talent” students who didn’t mark Notre Dame as their first choice. The all-expenses paid visit pairs the prospective students with minority hosts who takes them to classes, the dining-hall and campus events, and gives them a chance to speak with administrators about life at Notre Dame. In recent years, the Black Fashion Show, Latin Expressions and Lumpia Night have been planned during the same weekend to present a variety of cultural events for entertainment.
The university also coordinates the weekend with the date for sending acceptance letters, so the students who have not been notified receive the good news when they arrive. Admissions director Dan Saracino says he tells them, “I can assure you, you were not admitted because of your color. You were admitted because we want you to be here.”	'
For students who attend “Spring Viz,” much of the weekend is spent socializing. They talk, they laugh, they make friends with other students of color. And most of them go home crazy about Notre Dame.
Several current students who fell in love with the university during that weekend now feel they were deceived by Notre Dame. Some say they wish they had known what the university was truly like — because they might have gone someplace else. Others say that it’s too late for “what ifsbut that the university needs to change its policy for the incoming students.
“I feel like they gave an unrealistic picture of the school,” says freshman Lauren Berger, who is Asian and Jewish. “It’s unfair to give them the image that there are always minority events, when in reality there are, like, 500 minority students.” Had she
When I see a child who is an alum child, an ethnic minority, Catholic, a great athlete — I get excited.
—Dan Saracino Director of Admissions
known the real statistics, however, Berger says she still would have come to Notre Dame because she enjoys the atmosphere.
Assistant to the President Chandra Johnson, who is black and has worked to advance the cause of all minorities on campus, says the language used for the prospective students differs greatly than a few years ago. They present class statistics and explain why so many cultural events are clustered around a single weekend.
“We tell them why we do that, and it’s because we are committed to doing what we need to do to diversify the freshman class,” Johnson says. One of the university’s explicit goals is to increase the percentage of minorities in the student body, which currently sits at 15. percent.
Whatever the language, the results are impressive. This year, 150 minority students were invited to the weekend. While all student responses have not been received, the . administration hopes this class will bring the
university closer to its goal to expand the percentage of minority undergraduate students to 20 percent in the next few years.
Director of Admissions Dan Saracino says the department has other goals for the freshman class as well. In addition to increasing diversity, Saracino aims to maintain its Catholic percentage, increase academic quality, community service and high-school involvement in the incoming freshman class.
This means that students who fulfill one or more category have a better chance of catching the admission department’s eye.
“When I see a child who is an alum child, an ethnic minority, Catholic, a great athlete
— I get excited,” Saracino says.
But he also says that students of color do more than boost statistics. “We want to create a well-rounded student body,” he says. “...We learn so much from each other. ... My day is made when I walk across campus and hear someone speaking Spanish,” he adds. “It shows we’re not all the same.”
For many students of color, though, that’s part of the problem. They feel uncomfortable being different in a mostly homogenous atmosphere. When DeLeon realized that she contributed to the small minority percentage her freshman year, she also realized that what interested her and the culture she valued was different. “I diverged from the mainstream way to be at Notre Dame. I got pushed to the edge of the family — not necessarily because I was a minority, but because being a minority facilitated that.” ,
No matter how well admissions was doing in bringing minorities to campus, attention needed to be paid in reaching out to students while they were on campus.
Leveling the Playing Field?
When minorities first began arriving on campus, according to MSPS Director Iris Outlaw, they often came from lower socioeconomic standings where they often were ■ surrounded by people of similar cultures and beliefs. Dropping them in the middle of rural Indiana was quite a culture shock, Outlaw recalls.
SCHOLASTICCOVER 13

Now, many of the minorities who attend the university are more “mainstream” — they come from backgrounds similar to the white, upper-middle class “Notre Dame culture.” But as DeLeon’s experience shows, that doesn’t mean minorities necessarily feel comfortable on campus.
Outlaw’s office — together with other university programming — aims to change that. Her primary goal, she says, is to make minority students feel welcome, and secondly expand the minds of majority students.
For Outlaw, who has been at the university for 10 years, the university has come a long way in making the campus a more comfortable place for minority students, in part through their own efforts and those of white students (see sidebar, pg. 16). “There are more majorities willing to be allies,” she says. “More who feel comfortable ... interacting with others.”
Problems with race, she says, have been significantly reduced, in part due to diversity training across campus.
Outlaw also sees more students reaching across racial barriers, she says, in part because of shifts in administrative priorities, and she applauds the university’s attempt to touch minority students on several levels — academic, social and religious.
“I think they’re talking the talk and they are trying to walk the walk,” she says of the administration. “I don’t know if they have full recognition of why they’re doing what they’re doing.... It’s a slow process, but it’s happening.”
Before freshman year begins, the university already has its eye on students who might need a boost in the academic arena because of their high school programs. Balfour Hesburgh Scholars Program serves about 40 students each year, providing them with free room, board and tuition for a month to take a few non-for-credit classes and get a taste of college life. Balfour is not restricted to minorities, although many attend the program.
When classes start, the Office of Multicultural Student Programs and Services has a mentoring program to pair minority students with a minority faculty member and an upperclassman to help them adjust to life at Notre Dame. Johnson says the program isn’t mandatory, and while MSPS encourages all colleges to get involved, the mentors all are individual volunteers.
The university also offers an incentive for
some minority students to succeed aside from the allstudent Dean’s List honor for a 3.4 GPA or higher (now computed separately by the college dean each semester). The Sankofa Scholar award is presented to students of African descent who earn a 3.1 GPA or higher. They are honored each semester at an honors assembly.
While many students enjoy the assembly and are proud of the honor it brings, one black student who did not wish to be named says that she aims for the Dean’s List each semester, not the Sankofa award. “It makes me feel that I’m a product of a lower standard,” she says of being a Sankofa Scholar.
STEP BY STEP MSPS Director Iris Outlaw (left) acts as a bridge between students and administrators as both sides work to increase diversity and improve race relations on campus.
“It’s not like it makes me feel any better about my GPA.”
The goal was originally set at 3.0, and raised when the number of award-winners shot up within two years. “The bar will continue to rise,” Johnson says. “It [the award] gives students institutional acclaim, gets them on a track to know they can do that.”
Aside from the university’s general goals, deans of the university’s five colleges have taken their own steps to help minorities adjust to life at Notre Dame.
The School of Architecture participates in the MSPS mentoring program, but also has established its own program to provide assistance to all students, not just minorities. The school pairs beginning architecture students with more advanced students in order to teach the first-years and to give the older students assistance with their projects. The program gives a boost to those without pre
vious knowledge of architecture, which is more likely to happen among minorities, says school Chair C.W. Westfall.
While the school has no official program for minorities, Westfall says he looks for ways to reach §ut to the students. For example, the school recently sent four minority students to a conference for National Organization for Minority Students in Architecture at the University of Illinois in Champaign.
Westfall also has linked with the National Association for Minority Architectures, the president of which is a Notre Dame graduate to bring more minority students into architecture over the next 30 years.
The College of Arts and Letters, like architecture, offers no official programs for minorities. According to Assistant Dean Ava Preacher, the college’s main responsibility is to address the educational needs of mi-
7
14 SCHOLASTICCOVER
norities on campus. While she admits some students might feel marginalized by the campus’ social atmosphere, Preacher believes the college’s efforts have answered minorities’ educational demands, citing the recent foundation of the Institute for Latino Studies and the African-American Studies major. .
“The colleges depend a lot of the establishment of programs to form the students through education, and create spaces to address these special issues,” she says.
The Mendoza College of Business outlines several goals in increasing diversity, though offers no race-specific programming. According to College Diversity Officer Professor Ram Ramanan, one of the main goals is to increase minority faculty in the college.
The college also offers courses concerning diversity, such as a well attended lecture series titled “Managing Differences in the Workplace,” and an ethics series that addresses diversity, and encourages high-profile minority speakers to foster discussion at the college.
Learning communities — self-selected groups of students who can work together
Race by Numbers
The racial composition of the 2001-2002 undergraduate student body
and enroll in the same class sections together — also are encouraged for all students, regardless of race. The college also offers free tutoring to all students.
The College of Science does not offer any specific programs for minorities. According to the dean’s office, “All students are treated alike. We feel there’s equality there.”
The only minority-specific program in a college lies within the College of Engineering. The Minority Engineering Program (MEP) serves the 79 minorities in the college.
The program originally was established to combat poor retention numbers for minorities in the college — the rate was 36 percent 15 years ago — in hopes of encouraging minorities to get involved and adjust to the college by providing resources on academic, professional and personal levels.
The program has seen success so far — by 2001, minority retention had shot up to 97 percent.
To improve grade-point averages, the program provides, among other perks, a network of hired student tutors, workshops to teach good study habits and a test file to
which students can donate old exams or assignments for reference. The MEP also offers an incentive for academic improvement besides the university-wide Dean’s List: Students who earn a 3.0 GPA or higher are eligible to receive $500 per semester for a year in exchange for volunteering at an MEP elementary school program a few hours each month. To qualify for the scholarship, students also must demonstrate participation in extracurricular activities, but program directors found that most students with good grades also are active in their community, yielding several award-winners each year.
On a professional level, the MEP centralizes information about scholarship and internship applications, as well as post-graduation options. The staff helps with the job search or admittance to higher education.
Also, the program links with top corporations, who often fund the monthly stipends and are eager to skim off the cream-of-the-crop students. Those sponsored for all three years might have an easier time getting their foot in the door with a top company.
For junior aerospace engineer Corey Kelly and the other students who seek out the office on the second floor of Fitzpatrick Hall, the MEP’s most important aspect is serving as a home away from home.
Open 24 hours for student use, the office’s conference room boasts a computer, printer, TV/VCR, phone with free long distance, copy machine, a small refrigerator, and printed in red on the large dry-erase board, inspiration: “Win the day.”
Director Erica Cain-Ward and Dana Marsh, program coordinator, staff the . office and serve as mentors and counselors for the minority students.
New Program Director Erica Cain-Ward’s vision for MEP differs slightly from that of the founder’s. Joy Vann-Hamilton, the original director, “geared” the program towards minorities, although she said white students seeking as-
SCHOLASTICCOVER 15
sistance wouldn’t be turned away. The program was simply designed to give an extra boost to those traditionally at a disadvantage, be it financial or a lack of educational opportunity. Cain-Ward says the program was created only for minorities. Some white students pass through the office with their minority friends, but they can’t use MEP resources, she says, emphasizing the “minority” in Minority Engineering Program.
Some minority and non-minority engineering students worry that the MEP’s resources gives minorities an unfair advantage over whites, especially regarding the office’s test files, which are restricted to minorities.
Kelly often uses the files, especially last year, when he took more introductory engineering courses. He says he and his friends benefited greatly, as his professors often recycle exam questions each year. He knew what to study and what to expect, and he was consequently better prepared.
Junior Kyle Skiven is a white computer science major. Although he doesn’t have access to the files, he has minority friends who do. “I don’t think that’s right,” he says. “Everyone should go in with equal knowledge of what’s going to be on this test. If one person should have it, then everyone
should be having it. It might not be cheating in literal sense of word, but really does hurt everyone else.”
When Skiven has studied with the tests, he says his grades have improved. At the same time, he knows white students who never saw the tests and did poorly.
Most residence halls have their own files, compiled by residents over the years. In 2000, the student senate questioned whether use of the files constituted an Honor Code violation, but never pursued the issue in depth, partly because all students conceivably could access the files.	.
The test file is listed in the MEP brochure, but when Cain-Ward learned that the residence hall files had been under suspicion, she expressed concern that people might question the MEP’s. The files were established as a student resource, she says, and neither as a tool for cheating nor a. crutch for less-intelligent students. Cain-Ward wants students to view the MEP’s resources as a service for students. “It’s just like a computer lab,” she says.
Aside from professional societies and the MEP, which she says is important to incorporate more minorities into the college, Johnson does not encourage the schools to
Civil Rights In the ’90s
Racial tensions on campus flared up as recently as the fall of 1990, when a group of minority students rallied against the university’s reluctance to develop a racial harassment policy. Students United For Respect (SUFR) was a coalition of students of all races — minority and white — who felt the administration overlooked minority students. One member claimed that the university was more interested in cultural visibility than cultural diversity, boosting minorities for the number and not genuine interest.
“...It is an over sign of neglect and ignorance (or arrogance) that a university of such global stature does not have an effective and concrete procedural mechanism for reporting and treating incidents of racism (on the campus of Notre Dame) nor has made any material contribution to the idea of cultural diversity,” SUFR spokespeople Pedro Villegas and Robert Price wrote in a letter published in the Feb 7, 1991 issue of Scholastic.
In the letter, the SUFR members pointed to the new buildings for ROTO and the band as a symbol of the university’s commitment to those programs, and the ethnic groups’ “relegated cubicle space” in LaFortune as one overt sign of disrespect towards minorities.
In addition to additional space for minority groups, SUFR demanded more independence for the office of minority affairs, additional minority faculty, the establishment of an ethnic students department and a university-wide required course in ethnic studies, the adoption of the harassment policy and increases in financial aid.
separate its students. “Within the last five years, students of color who come to us [now] don’t have the same mindset. They come to places like ND expecting to incorporate themselves in the mainstream. For a college to have something separate would send out the wrong message.”
While standards and subject material can apply equally to everyone, socialization does not, taking in culture, religion and 18 years of background.
The university funds 23 “cultural” groups, in addition to a smattering of academic clubs, such as the Hispanic Business Students Association, for minorities. The cultural clubs receive a collective $37,287 from the Club Coordination Council that budgets for every group. Clubs for underrepresented minorities also can apply for additional amounts from MSPS.
Larger clubs sponsor events attended by a more diverse population of the student body — the fashion show presented by the Black Cultural Arts Council, for example, attracts more than just black students, as does Latin Expressions, Lumpia Night and Asian Allure.
Junior Andy Gomez is a first-generation American from San Salvador. He is presi-
SUFR attempted to meet with the administration, but because the group was not recognized by the university, officials refused them an audience. In protest, students staged a sit-in in the Registrar’s Office, Outlaw said. Although some minority students disagreed with SUFR’s means of gaining attention, Price argued that demonstrations were necessary to spur the administration to action.
“That’s the way it works here, man,” Price told Scholastic in 1991. “You’re not going to get s— until you fight for it. The students here, if they want something done, they’re going to have to show the administration how serious they are about it, or else it’s not going to be done, that’s just the type of institution this is.”
Administration finally met with SUFR to discuss its demands. Outlaw said that students did not understand all the “politics” behind the university not meeting all the demands. For example, the office of minority affairs could not operate independently of Student Affairs, as SUFR requested. Other demands, however, such as the expansion of multicultural space, paved the way for the sizable MSPS office and the cultural majors and programs offered through the university, as well as increased financial aid packages.
Despite SUFR’s limited successes, Outlaw says the protest needed to happen to jumpstart dialogue. A new hire when SUFR was formed, Outlaw became a bridge between students and the administration, and achieved more than the former director of minority affairs, she says, because she worked within, not against, university policy. “There are different kinds of revolutions that need to happen,” she says. SUFR was one of them. Now, however, it may be time for a different tack.
- Sarah Childress
16 SCHOLASTICCOVER
dent of Coro Primavera, a choir that sings primarily Spanish music, but doesn’t discriminate among its members. Gomez stresses the club’s inclusionary policy because he thinks a lot of students believe cultural groups are only for certain ethnic groups.
“It does encourage people to stick to their race,” Gomez says of the cultural programming. “It’s a double-edged sword. It’s good to bring unity, but at the same time it alienates you from the rest of the population.” Because of the events he attended and clubs he joined when he first arrived on campus, most of Gomez’s friends are Hispanic. He identified with them because they shared similar experiences and backgrounds.
“You always try to get with people of your own race and ethnicity because you feel somewhat connected, more so than with someone else,” he says, adding that those he met in his hall had not been exposed to his culture. Now that he feels more comfortable here, Gomez can expand to meet students of other races. But not all students do so, and that’s what Outlaw aims to change.
For her, MSPS and its satellite programs and clubs are about helping students find a place where they feel comfortable, where they can find their niche. “That’s not assimilation — that’s not what I’m about,” she says. “It’s, ‘Come, be' yourself, and find your place.’ ”
Outlaw has her eye on the majority population, too. She notes with pleasure that an increasing number of white students are joining the university chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and attending MSPS events —even if they are, like First Fridays, mostly about good, free food.
But Outlaw wants to educate the “narrowminded and conservative students” as well. She says it’s difficult to work for change when the student body turns over each year,
but Outlaw has see progress. She feels its time, though, for MSPS and other minority groups on campus to look in a different direction.
“We need to move from dancing and singing to dialogue,” she says. “We want to host [events and programs] that are more intellectual, educational.”
Campus Ministry’s cross-cultural ministry, which reaches across lines of race and sexual orientation, existed before Johnson arrived. But the newly appointed assistant director has expanded the ministry to more group-specific aspects, expanding on the retreats and Masses already offered for ethnic groups.
Now, religious icons with people of color decorate the walls of the Campus Ministry offices in the Coleman-Morse building. “Students, when they walk in, are glad to see Our Lady of Guadalupe, or the Madonna and child as Native American ... there are different ways to embrace Christ that has everything to do with culture,” she says. She stresses the importance of placing value on religious aspects of cultures apart from that of the mainstream.
The university puts a finishing touch on the minority experience with graduation. Before grouping them with the rest of their college, MSPS pulls out interested students for four culturally based ceremonies: African-American, Latino, Asian and Native American. Students have a chance to hear their name called and be honored in front of as many family and friends as can find seats.
“The existence of it itself is a good thing,” says senior Jemar Tisby, who is black. “I’m thinking mainly of my family coming in, and it’s going to be ... a good way for them to see that there are other African Americans here, and that its a strong and supportive community.” When the minority-specific graduations began, white students wanted more intimate ceremonies as well. Some began working within the colleges to arrange
ceremonies for individual majors.
Tisby does not see the separate ceremonies as exclusive or separatist. He plans to attend the African-American graduation as well as that for his major, American Studies, and the College of Arts and Letters, and sees the cultural ceremony as a “very positive thing.” Part of graduation, he says, is to recognize the specific role students have played during their four years at the university.
“It seems like when you come to Notre Dame, people already have an idea of what kind of student you’re going to be, whether it’s the activities you get involved in, who you associate with, the music you like ... And so far as college is a struggle to find identity... It’s harder, as an African-American, to shrug off expectations and those burdens to become your own person as freely as you might,” he says.
For Tisby, to walk across the stage before his whole family — whom he says are more excited than he is — the African-American ceremony will be a celebration of living out his unique experience here.
Each ceremony bears elements of the group’s culture. For example, the African-American graduation is spiritually based, with music by the Voices of Faith gospel choir, while Coro Primavera performs at the Latino ceremony.
Ultimately, Outlaw would like to host one large ceremony for all minorities, but MSPS currently lacks space and has difficulties coordinating all the cultures.
Beyond the Dome
Despite the university’s attempts to make them feel more comfortable, alumni and Alumni Association member D’Juan Francisco says that many minorities felt alienated from the student body. He cited differences in music, religion and other interests, but also negative stereotypes. “Everyone assumed they were here for athletics,” he says.
SCHOLASTICCOVER 17
ALWAYS LISTENING Assistant to the President Chandra Johnson is open to minority student concerns.
“Many people didn’t realize that some of the minorities got into Notre Dame because they were great students.”
In 1987, the Alumni Association conducted a study to find out who didn’t participate in alumni events. The results? Minorities, women, young alumni, athletes and graduate students. In response, officers established the Minority Alumni Network, which aimed to help minorities feel they were a part of the Notre Dame community.
The network let to three ethnically defined sub-groups: Black, Hispanic and Asian and
Pacific Islanders of Notre Dame. The boards
recruit perspective students from their high schools, mentor current minority students and meet with prospective students. In addition, they reach out to current minority alumni through a listserv, Web site and newsletter. They establish a network for jobs and housing, and encourage more participation in different events.
But Francisco, who was appointed director of the constituency groups, emphasizes the boards aren’t separate from the Alumni Association. Heads of the groups sit on the alumni board and vote like the other members. Rather, he says, the boards compliment
the association, working to encourage inclusion.
Since the institution of the minority boards, the association has seen increased participation by all groups in alumni events, speaking to an increased comfort level, Francisco says.
. In admissions, Saracino has seen children of minority alumni take an increased interest in attending Notre Dame. “You can say that they [the parents] were called spiteful names [while at Notre Dame],” he says. But in spite of all that, the alumni continue to encourage their children to
look at the university, he says.
Looking Ahead
With more “mainstream” minority students and more tolerant white students, Johnson is optimistic about the future of race relations on campus. She finds the student body so mixed that students already are open to different ethnic groups and cultures — in part because of the administration’s efforts.
“When students realize their culture is valued, [they] begin to respond to that. But it’s got to come from the top down, and that’s
what happened,” she says. “There’s been a
drastic shift in campus culture.”
Johnson hopes now to focus on the internal dynamics of the various ethnic groups, which has begun to decay as the students branch out in the mainstream community.
DeLeon doesn’t seem as optimistic. While she appreciates increased attendance by all races at the various cultural events and sees less intolerance as she did as a first-year student, DeLeon gets frustrated.
“People don’t think there’s a problem,” she says. “...People are not wanting to accept that minorities don’t feel comfortable on campus. They don’t want to believe that
not everyone leaves feeling a part of it.”
That sense of exclusion has led DeLeon to befriend more minority students — she knows they all have at least one thing in common and will be generally more accepting of her culture. Or, at least, tolerant.
“When people are sober and themselves, even if they have prejudice thinking, they don’t show it,” she says. “They restrain it well.”
That doesn’t mean she’s given up on the rest of the students: DeLeon still has many white friends and works with majority students through the Club Coordination Council.
Perhaps the most complicated twist in the problem lies in the students themselves. Junior Santiago Gurule is a Mexican-American, but does not consider his experience at Notre Dame a “minority” experience. Although he participates in cultural events and helps to plan Spring Visitation, Gurule because he feels such a mentality is limiting, and leads to feelings of victimization.
Gurule’s problem with race centers on the apathy of the student body.
“As a community, I do not believe that we are unified under the same causes,” he says. “Many students only feel the urgency ’to express their voice when something directly affects their social life,” he says, referring to the protests against the new alcohol policy. “...More serious issues — like diversity — require too much personal energy and human understanding. ... What many people fail to see is that lack of diversity does affect our life here, and the divisions are clear and frustrating.”
Frustrating, perhaps, but hardly clear. Nobody seems to know for sure what the solution really is. Some say increased diversity; some say jnore classes, events or lectures. Added faculty or a new, separate building for MSPS, as Outlaw envisions.
Whether these ideas and the current policies will help or hurt, perhaps the most important hurdle still lies in the plea of Ken Dunbar, former director of minority affairs, when he spoke about a 1991 student protest by SUFR, a campus minority-advocate group: “Please, somebody, let’s deal with racism. Let’s talk about it. Let’s recognize it’s systemic, and that it permeates most of this university and most of America.”	□
— With reporting by Annie Robinson and Mike Borgia
18 SCHOLASTICCOVER
CAMPUS WATCH BY
H EG IP PER

ood day, Gipplings. The Gipper trusts that you are all busily en gaged in a last-minute sprint to polish off all those old tequila bottles you found
crusted in Oreos behind the couch. While you’re doing that, take one final shot for your old uncle Gipp — lemon and all — and then have a look at this latest batch.
Robbing the Cradle
The Gipp’s favorite tip involves an AR and a freshman. (No, this has nothing to do with the sort of stuff the Pope has been talking about lately.) Apparently the young gents of Keenan Hall, in a desperate attempt to escape the gray piping and gray skies under which they spend their days, initiated a dorm-wide game of “Assassins.” The rules are as follows: Each participant is assigned another, whom he has to shoot with a dart gun within an allotted time frame. So everyone is watching his back, and trying to get someone else in the process. Apparently, the elderly Nintendos of Keenan are all on the blink, because some residents appear, to have consumed themselves with the game. The Gipper has even heard reports of computer engineers staying in their rooms on Friday nights to avoid being targeted. Unbelievable.
So, to get back to the story, the frosh in question had been assigned an outgoing AR as his target. As the game deadline approached, the AR decided to hop in his little gray Mazda, conveniently parked in the building lot, and to drive off to evade capture. However, in a daring deed of action-movie delusion, the frosh caught his target as he was pulling away, and hopped onto the roof of the automobile.
The AR, adrenaline pumping at the threat of being dropped with a floppy rubber dart, drove madly around campus, trying to shake the frosh. But his efforts were fruitless in the face of steely, pre-pubescent determination, and so the AR cleverly decided to drive to the NDSP station and pull into a reserved spot. Amazingly, not ten seconds later, a police car pulled up. The unamused cop dragged our friend the AR into his Crown Vic for some information, at which point the freshman pointed his gun in the window and shot him in the head.
The Gipper’s favorite part of the story: The AR went home with a Res Life summons. Sweet, sweet irony.
Goose!
Last weekend a group of O’Neillites decided to hijack a goose. No, the Gipp isn’t talking about another tacky dining hall ornament — he’s talking about a real, live, kicking bird. Apparently, the way to capture a goose is to feed it slowly at first until it gets close, and then throw a trash bag over it. And then hold on tight. And then put it in your buddy’s room while he is sleeping. And then wait for him to wake up.
The poor victim (the sleeper, not the goose) awoke to cascades of that substance that geese know best shooting over his books, his carpet, his coffee table ... you get the picture. The poor fel
low barely escaped from his bed before recruiting help in ushering the goose out the window, and coating every surface in the room with bleach.
This is the greatest prank the Gipper has heard in a long time, although at the same time, he’s glad he wasn’t there.


Finis
Before saying his goodbyes, the Gipp would like to extend a (figurative) handshake of peace to his old nemesis, Bill Kirk. You may stand for everything the Gipp is against, but ... well, you were the butt of too many easy jokes this year, and the Gipp thinks you got more than your fair share of flak.
Take it easy on these kids, Bill — they’re still young. Let just one of ‘em off easy for the Gipper.
Despite having patched this up, the Gipp has a few threatening enemies left brooding over his fate in and around South Bend, and he’d like to keep his identity under wraps until his diploma is safely in his hands in May. So, sorry folks, but this one isn’t going public. Ask around, though. The Gipper promises that, if you inquire in person, he’ll tell you the truth. Accept no imitations — it’s that floppy-haired-hippy turned crew-cut-Cairene, who blasts his Cake too damned loudly through the hallway, that you’ve all grown so fond of.
So long, and farewell, Gipplings. Don’t forget to take that extra shot for me, and if I’m around, I’ll even take one with you.
<7^
I u
SCHOLASTICCAMPUS WATCH 19
[ADVERTISEMENT)

Gail Bederman grew up in Highland Park, IL in the 1950s and 60s. During the 1970s, she was—among other things— a college dropout, an activist in the peace and anti-nuclear movements, and an actress in touring feminist theatres. At the age of 30, she gave up acting, and soon thereafter found herself—improbably— in grad school where she discovered a love for teaching and studying history. After getting her Ph.D. in 1992, she was hired at Notre Dame to teach U.S. Women’s History. Currently, she is writing a history of early birth-control literature in England and the United States, 1793-1831. After ten years of teaching here, she has come to love Notre Dame, her job, and her students. The only thing she really dislikes about this great university is that we still don’t have a non-discrimination policy to protect our gay, lesbian, and bisexual students, faculty and staff—but she has great hopes for the future.
Gail Bederman:
“Her excitement and passion for her profession and responsibilities energizes students in their work. Her encouragement positively reinforces students, causing them to want to continue in their work.”
~ Lindsey Horvath
“She has been a profound inspiration for me as one of the few women professors of American history here at Notre Dame.”
~ Elizabeth Hayes
Honoring Women of No
Sponsored by the University of Notre
For the past three years, the University of Notre Dame Women’s Resource Center has sponsored the Honoring Won. so much of themselves to the University and who ceaselessly improve the community through their dedicated effort
Colleen Knight-Santoni:
“After spending even a short time with Colleen, it becomes obvious that she approaches life with the simple yet oftentimes challenging goal to Love All. As a young professional woman, she especially inspires the female students of Notre Dame.”
~ Sue Palladino
Colleen Knight Santoni has served the University at the Center for Social Concerns as its Director of Student Outreach for Service and Social Action for the past four years. After graduating from Notre Dame in 1996 with a BA in Pre-professional and Spanish studies, Knight Santoni taught middle school in a Fort Worth Catholic school while ' working on her MA in Teaching (University of Portland) through the Alliance for Catholic Education. Colleen is a native of El Paso, TX and currently lives in South Bend with her husband Frank Santoni and Noah (21 months) all of whom are awaiting the arrival of their new baby in September.
20 SCHOLASTICADS
|advertisement|
Sister Kathryn Haas, a member of the congregation of,the Poor Handmaids of Jesus Christ,__ began her ministry at Notre Dame in August of1992 as the Rector of Knott Hall. Sr. Kathy received her BS in elementary Education from Alverno College in Milwaukee, Wl in 1973 and earned a Master’s Degree in Pastoral Studies at Loyola University of Chicago in 1991. Prior to coming to ND, Sr. Kathy taught at the elementary school level in Hammond and Mishawaka Indiana and in Chicago, IL. Volunteer experiences in such places as the Justice and Peace Center in South Bend and an emergency center in Cincinnati were instrumental in broadening and diversifying her life perspective and helped prepare her for teaching at St. Augustine’s in Chicago, a place that was rich in its faith and parish community. Starting in 1985, Sr. Kathy served four years at the Community Growth Center in Richmond, MN and later became its director. While at Notre Dame, she served as Knott Hall’s Rector for five years, and then was asked to continue as the Rector of the then-new McGIinn Hall community. As Sr. Kathy puts it, “The ten years that I have been a rector have been a treasure, as many have allowed me to walk with them in a variety of ways during their college journey.”
Sister Kathy Haas:
“She does not just fulfill the requirements of being a rectress; she performs her tasks with joy and enthusiasm. Sister Kathy encourages women in their academic, social, and spiritual development in a variety of ways”	.
~ Katie Ball
ire Dame 2001-2002
Dame Women’s Resource Center
n of Notre Dame project. This project’s goal is to recognize those women in the Notre Dame community who give t. We would like to congratulate the following four women, who were chosen as this year’s honorees.
Ava Preacher:
“She has taken time out of her schedule to listen, council, and advise students who experience difficulty in their lives. She remembers everyone or at least recognizes everyone.”
~ Helena Pan
Ava Preacher is an assistant dean in the College of Arts and Letters. A member of the Notre-Dame-faculty-since'1985rshe has served in her current-position since-1993-Ava is—-the pre-law advisors for all students at the University and provides general advising with the College of Arts and Letters. She also certifies the graduate status for Arts and Letter students, reviews transfer student admissions, orients new faculty to College and University procedures and regulations, and serves as the faculty representative for the Truman and Madison Scholarship nominees. Ava is a concurrent instructor of Film, Television and Theatre. She was the director of the Gender Studies program from 1990-93 and twice has been honored for her service to students at the University. Ava currently serves as an elected faculty representative on the Faculty Senate and the Campus Life Council. She is a member of the University Committee on Women Faculty and Students and is an advisor for three student clubs: Mock Trial, the Pre-Law Society and Campus Alliance for Rape
__.________Eliminatiom(CARE)_She..currently-serves.as..the appointed.University.resource person for__ victims of sexual assault.	/ ;
g—wai
SCHOLASTICADS 21
SCHOLasncl
Mold
Impressionable Young Minds.
Reach the new class before Activities Night — Advertise in Scholastic's Freshman Issue.
In our “survival guide” to campus life, your club or organization’s advertisement will reach every incoming freshman this summer. That’s one more chance to scoop up new recruits — without handing out flyers at the JACC.
Contact Business
Manager Jessie Potish atjpotish@nd.edu or call 1 -0594 for more information.
SPORTS INFORMATION — MARK WELLMAN
Sophomore attack Dan Berger is one of the most exciting playmakers on the Irish men’s lacrosse team. After showing promise in limited playing time last year, Berger was rewarded with a starting position this season and has emerged as a potent scorer. He leads the team with 20 goals, 24 total points, and 6 multiple-goal efforts through the first 11 contests.
The most memorable experience in my career at Notre Dame thus far was: being a part of last year’s Final Four team.
My favorite hobby outside of lacrosse is: golf. It’s always been something that my dad and brothers have done together.
I decided to attend Notre Dame: after I came on my visit senior year in high school. I knew this was the place I wanted to go. Plus there were a couple of guys from my high school that went here.
I started playing lacrosse: when I was six. I played for the rec team by my house.
My favorite thing about Notre Dame is: the campus, but only in the fall and spring. It’s pretty boring during the winter.
My favorite dining hall food is: the barbecue rib sandwiches. Those nights are pretty exciting for me.
To prepare for a game: I usually just sit in front of my locker and listen to whatever CD is in the stereo. When we are away I just listen to my headphones — usually more relaxing music than in the locker room. I don’t really talk too much before games.
My dream house: would be on a golf course — any golf course — as long as it is right off the fairway.
Between dogs and cats, the better pet is: definitely a dog. They are loyal, they respond to you and they keep a good eye on the house.
My favorite cartoons are: the Flintstones and Scooby Doo. My family’s first two dogs were named Barney and Fred.
The best advice I have ever received was: play hard while you have the chance. You only get so many opportunities and you have to take advantage of them and make the most of them.
— David Murray
Jimbo’s Jabber
On Tuesday, the softball won at No. 4 Nebraska, 3-2 off of Liz Hartmann’s three-run home run in the top of the seventh, bringing its overall record to 27-13.
RHP Steffany Stenglein, the Big East Pitcher of the Week, earned the win to bring her record to 17-9. The team has now won 20 of their last 21 games and are first place in the Big East with an 11 -1 conference record.... baseball won its ninth straight game on Sunday against Seton Hall to move into a tie for first place in the Big East with Virginia Tech and Boston College. Each has a conference record of 11-6. Senior CF Steve Stanley’s 4-for-9 day moved him into first on the Big East all-time hits list with 141.... On Sunday, the 10th-ranked men’s tennis team beat Miami to clinch the school’s sixth Big East championship of the year, tying the conference record. Senior Casey Smith won in both singles and doubles and coach Bob Bayliss was honored as Big East Coach of the Year.... The men’s golf team rounded out the spring schedule by finishing second at the Big East Championship on Sunday at the Warren golf course. Senior Steve Rattay shot a five-over par, tying for second place, and freshman Ryan Mitchell finished sixth with an eight-over par.... Six former football players were selected in the NFL draft last weekend: DL Anthony Weaver (Baltimore Ravens), LB Rocky Boiman (Tennessee Titans), TE John Owens (Detroit Lions), LB Tyreo Harrison (Philadelphia Eagles), WR Javin Hunter (Ravens) and WR David Givens (New England Patriots). □
SCHOLASTICSPLINTERS* 23

THE
RANT
BY GERARD MESKILL
Words of-; ? wisdom from '
Scholastic’s own
Americans might generally dislike soccer, but they’re not giving it much of a chance. The game’s not any more slow-paced than baseball, and the United States is actually good at the game.
livery four years, one lucky country I—hosts a sports spectacle that captivates the world for a few weeks as countries put aside their differences to engage in friendly competition. It’s the largest and most important athletic competition in the world, to which every country aspires to send its athletes. Of course, if you are an American, you might wrongly assume that I’m referring to the Olympics.
I qualified the previous statement only to include Americans, because the rest of the world knows there is a sporting event far more important than the Olympics, jointly
hosted this year by Korea and Japan. Further, I should have said it’s the largest and most important sporting event in the world outside of the United States. In case you still haven’t guessed, it’s the World Cup, and America has qualified for a fourth consecutive time. Only six other countries in the World Cup finals have a matching streak. Yet Americans retain the opinion that soccer is a foreign game, one that will never harbor widespread popularity in this country. I’d like to know why.
One common observation is that soccer is boring, with too many low-scoring games. There is an inkling of truth in the statement: Soccer often does have lower-scoring games than your typical American sport. However, the contention that soccer is boring is purely ignorant.
Baseball arguably is the most popular game in this country, yet you will find many Americans who will tell you that it is a slow and boring game, with too many pauses. If you’re a baseball fan, you know that such an argument could only come from a person with almost no understanding of the game and deserves to be admonished or ignored. Yet, the same knowledgeable baseball fan who snaps at the ignorant fool insulting his game often is just as much a fool when the subject is changed from our pastime to the world’s.. Americans love to make fun of soccer, but many have no concept of the game. It is likely this reason that we find it boring in the first place.
A second American reason for not watching soccer is that the United States is not good at the game. While this is not true, it also is a lousy argument for not paying attention to a sport. Just ask any Hungarian. Hungary hasn’t been a soccer power for more than a half century, and yet their citizens haven’t losttheirzeal for the world’s game. Furthermore, if Americans took soccer seriously, our national team likely would exhibit substantial improvement'within 10
years.
If you don’t believe that, just look at what has happened since America hosted the World Cup in 1994. As the host country, America received an automatic bid. Surprisingly, the national team advanced past the pools before being eliminated by Brazil. The fervor from America’s best performance in the World Cup resulted in the institution of Major League Soccer in the United States. Further, the performance propelled America to qualify in 1998 and now in 2002. If that isn’t enough for you, then talk to some of the world’s most ardent soccer supporters whose countries continually fail to qualify for the 32-team field. They’ll remind you that qualifying for the World Cup is a feat in itself.
If I ’ ve convinced you enough to even give the World Cup a chance, let me point out now that America has a chance to make another strong performance this year. First, the United States have seven players making their third appearance in the World Cup, giving the national team an experience advantage that it never has had before. Second, the United States received arguably the best draw in the pool selections for this year’s tournament. It is customary for the host nation to be considered a first-tier team. America’s pool contains host Korea. Not only should America be able to defeat Korea, but being in the same pool as one of the hosts assures that the United States will not have to face one of the world’s top-eight soccer teams in its pool games. This is a huge lift when you consider that only the top two teams in each pool advance to the second round. With the chance to displace Korea, America needs to also finish ahead of either Poland or Portugal to advance.
There aren’t many good reasons left not to watch the United States in pool competition starting June 5 against Portugal. And no, soccer has nothing to do with the metric system, so that isn’t a good excuse, either.	□
OUR CALLS
SPORT: MEN’S LACROSSE OPPONENT: HARVARD
■WHERE: CAMBRIDGE, MASS. WHEN: SATURDAY, APRIL 17, 12:00 PM
1 After winning three straight games, ND recently has returned to its previous trend of tough losses. A perennial lacrosse powerhouse, Harvard won’t make life any easier for the Irish, handing ND its eighth loss, 12-7.
— Gerard Meskill Sports Editor
Harvard trips over all the ivy on their home field as Notre Dame hands the Crimson their eighth loss in the last nine games, 11-7. Senior attack player Dan Berger leads the Irish offensive effort, scoring five goals.
— Jimmy Atkinson Assistant Sports Editor
Notre Dame arrives in Cambridge hungry for a win after two hard losses to Army and Fairfield. But the Crimson, led by junior Matt Primm, keep the team frustrated by dominating the Irish by a score of 14-8.
— Jessica Daues Managing Editor
24 SCHOLASTICSPLINTERS
/%//7
ND’s men and women’s track teams anticipate the outdoor season
CHR1STOPHERKELLY
oming off successful indoor sea-I sons, both the men’s and women’s track teams expect to perform well this outdoor season. Young but talented, the men’s team placed third in the Big East during this past indoor season. Meanwhile, the women won their indoor conference for the first time in their history.
So how good will the men’s team be this spring? Senior Luke Watson says that it is hard to tell. According to Watson, there are two distinct ways to analyze a track team: in terms of its depth or in terms of the quality of its top performers. -
“Teamwise, this year is a learning experience, but at the top we are still very strong,” says Watson, a two-time AllAmerican in both cross country and indoor track.
The Big East meets are designed to measure team depth, so Watson acknowledges that this might be a sub-par year for the Irish in their conference. “We are very young and have many guys still developing, so I guess we’re a little down this year,” he says. However, the NCAA Championships only measure the elite performers, so from that aspect Notre Dame still is a
nationally competitive program. “There is no measure of depth at nationals, and with our talent we should perform well there,” he says.
The head coach of the men’s and women’s teams, Joe Piane, is much more optimistic than Watson. “I think Luke is underestimating the ability of his teammates,” he says. “We’ve had a very successful year so far, but I don’t think we’ve seen the best yet. We have a returning NCAA Champion who could repeat, we have other athletes who have the potential to be one.”
The NCAA Champion, All-American senior Ryan Shay, won the 10,000 meters at last June’s Championship meet. Shay’s victory marked the first time that a Notre Dame athlete has won an individual NCAA title since 1972, and he will try to repeat that feat at the 2002 NCAA Championships.
“You don’t see many back-to-back repeats
because it’s tough to do,” says Shay. “But my training is going better than last year and I’m more confident in my abilities,”
He acknowledges that it will be a different race than last year, mainly because it will be held in Baton Rouge, La. instead of Eugene,
> WARMING URFORTHE COMPETmON The largely' . inexperienced-men’s track team will need every ounce
;. of practice they can get before the Big East Track Meet' in'late May. "	,	■	..<....... "	/ J
Ore., the site of the 2001 Championships. “The weather will be hot and humid this year,” Shay says. “It will be more tactical and might turn into a race of attrition.”
In terms of team depth, however, Shay agrees with Watson in admitting that a young team might not perform as well in the Big East Championship meet. “Our depth for some events might not be there, and we won’t score points in some events. But Luke and I want to win our events at nationals, so we should perform well there.” Last season, Shay was the lone Irish qualifier for the men’s NCAA Championship. This year, the team already has three athletes who have qualified.
The future looks even brighter for the women, who seek to continue the momentum gained from their indoor championship. The women managed to win the indoor title without winning a single event — a feat that
demonstrates excellent team depth. Compared to their sole qualifier of last season, the Irish already have five individuals (Ayesha Boyd, Liz Grow, Lauren King, Jennifer Handley and Tameisha King) and a relay team qualified to compete in the NCAA Championships. “We had a very successful indoor season, and it should be an equally successful outdoor season,” says Piane. “The women are deeper than ever before.” Senior All-American Liz Grow agrees: “We have so much talent on this team that it’s unbelievable. We’re going to make a run for Big East outdoor title.”
Although she is undeniably one of the keystones of the program’s success, Grow humbly praises the contributions made by her teammates. “We have lots of leaders on this team,” she says. “It’s great — they expect excellence and settle for nothing less. Everyone’s intense and dedicated.”
Grow qualified for the NCAA Championship meet in the 400 meters the past two years, and this year she already has posted a qualifying time. “I’m really optimistic .about the 400 meters. I want to compete for the na
tional title because that’s what I expect from myself,” she says.
Grow believes that the national success of this year’s performers will play a significant role in helping the Irish land top recruits. “Recruits see our team unity and want to be a part of that,” she says.
Another benefit to the future of Irish track is the relationship between the team’s younger and older members. Shay believes that experienced upperclassmen leaders teach a good work ethic to young members of the team, and Watson holds that all of the seniors take an active role in the development of the freshmen. Most seniors agree that the upcoming years should be good ones. “I’m really, really excited about the future of this program,” says Grow. “We keep growing as a team and we’ll keep getting better and better”	□
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 25
THERE'S
J1MMYATKINSON
no crying in
Leaving their disappointing start behind them, the Irish have rebounded to a 28-13 record this season
When things were looking grim for the Notre Dame softball team early in the season, it didn’t bother them one bit.
The Irish, 8-12 going into Big East play, since have rattled off 20 wins in their last 21 games, putting them atop the Big East standings and back among the toughest teams in the nation. On Tuesday, the Irish continued their current trend, defeating the fourth-ranked Nebraska Comhuskers in Lincoln, 3-2 in a come-from-behind effort, setting the stage for the last two weeks of the season.
Last season, the Irish softball team enjoyed its most successful year in program history, finishing the regular season with a 51 -5 record. Despite being awarded the No. 1 seed in their region, however, the Irish were knocked off in the regional finals by Iowa. With this loss, Notre Dame came up one game short of making what would have been their first ever College World Series appearance.
Since that setback, the team’s goal has been to accomplish what last season’s team could not: reach the World Series. But it hasn’t been an easy road. In the offseason, the team lost several key personnel: Five seniors graduated, All-American pitcher Kristin Schmidt transferred and Hall-of-Fame head coach Liz Miller retired. On July 3, four-year Irish assistant coach Deanna Gumpf was named the
new head coach to fill Miller’s shoes.
Coming into the season, the Irish were ranked 14th nationally, the highest preseason ranking in school history. But that rating might

have been somewhat presumptuous, considering the youth and inexperience of the team. The No. 1 Arizona Wildcats proved too much for Notre Dame in the opener, handing the Irish a 3-0 defeat. More close defeats followed against some of the best competition in the country. Suddenly, the Irish found themselves 8-12 (1-7 against ranked teams) going into Big East play
But the early losses to some of the best competition in the country did not get the Irish down. Instead, the team gained valuable lessons and experience.
“Going into the season, we knew the preseason was going to be tough,” says senior catcher and co-captain Jarrah Myers. “We could have easily gone to easier tournaments and come out 20-0, but we. played the best teams in the nation the first few weeks. We had a lot of tough breaks, but those losses helped us examine where we need to be the rest of the year.”
And where the Irish have been since the preseason is impressive. A 20-1 record since opening conference play, including a 14-game win streak during one span, has brought new
26 SCHOLASTICSPORTS
life to a once-struggling Irish ball club. The young, inexperienced squad of the preseason has been transformed into an intimidating and dominating ball club.
“We saw that we weren’t playing up to our potential,” says junior first baseman Lisa Mattison.“We look at each other every day in practice and see that we are some of the best players in the country, so we knew that we could step it up.”
Perhaps the greatest strength of the softball squad this season has been its ability to step up after overcoming preseason adversity to come together as a team. It couldn’t have come at a better time, either.
“We’re in a good rhythm, and we’re peaking at the right time,” says coach Gumpf.
Freshman outfielder Megan Ciolli adds,“We are going to be a tough team to beat come playoff time.”
This is one of the big differences between this season and last. Last year, the team brought a 51-3 record and 33-game winning streak into the Big East tournament but fell to Seton Hall, 2-1 in the first round, then lost again to Villanova, 1-0 in the elimination game. Although unable to lock up any tournamentwins, the Irish still earned a No. 1 seeding in the NCAA regionals, but weren’t able to get past No. 2 Iowa, as the Hawkeyes defeated Notre Dame twice, 6-0 and 6-2.
So the team’s slow start doesn’t bother anyone, as long as they keep winning —■ and hitting. “After spring break our hitting really came alive,” Gumpf says. “One through nine, we’re really strong now?’
Before spring break, the Irish were batting .240 through 20 games. In the 20 games since spring break, not including the Nebraska game, the Irish are batting .350. Such an increase in batting average is one of the many reasons for Notre Dame’s recent success.
With this success at the plate came similar success on the mound, as the two freshman pitchers, Steffany Stenglein (17-9) and Carrie Wisen (11-4), grew into their roles and gained the experience they needed to win in the Big East. For Stenglein, the tough preseason games helped her become a better player. “Pitching against the top teams has helped me a lot,” she says. “There was a little bit of pressure, but never enough that I couldn’t handle. There was a good defense behind me, so all I had to do was pitch the best I could.”
Catcher Jarrah Myers has been a key factor in the success of the freshmen pitchers. During her sophomore and junior seasons, she caught for All-American pitchers, and through
that gained the necessary knowledge to help Stenglein and Wisen grow into two of the top pitchers in the Big East.
“I love throwing to Jarrah,” Stenglein says. “She’s helped me out so much. I couldn’t ask for a better catcher to have my first year in college.”
Wisen has noted Myers’ expertise, saying, “She’ll call a pitch and I’ll be thinking about the same one. We’re on the same page.”
Also a huge factor in the turnaround is the chemistry of the team.
“This is the closest team since I’ve been here,” says Gumpf. “They really care about each other, and that makes them play harder.”
And play harder they have. Their last three games in particular have heads turning in South Bend’s direction. Last weekend, Notre Dame faced Villanova, one of the best hitting teams in the Big East, and blanked them in two games, 10-0 and 8-0. During the doubleheader, Myers hit three home runs, becoming the all-time home run leader at ND with 32.
“Virginia Tech is one of the best teams in the Big East, and to beat a team that handily means we’re really coming together at the right time,” says Mattison.
Tuesday was possibly more impressive. The Irish defeated No. 4 Nebraska, their highestranked opponent in program history, 3-2. Freshman Liz Hartmann’s three-run home run in the top of the seventh was all the Irish needed offensively as Gumpf returned to her alma mater.
Notre Dame had failed to defeat the Husk-ers in four previous attempts. During the 1999 season, the senior class’ freshman year, Nebraska defeated Notre Dame three times, including twice in the NCAA regionals. But the victory on Tuesday must not have surprised the Irish in the least, considering the high level of confidence they have.
“We’re going to beat them,” as Mattison put it quite simply before the game. She added, “As long as we stay together as a team, we can beat anyone.”
Gumpf indicated before the game, “We’ll use [the Nebraska game] as a measuring stick to see how we’re playing right now.” Following the victory, the team certainly is pleased with how they are currently playing.
As for the rest of the season, the goals remain the same: winning the Big East and advancing to the College World Series.
“We should be there,” Ciolli says. “We all expect that.”
And with the improvements that the team continues to make from game to game, the World Series doesn’t seem far from reach. □
SCHOLASTICSPORTS 27
PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Unplanned Pregnancy?
Don’t go it alone.
If you or someone you love needs help or information, please call.
Confidential Support
& Assistance
Available at Notre Dame:
•	Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407
•	Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819
•	Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163
•	John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163
•	Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336
•	Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286
South Bend
Community Resources:
•	Women’s Care Center: 234-0363
•	Catholic Charities: 234-3111

ummer
mema
When the temperature rises, the curtain goes up on monster flicks
MATTKILLEN
K ' f he summer movie season is just I around the corner. And this year, JI studios are going all out in a cut
throat competition for the audiences’ cash.
One of the biggest trends this year is the surprising amount of science-fiction films in the works. Spiderman kicks off the movie season on May 3rd. The much-anticipated comic book fantasy is quickly followed by Star Wars Episode II later that month. Steven Spielberg teams up with Tom Cruise in the futuristic sci-fi
action movie Minority Report in June, with the awaited Men In Black sequel hitting theatres on Independence Day
In the quest for the almighty dollar, studios have turned to science fiction as a
way to lure the crowds. “I think there are kind of two factors involved in this trend,” says Professor Christine Becker in the Film, Television and Theatre Department. “There’s.lhe fact that you have this general trend of “high-concept films” [which are] easily summarized movies that have something that will easily draw people into theatres,” such as comic-book characters or space aliens, “but its also sequel frenzy,” she adds. “A lot of these films are based either as sequels or are anticipated to be the beginning of franchises.”
Another big trend to watch is family films. With the success of last year’s Shrek and Monster's Inc, studios are looking to animation and family films to bring in the money this summer. Animated movies like Lilo and Stitch and Spirit: Stallion of Cimarron will compete with retuning fare like Stuart Little 2 for a piece of the family audience. “I think the studios have discovered that with a movie like Shrek you’ll get a family film that teens, adults and children would like to see. You could get a huge audience with these family • films,” Becker says. .
Though Mike Myers has another Austin Powers coming this summer, this trend towards the family film might mean that Goldmember will be one of the few com
edies aimed at teens and adults this season. Though you can expect to see a couple gross-out comedies this season,
there won’t be anything as high profile as previous successes like American Pie 2.
Another casualty of these new trends is the typical summer action fest of actors like Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvestor Stallone. Though Harrison Ford presents his K-19: The Widowmaker in July, the few other traditional action films coming out this summer (including The Sum of All Fears and xXx) star younger talent like Ben Affleck and Vin Diesel.
This has left room for a surprisingly high amount of original films this summer. From the director of Memento comes Insomnia. And Steven Soderbergh (Traffic) is bringing to the screen Full Frontal, which he calls a “karmic sequel” to his earlier hit, Sex, Lies, & Videotape. Another innovative film hitting the screens this summer is Tom Hanks’ The Road to Perdition, based on an original comic book set in Capone-era Chicago. “I think there’s definitely a market for these pictures, because you’ve got these tentpole films that hold up huge franchises. You can’t put two tentpole pictures against each other, so that leaves room for niche films like these,” says Becker.
These “tentpole” pictures are the big budget, heavily marketed major films that each studio counts on to be their top grosser for the season. The movies often rake in huge sums on opening weekend, which often drop off in the following weeks. Last year, for example, Planet of the Apes earned more than $50 million when it opened, only to drop to less than half that in following weeks. “I don’t see this trend changing, especially because this summer is so chock-full of these tentpole pictures. This trend really hurts exhibitors, because they get a larger share of the box office the longer the picture is in theaters,” Becker says.
Another trend that is alive and well this summer is the exorbitant prices being charged for films at the multiplex. With ' some ticket prices topping off at 10 dollars this summer, don’t expect to feel any relief from the studios or the theater
chains. “A big part [in this trend] is the marketing costs. The average movie now costs $60 to $70 million, and half of that is marketing costs,” Becker says. “It’s very much tied into this one-weekend strategy — setting up a huge marketing blitz in order to get people there that first weekend.”
So when you visit the multiplex to escape the suffocating summer heat, expect long lines and high prices to see the latest science-fiction epic or family-friendly comedy. While the crowds will be fighting for the hottest tickets and most-buttery popcorn, the studios will continue their struggle to stay on top and take home the brass ring — that elusive recordbreaking film that achieves both critical and popular success.	□
r — ——;—————”1 I Swnam	I
I ■	.. MAY . :	I
। 3 - Spiderman. .	.
10 -Unfaithful .	.	..
I 16 - Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the 1 I Clones	I
1 24 - Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron J [ ■ \ TO ’ ' ; I । 7- Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya	j
I Sisterhood .	• j
.	14	- Scooby-Doo
14	- Windtalkers	*
I	21	-Lilo & Stitch	।
I	21	- Minority Report	I
।	JULY ■	।
| 3 -Men in Black 2	j
| 12 - Road to Perdition	|
|- 19 - Stuart Little 2	; j
I 19 - K-19: The Widowmaker . j । 26 - Austin Powers in Goldmember । I '	• AUGUST T I
I 2 - Full Frontal .	:	' I
I 2-xXx A .. ...	.	.	• I
I. 16 -The Master of Disguise ? I I 16 -The Adventures of Pluto Nash I | 30 Possession .	. |
L-’_	J
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 29
SHEILAFLYNN
Making the Big Time with
The Notre Dame reputation of professional success is well known. Upon graduation, Domers head off into the world and into the work force, pursuing - rewarding and respectable fields. They become doctors, lawyers, government officials, CEOs, professors and even MTV stars.
Yes, you read that right: MTV stars.
It might not be a traditional career path * chosen by Domers, but one 2000 graduate has added MTV Series Actor to the list of alumni professions. Sean Dwyer, a former St. Edward’s Hall resident, St. Edward’s Hall Player and Film, Television and Theatre major, has just finished taping a pilot for an MTV series called Varsity Blues, based on the Paramount/MTV feature film which shares the same name. The series and the movie deal largely with football — a subject perhaps uniquely appropriate for a Notre
Dame alumnus.
But Dwyer insists that there is much more to his show than footage of the sport and characters in helmets knocking each other around.
“It won’t be so much just about football,” Dwyer says. “It’s pretty much just the sports, music, sex, comedy kind of thing.”
The feature film which spurred the new series explores the American obsession with sports, especially football, and examines the response of teenage athletes to the pressures placed upon them. The movie’s plot follows second-string quarterback, Jonathon “Mox”
Moxom (James van der Beek), after he takes over for the injured star quarterback, Lance Harbor (Paul j Walker), on a West Texas high school ; football team. The film addresses ; multiple topics throughout its duration, including family and romantic i relationships, the conflict between < athletics and academics, leadership and • friendship. '	■
The show, which has sprung from the movie, will be a single-camera, half- • hour comedy/drama, now described by ’ the coin phrase “dramedy,” that will center around high school sports — not just football — and the sagas which surround them. Most of the action will take place , off the playing field. Each episode will focus on a single character and his or her efforts to deal with a sports-related issue. Some of these
characters will be athletes, while others
simply will be affected by sports participants. In addition to offering humor and entertainment, each episode aims to teach a life lesson. The show most likely will debut around the end of July, introducing a cast of five regular actors — including Dwyer, who will play the character “Stick.”
“He’s like the quirky, off-the-wall kid who happens to be friends with all the perfect jock,” says Dwyer. “But he’s not ‘Screech.’ He’s his own person.”
The pilot was written by Peter Iliff,
VARSITY BLUES Dwyer’s show will be loosely based on the movie starring James Van Der Beek
the original screenwriter of the film Varsity Blues whose other credits include Patriot Games, Point Break and Under Suspicion. The program was presented to MTV executives in early December, and the company bought 13 episodes. Dwyer and the cast met personally with Brian Graden, president of programming at MTV, in addition to several other executives, and then MTV took over production plans. Unlike the pilot, which was shot in Los Angeles, the rest of the episodes will be
30 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT
A RISING STAR Sean Dwyer (far left), seen here with the 1999-2000 St Edward’s Hall Players, acted in Mainstage productions and majored in Film, Television and Theatre as a student.
filmed in Vancouver. Dwyer and the cast will travel to Canada in the second week of May to begin production.
“I was kind of surprised how quickly things have come together,” Dwyer admits. “It’s been less than two years since I’ve been out here, and things have been moving very quickly.”
But Dwyer is no stranger to spontaneity and sudden success. In fact, his entrance into theater was the result of a snap decision.
“Freshman year, I started as pre-med and
my science classes weren’t having it,” Dwyer says. “So I switched to theater because that was fun.”
The next thing he knew, Dwyer was acting in mainstage productions and directing his own shows.
After completing his Notre Dame theater career, Dwyer returned to his home town of New Milford, Conn, for a month before moving to Los Angeles to audition. He landed parts in several commercials and appearances on television series, acting with
Nelly Furtado in an episode of Roswell and working with other celebrities such as Jamie Lee Curtis and Busta Rhymes.
“For a weakling from Connecticut who happens to like gangsta rap, it was kind of fun meeting Busta Rhymes,” says the former member of the Notre Dame Glee Club.
But Dwyer soon discovered that Hollywood is not only about rubbing shoulders with the rich and famous. Instead, a good deal of grit lies hidden beneath the glitz and glamour.
“Hollywood’s fun if you come out here knowing that it’s a business,” said Dwyer. “People who come out with grand illusions : that everyone out here is trying to be an : artist are only going to come out disenchanted.”
“There's a part of Hollywood that's very superficial, shallow and fake” he adds. “That’s generally the side that doesn’t work and acts like they do.”
According to Dwyer, however, the lessons learned at Notre Dame apply to life even in the legendary entertainment oasis of California.
“There’s the side which is a small ■ community that’s actually doing things,” Dwyer says. “Notre Dame helped a lot ; because you have to be professional and you i have to be educated.”	5
And it appears that Dwyer’s education and ; sense already have helped him significantly. He not only secured himself the part of “Stick” in Varsity Blues, but also survived the cast downsizing. The pilot featured eight characters, but the series only will include five — and “Stick” made the cut.
Dwyer has high hopes that the show will survive the “weird animal” of television, which he says often deals a quick death to respectable shows while keeping lower-quality series on the air for years. But his ultimate career goal does not live in television acting.
“If I could have my choice, I’d like to do feature films, like indie projects,” Dwyer said. “Then you get to have more substantial roles and sometimes it’s not so directly contingent on advertising and numbers.”
But for now, working on MTV, Dwyer’s career depends on the numbers. So when you’re bored late this summer, put on your p.j.’s, pop some popcorn and flip the channel ■ to MTV. You might just "see a familiar face staring at you among rotund linebackers, ( pretty-faced quarterbacks and perky, blond • cheerleaders.	•	□
SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT 31
Hidden Voices
ND Opera emerges from the shadows with what may be its most promising cast
TRACYEVANS
Kristen Moskow’s voice is a crucial element of her education here at Notre Dame. “It’s like being an athlete. Your body is your instrument, and you depend on it,” says Moskow, a third-year vocal performance major. With 69 credits required for the vocal studies major, she certainly needs to be in top shape.
Amongst the course selections in the music department, the ND Opera is one of Moskow’s most challenging endeavors. Each spring, she joins majors, non-majors and visiting students who audition for the chance to work toward a full-scale operatic production, which challenges the cast on several levels.
“Opera is the most difficult art form. Soliloquy, drama, music — it combines the lot. It’s very complex,” says guest professor John Apeitos, also the opera’s conductor. In his eighth year of leading ND Opera, Apeitos brings a lifetime of familiarity to the art form. He is an internationally recognized conductor, piano accompanist and violinist, serving as the resident conductor for the National Radio Symphony of Athens, Greece.
The class has a workshop-style setting, which affords each cast member the opportunity to focus on specific aspects of the production in a one-on-one setting with professors. The intimate size of the class allows the instructors to hold auditions before selecting the spring opera. After hearing the wide range of students’ experience and talent, the decision is made to maximize participation and accommodate student interest.
“We are never in a position to fit a square peg in a round hole. ... Everyone involved gets something to sing that is appropriate for them,” says Georgine Resick, a full-time vocal coach who helped initiate the program.
Since 1991, ND Opera has produced springtime performances for the general public. In more recent years, Hansel and Gretel and Xerxes have been selected for the stage. This year, the challenging choice of Mozart’s The Magic Flute signifies the level of growth the course has
undergone since its creation.
“There are more and more students wanting to get involved each year, and most return again,” says Resick. The number and varying difficulty of the roles makes The Magic Flute an ideal choice for novices and more-experienced students.
Apeitos looks on this cast with enthusiam. “This is certainly the best we’ve ever had,” he says. “Everyone is ideally suited to their roles.”
The Magic Flute was not only selected for the unique cast, but also for its universal appeal. “The Magic Flute is a work of genius and certainly a favorite,” Apeitos says. “Everyone who sees it enjoys it, and it’s very easy to understand. There are catchy themes and catchy tunes.”
As Mozart’s final opera, The Magic Flute is one of the most challenging and best-loved theatrical masterpieces. The story has become one of the more widely recognized of the German operas, and the message compels audiences to think beyond what they see on stage.
“The story is not just a fairy tale. It’s a commentary on humanity,” says Moskow, who plays one of the leading women, Pamina. The characters in The Magic Flute each experience a journey of heartache and deception that causes them to question the people they trust. Mozart speaks to the audience about the importance of looking beneath the surface and finding truth from within oneself.
ND Opera uses an English translation that offers a chance for the audience and the performers to experience the story in a more personal manner. “Many English editions are very flowery. We try to keep it true to the original and not so archaic that the audience is going to ask ‘What are you talking about?’ ” says Moskow, “You have a better idea of what you are singing about, too. ... Otherwise, there is no emotion in it.”
Resick anticipates an audience that represents all age groups and interests. “We are getting feedback from families, and
AN ENCHANTING EXAM For students performing in The Magic Flute, their final evaluation takes place opening night.
many school groups [are] coming. “Mozart’s music bridges the gap. It has deeply childlike wonder and at the same time is deeply profound.”
For students like Moskow, the experience of working with The Magic Flute and the ND Opera is a journey that begins with the first casting call. Each student is given the opportunity to develop his or her unique interests in performing, while working toward a final exam unlike any other. A flute is not necessary to see the magic behind the hidden voice of the ND Opera.	□
Performances o/The Magic Flute are on Friday, April 26th and Saturday, April 27th at 7:30 p.m., in Washington Hall. Student tickets cost $3.00 and are available at the LaFortune information desk.
32 SCHOLASTICENTERTAINMENT
Clone Doggie Dogg?
This little piggie went and tore up my house
eeing as this is my last OOB from London, I suppose I should say something frightfully deep about what I have learned from being abroad. Yes, well... as far as writing goes, I’ve learned it’s spectacularly fun to use dry, British expressions in my columns. For example: Use “frightfully” or “spectacularly” along with any ordinary word for instant sarcasm!
I really have come to think of London as my home during my short stay here. All the same, I’ll be happy to return to my real home, my family and my smelly, shaggy, spectacularly old Cockapoo, Tucker. He somehow hasn’t died yet, bless him.
' My thoughts returned my faithfill pooch recently when I read that researchers in Texas cloned a domestic cat, producing a kitten named Copycat. I asked myself: Could I really bring myself to siphon off a little of Tuck’s DNA now, and then get a new dog whenever I please?
Scandal! Absolutely not. Even pet personality is formed by experience. Tucker grew up in the ’80s. While he lounged on the living room floor during his formative years, MTV fed him Def Leppard and Bon Jovi. He was small when my brothers and I were small and took unparalleled pleasure in our pulling his tail. Tucker II would have the Backstreet Boys and a bunch of college students who are only home a third of the year. The result would be a pretty wussy dog with frightfully uncool hair. Come to think of it, it’s remarkable how close a similarity there is between my dog’s hair and Bret Michaels’s.
Anyway, I predict this story will provoke enormous public reaction in the UK. It is, after all, the home of Dolly the cloned sheep. Plus, people here seem to be keen on all things pet-related. The other day I was reading the Sun, one of Britain’s most popular tabloids. Following an extensive commentary on a terrycloth jumper Leonardo DiCaprio was wearing on the set of his new movie, the Sun ran a slew of animal stories. They were frightfully spectacular, sensational animal stories, of course.
See first you’ve got your pet“Freaks.” Page 21 features a picture of five-inch high Taz the Terrier, who weighed only one ounce when he was bom, standing in a beer glass. Then there are your “Unbelievable Pet Feats.” Apparently, three birds “cheated death”
last week when they were saved by (are you sitting down?) a CAT. (The word “cat” is actually capitalized in the story.) When Jerry the cat found the birds lying helplessly on his owner’s lawn, he “ignored his natural instincts” and meowed to awaken his owner, who eventually took the birds to a sanctuary. She proudly told the Sun, “Most cats would have eaten them, but Jerry’s a big softie. He’s not into killing things.”
Then of course there’s pet “Scandal.” That’s right: “Good Pets Gone Bad.” Under the headline “PIG ATE MY KITCHEN” appears the story of Mad Max, the pot-bellied pig who tore apart his owners’ kitchen with his tusks, running up a 5,000-pound repair bill. The owners told the Sun, “We have forgiven Max ... He’s just very playful and likes attention. The other day he stuck a tusk through the hem ofmy jeans and dragged me around the room.”
How precious. Now guess their new strategy for making Max behave when they’re not home:
A.	They’ll keep him outside.
B.	They’ll send him to piggie obedience school.
C.	They’ll buy him a posh new Burberry pet coat at Harrod’s.
D.	They’ll play him classical music.
Remember that these people thought that their pet dragging them around the room by the leg was “playful.” So let’s
i try to get inside their heads for a sec-J ond, shall we?
A.Outside? In the rain? You monster!
B.Obedience school? Mind-numbing. You Fascist!
C. Nearly did it. But those coats are really made for dogs, and might not have fit over Maxie-Waxie’s little belly-welly! He’d be scarred for life by the fitting procedure. I mean, he already has to deal with everyone calling him a pig.
Oh, it just has to be D, doesn’t it? Yep, the couple calls classical music their “secret weapon.” I can see it now. They’ll come home and he’ll be listening to Beethoven, wearing a top hat, sipping tea and eating crumpets. “Sorry about that jeans bit, old boy,” he’ll say. “Frightfully uncivilized.”
Of course, there is another option: They could clone Max. Then he would at last have someone to play with, which might quell his violent tendencies. Or, they might annihilate each other— spectacularly.	□
SCHOLASTICOUT OF BOUNDS 33
I

So This is Love ...
What is it about post-winter warmth that brings out the romantic in all of us?
CLAIREHOIPKEMIER
I t’s that time of year again. I’d like to call I it twitterpation. Others might call it I spring. Don’t pretend you don’t know what I’m talking about. The birds start chirping, the grass starts growing, the ducks start chasing each other in a loud, squawking, feathery kind of way, and all of a sudden, there’s a lovestruck couple on every campus bench.
It’s something that can only be described as a cosmic phenomenon, occuring between the time we box up all our winter cords, woolly sweaters and heavy boots and plunge into the world of lovely pastels, flip flops, polo shirts and flying discs.
Maybe we’ve been cooped up for too many long, wintry months (April included in certain freakish regions of the United States); the sight of ankles, knees, elbows and all the other adorable joints that are ex-. posed after having been covered since November seems to set hearts a flutter. Whatever the reason, there is an undeniable boom in the dating industry come the last month of school.
One fine young lady, when asked if her heart was noticeably affected with the changing season, commented that the condition of finding herself lovestruck was a year-round ailment that saw no new manifestations in the springtime months. A similarly fine young gentlemen concurred with this, saying that his pining for true romance did not flow and ebb with the tide of seasons. What, then, causes the visible difference in the number of young lovers strolling around campus just before we all go our separate ways over the summer?
My first theory is that the fresh, warm air strengthens the hearts of the timid. Professing one’s affection certainly becomes a great deal easier when sunbeams are dancing across the lake, tulips are bursting with lively hues, and inflamed ganders are making their move in a less-than-tactful manner, all
around you. Previously tongue-tied youths are able to express themselves in a way not possible in, say, February, when all signs of life were buried under a foot of cold, unaffectionate snow.
With the (sometimes) balmy temperatures of April and May, and the bursting forth of new life, these gentlemen realize that there really is something to those lovely out-of-date cliches for which I have such a fondness, such as “faint heart never won fair lady” or “you snooze you lose.” Rather than
sitting around with other members of the male species, brutally extinguishing life in the bloodiest and most explicit way possible in such dignifying games as Max Payne, Guts Galore or Body Parts Splattered Across Your Nintendo Screen, they take it upon themselves to make that fateful phone call, put all bashfulness aside, and say what has been on their hearts all winter. Life takes on a whole new meaning, and suddenly, a romantic stroll around a moonlit campus with that special someone has far greater appeal than sitting around the Huddle waiting for the quarter dog frenzy. Love is brought to
the forefront and all insecurities are banished.
My second theory is that, as the year winds down and responsibilities begin to pile up, there becomes this desperate urge to throw a wrench in the whole system by falling in love. We all know that in order to successfully deal with the massive amount of papers, tests, inane projects, dorm duties and end-of-the year social events that define the last month of the collegiate calendar, one must be completely in tune with one’s planner or all is lost. Freshmen like myself who have not yet. evolved into efficient machines of time management wonder why the word stress takes on a whole new meaning and “a good night’s sleep” becomes a thing of the past.
Enter Mr. or Ms. Right. While this may seem to many like a blessing from above, it can wreak havoc if one succumbs to reordering one’s entire agenda in order to accommodate'true love. Nevertheless, many are eager to selflessly sacrifice their delicately formed study habits in order to entertain the possibility of romance. Human nature being what it is, it is not surprising that as we approach the most crucial time in the semester, the little devil on our shoulder suddenly takes the shape of a beautiful member of the opposite sex who lures us away from our books.
I don’t mean to bash this flowering of young love. I am just as guilty as anyone of welcoming the “spring crush” that provides a fascinating distraction from all that is making my life difficult right now. It is ironic, however, that the blossoming of our feelings for one another coincides not only with the mating season of the campus wildlife, but also the birth of term papers, finals and the looming of graduation on the horizon. Who ever said twitterpation has to be convenient, timely and practical? Romeo certainly threw a wrench in Juliet’s system, and so goes the world.	□
Submit an 800-word essay for Week in Distortion. E-mail us at scholast@nd.edu.
34 SCHOLASTICWEEK IN DISTORTION
Apr. 25 - May 11
c5 m i
COMPILED BY JENNIFER OSTERHAGE
EDITOR’S CHOICE
Attack of the Arts
oming Distractions has plenty for I you to do while you’re counting down the last few days of class. The arts are in abundance!
Be sure to catch Mozart’s The Magic Flute, a fairy tale story of dragons, spirits, spells, and a magic flute that saves the day. According to director Marc Verzatt, it tells of good triumphing over bad, love and friendship fighting anger and revenge, and of finding one’s way to truth and goodness.
Senior theatre majors at St. Mary’s are doing their comprehensive shows. Check out their performances that include students from both SMC and ND.
If you’re looking for some off-campus entertainment, snag some tickets to “Stomp” at the Morris -Performing Arts Center. The
SPORTS
• Fri 26 Baseball: ND vs. Arizona State, 3:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium.
♦	Tue 30 Softball: ND vs. Oakland, 3:00 PM, Ivy Field.
•	Wed 01 Baseball: ND vs. Oakland (Ml), 6:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium.
•	Thu 02 Softball: ND vs. Depaul, 3:00 PM and 5:00 PM, Ivy Field.
•	Fri 03 Lacrosse: ND Women vs. Vanderbilt, 1:00 PM, Moose Krause Field.
eight-member troupe uses everything but conventional percussion instruments — matchboxes, wooden poles, brooms, garbage cans, Zippo lighters, hubcaps — to fill the stage with magnificent rhythms.
— Jennifer Osterhage
•	Fri 03 Softball: ND vs. Rutgers, 1:00 PM and 3:00 PM, Ivy Field.
♦	Sat 04 Baseball: ND vs. Rutgers, 12:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium.
♦	Sat 04 Lacrosse: ND Men vs. Ohio State, 1:00 PM, Moose Krause Stadium.
•	Sun 05 Softball: ND vs. Villanova, 11:00 AM and 1:00 PM, Ivy Field.
•	Sun 05 Baseball: ND vs. Rutgers, 12:05 PM, Frank Eck Stadium.
LECTURES
•	Fri 26 Claire Carroll, “A Critique of the New British History: Early Modern Ireland and Europe, 3:00 PM, 1125 Flanner Hall.
•	Tue 30 David Kang, “Bad Loans to Good Friends: Explaining Money Politics in Asia,” 12:30 PM, C-103 Hesburgh Center.
CINEMA
•	Thu 25 The Anniversary Party, 7:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium.
•	Thu 25, Fri 26 and Sat 27 Vanilla Sky and The Muppets Take Manhattan, Thu -10:00 PM, Fri and Sat-7:30 PM and 10:00 PM, DeBartolo 101 and 155.
•	Tue 30 International Film Series: Stranger Than Paradise (USA), 7:00 PM and 9:00 PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center.
THE ARTS
•	Fri 26 Graceland, 7:30 PM, Little Theatre, St. Mary’s College.
•	Fri 26 and Sat 27 Notre Dame Opera, The Magic Flute by Mozart, 7:30 PM, Washington Hall.
•	Sat 27 Senior Recital: Dan Tonozzi, cello with Jacqueline Schmidt, piano, 2:00 PM, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum.
•	Sun 28 A Wedding Proposal, 3:00 PM, Little Theatre, St. Mary’s College.
•	Sun 28 ND Women’s Liturgical Choir/Basilica Schola Concert, 8:00 PM, Basilica of the Sacred Heart.
•	Thu 02 ND Symphony Orchestra Spring Concert, 8:00 PM, Washington Hall.
THE WEEKENDER
What: Broadway Theatre League: Stomp!
When: Fri, May 3 - 8:00 PM, Sat, May 4 - 2:00 PM and 8:00 PM and
Sun, May 5 - 2:00 PM
Where: Morris Performing Arts Center
Cheapest Seats: $20 for students
For Tickets: call (219) 234-4044
Post your even in Scholastic’s
Coming Distractions.
Get the recognition your event deserves. E-mail your submissions to Jennifer Osterhage at josterha@nd.edu.
‘All submissions are subject to Scholastic approval.
SCHOLASTICCALENDAR 35
Whirlwind
by Michael P. Griffin
Awkwardness is about three inches wide.
I can prove it. Get out your ruler and look at the picture of my roommate and me on our first day as Domers back in the summer of ’98. Our parents thought it would be cute for us to pose, but we spied each other suspiciously. Notice our shoulders and the heaviness between them.
A lot has changed since then.
As my eyes strained to adjust to the dimness of the Stanford Hall lobby, I steeled myself for living away from my family in New Jersey, not realizing that within weeks, I would accidentally call this cinderblock palace “home.”
I was just a kid. Sometime between then and now — typing by my window with the mighty chill of mid-April rushing through the cracks in the window frame — I grew up. It was somewhere along the way; I just don’t know when.
As I stepped out of the family mini-van in the parking lot behind the dorm, a group of guys rushed to unload my boxes. Frantically, I motioned to my mother to hide the stuffed animal I had been
What did we expect to find in the two-toned tulips in the peace of that Saturday morning? Did I really glimpse salvation in beating the 2 a.m. Reckers rush?
clutching, a gift from a girl who had been shedding tears 18 hours earlier. I was at college now: It was time to digest the tears of a midnight “I love you.” Obviously, I hadn’t yet grown up.
But when did I? Could it have been heading south on Route 31 discussing gun control with a Midwest barbarian, or
Michael P. Griffin is graduating with a BS in biochemistry, and has served as the Editor in Chief of Scholastic for the past year. He plans to backpack around
Europe before returning to South Bend and busking with a penny whistle.
perhaps when we became close friends? Maybe it was shouting Irish rebel songs across the quad after parietals, or sharing poetry around the fire pit? How about when we spun around in embrace so many times that we toppled, she on top of me, laughing. Could it have been the summer killing rats, the summer in Ireland, or trips back east? What about those Scholastic nights in the basement of South Dining Hall, staying to the bitter end 39 straight times? It probably wasn’t when our plastic penguin got served at Steak ’n’ Shake. Or when we played bocce on the quad after an all-nighter and taunted the grumpy students ambling to class. It could have been when my buddy fed me water and crackers on counts of three. Or maybe even when we asked the Magic 8-ball that scary question, and the outlook was good.
I was always searching, even if I didn’t know what it was I was seeking. What did we expect to find in the two-toned tulips in the peace of that Saturday morning? Did I really glimpse salvation in beating the 2 a.m. Reckers rush? What was it I stumbled upon when staring blankly at biochemistry exam questions, or when running on the rocky beach as light burst from pinholes in the water? Did we find beauty in the Irish tricolor flying high from the South Quad flagpole at 5 a.m.? Did we really expect that we could bring a full-sized cow into a second-floor dorm room? And what would we have learned, other than the fact that cows can walk up — but not down — stairs? What did we learn from living the Rodin life? And what would I have done with a drunken sailor?
I never remember to grow up when skylines topple, when relationships go bad, when the world hisses in expectation of war. But whispering quiet pleas to a still lake'makes life a little easier to understand. Even in this day and age, I think there’s a little bit of that old-fashioned magic; it comes out at night and sneaks along in the shrubberies. As often as we allow it, it jumps out and bites unsuspecting passers-by. This is the magic that resides here, which inspires us to love each other so much. It is why we yelled “Repeal the 18th!” in protest and “O’ my Leary!” in praise. What is this entity called “Notre Dame” that arouses such magic?
For me, Notre Dame is not a university. It is not four years of classes. Notre Dame is not staying up all night to finish a Buddhism paper, nor is it your pores sweating and heart pounding before a chemistry presentation. Notre Dame is not parietals or single-sex dorms. It is certainly not a bunch of disconnected administrators. Notre Dame is not a charity organization, nor is it a big business. Notre Dame is not even a football team, an Irish Guard, or a marching band. And it’s probably not the Vatican of the Heartland.
For me, Notre Dame is a rustle of voices. It’s tears and shivering. It’s the excitement of a knock on my dorm-room door. Notre Dame is late-night conversations and early-morning goodnights. Notre Dame is the girl whose hand I hold as we wander the woods beneath a red sky. It is my roommate of four years and my section-mates, all my buddies, and yes, to an infinitesimal degree, even myself.	□
36 SCHOLASTICFINAL WORD
Pure Silliness
—Mike McNary