Volume 73
April 5, 1940
Number 20
THE ROCKNE Mem-Unveil Rockne orial will be the restBust Tomorrow ing place for one of Sculptor Nison Treg-or’s latest efforts here tomorrow. He recently completed a bust of Notre Dame’s immortal Knute K. Rockne.
(See page 7)
JOHN P. Nicholson, Hold Services	University track coach
for Nicholson	since 1927, was buried
this morning from Sacred Heart Church. He died of a heart attack Tuesday evening shortly after he had addressed a group of boys at the South Bend Y. M. C. A. He was 50 years old.	(See page 6)
■	WHAT IS believed to
Philosophers be the first Student InMeet Here Wed. tercollegiate Philosophical Conference ever conducted in this country will be held in the auditorium of the Law Building, Wednesday evening, at 8 o’clock. The * following evening the Schoolmen, undergraduate philosophy club, will present their annual public philosophical disputation in Washington Hall. (See page 5)
.	COACH. JAKE Kline
Irish Open was in a loquacious _ Against Cats mood as he previewed his Notre Dame baseball nine on Monday afternoon. “It looks like the best we’ve had since 1936. Northwestern will have a big advantage on us tomorrow, but we’ll try to be ready for them.”	(See page 16)
Tradition In Bronze — Tregor’s Bust of late Knute K. Rockne
THE HITLER BOMB'S
CHINESE WOMEN DONY WEAR WEDDING RINGS
• See how John T McCutcheon, famous Chicago Tribune cartoonist, rules his Treasure Island, near Nassau, flies his own flag, makes his own laws. Illustrated with fourteen photos in color.
um
REAL VICTIM
►Was the Munich beer hall bomb engineered inside Germany? To miss Hitler on purpose? Mr. Bess tells you in this week’s Post about the sudden rise of “one of the most sinister figures in the world today” and the current struggle between Nazi party leaders and the Reich army generals. A timely Post article.
DEMAREE BESS
(by wireless from Geneva)
TOO BAD that Yu Hao, the dainty young Chinese girl, should be given in marriage to Soong Y’in, the old gem dealer All Chinatown knew of her love for another. Then murder struck— and Johnny Hammond, Chinatown guide, found himself with the only clue . . A dramatic short story in this week’s Post.
The Marriage Month by by Sidney herschel small
THE MAN WHO IS KING
(in his spare time]
AND a new romance of the back country by Vereen Bell, Listen to the Whippoorwill; short stories by Doug . WelchandHarryKlingsberg, a mystery serial by Mignon G. Eberhart (Hangman! sWhip),; Raymond Moley on Business m the Woodshed; and an unusual memoir, I SawLeeSurrender. All in this week’s Post—now on sale.
A New Comedy of Big Game Fishing io Movieland
V50 IN CASH PRIZES
for "Confucius” sayings!
For complete details, ask this newspaper for the Contest Pamphlet. Your entry may win the $100 first prize, or one of the 116 other cash prizes in this Saturday - Evening Post contest for college students.
ACT NOW! CONTEST CLOSES APRIL 5!
This way to Hollywood, where wild sea wav^ dash high (in the studio tank) and fighting monsters of the deep (rubber models) are artfully reeled m by “one of the most beautiful women available today"! This week’s Post brings you the rollicking, romantic, ridiculous adventures of Crunch and Des. In four parts.
“SaltWater Daffy ”br
PHIUP WIE
POST 0
The Notre Dame Scholastic
3
COLLEGE PARADE By JACK WILLMANN
Southward - Turned the Parade
During the Easter vacation when Missouri showed us that there’s more than mules and ample inspiration for the theme melody, “Missouri Waltz,” comprise the Ozark state. Of most immediate collegiate interest was a tour of Columbia, Mo., which is notable for sequestering U. of Missouri, the famed Stephens, and a plentitude of really fine coking and shagging emporiums. In the booth next to ours was Missouri’s favorite football son, Paul Christman. Unaccompanied by the girls seen with him in news photos he was mixing a coke with some cramming and bearing a facial resemblance to our “Goober” Por-beck.
A new angle on the social labyrinth was uncovered in said area. It seems that M. U. frat men must play politics and date M. U. sororettes exclusively, and since Missouri is definitely a strong Greek letter school, there are few desirable college escorts for the Stephens sisterhood which is some 1,500 in round figures. The remedy for that problem is manifold, but one Columbia mother confided to us that her 15 year old sophomoric (high school) son is dating the Stephens set for many of the name-band dances and bridge settos in the afternoons. Mother admitted sending corsages for her fledgling. A sort of Andy Hardy Goes Stephens affair.
Yet withal, in retrospect we are convinced that the acme of feminine perfection was seen in Jeff City Junior College.
On the Easter Highway Parade
Were seen two erstwhile Walsh Gentlemen with upturned thumbs. Forsaking their stately and sedentary background, they enticed motorists with a huge, sign sporting streaky red letters informing the prospects that the pair were “Approved by Good Housekeeping.” One motorist waited for them in Gary while a news-cameraman scooped the Scholastic by getting their puckish picture.
The Boy Who Came Around
“What’s your name?” the store manager asked the young applicant for a job.
“Ford,” replied the lad.
“And your first name?”
“Henry.”
“Henry Ford, eh?” remarked the man
ager with a smile. “That’s a pretty well known name.”
The boy looked pleased. “Yes, sir, it ought to be,” he replied proudly. “I’ve been delivering groceries around here for two years now.”—The Tiger
Without Recommendation
Mrs. Jones was spending a day in bed with a severe cough, and her husband was working in the backyard hammering nails into some boards. Presently his neighbor came over.
“How’s your wife?” he asked.
“Not very well,” replied Jones.
“Is that her coughin’?”
“No, you fathead, it’s a hen house.”
—The Oredigger.
An Exchange — And More — Is Lost
Several times have we used pieces from the N. J. C. Campus News, but no more. It has suspended publication on the dictum of Dean Margaret Corwin who stated that the paper had not conformed to regulations of her prescrip
“Mr. McAllister says, ‘WHAT dollar deposit?’”
tion. The editors refused to surrender control of its elections and editorial policy to the college administration. All this despite the fact that the News was a self - supporting incorporated sheet. From our view apart from the actual scene it is hardly prudent to form a hasty judgment, but it would seem that the freedom of a collegiate press has been violated—whether for good reason or not we do not know. Therein lies the old rub — whether, the college paper should be what its editors, the students, or the administration thinks it should be.
While the Cameras Grind
Mike Hines stumbles afront his teammates on news-reel day. “The Life of Knute Rockne” shows promise of being ready for release before many more seasons come and go. And Bennie Sheridan’s name-sake, Ann, is having her troubles with the Harvard boys. They give her straight A’s, but they’re so broad and flat. That little publicity spat made good copy for a few days, and now America is ready to flock to Ann’s latest picture, “The College Widow.” Maybe we can stir up a little excitement with Taft, Vandenburg, or any of the others that finished behind Tom Dewey in our straw poll of the Republican nomination possibilities.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE WEEK By FRANK WEMHOFF
Top of the Week
Another brass ring for little Greg the Great.
Cracklings
In the March issue of Mademoiselle: Senior Joe Gerwe foists the University into the fashion field with a picture of himself modelling something ethereal and disgustingly chic____ just the thing for the cocktail hour at ultra-sophisticated Walgreen’s.... three band members in their navy blues halved the cost of viewing New York from the Empire State Building by convincing the cashier that they had just arrived on the U.S.S. Pacemaker.... military men can see smoke and concrete for half of the usual $1.10 rate.... the latest clawings and purrings of “Barb Wire” in St. Mary’s Static gave us a rather dubious blow.... judging from that column there never was a school paper more cleverly named .... The Seniors behind the Ball really belong there as they are scanning the punchboards for a suitable group of hornblowers (no pun on the sea-faring family).... rumor has offered.... and rejected.... Hal Kemp, Glenn Miller, T. Dorsey, and even Phil Spitalny, with Glen Gray next on the block.... all girl orchestra, hmmmm....
ODE NO. 2 TO EDDIE CORNY
What’s the matter with him? He’s awfully whoozy Must his monotone be About South Bend Susie?
He always walks with himself
• And talks to himself.__ (end of free publicity)
Thumbnail sketch
Steve Juzwik—Fat Stuff buys a football. ...	'
Miscellany
A higher-up in the commerce school has objected to the teaching of Distributive Justice on the grounds that it was contrary to good business policy.... “What? Have we only got one golf course?”.... Ray Kelly swears that he saw a case of dogfood behind the dining hall.... this is not propaganda.... as such.... The Indianapolis Times recently carried a story about a Butler professor who was driving to Indiana U.... the professor came across six priests pushing an automobile and discovered “it was the entire department of philosophy from Notre Dame”.... the priests explained that they had gotten into such
a gripping discussion that they had forgotten to look at the gas gauge... and the Times allows us only a half dozen for an “entire department”....
Signs of spring
The return of the sun.... painting the chandeliers in the dining halls.... a bad move.... now we can see what we’re getting.... newsreel men taking shots of the green and white football huskies .... talk of class elections.... super intrigue. ... a brand new sprouting of rumors.... one has it that all students will be hired as extras at five dollars a day when the movie clan for the “Life of Knute Rockne” arrives soon on the campus. — we have heard that one shot they are after is that of the student body greeting the team returning from the Army game._____a custom that went out with the street car episode of ’37....
Ramblings
Alumni seniors have organized a campus club.... requirements are one month’s campus or better.... most of them are just birds in a gilded cage and some are so far out of favor that they would still be campused if they came back for summer school or a class reunion. ... the twins McLaughlin coaxed one of their home town high school teachers into giving her class an assignment in short story reviewing.... the twins confiscated the best and put them to certain appropriate uses.... a double double-cross.... one student recently set himself up as No. 1. Phoney by reminding his cosmology prof to take roll after the class was over....
Bottom of the Week
The failure of the Kansas - Oklahoma Club to conduct the usual Knute Rockne memorial program in Washington Hall.
Torch Song
He’s just a kid named Joe in Alumni, and his shyness is proverbial across the lake. Psychologists trace back his blush and stammer to an unfortunate adolescent courtship when, in upper third grade, he walked the fence in front of his lady friend’s house—and fell off.
The scars of that early blowoff still remain. For two years he has worshipped from afar a patrician brunette at St. Mary’s. He would just love to escort her to the Ball, but he hesitates to pop the question—afraid to take no for an answer.
Realizing his sad plight two wellmeaning Alumnites who are no longer
CAMPUS OPINION
v
Question of the Week: “What changes do you think should be made in the present absence system?” -
Alumni — C. F. Risser: “I think the length of all vacations should be extended and double cuts inflicted on any student who cuts before or after vacation. The three cuts now available should be left in for use if something should happen during the semester. This would remedy the system.”
Dillon — Mat Millenbach: “The present system is good enough as it is, without any changes at all being made. This way, if a fellow feels he can stand the cuts he can take them, and if he doesn’t he won’t.”
Badin — Frank Fox: Lengthen the Christmas and Easter vacations by one week each. Then for every cut taken during the year count it a triple cut. This way a fellow can sleep in once in a while during each semester.”
Howard'— Walter Selby: “I don’t think there should be any change made in the present system. The system seems to me to be ideal and any change made in it would place a handicap on some of the students.”
Morrissey — Bob Fagan: “I am in favor of having longer vacations, but in doing so eliminating all other unexcused cuts during the regular school year. Any new system would have to contain some cuts for use in case of sickness.”
Brownson — Bob Kasberg: “I think they ought to make Easter and Christmas vacations longer. That way the professor can’t throw quizzes while a student is taking his cuts before or after vacations. The fellows who have a long way to go will then have enough time to travel and still have sufficient time at home. The vacations at present are not long enough to allow the fellows to go home for vacations without taking some cuts.”—Ray Donovan
friends of Joe tried to bring matters to a head last' Saturday afternoon. With the utmost delicacy they asked a mutual friend at St. Mary’s to ask a certain girl if she would go to the Ball if a certain boy invited her. Joe now considers himself compromised and has become allergic to telephones and downtown coffeeshops. But if the certain girl is interested the Alumni telephone number is 3-0193. (It’s leap year, J. K., and Joe can be had.)	,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1913.
Z 188
Volume 73	April 5, 1940	Number 20
Schoolmen to Sponsor First Student Philosophical Symposium, Wednesday
Groups From Illinois, Indiana to Participate
What is believed to be the first student intercollegiate philosophical conference ever conducted in this country will be held in the auditorium of the Law Building, at 8 o’clock, Wednesday evening. The following evening the Schoolmen, undergraduate philosophy club, will
Alfred Callan
James Daner
present their annual public philosophical disputation in Washington Hall.
“Finality, the end of conscious rational being, conscious irrational beings, and purely material beings possessed of no consciousness,” will be the topic for discussion in the conference, Chairman James Daner announced today.
The University of Illinois, Indiana University, and Notre Dame, participating schools, each will be represented by four members. Each delegation has been asked to prepare a suitable, complete, but brief bibliography of its position and furnish a copy to the other cooperating groups.
CLINTON FOR BALL!
Larry Clinton, the Old Dipsy-Doodler, will play for the Senior Ball, May 3, General Chairman Walton Wuebbold, announced today, upon receipt bf a telegram from Clinton.
Members of the student body and faculty who are interested in the project are invited to attend the discussion. The conference table will be supplied with a microphone for the benefit of the audience. A period of discussion and questioning by the audience, faculty excluded, will be provided after the conference proper. An informal discussion among the cooperating departments will precede the conference on Wednesday afternoon.
The conference was first suggested by the Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., head of the undergraduate school of the department of philosophy and faculty advisor of the Schoolmen. Notre Dame men participating in this conference are: Chairman, James Daner; Conferees, Fred Wolff, Alfred Callan, Robert Shea, Robert Sullivan; Aides, John Payne, James Cannon.
This conference marks something new and progressive in the field of philosophical education. It will afford students of philosophy an opportunity to meet on common ground and discuss a question that is pertinent in a comparison of various, and perhaps in some cases, conflicting philosophies. Material to be presented will be facts that have been uncovered by research, and each speaker will be a. qualified participant thoroughly familiar with his subject. On the other hand his listeners will be just as familiar with, and convinced of their own views. If by any chance there should be a difference of opinion on any of the matters pertaining to finality that are being considered, one may be assured of an intelligent and well ordered discussion of the question. It will be of interest to note with what success the reasoning of Scholastic philosophy will meet the offerings of the participating institutions should their approaches to the subject differ. If this first Intercollegiate Philosophical Conference is successful it may open a new avenue for a better understanding, appreciation and accept
ance of Scholastic philosophy and a consequent simultaneous spread of Catholic Action.	.
“The human will is free with respect to all objects except the ultimate end” will be the proposition discussed by the Schoolmen at their annual public disputation on Thursday. This meeting may be attended by the participants in the intercollegiate philosophical conference and any other persons interested, in the Schoolmen and their work. Schoolmen participating in the Disputation are: Chairman, James Daner; preliminary papers to be presented by Thomas Hackett and Alfred Callan.
Thesis—“The human will is free with respect to all objects except the ultimate end.” James Cleary will explain the nature of man's will, John Pindar the relation of the will to means and Richard Leo Fallon, Jr. the relation of the will to the ultimate end. Informal questions relative to Finality from the audience will be discussed and answered by the disputants. The difficult work of defending the thesis in informal public discussion to follow falls to Raymond Allen, senior from Battle Creek, Mich., and ranking philosophy major.
Engineers Make Merry at Annual Ball Tonight
Tossing slide rules and calculus books to the winds for a few hours, Notre Dame’s engineers will launch the spring social season at nine tonight with the annual Engineers’ Ball, to be held at the Indiana Club. Karl Hunn and his orches
tra will play.
President Norb Schickel and fellow officers of the Engineers’ Club are conducting the hall this year on the basis
6
The Notre Dame Scholastic
BURIED TODAY
John P. Nicholson
of a new plan of social activities of the club. In an effort to make the ball distinctly a function of the engineers, admittance will be limited to members of the club. Freshmen engineers will be allowed to attend. This novel plan has found much favor with engineering students, and advance distribution of tickets indicates that the affair will be one of the .most successful ever held.
In charge of tonight’s ball is General Chairman William Kerwin, senior, of Green Bay, Wis. Assisting him are the following committees:
Tickets—Robert Chamberlain, chairman; David Sprafke, Paul Lillis, Steve Sitko, Jerry Ryan, Enrique Arias, William Herzog. Publicity — Robert Shoemaker, chairman; Walter Dray, -John Brehmer, James Rice, Ben Eilers. Music — Jack DeMoss, chairman; Edward. Buenger, Henry Picek, Bernard Crimmins, John Linnehan. Decorations—John Wilson, chairman; Edward Hart, Mark Gruenenfelder, James Varga, Charles Brogger. Programs — John McHugh, chairman; Edward Anderson, Thomas McCarthy, Fred Engelbart, Burt Hall. Patrons—Jerry Hickey, chairman; Lawrence Kelley, Joseph Costello, Phil Harbert, John McGuire. Reception—Edward Pratt, chairman; John Hicinbothem, Charles Blomer, William Thomas, John Drumgould.
AN ELOQUENT TRIBUTE
Many articles in following pages were -written before “Nick” died. They refer to him as the human, vigorous, beloved man he was. They are, we believe, a more eloquent tribute to his greatness than any formal editorial or eulogy could be.
--The Editors
Coach Nicholson's Death Blow to Student Body
John P. Nicholson, University track coach since 1927, was buried this morning from Sacred Heart Church. He died of a heart attack Tuesday evening shortly after he had addressed a group of boys at the South Bend Y.M.C.A. He was 50 years old.
Death came to Coach Nicholson at the peak of his career, at a time when one of his pupils is being called the greatest runner of all time. He lived to see this track star, Greg Rice, defeat Finland’s Taisto Maki, and set a new world’s indoor record for the three mile.
Known to few people is the fact that “Nick’s” outstanding contribution to the mechanics of track is the starting block. He invented it in 1929, and it is universally used today. He also was the man who recommended the stagger- system of starting races on curved tracks.
In 1937 Nicholson acted as coach of an American A.A.U. team which toured Europe. He received this honor after coaching Notre Dame’s track team to many championships.
“Nick” himself was a great track star at Missouri University. While at Missouri under Tom Jones, he tied the world’s record in the 120-yard high hurdles. As a result of this performance he was picked on the American Olympic team, and participated in the games at Stockholm, Sweden. Disappointment was great when he tripped over a hurdle after coming from behind to lead the field.
Before coming to Notre Dame in 1927, Nicholson was in charge of track at DePauw, Centre, and Rice. At Sewanee he also served as football mentor; his team, picked from a student body of 125, was defeated only by Tennessee and Vanderbilt.
It was in 1928, after Rockne had given up track coaching entirely, that “Nick” took over the job by himself. There is no doubt that he was the greatest track coach in the school’s history.
Surviving Mr. Nicholson are his widow, Gladys Hunt Nicholson; two children, William Robert and Martha Jane; his mother, Mrs. Margaret Nicholson.
George Anson, '95, Dies; Was Benefactor
George M. Anson, ’95, individually and through his family one of the University’s most generous and most devoted benefactors, died on March 12 in Miami, Fla. He was buried in Stevens Point, Wis., with Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, as the celebrant of the funeral Mass. Frank W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University, also represented Notre Dame at the services.
The Leonard M. Anson Memorial Scholarship of §100,000, established in 1928 by the Anson family in memory of the father of George Anson, provides full expenses for four years for young men from Merrill, Wis., and its environs. One student is selected each year.
A monogram-winning football player
George M. Anson
and baseball player in 1894-95, Mr. Anson maintained an intense interest in the welfare of the University, culminating in the scholarship endowment of his family in 1928. Mr. Anson himself was a Notre Dame lay trustee until 1937, when ill health caused his resignation. In that capacity he contributed generously of his time and his wide experience and marked talents for the betterment of the school. His death leaves a wide gap in the ranks of Notre Dame’s ■most ardent supporters.
Two of Mr. Anson’s nephews are graduates of the University: Leonard Anson Donoghue, ’32, and F. Edmund Donoghue, ’36.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
7
Jack McLean to Play For K. of C. Formal
“Down melody lane with Jack McLean!” will be the chant as the annual Knights of Columbus Spring Formal dance swings out on Friday evening, the 19th of April, in the spacious Palais Royale Ballroom in South Bend.
The chairman of the dance, George B. Morris, is happy to have Jack McLean and his orchestra direct from the Trianon Ballroom in Chicago. The committee in charge of the dance has arranged to receive the guests at the door and escort them to their tables. All seniors, juniors and sophomores are invited to attend along with the Freshmen members of the Knights of Columbus.
Tickets went on sale this afternoon in the K. of C. office, when table reservations were taken. The Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., has graciously consented to extend invitations to the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine guests meeting at St. Mary’s.
The respective committee chairmen, Joe McNerthney, Joe McKeon, Ed Reidy, Bud Bernard, Walt Cronin, Gerald Sullivan, Jim Fayet, Charles O’Brien, Ray Kelly, Paul Glass, Dan Hushek, Bill Gagan and John Curran are hard at work endeavoring to make this dance as successful as previous ones have been.
—Frank McDonough
Sarg's Marionettes at
Washington Hall, Monday
Tony Sarg’s little wooden actors return to Washington Hall next Monday night to offer their current production of “Robin Hood.” Last year the marionettes made a hit with their campus showing of “Treasure Island.” After rigorous rehearsing the hardened thespians are on the road again interpreting a dashing new hero — the bold, swashbuckling Robin Hood, terror of Sherwood Forest.
The Barton Harp Quintet, five’golden instruments, played by attractive young ladies, will offer- a unique ensemble concert in Washington Hall Wednesday night. Precision and vast scope of harp perspective mark the agile players’ technique. Debussey, Ravel, Handel and Bach are just a few of the composers whose works will be interpreted by the quintet.
Last night the Southland Singers appeared before a Notre Dame audience for the first time. The group, considered the outstanding jubilee organization’ in this country, specialized on negro folk songs. Especially effective were the interpretative scenes and the costumes used to vivify the dramatic significance of their compositions.
Three Champions in One Ring—Hebenstreit, Conn, and Ryan
Rockne Bust To Be
Unveiled Here Tomorrow
The Rockne Memorial will be the resting place for one of sculptor Nison Tregor’s latest efforts here tomorrow. He recently completed a bust of Notre Dame’s immortal Knute Rockne. He has executed busts of many of the great, including President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Postmaster General James A. Farley, Henry Ford, and Col. Charles A. Lindbergh. The roster of these names makes a a fit introduction for that of Knute Rockne. Mr. Tregor’s bronze bust of “Rock” will be unveiled tomorrow afternoon at the Memorial.
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., will preside at the unveiling ceremony. Mr. Tregor, local members of the board of lay trustees, officers of the University, the Rockne family, and campus representatives ■will be among those present to honor Rock’s memory. A room in the Memorial will contain those personal mementos of Rock which his friends all over the nation may care to give. Director- Tom Mills has had several offers to help furnish the room. The Rockne Memorial is due to fulfill its purpose in form as well as in fact.
Valley Club Observes
9th Rockne Anniversary
The memory of Knute K. Rockne was honored last Sunday by members of the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley at a memorial mass and breakfast held
on the campus. It was the ninth anniversary of Rockne’s tragic death.
Mass was celebrated in the Dillon hall chapel by the Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., who served as president of the University during part of Rockne’s career as coach at Notre Dame. Music was provided by a quartet directed by Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music.
Breakfast was served to the club in the faculty dining hall after the mass. Talks were given by Father Walsh; Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics; Thomas L. Hickey; and by two former teammates of Rockne, Ray Eichenlaub and W. Howard Edwards.
After the breakfast the group joined the Monogram club for a trip to Highland cemetery where a wreath was placed on Rockne’s grave.
Universal N. D. Night
Slated for April 15
Over 20,000 Notre Dame alumni and friends of the University will meet via the radio on the evening of April 15th for the 17th annual Universal Notre Dame Night, when Notre Dame men the world over* greet each other once more by means of a series of co-ordinated radio programs.
The Universal Notre Dame Night custom originated in 1923 to satisfy requests of alumni for such an annual reunion, because many of them found it impossible to return to the campus during Commencement Week.
8
The Notre Dame Scholastic
THE STUDENT FORUM
Apologetics and Catholic Action
By Julian R. Pleasants
The science of Apologetics is much more than a defence of Christianity, in the mere negative sense of preserving Christian faith
from outright attacks upon it. It is, on the contrary, a very positive science, aimed primarily at the propagation, and not simply the preservation of Christianity; it was called into
being, not at the instance of the first attacks against Christianity, but rather on that occasion when Christ said: “Going therefore, teach ye all nations, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you.”
For that reason, accepting Pope Pius Xi’s definition of Catholic Action as “the participation of the laity in the apostolate of the hierarchy,” and recognizing that the essence of the apostolate is summed up in those very words of Christ, we realize that Catholic lay apologetics is an essential part of Catholic Action.
For if men are to observe the commands of Christ, they must first know that Christ spoke with the absolute authority of one who claimed and proved himself Divine, and that His commands have been transmitted infallibly to us in His Church. This much is a necessary condition for the reasonable servitude of Catholic faith, and hence it is clear that the science which does demonstrate the reasonableness of Catholic Faith, which provides convincing motives to justify the acceptance of Christ’s teaching, is a fundamental phase of Catholic Action.
Apologetics cannot claim to be the whole of Catholic Action, however, nor can it even claim the ability to function independently of every other phase of Catholic Action. It is clear that every activity by which Catholics increase their own knowledge and appreciation of Catholic truth, every activity by which they individually and collectively seek to further the observance of the commands of Christ (for instance, when they so regulate the structure of society
that social conditions become an occasion of virtue, rather than an occasion of sin, in short, every activity by which they promote an integrally Catholic way of life, is Catholic Action in the truest sense of the word.
But in addition to their intrinsic value, these same activities are an indispensable foundation for Apologetical activity; in fact, we might call them a prerequisite to the prerequisite for faith, for Apologetics simply cannot begin to demonstrate the reasonableness of Catholic faith, until the non - Catholic has been convinced of the importance of Catholic faith, and that conviction can come, not from Catholic scholarship, but from the observation of Catholic life. The non-Catholic is no more likely to be concerned about the truth of Catholic faith before he realizes its immense importance for life, than we are likely to bother about numberless facts of science and history which, however certain, appear entirely unrelated to our lives.
The apologist as such cannot give nonCatholics this conviction of the importance of the Catholic religion; they can gain it only if they see that Catholics themselves consider their religion of supreme importance, so important that they order their whole way of life in accordance with it, so important that they devote themselves unceasingly to the establishment of a social environment which will be conducive to that way of life, so important that they derive from it the inspiration for their highest achievements in art and literature and philosophy. Not until the nonCatholic has gained this conviction of the importance of Catholic faith (which is the product of Catholic Action in general) is he ready to be convinced of the reasonableness of Catholic faith (which is the work of Catholic Apologetics in particular); and not until he is convinced of both its importance and its credibility, is he ready for grace and faith (which is the gift of God).
The work of Catholic Action is thus seen to be an integrated whole, all its activities tending toward the ultimate end of the observance by all men of all that Christ commanded. To attain that end, Catholic Action must first develop in the individual Catholic’s life the fullest observance of Christ’s teaching, the
observance of all that He commanded, using every means, internal (such as study, liturgy, and above all, the sacraments) and external (such as the ordering of external conditions cc tKo4‘ they shall be occasions of virtue) to that end. Next, Catholic Action must bring all men to the observance of Christ’s teaching, a mission in which the laity play an indispensable role.
For, first, it is the spectacle of a Catholic life completely dominated by Christ’s teachings which arouses the non-Catholic world to a sense of the tremendous importance of Catholic truth, the dynamite of its message. In the first century, it was the exclamation: “See how these Christians love one another!” which expressed non - Christian amazement at the phenomenon of a religion capable of ruling life. Secondly, the laity participate in this apostolate when they are prepared not only to exemplify the importance of Catholic truth, but also to demonstrate its credibility to those who have been made to see its importance. Thirdly, they play their most important part when they support and encourage the Church’s own missionaries who, because they have devoted their entire lives to the Catholic apostolate, are completely dependent on the laity for their existence and activity. Finally, by their prayers, the laity call down from heaven that light and grace which is alone capable of completing the work of conversion and producing that acceptance of Christ’s teaching which is Catholic faith.
Thus it is that the laity, not only when, as apologists, they demonstrate and explain the reasonableness of Catholic faith, but also, when they exemplify the importance of Catholic truth in their practice of an integrally Catholic way of life, when they whole-heartedly support the organized missionary activity of the Church, and when they lift up their prayers for the conversion of mankind, are truly participating in the mission of the Church to bring all men to the observance of all that Christ commanded. Every phase of Catholic Action is necessary; one is powerless without the other. All must work coordinately together toward that final end of restoring all things in Christ.
Glee Club
The Glee Club gave a very successful concert at the Pabst Theater in Milwaukee on March 23, before an appreciative audience of about 700. The 33 members who made the trip gave the regular Glee Club program in its entirety.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
9
Prof. Simon Discusses Redistribution Problems
“Work and Wealth,” a philosophical treatise by Professor Yves R. Simon of Notre Dame, was one of the features of the Revieiv of Politics for April. In his work, Professor Simons pointed out that the advent of the machine in the world economy has provided the world with a surplus which regularly becomes concentrated in the hands of a relatively few men. This raises the problem of redistribution of wealth, one of the primary objects of governments today and cause of some of the recent political upheavals.
The moot point is where the authority for distribution should be placed. Aristotle advocated community use regulated by “just customs and beautiful laws.” Modernity, however, has come to believe that distribution can be done only in a socially organized—institutional—form. The objection to this is that institutional collection—in practice—frequently leads to State Socialism.
As a solution, Professor Simon suggested that closer sociological investigation be made into the history of economic life, bringing forth the many types of institutions so far attempted. He also strongly advocated that a thorough study be made of the non-State Socialistic forms of free distribution.
Also included in the Review are book reviews by the following Notre- Dame professors: Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., F. A. Hermens, Willis D. Nutting, Waldemar Gurian, John H. Shee
han, Frank T. Flynn, James J. Kearney, and Paul C. Bartholomew.
—John McDevitt
Kay Kyser’s Band On
Washington Hall Screen
The College of Musical Knowledge comes to the Washington Hall screen tomorrow night under the banner of “That’s Right, You’re Wrong.” Kay Kyser, Ginny Simms, Harry Babbitt, Ish Kabibble, and all the boys join Adolphe Menj ou, Edward Everett Horton and May Robson in offering the surprise comedy of the year.
The story concerns a band leader named Kay Kyser who journeys to Hollywood with his musical professors to make a picture. Script writer Horton meets difficulties in finding the right story for the “not-too-Taylorish” Kyser; Director Menjou has trouble with his producer; the boys in the band “go Hollywood”; and Ma Robson disappoints son Kay. But the “yez dance” man solves the problems for a happy ending.
—Ed Butler
Karl Hunn and His Band
Back From Eastern Trip
Notre Dame’s own interpreters of sweet swing, Karl Hunn and his band, have just returned from a tour of the East. They accompanied the Notre Dame concert band on its Easter tour. Dance engagements were played in Bridgeport and Hartford, Conn., at New Rochelle
College, New Rochelle, N. Y., and in Wilkes Barre, Pa. The band expects to tour the East again this summer. .
Other spring engagements are: the Smiler’s Club dance at South Bend Central High on April 27, and the Senior Ball Tea Dance on May 4. Several other high school dances have been tentatively scheduled.	•
The band played a St. Patrick’s Day dance in the Armory at Ottawa, Ill. 2,500 people attended the dance.
—Robert LeMense
Pettengill Delivers
Series of Law Lectures
The Hon. Samuel B. Pettengill, former member of the House of Representatives from South Bend, is delivering several lectures at present in the Law Auditorium.
The addresses, which began on April 2 when Mr. Pettengill spoke on “How Law - making Bodies Function,” take place at 11 a.m. Yesterday, Mr. Pettengill spoke on “Justice Black’s ‘Death Sentence’ to Corporations.”
Tomorrow he will lecture on the “Widening Stream of Interstate Commerce.” Next Tuesday the students will gain an insight into the “Growth and Development of Administrative Law.” Mr. Pettengill will speak Thursday on “Judicial Review of Administrative Rulings.”
He will sum up his six lectures on April 13 when he speaks on “How Free Is Free Speech?”
Back Home In Indiana — Hunn Plays for Engineers Tonight
10
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Varsity Debaters Win 2
Lose I on Trip East
The Notre Dame debating team returned to the campus last week from its Eastern wars with two victories, one loss, and two non-decisions. In the first encounter of the Eastern Campaign, Canisius College of Buffalo was defeated by the negative team, while the affirmative staged a radio debate with St. John’s at New York — a nori-decision affair.
Manhattan College provided the first and only set-back, defeating the Notre Dame affirmative team; the negative vis-
Milton Williams	AI Funk
ited Princeton and skinned the Tiger. In the high-light performance of the tour, Penn State engaged Notre Dame at Philadelphia in a radio debate, the result of which will not be announced until next week, as the decision rests with the radio audience who will mail their opinions to the broadcasting studios.
In the final debate Stanford University’s rambling team met Notre Dame in neutral territory—St. Mary’s College, and the decision will be announced later.
The return debate with Princeton, originally scheduled for next week, has been cancelled.
Daniel Sullivan and Milton Williams composed the affirmative team, and Al Funk and Thomas Grady completed the negative.—Don Heltzel
Notre Dame Architects
Continue to Win Prizes
In a recent contest held at the Beaux Arts Institute of Technology in St. Louis, the department of architecture of the University of Notre Dame won high honors, when its four entries received awards. •
The project, which was formed in five weeks, was a drawing of a Ceramic Shop. The pottery scales were very technical; hence much time and ' skill were demanded.
Of the 167 drawings submitted from all over the country, 68 received awards. All four of Notre Dame’s entries received awards: John McHugh, of Springfield, O., received a “First Mention Placed,” only six of which were awarded in the contest; Richard Whalen, Yonkers, N. Y., won a Mention, although his drawing was held over as a possible “First Mention Placed”; Douglas Haley, of Vallejo, Calif., and Milton Paskin, South Bend, Ind., were the other two winners, completing the Notre Dame awards in the heavy competition.
Social Work Department Added to Curriculum
University officials announced today a reorganization of the social work courses offered at the University into a separate Department of Social Work. This change is in accordance with recommendation made by the American Association of Schools of Social Work, the official accrediting body in this field. The program will include the basic courses recommended by the Association, including the following: Case Work, Community Organization, Psychiatric Information, Public Welfare Administration, Medical Information, Child Welfare, together with additional academic courses and extensive field work opportunities. A number of scholarships are available to qualified students.
This change marks another step in the long history of Notre Dame’s identification with certain phases of social work. First organized -on an undergraduate basis and later developed into a graduate program, the University has produced many who are now prominent workers in probation, parole and public welfare work.
In the statement made today, Professor Frank T. Flynn, head of the new department, said: “This reorganization has taken place only after long study by University authorities, and it is in keeping with developments in the field of social work. The federal government and most progressive states have placed positions in the public welfare and crime fields on a merit basis, and in these important areas of public service only qualified applicants are received. The standards for admission to graduate work in the department provide for twenty hours of background courses in the social sciences, these to be selected from a combination of sociology, economics and politics. Students whose background is deficient in this prerequisite may under certain conditions make up some of the background courses.”
Because of the emphasis on field work, the Department will not offer the Mas
ter’s degree, conseqeuntly no language examination or thesis is required. However, by a special arrangement with the Department of Sociology the student may take the Masters’ degree in Sociology by completing an additional two summers or one semester in sociology.
The new Department will cooperate with the Department of Sociology in the recently announced program in Correctional Administration, but it is emphasized that students not majoring in sociology are eligible for admission to the Department.	__ _
; Additional ahnouficements concerning faculty changes and a description of the field work facilities will be made in the i near* future. Applicants for admission (i should consult Professor Flynn at his , office, 229 Main Building.
Realists Sponsor Forum On Socialized Medicine
The Realists, campus sociology organization, will sponsor a forum on socialized medicine in the Law Auditorium Thursday, April 11, at 8:00 p.m. Subject under discussion: “Should Compulsory Health Insurance Be the Next Step?” Participants: Mr. Nate Levy, prominent South Bend attorney, and Mr. Paul Waddell, secretary of the St. Joseph County Medical Association, representing opposite sides of the’ question. The session will be open to free forum discussion by those attending, after the two principal speakers have presented their views.
Members of the Realists, all undergraduate and graduate majors in sociology or social work, and any others interested in attending as guests of the Realists are invited. The program will be the first of its kind undertaken by the organization, with the deeper purpose of interesting possible new members.
Chairman of arrangements: Louis A. Radelet, faculty student adviser of Realists, assisted by Cletus N. Schommer of the graduate school of social work.
SPRING IS HERE
Badin Bog—March 27
The Notre Dame Scholastic
11
Father Putz, C.S.C., Tells of Escape From France
Describes Conditions in Germany and France; Compares Maginot and Siegfried Lines
By JOHN McDEVITT, '42
“We missed the Deutschland by two days,” said Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., smiling. “Two days before the British vessel Rawalpindi was sunk we traveled over that same point, near the coast of Iceland. Two days out from home port, the captain of the S. S. De Grasse (French transatlantic steamer) received a wireless that the German light cruiser Deutschland was reported in our vicinity. At the time, we were zigzagging across the North Atlantic to New York. After this warning, we doubled our speed; this caused the De Grasse, which is very light, to lurch from side to side. I’m afraid the reeling of the ship was not good for the appetite,” he laughed, “because out of 200 passengers, only two frequented the dining room. We were all very thankful that we missed the pocket battleship, especially since we had no convoy.”
Father Putz had a rather hectic time on the Continent. After being graduated from Notre Dame in 1932, he was assigned to the Holy Cross Community in Le Mans, France. He is a German citizen and his parents are living in Germany. Because of that, he usually spent his vacations in that country. In fact, he had just returned to Le Mans when the war broke out, and because of his German citizenship the French government wanted to place him in a concentration camp. “They came after me at Le Mans, but I had been warned and escaped to Paris, where the gendarmes finally caught me.” Father Putz was sent to a camp near Paris with 5,000 other prisoners, mostly German-Jewish exiles.
On arriving at the camp he obtained permission to see the commanding officer. Father Putz explained that Notre Dame would receive him if passage could be arranged. The officer, who also was a priest, granted him freedom to make arrangements for leaving France. That was the most difficult part. With a Nazi swastika emblazoned on his passport, Father Putz found it hard to persuade the French government (which had confiscated com
mercial liners) to give him passage. After several weeks of waiting, he was finally allowed to leave on the DeGrasse.
Father Putz was fortunate enough to have seen conditions in both Germany and France, so we asked him about those countries. “In Germany,” he said, “there is a spy in every family. The state has trained its children so that they will betray their parents. They are instructed to report to Youth leaders any suspicious actions or indiscreet
Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C.
conversations of their parents against Hitler. More than one misplaced word, uttered before the youngsters, has led directly to the concentration camp.” The Gestapo, Father Putz said, is as ruthless and inhuman as has been advertised, and even more efficient. Many abortive plots have been killed by their work with “patriotic” informers.
Aside from the Catholic “purge” of a short while ago, Christian churches are open for free worship. They are thronged not only on Sunday, but every day; only the older people, however, attend. The Youth movement has destroyed every vestige of Christianity in
the younger generation. “It is the boast of the regime that in ten years the churches will be closed because there will be no one left to go to them.”
The attitude of the Party toward the war was one of supreme confidence. “They were fearful when Hitler suggested Austria, but after taking Austria and Czecho-Slovakia without bloodshed, they thought that Germany was a Gulliver in a continent of Lilliputians. The stringent Allied blockade has probably softened that view.
“The people, before the expansion program, were fairly satisfied. The average German,” he continued, “is not interested in . politics. He is content as long as he can chat over a stein of beer, knowing that Germany ranks high among the World Powers. In the beginning, Hitler offered these concessions, and after the post-war strife, the Germans were eager to have a stable government; Hitler was the solution.” With his high-handed methods, Hitler is not as popular now, and as most recreations, beer included, are almost extinct, sentiment is gradually changing. During the summer, when Father Putz was last in Germany, the leanings of the people were undecided. “About 25% of the people definitely favored Hitler, 25% definitely disliked him, and 50% were vacillating between the two extremes. The economic crisis that is bound to confront the population may be an important factor.”
France, on the other hand, is in a much better condition. All classes were positive that Hitler’s expansion had to be stopped, and were merely waiting for the call to arms. “The French people may be likened to a prize fighter,” he said. “Before the war they were nervous, tense, high-pitched. They knew that the fight was impending, and wished that they could get it over with. The declaration of war acted like the bell of the first round: all fear left, and they settled down to the task of trying to win the war.”	'
(Continued on page 26)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
William C. Fay, Editor-in-Chief
William C. McGowan, News Editor
Frank Wemhoff, Literary Editor
William Kelleher, Art Editor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Adress manuscripts to Editor, 259 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evenings in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
Across the Editor’s Desk
Conn-Tinued Story
ILLY CONN was driving to Plymouth after the Bengal Bouts
when he mentioned to Father John Cavanaugh that a blue-and-gold football jacket would be mighty handy for roadwork . . . the next morning Father had one of Mr. McAllister’s best models sent on to Pittsburgh — and life immediately became more complicated for Mr. McAllister. We can see him in September, pencil poised: “Let’s see, now — twenty-four jackets in the locker — and twenty-five at the cleaners — that’s forty-nine — yep, forty-nine — and fifty on the field — that’s ninety-nine — where in the — and one in Pittsburgh — that’s a hundred . . . Managers, dis-MISSED.”
Before leaving campus Billy stopped off at St. Edward’s to congratulate Jimmy McNulty, -winner of the Huddle sportsmanship trophy. Billy and Jimmy grew up together in the East End of Pittsburgh, along with Tommy O’Brien, of Alumni’s notorious second-floor-rear.
Over a cup of coffee in that little restaurant opposite the Plymouth station Billy said very plainly he wanted to fight Joe Louis in September. He didn’t think he was too light. “After I fight Lesnevich in Detroit I’ll go up to 185 pounds — I’m about 178 now — and when you weigh 185 you’re big enough to lick anybody, if you’re tough enough,” was the way he summed it up.
Of course, he was not counting upon the recurrent skin disorder which post-
Donald Foskett, Managing Editor
James Newland, Sports Editor
Richard Metzger, Art Editor
Rev. C. Laskowski, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
poned again his title bout with Lesnevich — scheduled originally for February in Miami. But the postponements may be all to the good. The doctors have ruled him out of the ring for four months, at least; so, the Louis fight will have to come later, either a winter fight at the Garden, or a summer battle in Yankee Stadium. A lot can happen in the meantime. Conn will become heavier, stronger . . . the pork chops may take the edge off Louis.
And if determination makes the successful challenger Billy will be the next heavyweight champion. He doesn’t smoke or drink, trains rigorously. “A good Irish fighter can make a million dollars,” he explained, “and I’m not going to blow my chance. You know how you pack Yankee Stadium for the Army Game? Well, think of the gate if I can get in there with Louis.”
Add courage to his determination and common sense. “He has more guts than anyone I’ve ever seen,” said Art Rooney, and Rooney should know something about the subject. As owner of the Pittsburgh pro footballers, he has watched Bronco Nagurski smash a line, and just a few years ago, at Saratoga, Mr. Rooney bet $85,000 on a horse — on the nose. Sport writers vary in their estimates of Conn, but they agree on one point — like most Irishmen, Billy fights harder after he has been hurt.
And he has the laugh of an Irishman. “After all my fights,” he told
Father Cavanaugh, “the good Fathers crowd into my dressing room. The night I licked Bettina for the title one of them — a little Irisher — dragged my manager, Johnny Ray, off into a corner — I oughta tell you, Father, that Johnny is as Jewish as he looks Irish. His real name’s Pitler — and this little Father puts his arm around Johnny and said: ‘Sure I know the Good Book tells us we’re all brothers under the skin, but it’s glad I am the young lad there is cleaning up on these Jews and Italians. ’Tis time one of us was on top again.’
“And you know what my Jewish manager did, Father? He just slapped the little Irisher on the back and said, ‘Sure, and it’s entirely right you are, Father.’ ”
❖
Sad Story
THE FOUR worst tennis courts in the world are those in the lee of Cartier Field. The surface is cracked asphalt, scarcely good secondary road paving. The painted white lines are a memory. Four feet behind the baselines the asphalt drops two inches to loose, eroded clay. The sagging steel nets strung out. in a line occasionally reach regulation height.
The eight most impractical tennis courts in the world are those just behind the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. They are a study in how not to build tennis courts and where not to place them. The clay surface holds an ordinary sprinkle for two days, offers but intermittent play in fall and spring — the two seasons the courts are needed most. On the open side, acres of prairie give the constant wind a running start; on the opposite side, car windshields in the parking lot reflect sunlight from every angle. All the while the nets, not equipped with regulation center-straps, blow merrily in the breeze.
Schoolmen Step Out
WHY DOES a campus club exist?
Many a time we’ve been asked that question and just as many times we’ve been forced to look a little more stupid than usual and say nothing, for most of the clubs have never accomplished anything more substantial than an occasional spaghetti dinner in South Bend. But next week,-we are told, the Schoolmen will change the old order of things by sponsoring here on the campus the first intercollegiate philosophical conference ever held in this country. President Jim Daner and his club should be congratulated for providing an intelligent answer to the perrenial campus club question.—William C. Fay
The Notre Dame Scholastic
13
IN THE
Small wonder my friends keep exclaiming: “How sweet!”
Responsive to touches no matter how frail.
My Remington Portable Typewriter, hail!
Street Scene
It was in one of the better gutters that I first met Clementine. We were both sitting on the edge of the curb watching the Camels drift by in the glow of the setting sun. Clementine heaved a sigh. I tossed off a bored birdie. Her hand crept closer to mine over the cool concrete. Our fingers nearly touched; she stole a glance...
“Get away from that snipe!” I cried furiously.
“But,” she said....
“No butts about it,” I roared, “that’s a full three inches of Havana stogie or my name isn’t Hubert Wimpleton.” She gasped. “Hubert Wimpleton,” she muttered, staring at me intensely, “are you the Hubert Wimpleton who captained the pinochle team in ’28 at old Cas-toria?”
“None other,” I replied modestly.
“Then perhaps....” She clutched at her throat convulsively. “Look at this
locket.” I did. She pressed a bulb and a stream of water hit my face. “Ha, ha, ha,” she chortled. I looked at her sternly.
“You seem to be a very loose woman,” I observed coldly.
“Doncha buleeve it,” she replied, “I’m tighter’n a hoot-owl.” And that was when I gave up gutters.
’Twas the night before pay-day, And all through my jeans
I hunted in vain for the ways and the means;
Not a quarter was stirring, not even a jit.
The kale was off duty, the greenbacks had quit.
Forward, turn forward, oh Time, in thy flight,
And make it tomorrow, just for tonight!
—Drexerad
Many a Slip
“There’s many a slip ’twixt the cup and the lip,”
Said the girl who always used care. So she dropped the heir to the million, And married the millionaire.
Ode Modernistique
I said to myself: “Surely, she’s not accessible!
Who’d ever thing of her being pos-. sessible!”
Often I thought that my hopes might be realized
Under her spell I was hypnotized— paralyzed!
I schemed. I dreamed. I’d sigh: “Oh, my!” I raved, -Depraved. I slaved, And saved. Aloud I vowed: “I’ll get You yet!” Aflame, I came I saw
I conquered—
And now that you’re mine
I think you’re divine.
And here at your shrine
I worship.
All throughout the course of history Blackness connotated mystery.
Shrouded, silent, dark, aloof— You are mystery, dear, that’s proof!
Anyone who reached perfection In the art of keen detection
With aesthetic predilection Cast thine eyes in her direction!
Behold!
Symmetrical, trim, perfect balance,
petite.
The Muscle Man
As he came up the stairs there was a look in his eye that boded ill for someone. The outward appearance of this tall, heavilyrbuilt, roughly clothed man with the scowling, unshaven face was enough to frighten anyone not of his kind. He stalked down the dim corridor, turned to the right, and halted before the first of a long row of doors. A’ small metal object which he drew from his pocket glittered under the feeble yellow light overhead and then was hidden in the man’s great hand. Softly he rapped on the door. No response. Again he knocked, and again silence. He stood motionless, listening intently for a sound that would tell him if anyone were within. Yes, there it was — a strangled sneeze! Smiling grimly to himself he began to hammer the door boldly. It opened a few inches and a torture-stricken face appeared at the crack. The eyes of the person inside instinctively darted to the gleaming metal in the intruder’s hand. “No! No! No!” he shrieked in an agonized voice and forced the door shut against the other’s weight, “I don’t want a monogrammed cigarette lighter—you’re the eighth salesman that has been here tonight!”
“Then I took my slide-rule. . . .”
14
The Notre Dame Scholastic
UNIVERSITY THEATRE PREPARES FIRST 1940 PRODUCTION
Father Coyle Steps Up Production of Comedy
Barring further illnesses and another spring vacation, the Notre Dame Players, under the direction of the Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C., will present “She Stoops to Conquer,” April 21 and 22.
Serious illnesses, including one quarantine, and the Easter vacation have thus far made unavoidable delays. But production on Dr. Goldsmith’s time-honored comedy has been resumed, and the cast is being introduced to strenuous practice in order to present the famous drama as scheduled.
Austrian Royalty Were
Campus Visitors, Sunday
Anglo-Saxon and Teuton met with a friendly handshake Sunday, when Archduke Otto von Hapsburg was welcomed by Mr. Robert Spaeight, English actor and guest instructor at Notre Dame. Archduke Otto, the legitimate claimant to the vacant Austrian throne and descendant of the ancient line of Haps-burgs, was accompanied by his younger brother, Archduke Felix, and their aides. Archduke Felix is lecturing throughout the United States on the “Reconstruction of Central Europe.”
Mr. Spaeight escorted the party to the Main Building and presented them to a committee composed of Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., Rev. Hugo H. Hoever, O.Cist., Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Dr. Haas, and Professor Karl Menger. The guests were then conducted on a tour of the Church, the library and the art galleries,
and the dining halls where the group was feted in the Trustee Room. Archduke Otto expressed much interest at the immense dining halls and cafeteria. He also praised the natural and architectural beauty of the campus.
At one o’clock the group was received at St. Mary’s College by Sister Madel-eva, president, and Sister Frances Jerome. Fr. Schumacher, chaplain, Dr. F. A. Hermens, Dr. Eugene Guth, and Professor Francis J. O’Malley were also on the reception committee. After dining, as guests of St. Mary’s College, they were presented to the sisters and the students in the spacious lounge of Le-Manse Hall.
Mr. Spaeight gave a short speech of introduction. Then Archduke Otto asked the group “to remember in their prayers the countries of the world which have not the glorious privilege of religious freedom.” He also expressed hope for a confederation of Central European countries similar to the United States when the present war is over. The Archduke is on a tour of the eastern and central states to secure aid for this cause and “to see how democracy works.”
—Jim Brugger
Aluminum Co. Engineer
Addresses Metals Group
Mr. R. L. Templin, of New Kensington, Pa., chief test engineer of the Aluminum Company of America, addressed the April meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals on Wednesday evening. Mr. Templin spoke at the technical session in the auditorium of Cushing Hall of Engineering, on “Mechanical Property Tests of Metals.”
Three Round Table Men
at DePauw Conference
Three members of the Notre Dame Round Table will represent the club at the annual Mid-West Conference of International Relations Club to be held at DePauw University, today and tomorrow. The conference is sponsored by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Approximately 35 Mid-West universities will be represented.
Ted Brush, president of the Round Table, John Savord, and Norm Bourke will make up the Notre Dame delegation. John Savord, as vice-president of the Mid-West Conference, will respond to the opening greeting of the president of the conference. Ted Brush will preside over the three round table sessions dealing with the European area. The following topics will be discussed at these sessions: “Principles upon which peace of tomorrow must be built”; “The League and the present crisis”; and “The economic and political aspects of the peace of tomorrow — if peace is to be permanent.” Other round table sessions on the America area and the Fai-Eastern area will be held simultaneously with those on the European area.
Tentative plans have been made for the local Round Table to be host to the Conference in the centennial year of 1942. In preparation for this, and also to replace the eleven senior members of the club, sophomores and juniors will be admitted as new members within the next two weeks.
Catholic Assc. Honors
Local Faculty Members
At the National Catholic Educational Association convention, in Kansas City, Mo., which ended last Saturday, two local faculty members received appointments. The Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., professor of education, was appointed to the membership committee, which serves as an accrediting agency for the college and university division; and the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., already a member of the committee on graduate study, was appointed to the executive committee of the college and university division.
At the same convention Clarence E. Manion, professor of law and author of the recently published Lessons in Liberty, delivered two addresses.
SCHOLASTIC STAFF
Applicants for the 1940-41 Scholastic staff should contact the editors, in the Ave Maria Editorial Rooms, Sunday through Wednesday, from 7:30 until 9:00 p.m.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
15
Report Notre Dame Man’s Gold Strike
Alumnus Writes Story of Startling Discovery of Gold in Abandoned Georgia Mine by Former Notre Dame Minim, Major Graham Dugas
By RAYMOND C. CUNNINGHAM, '25
We all know the legend of the “pot of gold at the end of the rainbow,” but here’s the story of a man—a Notre Dame man—who found his life’s efforts climaxed in a rainbow nestled on a real pot of gold that bids fair to making him one of the wealthiest men in the world. He rediscovered an abandoned gold mine in Georgia.
But let’s go back and begin at the beginning. About the turn of the century, Graham Dugas’ grandmother sent him, as a youthful orphan, to Notre Dame, and placed him in St. Edward’s Hall. Here he remained for five years, under the motherly eye of good old Sister Aloysius and the fatherly eye of Brother Cajetan. These two lovable characters who influenced the Major’s early days, he associates with fond memories at Notre Dame. As a matter of fact, he recalls very vividly the day when he climbed to the dome to carve his initials, and is anxious to return to see if they are still engraved there. And he is wondering too, if Pat, the old gardener is still around beautifying the quadrangle? He also inquired about Sockalexis, the great baseball player of his days at Notre Dame. He is looking forward to this June when he plans to visit his first school.
Out of college he was free to pursue his lifelong ambition to hunt for gold. Off to Mexico he traveled, where he prospected for some time. While there, between claim stakes, he became interested in aviation, and for a time served in the Mexican aviation service under Pancho Villa. When the World War was declared, he enlisted immediately in the aviation department, and was sent to Italy to help the allied cause. He was attached to the Caproni Division and was later decorated by the Italian Government in the Order of St. Maurice and St. Lazarus.
But when the war was over, he returned to America, and hurried back to Georgia to further pursue his quest for gold. And back he went to the old abandoned mine just 80 miles north of Atlanta where many times he had dug
around in worked-out claims in search of a new gold vein he was sure existed there somewhere. This old abandoned mine his history books told him was once worked by Cherokee Indians who used the precious metal in their barters with the early Spaniards who settled in the
Moffet Studios
Major Graham Dugas
neighborhood of Tampa Bay. History even records that the great DeSoto knew of this mine and carried coins away from its shaft. He read in page after page how millions of dollars of the yellow metal were taken from the once prosperous vein of the Dahlonega mine, and how even the famous South Carolina statesman John Calhoun took from it for himself over $2,000,000. Years later Clemson, son-in-law of Calhoun, worked this mine, and was able to start Clemson College. But the adventure spirit in him would not let him rest where this mine was concerned; he had to satisfy himself that there was no more gold there.
The name “Dahlonega,” an old Indian name, formerly spelled “Tonenelka,” meaning “yellow gold” fascinated him somehow. If the Indians were so much impressed by the quantity of the gold they found there to name the town after it, maybe there was even more gold around the Indians knew about but
which the white man did not find. This would be his life’s work to find out for himself.
The 15 years that followed, were hard and tedious for the Major, digging here and there in and around the old shaft. Occasionally he would find a few small outcroppings of the metal, but never enough to pay for his trouble. Now and then he succeeded in interesting some friends to lend him some additional money to enable him to continue his search. But each new attempt met with new failure. More friends, more money, more attempts, and more fail' ures. Again and again he tried and failed. Year after year he continued his quests ever dreaming of the day his efforts would be rewarded.
Then, one day last November, on the 21st anniversary of the World War armistice, he uncovered the new vein of gold he had been seeking all those years. It was a vein twelve feet below the old “worked-out” one which state geologists say will net him $60,000 a ton, much richer than the famous Comstock lode. The new vein runs parallel to the old vein for the same distance of 145 feet, down a 45 degree angle directly below the old shaft. It is estimated his discovery will bring him many millions.
The Major has the mine and a few thousand surrounding acres sewed up on a twenty year lease for which he must pay but $3,000 a year, and no royalties. His corporation, is a closed one, with himself in sole command; but he has permitted to share with him in his good fortune, those few loyal friends who had faith in him and helped him financially through those long, lean years of prospecting. All the Major and his friends have to do now is sit back with black glasses on to keep the glitter of the gold from blinding them.
The Major’s brother, an author, also attended Notre Dame and his sister, Miss C. Dugas, was a student at St. Mary’s. She attained great heights in her profession as a portrait painter and is now located in New York at the Gainsborough studios.
16
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Irish Open Baseball Season Against Powerful Northwestern Nine Tomorrow
Ellis, Hunthausen And
Celia to Face Wildcats
Coach Jake Kline was in a loquacious mood as he previewed his Notre Dame baseball nine on Monday afternoon.
“It looks like the best we’ve had since 1936. I don’t know how long I’ve been coaching baseball, but this looks like a good club to me. The boys are outdoors for only their third practice, and Northwestern will have a big advantage on us when they come here Saturday afternoon, but we’ll try to be ready for them.”
Coach Kline was referring to his sen-
i
j
Coach Jake Kline
ior trio of pitchers that he is prepared to throw them against Northwestern’s Wildcats tomorrow on the Cartier field diamond. The Notre Dame mentor proposes to work Norv Hunthausen, Rex Ellis, and Tony Celia for three innings in that order. Coach Kline will practice this system until his hurlers have become acclimated to the ardors of the cool spring weather.
Sophomore Bernie Crimmins, football’s sterling blocker, will block Wildcat runners at the plate tomorrow; he will bat just before the pitcher. Sophomore George Sobek, basketball sensation in his first varsity season, is fighting Hubert Crane, senior, for the second base post and the honor to head the batting order. Sophomore Andy Chle-beck, football prospect, will cover center field and he will swing just before Crimmins.
Roy Pinelli, senior, will bat after the
leadoff man and will defend rightfield. Ken Oberbrunner, sneior basketball forward, will complete the outer garden, playing leftfield, and he will bat in the sixth notch.
Captain Chet Sullivan, Ray Pinelli, and Charley Farrell will form cleanup row for Coach Kline as they hit in the third, fourth, and fifth positions in the batting order. Captain Sullivan is playing his third year at third base, and the junior classmen, Pinelli and Farrell, will return to the shortstop and first base positions they held down a year ago.
Coach Stan Klores will field a nine that has had the benefit of playing eight games in the sunny South. Against Louisiana State, Alabama, Tulane, and Southwestern Louisiana, Northwestern has registered three victories, four losses, and one tie, having played a brace of contests with each club. Later in the month Notre Dame will play a return game with the Purple at Evanston.
Northwestern tied for fourth place in the Western Conference last season, and ten lettermen have returned from that squad.
Coach Klores hopes to present the fol- ■ lowing batting order tomorrow: Erwin Madsen, third base; Alex Lustig, first base; George McKinnon, shortstop; Ash Arnold, catcher; Bill DeCorrevont, Centerfield; Dick Erdlitz, second base; Captain Fred Shinkevitch, leftfield; Hank Clason, rightfield; and John Goldak, pitcher. Dick Klein, sophomore basketball high point-getter, will furnish relief for Goldak.
Notre Dame holds a decided advantage over the Cats in games won and lost throughout a period of years. The Irish have a record of 23 triumphs and only 13 setbacks. The clubs split even in 1939.
—Eddie Huff
Jets between Dots
Don’t be surprised to see some of Jake Kline’s boys cavorting on major league diamonds within the next few years.... The Pittsburgh Pirates are reported interested in Rex Ellis.... The St. Louis Cardinals have an eye for Norv Hunthausen’s slider . . . and the mighty Yankees like the way Ray Pinelli polices the shortstop beat....
An Interview With Nic
For prognostication Track Coach John P. Nicholson rates with the best.
Several weeks ago he foretold how Greg Rice would beat his arch rival Don Lash in the two mile — and how he would set a new world’s mark while doing it. Latei* he stated that Rice would set a new world’s record in the three mile run.	j
(This interview was obtained late Tues- । day afternoon from Coach Nicholson I by Bill Scanlan upon “Nick’s” return from New-York, where he watched Rice set a new world’s record in the three mile.)
On the night of March 9 in Madison Square Garden mighty Greg beat Don Lash to the tape in the two mile event for a new record, and last Sunday night he gave New York a taste of power, speed and track finesse by finishing first in the three mile event for a new mark against Lash, Taisto Maki, of Finland, and Joe McCluskey.
Though Irish followers know him as Head Track Coach, Nicholson had one of the finest lateral passing football teams in the country at Rice Institute, in 1924. He learned that style of play in Canada.
“George Keogan and I are old time coaches — we’ve been through the mill coaching all sports,” Nick commented as he leisurely sat in his office chair.
In addition to developing a top flight lateral passing team at Rice, Nick also coached at Sewanee University, and his grid teams beat such football powers of today as Alabama and Kentucky. “However, we just couldn’t beat Tennessee and Vanderbilt — and that was necessary.”	'
| Nicholson climaxed his greatest com- , petitive season in 1912 by representing the United States in the Olympic Games at Stockholm, Sweden, along with Jim Thorpe and other greats of that era. After winning all available high hurdle championships in this country, Nick was slated to cop the Olympic crown. In the finals, however, he tripped over a hurdle “and fell on my nose,” he laughingly recalled.
“My most memorable event was winning the high individual scoring championship in the Western Conference meet at Lafayette, Indiana, while competing for Missouri University in 1912.” In that meet, which was regarded as the A.A.U. of today, Nick won the high
The Notre Dame Scholastic
17
>k—Tuesday Afternoon
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESSBOX
By FRANK AUBREY
hurdles, tied for first in high jump, and finished third in broad jump.
Nicholson holds the unusual distinction of winning for Notre Dame even before he came here 12 years ago to succeed the late Knute K. Rockne as track mentor when Rockne decided to devote his time to football and athletic
John P. Nicholson
director duties. Nick was coaching at DePauw University then — he coached at a lot of schools — and had a great n distance man, Ivan Meyers.
, “Before the meet,” Nicholson recalled, ■' “Rock told me he didn’t have any distance men. I told him Meyers of my team would take care of Purdue’s entries — and Meyers won the 880 and mile, besting Purdue men, and Notre Dame won the meet 52 5/6 to 50 l/3.
“I first met Rockne competing in the same track meets. He was a good pole vaulter. Later he brought his Four Horsemen team to Rice Institute on the way to the Rose Bowl game in 1925. In 1927 I called him asking if he knew of any coaching vacancies — and he told me to come to Notre Dame.”
“The best athlete I ever coached between Alex Wilson, middle distance, and
(Continued on Next Page)
“Back home again in Indiana, And we’re scared as we can be— Those blinkin’ thesis jobs, Will keep playing hob With dates on the — first tee.”
“Play ball!” will be a welcome sound tomorrow, for it will start Jake Kline’s entry in America’s national sport on its way through the 1940 campaign. It may be heresy to refer to baseball as the national game in this neck of the woods, but — “all right, so I’m a heretic!” Baseball may not draw the crowds that it used to; it may not even be self-supporting in some colleges, and it may not put many fellows through school. But so far as we can see, baseball’s only weakness is its bi-product, the more anemic game of softball, which has sprang up like the cockle and is now choking off baseball itself in some sections of the country. It’s as if a touch-football mania suddenly superseded football in prominence here at Notre Dame.
If ever baseball bad a chance for a break------- that is, a break in support, popularity, and attendance at ball games, this year should be the time. We have prospects for a fine team — a veteran infield, a couple of good slabsters, what looks like a hitting outfield, and, for the customers, a ding-dong schedule on tap. Chet Sullivan, Ray Pinelli, Chuck Farrell, and possibly George Sobek at the keystone, look like the best infield combination here in the past four years. At press time it looks as though the outfield will be minus the hitting of Red Oberbruner, but what happens? Batting practice reveals a footballer who can really belt the apple — Andy Chlebeck. With Andy, Roy Pinelli, Bob Hargrave, and Ace Joyce -------- the garden will be well
filled. Art Verhoestra now being engaged in making up prescriptions and nut sundaes, Jake figured on some catching worries. But right now — and from 2:30 to 3:45 every afternoon has a catcher who will fill the bill — Bernie Crimmins. Of course, after 3:45 Bernie is a right halfback, but if the Northwestern game runs too long tomorrow, Jake can use Tom Brennan to catch the last few innings.
They say Northwestern has just finished a tour of the grapefruit league — but judging from their success they shouldn’t have anything more than we have — except a tan. Lack of any worthwhile practice should make our defense a little shaky, but the hitters will be ready to knock the ears off any Wildcat pitcher, and we doubt very much that Norv Hunthausen will come up with any cauliflowers. We can’t see Norv doing anything but coming out on top. Keep your hat on, Norv, and nobody will ever know.
•
A flash from the east coast, Providence to be specific, brings word that All-American Earl Brown and Mrs. Brown have a new All-American in the family. No football star this time, but the Brown’s hope to make her a tennis player. Earl’s been coaching the Brown University ends since graduating here a year ago. When he made the All-Star team here in 1938 Earl usually played at about 185 pounds. The important part of last week’s announcement was that daughter Sally Anne is well on her way to her daddy’s weight, since she weighed in at 7 pounds, 15 ounces on arrival.
A lot of us have been following the progress of Coach John Nicholson’s postgraduate track team recently. Under Nick’s personal supervision the team has cracked records in the two and three mile runs in the past few weeks, finally establishing a mark of 13:52.2 in whipping a classy three mile field in the Garden last Sunday. Now we’re beginning to wonder if Greg will do as well outdoors this spring and topple Finnish Mr. Maki’s outdoor records. Maki is better in the bright sunshine than he is under the lights, so he should give Nick’s team a bit more competition. “If it weren’t for Joe Stalin,”, sighed Mr. Nicholson, “Greg would have showed the world his heels in the Olympic 5,000 meters.” There isn’t much doubt about it either, for if Greg can click off two world’s indoor records at his favorite distances while breathing cigarette smoke and pounding the pine boards, there’s no telling what he can do with better materials like air and a springy cinder path.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
INTRODUCING By PETE SHEEHAN
In 1930 — the date of the last census — a boy named Sullivan captained Notre Dame’s baseball team and performed at third base. Ten years have passed! The census takers are around again! And, though many things have changed a member of the tribe of Sullivan will again lead the Notre Dame baseball team from his third base position.
Billy Sullivan, Jr., son of the famous feuds.
White Sox catcher, was the leader of the ’30 nine, and Chester Sullivan, son of one of Chicago’s greatest semi-pro stars, is our current captain.
When Chet came to Notre Dame from Leo High in Chicago his ambition was to match the record made by Billy Sullivan. He had won letters in both basketball and football at Leo but he decided that he had better concentrate on the diamond sport while in college.
Now, as a senior, Sully can look back over his record and feel that one ambition was realized. For two years he has been a regular, and this year he was honored with the captaincy. His two year batting average is close to .315 and his fielding record is near perfect. But still he is not satisfied.
During these years at Notre Dame Chet has been following Billy. Yes, Billy is still playing ball and he is
playing where Chet has always wanted to play — the Major Leagues. When he was graduated from Law School in ’32 he joined the Chisox, and since then he has been with the Reds, Indians, and Browns. This year the Tigers purchased him to fill in for Rudy York.
Now Chet’s ambition is to continue to emulate Billy and some day join the big time — the goal of every baseball player. He, too, is a powerful hitter and would play anywhere in the infield or outfield if given this coveted opportunity.
Although baseball is his favorite sport he is very fond of hunting and fishing. He can’t remember when he has let a hunting season go by without trying to shoot a few wild animals.
During vacations Sully serves as life
guard at a Chicago pool and on Sunday afternoons he works out on the corner sand lots with the neighborhood baseball teams.
A happy-go-lucky fellow, Chet will argue about anything and has been known to agree with his adversary before the argument is closed. Down in Morrissey sub he gets plenty of practice and manages to win his share of verbal
Steve Coughlin, his pal, has tried to give him a leading role in the Monogram Absurdities but Sully believes that he would be of more benefit to the club in the capacity of Prop Manager.
Like all Irishmen he is kind hearted! Last year when roomie Coughlin was away Chet took pity on a hungry looking mongrel and coaxed him up to St. Ed’s fourth floor where he spent a comfortable evening in Steve’s bed.
Statistics: Full name — Chester Nicholas Sullivan. Born in Chicago, HL, on the 28th of June, 1918. Height, 5 feet, 11 inches; weight, 175 pounds. He throws and bats right handed and will receive his B.S. in Physical Education this June. Chet hopes to play baseball for a while, depending upon his success, and then settle down to coaching.
Nicholson Interview
(Continued from Page 17) Rice. Others who top the list are Jack Elder, sprinter; the late Johnny O’Brien, indoor hurdler who wasn’t so good outside; Dan Gibbs, who pole vaulted 13:9; George Meagher, broad jump; Bill Fay-monville, discus; and Vince Murphy, high jump; and John Francis whom Johnny Woodruff said is the best man he ever met — and Woodruff is the greatest half miler in the world. Don Elser was the most unsual athlete I ever had. It was a question of keeping his weight up so he could be a great shot putter, and keeping it down for top flight hurdling.”
The Irish mentor got a big thrill in beating Billy Hayes, coach at Indiana. They were rivals in the south — Hayes at Mississippi A. & M., Nick at Sewanee. “I think I’ve got the edge on him here, and there, too.”
Over the years, Nick has had the best success with weightmen, hurdlers and half milers, though he has a great interest in all, as anyone watching a practice any weekday evening in the fieldhouse will soon notice. For several seasons he coached in Montreal and Hamilton, Canada — “but I’m definitely • not a Canadian,” he says. His teams won several Canadian championships and captured the British Empire games in 1930.
In addition to coaching, Nicholson turned inventor. He is credited with designing blocks and with establishing the system of staggering lanes around the - first turn so that crowding will be avoided, and so that the finish will be centered where the spectators may see better.
Nicholson had a gloomy outlook on prospects for the 1940 season, but gleamed when he mentioned he had a son on the freshman squad. Jumping up, he remarked, “I hope he does better than I did.” All Bill has to do is better 15 seconds flat in the high hurdles, 23 feet 2 inches broad jumping, and 6 feet 2 inches high jumping.
Layden Cites Wide Open
Race For Grid Positions
Though relinquishing the idea of predicting that his 1940 eleven would surpass 1939, Head Football Coach Elmer F. Layden enthusiastically announced that “we have a healthy condition existing. Since we’ve lost 10 out of 11 starters it means a wide open race for jobs. It gives many fellows who might not ordinarily be in the running a chance to develop and make the club.
“Thus far we’ve had little outdoor
The Notre Dame Scholastic
19
practice—too short a time to determine the outstanding candidates. You see, we’ve been sharing the time between seeking a movie star and a footballer. To date we haven’t noticed a potential Clark Gable, Pat O’Brien or Don Ameche nor have we picked up a Gipp, Kiley, Miller, Vaughan, or Eichenlaub.” Newsreel cameramen were here Saturday.
“Our biggest problem is keeping the shutter off the sun so we can get in good work between now and the Varsity-Old Timers game on April 27, end of spring practice.”
Left end and center provide the major problems for Coach Layden and assistants Joe Boland, Chet Grant, Joe Benda, Bill Cerney and Bob Sullivan. While the future status of Pete Arboit is doubtful, only George Kassas, Phil Sheridan and Ray Ebli loom as the outstanding experienced left ends. From the frosh Bob Dove heads the list. At center, which definitely has no letterman returning, Junior Bob Osterman, Sophomores Jim Ford and Martin O’Reilly and Freshmen Tom Brock, John McHale and Joe Berry pace the candidates.
Left tackle Tom Gallagher is the only regular from last season back. Other lettermen definitely returning are: Jim Brutz, left tackle; Pete Kelly and Johnny Gubanich, guards; Paul Lillis and Cliff Brosey, right tackles; Bob Hargrave, quarterback; Bob Saggau, left half; Bernie Crimmins and Steve Ba-garus, right halfbacks; and Captain Milt Piepul, fullback.—Bill Scanlan
Rice Whips Maki, Lash;
Breaks 3 Mile Record
Notre Dame’s Alumni track “team”— J. Gregory Rice—ignited 14,000 enthusiastic spectators clamoring in historic Madison Square Garden in New York City Sunday with the greatest three-mile finish in track history.
On the ninth anniversary of K. K. Rockne’s death, Rice paid tribute to the immortal coach by breezing past Finland’s well-groomed Taisto Maki and Don Lash and Joe McCluskey of the United States in record-shattering time of 13:52.3, bettering his om indoor mark of 13:56.2.
Metropolitan Track Writer’s Association immediately named Rice the first winner of the unit’s trophy to be the outstanding athlete of the indoor track season.
“Boy, was I thrilled,” Greg modestly said after the race on his quick return to the Irish campus. “I had idolized Maki after his tremendous development in recent years and it was my greatest track thrill to run home ahead of Lash
BREAKS RECORD
The Little Bugger—Greg Rice
and Maki.” He flew back from New York and was but an hour late for work in South Bend Monday morning.
The former Missoula, Montana powerhouse, who tips the scales at 138 pounds, paid tribute to his coach, John P. Nicholson as the major cause for his success. “All credit is due Nick. He has given me the necessary encouragement — and he has outlined my running program which has brought results. He even came on to New York for the big race Sunday— and it was good to have him there.” ■ Rice, captain of the Irish tracksters last spring, is now working at the Indiana-Michigan Electric company and is planning to be a certified public accountant.
After the race, Paavo Nurmi, greatest distance runner in history who has surrendered records to Rice, said: “Rice looks like the greatest the world has ever known. He has the most devastating finish of any man who ever lived.” No higher authority is available.
Rice’s best time for the mile in high school was 4:26 and his best as a freshman at Notre Dame was 4:29. Soon he turned to the two-mile and marked up a world’s indoor title for that event be
fore tackling the world’s best in the three-mile.
Coach John Patrick Nicholson of Notre Dame’s tracksters believes Rice is just entering the peak of his career. “Sunday’s race was the best Rice ever ran. He could have done 13:50 if Maki had forced him. You see, he raced Maki, then outsprinted him at the end. It was a smart race.
“Greg will take a rest now for a bit— a rest in that he won’t compete in races, to get his mind off championship running. The emotional and nervous -strain is almost as tiring as the physical fatigue. Greg will run an exhibition for the South Bend Athletic Association Saturday because he’s secretary and treasurer of that unit. His ‘rest’ will consist of running three to five miles daily.
“On April 21 Rice risks the possibility that he might not be in the best of shape at New Orleans when he tackles Maki again. Greg is in accord with the Finns and will give Maki another chance to win.”
Both Nicholson and Rice recalled how they had been planning especially for the Maki race for several weeks. All other events have been run with a view to perfection for the Maki duel.
Sanford Ink "Ad'^Writing
CONTEST!
Any undergraduate at Notre Dame has a chance to win a prize in this new ad-writing contest'... All details of the contest may be obtained at the Bookstore.
The winning "Ad" will be run in THE SCHOLASTIC.
Copy must be in by April 15.
Will be judged by the advertising agency of the Sanford Ink Company.
PRIZES:
1st Prize — choice of any $10.00 pen and pencil set or desk set.
2nd Prize—choice of any $5.00 pen, pencil or -desk set.
3rd and 4th Prize—one regular 4 ounce bottle of Sanford’s Pen Tested Ink with chamois pen wiper.
Notre Dame Bookstore
20
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Track Team to Open
Outdoor Season at I. U.
Football Coach Elmer Layden may have been slightly irked at the recent unseasonable weather as a “damper” to his spring-training but he had nothing on Track Coach John Nicholson. With the opening of the outdoor track season only , two weeks away, “Nick” has only that short space of time to get his boys weaned from the hard-top clay base of the fieldhouse to the softer “terra firma” of Cartier Field’s cinder track.
On April 20, the Irish thinlies enter competition at a Quadrangular meet at Bloomington against Michigan, Indiana, and Wisconsin. But before that day rolls around, Nick and his trusty lieutenant, Bill Mahoney, freshmen coach, have a big job on their hands. Prime problem is to develop entries for the discus and the javelin throw. Cliff Brosey, holder of the Notre Dame indoor shot-put record, may be used on the discus. Al Lopez and Clyde Archer look best in the javelin.
If Coach Nicholson can be taken for his word, and he hasn’t missed yet, Notre Dame track fans can hope for a better outdoor season than the recently-completed indoor season. The Irish fared none too well indoors, -winning only over Michigan State and losing consecutively to Marquette, Indiana and Michigan and appearing only “impressive” in their competition in the Illinois and Butler relays and the C.C.C. meet at East Lansing.
But “Nick” had good words about his
THE BOOK SHOP
Notre Dame Headquarters for Books Stationery Pens Pencils Greeting Cards
• 130 N. MICHIGAN STREET
boys. “They’ll do better. They’ve come along nicely and have done surprisingly well. There’s a big season ahead and much work to be done. Right now we’re hunting for discus and javelin throwers. But we’re going to be doing better.”
The outdoor schedule is as follows:
April 2O....QuadransuIar meet at Bloomington, Ind. (Michigan, Indiana, Wisconsin)
April 26-27.............Drake and Penn Relays
May 4..................Wisconsin at Notre Dame
May 11............Michigan	State at Notre Dame
May IS................ Illinois	at Champaign
June 1.................State meet at Lafayette
June 4-----------------Marquette at Milwaukee
June 7...............Central	C.C. at Milwaukee
—Tom Powers
Conn And Bengal Boxers Herald Bouts Success
A capacity crowd, the presence of Billy Conn, and successful title defense by two champions featured the Ninth Annual Bengal Bouts in the fieldhouse, Friday, March 15.
Sammy Dolce, 135 pound perennial champion, was the only title-holder to meet defeat. Brownsonite Sammy Meyer solved the puzzling style of his opponent, and scored with hard uppercuts to win.
Rod Maguire and Jerry Ryan, defending champs at 145 and 175 pounds respectively, had little trouble repeating. Maguire K.O.’d George Green after throwing plenty of effective leather to the body. Ryan decisioned former champ, Bruce Hebenstreit.
Paul Malloy landed a terrific right to the cheek of opponent Ward Barley in the first round of their 120 pound battle. So large was the resultant swelling that the fight was stopped. Malloy, by a technical knockout.
Bob Steele took a close one from Martin Rock. Aggressiveness won the fight for Steele. Bob succeeds Bob Duffey as 127 pound winner.
There was little action in the 155 pound battle between Joe D’Ambrosio and Bob Ronstadt. By the third, after feeling his opponent out, Joe was ready to work. He piled up points enough to win in the final round.
A tall, clever Bill McGrath was too much for wild swinging Jess DeLois. Bill had little trouble taking the decision in the 165 pound finale.
Ponderous, mauling Lou Rymkus used his weight to good advantage to win the “battle of giants” from Dillon’s Bob Dowd.—John Patterson
Tennis Squad Prepares For Season's Opener
The appearance of the spring sunshine last Monday afternoon was the signal for a mass movement of the tennis forces from the confined practice quarters of the upstairs of the field house to the windy asphalt courts adjacent to Cartier Field.
Coach Langford has again issued a general call for aspiring players in an effort to survey all of the campus talent before arranging any definite squad lineup. With the potentialities for the best team in the rather mediocre tennis history of the Blue and Gold, Coach Langford is on the lookout for any players that might mean the difference between a win or a loss in some of the tough meets of the season. Expressing his respect for the schedule assembled, Coach Langford said, “We’ve a little more than two weeks to get ready for our visit south to Wabash, April 18. After that
BE SURE to visit the new Renfranz-Rasmussen store for men. Unusual as it is new, it is one of the few stores in America that is 100 percent fluorescent lighted. You will be impressed by the affectiveness of the new spring merchandise.
\
Renfranz-Rasmussen 106-108 South Main St. (Opposite Court House)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
You're not acquainted in South Bend
until you visit ....
BRUGGNER’S News Corner
The Store with the N. D. Complex — "Louie" Bruggner, N. D. '23, Prop.
FOR THAT EMPTY N. D. Pocketbook, we
recommend the new publishing
sensation
POCKET BOOKS 25c They fit your pocket and your pocketbook.
Complete, unabridged, legible copies of many Best Sellers and Classics — NOT DIGESTS...........
James Hilton, Edna Ferber, Hendrik Van Loon, Thorne Smith, Ellery Queen, P. G. Wodehouse and others.
AND WHILE WE'RE AT IT, let us remind you of a few of our Other specialties........
A BIG STOCK OF PIPES Dunhill, Kaywoodie, Medico, Grabow, Yello Bole and just mine run.
Large stock of fountain pens—Sheaffer, Parker and Wahl......
FOUNTAIN PEN REPAIRING All makes of pens and pencils by factory-trained repair men.
Not a single word has been cut from any of these books! Strong bindings; large clear type, ideal size.......
More than 50 titles to choose from — and the list is growing every week!
Largest and most complete magazine stock in northern Indiana.........
Subscriptions handled for all periodicals at prices as low as offered by any reputable firm.
We know you will agree these are the best book bargains you have
Greeting cards for every occasion and every purpose.......
ever seen ........
ASK FOR A CHECK LIST OF TITLES AVAILABLE.
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
An interesting place to browze or while away spare moments.
OPPOSITE POST OFFICE
22
The Notre Dame Scholastic
the tough ones come, beginning with Northwestern and getting stiffer every week, if that’s possible.”
Practice up until this week had been carried on informally and for the next few days Coach Langford plans on looking over the players in unofficial tryouts. “We’ll have a working group and get in some serious practice so that by the end of next week when the clay courts are ready for play, the players will be sufficiently in shape and tentative rankings can be made.”
Freshmen will be called out within the next week and will be given a chance to work out before the elimination tournament gets underway.—John Quinn
Fencers To Be Honored
. At Banquet Wednesday
Following the usual custom the Notre Dame fencing team will hold their annual banquet on Wednesday evening in the Faculty Dining Hall.
The 1940 affair will be a farewell fete to the graduating seniors: Captain Robert Sayia, John Gavan, Joe Smalley and Jerry Donovan. At the same time the banquet will serve as a tribute to the whole team’s work.
Members of the various University coaching staffs will be on hand to speak.
Announcement of captain - elect for 1941, as well as the presentation of monograms will be made. Monogram winners are: Captain Robert Sayia, John Gavan, Joe Smalley, Jerry Donovan, John Gaither and Russ Harris.—Frank L. Kunkel
Fencers Win, Lose In East; Beat Washington U.
Three Notre Dame sabre-wielders, John Gavan, Joe Smalley, and Jerry Donovan, “carved out” a 6 to 3 victory over the University of North Carolina and then fell before the invincible Seton Hall trio by a similar count in an invitational fencing meet held in New York City during the Easter holidays. Representing the West in the sabre matches, the Irish trio, who were undefeated during the regular season, performed before the interested gaze of two thousand fencing enthusiasts in the auditorium of the Bamberger department store.
The locals made their final team appearance of the season March 16 at St. Louis, where they eked out a 9 to 8 win over Washington University. Smalley’s feat in annexing both the epee and sabre titles played no small part in the victory.
A victory at St. Louis enabled Coach Langford’s squad to emerge from the .500 class. Nine matches this year have resulted in five victories and four defeats. The high spot of the season was a smashing 15 to 12 triumph over powerful Ohio State.—Frank L. Kunkel
YOUR RELIGION
“For He spoke, and they were made” (Ps. 32, 9.)
It is said that there is magic in words, some subtle power that some well chosen word, or artfully combine phrases, have to possess the minds and move the hearts of men. It may be the authority of truth, or what appears to be the truth, to which the hungry mind submits, as famished wild things respond to man’s offer of food. It may be the feeling of security inspired by the evidence of safe guidance which, like a beam of light over storm tossed waters, delivers the traveler from the danger of the angry waves. Or it may be, as I suspect it is, nothing more than the witchery of beauty to whose charm man ever yields, if he yields at all.
At any rate, at a single word the mind often soars to heights of joy or plunges into chill regions of gloom. As a tiny spring, bubbling over its brim on a mountain top, mothers a stream which, descending and gather tribute from every slope, digs for itself as it rushes along new channels, and changes the contour of the country through which it passes, so a single phrase, plunging
MANY FORMER SMOKERS OF EXPENSIVE PIPES NOW PREFER
nOHfME
ie exte-
interior
FINEST BRIAR
rior, keeps nicotine, juices, flakes out of mouth. No breaking in. No tongue bite. Breaks up hot smoke, hence
MEDICO FILTERED SMOKING.^™™* CAN BUY I GENBINE FILTERS
FOR MEBICO PIPES PACKER ONLY Nt THIS REB a BUCK BOX
MEDICO X-KAY VIEW ^^NLY filter combining 66 baffle
deeply into the mind, may release a current of thought that in time will sweep not only individuals, but also whole nations, out of the ruts of old habits or decadent civilizations, and into new modes of living and new forms of social organization. Words may be angels of light opening up wide gates to freedom, or heartless tyrants clanging prison doors and binding on the yoke of slavery.
Yet what are human words but symbols, mental signs which never represent but imperfectly the things they stand for —stage money of no intrinsic value, fleeting sounds laden with the imagery of thought. What are they but creatures of man, who cannot create, who in his utterances can merely send back faint echoes of the speech by which all things were made.
That is the difference between human and divine speech. Human words are but the symbols, the animated shadows, of which God’s words are the realities. To him whose ear is properly attuned, the realities speak more eloquently than the symbols. It is disputed whether one can prove God’s existence by man-made arguments, but Saint Paul—recalling that the psalmist had said: “The heavens show forth the glory of God, and the firmament declareth the work of his
The Notre Dame Scholastic
23
hands. Day to day uttereth speech, and night to night showeth knowledge. There are no speeches nor languages where their voices are not heard,” assures tihe doubters of his time that “the invisible things from the creation of the world, are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, his eternal power and also divinity: so that they are inexcusable.” It is possible, with the best of good will, to misunderstand human arguments. But it is impossible, with even (Continued on page 27)
MEET THE
DUKE
Yes, the Duke sets the pace for high quality in silky white Shirts. Send it to the laundry again and again — show it no mercy. The Manhattan Duke, like all other Manhattan Shirts, is tested and approved by the American Institute of Laundering. Make your next shirt a Duke, the blue - blooded shirt for red - blooded men.
A real aristocrat by
^Manhattan
The winnah! A proud and handsome model -with two-fisted wearing qualities. Made of rich, supple broadcloth with a finesse of fit and drape enviable in even much higher priced shirts. Comes in well-bred white which makes it right wherever you go.
See these famous Shirts in South Bend, at
SPIRO’S
Home of Manhattan Shirts
If any Manhattan Shirt ever shrinks below the indicated size, we will give you a new shirt. Tested and approved by the American Institute- of laundering.
SHIRTS - PAJAMAS * HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTSWEAR
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
24
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The clip, clip of the pruning shears about the campus in a homely way suggests a profound truth. Alfred Noyes in Orchard’s Bay interprets it thus:
“Gardener of God, if wild and weak desires
Choke the true growth and rob the soul of poiver,
Use thy sharp knife on wandering shoots and briers!
Cut the weak stem hard back, and let it flower.”
The three concupiscences, self-gratification, self - glorification, self - worship choke the garden of the soul. Christ’s victory over sin and death affords no surcease from them. Easter joy of itself is no guarantee against their insidious attack. Like a spring rain, a healing balm, comes every seventh day the Dies Dominica, the Lord’s Day, a new Easter. Each day the Mass renews the mystery of God’s unfailing help. This Sunday is called Good Shepherd Sunday, as you will learn from the Gospel, with all that it implies.
The Solemnity of St. Joseph (Wednesday) is of special import at the moment. Spouse of Mary, legal father of the Man God for the designs of the Incarnation, no other saint surpasses him in happiness, dignity and power. Appropriately is he the patron of the Mystical Body of Christ, the Universal Church. Charity inspires a fervent plea to him for the brethren in many lands that they stand steadfast in their sufferings.
Mass Calendar: April 7-13
Sunday, 7—Second after Easter. 2d prayer, Bl. Virgin (Concede), 3d, the Church, 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Preface of Easter.
Monday, 8—Ferial. Everything as of Sunday.
Tuesday, 9—Ferial. Everything as of Sunday.
Wednesday, 10—Solemnity of St. Joseph, Patron of the Universal Church. Mass proper. Credo. Preface of St. Joseph during Octave.
Thursday, 11—St. Leo I Pope, Doctor. 2d prayer, Octave St. Joseph, 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Friday, 12—Third day of Octave. Mass of the feast. 2d prayer, Bl. Virgin (Concede) 3d, the Church, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Saturday, 13—St. Hermenegild, Martyr. Mass: Protexisti (Common in Paschal time) 2d prayer, Octave, 3d, Bl. Virgin (Concede), 4th Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Math, and Physics Depts.
Present Lecture Series
An interesting series of lectures sponsored by the departments of physics and mathematics has been held during the past two weeks.
On March 28, Prof. Karl F. Herzfeld, Catholic University of America, gave a lecture entitled “Absorption Spectra of Some Organic Compounds.” The next day a tea was given, followed by a physics colloquium including another talk by Prof. Herzfeld on “Forces Between Rare Gas Atoms.”
The lecture for April 2 was held in Chemistry Hall at 8:00 a.m., an appropriate hour, when those attending the departmental seminar heard facts on “Chemistry in the Breakfast Food Industry” in a lecture given by Valentine R. Pieronek of Detroit, a graduate student in chemistry.
Today, April 5, there is a tea in Room 110 of Science Hall at 4:00 p.m., followed by a physics colloquium at 4:30 p.m. in Room 108. Charles J. Mullin of St. Louis, graduate student in physics, will discuss “Potential Barriers in Thermionic Emission.”
A new book presenting the WHY of American government —acclaimed by educators, writers and civic-minded Americans as a most lucid explanation of our democratic system of government and the principles underlying and supporting it.
$1.50
(Special 25% discount to schools)
EARN $50 WEEK DURING SUMMER OR YEAR-ROUND
We can use several reliable college men, during summer or full time, to operate movie circuits in theatreless communities. Earnings $50.00 a week and better. Projection equipment, sound films, everything furnished. No experience needed. For complete information write immediately to Southern Visual Equipment Co., Department _., Box
2404, Memphis, Tennessee. .
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind.
Every High School and College Library should have a copy of
"LESSONS IN LIBERTY"
A Study of God in Government
By Clarence Manion
Schools and colleges from every state in the Union have written for copies of this timely work and their enthusiasm affirms its value. Use it as a textbook in class — or for reference work — or for your library shelves.
Patronize our advertisers.
Me9aW4DICK METZ
The Notre Dame Scholastic
RADIO LOG
Many of us who have attended a few operas, heard a few concerts, and who faithfully listen to the Met broadcasts every Saturday during the season, begin, after a while, to consider ourselves more or less, learned musically. We know the plots of the principal operas, can hum a few of the better-known arias, and can speak glibly of the lives and works of composers and artists.
With our knowledge securely pinned on oui* sleeves we stalk through this gross world, impressing the common herd with our erudition in matters musical.
We are proud in our knowledge and make no bones of our contempt for the unlearned and, consequently, uncouth rabble. After all, because we possess the great truths of the musical arts we are above the ordinary run of men.
However, for anyone afflicted with this pride of intellect which is only a disease there is one sure cure. A half hour spent some Sunday evening listen-to “So You Think You Know Music” (WFAM — 9:30 CST) can humble the greatest egotist.
This show, run by Ted Cott with the able assistance of critic Leonard, seems like just another quiz show at first. However, after even stars of the Metropolitan fail to answer questions about even the most familiar shows, we begin to appreciate the deficiencies of our own musical education. The questions are not particularly difficult nor are they trick questions. Typical of those put to the guests are; Name four operas in which a wedding occurs? What is the first name of the following: Bach, Sibelius, Verdi, Caruso? Identify: Benjamin Franklin Pinkerton, Pitti-Sing, Marger-ita, Aida. Besides forcibly impressing the listening audience with its ignorance of things musical and aiding in remedying those defects, the program is good entertainment of the highest calibre for not only does the general hilarity of a quiz show prevail, but the side remarks and humorous bits injected by Doctor Leibling, especially, are, by far, cleverer than the humor of any other show I have been privileged to hear, the proponents of “Information Please” to the contrary. For a stimulating, amusing half hour, listen to “So You Think You Know Music” at 9:30 this coming Sunday over WFAM.
Radio Log
4:00—Tuesday: Academy of Politics
7:00—Tuesday: Music of the Masters
7:45—Wednesday: Faculty Talk
4:00—Thursday: Periscope
7:30—Thursday: Sportscast
9:00—Friday: Radio Stage
7:30—Saturday: Little Jam
—Ray Kelly
Ex-Notre Dame Student
On Way Up in Air Corps
Edward J. Tuma, Notre Dame ’33, of Linsdale, Minn., is near the completion of his basic flight training course at Randolph Field, Texas, the “West Point of the Air.” Cadet Tuma is among the
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
Every day people the world over stop a moment.. .enjoy an ice-cold Coca-Cola... and go their way again with a happy after-sense of complete refreshment. The pause that Threshes is a real idea, really refreshing.
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
240 student pilots scheduled to be transferred to the Advanced Flying School at Kelly Field, Texas. At Kelly Field these pilots will receive three months of intensive training before being awarded their wings and commissions as Second Lieutenants. These cadets started their course in October, 1939.
Unmarried men between the ages of 20 and 27, who have two years of college education are exempt from the mental examination for appointment as Flying Cadets.
26
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Fr. Putz Escapes
(Continued from page 11)
Father Putz traveled through the territory of both the Maginot and Siegfried Lines, so we asked him to compare the two. “They both are practically impregnable,” he said, “although the Maginot Line is of better quality. It is a solid fortress running the length of France, and is acknowledged to be as strong as Verdun was in the last war. At that time the Germans lost over 300,000 men merely capturing its outposts.” The completeness of its fortification is shown by the fact that the. pillboxes of the Maginot Line have guns that are mounted on revolving turrets so that they may fire in both directions. In this way, the French could still combat the enemy even if surrounded. There are enough food and ammunition in the fortress to withstand a siege of two years.
“The Siegfried Line, on the other hand, is built on a different idea. There are five parallel lines with intermittent pillboxes. If the French capture the outside string, they advance into a trap trying to take the second. The pillboxes are much closer together, and machine guns command every inch of the intervening ground. Besides that, the No Man’s Land is highly mined. And the greatest asset and liability that the two forces have is the Rhine River. The current on this water is so fast that it is impossible to cross it in large numbers without being withered by the fire of the opposite forts.”
While Germany was occupied with her blitzkrieg in Poland, the French were not idle. Commander-in-Chief Gamelin ordered skirmishes on the northern German border. The French captured numerous outposts and then “dug themselves in.” A trench now extends along the northern German border, sometimes in German territory, and acts as an impediment to any advance on the Maginot. Although it was not widely publicized, Father Putz said, the Germans lost 3,000 men in a counter-attack on these trenches.
In concluding our conversation, I asked Father Putz if there was any animosity between the peoples of the two countries. “Not in the beginning,” he answered. “I said Mass, gave sermons, and had nothing said against me, though I am a German citizen. Everyone spoke of the war as ‘against Hitler.’ Shortly before I left, however, I noticed that the former hatred for the German people themselves was being aroused. War always breeds hatred.”
Father Putz joined the History faculty of the University at the beginning of the second semester and is residing in Cavanaugh Hall.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
27
HORSES AND
WOMEN
have had all the fun

now it’s your turn!
Up to now, horses and women have had a corner on fun with hats.
But, gentlemen, it’s our turn now!
We have assembled the gayest, smartest, handsomest hats ever styled.
They are a treat to look at . . . and every one is a famous, long-wearing LEE WATER-BLOC*,
too.
THE GUARDS
Here’s the hat that has that trim military look—with a new wide brim you can wear up gp* or down, as you wish.,
THE FRANK H. LEE CO.
358 Fifth Ave., New York
•Reg. U, S. Pat. Off.
Your Religion
(Continued from page 23) ordinary good will, not to see the evidence of God’s presence in the vast and varied panorama of the visible universe. For all of the wisdom accumulated by human effort trying to solve the riddle of the origin of things is summed up in the simple phase, “He spoke, and they were made.”
A poet said that though “poems were made by fools like me, only God can make a tree.” But it is equally true, even if less poetic, to say that only God can really make anything. For is not “the earth the Lord’s and the fulness thereof?” All natural things, including man himself, are products of that divine speech whose words are not symbols of things, but things themselves.
We hunger for the human word that enlightens, encourages, consoles. We treasure some pretty or some trenchant phrase culled from the writings of men. We love the speech and read the books of men. And so often we see without observing, and hear without heeding the wondrous words of God. For they can be both seen and heard. They are at once visible and audible. And they appeal to us to be seen and heard. For it is their mission to preach the power and the wisdom, the goodness and the beauty and the bounteousness of the eternal mind that conceived them and the eternal voice that uttered them. They do not, literally, say, but their silent pleading is as though they did say: You love life? Come then and observe us live, in peace and patience, in order and submission to the divine will. Ours is a full, a successful life. Learn of us the secret of joyful living. You love beauty? Then cross our fields, tread our woodlands, scan our meadows and our mountains, sail our rivers and our seas, lift up your eyes to our sun and stars. We will show you beauty in color, form, symmetry, pro-. portion, order, light and shade, sound and silence, movement and rest, in every degree, from the merely pretty and graceful to the sublime and the grand. These and ever so many more things shall we teach you if you will listen to our voices. Fear not that you shall love us overmuch. For we are but voices crying in the night of this earthly day, crying out that it is God who spoke and we were made—for you.
—Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C-S-C.
^Student Politicians to
Stage Mock Convention
The Democratic presidential convention will not be held in Chicago this year. And it will be staged earlier than
originally planned. This is the opinion of Dr. Paul Bartholomew, acting head of the Department of Politics, whose classes in American Government will convene in the auditorium of the Engineering Building from next Friday evening until the following Tuesday for the purpose of solving Democratic ills, in the first mock convention on the campus.
“I see fast trains leaving every hour”
Yes, Lady, He Rides the South Shore to Chicago
Double barreled travel service: speed and relax at the same time. Hourly service to Chicago. For specific information phone 3-3 III.
NEW LOW RATE TO CHICAGO $475
I ONE WAY
| FROM
SOUTH BEND
28
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ECONOMICS MAJOR!
The Economics Department announces that Comprehensive Examination for Majors graduating in June, or August, 1940, will be held April 23.
HISTORY AND THE
CATHOLIC TRADITION
By Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
HOWELL'S CAFE •
Special Club Steak r-/\ Vegetable Salad DU Shoe String Potatoes cents
Baked Ham	ja
Candied Sweet **U Potatoes	cents
Fried Fresh	jr
Lake Perch	*<D
Shoe String Potatoes cents
•
SANDWICHES SODAS SUNDAES
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
SUCCESSOR TC ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S; Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
III.
To the student desiring a liberal education, Notre Dame gives ample opportunity to acquaint himself with the thought and accomplishments of the past. All students of the College of Arts and Letters must survey the history of Western Europe and the United States during his freshman and sophomore years. Under the expert guidance of Fathers Stack and Putz, and Messrs. Campbell and Corbett, the student reviews well the basic facts of occidental history and the sources and writings compiled for those who wish to go deeper into this enticing study. By directed readings and directed reports, the scientific historical mind is formed to help the scholar in lais further study of the civilization of the past.
For the student whose interests are not primarily historical, the department of history offers many courses suited to the variety of special interests found in a liberal college. There is a study of the Ancient world: Assyria, Egypt, Greece and pagan and Christian Rome. The foundations of our vaunted culture are here seen in their proper sequence and relation. In another course, a study is made of the Middle Ages, from Boethius and Cassiodorus to the age of Aquinas, and from the barbarian invasions to the end of the Crusades, which are being discovered by American scholars for the first time. The Reformation and Renaissance, the Revolution and the modern era, each of these offers an attractive field for those who realize that the proper study of man is man. Other particular histories of special value are the constitutional history of England, important for a proper understanding of our own political institutions; the survey of French history, a necessary prelude to understanding the Paris revolutions; and the history of East Central Europe, the battle ground of nations and nationalities in every modern international war. In the Americas, the student whose ambitions turn to the growing Pan-American business and social contacts has opportunity to investigate the rise of the Latin nations to our south and to overcome the prejudicial writings of non-Latins. In our own country’s history, the student can examine more completely the origins of our social and cultural heritage and our international relations, or scrutinize the more critical
eras in the development of our political and economic institutions.
For the student desiring to place major emphasis in the field of history, the department requires that, besides the taking of the survey of the history of Western Europe and the United States, he familiarize himself more completely with the ancient world, studying more completely the accomplishments of human intelligence from the dawn of record until the end of the old Roman Empire. He must take at least eighteen other semester hours in the courses examining the special periods and national phases of history. As a complement to this examination of the past, an introduction to the literature of the past is provided, along with a seminar for directed study. In this course, open to advanced students but required of all students majoring in history, each quarter of the senior year will be devoted to the great literature of an important division of history—ancient, mediaeval modern and American. In this way, all the studies will be integrated, and the student given final direction in his own exploration into the past.
Prepared by these planned courses, the graduating student is ready for the comprehensive examination which tests
At ARROW Headquarters
AH Cellar Styles on Arrow Shirts
See the smartest, newest Arrow Shirts for college men. Buttondown, Round-point, Wide-spread, Tah and Long-point, are included in our vast stocks.
MAX ADLER Michigan at Washington

The Notre Dame Scholastic
29
i
the thoroughness of his study and the correctness of his critical apparatus. For with the proper zeal and the correct tools, the student of history of the University of Notre Dame will be able to do his part in supporting the great Catholic tradition in a non-Catholic America. It is to be hoped that with the growth of Catholic culture in our colleges, Catholic young men will find more and more time to understand and defend the true greatness of our civilization, and to defend themselves when industrial or scholastic materialism attempts to reduce man to mere physiological and biological phenomena. Here at Notre Dame, the program of the department of history invites the serious student to advance the frontiers of his own liberal knowledge.
Is Whole Greater Than
Its Parts? Not Always!
The latest meeting of the Mathematics Club was on Monday, in the Science Hall. At that time, Mr. Craw spoke on a “Generalized Integration by Parts.”
The Mathematics Club was formed recently to help stimulate undergraduate interest in mathematics. Meetings are held once every three weeks. The subject matter of the talks, which are given by students, graduate and undergraduate, is chosen so as to be of general interest and of quite elementary content, and it is treated so as to require a minimum of mathematical background in order to be understood.
At the Club’s first meeting, Mr. F. P.
Jenks spoke on the subject of “Paradoxes of Infinity.” He explained that modern mathematicians have found it necessary to broaden the concept of number. For finite numbers, the new definition is completely consistent with our ordinary intuitive notions; yet, such time-honored assumptions as “the whole is greater than any of its parts” break down completely when we deal with sets which have more than a finite number of elements.
Mr. J. Q. Jordan spoke on “Continued Fractions” at the second meeting. The simpler methods of operating with continued fractions and some of their peculiar fundamental properties were discussed. In particular, certain analogies with infinite series were mentioned, without proof.
Rockne Memorial News
The Interhall swimming meet will be held April 15 and 17 in the Rockne Memorial swimming pool. All swimmers should report to Hall managers in preparation for the event.
J I
Entries will close next Friday in the singles handball tournaments for both the students and priests.
i
Tab	Long-point
Style Begins with the Collar
Arrow collars on Arrow shirts are styled with a touch of genius. Enhanced by neat patterns, their precision fit and soft drape make them campus classics. ^See your Arrow dealer today for the smartest, newest shirts for college men. $2. All Arrows are Sanforized-Shrunk with fabric shrinkage less than 1%.
ARROW SHIRTS
good collar down
rp, he collar on our hand--*■ some Arrow Hitt shirt behaves like a perfect gentleman under any and all con- * ditions. It looks starched ... won't curl or wrinkle or wilt. Get Hitt now!
Only $2.

The Notre Dame Scholastic
DISC-CUSSION
The Norwegian composer, Greig, might resent having his music termed “cute” hut the dance version of his Eighth Norwegian Dance — “A Little Boy; A Little Girl” suggests only that to me. Anyway, Eddie Duchin has done a nice job of recording it and “Thunder in My Heart.” Johnny McAfee sings the first satisfactorily.. The latter, which, I’ suspect, someone intended to he another “Stormy Weather,” is the old Duchin, growling trumpet and all. June Robbins sings.
Tommy Dorsey’s latest is “My My!” and “Say It” from Jack Benny’s new show. The very talented Pied Pipers sing the first and the equally talented Frank Sinatra does “Say It.” The record is, on the whole, good, but Tommy’s brass is, in spots, just a bit harsh.
The best pairing to date of “Too Romantic” and “The Moon and the Willow
CAREER
in Search of Alen
Statistics show a decrease among practicing dentists in recent years while the number of professional men in other fields has increased. This can largely be attributed to ad- : vanced standards in . dental schools.	•
The Marquette University ' Dental School is one of the 18 dental schools of the " United States whose diplo- :• mas are recognized in all of the states.	v
The close relationship of the * Dental and Medical Schools >. at Marquette University is s on advantage to students. ■
Entrance requirements: Two < years in a recognized College of Liberal Arts with satisfactory credits in biology, chemistry, and physics.
Fer complete information concerning opportunities in ■■ dentistry, write to the Secre- 1 tary, Marquette University / Dental School, Milwaukee, > Wisconsin.
The STETSON HATS
are here in all their glory — see them in the many new colorings; new brims and blockings. See them in a vast collection at
SAM’L SPIRO & CO.
MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED
...the man who can present the best appearance. Here’s a new Stetson Special, to make you look successful. You’ll like its smart lines, new felt band...and low price.
STETSON HAT
FIVE DOLLARS AND UP
MARQUETTE
. UNIVERSITY
Milwaukee
MMMM*
Show appreciation of our advertisers by patronizing them.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Registered Podiatrist—Foot Ailments
434 Associates - South Bend Office Phone 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER
REGISTERED PODIATRIST SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8989 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA

OFFICE 4-5661
RES. 3-4080
(Pr. (R. & ^ucas
DENTISTRY — X-RAYS
702 J. M.S. BLDG.
SOUTH BEND

(Prs. (Probst and Singler
DENTISTS
405 Associates - South Bend
Phone 3-1254
"I ?	SOUTH BEND	!
1 X-RAY LABORATORY J
■	825 SHERLAND BUILDING 1
I L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON. I
|	M.D.	M.O.	|
(Prs. Rjose an
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BUILDING TELEPHONE 3-4269
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BLDG., SOUTH BEND
Tree” is that of Ray Noble. An old English arrangement brings out the best in both songs. Ray’s 19 piece band is getting better and better and soon should get the popularity it has so long deserved. If you don’t think he deserves it listen to this smooth pair with good vocals by Larry Stewart.
My limited vocabulary leaves me without a polite, yet, descriptive word for “All Star Strut” by the Metronome All Star Band. “King Porter Stomp,” it’s mate, benefits by a Benny Goodman arrangement and is at least listenable. As a collector’s item this may be worthwhile; it has some of the best names in swing. And they do all finish together.
The girl who justly made U.C.L.A. famous, Pat Friday has finally recorded “I’ve Got My Eyes on You” and it is excellent. But why she ever chose to record “Woulds’t That I But Kiss Thou Hand” is beyond me. But even on this you’ll be able to recognize a rare quality in her voice. Pat has range, style, pronunciation, and what-have-you. And U. C.‘ L. A. has Pat. Lucky U. C. L. A.
Gene Krupa’s “Symphony in Riffs” is knock down and drag out swing, featuring, of course the little man with the drums. I don’t enjoy hearing “Mar-cheta” swung but Gene does it nicely, at that.... Frankie Masters has se-quelled, but not equalled, his “Scatterbrain” with “Charming Little Faker.” Hoagy Carmichael’s “I Walk With Music,” is the other side. Harlen Rogers does the vocal wisely but not too well .... Goodman’s “How High the Moon” and “Fable of the Rose” is good, but not spectacular. Helen Forest does the lyrics.... I like Wayne King’s “Alice Blue Gown” and “Irene.” Because the orchestra is Wayne King’s the songs are not swung. The band at times seems small but King’s sax fills in any voids... Sonny Burke, a rising young band leader has done, in conventional style “Easy Does It” and “If It Wasn’t for the Moon.” An unusual vocal embellishes the second side. You may like it. Some people like Bonnie Baker.—Bill Geddes
With No Further Comment
They find fault with the editor, The stuff we print is rot.
The paper is as peppy as a cemetery lot, The rag shows rotten management, The jokes, they say, are stale, The lower classmen holler, The upperclassmen wail.
But when the paper’s issued, (We say it with a smile), If someone doesn’t get one, You can hear him yell a mile.
—The Cormont
Most Complete Record Department in Michiana
Musical Masterpieces:
Beethoven—Symphony No. 6 in F. Ma- ' jor—Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra— Dimitri Metripoulos conducting — Complete with album—
$10.00
Mozart—Symphony in D Major (“Haffner”]—Sir Thomas Beecham conducting the London Philharmonic Orchestra — Complete with album—
$4.50
Columbia Popular Records — 50c
353S9—King Porter Stomp — Metronone AU Star Band—Benny Goodman
—All Star Strut—Metronone All Star Nine
35390—If I Could Be the Dummy On Your Knee—vocal by Bonnie Baker—Orrin Tucker’s orchestra
—If It Wasn't For the Moon—vocal by Orrin Tucker
35391—How High the Moon [from “Two for the Show”]
—The Fable of the Rose — both Benny Goodman and orchestra
35405—Apple Blossoms and Chapel Bells — Orrin Tucker and orchestra — vocal by Orrin Tucker
—Sh! Baby's Asleep—vocal by Bonnie Baker and the Bodyguards
35404—Gone with “What” Wind—Count Basie at the piano
—Till Tom Special — Benny Goodman Sextet
Vocalion Records — 35c
Dick Jurgens and his Orchestra on new releases:	.
—Cecilia—vocal by Ronnie Kemper
—Love Song of Renaldo — vocal by Eddie Howard	•
—What's the Matter With Me—vocal by Ronnie Kemper
—A Little Boy and a Little Girl— vocal by Eddie Howard
“With the Wind and the Rain ' in Your Hair”:
—Recorded by Henry Russell_5419
—Recorded by Al Donahue....5289
RODINS, Inc.
132 N. Michigan Phone 4-1184
Needles and Record Accessories Open Saturday Evenings
featuring PATSY GARRETT and PAUL DOUGLAS of FRED WARING'S CHESTERFIELD PLEASURE TIME Listen in
Five Nights a Week 89 N. B. C. Stations
^ERYBODYS ASKUVG FOR EM


When smokers turn to Chesterfield they enjoy all the good qualities a cigarette can give. Chesterfields are DEFINITELY MILDER... Chesterfields are COOLERSMOKING... Chesterfields TASTE BETTER.
These three good things and everything about Chesterfields... their size, shape and the way they burn . . . make them
Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
□the cigarettes that SA TISFY.
lesterfleld
Today’s Definitely Milder, Cooler-Smoking Better-Tasting Cigarette