
Dotre Dame Scholastic
Disce ovAsi scmpGR- victvrvs- vivs ^vasp crasmoritvrvs- ;
Vol-. L.
NOTRE DAME; INDIANA, December 2, 1916.
No. 11
Blessing.
BY SPEER STRAHAN, ’17.
^ONIGHT the skies are roofed with pearl and rose
. .While angels with drawn swords and poised wings Guard the roundsun, that, like a pale Host, glows,—
And thither the dim earth turns and sings. ,
' Plausibility in * Fiction.
BY WILLIAM B. MCDONALD, ’18.
^^kLAUSIBLE,” according to Webster’s definition, denotes that which seems reason-O able, yet leaves distrust in the judgment. Its nearest synonym, “specious,". in accordance with the same authority, describes -that which presents a fair appearance to the view, yet covers something false. In the light of the above definitions it would appear that “specious” would be the more exact word to use "when speaking of the attitude in which readers regard "fiction. In the absen'ce of a better word than either of these, however, and following the practice of the-majority of writers, we shall use the word “plausible” in this essay, not inits strictest meaning, but to denote that which seems reasonable. The latter part of the definition must necessarily be excluded from our
fact, for the boldest imagination must have ■ some definite point from which to take its . flight; but the ungarnished truth is seldom . literature in itself, though it may offer excellent -. material for literary embellishment.”. There are two ways in which truth or fact may be utilized in the building .up of a short-story, or any other work of fiction; first in the plot,; ; and secondly, in the detail of _ the work. -
The surest test of a usable plot, it is often said, is to ask the question, ,“Is it natural?” This may be construed to mean either “Is it ' plausible?” or “Does it sound true?” and w an affirmative answer to either is acceptable. .: Every'- plot is founded upon- fact utilized either. . ; in the original form, or else . so skilfully dis- -guised or so ingeniously distorted that it will . seem like a product of the imagination. In the ... first-case the story would .be said to be realistic: and in the second it would be termed romantic.
Many incidents in real life need little more ' than mere isolation with which, to make good. „ stories, and yet any matter thatfis true to life, is not by necessity usable, and in fact .there ' , are to be found very few incidents or natural; plots which do not need some of the writer’s-art in order to convert them into readable stories. - The short-story^ is a form, of art, ft must be remembered, and truth and art are not always reconcilable. The best plots are < derived from the action of an artistic imagi- '
concept because anything in a story which leaves	.
distrust in the judgment of "the reader destroys nation upon commonplace facts. And; the. simpler and the better known these facts are.
. the notion of. plausibility which we have accepted. -
Every part of the story must seem absolutely the better, because they must be accented by the reader without question. Taking these
reasonable.
basic facts then as a starting-point, the plot
The notion of plausibility "must not, however,	_	.........
be confused with truth or fact. -There exists' must-be built up and developed always with a
a relation between fact and plausibility in fiction, though, that is worthy of notice,‘and it is well to. make a survey: of the ■ part .which. fact plays . in fiction before we take up the actual consideration of plausibility. •	1	.	...
view to. plausibility.	/	=
One great help to the writer in doing this will be found in the increasing credibility of -the reader. Recent wonderful discoveries of. modern, • science . have made’us cease, doubting, to a great
In his : book upon '.short-story .writing, '' extent statements which weread, andlalthbugE C. R. Barrett says, “All fiction is founded upon there are ;but‘ a few left who;, still believe a







162	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	-
statement true because.they saw it ‘‘printed in - black and white,” we are more ready to accept the probability of statements in- a story. The truth and the "untruth, the fact and the fiction, - should be cleverly woven together into one compact whole, and a clever "writer can often . do this till the result is more plausible than the truth itself. Fact, then, is the. basis and the support of the plot. Now let us see its connec-.tion with the other elements of a story.
Poe while "a reporter for the New York Sun, once wrote an entirely imaginary story which was published in the paper as true. The story’- has since come ,to be known as the “Great Balloon Hoax,” but at the time of its . publication it was accepted bj^ everybody as absolute truth. The tale gained credence through its remarkable accuracy of-detail in regard to recognized scientific principles. This fairly illustrates the use of fact in the details of a story . and the part which they have to play in infusing plausibility into the story.	'	.
It has often been said that accuracy in detail, especially as regards scientific principles, about which little is known, is not essential in fiction because people realize that they are reading fiction and therefore are not particular about small mistakes of this kind. If the highest, - point, in the attempt to write an absolutely . , plausible tale is to be„ reached, however, this attitude will have to be discountenanced. In placing the scene of a story it will not do for the . -author to select places about which he knows nothing. An amateur might locate his story in the “best” societyof some American metropo-.' lis when he had never been Out of his native
. , village. In such a case errors and mistakes are almost bound to follow and overtake him. His gentlemen will commit blunders which are .. unpardonable in. the set about which he writes.
, “His ladies,” as it has been said, “will be from' '..	' the wrong side of town,” the conversation will
not be. what' it. should, and the result is, that A L- . Iris story falls flat.- ' One;ought not attempt to' write about people when he is not"' thoroughly ... - acquainted * with both them and’ their mode - of life. ;	*.
<' y	: In writing of times past theauthor must' '
inform himself regarding those times. Unless
;■ y?. ■- he/do so there will be a slip, .and well-read. -V people are sure to detect errors which destroy . y. j - - -for thenfiall realism in.the stdfj'-;.ylnfplacing.the.
: - .-yhaHatii’e'in a fpfeigh.cduntiydt is besfito ' N persbnalyhnowlMgeyof the ? scenes? a^	J
that are described, for the same reason as that given for not writing about times: with which you are not familiar.'	.
Mere facts are frequently most .unliterary, and in using facts the writer must learn what to suppress and what to elaborate. He must decide to just what extent he is going to use\ mere truth and at what points absolute accuracy is needed. ...
This now brings us to the more immediate study of the question of -plausibility. The fact that what you write about is true is no credit to the story as a piece of fiction, and the subtitle, “A True Story,” is often the trademark of an unreadable mess- of conventional people, ordinary incidents and commonplace conversation. -	t
Verity is,not wanted in fiction, as,.a.piece of fiction. People do not really prefer truth to fiction. They require plausibility, but they are too familiar with life themselves, and in Action they desire to be lifted out of reality into the , higher realms of .fancy. But no matter what kind of story 'is being read, the reader desires that events follow each other with regularity, and that effect necessarily follows cause. Mere chance can not rule in a story any more than it 'does in actual life, and perhaps not as much; because the caprices-, of Nature are seen and believed imthis sphere, but are looked upon with distrust in the sphere of fiction. People and things, must, act according to their natures, and any inconsistency. in this respect will not be overlooked. Inhuman beings, creatures of the imagination, must .act..and talk logically. “If -little fishes are made to talk they should talk like little fishes, not like whales.”
- It is. an old saying that truth is stranger . than fiction and its application is realized by the • good writer. Truth may often be so strange that . when introduced into, a story it will not be accepted-as such/ and . the result is that the' story will not be plausible. , As. an example' it
- might be 'stated that many authors are inclined to skip, over an incident which took but a. short time in actual life, and think that because it actually happened it must be accepted by .the reader. The length, of. time for an occurrence does not concur with space in; a short-story, and the fact/that you are relating fact does not relieve “you - from. theI necessity of making it plausible. <. Many .painters> acknowledge, that .there are :color combinations Un - nature which they .dare/not reproduce; lest they be dubbed
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
unnatural; and.similarly things exist which the., writer may present only after he has_ prepared the way for their credence.
We like as a rule to have events reconciled without notions of the fitness of things, and we even reject as impossible any deviations from our preconceived ideas of the conventions to which nature itself should conform.
An example of the changing of truth in order to make it appear more plausible is found in Hawthorne’s “The Ambitious Guest” which he founded on actual occurrence, a big landslide in New England which carried everything before it. From the mass of facts which he found in a newspaper account of the affair he selected much and left much. But there was one fact which he wanted to use and yet' could hot. The slide occurred in August and yet it was so unusual that a rain heavy enough to cause the slide would fall in August, that he changed the time from then until thejnonth of September, in order to make the story plausible to his readers.
Esenwein, in_his “Writing the Short-Story,” has a very good treatment of the necessity of plausibility in the plot of a story. He makes a comparison between the plot and nature, and says that as effect follows cause in real life, so it must in the short-story. “In extravagance he (the reader) forgives incongruity, but otherwise he demands a plausible progress of incidents.”
Absolute plausibility therefore is essential in fiction, and it is as essential in the story of the wildest imaginatioji as it is in the simplest tale.	.
The Vale of Replisus.
Et avertens rosea cervice refulsit.
’ It was in this spare field the goddess stood,
. ■ Where rose-trees the land with glory fill, Her silver.feet went by this little wood.
Of classic ilex while the birds were still.
She passed toward Athens, seeking the high groves And shaded ways where kings and ages taught, Accompanied by all the winged loves .	'
' 'In that one city from all Hellas wrought. -' I know ’twas here, with starry quiver, she went
Young with immortal loveliness, for now
This attic air.is heavy with rich scent ' 'And fragrances are heavy on each bough.
I know she turned and blushed, else why is there; Such deathless scent of roses in this air. R. B.
A Parcel from. Home.
BY MICHAEL J. EARLY. ; 17.
For the third time- in five minutes, Carstaif laid down his cigar and picked up the letter; Evidently he was excited. His usually placid. .. countenance, now full' of wrinkles, showed that he was puzzled. Parental, . especially paternal missives, were extremely rare things to be received; but, this one was beyond all. anticipation.	. ■
“Great Scott,” he repeated for the third .. time, ‘ ‘ what in the name of common sense does the governor’mean? He surely doesn’t wish me to chaperon this guy all year,—let’s see, where’s he from,—Tigerville, Vermont,—ye . gods! For the love of”—he stopped short, incoherent from the want of. satisfactory ex-
pletivcs, a queer ominous, phized.
Philip
and merely groaned. Life is surely " existence. Now this was certainly . for “Gent” Carstairs rarely philo-. ’
Carstairs, otherwise “Gent” Car
stairs, was wise with the wisdom, of experience, and the reaction of mistakes. Three vears of college life had.served to polish him in the ways of society, and the prominent figures therein. Of a nature always bright and sophisticated, ■.?)' he had taken up college life with the zest with ; which he undertook everything that struck, his / fancy. Naturally he succeeded. He had no trouble with his classes, owing to an inherited perspicuity, undeserved but withal acute, a pleasing appearance, and a flattering attention to lectures. Being of a physique suitable for athletics no more strenuous than tennis, vastly .. interested in social activities, theatrical performances and dances, he became endeared to the student life through his proficiency in these things. .	.	.
Usually his life, was very undisturbed.- But . , to-day had come a change. It was Monday • morning—the first Monday of the new. college year. The day previous, Carstairs had spent in renewing various acquaintances of his Junior year. As yet, however, he had grown inviolably attached to no one. He was heart free.

A
This may account somewhat for his extreme irritability on receiving the folio wing, letter, early on this morning. ~	\


164
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Chicago, III., •September 20, 1915.
Dear Son:—
Probably you will be surprised at the unusual digression from our ordinary line. In short, m}r letter is to acquaint you with the fact that Henry Hart, from Tigerville, Vermont, is due to arrive at Collegeville, Sept. 22, 1915. He is the son of an old friend of mine. Therefore I hope you will undertake to watch out for him and see that he gets acquainted. Hoping your last year will be successful.
Your affectionate father, -	John B. Carstairs.
“ Gent” leaned back in his comfortable Morris chair, and for the fourth time took up his cigar. Owing to the inevitability of his commission, his anger gradually began to die out. He saw things more clearly. After all, the fellow might not be adorned with all the saliencies of the typical countryman. Jenkins, Parker, and Haskell, all were green when they first arrived. Nevertheless, they were now the leaders in college activities. At least there was a gleam of hope, but Tigerville,—ugh—even the western towns left off the incriminating “ville.”
J‘Oh well,” he yawned lazily, and drew his six feet of slim fashionhood slowly to an upright posture. “I’ll not cross the bridge until I get to it. Wait until I see him first.”
Tuesday morning, Sept.
‘Gent” rose
early and slipped away, unseen by his friends, to meet the newcomer from Vermont. ' The -train from the East was due to arrive at 10:15, and at 10:00 sharp Carstairs was walking impatiently up and down the station platform. He was puffing spasmodically upon , a long, vicious looking stogie which harmonized surprisingly well with his feelings. What in Sam . Hill had happened that he, “Gent” Carstairs, should be burdened with such a commission?
“Chaperon! bah!” he exclaimed, and threw his cigar across the track, just as the Eastern Limited rumbled along . before the station.
= Then it was' that Carstairs thought. .
: “Great Scott,” he cried half audibly, “how
the dickens am I to know him?” For a minute • ; ■ he stood still in astonishment at his own stu-
the hall was a group of college fellows in the
. pidity. The train had now come to a full stop, . height of some . fun. He grabbed up his cap . and the white-coated porters were busy handing jand galldped down stairs. He was always
, down their .passengers. .'Carstairs leaned back ready for his share in a bit of fun. As.he opened f ; against the depot and watched the crowd, the door,- a volley of cheers met him; ■ Clearly this was all he could do. He remained -	“Oh Gent,” someone cried, “You’re wanted.
7 until the platform was deserted. Then turned Hurry.”	-7, / \	.
uptown, thankful that he had not been called upon to rescue some wandering rustic.
On the way back to the college, he fell in with an old chum, Pete Corrigan, j
- The regular greetings having been exchanged, both settled down to a rather brisk talk. The car was crowded and -many students were hanging to the straps. Carstairs and his friend were seated tightly wedged together. Before them a tall, slim, youth swayed back and forth with the motion of the car. Carstairs having allowed his eyes to rove once or twice was startled by a rather searching scrutiny of himself by the slim youth; that individual, however, withdrew his gaze when he perceived that he was noticed.	-
“Pete” said “Gent,” “what do you think the old man has done? Beastly thing, too.”
“No! What is it? 'He’s generally pretty square.”.
“Oh, yes, I know; but he sure has pulled • one on me this time,” said “Gent” woefully.
“There’s a fellow from some country-town in Vermont coming here. Was to arrive to-day, and the old man wants me to cart him around.”
Corrigan laughed. x
“That’s tough, old man,” he said, sympathetically. “But why worry. Have you met the fellow?”	_
“No, I suppose he will look me up when he gets out to the college. Maybe, -too, his train isn’t in until to-morrow. I hope he’s halfdecent. -I’d hate' to have him one of those pink-shirted, wander-cuff ‘hicks’ with a mania' for acquiring all the data of the college in one day. If he—” Just then the car stopped with a jerk, and the returning students poured from the car with loud cries and greetings on all sides, and soon all were scattering to their halls. '
Wednesday morning about 10:30 Carstairs was - dozing comfortably in his bedroom when he became aware of a great commotion on the campus. It ^rew louder and more distinct and Carstairs a woke, with a. start. Somebody was calling him.- He ran to the window and looked" out. Some distance away and coming towards
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
“Yes, Gent,” said another, “here’s a friend.” The crowd parted and disclosed to view a very much embarrassed, very much tousled, and a very countrified individual with the usual placidity of that class.
“ Oh, I say! I say! ” he was protesting weakly. Just them he saw Carstairs, who had come to a dead stop. It had come at last.
“But great heavens,” Gent thought.to himself bitterly. “It need not have been so public.”
The crowd suddenly had grown quiet, waiting to see what the: Beau Brummel of the college would do.
“Well, boys,” said Carstairs, decisively, as if he were ignorant of what was to ensue. “What is it? Who wants me?”
At the sudden withdrawal of the over-zealous attention of the vociferous collegians, the tall country lad moved a little forward his satchel in one hand, an umbrella in the other. .
“I say, pardner. Be you Phil-up Carstairs of ‘Chicago?” he asked Gent.
“Yes,” said Carstairs petulantly, color rising to his cheeks. “What will you have of me?”
“Wall, I be Hank Hart of Tigerville, Vermont, Jessup County, and my old man sez to me, when I left, sez he, ‘ Hank, my boy, ye’re goin down to thet yer college to get some knowledge, figures and tha like, sez he. My-ole man’s a poet, eh, pardner?” and he poked the bewildered Carstairs in the ribs with the umbrella—“‘an’ sez he, ‘Hank, my boy—’” Just then Carstairs came to.	.
“See here, old man, that’s all right. Tell me all about if later. Come up to my room now.”
“Oh, I say, but I promised these gents here to do a little runnin’ and jumpin’ fer them. Ye see, I’m the champeen jumper in Jessup County, by heck.” He emphasized this statement with a vigorous expectoration to the unlimited enjoyment of the crowd.
“Ye gods,” groaned Gent to himself. Then to Hart. “Never mind, to-day. Come up to my room now-,” and grasping the countryman by the arm, he half dragged, half carried him,— protesting all the way upstairs.
Tor two long eventful weeks Carstairs piloted his charge around the college. It was a week of torment to the exclusive senior,—or apparently ' sb—and one of huge enjoyment to his friends and to the college at large. Hank Hart had had a rather strenuous week of it, but he was surely having a roaring time.-
One evening toward the close of the second week Hart and Carstairs were strolling. down . along one of the walks of the college. The. day. ~ had been an exceedingly trying- one for Carstairs and he .was just finishing a somewhat ' violent protest against his companion. Suddenly he turned toward Hart and then a startled expression came into his eyes; .presently he smiled. Before him stood Hart, no longer with the tousled unkempt hair; his dark eyes were sparkling and he held a ragged wig in one hand. The other he extended.
“Gent, old man,” said the erstwhile rustic, “I think it’s time to quit. I just acted this' part in a fit of canker against you.. I overheard you talking to Pete Corrigan that day on the car, and I wanted to see what you would do if your worst expectations were realized, and I . find you true blue, old man. Shall we be friends?” _	'
It was the dark eyed chap of three weeks ago. Gent smiled and grasped the extended hand.
“You bet your life, Hart, but,I sure did wonder how long you were going to keep the gag going. You see I used that very costumein a farce two years ago, and I recognized it.”
Tom Daly—Poet.
BY GEORGE HALLER, T9
My favorite poet? I’ll rejoice	- - A
And tread this old earth gaily	..
As long as I-can hear the voice	- g.
Of................T.	A: Daly.	;
Thomas A. Daly, one-time managing editor	/
of the Catholic Standard and Times, now a , A special writer for the Philadelphia Ledger, is the - . author of three volumes of dialect verse, “Ma- '	' ' .
drigali,” “Canzoni,” and “Carmina.” Gathered- . :	:
into these books are some of the most lovable . ; 2 things that any pen has ever written. Whim- • A ; sical, witty, and appealing, they are bound to	_Af
be cherished and appreciated by all.
They are poems of Italian and Irish dialect, AAfA as well as gems of clear English poetry. The . Sts Italian dialect is used with exquisite mastery, not too bluntly nor too lightly. It is the true heart of these Italian people as portrayed by y . ? one* who understands and sympathizes with A'AA-fA their sunny race. There is not a single poem	. . J'A
which reflects any but the most smiling traits, A<AA the sweetest, most attractive fancies of the AAAAA
166
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Italians. For example, in “Rosa’s Parakeets,” we hear Daly say:
Rosa, weeth her parakeets, Tai da fortune een da streets.
*
*
*
* -
Eef I could be parakeet Dat she ees a keess so sweet I am sure I would be wise Jus’ for lookin’ een her eyes; Mebbe so I be so smart I find fortune een her heart!' Dat’sa kinda fortune, too, I could weesh ees gon’ come true.
Daly is successful, too, in delineating Irish character and equally a master of the “brogue.” "Och! tis he that looks natural, layin’ there dead,” Said ould Matt’ew Moran, .
“Wid the palms at his feet an’ the lights at his head An’ the cross in his han’!	’
Heart an’ soul are at rest An’ it’s all for the best,”
Said ould Matt’ew Moran.
£

>
When he’d laid by his coat an’ hung up his hat, .
An’ shuffled away to a corner an’ sat
Wid his stick twixt his knees an’ his han’s in the crook, ’Twas himsel’ an’ no less, had the "natural look,” For the folk of the parish were wont to declare "Ne’er a wake a success unless Matt’ew was there.”
But Tom Daly can write more than dialect. He is a true lover of nature, and he sees in it not the poetic beauties that a Keats or a Shelly might find, but those sweet, simple things that we all can love. He is very like Longfellow in this appeal to .ordinary folk. He sings of every- ' daj* beauties, of love and mirth and sorrow, that we all have known, and his message thus comes home to the ordinary man. He expresses ' this himself—	•
The true poet is not one
.	- Whose golden fancies fuse and run
To moulded phrases,, crusted o’er ... With flashing gems of metaphor.
,IIis love of nature is especially shown in “The - Song of the Thrush”—-	.
.	. Ah! the May was grand this mornin.’! ’
Shure how could .1 feel forlorn in
Such a land, when tree and flower tossed their
.	’	.. kisses to the breeze? '	-
. Could an Irish heart be quiet	.
.	’ While the-spring was runhin- riot	.
And the birds of free America were,singing in the trees ?
*
. *’ ' *. '- * - *
*

An’ I gloried in the comradeship that made their joy :	7, my own, .	•	.	.	.	.
y-Till a new note sounded, stillin’' .	.
i<-;All the, rest: A-tlirush-.was~trillin’.! .	.	..
Ahl: the thrush I left behind me in the fields about -	. . Athlone! >' ■ -.	. . ; .
Here again his notes were ringin’
But I’d lost the heart for singin’
Ah! the song I could not answer was the one I knew the best.	-
Another characteristic of Daly’s poetry, unfortunately too seldom found in present-day writings is wholesome cleanness. It is not.a turbid stream of sex appeal, it is rather the' mountain freshet of “love and laughter.”
" ’Tis cold th-’day,” said John McCann,
Upon the road to Mass.
The sorra word said Mary Ann But stopped to let him pass.
Fur, shure, he was the bold young An’ she the modest lass.
man -
*
* *
* *
*
"A colder land, a colder s.ky, I have not seen before
-Than this for all its store of gold For all it is so grand.
*******
*
I never knew the feel o’.cold At home, in Ireland. '
But here, in these forsaken parts, The snows, the bitter storm,
Creep even into Irish hearts That should be kind and warm.” .

* *
*
*
*
"Yg heard the banns? Ah! well,” he said, ' . "There’s one has found a bride,
Thank God! one Irish heart is sweet, . Though all the one I know.
"That makes my own lone heart to beat .
Is cold an’ hard as snow.” '	.	-
“But now ’tis softer, John McCann—”
Ochone! the modest lass!—	-	,
"The snow, I mean,” blushed Mary Ann, Upon the road to Mass.
Humor all of the poems have, a humor peculiar to Tom Daly, delicate, fairylike, imagining, full of rare depth and color, like a scintillating -mosaic or resplendent tapestry. It is sometimes the.humor you smile at through a tear, the kind that brings the quiet chuckle. It would never incite you to raucous'laughter, never-, hit you like a bludgeon; it is-more like the smile you wear when- watching a chortling baby kicking at the sky, clutching at a sunbeam. In Daly’s own words— j.	7 _
My singing is,...
Like any child’s, a thing devoid of art;
- But joy it hathj— ”	.	.
. Again he writes:	.	..	.	.
,	"Who.says that the,Irish be fighters be birth?”
.	' Says little Dan Crone.	.	"
" "Faix, there’s, not a more peaceable race on th’
. ' " “ - ■ earth, .	,	'	. - -	~
■ • ; If ye lave’em alone.” ;	’
But above alt stands the inherent merit of the 'poetry. It has.- the simplicity of all great
THE NOTRE DA'ME SCHOLASTIC.
writings, the melody of all good verse, and in addition, the charm that only T. A. D. could place therein..
I love his living heart that sings . ' ' And makes my blood flow faster;
I love so many little things
Of which he is the master.	-
Diamond Cut Diamond
BY THOMAS D. MOTT, JR., ’iS.
Henry Selman arose from his chair with a start as a sharp knock sounded at his door. Hastily concealing some charts he had been studying, he crossed the room and hesitated with his-hand on the knob. These were days that Selman mistrusted everyone and jumped frequently at his own shadow. Being a German spy in the heart of the French lines was no light affair, and though ostensibly at the front as an American correspondent with the French army, his position was nevertheless fraught with ; danger, and it taxed his courage and ingenuity to the utmost to carry out his deception. ■ .
The summons was repeated, this time insistently, so hesitating no longer* Selman opened
the door and a slim, nervous youth of not more station each. silently drew a heavy automatic, than twenty stepped into the room. Selman from its holster. Slowly and with great caution
was visibly relieved at seeing his accomplice Selman opened the door an. inch or so, and gazed-enter instead of some questioning French
official, and greeted him cordially. .
“Well, Rogers, what news?” has Benaire received any directions for the new offensive?” . For answer Rogers drew from his coat a small - map covered with numbers, showing the position of the French batteries and directions as to ranges and points on which to concentrate their fire. This map, so small and insignificant, was of inestimable value to the enemies of the allied forces; for being in possession of it they would know in advance the plan of the impend-• - ing attack and with this information could effectually repulse the attack at the threatened points. Selman, carefully studied the map for ■ some time before speaking, then • inquired:
, ‘‘Where is Captain Benaire located now?”
“He is in charge of the central signal station ‘ H-41,” Rogers quickly replied. “It is he who ' will direct from his station all the batteries ' in to-morrow’s action and give them the ranges
of the German positions as marked on this held* it in his power to. annihilate the Allied map.” -	.	.	Forces. He was ruining their.-most .minutely
. Rogers continued his report to his. superior, perfected plans, and destroying the- power of
adding: “The Department is staking a great : deal on- this new offensive and means that at : T shall be successful at whatever cost. You -know,” he said thoughtfully, “the last two A attacks on hill 79 failed miserably through : incorrect direction of battery-fire on the German .
positions.”	.	-
“Yes, I know,” returned Selman soberly, “there was some mysterious bungling of the last assaults. Rogers, on our work to-morrow depends the outcome of this offensive; be here : -in the morning sharply' at four-thirty. Good- ' night.”	' •	.	-
Far into the night Selman sat studying ' the positions on the map, and when at last he *- . turned in to snatch a little sleep before morning . he had fully determined ~his plan of action for ' / the morrow.	.
At dawn 'the next day, while the warriors of two great contending forces slept_on their arms, _ Selman and Rogers, picked their way to central ' signal station H-41. Here was the controlling organism"of the allied forces, and they advanced -or retreated, attacked or held their fire in obedience to the word from H-41. - As Selman. -and Rogers reached the door of the underground :
5
within. Here, indeed, was a scene of action and energy. A half dozen officers were at their posts, operating telephone . instruments and sending orders to the batteries of the first line trenches^. Captain Benaire was in command and he himself was in direct communication with the Chief. Quickly steppings within,.. Selman and Rogers swept the room with then-weapons and commanded all to throw lip their ., hands.	-	.	- .
While Rogers gagged and tied up the five operators, Selman covered them with his automatic. Then directing Captain Benaire to hand over his orders, he clamped the receiver to'his head and began sending out ranges and -orders to the waiting batteries. Rogers , kept . Benaire well covered, while Selman continued.,' his destructive work of countering the ranges. ’ From the right wing batteries to. the left he sent out false ranges, or orders to hold:their fire.T This man, an automaton'•of Prussian efficiency •


168
THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
their contemplated attack. Captain Benaire
• looked on with interest. He made’ no attempt ’ to overcome Rogers, knowing that it meant instant death to do so. It seemed as though he wished to ask a question, yet scarcely dared. Finally he muttered' hoarsely in Selman’s ear:
-‘/Antwerp and the Emperor.” .
- Taking his cue, Selman quickly replied to the password of the Kaiser’s spies: ‘‘The day is bright,” he said.	-
A look of -joy and astonishment leaped into Captain Benaire’s eyes.	.
■ “Can it be true,” he said, “‘that you are the agent I have been expecting?. What great luck!
._ Listen to me, lower your pistols. I am a-friend; long live the Fatherland! We will give victory to the Kaiser; death to the French. Here,” added Benaire, as Rogers lowered his pistol “you take this station and connect with battery A-5. ’ Send, them ranges contrary-to ’ these on this map. .You do likewise,” he said to Selman, “to Battery B-2, and k will attend to the ~
rest.”	.
- Benaire’s unmasking was fatal to him, for - quick as a' flash from' Prussian spies and enemies.
. of the French, Selman and Rogers turned into anything but Prussians, Selman dug his automatic into the ribs of the traitor, while Rogers disarmed-him, and as he flipped some handcuffs .
. on -him, Rogers turned to address. Selman:
* “ Well, Colonel Fontaine, a firing squad- and A quick shift will end Benaire, and in the future, thanks to you, the orders of the Chief won’t be poisoned Jjy the hands of the Kaiser.”	.
Varsity Verse.
'.‘S-! 1 - The Atheist.. . - • -; . ’
The. birds and bugs and.little bees,-- .
TLlearn to:my; surprise,—	.. -
Don’t ever say their morning.prayers Asrsdoitas thev arise.
• _ My Girl and Me.
I wrote- my girl a letter, just Two weeks ago to-day,
But she ain’t written me a line, - And just why I can’t say.
At least she might have written me A postal card, or so,
Andjtcll me how she’s getting on: ’Cause I would like to know.
i
T just can’t understand at all What ails that girl of mine;
I can’t see why she’s let me be Two weeks without a line.
. And surely Uncle.Sam don’t take That long for mail to send -From South Bend to Chicago, Or Chicago to South Bend.
’Cause if he did, why, good night, nurse! The stuff you send by mail!—
Well, by the time it reached your girl, ’Twould be so bloomin’ stale ‘	.
That she would say the. poor hay-seed, He’s far behind this age; . ’
She’d tear yourTetter up, and wouldn’t
Read another page. . s .	'
But I don’t think it is the mail, .
-That’s causing this delay; .
It’s.something-far more serious . , " , But just what. I can’t say;.- ... 'J
Now maybe it’s because sbe thinks, ----That-I ain’t old enough ■
To write’to her, or else, that I- ” .
- Just write her all thisstuff ,-;.—
Because it’s all Tgot to do; -	‘
T-Well, even if it was,.. . = ;	,
She blight tpl.be so gol-durned proud ;
Sh e’d 'almost bust," because I ;
?
. /Of-alFthelsayings; known to; men,A '	’
/ T’rk;Th‘^	* A ?• '■
’.• TX sT^ATearhedmrah';was,heAvhb.jsaid^ ’	..
. A'-’* C-k .'/‘I would I: were a bird.” . -
iX/AtxThelfi'af.destkthihg-ThaveTo stands*... sx
, .-/-’-'X —-kG	X'*"'- -AL -	• • *' '•%*’ r >’L"	” -7'
mot	handlV • X-XjL ’ -
;S^a^X^BuVsay^Ttwisto^	-Vx--- -
^^£O^T^df'wait’erUybiildn!tvdbiKHla.h’d/grin/L<?X.'-?'
;£s»^*Xliiqmnng;asithe?carpicomes..in,>iX,'XX X ,: -
It ain’t' just everykind of guy/-- ; ' /Who’ll :sib plump dbwn-’a’ndiwrite, A jett'er^	me, " - \
-1 T^blwdeks agb tb-ni • < 7- k
Or maybe;jt?s.J^	,1
.XTnjkn^ Someiptlier guys- of;whom she.knows, 7-/;Or?otlierTriends"she-hasL> .
Bufdioly smoked y^TliatlpnSf^






THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Are only very seldom found,— And seldom they occur.
And anyway, the boys are not Supposed to be so swell,
Or have a face that would attract . Just each-and every belle.
■ Of course she sure is stunning, and Her hair is black as coal,
Her eyes are brown', her teeth are just As pure white as her soul.
■'Her name I.will not tell you here: That wouldn’t be quite fair,
. So you’ll have to'be contented with The color of her hair.
But all this tuff don’t tell me why She doesn’t write to me, And come to think it over' kid, , The reason that-1 see, .
Is that she’s lost my address: .yes, But that sounds thin I know.
•So it must be that she has got A better looking beau.
Barret Anderson.
were at on'e time the scene of Larddfririha^
In these two towns he:; was arihariimlscari^^ cub reporter gaining experience, but he<neyerV
. attracted any particular attentionV small town reporters he had . the ' metropolitan^ paper fever in his system . arid, 'fieri drifted ^oA^ Chicago. ' ' V • ■ : t - ■
1 -His first great success was-a:serids ..of
■ - Know Me, Al” letters publisfied jn thei'Sa/firyV day Evening Post some three of four yearsCagp: Dealing with a bush-league ball .player: wfibriA burst into the majors and spent a-bnc^ meteoric career, told inT diamond; verhaetd^ egotistical, and couched in language not dhlyri’ri-urirhetorical but ungrammatical asri wellS?tfie^J epistles gained"widespread notoriety^.j^d^
, ner was made. . . ’
. . ’ Almost simultaneously he was .added
staff .of the Chicago Tribune. Besidesrirfinhih^^ a department of' his own ■ in dfie<papCT.ridnil^ he now and then tries his .hand -at reportini^ sporting events. .His humorous ;details riof-ri^vS^^S contest rival ” in interest - the more. techriichBri^S^ exploitation ’of the same everitri in’-,: the A hektA^tf|^ column. If it is a baseball game fie is describirigf^^^^g you can look for a lot more thanrijust riawfac^ about the national pastime. Youri will probably
■i
Ring W. Lardner.
BY CHARLES W. CALL, ’iS. '
.read who paid for the taxi .that, conveyed him ri to the park, whether< the. crystal :inhi§riwatpfe| was • dusty, if such’ and- such a ballriplayeri recognized him when fie'came.in- the<pre^^
. etc. All this is unusual, in' a-newspapervfind^
When a man reaches > that sublime literary people like it. It is a little harder to -accbtinO . plane where he contributes daily to the World’s ‘ for the pleasure readers get' mit-riof miw^^
Greatest Newspaper, and you can. find his grammar, llut to see tfie.moreri'cp^ .name on the roll call of contributors of the
takes of the uneducated' on , (fe the.caus'e.<
World’s Greatest. Magazine, you may. be sure he has a little more on the pen.than just the ink. Perhaps it might be well to explain just what is meant by. the. more and more commonly used
phrase,“ World’s Greatest,” which was employed - twice in the preceding sentence. 1 Reference is /made, in the; case of the newspaper, to the
■ Motion picture sketches are Xafdhei^ field of endeavor. Some of tfie pictiwesnre and some could be improved. His latest stories-h in the magazines seem' to surpass his-dofmerriri^ efforts in ludicrousfiess." One whoriim^
.	_	and’not laugh-wouhih’t. laugh Cat<an^
Chicago 'Tribune, .self-styled nonpareil in the ' ‘ Lardner is right.mow probably, bn a&eAcresBr|:. . daily, journalistic field ;-;the; magazine referred . of his popularity. Hp’ has a .style,' but-it isPone^ i.'
; : to is the, Saturday Evening Post, which insinuates..’. that cari riot .last. \ Hb:seems;;coriterit do reapf^
. ‘ its superiority in-the periodical field. But these ’ fortune during dhe presentri-arid'-isipayiri^	■
; ’ two publications are hot the only dries which hayeri^ attention toj theri'rifiitTweriVd^^
.	been honored by. the, stories off Ring W;. Lardner,ri tearing down; > fie - is ; notrilbuilding; up/-andmt^S
■ ri 1' and: if' he ’ Were ftell ingrithis% fie would: have .you ' wbiildri ? seem J; that" fieA cbuldrinotrilong-surinye.
V know	MetrapdUian,':-^	. . But< meantime doetprsri^^^^
I -i American aridrithe 'RedZBodk; all ribidf for This’ ricriuefs,' epfiege A- ' ;stdriesr:':-^	< AT. 'ri/;. V, '
; ri'.yVNyesjAMidrigah;-riarid: SputhriBehdri. IridianayVtheriwprldJ
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as, Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annam. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Noire Dame, Indiana
L.	DECEMBER 2, 1916- No. 11.
BOARD OF EDITORS.
Howard R. Parker, ’17
Speer Strahan, ’17	\
F. Jennings Vurpillat, ’iS~
Harry E. Scott, ’ 17
John A. Lemmer, ’iS	.
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’iS
Thomas F. Healy, ’19
—To-morrow the' season of Advent begins. To the student looking forward to the happy holidays of Christinas, this season of the ecclesiastical j^ear can easily slip by Advent, without his realizing its significance.
The' Incarnation is the most stupendous fact in all history. It has changed the ■ complexion of all society and has brought light and gladness to those who sat in darkness and in the shadow of death. For us who enjo\r the fruits of ’that great mystery it is hard to realize perhaps the feelings of those who waited with -impatient anxiety for the day of the coming of . the Messiah. Prophets had foretold His coming;
the Psalmist had woven into, his hymns .the . • cries of a waiting people, and the ceremonies of the Jewish people were a continual reminder of the Advent of the Lord who would heal their wounds and wipe away their tears. This season of advent in the Church represents that long - period of; anxious longing' in which the Jews.
- prayed'the heavens to drop .down dew.'and the clouds; to fain down the Just One. The spirit ;of penance is. the spirit' of this, season, and for him who enters.into it„properly there is good
‘ :.assufance that Christmas will bring - him the peace and . joy . that surpass all understanding. .
- 5 . / ’	? * Entertainment.	. A .
A On.. Wednesdays evening ' George . . Beban in A “The Italian.” was shown, oh the screen in„ : : Washington Hall. The photography - of this .; <pictm’eLwas<ex^	the ^character? acting
high.-order. >The contrast
of quiet humor in the early part of the drama with the deep pathos of the later scenes made the film a very pleasing entertainment.
Obituary.
i/ Mr. John McElhone.
The Rev. James McElhone, C. S. C., prefect in Corby Hall, was' called home on Thanksgiving Day to attend the funeral of his father,	H
John McElhone .in Sharpsburg, Penn. We assure Father McElhone and his bereaved family of the sympathy and prayers of the faculty and students of the University.
L -------------------- ,r
Personals.
*	____ .	J
v — Dr. John W. O’Neill' (B. S., ’05) of -	|
Albertville, Minn., .was married on Nov. iS to Miss Eva E. Hobrook of Minneapolis. John finished his medical course in the University of Minnesota in 1915. Congratulations and good wishes I
—Joseph M. Walsh (E. E., ’14), formerly attached to the Gurney Electric Elevator Co. of Homesdale, Pa., is now associated with the New Business Department of the Scranton Electric Light & Power-Co. His address is 326 W.. Market. Street; Scranton, Pa.
- —Rex Lamb (LL. B., ’09) of Buchanan, Midi., has been appointed, register of probate by Judge Frank L- Hammond. Rex has been prominent in Republican politics, a member of the Republican_ County. Committee and a leader in G. O. P. circles in Niles. He will make his home in St. Joseph, Michigan.
■/-—Mr. J. R. San Pedro (PhA G$, ’16) passed examination in'Havana, Cuba,'and is employed by Jose Serra, owner of the.largest-drug concern • -in- Havana^ His brother, M. R. San Pedro, graduated here several years ago and is now conducting stores, in Cohsolacipn, - Cuba. Their father? was? once- Governor of the province.
‘ Pinar 'Del f. Rio ’ ’—the. center.. of the Havana -Tobacco country. Mr. San Pedro recently gave the ;Pharmacia..Department 2000 Spanish pre? - .. .scriptions. / AL <	y ■ ..
—The remarkable triumph of Judge Ben B, . . Lindsey (Old:Student)EoLDenyer in The. recent - . elections has excited, much favorable comment . .
; throughput the country. ■ Every effort-, was ... • ■ : made Tb .discr^	?eyes/.of the city .


-THE NOTRE DAME'SCHOLASTIC
17*
‘X
but when the votes came* to be counted he ran well in advance of all the other candidates on his county ticket-winning by approximately ten thousand votes. All the interests hostile to the reform spirit were lined up against him and only one newspaper rallied to his support. We, congratulate Judge Lindsey on this mark of public
confidence, but more especially we congratulate ' Bulletin of the Poetry Society of America
Denver on its vindication of a good man.
Local News.
_	—The next issue of the Scholastic will be
the Football Number which will contain cuts of the Varsity and Freshmen teams.
__	—Thanksgiving Day this year fell on the
feast of St. Andrew, Apostle, the feast-day of the Very Reverend Provincial, Doctor Alorrissey.
—Emil B esten and Alorris Starret accompanied the team to Nebraska. Father Michael Quinlan too, watched the boys in their last game of the season.
—The Corb}* Hall football team played the Jolly Fellows A. C. of South Bend at Springbrook Park on Thanksgiving Day. The score was 7 to o in favor of the Jollies.
.	—An all-chick team journeyed to Culver
on Thanksgiving Day to play the Cadets. Chief Aleyers, coach of the Corby chicks, had charge of the trip.	.
—A large number of the students took advan-■ tage of the Thanksgiving Day recess and journeyed homeward. There was a great deal of . hustle about the halls after dinner on Wednesday.	.	'
—Thanksgiving Day was religiously observed at the University. A Solemn High Alass was celebrated at'eight o’clock by the Very Rev. President Cavanaugh, assisted by- the Rev. B Alatthew Walsh as deacon and the Rev. Alat-thew Schumacher as subdeacon.
—The Freshman Journalists^ “Scribblers’ । 'Club” held their first smoker, Sunday evening, Nov. 26, in the Carroll Hall Refectory. The “Scribblers” give promise of. developing into one of The clubs at-Notre Dame. The’Rev.
.	.	.	.	Chicks”? Alay’96: Terriers, 10, St. Joseph’s, ’
Fathers O’Donnell and Lahey,, and Professor 5 That is how the score stood on Sunday when: Cooney, Dean of the School of Journalism, gave the last man wras out, and Captain? AIcGuire ' ■ . the. “ Scribblers ” some pointers on journalistic called his men together for’a final<cheer.The.
of interest to the Society included the reading of a note of congratulation from Miss Harriet Monroe, editor of Poetry; a Magazine of Verse; a letter from Professor Stanton of. Cornell, asking for an account of the Societv to be included in his next “Lettre Americaine” to the Mercure de France; a summary of the
which announced the formation of the Societv at Notre Dame. A new volume of poetrv, entitled “Songs of Wedlock,” by Air. T. A. Daly, was examined and some readings- made from it. Some fifteen poems written by members of the Society, and anonymously submitted, . were , then read, discussed and voted upon.
The two selected, as the best were: “On the Achill Shore,” by Thomas . Healy, and “Expectancy,” by Speer Strahan. The next meeting of the Society will be held’ Sunday, evening, December the tenth.
In the Old Days.-
- No help-needed to-day.—A “Local Item” in 1S95 reads: “The Carrolls sadly need’ a hall ‘Yell.’ Will someone kindly help them out?”
Oct. ’95: “In the drawing last Sunday for the fieldday box of cigars, William Kegler was the fortunate one. Kegler does not smoke,
but ‘ there were friends while the
others,’ and he had many cigars lasted.”
The “Personals” for December 7, 1895 report this: “Sunday last'Air. Ballard Smith, a former student, had the honor of presenting to the city of Paris, in the name of the donor, Air. Joseph Pulitzer, a bronze group of statuary of' Washington and Lafayette, the work of the famous sculptor Bartholdi. There was a notable assembly of distinguished persons present.. The group was set up in one of the most, ,, fashionable parts of Paris.”	-	, :
a.*.	’■
Are these the ancestors of the, Walsh Hall
work.	.	game was a close one up to the final inning.
. —The Poetry Society held their regular, bi- Here AIcGuire made" a phenomenal double weekly meeting last Sunday evening. . Matters, playUnassisted, from which the St. Joseph’s

172
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
never recovered. Chase was in the box for the
Football Articles.
Terriers and allowed his opponents only three
hits while his teammates never had any trouble in finding the ball when hits meant runs.
' * -* * .
April 14, 1894: “Messrs. Chassaing, Hennessy and Cullen have composed a band march entitled ‘The Hoynes’ Tight Infantry March.’” * ❖ *
_ January- 1879: “The Scholastic Annual and Almanac for 1S79, compiled by Professor J.'A. Lyons, of the University of Notre Dame, is just out. It is neatly gotten up and its contents are as interesting as those of its predecessors—Chicago Tribune.” The Mother of Domes, this.
* *
The modest editor makes “copy.” March 13, ’ 1875: “The Editor of this paper, in one dialf hour, on Tuesday last, caught some fourteen or fifteen fine rock bass, about ten inches long. A. companion caught in the same time some eighteen or twenty.”
-J-	"
As far back as 1892 the Scholastic Staff used to enjoy special dinners. But who could be happy to-day at a meal with this menu?
Tomates aux croutons
Hors D’oeuvres varies
Saumon braize a la Tartare Poulets a la Marengo Pommes de terre Sautees '	Selle D’Agneau rotre
. Petites carrottes nouvelles .
Salade
Fromage de Brie. . -- ■ *, ■
Creme., glacee a la Vanille
Gateaux Assortis
Pyramide de Fruits	.
■	‘	Cafe
- . *.
Under the caption, “Art, Music anti Literature” in the Scholastic of 1S80 we find this gossip: “Wagner’s health is daily improving; : and a telegram informs us that Samuel Franks, ’ a young American violinist—pupil of Joachim—
-has made, his debut' in. Paris with gratifying, success.” ’ - .	;
A	s * *	-	■	. .
\ •: May, 1S94: J ‘ The following names were: omitted--from the List of Excellence last week. Mechanics of Engineering: W. Correll; Hydraulics:' W.^CorreH; ..M Philosophy:. J. Schopp.”
A big crowd of Notre Dame students stood in front of Jimmie and Goats’ cigar store to hear the returns of the Notre Dame-Nebraska game. And they got an earful. It was a game to be remembered. “Dutch” Bergman made several foot races for fifty and more* yards after he had caught forward passes; John • Miller starred-by making big gains through the line and By intercepting forward passes—-four of .them. Nebfaska tried the forward pass again and again, but Notre Dame was there to break them all up. Slackford after the first quarter,took the place of Captain Cofall who was suffering from injuries received in the Michigan Aggie game, and 'played a hard game, making good gains. DeGree did the punting and made a Humber of sensational kicks. It was a great closing to a great season. A detailed
account issue of
After
of the battle will appear in the next the Scholastic. •
* ❖ *
the final report had been announced,
the crowd gathered in the center of the square and led by Andy McDonough cheered for half an hour. The team will arrive to-day. ,
. *'**
Notre Dame, 46; Alma, o.
A football travesty was enacted on the Cartier
Field Saturday, November
The Alma
eleven, were hardly a match for the interhall teams and the Varsity men played havoc with -them, racing up and-down the field at will. The day was chilly and the meagre crowd that came into the field soon fired and left the players to battle it alone. The South Bend News-Times gives the following report of the plays:
Notre Dame substitutes found Alma college easy picking yesterday and the Hoosiers registered their seventh shut-out victory of the season, crushing the Michiganders, 46 to o, in a chilly struggle on snow covered Cartier Field.	.
Assistant Coach .Rockne, who handled the Notre Daine team from the bench, sent in a team comprised entirely of-substitutes at the.start of the game and he allowed only four regulars to enter the contest at all. Coughlin and DeGree went. in at the beginning of the second half and played the. remainder of .the game. Batijari worked at left end during the third period and Rydzewski, the big regular center,. played right' end during the last few minutes/of the contest. .	.
s.	Long Runs,Are Feature.
"-Fritz” Slackford, fullback, was the bright and shining star.of thefray, with.Fitzpatrick and O’Hara looming up' as close, competitors for. stellar honors at
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
carrying the ball. Slackford alone scored four touchdowns. The .big blonde made two of the scores after long runs, one a dash of eighty yards, and he was a consistent ground-gainer throughout the game. Fitzpatrick pulled off several long dashes of the sensational variety, while O’Hara stirred the half-frozen fans with a beautiful eighty-yard run for a touchdown and several other good broken field sprints. '	,
The Alma team was helpless before the Notre Dame aggregation. On only a few occasions were the visitors within Hoosier territory and then they did not have the necessary strength to put the ball across the goal line. Once the visitors recovered a fumbled punt and once they secured the ball when the Hoosier backs booted a kickoff. Because of the cold, the Notre Dame team had trouble in getting started on numerous plays and the locals made several fumbles.
Get Three Touchdowns.
In the first quarter, Notre Dame scored three , touchdowns. CThe hoosidrs tallied two in each of the second and third periods, but they did not count in the final quarter.
«Capt. McCauley at center and Quarterback Hebert -played good ball for Alma. Offensively, the visitors showed nothing. They found the Notre Dame line and ends too strong to gain, and their only attempt at a forward pass was stopped bjr O’Hara when he caught ‘
the ball.
Notre straight forward
Dame resorted almost exclusively to the game and a few minor trick plays. One pass, Dorais to Whipple, was successful,
but the plaj7 was made on the fourth down, after the Gold and Blue had been penalized and the gain was not sufficient to give the locals first down?
'	Mexican Good Tackler.
Philbin, Madigan, Whipple and Ward starred in the line for Notre Dame, and Morales, the Mexican end, who had been out of the game for several weeks because of an injury, called forth the applause of the rooters by a splendid exhibition of tackling.
• The summary:
Notre Dame, 46;
Whipple____________
Andrews............
Frantz.............
Madigan..........
' Ward.........  .'.
Philbin__________
King...............
Dorais.............
. Walter Miller._____
...L
L
...L
. E— . T._ G...
C.....
.R G _R T R E. -Q-L H. R H. ...F—.
Alma, o. . ....A. Foote .......Lott .....Miller ..McCauley ..Barribeau ..French ....Richards ...... Hebert ... Hoolihan ...Fitch ...E. Foote
Slackford
Substitutions—Notre Dame, Baujan for Whipple; Whipple for King; Coughlan for Andrews; Ronchetti for Frantz; DeGree for Ward; ' Ward for Philbin; O’Hara for Walter Miller; Jones for Madigan; Morales for Baujan; Dixon for Jones; Rydzewski for Whipple; ,
Allison for O’Hara; O’Hara for Fitzpatrick; Ward Miller for Slackford; Kelly for Ronchetti.
Alma—Martin for.A. Foote; Jackson for Barribeau;
Robinson for E- Foote.
Touchdowns—Slackford, 5; Walter Miller, Fitzpatrick O’Hara. .	.	.
Goals from touchdown—Philbin,
DeGree,
. Referee—O’Donnell; Umpire—Co'oper. man—Mooney.
Head lines-
■ * * * -
Candidates for the' basketball working out every afternoon in
team are the 'Gym,
though no special places have been assigned as yet. Earl O’Connor of Walsh is working at centre, McKenna and McDermott at guard King, Grant, and Ronchetti, who have been busy on the gridiron during the football season, will enter the lists next week. There will be a game before Christmas, played at . Purdue on -• December 15.	_
* , * *
The following comment on Stanley Cofall has been going the rounds of the daily papers. It is from the pen of Frank Menke. We quote from the Buffalo Courier:
Cofall is Greatest.
The greatest all-around backfield man in America?
Football experts gathered in the press stand at the . -Yale-Princeton game on Saturday discussed the moot
. question and then announced almost in unison: '
“Stanley Cofall of Notre Dame.”
“Cofall,” asserted one, “can do everything any other halfback can do—and a little bit more. His punts arc remarkable, not merely for their distance, but because of the spiral he can put into them. Hand- ' ling the Cofall kicks is a difficult trick'for any man. At dropkicking he stands alone. He can boot the ball over' the goal post from any angle and almost any distance. -Kicks from the<thirty-five -or forty-yard line are as easy for him as are twenty-yard boots by ’ other stars. He scored one against the army from the forty-five yard line. It was made almost from the sidelines, yet it was perfect in its direction and had enough lift to carry it fifteen yards farther. ,..
“Cofall hits. a~ line like a 42-centimeter shell. . No line has stopped him consistently. He tears ft to . pieces sooner or later and he go.es through where he wills, with interference or without. When he goes . down under the weight of his rivals’ bodies he wiggles . two or three yards more.	.	.	.
“Defensively, Cofall glitters. Any man who-goes by him is a wonder—and a luck}' one at that- The Notre Dame star has uncanny judgment in tackling, and when he hits he has a trick of rolling back his man—of cutting off'a yard or two, instead of letting. the man wiggle for a few extra feet.” •	-
Interhall Athletics.
The Jolly Fellows A. C. defeated the, Corby eleven on Thanksgiving Day at Springbrook
• Park by the score of 7 to o. The game, was-well played on both sides; but there • was the.J usual wrangling, and disputing decisions of the
174
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
officials incident to games at SpringbrookPark. Corby fumbled in the third quarter and* one of the Jollies pounced upon the ball and ran off for a touchdown. In the last- quarter Murphy threw a forward pass which was touched by one of the Jollies and .then caught by Kasper who went over the line for a touchdown. It was disallowed, however. The erudite official claimed that Murphy had been tackled before he made the pass; but considering that the hurl was twenty yards we must say it was. some pass for a man to make after he was tackled. About two hundred and fifty witnessed the game.	.
- * *
Corby, iS; Walsh, o.
The final interhall contest for the Mayr trophy was played on Cartier field on Sunday, Nov. 26. Interest in the outcome of the battle between two undefeated elevens brought a large crowd to the field. The day was chilly and a stout wind blowing across the field played havoc with the punts.	-
The first half was a see-saw for a while, but in the second quarter Corby worked the ball down close to Walsh’s goal, Walsh held, however, and Corby lost the ball. In the next play Walsh kicked, but Cullen blocked the punt behind Walsh’s goal and Kasper fell on the ball. The . half ended after Corby had failed to kick goal. . In the second half, Corby came on the stage with a new act, a magic shift which completely baffled -their opponents and Kasper romped along for gains of fifteen and twenty yards, . alternating with Brandy and Fitzgerald. The second touchdown was the result of a long forward pass, Kasper to Brandy, which brought . . : the ball to the one^yard line. On the next play the ball went over for a touchdown. The goal was not kicked. The third touchdown was the ' result or the same .magic shift. The ball was easily brought over the line-and again Corby failed to solve the difficulty of the wind in kicking. A deal of very good football was exhibited during this game. Captain Kasper of Corby -ty was the star of the day, making gains at will.
: At full, Barwick in the’first half, and Fitz. gerald in the second half, plunged through the . line for good distances. Brandy played his
usual quick; heady, game. Walsh played a hard
game but was outclassed. Teddy . O’Connell . at full plunged and hurdled and climbed, but
/ • ^^Qorfayjine was too. strong’ to.allow any good- ■ perhaps the.best player on the second team or Goodall • J'gains. Silk,-a .‘‘ whale ,of a man;’’ was joliny who seems to begoodin all.departments of the game.
on the spot, and got his back up when there was question of breaking a forward pass that might have netted a long gain. Both Corbjr and Walsh Halls were enthusiastic rooters and added a deal of zest to the contest.
* **
Chicks, 7; .Culver, 7.
The all-Chick eleven that journeyed to Culver played a tie-game, 7-7. The Cadets were the lieaVier team, but the chicks made up in fight what they lacked in weight and held the soldiers to an even score. Both touchdowns were the results of sensational runs. Norman Barry in the first quarter intercepted a forward pass ' behind his own goal and ran ninety yards for a touchdown. Later in the game, a cadet got in the way of one of the chick passes and ran seventy yards for a touchdown. Both teams kicked. their goals. Barry and Garry played a brilliant game. On the line, James, Cullen and Ryan played, exceptionally well.
Safety Valve.
All-Hall Teams.
- No. i.
Sweet (Sorin)......... Jolly (Corby)......
Richwine (Brownson) Overton (Brownson)... Brandy (Corby)________ Merriman (Walsh)______ Deary (Walsh)_________ Wonn (Walsh).:________ Blackman (Corby)...... Nigro (Carroll).______
-Cobnley (Carroll)—____
---—Left End ------Left Tackle .....Left Guard ........Centre .....Right Guard .....Right Tackle .....—Right End
--....Quarterback
...Left Halfback Right Halfback
-------Fullback -

. Sweet and Deary, the ends, as their names indicate, are the two most lovable men on the team and ought to get along admirably with all the players on account of their amiability; besides them as tackles, we have placed Merriman and Jolly who are to keep the team cheered up and see that no one Jiecomes downhearted. Richwine and Brandy, the guards, are the two most spirited men on the team. Brandy I would say is a
star—in fact -he is three star. Now we have placed .• Overton at centre on account of his great ’ weight. Any man weighing over'2000 lbs ought to be, able to hold an enemy at bay. For the backs we have three dark horses, Blackman, Nigro, and Coonley, while Wonn:Js the winner before he goes into the game. As substitutes. for Jolly and. Merriman should they> become too hilarious, we have placed Lawless and Furey who have nd regard for rules and conventions. And should Deary and Sweet, become’too lovable we could put in Slane and Lynch who .would.string up or throttle . their. opponents. Should Richwine and Brandy have to be .taken out we could use B esten of Walsh who is

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ITS

In case our team needed to use strategy we could run in Trixler of Corby and Fox of Sorin or should our opponents become profane we could run in Hellman, Hellert, and Helfrich not to speak of Damerton. Grab of Brownson would be a valuable man at stealing the ball for us, and Fallon would drop on the fumbles and recover the ball. If we should need someone to pierce the enemy’s line we have Stickney. Spears,, and Staab, while Sackley and Baglin could cover up our plays so that they would be invisible. Spillane has •spilled many.a man and Landers has landed blows in every quarter while Pierce and Bohrer are like gimlets in making holes.
The All-Notre Dame" Henry Team.
SlackTord (Sorin).......... Hungerford (Corby)........ Huxford (Corby)........... Ford (Holy Cross)......... Bedford (St. Edwards)—. Stafford (Corby).......... Sandford (Brownson)....... Przybysz (Day)............ Carr (Day)..................-
Wheeler (St. Edwards)... Louse (Day)---------------
__...Left. End __Left Tackle __...Left Guard __Centre __Right Guard ..—Right Tackle __Right End __Quarterback ...Left Halfback Right Halfback __Fullback
In making this selection we have taken- great pains to see that every man was given his proper, place according to the character of his playing during the season. This is perhaps the only Henry team ever 1 chosen at a school, but it is surely a credit to any -university. We have placed T. Ford of Holy Cross Hall at centre because he is the only thoroughbred Henry on the premises and deserves for that reason the pivotal position. Slackford goes to left end because he has proved that when he gives slack to his ford nothing in the football world can stop him. Hunger- . ford is hungering to drive through the enemy’s lines and easily deserves the left tackle, while'Huxford is a real husk and is considered a'giant at left guard. Bedford, the right guard, has put many a man in bed with his wonderful machine-like drive and Stafford goes through the line as one might plunge a staff between two weary players. Sandford, has all the sand required to make a right end and his opponents,, despite Longfellow, seldom leave footprints. on him. Przybysz, a day student we have placed at quarter because he is heard continually calling signals and . the sound of his name is like the sound of a Henry in action. Car and Wheeler'we have placed as halfbacks because they are really of the same caliber, although they go by their . nicknames. And . Louse goes to fullback for his ability to-creep along the road and carry five on his back.-
. - • *** _ ’ .
Dear Valve:— - .	.
- In the local column of the Scholastic issued on
' October 14th of this year ..the following statement was' made: “This is the first time in several years that the
meh of Sorin have, placed a football team in. the inter-’ hall league." For four weeks I have suffered this insult	........ v
in silence, " waiting for- some word of .retraction and begin in December to figure how many schooldays apology;! but I .will wait no longer. If the men-who there were until June? -	. ?.- ;-t-
now-inhabit the’ .halls of old Sorin,—halls that once- His place is being taken by the fellow, that starts
riot of fire departments led by Tom Shaughnessy; and bound for imaginary fires, with the chimes of Christmas; bells that adorned trees that were dedicated to “Moke” Kelly (who always gets back to N. D. before Christmas in the hope that someone will decorate, another-’tree for him), and. with a thousand other sounds that were music to the squirrels,—if the men who’ now inhabit these halls will suffer this misrepresentation in silence; let them rest in the oblivion they deserve. The men of old rebel.	s	. :
I do not know nor do I care who wrote the afore- . mentioned local; no doubt he is one of those who so long have striven to' belittle the achievements 3f the. noble men who have fought for old Sorin. For the past-three years Sorin' has struggled constantly against what seemed a plot to deprive her of football honors; but despite every trick of her enemies, Sorin’s: teams have established a record unsurpassed by any of her.! rivals in that ancient jand honorable form of personal combat known to the world at large as interhall. football. The alleged editor of the local column will do well to investigate the record of the Sorin teams.' In 1913, led by Stanley Cofall,.now Varsity captain, Sorin lost the interhall championship to Walsh in the final game of the season; - that year Sorin defeated every team in the league except Walsh, and her showing against the champions was anything but a discredit
•a<
to the hall. In 1914 Sorin won every interhall gamejn which she participated, and boasted one of the best; : elevens. ever turned out at Notre Dame as 'many = followers of football in South Bend, Fort Wayne,--Wabash, and other nearby towns can testify. Of course ; the so-called Athletic Board ’ insisted that Sorin? was' ■ playing ineligibles, but anyone who can say that" the-;. -ball which was - represented by. Matthews, Culligan, Carmody, and their cohorts, has had rib football tea!m> :. for several years, could “out-Camp” Camp in. the; -selection of an all-American! The Valve should not/ overlook this “boob” in^ the selection of its 1916 team. Last season after Sorin had. played the Freshman;• team, which represented Brownson, off its.feet in-the'. ; opening game of the .season, the Athletic. Board niled . . Sorin completely out of the race. If the scribe has notr ; alreadj’ been convinced of his error it is useless, to. go ,,'J. further.	-	' . '•	.	■ - - ' ..;-???
I send this letter to you, dear/Valve, because? T know that you have always stood for- justice arid , I~ :y/ know that you will not hesitate to defend the-men who ; have fought these past few years under the bariner of / ? good Fatlier Layin, even though the words of Truth? may stir the ire of those-who have been uriwilling'toL L give to Sorin the honor she! has deserved. We Sorlhites??; -never sought sympathy and we do not ask it now;-; . we simply refuse to have our fair record belied, by any is?? stripling who thinks that he can write history, to suitp'5?? his-own tastes.	‘
... Yours for fair play, '. ..V'*?//-? 7	- -	’ ?-• Sorin, ’ 16.

ti”
•^5^
*** '

What has become of the old student;who. used To
did ring with the shouts , of revolutionists, with the > tb .figuring in September.
ana

176
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLAStiC
Old Students’ Hall—Subscriptions to December 2,1916
The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall were received "by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the
building committee: $2000.00 ' ■ ' Samuel T. Murdock, '86
. '	$ 100b.00
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick '•
P. T.. O’Sullivan, ’68	’
Rev.' E. J- McLaughlin, ’75 M. F. Healy, ’82 John C. Shea, ’98 Clement C. Mitchell, ’02	-
Byron V. Kanaley, ’04. Daniel P. Murphy, ’95 John P. Lauth, ’68 $500.00
Robert Sweeny, ’03 C. A. Paquette, ’90 Rev. John Dinnen, ’65. Warren A. Cartier, '87 Stephen B. Fleming, ’90 Thomas Hoban, ’99 Angus D. McDonald, 'co William A. Mclnerny, '01 - Joseph M. Byrne, ’14
Cassius McDonald, '04 William P. Breen, '77 Student from Far West Rev. I. E. McNamee, ’09 C. C. Craig, ’85	'
Frank E- Hering, '98 Peter P. McElligott, ’02 James J. Conway, ’85 . George Cooke, ’90
$250.00
John H. Neeson, ’03
Joseph B. Naughton, ’97 Peter Kuntz
' .John H. Fendrich, ’84 John Eggemah, ’00 - -A. A. McDonell, '00 Eugene A. Delaney,. ’99 R. A. O’Hara, ’89
$200.00	-
W. G. Uffendell , John O’Shea. ’11	.
James F. Kennedy, ’94
. - Louis C. M. Reed, ’98 ■ Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00
Joseph J. Sullivan, ’02 . G. A. Farabaugh, ’04	,.
Robert Anderson, ’S3
Joseph Lantry, ’07
- Rev. F. J. Van Antwerp, ’14 John Dowd, ’99 . -
Rt. Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’63 Christopher C. Fitzgerald, ’94 F. A. Kaul, .’97
, --William Hoynes, '77.
. Edwin J.‘ Lynch. ’10 .	‘
-. T. D. Mott. .'95
' F. Henry'Wurzer, '98 _ / Paul R. Martin,'13
• Timothy V. Ansberry. ’93 - John M.- Quinlan, .'04 • . . , Daniel Madden, ’06 . .	"
.' . Fred J."Kasper; ’04 . 7- '
' . J. S. Corby, ’98 ' -	■	.-
" Thomas Steiner, ’99 . ' .	"
Z John. F-. Cushing, ’06 " '	$150.00"	-. -
Rev. Michael Shea, .’04 . ' _ .- L'Ambrose.OIConnell,’07., . '. , W William.Byrne, ’95 - '	... ..
.7 ' . James L^-Tohgr'94. .. ‘ .	. /
. .; :W.-A. Draper, ’06	, . >
-.-.7'7 -7-A.$120.00 ;	‘
; Maximiliari St. George ’08 :
'•' . -.A; William P. Higgins, ’o3'' . ,	:
James Frederick Coll, '89 George J. Hanhauser, '01 Bjarnes P. Fogarty, ’00	.
Rev. John B. McGrath. ’So 'John F. Fennessey, ’99
Cyril J. Curran, ’12 Ernest E. L. Hammer, ’04 Alfred J. Pendleton, ’97 Edwin Wile, ’74 ■ Francis C. Schwab, ’02 Rupert F. Mills, ’14 William H. McCarty, ’99 Edward J. Glynn. ’11 Frank P. Crowley. '09 Thomas B. Curry, ’14 James A. Curry, ’14 Rev. Michael Ryan, ’95 Harry V. Crumley. '03	’
Harrj* S. Cahill Walter V. Heekin . William McKenzie . Rev. Bernard P. Muri ay, Mark M. Foote, ’73 Patrick J. Houlihan, ’92 E. J. Maurus, ’93 , “ Thomas J. Swantz, ’04
H. G. Hogan, ’04	-
Harold P. Fisher, '06 John B. Kanaley, ’09 James F. Hines, '09 John B. McMahon, ’09 Rev. John M. Byrne,.’00 J. H. Gormley, ’03 Thomas O’Neill, ’13 Robert E. Proctor, ’04 John F. O’Connell, ’13 Frank C. Walker, ’09, Rev. Gilbert Jennings, 'oS . George O’Brien, *90 '
Vitus Jones, ’02	•
W. A. Duffy, '08
Rev. J. H. Giiendling, ’14 . ' Fred C. McQueen, '60 .
Charles J. Stubbs, ’88	.
. Rupert Donavan, ’oS •
Rev. Francis H- Gavisk, ’14 Rt. Rev. Frank O’Brien, ’95 Frank L. McOsker, ’72 ' Charles Ez Ruffing, ’85 - James F..Foley, ’13	■
Rt. Rev. T.'C. O’Reilly, ’09 ' " Thomas J. Welch, '05	•”
William E. Cotter, ’13-’ John C. Tully, ’11 . . John F. O’Connor, ’72 ■ ’ T. P. O’Sullivan," ’02 . . G. M. Kerndt, '82	.
• Dr Frank J. Powers, ’94 .
Rev. John Talbot Smith, ’07 • Daniel C. Dillon .
■ •' Thomas C. Butler, ’08 Edward M. Kennedy, '08 “ John J. Kennedy, ’09 ' Peter M-.Ragan, ’92 : ‘
_ James D. Barry, *97 -- Fred L.'Steers-,’11"	. ‘ ■
, "Walter Clements, .’14 _ •	'
. Edward J. Carlton-,’16 .	,
. .Leonard M. Carroll, ’16	'
"' Luke L.' Kelly', ’16 V. '	■
. Frank E.-Swift, ’i6;	. . 4
C.- P." Mottz, .’16 . ‘ - " - . .
/ ' Samuel WardPerrott, ’16 . ' Edward C. Ryan, .'16' W " ; 'James. Francis Odem, .’16 .- ' _ ; -Emmett R Mulholland,.’16 - Thomas,A.Hayes,-’r6 ~
■; Frank J. Hiss, -.’i6	'.
Joseph J. McCaffery, ’16 Walter P. McCourt, '16 M. J. McEniry, 'Si Thomas J. Shaughnessy,,’15 Janies F. O’Brien, '13 Michael L. Pansier, '04 A. C. Fortin, ’01 Daniel J. O’Connor, ’05 M. H. Miller, ’10 William D. Jamieson, ’05 Grover F..Miller, ’16	"
Thomas A; McLaughlin, ’16 Edwin H. Sommerer, ’16 Joseph O’Sullivan Jacob E. Eckel, ’16 Vincent Mooney, ’16 John T. Shea, '06 Edward M. Schaack, '93 Anton C. Stephan, ’04	<.
Dr. F. B. McCarty, ’07 Harry F. McDonagh, '10 Charles W. Lahey, ’13 Adam J. Kasper, ’95 George W. Kasper, ’95 Robert A. Kasper, ’07 Charles Girsch, ’94 Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, ’07 John B. Fruechtl, ’04 Hugh J. Daly, ’12 Edward K. Delana, ’13 Harry Curtis, ’oS Charles Cullinan, '07	’
Daniel, Cullinan; ’07 Dr. W. P. Grady, '99 Edgar Crilly, ’90 George S. Crilly, ,’S8
. James V. Cunningham, ’07' M. H. Miller, ’10 ' Frank X. Cull, ’08	‘
Jesse E. Vera, '10 Walter Duncan, ’12 James W. O'Hara, '13 Joseph Collins, ’11 Dr. H. G. McCarty, '12
- James Dubbs. ’06 Raymond E- Skelly, ’11 William R.’Ryan, ’n William A. McKearney, ’08 -	$75.oo-	.
John W. Costello, ’12 $50.00 _ ' William Fish, ’12	-
J. Clovis Smith ’14	'
Frank B. Cornell,- ’00 . ■ _ Rev. John Schopp, ’94 -' A. J. Major, ’86	.	.
Charles Vaughan, '14 Stephen-H. Herr, ’10 -
' J. N. Antoine, ’70	.
Rev.'Thomas Cleary, '09 Fred Stewart, '12	.
Jay Lee,’12	.	.	'
Albert F. Gushurst ’091 Edward P. Cleary, ’09
-Rev? John J. Burke, ’83	-
Rev. M. L. Moriarty, ’10 • -Rev. J. E. Scullin, '09
- Rev. John P. Quinn, ’83. Simon E. Twining, ’13	-
- J. V. Birder, ’i3" ••	.	~
. Cecil E. Birder,-. ’14-
- M. Emmett Walter, ’15 ' ’
* Ralph Eberhart, ’62 ' : '
. Rev. John M.-Gerenda,-’o9
' Timothy P. .Galvin,:’16. / Ray-M. Humphreys, ? i 6
" Hugh E. Carroll,-’16
- Jesse C.'Harper W^ ,	;
., Ronald S? .O’Neill,'J14 y . ?
Louis P.;Harl, 'i6 : '	'
-", Joseph" D; Kovacks; '16 C , •*- " Patrick Maloney, -’ 16 A- ■ _
J. F. Delph, '16 Hugh O'Donnell, ’16 James Sanford, ’14 . Ira W. Hurley, ’14 Emmett G. Lenihan, '15 Francis H. Hayes, ’14 E. P. Cleary, ’09	■
Raymond J. Kelly, '16 Ernest P.-Lajoie, 'rg _ Rev. P. J. Crawley. ’95 Arthur Pino, ’06 William Milroy, ’13 Dr. Robert Frost, ’02 -. Eustace Berry, '03 '
A Friend from the South Daniel Shouvlin, ’14
$40.00 .
' Gerard N. Krost, ’04 $25.00 Joseph M. DeLone. ’02 Simeon T. Flanagan, ’14 W. B. McLain, ’04 Lawrence Janszen . Rev. A. A. Lambing, ’83 James M. Riddle, ’13 Henry Hess, ’82 Dr. E. M. McKee, '06 Robert B. Gottfredson, '13 Rev. John H. Mullin, ’11 I. N. Mitchell Sr., ’92 Frederick Williams, '13 Rev. Joseph Toth, ’11 Joseph M. Walsh, ’14. Max Adler, '89 John G. Mott, ’95 Rev. T. O. Maguire, '09 Paul J. Smith, ’16 C. I. Krajewski, ’16 Joseph P. Flynn, '16 John P. Conboy, ’16
’ -W. W. Turner, '16 Alfred Fries, '16 J. A. McCarthy, ’16
. J. Harry Sylvestre, ’16 Harold P. Burke, ’16
. Peter C. Yerns, ’16 ‘ Fred M. Pralatowski, '16 . Francis J. Kilkenny, ’12
Edward L. Figel, ’11	.
Thomas J. Dooley, ’97 Mark A. Devine, 'io Daniel E. Cooney, 'io Fremont Amfield, '12 W. W. Harless, '86	-
" - Edw’ard J. Walsh, ’00 . Thomas Curran, ’16 •_	• "	$20.00
. Gabriel Davezac, ’94
- James R. Devitt, ’13 -Albert A. Gloeckner, ' 16 •
.	$15.00 •
Bernard Durch, ’13	■
"	-	$10.00	. .
- P. J. O'Connell, '73	’
, ’ Paul T. Markey ' - '	Edward J. Markey
-.	Alfred Vignos, '95 ■ "
.	Andrew. L. Shimp, ’91
"	FrankNiedecken.'og '
. .	Harry Kirk, ’13 .	' '
Louis Chute, ’92 - - . ' ' .'J. J. D.easey, ’06	.	.
- ■ H. King.'16	“	"
- ’ James E. Roach,'’i6 , " 'J.- E. Hogan,” ’16 . .	*
:	$5-°°	’
. --RobertD.Murphy, ’di '
MarkDuncan.’is	,
\	" Hiram" Halliday,' ’06 —-
1-Claude'S. Moss, ’95 -	1 '
John Bell, .’08	•

5
