Vol. XX.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 5, 1887. No. 21.
Wilhelm Meister’s Lehijahre,
The Organic Cell, Historically Considered.
3d) armer Sxufcl, §crr Saron, Scncibc ©ic uni Sl)ren ©tanb, ’ Um Sl)rcn fo naf; am Sfjron, lint uni maud) fd)6n ©tfict Sltferlant, Um Sfyrcs Satcre fcftc§,©d)lojij, Um [cine SSilbbaljn uno ®cfd)o§.
SJHd) armen Seufcl, §crr Saron, Seneibcn ®ie, fo wieVo fdjeint, SScil bio 91afur oom ^naben fdjon SJlit mir co miificrlid).gcmcint. ’ Sd) foarb mit lei^fcm 2)iur^ unb itopf, 3foar arm, bod) nid)t ein armer Sropf.
Shin bad)t’ id), licbcr §crr Saron, 3Sir licgcn’o Scibc, rnic mir finb: Sie blicbcn bco jperrn Safers ©obn, Unb id) blicb’ mciner bluffer ,^inb. 2Bir Icbcn of;nc 9!eib unb ^ag, ' ; Segebrcn nid)t bob SlnbcfirSitcl, ®ic feincn ^lai? auf=bcm ^arna§, • Unb feincn id) in bcm Sapitel. .
[Translation :]
My noble Lord, poor devil I, ’ Oft envied you your place so great, .
Your lofty rank,’ the throne so nigh, The acres broad of your estate, Besides your father’s hall surround Such fine preserves, such-hunting ground.
Poor devil I, it now appears, My noble Lord, your envies share, As Nature from my boyhood years Bestowed-on me a Mother’s care. With merry heart, with head quite cool, Poor, poor was I, but not poor fool. !
My dearest Lord, our fates unto -We both should be quite reconciled: Your noble Father’s son are you, While I’m a Mother’s favored child;
•Why spend pur days in mutual slight,. Why envy now each other’s lot?, \ . You cannot climb Parnassus’ height, .
“ Burke’s Peerage ” has my name forgot.
;	•	-j; p-R
Second Period—1840-1865.
; PROTOPLASM—THE PROPERTIES OF LIVING MAT! TER-------THE GENERAL CONSTITUTION OF ,
THE CELL AND ITS NEW DEFINITIONS. .
1	’ ’	.	 ■	.	- --
1 The cell-content, considered as living. matter, ! was studied but little during the preceding period, i This matter was regarded as a liquid, or semi-liq-! uid mass, the nature of which was little understood; however, the presence of numerous granulations, corpuscles and protein substance had been noticed.
j	I.—The living matter had been variously named-^-
I as, “organizing matter, or substance, forming matter, germinal matter,” etc. Brisseau-Mirbel. called it, after Duhamel, by the name of Cambitim; and a little later, Schleiden gave it the name of mucilage (©d)lcim), where found in the vegetable .cell. In
■ 1835, Dujardin had called the cell-content in in-1 fuspria by the name of sarcode. But soon there ; appeared the new name of ^roto^lasma^ or protoplasm, which has ever since been retained in Science. As far as we know, this name was first introduced, by Perkinje. Reichert, in his synopsis of. the researches of Perkinje, published in 1S39—1840, says: “ According to Perkinje, there exists no precise analogy between the two organic kingdoms, except with regard to the elementary granules of the cambium of plants, and the -protoplasma. of the animal embryo.” * Hugo von Mohl, it would seem, had not known the prior existence of this
; term; for he says in 1846 (Sot. 3dt): .	. '
• “I feel myself authorized to give the name of protoplasma to that nitrogenized, semi-fluid substance, colored ' yellow by iodine, contained in the cellular cavity, and which supplies the material for the formation of the primordial utricle and nucleus.”f .	.
. * Archv. f.j.Anat und Physiol., 1841, p. clxiii.,
f it may-be of interest, to • the readerto give the words of . Von Mohl; where he first uses' the word V protoplasm ”: foie fd)on bemerftJbicFe 3ai)e§lujygfcitu&eran,foo.
enftebcnfoUen; bcncrftcn;bie' fnnftigen 3dlen’anbeut_enfeften Silbungen.boraubgcbLbafoir.ferncr.aniiebmenuni^^
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
However this may be, it is certain that it was a happy conception of Von Mohl to use the same term, although unknown to him, in order to indicate and foreshadow, so to speak, the identity existing between the animal and vegetable cell-contents.
IL—A French scientist, by the name of F. Dujardin, in 1835, was the first to make known the properties of living' matter. He left little for his successors to add to his discoveries, except generalizing and extending his researches to the protoplasm of both kingdoms. The following quotation will show how he speaks in his works concerning what he is pleased to call Sarcode:
“I propose to call sarcode what other investigators have called living jelly: that glutinous, diaphanous and homogeneous matter which refracts light a little more than water, but much less than oil; which is elastic and contractile, and capable of forming, spontaneously, spherical cavities in its interior, called ‘ vacuoles,’ so as to make a sort of cage with transparent walls. . . . Sarcode is insoluble in water; but when left in it for a long time, it gradually decomposes, and leaves'a granular residuum. Potash does not dissolve it at once, as it does mucus and albumine. but merely accelerates the decomposing action of water; nitric acid and alcohol coagulate it at once, and give it a white and opaque appearance. Its properties, therefore, are entirely different from those of other substances with which it could have been.confounded, first, because it is distinguished from albumen in not being soluble in water; and, secondly, by its insolubility in potash it is at once distinguished from mucus, gelatine, etc. . . . The most simple animals, such as the amoeba?, monads, etc., are composed wholh, at least in appearance, of this living jelly. In the higher infusoria it is enclosed in a loose tegument, which appears to surround it like a net-work, and from which it may be almost completely separated. ... We find sarcode also in eggs. in zoophytes, in worms, and in other animals j but then, as it advances in age, it is susceptible of a more complex degree of organization than in the lower scale of animals. . . . Sarcode is without visible organs, and there appears no cellular structure; nevertheless, it is organized, because it possesses the power of extending parts of its body, of contracting and dilating; in one word, it has life.”
These observations of Dujardin excited a lively interest among other scientists, especially among those of Germany, and, without doubt, they exerted a great influence over subsequent researches. Everybody set to work to study the Protozoans. Meyen, Max Schultze, Williamson, Haeckel, and many others, quoted in the Polythalames by M. Schultze ( 1854); in the Foraminifers by Williamson ( 1858), and the Radiolaria by Haeckel ( 1854). The researches of the French scientist are thus confirmed, and more and more extended; the irritability of living matter is especially brought out. Nevertheless, in spite of the clear assertions of Dujardin, sarcode continued to be regarded as matter which is proper only to the lower forms of beings. Gradually, however, this point was cleared up, and in 1861 we find M. Schultze ho longer, hesitating to pronounce the identity of sarcode with the animal cell in general. .
biefclbc bag SJlatcrial fnr bit SilbiingbcS 9luflcu6 unb bcS ^riniorbialfd)laud)c& licfcrt, inbem biefe nidjt nur in bcr ndd}ften raumlidjcn Bcrbinbimg mit bcrfclbcn ftcbcn, fonbern mid) auf . -Sob auf anaioge SScifc reagiren, bag dlfo ibre Organifation
bcr^rojeg ift ivcldjcr bic Gntftcljnng bcr ncuen 3cUc cinlcitet, fo mag co mol)l gcrcdjtfcrtigt fein, menu id) jur Scscid)nung biefer Subitanj cine auf biefe pl)i)fiologifd)c function fid) be= jie^enbe Scnennung in bcm SBortc ^rotoplaoma »orfd)lage."
Since the discovery of the intracellular circulation, by Abbd Bonaventura Corti, in 1772, many other botanists have observed various movements in the vegetable protoplasm, as may be seen from the writings of Hof meister in his “ Treatise on the Cell,” published in 1867. Since then it has been proved, beyond dnubt, that in the fungi, algae, and especially in their plasmodia, zoospores and sexual elements there are to be observed movements which are analogous to those found in sarcode. This conclusion was arrived at principally through the labors of Naegeli, Cohn, Thuret, de Bary, Braun, Schenk, Cienkowski, Wigand, Pringsheim, Schacht, etc.; and thus the way had been prepared for the generalizing and synthetic researches of Brucke (1861), M. Schultze (1863), and W. Kuhne (1864), who demonstrated the complete identity of living matter in the two kingdoms, with regard to their fundamental physical properties—irritability and contractility.
In the beginning of the year, 1865, living matter, protoplasm, or sarcode of plants and animals, could be defined as: ‘Dd mass xvhich is diaphanous, semi-liquid and viscose, extensible, but not elastic, * homogeneous, i. e., -without structure, -without apparent organization^^ containing scattered granules and endo~wcd -with irritability andcontractility.
III.—Not only was the character of protoplasm studied during this period, but a great number of scientists directed their attention also to the general constitution of the cell, and made this an object of special research. Among these we may mention Mohl, who, for a period of twenty years, edited an uninterrupted series of masterly publications, in which he not only unfolds the internal organization of the vegetable world, but also the general structure of the cell, and more in particular the minute organization which no one before had ever suspected to exist. Von Mohl studied in particular the solid membrane with its thousand arid one details—the plastic membrane, the distribution of the protoplasm in the interior of the cell, the nature of the inclusions, the chemical constitution of the membrane, the albuminous nature of protoplasm—and thus he elucidated many points in cytology, and for this reason Von Mohl may be justly styled the father of cytology.
Hanstein J pronounces a well-merited eulogy on Von Mohl, in the following words:
“It was reserved to Hugo von Mohl to elucidate the subject of the elementary structure of the cells of plants in its most ingenious simplicity. Not only did he lay the first true foundations of our actual knowledge upon this subject, but he exposed clearly its most important traits.”
In 1844, Von Mohl called attention to an essential point, namely, the differentiation of the peripheral layer of protoplasm. He showed that this layer is modified and transformed into a thin
* Dujardin had called it elastic. We will see later whether there is any reason why this statement of Dujardin should have been rejected.	-.
■f Dujardin maintained that it must be organized.
J Hanstein on Protoplasm in Revue Internationale, Oct. 15, 1880, p. 341.
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
339
lamella, which he called utricle or primordial membrane (^riinorbialkljlaiid)). Schleiden had regarded this membrane as a mucilaginous zone; but Von Mohl, in answer to Schleiden, says:
“ The question at issue is not one concerning mere words. A peripheral layer, which is differentiated, more dense than the internal protoplasm, and capable of folding itself so as to involve also the cellular contents, presents, without doubt, all the characteristics of a true membrane.”
In speaking of the vacuoles and the fluid they contain, he calls this fluid “cell-sap” (Sdlfaify and he states, expressly, in accordance with Dujardin (as seen above), that we must not mistake this fluid for the protoplasm. He says:
“This is repelled by the cell-sap, and sometimes reduced into treads which break and contract towards the periphery where the whole protoplastic mass will iorm a sac enclosing a large vacuole filled with water, i. e., cell-sap. These vacuoles, therefore, are nothing but inclusions (gin[d)luijc).”
The grains of starch, of aleurone and crystals, etc., are, in his eyes, also inclusions, contained in the protoplastic mass, but entirely distinct from it.
The statement of Von Mohl may be expressed in the.following words: The vegetable cell is a closed utricle surrounded by a solid membrane, containing a protoplastic body in which is lodged a nucleus. With regard to the protoplasm itself, we must distinguish a peripheral part, which is differentiated into a primordial membrane, and the internal part, which, in young cells, is homogeneous; but in mature cells it is sometimes reduced into mere threads by inclusions, or even it may form a sac close to the cellulose membrane.
Von Mohl goes still further. Convinced, as he was, that in cytology every term must receive a precise meaning, he is careful in determining precisely what sense must be given to the word protoplasm.
“In general,” he says, in 1846, “this word is used to signify that opaline and viscose mass which exists prior to the other parts of the cell; and, in fact, it is this protoplasm which furnishes the materials out of which are formed the primordial utricle and the nucleus.” Thus we see at once that he characterizes protoplasm as the living matter. Later, in 1851, when he treats, ex-professo, of the cellular organization, having spoken of the primordial utricle and the nucleus, he adds: “The remaining part of the cell is more or less filled by an opaline, viscose, white and granular substance, which I call protoplasm.”* Thus, according to Von Mohl, in a complete cell, with membrane and nucleus, the name protoplasm is reserved to the hyaline and viscose part, -which remains bet-ween the tvoo in its primitive state.	'
We see, therefore, that Von Mohl, by his interesting researches, has realized an immense progress in the science of cytology; yet one mistake he made, and that’is, he confined himself to the study of the higher plants. '
While Von Mohl made his researches, other investigators applied themselves to the study of ani-
* ©cr iibrige Sljeil her 3dlc ift init ciner trubcn, jaljcn mit Horndjen gcmcngtcn §liigigfcit bon ibcigcr #arbe, lucldje id; ^rotoplaSnia nennc, niefy obcr focnigcr bidjt gcfiillt.
mals, and particularly to the protozoans, and arrived at conclusions somewhat different from those of Von Mohl.	.
Schwann, who regarded the cell membrane as an essential part of both the animal and vegetable cell, had to abandon this position, and was obliged to confess its absence in the white bloodcorpuscles; and, moreover, the study of the lower, beings—such as the zoospores of algae and fungi, and of the Myxomycetes, etc.—more than even the study of the higher animals and plants, soon convinced most investigators that the views of Von Mohl required great modification.
It was Leydig who, in 1856, first gave, up the definition of the cell which, till his time, had obtained. “The contents of the cell,” he says, “are of greater importance than the membrane; for there is the seat of irritability and contractibility.” About the same time (1861), Briicke doubted whether the nucleus is an essential part of the cell, since among cryptogams many cells are found devoid of a nucleus. Schwann ( 1854), in his study, of the Amoeba porrecta, had already noticed the absence of a nucleus. Such examples of the absence of a nucleus in the cell multiplied to such an extent that Haeckel established a whole group of animals, the moners or cytodes,* characterized by the absence of the nucleus. Thus we now find many scientists who regard the cell as “a simple globule of protoplasm,” which even by some is said to be a mere speck of albumen !
IV.—Whilst many studied the protoplasm and the cell-membrane, there were not a few who also gave their attention to the study of the nucleus; but they met with little success.
It had been observed for a long time that the living nucleus appears within the protoplasm as a clear spot, more or less granular in structure, and containing an aqueous fluid. Schleiden ( 1S38) had even described and fissured some nuclei, with numerous. contracted granules, which appear to be arranged in a regular order, j Naegeli (1844) and Unger (1846) had observed that the nucleus in many cases is also surrounded by a membrane.
The nucleus was the limit of investigration, for it was impossible for Science to penetrate any deeper into the structure of the cell, on account of the imperfect means it had at its disposal during this epoch. During the twenty subsequent years, no advance in the knowledsre of the nucleus was made: What was affirmed by one, was the next moment denied by another, and the most contradictory . statements were made concerning the nucleohis.J ;
Finally, the study of the nucleolus was given up entirely for want of suitable instruments of investigation. And here it is well to point out the mistake made with regard to the study of the nucleus. \ Instead of taking.a simple and typical nucleus for . '
* It is well known that Haeckel gives the name of. cytodes to cells without nucleus.	. .	.	<
f Evidently he had mistaken the convolutions, or pro- ; tuberances, of the nucleolus.	,	.	. .
J See Flemming Zellsubstanz, etc., pp. 178-7190, and pp. . 1311-164.	.	’	.
34°	'	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
study, investigators took the nuclei of eggs, possibly on account of their large-size-and importance; but every cytologist’ knows that these nuclei are far -from being typical; for, to understand them well, we must first acquire a knowledge of the-nucleus in its normal state.
(conclusion next week.)
The Hawaiian. Islands.*
III.
My last letter was from Panalun, a small village, and landing twenty-eight miles to the Southwest of Kilauea. In that letter I promised to send you some account of the great volcano of Kilauea; and now, that I have seen it and have made rather an extended examination of it and its environs, I hasten to make my promise good.
I deem it well, however, to begin where I left off, and tell you something, not only of the volcano, and what is seen in its immediate vicinity, but also how one gets from Panalun here, and what is to be seen on the way. In a strange and new country like this, where everything is so different from what it is in our own land, the most trivial scenes and incidents possess an interest and an attraction they could not possibly have elsewhere. Even in Panalun itself, small as it is, one may find many objects to arrest his attention. Conspicuous among these are the peculiar grass houses of the natives. Many of the houses here, as elsewhere through the islands, are built of wood or stone, and are essentially the same as those in the United States. But the native houses, such as all Hawaiian houses were at the time of the discovery, oftheseislands, are made of a rude framework and heavily thatched. They are, as a rule, very substantially made, and are quite durable. They possess the ad vantage, too, of always being cool and comfortable; Like the adobe houses of New and Old-Mexico, they seem to be specially adapted to the people and the country in which they are found. If I were to reside permanently in Mexico, I should have an adobe building to live in; and if I were to cast my lot for any length of time among:the islanders here, I should certainly have a grass house as my home. It is so cosy and ■picturesque that one cannot help taking a fancy to it, and preferring it to the more ornate buildings that are fashioned out of wood, brick and stone. Outside of the grass houses just spoken of, the majority of houses -are made-of wood and stone. The stone employed is mostly lava; but in the case of the palace and.some of the other larger buildings in-Honolulu, they are made of coral rock. There are a number of buildings in Honolulu made of brick, but in these cases the material used was -brought from San Francisco. - The. nature of the earth here, being nothing but disintegrated lava, .precludes the possibility of making brick therefrom.
I would not, however,;have you infer from
♦ Continued from No. 19.	: "
what I have said that the grass houses referred to are the rule, or that they are even very numerous. Some years ago the majority of houses were made of thatchj but now they are rapidly disappearing, and in a few years more they will be objects of curiosity, even to the natives themselves. Lumber, brought from California, Oregon and the Puget Sound , region, can be purchased here at such a low price that the inhabitants find that it is cheaper to build houses of lumber than to make them, as of old, of straw or grass. The consequence is that one of the most interesting and picturesque features of these islands—grass houses or huts—will soon be a thing of the past.
The trip from Panalun to the summit of the volcano is not a difficult one. It is frequently made by ladies and children, and with comparatively little fatigue. The reason is simple. The crater is only a little over 4,000 feet above sea level, and, as a consequence, one does not get into that rare atmosphere that makes the ascent of loftier mountains so difficult. The only difficulty attending the ascent of Kilauea is the phenomenally rough roads, or trails, that lead to its summit; but even these have been so improved that no mountain climber could reasonably find fault with them. Indeed, considering the difficulties to be overcome in clearing a trail from the landing to the mountain top, one can only be surprised that it is as good as it is. I have had considerable experience in mountain climbing, and I do not remember ever making an ascent with less fatigue than that consequent on my ascent of Kilauea.
A MOUNTAIN CLIMB.
The morning I left Panalun, I had an early breakfast, and about 7 o’clock my guide informed me that every thing was in readiness for our journey. I was conducted to the terminus of a small tramway, a few rods from the hotel, and here I found a little car, or truck, that was to carry me the first five miles up the mountain. This tramway is used for carrying freight and an occasional passenger to and from the large sugar mill at Pahala, which is five miles up the mountain. The car, or cars, are generally taken from the landing to the mill by a small locomotive, or dummy. Occasionally the hauling is done by horses or mules. On coming down, however, the grade is so great that both mules and locomotive are dispensed with, and gravitation does the work of conveying the train to the lower terminus. When the car was ready to start, I found that the passenger list, which at first was limited to myself, was increased by the addition of two half-caste native ladies and a servant—hn almon-eyed Chinaman. These three lived on a ranch a short distance up the mountain, side, not far from Pahala.	,
Our car was hauled by five rhules hitched tandem, driven by a young, active Portuguese youth, who insisted in running alongside the animals the entire length of the road. Such a long run, and always keeping up with the mules, which hurried on in a kind of a dog-trot, and over such a rough road, would 'have killed an ordinary person; but our
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
34i;
sturdy driver seemed to be as fresh and strong at the end of his long race as he was at the beginning.
The little railroad passes over a bleak and desolated waste of lava—mostly of the rough, sharp, broken variety, known here as a-a. In the distance, and towards the coast, there were large stretches of the kind called 'pahoehoe. This has a comparatively smooth surface, which is black and shining, and is in marked contrast with the beautiful turquoise blue of the ocean, or the bright green of the sugar plantations that cover the lower belts of the mountain flank.
A RIDE OVER LAVA.
On passing over these hard, rough lava deposits
one could scarcely imagine they would ever support any form of vegetation whatever; but the large, luxuriant fields of sugar cane show that right here is a soil as rich as any in the world. Lava rock is readily decomposed by the action of the elements, and there is then formed a soil that is unequalled in richness, and capable of supporting any form of vegetation whatever. Indeed, so rapid is the disintegration, and so rich is the soil, that one will find plants growing in the crevices'of lava that has recently flowed from the crater and is scarcely yet cooled. Nay, more: cocoanut, coffee and pineapple trees seem to thrive in lava while yet hard. If the plaritlet can only find a small crack in which to strike root, it is sure to develop into a healthy shrub or a large tree. Some of
himself and one for me.
GATHERING
the finest cocoanut groves
in the islands are on the hard, bare lava shores of
the ocean, and the finest pine-apples flourish in localities scarcely less propitious. And the pineapples one gets here! So large and luscious, and sb different from the half-ripe, juiceless things that the markets of our colder climates palm off on an unsuspecting public as pine-apples.
Everywhere on the sides of the mountain up to a certain altitude, one will see charming white cottages or farm houses, that remind one of the cheerful country homes of New England. They are occupied by those engaged on the sugar plantations, or who are interested in the cattle ranches farther up. One ranch, belonging to the Hawaiian Agricultural Company, which controls most of the sugar plantations spoken of, and the mill at .the Pahala; counts no fewer than seven thousand cattle.
These roam up and down the mountain, from timberline to the shore.	' '
On reaching the Pahala, I left the car and entered a covered express wagon, drawn by four horses. The only persons in the .wagon besides myself, were the driver—a young Kanaka, named Mao— and his brother, Keeli, who went along, presumably, to have a ride. In this express wagon we drove some twelve miles, and about noon we hauled up at a “Half-way House,” where a very fair lunch was served by a half-caste native woman, who is married to a Norwegian.	' '
After lunch, Mao saddled two mules—one for
These were to carry us the rest of our journey, about twelve miles further on. Keeli was left at the half-w’ay house, where he remained until our return. Our trail,for a few miles, lay through a light forest of ohza and mamane trees, with here and there an occasional kukuio. “ Here,” said
Mao, “ is a great place for wild turkeys.” These .are, it appears, found in great numbers in the mountain forests, as are also partridges, several of which we saw in passing along the trail. There are also numerous wild cattle roaming through the woods — descended from those Vancouver brought to the islands and presented to Kameham eha I, together with numbers of wild hogs
-	-	> -	-	.-O- -
and dogs. Lizzards are seen quite frequently, but snakes, as in Ireland, are unknown. Mao said he knew of such things only
cocoanuts.	,c .	.	0 . .J
from some pictures ne had seen. The 'fauna of the islands is very limited, and was much more so before the advent of the white: men, who imported all the domestic animals now found on the island*. The dog and ■hog^-were found here on the arrival of Cook, but were most likely introduced by the Spaniards at an earlier date. .	'	.	■
. "Mosquitbes^and flies are American importations. They were .unknown here until 1823, when they were brought' over ip ‘ an American vessel; -but they are now 'so numerous that a mosquito bar is-as indispensable as it is in Louisiana or Arkansas.
After riding- some two or three miles, we . emerged from the woodland; and-came" to'the roughest and "most difficult part of - the trail. One could-how begin'to appreciate the’hatureand power of the forces'which have so long operated in thes^
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
islands, and which have given rise to some of the most stupendous
VOLCANIC PHENOMENA
in the world. Everywhere along our path, traces of the action of these mighty forces were most strikingly manifest. We crossed, one after the other, immense rivers of black indurated lava, which told of the various eruptions in the past history of the volcano. Some were quite recent, and their surfaces were yet smooth and splendent; others dated away back to prehistoric times, and plainly discovered their age by their present state of disintegration, and by the clumps of trees that here and there had found a congenial soil in the decomposed rock.
And the strange and fantastic forms that were outlined in these Plutonic floods! In one place were to be seen huge waves that seemed to have
suddenly congealed in their downward, impetuous course oceanwards; in another there were mossy hammocks that had the appearance of being covered with enormous coils of heavy,black rope. Here the lava seemed to have been stirred about by one of Pele’s attendant spirits, I trow, just at the moment of solidification; there the surface was fretted with the most singular' ripples and undulations one could imagine. To the right one might see masses of the frozen rock that had been contorted into the most fanciful of shapes while it was yet in a viscous state; to the left could be observed an approach to prismatic forms that betrayed an unsuccessful effort
towards the production of regular basaltic columns.
A GLIMPSE OF THE CRATER.
It was about 4 o’clock in the afternoon when we reached the summit of Kilauea and caught the first glimpse of the world-renowned crater. But - we were then so tired, after our long ride, that we did not stop to get even a momentary view of it. We wished to reserve the pleasure of viewing and examining the crater until we should have leisure to do so to our satisfaction.
When we reached the top of the volcano, my attention was attracted by a peculiar kind of red huckleberry, called by the natives ohelo^ which is found here in abundance. They look something like a very large red currant, and are rather agreeable to the taste. Indeed, ohelo pie is considered by many as quite a luxury.	.
The large tree ferns or j>ulu ferns, that abound here, likewise deserve notice. .They sometimes attain an extraordinary size, reaching to a height of twenty feet, and having fronds eight and ten feet
long, with stems three or four inches in diameter. They exhibit a luxuriance and a delicacy of coloring that is simply enchanting. Each plant or tree reveals all the charming shades of green, from the delicate pea tint, of the tender incurving fronds to the darker green of fronds there that are more mature. I have always been an admirer of ferns, but I have never seen any that pleased me as much as those I have found here in Hawaii. If they could be transplanted as they exist here, they could be made the ornament and the pride of the finest conservatories of the world. Indeed, I do not think that Flora possesses in her entire kingdom, extensive as it is, anything more truly i beautiful than the magnificent tree ferns fthat are here the marvel and delight of every lover of Nature.	.
The “Volcano House,” from which I send you
THE MOLTEN LAKE OF HALENAUNAU.
this communication, is a fair-sized one-story frame building, and capable of lodging, comfortably, J twenty or thirty persons. The accommodations i were an agreeable surprise to me in every way. i Nice, cosy rooms, and a cuisine that would compare favorably with that of some of our more pretentious American hotels; and a variety and an abundance i of food sufficient to satisfy even an epicure. One does not expect to find such luxuries in such an out-of-the-way place as this; and when they are placed before one, they are doubly appreciated.
The inn is in charge of Mr. Mabey, an American, who has spent several 'years in the islands. Like many other foreigners, he has chosen his helpmeet from among the natives. His wife is a most intelligent lady, speaks English fluently, and understands well how to entertain. ' But hospitality is a marked characteristic of the Hawaiian®, and they have the reputation of being the most hospitable people in the.world. From what I have seen of them, and from what I know of olher people, I think the statement is no exaggeration.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
343
The first place I visited was the sulphur banks, near the northern $0.11 of the crater. For one who has never seen anything of the kind, they are quite interesting. Here are found large deposits of pure sulphur, to which constant additions are being made by the various solfataras which here abound. The specimen-hunter will here come across some very fine crystals of sulphur, or rather masses of small crystals; but they are so fragile that it is almost impossible to preserve them. One will, however, look in vain for the large, handsome specimens that are to be obtained at the famous sulphur mines of Girgenti, in Sicily. The sulphur deposits here remind me somewhat of the well-known “ Sulphur Mountain” of the Yellowstone National Park. The quantity of sulphur, however, that is found in the latter place, is much greater than that afforded by the deposits of Kilauea.
I was most interested in an extinct crater, about two miles from here and not far from the eastern edge of the active crater of Kilauea. It is called Kilauea-iki. It is in the form of an inverted cone, is about half a mile across at the top and 1,500 feet in depth. The bottom is covered with shiny black lava, and on the western side, next to the active crater of Kilauea, I noticed several orifices from which lava had recently flown, and, evidently from the lava lakes of the active volcano hard by. The crater of Kilauea-iki .is quite symmetrical, and in size and form quite resembles that of the celebrated Mexican volcano, Popocatapetl. The color of the lava, however, in the two craters is quite different. In the latter it is reddish, or of a brownish red color, whilst in the former, as in nearly all the craters and volcanic deposits of Hawaii, it is jet black. '
On the way to Kilauea-iki I observed a long, deep fissure in the earth, which, the guide told me, was made during the night of the subsidence of the fire lakes of Kilauea, last March. In some places it was yards in width; in others the width was not more than one or two feet. Several similar chasms were formed in the neighborhood of the crater the same night, some larger, others smaller. “ It was,” said the guide “ a terrible night for us here. There were no fewer than forty-two distinct shocks of earthquake, some of which were particularly severe. We thought the whole volcano would be shaken to pieces.”
(to be continued.)
College Gossip.
—Although German is an optional study in the schools of St. Louis, there are 21,655 pupils studying the language.
—There are toi medical colleges in the United States, annually attended by nearly 15,000 students, of whom 5,000 graduate this year.
—Ex-President White has presented to Cornell University his valuable historical library, consisting of about 30,000 volumes and 10,000 pauiphlcts.
1—Dartmouth is the only chartered college in
New Hampshire. The Legislature of that progressive State will not grant a charter to any new educational institution.
—Two thousand eight hundred and forty graduates registered at Cambridge during the anniversary. The signatures of the guests and graduates are to be preserved and collected in book form, a companion to the “ Book of Autographs of Graduates and Guests who were Present at the Two Hundredth Anniversary in 1886.”—Ex.
—The Senior class at Columbia College are going to leave a memorial with their Alma Mater., when they depart next June, that will not only cause them to be remembered, but will also be of great benefit to the institution. They propose to expend between $800 and $1,000 for books on one subject and present them to the college library.—^Egis.
—Cardinal Gibbons recently said of the plans for the Catholic University: “ The building will be begun on April 1. The architect has all the plans ready; yhey’have been approved,and we now only await favorable weather. As we have enough money on hand to put the theological department into operation, it will be built as rapidly as possible. After that we will go slowly, paying as we build. It will take some time to get our faculty together. Bishop Keane is now looking about the universities of Europe for available men, and I expect he will have secured a few by the time he returns. We propose to have as professors the ablest men, in all branches of learning, who can be secured in this
_	01
country and Europe, so that our university will equal, if not surpass, the greatest in America.”
A LEARNED WOMAN.
Phidias and Pericles,	.
Theseus and Heracles, Pyrrhus and Pompilius, And Scipio and his filius. And old Romulus and Remus, " Nicodemus and Polyphemus, Abraham and Trismegistus, Anaxagoras and his sisters—
These, all these, and more than these, Were known to Miss Sophronia Pease.
Mathematics, hydrostatics, . Biquadratics and pneumatics, Conchology and astrology, Phlebotomy and trichotomy, Paleontology and geology, Social statics, numismatics, Economy and astronomy, Genesis and Deuteronomy—
These, all these, and more than these, .
Were known to Miss Sophronia Pease. ' ,
Kitchen-sweeping and house-keeping, Washing dishes, cooking fishes, Sewing buttons, baking muttons, Wielding ladles, rocking cradles, Working ric-rac, making bric-a-brac. Lifting covers, charming lovers, Succotash or boiled potatoes, Salt, or soda, or saleratus,	-
The domestic cookery question, Or the ethics of digestion—
These, all these, and more than these, Were Greek to Miss Sophronia Pease;
—S.W.Foss.
344
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
WWW OWE
Notre Dame, February 5, 1887.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Twentieth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the Universit}7 of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it. •
Terms, Sijo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediate]}7 each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and -wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—To-morrow, the 6th inst., will be the 73d anniversary of the birthday of Very Rev. Father General Sorin. The occasion is one that will call forth the fervent prayers and good wishes of the venerable Founder’s friends—and they are without number; for it is a day that marks the beginning of a grand life to which, under God, Notre Dame I and the Order of Holy'Cross owe the great meed of success with which they have, been blessed. Seldom does it fall to the lot of any mortal to witness, during his earthly life, the development into full-maturity of the beginning .of a grand under- taking.whose growth has been nurtured and protected at the cost of great personal sacrifices, and : despite the most trying difficulties and . obstacles. j As a general thing, the short space of time allotted - an individual .will-permit, him to see little more -than the actual inauguration of the work of realizing plans formed, when he is obliged to leave to others Jo complete and perfect.^
- What is really^an exceptional:blessmg and privi-• lege has been given to ourweherable Founder, who, now in the evening of his days, beholds around him the grand crowning of thd work to which he had
| devoted his life, as he sees the wonderful extent and । development of the educational and religious in-j stitutions which, forty-five years ago, he founded | in a cold and barren wild. The years of labor | and toil have been crowned with success, and it is fitting that anniversaries of striking periods in such a grand and exemplary career should be occasions of joy and gratitude to those whose privilege it now is to profit by the advantages thus secured. It is with pleasure that all at Notre Dame, and her. many friends elsewhere, see that Father Founder—who has been so aptly styled “The Patriarch of the West”—is still in the enjoyment of perfect health and vigor, and will, we hope, be able, for many years to come, to add, by his presence and wise counsels, to the ever-increasing prosperity of Notre Dame.
The members of the Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association will give an entertainment this afternoon in St. Edward’s Hall, in honor of the occasion. At the same time, we, of the Scholastic, take occasion to present our congratulations to the venerable Founder, and express—what we are certain is the prayer and sentiment of all at Notre Dame—that be may celebrate many another such happy anniversary.
—The examinations were concluded on the 30th ult. That the. extra work which was entailed upon both the professors and students was amply compensated, by the almost entire satisfaction which it afforded, it would be needless for us to say. We would not have it understood that we mean to say that in every instance the pupils gave their professors ample cause for pride. - We confess that there were exceptions, and that some were found deficient in one or more of their classes. The reason why they were so is well known to these pupils themselves. It is evident that their deficiency was caused solely by their want , of application and hard study during the five months past. Had they applied themselves during the time which they spent here since September, they, too, might have passed brilliant examinations.
However, the vast majority of the students did great honor to themselves by their ready and I correct answers.- They fulfilled the highest expectations of their teachers, who have labored hard in their behalf during the session. They proved, beyond a' doubt, that they had faithfully done the work allotted to them during the session: that, not wasting their time in the study-hall, they had diligently prepared’ themselves 'for their classes; ■ and that, when they were in class, they gave heed ! to the instructions of their teachers. It would be a pleasure for us to make especial mention of the many hard-working, earnest students who particularly distinguished themselves on the occasion of the examination, but our.space will not permit. We print elsewhere in ; this : paper the general averages of the ^students, .from which every one can judge of.the satisfactory manner in which the great majority, acquitted themselves.	-
, Before concluding. yye wQuld state that we
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC; ■	345
have it from the officers of the house that the examinations have given them satisfaction and pleasure; and that, if the June examinations show a like improvement in the students, they will not only be satisfied, but even proud’of the success of the University during the past year.
And now a word or two to those who failed. If you failed at the February examination, do not let that discourage you, but let it excite you to energy and hard study. Endeavor during the coming months to make up for the time lost during the pastsession. Studv with a vim that will carry everything before it. Apply every moment of study-time to the work which you have cut out for you, and then when the June examinations come-you will receive the reward of your labors.
The “Register” on “Dr. McGlynn’s Case.”
A few months ago, when Mr. Henry George, at the head of the so-called Labor Party, appeared to be a most formidable rival to the strongest of all political candidates for the Mayoralty of New York, an unanimous cry of warning against the encroachments of Communism went forth from the press of the country, and with it a strong appeal was made to the ecclesiastical authorities to exercise their influence against the spread of socialistic theories which threatened to gain a hold upon the popular mind. The crisis came; election day went by; Mr. George with his following, though displaying unexpected strength, was defeated, and the danger was passed. But scarcely had the people escaped from the apparent danger which threatened them, when the press, which hitherto had appealed to the power of the Church, with wonted inconsistency, eagerly seized upon a pretext for renewing old, time-worn charges of ecclesiastical interference in politics. The strongest upholder of Mr. George’s candidacy—one to whom he owed the immense vote which he polled—was a priest of the Church. The action which the latter took in the campaign was in open defiance of his Superior, and in disobedience to his command. For this he was deposed from his Rectorship, and at once the secular press begin to inveigh against “ the power of Rome,” and want to know “ whether a man can be a Catholic priest and an American citizen too.”
We regret to see that our neighboring and esteemed contemporary, the ■South Bend Register, has been led away by a false sentimentality—if, as we hope, it be not, like the others, a rooted prejudice against the Church. In its issue of the 1st inst., the Register says of Dr. McGlynn:
“ While being thus, disciplined by his Church, the sec- । ular-and religious press unite in striking at him until he i has no friends but ‘ publicans and sinners.’ ”	,	'
If the Editor of the Register had read the Chicago Times, the Chicago Tribune, the Nevs York Herald, and other papers that might be named, which make a pretty.fair representation of the “secular press,” he would have observed that—however i.t
may have, been “before the war,” or before the election^—it is the Church, and not Dr; McGlynn, that now comes in for.the “hard knocks.” m’;
The Register further says:	.
“Who knows whether" the doctor is right or wrong; butj whether right or wrong, is he not, as an American citizen and a Cai holic priest, allowed to believe it, and make public the reasons for his belief? This is a serious question, and it is time the American people knew whether the Catholic Church insists on controlling the political as well as the spiritual beliefs of its clergy __The Catholic Church is the most powerful ecclesiastical body; in this country and the world, and when it enters the domain.o£ politics it wields an influence that cannot be measured.”
Our e. c. does not see wherein he contradicts, himself. It is precisely because the Church, as an organized spiritual body, desires not to enter ‘‘the domain of politics ” that she insists that her ministers, as such, shall'take no official part in politics. Let the Register consider what the consequences would be if its idea of the Catholic priesthood and American citizenship were to prevail. Among the Catholic clergy there are men of" every shade of political belief—Republicans, Democrats, Prohibitionists, etc.—and if these sought, in their official capacity, to impress their beliefs upon the people of their congregations, what a confusion, there would be in the workings of the social order, and what a howl would go up from men of all parties—even from our friend the Register— crying out that the “ pulpit should not be suborned to party feeling! ” Why, then, this attack upon the Church, because of Dr. McGlynn? He had simply made himself amenable to ecclesiastical laws and regulations to which he had sworn obedience, and should take the consequences of his disobedience. There is no question of politics in the matter, except in this wise: Dr. McGlynn employed his position and influence, as a minister of the Church and rec-, tor of a large congregation, in favor of the candidate of a political party—if we can call Mr. George’s following by that name—he himself taking a.most active and prominent part in the canvass,; going from poll to poll on election, day for the purpose of influencing voters. Is it presumption to say* that such conduct was unministerial? We think not. Why blame the ecclesiastical authorities; if. such conduct is reproved? Is the Church “meddling in politics” by punishing, the disobedience of one of her ministers in such cases? • .
The esteemed chief of the Register has a most excellent staff; but if one of his subordinates were . to insert political views'contrary to . his own,or give unfavorable reports-of: his party, meetings, it is not too much to say. that .the .ofFending.subi would be summarily “bounced,” and the.worthy., chief would be held blameless, by the-readers; of his paper. Dr. McGlynn.-was .free .to .-become, a priest of-the Church, and. he is free .to leaye-Jhat anytime. But it stands to, reason thatJf-he desires to remain an officer of that body, he must conform to its. principles and teachings. ;And .among jhe. disciplinary regulations to which Dr.<:McGIynn -; subjected himself , was one ,enj*oining ■himoto-.re-frain from an active participationrin-politics. >• g-
Let the Register remember..that -the.Church js;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
not of to-day or yesterday. Down through the ages. from the very beginning of the Christian era, she has seen the various mutations in all forms of human government. She has co-existed with them ; she has seen their rise and fall, and will survive them in the end. She has her own sphere of action, and in that she lives and moves. Recognizing the truth that the power of the governor comes, through the will of the governed, from God, the Supreme Being, in whom all authority is centred, she—while allowing the widest possible latitude to her ministers, as private individuals—affiliates, herself, with no political party, but recognizes the supreme civil authority in whomsoever it may be legitimately vested by the will of the people of any organized society.
Obituary.
Prof. Jacob Ackermann.
It is with deep and sincere regret that we record this week the death of a most highly esteemed member of our ’ honorable Faculty—Mr. Jacob Ackermann, Professor of Drawing in the University. He departed this life at his residence at Notre Dame on the evening of Saturday, the 29th ult., after a lingering illness of more than three months’ duration-. The funeral services were held in the College church on Tuesday, the istinst., and were attended by the relatives and friends of the deceased, and the Faculty and students of the University. Solemn Requiem Mass was sung by Rev. Father Stoffel, assisted by Rev. Fathers Morrissey and Regan as deacon and subdeacon. The sermon was preached by Very Rev. Provincial Corby, C. S. C., who had been intimately acquainted with the deceased from the time of his first arrival at Notre Dame, in 1853. He spoke eloquently of the many excellent qualities of mind and heart which marked the character of the departed Professor, and the great good which, as artist and teacher, he had wrought during his stay at Notre Dame. After recalling many interesting reminiscences of the early career of Prof. Ackermann, which revealed his character as a Christian gentleman and conscientious Professor, Father Corbj7 feelingly referred to the last moments of that excellent life, which was fittingly crowned by a happy end. “ Like one of the patriarchs of old,” said the Rev. Father, “when he felt the end approaching, he called his children, one by one to his bedside, blessing them, and giving to each excellent words of advice. __ O r O
Then, after an affectionate farewell to his family, fortified by the Sacraments of the Church and all the consolations of religion, he calmly resigned his soul into the hands of his God.”
After the sermon, the pall-bearers—Profs. Lyons, Gregori, Paul, J. Ewing, McCue and O’Dea—took : lip the casket, and the funeral procession wended its way to Cedar Grove Cemetery, where all that is ' mortal of Prof. Ackermann was consigned to earth to await the coming of a glorious resurrection.
Prof. Ackermann was a native of Prussia, and was entering upon the sixtieth year of his age at the time of his death. His connection with the Faculty of the University began in the Spring of the year 1853, when he was engaged by Very Rev. Father Sorin, then President—now Superior-General—to teach the classes of Drawing. He was highly esteemed as a popular and successful teacher. Plc was then in the bloom of early manhood, full of life and vigor, of a generous, frank disposition, gifted with varied talents, witty, and ever desirous to make others happy—qualities that made him a congenial companion to his fellowprofessors, and a general favorite among the students. As those who knew him in those early days expressively say: “He was the life of the place.”
Among his works in those primitive times were, the frescoing of the old church, which he also adorned with several religious pictures; the mural paintings on the walls of the old College, which remained up to the time of the fire, and the painting of the Chapel of St. Aloysius’ Seminary—the latter work he renewed, a year ago, but the old mural painting of the “ Apparition of La Salette,” which he made in 1853, remained untouched and may still be seen in all its pristine beauty. It is related of him that when, on the eve of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception in 1854, the news of the definition of the dogma was received at Notre Dame, he worked the whole night upon a painting of Our Lady, in order to have it ready for the Festival next day.	.
Though devoted to painting, yet he was also a musician of considerable ability. He was an excellent player on the guitar, and was one of the leading members of the old College Band, which, tradition says, was one of the most excellent amateur organizations in the country, and which numbered amongst its players some who are now enjoying high ecclesiastical and civil dignities. He was also the possessor of a fine tenor voice, and took a prominent part in the College choir, as well as lending his voice and instrument to add to the most agreeable features of the College entertainments. Towards the close of the year 1856, he severed his connection with the University and went back to his native land.
Some years subsequently he returned to this country and settled in Lafayette, Ind. On the rebuilding of the College, after the fire of 1879, he was engaged by Very Rev. W. Corby, then President, to resume the work he had so successfully done, a quarter of century before, and adorn with mural paintings the College walls. In that year he removed with his famih7 to Notre Dame, and entered upon the work in which he was engaged when sickness obliged him to desist. The mural paintings, representing scenes from ancient and modern Rome, which coyer the walls of the Senior and Junior dining halls, will remain memorials of his artistic handiwork, as well as the grand scenic effects which may be seen in Washington Hall.
During the time of his late connection with the
THE NOTRE DAWE SCHOLASTIC.
347
University, all at Notre Dame learned to appreciate the worth of Prof. Ackermann, and it was with universal and sincere sorrow that the news of his death was received. The bereaved family have the sincere sympathy of all here in their affliction; but they have also the consoling thought that the kind, loving husband and father died, as he had lived, a sincere, devoted Christian, which gives the comforting assurance that his soul will be speedily admitted to its eternal reward. May he rest in peace!
Resolutions of the Faculty on the Demise of Prof. Jacob Ackermann.
Whereas, it hath pleased Divine Providence, in His inscrutable Wisdom, to remove our beloved and valued associate, Prof. Jacob Ackermann, from this life of struggle to a more blessed existence, Therefore, be it:
Resolved, That in the decease of Prof. Jacob Ackermann we have lost a true friend, an edifying Christian, a worthy member of our Faculty, and a talented artist, whose works will decorate the walls of our College buildings as long as they shall stand:
Resolved, That in this affliction we bow to the decrees of Divine Providence, convinced that our present loss is our friend’s eternal gain:
Resolved, That we tender our sincere condolences to the bereaved widow and orphans of the late Professor, exhorting them to be consoled by a consideration of the unblemished life and virtues of the deceased:
Resolved, That these resolutions be printed in the Notre Dame Scholastic, the Sozith Bend Tribune^ the Lafayette Sunday 7'imes. and the Logansport Pharos.
N. J. Stoffel, C. S. C., 1
Joseph A. Lyons, A.M., J- Committee.
Arthur J. Stace, A. M., )
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■a
. Local Items.
—At it again!
—Eli Perkins next Friday.
—The boat-club’s “ cry for aid ” is being drafted.
—Who got the best average? Falter, of the O	o	7
Juniors.
—Fencing will shortly be a new “kink” in the Senior gym.
—Due notice will be given in these columns of the next musical soiree!
—Tickets for “ Eli Perkins’ ” lecture, on the i ith inst., will be for sale from Tuesday on.
—The relations of the various boards with the students are innoxiously pulchritudinous once more, i
—We hope our Lecture Bureau realize the necessity of making engagements before the “ season ” is over.
—Unfortunately, there is no confirmation of the
rumor-that the c.-of-n. banquet will take place at the o.-of-n.
—Tell it not! The committee decided on “ William Tell ” as the drama for the Thespian Exhi- , bition on the 2?d.
—The St. Thomas Aquinas’ Academy will hold a public disputation on next Wednesday evening in St. Cecilia Hall.
—The ground-hog did not see his shadow in this vicinity on Candlemas Day. Therefore expect fine weather during the next six weeks.
—The one who, by mistake, on the cd inst., took a comforter from the sacristy will confer a favor on the owner bv returning it to the same place.
—The class have registered a silent vow within, their bosom to get square with the fellow who said that they had no right to feel like crested cocks with their “plugs” on.	-
—As the Second Latin Class obtained the highest average in the Collegiate Course (97^), its component members will soon be-peted by their genial instructor, Prof. J.-A. Lyons.
—We are informed that the second session opens with the largest attendance ever known in the history of the University. There are at the present time exactly 450 students. But there is room for all.
—Pretty fair skating has been enjoyed during the week. “It’s an ill wind that does not blow somebody good,” and the recent high winds had the effect of leaving the lakes in good condition for skaters.
AFTER THE EX.
List to that Soph, a-murmuring low:
“ Zounds 1 that was a : sticker ’!
[’ll have to turn a leaf, I trow, Or else I’m sure to flicker.’’
—During the session,several of the students connected with the Historical Department will engage in biographical sketches of the “Pioneer Bishops, of the Country.” The essays will be prepared from the printed and manuscript material in the Bishops’ Memorial Hall.
—Work will soon be resumed on the unfinished portion of the interior of Science Hall—the Museum Department. The carpenters are actively-preparing the necessary material, and ere long the large and splendid collection of specimens that have so long been boxed up, will be displayed to public view.
—On Tuesday last, the Feast of the Purification) or Candlemas Day, Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. Fathers Spillard and Stoffel as deacon and subdeacon. Mass was preceded by the solemn ceremony of the blessing and distribution of the candles.	“
—The position of the late lamented Prof! Jacob Ackermann, whose demise is recorded elsewhere in this paper, will be supplied by- his nephew, Mr. H. Ackermann, who will take charge of the drawing classes, and who, we are pleased to say, will bring
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
to his new position every requisite of a capable and pleasing instructor.
——The Class of Mechanical Engineering has been largely increased. Among the works on which the students are engaged are lathes, engines, steam-pumps, etc. Prof. A. Zahm will certainly have his hands full during ’ this coming session. Among the most assiduous and interested workers in the Department is Mr. George A. Archambault.
—The Minims of the First Class had the honor of having the greater part of their examination conducted by Very Rev. Father General and Rev. President Walsh; Rev. Father Granger was also present. Messrs. Coleman, Thillman and Mohun, Brothers Cajetan and Angelus examined the remaining classes. The Minims’ examination was in every way satisfactory, as might have been expected of boys who study as they do.
—The “ Scholastic Press’’will issue in a few days a'play, entitled “The Blind Prince, or The Rightful Heir,” originallj7 written and published in London by James Kenney, and now revised and arranged for male characters only, by Prof. J. A. Lyons, of the University. This melodrama will make the twelfth of the excellent series of dramatic publications for which the educational public are indebted to our enterprising Professor.
—At the examination of the young “ Princes,” Very Rev. Father General proposed the following problem: “Suppose the St. Joseph River is 50 miles long, 200 feet wide, and is covered with ice one foot thick, how many cubic feet of ice on the river, and how many blocks of ice 3 feet square could be made out of it? ” He said that he wanted the answer before the day was over; but, to his surprise, a delegation of Minims waited on him in a few minutes after, showing him that there were 52,800,000 cubic feet, which would make 5,866,66656 blocks. _
—At the 5th regular meeting of. the Thespian .Association, held February 1, for the purpose of organizing for the. new. session, the following officers were, elected: - Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Rev. M. T. Regan and Rev. A. Morrissey, : C. . S. C., Assistant Directors; Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M.; President; S. T. Murdock, 1st Vice. President; B. T. Becker, 2d Vice-President; Jno. J.Kleiber, Recording Secretary; C. Stubbs, Treasurer;. C. Neill, Corresponding Secretary; J. Wagoner,.Historian; W. O’Connell, 1st.Censor; J. Cusack, 2d Censor; M. Mulkern, Critic; R. Newton, Prompter; C. Combe, Sergeant-at-Arms; J. Houck, Monitor.' .	,	...
.. —The general verdict on the Scholastic Annual for iSSy is’that it is far ahead of its predecessors in literary.merit.. The story, “Where,the Breakers Meet,” is ..in .Maurice Fl Egan’s happiest vein.
. “The Tariff Question,” by Prof. Wm. Hoynes, of . the Law Department of Notre Dame University, is'handled in.a manner so clear and concise that it i§ a‘whble yolume.in a few pages. “The Rights of Labor and'",the Duties of, Capital,” by Hon. W. J. Onahan'j 'LL. D,,. presents .some very important = pbints‘bn';a ^much-discussed"question? The other
literary matter shows the excellent judgment of Prof. J. A. Lyons, who, for the past twelve years, has edited the Scholastic Annual, and made it one of the most popular publications of the kind in the country.—Sotitli Bend Tribune.
—The Director of the Historical Department returns thanks to. Mr. J. Perry for five manuscript letters of Rev. Stephen Theodore Badin, protopriest of the United States: to Rev. Father O’Keefe, O. S. F., for six copies of his pamphlet on the buildings and churches of the Mission of Santa Barbara: to Prof. J. A. Lyons for Hoffman’s Catholic Directory for 1886-1887: to Miss R. Carroll for The Laity’s Directory for the year 1822: to Bro. Cajetan for portraits of- Slow White, Buffalo, Crow Eagle, Iron Thunder, Fool Thunder and Goose, Indian chiefs of Dakota: to Prof. Grego ri for an original sketch of the Presentation of St. John in the Temple, by Landi; drawing in black and white of the family of St. Joachim by Comun-cino, a Roman artist; crayon drawing by Tomaso Minardi, Gregori’s master in Rome: to J. Brink-erman for twenty-eight old coins, silver and copper.
—Among the numerous entrances which mark the opening of the second session, we may be permitted to notice two in particular—Messrs. Sam Murdock and James A. Burns, of Michigan City, Ind. The former is well known to many of the students, a graduate of the Scientific Class of ’85, and therefore needs no introduction, except to record the welcome that greets him on his return to Alma Mater,to prosecute his law studies. The latter has been, for some years past; engaged in the Printing Office, Notre Dame, where he rendered most appreciable services, and was endeared to all by his kindly disposition and many sterling qualities. He has now severed his connection with that establishment and entered the University, with a view to prosecute his studies in the classical course. Mr. Burns is a young man of. worth, and of much promise, and he brings with him to his new sphere the best wishes of his former associates in the Printing Office.
—Last week’s issue of that hew-and enterprising venture in the field of Catholic journalism—the American Catholic Netvs—contained the following appreciative notice of the publications at Notre Dame: “We doubt if anyone will dispute.with us when we say that the literature issued from the presses of Notre Dame, Ind., has about it an artistic finish that is not met with in the publications of other institutions of learning.
“The Notre Dame Scholastic is the highest college paper, we receive; and the Scholastic Annual, by Prof. J. A. Lyons,, is the best ..Catholic Almanac at.the price (twenty-five cents) that we know of, and our acquaintance with such publications, is not limited.	. .. .
“ The Ave Maria, also published at Notre Dame, is a ‘journal' devoted .tb the honor of the Mother of God,’and-,the.:series;of cheap stories reprinted from its pages indicates that its standard is'a high one. The Ave Maria is a successful weekly?but not more-successful than its merit entitles it to be,”
• . * . * -
the Notre dame schoeast/^	349 :
• —A very artistic, life-size portrait' of- the great statesman of modern times—Hou-William Ewart Gladstone—was received by the Director of the Historical Department on Thursday- last." The picture is the generous gift of an old-time and esteemed friend of Notre Dame, Jacob Wile, Esq.,, of Laporte, Ind. He may be assured of a full compliance with the request in the following kind letter, which preceded the arrival of his donation:
Laporte, Ind., Feb. 2, 1877. Prof. J. F. Edwards.
My Dear Sir:—The “Gladstone Picture” is enroute for its destination—the University of Notre Dame. Please accept it with my best wishes for the prosperity of the Institution. Give it a place where, in years to come, when my visits to Notre Dame sjiall have ceased, there may be one memento left, testifying to the great and deep esteem in which I have always held this seat of learning.
Sincerely your friend,
J acob Wile.
—On Wednesday evening of last week, Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., lectured before the Young Men’s Sodality of St. Joseph’s Church, Kalamazoo, Mich. From local press notices we condense the following: “Father Fitte is Professor of Philosophy in Notre Dame University. He is of robust frame, and possesses a bright, intellectual countenance. He is a deep thinker, and his lecture before the sodalities last night, on ‘ Church and State,’ was an instructive and learned effort. He divided the periods of the world’s history into the time before and since the appearance of Christ. He noted the relations of the Church and State through the centuries to the conversion of Constantine, pausing to speak of its great effect upon Christianity, and to correct some erroneous impressions regarding Constantine,.the latter’s son. The doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church, that Church and State should be under one control, was illustrated by the relations which the soul bears to the body. The Father held that the Church should have that temporal power necessary to its independence, while yet not so absolute that other nations may fear it. As the soul directs the action of the body, so would he have the spirit of the Church permeate the State.”	.
—Accessions to the Bishops’ Memorial Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.:—Mitre, crozier, sandals^ mo-zetta, chasuble, and other articles used by Rt. Rev.
■ Bishop Loras, who was consecrated first Bishop of Dubuque,in 1837, presented by RE Rev. Bishop Hennessy. Three autograph letters of Bishop Odin;, two of Bishop Quarter; three of Bishop Hughes; four of Bishop Reynolds; ,two of Bishop Portier; three of Bishop Henni; three of Bishop Blanc; three of Bishop .Purcell; five of Bishop de la JHailandiere; two of Bishop Brutd; two of Bishop O’Connor, of Pittsburgh; two of Bishop Whelan, of Richmond; two of . Bishop Chanche; one of Bishop Chabrat; one of Bishop Miles; two. of Bishop Rosati, presented by Rev. Father Kenrick. ■ Mitre of white.watered silk,- richly embroidered with pure gold bullion and a gold cross set with gems, used by Rt?Rev. M. J. Spalding, second Bishop of Louisville, presented by Mr i Connor. Two autograph letters of Francis Patrick,
Bishop of .’Philadelphia; presented .by.: Revi <Dr. Lambing.' Eleven documents in the handwriting of ^jjohn B., Bishop' of Cincinnati; three autograph letters of Bishop Young; five' written and signed by Bishbp Timon, presented by Rev. Father Collins. : Photograph of • Rt.Rev. Boniface Wimmer, Arch-Abbott of the Benedictines Of the United States; document printed, by Mgr. Cretin on his own printing press and with type set by himself; faculties given to Rev. Father de-Cailly by Bishop Loras, presented by Rev. F. de Cailly.
Examination. Averages.
(A,ro Average under 60 is published?) '';
SENIOR DEPARTMENT. .	. N
L. Arado, 73; W. Akin, 72; M. Akin,85;. W. Aubrey, 64; F. Becerra, 62; P. Brownson, 60; P. Burke, 91; F. Baca, 79; H. Barnes, 68;'L. Bolton, 75; C. Bush, 77; E. Byrnes, 94; D. Barrett, 83'; M. Crane, 74; G. Craig, 93; W. Crowley, 70; J. Cusack, 67; W. Cartier, 76; E. Coady, -77; A. Cooper, S3; S. Craft, 75; J. Cullen, 70;. WhDor-sey, 62; L. Dorsey, 88; J. Dougherty, 78; M.-Dore, 86; G. Dreever, 62; D. Dwyer, 79; T. Dierdofff, 70; B. Dickenson, 72; A. Duffield, 69; C. Eyan-son, 89; E. Egan, 63; A- Finckh, 81; J. Ford, 66; F. Fehr,. 69; G. Fry, 86; L. Grever, 87; J. Gallardo, 62; C. Galarneau, 78; A; Gordon, 61;; A. Gibbs,84; T. Griffin,87; G. Houck,84; E.Hiner, 83; S. Hummer, 98; C. Hagerty, 90; H.Hull, 76; W. Henry, 70; T. Jordan, 92 ; W. Jeffs, 65;-E. Jeffs, 68; J. Kleiber, 77; F. Kreutzer, 92; J. Kelly, 76; J. Langan, 72; J. Lyons, 78; G. Lair, 68;. A. Leonard, 96; A. Larkin,*71; W.'Luhn, 76; H. Long, 70; M. Luther, 84; L.. Meagher, 69; T. McDermott,: 96; A. Major, 73; D.: Marx,. 73; P. Martineau, 82; B. McAlister, 93; H. McKlveen, 87; J. Murphy, 78; W. Moffat, 90; A:McFarland, 78; M. Mulkern, 87; V. Morrison; 92; W. McNamara, 70; J. Meagher, 86; G. Myers, 90; T. Noonan, 83; R.'Newton, 76; P. Nelson, 68; W. O’Rourke, 79; T. O’Regan, 91; W. O’Connell; 68; G. O’Kane, 76; L. O’Mallay, 81; L. Orr, 75; V. Padilla, 86; P. Paschel, 87;.T. Poole, 63; F. Prichard, 76; T. Pender, 79; H: Rothert, 974 F: Rodriguez, 82; D.; Regan, 69; J. Rudd, 82; A: . Rudd, 76; W. Sullivan, 92; F; Suing, .71 ;. :O. Sullivan, 89; C. Shields, 83; C. Stubbs, 81; F.' Smith, 76; D. Strasser, 83; M; White, 83;. F. Weber, 65; J. Wagoner, 86; W. Williams, 74; J. Whalen, 87; W. White, So; J. Waixel, 62;;C' West, 76. .	.	:	.	' .: c-
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. :
.E. Adelsperger, 74; E. Adams, 81; W. Austin,. 8i; R. Anderson, 88; R. Bronson,.92; H.Bron-'" son, 86; ~ E. Blessington, 89; ,E. Bodley, 83; C. Badger, 88; I. Bunker, 78; W: Bell, 73; J.BulljJro; G. Brabrook, 66; W. 'Boland;^ ; H. Boland,	J.J
Baca, 84; F. Benner, 64; E. Burns;‘91; J. Black; 7.3;/ j. Burr, 72; E. Berry, 75; .S. Camp^^ "Campbell, 77; J. Clark; 79; B; Clark, 76; A; Cleve
rfoTRb bAAik SCflOLASTIC:
land, 77; F. Carney, 88; C. Cavanagh, 88; W.Clifford, 94-J F. Cobbs, 91;!. Casey, 81; J. Cooney, 81; F. Coad, 72; L. Chute, 84; F. Chute, S3; W. Curtis, 66; D. Cartier, 83; G. Cook, 86; J. Cook, 72; E. Darragh, 84; F. Duffield, 88; L. Dunning, 73; E. Decker, 61; W. Devine, 70; J. Doss, 72; E. Doss, 78; G. Draper, 67; J. Dempsey, 73; F. Dunford, 79; E. Ewing, 87; S. Fitzharfis, 74; M. Falter, 98; F. Flynn, 73; H. Figge, 80; T. Flood, So; J. Fisher, 775 A. Galarnean, So; T. Goebel, 93; F. Garber, Si; E. Glenn, 86; L. Hoffman, 73; J. Hayes, 92; P. Houlihan, 73; J. Hart, 70; A. Hake, 78; T. Hake, 73; J.W. Henry, 91; E. Hannon, 85; J. Hampton, SS; A. Hoye, 76; E. Higgins 79; G. Hibbard, 75; F. Handley, 78; G. Hustis, So; H. Houston, 71; B. Inks, 87; H. Jewett, 72; A. Joyce, 79; N. Jacobs, S3; W. Julian, 84; H. Kerlin, 76; W. Konzen, 89; F. Konzen, 84; W. Kern, 85; H. Kahn, 67; F. Kellner, So; A. Kutsche, 80; J. Keating, 90; G. Land-enwich, 87; F. Long, So; F. Lane, 84; D. Mc-Kendry, 92; W. McKenzie, 79; M. McCart, 78; J. McMahon, 89; W. McCormick, 70; J. McCormick, 88; J. McGurk, 72; J. McIntosh, 88; W. McPhee, 87; J. McNulty, 84; L. Monarch, 84; E. Mathewson, 79; H. Morgan, 74; H. Mal-lay, 71; L. Macatee, 82; H. Mulburger, 81; J. Moncada, 86; W. Morrison, 81; A. Meehan, 73; C. Mitchell, 72; J. McDonald, 75; R. Nations, 89; T. Noud, 80; S. Nussbaum, 75; J. O’Connor, 89; J. Ormond, 84; W. O’Brien,89; B. O’Kane, 85; M. _O’Kane,8o; R. Oxnard, 74; J. O’Shea, 88; J. Pfau, S3; L. Preston,86; L. Paquett, 78; C. Paquett, 92; J. Quealy, 80; C. Roper, S3; A. Redlich, 76; C. Ramsey, 70; M. Reynolds, 75; M. Rosenthal, 79; P. Sweet, 86; B. Stephens, 90; C. Steele, 73; F. Smith, 75; M. Smith, So; A. Schloss, S3; R. Sullivan, S3; F. Taliaferro, So; D. Tewksbury, 83; -H. Tivenen, 89; H. Vhay, 65; J. Warner, 74; P. Wagoner, 86; R. Weldon, 73; T. Wade, 82; T. Wilbanks, 93; J. White, 76; W. Walsh, 82; F. Wilkin, 89; H. Walker, 86.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
R. Boyd, 95; F. Bloomhuff, So; M. Blumenthal,85; C. Boettcher, 92; L. Black, 90; A. Back-rack, 89; S. Backrack, 88; H. Backrack, 75; R. Clendenin, 87; A. Cohn, 88; F. Crotty, 93; W. Connor, 80; C. Connor, 76; J. Conners, 02; E. Conners, 94; E. Cook, 70; L. Doss, 90; F. Davidson, 75; J. Dungan, So; Jesse Dungan, 82; L. Dempsey, 79; J. Dempsey, ,86; C. Dahler, 75; E. Foote, 80; F. Falvey, So; T. Falvey, 84; E. Fal-vey, 90; G. Franche, 75; C. Franche, 85; G. Gale, 80; C. Grant, 82; E. Garber, 86; O. Griffin; 78; R. Graham, 82; B. Goldmann, 75; H. Huis-kamp, 90; J. Huiskamp, 89; O. Haney, 70; E. Hillas, 80; E. Jewett, 85; W. Kutsche, 70; C. Koester, S2; P. Keeffe, 72; J. Kane, 76; G. Klaner, 78; T. Kerwin, 70; L. Kraber, 70; M. Loewenstein, 84; R. Lane, 86; M. Lewin, 70; J. McIntosh, 90; W. McDonnell, 92; W. Martin, 98; C. Mooney, 95; H. Mooney, 90; T. Mahon, So; L. Mayer, 65; R. Munro, 90; A. Mayer, 75; G. Mayer, 85; C. McPhee, 75; A. Morgen week,
84; F. Mainzer, 70; A. Nester, 86; J. O’Mara, 82; J. O’Neill, 90; L. Paul, 85; H. Priestley, 90; D. Quill, 87; L. Riordan, 94; W. Rowsey, So; F. Rogers, 90; E. Savage, 76; G. Sweet, 75; L. Stone, 85; H. Silver, 94; A. Sullivan, So; Frank Toolen,9o; Fred Toolen, 85; T. Tomkins, 87; H. Tillenberg, 86; B. Triplett, 78; C. Taft, 90; A. Williamson, 75; W. Williamson, 88.
Roll of Honor.
[The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Arado, M. Akin, Ashton, Aubrey, Becerra, Britt, Bingham, Brownson, Baca, Barnes, Bush, Byrnes, Barrett, Bernhart, Beaupre, Burns, Col na, Craig, Cusack, G. Cartier, Crilly, Craft, Cassidy, W. Dorsey, Dillon, Dreever, Dier-dorff, Duffield, Eyanson, Finckh, Ford, Fehr, Grever, Gallardo, Gibbs, Griffin, Houck, Hiner, Hummer, Hagerty, Judie, Kendall, Kreutzer. J. Langan, Lyons, Lair, Luther, T. McDermott, Major, Marx, Martineau, McAlister, Mal-lay, Myers, Murnan, Noonan, Neill, Nelson, O’Rourke, O’Regan, O’Connell, O’Kane, L O’Ma’ley, J. O’Malley, Orr, Padilla, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, J. Prudhomme, Paschel, Prichard, Pender, Rheinberger, Rothert, Rodriguez, Regan, Stattman. Suing. AV. Sullivan, O. Sullivan, Shields, Shannon, Strasser, Triplett, Velasco, Woodbridge, Wilson, M. White, A. Williams, W. Williams, J. Whalen, W. White, Waixel, West.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adelsperger, xlustin, Adams, Anderson, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, Blessington, Bodley, Badger, Bunker, Bull, Brabrook, AV. Boland, H. Boland, Benner, Burns, Bruce, S Campbell, J. Clarke, Cleveland, Carney, Cavanagh, Clifford, Cobbs, Casey, B. Clarke, Cooney, Coad, L. Chute, F. Chute, Curtis, G. Cooke, J. Cooke, T. Darragh, Duffield, Dunning, Decker, Devine, J. Doss, Dempsey, E. Darragh, Ewing, Fitzharris, Falter, Figge, Flood, F. Flynn, Freeman, Galarneau, Goebel, Garber, Glenn, Houston, Houlihan, A. Hake, T. Hake, Hannin, Hayes, Hampton, Hoye, Higgins, Handley, Hustis, Heineman, Howard, Jewett, Joyce, Jacobs Julian, Kerlin, F. Konzen, W. Konzen, Kinsella, Kern, Kahn, Kellner, Kutsche, Keating, Landen-wich, Long, Lane, McCabe, McKendry, McKenzie, McCart, McMahon, J. McCormick, AV. McCormick, McGurk, McIntosh, McPhee, McNulty, Monarch, Mathewson, Macatee, Moncada, Morrison, Meehan, Mitchell, McDonald, McGuire, McCambridge, Nations, Noud, Nussbaum, O’Connor, Ormond, O’Brien, Oxnard, M. O’Kane, O’Shea, Pfau, Preston, C. Paquette, L. Paquette, Quealey, Ried-linger, Roper, Redlich, Reynolds, Ramsey, Rosenthal, Sullivan, Sweet, J. Stephens, B. Stephens, Steele, F. Smith, M. Smith. Schloss, Tedeus, Taliaferro, Tarrant, Tivnen, Vhay, H. AVhite, L. AAzhite, A\zile. Warner, -AVilbanks, Wilkin, AVagoner, AAzalker, A\zelch, AAzalsh, AVade, AAZ ageman.	-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Boyd, Bloomhuff, Blumenthal, Boettcher, Black, A. Backrack, H. Backrack, S. Backrack, Clendenin, Cohn, Crotty, AV. Connor, Corbett, C. Connor, Cooke, J. Conners, E. Conners, Doss, Davidson, J. Dungan, Jas. Dungan, L. Dempsey, J. Dempsey, Foote, E. Falvey, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, G. Franche, C. Franche, Grant, Garber, Griffin, Graham Garrabant, Goldmann, H. Huiskamp, J. Huiskamp, Haney, Hillas, Jewett, Kutsche, Koester, Keefe, Kinsella, -Kane, Klaner, Kerwin, Kraber, Lowenstein, Lane, Lewin, McIntosh, McDonnell, Martin. McGuire, C. Mooney, Mahon, L. Mayer, H. Mooney, Munro, A. Mayer, G. Mayer, McPhee, Mason, A Morgenweck, Mainzer, Nester, O’Mara, O’Neill, O’Donnell, Paul, Priestly, Quill, Riordan, Rowsey, Rogers, Savage, Sweet, Stone, Silver, A. Sullivan, F. Sullivan, J; Sullivan, F Toolen, F. Toolen, Tompkins, .Triplett, Taft, A. Williamson, AV. AVilliamson, Witkowsky, Weckler.	v
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Saint fflary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—The account of the exercises on Monday will appear next week.
—-The Misses E. Kearns, N. Dempsey and M. Patrick received 100 in Book-Keeping.
—Mrs. L. B. Shephard, of Arlington, Nebraska, paid a visit to her daughter on Monday.
—The name of Miss M. Bates was accidentally omitted in the last report of the Class in General Drawing.
—Mrs. Donnelly, one of the warm, old-time friends of St. Mary’s, passed a day or two at the Academy.
—The Weekly Catholic News is a regular and most welcome visitor to nearly every Catholic pupil in the Institution.
—In Elementary Perspective, Miss Zahm is deserving of first mention. The Misses Sweet and Barry have also been quite successful.
—Visitors during the week were: Rev. M. Horgan, Mrs. M. Heyman, Mr. L. Stumer, Mrs. C. E. Roche (formerly Miss Annie Cavenor, Class ’82), Mrs. F. Wright, Miss Emma Wright, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Wynn, Strikers, O.; Miss Martha Beale (Class ’84), of Laporte; Miss Cummings.
—The “ Roll of Honor” is suspended this week in the Junior department. The following-named were, however, irreproachable in their conduct, and drew for the Roman mosaic cross: the Misses M. Coll, C. Cook, E. Dempsey, M. Hughes, M. Kennedy, E. Kennedy, E. Nester, C. Prudhomme, I. Stapleton. The insignia was awarded to the last-named.
—Among the pieces on exhibition in St. Luke’s Studio, the following are worthy of mention: Draped casts and hands from life, by Miss Ewing; a copy of “The Magdalen,” by Miss Foin; crayon portraits, by Miss Brophy; panels of roses and Autumn leaves, by Miss Birdsei; water-colors on parchment, and crayon portrait, by Miss Fuller; panel in water-colors, by Miss Egan and L. Pierson; pieces in water-colors by the Misses Duffield, E. Coll, Kingsbury, Mason and Schmauss. In oil: “Autumn Woods” and “A Sunset,” by Miss Meehan; Oriental and Venetian panels, and a “ Sacred Heart” on silk, by Miss Steele. A mirror with daisies by Miss Stafford; and other pieces in oil "by the Misses G. Stadtler (hollyhocks and cards), McHale, B. Kearney, K. Scully, Koester, Triplett, Hull, Beaubien, Shields and Gordon, also a China dinner set by Miss Williams.
—On the last evening of the Music examination the following was the
programme: Aschenbrodel—(Cinderella)..................Franz Bendel
Miss M. Fuller. “ Swiss Song ”.......................i............Eckert
Miss L. St. Clair.
“ Valse Arabesque ” .....................Anton	Strelezyki
Miss A. Riedinger.
“Jongo ”—“ Havana Dance ”..;.........   .Sotler
Miss B. Snowhook.
Song—•• Last Hours of Joan of Arc”......Bordese
Miss K. Gavan.
“ Deutschland ”......................Moszkozvski
Miss G. Wblvin. -
“ Rondo Cappricceoso ”...............Mendelssohn
Miss M. Rend.
Song— ‘Lol Near the Merry Lark ”.........Bishop
Miss H. Guise.
Huguenots................................Sailer
Miss L. VanHorn. Polonaise (Opus 53)..........................Chopin
Miss H. Guise.
—The Closing Exercises of the' Semi-Annual Examinations, were held on Monday, January 31, according to the following
programme: Chorus.................................Schumann
Vocal Class. Recitation.—“21 Scene of the Past”...f. G. Whittier
Miss Carmien.
Harp Solo—“Carnival deVenise”............Godfroid
Miss Shephard.
“Polonaise from Mignon”..................Thomas
Miss R. Henrichs. Essay—“ Begeisterung ”...................Miss Horn
Rhapsodie—“ Pesth Carnival ”............ ’Liszt
Miss Horn.
Recitation—“ Revere the Church, Thy Mother ”.
Miss Wolvin.
Vocal Trio—“Barcorola”...................Campana
Misses Gavan, Guise and Moran.
Harp Solo—“God Save the King”............Alvars
Miss Dillon.
“ Ballad in G. Moll ”.....................Chopin
Miss Shepard.
“Adelaide ’’...........................Beethoven
Miss V. Henrichs.
Essay—“ The One Thing Needful ”.....  Miss	Dillon
Chorus—“ Let their Celestial Concerts all Unite ”. .Handel Vocal Class.
The One Thing Needful.
1.
Oh! is there naught that’s fair upon .this earth_ Naught but is fleeting and of transient worth?
Has Nature not, with all her grand display, Some beauty, which, undimmed, will last'alway?
11.	.
The gentle snowflake, as it falls from Heaven, To it, the fairest emblem has been given;
It brings to memory’s eye a virtue bright— Sweet purity, with all her mystic light.
in.
But when the sun shines forth through wintry clouds, With gentle Springtime, warm th,-.drear,watery shrouds Encompass and delude the flake of snow
And it is lost. It sinks from sight below:
iv.	.
And when the blasts of Winter die away, And yield to gentle south winds of the May, ,	.
The little crocus, with a smile of mirth, Looks out from the cold prison house of earth. . ,
v. .	’ .
The sun goes down and rises in the morn;
Where is the beauty but so lately born? _ * The frost has conquered the poor, fragile thing, \ . And fallen is the first-born of the Spring. -	■_ :
vi. '	■’	-
. The symbols of the Sacred Heart—sweet roses,-. . . j In whose deep mirror charity reposes— •	' .	■ -
3^2	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
So rich in beauty and so warm their glow, They speak of joys most lasting here below.
VII. '
But e’en the roses change: Their fragrance floats
In the fair garden, mingling with the notes Of merry bi-ds, that sport from flower to flower, And fill with warbling melody the hour.
vm.
But bird and rose alike must pass away;
Their beauty is of Time, it must decay;
The types of joy, earth, ever is estranging;
They die, though telling us of joy unchanging.
IX.
The lily, emblem of Heaven’s dearest trait, . Which saintly men and angels emulate;
Whose waxen petals tenderly unfold, Revealing the rich heart of mottled gold;
The lily waves its thurible of light, Incensing altars through fair day, calm night; Its sweet breath waves and trembles in the air; The morning comes, its beauty is not there.
XI.
And so of all things here: They glow, they fade: Flourish a moment, then are lowly, laid.
Symbols they are of what our hearts most prize, Because in them Time’s fairest beauty lies
XII.
Yet Time has power but over earthly things; Eternity, with its sublime vibrations, brings Immortal life to what is God’s, supreme, There life, indeed, with heavenly splendors beam.
XIII.
Religion is the link secure and broad
Which binds the wayward heart of man to God;
’ Conserves the changing things of sense and time; Transmutes the aims of earth to aims sublime.
'	xiv. .
What else should claim our trust on this dark sphere, Where all things bright and fair must disappear?
What else is worthy' of our thought and care?
What hope beside can Heaven with mortals share?
xv.
Let others follow phantoms of the earth, And waste their love on objects of false worth;
But, dear companions, Class of’87,.
Let our one aim be Truth, our hope be—Heaven. ■	. xvi.
Then shall our labors here their guerdon find— The soul stand first, subordinate the mind;
Then we, who love each other, ne’er shall part, Our hearts shall be united in the Sacred Heart.
'	Mary Dillon {Class '87).
.	Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND EXACT OBSERVANCE OF ACADEMIC RULES.
. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par	Misses Allnbch, Brady, Blair, Bates,
Brophy, Blacklock, Beschamarig; Blakeslee, Clendenen, E. Coll, Carmien, Cogliri; E. Claggett, B. Claggett, Dillon, A; Duffield, M. Duffield, C. Dempsey', Desenberg, E. Dunkin, Egan, Fuller,, Faxon; Flannery, Fravel, Griffith, Guises Gordon,. Gfififn, Hummer, Heckard,-Hertzog, -R. Henrichs,-V. Henrichs, Henke, M. - Hutchinson, Johnson, Kearsey, Kearney', Kearns, Kingsbury,-Kennedy, Larkin, Lingle, McHale, Miner, L. Meehan, N. Meehan, M. McNamara, C. McNamara, McCormic, Marsh, Moore, McCarthy, Moran, Q’Coiiner, Nester, Negley, Pierson, Proby, Rose, E. Regan, 'Scully, St'Clair, ShepUard,' Snbwhook,
Stadtler, Shields, R. Smith, M. Smith, Swegman, Stocks-dale, Trask, Triplett, Van Horn,Williams,Wolvin, F.Wynn, Wehr, Wimmer, Zahm.
| CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
!	. Reorganization of Classes in Instrumental Music.
।	" February, 1887.
i Advanced Course—To Graduate in June—Miss Ada
I Shephard.
i ist Class—To Graduate in June—Miss Estelle Horn.
| 2D Class—* Misses H. Guise, *L. Van Horn. Promoted to this Class—Miss M. Rend.
2D Div.— *Misses G. Wolvin, *B. Snowhook, *A. Riedinger,* M. Fuller. Promoted to this Div.—Miss M. Dillon.
3d Class—* Misses C. Griffith, *B. Kearney, *L. St. Clair. Promoted to this Class—Miss A. Egan.
2D Div.—* Misses G. Regan, * M. Brady', * C. Shields, K. Gavan. Promoted to this Div.—Miss Foin.
4TI1 Class—Misses A. Duffield, M. Barry, M.Wimmer, * E. Flannery', * H; Coll, * A. Donnelly.
2D Div.—Misses R. Henrichs,V. Henrichs, M. Swegman, * G. Stadtler, * M. Duffield, L. Koester, C. Moran, E. McCarthy. Promoted to this Div.—Misses N. Dempsey, C. Dempsey', F. Hinz.
5TH Class—* Misses H. Clendenen, *M. Smith, * A. Gordon, *M. Murphy. *M. Kearsey, *H. Stumer, M. Hutchinson. Promoted to this Class—Misses I. Stapleton, L. Bragdon, E. Allnoch, C. Proby, H. Nester.
2D Div.—Misses M. Hughes, E. Claggett, B. Claggett, N. Morse, *R. Smith, *A. Kennedy, *F. Steele, *E. Kearns, *M. McEwen, M. Stafford, G. Faxon, L. Henke, F. Carmien, I. Bub, L Fravel, M. Coglin. Promoted to this Div.— E. Kendall, O. Knauer, M. Bates, C. Griffin, M. Hummer, B. Desenberg, L. Pierson, G. Wynn, A. McDonnell, E. Nester, E. Qualey, A. Blacklock.
6th Class—*Misses B. Heckard, F.Wynn, C. Caddagan, J. Beaubien, *F. Hertzog, M. Hull, N. Marsh, L. Meehan, E. Harlem, *H. Meehan, G. Wehr, M. Patrick, *M. Mason, E. Stocksdale, S. Dempsey', J. Fisher. Promoted to this Class—Misses C. Triplett, C. McNamara, M. McNamara, . M. Kennedy.
2D Div.—*Misses C. Prudhomme, G. Dart, H. Pugsley, *T. Balch, H. Hake, E. Heyman, *E. Balch, M. Hutchinson, H. Rhodes, T. Zahm. Pomoted to this Div.—Misses S. Blakeslee, M. Dunkin, E. Dunkin, M. McCormic.
7TH Class—Misses L. Fritz, *E. Blaine, E. Regan, C. Negley, C. Cook, M. Huntting, M. Leonard, M. Coll, E. Bruus, A. Bridgman, E. Reed, M. O’Conner, K. Fisher.
2D Div.—Promoted to this .Div.—Misses M. Campbell, J. Wallace, A. O’Mara.
8th Class—Promoted to this Class—Misses G. Garrity, B. McCormic.	.	.
.	HARP.
Promoted to Graduating Class—Misses M. Dillon, A. Shephard.
6th Class—Misses V. Henrichs, R. Henrichs, H. Nester, E. Nester.	'
,	ORGAN.
Miss R. Henrichs.	.
GUITAR.
Promoted to 2d Class—Miss A. Egan.
5th Class—Misses B. Garrity', L. Griffith.
VIOLIN.
Misses L. Koester, B. Claggett.
VOCAL DEPARTMENT.
2D Div.—Misses R; Henrichs, V. Henrichs H. Guise.
2D Class—Misses K. Gavan, L. St. Clair, L. Foin.
2D Div.—Miss C. Moran. .
36 Class—Misses F. Wy nn, R. Smith.	.
2D Div.—Misses K. Brophy', A. Miner, R. Swegman, E.
McCarthy. •
4TH Class—Misses L'. Bragdon, M. Barry, M. McNamara, E. Allnoch; F. Carmien, E. Heyman. .
5TH Class—Misses A. McDonald, F. Steele, A. Gordon, L Bub, H. Stumer, F. Hertzog, L. Meehan, C. Triplett, L. Williarns, C. Proby.	‘	..
* Promoted in September,' " .