THE NCTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC
BREAK GROUND FRIDAY
In This Issue:
Break ground for Rockne Memorial . . . Three hundred leave for Minneapolis . . . Clashmore Mike Returns . . . Interhall debates progress . . . The Week . . . College Parade . . . Juggler Vein.
October 29.1937
make the best
FOOTBALL COACHES ?
Where do artists find those gorgeous models whose pictures you see in magazines? Listen to a man who makes a business of finding and supplying models explain how he picks successes.
The Merchant of Venus by WALTER THORNTON
ESCAPE FROM SHANGHAI, an eye-witness account of the bombing of Nanking Road, by Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr.
TRAPPING THE BIGGEST RACKETEER of them all, a dramatic chapter from Thomas E. Dewey’s Story of Smashing the Rackets, by Forrest Davis.
SHORT STORIES by Booth Tarkington, Gouverneur Morris, George S. Brooks, Marjory Stoneman Douglas, Jean C. Becket.
SPECIAL ARTICLES by John B. Kennedy, Charles Wertenbaker, John Putnam Loomis, J. P. McEvoy. PLUS mystery serials, poems, editorials, cartoon*.
I LOOK FDR BEAUTIFUL WOMEN
Hle> unknown team of five years ago “didn’t look strong enough to kick its way out of a paper bag.” Now Coach Jimmy Conzelman, of Washington University in St. Louis, tells you how his team comes to play such notables as Southern Methodist and Army. How he did it, with the aid of a percussive banjo, wow speechmaking, de luxe character building and what not, makes hilarious reading!
THAT'S FOOTBALL FOR YOU
By that Great Tragedian and Washington University Coach
JIMMY CONZELMAN
SEE THE 1938 CARS Pages of colorful, exciting advertisements, previewing the new automobiles and accessories. A show in itself! The biggest issue of the Saturday Evening Post in six years!
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Z188
Vol. 71	October 29, 1937	No. 6
TO BREAK GROUND FOR ROCKNE MEMORIAL
Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C. In grateful remembrance.
DEVOTE BUILDING TO USE OF STUDENTS
•
Into the Rockne Memorial will go all the physical equipment necessary for the needs of the student body. A ninety-foot swimming pool will be the featured attraction.
In addition to the natatorium, there will be twelve courts for handball and squash. Since the building-will be devoted entirely to the physical training needs of the student body, three standard basketball courts will be provided for inter-hall activities.
Quarters will be provided for boxing, wrestling, and sports of a-similar type. General exercise rooms will be equipped with apparatus for corrective gymnastics. For the devotees of golf, various facilities will be provided; the building will also contain lockers for the use of the students.
The plans for the building were drawn up by Maurice ’Carroll and C. E. Dean, of Kansas City. The supervising architects of the University, Maginnis and Walsh, of Boston, were associated with the two men in their work.
In harmony with the designs of the
Cost of Building Will Pass Half Million
•
By Vincent DeCoursey
And the dream of years becomes a reality!
Construction activities on the Rockne Memorial, dedicated to the late Knute K. Rockne, will get under way on November 5, according to the announcement made this week by the Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., president of the University.
The huge building, 128 feet wide and 210 feet long, will be open, at least in part, for the beginning of the 1938-1939 school year. The foundations are to be laid this fall and the work will be resumed again in the spring; the amount of the funds available will determine the extent of the spring’s construction work. The fund-raising drive, started in 1931, resulted in §135,000, being subscribed for the erection of the building; in the interim accumulated interest has boosted the amount to §150,000. To augment this sum, the University has appropriated §200,000 to be used for the erection of the building. However, the total cost will reach at least §550,000.
Dedicated to Knute Rockne, beloved football coach of Notre Dame, the building will in several ways honor his memory. A great foyer, large in length and width, will extend to the height of the building. Here will be housed the athletic trophies of the University. The name is to be simply the Rockne Room.
The Memorial will be located on the present site of the ninth and eighteenth greens of the golf course. These greens will be re-located shortly. It will set off the long expanse of buildings extending west from Cartier Field.
newer buildings on the campus the Memorial will be of a collegiate gothic style, and the construction will be of brick with a Bedford stone trim.
Knute K. Rockne
In his honor: a memorial.
ROCKNE MEMORIALS REACH FINAL GOAL
•
The final stage has been reached in the development of a memorial to the memory of Knute K. Rockne. The Rockne Memorial, on which work is soon to start, will mark the culmination of over six years of effort on the part of alumni and friends to provide a suitable tribute for the man Rockne.
The new Memorial is not the first. On a wind and dust swept ranch seven miles out of Bazaar, a little town in the southeastern part of Kansas, there stands a lonely shaft dedicated to the memory of the man who there lost his life in a plane crash, March 31, 1931. The inscription simply reads “Rockne Memorial” and then follows a list of the men who died with him as a result of that accident. The Notre Dame club of
(Continued on Page 22)
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
300 LEAVE TONIGHT FOR MINNESOTA GAME; NOTRE DAME BAND WILL PERFORM
By Graham Starr
With the cry of “Beat Minnesota” on their lips, over 300 enthusiastic students will board the Notre Dame special for St. Paul at 10 p.m. tomorrow night. The event is the annual student trip, and the object is the Notre Dame-Minnesota tilt at Minneapolis, Saturday, Oct. 30. Frank Delaney, S.A.C.
chairman in charge of the exodus, ❖ stated this week that the train schedule will stand as announced formerly. Arrival at St. Paul will be at 9 o’clock Saturday morning, and departure for Notre Dame at 11 p.m. that night.
Included in the party will be the University Band, which is to give a performance on the field between the halves. Students and band will stage a parade from the station to the St. Paul Hotel immediately upon arrival. Also the band will entertain with a concert in the hotel lobby both before and after the game.
The regular return train will arrive at St. Mary’s siding at 9:30 o’clock Sunday morning. A low Mass for student trippers will be celebrated in Sacred Heart Church.
The Notre Dame student special is one of about a dozen special trains from all parts of the country headed for the game. It is in one section, and will consist of approximately 12 cars. The band will have two cars for itself.
The Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul, and Pacific Railroad, and the New York Central Lines are to be used on the trip.
A rousing send-off was given the team yesterday afternoon at a hilarious pep meeting on Cartier Field. The band played the “Victory March” as the student body cheered lustily.
Bookmen Hear Gurion
On Wednesday, Oct. 20, Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of politics, discussed contemporary Catholic magazines and authors before the Bookmen, campus literary club.
Doctor Gurian drew upon his vast knowledge of modern authors in Europe to present one of the most interesting talks ever to be given before the club.
The speaker was introduced to the club by President Hal Williams. He opened a discussion of the trends of certain Catholic magazines: Coliseum, Black Friars, Commonweal, America, and Tablet.
His listeners asked questions about particular authors in Europe and Dr. Gurian was so well informed on the lives and characteristics of these men that he was able to make many of them live. The more important authors he discussed were Paul Claudel, Andre Gide, E. I. Watkin, and Leon Bloc.
Emil Jacques His works praised.
Art Exhibit to Feature Jaques* Paintings
•
From Nov. 4 to 21, paintings of Emil Jacques, late head of the department of art, will be on exhibition in the Wightman Memorial Art Galleries in the University library. Mr. Jacques was a recognized teacher as well as an accomplished artist.
The exhibition, consisting of 60 paintings in all, will include not only Jacques’ American work but also a group depicting Flemish life. Much of his early work was destroyed during the World War when the German army invaded the French province in which he lived. It was in this same invasion that the late professor lost his entire family.
The American series of paintings includes his work done on the Pacific coast, the murals for the Portland Cathedral, and his many paintings of Indiana life. Among the notable works of the exhibition are “Sunplay,” which was awarded the Peter C. Reilly prize at the Hoosier Salon of 1936, and “Magdalen,” a fine achievement, technically and creatively.
Since the Catholic College and High School exhibit will be shown at St. Mary’s at the same period, they will honor the memory of Mr. Jacques by exhibiting his triptych, “The Queen of Heaven,” “Women Saints,” and “Men Saints.”
LAWYER'S BALL IS SET FOR NOY. 12.
o
The annual Lawyer’s ball spon-. sored by the Notre Dame Law club will be held the evening of Nov. 12 according to Louis W. Vettel, Ashtabula, Ohio, president. The scene of the dance will be the Columbia club in South Bend. The affair is open to all students except freshmen.
George E. Murphy, Galesburg, Ill., has been named general chairman. Mr. Murphy will be assisted by the following committees: Tickets, Francis P. Kelly, Joliet, Ill., publicity; John J. Lechner, South Bend; entertainment, John E. DeMots, Minot, North Dakota; programs, William R. Bowes, Park Ridge, Ill.; decorations, Frank J. Meyer, Danville, Ill.; music, Charles W. Dohnalek, Chelsea, Iowa; patrons, William J. Fish, Chicago, Ill.
HANDY GETS DOCTOR DEGREE IN PHY-ED
Dr. Elvin Roy Handy, instructor in the department of Physical Education, received a degree of Ph.D. in Physical Education, with a minor in Physiology and Hygiene last summer from the State University of Iowa. As his thesis for this degree Mr. Handy wrote on, “A Further Validation of the Puke-Ratio Test as a Measure of Physical Efficiency and Endurance.”
Mr. Handy has a well founded background in the Physical Education field. From 1926 to 1929 he was director of athletics and physical education at the Centennial High school of Pueblo, Colorado. From 1929 to 1931 he held the position of director of athletics, health, and physical education in the University of Iowa’s experimental school. Since 1931 Mr. Handy has been an instructor in physical education at Notre Dame, and from 1932-34 he was assistant track coach.
Mr. Handy is a charter member of the Graduate Society of Physical Education of the State University of Iowa, and also has memberships in Alpha Tau Omega, Phi Epsilon Kappa and the American Physical Education Association.
Notice
The office of the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters has been moved to Room 218, Main Building. Office hours: 10:15 to 11:45 daily, except Saturday and Sunday. Phone 340.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
5
COMMERCE MEN VIEW AUTO FACTORY
VERY REV. JAMES W. DONAHUE, C.S.C., HEADS NOTRE DAME DELEGATION TO LE MANS
The wheels of industry were scrutinized at first hand by 65 Commerce Forum members as they made a special tour of the Studebaker Factories in South Bend, on Thursday of last week. It was the first in a series of several visits to industrial plants planned by the organization. Charles T. Brosius, Lime Kiln, Md., president of the Forum, made arrangements for the trip.
As the guide explained at the beginning of the trip, it would take several weeks to see every operation of the factories, but the visitors saw the main points of interest in the foundry, body plant, lacquer and enamel department, machine shop and motor' assembly building, and the final assembly and inspection line. During normal production, 480 complete cars are driven off the end of the assembly line each day. This is an average of one every minute.
In explaining the Forum’s series of tours, Brosius said that it “attempts to give members a true idea of all modern business and an insight into present methods of production.” The Studebaker factories were chosen first because they involve all methods of production.
Later in the year it is planned to visit the Bendix Corporation, and Ball Brand factories.
Mr. James Dincolo, and Mr. Bernard B. Finnan, accounting instructors at Notre Dame for their first year, were guests of the Forum on the excursion.
Fans: 45,000 of them huddled in the cold and the snow till the last gun barked. That’s spirit.
Bierman: Sportsmanlike tribute to Navy and Notre Dame in Sunday morning paper.
Fight: Van Wallace watching from his special car—and the varsity fighting down field.
Post: Dean Miltner is a member of the board of editors of the New Scholasticism, quarterly organ of the American Catholic Philosophical Association.
NOTICE
All those interested in contributing to the literary pages of THE SCHOLASTIC are invited to call at the Scholastic offices in the Ave Maria building, Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday evenings between 7 and 8 o’clock.
Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and Mother Eleanore, C.S.C., of the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross headed a group of Holy Cross priests and sisters who sailed this week to take part in the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Congre-. gation, at LeMans, France.
Lawyers Hear "G-Man" Tell of Fingerprints
•
Mr. Harold H. Reinche, a member of the Federal Bureau of Investigation addressed the members of the Law Club Tuesday afternoon in the court room of the Law Building. He spoke on the value of fingerprinting in the detection of criminals.
The speaker outlined the work of the “G-men” and gave their qualifications. Special work that must be done by candidates for the Bureau was mentioned: among this is included the use of firearms, in which department the Federal man is required to be especially proficient in both shooting and strategy.
One of the principal points in the development of the “G-man” according to Mr. Reinche is the training in law. “Our business is gathering evidence. We need men who can produce evidence in court that will stand up against shyster lawyers.”
Plan Dramatic Club
Prof Thomas Mills of the department of speech announces that the University Theatre will this year inaugurate a new plan for the production of plays. Mr. Mills hopes to form a Player’s club to give instructions and training in dramatics.
The club will promote a number of one-act plays to be given at various times throughout the year. A call for members will soon be sent out by Mr. Mills.	.
Rev. Kerndt Healey, C.S.C.
Accompanies group to France.
The Congregation of Holy Cross was established in 1837, in LeMans,
Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C.
First Assistant General.
France, when the Auxiliary Priests of LeMans, founded by Rev. Basil Anthony Moreau, and the Brothers of St. Joseph, founded by Rev. Jacob Francis Dujarie, were united into one congregation under the name of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Accompanying the Very Reverend James W. Donahue are the members of the general council: Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., Rev. Edward Laurin, C.S.C., Brother Cyprian, C.S.C., Brother Bernard, C.S.C., Brother Lambert, C.S.C., and Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C.
Sister M. Franciana, mistress of novices at St. Mary’s, accompanied Mother Eleanore.
Chesterton Club Meets
The last meeting of the Chesterton club was held in Mr. Lunn’s room in Dillon Hall. Several important topics were discussed and Mr. Lunn explained why he was in favor of Isolation. He also gave his reasons for protesting against that type of pacifism which holds that there is nothing worth dying for.
The discussion of the evening was then opened to the members of the club.	•
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FIRST ROUND OF INTERHALL DEBATE CLOSES AS SIX SQUADS FACE ELIMINATION
As the second round of the interhall debating tournament draws to a close, the list of the surviving teams rapidly decreases. Wrangler Frank Fitch, who is directing the interhall clashes, find that more interest is being shown this year than has been evident for several years in the past. Both the affirm-
ative and negative sides of the ques- * tion, “Resolved: That the National ‘ Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration of all industrial disputes,” are being handled with equal success.
The winners of the first round were St. Edwards, Walsh, Sorin, Cavanaugh, Morrissey and Zahm. Father Marr’s charges defeated Alumni and eliminated it from participation in the final. Morrissey won the second round from Freshman by default.
The teams that appear certain to reach the final round are Walsh, Cavanaugh, Sorin, Morrissey, Zahm, Dillon, St. Edwards and Howard. Pierre de la Vergne, the Wranglers president, is pleased with the enthusiasm shown thus far. The number that responded for participation in the interhall debates he said was the largest ever before.
The -winner of the junior-senior division and the freshman-sophomore division will meet at St. Mary’s for the final debate. The present indications are that this will take place about the latter part of November.
Camera Contest On
Students this week were requested to submit camera contributions in the “Picture of the Month” contest sponsored jointly by the Camera Club, under Professor Stanley Sessler, and The Scholastic.
The deadline for contribution was set for November 12. Pictures are to be sent or brought to the Publications office in the Main Building.
Eugene Vaslett, editor of The Scholastic, stated that the prize winning shot would be used as the front cover for the issue of November 19. Student interest in the contest is mounting rapidly, Professor Sessler said this week.
Order: Some regulation against the invasion of the Quads by commercial barkers on football afternoons.
Psyche: The student concessionaire with an empty box beside him and a single “mum” held aloft as he announces loudly, “Who’ll buy the last one?” Reserve supply behind a bush.
Spot: Dome photographers chasing hither and yon to make sure they get the best shots.
Blow: For the original “purplebeech gang” who set off the spark.
Disaster: Cotillion guests who could not show their best in a snowfall.
Wrangler de la Vergne
Looks hall debaters over.
Callahan Presides At
Boston Club Meeting
The first meeting of the Boston Club was held Monday night Oct. 21, at 8:00 p.m. in the Badin hall recreation room. Forty-five members attended.
Charles Callahan, president of this organization greeted the new members and introduced the officers, Thomas Atkinson, vice-president; David Meskill, secretary; and Francis Lougee, treasurer.
President Callahan then discussed the coming Christmas dance, which, it was decided, should not be a dinner dance, as it has been in former years. Also it was agreed that from a group of three hotels the members should choose one for the affair.
A committee was chosen to manage the sending of a Boston paper to the library for the benefit of the members.
A report of last summer’s dance was then given by President Callahan, who also announced that among the various speakers to be presented during the year would be two prominent members of the Notre Dame faculty, the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., and Professor Fitzgerald.
First Santa Maria Issue
Editor Louis Dunn announced that the first issue of the Santa Maria would be published Nov. 2. The general makeup of the issue will be the same as last year with very few changes.
VINCENTIANS REPORT HUMOROUS CASE
- •
Every year in administering to the needs of poor persons, members of the Notre Dame St. Vincent de Paul Society come into contact with many depressing cases, but intermittently there occurs an instance in the work which provides a vein of humor.
The first of these humorous situations revealed itself last Friday morning when a big, rangy Negro made his appearance at the St. Vincent de Paul office in the basement of Lyons Hall. He was told in the most polite terms by the janitor of Lyons that the Society’s office would not open until that same afternoon. Evidently this was not forceful enough, because all morning long the applicant remained in the precincts of the office.
Several times he asked the janitor for some clothes and a pair of shoes, but obtaining no satisfaction from the caretaker of Lyons, the Negro told several other persons in the hall that they should unlock the St. Vincent de Paul office in order that his requests could be fulfilled.
At two o’clock in the afternoon of the same day the Negro was seen picketing the front doorway of Lyons until the executive secretary of the Vincentians arrived and arranged to hear the man’s story. Last year, the Negro explained, he was going from Arkansas to Pittsburgh to live with his brother, and enroute had obtained clothes from the Notre Dame Conference. Shortly after he arrived at his destination last year, his brother died, and now he was going back to Arkansas. Since he had been outfitted here last year, he knew the haberdashery department of the local Vincentians would again outfit him for his trip back to Arkansas.
Since all of the Society’s collection of old clothes are stored in South Bend, the “Arkansas traveller” was referred to the Vincentian Service Bureau in South Bend.
One of the fast developing functions of the Notre Dame Society is the Y.M.C.A. project in South Bend. Working in conjunction with graduate student in sociology, at least two members of the Conference aid in Tuesday and Friday afternoon and Saturday evening classes for boys at the “Y.” In the three classes a total of 75 boys are handled. The first part of each session is spent in conducting gymnastic exercises for the group and for the remaining period, a swimming class is the attraction.
Including the Y.M.C.A. project and visits to Healthwin Sanatorium, there are at present 20 members engaged in active work.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
SCHEDULE IRISH SKIT AS RADIO PLAYLET
•
“Keep Your Eye on Them,” an Irish skit, will be the season’s first presentation of the Notre Dame playhouse of the Air. This was the announcement issued by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., director of campus radio activities. The skit will go on the air lanes at 7:15 Wednesday evening. John Coppinger, a newcomer to the radio staff, will play the feature role.
Spoktcastek Steve Miller Ties, upsets down him.
Monday evening at 7:45 Prof. Daniel C. O’Grady will deliver the second in the regular series of faculty talks. “Little Jamboree” program with Phil McHugh and his orchestra, usually presented on Monday evening, has been cancelled.
The first in the series of “Music of the Masters” program will be presented Tuesday evening at 7:45. This w’eek the program will feature Paul Locher, pianist and music columnist of the Scholastic.
Steve Miller will be back on the air Thursday evening at 7:15 with the sports program. The change in the day of the presentation of this program was made in order to avoid conflict with the pep meetings Friday night.
At 7:45 on the same evening the Department of Music will present the first in a series of program to be produced by that department. These programs will be under the direction of Prof. Daniel H. Psdtke, head of the Department of Music.
Teaching at Cleveland College of Western Reserve University is a family affair to 12 members of the faculty. There are now six “husband and wife” teams teaching at the college.
Princeton freshmen placed Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes ahead of President Roosevelt as the greatest living American, a tabulation of the annual poll of the entering class disclosed.
Ponder Action on Cose of "Closhmore Mike8' As Rioutous Happenings Are Revealed
Despite staunch efforts on the part of the school authorities to stifle any and all rumors pertaining to the “midnight” taken by Clashmore Mike on Oct. 20 of this month, a few damaging fact have been collected by Scholastic reporters which indicate that Mike has been barking up the wrong tree, of late.
In the first place Mike has never completed the prescribed Phy-Ed course for Freshmen. Therefore, even though he has completed three years at Notre Dame, he is still carried technically on the roster of students as a Freshman. An investigation of Dan Hanley’s sign-out sheet revealed the fact that Clashmore had taken one “midnight” Monday evening, Oct. 11. Since freshmen are permitted but one midnight per month Clashmore’s second furlough was a direct breach of the University’s disciplinary program.
Then there is the little matter of a bill from Clancy’s Select Meat Market, on South Michigan Street. Mr. Clancy reports that Mike overdrew his hamburger account by two pounds, last week. Clashmore’s explanation of the matter is that he
Clashmore Mike Returns.
Raaf Announces Start of Senior Pictures For "Dome"; Halls to be Canvassed
James Raaf, managing editor of the 1937 Dome, announced this week that the last of the junior pictures had been taken and that senior picture taking would commence next week.
Members of the Dome staff will start a canvas of the senior halls this week. The pictures are taken every
needed additional rations to get himself in shape for the Navy goat. Comptroller Lloyd accepted Clashmore’s explanation in good faith until a letter from a certain Mrs. Pow-lowski arrived in last Monday’s mail.
Mrs. Powlowski is the owner of Queen Bess, a dainty little Scottie, and Mrs. Powlowski complained bitterly of a stomach ache suffered by Queen Bess Thursday morning, Oct. 21. Mrs. Powlowski further added ingly if Clashmore would stop molesting her Bessie, because Clashmore never took Bessie anywhere except disreputable butcher shops, anyway.
Also, Mrs. Powlowski inclosed a veterinarian’s bill for §5.00 which purported to cover alleged attentions paid to the stomach of Queen Bess. The comptroller referred the bill to Clashmore for payment.
Clashmore snorted contemptuously when handed the bill, and proceeded to file it away behind the doghouse. “If that hussy thinks she can stick me for the bill, she’s crazy,” declared Clashmore, and then added proudly, “I’ve been sued by experts.”
The Scholastic awaits further developments in this interesting case.
afternoon in the basement of Walsh hall from 1:45 to 5:00 pun. The charge for the senior’s pictures will be one dollar. “It is very important that appointments made for pictures be kept,” said Raaf. “We have only a limited time to take the photographs and must run according to schedule.”
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
VERSAILLES TREATY IS REVIEWED BY LUNN
•
A discussion on “Troubled Europe and the Next War” was given by Arnold Lunn in Washington Hall last night. The lecture marked the fourth in a series of six talks that Mr. Lunn is delivering during his six weeks term in the Apologetics Department of the University.
Mr. Lunn presented a resume of the Versailles Treaty and the breaking of the pact by Germany. He pointed out how this was the first of the post-war broken treaties and the most tragic in its consequences. There were two types of treaty which might have given fifty years of peace to Europe, a Clemenceau treaty and a Wilson treaty.
Clemenceau wanted to make certain of rendering Germany totally harmless, while Wilson was interested in a peace of appeasement. Unfortunately the Versailles Treaty did not accomplish either aim. The aim for a strong buffer Catholic state between Protestant Prussia and France would have made for peace, but antiCatholic prejudice destroyed all means of solution.
The English author went on to describe the civil war in Germany between the Communists and the government. He attributed the rise of Nazism to the humiliation and material injury caused by the Versailles pact. England and America, he suggested, should preface every attack upon Nazism with a mea culpa.
Europe today is divided not into peace-loving democracies and warlike Fascist states, but into satisfied and dissatisfied nations. The British Empire and the United States favored peace not out of noble and disinterested motives but out of self-interest for their disproportionate share of the earth’s surface.
The big question at issue is whether Germany will be allowed to annex that part of Czechoslovakia inhabited by German - speaking people, or whethei* Great Britain is prepared to fight on this issue. The chances are slightly in favor of peace, as it is doubtful whether Britain would go to war to prevent Germany expanding in Southern Europe.
NOTICE
All those interested in contributing to the literary pages of THE SCHOLASTIC are invited to call at the Scholastic offices in the Ave Maria building, Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday evenings between 7 and 8 o’clock.
A thin, porcupine-haired fellow, looking like a wraith in his grey gabardine raincoat, melts into the murky shadows cast by the stadium battlements. It is not one of the ghosts of the great who once trod Cartier Field . . . it’s the major-domo of the football house—James Woodrow Mulhern, better known as “Whistle.” The Whis’ only claim to notoriety before becoming the ushers’ chief was that he came from Palisade, New
Jersey (on the same side of the Hudson as New York City). His chief characteristic is his inability to count higher than three—after that he gets into a strange tongue, known to the erudite as Brooklynese.
Last summer, discovering that there was no Pacific Coast trip this fall, Whistle crossed up the A.A. by taking an etxended toui* through the Western states, with his base of operations at Las Vegas, Nevada. Came back with a deep tan and some deeper stories. Keeps the ushers and rampmen cheerful in wet weather by regaling them with tales of his experiences out where men are men and Johnny Montague was a mystery man until several weeks ago.
Wants to go into big business, but is preparing for it by taking an A.B. course. He figures he can pick up enough Commerce material through his managerial affiliations. He is fast becoming an excellent after - dinner speaker by practicing at the innumerable stadium employees’ meetings which he attends.
Every once in a while his voice sinks down from its usual falsetto to a deep bass. This doubling in brass is done to fool the ushers over the telephone, making them believe that they are talking to W. H. Dooley himself.
MUSIC NOTES
By Paul Locher
Professor Joseph Casasanta introduced an innovation for the Notre Dame Band which paraded in battleship array before the Navy Game crowd. The innovation was a triple threat trombonist, Don Tiedeman,, a freshman prospect who can march, blow and sing—especially sing.
Don’s baritone voice stirred the half-time crowd with a rendition of “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling,” a song which became prophetic when the Fighting Irish fought from behind in the last quarter.
Singing over the air from the Notre Dame stadium, between halves of a big football game, may have been a thrill for Don Tiedemann, but singing before a large crowd had long ceased to be a novel experience. Coming from Westfield, New York, he had the opportunity of becoming a member of the opera company connected with the Chautauqua Institution of western New York. Many of the finest musicians of our time were gathered there during these two summers he studied under Clarence Reinert, head of the Julliard Institute of Music in New York, who directs the vocal groups at Chautauqua. Helen Jepson, Don Dickson, Josephine Antoine, Mischa Mischakoff, violinist, Georges Barrere, flutist, and Georges Miquelle, cellist, were all members of the company. Grand cpera may be very interesting and rich in experience, but it is not all fun, Don confides. Practices were held daily from ten to twelve in the morning, two-thirty to five-thirty in the afternoon, and then again in the evening they were on the stage from seven-thirty to past midnight. Performances were given twice a week, and altogether six operas were produced in the short period of eight weeks of casting, direction and performance.
At the risk of causing a certain young lady’s heart to skip just a little faster, it might be told as an aside that her encouraging telegram before the game was wrapped inside of the megaphone Don used to provide inspiration for his fine renditiop of “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling.”
Met Club Plan
At the meeting of the Metropolitan Club held Thursday, Oct. 28, Edward Condon, president, gave a report of an interview with, Leo V. McLaughlin, president of|0ie Metropolitan alumni.	~
Mr. McLaughlin is attempting to have the alumni branch turn over to the campus officers some authority. At present any activity of the club must first have the approval of the alumni club.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
THE WEEK By Harold A. Williams
PATRICIANS ARRANGE SEASON PROGRAM
Top of the week.
The great demonstration of the Notre Dame spirit during the week before the Navy game.
Meeting the team Sunday morning ... the 1-2-3-4-5 BEAT NAVY. . . the impromptu squad reception in front of Washington Hall Tuesday night. . . . the snake dances around the campus on Wednesday and Thursday. . . the rented goats. . . the tag day. . . the hall decorations . . . the pep parade. . . the pep meeting. . . the speeches of Fr. O’Donnell, Layden, Miller, and Professor Manion. . . the cheering at the game. . . but most of all the intangible Notre Dame spirit that generated the great demonstration. . .
Bingo
In a history class the other day a professor was reading the grades of a surprise quiz. The professor was obviously displeased as he thundered, “Smith 63; Smithe, 52; Smyth, 31; Jones, 22 U. (not the right names and not a class in history, and an associate professor.) Anyway, the professor’s displeasure increased as the grades decreased. He was especially displeased when he came to poor Jones’ 22 U- Jones decided to ease the tension by pulling the time-honored expression that was used way before they first threatened to tear down Freshman Hall. “Bingo” yelled Jones in a clear, pleasant voice, “You know me, Prof, anything for a laugh.” The door squeaked shut, and the fellow who gave us the story forgot to tell us what happened after that.
•
Cotillion
At the door of the Palais last Friday night stood a table stacked high with crisp, new dollar bills. As each couple entered, a pleasant young man handed the gentleman one of the crisp, new dollar bills. Some of the gentlemen thought it was a joke or a favor and gave the bill to the girl for a souvenir or threw it out the window. But the crisp, new dollar bills were not jokes nor were they favors—just a refund by the dance committee which “took in too much money.” That’s why the dance committee and young gentlemen who attended the dance think it one of the best Cotillions ever held.
It would undoubtedly have been the best if the dining hall steward had not slipped by serving onions for supper the night of the dance.
•
Goat Atmosphere
And have you heard the tall tale
that they tell of the freshman goat? To augment the “Beat Navy” enthusiasm that swept the campus in a week of happy memories, several of the “north side” boys took it on themselves to provide a .goat-like atmosphere. They got both: goat and goatlike atmosphere. It took a week to get rid of the goat and the atmosphere is still here. In the week the goat lived on dining hall dry cereals, three packages of Camels and love. Did you ever smell a goat? Also what became of the Wyoming cowboy who rode so well ahead of the goat?
•
Mike
The New York Herald Tribune said he was lost; the South Bend News-Times said the South Bend police under Big Bill Hosinski were leaving no stones unturned in their efforts to find him; and the Goshen weekly said that the game would probably be called off if he wasn’t found by Saturday. Partly in the spirit of service, and partly out of personal curiosity, we asked Dan just what happened to Clashmore Mike. “Mike,” said Dan as he fondly gazed at the dog who was chewing something that looked like a goat hoof, “was down by the lakes chasing rabbits one night. A Brother found him and kept him until morning. But,” said Dan with a twinkle in his eye, “for purposes of publication you can say that Mike was off scouting the Navy.”
•
Student trip
When plans for the student trip were announced by the S.A.C., the Scholastic came out with an article (No. 1, page 4, column 1) which said “The students will probably leave South Bend at 10 p.m., Sept. 29.” Zowie, we thought, what a student trip—32 days. We didn’t stop to wonder how the S.A.C. got such a plan through, or how the professors would like going 32 days without making an assignment. At 9:30 p.m. on Sept. 29, we were down at the station with our pennant and lunch. The station agent said he didn’t know of any special until the end of October. He said the only train that left South Bend that week was a milk train for LaPorte. We later found out that the Scholastic had slipped for once by getting the trip date mixed with an Italian Club meeting. But everything is straightened out now. If we haven’t mislaid the. pennant and if we can get the cook to pack another lunch, we’ll be there at the right time.
See you under the goal posts after the game.
A long-range program of discussions and talks on classical topics was adopted by the Patricians at their first meeting of the year last night.
Speaking in the Law building, John J. Deane, president, outlined the ten-
Frexy Jack Deane
Revives Classicism.
tative schedule and program which was drawn up by a committee under Prof. John Turley, moderator.
The program will consist of nine meetings during the schoolyear. Varied topics from the oratory of Cicero to modern satirical versions of Seneca and other Latinists will be discussed.
Freshmen, who wish to join the club, are requested to arrange interviews with Joseph Nigro, chairman of the membership committee.
Hall Decoration Plans
It was announced this week by Scott Reardon, president of the S.A.C., that the annual hall decorations contest will be held the weekend of the Pitt game. Halls are urged to commence planning now for what is expected to be the biggest week-end of the year. It is hoped that this year’s contest will equal the high mark set last year.
October 12, 1889—A new dormitory for the use of the Juniors is the latest departure in that growing and prosperous department. The favored ones who have the privilege of dreaming there are spared from hearing the regular morning applause.
November 2, 1889—There’s music in the air these cool nights, particularly in the region of the Junior yard. ’ Cause: the “Dicky” quartette rehearsing their latest addition to their already fine repertoire—“When Johnny Gets His Gun.”
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
DEBATE TRYOUTS TO START SOON
•
Try-outs for the Varsity debating team will begin on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, Nov. 22, 23, 24. Contestants will speak on the question, “Resolved: That the National Labor Relations Board should be empowered to enforce arbitration in all indus-
Pkofessor William Coyne ‘Who’ll replace Meier?”
trial disputes.” Main speeches will be limited to five minutes, and rebuttals to three minutes in length.
These try-outs are open to all undergraduate students of the University, including freshmen. No teamwork is expected.
All those desiring to enter should submit their names along with their choice of sides to some member of the speech department on or before Nov. 8. After that date a schedule will be posted giving the place and time of the try-outs.
Those surviving the first preliminary will change sides for the finals to be held Dec. 15, 16, and 17. In so far as possible, a schedule will be made so as to give contestants their preferred side in the finals.
A bibliography and material on this question is now available in the library.
Knights Initiate
A class of 35 took the first degree initiation of the Knights of Columbus last Tuesday. This was the first of three classes which will be presented this year. The other two are scheduled for Nov. 9 and Nov. 30.
The initiation was in charge of the officers of the council, who are as follows: James L. Quinn, grand knight; Richard Foley, deputy grand knight; J. Kenneth Veeneman, chancellor; J. T. Collins, warden; Robert Carton Weaver, treasurer; Peter Fluge and David Fox, guards. A social meeting was held immediately after the initiations.
COLLEGE PARADE
By John A. Callaghan
More Purty Purty
(We had no purty last week. But the clamor was so insistent that we had to go out again this week, armed to the teeth with our trusty scissors, and bring in some more. Here it is. You may supply your own title.)
Before I hear the doctors tell The danger of a kiss,
I had considered kissing you The nearest thing to bliss.
But now I knoiv biology, I sit and sigh and moan;
Six million mad bacteria—
And I thought we were alone.
—Exchange.
—o—
Music Menu
■The boys at St. John’s College, Annapolis, Md., have been eating too fast. In order to alleviate such gastronomic difficulties, Miss Georgia Smith, college dietician, is arranging to have a radio installed in the dining hall to slow the pace with waltz music. Food-bolters now have to face the prospects of military marches for breakfast, leisurely fox-trots for lunch, and languid waltzes for dinner.
We thought of the possibilities of a spaghetti dinner with a rhumba setting.
—o—
Swiped
You have certainly heard of the difference between a scientist and an editor. The scientist is one who knows a great deal about a very little. He keeps on learning more and more about less and less until he knows practically everything about nothing. An editor, on the other hand, is a man who knows very little about a great deal. He keeps on learning less and less about more and more till he knows practically nothing about everything.'
—St. Mary’s Collegian.
Jottings
Of course you have to shave more often, but you can smoke ’em an inch shorter. . . What is a sophomore but a freshman who has paid his tuition twice. . . Thought from the Cotillion (our’n): Reggie Childs swinging on the old Kemp-ground. . . To jelly is a “soda and cigarette date” at the University of Missouri. . . The Ohio State Lantern wonders why this world is so complicated when there are so many simple people in it. . . The Senior Walk at the University of Arkansis has the names of all graduates (over 4000) engraved on it. . . Why not the Big Yappul?. . . Bing Crosby of Music Hall fame received an honorary degree of master of arts in music at his old school, Gonzaga University in Spokane, Washington. . .
CALENDAR
Friday, October 29
Final day of October Adoration, Sacred Heart Church, 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; October devotions and Benediction; student trip to Minnesota, train leaves St. Mary’s siding 10:00 p.m.
Saturday, October 30
Football game, varsity vs. Minnesota, at Minneapolis; “B” team vs. Illinois at Champaign; no classes; Movie, Washington Hall, first show for freshman only, second show, 8:20.
Sunday, October 31
Student masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8, 9, a.m.; Low mass for those returning from student trip on arrival; Devotions and Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, November 1
All Saint’s Day, student masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6, 7, 8, 9 a.m.; no classes; Economic Round Table meeting, Rose Marie Tea Room.
Tuesday, November 2
Knights of Columbus meeting, Walsh Hall.
Wednesday, November 3
Meeting, Wranglers, Law Building.
Thursday, November 4
Lecture, Washington Hall, “The Spanish Situation” by Arnold Lunn.
FROM THE FILES
December 23, 1893—The Cherokee strip in the Brownson Hall, refectory was opened up Wednesday. The boomers were numerous. It is needless to say they did not all obtain good sites.
February 3, 1894—Talk about literary inactivity at Notre Dame! Friday morning a second set of Crawford’s novels was placed on the Library shelves, and at half-past four “The Witch of Prague” alone remained.
March 3, 1894—An Irish pike has been presented to the Museum by Mr. Patrick Burns, of Michigan City, Indiana! The pike was used in the rebellion of 1798 at the battles of Vinegar Hill, Wicklow Gap, Three Rocks and Scaldbaugh and an object of great historic interest.
October 12, 1889 — The South Bend Bicycle Club paid the College a rolling visit last Sunday evening; they received a warm welcome from the students as they entered the refectory for supper.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
II
IN THE JUGGLER VEIN
Pungent and Pertinent.
“Yeah, like flies, I can’t chase them away from me.” (Nick Lam-berto)
“Sure the week-end cost me thirty-five bucks. But she was worth it, and after all money is only a medium of exchange.” (Vic “Big Apple” Mercado)
Thrilling game! Rather devastating tackling on the part of Navy players, don’t you think?” (John Schemmer)
“Gotta butt? Gotta stamp? Fine! Fine! I’m indebted to you Chum.” (Vic Ruggiero)
“Was I nonplussed! Came to scout the Navy game and it snows so hard that Bunny McCormick and the rest of the boys looked like snowshoe rabbits.” (Bernie Bierman)
Story of a Chair.
He purchased the chair from a dear chum—a chum who assured him that the fee he charged was only to pay storage rates for the summer. Presently the room was filled with little insects, with wings, and they made annoying little buzzing sounds. The insects were attributed to two holes in the window screen. Then one day the horrible fact was discovered that the beasties had found a breeding ground in the excelsior of his plump, comfy chair. For Sale: One chair, especially useful to a Nature study major with a yen for research.
Naivete.
Gee, why cantcha go in the Lido? It looks like a swell place.” (Zahm)
“Sure we’ll get a job. They’re grabbing up college men all over the country.” (Walsh)
“Gosh, I oughta make a lot on tips! College boys toss their money all over the place.” (Newly-hired Walgreen waitress)
“She said she wouldn’t go out until I came home for the Christmas dance.” (Joe Timmerman)
“They’ll let me carry twenty-three hours next semester, I’m sure, and then I’ll be able to graduate in June.” (A Will-be five-year man)
“I’ll show you where the fire is, Chief, if you let me ride on the truck.” (Joe Callahan)
Honesty’s Acme.
He came stomping into the laun
dry one day, a wild-eyed sophomore, who should have known better, with a “Beat Navy” tag on his jacket and a blue and gold “Notre Dame” painted blazingly on the back of said jacket. He slammed a clean, white shirt on the counter and burst out, “This isn’t mine! I put only four shirts in my laundry bag last week and got five back.” He left with the same gusto and “Red” caught “Shorty” who went into a dead faint. Jottings.
Visions of himself doing the “Susie Q” has inspired Ed Wrape to take up dancing lessons in one of the local terpsichorean establishments. Other inspiration can be found there Ed reports. . . . Price of good fellowship: Rigo DiBrienza, who is backing Mahoney in the New York City
“What a climate! Spring fever in October!"’
mayoralty election, loaned all his furniture to a neighbor and wanted to impress another of the Cotillion “No-one-like-her” emigres. Rigo was left with four bare walls and a rugless floor to face for the week-end, but with a glow of satisfaction for his sacrifice for a pal. What happened? You guessed it. The borrower’s guest didn’t care to come up to see his room and Rigo returned from Saturday’s lunch to find visitors waiting for him. . . .Joe Callahan, who has been plugging for an R.O.T.C. unit here, bears out the courage of his conviction for a mere militaristic atmosphere by demonstrating the “Military Strut” consisting of chest out, stomach in, toes pointed at forty-five degree angles, at the K. C. football dance.
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
REV. L. V. BROUGHAL, C.S.C................Faculty	Adviser
EUGENE F. VASLETT.......................Editor-in-Chief
LOUIS DA PRA...........................  Managing	Editor
Departmental Editors
Harold Williams_______________________________The IFee^
John Callaghan______________________________College Parade
John F. Clifford_________________Splinters from the Press Box
News Staff
Vincent DeCoursey News Editor
George Haithcock Assistant News Editor
Frederick Sisk____________________________________Graham	Starr
Robert Sheppard________________________Michael Mongoven
Vernon Sneider____________________________________Edward	Huff-
Joseph Miller____________________________Thomas Marker
James Dempsey_______________________________________John	Kohn
William C. Fay_________________________Fructuoso Barreda
James Hufnagel
Sports Staff
Mark J. Mitcheli______________________________Sports Editor
Frederick Digby________________________Assistant Sports Editor
Nick Lamberto__________________________Charles Callahan
Andrew M. Crowe______________________William A. Donnelly
Andrew F. Wilson_________________________Robert Voelker
Clarence Sheehan______________________________Ed Brennan
A rt Staff George Elmore_________________________________Art Editor
Tom Powers Ed Cort
Member Catholic School Press Association and Member of Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 237 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 71	October 29, 1937	No. 6
Real All-Americans
NOTRE DAME has had many All-Americans in the past two decades. Famous football heroes have received great publicity in the nation’s press for theii- heroism on the gridiron. But Notre Dame is prouder yet of her three real All-Americans who have shown the world, more than any football player could, the type of man that Our Lady fosters beneath the golden dome. We speak of those three brave, gallant men who fight their greatest battles off the gridiron against almost insurmountable odds—and win. We speak of Van Wallace, Dick Swisher, and Fred Snite, Jr.
To heai* any one of these three boys’ stories is to hear of a fight that stronger than they have lost.
Within the confines of the Notre Dame stadium on the sod of old Cartier Field there was more than one example of the fight portrayed last Saturday. Over in the corner of the field we all saw the green automobile. We could all see the figure stretched on a cot inside the car. Not all of us saw the rather drawn face of Van Wallace with the cheerful smile on it. We know the story of how Van, in 1923, during summer vacation of his freshman year broke his neck diving into the water of a lake. How he was given nine days to live and has survived these thirteen years since, paralyzed from the neck down with hardly a chance of ever walking again. Van didn’t give up the fight. He’s been active these past thirteen years and happy to be so. Has any All-American ever fought a more gallant battle?
Fred Snite, graduated in 1934, promised a fine, future, suddenly struck down with infantile paralysis while in China, placed in an iron lung, told that he wouldn’t be
। out in seven years at the very least, smiling through all his misfortune, asking only for the prayers of the boys “back at school,” and winning the admiration of the world for his great fight. Most men would give it up when told they had seven years to spend in such a piece of medical machinery as an iron lung. When Fred was told the facts he said to his fine father, “Let’s make it nine years, Dad, then if I get out in seven we’ll have saved two.”
A few weeks ago Fred took another of his hazardous voyages in the iron lung. This time it was down to Florida to get some of the winter sun. After a trying trip across the Pacific from China in such an apparatus an ordinary man would probably be content to stay in one spot, but not Fred, even an iron lung couldn’t stop him from doing anything. And he enjoys it. Remember that smiling face you saw looking out the mirror in the newsreels last summer?
A member of last year’s junior class, Dick Swisher, was walking home from St. Mary’s after the last Northwestern game. Crossing the road he was knocked down by a speeding motorist, who didn’t stop. Dick was found in a ditch beside the road, both legs broken. Doctors gave him a fifty-fifty chance to live that rainy night through. Dick, a Protestant, insisted on being baptized a Catholic that night, and lived. After several weeks in the downtown hospital he was taken to his home town, Muncie, Indiana. It was found that complications necessitated a re-breaking of both legs. Dick went through this gallantly. Then followed eight months of torture for the boy. His right leg again needed re-breaking but a peculiar bone disease that set in prevented it. All through this Dick smiled. This summer he was up and about in a wheel chair. He stalled to get about on crutches in September. He has to wear a brace on his right leg, night and day. In the near future this right leg will have to re re-set again, after that he hopes to be able to walk. He’s looking forward to return to Notre Dame next September to finish his college career. Like Fred and Van he came out smiling and still loving Notre Dame, Our Lady.
Newspapers can give reams of copy to football AllAmericans, but in our book these three men will go down as All-Time All-Americans, on the first team. They are among our spiritual All-Americans.
V
In Honor. . .
ALMOST legenday today is the saga of Knute K. Rockne—teacher, scholar, genius.
Next Friday a grateful University and an idolizing public will join hands in breaking ground for an imperishable monument in his memory—the Rockne Memorial.
This news needs no comment. The whole country has awaited this action; has expected it. But the purpose to which the memorial is to be put demands comment.
“Into the Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse will go all the physical equipment necessary for the needs of the student body.” Therein is contained the purpose of the building. No fitter purpose could be found to honor the man. -
Knute K. Rockne was the gospel of athletics for all, not for merely a privileged few. His was one of the first voices to preach that text. While director of athletics here he worked toward that end. The fine program of interhall athletics and activities which we have now resulted from his efforts.
The present administration is to be complimented on its courage in going ahead with a building of such importance. We hope the example will be an incentive to contributors to see the work through.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Not Without Honor By John C. Hynes
For some curious reason the brass band always welcomes the “return” of the town boy who has made good. I emphasize the word “return” because “that’s the story.” If that same hero, with all his mountain-moving qualities had remained in his home town and shed his brilliance there, no brass band would ever perform for his benefit unless he chose to hire it and a hall. I would not subscribe to the old proverb that familiarity breeds contempt. I do not think that is quite true. Rather, it is a sort of loving toleration, born of faults observed and understood, and of long and close association.
This kindly feeling, however, does refuse to recognize heroes and not until some other community has noted the talents of the favorite son do the folks at home begin to polish up the wind and reed instruments and observe that they always knew that Jones would make a name for himself.
I have no grounds for feeling that anyone is slighting me by overlooking ability which should be apparent. As a matter of fact, even I know of no particular talents which could be modified by the first person possessive, but I have observed the phenomena of other being just outside the beams of a nearby spotlight until one day some spotlight from a great distance focuses on them.
There is the boy next door, a husky kid just out of high-school. He used to play pass-ball with us in a near
by vacant lot; we have seen him grow up from a fat little boy to a well built man; yet, though he is now six feet tall, well proportioned, and weight one hundred and seventy-five pounds, we still call him “Fats.” He always has been rather athletic—now that we come to think of it — but until he went away to Haywater and made the varsity football team, we never stopped to think of it. Even now we catch ourselves saying, “I don’t know how “Fats” made it; he wasn’t so hot when he played with us.” But the funny part of it is that he really was good when played with us, and there isn’t one of us who hasn’t picked himself up after young “Fats” laid on a hard block... When he comes back this Christmas, we will say, “Nice going, kid,” and then forget all about the nice going and just call him “Fats.”
And there was Patty Anne. When I was about eleven Patty Anne was one of the gang. Together we used to sit on fire plugs, climb in and out of new houses, and play ball. She fought with us, individually and collectively. She wore a hair ribbon but it was usually dirty, and she rode a boy’s bike. . . We got a little older and started to go out with girls, but no one ever thought of going out with Patty Anne. I can remember the face I made when my mother suggested one day that “Patty Anne was getting to be a beautiful young lady.” I looked her over closely next day and shook my head. She didn’t
appear any different to me. She smiled rather self - consciously and said, “What’s the matter, stupid, something wrong?” Then boys from other parts of town began taking Patty out; it seemed every night her front light was on, and every night a car drove up and called for Patty Anne. We thought it was funny what these other guys could see in that skinny kid. . . Patty Anne got married last year and her picture was shown among the “lovely brides,” but even in white satin and a veil, she looked to us as she always had, riding the boy’s bicycle, or hanging from a beam in Brown’s new house squealing for one of us to boost her down.
Then there’s the fellow I went to school with all the way up. At present he is teaching at Bloomingfield College. . . I could just picture myself learning under him! Why I can remember him when he said “ain’t,” and when I got a higher grade in grammar school, and when he flunked math in high school. How does he rate a job teaching in college—he wasn’t so smart?. . . There's a notice in tonight’s paper—he’s been appointed assistant department head, starting in February.
Perhaps when I become a big lawyer there will be those who wonder how I fool people. Then again perhaps I won’t fool anyone. At any rate I think I would rather be one of the gang than looking down at them from a pedestal. A hero must really be an awfully lonely creature.
Father
Ever since the founding of the University, student residence halls have been named after some former president or as in the instances of Lyons and Howard after some old time professors. This year a new hall was constructed and called Zahm hall. This hall, twin of Cavanaugh, was named in honor of the teacher, lecturer, explorer and scientist—Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C.
Father Zahm was born on June 14, 1851 at New Lexington, Ohio. After attending grade school at New Lexington, he enrolled in a high school at Huntington, Indiana after his family had moved there. In 1867, John A. Zahm entered the University of Notre Dame from whence he graduated in 1871 with a B.S. degree. In the fall of that year, he enrolled in the Congregation of Holy Cross and was ordained on June 4, 1875.
From that period onward, Father
Zahm By J<
Zahm had a distinguished career. He was vice-president of the University and director of the scientific department from 1876 to 1886; director of studies from 1876 to 1877, 1885 to 1887 and from 1887 to 1891. Father Walsh, C.S.C., president of the University went to Europe in 1888 and Father Zahm became acting president during his absence. It was during this year that Sorin hall was built. It was a residence for students of the advanced classes who had previously given entire satisfaction in work and deportment.
The American Ecclesiastical Review, the Dublin Review, the Outlook and many other periodicals bear evidence that Father Zahm was an accomplished writer. He first gained scientific recognition from a book, Sound and Music, published in 1892. In the period between 1892 and 1896 Father Zahm followed his initial success with four additional books:
!S E Dempsey
Catholic Science and Catholic Scientists; Bible, Science, and Faith; and Science and the Church.
In 1895, Pope Leo XIII conferred the Ph.D. degree upon Father Zahm for his distinguished work. Father Zahm remained in Rome as Procurator-General of the Congregation of Holy Cross from 1896 to 1898. And upon his return from Europe, in 1898, he was made Provincial of the Congregation, a post he held until 1905.
In 1911, upon his return from South America, Father Zahm presented a new book, Along the Andes and Down the Amazon. Five years later, at the invitation of Colonel Theodore Roosevelt, Father Zahm accompanied the Roosevelt Scientific expedition into South America. Upon his return Father Zahm published his historical book, Through South America’s Southland, and in the following (Continued on Page 23)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
v ATHLETICS v
POWERFUL GOPHERS HOST TO IRISH SATURDAY IN NATION'S GRID CLASSIC OF YEAR
By Nick Lamberto
“Where do we go from here?” Notre Dame’s Fighting Irish football players
will answer that question for themselves tomorrow afternoon when they meet
Minnesota’s Golden Gophers in Memorial Stadium at Minneapolis before 62,000
fans. The Irish beat Drake, tied Illinois, lost to Carnegie Tech, and defeated
Navy on successive Saturdays. , Against Navy last week the spark of * *' Fighting Irish spirit was fanned to flame in the fourth quarter, and the Blue and Gold came from behind to win, 9 to 7. Whether or not this surge of pep and fire was merely a “flash in the pan” will be discovered tomorrow against Bernie Bierman’s human tornadoes.
Minnesota started the season by walloping North Dakota. Then came Nebraska and a 14 to 9 defeat. Still stunned by the Nebraska reverse the Gophers barely managed to beat Indiana, 7 to 0. Bierman’s men finally came into their own against Michigan and decisively defeated them 39 to 6. Last Saturday the Gophers rested while their coach paid Notre Dame the honor of personally scouting them in action against Navy.
Last year it was a question of who was going to stop Minnesota. Northwestern did it and won the Big Ten title. Nebraska proved again this year that the Gophers are not invincible. Notre Dame, now at the crossroads in their schedule, could usurp some of Minnesota’s football power with a victory tomorrow. From now on each successive game will be tougher for the Irish and they must turn on the pressure at all times if they wish to gain their share of victories.
Fans throughout the nation have been waiting for this game. All tickets were sold on August 3—the earliest sellout in the history of football. Experts figured that this game would decide the national title. It still may, but since both teams are defeated, their individual chances for national honors are slim. In spite of the defeats the eyes of the nation will be trained on Minneapolis tomorrow for the game is a “natural” in every sense of the word.
Notre Dame’s fight and courage against Minnesota’s power and brute strength—that’s the set up. Captain Ray King leads a powerful line that is anything but gentle in its methods. King pairs with Reed at the ends. Midler and Schultz and Hoel are the tackles to choose from. Bell and Twe-
Minnesota’s Spadaccini Directs Gopher Attack.
dell are the guards. Kulbitski and Elmer are in a dead heat for the center spot. In the backfield Bierman can choose from a galaxy which includes Spadaccini, Gmitro, Buhler, Matheny, Van Every, and Christiansen. Andy Uram is out with a
• broken wrist.
The Irish will probably start the same lineup as against Navy. Ruetz and Kuharich may start at the guards in place of Marshall and McGoldrick and Puplis may start in O’Reilly’s quarterback spot. Chuck Sweeney’s smashing end play seems to have established him at one of the terminal spots. The Fighting Irish did it against Ohio State two years ago. Why can’t they do it tomorrow?
FENCERS PREPARE FOR FIRST MEETS
•
As the fencing team approaches the second month of practice Coach de Landero is getting right down to the business at hand. Calisthenics have been forgotten except for a few loosening up exercises each day, and duelling has started under conditions of competition.
The swordsmen are beginning to find their form after months of layoff. Especially promising are Charlie Colgan and Jim Graham in the epee event. It will take much ability, however, to replace Jack McAuliffe who was one of the best epee men ever developed by de Landero. This event is particularly difficult for anyone to become proficient at even after he has mastered the essential principles of fencing. For only a small part of the body is vulnerable and one such as a sabre man who has been used to making touches on the whole body finds it especially difficult.
Captain Jack Zerbst, who will, despite rumors to the contrary, see most of his competition in the saber event this year, is rapidly developing into an outstanding swordsman. His height and reach are great advantages, and with these qualities is combined an unusual agility, all necessary adjuncts to the successful duellist.
Pierre de la Vergne has been learning the intricacies of fighting with foils. Last year he confined his activities to the saber event. However, his natural ability makes him a definite threat in the foil division.
Although Coach de Landero is still pessimistic about the chances of this year’s team, he really hasn’t much to worry about. Of course, no one can expect teams of the caliber of the 1935 outfit every year. Those, like national championship football teams can come only once in a very great while. Nevertheless, the abundance of material combined with the phenomenal ability of “the professor” should make the fencing season this year worth following.
The coach is looking for perfection in the individual events. He demands specialists. That is the only way in which a fencing team can achieve success. But if the amount of practice the lads are putting in these afternoons is any indication of the ability of this yeara’s team, he will not have to worry.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
"B" SQUAD DEFEATS WILDCATS 12-0
CONFIDENCE KEYNOTE OF MINNESOTA SPIRIT AS GOPHERS SEEK FIRST WIN OVER IRISH
By Roger Verran
By Bill Donnelly
In a hurriedly scheduled game with the Northwestern “B” team on Cartier field last Saturday morning, the Notre Dame “B” team scored two third-quarter touchdowns to win their third successive victory in three weeks by a score of 12 to 0.
Notre Dame showed strong offensive power throughout the game. The Irish threatened several times during the first half, but almost inevitably they lost their scoring opportunities on fumbles or intercepted passes. On the defensive, a hard-driving Notre Dame line, which blocked three kicks during the game, always held Northwestern in check.
In the third quarter, Jack Sullivan’s 25-yard dash to the five yard line put the Irish in scoring position, and shortly after, Chuck Riffle plunged through from the one-yard line for the first touchdown of the game. In the same quarter Brad Lynn, sophomore left halfback, shot through a nicely-opened hole at his right tackle and evaded the last of the secondary to score Notre Dame’s second touchdown on a 38-yard run.
The Northwestern “B” team had that same size and sluggishness which characterizes the Northwestern varsity, and outweighed the Irish “B” lads several pounds to the man.
Except for the two guards and the left halfback, the Notre Dame starting line-up was composed entirely of sophomores. Harry Fox, the right guard, was the only senior in the starting eleven; Joe Zuendel, his partner at guard, and Jack Sullivan, the left halfback were the other two upper classmen. Clyde Archer at quarterback, Mike Corgan at right half, and Chuck Riffle at fullback filled out the rest of the starting backfield. In the line Pete Arboit and Tom Brennan were at the ends, Frank Hollendoner, Joe McDonough were at tackles, and Al Mooney was at center.
Football has been discarded for rodeo sports at the Cheyenne School at Colorado Springs. Bucking horses and wild steers are considered less dangerous by the officials.
Bronx: Bearskin blather—and the bare walls of alumni.
Skive: Best story of the week. Clashmore Mike took a midnight per and failed to sign in.
Sports Editor, Minnesota Daily
Minnesota came to its own against Michigan two Saturdays ago and came to its own very, very impressively. Everybody from downtown quarterbacks to campus sorority sisters agreed that the Gophers played the kind of football they were expected to play when the season began. And everybody agrees that ________________________________________ if Minnesota continues to play that kind of football. Notre Dame will be
Gopher Captain King “Double Duty.”
On the Enemies' Trail
TO DATE:
MINNESOTA has defeated North Dakota State 69-7, has lost to Nebraska 14-9, and has defeated Indiana 6-0, and Michigan 39-6.
PITTSBURGH has defeated Ohio Wesleyan 59-0, West Virginia 200, Duquesne 6-0, has tied Fordham 0-0, and has defeated Wisconsin 21-0.
ARMY has defeated Clemson 21-6, Columbia 21-18, has lost to Yale 15-7, and has defeated Washington U. (St. Louis) 47-7.
NORTHWESTERN h a s defeated Iowa State 33-0, Michigan 7-0, Purdue 14-7, and has lost to Ohio State 7-0.	'
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA has defeated College of the Pacific 49-0, has lost to Washington 7-0, has (Continued on Page 22)
defeated Saturday as will Northwestern in a few weeks and as would a combined team of the cream of the Pittsburgh, Alabama and California squads.
That, on the face of it, might seem to indicate that Minnesota partisans are rather smugly over-confident. We’re not. We were before and after the first game of the season when the Gophers beat the North Dakota Aggies 69 to 6, but we’re not any more. That Nebraska game taught us that there are two sides to a football game even when Minnesota is playing, and that Indiana game, which we were lucky to win by six points, drove home the lesson. Even the Gopher’s rousing return to form in their 39 to 6 victory over Michigan has not made us forget. We say that “if” Minnesota plays the way it did against Michigan, no team could beat us. But we recognize the validity of that “if” in the argument.
Right now it appears that the Gophers will continue to click. But there is no way of being sure. For the most part, Bernie Bierman has held secret practices since the Wolverine game, and very little has leaked out about Gopher spirit and Gopher frame of mind. There is some worry about a letdown, and there is some doubt about the replacing of Andy Uram, all-American halfback who broke his arm in the Michigan game, and John Kulbitski, regular center who suffered a sprained ankle in practice last week.
Uram will be missed plenty. He was as effective a ball carrier as any who have played under Bierman. He had a beautiful change of pace, and very few backs could equal his ability in following interference and knowing when to leave it. Harold Van Every, a sophomore back who took over Uram’s position in the Wolverine game, is the top-ranking candidate to run at left half regularly. Van Every is a powerful runner, a strong passer and a fair kicker. He played more than impressively against Michigan, scoring one touchdown and setting the Gophers up for most of the rest.
Kulbitski’s injury may not keep him on the sidelines Saturday, hut if it does the Gophers will have only (Continued on Page 21)
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING byMark j-MitchcH
WEATHER HAMPERS FALL TRACK MEET
Last Saturday afternoon there was a little fellow in Notre Dame’s starting lineup who seems to have been a plaything of fate from the very beginning of his football career. Charles William O’Reilly of St. Mary’s Ohio, has been up and down and up gain more than once since he came to Notre Dame.
Back at Memorial High school in St. Mary’s he played every sport they
would let him. Captained the football team his senior year. Once ran a punt back 85 yards for a touchdown. He liked basketball, played it in competition, and even ran on the track team. His quarter-miling won him several medals in district and state meets.
Notre Dame found him to her liking, and he found her to his. His freshman football was not outstanding, but along with some hard spring work, it found him a place on the varsity in the fall of ’35. This was a tough year for a youngster of his size with such fellows as Wally Fromhart, Frankie Gaul and Andy Puplis ahead of him. Nevertheless he did play in several games, and things were looking up for the ’36 season.
After two postponements on account of inclement weather, the Annual Fall Handicap Track Meet was run off yesterday afternoon. The lateness of the event prevented the Scholastic from publishing the results, but a full summary will be presented next week.
Coach Nicholson decided not to run his cross country men in this meet. Consequently the competition was confined to sprinters and field events men. A large number of candidates took part, and the outlook for the indoor and outdoor season is very favorable.
The Freshmen squad is especially strong, and several good sophomores promise to bolster the returning veterans. The distance men are in good shape. The weights will be taken care of capably. In addition “Nick” has dropped rumors to the effect that he has a high jumper capable of recalling the days when Vince Murphy leaped with the best of them.
Last year only Puplis kept him from being first string quarterback, until Joe Ruetz switched from guard and became signal caller for the shock troops. Nevertheless he broke into enough games to earn himself a monogram.
With a dearth of left halfbacks last spring, much chatter drifted about concerning the possibility of using Puplis as chief ball-carrier. Things again looked good for Chuck. He was to be quarterback with the much-touted, tough little-seen, “Pony Express” backfield.
As it turned out the “Pony Express” practically never got off paper in the original form. Jack McCarthy remained at left half, where he moved up into the starting spot, and Puplis remained at quarter. However, Andy’s leg was hurt last spring, and this fall it was worse. When the Frosh-Varsity game rolled around Andy didn’t even have on a suit. So Chuck O’Reilly led the Varsity. (Wait, though, he’s down again.) Puplis was better in time to start against Drake, and against Illinois, and against Carnegie. But came the Navy game and O’Reilly was the better man. For he started against the Tars and played most of the game.
Which brings us up to the present with Chuck O’Reilly leading the pack in the quarterback derby. However, his roommate, Andy Puplis, is still much to be reckoned with. They both stretch skyward to the prodigious height of five feet eight inches, while Andy at 170, has five pounds edge in beef. They’re a good deal alike, although strangely enough Chuck looks stockier than Andy. Nevertheless, though they’re bitter enemies on the football field, there is nothing personal in the conflict, because after all you can’t stay mad at your roommate all the time—or can you?
SPECTATOR THRILLS
The year 1932, the place, the Polo Grounds, the occasion the football game between N. Y. Giants, and the Chicago Bears. With one minute remaining in the final quarter, the score stood 0-0. The Giants received the ball, on a Bear fumble, at midfield.
I knew there was only time for two plays, the first one failed and now it was a do or die proposition. In the Giant backfield was a dropkicking specialist, the only thing left for the home cause would be a long forward pass from Benny Friedman to Jack Haggerty. This combination had pulled a sure defeat into a victory, on many occasions and the Bears had set their defense to meet the game telling effort.
Well Sir, to make a long story shorter, Plansky, dropped back to attempt a field goal. The ball was snapped as the time keeper’s gun boomed, meaning the game was over and this kick would be the payoff as far as the result was concerned.
The Giant line held and Plansky taking aim let go with a herculean kick. Players and spectators alike followed the flight of the soaring pigskin on its way toward the uprights.
As luck would have it the ball struck the cross piece of the posts and landed firmly in the waiting arms of a delirious Giant partisan.
Final score read N. Y. Giants 3, Chicago Bears 0.
Thrills of the spectator; yes, and in my book it goes down as one of the greatest.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
On the Enemy's Bench
By Ed Brennan
Wilbur Moore, Gopher right halfback never competed in athletics until his third year in high school. Instead he preferred to spend his leisure time in hunting and fishing. A prep-school chum finally persuaded him to try out for football.
Captain Ray King, left end, and Andy Uram, outstanding halfback of 1936, didn’t report for spring football because they were candidates for Minnesota’s 1937 baseball team.
Marvin LeVoir, letterman and 210-pound tackle, is a brother of Babe LeVoir, quarterback on the Gopher’s mythical National Championship team of 1935.
Bernie Bierman, now head coach at his Alma Mater, was graduated in 1916. In 1915, he captained the team that won the Western Conference Championship, and as a result of his work in the class room and on the athletic field he was awarded the Conference Medal for all - around scholastic and athletic abilities.
Andy Uram, last year averaged 7.28 yards per play. In 64 attempts he carried the ball 466 yards, and crossed the enemy’s goal line three times.
Dan Elmer, junior letterman and candidate for center had never played in the line until his sophomore year at Minnesota. He was a halfback in high school, and in practice sessions he has been known to pass 70 yards on the fly.
The Green Bay Packers, champions of the National Professional League have scored exactly 130 points in their last four games.
In last week’s Badger-Panther tilt, Wisconsin linemen impeded the progress of a one Marshall Goldberg two yards behind the line of scrimmage. The loss of two yards should have been enough in the way of humiliation to Pitt’s great halfback, but the tacklers insisted on rubbing it in by a terse ‘not so fast.’ Marshall’s reply was a simple ‘You won’t get me next time. Whereupon the enraged Mr. Goldberg kept his word by reeling off a 63-yard touchrdown run on the next play. '
Pittsburgh’s director of athletics, Jimmy Hagan, recently approved of a plan that stops the subsidization of athletes. It is said that at least two novels, both on the evils of football had plots recognizable as conditions pertaining to Pittsburgh.
Sorry: There was the Middie on his way to the showers who said they just lived each season to beat Notre Dame and Army and now half their life was already gone.
TOUCH FOOTBALL GETS OFF TO SLOW START ONE GAME PLAYED IN POOR WEATHER
Center Paul Nowak “Lights the Light.”
CAGERS ENTER THIRD WEEK OF PRACTICE
o
Coach Keogan’s eagers entered their third week of practice for the gruelling schedule that faces them this coming season.
Prospects look so favorable for this year’s team Coach Keogan sometimes has to stop and wonder if it’s all true. Not one injury has been reported and barring unforeseen accidents none will. This time last year the outlook wasn’t so bright. Paul Nowak had just undergone an appendicitis operation and it was uncertain whether he would be able to play the early part of the season. However, even with Nowak’s operation and Moir’s broken jaw, received early in the year the team went ahead to be proclaimed National champs.
This year the entire attack of the Irish has had to be changed because of the rule changes that eliminated the center jump from the game. The eagers have had to practice fast breaks after the scoring of a basket and have had to get complete coordination in order to properly execute this rather new phase of the game.
Reserves will come in very handy this year. The first five men to start the game will be unable to play the whole affair because of the fast play that will result from the new rule changes. Accordingly Coach Keogan has been looking over his new Sophomores to see if he can uncover any likely material. Last year’s reserves have also been receiving attention. Jim Carson, O’Connor, Sadowski, Knobel, and Conrad will probably be the first line of reserve strength for the Irish mentor this year.
The team will not reach its full strength until the close of the foot-
By Clarence Sheehan
The combination of rain, snow, and Cotillion guests last week-end caused the postponement of the majority of scheduled games in the interhall football and soccer league. However, the schedule has been revised so that many of these games will be played at a later date. Some of them will take place this week-end if the student trip does not interfere.
In the soccer league a fighting Brownson team downed the lads from Freshman Hall, 2-0 last Thursday. The Dormitory team showed a marked superiority over the inhabitants of the Paper Palace, and found little trouble in disposing of them.
Another Freshman Hall team, this one a touch-football outfit, bowed to its opponents from Badin Hall by a score of 6-2. This game was very close, and is indicative of the balance which exists among the teams in the touch league.
These were the only games actually played, though teams from Brownson, Cavanaugh, and Carroll Halls received credit for one victory each on Sunday when their opponents forfeited the games by not appearing with full teams at the scheduled time and place.
The schedule of the postponed games is as follows:
10:00 a.m. Sunday, Oct. 31—In terhall Touch Football League. Morrissey vs. Howard on Cartier Field; Walsh vs. St. Edward’s on Cartier Field; Sorin vs. Alumni on Cartier Field; Dillon vs. Lyons on Brownson Field.
Second Round — Interhail Touch Football League. 10:00 a.m. Monday, Nov. 1—Badin vs. winner of Morrissey vs. Howard; Cavanaugh vs. winner of Walsh vs. St. Edward’s; Brownson vs. winner of Sorin vs. Alumni; Can-oil vs. winner of Dillon vs. Lyons.
ball season. Earl Brown, who played first string guard last year is still playing a lot of football for Elmer Layden and will not be released until the final gun has sounded the close of the football season. Until then Tommy Jordan, is playing first string, and doing very well at it. Jordan is a senior this year and considered one of the original five that gave Notre Dame its great basketball teams of the past two years.
Practice will be suspended this week-end, probably for the last time this year. The boys really have to get down to hard work after the first of next month as their season starts the first of December with Columbia College of Dubuque, Iowa.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
And now—Minnesota! From now until the 28th of November we’ll be content to take them one at a time. And Messrs. Layden, Boland, and Benda will unanimously agree that looking ahead just seven days is a pretty large order this season. In pigskin parlance the “Galloping Gophers” at one time (and perhaps they still do) connoted lop-sided statistics, bruising power plays, and an eleven-man juggernaut that played up and down the gridiron "with an utter disregard for anything in its way. Up around Nebraska way folks look upon Minnesota as just another team—another mythical National Champ beaten at its own game. Somehow we find it rather difficult to mention Minnesota in a disparaging tone. Like Jack Dempsey’s left hand, the Gophers have a terrific wallop which, when unleashed, has sent many a highly-touted team tumbling down the ladder with a resounding umph! But it took a confidence, courageous Tunney to bottle up that left and come out on top. It was Tunney’s indomii-table fighting spirit that carried him victorious through two battles with Dempsey; and it was that same fighting spirit—the more potent and devastating Irish variety—that carried Notre Dame back into the fight with Navy las week. With such an irresistable force behind the Irish and reflected in the blocking and tackling of the team itself, the result was inevitable. As one newspaper correspondent said in the press box after the game, “That’s the kind of a Notre Dame team I like to see play football. When they get out there and fight, there isn’t a team in the country that can beat ’em.” “Not even Minnesota?” someone chirped. “No. Not even Minnesota!”
V
WE NOMINATE: for the Flo Ziegfield of Notre Dame sports, George Keo-gan, who has installed a nifty contraption on the basketball court whereby each basket scored flashes three red lights on the backboard—for the Iron Men of 1937, the unofficial cross-country team who hill-and-dale five miles, three miles, two and a half miles, and three and a half miles, weekly—for the prize slip that passed in the type, the Associated Press special football dispatch emanating from Notre Dame, Inc.—Big business!
V
Eleven right and four wrong isn’t too bad an average to post for last Saturday’s games—in fact we think it is on a par with any record set by the football clairvoyants all season. To test the validity of our system with a larger number of pickings, Steve Miller selected twenty-five games this week instead of the usual twenty. Our system is made up of one part Costin, two parts Sper, and a dash of bitters. The bitters add an indescribable tang, characteristic of all of tomorrow’s games.
V
NOTRE DAME 10, MINNESOTA 7
Ohio State over Chicago Cornell over Columbia Holy Cross over Temple Michigan over Illinois Nebraska over Indiana Fordham over North Carolina Navy over Pennsylvania Pittsburgh over Carnegie Tech Oregon State over Stanford Army over Virginia Military Institute Princeton over Harvard Tulane over Mississippi
California over U.C.L.A.
Washington over Idaho
Northwestern over Wisconsin
Yale over Dartmouth
Texas Christian over Baylor Clemson over Wake Forest Colorado over Colorado Mines Detroit over Villanova
Santa Clara over Marquette
Michigan State over Kansas
Purdue over Iowa
Southern Cal over Washington State
IRISH STRESS PASSES IN GOPHER DRILL
By Andrew F. Wilson
Minnesota’s Golden Gophers are next on the Notre Dame football schedule. Back in September the breezes from the North - country spread the story that this was the greatest team ever to play in the Maroon and Gold. But hard Nebraska outcracked the bone - cracking Swedes, and small but wiry Indiana kept them scrambling frantically six points ahead of a huge upset. No winds blew down from the great woods. Then Michigan, with a hardy but unpolished Anderson - built line, led the Minnesotans 6-0 at the end of the first quarter. There was a stirring in the branches of the trees of the North; the great wind returned, less sweeping than at first, but extremely authoritative. The 1937 Gophers were not perhaps the very greatest Minnesota team, but they were indeed very great.
Careful and secret preparations have been made all week by Coach Layden for the Irish Norseland invasion. Defense against the unique Minnesota shift and the powerful single-wing-back formations has been emphasized, for the Gopher line offensively is second only to that of Pittsburgh, the strongest running team in the country. The first string Irish who played most of the game against Navy were let off early Monday, but not before they were given a look at the “B” team interpretation of Minnesota’s spinners and line smashes in dummy scrimmage. Tuesday and Wednesday there was intensive scrimmaging, both on offense and defense. Thursday night the squad left for St. Paul, where they loosened up in silk pants and game jerseys this afternoon.
It is reasonable to suppose that McCarthy and Zontini and the other passers on the squad have had stiff throwing workouts all week. The last five minutes of the Navy game revealed that the Irish running attack is still uncertain when the enemy, backed against its goal line, shifts from a six to a seven-man line. Good passing is needed to offset this massing of defense against line-plays, and should be especially effective against Minnesota, which, like all Bierman - coached teams, has been noticeably inept on pass-defense. The Notre Dame man-in-motion fakes, which Coach Layden saw so fully displayed against the Navy, have been smoothed down more deceptively, all the new variations on the old “straight” plays have been further developed, but the aerial shots will be the key weapons in the Irish attempt to drive the Gohpers to their holes.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	l»
IRISH HOLD SERIES EDGE ON GOPHERS
•
Notre Dame and Minnesota will meet on the gridiron for the fourth time in history at Minneapolis Saturday. The first game between the two schools took place in October, 1925, and the series was continued through 1926 and 1927. Two contests have gone in favor of the Irish, while the Gophers scored a last minute touchdown to tie in 1927.
A sellout crowd of 62,000 is expected to witness tomorrow’s fray, and with Minnesota still minus a victory over Notre Dame in football, Coach Bierman’s boys appear well-keyed for the coming battle.
The Irish won the 1925 game, 19 to 7. The first half ended at 7-all with the Irish in command of the ball six inches from the Gopher goal. Minnesota scored first, and the Irish tied it up early in the second quarter. Joe Boland, present line coach, blocked two Minnesota kicks in the second half, both ultimately leading to scores for the Irish. Fullback Rex Enright counted twice, and Christy Flanagan once for the Irish, while Asher was responsible for the lone Gopher touchdown. ■
Before a throng of 55,000 Notre Dame chalked up its second straight win over Minnesota in 1926. The score was 20 to 6. Early in the game lineman Joe Boland, instrumental in Notre Dame’s first victory, was carried from the field with a broken leg. He was accidentally clipped by one of his own teammates. Later on, Fred Collins. Irish end, suffered a broken iaw when he collided with Gopher fullback Herb Joesting’s head. Both players were taken to. the hospital in the same ambulance.
The score at the half was again 7-all, but when the third quarter opened, Christy Flanagan broke the deadlock with a 65-yard touchdown dash. Dahman and Hearder also scored for the Irish, and Wheeler kept the Gophers from being shutout.
Fumbles cost Notre Dame a victory when the two schools met here in 1927. The Irish were penalized 15 yards to their own 15-yard line late in the fourth quarter. A mix-up on signals resulted in a fumble which Bronko Nagurski, now of the Chicago Bears, recovered for the Gophers. A fourth-down pass, Joesting to Walsh, scored from the 10-yard line. Johnny Niemiec had scored and kicked the extra point for the Irish in the first period. Pharmer’s placement for the extra point tied the score for Minnesota with 40 seconds to go.
NOTRE DAME COMES BACK IN LAST QUARTER DEFEATS STRONG NAVY SQUAD IN SNOW
By Fred Digby
The Irish of Notre Dame came back fighting last Saturday afternoon, came back fighting after being completely outplayed in the first half to defeat the Navy Midshipmen with a last quarter spurt, 9 to 7. The first Notre Dame score came in the opening minutes of the fourth quarter when the Irish exe-
------------------------------.j.
SO THEY SAY
“On the snow-tracked field of the Notre Dame stadium the fighting Irish found a new road to victory here yesterday as they turned back a powerful Navy team, 9 to 7, with a dramatic last half rally before 45,000 spectators who sat through a steady fall of heavy snow.
All afternoon that throng sat waiting for the climax of the bruising • battle. And they did not wait in vain. For, with less than three minutes to play, the Irish who had trailed 7-0 at the half, and the same at the end of three quarters, smashed down the mighty Navy line to win the game.” —James S. Kearns of the Chicago Daily News.
“Notre Dame’s football players again became the fighting Irish this afternoon. They waited until the secone half for the long expected awakening, after letting the Navy prance and plunge to a first quarter touchdown. But they roused themselves in time. Notre Dame in the final quarter made a touchdown, point after touchdown, and a safety for nine points, to give the Irish the best of the 9 to 7 final score.”—by Edward Bums of the Chicago Tribune.
. “Notre Dame’s inspired Irish, hopelessly beaten for three periods, struck savagely in the fourth today and defeated the Navy, 9 to 7, on a snow-swept field.”—The Courier - Journal (Louisville.)
“They are still the fighting Irish of Notre Dame.
Notre Dame turned back a powerful Navy team, 9 to 7, Saturday, achieving a dramatic victory in the last few minutes of the game to thrill 45,000 spectators who sat shivering through a steady fall of snow. There was no mistaking the fight of the Irish. Hopelessly beaten for three periods, they fought with furious savagery in the fourth period to smash the powerful Navy line and triumph.”—The Daily Oklahoman.
“Over a blanket of mid-winter snow, Notre Dame fought back a stubborn Navy team this afternoon
(Continued on Page 23)
cuted another of those perfect plays. Jack McCarthy carried the hall through right tackle, reversed his field, outran the secondary, and scored standing up. Puplis kicked the extra point to tie the seven points made by Navy in the first quarter.
Varsity Center McCarty “A brilliant backer-up.”
Victory came in the last four minutes of play. Andy Puplis snatched Cooke’s punt on the Irish 38-yard line and galloped to the Navy 9-yard mark behind excellent blocking. McCarthy and Simonich brought the ball five more yards on two plays. McCormick then fumbled and Navy, recovered. Alan McFarland set himself to punt from behind the goal line. The pass from center came too low and he juggled the ball momen-. tarily. Chuck Sweeney broke through and tackled him behind the goal. The safety provided the Irish margin of victory.
No one backfield man could be singled out as the individual star for the big little three—McCormick, McCarthy, and Puplis—each contributed their share of yardage when it counted most. And it was the same in the line, for Irishmen Sweeney and McCarty both played brilliant defensive games.
For the first time in many years two Notre Dame halfbacks, McCormick and McCarthy, played the entire game. In the line, too, Pat McCarty battled for the whole sixty minutes.
That is the Irish side of the story. The Midshipmen had full control of affairs in the first half, however. They outcharged and outfought the Irish throughout. After an exchange of punts following the failure of the first Navy drive, Thesing fumbled on (Continued on Page 23)
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Wukovits, Moir, and Captain Meyer (above) limber up for coming season. Below are action shots of last year's great battle with Purdue which the Irish won.
Coach George Keogan (left) drills eagers daily for tough season. This year’s team is the same that last
year Keogan termed “The greatest I ever coached.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Quotable Quotes. . .
Contrary to popular belief, it is the coed and not the chorus girl who is holding most of the model jobs these days. Advertisers demand an intelligent animated face, which reflects a definite personality, as well as beauty and a stream-lined figure.
Indiana University has established an upper-classmen’s walk from which freshmen “podwearers” are barred.
A new 27-inch telescope has been installed at the University of Kansas and is ready for use.
“Two percent of the people do the thinking for the remaining 98 percent and you are a part of the two percent.” Dr. William F. Quillian, director of the general board of Christian education of the Methodist Church, South, flattered students at Birmingham Southern College.
“The educational spoon in America is handled by competent and understanding teachers but the students should do the feeding themselves.” Dr. Alexis Carrel, ranking scientist, is interviewed by the Dartmouth student newspaper.
“It may seem strange but all great men slipped off their pedestals as soon as they began to beat a path to the bathtub.” Dr. Sanders, a professor in education at De Paul University, saw this lecture remark picked up by a campus columnist.
“Superficiality is the most undesirable characteristic of a large state university located in a small town.” Prof. Howard McCluskey of the School of Education, University of Michigan, cited evidence of this su-perficialitiy in the overdressed women students and the stereotyped “line.”
“The problems of today can be solved and will be solved through an intelligent and trained leadership,” said acting President Herman B. Wells of Indiana university to freshmen.
“Each generation has its own kind of literary measles.” So says Dr. J. D. Ferguson, professor of English at Cleveland College.
GLASSES PROPERLY FITTED
DR. J. BURKE DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
MINNESOTA EDITOR
(Continued from Page 15)
one experienced cented to carry on. Dan Elmer is rated on a par with his injured running mate, but reserve centers have not shown very much promise this year.
The remainder of the squad is in good shape. The Gophers will have plenty of backfield strength with Rudy Gmitro and Wilbur Moore, right halfbacks; Marty Christiansen and Larry Buhler, fullbacks, Vic Spadaccini, quarterback, and Van Every and Bill Matheny, left halfbacks. Gmitro is the sparkplug of the team. He plays at all backfield posts, including fullback, although he weighs only 165 pounds. He may call signals from his right halfback post.
The Minnesota line as a unit hit its stride against Michigan, and if it can hold its form, will be hard to out-charge Saturday. Captain Ray King and Dwight Reed, ends; Charlie Schultz and Lou Midler, tackles; Horace Bell and Bob Weld guards, and Elmer, center, will probably start. There are capable reserves several deep at all positions except center.
START ENJOYING — STOP DOUBTING-YOU ALSO WILL RECOMMEND
^eSOMEINMC WONDERFUL
* COESON NISHIE:
SENUIHE gl FILTERS FORSl ■ENCO PIPES M
—— FINEST * ■ BRIAR
■ MONEY CAN BUY UNWEAAD OF VALUE
FILTER-COOLED

SEE NEW SHAPES* FINISHES
It has the only Pat’d filter combining moisture-proof Cellophaneexterior and 66 Baffle absorbent mesh screen interior; resulting in greatest scientific pipe smok> inginvention ever known. _
Prevents tongue bite, raw mouth, wet heel, bad odor, frequent expectoration. No breaking in. Improves the taste and aromaofany tobacco.
Km
filter
ABSORBENT
PAT 0 CtuO’» SC

ME MCIEBgW II Till IEI MBUMNl
RECORD REVIEW
VICTOR	DECCA
MASTER	BRUNSWICK
Victor: Hal Kemp fans can’t afford to miss his most recent recording: “Foggy Day In London,” from the new RKO musical, “Damsel In Distress.” The disc features typical Kempian trumpets, and a vibrato vocal by “Skinny” Ennis.
“Bunny Berigan’s trumpet is featured in his waxed version of “Miles Apart,” and “A Strange Loneliness.” His new feminine vocalist, Gail Reese, shows much promise in her rendition of both tunes.
The sweetest recording of the month is Tommy Dorsey’s, “Once In A While,” and “If It’s The Last Thing I Do.” The vocal on “While,” by the quartette is outstanding.
*
Decca: Decca scored a knockout wits its coupling of “For You,” and “Casa Loma Stomp.” One that Glen Gray fans should put on their “must” list.
Eddie Miller is featured in tenor sax work on Bob Crosby’s “Whispers In The Dark.” The vocal by Kay Weber is exceptionally luscious.
Also recommended on Decca is “Jimmie” Lunceford’s “Posin.” It’s an unusually fine arrangement, and “Willie” Smith tells you just how this new dance craze should be done.
* *
Master: The king of “Hi-De-Ho,” Cab Calloway, is the standout Variety artist of the month. Listen to his inimitable version of “I Wanta Make Rhythm,” and “Go South Young Man.” They’re both real ‘killers.”
From England, Variety brings another fine artist; Sidney Philips, and his orchestra. Philips has done a swing arrangement of “Cornin’ Thru The Rye,” that boasts of some truly wonderful brass inflections. We hope to hear more from this outfit in the veiy near future.
*
Brunswick: Artie Shaw, just about the best clarinetist in the land (bar none), has gotten together a new band that bids fair to reach the top in a very short time. Listen to his recent Brunswick waxing of “Afraid To Dream.” Its quality is doubled by Peg La Centra’s consistently fine warbling.
"THE BIG TEN"
Casa Loma Stomp, by Glen Gray (Decca) Once In A While, by Tom Dorsey (Victor) Chant, by Art Shaw (Brunswick)
Wanta Make Rhythm, by Cab Calloway
(Variety)
Blossoms On Broadway, by Guy Lombardo (Victor)
Can’t Have Everything-, by Bob Crosby (Decca)	.
Things Ore Looking Up, by Hal Kemp (Victor)	_
Cornin’ Through The Rye, by Sidney Phillips (Variety)	'
Moonlight On The Campus, by Will Osborne (Decca)
I Can’t Be Bothered Now. by Art Kassell (Bluebird)
T. P. Sheils.
(Advertisement)
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
ROCKNE MEMORIAL
(Continued from Page 3)
Kansas City, under the leadership of Dr. D. M. Nigro, prominent alumnus of that city, has pledged itself to maintain this memorial. Every year, on the anniversary of the crash and tragic death, members of the club journey to the site to hold memorial
The WISE BIRDS Say:
"In Winter Travel, Going South is next best to GOING BY SOUTH SHORE LINE"
Icy roads and chilly winds have ways of spoiling winter trips, unless you play smart and dodge them completely. One way to dodge is by going South — the other, cheaper way is to Go by South Shore. Regardless of weather, you're safe and comfortable in South Shore Line trains *— and you save money, too, all the year 'round.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD

services. Last year an eulogy was delivered by William Allen White, famed Kansas newspaperman.
Another memorial to Rockne is here on the campus. Shortly after the death of the man, the Religious Bulletin announced that plans were being made to provide an altar in Dillon Chapel to honor Rockne’s place in Notre Dame history. This is the altar of St. Olaf, and thus was it provided for. Contributions from students, alumni,and friends erected the shrine which is now a part of the traditions of the University.
ON THE.ENEMIES' TRAIL
(Continued from Page 15)
defeated Ohio State 13-12, and Oregon 34-14, and has lost to California 20-6.
THIS WEEK:
MINNESOTA plays Notre Dame.
PITTSBURGH plays Carnegie Tech.
ARMY plays Virginia Military Institute.
NORTHWESTERN plays Wisconsin. .
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA plays Washington State.
TOBIN says:
T	IRISH MIXTURE
O B	CORKTOWN
I
N«s COOKIE JAR
are blended to suit the taste of pipe smokers who like quality tobacco. We stand back of this claim.
MclNERNY & COMPANY CIGAR STORE
110 North Main Street
Lunch	Billiards
The Collegiate Review..
The University of Iowa possesses one professor, in the college of education, who understands the undergraduate mind. He occasionally warns the students, “I think I’ll sleep through class time.” And he does.
Texas Christian University students have worn out three editions of Emily Post’s book on etiquette and the fourth is in shreds, according to the librarian. The most frequent borrowers are boys. By noticing who borrows “Emily Post” she can often predict weddings and announcement parties.
A break for the men at Ohio Wesleyan—coeds there are in favor of limiting the number of corsages they expect to reecive during the year. But, they want fewer flowers “so that the money can be spent attending more dances.”
Bandsmen at the University of Minnesota are really just little boys. Initiation rules for first year men contain this: “Always carry: one bag gooey gum drops; one tin legitimate cigarettes; one package good gum; and after dinner mints are darn good.”
From the Files
November 2, 1889—Will Ann Arbor dare to meet Notre Dame this fall? She crows loudly over Albion, ' -but keeps a discreet silence as to our .eleven, and perhaps does not want to hear from N; D.
March 15, 1890—A stranger, in passing through the corridors would " unhesitatingly decide that ours is a boarding-school. Scaffolding for the artists—eh,, .
April -19, 1890—It is rather an antiquated and thread-bare subject, we must confess; but really we ought to have a college cheer. Now that our ’Varsity, team promises to astonish the natives this season, and as we will, no doubt, entertain numerous visiting clubSj it would be well..if some charitable individual -would invent a creditable yell..
Honey in b0™
The" Yello-Bole” treatment—real honey in the bowl —gives this pipe a “well-broken-m” taste immediately, AND impregnates the briarwood thoroughly as you smoke, so its wonderful flavor is preserved. permanently Special attachment gives (1) automatic free draft (2) double-action condensor.
YELLO-BOLE
ALSO "CARBURETOR" "STEMBITER". "IMPERIAL" YELLOBOLES, $1.25 & $1.50
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
SO THEY SAY (Continued from Page 19)
to emerge with a spectacular 9 to 7 victory.
There was no mistaking either the fight or the Irish today. There was plenty of both as 45,000 shivering fans saw the McCarthys, Sweeneys, McCormicks and O’Reillys come from behind with a 9-point fourth quarter to sink the Middies.”—John C. Hoffman, The Sunday Times (Chicago)
“You can’t insult these Irish and get away with it—for long.
Out of the seventy on the Notre Dame squad this year 40 are Irish or at least part Irish. Consequently, ’ when Elmer Layden’s boys floundered through their first three games with nothing better than one victory, one defeat and one tie to show for their labors, the gag artists quipped, ‘What’s wrong with Notre Dame? It must be the Irish.’
“But two sons of Erin by the name of Jack McCarthy of Chicago and Chuck Sweeney of Bloomington, Ill., took care of that slur here today.
NAVY GAME
(Continued from Page 19)
the 9-yard line, and Gunderson recovered for Navy. Wood carried the ball over for a touchdown after two plays and then kicked the extra point. For the rest of the half the Irish did all they could do to hold them to that one touchdown.
Nevertheless, the Irish gained 201 yards from scrimmage to Navy’s 115, and made 9 first downs to 6. Because of the snowstorm which lasted throughout the entire game and made the ball very slippery there were 11 fumbles, 7 of them by the Irish and 4 by Navy. For the same reason only three passes were attempted and only one of these by the winners.
Devoted exclusively to the exam-' -ination of. the eye and. the ’. ’ making of fine glasses.’ ; ’ .
----
. Intelligent,service '	, , :. :
Reliability ’ - ; ' 34 years'■’experience^are ’. , : our‘ endorsements; - ■ r • ••
..-Eit-m'';. ■ ’
314 South Michigan Street’ South’Bend, Indiana
FATHER ZAHM (Continued from Page 13)
year, 1917, he followed up this work with another book, The Quest of El Dorado.
Father Zahm was also interested in women’s achievement in the physical sciences, and in 1913, he wrote a book, Woman in Science, which he followed, in 1917, -with another book, Great Inspirers.
In 1921, Father Zahm went to Europe to recheck a completed manuscript, From Berlin to Bagdad to Babylon, and while staying in Munich he was stricken with pneumonia. He failed to survive the illness and died
Nov. 11; his remains were brought back to America and interred at Notre Dame.
Phone 4-3601 Hours 10 to 5
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
1002 Tower Building
Dewey School of South Bend Orthodontia 1919 Indiana
5
-A. lot of smokers have found that Chesterfields have a taste they like. They’ve found out for themselves that Chesterfields are MILDER.
You can prove for yourself that Chesterfields SATISFY.
they’llgive you MORE PLEASURE
Copyright 1937, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co,