This book is not to bh
* OCT 30 33 X ♦
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
$3.00 THE YEAR
15CTS. ACOPY
Invest SI Now!
and save yourself letters and postage
Let us mail The Scholastic home for you—from now until Christmas for only one dollar postpaid.
The folks will read all about campus affairs, the football season, how you're getting along in Club circles.
Give them this week-by-week record of your school year.
Phone, write, or call the Publications Office, 232 Administration Building-—Anytime from Dawn to Dusk.
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS
At the University	Notre Dame, Ind.
THE SCHOLASTIC is -published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3,1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
James S. Kearns...
Mitchell C. Tackley.
....Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor
Associate Editors JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_____________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN................. JOHN	E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH.___________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK.................... College	Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL....................... Staff	Artist
Sports Staff JOHN D. CARBINE .........EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR...............HOWARD	T. WALDRON
News Staff EDWARD F. MANSFIELD--------------------1___News Editor
THOMAS G. PROCTOR-------------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCI---------------------Assistant News Editor
JAMES A. BYRNE-------------------------FRANK KELLY
ROY O. SCHOLZ-----------------------ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL--------------------JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY--------------’._____PAUL J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES------------------------.LOUIS R. HRUBY
Business Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY----------------------Graduate Manager
VOLUME LXVII
October 27, 1933
No. 6
THE PUBLICATIONS
Four student publications are in operation at Notre Dame. To the student body at large, that may or may not mean much. It should mean something very definite. Publications at any school furnish one of the most attractive extra-curricular activities for individuals looking for interesting and profitable extra work. At Notre Dame, where the publications are unquestionably successful, their appeal should be stronger than at many other schools.
When characterizing the work as “profitable,” it is not meant that the publications furnish a field for monetary gain. Rather, they offer a field for disciplined intellectual activity and an outlet for expressions of imaginative and organizing ability.
The Juggler made its first appearance of the year a week ago. As far as The Scholastic has been able to determine, Editor Degnan’s magazine was decidedly popular. It has changed its tone considerably from that maintained last year; it has employed a new approach to the business of being humorous; it seems to have found a middle course between the two-line, he-she joke style of many collegiate humor papers, and the other extreme of long articles of doubtful satirical excellence in magazines obviously imitating successful commercial publications. The Juggler deserves its popularity for it is successfully handled. Naturally there is room for improvement, and much of it can come from new ideas brought to those in charge by new contributors. This is not a cry for help for a fellow editor: the Jttggler is in capable hands with its present staff, but it would welcome new men with new ideas. New men with ideas should in turn welcome the Juggler’s existence as an opportunity to turn the ideas into channels where they will be appreciated and helpful.
On November 17th the first issue of Scrip, University literary quarterly, will appear. It should not be news to the student body, but we think that it may be to some members of it, that Scrip is open to contributions from members of all classes in any of the colleges of the University. Its scope embraces creative prose writing, poetry, criticisms, essays, book reviews. It is a publication with a definite purpose, the fostering of literary writing on the campus. That purpose certainly has a legitimate place in the undergraduate life of a university. It is inevitable that, in a group the size of the October 2 7, 193 3
Notre Dame student body, there should be considerable creative writing talent. There is no better stimulus for that talent than the publication of its products. With Editor Paul McManus still receiving contributions for the first issue of Scrip, campus writers, tried or untried, should show no hesitancy in preparing manuscripts for consideration.
In the case of the Dome and The Scholastic, it is obvious that both publications require more definitely organized staffs than do the Juggler and Scrip. We do not know the situation on the year book staff. We feel sure, however, that any student interested in working on the yearbook, and there is a super-abundance of work to be done, will find it worth his while to apply to the editor.
Many requests and inquiries concerning the policy of The Scholastic in the matter of appointments to the staff have come to the editors in the past six weeks. Because of the size reduction effected this year, and because • of the unusually large number of staff men returning from last year’s organization, no new men have been added to the staff. That is not a permanent arrangement. Rather it was thought wiser to meet the complications that would arise from the new form of the magazine with an experienced staff. When the school year is a bit farther along and newcomers to the campus have become more fully orientated, The Scholastic expects to add several members of the underclass body to its organization.
DEBATING FOR THE LEMMER TROPHY
During the past week announcements have been made by the Wranglers of their intention to sponsor interhall debating again this year.
Probably no other campus club accomplishes such a worth-while end for the school at large. Last year’s interhall forensic competition was whole-heartedly received and enthusiastically carried out. The final, ihter-league debate for the University title and the Lemmer Trophy was held at St. Mary’s where Howard defeated Dillon.
A repetition of that success this year is within easy reach if the student body will contribute a proportionate share of enthusiasm. The Wranglers are well prepared to conduct the competition. President Arthur A. Sandusky was chairman of interhall debating last year.
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Sophomore Cotillion
Tonight At 9 O’clock

Bugle Corps
Tomorrow we have the band marching for the first time. We are anxiously awaiting its appearance, to see how the new freshmen come through. Everyone says it will be the best band we have ever had. “A band is as good as its drummers” is the old adage among band-masters, and this year’s crop is bumper with drummers rolling the individual Casasanta roll.
Judging from these early forecasts we would predict an entirely successful season, despite its curious civilian appearance at the Kansas game. A keen observer informed us that the 98 pieces slunk to their places rather shamefacedly after an opening selection. But we think he was drawing upon his imagination, for there must have glowed the bright promise of good things to come in their breasts. The cause celebre is the new uniforms.
No longer will our young men look like high-school tooters. Tomorrow you will see our band great-coated in blue splendor. The coats are nothing short of magnificent, made on the style of the Pittsburgh ones only with pearl buttons instead of gold, and sporting a short cape lined with gold wool. Wool is replacing silk facing all along the line this year in all the better bands. The coats are the greatest change, though, to be sure, calves will be long-trousered instead of putteed. Underneath, there will be a blue double-breasted short coat, and the trousers are blue with a gold stripe down the out-seams. Black shoes and natty white caps, like shipcaptains’, complete the ensembles.
No one has ever doubted Mr. Casa-santa’s witchery with the baton where the band is concerned, and with this new finery—we want to go, we want to go.
Tennis
One of the most touching sights we have seen is the brave carrying on of the fall tennis tournament under weather conditions which are not, to say the least, favorable. On those four ghastly asphalt courts, flanked by sand-beds in which grow some of the' most annoying of the milder forms of cacti, a band of devoted young men have these past six weeks been playing through a tournament which for length and delays makes the late National Women’s get-together look like a festival to Mithra. Should you wot not of our courts, we hasten to explain that the cacti are among the lesser evils. A blank sky beyond the football field fence at the
Two
south end ruins the players’ sense of perspective; the drab prospect that is the north end is equally disconcerting. The nets—well, the nets are made of fencing material, and they deflect the ball at the most impossible angles.
The tournament itself has been as quaint as the courts. By the semifinals every varsity tennis performer had been eliminated; the finalists are Fallon, a freshman, and McNulty, a sophomore. It is painfully true that Notre Dame tennis is of the common, garden variety, but the setting makes the situation a perfect irony. All honor to the boys. But come over yourself some afternoon to this lonely strand; collect some driftwood and build a fire, and watch the boys go to it.
Theatre
Well, the Linnets have turned to vaudeville, and the results ought to be very interesting. Father McAllister, who is breezing in every direction at once already, is enough to insure us that no effort will be spared, and the idea of a musical revue ought to be novel enough to attract a good turn-out. If the Linnets remain a fixture on the campus it will be largely due to the efforts of its founders, who have generated a new interest in theatricals around here.
The Linnets are in no sense in competition with the University Theatre which is planning its fall offering as well. The Theatre shoots for the higher forms of dramatic entertainment, while the little birds who sing promote the Music Box idea. There’s more than room for both: activity in the theater is about due for a revival around here anyhow. There’s a fascination about making a fool of one’s self before the footlights: we ought to know.
•
Two Cents
The lady at the Post-Office window was shaken at the turn of events. The package simply had to go out, and she had brought only a quarter, whereas the postage ran to 27 cents. She fretted and fidgeted; Brother Postoffice looked compassionate, but not generous.
Our hero approached the lady and put on his noblest look. As though scattering princely largess he clinked two pennies down on the ledge before her, plink, plink. They were the last bits of the coin of the realm he possessed.
The lady drew herself up. “I don’t want your money,” she snapped.
She took it in the end, though.
Tonight at nine o’clock will start s the parade of the sophomores across	«
the stage of social Notre Dame. The	*
glare of the spotlight will be fo- ’
Edward T. Sullivan
President of Sophomores.
cussed upon the Palais Royale Ballroom, where the Cotillion will continue until one a. m. Approximately three hundred couples are expected.
As noted before in The Scholastic, the Palais will be masked for the occasion, suitably covered over with the customary palms, fems, and sundry other outdoor adornments. The familiar “NOTRE DAME” in electric lights will also make its debut of the season at this time. The programs, done by William Ellis, will exhibit a cover of contrasting black and white, with the gilt Dome as the principal, and center, motif.
Patrons
The list of patrons for the dance include: Professors George Hennion, Earl F. Langwell, Thomas P. Madden, Paul C. Bartholomew, Stephen C. Bocskei, William J. Holton, William L. Benitz, Raymond J. Schub-mehl, George Rohrbach, Philip H. Riley, and A. Bagle.
Tomorrow afternoon the students, with their guests, will view the Pitt game from the East stands. Tickets at $3.60 per couple can be procured by presenting the Cotillion tickets along with A. A. books at the Athletic Office.
Saturday night brings the Football Dance, sponsored by the Junior Class; and the rest of the weekend will be spent at informal parties in and around South Bend. Sophomores have been permitted the use of automobiles-until Monday noon.
The Scholastic
Calendar
PITT PANTHERS TO MEET IRISH HERE TOMORROW
Friday, October 27
Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m; Symphony Orchestra practice, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.; Sophomore Cotillion, Palais Boy-ale Ballroom, Herbie Kay, 9 p. m. to 1 a. m.; Dramatics Class, Main Building, 6:30 p. m.; Movie, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m., “Crime of the Century.” With Jean Hersholt and Stuart Erwin.
Saturday, October 28
Football, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh, 2 p. m.; Cross Country, Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh, 10 a. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 12:30 p. m.; Movie, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m., “Mama Love Papa”; Pittsburgh Football Dance, K. of C. Ballroom, 9 p. m., Notre Dame Jugglers.
Sttnday, October 29
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upper classmen, 7 p. m., for Freshman and students in St. Edward’s and Lyons Halls, 7:30 p. m.; Interhall Football games, 1:15 and 3:15 p. m.; Cracow Club to attend Polish Celebration, St. Hedwige’s Auditorium, South Bend, 2 p. m.
Monday, October 30
Notre Dame Academy of Science, Science Hall, 8 p. m.; Adirondack club, Carroll Hall Rec., 8 p. m.; Patrician’s Club, Law Building, 7:45 p. m.; Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Juggler’s Rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Tuesday, October 31
Rosary Devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:00 p. m.; Wrangler Meeting, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.; Educational Seminar, Law Building, 6:30 p. m.; Movie, Washington Hall, 6:35 and 8:15 p. m. “Be Mine Tonight”; Italian Club, Carroll Hall Rec, 7:30 p. m.; Blue Circle Meeting, 4:15 p. m. Library.
Wednesday, Nov. 1
All Saints Day, Masses, Secred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00 a. m.; St. Vincent De Paul Society, Brownson Hall, 7:45; Juggler Rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p. m.
Thursday, Nov. 2
Varsity Debate Tryout, Law Building, 4:05 and 7 p. m.
October 2 7, 19 3 3
Broadcasts - - -
Three radio stations will broadcast the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game tomorrow afternoon beginning at 1:45 central standard time. Pat Flanagan will announce for WBBM, Chicago, while Bob Kennett will be at the microphone for the South Bend Tribune station, WSBT. WKBF, Indianapolis, will be the third station to transmit the broadcast.
Some of the prominent reporters covering the game for their respectice papers will arrive on the campus this evening to send in pre-game write-ups. Reporters from Pittsburgh are as follows, Chet Smith of the Pittsburgh Press, Harvy Boyle of the Pittsburgh Post Gazette, and Jess Carver of the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph.
Warren Brown will cover the game for the Chicago Herald and Examiner. George Kinksty of the United Press, Paul Nickelson of the Associated Press, Francis Wallace of the New York Netos, and Fred Ashley of the New York Sun are the other outstanding reporters who will arrive tonight and tomorrow to report the game.
Seniors!!
Your pictures for the DOME will be taken beginning November 2nd! The place Walsh Basement. — The time, 1:30 to 5:00 p. m. — The charge, $1.00! Come early and avoid “Rushed” photographs!!
Spanish Club Meets
The Spanish Club held its first meeting of the year this week. Three candidates were nominated for each position in the organization, and the final elections will take place sometime next week.
CONTENTS
Editorials ........................... 1
The Week .........................     2
Cotillion ............................ 2
Pitt Game .......................................... 3
Calendar ............................. 3
Linnets............................... 4
University Theatre ................... 5
K. C. Netos........................... 6
News of the Week ............................ 1
Man About the Campus ................. 8
Voice of the Campus ------------------ 9
College Parade....................... 10
Carnegie Victory .................... 11
Cross-Country ....................... 11
Introducing ......................... 12
Splinters ........................... 13
So They Say.......................... 14
On Dotvn The Line.................... 16
35,000 ARE EXPECTED
By Howard Waldron
Hard work and perseverance will be rewarded on Saturday when Nicholas P. Lukats, one of the most versatile left halfbacks in Notre Dame
Nick Lukats
Captains Irish Tomorrow.
history, assumes the toga of football captain for the battle with the Golden Panthers of Pittsburgh. Coach Hunk Anderson stated earlier in the year that the men playing the best games for Notre Dame would be awarded the captaincy of the Irish. For the last three games, Lukats has played hard, brilliant, and steady football, and it is only proper that he should mount the helm for this great intersectional game with the Pittsburghers.
Pittsburgh-Notre Dame rivalry is one of the keenest in modern football. In 1930 and 1931, the Irish overwhelmed the Panthers, but last year it was a different tale. The Notre Dame line was outcharged and outfought by an aroused Panther host, the Irish backs were helpless in their attempts at running against the Pitt 6-3-2 line of uefense. Meanwhile, the Pitt boys were not asleep and Mike Sebastian ran 43 yards through the Notre Dame team, with four men hitting him, for the first score. Later, the alert Ted Dailey intercepted a stray pass and dashed over for another score.
This contest aroused a great controversy about the defenses against the Notre Dame system. Many claimed that the 6-3-2 system had put a stop to the once successful Rockne system. The Army game, later in the season, put an end to such rumors and showed that the (Continued on Page 11)
Three
Prof. Phillips Talks On Indecent Movies
Professor Charles L. Phillips, of the English Department, in an address on “Morals and the Movies,” delivered at the convention of the Nat-
Prof. Charles L. Phillips Convention Commentator.
ional Council of Catholic Men, in the Congress Hotel, Chicago, Monday night Oct. 23, submitted practical plans for the improvement of motion pictures.
“From the inside we must be insistent and continuous in our efforts to get at the producers, and make ourselves known at the headquarters of General Johnson of the NRA,” Professor Phillips said. To get permanent results, however, the Catholic public and individual must be educated. There are four essentials of a good movie: They are 1, beauty of conception; 2, sound dramatic construction; 3, good acting; 4, good photography.”
“We do not demand religious plays, but we do condemn those presentations which discount morality completely by implication or inference,” continued Professor Phillips. “The sinner doesn’t repent, there is a convenient bridal veil and plenty of easy money.”
The producer’s claim that the public will not support decent pictures came in for attention during the address, and reports to the contrary from a number of cities were given. “The public gets what the leaders want,” he stated. “We must invade the field of criticism.”
“The concentrated efforts of the Church, the parents, as well as women’s clubs and other organizations, in the direction of the right type of play, will in time affect the masses so that they will involuntarily seek decent plays and pictures,” Professor Phillips emphasized.
Father O’Hara,' in his Religious Bulletin of Wednesday, published excerpts from Prof Phillip’s speech as reviewed by the Chicago newspaper.
Four
“Religious Bulletin” Ends 12th Year of Publication
Notre Dame’s Religious Bulletin completed its twelfth year of circulation Tuesday, Oct. 24. The Bulletin of Oct. 23 recorded that the first issue on Oct. 24, 1921, was of seven copies, and entitled “Mission Bulletin.”
Copies were later issued two or three times a week, and soon this policy was changed to one of daily publication. Until 1924, the issues were in the form of carbon copies, but in September of that year they were mimeographed for the first time.
In October, 1929, the number published was enlarged from a limited number of copies for students who called for them, to a campus-wide circulation. A mailing list of alumni and friends who asked for the Bulletin was Started at the same time. Two thousand copies are mailed to addresses away from the campus today, including over 400 schools.
“A conservative estimate of the number of readers today is 100,000,” continues the Bulletin of Oct. 23. “It goes to nearly every state in the Union, and to fifteen foreign countries. The correspondence which it brings in requires a considerable portion of the time of one secretary.”
Probation Majors Receive Positions in Past Years
What will be “good news,” no doubt to this year’s class in Probation Work, is the recent discovery of Reverend Raymond Murray, C.S.C., director of the curriculum in Probation Work. Every graduate from the first class in 1931 up to and including the class of 1933, has a position.
Father Murray made this discovery while attempting to secure a Probation Work graduate to accept a position offered by a New York agency this week. The class of 1934 at present is made up of twelve seniors and two graduate students.
Cotillion Bulletin
The following bulletin was issued from the office of the Prefect of Discipline this week:
“The Sophomore Cotillion takes place Friday, October 27. The time limit authorized by the Faculty Dance Committee is from 9 to 1 o’clock. Those attending the Cotillion must be in their place of residence at 2 o’clock Saturday morning.
“Sophomores who attend the Cotillion may use automobiles from Friday morning until Monday noon, provided they notify their rectors.”
Large Turnout For Linnets’ Music Show
Seventy-five students, representing all the classes in the University, turned out for the initial tryouts of the new musical revue, to be sponsored by the Linnets, at the meetings held on Monday and Wednesday evenings of this week. Father Charles McAllister, and Prof. Joseph Casa-santa, co-directors, presided at the meetings.
Talents, varying from tap dancing and harmony singing, to drawn plans for stage settings and lighting effects, were demonstra’ted by those who attended. From all appearances, the revue will display to Notre Dame’s amusement-loving public, a galaxy of stars heretofore unknown. The directors are confident that a George M. Cohan, or even a Harry Richman is to be found wasting away in any of the local halls.
“Thanks For -The Blow,” the title of the extravaganza, will be presented in Washington Hall early in December, most probably on two or three nights immediately following the Army game. Any students interested in working wTith the show, either on the acting or production staffs, are asked to report to either of the directors and to attend the rehearsals as announced on the bulletin boards.
Tribute to Rockne
A radio tribute to Knute K. Rockne and a salute to Notre Dame was broadcast by Paul Whiteman and his orchestra Thursday night, Oct. 19, in the form of Ferde Grof’s impressive “Rockne Tone Poem.”
The meaning of the selection was explained just before its presentation on a nationwide chain program, by Announcer Deems Taylor. The first of the four parts represented early days at school; the second, university life at Notre Dame; the third, romance and courtship; the last, the “Big Game.” The “Victory March,” in very slow time, featured the second section, and the “Hike Song” was the central theme of the fourth.
President Of President’s Requests Club Information
Clay Johnson, president of the Presidents’ Council, requests that' all presidents of active campus clubs send to him a list of the organization’s officers together with an approximation of the membership for the current year.
The above information should be sent in as soon as possible. Address: Clay Johnson, 109 Walsh Hall.
The Scholastic
University Band To
SHAKESPEARE DRAMA FIRST ON
March at Pitt Game
UNIVERSITY THEATRE PROGRAM
Tomorrow afternoon the University band will flash their first appear-4 ance in their new uniforms on the field during the half of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game. Eighty members are included in the marching formation which will spell out the Panther’s name, Pitt, and form a huge N. D. for the home team. While in the Pitt formation, the band will render Pitt’s “Battle Song.” Louis Alaman will perform as drum major.
The band will occupy their usual seats on about the 30 yard line. The 95 ••members of the Notre Dame Glee club will be seated directly behind the band to form a nucleus for the student singing. Tomorrow’s performance will be the first public apearapnce of the band this season. The band did not march at the Kansas game because their new uniforms had not yet arrived.
Professor’ Joseph Casasanta has been drilling the band in the new formations for the past five weeks. As in the past the band will march without carrying sheet music, having memorized the music they will play on the field.
A. I. E. E. Will Meet On
Monday Evening, Oct. 30
On Monday evening, Oct. 30, promptly at 8 o’clock, the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will hold its third meeting of the year in Room 22 of the Engineering Building.
When questioned as to who the principal speaker of the evening would be, Chairman Bill Fromm said he was not yet prepared to divulge his name. He said, however, that the speaker will be from the Indiana & Michigan Electric Company, and he intimated that the talk will be both interesting and instructive. Another feature of the meeting will be a treatise presented by James Fessler, a senior, entitled “A Symposium on In-ductanace.” Other interesting papers, clever entertainment, and the usual cigarettes and refreshments are also promised. All electricals are strongly urged to attend.
Speaker Thanks School
A letter from Speaker Rainey of the U. S. House of Representatives was received by Dean Konop of the College of Law this week, thanking the Dean, the University administration and the student body for the splendid reception and many courtesies accorded him on his visit to the campus Tuesday, Oct. 17.
October 27, 1933
Class Schedules—
The noon meal for students on the Saturdays of a home football game will be at 11:00 a. m. instead of the regular time. At 12:00, noon, the dining halls will be given over to the use of the public. Following is the schedule of classes issued by the Director of Studies:
For the Saturday mornings of the 28th of October, the 11th of November, and the 25th of November,
First Period—8:00 to 8:35.
Second Period—8:45 to 9:20.
Third Period—9:30 to 10:05.
Fourth Period—10:15 to 10:50.
Press Club Addressed By Iowa Newspaper Man
The Press club had as guest speaker at a special meeting Friday afternoon, Oct. 20, C. J. Manning, a former managing editor, magazine writer and publicity man, now a partner in one of Iowa’s largest stores.
“For fun, I’d choose newspapering and its feet of clay. For glory, I’d choose to be a reporter and get the deference that goes with the job. But for revenues—there are other fields that are greener.” Thus Mr. Manning summed up his practical advice to the journalists to use the profession as a preparation for and a stepping stone to more lucrative fields, if they wanted a better chance for material reward.
The open forum discussion at the conclusion of the talk furnished the Press club men with much practical information, and many new views on the writing game.
Alumnus Addresses Foreign Commerce Club Wednesday
Arthur Denchfield, ’28, spoke to the Foreign Commerce majors in the Commerce building, Wednesday morning, Oct. 25, on international banking and trade.
Mr. Denchfield has been with the National City Bank of New York for the past four and a half years. He has been with a branch of the bank in Montevedio, Uraguay, So. Am., having recently returned to this country on a vacation trip, via Germany, France, and England.
The Medical Aptitude Tests will be held this year on Wednesday, Dec. 6, at 3 p. m.
All students who are eligible for this test will meet in Room 208 of Science Hall on Monday, Oct. 30th at 12:45 p. m.
PLAYERS IN REHEARSAL
Once in every three or four years, Professor Frank Kelly and his University Players present a Shakespearian play as one of the major
Prof. Frank Kelly
Launches University Theatre
productions of the University Theater. The purpose of presenting such a play is that at these times, there is talent in the organization worthy of plays of this nature. One of Shakespeare’s best known works, “The Taming of the Shrew,” has been selected as the opener on this season’s bill.
Use Powers’ Version
The Shrew, as it is more often referred to, is one of the lightest and yet most difficult of Shakespeare’s plays. Professor Kelly will use the Leland Powers’ version with the induction. The version is called “Katherine and Petruchio,” the names of the two principal characters. It is shorter than the original and deals with only those characters essential to the plot of the play.
The University Theater, guided by its director, is one of the most popular organizations on the campus. Mr. Kelly has had several meetings of the various class groups of the Theater this year. As yet, no definite cast has been announced, but Notre Dame’s playgoers are looking forward to seeing some of the last year’s lights, such as Tom Stritch and Gene Blish, playing the roles of this classic.
Five
Ninety-Five Comprise Glee Club Personnel
After six weeks of trial tests and rehearsals, the University Glee Club has been temporarily established at a total of 95 members, including veterans of last year and the new men who have survived the first cuts.
This group will carry on until the first of February when the first regular personnel cut will reduce the number to 75. On March 1, the final personnel of 40 men will be selected for the concert tour to be made during the Easter holidays. According to Professor J. J. Casasanta, the material this year is the best he has had in four years.
Following is the complete personnel:
First Tenori: Vogt, Cassidy, Carey, Arnade, Como, Dausman, Rowan, Bolerjack, Beltemacchi, Morrison, Fooey, Schenk, E. J. Fitzmaurice, Sullivan, O’Brien, Marinello, Adamson, Schlueter, E. J. Butler, Casazza, Fromm, Feferman, Corrigan, Gervasio.
Second Tenori : Hines, Phillips, McNeill, Cohn, Torribio, O’Byrne, Gorman, Ducey, Straeter, Gott, Hamm, Scherer, A. C. Hoene, Quigley, Gross, Devine, Schwarz, Goldman, Lynch, Lindsay, Henry, Jahr, Egan, Wenz, Stemper, Hart, Gill.
First Bassi : Scorifietti, French, McNichols, Finnochiaro, Reidy, Ross, Brugger, Schenkel, Byrne, Thurm, Neaher, J. V. Hoene, Flanigan, Pren-dergrast, Kenyon, Donovan, McDevitt, Christenson, Quinn, Brett, Tompkins, Ryan, R. Butler, Menard, Cahill.
Second Bassi: Prapp, Hughes, Miller, Brugger, Reeves, Austin, Lewis, Sickmeyer, Walter, Ed Fitzmaurice, English, Stillwagon, Marohn, Ayres, Scholz, Flynn, Cordaro.
Pre-Registration For A. B.
Upperclassmen To Be Soon
Attention of Arts and Letters students is called to this year’s earlier pre-registration date for the second semester. The time of registration will be the two weeks before the Christinas holidays.
All Juniors and Seniors should consult the catalogue in order to make judicious choices of their elective courses for the second semester. In a short time a schedule will be published of the catalogued courses and additional elective courses to be offered.
The reason for advancing the preregistration date is to give the .stu-their time in January to the preparation for the semester examinations.
Six
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
Those of you who were at the last meeting, and those who were not, should regard well the financial statement of Brother Abraham. The per-
Judge William McCain
Backs the President.
centage of dues unpaid is alarmingly high, and while all due allowance for the depression is being made, it should be rather obvious to all the members that most of the council’s expenses must go on, no matter what the financial condition of the rest of the country is. Those expenses can be met only when dues are paid, and paid regularly. And, too, the depression excuse can be overworked. At present it is not in very good standing, and is contrary to the principles of NRA.
To those members who failed to attend the Communion breakfast last Sunday morning in the Lay Faculty dining hall we extend our deepest sympathy. Judge Cain, professor in the College of Law, and a national authority in the field of equity jurisprudence, talked on the constitutionality of the National Industrial Recovery Act, and the changing attitude of the judiciary brought about by legislation in the last seven months. He said that when the constitutionality of such legislation is challenged, it will unquestionably be upheld, but that such a movement ten years ago would have landed the proponents in padded cells. Speaking also of the veiled insistences of several leading newspapers that America was tending toward dictatorship, Judge Cain said that America would never permit any man to assume
N. D. Engineers Club Elects Vice-President
Frank Brady was elected to the vice-presidency of the Engineering Club at its meeting, Oct. 18, in the Engineering Building auditorium. This election was held to fill the vacancy left by Ted Healy who did not return to the University this year.	'
Members of the executive committee were also appointed at the session. The men at large are: William Escher, senior; Jerry Cushing, junior; Dennis Swords, sophomore, and Walter Tray, freshman. Duties of this group will be to prepare programs and pass upon financial bills.
Other business of the meeting was the report of the treasurer concerning the financial status of the club,* and the announcement of the annual Engineer’s Ball, April 13.
Reverend T. A. Steiner, C.S.C., Dean of the College of Engineering, delivered the address of the evening. He pointed out the value of the organization in promoting new contacts and associations for its members.
Dr. J. A. Caparo, head of the Electrical Engineering Department, was the guest of the club. Owing to the holiday Nov. 1, the next meeting will not be held until Nov. 8.
Prof. Manion Speaks
Professor Clarence M. (Pat) Manion, professor in the College of Law, spoke to the Fellowship club last Tuesday night at the Hotel Mishawaka, in Mishawaka.
such a position, and that it would be impossible for him to try. The judge said that despite small difficulties in the path of the smooth working of NRA, he felt that President Roosevelt’s ideals are good, that his main purpose is good, and that he is behind the president fully.
The exemplification of the first degree will be held in the council chambers in Walsh Hall at a special meeting on Nov. 6. As many members as can possibly be present are requested to do so. The exemplification of the second and third degrees will be held Nov. 12, in the South Bend council chambers downtown. The chairman in charge of the der gree initiations is Brother Fitzsimmons, and the chairman of the banquet committee is Brother Phaneuf. The committee consists of Brothers Rocco, O’Neil, Dulin and Helwig. While one committee takes care of all arrangements for both events, it has been customary to appoint two chairmen, one for each event.
Greetings to the Santa Maria.
The Scholastic
‘Juggler’ Sales High;
Students Laud Issue
Six hundred and fifty copies of the October issue of the Juggler were sold upon its distribution through the various residence halls last Friday evening. This is a new record established over the sales of the past two years.
The general opinion of the student body in regard to the efforts of the staff was a most favorable one. Many comments were heard to the effect that Degnan had edited the best Juggler in years. The local humor and the refreshing cartoons drew many a laugh even from the hard-shelled Sorinites. The policy of the magazine is to retain this campus outlook in the next issue, the football number, which is soon to appear.
Last Wednesday was the deadline for contributions to the forthcoming issue. New talent is welcomed and it is hoped that some budding genius will be unearthed.
Memberships in the Jziggler club are still open, and may be obtained by calling at the Publications Office and depositing the sum of 85 cents for the seven remaining issues.
Educational Seminar Is Held Every Tuesday
An Educational Seminar in Philosophy has been in operation since the opening of the semester in September, undei* the direction of the Reverend W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., a professor in the Department of Education. Thirteen regular students are enrolled i n the course, taught regularly on Tuesday evenings, at 6:30 o’clock in the Seminar Room of the Law Building.
“Humanism and America” was the subject of a paper given this week by Benjamin Weinstein, a graduate student of South Bend. George Myers, A.B. senior, read a closely related paper, “Humanism in America.”
At last week’s seminar, Robert McDonough, A.B. senior, made a report on “Education Leads the Way,” a critique of experimentalism by Norman Foerster. The theme of the seminar was “Experimentalism vs. Humanism.”
At next week’s seminar, the Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C. will speak to the students on “Pragmatism and its Educational Implications.”
The seminar is open to students in the University. Anyone desiring to attend any of the seminars can do so by permission from Father Cunningham. Only a limited number is allowed each week.
October 2 7, 1 9 3 3
News of the Week
By Paul J. Doyle
The monetary policy of Roosevelt is not inflation by the issuance of green backs, not immediate stabilization, but a form of managed currency. In his radio speech of last Sunday the President declared that such a policy would make possible “a dollar which will not change its purchasing and debt paying power during the succeeding generations.”
Also expressed in the President’s speech was the aim of his recovery plan—the restoration of commodity prices to the 1926 level, followed by the revaluation of the dollar.
Should we recognize the Soviet? Conservative authorities, viewing it from an economic standpoint, consider it an ungainful venture in the long run. If it is to be a profitless move economically, we ought to derive some benefits in other ways — for surely no one denies that the Soviet would be thrown into a paroxym of joy by U. S. recognition.
One of Roosevelt’s demands before recognition is that communistic propaganda be eliminated in this country. That is well and good for the best interests of the country. But why be satisfied with a single when you can try for a home run?
Why not accede to Catholic opinion and demand religious toleration as another condition of recognition? Since the President has expressed his trust in God, we can see no objection to making a concrete move to earn that trust. After all, this would be more genuinely in the best interests of the nation. It is worth consideration.
In the agrarian fight to get “cost of production” for its goods, the Farm Holiday Association, on Saturday, asked the support of farmers in a nation-wide non-buying, nonselling strike. The first few days of the strike served to support the prediction of an early subsidence.
The French Chamber of Deputies this week voted out of office the nine-months standing government of Premier Daladier. The reason—rejection of his policy to eliminate the yearly deficit by additional taxes and by the reduction of civil servants’ pay.
Cracow Club Plans to
Attend Celebration
Sunday the Cracow Club of Notre Dame is to attend a celebration of the 250th anniversary of the defeat of the Turks at Vienna by King John III Sobieski of Poland. The celebration will be held at St. Hedwig’s Auditorium, South Bend, at 2 o’clock Sunday afternoon. This victory over the Turks by Sobieski saved Europe for Christianity as otherwise the Ottoman Turks would have tried to supplant it with their own religion.
The principal speaker at St. Hedwig’s will be Professor Charles Phillips, faculty adviser of the Cracow Club. Dr. F. S. Kubiak extended an invitation to all the members of the Cracow Club to participate in the celebration.
Last Sunday, Oct. 22, the Cracow Club held a meeting at 10 o’clock in Carroll Rec. The matter of dues was finally settled. They will be one dollar for the year. The members voted a pledge to support and co-operate with Clay Johnson, president of the Presidents’ Council.
Committees were appointed on program, entertainment, publicity, correspondence, events of interest, and book reviews.
St. Vincent De Paul To Canvass for Old Magazines
In the last meeting of the St. Vincent De Paul Society, it was decided that the members would soon call on the students for old magazines, and pamphlets. Rev. John Kelly, C.S.C., urged the members to inform their friends about saving magazines to give to the poor and Healthwin.
A meeting will be held in Brownson Hall every Wednesday night at 7:45. All the members are requested to attend.
Mike Leding, ’33, Presents Rockne Trophy at Albany
Michael Leding who graduated last year with highest honors, having an average of 96.5 and a Monogram for football, presented the Knute , K. Rockne trophy to Father King, director of athletics of the Albany, N. Y. diocese.
Leding is at present taking postgraduate work at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute at Troy, N. Y. He represented the Notre Dame Club of the Capital District, with which Annually the Club presents a trophy to the successful Catholic high school team.
Seven
Interhall Debate To
Open November 6th
Alumni Hall will debate Walsh Hall on November 6; Carroll Hall will debate Brownson Hall on Nov. 6, and so on runs the schedule of Lem-mer Trophy Debates as drawn up and passed upon by the Wranglers during a business meeting in the Law Building Tuesday niglt. Arthur L. Korzeneski, chairman, prepared the schedule and presented it to the organization. When judges have been selected and places in which to hold the contests have been chosen, the chaiman will pronounce the 1933 intramural debating season definitely “under way.”
At present the schedule calls for 28 preliminary debates in both league “groups.” These early contests are to be followed by semi-finals and the final debate in each league, and the final debate between the winners of each group, probably on some question other than the one to be used in the preliminary debates, which is the Varsity question, “Resolved: that a Constitutional amendment making permanent the powers of the President as of July 1, 1933, should be adopted.”
Coaches have been meeting and organizing teams during the past week in preparation for the season running from November 6 until the middle of December. All halls except Freshman are arguing but one side of the question, and all halls with the exception of two will have but two preliminary debates. Arrangements are being made at the present tnne to hold several of the debates before campus or downtown clubs or organizations, and the final contest will probably be staged at St. Mary’s College.
Glee Club, Band Heads Appointed This Week
As the schoolyear is well under way, the appointments for the Glee Club and University Band offices were made by Professor J. J. Casa-santa here last week.
Robert Butler was appointed president of the Gleesters; William Cas-azza, vice-president; Robert Cahill, business manager, and William Ayres assistant business manager.
For the band, Edmund Fitzmaurice serves as president. Terry Austin was appointed vice-president, while James Morrison and Edward Zimmers are listed as junior officers. The presidents of both organizations are seniors; Butler is an A.B. student, while Fitzmaurice is in the Commerce school.
Eight
'^'about the camPus SX.
“Did y’hear about George Shields? Yeah, he’s got pneumonia or some:!” This was more than a mere Notre Dame rumor on the campus early in September — it was true. George really had been sick, and when he recovered he found that he had lost two weeks of school and about twenty pounds in weight.
Despite these handicaps, George immediately took over his duties as Student Activities
Council. His first step was the scrapping of the old constitution of the Blue Circle and the reorganization of the group along much-improved lines. He has made it into a useful, dignified organization in place of the rather useless and none-too-popular body it used to be.
Pep meetings have been planned and negotiations have been just about completed for what promises to be the most reasonably-priced student trip the S. A. C. has ever sponsored. These show his deep and sincere interest in being of benefit to the students: they testify to the thoroughness and efficiency which characterize him.
It is only natural that this work requires quite considerable amount of time, but not enough to keep him from maintaining his high average in a difficult Mechanical Engineering course or from keeping his diminutive room mate, Vince Reishman, on the straight and narrow. His frequent associations around the campus with his friends must be very pleasant. These friends, and even mere acquaintances, classify him as being decidedly regular.
George has his likes and dislikes. As regards the former, the lads in Walsh are well-acquainted with the fact that he has a strong liking for the Scholastic—anybody’s Scholastic. The thing which is uppermost among his dislikes is the fact that his beard is of the healthy, bristly type that takes a goodly amount of time to whittle down each Wednesday after dinner, thus endangering his chances of reaching the Oliver Mezzanine at 1 o’clock.
N.D. Represented At Catholic Conference
Notre Dame was represented in Chicago last Wednesday, October 25, at a special meeting of the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems, by the Reverends William A. Bolger, C.S.C., James A. Fogarty, C.S.C., Edward Keller, C.S.C., and Professors William Downey and Louis Buckley, all of the Department of Economics of the University faculty, and James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary.
The conference was sponsored by the National Council-of Catholic Men as a part of its 13th Annual Convention. It also had the support of the Mid-West Region of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. All three organizations have been working along similar programs of developing a better understanding of social justice as expressed in the Encyclicals of Popes Leo XIII and Pius XI.
The opening paper of Wednesday’s conference at the Congress Hotel was delivered by E. F. Du Brul, management engineer of Cincinnati, Ohio, NotreDame graduate, holding five degrees in course from the University, and former member of the faculty.
Varsity Debate Tryouts
Will Be Held On Nov. 2-3
Tryouts for Varsity Debate on the question, “Resolved: that a Constitutional amendment making permanent the powers of the President as of July 1st, 1933, should be adopted,” will be held on Thursday and Friday, November 2nd and 3rd, in the basement auditorium of the Law Building.
Speakers are to talk in the order in which their names appear on the schedule. The schedule is as follows:
Thursday afternoon at 4:05 p. m., affirmative, John C. Kavanaugh, John Pavlick, Howard Barnett, Robert Schmelzle; negative, James Boyle, Frank McGahren, Alex F. Sloan, J. S. Hollandthal;
Thursday night at 7 p. m., affirmative, Herbert L. Nadeau, Franklyn Hochreiter, Edward K. Meaher, William E. Miller; negative, Clyde Lewis, William R. Murphy, Arthur Ger-end, Joseph Becek.
Friday afternoon at 4:05 p. m. affirmative, Thomas E. Cassidy, John Hayes, Thomas G. Proctor; negative, Justin Hannen, Don McIntosh, William Pendergast, Hugh Fitzgerald.
Friday night at 7 p. m., affirmative, J. S. Riley, Gene Malloy, John Heywood; negative, William L. Wolte, Eugene S. Blish, Richard Meier.
The Scholastic
First Issue of “Scrip” Will Appear Nov. 17
Voice of the Campus
Grundeman Outlines Blue Circle Rules
“Quality and appeal in literary material is the kind of work we want for Scrip,” states Paul F. McManus, editor of the campus literary magazine “Poetry, book reviews, short stories, plays, essays, and anything of a literary nature will be accepted. Even essays aside from purely literary ones will be taken as long as they possess the elements of quality and appeal.”
Under classmen are asked to contribute to this publication. Articles written by members of any class will be viewed in the same standing. Contributions may be left in the Publications Office in the Main Building, or at Editor McManus’ room at 101 Corby.
This year Scrip appears under a new plan. It is still a quarterly publication but it is to be distributed on the four Fridays of Nov. 17, Jan. 26, March 16, and May 18 to the doors of every room. In size and appearance, Scrip will be the same as The Scholastic. The cover effect will be the same as last year’s.
Assisting Editor McManus are associate editors Robert Monahan and Eugene Sullivan. They have devised several new features for this year’s quarterly, two of the most notable of which are the insertion of woodcuts and booknotes on contemporary literature, aside from the longer topics.
Editor McManus also said, “Short articles can be used to advantage. Because of the size of the magazine this year, we will be able to use practically all material submitted.”
Dome Scaffolding Removed
Removal of the major portion of scaffolding on the dome was made on Wednesday of this week, and the regilding process rapidly neared completion as the Scholastic went to press. Weather permitting, the last touches will be made in time for visitors at the Pittsburgh game tomorrow to see the bright new gold leaf finish in its entirety.
The floodlights on the towers of Sacred Heart Church and Washington Hall were turned on Wednesday night for the second time this year, in an experiment to obtain the best focus on the statue and the dome itself.
Adirondack Club Notice
Members of the Adirondack Club are requested to attend a meeting to be held in Carroll Hall Rec. at 8:00 o’clock Monday evening.
President Harry Desnoyers has some important announcements to make.
Dining Hall Speed
Editor, The Scholastic:
We think it about time attention was called to the unusually early starting of the meals in the west wing of the dining halls. For nearly a month the bell has rung several minutes before the hour. During the past week the average has been at least three minutes before time.
Everyone thinks well of the progress that has been made in releasing students from breakfast ahead of the usual period. It is a thing that has long been desired. But we see no reason why this time should be made up by starting the other meals ahead of schedule.
Certainly there is speed enough in the present rate of serving. No one to our knowledge has ever com' plained of time wasted in the dining halls. But is it too much to ask that we be given time to enter before the meat is served? There is no thrill in dodging waiters who are rushed out with heavy trays and dishes long before the hour strikes. Nor is there a further thrill in having to call the waiter back with the extra food.
If the meals are run too slowly why not ring the bells 2, 3, or 4 minutes earlier? This would give everyone time enough to come to 11:57 dinner, 5:57 supper. Certainly it would lend consistency to the program of speed.
Very truly yours,
R. C. W.
We Want “Scholastics”
Editor of Scholastic:
Since the Scholastic has been given out, so far this year I have not received one. This last issue didn’t even reach the front wing of Alumni Hall, on the third floor. I would like to get a copy once in a while.
M. A. S.
Directory Being Printed
The new edition of the student and faculty directory is now being prepared for publication. It will be the same as last year’s except for the addition of the high school or prep school from which each student graduated. The publication will probably be published.in about three weeks.
Fr. O’Donnell’s Condition
According to Dr. Powers, attending physician, the condition of Father O’Donnell is one of gradual improvement. Although no rapid progress toward recovery has been evidenced, the absence of new complications is comforting.
The Blue Circle, recently renovated and sporting a brand new constitution, held its first two meetings of the year during the past week.
Chairman Reuben Grundeman, at the initial session, read the tentative constitution, and at the second meeting on Tuesday afternoon, the completed constitution was offered to and accepted by the members. It was sent to Father Dolan for approval. Committees were also appointed to investigate questionable behavior on the part of certain students and other groups. Their report was viewed as favorable.
The object of the Blue Circle, as outlined in Section I on the constitution, is two-fold.	.	.
(1)	To perform the functions of a Disciplinary Board as a body of mediation correcting questionable behavior — to be distinct from the common interpretation of student government.
(2)	To further student activities as granted by the S. A. C.
(a)	To foster and maintain kindred activities.
(b)	To encourage conservative and constructive views on student problems.
With regard to the latter function, Chairman Grundeman said, “the Blue Circle will be guided, as intimated, by the students themselves. He stressed the fact that the organization is always open to suggestions from the general student body, and that if the suggestions prove feasible, they would be given the full support of the society.”
CLUB NOTICES
Bookmen Meet
The Notre • Dame Bookmen completed the selection of books for their library at their regular meeting held last Monday evening. Eight books were chosen bringing the library to the total of fifteen books.
Mr. J. Ben Beyer will address the Bookmen next Monday evening.
French Club Notice
The French Club will hold .its regular meeting in the art gallery of the University Library Monday night at 7:45 instead of in Carroll Rec. The puipose of this meeting is to view the famous paintings in the gallery. The members will be shown the pictures by one of the regular guides. A special committee will be appointed to preside, over the next meeting. .
October 2 7, 1933
Nine
Novel Color Scheme Chosen For “Dome”
With the close of this week progress on the 1934 Dome, the yearbook of the University, has brought several facts concerning the publication to the attention of the students.
Editor Louis Hruby has announced that the selection of the color themes that will be used throughout the annual has been definitely chosen. It will provide an element of richness as well as conformity to the material which is presented in the book. The use of border designs will aid substantially in bringing out the best adaptations of color work.
No doubt the students have noticed the presence of a photographer at all the more important campus functions. He is Vic Arcadi, a junior, who has the uncanny ability of obtaning pictures from almost any position, in any type of weather, and despite darkness. He has been equipped with photo-flash apparatus which has enabled him to secure photographs of rallies, initiations and indoor activity which heretofore was prohibitive because of lacking facilities. Arcadi’s work promises to be an outstanding feature of the 1934 Dome.
By special arrangement with the photographer, portrait pictures of the Juniors will be taken Monday and Tuesday of next week. It was previously announced that October 27 was the final date, but as yet over 100 Juniors have not appeared for their pictures. They are urged to present themselves at the Dome Studios in Walsh basement on the two days, October 30 and 31. After that date the fee for Junior pictures will be 75 cents.
Senior pictures will be taken beginning Nov. 2. Notices will be posted in those halls to inform these men of that fact. Three weeks is the maximum time limit for Seniors to procure a sitting.
Hinkle To Address Journalists
The Press club is to hear John V. Hinkle, ’28, former editor of The Scholastic, now affiliated with the New York Times, as guest lecturer at their regular weekly meeting this afternoon.
Charles Heckehnann, temporary chairman, is to have charge of the meeting.
Art Work Exhibited
Paintings by Profs. Emil Jaques and Stanley Sessler, of the Department of Fine Arts, form part of the exhibit sponsored by the South Bend Hoosier Art Patrons association, at the Oliver Hotel. The exhibit opened last Monday night, Oct. 23.
Ten
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
The attempt last Saturday by one of the student football managers to obtain the football used in the Notre Dame-Indiana game from one of the visiting players is a further example of an indefensible practice that is being attempted at INDIANA UNIVERSITY. It is a custom, “an unwritten law,” that the winning team be allowed to keep the ball used in the contest. The footballs of winning games are mounted and placed on display in trophy rooms. However, at INDIANA the managers invariably try to get the ball from the visiting team if it wins because they are forced to return the ball to the storeroom.
Of course, the managers do this because they are responsible for every piece of athletic equipment and they must perform their duty. However, the Athletic department officials should credit the ball, if the visiting team is victorious, to “overhead,” and not subject INDIANA to criticism of lack of hospitality by the visitors.—Indiana Daily Student.
The theme song of this column is the “Black and Tan Fantasy”—no, I don’t mean phantasy.
The Indiana Daily is responsible for this one, slightly old but none the less good: “Here’s the pet story of a fraternity brother which is too good to be confined to pastime sessions. He says a thermometer is unnecessary when giving a baby a bath. If the baby turns red, the water is too hot; if the baby turns blue the water is too cold, but if the baby turns white, you’ll know it needed a bath.”
In the same newspaper we find this notice: Official Bulletin: We are considering the possibility of not offering “Women and Her Social Relations” during the second semester this year. Will any student who would be inconvenienced by this report to me at once........Mister, it would be more than an inconvenience; it would be a calamity.
During a physiology lecture, the professor was explaining the high development of an animal’s sense of smell. “Animals smell better than men,” he asserted. (Mr. Professor, have you ever lived near a goat?) — The Daily Californian.
The Purdue Exponent says: “Howard Jones, SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA football coach, uses poker chips with the names of football players printed on them to figure out plays and to demonstrate new formations.”
“Santa Maria” Story Contest Opens Nov. 1
The period between November 1st and December 18th has been set aside by the staff of Santa Maria, official publication of the local council, Knights of Columbus, for the acceptance of short stories and poetry for a contest sponsored by the magazine. During the past week Editor Walter Kennedy and his staff prepared rules for the contest which are as follows:
The minimum number of words for each short story is 2,500. There is no word or line limit in the poetry contest. All manuscripts must be mailed or sent to the Knights of Columbus office in the Main Building, or to Room 224, St. Edward’s Hall. Winners of both contests will be announced within three weeks after Christmas vacation.
A committee on awards consisting of the Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., and two other members chosen from the secular and lay faculties, will select the three best manuscripts in each division, from the finest short stories and pieces of poetry presented to them by a board of judges composed of staff members.
President Ballman Talks To Patrician Members
Richard J. Ballman, president of the Patricians, delivered a paper entitled “The Oratory of Demosthenes and Cicero” at the club’s meeting, Monday night in the Law Building. In his paper, Ballman contrasted the oratory and politics of Demosthenes and Cicero. He also explained the effect which these men had upon modern English and American oratory.
After the paper had been read, Raymond Brett, secretary of the organization, opened the general discussion. In the course of this discussion, the similarity between the characteristics of Clarence Darrow and Demosthenes were noted.
The paper to be read at the next meeting, Nov. 6 will be “A Comparison of Shakespeare and Latin Authors.” John Gainer will give this treatise.
Prof. Apodaca Speaks
Professor Joseph L. Apodaca spoke on “Inflation” to the South Bend Ki-wanis club yesterday afternoon, in the Oliver Hotel.
An explanation of the organization and principal aims of the NRA was Professor Apodaca’s topic in a talk to the Industrial Girls Club at the Central Y. W. C. A. in South Bend, Tuesday night, Oct. 24.
The S cholas tic
ATHLETICS |
Cross Country Team Outruns Tech, 25-31
CARNEGIE TOUCHDOWN ON THIRD PLAY DEFEATS N. D.
The Irish cross country troupe squared things with the Carnegie Tech athletic department Saturday by outrunning the Skibos over the hilly three and a half mile course at Pittsburgh. The final score showed Notre Dame on top, 25 to 31.
In compiling their 25 points, the local runners captured first, third, fourth, eighth and ninth positions. Leo MacFarlane, a flashy sophomore, lead the pack home in 24 minutes and 19 seconds. Leo was far in front when he crossed the finish line.
Joe Young, track captain, wound up third and Norman Duke, fourth, to complete the select five. Clyde Roberts with an eighth, Eddie Moran with a ninth, and Captain Red Grimes with a tenth completed the list of finishers for the Irish. Grimes is capable of a better showing than he made at Pittsburgh, but Red had had only a week of practice when the gun sent the runners away Saturday.
Panthers Here Tomorrow
The lair of Nick’s men will be invaded tomorrow by a strong Pittsburgh Panther squad. Coach Nicholson, satisfied with the showing his charges made against the Scots, picks his crew to conquer the invaders tomorrow, but not without a hard battle. The trip around the lakes will be a decided contrast to the hilly course conquered by the Irish back east, but should aid them because of their familiarity with it.
The local course measures four miles, one half mile longer than the up and down track over which the Irish tramped last week. The runners are scheduled to gather at the starting post tomorrow at 10 o’clock in the morning.
Second Week of Workouts Under Way For Basketeers
The 1933-’34 edition of Coach Geo. Keogan’s basketball squad swung into its second week of practice yesterday afternoon in preparation for the coming season.
The large squad is being drilled in fundamentals by the Irish mentor with daily scrimmages forming a part of the workouts.
The schedule has not been released as yet, pending its approval by the Athletic Board of Control.
October 2 7, 1933
History —
1909—Notie Dame, 6; Pittsburgh, 0. 1911—Notre Dame, 0 ; Pittsburgh, 0. 1912—Notre Dame, 3 ; Pittsburgh, 0. 1930—Notre Dame, 35; Pittsburgh, 19. 1931—Notre Dame, 25 ; Pittsburgh, 12. 1932—Notre Dame, 0 ; Pittsburgh, 12.
Totals: Notre Dame 69 ; Pittsburgh. 43.
Webster once said that a panther is a leopard, especially one darkcolored, from Southern Asia, but Hunk Anderson and the Notre Dame following contradict Daniel and say the Panther is a team of eleven vicious, clawing football players that hail from Pittsburgh, Pa. Tomorrow Coach Jock Sutherland will turn these Panthers loose on the turf of Notre Dame Stadium in the seventh meeting of the Irish shillalah and the sharp talons of the feline.
To date the Blue and Gold holds the edge in the series, with four wins, one loss, and a tie. The one defeat suffered by the Irish in this series was not handed to them until last year when the easterners, led by the elusive Mike Sebastian, upset the dope and triumphed, 12 to 0, over a bewildered Notre Dame squad. It was a game that set the critics talking.
Tomorrow’s struggle might provide the same opening. If the Panthers win it will tie a record established by Southern California last fall. When the .Troians blanked the Irish in ’32 it was the first time that Notre Dame had been defeated by the same team twice in succession in eight years. If Sutherland’s men wind up on top tomorrow afternoon that record will be equalled.
In 1911, th Blue and Gold were held to a scoreless tie by Pitt in a game that was marred by a soggy field. The Pennsylvanians were the topheavy favorites to win this struggle and outweighed the Irish ten pounds per man. Something happened —perhaps it was the weather—and the local team returned home with a tie and a moral victory.
From the Scholastic of 1911: “Rockne furnished the sensation of the game at the start of the second quarter, when he recovered Eichen-laub’s kickoff and carried the ball 40 yards for a touchdown. The referee disallowed the count because the whistle had not formally opened the (Continued on Page 15)
TECH TRIUMPHS, 7-0
By John D. Carbine
Sadly lacking the traditional Irish blocking, spirit and fight, Notre Dame went down to a 7 to 0 defeat at the hands of Carnegie Tech in the Pitt Stadium last Saturday. The Skibos scored with a pass on the third play of the game and, after that, settled down to a steady defensive game which the Irish attack was unable to puncture.
Notre Dame’s team of Saturday was a far cry from the teams which placed the Irish at the top of the football world. The line failed to out-charge the lighter Skibos and, when a hole was opened up, the runner was met by a swarm of tacklers in the secondary. Pilney’s dash around right end for fifteen yards was the longest Irish run of the day w’hich very nicely indicates just how well the Skibos secondary was blocked out.
Elser’s Punting Consistent
The Irish outgained the Scots in yardage, 145-134, and gained seven first downs to Carnegie’s four. But that did not mean a thing. Only once did Notre Dame get inside Tech’s twenty yard line and then the Irish lost the ball on downs on the 17 yard stripe.
It was only Elser’s great punting and Tech’s poor punting which kept the Irish in the game at all. Mihm’s poor kicks gave the Irish many scoring chances but Notre Dame just couldn’t get going. Elser’s long spiral punts repeatedly drove Tech deep down into their own territory but the Irish could make nothing of their opportunities.
When everything else failed, Notre Dame attempted an aerial attack. In ten attempts they completed one pass —on the very last play in the first half. With only a few minutes of play remaining, Costello’s pass to Peters fell incomplete in the end zone. Most of the passes were wild and were thrown to men well covered by the Skibos. When the passes were good, the receiver fumbled.
Captain Red Stewart kicked off for Carnegie to Red Tobin who took the ball on his own ten yard line and (Continued on Page 15)
Eleven
Badin Ties Corby In
•Interhall Football
Introducing...
Mishawaka Merchants
Defeat La Raza, 2 to 0
By Nick Connor
Long runs and excellent field generalship by all of the interhall quarterhacks, featured the five games played last Sunday. In each of the games the longest runs of the day were all registered by the signal barkers. The most spectacular play of last week’s games was the 75 yard punt return of Jack Delaney, Lyons quarterback. As he caught the punt on a dead run he dodged two Howard tacklers, then pivoted away from three more. By this time interference formed in front of him, and he ran the rest of the way to the goal line unmolested.
In Group I Morrissey eked out a 6 to 0 win over the first year men from Freshman. After playing through a scoreless first quarter, the soph’s led by Zarantello forced the freshmen back to within the shadow of their goal posts, but here the gun saved the freshies as the ball rested on their three yard line. “Ramming Reno” Zarentello tore the Freshman line to shreds during the third quarter and placed the ball on the Freshman five yard line. Shultz then carried the pigskin over for the only score of the game.
Dillon and Carroll battled through sixty minutes of hard fought ball to a tie game, 0 to 0. Three times during the game the lads from Dillon had the ball inside Carroll’s ten yard line only to lose the oval by fumbles. Schappell played heads up ball for Carroll, and was the main cog in staving off the Dillon attacks. In the other scheduled game Brownson won from St. Edward’s on a forfeit.
The three games played in Group II were by far the best of the afternoon. Jack Delaney, who went in for Ellis late in the first quarter brought added pep to the Lyons outfit and was instrumental in all of the sophomores scores. The ace run of the game was Delaney’s 75 yard punt return through the entire Howard team. The other score of the first half was registered by Bob Stapp, who went through the center of the juniors line for fifteen yards and a touchdown. Lyons led 12 to 0 at the half. The teams played on an even par during the third frame, but at the beginning of the final quarter, Delaney snagged a pass and romped 20 yards for the final score. Lyons won 18 to 0.
Badin won a moral victory from Corby although the final count stood 0 to 0. At the outset of the third quarter “Beanie” Cavendar, Badin quarterback, skirted his right end (Continued on Page 16)
By John D. Carbine
Raymond Joseph Brancheau, Notre Dame’s regular right halfback, has for three years played a position which calls for consistent, well-timed,
Ray Brancheau
He blocks 'em hard!
hard blocking with little, if any, opportunity for ball carrying.
Brancheau came to Notre Dame from Monroe, Michigan. He played left halfback on the frosh football team. In spring practice of 1931, however, Jack Chevigny saw the neu-cleus of an excellent blocker in his stocky build and changed Ray over to right half.
Brancheau got his first taste of varsity football in the Indiana game of 1931. He went in for Joe Shee-ketski at the end of the first quarter and, in doing so, became the first substitute to be sent into a game by Hunk Anderson as varsity coach. Brancheau looked so good against the Hoosiers, that, for the remainder of the season, he alternated at the right half position with Sheeketski.
Last year Brancheau got the call for the varsity position over Sheeketski. In the scoring orgy against Drake, Brancheau sliced off-tackle for the first score of his collegiate career. His second and, up to date, his last score came in the Carnegie game of last year.
Although Ray has actually made only two touchdowns for the Irish, his hard, clean blocking has been directly responsible for many other Notre Dame scores. His blocking in the last year’s Pitt game was the only redeeming feature of the afternoon from a Notre Dame point of view.
This year Ray is playing his third year at the right half position on the Notre Dame varsity.
Brancheau went to Monroe High
Handicapped by the injury of their stellar center halfback, Michael Yriberry, the La Raza soccer club of Notre Dame lost a hard played battle to the Mishawaka Merchants Sunday by a score of 2-0. The contest, which was played at Mishawaka, was the second meeting of the two teams. The Merchants, composed of former European soccer stars, won the first contest, 4-0.
Captain Valdes, Leo Brias, and Bonet were the stars for the defeated La Raza team, while Couber-reur, Williamson, and Minnie stood out for the Merchants. Couberrer scored the first goal for the Merchants when goalie deLandero lost the ball in the sun as it was being kicked toward the La Raza goal. The second score was a gift to the Merchants on a freak play.
The La Raza boys had the ball down in their own territory and the opposition kicked it toward the La Raza goal. Immediately a “dogfight” began with all the players trying to kick the ball out of danger. Inadvertently, one of the local men kicked the ball the wrong way, and the Merchants were credited with their second goal. The game was a rough and ready contest throughout, with the lighter and smaller La Raza players getting most of the roughing.
On Sunday morning the La Raza Club will tangle with the South Bend Conquerors. On Nov. 4, they will journey to Champaign, Illinois, to meet the University of Illinois team, whom they defeated earlier in the year.
Track Meet Handicap Climaxes Fall Practice
The annual fall session of varsity track practice was climaxed last Thursday and Friday with the running of the annual handicap meet. Such veterans as Jim Fagan, Vince Murphy, and Charles Finkel registered points. Medals were given for first, second and third places in each event.
School of Monroe, Michigan before coming to Notre Dame. While at Monroe, he played football, basketball, baseball, and track. He was captain and left halfback on the Monroe team which won the class “B” football championship of Michigan. Catcher was his position in baseball, and he ran the quarter mile and did the broad jumping for the track team.
Twelve
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
SITUATION
This football game is certainly a funny business. It looks like the only way to get along as a spectator is to have no opinions at all; either that or to back Michigan.
Before the season opened there were seven names that everybody was whooping it up for. Michigan, Pittsburgh, Southern Cal., Notre Dame, Chicago, Fordham, Purdue. Then Wisconsin was thought to be pretty good, Iowa just another ball club, Princeton was passed by as promising, Army was weak.
And what happened in the first month? Southern Cal.was held to a scorless tie, Notre Dame won, tied, lost in its first three encounters, Chicago has gone back to fearing Purdue, Purdue barely managed to tie Minnesota, Pittsburgh couldn’t even do that well.
Minnesota, pretty generally overlooked by the Hallelujah chorus, thus knocked off two prime favorites. Iowa beat Northwestern and then Wisconsin.
Illinois beat Wisconsin and was hailed as strong. The “weak” Army team beat the Illini. Tennessee lost its first game in the memory of modern man, Tulane floundered around for a while and then beat Georgia Tech, Ohio State ran up 95 points in two games and then looked ordinary against Michigan.
In the East, Fritz Crisler’s Princeton eleven is stealing the show. Holy Cross beat Harvard, Yale hasn’t yet been impressive, but Princeton’s rip snorting sophomores continue t o trample their opponents. Fordham is living up to its reputation, even surpassing it, for the “experts” opined that Jimmy Crowley might have some trouble installing a new type of play.
All that remains is for Chicago to beat Michigan tomorrow and the football world will bang its head against the wall in earnest.
SCORECASTS
Last week: 16 winners, 11 losers, four ties. That represents by far the poorest record we’ve had on any week’s guessing since we started this business more than a year ago. Our totals for the season show 78 winners, 24 losers, 11 ties. Throwing out the ties that gives us an average of .765. Counting the ties as losses, the average becomes .690.
This week we offer 22 selections. Here they are:
October 2 7, 1 933
NOTRE DAME 6, PITTSBURGH 0.
East
Army 12, Yale 7.
Washington and Jeff. 7, Carnegie Tech 0.
Harvard 13, Dartmouth 7.
Fordham 20, Alabama 6.
Navy.6, Pennsylvania 0.
Georgia 20, New York University 6.
Princeton 20, Washington and Lee 0.
Middle West
Kansas State 13, Kansas' 6.
Syracuse 13, Michigan State 7.
Ohio State 20, Northwestern 0.
And now Doctor Rockwell can show you the New 1934 Crosley Radios
THINK OF IT!
A Dual Range
Superheterodyne
CROSLEY
Complete to you with 5 tubes
for only
$2395
Drop into the old Doctor’s Radio Workshop in 155 Alumni
Hall or hear it in our showrooms downtown.
DAVISON SALES COMPANY
107 EAST MONROE ST.
OPEN EVENINGS
160 CENTRAL PARK SOUTH
ORCHESTRA PLAYING NIGHTLY AT ^COLONNADES
Where perfect food at moderate prices is available to discriminating people... dinner $2.50 or a la carte (cover charge after 10:30, $1.00 on weekdays, $1.50 on Saturdays and Holiday Eves.) Dress optional. For reservations call CIrcle7-0300.
★Vader Qlen Island Casino Management
M. L DeZUTTER EDWARD DORAN
Purdue 26, Wisconsin 0.
Michigan 27, Chicago 0.
Iowa 13, Minnesota 7.	.
Nebraska 7, Oklahoma 0.
South
Tulane 13, Auburn 7.
Georgia Tech 7, North Carolina 0. Louisiana State 13, Vanderbilt 6. Tennessee 13, Florida 0.
Far West Washington 7. Stanford 0. Southern California 13. California 0. U Calif., Los Angeles 14, Oregon 6.
Thirteen
So They Say
By John D. Carbine
“A trick pass in the first minute of play humbled the once mighty “Fighting Irish” of Notre Dame scattered their football machine all over Pitt Stadium this afternoon and enabled Carnegie Tech to gain its most impressive victory of the season, 7 to 0.
“It was a crushing blow to the “Ramblers.” This was the day they were expected to get going after being held to a scoreless tie by Kansas and barely edging out a 12 to 2 victory over Indiana a week ago. But tonight a football squad that was once looked upon as the peer of all gridiron combinations was just another football team.”—W. W. Edgar in the Detroit Free Press of Oct. 21.
“In one swift rapier-like scoring thrust in the first minute of play, a brainy Carnegie Tech eleven today knifed out a 7 to 0 victory over a big Notre Dame team that just could not get going.
“It was ‘Harpster football’—the gridiron art as taught by Tech’s 26 year old coach—that brought the Tartans their astonishing triumph over a creaking, groaning Irish machine before a crowd of 57,000.”— George Sierer (Associated Press Sport Writer) in the Memphis Commercial Appeal of Oct. 21.
“The reason for the Irish failures is that defense has at last caught up with Notre Dame football. To many keen minds of football there exists a doubt that even if Knute Rockne were here today he would meet with his former success.”—Stoney McGlynn in the Milwaukee Sentinel of Oct. 20.
“Upsetting the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame in two dramatic minutes in the first quarter, Carnegie Tech scored one of the most surprising victories of the current season, 7 to 0.
“In two minutes, Notre Dame’s chances for a mythical national championship were shattered by the underdog Plaid squad.”—Universal Service Despatch in the Milwaukee Sentinel of Oct. 22.
“Notre Dame may bt dismissed by saying that after all it is just another team, which on occasion may play exceptionally fine football, but it isn’t a team with the fire and ability to win under all circumstances. Notre Dame on Saturday reverted to the shock troop system and the shock troops permitted Carnegie to throw a touchdown pass in the first period, much as other shock troop teams have done in the past. The shock troops were in form, but the varsity,
Fourteen
Father Mooney Visits
Reverend E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., former head of the Department of Physical Education here at the University, spoke on “Boy’s Work” over a nation-wide radio broadcast from Chicago last Wednesday noon. Father Mooney whose address was given before the National Conference of Catholic Conference of Catholic Men convening in that city is now the executive director of “Boy’s Work” with offices in Washington, D. C., the headquarters of the National Catholic Welfare Conference.
when it went into action, couldn’t overcome the handicap of one touchdown. In fact the varsity couldn’t even tie the score.”—Chicago Tribune of Oct. 23.	•
“Notre Dame is fast slipping from the pinnacle it once held in modern football.
“The ‘Fighting Irish’ no longer are a team that grips the imagination with its flaming color, speed and power. Instead they are a team that is just ordinary, one that lacks the dash and polish of the squads that the late Knute Rockne sent forth into battle. Rockne’s teams looked good even in defeat.
“The hard, well-timed blocking for which Notre Dame’s teams were famous was missing. The line failed to charge and the path never was open for the backs.”—W. W. Edgar in the Detroit Free Press of Oct. 23.
“The mixture of Howard Harpster and football simply does not agree with Notre Dame.
“The Irish found that out for the third time yesterday at the Stadium before 57,000 fans as Carnegie Tech, recorded one of the cleanest upsets in many turbulent seasons by soundly thrashing the South Bend Irish, 7-0. In fact as it turned out, it might go on the books as a setup.”—Lester Biederman in the Pittsburgh Press of Oct. 22.
PITT GAME
(Continued from Page 3)
Notre Dame stuff was good. Tomorrow, the football fans can decide for themselves whether this defense is a successful stopper of the running and passing attack of the Notre Dame men.
Ten veterans of this downfall of the Irish will be in the Pitt lineup. Harvey Rooker, the left end, is a junior, but many consider him a greater player than his predecessor Ted Dailey. He is a big and fast lad, weighing close to 195 pounds. The other end is held down by AllAmerican Joe “Muggsy” Skladany, 190 pounds of speed and brawn. He is the man that almost single-handed broke up the Notre Dame running attack. Sport observers claim that he spent most of the afternoon in the Notre Dame backfield.
Frank Walton, Meredith, and Hoel, all veterans from last year, will steady the line at the tackle posts. Walton, who hits the beam at 215 pounds, was the outstanding lineman in last year’s contest. Hartwig and Cheso Onder, big, fast veterans will lead the interference from guard, while Nick Kliskey is one of the finest men in backing up a line that the Panthers have-had in recent years.
Mike Sebastian, the wonder man of the Panther backfield, is one of the country’s leading triple threat men. He was so good last year that he beat Captain Paul Reider out for the right halfback berth. Little Howard O’Dell, the mite speedster at the other halfback post, is small enough to be fast and shifty, but big enough to give the opposition plenty of trouble. He was on the receiving end of one of Sebastian’s sixty yards passes this year and may be on the receiving end again tomorrow.
The quarterback position is divided between big Bob Hogan and Miller Munjas, both alternates from last year. Hogan did everything that a quarterback could do last year, but couldn’t play regular because Munjas was just a little better in almost every department of play. Pitt has two ball-carrying powerhouses and gound-gaining aces in Izzy Weinstock, regular from last year, and Heinie Weisenbaugh, another 200 pound line bucker. Both are big and tough and good blockers.
Notre Dame will field about the same club that played last week against Carnegie Tech. The only change will find Rocco Schiralli back at his left guard berth, while Joe Pivarnik is again playing his first string right guard. Notre Dame has won one, tied one, and lost one, and this Pitt outfit is the toughest team that the Irish have yet to face.
Pitt will use a steady, rushing (Continued on Page 16)
The Scholastic
Skibos Inflict First Setback Of Season
(Continued from Page 11)
ran it up to the 22 where he was met by a swarm of Skibos tacklers and fumbled. Bunny Burzio, Tech s guard who was the outstanding lineman of the afternoon, recovered for Carnegie.
Quarterback Bevevino, who was at Notre Dame in his freshman year, called for a simple line buck on the first play. Terebus lost a yard on the attempt but this maneuver drew in the Irish defense.
On the next play, Bevevino faked a run around end, and then hurled a pass straight down through the middle of Notre Dame’s box defense to the unguarded Libbus Lewis who grabbed the ball on the ten yard line and sprinted unmolested over the goal line. Red Stewart converted the extra point with a place kick. The scoring play was a beautifully executed and well planned piece of work which caught the Irish flatfooted.
Varsity Smothered
A poor punt by Croft gave Notre Dame the ball on the Tech 26 yard line midway in the first period. At this point the Irish varsity entered the game. Their appearance cheered Notre Dame partisans but failed to impress the Skibos. Lukats was able to gain only four yards in two attempted line bucks. Brancheau and Lukats then attempted a pass apiece but they were both knocked down by the alert Skibos.
A weak kick by Mihm who was hurried in getting the punt away, gave Notre Dame the ball on Tech’s 42 late in the second quarter. Here the Irish offense clicked for the only time during the game. Pilney broke loose off right tackle for 15 yards. Elser hit right guard for a yard. Pilney tried the other guard and gained three years. On an end around play Millner gained three yards but failed to make a first down. Tech took possession of the ball on its own 17 yard line and Croft punted out of danger. This was the closest that Notre Dame came to the Skibos goal.
The last real Irish chance came when Mihm’s quick kick was partially blocked and downed on Tech’s 29 yard line. With an excellent opportunity to score, Notre Dame lost a yard on two running plays and then tried two passes both of which fell incomplete.
In the last quarter the desperate Irish tried six passes, but all of them were knocked down by the stubborn Skibos. One of them was grounded in the end zone when Costello passed to Peters who was covered by three Tech backs.
October 2 7, 19 3 3
Notre Dame (0)	Carnegie Tech. (7)
Millner -----------L.E_________ Stewart (C)
Sullivan ...........L.T______________ Croft
Leonard -----------L.G.------------ Heinzer
Solari ---------------C----------- Trbovich
Pivarnik ..........R.G______________ Burzio
Michuta ..........._R.T____________ Doloway
Davis -------------R.E._____________  Lewis
LaBorne ---------  Q.B.----------- Bevevino
Shakespeare -------L.H_____________ Terebus
Tobin -------------R.H.......... Vorderburg
Hagan --------------F.B------------- Sayles
Carnegie Tech..............7 0 0 0—7
Notre Dame ----------------0 0 0 0—0
Touchdown—Lewis. Point after touchdown, Stewart (placement).
Referee—Hacket (West Point). Umpire— Eckles (Washington and Jefferson). Field Judge—Miller (Penn. State). Head linesman —Lipp (Chicago).
STATISTICS N.D. C.T.
First downs ....................  7	4
Yds. gained from scrimmage....l45	134
Number of kickoffs ______________ 1	2
Yardage from kickoffs .......... 47	105
Av. length of kickoffs ________ 47	52.5
Number of kickoffs returned ....	2	1
Yardage from kicks returned....	45	6
Av. yds from kicks returned____ 22.5	6
Number of punts ................ 11	15
Yardage from punts .............462	494
Average length of punts ........ 42	33
Number of punts returned _______ 11	4
Yds. from punts returned ....... 54	21
Av. yds. from punts returned....	5	5.2
No. of passes attempted........ 10	3
No. of passes completed _________ 1	1
No. of passes incompleted _______ 9	1
No. of passes intercepted______ 0	1
Yds gained from passes......... 12	27
Yds from penalties _____________ 35	30
No. of fumbles .................. 3	2
Own fumbles recovered __________  1	2
Opponents fumbles recovered....	0	2
Hibernians Hold South Bend Team to Freak Tie
Last Sunday morning, the Hibernians, a group of players claiming Celtic origin, of Notre Dame started a game with the Conquerors of South Bend. The battle was hard and fast, but neither team could make a score. Suddenly, one of the Hibernians players booted the ball goalward but the spheroid didn’t travel very far. With the smack of leather on leather, the ball slowly deflated and collapsed on the field of play. Another ball was sent for, but, by the time it had been procured, the players had left. So the game is recorded as a scoreless tie between the Conquerors and the Hibernians.
Konop To Speak
Dean Konop, of the College of Law, will speak at the Diamond Jubilee celebration of the Fort Wayne diocese, to be held Sunday afternoon, Oct. 29, in the Knights of Columbus rooms in South Bend.
“Have We Done Our Part?” is the topic chosen by the dean for his talk.
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 11)
quarter.” (Maybe they weren’t even playing football).
The National Championship was awarded to Notre Dame in 1929, whereupon Pittsburgh, because of its performances, protested, saying their record warranted them the title. The Panthers were immediately given a place on the Notre Dame card for 1930 and have been met every year since.
In 1930 the grudge battle took place in Pittsburgh before an eager capacity crowd of 72,000 fans who were anxious to see the dispute settled. If there was any doubt of superiority, as there must have been, it didn’t remain very long. On the first offensive play of the game by the Irish, Marchy Schwartz went off tackle on a 60 yard touchdown gallop. This was the first time the Pitt goal had been crossed that year.
The Irish marched 70 yards on eight plays for their second tally, and seven plays later Joe Savoldi went crashing over for the third score. The Panther was completely dismayed by the tremendous scoring power of the Blue and Gold less than a minute later when “Jumping Joe” intercepted a Pitt pass and romped 30 yards for the fourth Irish score.
With the game salted away and all doubt erased as to the rightful holder of the 1929 title, the Irish let up and Sutherland’s mangled crew managed to shove across 19 points in the final period while the Notre Dame shock troops were in the fray.
The Pitt series has been a colorful one, with every meeting having a direct bearing on the status of the respective clubs in the public eye, and tomorrow’s tussle will be no exception with both squads anxious to come back after last Saturday’s defeats.
Special Fare
TO CHICAGO
Reduced Round Trip Rates are available for week-end visits to Chicago. They offer opportunity to visit A Century of Progress before the curtain falls on this dramatic pageant. The rate is:
SOUTH BEND to CHICAGO $1.75
Tickets may be purchased October 27. 28 and until noon of October 29 for that week-end and will be good until November 1. A similar opportunity is presented for the week-ends of November 4 and November 11.
CHICAGO, SOUTH SHORE & SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
Fifteen
INTERHALL
(Continued from Page 12)
behind perfect interference for 53 yards and a touchdown, but the play was called back as one of the junior linemen was off side. The Badin eleven completely outclassed Corby in all departments of the game, especially when they were on the offense.
Salsville, who had replaced Hoban at quarterback for Walsh in the third quarter, scampered off his left tackle for 25 yards and the only score of the game. Although the Alumni eleven was defeated 6 to 0 they had plenty of power, and had it not been for Salsville’s dash the score would probably have been 0 to 0.
On Sunday in Group I Freshman will oppose Dillon on the Brownson field, and on the Minims field Morrissey and St. Edward’s will come together. Brownson and Carroll will play for the championship of the Main Building on Cartier No. 1. All of these games will be played at 1:15.
In Group II at three o’clock Corby and Alumni wall stack up against one another on Cartier No. 2. Lyons and Badin will fight it out on the Brownson gridiron, and Howard and Walsh will play on Cartier No. 1.
Interhall Football Standings.
Group I	W	L
Dillon .................. 2	0
Brownson ................ 2	0
Freshman ................ 1	1
Morrissey ............... 1	2
Carroll _________________ 0	1
St. Edward's ____________ 0	2
Group II	W	1.
Lyons ___________________  2	0
Corby ...................  2	0
Badin ___________________ 2	0
Walsh ................... 1	1
Howard __________________ 0	3
Alumni _________________   0	3
T Pts. 1	5
1	5
1	3
0	2
1	1
0	0
T Pts. 1	5
1	5
1	5
1	3
0	0
0	0
Skilled Optometry Assures Accuracy Eyes Examined Glasses Properly Fitted
•
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. E. C. BEERY Optometrists & Manufacturing Opticians
228 S. Michigan St. Established 1900
On Down The Line
PAUL PARDONNER of Purdue has successfully booted 23 out of 25 points after touchdowns in his three years of competition. . . Probably the most accurate kicker in the country is CHARLEY QUARTMAN, halfback from Citadel . . . The outstanding fistic event for the autumn months will be the DUNDEE-BROU-ILLARD fight on Oct. 30th. . . JIM THORPE, still rates as the all time scoring back of football history, he having registered 198 points in the season of 1912 . . . The eleven players that started the SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA game for Oregon State, all played the entire 60 minutes. . . The Normal College-Eureka game was called early in the fourth quarter, because of a heavy hail storm. . . BUCKY BRYAN, Tulane half, ran the opening third quarter kick-off 101 yards for the winning score.
BENNY HANDWORK, Northwestern’s favorite crooner, softens the toughened players after practice by singing to them ... A Navy half, RED BAUMBERGER, intercepted a Virginia pass in the fourth quarter ana ran 95 yards for the winning tally. .. . In 1870 JIM MACE and JOE COBURN fought for three hours, yet neither struck a blow . . . COACH D. BIBLE of the U. of Nebraska, makes “shock troops” of his regulars by letting them start the game and the second stringers finish. . . . About 50 caddies at the Yale golf course have gone on a strike for higher pay. . . . HERB JOESTING is playing with the Cloquet team of the Tri-State Football league. . . . GABBY STREET has signed to coach the San Francisco Mission ball team for the 1934 season.
SANTEE CARNERA, father of the world’s heavyweight, says that he "will give Primo a good spanking if he doesn’t settle down and work hard. . . . Back in 1909 GIL DOBIE received a 50 percent salary increase after his U. of Washington football teams had gone nine seasons without defeat. . . . 10,000 greeted BABE RUTH when he landed in Honolulu for an exhibition tour. ... So far this season the Boston Redskins have gained 1,190 yards to lead the Nat’l Pro league in yards gained. . . . The world’s longest broad jump is held by ED JOHNSON, who was standing on his porch when a cyclone struck He jumped and landed 99 feet away on his feet. . . . ED NEIHAUS, center at the U. of Washington, plays a trombone in an orchestra during his spare time.
The FUQUA brothers opposed each other in the Oklahoma Aggies-South-ern Methodist game Saturday. ■ • . VINCENZ HOWER recently won the heavyweight boxing title of Germany. . . . JAY BERWANGER of Chicago and HERMAN EVERHARDUS of MICHIGAN lead the Big Ten scorers with 35 points apiece. . . . JACK LOVELOCK ran a mile faster than any other ever did before in 4:00.6. . . . E. MEAD of Augustana college is the tallest player in football. He towers 6 feet 10 inches into the air. . . . Statistics show that JAMES MILLIKAN U. has played 237 games in the last 29 years.
The Northwestern football squad has two uniforms, one for home use and one for road use. . . . The “watch charm” guard at John Carroll U. is LOUIS DUCHEZ. He weighs 150 pounds. ... A §35,000 player deal was recently completed between two English soccer teams. . . . L. C. BOLES, football coach at Wooster college for the last eighteen years, has signed a contract for five more seasons. ... To eliminate tardv arrivals, DUTCH STANLEY, coach at Florida, gave his team an hour and a half of practice after the last man had come on the field.
PITT GAME
(Continued from Page 14)
type of offensive play, with a sound running attack. They have been going great guns this year and -will be at their peak for the Irish contest. The Panthers downed Washington and Jefferson, 9-0, West Virginia, 21-0, and a great Navy team, 34-6. They lost only to Minnesota last week, 7-3. If dimensions mean anything the Panthers have a- husky, well-balanced bunch of men. They have been well taught by Jock Sutherland and, unless Notre Dame shows the true Irish style of blocking, tackling, and perfect execution of assignments, they should have a successful afternoon.
The only thing these two teams have in common in their team play is that both have adopted the system of nominating a captain for each game. The game is a natural, and if both teams play as well as they are capable of playing, the team getting the breaks will emerge the winner.
Academy of Science
Mr. George H. Paff, Ph.D., instructor in histology in the College of Science, will be the speaker at the regular meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science to be held Monday evening Oct. 30th at 8 p. m. in room 104 of Science Hall.
The Scholastic
Sixteen
In Which the Business Manager of The Juggler Writes of Matters Not Strictly Advertising
WE THOUGHT of heading this screed, “We do our part,” but we hesitated (our supply of Blue Eagles is decidedly low), thinking you might not he enticed into reading this. For, gentlemen, this has not to do with humor, why advertising in the Juggler pays, of the general excellence of the Juggler, or of the many things we usually write about. Rather, it concerns all of you, your sense of fairness, your loyalty to what is your own. It aims directly at your direct support of what you have always supported—even defended—abstractly, The Notre Dame Juggler.
Everyone even remotely connected with The Juggler this year has aided in producing the finest example of what we think you want in your humor magazine. You’ve seen the October issue. We’ll grant you that it’s not perfect—yet—but you’ll admit that it is a new, a different Juggler, keyed to the present tempo of the campus. It’s breezy, witty, well-illustrated, nicely made-up, beautifully printed. Many of you have already told us how much you liked the first issue. Many of you. have backed up these convictions by actually buying a copy. But, unfortunately, there are still many who have read someone else’s copy and put off buying one of their own.
In fact, we’ve been generous with you—“spared no expense,” etc. But have you been as generous with us? It can’t be the cost of a single copy that holds you back. We dropped our price from a quarter to fifteen cents to obliviate that difficulty. We feel that it’s just a bad habit some of you have fallen into—probably acquired from reading a newspaper over the other fellow’s shoulder in the subway.
Of course, if you were unable to find a single laugh in an entire issue we could hardly blame you for clutching tightly that nickel and dime. In that event, we would have to appeal to you for a fifteen cent “donation for a worthy cause.” We do not, fortunately, have any reason to strike such a note. We are not a bit backward, however, in calling to your attention the fact that The Juggler is not a subsidized magazine. It receives no financial assistance from the University—it depends on you for support, it’s your magazine. (Of course, if you don’t want it, if the mere sight of its gaily decorated cover offends your sense of the decorous, we’ll stop printing it and devote our time to the study of the Neolithic Man.)
We believe you want The Juggler, that you are proud of it, that you know it is superior to ninety percent of all the other college comics published. We believe that you read it, mail it home to, the folks, to the best girl, to your pal at Whoosis College—but, please, please, don’t forget to pay for it! (You’d be surprised how important these little matters are.)	—J. F. S. . . . for The Juggler.
Bill Kirby still has copies for sale. * All the news stands in South Bend carry it. We sell it here in the office.
Phone us and we’ll deliver it to you.
Buy Notre Dame—Buy The Juggler
T-f"
The lest tobaccos ■ mly the center leaves
e rery heart of Lucky Strike’s ; [uality is choice tobaccos— j ed by warm sunshine, rich s nd gentle rains. Right now, t $100,000,000 worth of fine r ish and Domestic tobaccos, ream of the Crop, are aging [ nellowing for the makers of c y Strikes. For only a special X ion of choice tobaccos is used
i iking your Luckies so round,
ii Hand fully packed—free from
si ends. The reason why Luckies ways the same in mildness, c thness, in delicious taste.
Some Radio Questions Anwered by Rockwell
Q. Why does my set squeal and howl whenever I try to tune in a station?
A. This is generally caused by improper neutralization or alignment of the tuner. There are trimming condensers on the side or top of the main tuning condenser gang, and these are set at the factory with special equipment. Some men see these screws and attempt to improve the set operation by adjusting them. This is no job for the amateur. He may improved the performance of the set on one station and ruin it on others. When he discovers this, he will attempt to remedy it and he finds he has introduced squeals and howls. Add to this the fact that the set will no longer tune sharp, nor -will it have as good tone, and you may see that much of the enjoyment of your radio has been lost. This difficulty may also be caused by dust gathering in the set, by jarring or even careless alignment at the factory. It is to be remembered, however, that it is absolutely necessary to use a sensitive signal generator and output meter to remedy this difficulty. If this work is done correctly not only the selectivity but also the tone can be improved.
Q. The tone of my set is bad and the speaker seems to rattle quite a bit. What causes this?
A. The construction of a dynamic speaker is such that unless it is centered perfectly, the moving coil will rub against the core of the speaker and cause this distortion of tone. If the difficulty is remedied the original tone can be restored. If it is put off too long there is danger of burning out the moving coil which means that a whole new cone assembly must be put in the speaker.
Q. I have a midget set only a few month’s old that hums very loudly on all stations or settings of the dial. What is the cause of this trouble?
A. This hum is most probably caused by a faulty filter condenser. The function of these condensers is to prevent the A. C. Power hum from getting into the loud speaker. It is frequently the case that in the less expensive midget radios frail parts are used. These give out quite easily and when least expected. Such parts should be replaced with stronger parts so that there will be no recurrence of the trouble.
Q. What causes a radio to suddenly stop playing and then after a few minutes start in again? It is very disagreeable.
A. This is quite correct. There is probably nothing so unpleasant for just as one is listening to a desirable program the volume drops off suddenly. Then too, from the point of
view of service it is very disconcerting since the condition cannot be corrected until the trouble has shown itself. Of course, when one wants a set to go bad, it never does. There are several causes for this trouble. First, if the aerial is made of strand wire, one strand may break and cause this annoyance as was discussed in the first article of this series. Second, if any uninsulated part of the aerial is touching a building tree or ground the trouble may appear. Third, a tube having a loose element or a leaky cathode may cause it. Fourth, a loose connection in the set may give rise to the difficulty. Last and most common, a faulty condenser may be the trouble-maker. When we say faulty here, we refer to one which intermittently opens or short circuits at irregular intervals. The cause of these condenser failures is due to small holes that develop in the insulating paper in the condenser, and after the faulty unit is located, it must be replaced. Here again, the trouble should be corrected at once in order that the remaining condensers in the set will not be damaged.
Note. The answers to other questions will appear later and the author will be glad to take up your particular question in this column.
Office Phone 3-2574	Corrective
Residence Phone 4-6354	Shoes
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
Foot Ailments
432-34 Associates Bldg. South Bend. Ind.
ATTENTION!
Free Examination
Is Your Hair Falling?
Bothered With Dandruff?
Itching Scalp. Etc.?
Try Us For Satisfactory Results.
Let Us Restore Your Natural Growth Of Hair
RELIANCE HAIR GROWING SHOPPE
230 W. Washington Men Only Private Entrance Phone 4-6771
ts toasted

Fair To Continue
Until November 12
FOR the benefit of the many thousands of people who have not yet seen the World’s Fair, A Century of Progress, at Chicago, the management has extended the closing date until November 12. This will provide two additional week-ends for any stu- • dents whose program has not allowed them as yet to inspect the various educational and scientific exhibits.
It is understood that the South Shore Lines will continue to offer the special round trip rate of §2.60 during the remainder of the Fair.
?S0Uthnseh°RE
COMPLETE YOUR EDUCATION!
No Notre Dame student’s education will be complete without a few visits to the World’s Fair. And what better way to go than via South Shore Line. . . speedy, convenient, direct to the Fair gates. . . and low in cost! No waits, no confusion. Hurry! Before the Fair closes!
For more information call Mr. C. W. Veach, City Passenger
Agent, phone 3-3111, Mr. R. E. Jamieson, Passenger Agent, 140 born Street, Chicago.
or write General
S. Dear-
LOW COST ROUND TRIP
SOUTH BEND
to CHICAGO with 9 day return limit
’2‘°
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE * SOUTH BEND RAILROAD
HERE’S
nergy
WbenyoaseeNiagaraFaOtaitthepadtage, jm KNOW jo« &n« Shredded Wheat.
FOLKS who pull a steady stroke in everything they do usually favor that natural energy food, Shredded Wheat
. Here’s why. Shredded Wheat is. made only of whole wheat— nothing added, nothing taken away. And whole wheat is packed with natural energy elements ... proteins, vitamins,
THE VITALLY DIFFERENT FOOD
FOR YOU!
minerals, carbohydrates and bran. Get enough of these, and your days will be brighter. For these are the vital elements that put a snappy spring in your step.
Try it, for at least ten days. Just order “Shredded Wheat.” It’s ready cooked, ready to eat. Pour on plenty of milk or cream. Top with your favorite fruit. And sail into the finest-tasting energy food a few pennies ever bought. J
5OUthnsehor[
SHREDDED WHEAT
A product «f NATIONAL BISCUITCOMPANYMUMedaBafcMa**


jJSSl
««« Recreating the Glory of Sacred Heart Church at the
University of Notre Dame
In the period between 1870 and 1880 the Italian painter, Gregori, executed the inimitable frescoes in Sacred Heart Church, University of Notre Dame. For sixty years their beauty has glorified these venerable walls with profound religious feeling. True—their original freshness has slowly dimmed with the passing years. For this reason it was desired to bring back the touch of the master who created them.
This difficult - commitment, together with the restoration and repair of the entire stained glass originally made in France, was entrusted with our studios —as being one of the few organizations in the country worthy , of assuming so great a responsibility. Under the personal direction of Mr. Conrad Schmitt the -work has gone forward—with a true understanding and appreciation of the old method of painting? in fresco and al secco. As the restoration and redecoration nears completion the delicate, original splendor again comes - to lightreflecting a fresh, new inspiration that will last indefinitely.
Visitors and all those within travelling distance are cordially invited to inspect the work—and see the superiority of this fine technique over the prevailing methods of decoration. A visit now to Sacred Heart Church is something which you will long remember.
Should you be considering or planning the interior improvement of your church or chapel—consult our studios. We will gladly offer individual suggestions—and tell you how finer ideals of beautification can be realized at low cost.
CONRAD SCHMITT STUDIOS
1717 W. WISCONSIN AVE	410 WEST 24th STREET
MILWAUKEE, WIS. 5^ NEW YORK CITY
MURALS * DECORATIONS • STAINED GLASS * LIGHTING FIXTURES
THE u.tiaw t**	_
-LEM10NIER LIBRJLRT-HOTRE DA1E, lOChL
sms



I keep coming back to that wordTjalanced” on the back of the Chesterfield package *VOU often hear the word balance. A —something is out of balance —top-heavy, noton an "even keeL”
What you read, "Chesterfield Cigarettes are a balanced blend,” means that the right amounts of home-grown tobaccos—the right kind, the right quantity — are blended and cross-blended with tobaccos from Turkey and Greece.
When these tobaccos are balanced one against the other, then you have a mild cigarette, a bettertasting cigarette. •. '
May we ask you to wad again the statement on the back of the Chesterfield package? May we ask you to try Chesterfield?
Chesterfield
A Balanced Blend
: ^193S.lMGm&M«mToM<xx>Co.
