— Cbc
Dotre Dame Scholastic
•DlSC€-9VASI-S^mPGI2-VICTVl2VS- VIVG-QVASI-CRAS-IMORITVRUS*
Vol. XLIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 13, 1909.
No. 10.
In November.
Frederick W. Carroll, ’12.	'
A TENDER wreath of immortelles Amid the flowers lay, Upon a mound that gently swells Unknown by the way.
My heart felt something of the tone Of sombre stillness there, And in the silence breathed alone
A momentary prayer.
For now the sweetness of the flowers ' With sorrow hath been sown. The beauty of a few brief hours Before the wind had flown.
Put there the wreath of immortelles Amid the dead leaves lay:
As if hey lived within the dells, Unmindful of decay.
How the Calendar Was Made.
Michael A. Mathis, ’10
IME is that general idea we have of continuous or successive existence. It can be subdivided, and is measured by any regularly recurring phenomenon. The most customary
way to measure time is by the motion of heavenly bodies. From the very earliest times the sun has been the chief among the heavenly bodies for these measurements. The equal interval of time, or unit of measurement, has been the solar day which is distinguished by the daily, rotation of the earth on its axis or the alternation of light and darkness. The division of time into months was based on the phases of the
moon, that is, the time it takes the moon to assume the same shape again in the sky, which is about 30 days. The moon, like the sun, was chosen to measure time, because next to the sun it is the most conspicuous of the heavenly bodies; but primarily because it is a regularly recurring phenomenon.	.
The next step in the measurement of time was the division of the seasons into months, and as the four seasons occurred at stated intervals, the period of time elapsing from one season to the return of the same was called the solar year.	.
The solar year is the period of time it takes the earth to complete one revolution in its orbit around the sun, 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes and 46 seconds. At first sight it may seem an unnecessary insistence on details to take into consideration every second of the solar year, but it will be seen later that for an accurate, serviceable calendar the whole solar year 'must be accounted for. .
There is also another year called the civil year, the year marked out in the calendars. This calendar year is merely an arbitrary-subdivision of the solar vear into convenient divisions of days, months and seasons. If the length of the calendar year w’ere always the same as that of the solar year, 365 daySj 5 hours, 48 minutes, and 46 seconds, no trouble would ever arise in reckoning time.
When the first important calendar was devised by some one, supposed to have been Romulus, the exact length of the solar year was not known. Indeed it was not definitely known when Julius Caesar computed his calendar, although the researches of Hipparchus 300 j ears before had come within a few minutes of the exact length of the
i46
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
solar year. It was, however, known with mathematical exactness when Pope Gregory XIII. constructed the modern calendar in 1582. So on account of lack of knowledge of the exact length of the solar year and the practical difficulties that arise in subdividing a non-divisible quantity, like 365 days, 5 hours, -IS minutes and 4-6 seconds, in such a way that the calendar year should always begin at the same time of the solar year, and also so that there should be an equable distribution of the 365 days and a fraction among the twelve months, we can readily see that a perfect calendar was an impossibility much before 15S2.
The calendars of all European nations have been borrowed from that of the Romans. As a matter of fact, Russia to-day uses the calendar devised by Julius Cjesar. Romulus is said to have divided the year into 10 months, including in all 30-4 days. It is not known how the remaining 61 days and a fraction were disposed of. The ancient Roman year began with March, and contained some names, September, October, November, and December, of our own months. July and August were called Quin-tilis and Sextilis, their present appellations having been bestowed upon them in compliment to Julius Cresar and Augustus. Numa, the first Roman king, added two months to the year, January and February. In 4-52 B. C., the Decemvirs ordered the months to be made up of 29 and 30 days •alternately, to correspond to the synodic revolutions of the moon. The civil year then contained 354 days. One day was added to make the number odd, which was considered more propitious, and the year consisted then of 355 days. This differed from the solar year by ten whole days and a fraction. To make the Roman calendar year equal to the solar, Numa ordered an additional, or intercalary, month to be. inserted every second year, consisting of 22 and 23 days alternately- The mean length of each year was 364 days. By this arrangement the year was too short by one day and a fraction. This error averaging at least one day every year amounted to over 24 days in 24 years, to correct which it was ordered that every third period of eight years each, instead of the customary 4 intercalary months, 90 days in all, should contain only 3 intercalary
months, consisting of 22 days each. The mean length of the year was thus reduced to 365*4 days, which still left the Roman calendar year 11 minutes and 14 seconds longer than the solar year. This error, small as it seems, amounted to a day in every 128 j’cars.
Owing to the negligence of the pagan priests who had charge of Numa’s calendar this almost perfect Roman calendar became unserviceable. For by assigning a greater or lesser number of days to the intercalary months they were enabled to prolong the term of magistracies, or hasten the annual elections. So little care had been taken to regulate it that at the time of Julius Caesar the equinox in the calendar differed from the solar—that is the time it actually took place—by three months, so that the winter months were carried back into autumn and the autumn months into summer. The vernal equinox—the time in the spring of the j ear when the days and nights are of equal length—is that landmark in the solar year whereby the civil year is guaged. A mistake in the civil year is thus very easily seen, for w’hen the calendar states that the equinox will be on such a day and when the equinox actually happens on a different day the error is apparent.
To correct the error of three months that had accumulated in the Roman calendar, Julius Cassar assisted by Sosigines restored the time of the equinox in the calendar and fixed the mean length of the year at SbSM. davs. The 365 days he divided among twelve months, and got rid of the fraction of one-fourth of a day by decreeing that every fourth year should have 366 days, the others having each 365 days.- The Julian calendar commenced with the first of January of the 46th year B. C. and of the 708th from the foundation of the city. Caesar’s arrangement of the number of days in each of the twelve months was simpler than that of the preceding calendar. January, March, May, July, September and November had each 31 days and the others 30, excepting February which in common years had 29 and even7 fourth year 30 days.
To gratify the vanity of Augustus, August was given as many days as July, named after Julius Ca?sar, by taking a day from February7 and giving it to August. Furthermore, in
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

• order -that three months of 31 days each might not come together, September and November were reduced to 30 days, and 31 days were given to October and December.
’ At first these regulations of Cicsar were not sufficient!}'- understood by the pagan pontiffs who intercalated a day every third instead of every fourth yeai, which at the end of 36 vears aggregated an error of three days which Augustus remedied. But even then, as originally devised, the Julian calendar year of 365% days exceeded the real . solar year by 11 minutes and 14 seconds which, as stated before, amounted to an error of one dav in cverv 12S vears. This error became apparent by the shifting of the equinox. When the Julian calendar was first published the vernal equinox fell on March 25th. At the Council of Nice in 325 A. D. it receded four days to the 21st of March, and in 15S2 it had retrograded to the 11th of March.
To remedy this error in the Julian calendar Pope Gregory XIII. suppressed 10 days by calling the 5th of October, 15S2, the 15th of October. This remedied, for the time being, the error of 10 days which had accumulated, because the Julian calendar year was 11 minutes and 14 seconds longer than the solar year. To remedy this error for the future Pope Gregory, assisted by Clavius, -intercalated differently from Julius Cmsar.
As the accumulated error in the Julian calendar., due to 11 minutes and 14 seconds, was about three days in 400 years the Pope ordered that the intercalations be omitted on all the century years excepting those divisible by 400. Thus the three days’ error in 400 years was remedied. For this eason the century year 1600 was a leap . year, but 1700, 1800, 1900 were, common years. . The century year 2000 will be a leap year because it is divisible by 400. Thus the Gregorian year is 365 days, 5 hours, 49 minutes and 12 seconds, which exceeds the true solar year by 26 seconds. This excess amounts to a day only in 3323 years. And as 3323 differs little from the whole number 4000, it has been suggested to correct the Gregorian calendar in this regard by making the year 4000 and all its multiples, 8000, 12,000, 16,000, etc., common years, even though they are divisible by 400.
A brief summary of the intercalations,
147
that is, the method whereby the 5 hours, 48 minutes and 46 seconds may be properly divided, is as follows: Every year divisible by four is a leap year, excepting the last year of each century, which is a leap year only when it is divisible by 400, excepting the year 4000 and its multiples, 8000, 12,000, 16,000, etc. With this last .correction the commencement of the solar year and the Gregorian calendar year will not vary more than one day in 200 centuries.
An Unrequited Hero.
Jesse H. Rotii, ’10.
In an old Protestant cemetery in Vincennes, Indiana, unmarked, until a few weeks ago, save by a small footstone bearing the name and date of his death, covered by a small trellis over which a rosebush had been trained to grow, lie the remains of Col. Francis Vigo, the man who was instrumen- ~ tai in securing this great Northwestern territory and out of which were carved the states of Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota. If deprived of the services of this pioneer patriot, General Clark could never have captured this vast countrv, in territorial size large enough to
. -	.	. 0	® y
sustain a, population sufficient to rule the ' world, a country endowed by nature with the richest resources which the nation possesses and from which some of ’the most influential men of this nation have come.
Only recently the Daughters of- the American Revolution unveiled a monument which, with the exception of a county that bears his name, is the onlv memorial which brings before this people the remembrance of a hero, whose name stands second onlv to that of General George Rogers Clark in the history of this great Northwest.
Francis Vigo, known to most students of history as Colonel Francis Vigo, a rank which he held during the territorial government, was born in Sardinia, in the year 1747. He received no early education at all, and he could only write his own name. At an early age he left his parents and enlisted in the Spanish army. In that capacity he drifted to Havana and then to
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
14S
New Orleans. There, at what time and under what circumstances is not known, he received his discharge. It is believed that his intelligence, his attention to his military duties and his honorable deportment won for him the esteem and confidence of his commander and subsequently his honorable discharge.
Leaving the military’ service, he began the life of a trader, buying and selling throughout the Arkansas Valley. After a few years he settled at St. Louis, then a Spanish settlement. His honest dealings and generosity won him not only the confidence and affection of the Governor of Upper Louisiana, of the French and Spanish inhabitants, but of the neighboring Indians as well. In fact, the simple French and Spanish people looked to him in matters of credit and finance as the\r would to Father Gibault, another pioneer hero, who never received any reward from the government for the sacrifices that he made. The fact that a private soldier without an education should in a very few years make his way in the world, winning the respect and confidence of the most influential men of the land, is sufficient proof of his goodness of heart, purity of mind and of his honorable and chivalric bearing to all with whom he had dealings.
When General Clark captured Kaskaskia, Colonel Vigo was a resident of St. Louis, engaged in an extensive trade throughout the Missouri Valley and the Illinois territory, under the patronage of the Governor of the Upper Louisiana. Being a Spanish subject by birth and alliance he was by no means obliged to render assistance to the infant nation. In fact, he was only endangering his own interests by doing, so. Spain and Great Britain were then at peace, and such an interference on the part of a Spanish subject would be considered a breach of neutrality, and would subject the offender not only to loss of position and property but to the severest penalties that the British power could inflict on this side of the Mississippi. Although he realized all this, Col. Vigo did not hesitate on hearing of the arrival of the daring Kentucky Colonel with his handful of men to cross over to Kaskaskia and offer his services to Clark. His love of liberty and adherence to republican principles and sympathy for an oppressed people
prompted him to overlook all personal consequences and cast his lot with what looked at first like a hopeless cause.
At this point the affairs of Clark’s army had reached a crisis. The expedition from Harrodstown, where the army was organized, had taken more time than was at first expected, and these backwoodsmen, with no pay and scant supplies, began to think of their wives and children, left almost at the mercy of the savages in Kentucky. It was not the intention of the army to spend the winter at Kaskaskia, but the cold weather was upon them before they could start back home. Here it was that Clark met with the most trying circumstance of his whole career. The men, homesick, disappointed, without pay and with but scant provisions had lost all faith in the cause which they had embraced. Save the worthless Continental currency, which the men refused to accept, Clark had no money with which to pay them their long overdue wages or to buy supplies. He was almost on the point of giving up when Francis Vigo came to the assistance of the sorely distressed colonel, by furnishing him Spanish money in exchange for the worthless paper money issued by the State of Virginia.
Clark had no more than pacified his men at Kaskaskia when Captain Helm, at Fort Vincennes, .sent word to Clark asking him for men and supplies, saying that General Hamilton was bearing down on him from Detroit. Men, Clark could not spare, as he had barely a hundred of his own with which to fight back the Indians; supplies, he was not able to furnish, being already in debt to Vigo to the extent of several hundred dollars. But Vigo hearing of his predicament again came to his aid. The trader fitted out a train of provisions and started for Vincennes on the pretext, of doing trading with the French at the post '
Just outside of Fort Vincennes he with his entire train of supplies was captured by the Indians and he himself was hauled up before the British commander Hamilton, who had wrested the post from Captain Helm before Vigo could relieve him. As he was a trader and a Spanish subject, Hamilton could not place him .under arrest, so Vigo was allowed his liberty while at the fort. During his short stay at Vincennes
I * !	NOTRE DAME
1 ’ •
I Vigo studied the conditions carefully and £ made especial note of the actual strength I of the British force. What was of as i much value to Clark as anything else was that Vigo made the French inhabitants of t	Vincennes friends of the American cause. -
•	Upon his leave he was summoned before
| the British commander who, knowing the |	integrity and honesty of the trader, asked
|	him not to aid the Americans. This Vigo
| refused to do. At last Hamilton extracted a promise from him not to do anything hostile
I to the British cause before he returned to St. Louis. This promise Vigo kept to the letter.
| But he had no more than set his foot within the St. Louis settlement than he hurried off to Kaskaskia. It was upon the information
| and advice imparted by Vigo here that Clark was able to make the ever-memorable march
1 in midwinter through the flooded plains of i . Illinois, which resulted in the capture of Hamilton and the freeing of this whole Northwest from the hands of the British.
I	Francis Vigo continued his valuable ser-
i vices to the Continental army until the end 1 of the war, furnishing supplies and redeeming the Continental paper money with Spanish silver and gold. Several times he undertook perilous journeys in behalf of the frontiersmen, and before the British army had l	7
.1	withdrawn from the	land his. entire fortune
i	had been consumed	through the ravages
]	of the war.
$	At the close of the war he retired to Vin-
|	cennes where he lived the rest of his days in
poverty, though loved and respected by all
1 who knew him. Several times both he and i Clark tried to persuade not only the State i of-Virginia but also the United States to ;	restore at least in part the fortune that had
I	been lost in the services of the nation but
he was'not successful. At last losing faith not only in his country but in his Church— ’ for during the most part of his life he was a devoted Catholic—he died unattended, and was buried in the public cemetery with, the honors of a soldier.
At his death he made a will in which he states, that if the Government should , ever restore his estate for his sacrifices, that the money should be given the wife’s sisters’ children. It was not until forty years after his death that his generous conduct -was finally rewarded.
SCHOLASTIC	J 49
Varsity Verse.
Ann Arbor’s Soliloquy.
Q WERE feeing si gl-tly shaken Since we had our measures taken
By that mighty squad of players that came here from Notre Dame.
Our prest-ge is somewhat battered1
And our hopes are wrecked and tattered, And we d> n't feel quite as cheerful as we did before the game.
Say. that N. D. leant sure struck us.
They did wallop us and buck us. Why, they tore our line to puces and they left us in . the cold.
Th<y sat on us when they pleased to,
And their brilliancy increased too, As they dragged our vaunted flag to earth and raised their Blue and Gold.
And the sco e, please don’t repeat it,'
We got three, tl eir touchdowns beat it. And ’twas Aik”dice’s toe aim e through which our scoring came;
But that squad that tore asunder
Yost’s defence, was sure a wonder.
Here’s to Longman and his huskies, wondrous team of Notre Dame!
G. F.
*A Few Moke Foolish Ones.
{Apologies to ti. FA
Was everybody ti kled when we got the final score? Did the fellows yell and kick their .hats and veil—and yell some mere?
Was ever such a crazy crowd around the place before ?
Well, of all the foolish questions.
Were they quiet in Ann Arbor at the finish of the game?
Will they e’er forget the “ Irishmen’’ that came from Notre Dame ?
Arc the fellows square at Michigan or win or lose a game?
Well, of all the foolish questions.
Were Longman, Curtis on the sidelines when Miller got away?
Were Vaughan, Philbrook, llan ilton. Dimmick, Lyneh in every play ?
Matthews, Edwards, Dolan, Collins. Ryan, Moloney— where were, they?
Well, of all the foolish questions.
r5°
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Carroll Hall Dope.
Pittsburg U. o
Beat Carlisle. Whew!
And tied Penn State, Great!
And I\nn Slate tied, nee!
The U. of P.
And X. D. taught, Pittsburg, six to naught, How to pliiy.
Not bad, eh ?
And Michigan run
Syracuse oil the field just for fun, Forty-three to none, .
And X. 1).
Trimmed Michigan 11 to 3.
Golly I
Then Kentucky beat Rose Poly, Not near as bad as N 1). did,' But listen, kid, Kentucky beat Illinois.
Joy,
But that’s going some By gum!
Now I’ll leave it to you,
What can N. D. do ?	F.
Day Dreams.
Sometimes, in hours between
Our various cares,	.
They gently glide unseen. All unawares,	•	.
Into our thoughts;
As when deep mists '	•
O’er summer-skies Ofttimes arise;	-
Yet only for a while -conceal
The depth of heaven’s blue.. * Just so these dreams that pass reveal
Far glimpses of the true.
.	F. W. C.
Simplicity of character and what holy Scripture calls the single eye, have a close affinity with genius.—Aubrey de Vere.
Pope's Essay on Man: Its Place in Literature.
John B. McMahon, ’09.
One of the most renowned of English critics, whose stud\r entitles his opinion to respectful consideration, declares that “The ethical epistles of Pope arc model—in them he shows the strength of his genius.” This is a judgment that has peculiar force in its . application to Pope’s work, “An Essay on Man.” Any attempt to determine.the place this work deserves in literature can not but be futile. For, as Shakespeare is the poet of human emotions and nature, ranking as such in a class by himself, as Milton is the great imaginative poet of English literature and beggars comparison, so Pope, as the ' great poet of reason, constitutes a class in himself. It is less difficult, however, to indicate some of the qualities which stand out especially in this one of his writings and some of the beauties of matter and form, leaving the decision to the reader as to whether the “ Essav on Man” does not entitle Pope to higher rank and more attention than is commonly assigned by the predominant school of the present day, which vi ould exclude the didactic entirely, and unduly emphasize the lyrical and descriptive expressions of poetic feelings at the expense of the other species of poetry, no less dedicated to pleasure because seeking this end through the intellect rather than the heart.
The “Essay on Man,” as we now have it, is part of a great unfinished satire on certain views and teachings of that eminent and brilliant freethinker, Lord Bolingbroke, who in the latter years of his life, set out, as he wrote to- his friend, Dean Swift, “to give metaphysics a new and useful turn.” Unfortunately for the noble lord and his intentions he began only late in life to reflect on scientific and philosophical matters. His political writings—the observations of a long and eventful career—exercised great influence. They .changed, in a measure, the popular belief as to the origin and power of government. - In these works he struck out in new and original lines, and having studied deeply he changed beliefs and conditions, of long existence. A similar effect in the fields of

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
metaphysics was the ambition of his late vears; but in the confidence that other sue-cesses had engendered he totally disregarded the truths that universal past experience had established, and attempted to learn all by liis. own experience and his own reason. Such empiricism quite naturally led to agnosticism. For from inability to reconcile the apparent imperfection of man and his surroundings with the order of an allknowing, all-merciful Creator, he rejected the idea entirely, and viciously attacked the preamble of faith. This was the occasion of Pope’s satire. In it he ridicules elegantly, but therefore more effectively, the presumption of the philosopher who takes his own conception of order as the criterion of judgment, rails at the imperfection of man and society, and sets his finite self in judgment over the inscrutable decrees of an infinite First Cause.
Snatch from his hand the balance and the rod, Re-judge his justice, be the God of God.
While the vanity of man is thus made the object of the satire, the real subject-matter— the organic idea—is much different. It is the vindication of the thesis “ Whatever is, is right”—the order of the universe, the relations of man to the universe, to himself, to society and to human happiness. It is an attempted defense of the order of God, as seen in the universe, and a forcible and emphatic recall of man to a belief in divine providence as the only solution of the enigma of life and its surroundings. The declared intention is “to vindicate the ways of God to man,” and the oft-repeated, unifying idea is:	.
All nature is but art unknown to thee:
All cbarce, direction which thou eanst not see: All discord, harmony not understood;
All partial evil, universal'good.
And, spite of pride, in erring reasons spite.
One truth is clear, “ Whatever is. is right.”
The deduction that he makes is expressed in his injunction to Lord Bolingbroke:
Know then thyself, presume not God to scan: The proper study of mankind is man.
The universal cause -
Acts to one end, but acts by various laws.
These abstractions are illustrative of the thought of Pope’s essay. Yet, while they are apparently unusual subject-matters for the poet, it must be recognized that there
T5l
is a certain grandeur in the movement and the trend of this thought-. Unlike the material that the epic draws from, it nevertheless resembles it in the effect which both produce, in the power and force which each possesses, though in a different way, and in the possibilities that both have for -enrichment from thoughts and descriptions, accidental to, yet ornamenting the poem.
Men differ as to what constitutes poetic thought. Some profess to believe that it is the emotional thought of the lyricist, and, as such, is always subjective. This school logically assigns high rank to Byron, Shelley and Moore; while “damning with faint praise ” the class of which Pope is peculiarly representative. Others maintain that it is the sublime concept—the creation of fancy, such as we find in Mil ton, Homer, and, in a lesser degree, in Virgil, that constitutes the proper material of poetry. If, in strict acceptance of either or both of these views, . the objects of metrical expression be thus restricted to strong feelings or fantastic narrative, Pope manitestly falls low in his claim to poetic eminence. Indeed,’ he sinks to a lower plane than many of our moderns. Poetry, however, can not be so restricted in its material. As Coleridge says: “It is the flower of all human knowledge and thought as well as of human passions and emotions.” Better still, it is the beautiful expression of the beautiful thought. There can be nothing that more approaches the definition of beauty as splendor perfectionis than great and momentous thoughts, whether they be abstractions enriched as Pope has made them, great events of the kind Milton has chosen, or the human emotions we find in the poetry of the great bard. Such truths appeal to our intuitive conception of beauty, and we challenge evidence that would show this ethical system.
Dryden, ever so charming in his Cecilian Ode, can never approach the force or beauty of material which finds embodiment in this one of Pope’s works. One pleases the fancy, the other the intellect. Shakespeare chose nature and the emotions of the human soul. In the truthful delineation of these, he has attained the highest place in English, and a high place in the world’s literature. Milton pictured in appropriate language, brilliant imagery; yet, in both instances the beauty
I 52
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of matter resided, in great part, in its truth and importance to mankind. Shakespeare is true to life; Milton is true, at least in .essentials, to the scriptural narrative of a series of events of high interest to mankind. The subject-matter of both Shakespeare and Milton, however, is different from that which Pope uses in his essay. While there is truth in all three, yet those of Pope appeal more to the reason than to the imagination. But are they less true or less the objects of metrical language because abstract? They are surely of equal interest to mankind; and if they’do not ravish the imagination, they do occasion intellectual pleasure, which is, after all, an object of poetry. Thus, while the matter of Pope’s works differs from other great poets, making comparison impossible, it would seem that if he has erred in choice “he has erred wisely,” in so far as these abstractions are capable of great adornment, in themselves of great beauty and of equal interest and merit.
But, treatment perhaps even more than choice of matter is the fest of ability. Thus if Pope in his choice verged on the prosaic, he is the greater genius if out of such material he can produce a work of merit. Necessarily there is in the treatment of a system of philosophy, much that lends itself but poorly to the purposes and expression of the poet. Propositions thatin themselves lack imagery must be ornamented and beautified. The system which Pope thought to unfold, made possible more adornment than the elaboration of a system such as Lucretius chose in earlier days. For that system, denying a Creator, appealed less to intelligence in determining a cause for the existence, as well as the order and beauty of the universe. It was a destructive, a's opposed to a constructive system. Different from this was the ethical system that Pope chose. It is in striking contrast to the pessimism of dererum natura. Indeed, its very optimism is severely criticised as approaching too closely the philosophy of Leibnitz. This may, and probaby does, detract from its didactic perfection, but it gives it greater poetic possibilities.
In unfolding his idea that order exists, though not understood—that ‘Whatever is, is right,'—Pope in the first epistle points out the nature and state of man with respect to his surroundings. He shows him to be
adapted to the general order of things,—that if more perfect he might be less happy. He points out that there is order in everything, a gradation which causes subordination of creature to creature and all to man. In this epistle opportunity is given—and of this Pope availed himself—for beautiful descriptions of order in nature,—air, ocean, elements, the relation of creatures to each other:
.All but parts of one stupendous whole;
Whose body nature is, and God the soul.
In the second epistle man is discussed in his relation to himself, with the deduction that all the imperfections and passions of man are usefully distributed, that the oft-complained-of inequalities of man are necessary and productive of good. Here, tbo, he introduces the discussion of vice which he describes as: •
A monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen ; Yet, seen too oft, familiar to her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace.
The epistle which follows deals with man in his relation to society. It is the most beautiful of all. For here is described the inter-dependence of all created beings, the happiness of animals, the common aim of both instinct and reason, and the lengths to which society is carried by each. The origins of various forms of governments are discussed, as also the influence of self-love as a moving force. How beautifully are the benefits of co-operation set forth:
In faith and hope the world will disagree, ’
But all mankind’s concern is charity;
All must be false that thwart -this one great end; And all of G< d, that bless mankind, or mend. Him, like the generous vine, supported lives;
The strength he gains is from the embrace he gives.
On their own axis as the planets run, To make at once their circle round the sun;
. So two consistent motions act the soul:
And one regards itself, and one the whole.
Thus God and nature link’d the general frame, And bade self-love and social be the same.
This only instances the manner in which he clothes his thoughts with poetic language, and makes impressive known truths.
The final epistle treats of happiness. The law of compensation that works through all is shown in its operation. We learn that happiness is subjective, that virtue is its own reward, and that perfection consists in conformity to the will of Providence here and resignation for the hereafter. It is
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	153
to the thought! If this be not the proper vehicle for such thoughts, as is intimated by some critics, then the history of literature should be rewritten and new criterions of judgment set up. In philosophy and in logic Pope probably did err; .but as a poet—never. He chose well and worked well, leaving us in th s poem one of the great didactic poems in English literature, one entitled to rank with those of Lucretius and Virgil. In it the fire and force of the poet are blended with the logic and reason of the philosopher. It is a work which gives evidence of what has been termed by Tyndall “ scientific imagination.” Beauty of landscape, of nature and its processes interested him not alone , as things of beauty, but as representing some great force behind them. They are more than mere beauties to please. Before the problem of life and its background he reasoned as well as wondered. And so it is that Pope lives and will live. The force of the book is present in our day. This we realize only when we hear from the ‘man of the street,’ the laborer, the business man and the student such sayings as:
Honor and shame from no conditions rise, • Act well your part, there all the honor lies.
Or again	.
Worth makes the man, want of it the fellow, which shows not only the general interest that attaches to the thought, but likewise the beauty, force and propriety of expression. The statesman, politician and orator closes his discussion with the oft-quoted lines:
For forms of government let fools contend. Whatever is best administered, is best.
The moralist descends from his pulpit with the words still echoing, as he.quoted them from this work, telling ever the truth that familiarity diminishes the horror of guilt:
Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated, needs but to be seen; -	.
Yet, seen too oft familiar to her face.
We first endure, then pity, then embrace.
When an author is thus quoted, it is because he gives a beautiful or forceful expression to popular truths and beliefs. It is a tribute which English-speaking people have paid this poet and this work, that next to the Bible and Shakespeare the “Essay on Man” is the most quoted in all literature. This fact is the best refutation of Pope’s detractors, and vindicates his style from the adverse criticism levelled against it.
* impossible to detail, in even a small degree, I the manner of treatment, the striking j analysis of virtue, honor, greatness, fame, j all ending with the statement:.
||	That reason, passion, answer one great aim;
।	That true self-love and social are the same;
j	That virtue only makes our bliss below;
!	■	And all our knowledge is ourselves to know.
1 - . , /
>	There is, in addition to the force that
|	must be evident, a certain movement in the
|	thought that makes it seem like a great
|	current in a river. It moves on and on
|	ever increasing in force. All of the extraneous
1	matter that is introduced has a cumulative
]	effect. It so appeals to common-sense, to
j	man’s religious sensibilities; it so inspires
one with regard for God’s greatness and ' ;	minimizes man’s importance that the •
I	monotony that assuredly does run through
j	the work is excused just as the monotony of
]	a great river is excused and preferred even
j	to the rippling of a tiny brook. There is
!	a direct force to the movement, clearness
’	that could be attained only by the illustra-
tions he so beautifully presents, and a :	peculiar beauty in the expression that can
reside only in propriety of language to the thought expressed. For this reason on.e can not subscribe to the criticism that has been levelled at Pope’s verse—that it is ‘arti-
. ficial.’ Rather it is adapted to a peculiar trend of thought. Unless the artificiality consists in polished and elegant diction, in which case Pope surely offended, the criticism can not be understood. For the verse conforms to all the known rules governing metrical writing. It is harmonious and easy in its flow. It reconciles with the music and euphony peculiar to all Pope’s works, a compactness and pointed wit which has made his the language of proverbs in Englishspeaking countries. But, more than all, it is admirably adapted to the thought it is designed to convey. What manner of verse, for instance, other than Pope’s, could more appropriately express the following:
Thus, then, to man the voice of nature spake: Go, from the creatures thy instructions take; Learn from the birds what food the thickets yield; Learn from the beast the physic of the field;
' Thy art of building from the bee receive; '
Learn of-the mole to plow, the worm to weave; Learn of the little nautilus to sail,	.
Spread the thin oar, and catch the driving gale. How easy and flowing, yet how proper
J54
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame Scholastic
Puoashrd every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame. Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. Notre Dame. Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, November 13, 1909.
Board of -Editors.
PETER E. HEBERT, '10
• DENIS A. MORRISON, ’10 MICHAEL A. MATHIS, ’10 THOMAS A. LAHEY, ’ll FRANCIS WENNINGER, ’ll CHARLES MILTNER, ’ll JOHN F. O’HARA, ’12
GEORGE J. FINNIGAN, ’10 LEO J. CLEARY, ’10 LEO C. MCELROY, ’10 JOHN C. TULLY, ’ll ARTHUR J. HUGHES, ’ll THOMAS F. CLEARY, ’ll FREDERICK CARROLL, ’12
—The wonderful gridiron victory won by the Gold and Blue over Michigan last Saturday has once more put Notre Dame in the limelight. We have listened Our Great Victory, with pardonable pride to the generous words of praise which critics of the game have bestowed on the men we like to call “ours.” From all over the country* have come congratulatory* messages characterized by a frank admiration for the manly men who won the game and the school that inspired them. The features of the game have been considered and discussed until little remains to be said; one lesson, however, may* be emphasized with profit. The game was as clean and honest and upright and hard-fought as any game of football ever played, and the men who played the game for us never failed at the critical moments. Michigan sympathizers, five thousand strong, cheered time and again for the men who were shattering their hopes. These outbursts were a spontaneous recognition of excellence, physical, mental and moral. The qualities displayed by the men on both teams are qualities that are making this country. The man who is honest with his team and his opponents can not help but be honest with his country and himself, and the man who plays a clean game of football will play a clean game of life.
—The Church feels the need of true education, and for that reason her record is a progressive one. During the forepart of this week, a Significance of the Pittsburg committee meeting Educational Meeting. was held at Pittsburg for the purpose of arranging the preliminary details for the annual Catholic Educational Congress of the coming year. Its chief duty* was the selection of suitable subjects to be studied, reported upon, and discussed, by* the prominent Catholic educational authorities of the country* when they come together at the appointed time. Whatever else may* have been the work of this meeting, one can not but be impressed by* the unity of action, the method, and the universal desire of improvement, which such a meeting signifies on the part of our Catholic schools. This coming together, on the part of experienced teachers and college authorities to voice their opinions upon vital questions in the educational line, this interchanging of ideas among experienced scholars and observant teachers engaged in the practical work of the school-room, augurs well for a solid and efficient Catholic school system in the future. At the present day* a combined education of the mind and heart has become the vital problem, and nowhere would its want have a more disastrous effect than in this our own country, where the integrity of the government depends so much upon the true education of its citizens. Whether or not the recent charge of godlessness in large secular universities be true, we certainly* need have no fear for the types of manhood and womanhood sent forth from our Catholic institutions.
—The South Bend Tribune of November S contains the following editorial comment on the Notre Dame victory over Michigan.
Editorial Comment on the Big Game by South Bend Dailies.
The victory of the Notre Dame football team over Michigan is a sporting event not to be lightly consid-
ered. It is the biggest victory in the field of sports . which Notre Danie has achieved in many a year. It is a success which may well be regarded with pride and in which South Bend may well join in giving proper credit.
While it is true that football is just now passing through a crisis, and while it is also true that the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
J55
sport may eventually be placed under the ban by the leading schools, Notre Dame included, it is also true that that time has not actually arrived. There is still much to be said in favor of football as well as against it.
- Regardless of the discussion which is now raging, o	.00*
the victory of Xotre Dame is deserving of the same general recognition which it would receive at any other time.
Michigan long stood at the head of the list in football prowess. For years the record of Coach Yost and the mighty men of Yost stood without a blemish. And even now the only teams that have previously been able to mar the record in any manner haxe been those of Chicago and Minnesota and only once lor each. So the clean cut victory of Saturday • places Notre Dame with the leaders, and with a good 1 mining start at that. While Notre Dame has given some last demonstrations on the gridiron and had some starplayers on a par with any in the Middle West, the same class as shown this year has never previously been predominant.
Indeed, the Notre Dame team deserved the rousing demonstration which was given in its honor. The victory which it achieved was a great one. The team playtd the game all the way through, and the men of Longman clearly outclassed the menofY'ost. And, by the way, the name of Longman is one which has gained new and additional fame in football historv. Formerly a great player, he has now demonstrated his ability as a great coach.
Indeed the Notre Dame victory is an athletic event deserving unusual prominence in college sporting annals.
* * *
The South Bend News, November 9, voices its appreciation in this editorial:
South Bend joins Notre Dame in rejoicing over the v'etory won by .the Varsity football team in the game with Michigan on Saturday. Fame acquired by the great Catholic institution in either letters or athletics at least sheds a reflected light upon the city on which it borders by reason both of proximity and consanguit ity. Though separate and distinct as corporations they long ago e.-tablished a relationship so close that the line of demarcation is purely imaginary. Having thus proved the kinship of the two, the city will not be debarred from sharing in the glory of the University.
To defeat Pittsburg was an achievement that swelled our local pride, but to come back and make a spectacle of the Yost machine not only confirms the legitimacy of the first victory—the grouchers of the smoky city to the contrary notwithstanding—but elevates the Notre Dame eleven into a class with the best teams in the West and attracts the attention of haughty Eastern warriors. Incidentally, Coach Longman is firmly ensconced in the coveted niche among the leading coaches of the day.
There is a reason for this gratifying culmination of the efforts of the Notre Dame athletic board, and it is found in the fine aggressive and indomitable spirit with which the atmosphere of the University is charged.
Difficulties and reverses have not dampened the ardor of either faculty or student body. They have been hopeful and persevering under all circumstances, and now are enjoying the realization of their ambition to rank among the best in all branches of athletics.
—Literature is the world’s school. Man s^ets far more of his "ideas of life from reading than he does from actual experience.
The power of books to The Student and mould life is incalculable, Religious Books, and this is no more true for z	the moral than it is for the
immoral. We have heard it said: “Show me* what vou read and I’ll tell vou what you are.” There is a deal of truth in this saying. Men are unconsciously formed by the thoughts of others expressed through books. If literature, then, exerts so potent and irresistible an influence, one should be most discreet in one’s choice of reading. The person that devotes his spare time almost exclusively to the drinking in of the light literature of the present-day novel is making a serious mistake, for he is neglecting the more important side of his book education. History and Science and Religion should be given a prominent place in his reading, especially the latter. Fiction is not to be discarded, rather is it to be recommended, but not to the exclusion of Religion. What book contains the gist of all wisdom, if not the Bible? What novel could contain more real examples of life as it should be than Cardinal Wiseman’s “Fabiola?” What books are more instructive than those of Cardinal Newman or Bishop Spalding? The student, Catholic or non-Catholic, that is placed in a position to read such books, and many others of equal merit which are contained in the Library of the Apostolate of Spiritual Reading here at Notre Dame, and does not do so is doing himself an injury, for he is failing to round out his intellectual manhood to its proper mould. Each one should look to it, then, that he has a spiritual book on his desk, and each day read a little of this more serious and moral literature. A habit for such reading will soon be formed and the reading will soon become indispensable. The student will be surprised and gratified now, and even more so in after-life to see how many ennobling lessons he has thus learned.
*56
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Venetian Band Concert.	Personals.
Tuesday, November 9th, we were treated to a delightful concert by Victor's Royal Venetian Band. This is the third entertainment the troupe has given before the student body, and those who had the good fortune of hearing it before pronounce the last concert equally as entertaining as those of former years. The enthusiasm with which the old students crowded to the concert hall evidenced that Victor and his musicians need no introduction at Notre Dame. This, with the hearty appreciation manifested by’ the new students, makes it reasonable to conclude that this band of entertainers will always find a cordial welcome at the University.
Sr. Victor is truly a master. His interpretation is at once clear and pronounced with a vividness of life and action, beautifully’ contrasted with a calm tenderness of melody. It suggests might and strength, with love, sympathy and sorrow, coming as from one grand instrument, as the many pieces, pleasingly blended into a single strain are wafted gracefully from the simple to the sublime by the stroke of the hand of the master. His direction is mild yet exact, and is without the tiring eraticisms of the genius of less natural leadership.
The second number on the program, Rossini’s Overture from William Tell was perhaps the most enjoyed. A cornet solo by Signor Pontrelli was well taken, and of particular interest was the seventh number a saxophone quartette by Signori Danese, Di Tommaso, Scoppa and Mele. Following is the program:
March—American Spirit......................Victor
Overture—William Tell......................Rossini
Cornet Solo—Selected.............-....Signor Pontrelli
Vocal Solo—Selected..;.........Miss Caroline Lewis
Grand Selection—Il Trovatore ................Verdi
(Incidental Solo by Signori Pontrelli. DeSantis. Perillo) Scene— Picturesque.'....................  Massenet
a,	Angelus,	-
b,	Bohemian Fete.
Saxophone Quartette—Solos Selected
(Signori Danese. Di Tommaso. Scoppa and Mele.) Vocal Solo—Selected............Miss Caroline Lewis
Grand Finale—American Fantasie.............Herbert
— B. C. Ohneck, student 1882—3, is Deputy’ Clerk of the Superior Court at Tacoma, Washington.
—Joseph P. O’Reilly, old student, is in the employ of the Zehncr Brothers Packing Company, Toledo, Ohio.
—Oliver C. Wright, old student, is now employed in the County Clerks’ Office Hall of Records, Brooklyn, N. V.
—Daniel Kelly, student of 1902—1, graces an executive position with the American Tobacco Company, Denver, Col.
—John F. Wernert, student ’72, holds a position of honor and responsibility in the Second National Bank, Toledo, Ohio.
—James A. Woods, student for the past ten years, is in the employ of the Columbia Mattress Company, South Bend, Ind.
. —Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C. (A. B., 1906), of Holy’ Cross College, Brookland, D. C.. visited friends at the University’ during the week.
—Bernard Bannon, student 1905—8, and graduate of the commercial program the latter year, is with the Carnegie Steel Company, Pittsburg.
—Ray Burns, student of electricity’ 1903-6 and a Varsity curve artist, was back to renew old friendships. Ray is employed by the Bell Telephone Company, Pittsburg. .
—Ralph Maurer, junior in the civil engineering course last year, has resigned school for a time and accepted regular employment in the office of the city engineer, South Bend.
—	N. A. Diskin, LL. B., ’07, is practising law in Goldfield, Nevada. . He recently won ah interstate reputation by his brilliant defense of a prisoner charged with murder.
—	Prof. T. A. Dehey, Instructor of French at Notre Dame prior to 1907, visited friends here last week. Mr. Dehev is now of the Faculty of the College of the Holy Ghost, Pittsburg.
—	The Rev. Luke J. Evers (A. B., 1879; A. M., 1886), president of the New York City Notre Dame Club, was a visitor during the past week. Father Evers has recently’ been elected to the highest honorary office of the Printers’ Union’ in New York.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
—As at Pittsburg John Larkin, an ’S3 man, came all the way from Johnstown to cheer the men to victory, so at Ann Arbor Chauncey Yockey, loyalist and leader of Milwaukee, distinguished himself by bringing along a crowd of rooters from the German city.
— The Spokesman-Review of Spokane, Washington, canonizes Robert P. Brown (known as “Red” Brown of a decade and a half ago) “as the David Harum of baseball. The Spokane manager, in addition To netting a greater profit from player sales than any other manager in the history of baseball in the Pacific Northwest, if not on the Pacific coast, has made a lot of deals that, in the baseball business, make old fictitious David Harum look like a Yiddish pedler.” ----------------------------
Local Items.
—Found—A sum of money. Loser apply at Room 225, Soriri Hall.
—Lost, strayed or stolen. Finder please return to Room 34, Main Building.
—Lost — On Brownson campus, a gold watch. Reward for return. John F. Daily.
—Postal views of the Gold and Blue football team are on sale at the news’ stand.
—Miami University is receiving the results of the game by special wire from Cartier Field this afternoon.
—It is just twenty-one years since Michigan taught us football. On attaining our majority we showed how well we. had been taught.
—Prof. John Worden paid a pretty compliment to the victorious football team by the presentation of a large bouquet of American Beauty roses.
—Well! well! well! The Freshmen have come around to it at last. The meeting for organization will be held this evening at 7:30 in the Law Room. To urge attendance would be superfluous.
—The victory of Notre Dame over Michigan was celebrated by a bonfire and rally on Brownson campus last Saturday night. Speeches by Prefects and students voiced the general sentiment of congratulation and good feeling.
T57
—As the Varsity has monopolized our space this week we are unable to give more than a summary of the Hall games:
Ex-Carrollites defeated the Carrollites, 17-5.
Brownson won over Walsh, 23-5.
Corby defeated St. Joseph, 18-0, and Sorin, 15-0.
—Telegrams of congratulation on the victory over Michigan were received from Warren Cartier, D. P. Murphy, Frank McKeever, Fred E. Murphy (Indianapolis), Father Ponet (De Paul University), “Loyal Peorians,” N. M. Sinnott (Indianapolis), Rufus Waldorf. .
—Considerable circulation has been given to a report that the Notre Dame team was accused of rough play by the Pittsburg athletes and coaches. The following letter from Coach Thompson of Pittsburg to President Cavanaugh speaks for itself:
'	Beaver Falls, Pa., Nov. S, 1909.
Dear Sir :—I have noticed in the papers and it has been called to my attention by several alumni and friends of your university, that the conduct of your players during the game between Notre Dame and the University of Pittsburg was very ungentlemanly. Permit me to state that such a story is absolutely false. The conduct of your players was all that could be desired, and we were beaten, not by rough tactics, but by a better football team. '
I write you this letter at the request of several of your alumni who are my very gotd frierds, and to bear testimony to the good game your boys played. I congratulate you most heartily on the victory of your boys last Saturday.	-
Yours truly, Jos. H. Thompson, Coach of “Pitt.”
—An interesting meeting of the St. Joseph Literary Society was held Sunday evening. An important motion adopted is to the effect that two absences in any one month will exclude from membership. The program was opened with a song by the golden voiced tenor, Joe Smith, accompanied by Jas. Foley on the society’s new piano. Wade Brady uncovered a lot of wit and a bunch of smiles in his characterizations of members. Harry Coffman, Joe Smith and Wm. Milroy showed ability in their recitations. The Judges decided for the negative on the question: Resolved, that the Government own and control the railroads. The affirmative was supported by Joe Huerkamp and H. C. Myers, and the negative by Messrs. Brady and Skelley.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Defeat of Michigan.
“And Notre Dame has the crust to think they can beat Michigan.” This was one of the inspired utterances of the oracle who sized up the Michigan-Notre Dame game for one of the Detroit dailies, a day or two before the game. Kindly note in these columns the comments on the game after the Varsity had trounced Michigan last Saturday. Any words we might say in praise of our men would be mere repetition. Their actions and the final score speak for them. From what the fellows say who went up to see the game, Michigan men, though somewhat downcast, have shown themselves good sports and good losers. Most of the talk about what might have been is done by newspaper writers who failed to make good as prophets. Thejr were all ready to go around with a wise look on their faces as they remarked to all who would listen: “I told you so.” We slipped one over on them this time. Everybody has probably read the detailed accounts of the scrap. Hence we permit the great game to pass into history with a handshake to the warriors in Gold and Blue. We append herewith the line-up followed by comments of various newspapers and football authorities throughout the country.
Notre Dame (11)		’	Michigan (3)
Matthews	L. E.	Borleski, Rogers
Edwards	L. T.	Casey
Phil brook	L. G.	Benbrook
Lynch	C.	Watkins
Dolan	R. G.	Conklin
Dimmick	R. T.	Wells
Collins, Maloney	R. E.	Miller
Hamilton	.	Q.	Wasmund
Miller	.	L. H.	Magdisohn
Ryan	R. H.	Allerdice
Vaughan	F.	Clark, Lawton
Touchdowns—Vaughan,	Ryan.	Goal from touch-
down—Ryan. Goal from place kick—Allerdice. Time of halves—35 minutes. Referee—Hoagland of Princeton. Umpire—Stahl of Illinois. Field Judge—Elder of Penn State. Head linesman—Starbuck of Princeton.
-	L. C. M.
Press Notices.
The Michigan Daily, Sunday, Nov. 7.—Notre Dame defeated Michigan, 11 to 3, the Wolverines losing because of the bad judgment of Wasmund in calling for a place kick near the close of the second half.... In the first half the Catholics had the Wolverines completely fooled on their forward pass formations. Instead of using the usual long high pass the Notre Dame team used a short pass just over the line, and it took a long time for the Wolverines to solve it.
The Inter-Ocean, Sunday, Noy. 7.—Michigan was the stepladder by which Notre Dame to-day mounted the dizziest heights in its football history, the Catholics downing the Wolverines by a score of .11 to 3. The game by which Notre Dame won its right to claim to have one of the best elevens in the country was won bjr its. team by hard, fast, clean play. Luck had nothing to do with either of the two touchdowns which Notre Dame made.
The Chicago Tribune, Sunday, Nov. 7.—The Michigan team, so brilliant last week showed no semblance of the football that was to win again the championship of the West, while Notre Dame was all but impervious to its best attempts offensive and defensive. The jubilation that has pervaded the campus for the last week has ended, and only victories over Pennsylvania and Minnesota will lighten the hearts of the student body.
" ■ *
' Detroit Free Press, Sunday, Nov. 7.—“Notre Dame crippled for to-day’s game,” was the heading over advance dope oh the game. If it had been a little more crippled, perhaps the score would have been 22 to 3 instead of only 11 to 3....	'
Eleven fight Irishmen wrecked the Yost machine this afternoon. These sons of Erin individual!}’ and collectively representing the Universitj- of Notre Dame, not only beat Michigan team, but they dashed some of Michigan's fondest hopes and shattered her fairest dreams. That little thing of Bobby Burns about “the best-laid plans o’ mice and men,” was made to order for to-day’s game.
' ' * * *
Chicago Record-Herald, Sunday, Nov. 7.—From the opening of the first round until the referee’s whistle blew it was Notre Danie’s inning, the proteges of Longman distinctly outplaying Yost’s men and giving no chance for the much-expected Wolverine tricks to be worked. Michigan seemed unable to solve its opponents’ formations or to stop Miller.
. * *
The Philadelphia North American, Sunday, Nov. 7.— Outplayed in the first half, out-generaled in the second, Michigan lost to Notre Dame here to-day by a score of 11 to 3 before 7000 persons. In the crowd was Walter Camp of Yale, and the bleachers were filled with spies from Minnesota, Marquette and elsewhere.
. • * ‘ -
* •
Chicago Sunday Examiner, Nov. 7.—Notre Dame’s triumph came like a tidal wave on Alichigan’s hopes. It was perhaps.the greatest staggerer ever dealt to a Wolverine squad. The seldom heard phrase of “Ann Arbor is in mourning to-night” never held with greater force. Coach Yost and his warriors left the field absolutely blinded from the shock.
The Detroit News-Tribune, Sunday, Nov. 7.—Longman, who learned his football under Yost, sent against Michigan to-day 10 splendid players and a man named Miller. They out-generaled, out-tackled, out-blocked Michigan. They were faster, fought harder, and sheer knowledge of the game made that possessed by the
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Michiganders seem small. . . . Notre Dame won by Yost tactics. They had the speed for which Yost begs. They tackled as Yost would have men tackle.
* • ■ *
South Bend News, Sunday, Nov. 7.—When the Notre Dame team leaves for its Indiana home to-morrow they will do so with the satisfaction of knowing that they have achieved an ambition for which they have long hoped—they have beaten Michigan at their own game, on their own field, and they have done so in a manner that leaves no doubt as to their superiority.... The stellar work of Miller, Vaughan and Hamilton will probably be duly recognized when the football critics make out their paper teams after the season closes.
' * * .
South Bend Tribune, Monday, Nov. S.—Football experts throughout the West are singing the'praises of Shorty Longman's band of Notre Dame moleskin warriors, who by defeating Michigan’s team 11 to 3 Saturday, put in a strong bid for the Western football title....
* * »
.Veiv York Sun, November 6.—With Walter Camp on the field, Michigan was beaten to-day, 11 to 3, by Notre Dame. Capt. Allerdice oiitpunted Vaughan of Notre Dame and made Michigan’s single score. Benbrook, the Michigan left-guard, by his consistent defensive play, earned great credit. ‘For Notre Dame, however. Miller at left-half gained clearly a third of the ground by his fake end runs. His manner of running in Michigan's punts was the spectacle of the whole contest.
Out West Notre Dame belted Michigan a wallop, with Walter Camp looking on “ to pick All-American material,” as the Ann Arbor man figured it. Maybe he’ll pick his A. A. stuff from Notre Dame now.
* *
Chicago American, Nov. 6.—All Michigan is in mourning this afternoon, for the sturdy Notre Dame football squad, playing most excellent football and refusing to be frightened at the great reputation of the Yost scoring machine, downed the University of Michigan in crushing style. The score was 11 to 3 in favor of the Catholic University boys.
Ann Arbor is stunned by the performance. It has been years and years since such a thing has happened here, and the great college body can not understand exactly how the blow landed.
■ * * *
Chicago Record-Herald, Nov. 7.—Notre Dame maintained a brilliant irresistible chain of banging, rushing drives against the Michigan forwards, resorting to the forward pass in pinches and always getting away for long gains through this medium. With the defeat went Michigan’s chance for copping the Western Championship, for Notre Dame now is rated one of the most powerful machines ever assembled in the Weste n country.	•
*	Ag. ‘
. . * * *
Philadelphia Times, Nov. S.—Charley’ Kenaith, the crack quarterback of last year’s Red and Blue eleven,
arrived home this afternoon, after witnessing the Notre Dame-Michigan contest at Ann Arbor, where he went on a tour of investigation. Kenaith had nothing but good words for Michigan, and said that the Notre Dame eleven was a crack-a-jack. The field-goal by Allerdice was the first score against Notre Dame this year. Kenaith is of the opinion that Michigan did not show.all it had against Notre Dame, possibly because he was on the side-lines. He predicts that the game here Saturday will be a grand one.
* * '
New York Herald. Nov. 7.—Outplaying them at every’ department of the game, Notre Dame defeated Michigan this afternoon by a score of 11 to 3. The Indiana team scored two well earned' touchdowns against the Michigan eleven while one place kick by Capt. Allerdice was Michigan’s only’ score.
The Notre Dame halfbacks showed some of the most brilliant running that was ever seen on Ferry’ Field. Repeatedly Miller broke tnrough the Michigan team for runs of ten to thirty yards, breaking away from Michigan tacklers by his wonderful dodging and twisting. Ryan, who scored Notre Dame’s last touchdown also ran and dodged wonderfully well. * * * * * * While Captain Allerdice outpunted Vaughan, ragged work by’ the Michigan ends nullified his gains. Notre Dame runners were seldom downed in their tracks.
* - -
* * ' -
New York Post, Nov 6.—Outplaying opponents at every department of the game, Notre Dame defeated Michigan this afternoon by the score of 11 to 3. The Indiana team scored two well earned touchdowns against the Michigan eleven, while one place kick by Allerdice, Captain of Michigan, was the only score by’ the home team.
What the Critics Say.
Walter Camp.—Notre Dame outplayed Michigan. This man Miller played a wonderful game. As an open field runner he did as well as any player could have done. He certainly’ gave a fine exhibition. Benbrook, for Michigan, covered a lot of ground, and made many nice tackles. The other Michigan guard, whose name I do not recall, played well also.
That little quarterback of Notre Dame's certainly can handle the ball cleanly’ and quickly, and he runs the team at top speed. In the second half Vaughan bucked the line' strongly though he did not look so good earlier in the game.
Those two onside kicks that Notre Dame recovered were lucky breaks for Longman’s team. This play is one that nobody can figure out. If it bounds one way the kicking side is likely to recover it and make a touchdown. If it bounds another the defending team may’ gain a big advantage. It so happened that on two occasions Notre Dame recovered the ball at times when it meant much to that team and. counted heavily’ against Michigan.	.
* ■ « •
Walter H. Eckersall(Chicago Baily Tribune, Nov. 8) Notre Dame, by’ defeating Michigan so decisively.
6o
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
earned the right to be ranked with Minnesota and Wisconsin, the leading aspirants for the title in this section. The Catholics have met and defeated good teams this fall and bid fair to go through the year without a defeat. They put it over the Wolverines in nearly every department of the game and were rightfully entitled to the verdict.
At the -same time not a bit of credit is being taken away from Notre Dame for its achievement. It played the game all the way and rightfully earned rhe laurels. The players pulled off forward passes and onside kicks with great, rapidity, while Miller circled the Wolverine ends for long gains, and Vaughan hit the line for substantial results.
* * * Daniel J. F. Sullivan (Chicago Inter-Ocean. Nov. 8'>
Gn the strength of the Syracuse game., the Wolver ines were becoming somewhat overconfident when Notre Dame humbled their pride by defeating then? upon their own field. The Notre Dame game, how ever, while it may serve to weaken Minnesota’s claims to the Western Championship, did not mean that Michigan was weak. Notre Dame had already defeated the University of Pittsburg, which had been able to decisively defeat the Carlisle Indians, who have always been reckoned strong. The result of the Notre Dame game, therefore, instead of meaning that Michigan has a weak team, means that Notre Dame has a remarkably strong one—one which on the basis of comparative scores seems to be better than Penn sylvania, Princeton, Dartmouth and Lafayette, some . of the strongest in the East.
Michigan came out of the Notre Dame game without any injuries. It meets Pennsylvania next week, and will have a hard battle, which it has a good chance of winning. If its men escape injuries in this game and are able either to beat Pennsylvania or make a good showing against it, it can go into the game against Minnesota unhandicapped and with but little known about its strength as compared with that of the Gophers. The majority of the Western rooters are confident that Minnesota will win, but all look for a close game. A close game means that Minnesota and Notre Dame will each present claims „ for the Western championship. A victory for Michi-gan would mean that Notre Dame would have undisputed right to the honor, provided, of course, ’.hat Minnesota defeats Wisconsin.
* . * ♦
Blaine Patton (Indianapolis Star. Nov. 8)
Notre Dame’s decisive victory over Michigan University Saturday again puts the state of Indiana in the limelight of the football firmament, and it is all the more to the credit of the husky Catholics in view of the fact that it was Yost’s best machine which was pitted against them. The Wolverines have a 43 to 0 victory over the Syracuse eleven this season, and it was truly a representative Michigan team which faced the up-state collegians. The splendid work of the Notre Dame team stamps it as the greatest combination-that ever started on the kick-off at that in-‘stitution, and if a clean slate is retained for the re
mainder of the season it will be well in line for a bid in picking the' Western champion.’ Michigan can not complain from losing the battle on a fluke, as both the touchdowns made against it were well earned.
* «•
Coach Yost.—Notre Dame played a clean hard game, and deserved to win. They played all around the Michigan team. Never have 1 seen such a reversal of form as my men showed today. Had they played anything like the way they did against Syracuse the score would have been different. Their tackling and blocking was awful.
But in spite of the fact that Michigan was outplayed we would have beaten ’em had my men done the proper thing when within six yards of the Notre Dame goal. They only had a yard to go. and a place kick was not the proper play. 1 don’t know why more of our plays were not used. 1 believe the team that beat us today is just as good as Pennsylvania. They played together as one man.
What makes me so dog-goned mad is that we might have won the game. Those are the worst kind of games to lose. They leave a worm in a man’s heart to' gnaw and gnaw. Oh. 1 don’t know. I’m sick and tired of the whole business; it is certainly discouraging.
I take off my hat to the Irishmen. They were regular Indians. • I was afraid of them because they have all had so many years of play ard have all of the qualities of great football players. That Redheaded Miller was a wonder all right. Wish 1 had one like him and good-bye Penn, and Gophers. Some of the sting of defeat was taken away by the pleasure of seeing that Hibernian tear ’em up, and shake ’em off. My ends and back field did not suit me, but the line as a whole did well. We are not licked yet by anmeans in the two big games.
•8-
Coach Longman.—I am surprised at the score, though it certainly shows the relative merits of the two teams. With Dwyer in the game, I have no doubt, but that our score would have been larger, as he is just as. good as Miller. Ryan, who took Dwyer’s place, played a wonderful game. Though Michigan out-punted us, we worked three times as many forward passes as they did. We outplayed them at every turn. My boys worked together in every play, blocking and tackling better than at any previous time this season. Our ends were right there under every kick waiting for Wasmund and Allerdice to catch the ball. The men I have to work with are a bunch of fighters and I am proud of every one of them.
* _
William Hollenbach (Philadelphia Tinies, Nov. 7). Michigan was beaten. by Notre Dame and they need not be ashamed of it, as Notre Dame has one of the fastest combinations that has played together in a long time. Its play is fast and snappy and has lots of push. In Miller, the. left half-back, it has the best half-back in the - West. His aid to the man carrying the ball is the best the writer has ever seen..