Letters to the Editor
v
South Bend, Ind.
April 17, 1942
Dear Sir:
There has been nothing in recent months that has given me more grief and distress than the shameful, flippant and degrading account of my election which appears in the current issue of the Scholastic.
Francis E. McMahon
University of Notre Dame April 21, 1942
Dear Sir:
We feel that the article entitled “The Return of the Pigeon,” which appeared in the last edition of our magazine, unfairly assailed a professor who, for the past nine years, has conscientiously fulfilled his duties as an instructor in philosophy here at Notre Dame. That his political beliefs have pleased or displeased those who know him, is of relative unimportance when a consideration is being given to his recent appointment to the presidency of the Catholic Association for International Peace.
The facts that Dr. Francis E. McMahon has been instrumental in the origin and progress of the Association, and was considered worthy of the highest office in this national society, seem to have been ignored by the self-appointed critic who wrote the article in question. Instead, Dr. McMahon’s achievements were buried beneath flippant coimnen-tary.
We think that this obviously biased article reflects poor judgment on the part of the editors, as well as the reporter. It not only offends the dignity of Dr. McMahon’s professorship, but also violates the principles of charity, unity, and sportsmanship which are identified with Notre Dame.
Sincerely yours,
John H. Stauber
164 Alumni Douglas J. MacDonald
254 Alumni
• SCHOLASTIC regrets reflecting poor judgment, offending the dignity of a professor’s professorship, violating prim-' ciples of charity, unity and sportsman-
■ ship, the identity of Notre Dame, if it has done so. Scholastic thinks it has not, has reported the article in a factual way, has used correct symbolism, has made no derogatory implications in regard to Dr. McMahon’s teaching ability or to his political'beliefs. (See-Scholas- ' tic, April 15, 1942.)
Unlike Readers Stauber and MacDonald, Scholastic has genuflected at neither of the quasi-political shrines of interven- .
2 •/	' ' '	’	.' ' ' '
tion or isolation, hates no professor in particular, thought the Doctor’s election important but not earth-shaking, found factual evidence of intervention influencing the Association’s decision to give him the Vice-Presidency last year, reported it as such.
Cavanaugh Hall April 21, 1942.
Dear Sir:
About one week ago our campus here at Notre Dame was very fortunate in receiving some of the navy’s blue jackets who are to train for the V-7 program. And it is no military secret in saying that there was hardly an individual on the campus who wondered if the middies could be swallowed up in the school life of Notre Dame. There were not a few individuals who wondered if the navy boys could assimilate the tradition of Notre Dame in such a short time. Now as we all know the navy boys have surprised even the most skeptical of us all in becoming real Notre Dame. Proof of this is offered by their response to the Notre Dame night in the field house last week. There was not a blue jacket who wasn’t on his feet when they played the victory march. There was not a sailor who was not proud of his newly adopted school. So it is no more than fair that we students turn back some of this good will to these boys of the navy. Why not say hello to them when you see them on the campus? And it never costs.anything to stop and talk with them for a moment when they off duty. Good will can help along Notre Dame, ai d it will tend to help you along when the chips are down and you are in the service yourself.
Thos. Vai. Dougherty.
•J*11— » 1»B—an—BS—IB.—nn—an—BB— im—M ta}1
| THE COVER [
• this week comes through the cour.- 1 I tesy of George Wyman & Co., one I j of South Bend’s most popular de- | । partment stores, located at 103 N. J f Michigan Street. It was Wyman’s t s genial management which drafted |.
1 the languid, bored, blonde-wigged 1 I female manikin and her smart, | I white formal from its front win- - I -| low, and a nude male manikin j T from. their men’s haberdashery T | shop. Four Walsh Hallers provided j । his formal clothes: Top-hat by Bill j.
1 Kennedy; tie, shirt, trousers and 1
. I tails by Jack Brown; vest. and | ' I handkerchief by Bill Eaton; studs, f .
j collar-buttons and chain by' Bill | •' f. 'Platt. Striking lighting effects and | I photo.by David Rex,. Bagby Photo ? ; I 7 Co;, 110 W. Colfax,. South Bend. . i
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi ’	Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame. Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Thomas V. Powers, Editor
Don Heltzel___________Managing Editor
'Wh&iam Scanlan....................^.....Promotion John. Dinges_____________Sports Editor
William Baader................. Art.Editor
Tom Clemens Administration Editor Dan Downey................Campus	Editor
Ed Drinkard........Staff Photographer Leo Lee........1__  Advertising
Frank Kiener.......................Advertising John Lynch..................Photo	Editor
Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate P’ress, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty-three times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 228 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Buillding: Sunday through Wednesday at 7:15 p.m.
IN THIS ISSUE
PAGE
NEWS
ADMINISTRATION
Sorin •— The Prof's Hall.—.______ 4
Music Week Starts Sunday.:.... 4
CAMPUS
■ Senior Ball Tonite______...._... 6
New Editors Announced____________ 7
Father Ryan's Hiking Club.. .. .. 10
SPORTS
Old Timers' Game Set For May 2.. 15
Tallet Leads Irish Batters..——... 17
FEATURES
The Week	..... 8
College Parade, ..:.— _______—- II
> Scoop , ’n Splinters.)....—.—:.i.16
) What About Sports— :..._. 16
In Pictures
RIGHT: The Navy’s V-7 trainees who have taken well to the Dining Hall’s food give visual evidence of their preference.
ABOVE: Enjoying Eddie Peabody's banjo playing and the Great Lakes Naval Training Orchestra in the Fieldhouse last Friday. Left to right. Father Hugh O’Donnell, President. Admiral John Downes, Captain H. P. Burnett and Lieut. Powell.
The Week"
BELOW: Commander Gene Tunney pauses at the WLS mike, tells the Fieldhouse audience of a humorous incident.
BELOW: Notre Dame men admire the neat precision of marching Navy hlue.
AdmiMidudtoM' Newi.
N.D. Music Week to Feature Jose Iturbi, Helen Jepson
Tom Duffy
Notre Dame’s annual observance of Music Week will begin next Tuesday, April 28 with the first of three outstanding attractions from the musical world being offered, to the student body.
The University Band, under Professor Casasanta, will open Music Week on Sunday evening, April 26, on the concert stage of the Notre Dame gymnasium. Just returned from the most successful Eastern tour in the history of the band, Professor Casasanta will present the following varied program.
The Ramparts We Watch___________-Arr. by Rake
Lady of Spain_________________Arr. by Cailliet
Song of the Bayou_____________Arr. by Leidzen
Victor Herbert Favorites_________Arr. by Lake
On the Mall__________________________Goldman
Mardi Gras (from Mississippi Suite)_Ferde Grofe
Intermission
Soldiers on Parade___________________De Luca
U. S. Field Artillery_________________Sousa
Trombones to the Front______________Burrell
Ave Maria-----------------------Bach-Gounod
March of the Toys (from Babes in Toyland)
______________________________Arr. by Clark The Universal Judgment________Arr. by Cafarella Stadium Echoes________________Casasanta-Shea
On Tuesday, the University Theatre will present the Nine O’clock Opera Co. of New York in the famous opera, “The Marriage of Figaro.” In addition to the student body, the University has invited the members of the South Bend Symphony orchestra and the Civic Music Association of South Bend to he its guest on this occasion. The V-7 trainees and their commanding officers ■will also be guests.
On Wednesday evening, April 29, in Washington Hall, the Notre Dame Symphony will close its concert season with a final performance due to stand, out as a stellar contribution of this comparatively young organization to the musical life of the campus. Guest artist with the Symphony will be Miss Evelynn Zink, St. Mary’s Senior; as dynamic as she is pretty, Miss Zink -will play the first movement to Grieg’s well known “Concerto in A minor” with the orchestra.
Jose Iturbi, distinguished pianist and conductor, will present a recital on Thursday, April 30. The University and the Civic Music Association of South Bend join in presenting this great artist.
Included in the selections to be played by Mr. Iturbi are “Sonata in F Major,”
4
by Mozart; “Sonata in F. Minor,” by Beethoven; “Fantasie Impromptu,” by Chopin; and “Three Preludes” by Ger-shwin.
On Friday night, May 1, the Notre Dame Glee Club, under Daniel H. Pedtke, will appear on the gymnasium stage. They will feature Professor Pedtke’s new composition, “The Arena,” written in observance of Notre Dame’s centenary year.
On Monday evening, May 4, the South Bend Symphony under the baton of Edwin Haymes will fill the gym with the strains of Wagner and the thrilling soprano voice of Helen Jepson, lovely star of opera and the concert stage.
Sorin Swaps Tradition
For Over-dose of Profs
Sorin Hall is again the scene of an unusual setup that adds to its long line of novel and, traditional history. With the coming of the Navy, some Hall was bound to receive an overdose of professors and prefects, and Sorin seems to be the “butt of the abuse.” The moving trail of the Profs led straight to its worn and revered front steps. What with Rev. Frederick M. Gassensmith, C.S.C., Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., Rev. John J Lane, C.S.C., Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C., Rev. John A. O’Brien, Mr. Paul Byrne; Mr. Paul Fenlon, Mr. Frank O’Malley, Mr. Thomas J. Stritch and Mr. Eduardo Alcayaga having rooms in the building, not only every floor but practically every few students can have a prefect.
Since its inception Sorin seems to be the place of innovations. The Hall, whose doors were ceremoniously thrown open on New Year’s Day way back in 1889, was something new in the University housing facilities, and for that matter in the time-honored system of government in any Catholic college. Many of the professors were wary about a residential building with private rooms instead of the common dormitory. Their objections, however, were met by the proponents with the statement that Sorin’s “rooms would be large enough to encourage study and small enough to discourage visiting.”
As to whether the latter statement should have been sufficient to quell the objectors there may be some doubt at the present time. At any rate Sorin Hall was built and its experiment stood the test
of time so well that eleven other such buildings have been erected on the campus.
Within the walls of Sorin there abounds a wealth of tradition that only 53 years of housing Notre Dame students and professors could bring. The towered corners of the building have become a characteristic part of the campus. Down the high-ceilinged corridors have walked the most illustrious of Notre Dame’s sons; the old tintypes and pictures on the first floor walls give evidence of this. Today the structure named in honor of the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame, is recognized as one of the oldest Catholic college residential halls in the United States. Today to its long list of titles, “Home of the Scholar,” “Hall of the Upper-Classmen,” etc. is added a new one—“the Prof’s Hall.”
Weekend "Shore Leave"
Part of Trainees’ Life
Joseph Conerty
After three and one-half days of concentrated preliminary instruction and orientation, the naval men from Notre Dame’s V-7 Training School enjoyed their first weekend liberty. The men were entirely free from noon on Saturday until 9:30 p.m. on Sunday night. One of the enthusiastic downtown - bound bus riders ‘last Saturday afternoon put it that they “could even stay out all night.”
“Reveille” is sounded at 5:50, and begins each man’s day. After his class and drill periods he is free immediately after falling out of formation at 4:00 until dinner formation at 5:30. He may receive visitors during that time, as well as over the week-end, but only in the lounge in Morrissey Hall. Visitors are not allowed to go to his room. He’s allowed no alcohol on the campus, and may not chew gum in public except during athletic competition.
Classes are held in the chapels in the halls now occupied by the navy, in the basement of Walsh Hall, and in the stadium. The stadium also houses the rifle range, an armory, and a complete supply depot.
During his free time, each man is advised to participate in some form of exercise, and already his interest in the recreational facilities at Notre Dame has been noticed. More than a few blue and
(Continued on page 23)
N. D. Math Featured
. At National Meeting
Notre Dame’s department of mathematics was well represented last Friday and Saturday at the spring meeting of the American Mathematics Society in Chicago. Presenting papers were Dr. Karl Menger, head of the department, Dr. Arthur N. Milgram, and Dr. Paul N.
- Pepper.
De. Kael Mengee
This year’s symposium lecture, delivered by invitation, was devoted to Metric Geometry, a chapter of mathematics founded in 1928 by Professor Menger. Metric Geometry has since been developed by Professor Menger and members of this colloquium in Vienna and at the University.
The symposium speaker, Professor L. M. Blumenthal of the University of Missouri, was introduced by Prof. Menger.
At this same meeting, a research paper on Metric Geometry was presented by Professor Pepper, and another on dimension theory by Professor Milgram.
Man Responsible For B-l Benefits Speaks Here
Joseph Conerty
Dr. Robert R. Williams, chemical director of Bell Telephone Laboratories, delivered a lecture on the “Isolation and Synthesis of Vitamin Bx (Thiamin)” at an open meeting in the auditorium of the Engineering Building on Wednesday, April 15. '
Dr. Williams was born in South India of missionary parents, but received his college education in the United States at Ottawa University, Kansas, and the University of Chicago. He went back toward the Far East later, when his work carried him to the Philippines. Here he was introduced to beri-beri as a human disease, and in 1910 he began the search for the active principle, now known as Vitamin B^ which would eliminate beriberi from the face of the earth.
He transferred to the Bureau of
Chemistry in Washington, D.C., in 1915, and continued his work until the United States declared war. Then Dr. Williams spent some time in the chemical warfare service and later went into the research division of the air service. After the armistice he entered the engineering department of the Western Electric Company as a research chemist on submarine insulating materials. It was in 1925 that he became chemical director of the newly established Bell Telephone Laboratories.
Early work on the isolation of the active principle of rice polishings was carried out in Dr. Williams’ own basement, later in his garage, and for a short time in an old building of the New ■ York Hospital. Finally laboratory space and animal quarters were provided by the Carnegie Institute of Washington, and in 1933 Dr. Williams was able to obtain five grams of pure Vitamin B^ crystals from a ton of rice polishings. Two years later he entered into a cooperative arrangement with Merck and Company, and in this way large-scale technical facilities and the assistance of additional skilled organic chemists became available. Under this arrangement, Vitamin Bt was soon formulated and a synthettic product was produced. It was a tense and dramatic moment when the synthetic material was tested on polyneuritic rats, and it was with much elation that Dr. Williams telephoned his ardent assistant, “The rats say yes!”
Each stage of the process was placed under patent protection, and the patents assigned to the Research Corporation. This was founded to administer inventions and to apply the income from licenses to support research and kindred public objects.
For his monumental work Dr. Williams has been honored with the Willard Gibbs medal in 1938, the Elliot Cresson medal in 1940, a designation of Modern Pioneel- by the National Association of Manufacturers in 1940, the 8th Annual Award by the Association of Grocery Manufacturers in 1941, and the Charles Frederick Chandler medal by Columbia University in 1942.
Prof. Nims in "Trend"
Trend, laudable literary publication of the University of Chicago, has received encouraging praise from the press, both national and collegiate. Professor John Fredrick Nims of the department of Eng? lish, N. D.’s most talented contributor, is one reason for the magazine’s popularity.
Mr. Nims, having been educated at the Universities of both Notre Dame and Chicago, is a Fiske Prize Winner and a contributor of verse to many prominent magazines.	.
Field Museum Curator
Speaks on Tropics
Lennon Kelly
Dr. Karl P. Schmidt, chief curator of zoology at the Field museum in Chicago, presented a talk entitled “A Naturalist’s Glimpse of Peru” before a joint meeting of the Department of Biology, the Academy of Science and the Biology club, in the Biology building auditorium, April 17.
Dr. Schmidt said that he was impressed a great deal by the variation of interest in Peru and especially by the fact that the geographic factors are astonishing and traceable to causes such as cool climate at sea level within the tropics and the extreme desert conditions of the coast, which were opposite the usual idea of tropical vegetation. He also pointed out the sharp zonation of plant and animal life in the high Andes.
The doctor recommended travel in the American tropics to students interested in the natural sciences and said that a visit to these tropics would be stimulating and likely to arouse continued interest in broad problems.
In commenting on the trip, Dr. Schmidt said that the monuments of Inca civilization and their predecessors cannot fail to impress the traveller and add to the interest of the country. Besides being a noted speaker, the naturalist is the author of a popular handbook on snakes and an editor of Copeia, a publication devoted to the cold-blooded vertebrae. Dr. Theodor K. Just, associate professor of biology, was instrumental in procuring the speaker.
Biologists Attend
Annual Discussion
Every spring sees the conferences, meets, and symposiums of many organizations on this campus, but none fits the season so appropriately as the annual meetings of the Society of American Bacteriologists. Their current meeting held Saturday afternoon and night in the Biology building featured speakers both here and from Purdue University..
C. L. Porter of Purdue told the assembly that the fungus diseases of man and his domestic animals are becoming more . widespread, and are attracting increased attention. He made a plea for greater cooperation among botanical and medical scientists in the investigation of the nature of these fungi and the diseases which they cause.
A tour through the laboratories of bacteriology and a dinner in the cafeteria closed the meet.
CURTAIN ROLLS BACK TONITE ON 1942 SENIOR
BALL AMIDST COLORFUL SCENE, MUSIC OF MONROE
Quiz Program Moved To Washington Hall
Tonight at 10:15 the curtain rolls back on what promises to be one of the most talked about, most planned for, most elaborate Senior Balls of the glamorous three-decade history of this all-important Senior social event.
The scene: the Rockne Memorial whose doors are traditionally opened to only one class dance, that of the Senior Ball. The setting: the spacious, glistening ballroom spread in front of a white-pillared Scarlet O’Hara plantation mansion, under a blue-draped sky, bordered by the flower-covered white trellises and green freshness of a country garden. The music that of “One of the most talked of bands in America,” Vaughn Monroe and his orchestra, playing from the steps of the mansion. The characters: Notre Dame’s graduating Seniors and their guests, casting aside the thoughts of their war-fraught youth, eagerly anticipating the nostalgia of the last great social whirl of their undergraduate days.
A special overture precedes the arrival of the 1942 Senior Ball. A radio broadcast especially dedicated to these Seniors and their guests, the CBS Bob Hawk quiz program, “How Am I Doing?” featuring Vaughn Monroe and his orchestra, which has been moved to Washington
Hall and which will originate from the stage there at 9:30 p.m. The broadcast site has been changed to prevent slowing down the Ball, damage to the decorations and soiling of the floor. In order that contestants for the S800 defense-bond quiz program may be chosen, Seniors and guests who wish to attend are requested to be seated in Washington Hall by 9:10 p.m.	>
Vaughn Monroe and his featured stars, Marilyn Duke, Ziggy Talent, Johnny Turnbull, Ray Coniff and the Four V’s, will begin playing in the Rockne Memorial at 10:15. Ball goers are to be in the Rockne Memorial by 10:30 p.m. at the latest. There will, however, be music at the Ball site from 9:30 until Monroe and his orchestra begin playing at 10 :15 for those who may not wish to attend the broadcast.	'
Leading the Grand March at the Ball will be General Chairman Larry Kelley, who will be accompanied by the Queen of -the Ball, Miss Kay Ellis, Cincinnati, O. Following Chairman Kelley and his guest will be Senior Class President James O’Neal and his guest - of - honor, Miss Mary Cotter, Hartsdale, N. Y. Dancing will continue until 2:00 a.m. when the first event of the Senior Ball week-end will end. Seniors must then observe the extraordinarily late curfew of 3:00 a.m.
Vaughn Monroe
Saturday afternoon at the Chain O’ Lakes Country Club near South Bend . (see map on this page for exact location) the secondbig event of the week-end, the Tea Dance, will begin at 2:00 p.m. and continue until 5:00 p.m. Music will be by Notre Dame’s own smart band, The Cavaliers. Chairman of the Tea Dance, Bob Finneran, through a greater budget, has made arrangements for a more elaborate event than those of past years. The swank Country Club will be decorated with fresh-cut flowers and palms. Seniors and their guests will be presented with special favors, another innovation of this year’s Tea Dance. Refreshments have also been written into the larger Tea Dance budget. The special permission for Saturday night extends until 1:00 a.m. when Seniors must be in (Continued on page 14)
FOR TEA DANCE
Directions :. Go out Lincolnway past Bendix Airport and turn left on Mayflower Road. Proceed one mile, then turn right on Edison Road. Proceed for one mile to Country Club Road and six-tenths of a mile to the Country Club.
Drive slowly and carefully because of the bad roads and traffic. We don’t want any accidents to mar the week-end.
Girls with high heels are to stay off the golf course and especially the greens.
Arrows indicate signs directing you to the Country Club. 1
THREE DECADES OF UNINTERRUPTED GLAMOUR HAS MADE SENIOR BALL MOST EVENTFUL DANCE
BILL SCANLAN
“Come and trip it as you go On the light fantastic toe.”
—Milton
That celebrated master of rhythmical prose, Milton, would not have approached reality more appropriately if he could but be a member of the class of ’42 which tonight joins the new kingpin of music, Vaughn Monroe, at the 32nd annual renewal of the all-Senior Ball at Rockne Memorial.	.
Senior* Ball history has spread its repercussions across more than three decades of uninterrupted glamour since that historic occasion in 1910, when the edict was made providing that only seniors should attend.
In those early days of Notre Dame social life, the scene of activity was the field house.... today the Men of ’42 move into the modernistic, stream-lined version of fieldhouses, that of the Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse. The Scholastic files of other years report the 1912 Ball highlight in this fashion: “The marchers were arranged in the form of an N. D. and while they were in this formation the Dome picture was taken.” Even then pictures made news.
Event........................Senior Ball
Place..................Rockne Memorial
Time.................9	p.m. until 2 a.m.
Music..................Vaughn Monroe
Essentials ...........Ticket	and a Girl
Decorations..................Different
• That the Ball Week-end of 1923 was a gala—and lengthy affair—is reflected by the commentary of the Notre Danie Daily of May 20: “The dawn as it crept ’ over the horizon to inform tired-eyed but blissfully happy young- folks that they had danced through night into another day, trembled fearfully in a manner that even Oscar Wilde could not have conceived.” And little wonder that the charming young belles and their Notre Dame partners had become “tired-eyed.” The “week-end” began with a dance on Wednesday night at the Oliver. hotel which prefaced the Ball itself on Thursday night at the Palais Royale. However, just to keep the dancers-in full swing, the Glee club presented a concert—and a dance—at the Oliver Hotel on Friday night.... Saturday a track meet was scheduled.... and there are rumors of another dance, as well as the marriage of Cyril W.* Neff, of the. class of ’23, at Sacred Heart Church. Most of the Ballgoers were present.
In order to help prevent complications over the variety of events for one week,
the Class of ’24 a year later issued a special Ball Program which instructed Notre Dame men where to be at what hour, what to wear, and what to do.
On May 16, 1925—the year the Four Horsemen made their finale as members of the Class of ’25—Don Miller and company were described in this manner by the pen of a talented and enthusiastic young Scholastic interpreter: “Swayed by the melodious syncopation of the Kansas City Night Hawks, entranced by the aroma of delicate perfumes, and bewitched by the fascinating charms of their dancing partners, the Notre Dame Senior classmen celebrated last evening in the Palais Royale, the Senior Ball— the social event of their college career.” ‘ Author of that masterpiece was James Elliott Armstrong, ’25, current director of publicity for the University. .
According to the best evidence available in thumbing through the pages of * the Scholastics of years past, Mr. and Mrs. K. K. Rockne were honored the most often as the patron and patroness of the affair.
Notre Dame Men of 1931 established some sort of a stay-out-late record. Daylight time was in vogue in South Bend -and the Ball was held at the Palais Royale. Dancing, 10 p.m.-2 a.m., was scheduled the Notre Dame way, while permissions were granted to the dreadfully late hour of 4 a.m., considered the South Bend way. There was a good reason for staying out late that year. Isham Jones, late from the Kit Kat club of London, played for both the Ball and the Tea Dance at the Chain - o - Lakes Country Club.	. .
That Senior Balls have long been remarkably impressive in the annals of-Notre Dame social life is characterized by the 1907 Scholastic account: “But there is one social event which, to paraphrase a recent writer, stands out on the horizon of the student’s memory like the Perihelion. And that is the Senior Ball. Was-not the old Gym Heaven itself, all ablaze with lights and decorated with bunting, as down its glistening floor you led her, your Queen?”
Tonight men of ’42 with General Chairman Larry Kelley leading the way, look forward to that event of events, that Mars at Perihelion, that aroma of delicate perfumes when they want to be bewitched by fascinating charms of their dancing partners while swaying to the . melodious syncopation of Tom Walker’s grand promotion, Vaughn Wilton Monroe and his orchestra. .
New Editors Announced
At Publications Banquet
Editors who will head the “big three” student publications during the summer semester were announced Wednesday night, April 22, by Rev. John J._Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University and chairman of the board of publications, on the occasion of the annual Publications’ Party held this year . in the K. of C. chambers of Walsh Hall.
Appointments for the Scholastic, were: Editor-in-chief, Donald T. Heltzel, Warren, Ohio; managing editor, Robert D. LeMense, Iron Mountain, Mich.; feature editor, Edward C. Roney, Detroit, Mich.; administration editor, Charles J. Kleibacker, Cullman, Ala.; campus editor, Daniel Downey, West Palm Beach, Fla.; sports editor, William J. Reynolds, Asheville, N. C.; promotion editor, Robert P. Lonergan, Wilmette, Ill.; staff photographer, James M. Ghrisovergis, Hazard, Ky.	■
The new men appointed to edit the Dome, the University year-book, were: Editor-in-chief, Kelly F. Cook, Lexington, Ky.; managing and copy editor, Charles J. Patterson, Gretna, Nebr.; campus and club editor, Donald V. Davis, Long Beach, Calif.; portrait .editor, John H. Morris, Detroit, Mich.; art editor, William E. Binet, Grand Rapids, Minn.; photography editor, Edward V. 0. Drink-ard, Lynchburg, Va.;' sports editor, James P. Gibbons, Corona, L. I., N. Y.
The three men appointed to head Scrip, the University’s literary quarterly, were: Editor-in-chief, John J. Gilligan, Cincinnati, Ohio, who as retiring associate editor of the 1942 Dome moves from one editorial post to another; associate editors, John D. Hunt, Brooklyn, N. Y., and George1 J. Kelly, Richmond, Va.
Father Cavanaugh talked briefly to the gathering of 80 students and facultyguests before making the appointments, and awarding, honorary keys to members of the Scholastic and Dome staffs. Then Father Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., head of the department of English and faculty- adviser to Scrip, also spoke briefly.
Mr. William R. Dooley, graduate manager of publications, was introduced and outlined briefly the schedule of publications for the coming semester, which includes the publishing of Scholastic weekly during the summer semester and the new issue of the Dome for next December, and one issue of Scrip for each of the three 15-week semesters. The issue of the Dome will be somewhat curtailed over previous publications. .
Scholastic keys were awarded to the following men: Thomas V. Powers, Enid, . ■ .. (Continued on page 14)
'	'	' '	- . 7.
Vaudeville Successful;
Bill Scully Wins First Prize
Jack Anderton
Handsome, red-headed Bill Scully, renowned on the campus as a singer of Irish ballads, switched to Cockney at the Knights of Columbus Vaudeville Show held April 15 in Washington Hall, and . won top honors and S25 with his rendition of “The Road to Mandalay.” Bill, an Alumni Hall senior, hails from New Rochelle, N. Y., but gives as his future address Quantico, Va., where the Marines will enjoy his talents when he goes there as a member of the Marine Reserves after graduation.
The second prize of $15 went to Brock Lynch, a tap dancer from Boston. Brock, a freshman enrolled in the pre-medical school, wants to forget all about dancing and concentrate on becoming a doctor in spite of his ability to trip the light fantastic.
In third place was the “Malcontented Trio,” composed of John Kelley, Dave Curtin and “Doc” Walsh, who sang an original piece of satire written especially for the show by the Kelley-Walsh song writing team, in which they poked fun at the Infirmary, the Dining Hall fare, and the “authorities at large.”
Other contestants in the finals were: Ed Dunigan, trumpet player from Badin; Pete Collins, singer from Cavanaugh; Leo Link, novelty musician and singer from Sorin; the “non-commissioned” quartet of Kevin O’Toole, Bill Meron, John McCabe, and Frank King; and Jim McDonough, a sophomore, who imitated well known personalities of stage and screen.
Not competing for prizes were Bill Capello and his Cavaliers, who formed the back bone of the entire show, and Jack Whalen, the campus magician, who won first prize in the Vaudeville two years ago. Round, genial John “Mama” Clark acted as Master of Ceremonies.
Tom Tearney, lecturer of the K. of C., acted as director of the show, ably assisted by his fellow knights, Ray Flynn and Jim Danaher.
Acting as judges were Mr. Robert McAuliffe, assistant prefect of discipline, Mr. Thomas Mills, director of Rockne Memorial, and Mr. Kennedy, manager of the Palace Theater in South Bend.
The annual Vaudeville show, which gives the more talented students on the campus an opportunity to display their wares, was rejuvenated through the untiring efforts of Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Though discontinued for over ten years, it has since become a regular campus activity and a part of the yearly program of the Knights of Columbus.
THE WEEK
BY J. Q. O'CONNELL
Top Of The Week:
“Racing With The Moon!”
Next of Kin Notified
Thursday Evening,
“Dear, darling Joe,
“Your awfully sweet letter inviting me to the Senior Ball came some time ago. It really gave me a thrill, what I mean! I would have answered sooner, but you can’t imagine how busy I’ve been with my Red Cross work, and entertaining the soldiers, and everything. Life here has become just one mad whirl after another, but this is war time, as papa says, and if girls like me aren’t willing to sacrifice a little of their time for their country, why, where will this country end up?
“Speaking of soldiers reminds me, I - met the cutest little lieutenant at the Post the other day. His name is Lieut. John Ryerson McKinley, V, and he’s from Richmond, Va. His folks must have oodles of money, because he’s sent me orchids three times in the last week! We all call him ‘Dinkie.’ Isn’t that the cutest nickname you ever heard?
“I was sorry to hear your father wouldn’t let you bring the car down for the Ball. For your sake, I mean. Papa is getting to be an old bear about our car, too. Last week-end I had to practically break down and cry before he would let ‘Dinkie’ and me go out driving in it. Imagine! But maybe you won’t feel so .badly about not having a car, because I can’t come down to the Ball, anyway. It just breaks my heart to have to miss it, Joey. I know it will be simply scrumptious, with Vaughn Monroe, and all. But ‘Dinkie’ simply insisted I go with him to a dinner dance over at the Post tomorrow night. Said I was under orders, and that I’d be court-martialed, and shot at dawn, if I disobeyed him. Isn’t that a scream?
“I can hardly wait ’til ybu come home. I’m so glad your school is letting out . early. I’ve told ‘Dinkie’ all about you, and how you were out for the debating team, and all, and he says he can hardly wait to see you, too. Think of poor little me while you’re dancing around with some beautiful blonde (I hope it isn’t too late-for you to get another date). I’ll prob
ably be bored to death at that old dinner dance, but, as papa says, this is war.
“Ail my love,
Alyce”
Swordfish!
Along with the rumors that there are sentries guarding the western approach to the Rockne comes the inevitable sequel. They tell it on a Dillonite. It seems this particular lad was getting the most out of his mid-night by making a leisurely return to the campus, via the back road, when, coming close to the Memorial, he was confronted by a figure who stepped out of the shadows and shouted,
“Halt, who goes there?”
Ha, one of my friends making merry, thought the Dillonite. I will not answer.
And he didn’t.
“Sailor or civilian?” growled the figure, rushing forward impatiently, and flashing a surprisingly business-like bayonet.
The Dillonite got the point. “Student,” he quavered. And in that disguise he was allowed to proceed.
❖
HUP! 1234
Life has become a lot more interesting around here since the V-7 boys arrived. The pace of events seems to have quickened. Even John Klees is walking a little faster. But it’s the first time, really, that we’ve appreciated Mr. O’Malley’s speed on the base lines. We saw him pass up a hard-marching company the other day, just like it was standing still.
Professor-reaction in the class rooms is equally interesting. For the first few days, whenever that rousing and unexpected “1-2-3-4” sounded outside the window, it was not uncommon to see a teacher jump two or three feet in the air, and come down with the thread of his lecture lost completely. By now, however, they seem to have recovered their composure, and today it is a rare professor, indeed, who even acknowledges the passing of a ba tailion.
❖
Famous Last Query:
“Say, Ed, whatever happened to that ‘Jackets for Seniors’ idea?”
❖
Bottom Of The Week:
The Battle of the Soft Ball Diamond.
Radio Club Announces New Schedule and President
Harry Osborne
The Radio Club has announced that its regular program schedule, aired over WSBT, has been changed. The reason for this is that the Columbia Broadcasting System has a new show called, “Are You a Genius?” which is to be broadcast five times a week, thus having preference over all programs of local origin. The new schedule of programs is as follows:
Sunday, 5:30-5:45 — “Sportcast” by - Jack Morrison and Pete Moritz.
Tuesday, 7:45-8:00—Catholic Action Announcements.
Saturday, 12:30-12:45—“Newscast” by Vail Pischke, and Chuck Patterson.
Saturday, 5:00-5:15 — “Question Parade” by Bill Bodden and Dan Downey.
Saturday, 7:05-7:30 — “Notre Dame Forum” by Vail Pischke.
Next year’s president of the Radio Club will be Vail Pischke, according to the ■ retiring president, Bob LeJeune.
Last Supday, the Club had its annual outing at Rocky Gap, Mich. The affair proved to be very enjoyable with 15 of the members present.
"Dome1’ Distribution Set
For First Week In June
Frank Sierawski
An announcement was made last week that the Dome will be ready for distribution the first week in June, and that this year’s theme is the educational value of Notre Dame. Also, a preview has been given out by Joe Hillebrand, the hardworking editor-in-chief of the publication. A glance at the work that he and his staff have accomplished bears out that “hard-working” title.
The managing editor is Jack Gilligan, who has done much toward making the Dome measure up to the high standards of former years. Besides handling all copy work and pictures throughout the entire publication, he has introduced a new front section which tells the story in pictures of the inside of the buildings used in each educational field. Closely allied to Jack is Ed Steeb, the photograph editor, who managed every photograph .snapped—a huge job well done.
Editor Hillebrand labeled Art Editor Bill Sherer’s six lithographic drawings as most superb. These drawings are used
for the frontispiece and introductory pages to each of the five sections. Besides this work, Bill was the general arranger and organizer of the entire yearbook.
The man who managed the Junior and Senior sections is Tom Atkins. He was portrait editor, and his chief task was acting as student manager in the Walsh Hall studio.
All hall and club pictures were in charge of the club editor, Joe Mannion, and the athletic section was directed by Neil Quinn, the sports editor. John Doerr, who developed the much enlarged informal section of the book, acted as campus editor.
In keeping with the times, the Dome inaugurated a defense portion. The pioneer editor in this venture is George Kelly. The section deals with Notre Dame and America under four divisions: the N.R.O.T.C., the P.P.T., the Engineering Defense, and the Alumni in service. There is a picture essay on each of these units such as is found in national picture magazines.
The copies of the Dome will be late this year, because of the Mid-Semester exams and the moving-up of the Commencement date. Because of the changes, the Dome staff lost four weeks by the accelerated program.
Hence the copies of the Dome will be mailed to Seniors. Addresses in Student Directory will be used for Seniors. Seniors will please notify the Publications Office, 121 Administration Building of any changes.
The undergraduates will receive their copies when they return for summer' semester.
Those undergraduates who will not return should make arrangements with the Publications Office.
Academy of Science Keys
Given to Eleven Members
The key of the Notre Dame Academy of Science is one of the coveted goals of every man who wears out most of his shoe leather treading the hallowed halls of the Biology, Chemistry or Physical Sciences buildings. The singular award of the most select honorary society on the campus, the key signifies permanent membership and is bestowed at the annual banquet to men who have been active members for three semesters and who have given at least one scientific paper at an Academy meeting.
At the Academy banquet on April 27, Dean Froning will award keys to 11 men—ten Pre-Meds and one Biologist.
Seven of these permanent members are Seniors, four are Juniors for whom this is the last semester at Notre Dame due to their acceptance by’ medical schools ’ for matriculation this summer. The key men are:
Peter V. Moulder, Bernard O. Mar-bach, Richard T. Matlavish, Robert S. Johnson, Francis M. Sellers, William A. Fish, John C. Bennett, James J. Leahy, James E. Bresette, James H. Ford, John R. Kersten.
The last regular Academy meeting of this semester was monopolized by three
Bernard Marbach — Pete Moulder
would-be key men, fulfilling their final requirements. James H. Ford, junior from Wilmette, Ill., spoke on “Hypertension,” more commonly known as “high blood pressure.”
James E. Bresette of Kansas City and Dillon Hall discussed briefly the interesting aspects of the recently synthesized anesthetic, “Vinethena.”
John C. Bennett, junior from Burlington, Wis., unfolded the rather amazing developments in the often-misunderstood field of “Artificial Parthenogenesis.”
The progress of the Academy during the past school term has been especially gratifying, due in great measure to the tireless effort of President Moulder and the guidance of Dean Henry B. Froning of the College of Science. The Dean Froning Award, offered at the beginning of the term to the member judged the most valuable contributor to the dis- • cussion following every paper, was presented to Joseph G. Walsh, sophomore chemist from Tucson, Ariz.
Commerce Forum Officers
Elected, Plan Big Year
Bill Clarke
On the afternoon and evening of April 16 the elections for next year’s officers of the Commerce Forum were held in the basement of the Dining Hall. When the smoke had cleared away and the ballots had been counted, it was found that-the election had not been an ordinary one, but . rather quite exceptional. The final results showed that the entire party headed by Gail Fitch had come through
(See next page, column 3)
9
REPORTER JOINS FATHER RYAN'S HIKING CLUB;
FINDS "CANDY MARINES" AMONG WALSH HALLERS
While strolling leisurely past Walsh hall one sunny Saturday afternoon we were accosted by T. V. who requested that, we play end man in a photograph. Not being frightened by this offer of free publicity, we assembled the necessary equipment, a cane, and stepped among a group of the finest cane carriers we have yet to see.
The picture taken, we were about to be on our way, having seen more than half of the group already retreat through the portals of Walsh from whence they had come. But here T. V. urged that we follow the more sprightly part of the group who were already well on their way in the direction of the Huddle. A reward, thought we, for our part in the photograph.
But the Huddle was quickly passed by, as was the power house, the Ave Maria building, and the last shadow of the Dome. It was in the little settlement of Dogpatch, Indiana, that we finally caught up with our leader, a short, well-padded man with an Irish smile and a lively gait.
He was, we soon discovered, the Rev.
Walsh Hall Hikers’ Club: Father Ryan, at right in foreground. First step: Left to right. Reporter Lynch, Bob Fagan, Jack Gordon, Hal Zimmer, Vince Hogan, Ray Ebli; second step: Sam Garro, Ken Kirby, Sig Wesolowski, Hugh Mallon; third step: Sieve Graliker, Jake Reichenstein, Joe Ragolia.
John M. Ryan, C.S.C., leader of the hikers club. As we walked along we learned that the club was organized on the campus two years ago for the express purpose of exercise, the original idea being to toughen the boys for the military service that they are now being called for. Two or three times a week they went out, sometimes as few as two, sometimes more than a dozen. The pace set was four miles an hour, and the distance covered was six to 1-5 miles.
As we left the road somewhere north of Dogpatch and headed west, Father recalled how he and the late Rev. John Farley, C.S.C., did a bit of hiking together. That was in the olden days, he explained, when walking was compulsory exercise and had to be taken on the recreation afternoons twice a week. It was a pleasure, he said, to see the V-7 men on the campus now, for they are about the only boys getting their share of walking.
There was yet one thing that we could not understand, and that was the action of those who had posed on the Walsh hall steps and then darted back to their rooms when the picture was taken. Fath
er laughed a little as he apologized for such action by Walsh hall men, and explained that they were just “candy marines.” And as the Dome came back into view, we wondered if it were not better that we had been a “candy marine” for the day, for ten miles lay behind us.
(Continued from page 9) unscathed, a feat remarkable in/ the annals of the Forum.
The entire party, which will take over; it’s duties at the beginning of the summer semester, is as follows:
Gail Fitch, president; Blair McGowan, vice president; Tom O’Reilly, secretary; Ted Toole, treasurer; Jim Madigan, chairman of board; Jim McElroy, Bill O’Neil, Bill Moorhead, senior directors; Dick Klee, Ed Keelan, Dick Murphy, junior directors.
At the banquet last Tuesday Jim O’Donnell was named executive committeeman.
Amiable Gail Fitch, from Oak Park, Ill. and Fenwick High school, the president elect, has been in the Forum since his freshman year. However, his activities have not been confined merely to the Forum. Besides being a member of the Knights of Columbus, the Propellor Club, and the Outdoor Advertising class, he is at present the vice-president of the Saint Vincent de Paul Society.
The vice-president elect, Blair McGowan is a product of Muskegon, Mich. He is a junior majoring in business administration and has been a member of the Forum for three years. This year, he initiated the official organ of the Forum, the Ticker Tape.
The position of secretary is to be filled next year by a junior accounting major, Tom O’Reilly. Tom is a resident, of Fort Wayne, Ind., and is a member of the Fort Wayne Club and the Catholic Action Students organization.
Treasurer elect Ted Toole is a native of Columbus, Ohio, but is at present a resident of Garden City, L. I. He has been in the Forum lince his freshman year and is majoring in accounting.
Although Gail Fitch and his party members gained office without benefit of campaign promises, they are planning on making the coming year an interesting and profitable one'for the Forum. They are going to strive for a few round table discussions with business men from South Bend on the subject of American business conditions after the war. Also a golf tournament will probably be arranged for the members. Mr. Fitch hopes that the facilities of the club can be extended to include the V-7 trainees stationed at Notre Dame.
10
COLLEGE PARADE
The University of Tennessee is built on a hill which means that the students either become physically fit after a few weeks of attendance or transfer to another school. This columnist recently went on what might be called a panoramic tour of the U. of T. campus conducted by a hospitable Southern gentleman, Cecil Drinnen. Cecil did his best to make us feel at home during our brief five hour visit on the campus. One of his noteworthy statements was:
“If you see any coeds you’d like to meet just let me know. If I don’t know ' them then it’s about time I got acquainted myself.”
We had only one regret and that was caused by an oft repeated statement of our host.
“Too bad I didn’t know you fellows were in town last night,” he said, “we certainly could have had a good time.”
Definitely, it was too bad.
Down in Rock Hill, South Carolina is Winthrop College for girls, a state-operated school. There are 1800 plus southern belles at the college. Witnesses could be produced (if demanded) to vouch for the statement that four out of every five
Bump.... Dentine Chewing Gum.... Bump....
By ROBERT LeMENSE
girls there are simply beautiful. Oh, well.
The Parade is always happy to congratulate those who have made progress. A blow, therefore, to J. Q. O’Connell, aspiring mutilator of the English language, who recently made the big jump from Superman to von Goethe. Be careful though “Q”—don’t get too absorbed in the deep stuff. Remember what happened to Don Quixote!
Rather Warm
Man who sit in the electric chair get amps in the pants.
—Navy Log
In the Chimes of Cathedral College of New York City the Parader came across a column entitled “Exchanges” by G. Fitzgerald and J. Wilkinson. Read the column through more out of curiosity rather than because of the quality of its criticism. But the last paragraph was particularly interesting.
“The Notre Davie Scholastic from South Bend is a smart news magazine...
This news magazine has many distinct advantages over other news magazines, and one is that it does not exclusively record past events. Since activities are constantly taking place at South Bend, they receive advance notices on dances, plays, lectures and games. By not always publishing “Stale” events, the Scholastic holds an appeal for the student body, who desire to keep abreast of what is going on at the University, and by recording the activities of the Alumni body, which affords a steady flow of news, the Scholastic should be popular among the graduates also. If such is the case, then the South Bend news magazine can be judged a' successful undertaking.”
The Parader advises all “hot dogs,” big operators and so forth to paste the paragraph on the wall and underline the third sentence. The next time you * start moaning about nothing to do— read it.
How About a Match?
“Have a cigarette?”
“No, thanks. I don’t smoke, and besides, I’ve just had one and anyway, I’m too busy and to tell the truth,' I never smoke your brand and I’ve got a bad cough already and then smoking’s prohibited here and what’s more, my lighter’s dry and I haven’t a match and even if I had one there’d be no place to strike it and besides one should never smoke before meals and the air is bad enough already and then again we have no ash trays and incidentally, my wife is against it and what’s more, if you weren’t such a blind fool, you could see that I already have one.”
—Columns
A Squib
A fellow was telling us the other day about the one-aimed sculptor who holds the chisel in' his teeth and hits himself on the’ back of the head.
Another: This examination will be conducted-on the honor basis. Please take every third seat in alternate rows.
The True Story
In the Navy—My height.' ' In the Air Corps—bad sight. In the Marines—too slight. In the Draft—all right.
—Record
Room 000 .
Curious: What’s the black.crepe hanging on the doorknob for? Is your roommate dead?
Oscar: No, that’s his towel.
11
WILLIAM MEIER
Varsity Debate Squad Ends Successful Year
Reluctantly, four Notre Dame debaters returned from their Southern tour last week. They had competed in 1-5 debates;
11 of the contests were decision affairs and the Notre Dame squad emerged victorious eight times. Down at Winthrop College in Rock Hill, South Carolina they tied for second place in the Grand Eastern tour
nament. The senior negative team, Lies and Meier, chalked up the enviable record of four wins and one loss; O’Dea and LeMense on the affirmative won three out of five. The seven out of ten record of the Irish squad compared favorably with the eight out of ten record of Kent State, the top team in the tourney. American University of Washington, D. C., shared second place with the Irish.
At the Grand Eastern the negative defeated Ashebury, W. Va., the U. of Miami, and the U. of South Carolina and lost to American U. The affirmative beat Wake Forest, the U. of Miami, and the U. of Florida, losing to Houghton and Randolph-Macon. There were about 50 colleges and universities entered in the debating tourney.
The affirmative team won a decision debate from Xavier University in Cincinnati on the way South; the negative participated in a non-decision contest with the U. of Cincinnati the same night. Also enroute, both teams debated at the University of Tennessee and all four Notre Dame men participated in a round table discussion on “Re-establishing the League of Nations After the War” which' was broadcast by WSM Nashville.
On the way home, the negative team stopped in Cleveland and engaged in a cross examination debate with Western Reserve University. This debate was held in the Hollenden Hotel before a crowd of about 200 people, composed mostly of Knights of Columbus members and their wives.
At the Sigma Delta Rho tournament conducted at the University of Wisconsin on March 27 and 28 the two “A” teams swept through six debates undefeated and won the tournament.
The total wins this year were 23 as against seven losses, making the average .766. The “A” squad participated in 34 debates in all, but four of these were
non-decision affairs. The negative team won ten out of 14; the affirmative came out the victor in 13 out of 16 contests.
William Meier, Valedictorian of the Class of ’42 and president of the Wranglers and Economic Round Table, concluded four years of “A” squad debating as a member of the negative team this year. The other negative man, Mark Lies is a junior and a member of the Round Table and Wranglers and a two-year debater. Robert LeMense on the affirmative was debating for his first year; he is a Scholastic columnist and a member of the Economic Round Table. Both of these juniors finished their debating careers because of the shortened semester. James O’Dea, a Wrangler* and Bookman, is a-sophomore on the affirmative in his first year on the squad.
“B” squad members who won seven out of 10 debates in the Manchester tournament were Joseph Tracy and John Utz on the affirmative and Robert Galvin and William Lawless on the -negative. Professor Wililam J. Coyne of the department of economics coached both squads and accompanied the “A” squad on its southern trip.
The question debated by the squad this year was “Resolved, That the Federal Government should regulate by law all labor unions in the United States.”
Glee Club Records For
Fred Waring Contest
Frank King
There is a great deal going on in the University Glee Club that the general student body doesn’t know much about. In fact, there is a great deal that even the members of the Glee Club don’t know much about. One of these things is the Fred Waring College Glee Club Contest.
Fred Waring, in an attempt to recognize the talent that can be found in the American Colleges, has sponsored a contest for male glee clubs in the United States. To compete in this contest, each club must sing a number sent to it by Waring and arranged by him. In addition to the “Prize song” sent by Fred Waring, the glee club must sing its school song in unison and any other selection from its repertoire. The country is divided into ten sections, with a winner to be chosen from each section. The lucky clubs selected as winners will receive an all-expense trip to New York to appear on Fred Waring’s regular nightly program. In addition, there will be a national winner and to that club will be presented a combination radio, phonograph, and recording outfit.
Notre Dame will have no easy task in capturing the regional honors for this section of the country. The Glee Club will have to nose out such universities as Indiana and Purdue, besides many equally formidable smaller colleges. However, Mr. Pedtke and the club worked hard to master the “Prize Song” for this area, which was the popular “All Through the Night,” and have hopes that soon they will be on their way to the Mecca of America.
. Fred Waring was very helpful in that he sent an agent to South Bend to make the records that are sent to New York for judgment. His job was not solely recording, however, for, being a member of Fred Waring’s Glee Club himself, he was able to give Mr. Pedtke and the club some hints about the way that the sponsor wanted the piece sung. Mr. Waring’s representative made the encouraging statement that the Glee Club’s recordings were right up to par with those of other clubs from different colleges for whom he has recorded so far.
____elected and re-elected. —
Louis Kurtz Recognized
National recognition was given Louis F. Kurtz, Dillon hall, on the week-end of April 11 and 12 when at the council meeting of the National Federation of Catholic College Students he was elected to the office of second national vice-president of the Federation for the. ensuing year. With this meeting at Philadelphia, Pa., only a week behind him Mr. Kurtz left for Kalamazoo, Mich., to attend the Fort Wayne regional meeting of the Federation. Here, in the regional elections, he was re-elected to the position of vice-president.	’
12
NAVAL MEN INCREASE IN NAUTICAL KNOWLEDGE WHILE STUDENT RUMORS RUN RAMPANT
DAVE CONDON
The seamen proper have been here for over a week now, and the frigate Azotre Dams seems to be navigating along a smooth stretch. Aye, aye, mate! The naval men are a fine bunch. They have won over Notre Dame, and they have been won over by Notre Dame.
It was just after Christmas vacation when the reliable rumor mill started turning out stories of two students in every room, two this for every that, two chickens in every pot. Some blamed it on the navy, some on Herbert Hoover. But today Notre Dame has a fine group of middies and so far hasn’t been greatly inconvenienced.
The sailors have made rapid progression in the ways of the sea. It was rough sailing at first, but now they about R.O.T.C. students with uniforms and flashing swords who made saluting demons out of some of the apprentices for a couple of days; they know not to halt when some student hollers for a halt; they don’t bump noses on the left faces. Instead they go marching around in orderly fashion, counting off a chant like a shifting backfield. They present a neat and trim appearance and have found that Notre Dame is a pretty swell place; not merely a school where the boys sleep in football suits and go around blocking halls off the foundations.
With the arrival of the navy there has arisen several difficult problems and amusing situations. Three English majors were on time for an eight o’clock class the other day for the first time in their four-year life at college. And that was because the classes had been shifted to the half-hour mark.
Another problem to be considered was whether this should be called the Annapolis of the middle west, or whether Annapolis should be called the Notre Dame of the east. It all came about after it had been decided to call this the Annapolis of the middle west. Then someone found Coaches Druze and McArdle hopping the freights for training at Annapolis. Now there is a move afoot to term the sailor college in Maryland another Notre Dame.	.
It has also been announced that the identity of the person who took all the salt from the dining halls and dumped it into St. Joseph’s lake, thereby attempting to add a salt-air atmosphere, is known. He will be given three years to confess or salt will be hereafter rationed.
Both naval and university officials have asked the Scholastic to squelch
certain rumors now paramount on the campus.
First, the pool in the Rockne Memorial is definitely not mined, and it is safe to go for a dip at any time. The torpedoing of a pail* of water-wings overe there last week has been established as having been nothing but an accident. Nevertheless, it is irritating.
Secondly, the field on the other side of the tennis courts, where considerable digging is now going on, will not be used for trenches except in case of emergency.
Thirdly, the three Boy Scouts who were found Thursday evening were not even parachute troopers, were not shot by naval watchers, but were on an overnight hike and met their demise by eating some of their own cooking.
And finally, the rumor that students making the journey to St. Mary’s will be convoyed across the lakes, is absolutely groundless. This was considered, but was dropped when University heads found that the perils of a St. Mary’s jaunt lie not in the route, but in the destination.
So the navy is here and everyone is happy. They are afraid of no one on earth. Well, almost no one. Except that last week a Scholastic reporter was interviewing a husky sailor who had recently arrived. He used to play the right side of the line for the Northwestern Wildcats.
“We’re not afraid of anyone,” said the sailor, speaking for the navy, al-thought he might have been talking about the Wildcats.
“No one?” asked the reporter. “Not even machine guns, articles in Scrip, or the Ethiopian ail" force?”
“No one.”
“Not even Hitler?”
“No one. We’re not afraid of any one.” “Bertelli?” asked the reporter.
As the sailor fled away from the campus and took the closest plane for the furthest regions, the reporter heard him mutter, “That Bertelli, he sunk us once.”
More Architects Wanted
Architects are being sought to fill Federal positions in the war program it was announced recently by the Civil Service Commission at Washington. Optional fields of architecture in which persons may qualify are design, specifications, and estimating. The salaries range from §2,000 for junior architects to §3,200 a year for associate architect. Sufficient eligibles at these grades to meet anticipated government needs were not obtained from the architect examination
announced a year ago. No written test is required. Applicants’ qualifications will be determined from their experience and training.
Qualified persons are urged to apply at once. Applications will be accepted at the Commission’s Washington office until the needs of the service have been met. Forms for applying may be obtained at -first - and second - class post offices throughout the country, or direct from the Commission.
For the §2,000 positions, completion of a 4-year architectural or architectural engineering course at a recognized college or university is required. Senior stu- ■ dents who will complete their college courses within six months from the date of filing application may apply. For the other positions work in one of the options over a two-year period must be shown, in addition to appropriate architectural or engineering education or experience. Experience as draftsman, involving routine drafting or developing of plans not requiring basic original investigations or developments, will not be ' considered as qualifying. There are no age limits.
James F. Purcell Wins
Goodrich-Cavanaugh Prize
James F. Purcell, an Alumni Hall senior from Jordan, Mont., walked out of Washington Hall on the night of April
16 with a cash prize of §100 in his pocket. Having spoken on the subject of “The Declaration of Independence and Citizenship,” Jim had won the annual Goodrich-Cavanaugh oratorical contest. He is well known
on the campus, and his melodious voice and pleasing personality made him this year’s president of the Glee Club. .
The second and third prizes of §35 and §15 went to seminarians, Robert F. . Tack, C.S.C., of Tonawanda, N.Y., whose subject was. “Bellarmine’s Influence on the Bill of Rights,” and William P. Connelly, C.S.C., of Boston, Mass., who spoke on “Democracy and God.” Mr. Connelly was also winner of this year’s Breen-Oratorical contest.
The other two finalists in the contest who received honorable mention were Joseph A. Tracy, a Junior from New York City, and John Morrison, a Junior from Indianapolis. Over 40 students entered the contest; all orations were based on content and delivery. Speech Professor Mr. Frank Kelly was in charge of the contest this year.
B
JAMES F. PURCELL
SENIOR BALL
(Continued from page 6) their halls.
Arrangements have been made for Seniors and guests to attend the 10:00 mass in Sacred Heart Church on the campus Sunday morning. The center row of pews will be reserved.
A group of distinguished guests have been chosen as patrons for the Ball by Chairman Joe Champley. They include: Captain H. P. Burnette, commanding officer of the U. S. Naval Training Station here and Mrs. Burnett; Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Champley, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Frank Zink, Canton, Ohio; Mr. and Mrs. George M. Tearney, Chicago, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Dowd, Oak Park, Ill.; Mr. and Mrs. Paul Tafel, Louisville, Ky.; Mr. and Mrs. C. Byron Hayes, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Abel, South Bend, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Lucier, Warsaw, Ind.
Representing the University as patrons will be Rev. Walter Leo McInerney, C.S.C., Dean and Mrs. Raymond J. Schubmehl, Dean and Mrs/James E. McCarthy.
A formal dinner for patrons will be held at 7:30 tonight in the Choral Room of the LaSalle Hotel. The patrons will then attend the second broadcast in Washington Hall.
The first broadcast of the Bob Hawk Quiz program will be held at 6:30 from the stage of Washington Hall and will have as guest-audience the newly-arrived V-7 naval trainees.
The following are the Seniors who have labored with General Chairman Kelley to make the Senior Ball a success:
Music: Chairman Tom Walker, Dan Shouvlin, Byron Kanaley; Howard . McIntosh, Bill Regan, Bob Coleman, Bernard Marbach.
Decorations: Chairman Matthew Miller; Jim O’Brien, Matty Byrne, Ed Man-gelsdorf, Charles McMahon, Art Pope.
Patrons: Chairman Joe Champley; W. P/ Kelly, Ed Glaser, Ed McLoone, Bill Grady, Andy Chlebeck, Stan Litizzette, Jack Bergen, Tom Tearney, Paul Tafel.
Invitations: .Co-chairmen John Gilbert and Jim Purcell; Bill House, Jesse DeLois, Don Guyette, Joe Rorick, Bernie Wasilewski.
Programs: Co-chairmen John Kilbane and Andy Cherney; Lee Burby, Bob Burke, Ray Roy, Pat Fitzgerald, Jim O’Donohue.
Arrangements: Chairman Frank Pollnow; Don O’Brien, J. Q. O”Connell, Paul
M
Tafel, Bud Wolfe, Don Martin, Bill Minges.
- Publicity: Co-chairmen Tom Powers and Sam Boyle; Jim O’Laughlin,' Jack Clark, Ed Monahan, Jim Brutz, Phil Richards, Jack Dinges, William Scanlan, Larry Aubrey, Jack Bergen.
i Tea Dance: Chairman Bob Finneran; Jack Gordon, Norb Moore, Emmett Moran, Bill Hickey, Neil McCarty, Tom Hennigan, Otto Molidor, Robert O’Hara, Ted McDonald.
Favors: Co-chairmen Paul Lillis and Bill Marshall; Ed Buenger, Ed Griese-dieck, Bob Hargrave, Vincent Daigler, Joe Dimond, Bob Raff, Tony Ronela.
Prophecy of Fate of
Philippines Made Here
J. H. Johnston
Prophetic words concerning the future of the new Commonwealth of the Philippines were uttered here in the Notre Dame gymnasium by Dr. Carlos Romulo on Dec. 9, 1935 before an audience of 6,500. On that famous occasion President Roosevelt was awarded Notre Dame’s Doctorate of Laws, as was Dr. Romulo, an eminent scholar and journalist who had a leading part in the establishing of the Commonwealth.
After an introductory address by the Rev. John FJ O’Hara, former president of the University, Dr. Romulo spoke on ’’The Mind of a New Commonwealth,” in which he addressed these words to his distinguished audience:	.
“Against the aggression of arms, the Philippines will have no fortress on land or sea. Competitive armament would be a tragic error. The only defense of the Philippines will be its spirit—its articulated cultural unity which will give it protection in the indestructible integration of character. If war comes, or fresh conquest from whatever source, we shall oppose it to the death; but we shall oppose it alone. We shall not ask the shedding of another’s blood to spare our own. We shall not make the Philippines the Serajevo of another world Armageddon. Let no one fear it. To the Philippines the United States has been a generous benefactor; a loyal and true friend; and if Mr. President, we can honor that debt in no other way, we can pay with our lives, if need be, lest any act of ours should be a prelude to the weeping of American • mothers for their dead. We are a- poor nation but not, I hope, without valor and gratitude.” .
Kentuckians Seek Wings
Randolph Field, Texas — From the blue grass state of Kentucky to the blue skies over the “West Point of the Air” have come 17 aviation cadets and student officers to find out, basically, what this thing called aviation is all about.
Upon graduation from the University of Notre Dame with a bachelor of science degree, Aviation Cadet John C. Grobmyer, 22,. became assistant manager of his father’s coal and lumber company. His parents are Mr. and Mrs. Stanley A. Grobmyer, Highland Ave.
Their ABC’s of flying completed at various primary schools, these young Americans are, today, flying through a vigorous Randolph routine as members of class 42-G. They are learning to pilot the swift, streamlined training planes through all sorts of weather, both day and night. And in class-room instruction, the importance of weather, navigation and radio communications are equally stressed. After ten weeks here, they will move on to an advanced school, there to graduate with wings and commissions in the United States Army Air Corps.
NEW EDITORS
(Continued from page 7)
Okla., editor-in-chief; Donald T. Heltzel, Warren, Ohio, managing editor; William Scanlan, LaCrosse, Wis., columnist; John Dinges, Downers Grove, Ill., sports editor; William Baeder, Chillicothe, Ohio, art editor; John Reilly, Dorchester, Mass., former editor now in the Army; Joseph Palmer, Phoenix, Ariz., feature writer; Robert LeMense, Iron Mountain, Mich., columnist; J. Q. O’Connell, Chicago, Ill., columnist; John Powers, Enid, Okla., feature writer; Ed Roney, Detroit, Mich., columnist; and Robert Lonergan, Wilmette, Ill., columnist.
Dome keys were awarded to: John Gilligan, Cincinnati, O.; Edward Steeb, Buffalo, N.Y.; John Doerr, Buffalo, N.Y.; Cornelius Quinn, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Joseph Manion, Richmond Hill, N. Y.; W. E. Ford, El Paso, Tex.; William Sherer, West Hartford, Conn.; G. J. Kelly, Richmond, Va.; Joseph Hillebrand, Toledo, O.; J. D. Hunt, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Don Casey, Oshkosh, Wis.; and Prof. Francis J. Hanley, art advisor.
Toastmaster for the evening was retiring Scholastic editor Tom Powers. Refreshments were served. Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., faculty advisor for both Scholastic and Dome was absent, being out of town on business.
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
Jim Bru+z, Bob Hargrave Named Old Timers
Coaches For Tom Yarr Benefit Game May 2
With the Most Valuable Player of. 1941, James C. (Jim) Brutz, and.Bob Hargrave, dependable and aggressive quarterback as the coaches, the Old Timers this week began intensive drill for their finale in Notre Dame Stadium— the Varsity-Old Timers game on Saturday afternoon, May 2.
Proceeds for this game, an annual affair between the Varsity of the future and the graduating seniors, go to the widow, and three children of the late Tommy Yarr, all-American center and captain of the Irish team of 1931. Yarr was a teammate of Coach Frank Leahy in 1929 and 1930. Yarr died of a heart attack during the Christmas holidays of 1941.
The game provides the first test for the new experimenting with the T-For-mation of Coach Leahy and his squad. It also will give a pre-view of what to expect in the Irish lineup during the coming football season.
Ed (Moose) Krause, former Irish AllAmerican tackle, and current assistant coach, may join the Old Timers for a short return to action in honor of his old friend, Tom Yarr.
Coaches Brutz, the tackle, and Hargrave, the back, have lined up an impressive array of former Irish gridders for the game. Milt Piepul, now an assistant coach and last fall a member of the Detroit Lions backfield, will perform at his old post, fullback. He captained the 1940 team. Bernie Crimmins, All-American guard last fall, will take time off from catching and captaining the Irish baseball team to play in the backfield along with Piepul, Steve Juzwik, the Chicago flash named to many all-American teams, arid Coach Hargrave.
In addition to Brutz and Krause in the line, the team will include such names of yesterday as Ray Ebli and John Ko- vatch, ends; Captain Paul Lillis,’ and Freshman Baseball Coach Mike Hiries, tackles; Joe Laiber, Bob Maddock, Herk Bereolos, guards. Gordon O’Reilly is the likely center. Other linemen and backs are reporting daily.
Sideliners are anxious to watch the
play of Bob Dove, all-American end, and -Harry Wright, a quarterback a year ago, as the starting guards in the new lineup arranged by Coach Leahy. Angelo Ber-telli’s shift to quarterback will be watched equally well. And the play of many freshmen, notably Cowhig, Zilly, Adams, Yonaker, Mello and Clatt will be a highlight of the affair.
The Late Tommy Yarr
Little Chance For Faculty Golf Tourney This Year
Add another result of the national emergency: the annual Faculty Golf tournament will probably not be played this year.
Father Holderith, golf coach and last year’s champion (in the high 70’s), will thus not be called upon to defend lus title. The shortened curriculum has reduced the time in which the meet could be held, and has the various profs hustling to such an extent that the course will be spared its annual treatment by the learned.
There is a slight possibility that it might be held in July or August, but the National Intercollegiate will probably provide the only display of real-tournament golf skill for Notre Dame.
R.O.T.C. Riflemen Shoot .636 . In its initial season, the Rifle Team of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C., coached by Lieut. W. S. Howell, compiled a record of seven wins and four losses. The team was at a considerable disadvantage since it was firing against teams with several years of experience and, in view of this fact, the record of the Notre Dame team is remarkably good. The firing in all matches was done at the R. O. T. C. rifle range in the football stadium. According to Lieut. Howell the outlook for the future is bright and with this year’s experience he expects that Notre Dame will do well against any team next year. A summary of the matches and scores follows:
Nov. 22: N. D., 1617; Oklahoma, 1580. Nov. 22 :N. D., 1617; Minnesota, 1807. Feb. 7: N. D., 1749; New Mexico, 1519. Feb. 7: N. D., 1749; Pennsylvania, 1727. Feb. 7: N. D., 1749; N. Carolina, 1658. Feb. 14: N. D., 3233; W. Virginia, 3689. Feb. 21: N. D., 1736; Michigan, 1815. Feb. 28: N. D., 872; Yale, 773.
March 7: N. D” 901; U. C. L. A., 871. April 4: N. D., 1710; Rice Institute, 1661, April 4: N. D., 1775; Northwestern, 1813.
Won, 7; Lost, 4.
This, as an ardent statistician will immediately perceive, is a winning percentage of .636.
In addition, Notre Dame fired in the William Randolph Hearst Trophy Match and the Naval R. O. T. C. Trophy Match, but the results are not yet known. In the first match, Team No. 1 fired 839, and Team No. 2, 802. In the latter match, the Notre Dame score was 1557. Unfortun-
(Continued on page 14) . s
Sports Quiz
1.	What famous feminine swijnmihg star was called the Queen of Swimmers?
2.	What was the greatest wrestling gate of all times?
3.	What are the three track events which originated in Ireland?
4.	What other colored lad did Jesse Owens have weekly track duels with?
5.	What famous woman track star has now become the World’s Greatest Woman Athlete?
6.	What change has been made in the broad jump today?	.
(Answers on page 23)
15
!<<<!’> Il l IS I t I I
fKCH THE PRETT BOX 	- -   by BILL SCANLAN
t WHAT ABOUT SPORTS? |
C*-	•*
"Red" Lonergan
NAVY, IRISH RIVALS 29 TIMES IN PAST
A total of 29 times in the past Navy and Irish athletic teams have clashed—15 times in football, seven in baseball and four in track with the Naval Academy; and once in baseball—that a 7-7 tie in 1918—and twice in basketball with the Great Lakes Naval Training team. . . . This fall the Irish meet three Naval units—Navy at Annapolis, Great Lakes and Iowa’s Naval Cadets. . . . Wonder if any othei’ team in the country is so fortunate. . . . Dan Canale, captain of Coach Walt Langford’s tennis team, has added glasses to his net paraphernalia this spring after compiling a nifty 93.21 average—and his play has sharpened. . . . Date of the spring baseball special, the Freshman-Varsity tilt, has been deferred until May 3. . . . John Creevy, well-known in high school pitching circles around Detroit, may see action for the frosh at that time.
SEEK RICE SHOES FOR TROPHY CASE
Upon the suggestion of Alumnus Charlie Callahan, ’38, promoter of the 1938 edition of the Bengal Bouts, plans are under way to acquire a pair of Greg Rice’s running shoes to add to the impressive array of sports oddities and trophies—now displayed in the Rockne Memorial. . . . Rice’s feats with his flying feet easily rank him a post alongside the exploits of such favorite Notre Dame athletes as Rockne, Gipp, the Four Horsemen and others. ... A pair is welcomed, Greg.
BROTHER-IN-LAW OF FLYING ACE O'HARE	'
Joe Palmer, senioi- pre-med from Sorin sub who aims at medical career at Georgetown in June, is a brother-in-law by marriage to Lt. Edward H. O’Hare, the Navy’s crack flying ace whose feat of bagging six Jap planes in a day won him the title “Ace.”.... O’Hare’s sister Pat married Joe's brother Pau lin June, 1940.... Palmer also reports that Lt. O’Hare sharpened his shooting eye bagging ducks with the Phoenix, Ariz., sportsmen’s club, Ducks, Unlimited.”	'	-
JIMMY DYKES SENDS THE ANSWERS
Back in 1938, Palmer, current “Introducer” for the Scholastic, sent out 500 questionnaries to all managers of major league teams. . . . Casey Stengel and Del Baker took time to report they were unable to oblige but Jimmy Dykes, the fighting manager of the Chicago White Sox, surprised Palmer by sending in 20 replies. . . . Ted Lyons, the pitcher admitted that his most embarrassing moment was “showing up at a dinner date at a private home a ,day early.”. . . . Palmer, president of the campus bowling loop and captain of the champion Sonneborn’s team, watched Chicago Cub Ed Hanyzewski, Irish sophomore last semester, lose the 4-3 thrillei* to the White Sox just before the season opened. . . . Joe’s first St. Mary’s date was a belle named June Mabie, and he hasn’t been the same since. . . . Maybe it isn’t quite June, but Senior Ball is in the air, he plans to go “Racing with the Moon” the Moral manner and he will forget baseball and bowling one weekend for another edition of St. Mary’s—this one a Derbyite from Kentucky. ...
ARCH WARD COINED THE NAME 'MOOSE'
Arch Ward, promoter extraordinary and sports editor, of the Chicago Tribune, annexed the nickname “Moose” to Ed Krause, current assistant coach and onp-timp football and basketball All-American, after listening to his peculiar yell to teammates. . . . When Krause was coach at St. Mary’s College in Winona, Minn., in 1938, only 20 men reported for varsity football. . . . Ed and other coaches had to play to make up defensive opposition.... Krause gets a vote of thanks for his part in returning baseball to the campus of a small college in Western Wisconsin, La Crosse State. ... In the spring of 1937, he sacrificed a winning reputation to give a band of La Crosse Collegians a game—and lost 7-3—when funds weren’t available for school-sponsoring baseball. . . . The Collegians downed a splendid Krause-coached team, led by Basketball Captain Skeezix Vaickus, and went on to hang up an impressive record—largely because of the encouragement given by Krause.
16	•	■
This week we go over to the National League to give our predictions on who’s who and what’s’ going to happen. Unlike the American League this war-time reconstruction will be nothing new to the Nationals for they have been trying to tune- up their engines and catch up to the American League ever since the “Me and Paul” days. Outside of Brooklyn, the National League has had attendance trouble, for John Q. Baseball fan seems to prefer a nine-to-eight game rather than a one-to-nothing scrap. This type of ball just isn’t played in the Nationals, here the pitcher holds the magic wand over the batter. The one thing they can boast about, however, is the fact that the winner in their league isn’t definite until sometime in September.
For the King of the Nationals ■we’ll string along with the choice experts, the Cardinals. The Card’s main question mark is power and that will probably be answered by Rookie Ray Sanders of Columbus who can really give the old cowhide a ride. He’s the boy who’ll take over at the Keystone position in place of Johnny Mize who has goone East. Bread-on and Rickey gave Don Padgett to the Dodgers, who faltered terribly last season, and in his place they put Stan Musial, a Rochester farm boy who has power to burn. Now, to look at the brighter side of the Cards, their pitching staff. So with this, plus balance the Cards ought to ride into Yankee Stadium without too much trouble.
Now we come to the Abbots and Costellos of baseball, Larry MacPhail and his little Daffy Dodgers. They”ll again take first place in attendance, but we doubt seriously if they’ll head the list in the won-and-lost column by Labor Day. Their pitching is their strongest weapon with some fairly good youngsters in Reiser and Reese.
The ’ Smoky Stover from Pittsburgh zs our third choice. The Pirates who rolled over the two Chicago teams at will during the Spring training season have been improved sufficiently to move up at least a notch on the ladder this year. Two of the boys acquired from Brooklyn in -the Vaughn trade can be of great use: Pete Coscarart filling in at third and Jim Wasdell another good tosser for the pitching department. The Pirates have fairly good power at the plate and if they’ll stop playing kickball, on the - defense, and begin playing baseball they’ll have a formidable outfit. To finish in the cellar of the first division we choose the boys from the Hinterland,
the Reds. Their hitting is their big problem. They all get up to bat but they seem to get paralysis in that batter’s box. The pitching staff has enough glamor names on it to make any opposing hitter get the D.T.’s, but when we look at their records last year they were only average. However, if they ever get a boy who can knock the ball out of the park they’ll be up there punching. Maybe Wheaties or vitamin B-l bread is the answer, who . knows. ‘	t
The Giants still remain the only flop in New York baseball, but with Terry out from behind the steering wheel the Giants may become a working unit. With Mize in there to give them another biome rim hitter, the Giants ought to have sufficient power at the plate. If the pitching staff can get a little extra punch the Giant’s front office should be reimbursed for their labor. If not, the Harlem outfit will continue to play before Mother Nature and the Andy Frain ushers.
Right on the tail of the Giants will be the glamorless Cubs. They have enough material to make up a team that would make the Yankees look like an Association outfit. The Cubs can keep out of the cellar if Novikoff and Nicholson start hitting to help out the old ^stand-by, Stan Hack. Seventh place is awarded to the Boston Braves who are now leading the league, but won’t be up there long for numerous reasons. Many of the important positions on the Braves are held by men who can vaguely remember Lincoln’s address at Gettysburg, and for this reason can hardly be called dependable players.
. We wind up with the perennial Quak-erstown Phillies, who have a greater reconstruction problem than the Southerners ever had. There’s a city ordinance in Philadelphia stating that they can’t play baseball on Sunday after six o’clock. The Phillies would do just as well with an ordinance against baseball on any afternoon.
Tallet Leads Irish Batters
With .583; Chlebeck Second
With a record of one win and two defeats in their first three starts, which does not include this week’s games with. Northwestern and Purdue on Tuesday and Thursday, Jake Kline’s Fighting Irish heads into next week’s schedule with high hopes of bolstering their record with two more victories, over Northwestern at Evanston on Monday, April 27, and against the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor on the 29th.
It was announced this week that Mickey Cochrane’s star-studded Great Lakes
nine will invade Cartier Field on Friday, May 1. It is a good possibility that “Fireball” Bob. Feller will be pitching for the Naval Training Station by that time, but nevertheless, Cochrane’s roster is amply decorated with names of former major leaguers, including Don Padgett of the Dodgers, Benny McCoy of the Athletics, and Joe Grace of the Browns. This contest will easily be the greatest baseball attraction ever to hit historic Cartier Field, and a banner crowd is anticipated. The game will mark the third time this year that Notre Dame and Great Lakes athletic teams have met, the two institutions having split a pair of basketball games during the past season.
Lose Game to Break Record
Notre Dame ran into a great deal of trouble last week in the persons of the Hawkeyes of the University of Iowa, who took both games of the doubleheader for the first time since the series began in 1927. Iowa won Wednesday’s - game, 10 to 5, and Thursday’s tussle, 4 to 1. In the first game pitchers Smullen, Trimborn, and Dudley tried unsuccessfully to silence the Hawkeyes’ bats. Notre Dame took a first inning lead on Hiller’s triple, an error on Chlebeck’s hard grounder, a stolen base by Chlebeck, and Jack Tallet’s sharp single. But Iowa went ahead in the second with 3 runs and never relinquished their lead. Tom Farmer, brilliant Iowa second-baseman, played a spectacular game both in the field and at bat where he garnered three hits. The totals: Iowa, 10 runs, 13 hits, and 5 errors; Notre Dame, 5 runs, 11 hits, and 4 errors.
The second game proved to be the tradition-breaking one. and also Iowa’s fifth straight win. Bob Fischer for the Irish pitched good ball but Iowa’s two runs in the first were enough to win, as the visitors gave their hurlers errorless support in the field. The totals for the second game: Iowa, 4 runs, 9 hits, and no errors; Notre Dame, 1 run, 7 hits, and 4 errors. Tuesday the Irish beat • Northwestern, 13-1.
Team Bats .306
Notre Dame’s three-game batting averages, recently released, show that the Irish have been hitting the ball extremely hard and often; the team average is .306. Sky-scraping first-baseman Jack Tallett leads the team with a .583 mark, while the 1941 captain and center-fielder, Andy Chlebeck, is second with an average of .462. Basketball star “Buster” Hiller and Frank Sanfilippo, the other two starting outfielders, are tied for third at .364. The veteran George Sobek is batting to the tune of .357.
Johnny Metzger and Bob Fischer are the leading Irish twirlers so far. Metzger, who defeated Purdue at Lafayette, has an earned-run-average of 2.39, and Fischer is next with a mark of 2.57.
After the Great Lakes game on May 1 there will be only two other home baseball games, with Michigan on May 4, and with Western Michigan on May 9.
Hanyzewski: Ex Frosh Star May Spark Cubs Drive
Bill Boss
. Another rifler has left the Notre Dame camp. But this time it wasn’t the blare of the bugle that called burly Ed Hanyzewski, ex. ’44, but the promising future of a fat major league baseball contract with the not-so-promising Chicago Cubs.
Irish baseball hopes rose high last season when Hanyzewski, a graduate of South Bend’s Washington High, enrolled . at Notre Dame. The diamond evil that Ed doled out on Cartier Field was felt by many of the varsity basebailers in one of their frequent inter-squad sessions. Especially disgruntled was hard-hitting Ray Pinelli, talented short-fielder, who strutted to the batter’s box three times and swung high and out on Hanyzew-ski’s slippery sinker ball. But Pinelli wasn’t the only varsity hitter who found the Polish lad a difficult hurler to squeeze a base hit from. The entire squad marvelled at the uncanny speed and pitching prowess of this big kid just . off the sandlots of South Bend.
His Record
Jake Kline slyly jerked his cap over his eyes and smiled knowingly. For Jake knew of Ed’s previous accomplishments. The South Bend lad had starred in high school and in American Legion ball for several years. In three years of mound work at Washington High he had lost only one tussle. He was unbeaten in Legion competition until he met the hitconscious Berwyn team in the finals of the National Legion Tourney in Lynn, Mass. Adding to his chucking prestige are the five no-hit games he pitched in four years.
During the past summer Jimmy Wilson led his often frustrated Chicago Cubs into the Studebaker lot down town and found this same muscular boy propped on the mound, cool as an ice cube, waiting for the first batter. Before the seldom-seen Indiana sun slumped behind the horizon that evening Eddie Hanyzewski had whiffed 14 Cub batters and had Wilson’s eyes playing hide-and-seek behind his heavy eyelashes. Bill Nicholson, long-hitting Bruin outfielder, felt
17
the sting of Ed’s wicked sinker ball three times during the afternoon as he struck out each time he appeared at the plate.
Before the summer months had elapsed General Manager James Gallagher, a Notre Dame alumnus, and Manager Wilson had energetic Ed’s signature on a Tulsa contract.
Succeeds in Spring Trial
The scene shifted to Avalon, Calif., and the opening sessions of the Citrus Circuit. Here within the very folds of innumerable major league training posts aspiring rookies are made and broken, but it was here that J. Gallagher, famed for his “lovesick” announcements and everlasting feud with Sox pilot, Dykes, made up his mind to buy Hanyzewski from Tulsa and make him a regular on the Cub list.
"Pass the Superlatives"
The first thing the roly-poly Wilson had to say about Hanyzewski after a conference with Gallagher was, “You should have seen Gallagher pacing around my room after Hanyzewski allowed the A’s only one hit in five innings. It just doesn’t seem possible to Gallagher, or anybody else for that matter, that a 21-year-old sandlotter who never played an inning of organized ball can be that good.
“It’s amazing,” the Cub manager continued, “but it’s the truth. I’ve told Gallagher I don’t see how we can send him out on his work to date. Now, if we sent him out to Tulsa and he came to me and asked, ‘What would you like me to work on or try to correct while I’m down there?’ why, I’d be stopped.”
Overwhelmed by the poise and confidence of the former Notre Dame hurler Wilson continued, “Honestly, there isn’t a thing I’ve showed him since he came to camp and I’ve had to correct every new pitcher, even those with • experience with the AA minors. He’s just a natural. He does everything right instinctively.”
The unbelievable poise and confidence that was imbedded in Hanyzewski fooled Wilson. The old National League backstop chuckled, “There wasn’t anything of a pop-eyed rookie about him when he came into camp. You could tell by his attitude that he’d look at guys like Pas-seau, Lee and Olsen and think of himself, ‘Why, there isn’t anything so unusual about these fellows,’ not in a cocky way but in the sense that he felt he was as good as they are.
“I’d certainly rather have him around with me this year than send him out. There are very few good pitchers who are helping in the minors. Most of these minor league managers think of nothing
18
but having a good record and they’ll pitch a kid like this every third day and relieve in between.”
Wilson’s first and lasting impression came last summer on the local sandlots. He recalls with his typical chuckle the way Hanyzewski fanned Bill Nicholson three successive times. It was then and there that Wilson decided Ed was major league material so he put him under Bruin guidance. He should be well rewarded for his selection before the termination of the present major league campaign. Chicago is in dire need of dependable pitchers and with the door* of the National League race wide open Hanyzewski may prove a valuable gear in the movement of the Cub machine. All of us that knew him know that Ed Hanyzewski has the ability to become one of the finest flingers in the majors. So we’ll watch him through the years as he joins the ranks of other Notre Dame men who rode to fame in the big leagues.
Coaches Druze and McArdle Leave for Annapolis Training
Bill Boss -
Lightning does strike in the same place twice, for the swift-moving pattern of World War II saw the blue arm of the Navy snatch John Druze and Joe McArdle, two of the three assistants Coach Leahy brought from Boston College. The two men left South Bend last week for active service at the U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md.
Ed “Moose” Krause has been appointed as McArdle’s successor, but no one has yet been named to fill Druze’s spot as end coach.
John Druze was not a Notre Dame man by education but was certainly a strong man of Our Lady in spirit. For John Druze, better known as “coach,” typified the true athlete and. master of fair play. Short months ago the friendly Jersey man stood on the platform in the fieldhouse as cheers rang loud for the initial appearance of new coach, Frank Leahy, and his assistants. Druze was introduced, and on that day he grasped the hand of every Notre Dame man when he told them that he was the happiest man in the world and proud to make Notre Dame his new home. But now Coach Druze like many of our' other friends has left us to serve the greatest coach in the world, Uncle Sam, at the United States ’ Naval Academy in Annapolis. There he will serve in the physical-fitness program under Lt. Comm. Thomas Hamilton, U.S.N.
Starred at Fordham
John Druze captained in his collegiate days the greatest Fordham team
that Jim Crowley, ever produced. Leading wingman of the “Seven Blocks of Granite,” John led his Rose Hill gang-through an undefeated season marred only by the once “traditional” tie with Pitt.
Coach Frank Leahy helped mold the great forward line of which Druze was a member and got to know the personal qualities of the big captain. Leahy knew Druze was aggressive, determined, and blessed with a desire for perfection in everything he attempted. So Leahy hired him to coach the ends at Boston College. He was well rewarded, for the rugged Jersey lad developed a fine crew of ends at B. C. among which was Gene Good-reault, unanimous All-American two years ago. Last year Druze gave Notre Dame an All-American in Bob Dove who received Angelo Bertelli’s tosses. Druze taught his ends perfection by per-' sonal contact and exhibition.
"Let's Give Three For John"
We all regretted seeing John Druze pack his bag last week and trot from the campus. Coach Leahy probably felt the loss more than we know. The Notre Dame football team honored and admired him. Just how much of an inspiration the smiling man was to the squad was shown on his last day at Notre Dame. A rough scrimmage was in progress on Cartier Field. A determined row of varsity candidates fought hard on the offensive but an equally vicious group of defensive warriors fought back. Jerry Cowhig butted at the center of the line but there was no hole to slither through. Dejected, the offensive slipped into the huddle. A split second of silence and then big Bob Dove, a true All-American, spoke up, “Let’s give three for John Druze on this one, boys.” So, led by the hard-charging guard a rousing three for Druze was heard across the gridiron. A new life aroused in the boys, they surged from the huddle. Wally Ziemba straddled the ball, whipped it back and Cowhig lunged toward the line. The stalwart defensive line that had been dominating the afternoon’s’ play wilted before the sharp blocking, of the enthused varsity. Cowhig could have driven a jeep through the hole that opened before him but he whisked through and raced 50 yards down the field to score. Some day next fall when the going gets tough someone should suggest “three for Druze” who will be parked at a foreign radio waiting for his boys to tally.
John Druze regretted leaving 'Notre Dame as much as we regretted losing him. For as he walked from Cartier Field for the last time he sadly remarked, “I regret having to leave Notre Dame. It was a lifelong ambition to coach at Notre Dame. This ambition was
(Continued on page 22)
Band Returns Home After Enjoyable Eastern Tour
C. S. Coco
On the morning of Monday, April 13, 48 members of the Notre Dame Concert Band and Chaplain Bernard McAvoy, C.S.C., made their way to their respective halls after some ten days of travel and adventure over an estimated 3,000 miles. Many red eyes were seen among the group as the past experience had been a telling one. For during those few days this young group of musicians had played ten concerts to approximately 10,000 persons in the states of Massachusetts, New York, and Pennsylvania. But in spite of the wear and tear, Father McAvoy and the fellows had an enjoyable time.
The entire company was well received and made guests of several banquets and dinners during their trip. On Easter Sunday in Director Casasanta’s home town of Milford, Mass., all enj’oyed one of the best spaghetti dinners of their lives. That evening a large, enthusiastic crowd turned out to welcome home “Joe” and also Jim Cooney, alto sax player from Milford.
Of all the concerts given, the matinees were enj’oyed most by the members of the band themselves. At these concerts the great maj’ority of the spectators were school children. Here the program was arranged to suit the tastes of the crowd. Some symphonic arrangements gave way to the more popular numbers and marches, the favorite of which was “The U. S. Field Artillery,” for the audience sang the first chorus with the band.
Special tribute should be paid to two men who made the trip with the band: Father McAvoy and Joseph Casasanta. It was through their aid and cooperation that the trip was a success in every sense of the term.
National Essay Contest
An essay contest on the topic, “Conservative Versus ‘Progressive’ Education in the Development of a Truly Patriotic Citizenry” has been organized under the auspices of the New York Regional Chapter of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at Marymount College, Tarrytown, N. Y. It will be sponsored by a prominent magazine.
This third annual essay contest is open to participation by all Catholic college students, and ends at midnight on Thursday, April 30. Entries must be typed on one side of the paper only and must not exceed 1,000 words in length. Judges will be chosen by Marymount College. Three prizes, §25, $10, and $5; will be awarded •to the winners by the Federation.
N. D. Alumnus Surprises
A. S. M. E. Conference
Daniel H. Young, director of the 15 million dollar dry dock operations in the Philadelphia Navy Yard, lectured and exhibited films of that maj’or engineering proj’ect before the Friday night session of the A.S.M.E. regional convention in the Engineering auditorium at Notre Dame.
Daniel H. Young
Young came to Notre Dame first in 1918 as the personnel adj'utant of the S.A.T.C. He remained on the campus during that war period and became a student in the University after the S. A. T. C. disbanded. A year after graduation from Notre Dame where he received his C.E. in 1922, Young became a member of the Foley Construction Co., of which he is now a partner. Under that banner, he supervised the famous Pier 9 construction in Jersey City as protection for the Holland Tunnel; and the excavation and anchorage work for the George Washington Bridge. He worked on the Shasta and San Gabriel Dams in California and made the estimates for Dry Docks 2 and 3 in Honolulu. So he was a natural selection for the important proj’ect in Philadelphia, in which his firm is associated with several others as Dry Dock Associates.
A new process of pouring concrete under water was perfected to permit the more rapid construction of the vital Philadelphia dry docks. By the process, months were cut from the time ordinarily
• required to build the docks.
200 Students Attend .
A. S. M. E. Conference
Two hundred engineering students met for the opening session of the 10th annual midwest student conference of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers here this week in Cushing Hall. The meet is sponsored by the N. D. student branch of the organization.
John W. Gilbert, student chairman of the conference and a Notre Dame student opened the affair followed with welcome addresses by Rev. J. J. Lane, C.S.C., of Notre Dame; Prof. C. Robert Egry, of Notre Dame, honorary chairman of the N. D. student branch, A.S.M.E.; Prof. J. I. Yellot, of the Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, representing the national A.S.M.E., and Ernest J. Williams, chairman of the St. Joseph Valley section, A.S.M.E.
Technical Session
A technical session was set for 2:15 p.m. with Earl E. Kleinmann, of the University- of Wisconsin, Madison, as chairman. Eight papers were presented by students competing for awards.
The annual banquet, with remarks by Prof. Yellot, spotlighted by an address by W. S. James, chief engineer of the Studebaker corporation, on “Mental Fox Holes and Surface Failure of Metals,” was. held at 7 pan. in the faculty dining hall. Toastmaster was John J. Whelan with John D. Toussignant as chairman, both of Notre Dame.
Tuesday, final day of the affair, began with a breakfast and business session in the Indiana club of A.S.M.E. representatives, honorary chairman and faculty members.
.	Luncheon in Club
At 9 a.m. Cushing Hall was the scene of a second technical session with the reading of seven more contest papers by students, followed at 12:30 p.m. by a luncheon in the Indiana club with John E. Garceau as chairman and Lawrence J. Kelley, as toastmaster, both of Notre Dame; an address, “New Ceilings,” by Prof. C. Wilcox, of the department of mechanical engineering, and the awarding of prizes for papers.
An inspection tour of the Dodge Manufacturing company, Mishawaka, concludes the parley.
Prof. Egry and Mr. Gilbert head the general conference -committee. Bernard F. Brehl, Edward A. Buenger and Paul B. Lillis, officers of the Notre Dame student branch, A.S.M.E., assisted.
Committee chairmen are Mr. Toussignant, banquet; Robert E. O’Reilly, publicity; Joseph A. Rorick, technical sessions; Donald F. Guyette, hotel, and Thomas H. Geselbracht, inspection trips.
19
Commissioner Layden Reviews Pro Football
Bill Scanlan '
Elmer Francis Layden, former Notre Dame football coach who now commands the most power in the history of gridiron rivalry, took time off from his post as Commissioner of the National Football League to watch the Iowa-Irish baseball game on the campus Wednesday, and predicted “We expect closer competition in the league during the 1942 season.”
“Our league is ready to meet an AllArmy, or All - Service team. Plans for that game are already under way, but the dates and place have not been selected.”
The former All-American fullback of the Four Horsemen heartily approves of the 1942 emphasis of the T-formation as taught by Coach Frank Leahy. “We used it some and found it successful. It is especially effective if you have a good passer and a fast fullback who can slip through quick openings.” The commis-
FILTER in
ROYAL DEMUTH
makes pipe function superbly
ULTRA FINE ^IMPORTED BRIAR IliiiiH Ft LT E RS FOR I
ROYAL DEMUTH PIPES
Write for chart picturing 18 beautiful styles. It describes advantages of MARVELOUS PATENTED FILTER JFm. Denuith & Co., Inc., N.Y.C.
Layden. — a pep-rally favorite._____
sioner spoke from experience, as a player, as a coach, and more recently as the No. 1 spokesman of the National League which starred the foremost exponent of T-formation, the Chicago Bears. Coach George Halas of the Bears got a preview look at the T-Formation, Notre Dame manner, at one of the practice sessions last’ week. Layden hasn’t seen it yet,
Presenting a capital idea in . . .
The three-button, single-breasted Brooks coat which is in high favor with college men ... we have it in any cloth you select . . . also slacks to match or contrast.	.
Choose your new outfit from our new shipment of ADLER-ROCHESTER tweeds, Shetlands and flannels. Many patterns from which to choose.
PARKER-WINTERROWD '	115% - 117^2 North Main Street (Upstairs)
Visit our upstairs shop or see our campus representatives: CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS	LARRY KELLEY	NEIL J. McOARTY
321 Alumni Hall	334 Alumni Hall	115 Sorin Hall .
but will probably be on hand for the Varsity-Old Timers clash on May 2.
The commissioner was optimistic about the future of the league, now nearing its 23rd season. “Of course, we’ve always got to await world events,” he cautioned. “Our league teams are ready to meet any of the service elevens. You know, it’s all out for action—and we are willing to help in any way possible.”
Mr. Layden showed no ill effects of a sled accident in early February. He had wrenched his knee while sledding with his son on the Morris Park Country Club golf course. His comment on the mishap was merely: “Wish I could claim an injured knee, but the notice was greater than the accident.” He is still living with his family in South Bend but expects to move to Chicago eventually.
Sports play an important part in winning the war, Mr. Layden feels. He has long been an advocate of participation for everyone and has verified that thought with remarks on various public occasions that athletes in the armed forces have been carrying on with the traditions they first learned on the field of sport.
At the winter meeting of the National Football league in New* York on March 27 of this year, club owners unanimously adopted a resolution approving the administration of Layden, who resigned as head football coach and athletic director at Notre Dame on Feb. 3, 1940 to assume the commissioner’s job midst a flurry of protest. Today he has won over most of his bitterest rivals.
Adler-Rochester Tailored
20
DO YOU DIG IT?
^Or
Z°OS
88!8«amti
&



^ENGLISH TRANSLATION
This henistellingher sorority sisters to get busy with the rouge andpowder department, put on their high heels and do a quick lipstick job. All because the boys are arriving with Pepsi-Cola—the champ of the campus.
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
Send us some of your hot slang. If we use it you’ll be ten bucks richer. If we don’t, we’ll shoot you a rejection slip to add to your collection. Mail your slang to College Dept., Pepsi-Cola Company,Long Island City, N. Y.

Pepsi-Cola is made only by Pepsi-Cola Co., Long Island City,N. Y. Bottled locally by Authorized Battlers.
21
CORRECT FOR NAVAL CADETS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
MANSFJELDS
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
MAX ADLER'S
Michigan at Washington
(Continued from page 18) fully realized when Frank Leahy appointed me assistant coach here. I never . dreamed it could be possible. In my estimation there is no finer institution in the country than Notre Dame.”
Coach Druze’s parting tribute to the present varsity was touched with sincere praise. “I think that with the hard work the boys are putting in this spring workout and with the calibre of the men that are coming up from the freshmen showing the combination of hard work, determination, and willingness to win, that Notre Dame will be successful this coming fall.”
Enjoyed Notre Dame
John also remembered his friends around South Bend when he said, “In my year and a half at South Bend I’ve ’ gotten to know quite a few of the people around here, and the hospitality shown to me and to the rest of the coaching staff is none that could be compared with.”	'
Coach Druze’s final words were of praise for his former coach as he walked for the last time across the cinder path that leads to the locker room. “I’ve had the pleasure of playing under Frank Leahy at Fordham, and you can take my word for the fact that Fordham was sad when he left for Boston College, and I just want to go on record in saying Frank is really, to use an old expression, ‘a great guy,’ a great coach, and I’m thoroughly convinced that everyone here at Notre Dame will agree with me. The thing I liked at Notre Dame was the democratic spirit among the student body. No matter where Joe McArdle and I would go on the campus, there was always a cheery ‘hello’ from the students making me feel as though I were a grad- . uate of Notre Dame. In all sincerity, I tried to represent Notre Dame to the utmost of my ability and felt proud that I could.”	. ■
With a handshake and the perpetual . smile, John left us. The fieldhouse enveloped his huge frame and he was gone, but we of Notre Dame will never- forget a real friend — Ensign John Druze, u.s.n. : ■	.	. •. ■
. McArdle Goes Suddenly
Hardly had the news of John Druze’s departure swept around the campus when last Sunday the coaching corps of ■ ■ Leahy felt another severe blow. Joe Mcardle, who came here with Coach Leahy to build a strong line, was called to join friend Druze at Annapolis. Coach Me- . Ardle will be in Maryland for a short training period, then he wTill be assigned to a naval aviation pre-flight training school as physical instructor.
Unlike that of Druze, the induction of
. (Continued on page 26)
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
GALLUS POLL WINNERS
Announcing the winners in the GALLUS POLL, recently conducted on the campus by the Max Adler1 Co.
First Prize
Charles E. Koegler 113 Cavanaugh Hall
Bernie Carlson Carroll Hall ‘
John Hunt 333 Lyons Hall
Second Prize
Joseph-L. Simons 25 Lyons Hall
Charles M. Urruela 251 Dillon Hall
Third Prize
John Anthony Murray 403 Howard Hall
- t Additional Prizes -
< Walter D. Bauchman
_ 223 Lyons Hall
■ Bud Maher ... — , 452 Zahm Hall
Leo Donati 317 Lyons Hall
Thomas Craven 44 Bronson Hall
Robert J; Bieger -448 Lyons Hall
Griff Allen 317 Badin Hall
Jerome F. Cordes 406 Howard Hall
M*X ADLER
Michigan at Washington
22
Answers to Sports Quiz:
1.	Helen Madison of Seattle,-Wash., who set six world records when she was only sixteen.	.
2.	When Londos and Lewis drew 120,000 in an open-air match in Chicago.
3.	Hop Step and Jump, Hammer Throw, and the Javelin.
4.	Eulace Peacock of Temple.
•5. The former. Babe JDidrickson.
6. They no longer hold dumbells in their hands.
MAX ADLER
ON THE CORNER” . . . Michigan at Washington
HOW TO
BE A GOOD SPORT
Get yourself some Arrow Sport Shirts. Get them at ADLER’S, where you have the advantage of complete selection. Button-downs, pull-overs and Doublers, all are Arrow-tailored. .	.
REMEMBER.........IT’S	ADLER’S FOR ARROWS!
SHORE LEAVE (Continued from page 4) whites have been seen on the golf course, the ball diamonds, the tennis courts, as well as on the handball courts and in the pool.
And during the evening, from 7:00 to 10:00, when “taps” is blown, the men study in their rooms, in just about the same rooms Notre Dame students used a month ago, with the exception that now they contain no radios, easy chairs, coke bottles, or phonograph records.
“The MEN’S Corner”
HOME OF NATIONALLY Accepted MERCHANDISE
BUY QUALITY TODAY for Real Service Tomorrow
Home of Kuppenheimer Clothes Wall Street Clothes Clipper Craft Clothes Arrow Shirts - Ties Underwear Stetson Hats Jockey Underwear Botany Ties Beau Brummel Ties Palm Beach Clothes Florsheim Shoes Freeman Shoes and many others
£)on’t dress down for sports!
1OTS OF MEN shun sports clothes because they’re afraid of looking like Mrs. Astor’s -pet horse. But "it ain’t necessarily so.”
For instance, Arrow makes sports shirts that are simple, and very good-looking. You’ll look swell in them on the golf course, on the lawn, or in a soft-ball game. And you’ll feel comfortable in them too because they’re made for action and made to fit you' right—sized like vour other Arrow shirts. Buy some today!
MAIN AT COLFAX
BsHIKTS and TIES
■ 2L
NOTRE DAME MEN WILL BE INTERVIEWED AGAIN...
► Last year, on 39 different college campuses, men were asked for candid opinions about clothing styles. This poll, conducted by The Saturday Evening Post, is being repeated this year for more than reasons of fashion. It should have important usefulness in the national conservation of cloth and other materials.
Manufacturers and retailers want to know exactly what kind of clothing college men like best — what they find most practical. Government regulations about clothing make it vital to get such facts in advance.
Maybe you were one of the 4,179 college men who helped provide the information last year. Maybe you also saw die Post Portfolio of College Styles in your favorite store when you bought clothes last fall. It made buying simpler for a good many men.
The 2nd Annual Post Poll of College Styles will be made very soon through the cooperation of The Notre Dame Scholastic.
Results will again be available to you in leading stores this fall. When your local reporter asks you for information, your answers will be appreciated.
THE SATURDAY EVENING POST
POLL of COLLEGE STYLE
FOR 1942-43
Hear the thrilling music of
George Gershwin
<?§> ,"lnielod;e3 ?fGe«h-
I1."16. They > ’ ^mer.
Set X-W (2 12->nth Retords^ *
Andre Kostelanetz gives a thrilling, ^/presentation of Geor ^Gershwin’s masterpiece of n ™nsic "Rhapsody In modern m , TempleBlue ” featuring Alec
rangement. Hear t is citing new recording ■
RECORDS
Open Saturday evening!
kodiiis
/ t t	M a .
This Indian Story Was Written 100 Years Ago
J. H. Johnston
An even century ago, when Father Sorin was busy founding this University of Notre Dame, there were no Indians about, for 1840 the United Band of Pot-tawattomie, Ottawa and Chippewa Indians w'as moved to the West to make room for the white man.
But in the files of the University Li-.brary, on a limp and yellowed singlesheet “extra” of the old South Bend Free Press, is the story of the troubled aftermath of the emigration. The whole edition, dated April 16, 1842, records the meeting of the “Indian claimants”—those who, at the request of the Commissioner of Claims, had financed .the removal of the Indians.
The creditors met at Penwell’s Hotel, Elkhart, in protest against the action of the Commissioner in providing for their reimbursement by deducting onefifth of the Indian debtors’ annuity from the government. This ridiculous arrangement would require from 50 to 500 years for some of the debts to be paid off: it indeed was practically a denial of payment. In addition, it was necessary for the creditor to pursue the Indian a thousand miles west in order to get his assent to having his annuity “attached.” Still another ridiculous provision was this: the depredations or thefts of the Indians were to be compensated for at the rate of one-third of the annuity, which thus held out, as the Free Press says, “strong inducements for traders to permit their goods to be stolen, rather than dispose of them in the usual manner by sale.”
George Crawford was chairman of the meeting; he appointed a committee of seven, among whom was Alexis Coquil-lard, who aided Father Sorin in his early struggles. The committee drew up a statement of facts, outlining the history of the case from March, 1840, when General Hugh Brady, U.S.A., superintendent of emigration, began the removal of the Indians, and presented in detail the various grievances of the creditors. The committee concluded with this:
• “Under every view of the subject which your committee can take, they can arrive at no other conclusion, than that there has been a studied and systematic design from the commencement of this business to deceive and mislead the Indian claimants, and by false pretenses to obtain their aid and influence in facilitating the removal of the Indians, while the determination was covertly entertained, as soon as that object should be accomplished, to promulgate such regu
lations as should and does amount to a total denial of payment.”
The committee then resolved to appeal to Congress, and requested the newspapers of Northern Indiana and Michigan to publish the proceedings of the meeting, as did the South Bend Free Press.
SOUTH BEND FLORAL
Michigan, just south of Washington
For the Senior Ball
Orchid Corsage $2.50
3 Gardenias in
$1.75
For Beautiful Flowers
Call 3-8227
A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow ___________ $1.50
Yeflo-Bole Regular_____ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ___ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless_____3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor____4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran____ 5.00
Hollycourt ____________ 3.50
Comoy _________________ 6.00
Corncobs_________10c and 25c
25
(Continued from page 22)
Coach McArdle came quickly and without warning. Although the campus knew that McArdle was eligible for service, it wasn’t generally thought that he would leave so quickly.
Coach McArdle was another Fordham graduate who went to Boston College to assist Frank Leahy. He graduated from the Ram institution where he played guard in 1936.
DANCE at the . . .
PALAIS ROYALE
Saturday, April 25
Admission 55c. tax included
BUD SIMPSON’S Orchestra
Welcome Sailors! •
We carry the regulation
NAVY . SHOES
Florsheim’s
$10.50 up
Freeman’s $6.95 up
Rvsc & K^tz
I %	Mm I	UtN
MAIN AT COLFAX
9m, Ike,
Dining Room
the Jta, ^>cdle <9teiet
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
•
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN.
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. < and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, .6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
While in the Back Bay football circuit McArdle became known as the greatest drill man in the East. He doled out calisthenics freely, which probably accounted for the perfect shape the players at Boston College and later at Notre Dame displayed on the field each autumn. For his diligence and thoroughness in training the boys, he was nicknamed “Captain Bligh” on the Hub campus. The nickname followed him to South Bend, but -
McArdle realized that conditioning was the greatest asset a football team could possess and he gave it to them through hard work. On the field McArdle was as tough a master as anyone would care to . meet, but off the field he was the friend of everyone. When a guard faltered on a block or in the execution of a play in practice the red-headed Irishman would jump in and show the lad where he was wrong. McArdle took some brutal knocks on Cartier Field, but not one of the youngsters could match him in physical
prowess.
At Boston College McArdle developed burly Chet Gladchuck, outstanding pivot man, who was a member of the squad that copped the Sugar Bowl classic in 1941. The great line that performed so brilliantly during the year- and protected the flinging of Charley O’Rourke was a stout example of the fine work McArdle did; later, here on Irish soil, McArdle produced just as great a forward wall to protect the magic tosses of Bertelli.
Students here will not soon forget, the likeable Irishman who was so friendly and good-natured. Never once would he. pass a chirping group of students without a friendly word. When you saw Joe McArdle, you generally saw John Druze. They were as inseparable as our corned-beef and cabbage, and it seems only natural that they both should sail into the Annapolis institution at the same time.
McArdle entered Naval Reserve ser-vice as a lieutenant, junior grade. So quick was his departure that he could not be reached for a statement, but we know that his love for Notre Dame and Notre Dame men was just as intense as that of his cohort, John Druze, and we certainly hope that the rumor that states he may be shifted back to Notre Dame to train our V-7 men will come true. For we would like to see the red-faced Irishman back on Notre Dame soil.
New York Club Honors
Graduating Members
Last Thursday evening, April 16,' the members of the Central New York Club . met at the Town Club in South . Bend to honor. the following seniors: : /Paul W. Kelley, Edson Drake,. William Foster, and John Clifford, who are to be . graduated in May. - ■ ;	.
After a delicious, steak dinner, the members elected the officers for the coming year. President-elect is Paul Tierney, and the vice-president, secretary, and treasurer offices will be held by Robert Dunlay, John Terry, and Charles Stelt-mann, respectively.’
At the present, plans are being made for an informal gathering during the vacation period in May.
“IF IT COMES FROM
BERMAN' S — IT MUST BE COODl" 28 Years and Still Growing!
Visit our New and Larger quarters Berman's Sport Shop 112 West-Washington Avenue
• Telephone 3-6620
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST . . .
“Say it with Flowers”
Choice Cut Flowers and Corsages
Just west of the Oliver Hotel . . on Washington Avenue
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians . 228 South Michigan Street
... ’Evenings By Appointment.
DON’T QUIT COLLEGE-IF YOU WANT
TO BE A NAVAL OFFICER
Freshmen, Sophomores... 17THRU 19
Enlist now! Continue your studies. You may qualify for a Naval Commission on the sea or in the air.
Freshmen. Sophomores. Here’s a challenge—and an opportunity! -
Your Navy wants you—but it wants you to stay in college. It wants you to train now in any accredited college of your choice for active duty later.
Trained men are needed. Trained men to become Naval Officers! And your college is ready to give you that training now.
Here’s New Navy Plan
If you’re seventeen and not yet twenty, you enlist now as an Apprentice Seaman in the Naval Reserve. You then continue in college, including in your studies courses stressing physical training, mathematics and physics. After you successfully complete years of college work, you will be given a competitive examination.
If you qualify by this examination, you may volunteer to become
a Naval Aviation Officer; or become a Deck or Engineering Officer.
Those selected for training as Aviation Officers will Complete the second calendar year of college before they are called to active duty. Those selected for training as Deck Officers and Engineering Officers will continue their college program until they receive their bachelor’s degree, provided they maintain established university standards.
All others will be permitted to finish the second calendar year of college work, and will then be ordered to duty at a Naval Training
DON’T WAIT
1.	Take this announcement to the Dean of your college.
2.	Or go to the nearest Navy Recruiting Station.
3.	Or mail coupon below for FREE BOOK giving full details.
Station as Apprentice Seamen; and later will be transferred to active service. Any man, however, who fails in his college subjects during this training program may be called to active duty at once, as an Apprentice Seaman.
Your pay starts with active duty.
Courses You Will Take
This special Navy plan for college men calls for your concentration now on studies that will equip you to be of the greatest possible service later. All courses will be given by the faculty of your college. The Navy specifies certain requirements that will fit you both physically and mentally for serving your country in the Navy.
If you wish to serve your country by working for a Navy commission, enlist now for special preparation in any accredited college of your choice.
ACT TODAY
U. S. Navy Recruiting Bureau, Div. V-l	2.
30th Street and 3rd Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Please send me your free book on the Navy Officer Training plan for college freshmen and sophomores. I am a student □, a parent of a student □ who is years old attending-------------------------College at--------:------;--
Name----------------------------:-----------:-----—---------------------
Street---------:— --------------■-------————-------— ------——--------—
City & State--------------------———------■----—-----—----—-----------—
A tiny pin-hole in a telephone cable can admit moisture, causing short circuits and service interruptions. But Bell System men have found a way of beating this trouble to the punch.
They charge the cable with dry nitrogen under pressure. Then should a leak develop, the escaping gas keeps moisture out. Instruments on the cable detect the drop in pressure ... sound an alarm at a nearby station.. .indicate the approximate location of the break. A repair crew is quickly on its way.
To maintain and improve America’s all-important telephone service, men of the Bell System are constantly searching for the better way. Pioneering minds find real opportunity in telephone work.
DISC-CUSSION
Ed Roney
Decca steals the whole show this week . with an announcement of their new 50 cent record. On them they intend to present only top-notch entertainment such as Fred Waring, Alec Templeton, Meredith Wilson, Deanna Durbin, Kenny Baker and Raymond Scott among others.
- The first week they released an album called “This Is My Country” by Fred Waring’s Glee Club and Orchestra. This of course contains “The Marines.Hymn,” the “National Anthem,” and various other Navy, Army, and Coast Guard Songs. Beautifully done, this should interest you no matter what part of the service you’re going into. *
Just to show that they hadn’t finished the first week, they followed that first album with another by Alec Templeton at the piano. He plays such tunes as “Blues In The Night,” “Summertime,” “It Ain’t Necessarily So,” and the first movement from Tchaikovsky’s Pathetique Symphony. -
Also released were single records such as “My Wish” and “Just For You” by Lionel Hampton and his Orchestra. Both sides have a vocal by Ruth Blakely.
But while all this was going on, the other companies haven’t been exactly asleep either. One of Dinah Shore’s greatest records and one that has become Bluebird’s third best seller in two weeks is No. B-11473. In easier reading language that spells a combination of “Skylark” and “Goodnight, Captain Cur-lyhead.” The first one. you’ve all heard by this time but nothing can compare with Dinah’s rendition of it. While the latter one was introduced by Dinah on her Sunday night radio program and has been in great demand ever since. Bordering on the lullaby style, it’s, well, it’s plain beautiful. -
The week’s best seller in the Victor* line is a hew one by Artie Shaw which is all swing and titled “Just Kiddin’ Around.” On the reverse is an old favorite done up in a new style while still going under the old and familiar title of “Sometimes I Feel Like a Motherless Child.” Neither one has a vocal and both are excellent.
Three albums in one review might be called too. many but no one in his right mind could overlook Okeh’s new album of “Theme Songs” by such great orchestras as those of Gene Krupa, Frankie Masters, Les Brown, Tommy Tucker, Dick. Jurgens, Charlie Spivak, Count
28
Basie, and Cab Calloway. These include such number as “Minnie the Moocher,” “I Love You,” “One O’clock Jump,” “Ap-urkosody,” and “Day Dreams Come True At Night.” An album that’s long overdue and with a ready market waiting for it.
Glenn Miller, the old master, gives out with two good numbers by coupling “She’ll Always Remember” with “Shhh, It’s A Military Secret?’ The first is an already popular ballad done up in Mil-ler’s best style with Ray Eberle and the Modemaires doing the vocalizing. The second is a brand new novelty number with a good purpose behind it. A novel way of putting an important message across, it’s done by Marion Hutton, Tex Beneke, and the Modemaires. It’s a hard choice between them.
Hal McIntyre, the wonder band of the decade, is still going strong and keeps up his good record of straight hits with “The Memory Of This Dance” and “There Are Three Rivers To. Cross.” Both vocals are done by Carl Denny and some people have trouble telling him from Bob Eberly.
This may be getting to be somewhat of a habit, but Freddy Martin released his record of Greig’s “Piano Concerto” just a short time ago. It became such a hit that he has released it again with a
vocal by none other than Dinah Shore and with the new title of ‘“I Look At Heaven.” Backing this really good number is a very'old but just as good tune called “I Can’t Give You Anything But Love.” It is just as good as it ever was.'
Fox River Valley Club Elections
The Fox River Valley Club of Wisconsin recently held its final supper meeting of the present school year. New officers were elected, and tentative plans for a party to be given during the May vacation were made. :
Albert J. Muench of Neenah was elected to succeed Neil J. McCarty of Kaukauna as president of the club; while Joseph A. Neufeld, Green Bay, was named the new secretary-treasurer, replacing Donald P. Casey of Oshkosh.
Scheduled social activities for the coming year include a spring party which is to be given on May 23 at a Lake Winnebago resort. Prospective Notre Dame freshmen from the Valley will be the guests of the members. These men will swell the club’s membership to almost 40.
Since its establishment two years ago, the Fox River Valley Club has served to bring_ the Notre Dame men from northeastern Wisconsin closer together.
N. D. Remembers Changes
During Other World War
If it is true that current events are best understood when compared with historical happenings, Notre Dame students would do well to review the roles played by students and faculty in World War I.
In an address at the 1940 Alumni Banquet, Lewis J. Murphy, ’26, national commander of Disabled Veterans, told of Notre Dame’s magnificent contributions to the country’s fighting forces. He reviewed the military record of the University during the Civil and Spanish American wars, but talked at length on the changes wrought here in 1917-18.
Animated by the heroic examples of the older patriots, students of those years were among the first volunteers after war was declared, and most of the class of 1917 received their diplomas in the uniform of the various branches of the military service. By September of 1917, the enrollment of the entire University dropped 35%, and by the end of the war, approximately 2,200 Notre Dame men had been in the service—a number equal to the total number of degrees awarded since the founding of the University. Both in numbers and in quality, the soldiers, officers, and chaplains were the
You trust its quulity
Drink ice-cold Coca-Cola. Taste its delicious goodness. Enjoy the happy after-sense of refreshment it brings. By just this experience of complete refreshment, millions have come to welcome the quality of Coca-Cola—the quality of the nal thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
Pause
Go refreshed
29
SAM'L SPIRO and CO.
‘'“"'Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
best that the University had to give. Eight chaplains were soon in uniform; all made outstanding records in serving overseas. Upon their return from war, these chaplains exerted an influence and leadership in the affairs of the University over the past two decades.
The postwar record shows that Notre Dame continued to contribute when she opened wide her doors to assist the government in its program of vocational rehabilitation to those men disabled in the war. Special courses were arranged to provide instruction with which to assist several hundred men to adjust themselves once more and to overcome their disabilities.
The Notre Dame Post No. 286, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the first of its kind in the United States, was organized at the University and it carried on an active program for about three years until its activities were closed and the charter retained for historical purposes. -Forty-six names on the tablet of the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church remain to testify to the patriotism and sacrifice at Notre Dame. But not to be overlooked are the living figures of this spirit—the men in the hospitals of the Veterans Administration, for whom the Armistice has never been signed.
YOUR BUREAU?
If Dukes are not among your prized possessions, you’re missing something. We mean Manhattan’s famous Duke white broadcloth shirt! Examine its smooth, snowy broadcloth; trace the clean, close stitching with your fingers; study the detail at yoke and cuffs! It fits so well because it’s Size-Fixt*, because it’s Man-Formed, because it’s Collar-Perfect. You ought to own some Dukes. Get them today.
* Average fabric shrinkage 1% or less
Chemistry Club Banquet
The annual Chemistry Club banquet was held on Monday night in the Faculty Dining Hall with about 100 club members attending. After a steak dinner was served, Dr. Andrew Boyle took over as master of ceremonies. The main speaker of the evening was Dean Henry Froning. After discussing the effect of the war on the college and suggesting the organization of a club baseball team, Dr. Froning announced the appointment of Professor R. E. Rich as head of the Department of Chemical Engineering and called attention to the former appointment of Dr. Lawrence Baldinger as Assistant Dean of the College of Science.
Dr. Baldinger showed a sound picture entitled “The Modest Miracle,” depicting the discovery and development of vitamin B-l.
Athletic awards and door prizes were distributed and President-elect Bob Degenhart was inducted into office to replace the retiring president, Jack Costa.
Money and Banking
’ Classes Tour Vaults
Students in Mr. Eells’ Money and Banking classes were guests of the First Bank and Trust company of South Bend, April 14, in a tour through the vaults, bank cages and filing rooms., " /William Hein vice-president, conducted the toui- and answered questions asked
by the students. All of the equipment in the bank is of the newest type and the group showed a great deal of interest in the' accounting procedure used to balance the accounts after each business day.
Following a circuit of the banking facilities the students divided into two groups and questioned the trust officer and the personal loan officer, about their respective duties. The visit to the bank was held in conjunction with recent work in Mr. Eells’ classes.
HOW TO PLAN
YOUR TRIP
BACK HOME
The South Shore can help you plan your trip to and from home.
Whether you live in Montana, New Mexico, Alabama, any place in the U.
S. A. or Canada, we can give you complete routing, take care of every travel detail.
The South Shore sells tickets over any line beyond Chicago . . . Come in now and arrange your trip back home.
For complete information see
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St. Phone 3-3111
R. O. T. a RIFLEMEN (Continued from page 15) ately the N. D. team went a bit stale on these last, two Trophy Matches, and the scores are not so good as usual.
It is also important to mention that none of the scores quoted above has been verified by the Bureau of Navigation, but the verification is pending, along with results of the Hearst Trophy, and N. R. 0. T. C. Trophy Matches.
During the course of the year Robert C. Bobbett and John H. Zwicker qualified as expert riflemen by shooting scores of 175 out of 200, or better. The following students qualified as sharpshooters (160 out of 200) :
Otto McNaughton, Peter Belmont, Paul Rooney, David Walsh, Don Finelli, Alan Guard, Charles Seghers.
These men also composed the N. R. O. T. C. Rifle team most of the year.
Another One of Those ....
Undoubtedly many of you have heard this one in the moron series, but there may be some who haven't.
It seems that two morons were out fishing in a boat. They had unusual luck so moron No. 1 turned to moron No. 2 and said:
“Say, this is sure a good spot. We’d better make sure we know where to find it tomorrow. I’ll tell you what we’ll do, we’ll put an ‘X’ on the bottom of the boat with this chalk.”
Moron No. 2 let out a big guffaw:
“Why you fool,” he bellowed, “what if we don’t get the same boat!”
Law Club Banquet Hears Vice-President of Pullman
The annual banquet of the Notre Dame Law Club was held Tuesday night, 6:30 p.m. in the Gold Room of the Oliver Hotel. The principal address of the evening was given by Mr. George A. Kelly, vice-president of the Pullman Co., of Chicago, Ill. The topic of his address was “The Discipline of Responsibility.” In it he described the public responsibility of private interests and other groups making up our economic and social life.
The fast-changing world requires reconsideration and alteration of these responsibilities, Mr. Kelly said, but our liberties, our democratic form of government, and our competitive system of enterprise are the bases of a democratic society and are, therefore, definitely bound up at all times with public and private responsibility. “The glory of democracy,” he continued, “is not that it is the rule of the majority. The glory of democracy is that it is the one form of government devised upon earth which
provides for the continuing rights of a minority not in power.”
The toastmaster of the banquet was James J. McGoldrick who introduced Dean Clarence E. Manion, dean of the-College of Law. The gratitude of the Senior Class was expressed by Jerome J. O’Dowd. Speaking for the juniors and freshmen vras Robert E. Sullivan, the president of the club for the coming year. Richard F. Swisher gave an interesting burlesque of the Law school professors and ended by insisting that “it was all in fun.”
Henry P. Schrenker was general chairman.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg.	South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J. M.S. Building Telephone 4-3601
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON.
M.D.	M.D.
Phone 3-2805	Residence 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 sherland Bldg. South Bend
DR. O. J. GRUNDY 7 ■
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2574
31
and Mine
2Oq
Ch.
Copyright 19-42, Liggett & Mye&$ Tobacco G®
JOAN BENNETT in her American Women’s Voluntary Services uniform
Starring in Edw. Small's United Artists Production ^Twin Beds*9
y^OUTS tOO for a full share of Mildness Better Taste and Cooler Smoking...that’s what you and all other cigarette smokers are looking for... and you get it in Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos.
Make your next pack Chesterfields... regardless of price there is no better cigarette made today.
EVERYWHERE YOU GO	/