COME TO THE CAMPUS SHOP FOR SMART
FOR ALL-WEATHER WEAR . . .
The Windsor, illustrated, from our collection of fine all-weather rainwear. This handsome water-repellent cotton gabardine coat is by Baracuta, maker of Britain’s finest rainwear. Regulars, shorts and ‘ longs. In true oyster white. 37.50.
Here’s the rugged Nordic Viking by McGregor, from our collection of handsome Great Coats for wintery weather. This fine coat- keeps you warm because of the new 3-layer lining: Quilted nylon, Curan and Nylon fill. Light as a feather and machine washable. 39.95.
Qn the Campus—Notre Dame
J
CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
No Carrying Charge
EVERY Notre Dame man has a charge account at the Campus Shop. You are invited to use this convenient way to purchase what you need when you need it. Here you can select from the most famous brand names in America . . . from the finest clothing and furnishings obtainable in today’s world markets. Here you will find a complete range of sizes, styles and models. So come in soon . . . get what you need and charge it the Campus Shop way.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
OnCSlfl|M£ MsShofaan (Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf” “The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
HOW TO BEAT THE BEAT GENERATION
My cousin Herkie Nylet is a sturdy lad of nineteen summers who has, we all believed until recently, a lively intelligence and an assured future. Herkie’s father, Walter O. Nylet, is as everyone knows, president of the First National Artificial Cherry Company, world’s largest maker of artificial cherries for ladies’ hats. Uncle Walter had great plans for Herkie. Last year he sent Herkie to the Maryland College of Humanities, Sciences, and Artificial Cherries, and he intended, upon Herkie’s graduation, to find him a nice fat wife and take him into the firm as a full partner.
Could a young man have more pleasing prospects? Of course not. But a couple of months ago, to everyone’s consternation, Herkie announced that he was not going into the artificial cherry business. Nor was he going to stay in college. “I am,” said Herkie, “a member of the Beat Generation. I am going to San Francisco and grow a beard.”
Well sir, you can imagine the commotion in the family when Herkie went traipsing off to San Francisco! Uncle Walter would have gone after him and dragged him home, but unfortunately he was right in the middle of the artificial cherry season. Aunt Thelma couldn’t go either because of her old leg trouble. (One of her legs is older than the other.)
So I went. I searched San Francisco for weeks before I found Herkie living under the counter of a Pronto Pup stand. “Herkie, how are you?” I cried, looking distraughtly upon his tangled beard, his corduroy jacket, his stricken eyes.
“Beat,” said Herkie.
I offered him a Marlboro and felt instantly better when he took it because when one smokes Marlboros, one cannot be too far removed from the world. One still has, so to speak, a hold on the finer
things of life-like good tobacco, like easy-drawing filtration, like settling back and getting comfortable and enjoying a full-flavored smoke. One is. despite all appearances, basically happiness-oriented, fulfillment-directed, pleasure-prone.
“Herkie, what are you doing with yourself?” I asked.
“I am finding myself,” he replied. “I am writing a novel in the sand with a pointed stick. I am composing a fugue for clavier and police whistle. I am sculpting in experimental materials—like English muffins.”
“And what do you do for fun?” Tasked.
“Come,” he said and took me to a dank little night club where men in beards and women in basic burlap sat on orange crates and drank espresso. On a tiny stage stood a poet reciting a free-form work of his own composition entitled Excema: The Story of a Boy while behind him a jazz trio played 200 choruses of
Tin Roof Blues.
“Herkie,” said I, “come home with me to the artificial cherries.”
“No,” said Herkie, so sadly I went home to tell Uncle Walter the bad news. He was less distressed than I had feared. It seems Uncle Walter has another son, a quiet boy named Edyorts, about whom he had completely forgotten, and today Edvorts is in business with Uncle Walter and Herkie is beat in San Francisco, and everyone is happy.	© ism m*x shuiman
This airplane is actually a flying classroom. The course taught in it is Air Navigation, under real conditions. The students are young men who have been selected as possible future leaders of the Aerospace Team. Graduation after 32 weeks of training will win each of the students the honored silver wings of an Air Force Navigator and an Officer’s Commission.
For certain young men, this training can open the way to a bright career of executive potential. Right now the Air Force is scoring impressive technological advances in the fields of navigation, guidance and tracking, electronics and radar. And here is where its highly trained and experienced Navigatorswill be expected to take over command positions of increasing responsibility.
To qualify for Navigator training as an Aviation Cadet, you must be between 19 and 26%—single, healthy and intelligent. And you must want to build an exciting, interesting career in the Aerospace Age. If you think you measure up, we’d like to talk to you at the nearest Air Force Recruiting Office. Or clip and mail this coupon.
There’s a place for tomorrow’s leaders on the y Aerospace Team. I I
Air Force
i MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
•	AVIATION CADET INFORMATION
•	DEPT. SCL011
; BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D. C.
J I am between 19 and 26%, a citizen ol • the U.S. and a high school graduate with !------years of college. Please send me J detailed information on the Aviation • Cadet program.
And you too will be happy—with Marlboros, or if you prefer an unfiltered smoke, with Philip Morris. Try the brand-new Philip Morris king-size Commander—long, mild, and leisurely. Have a Commander—welcome aboard!
4
• NAME— ■
* STREET..
*
; CITY—
• COUNTY.
STATE....
The Scholastic
HOW
FAR
DO
There’s no stopping a man at Du Pont. if he is well educated, with capacity to grow ... if he has ideas and job-interest. For as our employees grow, we grow. The more experience they get on the job, the more they come to know about their fields, the more challenges they meet successfully.. .the better it is for all of us.
That’s the philosophy that guides our training program, our way of working. It’s the reason why, when you go places
YOU
WANT
GO
TO
with DuPont, you’re in good company... with many other “achievers.”
There are good jobs with Du Pont for engineers, chemists, physicists and mathematicians— B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. For more information about opportunities here, write us. Tell us your course of study so we can send you the appropriate booklet. Du Pont, Room 2430-12 Nemours Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.



Better Things for Better Living ... through Chemistry
i
5
December 2, 1960

Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. PHot
Optometrist
ABOUT THE COVER
This year's FOOTBALL REVIEW cover features a color photograph taken at the Navy-Notre Dame game in Philadelphia. The photo shows the Irish line preparing to meet the thrust of a hard charging Navy defensive forward wall.
George Haffner, the Notre Dame quarterback, is taking the ball from center as the two lines await initial contact.
McDonald Studios
'The Finest in Portraits
CE 4-4874
212 S. Michigan
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS
GLASSES FRIED
129 N. MAIN Temporary location HAVE YOUR CHRISTMAS PORTRAR TAKEN NOW!
how to get a head It’s easy to make headway (female-wise, campus-wise and every-wise) if you use ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic .’ . . made specially for men who use water with their hair tonic. ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic’s 100% pure, light grooming oil replaces oil that water removes. ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic will not evaporate ... will remain clear and clean. And just a little does a lot!
fTSClgfUl ? &
Vaseline
II HAIR ’ ' TONIC
VASELINE HAIR TONIC
0
'VASELINE’ IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESESROUGH-POND'S INC
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The Scholastic^
Vol. 102 No. 9
December 2, 1960
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
football review
editor-in-chief
JAMES KILROY
associate editors
WILLIAM CARY JOHN BECHTOLD
editorial consultants
CHARLES RIECK ROY RUBELI
special contributors
JERRY HEWITT ROBERT SCHAEFER ROBERT CHIAPPINELLI THOMAS BRANNIGAN DAVID KILROY TERRY WOLKERSTORFER DAVID WILLIAMS THOMAS WALSH
PETER REILLY
photography
WALTER DALY, JR.
contributing photographers
TERRY WOLKERSTORFER
JAMES TAKEUCHI
cover designer
DENNIS LUCZAK
contributing artist
JAMES BRUNETTE
business manager
JOSEPH FINNIGAN
circulation manager
JAMES HICKEY
bookkeeper
JOHN BERNAT
The Football Review is a regular issue of the Scholastic. Entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, the Scholastic is accepted for mailing at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918.
CONTENTS
PAGE
The 1960 Season in Review ........................  z--------------12-13
Notre Dame in action ...........................................  24-25
Individual game summaries ........................................14-33
California .....................................................  14
Purdue __________________________________________________________ 15
North Carolina .................................................. 16
Michigan State .................................................. 17
Northwestern ........................................1----------- 19
Navy ...........................................................  20
Pittsburgh .....................................................- 21
Miami ........................................................... 31
Iowa ...........................................................  32
Southern California ............................................  33
Notre Dame Pep Rallies ............................................  22
Behind the scenes .................................................  23
College Sports Editor’s All-American _____________________________27-29
Notre Dame Stadium ................................................  34
Notre Dame Senior Footballers ----------------------------,---------38-39
Sports Publicity.................................................... 40
The Irish Coaching Staff ------------------------------------------- 41
Freshman team .....................................................  42
Football managers -------------------------------------------------- 44
Prospects for 1961 ................................................  47
December 2, 1960
LOOK FOR
THESE
FAMOUS
BRAMS
ii ROBERTSON’S
HH’S STUB!
3W. &
at 9B
mn am am am
•Oil* HO

WANTED:
The Scholastic is seeking Ad Salesmen.
Opportunities for advancement.
See JOE FINNIGAN
220 Alumni
ADlBt -ARMAN • ARROW -BRENTWOOD -BUXTON
B.VJ). -CLIMATIC -DONEGAL -DON RICHARDS DOPP KIT • GOLD TOE • HAGGAR • HICKOK • JANTZEN JOCKEY • UFE O' EASE • MARLBORO • MCGREGOR MUNSHGWEAR -PARK -PLSTWAY • PRINCE GARDNER
PURITAN • RAINFAIR -REMINGTON -REVERE
ROUS -SCHKK -SELKIRK -SUNBEAM -SUPERB SUPERBA • SWANK - VAN HEUSEN • WELDON • WEMBLEY
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477
A MODERN HOTEL WITH A COUNTRY CLUB ATMOSPHERE
THE MORRIS INN
“on the campus”
Completely Air-Conditioned
92 Rooms •	92 Baths
•	TERRACE DINING ROOM
•	PRIVATE FUNCTION ROOMS
•	BEAUTIFUL PATIO	• GOLF PRIVILEGES
(Delicious tfooi)
• CIRCULATING ICE WATER • RADIO IN EVERY ROOM • LARGE PARKING AREA
(Delightful Drinks
Excellent facilities for Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons, Meetings and Receptions
Prompt AtUrtui Will Be Given Torr Reservation Request . . . Sorry, No PMc Sale of Rooms for Home Football Week Ends.
Owned and Operated by UNIVKSITY of NOTRE DAME	ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manager
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
S	’	The Scholastic

*

Some Popular Titles
GENERAL INTEREST
NOTRE DAME, 100 YEARS By Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.-........
$4.00
ROMAN CATHOLICISM AND THE AMERICAN WAY OF LIFE
Edited by Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.......... THE CONGRESS FOUNDS THE NAVY, 1787-1798 By Marshall Smelser........................-......
THE IMAGE OF MAN Edited by M. A. Fitzsimons, Frank O’Malley and Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C......—....................
.$4.50
$5.00
$6.00
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
SOVIET POLICY TOWARD THE BALTIC STATES, 1918-1940
By Albert N. Tarulis.......................................
DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons.
$5.50
$7.50
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION AND RELIGION, 1917-1925
Edited and translated by Boleslaw Szczesniak........... WHAT AMERICA STANDS FOR
Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz and M. A. Fitzsimons.
PAPERBACKS
CHAUCER CRITICISM. THE CANTERBURY TALES Edited by Richard Schoeck and Jerome Taylor—. TOWARDS A BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF HISTORY By Bernard Norling...........................
THE FIFTH REPUBLIC
By Ferdinand A. Hermens......—............
COMING SOON
NOTRE DAME’S JOHN ZAHM By Ralph E. Weber.............
THE IRISH REPUBLIC
By Cornelius O’Leary.........
THE MIDWEST: MYTH OR REALITY Edited by Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C. A HISTORY OF FORMAL LOGIC
Dear Notre Dame Student
As we near the Christmas-giving season, our thoughts quite properly turn to gifts we’d like to present to our loved ones. Yet we would be less than human if, these matters disposed of, we did not dream of gifts we’d like for ourselves.
Perhaps, as a student, the best gift you could give yourself would be a book. Yet this seems so formidable an idea (especially when you are literally up to your neck in books), that the temptation to reject it out of hand is strong.
$6.75
$4.75
$1.45
41.95
$1.95
$4.25
$1.95
.$4.00
By I. M. Bochenski. Translated and edited by Ivo Thomas..$ 17.50 AMERICAN DIPLOMACY SINCE THE SECOND WORLD WAR
Edited by Stephen D. Kertesz.
—$8.50
RELIGION AS A VOCATION. A STUDY IN THE SOCIOLOGY OF OCCUPATIONS
By Joseph H. Fichter, SJ..—..... FAITH IN THE SYNOPTIC GOSPELS By Edward D. O'Connor, C.S.C....
$5.50
$4.00
But should the idea of giving yourself a “meaty” book inspire such fear and trembling? Not at all, we say. True, to succeed in study, one must discipline one’s self. But disciplined study need not be a grim, unpleasant ordeal; it can be, and often is, a pleasure. And that is where we come in.
Here at the University Press, we are dedicated to a publishing program that is purposely designed to make the disciplinary process of scholarly study a matter of pleasure rather than penance.
Why don’t you try a few of the books we have listed here? We think you’ll agree that we prove our thesis that study can be pleasurable.
Remember — the Christmas-giving season is not only for others, but for yourself too.
Sincerely,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
Notre Dame, Indiana
December 2, 1960
9
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS. Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To AH Parts of the World BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mich, at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
Paul's Shoe Shop Catering to Students and Faculty e GENERAL SHOE REPAIRING SHOE ACCESSORIES QUICK and COURTEOUS SERVICE o In Rear of Administration Building
we’re making a clean sweep in this
4
SAVE UP TO 80 PERCENT
ON
BOOKS«. PRINTS
DEC. 3-20
Second Floor
Notre Dame Bookstore
~Notre Dame^
BOOKSTORE
10
The Scholastic
the one and only
Now an engagement ring design so distinctive— it is protected by a U. S. design patent*! This exclusive Artcarved "Evening Star" design dramatizes the diamond as other rings can't do. Even a modest diamond appears impressively radiant and rich. Isn't this what you want for your love? Then accept no less. Look for the name stamped in each ring. It is your assurance of a genuine "Evening Star" engagement ring by Artcarved. And only with Artcarved do you receive a written guarantee for diamond quality—plus the protection of the nationwide Permanent Value Plan.
DESIGN PATENT NO. J88.S05
Discover more about this exciting ring and other valuable tips on diamond ring buying. Write to:
J. R. Wood & Sons, Inc., Dept. CP-80, 216 E. 45th St., N. Y. 17, N.Y.
NAME__________________________________________________________
ADDRESS______________________________________________________
CITY.
ZONE STATE_______________________________
DIAMOND AND WEDDING RINGS
Beloved by brides for more than 100 years (1850-1960)
"Welcomes Al Notre Dame Men” Your Headquarters For
Q OMEGA WATCHES
A/tca rvec DIAMOND RINGS
Bulova
WATCHES
Zv/>/////J
H atrhes
PATEK PHILIPPE
The Vvld’i fere moat Tateh
14 Kt. Gold Charms Bracelets - Pendants Crosses - Wedding Bands
Charge accounts available
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-1311
December 2, 1960
11
1
Experience Teaches... I
Last August, football prognosticators throughout the country predicted that this was the year for Notre Dame’s rise back to the pinnacle of the football powers. Elaborating on their forecasts, they pointed out that more than 20 lettermen were returning. Many predictions went further, emphasizing the fact that Joe Kuharich was now familiar with his team’s material after a year’s association.
Finally, all must have remembered the tradition at Notre Dame—great football teams. Thus, it wasn’t surprising to see the name of Notre Dame ranked in the top ten in many pre-season polls.
MANY PROBLEMS
If only these forecasters had known the manifold problems soon to become apparent, they would never* have been so talkative. Others, including Coach Joe Kuharich, knew, yet their opinions were not heeded. Prior to the season’s opener, Kuharich was asked about Notre Dame’s prospects for a successful 1960 season. The Irish mentor answered truthfully when he stated that “for Notre Dame, 1960 will be a question mark.”
Coach Kuharich proved to be the best prognosticator. He realized the many arduous tasks ahead, one of which was
COACH JOE KUHARICH — THOUGHTS OF THE YEAR
At the beginning of fall football practice, many teams have the tradition of opening the season with pictures of the players and coaches. Here Irish mentor Joe Kuharich leans on the sign which was later used for the official opening when Captain Myron Pottios charged through with a football.
to find and keep a pennanent number one team, a team that would work together in giving the Irish offense and defense a united front. This failure to find the eleven permanent men who would hold down first string berths for the entire season became apparent in the first game and continued to pose a problem for the Irish coaches throughout the 1960 campaign.
The Purdue-Notre Dame contest was the game that shocked Irish fans into reality. Here, the loyal followers recognized the difficult road ahead for 1960. And here the prognosticators found themselves to be mistaken.
All saw the Notre Dame miscues that afternoon. They saw fumbles, pass interceptions, missed tackles, poor blocking and inadequate offense. Certainly it was disheartening to many of the loyal followers. But at least the realization had begun.
THE YEAR 1960
1960 is a season many would probably like to forget. But the 2-8 won and loss record is just the surface. This is neither the true nor complete story of the progress that was made. Nor is it an accurate representation of the effort on the part of the coaches and the players. Never
has there been a coaching staff which E sought more to help their team. Nor has ■ any Notre Dame team exerted more ef- II fort in trying to win for its student ■ body than has this representative group of 1960 Irish footballers.	H
But what of the football season itself? H What actually happened to the Notre N Dame team that completed its schedule H with a 2-8 record? One of the principal H reasons for this record has already been H stated. The Notre Dame football team H did not have eleven men who could be H counted upon to give an outstanding per- ■ formance in each game. Many factors H contributed to this absence of a steady J eleven that could produce victory after victory on Saturday afternoons.
The first problem and perhaps one of the most mammoth that Coach Joe Kuharich had to solve all season long was the “question mark” at quarterback. When the 1960 season opened, Notre Dame had only one “seasoned” quarterback, George Haffner, in its midst. And in all fairness to letterman Haffner, it cannot be said that he had previously ; had sufficient experience. Haffner’s game performances in his sophomore year had amounted to just 22 passes and eight running plays on his part.
Therefore Kuharich, trying to strengthen the position’s depth, also used Daryle Lamonica, Norb Rascher and Ed Rutkowski, the first-year aspirants for the signal calling job. Thus, from the very outset of the season, the coaching staff was forced to freely interchange the men to determine which one was most capable at handling the job. And each week, one responded better than the others, with Lamonica demonstrating his fine ability in the Southern California clash at the season’s conclusion.
This same problem of inexperience was apparent at the other positions in the lineup also. Throughout the year, fullback was one of the most bother- , some problems because the coaching staff , could not find a permanent replacement for the departed Gerry Gray. Each time it was thought that the man for the job had been discovered, he would then come up with an injury. The coaches found themselves in the continuous cycle of trying to find the right man for the position. Inexperience became the rule, not the exception.
At end, there was the same problem of inexperience. Only Les Traver and Max Burnell returned with any extensive ex- .’ perience. Reliance on the sophomore 0 * group or untried upperclassmen was the next step. At halfback and tackle, there was this same problem of inexperience which, though not too prevalent in the first string, caused quite a lack of depth beyond the first-line corps.
Steady performances were in demand at every position and such performances the coaches could not find. Thus, one reason for Notre Dame’s failure in 1960 was lack of experience.	. |
The Scholastic
12
A TUNNEL FOR THE 1960 FIGHTING IRISH New expression of spirit by the loyal students.
s THE INJURY JINX
V
0 1959 was supposed to have been the year when the Irish football team was jinxed by injuries. Yet, Notre Dame followers are not seeking an outlet if they blame a great part of the 1960 failures on the casualty list. Rarely has a team been so hard hit and at so many key positions as was the 1960 Fighting Irish eleven. In an almost unbelievable series of ill-fortunes, the Kuharichmen lost
V
John
men of the caliber of Red Mack,
Powers, Myron Pottios, Bob Bill, Mike Lind and Bob Scarpitto.
The loss of Mack in the Purdue
game
I	was of special significance and seemed
I	to forecast the ill fate ahead. Mack was
I	more than a great college football player.
I	He was a leader and an example to the
I	others on the team, many times inspiring
I	them to greater efforts. With his loss,
I	the fortunes of the team began to falter
I \ .and the road seemed to go only down. I £ The need for the “road runner” in the I	backfield became more apparent in each
I	succeeding week.
I Thus, the big man in the attack was I	missing. Gray, Lind or someone else in
I the backfield might have been able to I take up the slack. Yet, all of the “big” I	men were injured either permanently
I,	or temporarily.
I One might say that injuries are a I part of football which must be com-fl	pensated for	at the beginning	of the
I f season. This	is true. Yet, the	list of
I Notre Dame injuries is far greater than I	anyone would	have anticipated.
I	FROM START	TO FINISH
• Winning the first game of the season I;	is a great psychological	lift for any
r	team and probably was	so in Notre
11 Dame’s case even though the Irish were K	not at their best against	their opening
Is*	day visitors, California.	Many times,
B the psychology can have the opposite P’ December 2, 1960
effect when the team is losing and cause a general attitude of complacency. Yet, this did not happen to the 1960 Irish. Each week, the Notre Dame footballers went on to the field hoping to do their best and dissatisfied if they didn’t. In
some instances, such as the Purdue
en-
counter, the Notre Dame players ac
tually exerted too much effort, this fort resulting in costly mistakes as Irish tried to make a comeback.
ef-the
It was these big mistakes that ruined the Irish throughout the season. In almost every game except the last, the Irish actually played on even terms with the opponent but the “big mistake” was
KUHARICH MEDITATES BEFORE THE NAVY GAME
Midshipmen in the background view the pacing Irish mentor.

the reason for Notre Dame’s oft-repeated appearance in the lost column.
The defensive line must receive a great amount of credit for its play in the season finale. Traver, Bill, Pottios, Burke, Roy and the other bulwarks completely dominated play in stopping the Trojans cold.
Credit must be given to this defensive forward wall not only for its dominance in the Southern California game, but for the entire season. The Notre Dame forward wall played on at least even terms with the opposing lines every game. They held such great running teams as Iowa and Pittsburgh to below-average totals on rashing offense.
A SUDDEN COMEBACK
Surely, the Southern California game can be called Notre Dame’s most productive effort of the season, both offensively and defensively. Offensively, the attack which had sputtered all season long, suddenly became an effective weapon. The Irish backs now moved through the Trojan line with ease as they outgained the larger hosts with a total offense of 306 to 74. Added to the now-potent Irish offense was the everreliable defense, yielding a picture of over-all efficiency.
But can the Southern California game be used as a criterion for the forecast of Notre Dame’s 1961 season? I think not. The judgements must come from the total season, a season in which the Irish did not win often. To win consistently next year Notre Dame is going to need this same efficiency displayed in the Southern California game. The groundwork has been laid and the young team certainly has improved. Mastery of all phases of the game appears to be the next step. 1961 should be an interesting year at Notre Dame.
—Jay Kilroy

It
INITIATION:
Notre Dame, Ind., Sept. 24, 1960—As a crowd of 50,000 fans looked on in 84-degree sunshine, Notre Dame, paced by the running of halfback Bob Scarpitto, inaugurated then- 72nd season of football with an easy 21-7 conquest of California.
Hampered by a sporadic running offense and a total lack of passing ability, the Notre Dame squad was actually outplayed by the smaller, less experienced visitors in the first half, but the Irish bounced back after the intermission to put the game on ice late in the third period. By that time the dominance of the Notre Dame line was beginning to tell, and the turning point came when Irish guard Nick DePola blocked a Cal quick-kick attempt and carried the ball over the goal line for the final score of the day.
DePola’s play only served to emphasize the decisiveness of the ND line play in the outcome of the contest. With ends
Little Notre Dame halfback George Sefcik lunges for extra yardage as Bear defensemen converge to make the tackle.
Les Traver and Johnny Powers closing off the Bear wide runs, the middle of the Irish line held the big California backs to a total of 41 yards rushing for the entire game. In addition, when the Notre Dame defensive backfield proved unable to slow the Bear passing attack, it was the constant pressure on the Cal quarterback by the line that ended this threat.
When the Irish did get their offense rolling, it was the running of senior right half Bob Scarpitto that led the way. Listed at second string when the game began, Scarpitto exploded for two touchdowns on 33-yard and eight-yard runs, and gained a total of 83 yards rushing in seven carries, aside from setting off the only sustained touchdown march that Notre Dame could put together with his 44-yard return of the second half kickoff.
Sharing some of the offensive spotlight, though, was the Golden Bears’ rookie quarterback, Randy Gold. With his line unable to provide running room, the Cal sophomore struck through the air, completing 13 of 18 passes for 154 yards.
Playing in his second college ball game, Gold hit on seven of eight attempts in the first half alone, and only the fact that his eighth receiver was out of bounds when he caught the ball ruined his perfect record. It was only when the superior size and strength of the Irish line wore down his forward wall in the middle of the third quarter that Gold’s effectiveness was thwarted.
It was this same defensive line that set up the first Notre Dame score when Joe Carollo recovered a Cal fumble on the Bear 24-yard line with six minutes left in the first period. Three plays later, with Scarpitto and fullback Bill Henneghan carrying the ball, the Irish moved to the Cal eight. Scarpitto
14
CJ/S/A	Notre Dame....................2J
1 jaOkz	California....................... 7	•
then went wide around left end for the first ND touchdown ; of the season. Joe Perkowski’s kick was good and the Irish ' led, 7-0.	j
The score finally roused the Bears’ offense as they took s Perkowski’s kickoff, and with Gold smartly mixing up hard running with four complete passes, marched 76 yards in 17^ plays for the tying touchdown. Fullback George Pierovich covered the final three yards, driving over right tackle for six points, and QB Jim Ferguson added the seventh to knot the score at 7-7, where it remained till the half.
When play resumed, Scarpitto opened things up for the Irish by taking Roger Stull’s kickoff back 44 yards to the Cal 48. Four plays later, largely on the strength of sophomore fullback Mike Lind’s running, Notre Dame had moved to first and ten on the Bear 33. Then Scarpitto swept wide around left end again, and this time went 33 yards for the score. Perkowski again added the point, and the Irish took the lead^^ again, 14-7.	~ <
Later in the same period, with third down and twelve on its own 15, California attempted its second quick-kick of the afternoon. However, sophomore guard Nick DePola, an opportunist rookie playing in his first ball game, shot through the Bear line, took the ball off punter Jerry Scattini’s foot, and kept right on going into the end zone. Perkowski’s kick finished the scoring for both teams as the final Irish attempt failed when Scarpitto dropped George Haffner’s pass on the Bear five-yard line.
The win marked the 453rd victory in the history of Notre Dame football, and the 54th opening day triumph for the*^ Irish since 1900 — against two losses and four ties. However in spite of the victory, the game did not provide many answers for Irish followers to what Coach Joe Kuharich had termed a “question mark season.”
Inexperience was showing through at many points — particularly in such fundamentals as tackling and backfield blocking. In spite of this, an even more glaring weakness showed up in regard to the most important tactical weapon in the game — the forward pass. The Irish simply could not I pass, or could not catch, and, even worse, they could not defend adequately against opposition throwing.	I
Without this weapon to vary the offense, the Notre Dame ~ f eleven had a hard time moving the ball. Only once had they scored on a sustained drive, and that one had begun on the California 48. When the gun finally ended the game, the Irish had their first victory, but Coach Kuharich and his staff had many problems to solve before meeting much tougher opposition in the weeks to come.	—Jerry Hewitt
The Scholastic
AWAKENING
Notre Dame.........19
Purdue.............51
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 1, 1960—Taking advantage of the breaks offered by a fumbling Notre Dame football team, Purdue’s Boilermaker footballers ran up the highest point total ever scored on an Irish squad in the history of Notre Dame Stadium in scoring a 51-19 triumph. A capacity crowd of ® 59, 235 sat stunned as the Boilermaker machine scored the first seven times it got possession of the football and was in possession for the eighth time when the first half ended.
The inexperienced Irish were able to match the visitors score for score in the first quarter but fell completely apart in a nightmarish ten minutes and 17 seconds of the second stanza as they lost the ball four times on fumbles and interceptions. When the half was over- the scoreboard read: Purdue 45, Notre Dame 13.
The porous pass defense displayed against the visitors was taken advantage of with seven minutes left in the first quarter a when Maury Guttman hit Don Elwell with a 44-yard pass for Purdue’s first score.
The shoddy tackling was taken advantage of with five minutes left in the first quarter when Purdue halfback Bob Wiater, who is definitely not the fastest back the Irish will’face this season, broke loose from his own 22-yard line and lumbered 78 yards for the TD as three ND men missed clean shots at him near midfield.
The Irish displayed some offensive prowess of their own in the initial stanza as they struck quickly after Purdue’s first . score on a 64-yard jaunt off tackle by Bob Scarpitto. Joe Perkowski’s kick, however, was wide to the right and the score O' stood, 7-6, with 6:22 remaining in the period.

After Wiater’s TD the Irish again stormed back, helped by a 50-yard run by Perkowski, to score on a 24-yard George Haffner-to-Angelo Dabiero pass play. This time Perkowski’s kick was good and the score was 14-13.
And then came the second quarter.
Purdue took the ensuing kickoff and marched 64 yards in nine plays, another Guttman-to-Elwell pass being a key need, to score with 14:25 left. Bernie Allen’s third of six successful PAT’s made it 21-13.
Tom Yakubowski recovered an Irish fumble moments later on the ND 20-yard line. Three plays later, Allen kicked a 34-yard field goal and it was 24-13.
Reserve halfback Tom Bloom intercepted Haffner’s pass and returned to the Irish 13-yard stripe, but Purdue was penalized back to the 28. Four plays later, Yakubowski made it 31-13. Time: 8:54 left.
But more important than this score itself was the loss of Bill “Red” Mack, one of the finest backs ever to wear an Irish
\ Sophomore quarterback Daryle Lamonica bootlegs the ball around i right end with the aid of a devastating block by Myron Pottios.
December 2, 1960
jersey, on the play preceding the score. The Redhead’s spirit and desire were an important necessity on a squad that lacks a strong senior core of leadership. He was a competitor who would never give up, despite the odds. Seeing him carried off on a stretcher was a crushing blow to his younger teammates.
After the kickoff, Haffner’s fumble was recovered by Forest Farmer on the Irish 41-yard line. Five plays later Allen faked a handoff, then dropped back and hit Jim Tiller all alone on the Irish five-yard line and he waltzed over for a 38-13 bulge. Time: 5:47.
The next score resulted when Scarpitto punted to the Purdue 35 where Tiller fielded it. Helped by a combination of nifty running, crisp blocking and poor tackling, he danced 65 yards along the sidelines to score, making it 45-13. Time: 4:08.
At the final outcome, perhaps the most amazing thing, considering the score, was the fact that the final statistics were
Tackle Ed Burke spoils Boilermaker tackle Larry Bowie’s hopes of tackling speedy George Sefcik before he circles right end.
almost exactly even. Both teams had 358 yards total offense, and the Irish actually out first-downed the Boilermakers, 18-17.
Many things came to the front in this defeat. The one thing that stood out most was the fact that the Irish will have to fight tooth-and-nail to break even on the rough schedule ahead of them as they do not have the material necessary for such rugged games.	•
This team, however, will have its moments of greatness, but whether these moments will offset moments such as the second quarter of today’s game remains to be seen. One thing is certain, however, and that is, the Irish cannot give any of the opponents remaining on the schedule the easy scores and still hope to come back and win.
Another thing which came to the front is the absence of a strong nucleus of experienced seniors who could help to steady the team in moments of weakness such as the second quarter of today’s game again. The loss of Mack furthers this deficiency. Coupled with this blow was the loss also for the season of another real competitor, junior end John Powers, with a knee injury.
However, some of the questions in regards to personnel were answered. Here, the picture is brighter. George Sefcik and Mike Lind both showed that they have recovered from their knee operations. They combined for 103 yards rushing. Captain Myron Pottios made his first appearance of the year and his knee also seems okay for the season ahead.
There were other bright spots also. Daryle Lamonica seems to be the answer at quarterback. Soph guard Nick DePola continued his fine play. Soph tackle Ed Burke also played well.
■ —Bob Schaefer
15
FRUSTRATION North Carolina .... 72
Chapel Hill, N.C., Oct. 8, 1960—A battling Notre Dame team, trying to erase the pain of a 51-19 beating received from Purdue the previous week, ran into a fired-up group of North Carolina football players and a rash of bad luck as it bowed 12-7 here today. The game was played before a Tar Heel homecoming crowd of 40,000 fans.
The afternoon started auspiciously for the Irish. The first time North Carolina got its mitts on the ball, Notre Dame’s George Sefcik snatched a wayward pass on the enemy 41. Three plays later this Green threat was ended with a resounding thud as the Tar Heel’s great center Rip Hawkins dashed through the Irish line, latched onto fullback Mike Lind, and deposited him on the turf for a two-yard loss on a third down and two situation.
Bob Scarpitto then boomed a punt to his opponents’ three-yard line. Unable to move his team for the needed first down,
North Carolina halfback Skip Clement battles Irish halfback Bob Scarpitto for the ball. Clement was called for interference.
quarterback Ray Farris punted to George Sefcik, situated on North Carolina’s 44. The sturdy little back toted the punt back to the 39.
Starting quarterback Daryle Lamonica now chucked an 18-yard pass to Max Burnell and Irish hopes soared. An overland route was pursued next, and three thrusts brought the ball to the 13. Here misfortune arose, as defensive back Lenny Beck pilfered a Lamonica pass.
The Notre Dame defense remained rigid and, before the first quarter ended, the Irish had paraded from their own 22-yard line to the home team’s 36 only to be halted by a fumble.
Carolina initiated its first serious offensive drive in the second period. Farris led his charges to their visitors’ 28-yard stripe. Sefcik once again stepped into the plot and grabbed his second Farris flip of the day to stop the march.
After this interception, neither team was able to accomplish much in the way of territorial gains until Farris cranked up the Tar Heel offense and set it loose on his own 26. From there, the brilliant quarterback drove his forces to the 47 of Notre Dame. He then stepped back and made pass connections with his halfback, Skip Clement, who was visible all alone behind the Notre Dame secondary. After catching the ball, Clement traveled unmolested into the end zone. The score was a severe blow to the Irish, who had dominated play until this time. Clement’s try for the extra point was blocked by Nick DePola.
The period began ebbing away, and it seemed that the
16
Green would head into the dressing room trailing by only six points. This deficit did not loom at all large in view of the domination of the first half by Notre Dame. However, Mike Greenday had other plans. Late in the half he streaked in front of Leo Caito, grabbed Clay Schulz’ heave and departed for the end zone, a distance of 42 yards. Only seconds remained when he arrived in the pay-dirt territory. Once again the point-after attempt was a failure.
For Notre Dame, the second half of this game proved to be one of the most frustrating halves any team has ever experienced. The Irish spent the greater part of these 30 minutes roaming around inside the Carolina 35-yard line, but not until nine minutes and eleven seconds of the final quarter had elapsed were they able to dent the goal line.
At the beginning, the second half appeared to pose a bright outlook for the boys from South Bend. Quarterback George Haffner unleashed a long pass to speedy Sefcik. The latter went out of bounds on the Tar Heel 25-yard stripe, the play covering 52 yards. The ball was only 12 yards away from the goal line when adversity cropped up once more. Beck made his second steal of a Notre Dame pass at this point.
Another Irish threat was soon mounted, but it was stifled on Carolina’s seven-yard line because of a fumble. After a North Carolina field goal attempt failed on the ensuing drive, the Irish rode Haffner’s arm down to the enemy 34. Les Traver was on the business end of all three of Haffner’s
passes. But the attack lost its power on the 34.
Max Burnell soon was atop a Farris fumble on the home team’s 25. This drive finally bore fruit when Scarpitto swept over from the two and Joe Perkowski added the point.
An apparent Notre Dame fumble recovery on the kickoff was nullified by the referee’s decision that the whistle had ended the play before the fumble. Farris then ran out the clock and assured his team of its first victory over Notre Dame in eleven tries.
For North Carolina, Farris was the individual star with a 47-yard touchdown toss, a total of 38 yards rushing and an average of 36.2 yards on nine punts. End John Schroeder also stood out for the winners. He was instrumental in the containment of Scarpitto’s wide sweeps. Hawkins, Greenday £ and Beck were other top performers for the victors. The Notre Dame line of Traver, Williams, Pottios, Hoerster, Roy, Burke, Carollo, Buoniconti and Burnell performed well on defense, but the offense was unable to solve the North Carolina defensive riddle until it was too late.
Once again today the Irish experienced the same trouble they have been having all season long. The Notre Darners moved the ball well from 20 to 20 but seem to falter from there on.	—Bob Chiappinelli
Halfback Tom Liggio starts around left end as fullback Mike Lind leads interference. Halfback Ed Rutkowski is veering right. '
The Scholastic
'effort
Notre Dame.........0
Michigan State . ... 21
Notre Dame, Ind., Oct. 15, 1960—A determined Irish eleven, inspired by the return of the 1929-30 national championship teams, took the field this beautiful afternoon against the Spartans of Michigan State. MSU was eager for a victory because it would mean five consecutive wins over Notre Dame, and no opponent in the 72-year football history of Notre Dame had accomplished such a feat. The Irish fought stubbornly for the full 60 minutes, but after an evenly matched contest for the first 23 minutes, a Norb Rascher pass was suddenly deflected into the hands of guard Ike Grimsley and the surprised Spartan ran the ball over from the 35. That bit of good fortune was all that was needed as the Spartans contained the Irish for the rest of the afternoon and rumbled on to a 21-0 victory.
The 59,133 fans who witnessed the game at Notre Dame Stadium sensed the determined spirit of the Irish as this young squad reacted instantaneously to the Spartan counter play offense. On several occasions during the first quarter, Ed Burke, Mo Pottios and Nick Buoniconti refused to be tricked as they analyzed the MSU offense and stopped the hard run-
onrushing tackles into the hands of halfback Don Stewart. Stewart took advantage of fine blocking to go 52 yards for another score. Brandstatter’s kick made it 14-0.
The Irish now needed to score before the half ended, and suddenly it seemed possible as Sefcik intercepted a Wilson pass intended for Ernie Clark. The crafty junior raced back 17 yards to the MSU 28. Rascher went to the air on second down, but the Irish were again denied when defensive halfback Bob Suci intercepted to end the threat. So the second quarter closed; a quarter which has proven thus far this season to be the worst one for Notre Dame.
During the half time respite, the Notre Dame students formed a double line from the goal post to the bench to show their support for the great fight the team was showing. And although the score read 14-0, not a ND fan in the crowd was about to admit defeat.
The second half began with more enthusiasm than did the first. The Spartans were again stopped, and ND went to work on the ground. After grinding out a first down on hard run-
Hard-running Spartan Herb Adderly tries to wiggle free of the arms of Notre Dame’s Joe Perkowski and Norb Roy.
Perkowski and friend lead interference for Irish sophomore Chuck O’Hara as MSU defenders Sanders and Szwast move in.
ning Spartan backs. Then Coach Kuharich sent in sophomore quarterback Norb Rascher who proved he could move the Irish. \ And when his team was held on the ground this confident D first-year man stepped back and demonstrated his fine passing ability.
Thus play continued with portents of an Irish upset. Late in the first quarter, lead by George Sefcik and Frank Minik, the Irish drove on 14 consecutive plays to MSU’s 32-yard line. On fourth down, fullback Joe Perkowski stepped back to try a field goal. The ball was kicked high and straight, but fell to the turf five-yards short of the uprights. The Spartans again found the Notre Dame defense unpenetrant, and were forced to punt. Then came Rascher’s tipped pass intended for Sefcik and the Spartan touchdown.
Irish hearts in the stands were a bit saddened as Art 0 Brandstatter added the extra point. However this reversal only made the Irish players more desirous for revenge. They took the kickoff and began a march which was bolstered by the hard running of senior fullback Dan Griffith. But an Irish fumble gave the ball to State on the 42.
A staunch defense forced MSU to go to the air, but the big sophomore tackle Burke crashed through the line and spilled quarterback Tom Wilson for a 13-yard loss. On the next play the hard charging Irish stopped Wilson for a short gain. The following play was a beautifully executed screen pass which , allowed the charging Irish linemen to close in on Wilson again. . Wilson quickly flipped the ball over the gold helmets of the
1 December 2, 1960
ning, the Irish switched to an aerial game with Rascher throwing. Rascher’s passes were on the mark, but in several key situations they were bobbled, and along with a hard tackle by a State defender, dropped.
In the fourth period, an Irish march sputtered on the Spartans 30. On the first play Herb Adderly went for 27 yards, then Ron Hatcher for 4, and Hatcher again for 14. After Carl Charon made 3, Wilson went back to.pass. He had to move to the left as the ND line closed in and his receivers remained covered. He tossed quickly to Adderly who had suddenly cut in front of Clay Schulz. Adderly took the pass and, with a sudden twist loosened himself from the defender’s grasp, and lunged into the end zone. This ended the scoring, since in the closing minutes, the Irish just could not marshal a sustained drive or spring any of its fleet backs.
Rascher turned in the best quarterbacking, job of the young season with some fine passing although the statistics showed only four- completions in 14 attempts for 35 yards.
However, statistics do not tell the whole story as a glance at the game’s over-all totals will attest. The Irish again outgained their rival on the ground, but were not able to penetrate beyond the MSU 25-yard line. The problem at this point centered on the unexplainable ineptitude of the Irish on third down. The answer was not in the performance of any one player, but seemed to be hidden in the oft-spoken phrase “team effort.” The offense seemed to sputter not for lack of desire, but for lack of co-ordination when needed.	—Tom Brannigan
17
Irish Cheerleaders
Notre Dame, boasting the most spirited student body in the United States, is especially vocal for its football team on Saturday afternoons in the Stadium. Seldom recognized are the hard working leaders of this group, the Irish cheerleaders. These men lead the student body in their vocal outbursts.
The cheerleaders are also of great service at the Friday night rallies. Here, while organized cheering is almost impossible, the cheerleaders make sure that each speaker is well received and lead the cheering for him if there is any.
There are six cheerleaders and the group is composed of two sophomores, two juniors and two seniors. The leader of 1960’s fine representatives is the head cheerleader, Skip Fiore, a senior Arts and Letters student from Dewitt, N.Y. The other senior representative is John Bernat, a Commerce student hailing from Forest Hills, N.Y.
The junior cheerleaders are Terry Mc-Glinn and Joe Zeller. McGlinn, from Reading, Pa., is in the Arts and Letters College while Zeller is a Commerce student from Galion, O.
The two men selected as cheerleaders last spring are sophomores in the Commerce school. Duke McMahon, from Van Nuys, Cal., and Bob Maturi of Chisholm, Minn, are the two new additions representing the second-year group.
Frequent practice. In preparing for the football season, the cheerleaders have
long and frequent practices for the first few weeks each fall. During these sessions, they practice each of the older stunts while also introducing any new ideas which might come to mind. The practice sessions become less frequent as the season progresses and, during basketball season, the cheerleaders are so well prepared that only one session a week is held.
The method of selecting cheerleaders is highly competitive. Each spring, freshmen aspirants are invited to try out for the group. The six cheerleaders then pick two of these first year men to replace the two departing seniors. At this time also, the head cheerleader for the following year is chosen.
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND, INC.
Additional Help. An addition to this | year’s group has been the Irish lepre- I chaun. The leprechaun this past season I was Terry Crawford, a sophomore in I Arts and Letters. Dressed in green, the | small Crawford would walk back and ! forth in front of the cheerleading group with the Irish terrier, Mike.
In 1960, with the presence of Crawford at the games, the cheerleaders were able to present many new stunts and * cheers. Of course many of the older cheers such as “Irish, spell it out” and “Echo yell” retained their popularity.
Also, the cheerleaders were instrumental in helping to make the card stunt section such a success this past season.
The Huddle
Best Wishes to 1960 Notre Dame Football Squad
■ ■ , ■ STOP at the HUDDLE ■ ■ ■ , for that little snack between classes
•I®	The Scholastic
REMORSE
Notre Dame ...... 6
Northwestern.....7
Evanston, Ill., Oct. 22, 1960—The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame came to Northwestern this brisk Saturday afternoon with high hopes of upsetting the Wildcats. Before the end of the afternoon, the Irish had almost succeeded in their purpose, in the end giving quite a scare to the Northwestern eleven " which played out the clock for a 7-6 victory.
Had it not been for a completely impotent offense, the Irish might have easily won their second game of the year. During the first half of the game, the Notre Dame eleven could not pick up one first down. The Wildcats gained a total of 142 yards in the first half, while the Irish managed to gain a meager- 23 yards.
During this first half, Northwestern scored its first and only touchdown of the game. Daryle Lamonica had punted the ball from his own 25 to the Northwestern 41. On the punt return Al Kimbrough proceeded to carry the ball back 18 0 yards to the Irish 41-yard line. Then, in ten quick plays, tire Wildcats scored with Kimbrough carrying the ball over from the three-yard line. Mike Stock, the burly fullback, then kicked what was latex- determined as the all-important extra point, and the score was 7-0.
For the remaining seventeen minutes of the first half, the two teams were held virtually to a standoff due to a loss of the ball by fumbles on both sides. Northwestern did manage to get down to the Notre Dame 15-yard line where Stock’s field goal attempt was wide.
6 As Northwestern had completely dominated the play in the 0 first half, the Irish were determined to come out and make a better showing during the second half of the game. And this they did.
Although Notre Dame did not control the second half of play as the Wildcats had done in the first half, the Irish played on even terms with Northwestern. The Irish were able to contain the passing arm of Northwestern’s quarterback Dick Thornton, and in turn, they began to muster a passing attack L of their own. With the passing of George Haffner and the & running of Angelo Dabiero, the Irish appeared more adept at moving the ball. If it had not been for 55 yards of penalties in the second half, the Irish definitely would have had more opportunities and possibly might have won the game. Notre Dame
was able to score its only touchdown of the game in this half.
quarterback Haffner’s passes to sophomore end Jim Sherlock. ' The last pass to Sherlock was for a touchdown and it connected from the Northwestern 25-yard line. Then the decisive point in the game came when Joe Perkowski missed the attempted point try.	-
The score still remained, 7-6, and for a long period thereafter, neither team was able to penetrate deeply into one-another’s territory. Two 15-yard penalties seriously hampered Notre Dame’s chances of keeping up a sustained drive. As the final gun sounded, the Wildcats were once again trying to keep possession of the ball in order to preserve their lead. They were successful in doing this, and at the end of the game, it was they who placed in the victory column.
Perhaps the main reason for the low score in this game was the excellent defensive play on the part of both teams. In addi-
Clay Schulz, a defensive stalwart for the Irish all afternoon, pounced on a Northwestern fumble minutes after the second half had opened. The Irish then commenced a 52-yard drive for a touchdown. Key factors in this drive were
Wildcat fullback Mike Stock is stopped cold at the line of scrimmage by an Irish charge led by Jim Sherlock and Norb Roy.
December 2, 1960	.
Buoniconti, DePola, Pietrzak and Williams watch quarterback Nmb . Rascher break into the open as Northwestern’s Russ Asala pwiuuu
tion, the Irish were not able to mount a successful offense that could be coupled with their fine defensive work.
For the Wildcats of Northwestern, Dick Thornton was the big gun, as he ran for 82 yards and also completed five of twelve passes for 57 yards. Kimbrough gained 47 yards, and Benz got 35 yards as the Wildcats demonstrated why they are feared for their powerful running halfbacks. Northwestern’s fine fullback, Stock, battered for 62 yards to complete the fine ; running quartet.	'
The only Notre Dame runners who were able to dent Northwestern’s powerful line were Dabiero and Bill Henneghan, who gained 22 and 19 yards, respectively. Haffner, however, did come into his own as a fine quarterback in this game. He did a superb job of directing the team, and he completed four passes for 51 yards.	-
Coach Ara Parseghian, in an after-game interview, felt that his team had won the game because of an always am- -sistent defense and a much improved offense. He praised linebacker Larry Onesti for his fine defensive work, even though the hard-hitting center had been injured before the game. , . .
Coach Joe Kuharich blamed the loss on his squad’s lack of offensive power in the first half. The Irish coach commended ' Thornton, Kimbrough, and Stock for their running ability, and he also showered praise on his two sophomore ends, Boulae ' and Sherlock. As usual, Nick Buoniconti and Myron Pbttioa played fine ball in the line for the Irish.	- ~	~
Had the Notre Dame eleven started its offenserollinga little earlier in the game, then the final outcome might haw%^2 shown the Irish ahead on the scoreboard.	:
—David Kilroy ,. ? j
14
BELLINO
Notre Dame Navy ....
Philadelphia, Pa., Oct. 29, 1960—Navy’s Middies scored twice on runs by their All-America candidate Joe Bellino to edge Notre Dame’s desperately battling Irish, 14-7, on this dark afternoon in the Friendly City.
After returning the opening kickoff from Navy’s nine to the 19, Bellino swept right end on the first play from scrimmage for a 43-yard gain to Notre Dame’s 38. After a one-yard gain through the middle of the line by Joe Matalavage, Navy’s captain and fullback, Bellino raced for another* 18 on a power slice over the left side.
Matalavage then hit for seven yards to the 12. On the next play, Bellino took advantage of a crushing block by John Hewitt to sprint 12 yards around right end for the score. End Greg Mather’s conversion was good, and the Middies led 7-0 with only 3:03 of the first period gone.
Although Navy recovered an Irish fumble on the Notre Dame 38, they were unable to take advantage of it, losing possession to the Irish.
Late in the first quarter, the Irish were able to mount their first drive of the game. The Green took possession of the ball on
Kick-blocking expert Nick DePola begins his leap to block Middie field goal attempt. Captain Myron Pottios comes in from the side.
their own 28 and drove downfield to the Navy nine. But Navy linebacker Ron McKeown stopped the Notre Dame drive when he threw quarterback George Haffner for an eight-yard loss from the five to the 13, and the Middies took over on their own eleven early in the second period.
Three plays later, Bellino fumbled on a hand-off from quarterback Hal Spooner, and Mike Lind recovered the ball on the Navy 20. After Haffner had thrown to Jim Sherlock for 14 yards and a first down on the Navy three, Angelo Dabiero took a hand-off from Haffner and skirted his own left end for the score. Joe Perkowski converted, and the score was tied, 7-7.
The second quarter featured another drive by the Irish. Paced by the slashing running of Dabiero and George Sefcik, Notre Dame moved the ball from their own 20 to the Middies’ 22. A holding penalty on the Irish at this point moved the ball back to the 37 and Notre Dame was forced to throw. After two incompletions, Haffner fired one into the end zone intended for Sherlock. Bellino was covering Sherlock and both misssed the ball, but offensive interference was called against Notre Dame. Since the interference infraction had taken place in the end zone, Navy was offered the option of offensive possession on the 20 via a touchback, and took it.
Notre Dame continued to bang away at the Navy defense. After taking the second half kickoff, the Irish drove as far as the Navy five with the biggest gain coming on a 46-yard pass from Haffner to Dabiero. After the Middies pushed the Irish back to the nine, Perkowski attempted a field goal, which was unsuccessful.
After another downfield march, the Irish found themselves 1 on the Navy 31 in a fourth-and-one situation. They again tried for the field goal with Perkowski kicking into the wind, but , the boot was wide.	’
With a 35-yard pass from quarterback Harry Dietz to end Frank Dattilo the key play, Navy broke loose to Notre Dame’s 17. Failing to gain, they also attempted a field goal which was -blocked by sophomore guard Nick DePola.
In the next series of plays, Navy’s Al Hughes picked off a Haffner aerial on the Middies’ 36. From this point, with Bellino and Matalavage alternating as ballcarriers, Navy slugged its way to Notre Dame’s 21. Dietz then threw to end Jim Luper for a first down on the three. Bellino smashed up the middle for two-and-a-half yards on the next play from scrimmage, and then hurdled the piled-up lines for the winning six points. Mather converted to make the final score 14-7.
Taking the ensuing kickoff, the Fighting Irish initiated a drive that carried them all the way to the Navy four. With third down and 17 on his own 27, Haffner let fly with a long ~ ‘ desperation pass. Going down and over the middle from his flanker spot, Irish halfback Bob Scarpitto got a step ahead of Bellino and, taking the ball on the 20, drove to the 14 before Bellino was able to bring him down from behind.
Sefcik then slashed through the Navy line for two five-yard gains to the four. When Scarpitto tried a sweep of left end, the Middies’ defensive charge, led by Bellino and McKeown, dropped him back on the eleven. Under heavy pressure from the clock and the charging Navy line, Haffner attempted a fourth-down pass, but it was knocked down by linebacker* Frank Visted, and the Middies had the ball on their own eleven. With but seconds remaining, they merely ran the clock out.
The Fighting Irish, although losing to a Navy squad favored by two touchdowns, gave a good account of themselves, showing the best and most consistent football they had played to date.
While losing the battle of the scoreboard, the Irish won the battle of statistics, giving rise to the theory that they actually outplayed and outfought the mighty Middies on the field. In addition to their one touchdown, Notre Dame on other drives penetrated to the Navy 22, 14, and to the five twice. They had 16 first downs to Navy’s 13, gained 175 yards rushing to Navy’s 168, and outgained the Middies 165 yards to 101 in the air.
In this thirty-fifth renewal of the longest intersectional rivalry in college football, played in Philadelphia Stadium before 63,000 fans, Navy won for only the seventh time. The Irish have won 27 times, while one of the games was deadlocked.	—Terry Wolkerstorfer
Seatback Angelo Dabiero sweeps left end for the Irish touchdown as All-American Joe Bellino tackles nothing but air.
TAe Scholastic
20
Notre Dame ...... 13
Pittsburgh........20
MISTAKES
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 5, 1960—On this cold and cloudy day in South Bend, a rugged visiting Pittsburgh Panther eleven rolled up a 20-0 lead early and hung on long enough to cop a 20-13 victory over a fighting Notre Dame team. A new £ record was established in the wind-swept confines of the Stadium today; Notre Dame lost their sixth straight game much to the disappointment of the partisan crowd. Never in the lead, the Irish kept battling back and whittled the Pittsburgh margin down to one touchdown before the clock ran out.
After the opening kickoff, the charging Panther line threw the Kuharichmen for two losses and quarterback Daryle La-monica was forced to punt. Pittsburgh began their series of downs on their 42. On the second play from scrimmage, quarterback Ed Sharockman arched a long pass into the hands of All-American Mike Ditka at the Notre Dame 30. Ditka, carrying Angelo Dabiero on his back for most of his running jour-£ ney, was finally pushed out on the eight. Jim Cunningham finally pushed over foi- the score from the one-foot line after the Irish had held for three downs. Fred Cox converted to make the score 7-0.
Notre Dame’s offense was hampered throughout the first half both by penalties and the inability to gain through the air. While Coach Joe Kuharich’s squad was being penalized 55 yards, quarterback George Haffner couldn’t get it back via the airways. Haffner, completing only one pass in the first half, resorted to a ground attack with no more success. Dabiero was the only Green back who managed to pick up yardage and the a Irish went into the dressing room at the half with only 50 J yards to their credit.
The second half saw both teams move their offense into high gear. In the first minute of play Panther halfback Cox intercepted a Haffner pass intended for Les Traver and bounded down to the ND 2. On the next play Cox scampered around left end and scored unmolested. Notre Dame Captain Myron Pottios crashed through the Pitt line to block Cox’ attempted conversion and the Panthers had a 13-0 lead.
„ After the Irish twice failed to retain possession of the ball the Panthers took over and steadily moved the ball on the ground for 73 yards and their third touchdown. Cox and Cunningham swept the ends for gains of eleven, 24, and 18 yards. Left halfback Reinhold skirted around the right end for the score. Cox’ placement was good and the Panthers led 20-0.
Undismayed by Pittsburgh’s 20-point advantage, the Irish i started to move. Sophomore Daryle Lamonica took over the quarterback spot and Sophomore Joe Maxwell came in at fullback. Maxwell cracked for 8 and Dabiero got the first down . with a four-yard run. Lamonica passed to Traver who was in
stantly dumped on the Pitt 37. Notre Dame continued to advance towards the Panther goal line with short runs by Dabiero and Maxwell and the aid of a 12-yard Lamonica pass. The drive was capped with a touchdown as Dabiero ‘bolted around left end for a score with eleven seconds left in the third quarter. Henneghan kicked the ball through the uprights to make the score 20-7.
Both teams traded the ball back and forth until Notre Dame took over with five minutes left in the game. Pressed for time, the Irish took to the air. Haffner passed with authority as Max Burnell gathered in a Haffner- aerial for 16 yards and a first down. Now fighting against the clock, Traver sped toward the sideline and grabbed a pass for another 16 yards before Cox pushed him out of bounds. Then it was Scarpitto down the sidelines and Haffner hit him for 15. The tension mounting with every movement of the clock, Haffner threw a strike to Burnell in the end zone and Notre Dame had their second touchdown. Henneghan’s boot was wide of the mark and the score stood at 20-13.
With just over a minute to play Notre Dame took control of the ball again. Desperate for time, the Irish with Haffner at the helm, passed three times and failed to complete one. On fourth down a pass completed for first down yardage was called back. The next spiral was speared out of the air by a Pittsburgh defenseman as the clock ran out.
Today’s game was a battle between a veteran Panther unit and a still young Irish squad. Instrumental in the Pittsburgh victory was the triple “C” backfield of halfbacks Cox, Bob Clemens and fullback Cunningham. It was this same backfield that defeated Notre Dame in a muddy battle last year in Pittsburgh. The visitor’s tall end, Ditka, came through with his usually fine performance as he snatched a 59-yard pass to set up the Panther’s first touchdown. Ditka was a terror on defense as he was constantly in on Haffner, rushing his passes, while he tackled the Irish runners with devastating authority.
Today’s game proved that the Notre Dame team is still suffering from its inexperience. And yet, it is gaining maturity —the hard way. After the game, Coach Kuharich stated that he was impressed with Dabiero’s running and his all-around performance. Also outstanding for the Fighting Irish were center John Linehan, who made 20 tackles, and Joe Maxwell, playing his first game at fullback.
Yes, the Notre Dame team was a unit lacking maturity, but never spirit. This Notre Dame team never quit battling, forgetting the sad fact that it was losing its sixth consecutive game. The Irish played 60 minutes of courageous football even in defeat.	.	—David Williams
Pittsburgh halfback Fred Cox doesn’t know what to do as Irish defenders Les Traver, Dennis Murphy and John Linehan have ideas.
December 2, 1960
Angelo Dabiero struggles to break away fran Panther defender. Ron Dclfine and Larry Vignali follow up with the tackle.
21
3
THE UNITED SPIRIT OF THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT BODY
The spirit of the student body here at Notre Dame has not been confined to the pep rally alone. This year, the Irish student body began the spirited practice of forming a tunnel for the ballplayers to run through upon returning
<	to the field after each halftime intermission.
Shake Down the Thunder
hrker-Winternwd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS IIS’A-llZ’A No. Main St. UPSTAIRS Phone CE 3-6318

Each Friday evening preceding a home football game the students assemble in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse for the purpose of inciting their favorites, the football team, to gi-eat accomplishments. As a further ingredient, the Irish band marches the length and breadth of the campus in search of Irish supporters to add more life to the lively gathering.
It is usually about 7:30 C.S.T. when the formal opening of the assemblage is called to order. A group of enthusiastic blue and gold clad young men, the cheerleaders, ask the assembled to test their vocal cords in an orderly manner with organized cheering. This procedure is followed, for several minutes and thus the stage is set for the entrance of an important group.
The group is none other than the Irish footballers. They file in led by their appointed leader, the team captain. Volley after volley of cheers rise from the assemblage. To say that pandemonium is the reigning figure could be as great an understatement as the decree issued once upon an early fall night when an interrogated football coach proclaimed that his players would be lucky to accumulate one solitary first down in the coming campaign and then sat back while his squad scurried through an undefeated year.
The pandemonium subsides just enough, and the master of ceremonies takes over the rostrum. He makes a few preliminary remarks which instill greater enthusiasm in the assemblage. After his brief introductory performance, the pa
22
rade of speakers is on in full force. The usual procedure calls for at least two guest orators, one of whom is usually a member of the team, the other being an older type who may have been a team member in his earlier days but who is now a member of that select fraternity, the alumni.
While these orators endeavor to make their point, the assembled ND students keep up a steady stream of cheering and often the comments of the speaker are interspersed with the raucous yells and cheers of their audience.
However, all good things must end and this holds true for the pep rally. In time the assemblage grows weary which is only a human reaction and the noise and din decrease. The rally, which was inaugurated with the most famous of all campus songs, the Notre Dame Victory March, now closes with the same tune. The students then seek other means of diversion, whether it be back to the halls to study or maybe a dance in the student center. Another pep rally has come and gone, and takes its place in history with other such gatherings.
But this has been not an ordinary pep rally; this epic meeting has been a Notre Dame pep rally. The University of Notre Dame has an abundance of a quality known as spirit, an intangible, abstract something which is not seen but which any and all who have ever attended such a rally can attest to, a prideful spirit which seems to be omnipresent. This is representative of the spirit at Notre Dame.	—Bill Cary
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parter-Winterrewd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
. <
9
The Scholastic
Behind the Scenes ...
of the Notre Dame Monogram Club three years ago.
Football: Its Business Aspects
Every year at Notre Dame, the football program goes on and it is only the players and coaches who reap the cheers. Yet, football is a business and like any financial consideration, it consumes a great deal of both time and
work.
Notre Dame has men who handle this business of football. Seldom, if ever, are their names heard around the ^campus in connection with sports. These • businessmen are the “brains behind the scenes,” the men who see that the Notre Dame football and athletic program functions in a smooth manner. Certainly, they deserve recognition.
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C.
Father Joyce is now in his eighth year as Notre Dame’s executive vice president. As Chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, Father • Joyce has been instrumental in the rise of the athletic program here at Notre Dame. He is also chairman of the University Building Committee and has been an American delegate to the North Atlantic Congress in London.
In his supervision of the athletic program, Father Joyce has never allowed athletics to interfere with the high aca-u demic standards of the University. ^ Father Joyce believes a top-flight academic and athletic program do not have to conflict with each other. He has proven to all concerned that united effort is possible with the successful program that exists here at Notre Dame.
EDWARD W. (MOOSE) KRAUSE
Ed "Moose” Krause has served as athletic director since 1949 when he took over the post vacated by Frank Leahy after serving as his assistant for one • year. Krause was one of the all-time great athletes in Notre Dame history, copping All-American honors in both football and basketball. Under Krause’s guidance, the last twelve years have been highly successful ones for Notre Dame sports. Krause annually arranges one of the most rugged schedules in the country for the Irish gridders. He has received the Sports Illustrated Silver Anniversary Award, an award annually given to the 25 former college foot
December 2, 1960
ball players who, in the last 25 years, have become leaders in the occupation in which they have entered.
Krause also is a leader in civic groups, and has a weekly sports show heard in the South Bend area.
HERBERT E. JONES
Herb Jones has been Notre Dame’s business manager of athletics since 1940. Jones includes among his duties the supervision of the Notre Dame Stadium on football Saturdays, the handling of athletic accounts and arranging for away athletic events.
Jones is one of the unsung heroes who does the job well but is not in the public limelight at Notre Dame. His efforts were rewarded, however, when he was presented with a rare honorary membership in the Notre Dame Monogram Club three years ago. Jones has been connected with the University in some capacity since he was graduated from the College of Arts and Letters in 1927.
ROBERT M. CAHILL
Bob Cahill, Notre Dame’s ticket manager, has never seen a complete Irish home game. In fulfilling the details of his job and trying to make seats available for everyone, Cahill is kept busy until the final whistle of the very last game.
Cahill’s work continues after the football season with basketball games, the Bengal Bouts and other events keeping his ticket office busy.
Ticket manager since 1941, Cahill has handled more than ten million tickets since that time. Along with Jones, Cahill was made an honorary member
Bob Cahill
Len Kahlrr
LEONARD KAHLER
Len Kahler is Notre Dame’s assistant ticket manager. Formerly connected with the dining halls here, Len has toiled in the ticket office for seven years. His specific duty in this million dollar business concerns the filling of ticket orders.
Applications for tickets come in, are reviewed, and then Kahler has charge of assigning and mailing the tickets to the applicants.
GENE PASZKIET
Gene Paszkiet has been the Notre Dame trainer for eight, years and his public appearances on football Saturdays have been limited to carrying refreshments to the team during time outs. His purpose in doing the above is not strictly confined to satisfying Irish gladiator thirst however, for Gene checks on every player’s physical wellbeing during the rest period.
These autumnal advents into football’s public eye belie the importance and responsibility of Paszkiet’s job though, for Gene heads a collection of a little-known and little-appreciated group composed of Jim O’Donnel, Vic Grabowski, Jim Crotty, Walt Riebienack, and Charles Monahan, who are his assistants in the Notre Dame training room.
The training job demands explicit knowledge in a variety of fields, from anatomy to physical therapy. Of late these skills have been taxed to the fullest, as injuries have been abundant, particularly of the knee variety. Gene has taken constructive measures to remedy the knee situation. A plan was put into effect last January, requiring the players to report to the training room and lift weights imposed on their legs. The .players had to be able to lift 50 pounds of weight ten times, within a period of 40 seconds. This feat was to be accomplished before spring practice began. Paszkiet thinks this plan, together with Coach Kuharich’s idea of special exercises, wrestling, and mnning over uneven surfaces could be an answer to this aggravating problem, or at least a partial answer.
The above scheme did not include knees already operated on. These cases Gene began to work with as soon as they were fully recovered from their surgery. He is credited with rehabilitating Pottios, Sefcik and Lind, among others.
Fighting Irish
Fullback Joe Perkowski looks toward the Iowa goal line as Hawkeyes Lloyd Humphreys and Bill Perkins have other ideas. Dabiero has just laid a good block.
George Sefeik gathers in a pass and peers around for any would-be tacklers but there are none to be seen.
Bob Scarpitto tries to break away from his Iowa tackler with a dance step as Ed Rutkowski hurries up. End Max Burnell leaps to his teammate’s aid.
Fullback Mike Lind provides interference as Angelo Dabiero tries to evade the charging Iowa tackler on a left end sweep.
Lind pushes Jerry Mauren aside while rushing to aid teammates in stopping Iowa’s Larry Ferguson.
24
The Scholastic
of 1960 in Action
Sophomore halfback Leo Caito is all alone as he starts back up the field with a punt return in an early game.
Scarpitto finds plenty of running room as he dashes around Notre Dame’s end. Purdue's Manzie Winters tries to evade Mike Lind's blocking ideas. •
Tiny Frank Minik steps into
high gear with the help of a fine
block
by Nick Buoniconti. Iowa's Keith Kinderman looks up hopelessly
body block by Bob Pietrzak.
I)
I)
from the ground after a devastating
Lind crashes into the California line for several yards. John Powers and Mike Magnotta aid Lind with fine blocks. Scarpitto carries out his fake.
George Haffner gets the Irish offense rolling as he prepares to hand off to either Mike Lind or Bob Scarpitto for a line smash.
December 2, 1960
25
1960 Notre Dame Fighting Irish
FIRST ROW—(left to right): Dan Luecke, Bob Koreck, Bob Scarpitto, Bill (Red) Mack, Capt. Myron Pottios, Bob Pietrzak, Ray Ratkowski, Frank Gargiulo, Paul Nissi. SECOND ROW—(left to right): Norb Roy, Tom Hecomovich, Max Burnell, George Haffner, Tom Monahan, John Linehan, Jack Castin, Bill Henneghan, Bill Clark, George Sefcik, Angelo Dabiero, George Williams, Les Traver. THIRD ROW—(left to right): Jim Mikacich, Charles Augustine, Bill Clements, Clay Schulz, Tom Liggio, Gene Viola, Nick Buoniconti, Bob Bill, Gerry Gray, Joe Carollo, Joe Perkowski, Jack Cullen, Roger Wilke, John Powers. FOURTH ROW—(left to right); Bob Lehmann, Joe Maxwell, Nick DePola, Leo Seiler, Dan Kolasinski, Mike Magnotta, Frank Grau, Bill Ford, Jim Loula, Dick Naab, Bill Snyder, Mike Lind, Ed Burke, Brian Boulac. FIFTH ROW—(left to right): Kieran Kealy (Associate Manager), John Slafkosky, Chuck O’Hara, Bill Ahern, Steve Kolski, Ed Hoerster, Dennis Murphy, Jim Sherlock, Daryle Lamonica, Bill Kutzavitch, Norb Rascher, Ed Rutkowski, Leo Caito, Greg Wood, Marshall Reilly, Frank Minik, Bob McCutchan (Head Manager), Joe Kelly (Associate Manager).
College Sports Editors* All-American Team for 1960
TOM BROWN “Lineman of the Year”
MURRAY WARMATH “Coach of the Year”
JOE BELUNO “Back of the Year”
Mike Ditka, end .........................Pittsburgh
Fred Mautino, end........................Syracuse
Robert Lilly, tackle................Texas Christian
Walter Suggs, tackle..............................Mississippi State Tom Brown, guard...................Minnesota
Joe Romig, guard.........................Colorado
E. J. Holub, center.................... Texas	Tech
Wilburn Hollis, quarterback...................Iowa
Joe Bellino, halfback.........................Navy
Ernie Davis, halfback.....................Syracuse
Bob Ferguson, fullback...................Ohio	State
Murray Warmath, coach....................Minnesota
December 2, 1960	=■
4	'	.
Brown and Bellino Top All-American Selection
by JAY KILROY
The Football Review is pleased to announce its annual College Sports Editors’ All-American football team for 1960. The Sports Editors’ All-American was begun by Scholastic sports editor John Glavin in 1956 and has become a regular feature of the Football Review since then. This is the fifth such team selected.
The three teams selected in oui- poll represent the opinions of sports editors throughout the country. Naturally some of the ballots that we received were biased, representing only a certain region of the country. But since the reception was cross-sectional and so great in number, we feel that this All-American team is a comprehensive and accurate group of stars.
In addition to picking the top eleven positions for the first team, the sports editors were asked to pick a Coach of the Year, Back of the Year and Lineman of the Year.
Coach of the Year. I960 was a year that saw the resurgence of many mediocre football teams into nation-wide powers. Perhaps the most noticeable rise of any team was that of Minnesota. Last year relegated to the lower echelon of the Big Ten with a poor 2-7 record, the Gophers suddenly caught fire in 1960 and finished with an 8-1 record.
The man most responsible for the Gopher’s rise in fortunes can be none other than Coach Murray Warmath. Warmath is this year’s overwhelming selection for Coach of the Year honors.
Success was not instantaneous for Warmath at Minnesota. For the first six years of his mentorship, Warmath’s Gophers struggled to a record of just 23 victories and 29 defeats.
Warmath has been raised in a winning tradition. • Before assuming the head mentor post for Minnesota in 1954, Warmath had served as assistant to General Neyland at Tennessee and Colonel Blaik at Army.
Like the two great teachers under whom he learned his football, Warmath is a perfectionist who “lives and breathes
football.” He is what coaches and players term a “contact” man, a man who will not take a defeat sitting down. And Murray Warmath proved this in 1960; his team is going to the Rose Bowl and he is the college sports editor’s choice as Coach of the Year.
Lineman of the Year. It would appear presumptuous to state flatly that one man is the outstanding lineman in the country but this is exactly what the sports editors did. Selected by a majority of the ballots for his fine play throughout the 1960 campaign, guard Tom Brown of Minnesota truly earned the title as the 1960 Lineman of the Year.
SECOND TEAM
Dan LaRose, Ie _____________  Iowa
Ken Rice, It_____________   Auburn
Pat Dye, lg ..........  ...Georgia
Wayne Harris, c........................Arkansas Al Vanderbush, rg ........ Army
Mike Pyle, rt ______________  Yale
Marlin McKeever, re .......... USC
Jake Gibbs, q —........Mississippi
Bill Kilmer, Ih ........  ....UCLA
Ron Bull, rh ................Baylor Ed Dyas, fb .................  Auburn
Brown is a 6-0, 243-pound middle guard who is called by many coaches in the Big Ten as the best lineman they have ever seen in college ball. Especially impressive to all observers is Brown’s speed and agility for his size.
This is really Brown’s first year as a recognized star. Last year he was well on his way to fame when a knee injury benched him for three games in the middle of the Minnesota schedule.
As the key to a strong Gopher forward wall, Brown has finally gained the accolades that he deserves. For his play against Northwestern he was Sports Illustrated’s Lineman of the Week while UPI tabbed Brown as the “Midwest Lineman of the Week” on the basis of his outstanding play in the Iowa contest.
Back of the Year. When selections for Back of the Year were tabulated, the victor had more than ten times as many votes as his nearest competitor. And this 1960 Back of the Year is none other -than Navy’s great halfback, Joe Bellino.
In leading the Middies to a highly successful 9-1 season, Bellino set more Navy records than any player in the Academy’s history. In 1960 alone, Bellino scored an astounding 110 points while gaining 835 yards rushing. Added to this was Bellino’s ability in the other phases of football. As a quick-kicker, he averaged 47 yards a punt; as a punt and kickoff returner, he averaged bet- s ter than 20 yards on each runback. ' Certainly, he merits the frequent acclaim as “the finest all-around halfback in the land.”
A 5-9, 187-pound phenomenon, Bellino’s greatness can be attributed to his elusiveness and speed. Not an exceptionally fast starter, the Middie star becomes a break-away threat when he reaches the line of scrimmage because of his ability to run laterally with great t power.	'
Ends. The first team selections for end on this year’s All-American squad were Pittsburgh’s Mike Ditka and Fred Mautino of Syracuse. Ditka was unanimously selected while Mautino had strong competition from Missouri’s Dan LaRose.
Ditka, a 6-3, 218-pounder from Aliquippa, Pa., is one of the most versatile ; ends ever to play in the East. Not only is the Panther captain an exceptional receiver but he is also the best defensive end in the country.
A nemesis to Notre Dame, Ditka has been named to their all-opponent team for three years in a row. Pittsburgh Steeler Coach Buddy Parker, an astute judge of talent, called him “the best college player in the country for 1960.” j
Mautino of Syracuse excels on de- ’ fense. Named to the AP All-American last year, Mautino is the primary reason why the Orangemen rank high in the nation in total defense. Named the
HOLUB	FERGUSON	DAVIS	HOWS
outstanding defensive lineman in four Syracuse games this season, Mautino was also the top pass receiver and offensive blocker.
The second team selections are LaRose of Missouri and Marlin McKeever of Southern California. LaRose was the key to Missouri’s 1960 success as he led the Tigers with vicious blocking and stellar defensive play. McKeever, for the third consecutive year, was the Trojan pacesetter.
The third team end selections are Tee a Morman, pass-snaring specialist from Duke, and huge Earl Faison of Indiana, a leading pass receiver in the Big Ten.
Tackles. Tackles on the 1960 AllAmerican are Robert Lilly of Texas Christian and Walter Suggs of Mississippi State. Lilly, a unanimous choice, was outstanding in every TCU game. Yet his supreme effort came in the Texas game when he crushed the Longhorn backs with 17 tackles, recovered two \ fumbles, blocked a punt and caused a pass interception. A big man at 6-5, 248 pounds, Lilly was Sports Illustrated’s Lineman of the Week for his performance in the Texas game.
Suggs had strong competition from Ken Rice of Auburn, Mike Pyle of Yale and Joe Rutgens of Illinois before finally winning a first-team berth. The 240 pound Suggs captained the Maroons to •• a fine season while copping all-every-0V thing honors in his region.
The second team selections, Pyle and Rice, were leaders on their respective teams. Pyle was the bulwark in a line that led Yale to an undefeated season. Rice, an exceptional blocker, steadied the powerful Auburn defense.
Third team tackle Rutgens of Illinois was recently named the first draft choice of Oakland in the American Football League. The other third team tackle is Jerry Beabout of Purdue.
Guards. Tom Brown’s partner at guard on the first team is Joe Romig of Colorado. Romig, a 5-10, 199-pounder with a straight-A average in physics, is the middle linebacker in Colorado’s 4-3 defense. With great speed and diagnostic ability, he has been Colorado’s offensive and defensive leader throughout the season. Against Oklahoma, Romig participated in more than 50 per cent of the tackles on Sooner rushing plays. In the Iowa State games, Romig’s
- December 2, 1960
it
saavy enabled him to make 14 initial stops and seven assists.
Pat Dye of Georgia, a rough 200-pound ball hawk, and steady Al Vanderbush of Army are the second team guards.
Dye and Vanderbush received close competition at guard from third team men Myron Pottios of Notre Dame and Richard Price of Mississippi.
Center. E. J. Holub had no difficulty winning the first team center position. A 6-4, 217-pound competitor, Holub has the distinction of being named AP’s Lineman of the Week twice and Sports Illustrated’s once. Against Wyoming this year, Holub made 13 tackles and assisted on eight more. And in the Baylor game, the “Beast” stopped 15 opponents, assisted on eight more tackles, while breaking up a pass and recovering a fumble.
The second team selection at center is Wayne Harris of Arkansas. Greg Larson, steady Minnesota competitor, was the third team selection at center.
Quarterback. Wilburn Hollis of Iowa is this year’s quarterback choice. A 6-2, 200-pound highly-regarded athlete, Hollis was a principal reason for the Hawkeyes success in 1960. A fine ballhandler, he was an exceptional faker and kept the opponent’s defenses guessing most of the time. Known as a runner, Hollis was also effective with the long pass as he paced the lowans to an 8-1 record.
The second team quarterback is Jake Gibbs, the man who led his Mississippi team through an undefeated season. Equally proficient as a passer or runner, Gibbs proved his All-American certification in the Mississippi State clash with his pin-point passing.
Quarterback for the third team is Tom Matte, field general of the Ohio State power house. Matte completed more than 50 per cent of his passes while gaining 682 yards running.
Halfback. Bellino’s running mate at halfback this year is Ernie Davis of Syracuse. Davis, a 6-2, 205-pound junior, was on the sports editors’ second team last year.
Ranked number four nationally in rushing, Davis averaged eight yards a carry this year. The fleet Orangeman, combining power with speed, was a
magnificent pass receiver. He played “good enough” to earn back of the week honors in four of Syracuse’s first eight games.
Bill Kilmer of UCLA was a top contender for first team. A tailback in the Bruin’s single-wing, Kilmer has twice been AP’s Back of the Week and twice a member of UPI’s Backfield of the Week. Averaging six yards a carry, Kilmer was also an outstanding passer and punter. His 42.4 punting average was one of the highest in the nation.
Ron Bull of Baylor is the other second, team halfback.
Third team selections at halfback were teammates on the same college eleven, Pervis Atkins and Bob Gaiters of New Mexico State.
Fullback. Bob Ferguson, block-busting runner for Ohio State is the top choice at the fullback position. Ferguson was the Big Ten’s leading scorer with. 78 points while accumulating 853 yards in rushing. His only competition at the power position came from Ed Dyas of Auburn. Dyas set a national record earlier in the year as a field goal kicker, while proving his ability as a crushing blocker on offense for the Auburn eleven. There was no strong third team candidate at fullback.
FRED MAUTINO
Pass snaring Orangeman
6n Ut* £ute . . .
Each Thursday evening, the campus radio station WSND presents an entertaining panel discussion known as “On the Line.” “On the Line” is a half-hour show which features an interview with sports personalities on the Notre Dame campus. The show is on from 7:30 to 8 p.m.
The usual procedure is for two Irish athletes to be interviewed by a board of four or five “experts.” The starting lineup for the “experts” this year has included the likes of WSND’s own Dick Ciccone, Don Criqui, Ray Trance and Ed Luderan, Bob Schaefer of the Sports Publicity Office, and Jay Kilroy and Bill Cary of the Scholastic sports staff.
The interrogated athletes sometimes approach the show with a minimum of
PRO^
^ELECTRIC
THE BEFORE-SHAVE LOTION
calmness and a maximum of trepidation. However, there is good reason foi- this trepidation since the “experts” ask the usual number of tough questions. It is to the credit of the guest athletes that they handle these parries with a skill and ease that is sometimes very surprising.
The show is divided into two 15-min-ute segments with a public service announcement scheduled in between. The initial 15 minutes is usually spent discussing the game of the previous week. After the brief one-minute intermission the chatter turns to the coming opponent, the physical condition of the team, and other- pertinent subjects.
The first “On the Line” show of this school year was aired on September 29. The guests on this kickoff performance were Captain Myron Pottios and juniortackle Bob Bill. Since then such Irish
Mister... you’re going to wear that shave all day!
START WITH THIS NEW FORMULA BEFORESHAVE LOTION, stop 4 o'clock stubble trouble! You con shove blade-close, all-day clean, without "tenderizing" your face, when you use Pro-Electric Before-Shave Lotion. It contains ISOPHYL® to give your shaver extra glide-power —refreshes you with that brisk, bracing Old Spice scent. LOO no federal tax.
/ELECTRIC
SHAVE LOTION
grid standouts as Mike Lind, Les Traver, Nick Buoniconti, Daryle Lamonica, George Sefcik and Bob Scarpitto were the men of honor.
The interviews with these football stars bring out the side of a football player that is seldom appreciated. Whether many realize it, football players are more than just rugged athletes who are allowed to utilize their talents only on Saturdays. All who appeared on this • half-hour show showed a facility and ease in expressing themselves. Also, all made a forthright attempt to answer the question in a truthful manner.
With the football season now history, the basketball team will be featured during the winter months along ■with the swimming, fencing and wrestling aggregations. In the spring, the “experts” will center their attention on members of the golf, tennis, baseball and track teams.
GUARANTEES
A FASTER. CLOSER. LONGER-LASTING
ELECTRIC SHAVE
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
30
The Scholastic

’darkness
Notre Dame.........21
Miami.............28
Miami, Fla., Nov. 12,1960—Miami’s Hurricanes traveled 80 yards for a last quarter touchdown before 58,062 to win a thrilling, see-saw battle with Notre Dame, 28 to 21, and spoil a gallant effort by the Irish to break an unprecedented losing streak.
’ Dazzling runs by several backs and a stirring aerial duel between Eddie Johns of Miami and Notre Dame’s Daryle La-monica highlighted an explosive game in which Miami pinned a seventh consecutive defeat on the Irish.
Miami’s big plays kept the Irish off balance and fighting uphill all the way, although Coach Joe Kuharich’s team gained a tie at halftime and again in the third period.
Notre Dame’s Angelo Dabiero breaks into the open, following the referee as Miami’s secondary men close in.
Like most Notre Dame opponents, Miami got the easy one and got it early. After taking the opening kickoff, the Hurricanes needed only five plays to score. With third down and six yards to go on the Miami 34—an obvious passing situation— quarterback Johns fooled the Irish with the draw play. The eager Irish had swarmed in on Johns who handed off to halfback Nick Ryder. Ryder sped all the way to the Irish ten . where George Sefcik finally tripped him up.
Jim Vollenweider then ran to the one on a sweep. On the next play, Johns put the Hurricanes ahead by diving over center for the score with only 2:28 elapsed. Al Dangel converted for a 7-0 lead.
Mike Lind fumbled away the ball when Notre Dame took over. But the second time in possession Lind got a chance to . score when the Irish marched 80 yards in seven plays. Two big plays sparked this drive. On the first one, Angie Dabiero sped outside tackle for 43 yards before he was pushed out on Miami’s 38.
After three plays failed to gain, Lamonica, on fourth down, . passed to Les Traver all alone at Miami’s ten and Traver stumbled to the one before falling down. Lind belted over on the next play. Joe Perkowski’s kick was wide, leaving Miami in front, 7-6.
The Hurricanes drove steadily at the start of the second i; period, scoring on a 60-yard march in ten plays. Johns scored 4 again, but Vollenweider got the tough yardage with a nine-I yard burst to the seven and then six more to the one. In the drive, Johns fired to Larry Wilson for 15 and to Bill Miller for « two passes totaling 20 yards. Dangel’s extra point gave Miami 1 a 14-6 lead with 9:52 remaining in the half.
■ Notre Dame got the ball after the kickoff and moved 77 • yards in 14 plays to knot the score. Bill Ahern, the ninth offen-*>December 2, 1960
sive fullback used this season by ND, helped out in the drive, but Lamonica’s passes were the big key.
Dabiero gained 18 yards on the second play, and on the fifth play, Lamonica hit Traver at Miami’s 40. Ahern and Dabiero netted a first down to the 30, and on third down, Lamonica passed to Max Burnell who was wrestled down at the 7. Bob Scarpitto lost a yard, but Ed Rutkowski gained three before Ahem slipped through a gaping hole to score from the five with only 1:58 left in the half. With the need of two points, the Irish used the Lamonica to Traver pass. Traver snared it in the far left comer of the end zone for the tie of 14-14 at halftime.
Three minutes aftei- intermission, Miami took over on its 29. Johns ran for ten and Vollenweider for 14, but a holding penalty put the ball back at the 47. Miller, who had consistently out-run the Irish secondary all evening, stole behind Dabiero who had rushed up toward the line. Miller galloped all the way to the five from where Vollenweider crashed across in two plays. Dangel again converted for a 21-14 lead.
The Irish came back quickly with a 62-yard march in ten plays. The big play in the drive was a 37-yard pass from Lamonica to Scarpitto who fell out at the one-yard line. Lamonica hurdled the line for the tying touchdown.
Early in the fourth quarter Irish end Brian Boulac recovered a Miami fumble at the Hurricane 34. Lamonica fired a long shot to sophomore end Jim Sherlock who grabbed it at the Miami five. A victory seemed inevitable. But an illegal use of hands penalty put the ball back to the Irish 47 and Miami eventually took over after Perkowski’s 53-yard field goal attempt fell in the end zone.
Miami then moved 80 yards to score the winning touchdown in eight plays. The key play in this drive was a 49-yard keeper play by Johns. Johns went to his left at his own 35, then cut back and wasn’t challenged until he cut the wrong way and George Haffner pulled him down at the Irish 15. Five plays later, Vollenweider crashed into the end zone and Dangel’s fourth extra point made it 28-21.
This was the last score of the night, although the Irish had three chances after that. One failed at midfield and the second and best one misfired when a Lamonica pass was intercepted at the Hurricane 32, with just over five minutes left.
Rain fell in the final minute of the game played in 77-degree temperature in the Orange Bowl, and ruined some Miami homecoming fioats, but the Hurricanes had already made their homecoming a success.
—John Bechtold
Ed Rutkowski fights for extra yardage as Hurricane Bill Miller applies a wrestling hold, aided by Sam Fernandez.
31
SPEEDSTERS
12
Notre Dame........... 0
Iowa.................28
Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 19, 1960. A thick veil of gloom hung over the Notre Dame campus late this afternoon after Forest Evashevski’s magnificent Iowa Hawkeyes handed the Irish their eighth successive loss this season. 54,146 people saw the third-ranked and Rose Bowl aspiring lowans defeat the gallant Irish 28-0, the second time in history that an Iowa team was able to hold Notre Dame scoreless. As anyone who saw the game will testify, the final score was nowhere near indicative of the closeness of the game, as the inspired Irish forward wall, led by Captain Moe Pottios and junior guard Nick Buoniconti, time and again held the fabled Hawkeye Wing-T offense.
The Irish defense gives a real effort as Clay Schulz, Dennis Murph}', Brian Boulac and John Linehan contain Wilburn Hollis.
Iowa’s first tally came cheaply on the seventh play of the game. The Irish won the toss and elected to receive. However, they fumbled on the first play from scrimmage, giving the ball to the visitors on the Irish 28. Six plays later Iowa fullback Joe Williams cracked over left tackle for six yards and six points. Hawkeye quarterback Tom Moore failed on an attempted end sweep for two more points, and at 10:52 of the first quarter the score was Iowa 6, Notre Dame 0.
The ball was punted back and forth for the remainder of the quarter without any scoring. The Irish were moving the ball well at the end of the period, with Ahern going for five, Minik for two, Perkowski for six and the first down, Perkowski again for four, Dabiero for foui- and Perkowski once again for four. The period ended with the Irish in possession on their own 37.
Hawkeye fullback Williams intercepted Lamonica’s pass to break up this drive. Two plays later however little Angelo Dabiero intercepted a Wilburn Hollis pass intended for Williams on the 33, but the play was called back because Da-biero’s knee touched the ground. The ball changed hands three times before Sammie “Mercury” Harris, swiftest of the swift Hawkeyes, caught the Irish defense sleeping and raced 34 yards to the Irish 28 where he was pushed out of bounds. Three plays later Hawkeye aerialist Matt Szykowny flipped a beautiful pass to Bill Whisler, completely free from Irish defenders, in the end zone for six more points. Wilburn Hollis re-entered the game and blasted over right tackle for the two-point conversion. At 6:09 of the first half, the score was Iowa 14, Notre Dame 0.
The Irish, with the passing of George Haffner, almost scored twice in the closing moments of the first half, as two passes completed to Murphy and Traver were ruled caught out of the end zone.
32
Perkowski kicked to Gene Mosley to start the third quarter, and just ten plays and 85 yards later, the Hawks were on the ND five, once again knocking on the end zone door. The tough Irish defensive line held for five plays in a magnificent goalline stand, with Denny Murphy finally ending the Hawkeye^ threat by recovering quarterback Hollis’ fumble on the ND -two-yard line. Failing to gain a first down, Scarpitto punted 53 yards to the Iowa 41. The Irish gained 45 yards on punt exchanges, and moved to the Iowa 26.
This scoring drive was broken up by Iowa guard Sherwyn Thorson’s interception of a Haffner pass on the Hawkeye ten, and his subsequent 34-yard return to the Iowa 44. Iowa’s star left halfback Larry Ferguson broke loose around right end for 38 yards and the first down to the Irish 17, setting up a third Iowa tally. A personal foul against the Irish put the ball on the ten. As the third quarter closed, Hollis hit Felton Rogers on the three.	q
On the second play of the fourth quarter, Hollis plunged three yards for the TD. Moore’s placement was good, and the lowans led 21-0, with 14:55 left in the game. The Irish retaliation drive was nipped prematurely when Bernie Wyatt intercepted Haffner’s pass on the Iowa 27. The Hawks failed to gain a first down, and Dabiero returned the punt to the Irish 48. A pass to Dabiero and a Minik plunge were good for two first downs in a row. Four plays later Bill DiCindio and Lloyd Humphreys threw Haffner for a 23-yard loss, and on fourth down Dayton Perry threw Haffner for a loss of ten. Iowa took possession on their 43. Gene Mosley was the big^' gun in this final Hawkeye scoring drive. On the first play" from scrimmage Mosley ripped off 36 yards to the Irish 20 for the first down. Six plays later Mosley bucked over from the two for the touchdown. With 4:23 remaining in the game, Moore’s placement was true, and the game scoring was over, 28-0 for Iowa.
Norb Rascher hit on two of four passes for Notre Dame, but Keith Kinderman’s interception of a Rascher flip at 2:08 of the final period ended all Irish hopes of scoring. The Iowa reserves ran out the remaining moments of the game.	.
The game was over, and Iowa had won. Those who saw . I the game however, will sing the praises of men such as Bob Scarpitto, who’s punting was nothing short of phenomenal, of Myron Pottios and Nick Buoniconti, who tore savagely into the Iowa line play after play, and of Les Traver who never would quit. Haffner was his usual self, giving every ounce of desire he could muster for the ailing Irish football cause, a cause that will improve as the season progresses.
— Tom Walsh
Angelo Dabiero skirts left end with Nick Buoniconti and Joe Pericowski leading the way against the Hawkeyes.
The Scholastic
REBO UND
Notre Dame...........17
Southern California . 0
LOS ANGELES, Calif., Nov. 26, 1960—Steady rain and steady play by a surprisingly consistent Notre Dame team combined to dampen spirits in Southern California today. In a game that was played under the Coliseum lights on a raina soaked muddy field, the men from South Bend put together their finest game of the 1960 season and demonstrated the “hard-nosed, grind-’em-out” possession football that coach Joe Kuharich is noted for. Only 28,000 fans, smallest Irish crowd in 20 years, were on hand for the “mud bath.”
The victory, a team effort, was highlighted by the quarterbacking of Sophomore Daryle Lamonica and the running of Angelo Dabiero, Frank Minik, Bill Ahern, Bob Scarpitto, Ed Rutkowski, and Lamonica. The line, anchored by Mo Pottios,
I Who has the ball, Bob? Scarpitto reaches out for the ball, which has already passed through his hands and is falling to the turf.
Les Traver, Bob Bill, Norb Roy, Ed Burke, Dennis Murphy, j	Joe Carollo, Nick Buoniconti and John Linehan consistently ,
I	opened large holes in the Trojan line, made crucial tackles and
demonstrated fine downfield blocking, a weak spot in the Irish offense all season.
, Lamonica, a native Californian and Notre Dame’s most
' productive quarterback all season, showed great promise for the future as he engineered three long sustained drives which JX culminated in a 17-0 victory for the Irish. Unable to do much passing, Lamonica time after time came up with the necessary play and on four occasions bootlegged the ball for important first downs. He also punted for long distances and was alert defensively as is evidenced by his interception of a Bill Nelsen pass, thus beginning the drive that produced the first Irish touchdown.
, Dabiero was the workhorse for the Irish, gaining more yardage than the entire Southern California team. He amassed 89 yards via the turf. Minik, Rutkowski, Ahern and Scarpitto seemed to gain at will and Joe Perkowski’s toe was in top form.
From the toss of the coin to the final gun, the game was dominated by the Irish. Following the opening kickoff, hard “ running by Minik, Dabiero and Lamonica moved the ball from the Notre Dame 29 to the Trojan 21 but here the Irish bogged down. Coach Kuharich called on Perkowski for a field goal and when the ball split the uprights from 31 yards out, Notre Dame enjoyed its first lead since the opening California game.
The Irish kicked off and on the second play from scrimmage, Lamonica intercepted a Trojan pass and ran it back to the Southern California 45. It took just eight plays for the Irish to tally their first touchdown. An 18-yard rollout pass to t Murphy and runs by Dabiero and Minik put the ball on the ’ Trojan one. Lamonica bulled over for the score, Perkowski
kicked the extra point, and Notre Dame had a 10-0 lead.
■ December 2, 1960
- -.1
After the ball had exchanged hands, the Irish were once again on the move. With ten minutes remaining in the second period, Southern California punted and Scarpitto returned the ball to the Notre Dame 20. Notre Dame, using the straight-T formation, now demonstrated possession football at its finest by grinding out 80 yards in 18 plays taking 9 minutes. Rutkowski, Scarpitto and Lamonica moved the ball all the way to the Trojan nine. Scarpitto then came up with the most exciting run of the game. He veered wide to the left side, and when Dave Washington and Al Prukop hit him at the eleven, he worked his way free and crashed goalward. Jim Bates and Jerry Traynham slowed him up at the two but Scarpitto carried them over the goal line. Perkowski made the extra point and the Ii-ish were up, 17-0.
Only twice did Southern California threaten. Late in the second period Nelsen, the Trojan sophomore quarterback, sparkled with some nifty pin-point passing and Dave Wilson contributed a 15-yard ran, but with the ball on the Irish 24, time ran out. Then late in the fourth period the Trojans moved the ball to the Notre Dame 15, but with the scoreboard clock showing time for only one play Jack Castin, Notre Dame’s rugged senior defensive back, broke up a Ben Charles pass to end the game. In the third quarter a less serious Trojan drive was halted when George Haffner recovered a fumble on the Irish 42 after Burke and Buoniconti had jolted the Trojan ball carrier. The remainder of the time Notre Dame either controlled the ball or controlled Southern California.
The sole standout for the Trojans was their All-American end Marlin McKeever whose blocking, tackling and punting helped contain Notre Dame.
The Irish defense was truly outstanding during the contest. They fully dominated the larger Trojan line. Time and again the Trojans were forced to punt and in the first half were able to get off only eight plays from scrimmage and gain eight yards rashing to 201 for the Irish.
Notre Dame proved themselves a good “mudder” in that they lost the ball only once by a fumble, had no passes intercepted and showed their most productive offense of the year.
The 17-0 final score gave the Irish a 2-8 record for the season and marked the first shutout recorded by Notre Dame under Coach Kuharich. The upset enabled the Irish to end the season on a victorious note and avert the possibility of having the worst season in Notre Dame football annals.
Coach Kuharich was carried off the field; Pottios received the game ball; and all agreed that it was a fine win for a downtrodden Notre Dame football team.
—Pete Reilly
Frank Minik, aided by Dan Griffith’s fine Hock, has time to stop and think which way he should now go.
4
NOTRE DAME STADIUM—HOME OF THE FIGHTING IRISH Bricks, sod and great football teams
The House That Rockne Built
by JOHN BECHTOLD
This season marked the thirtieth year in which the Fighting Irish football team has played its home games in the Notre Dame Stadium. The stadium was built in 1930 at a cost of $800,000. Although built 30 years ago, the stadium was on the drawing board for many years before this.
In 1924 it was becoming increasingly apparent that a larger arena than Cartier Field must be built. With Notre Dame emerging as a major football power, the wooden stands of Cartier Field were not adequate. Even with many fans standing or sitting on a nearby maintenance house, the field could only hold 30,000 at the most.
A student petition was sent to Father Matthew Walsh, then president of the University, asking for the building of a more adequate arena. However, in 1924, there were many more pressing problems on Father Walsh’s mind. These were the years that Knute Rockne and company put Notre Dame on the map. As Notre Dame became universally known, a flow of new students began to overload the University. The University couldn’t house or feed all these new students. Therefore, Father Walsh told the students that no new stadium could be built until sufficient facilities for housing and food were provided.
During the next five years Morrissey, Lyons and Howard Halls and the South
34
Dining Hall were built. So, in 1929, bids were submitted for the building of the Notre Dame Stadium.
The original sod from Cartier Field, where Notre Dame did not lose a home game in 23 years, was moved into the new field. The stadium, when completed, measured a half-mile around, and seated 56,000 fans. More than 2,000,000 bricks were used in the edifice which, if laid end to end, would reach from Notre Dame to the Cleveland waterfront, approximately 300 miles.
The stadium was ready for use for the first home game of the 1930 season against Southern Methodist University. In that game, played on Oct. 4, the Irish scored their first of many victories in the stadium by beating the Mustangs, 20-14.
The following Friday night the stadium was dedicated before 20,000 people prior to the next day’s encounter with the Midshipmen of the Naval Academy. The President of the University at that time, Father Charles L. O’Donnell, Rear Admiral S. S. Robinson, Superintendent of the Naval Academy, and the legendary Rockne spoke briefly at this dedication. The following afternoon Rockne’s great 1930 squad crushed Navy, 26-2, in the dedication game with Joe Savoldi torpedoing the Middies with touchdown runs of 23, 48 and five yards before an estimated 50,000.
(Continued on page 45)
Let us take care of your CHRISTMAS GIFT PROBLEMS
For the Family
Luggage, Leather Goods and the unusual
Nans/- Ri ntzsch
MICHIGAN at COLFAX
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . . . JEWELRY
J. TRETHEWEY
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longines and Wittnauer Watches
★
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
RUBIN CLEANERS Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card 217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE FIVE SHIRTS LAUNDERED FOR $1.10
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
•	NOTRE
•	DAME
•	STUDENTS
Eat At
EDDIE'S DINING ROOM
★
1345 Ironwood Drive
10% Student Discount
The Scholastic
BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN
at the
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
L
N ABICHT CAFETERIA
★ 1415 Lincolnway West AAA Approved Cafeteria ★ FREE PARKING
r ►
Future Vacations and Football Tours
f
1961 Eight-Day All Expense Tour
VISIT AND SEE WASHINGTON. D. C. WILLIAMSBURG. VA. DURHAM. N. C.
N. D. vs. DUKE
All set to play Santa Claus?
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1962 Twenfy-One-Day Hawaiian Islands Vacation
N. D. vs. SO. CAL.
What you need is a red suit, white beard, fat pillow, and a pack full of Esterbrook Classic Pen and Pencil Sets. You can be anyone’s favorite Santa if you give the smoothest-looking, smoothest-writing Christmas gift this side of the North Pole. Your choice of 6 holiday colors and 32 changeable pen points, too.
Write for prices and details
•T.M. The Esterbrook Pen Co.
REDDEN TRAVEL BUREAU 1671 Lincolnway East South Bend 14, Indiana Phone AT 9-8659
THERE'S A POINT CHOICE OF 32 —ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTED FOR YOU!
December 2, 1960
35
(4
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
•
CREST
The Ugly American
Wm. Lederer
UNIVERSE ARCHITECTURE SERIES
•
Portrait of the Artist as a Young Dog
Dylan Thoma
Great Artists Speak for Themselves and Their Times
•
The Library of Great Painters Great Masterpieces
•
GREAT RELIGIOUS PAINTINGS The Nativity
•
1961 Calendar of Treasured Mosaics
•
The Uffici Series in Full Color
ATTENTION: Faculty and Students • Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (Latest Ed.) •
Special Price $5.50
Notre Dame Bookstore
on - the - campus
36
jack McAllister
30 years at Notre Dame
Football Legend At ND. McAllister In 30th Year
Jack McAllister, the little Irishman born in England before the turn of the century, is a football legend at Notre Dame.
This marked the 30th football season that Mac has served as superintendent of athletic equipment. Probably no one has seen more Irish All-Americans come and go .than Mac. From Rockne’s time, he remembers most ..of the names of boys he’s assisted in fiis job.
The duties of Mac’s job are to see to the distribution of equipment and the cleaning and sorting of the paraphenalia that the Irish gridders wear on the practice field and for the games.
Mac needs a sharp memory, especially for away games. When the team is on the road, seven trunks and 40 duffle bags must be packed with painstaking care, insuring that pants and pads, shoes and socks, light and dark jerseys, rain caps, balls, helmets, miles of tape, and sometimes even a supply of water are ready for the journey.
McAllister is respected and admired by Notre Dame men, past and present. The Monogram Club elected him an honorary member of their exclusive organization a few years ago.
This man could tell many of his first year experiences as Notre Dame’s equipment superintendent. That year, 1930, was Knute Rockne’s last year as football coach. The 1930 Irish were National Champions, being undefeated in ten games. Mac recalls the All-Americans from that squad: Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz, Marty Brill and Bert Metzer.
Since 1930, Mac has seen five unbeaten Irish teams. The list of All-Americans that Mac has had daily contact with include Bill Shakespeare, Angelo Bertelli, Johnny Lujack, Leon Hart, John Lattner, Ralph Guglielmi, Paul Hornung and Nick Pietrosante.
Notre Dame Sponsors National Pigskin Fund
This year, for the first time in Notre Dame’s football history, a stand representing the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame was situated in front of the Notre Dame Stadium on each home football Saturday. Notre Dame was selected as one of the universities to sponsor the cause of this Foundation.
NATION-WIDE ORGANIZATION
A nation-wide organization, The National Football Foundation had a threefold purpose for its presence here on campus. First, the Foundation endeavored to promote American amateur foot- ig ball as an integral and wholesome part of our educational process.
Another important reason for its presence here was to encourage the beneficial direction and playing of the game at this school, thus making Notre Dame somewhat of a representative to other schools in the area.
The third and final purpose was to provide the proper incentives and ideals for American youth and to set a stand-ard of sportsmanship for the individual player.
The Foundation, in seeking to establish the true concept of the game as an amateur sport, was depending upon the Notre Dame stand and other like it to implement their fund raising drives. This included the building of the Hall of Fame building and also the creation of a future endowment.
Notre Dame effectively carried out its j part in sponsoring the Foundation here. For several hours preceding each Saturday home game and also at the game’s conclusion, volunteers at the stand handed out information cnoceming the Foundation and its purpose.
PUBLICITY
The publicity of the Foundation was , assisted by one-minute commentaries ® over the public address during each game. Such notables as Red Grange, Hank Greenberg, Pat O’Brien, Perry Como and Mel Allen were the guest speakers who helped to sponsor the program here.
The Studebaker-Packard Corporation of South Bend also did its part. At halftime, while the speeches were being carried over the public address, a Studebaker with colorful Hall of Fame pennants drove around the Stadium track.
Many Notre Dame fans and students, interested in the cause of amateur football joined the Foundation. Each new member received a membership card, the “Footballeter,” the Foundation’s monthly digest and other current information about amateur football.
Notre Dame can justifiably feel proud that it was selected to represent the Foundation and then carried out its purpose of publicizing it.
The Scholastic
Final 1160 Season Statistics
'Notre Dame	TEAM	Opponents			PUNTING No.	Yards Avg.		KICKOFF RETURNS No. Yards TD	
• 111 	 127 	 83 		 40 	 4 	 1537 	 463 	 U 3.32 	 L 900 	 173 	 56 	 .324 	 8 	 43 	 2438 	 50 	 1789 	 U 35.8 	 * 285 	 28 	 17 	 1 Scarpitto .... Ie Dabiero 	 y^Lamonica .... Perkowski .. Ahern 	 Burnell 	 DePola 	 Lind 	 J Sherlock 	 Traver 	 If Henneghan .. Traver 	 Scarpitto .... Burnell 	 Dabiero 			 Points Scored 	 	 First Downs 	 	 by Rushing 	 	 by Passing 	 	by Penalties 	 	 Yards Rushing 	 	 Times Carried 	 	 Yards-per-try 	 	Yards Passing	 ... Passes Attempted 	 ... Passes Completed 	 Completion Percentage 	 Passes Intercepted by 	 Yards Int. Returned 	 TOTAL OFFENSE 	 	 Punts	 	 Total Yards 	 	 Average		 Yards Punts Returned 	 	 Fumbles		 	 Ball Lost 	 SCORING TD PAT FG 	 5	0	0 	 3	0	0 	 3	0	0 	 0	9	1 	 10	0 	 10	0 	 10	0 	 10	0 	 10	0 	 0	2	0 	 0	10 PASSES CAUGHT Number Yards 	 14	225 	 8	164 	 6	84 	 5	112		. 188 . 130 .	91 .	33 6 1608 469 3.43 919 111 53 .477 21 397 2527 57 2100 36.9 213 23 14 TP 30 18 18 12 6 6 6 6 6 2 1 TD 0 0 1 1	Lamonica 	 23	861 Scarpitto 	 15	599 Sefcik 	 9	239 Rutkowski 	 3	90 RUSHING TC. Yds. Dabiero 	 80	325 Sefcik 	 50	248 Scarpitto 	 51	228 Lind 	 53	167 Perkowski 	 25	131 Ahem 	 24	82 Rutkowski 	 25	76 Lamonica 	 26	73 Minik 	 29	69 Henneghan 	 17	44 Liggio 	 10	37 Naab 	 12	34 Maxwell 	 9	30 Mack 	 9	29 Ratkowski 	 6	24 O’Hara 	 5	11 Griffith 	 3	8 Gargiulo 	 2	3 Caito 	 1	1 Rascher 	 7	-18 Haffner 	 20	-64 PASS INTERCEPTIONS No. Yards Haffner 	 3	2 Sefcik 	 2	17 Lamonica 	 1	18 Dabiero 	 1	6 Kolski 	 1	0 PUNT RETURNS No. Yards Dabiero 	 8	102 Sefcik 	 12	85 Minik 	 8	35 Scarpitto 	 1	16 Lamonica 	 1	10 DePola 	 1	8			37.4 40.0 26.6 30.0 Avg. 4.1 5.0 4.5 3.2 5.2 3.4 3.0 2.8 2.4 2.6 3.7 2.8 3.3 3.2 4.0 2.2 2.7 1.5 1.0 TD 0 0 0 0 0 Avg. 12.8 7.1 4.4 16.0 10.0 8.0	Scarpitto 	 10	230	0 Sefcik 	 7	170	0 Dabiero 	 5	114	0 Minik 	 2	58	0 Caito 	 2	39	0 Rutkowski 	 2	37	0 Mack 	 1	30	0 O’Hara 	 1	24	0 Schulz 	 1	18	0 Clark 	 1	17	0 Haffner 	 1	16	0 Murphy 	 1	10	0 Perkowski 	1	10	0 DEFENSIVE STATISTICS Tackles Pottios 74; Buoniconti 71; Traver 67; Roy 65; Bill 47; Linehan 41; DePola 38; Dabiero, Haffner and Schulz 37; Sefcik 35; Lamonica 33; Burke 31; Carollo 30; Murphy 26; Hoerster 25; Sherlock 23; Boulac 21; Burnell, Minik and Williams 20; Lind 17; Hecomovich 12; Castin 11; Perkowski 10; Wilke 9; Rutkowski and Scarpitto 8; Liggio 7; Grau and Powers 6; Ahern, Kolski, Pietrzak and Viola 5; O’Hara 4; Mack and Magnotta 3; Cullen, Luecke and Monahan 2; Augustine, Ford, Loula, Maxwell, Naab, Nissi, Rascher, Ratkowski and Seiler 1. Passes Broken Up Dabiero 6; Haffner and Sefcik 3; Lamonica, Minik, Scarpitto and Schulz 2; Boulac, Buoniconti, DePola, Gargiulo, Hoerster, Liggio, Lind, Linehan and Traver 1. Opponents Fumbles Recovered Traver- 2; Buoniconti, Boulac, Burnell, Carollo, Haffner, Hoerster, Lind, Murphy, Schulz, Sefcik and Wilke 1.	-
■ Sefcik 	 5^ Sherlock 	 : Murphy 	 ^Rutkowski ... ■-Ratkowski ... |Lind 	 iCullen 	 ^Perkowski ... Griffith 	 ^jGargiulo 		« • < • < • « t 1 1 <■<<<>•<■> <■•>'»«< 1 f «•«■•>>>!) 1 • > > • < t » ( | (••••«••«■ 1 ' > i « « 1 I > > 1 * • i • < > 1 « ( < » 1 1 » I t 1 I , • ••••••••I i • < « > । । ■ । I > t » f f • i t t s ■ ■ > • ■ ■ • । । t ■ >•••■>■*» । i ■ i i * t । । ; « t « । । • » । । ; ■ * < ■ ■ < < > । a « • • • i « « i i ;	106 59 40 43 21 10 22 10 4 1	0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0	roiuos 	 Ratkowski .. Caito 	 Rutkowski Haffner 	 Lamonica .. Rascher 	 Rutkowski .. Schulz 			 ± 		 1 	 1 	 1	±U	1U.U 8	8.0	’ 7	7.0	Blocked Kicks 4	4.0	DePola 3; Pottios 1. PASSES Att. Comp. Intercepted Yards TD	Pct. ...	108	30	11	548	3	.277 ...	31	15	5	242	0	.484 ...	30	11	3	110	0	.367 ...	3	0	1	0	0	.000 ...	1	0	1	0	0	.000			
F ^ecemher 2,	1960								
3
Notre Dame Seniors
THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Has
Diamond Rings
Hallmark
Heart Band
His & Hers • -
Wedding and Engagement Rings and Bands
•
SPECIAL
STUDENT PRICES
by BILL CARY
A small but hard core of seniors have performed admirably for the Irish this year. These men will be missed next yeai- as Notre Dame attempts to recover from the poor 1960 season.
Captain Pottios. First and foremost of the graduates is Captain Myron Pottios. The 225-pound native of Van Voorhis, Pa. was a bulwark in the Notre Dame defense throughout the year, ranking among the leaders in tackles on the team. His efficiency both on offense and defense was hindered by the knee injury which sidelined him in 1958.
“Moe” started his varsity career as a center. He played outstanding ball throughout his sophomore year until sidelined by a shoulder injury in the
MYRON POTTIOS
A pro career ahead
Pitt game. Pottios finished his initial varsity year with 32 tackles, one fumble recovery and high hopes for his junior and senior years.
Pottios was tremendous in the North Carolina and Purdue encounters at the start of the 1959 season. Then in the California game, the third contest of that year, Myron was hit from the blind side on a punt return and watched the rest of the games from the sidelines. At the time of his injury Myron was leading the team in tackles and was drawing rave notices from the press.
As the 1960 season approached, all Irish fans were asking the same question, “Would Pottios be able to regain his former effectiveness?” Pottios was sidelined for the California opener, this time with an injured toe. But as the season progressed, Pottios became more and more effective and showed definite
signs of making a complete recovery from the injury.
There is little doubt that Pottios will be a top draft pick when the men who^ know, the pros, make their draft selections in the annual draft. With his size, speed and natural ability, “Moe” is a top professional prospect.
Red Mack. William “Red” Mack, a 175-poundei- from Allison Park, Pa., finished his college career on the afternoon of October 1, 1960. In the second quarter of the Purdue game, Red at- । tempted to break up a pass intended for IL the spiderlike Manzie Winters. In the/'^B^ process, Mack wrecked the cartilage in ~ 1 his left knee, his supposedly “good leg.” Thus ended tragically the college football career of Red Mack.
Mack was one of the most promising football players ever to appear at Notre Dame. He was the kind of player who gave the whole team a lift. His mere presence in the lineup had the intangi- I ble effect of inspiring his teammates. As a sophomore in 1958, Red’s game-in game-out performance reminded Irish fans of the immortal Johnny Lattner. ' Like Lattner, Mack excelled in all phases of the game. The thing that set Mack apart from other players was the quality he had so great an abundance of — HEART.
There are other outstanding men from this fall’s team who have played their last college game also. All of these A men distinguished themselves in their Ag. varsity careers here at Notre Dame. -RL®
Halfback Bob Scarpitto was one of * the top running and pass receiving threats for the Irish in each of his three years here. Always a threat from the • line of scrimmage, Scarpitto was even more adept on kickoff and punt returns. In addition, Scarpitto was an outstanding punter and his performance in the Iowa game attests to this fact.
Center John Linehan made his first ri lengthy appearance in a Notre Dame J
game this year Linehan was the on the field that tackles and was
against Pittsburgh, outstanding lineman day as he made 20 a vicious offensive
blocker. Linehan’s line performance was one of the outstanding of the year in college football.
All contributed. The list of senior linemen who completed their careers last Saturday includes end Tom Mona- A han, tackle Bob Pietrzak and guard y Paul Nissi. The backfield losses are also of importance. In addition to Mack and Scarpitto, the Kuharichmen lose such stalwarts as quarterbacks Jack Castin and Dan Luecke, halfbacks Bill Clark and Ray Ratkowski and fullbacks Bill Henneghan and Frank Gargiulo.
All of the above men contributed to the Notre Dame football team although only Pietrzak, Castin, Henneghan and (Continued on page 49)
I
THE SPORTS PUBLICITY STAFF AT WORK
Secretary Mary McCarthy is seated at the desk, looking over one of the newly printed programs. Looking over her shoulder is the Irish sports publicist Charlie Callahan. Standing at Callahan's left is Jerry Hewitt, student assistant, while senior student assistant Bob Schaefer looks on from Mary’s right.
Publicity of N D Football
Charles Callahan, a tall, smiling Irishman, heads a hard working group which comprises the Sports Publicity staff at the University of Notre Dame. Callahan has been publicity chief at his alma mater since 1946. He and his staff are entrusted with the job of keeping the public will informed on the activities of Notre Dame athletes.
In his work Callahan is assisted by three students plus his personal secretary, Miss Mary McCarthy. His chief assistant is a senior history major, Bob Schaefer. Lending a hand to Schaefer are Ken Murphy, a junior engineering student, and Jerry Hewitt, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. During the football season Mrs. Eleanor Vanderhagen also assists Callahan.
Callahan as Director of Sports Publicity is a busy man. His first big task each year is the Football Dope Book which comes out each fall and highlights the coming football season. Included in this publication are sketches on all of the Irish players, plus stories on the coaches and the opponents to be met during the course of the season. Work on the “dope book” begins in July.
Once the football season begins, Callahan is the living image of the “man in perpetual motion.” He must see that the newspapers are supplied with sufficient information on the Fighting Irish. Besides this, he must see that the hometown papers of the Irish players are
40
kept well supplied with the information they desire. This includes not only stories of the players but also pictures of the gridders.
A FOOTBALL WEEK
Probably the biggest job for Callahan comes during the weeks of the five home games. He must see that the visiting writers have such necessary accommodations as press passes and hotel rooms. Then comes the task of keeping the 400-seat press box functioning smoothly. This entails seeing that the visiting scribes are kept supplied with the necessary information such as game statistics, starting lineups and any last minute changes or announcements that may affect the game. He must see that the writers who need the use of the Western Union wire are seated close to it.
At the end of each quarter, a sheet is passed to all the press box members which gives a play-by-play account of the action of the previous quarter. This is a great aid to the scribes in helping them write their comments on the game. Also game statistics are passed out at halftime and again at the end of the game. All of this is courtesy of Mr. Callahan and his hardworking crew.
An indication of the time consuming quality of Callahan’s job is the fact that he seldom sees more than a few minutes of each game. He is constantly checking
to see that all the press box occupants i are well attended to.	j
Sports Publicity also puts out the foot- g ball program for each home game, while also supplying any needed information | for opponents’ use in making up the | program for Irish away games.	|
Each week during the football season, | starting with fall practice in early Sep- | tember, Callahan and his staff issue a J six to eight page news release sent toW 1350 newspapers and radio-TV an- S nouncers across the nation. In addition 5 to this weekly release, a daily release is 2 sent to the Chicago Tribune, Indianapo- ? lis Star, and both news services—the As- j sociated Press and United Press International.	I
a
ST-
OTHER PUBLICATIONS
The office also handles requests throughout the year for information on
current or past Nore Dame athletes and
athletics. Such publications as
the Mono- I
gram News, a semi-yearly publication of
the Monogram Club, are also prepared
by the Publicity Office.
J i
With this football season, Callahan i completes his fourteenth year as head -/h of the Sports Publicity office. The 1938 graduate of Notre Dame served in the Air Force in World War II before as- । suming his present duties. An additional (M > interest of Callahan’s is his column 1 “Sportscastin’ ” which appears weekly Ip in the Sunday Visitor, a Catholic news-'^S-paper with a national circulation.
Callahan’s secretary, Mary, and his Sps three assistants also manage to keep quite busy, especially during the football season. As a private secretary, it is Mary’s duty to answer much of the correspondence and to keep records down !■ , to the minute details.
Schaefer, Hewitt and Murphy are all . in their second year with the Sports W Publicity office. Both Schaefer and Hewitt W gained experience for the job by writing S for the Scholastic sports staff before as- W
a.
suming their present duties.
CHARLIE CALLAHAN
The Scholastic
1960 COACHES OF THE IRISH
Left to Right: Dick Stonfel, Line Coach; Brad Lynn, Assistant Backfield Coach; Head Coach Joe Kuharich; Don Doll, Backfield Coach; Bill Daddio, First Assistant and End Coach. Assistant Line Coach John Murphy is not pictured.

NOTRE DAME COACHING STAFF
by BILL CARY

The 1960 Notre Dame football season was a disappointment to all who follow Notre Dame football. However, for seven men the dismal season was a particularly bitter pill to swallow. These seven men are the coaching staff of the University of Notre Dame.
s
e
JOSEPH KUHARICH is the number one man on the 1960 coaching staff. Kuharich is a native of South Bend. The 43-year-old head man, who has just com-ipleted his second season as coach at his alma mater, graduated from Notre Dame in 1938.
As a collegian Kuharich played on the Irish teams of 1935, 1936 and 1937. In his senior year he earned All-Midwest honors for his play. An indication of Kuharich’s playing ability is seen in a statement by his coach, Elmer Layden. Said Layden, “Joe Kuharich was one of the best and smartest players I ever had at Notre Dame.”
Kuharich started his coaching careei-as assistant freshman coach at Notre Dame in 1938. The next year- he coached at Vincentian Institute in Albany, N.Y.
Launching his professional coaching career in 1946, the present Irish mentor served as line coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers. The next year he moved on to San Francisco, holding the same capacity, and then in 1948 he became head mentor at the Jesuit school. His 1951 eleven went undefeated in nine games.
His second pro coaching job was as head coach of the Chicago Cardinals in 1952. He left this position in 1953 to scout for various pro teams. In 4954 Kuharich became head coach at Washington. He was named the professional “Coach of the Year” in 1955. George Preston Marshall, the owner of the Redskins, has said, “I was blessed with genius, or luck, twice in my life. The first time was when Sammy Baugh came
to play, the second when Joe Kuharich came to coach.”
BILL DADDIO is second in command to Kuharich. His primary concern is instructing the ends. Daddio played his college ball at Pittsburgh, graduating in 1939. He gave up a good job at Purdue where he developed such outstanding ends as Lamar Lundy, Leo Sugar and Darrell (Pete) Brewster to accept the Notre Dame post.
Having coached at Pitt for two years following his graduation before playing for the Chicago Cardinals in 1941 and 1942, Kuharich’s affable assistant was his pro teammate in the former year.
Daddio was head coach at Allegheny College in his hometown of Meadville, Pa., from 1947 to 1951. He joined Kuharich in 1952 serving as line coach of the Chicago Cardinals. 1953 saw Daddio scouting for the Pittsburgh Steelers. Hi the spring of 1954, he joined the Purdue (Continued on page 43)
pl December 2, 1960
41
1960 FROSH SHOW PROMISE FOR FUTURE
by TERRY WOLKERSTORFER

“In time, I think that all the freshmen football players should be able to provide some help for the Varsity.” This was Freshman Football Coach Hugh Devore’s estimation of the strength of his 1960 squad.
In enlarging on this statement, Devore went on to say that he felt that Notre Dame, as well as many other football teams, is suffering from the fresh
HUGH DEVORE
Building for the future
man player’s attitude that failure to start or at least play considerably during his sophomore season makes him a football failure.
This Devore cited as one of the principal causes of the failure of this year’s Varsity: the predominance of sophomores, the large number of juniors, and the scarcity of seniors. He feels the situation should be reversed, with the seniors carrying the brunt of the load, the juniors lending considerable help, and only an occasional sophomore breaking into the lineup.
Assisted this fall by Dave Hurd primarily, and also Tom Bonofiglio and Dan Deigert — all injured scholarship football players — Devore has stressed blocking and tackling, and has tried to instill in his squad the fundamentals of Coach Joe Kuharich’s winged-T offense.
On a squad which has 40 of its 54 members on full scholarships, and another five on partial scholarships, Devore feels that his ends and guards give indication of offering the most immediate help to the Varsity. “With the others,” he says, “it’s just a question of perserverance. They should all make it eventually.”
Asked to name some individual standouts, Devore declined, stating that
42
“We’ve only worked among ourselves. You can’t really say one player is better than another until they’ve been tested under fire in a game.”
This year’s freshman end corps averages 209 pounds per man. The largest of these are Tom Sessi and Jim Snowden. Sessi stands 6-3 and hails from Weirton, West Virginia. Snowden is an inch taller at 6-4, and lives in Youngstown, Ohio, where he played his high school ball at East Youngstown High School. Both weigh 225 pounds. Other ends are Tom Goberville, 6-3 and 200 pounds, from Chicago Mendel; Jim Kelly, 6-2 and 195 pounds, from Clair-
Pennsylvania;
ton,
John Meyer from Rice; Joe Monahan, who played his high
6-2, 210 pound Chicago Brother 6-2, 195 pounds, school ball in Ar
cola, Illinois; John Murray, 6-1 and 210 pounds, from Newark, N. J. John Simon, 6-3, 218 pounds, a resident of St. Louis, Missouri; and Warren Stephens, a 6-3, 200-pounder from Burlingame, California.
The tackles on this year’s frosh squad are huge: seven of the eight tackles weigh 220 or over. They are: Grant Abrahamson, Deerfield, Illinois; George Bednar of Shavertown, Pennsylvania; Dave Humenik from Port Vue, Pennsylvania; John Knight, Pacoima, California; Greg Maclnnis of San Francisco; Dan Reardon from Chicago Leo; and Scotty Videmschek of St. Louis. The lone tackle under 200 pounds is Warren Sanger, a 190-pounder from New York City.
Of the ten guards on the freshman squad Tom Finneran and Marty Olosky are the heaviest at 225 pounds, while Finneran is two inches taller than Olosky at 6-3. Finneran hails from Mt. Vernon, N. Y., and Olosky is a native of Flint, Michigan. Franz Fleischli of Springfield, Illinois, is the smallest of the guard corps at 5-9 and 195 pounds. Other guards are Wayne Allen of Wilmington, Delaware; John Anton of St. Louis, Missouri; Mike Di Carlo, Clairton, Pennsylvania; Nick Etten, Chicago St. Ignatius; Phil Kienast, from Oconomowoc, Wisconsin; Rudy Marshalek of Bentleyville, Pennsylvania; and Ron Vomero of Erie, Pennsylvania.
The 1960 frosh squad has four center candidates. Bill Burns is 6-1 and 195 pounds from Philadelphia. Boyd Ja-jesnica of Manchester, New Hampshire scales 215 pounds and stands 6-2. Bob Lesko at 6-0 and 215 pounds from Homestead, Pennsylvania and Pat Keneally, 6-2 and 215 pounds, from New York City round out the center roster.
This season’s freshman quarterbacks are Frank Budka, Jay Gamble, Tom Meagher, Bill Pfeiffer, Denny Szot, and Wayne Zdanowicz. All are six feet tall or over with the exception of Gamble, who stands 5-10, and played his high
school ball in Salt Lake City, Utah. 3 Budka, from Pompana Beach, Florida, g
scales 180. Gamble weighs in at 175, and Meagher- from Louisville goes 165. Pfeiffer from Chicago DePaul and Szot from Chicago Mendel are the biggest at 195 pounds, while Zdanowicz weighs 180.
The 1960 Irish Freshman Team roster includes twelve halfbacks, ranging in weight from 165 to 200 pounds. They include John Barnard, of Kansas City; Joe Farrell of Chicago Mendel; Frank Fee of Rockville Center, N. Y.; Mike Jordan, Logansport, Indiana; Tom MacDonald from Downey, California; Bill Mundee, Cedar Lake, Indiana; Jim Nugent of Redbank, N. J.; John Robinson of New Britain, Connecticut, one of the fastest men on the squad; Bob Secret of Clarksburg, West Virginia; Alan Sepsi of Brownsville, Pennsylvania; Bob Simms from St. Michael, Minnesota; and Mike Walusis of Dayton, Ohio.
Devore has three fullbacks undei- his tutelege, two of them over 200 pounds. At 6-4 and 230 pounds, Paul Costa of Portchester, N. Y., is the most massive fullback at Notre Dame in a good many years, and adds good speed to his size to make him a sound prospect. Joe Kantor from Cleveland St. Ignatius goes 6-1 and 205 pounds, and the third fullback, John Prusmack of Garden
.j
J
<3

City, N. Y., stands 5-11 and weighs 191. -f'
'J

DAVE HURD
Guidance for freshmen
Commenting on a Time Magazine article that said Notre Dame was no longer able to recruit good football players because of discipline and academics, Devore said, “I don’t think it’s true. There have always been players we couldn’t touch. This years freshman team shows we’re still getting good men.”
The Scholastic
TUITION and EXTRA CASH
This Easy Spare-Time Way!
A few spare time hours a week can bring YOU all the cash you need! It's pleasant, easy, and requires neither investment nor experience! Just show smart Kushiontred Shoes and new insulated outdoor Campus Jackets to men on or off campus Make friends while you moke money1 Earnings of $5.00 per hour not un« usual. Postcard brings complete information, shows you how to start. All FREE! Write today! TANNERS SHOE CO. • 779 Brockton, Mass.
campus character:
PSAMUEL PSYCHE
A thinking man’s thinking man, Psamuel finds that thoughts come easiest when he is most comfortable.
That’s why he always wears Jockey brand T-shirts. He likes the way the fine combed cotton feels next to his skin. He likes the way the twin-stitched, nylon-reinforced collar keeps its shape. And he likes the full-proportioned body and extra long tail that never creeps.
You, too, will like yourself better when you enjoy the comfort of Jockey brand T-shirts. Your favorite campus store
The Coaches
(Continued from page 41) staff where he served until rejoining Kuharich at Notre Dame.
Daddio is an all-around sportsman. Quite a golfer, he was the city champ of Lafayette while at Purdue as a coach.
RICHARD STANFEL is the line coach of Notre Dame. Stanfel joined the Notre Dame staff after a brilliant pro career with the Detroit Lions and Washington Redskins. In 1954 when the Lions won the world title, his teammates were so impressed by the big Stanfel’s performances throughout the season that they named him their most valuable player.
Stanfel played on the San Francisco team coached by Kuharich which went undefeated in 1951. In his professional days, Stanfel was a perennial All-Pro selection and it was his strong blocking that was instrumental in giving the Washington eleven a strong running game.
Besides his coaching at Notre Dame, Dick has worked on the College All-Star staff in a similar capacity the last two years.
JOHN MURPHY is the assistant line coach and works primarily with the tackles. Last year he served as assistant freshman coach and was moved up to the varsity ranks when Dick Evans left to join the Cleveland Browns.
Murphy played on the Irish teams of 1935-37 with Kuharich. He coached at Union Endicott High School in New York from 1938-44. Then he put in three years at Holy Trinity High in Chicago and from 1947-50 was assistant at Auburn.
He gained his greatest fame at South Bend Adams High where he built the Eagles into a power after many years as a doormat for the opposition. His over-all record was 46-26-3. Coach Murphy is also a teacher, retaining his duties on the Adams faculty aside from his work at Notre Dame. He also assists Brad Lynn in scouting Irish opponents.
DON DOLL is the head backfield coach. Doll was one of the great backs in the history of Southern California and was an All-Pacific Coast selection in 1947 and 1948.
Like Stanfel, Don was an All-League selection as a pro for four straight years (1950-54). He played four years
has them. $1.50
with the Detroit Lions and one each with the Washington and Los Angeles teams. Doll was named the outstanding player in the Pro Bowl game in 1953.
Before coming to Notre Dame he was an assistant at Washington University and Southern California. In between, Don was head mentor at West Contra Costa Junior College. In the last few years he has joined Stanfel on the College All-Star staff as defensive coach.
BRAD LYNN, the newest face on the staff, was a sophomore halfback on the 1937 Notre Dame team when Kuharich was a senior guard. He served as backfield coach for Kuharich while the latter was head coach at San Francisco.
COACH JOE KUHARICH A season to forget
Brad spent four years in the Navy during World War II. He also has worked as a special agent for the FBI. In recent years he was active in high school coaching in Santa Cruz, Calif.
Lynn has the important job of scouting future Irish opponents along with Murphy. It is on the information assimilated by these men that the coaches plan their strategy for the coming game.
HUGH DEVORE is the last, but certainly not the least member of the coaching staff. A former end on the Irish teams of 1931, ’32 and ’33, Hugh was a teammate of Irish athletic director Moose Krause. He became Notre Dame freshman coach in 1958 and is concluding his third year on the job.
Devore has coached college ball at Fordham, Providence, Holy Cross, NYU, Dayton, St. Bonaventure and here. He was head coach of the Fighting Irish in 1945 and compiled an impressive 7-2-1 record. Devore has also coached professionally with the Philadelphia Eagles and the Green Bay Packers.
Devore is entrasted with the job of teaching high school flashes how to become successful college players. Another big task he undertakes is the recruiting of the high school standouts.
43
STUDENT MANAGERS . .
&
Credit For a Job Well Done
by TOM WALSH
There is a great amount of prestige connected with the job of Head Football Manager for the University of Notre Dame. Each year the Head Football Manager is a senior student at the University. The Notre Dame Student Manager’s Association is unique in that the Head Manager is chosen each year not by the coaching staff, nor by the administration, but by the other managers themselves. Thus, the job is not only selective, but also very competitive.
Freshmen students, interested in becoming managers, with the ultimate goal of being designated Head Manager in their senior year are accepted on the staff. About 20 or 30 first-year students become freshmen managers each fall. The tasks of the freshmen are of the lowliest type, and consist of the menial chores that are unappealing to the upperclass managers, but nevertheless must be done. The freshmen work out a schedule among themselves, and usually work two or three days a week during the season, about three to five hours per practice session. At the end of the season the freshmen student managers are awarded the Freshman numeral, the same award that all fresh-
receive.
men athletes
AU of the managers are allowed to continue into their sophomore year, but the number usually drops to about fifteen. By their sophomore year the boys have a little more incentive, as each of them is hoping for the Head Manager’s job in his senior year.
JOE KELLY
Associate football manager
BOB McCUTCHAN Head football manager
The sophomore’s work is about the same as the freshman’s, except that he has a little more responsibility, puts in a little more work each week and is allowed to work at the home games on Saturday.
The end of the sophomore year is very impoitant to the prospective managers, as the juniors select the top ten sophomore managers, and chose them to be carried over into their junior year at the University.
The junior managers are awarded a Varsity numeral at the end of the year, are guaranteed a scholarship for their senior year, and are guaranteed an executive position on the managerial staff in their senior year. Every junior manager works at each home game, and each junioi- gets to make one of the football trips to an opposing school. The juniors have considerably more responsibility, do not do as many menial tasks and have as one of their tasks the handling and packing all the varsity equipment.
The graduating seniors, at the end of the season compile a rating of ten juniors and assign the highest positions to them on the basis of merit.
The Head Football Managership is assigned to the top ranked junior, and the next ranking juniors usually take the supporting football managerial jobs, of which there are two. The Head Football Manager has $800 deducted from. his tuition, and the other two managers are allowed a $600 deduction.
The three senior managers make all
the away trips. Each senior manager has a great amount of responsibility, but has shown in previous years that he is capable of assuming this responsibility. The senior managers will turn over their jobs to their successors before


§ t
spring Notre
Bob major
practice of their last year at | Dame.
McCutchan, a senior Commerce S from Brooklyn, N. Y., is this B
year’s Head Football Manager. Bob hasgB a great amount of responsibility in his^Y job, which is one mainly of supervision, McCutchan has to plan all of the team trips, take care of transportation, food, and rooming facilities. He is the man J Ij the coaches confer with, and is the general supervisor of all the managers,
Joe Kelly, a senior Commerce major from Victoria, Texas, is the office and T personnel manager. Kelly has to run -jJ the office, located in the Fieldhouse, and jw take care of all the paperwork suchWJ as arranging for class cuts, training's, table meals, hotel registration, the pre- J game meal, and signing the players out of their halls for away games. Kelly also takes care of the player’s substi- J.i tution time sheet during the games. .jj
Kieran Kealy, an AB senior from ft i Piedmont, California, is the equipment Ja, manager. Kealy must take care of uni- W form allotment, fitting and maintenance, gjl One of his biggest headaches is compil-W| ing the weekly inventory of equipment taken on trips. Kealy usually works W from four to five hours daily during the season, as do the other Senior Football Ji Managers.
KIERAN KEALY Associate football manager
The Scholastic
| Casualty List
j
g - For the second consecutive year, Notre j:? Danie’s football team was devastated by the injury jinx. During the past season, there were key injuries at every position in the lineup and, at one position, full-■ back, the casualties necessitated the use
3
nine different players at different “imes. In all, 38 players were prevented from playing at least one game due to ailments of various sorts.
Staggering loss. Perhaps the most staggering loss came in the second game
of the season. Red Mack, who had just
recovered from a knee operation on one J of his legs, this time injured his other | when he went high into the air trying to intercept a Boilermaker pass. Mack plater underwent surgery for the knee ; "injury and, as a result, was lost to the ; team for the remainder of the season.
Another key injury took place in that same Purdue game. End John Powers, ; one of the most improved players on the I team during the first two games, also injured his leg and wasn’t able to play for the rest of the schedule.
1 Gerry Gray, the leading ground gainer |. for the Irish in 1959, also suffered a I,serious injury. Gray, whose back had |*^been ailing him throughout the fall, - was forced to leave school and may never be able to play football again.
i1
i Center casualties. Tom Hecomovich,
Notre Dame’s talented junior center, 3 was also lost for the season due to a | pinched nerve he sustained in an early I game this season. One of Hecomovich’s \ chief competitors at the beginning of infall practice, Dave Hurd, didn’t see any /^action this year because his leg trouble did not respond to treatment.
Thus, the center position was quite 2 crippled and it was left up to Junior Ed Hoerster and Senior John Linehan to perform the duties for most of the games.
Halfback Bay Ratkowski was another valuable man who had to sit on the bench most of the season because of a | ' ^casualty. Ratkowski suffered a bruised i hip early in the fall and never fully k recovered. Ratkowski’s loss was espe-£	cially significant because great perform-
t	ances were expected of him this year
a after his play in the Old Timers game I last spring.
Captain Myron Pottios was another g who couldn’t escape the jinx. Although a Pottios played in all the games, it wasn’t £ until midway through the season that < ^he could gain his true effectiveness.
Ii	Defensive back Clay Schulz was an
; early casualty and lack of his presence in the lineup in the first games seriously weakened the Notre Dame pass defense.
| Schulz regained his defensive skills about midway in the season and from there on, the Irish pass defense was much more effective.
Other outstanding players such as Dan Griffith, Marshall Reilly, George '^Stratts and Leo Seiler were forced to d ; December 2, 1960
sit out almost the entire campaign because of miseries of a more serious nature.
Many names. The names O’Hara, Sefcik, Caito, Clark, Henneghan, Naab, Scarpitto, Perkowski, Gargiulo, Dabiero, Barber, Viola, Augustine, Buoniconti, DePola, Koreck, Bill, Burke, Corollo, Williams, Cullen and Sherlock also adorned the casualty list at one time or another during the season.
An off-and-on injury was the type suffered by outstanding sophomore fullback Mike Lind. Lind was able to play in several games during the season but his leg caused him constant trouble. Playing in one game and then having to sit out the next week’s contest hampered Lind’s hopes for a fine season.
Many names which aren’t familiar to Notre Dame supporters, but yet are fine football prospects, were hampered by the injury jinx. Bob Lehmann, an outstanding sophomore guard prospect, never really had a chance to put on a Notre Dame jersey as he injured his leg early in the fall. Nor did prospects such as Dennis Phillips and Bob Ward— both sustained season-long injuries.
Range of injuries. The injuries ranged from the neck trouble of Hecomovich to the toe troubles of Pottios and Stratts. Pottios sprained his, while Stratts, in a typical display of Irish ill-luck, shot himself in the toe during a summer-hunting trip.
THE SEED OF FAITH
HAS BEEN PLANTED BY A HOLY	P
CROSS MISSIONARY IN:	I
• AFRICA	/
• INDIA • SOUTH AMERICA
WILL YOU HELP NOURISH IT?	%
ALL PROFITS FROM CHRISTMAS CARD SALES GO TO HOLY CROSS MISSIONARIES
TRADITIONAL NATIVITY.21 CARDS—$1.00
MODERN RELIGIOUS .....15	CARDS—$1.00
LITURGICAL ASSORTMENT.16 CARDS—$1.00
Cards Placed in Halls Dec. 11-18
The House that Rockne Built
(Continued from page 34)
The 1930 Irish went on to become National Champions defeating such powers as Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Army and Southern California. The squad has been called by many better than “Rock’s” 1924 team consisting of the four horsemen and seven mules.
One feature that makes the stadium one of the best in the country is that there are no posts, light towers or telephone poles to obstruct anyone’s vision of the action on the field. Another advantage is that the stadium doesn’t have a track running around the playing field. This brings the action much closer to the fans.
Stadium personnel for each game amounts to nearly 800 persons. Policing every game are state and local officers and private detectives.
The press box, glass-enclosed on the west side of the structure, rises 60 feet above the ground. There are facilities, considered among the best in the country, for 400 writers, telegraphers, announcers and cameramen.
From that first game in 1930, Rockne’s last year, to the last game of this year, many great players have displayed their talents for the Irish in the stadium. Names like Shakespeare, Ber-telli, Lujack, Hart, Lattner, Guglielmi, Hornung, Pietrosante, Stickles and Izo have made the stadium rock with cheers.
45
Notre Dome Miniatures for Your Sweetheart
CHRISTMAS 1960
Miniature Notre Dame rings are available in a wide choice of jeweled or plain styles. These rings may be presented as engagement tokens to the girl of your choice, or to a feminine member of your family with whom you wish to share the prestige of your association with the University.
The miniature ring is identical with the official ring design, only more delicate in its modulation and construction.
Wedding bands to wear with the miniatures can be especially contoured to fit as an ensemble. These plain and contoured bands are illustrated above.
PRICE LIST—NOTRE DAME MINIATURES AND BANDS—1960-61
All rings are in durable 10K Gold
Black Onyx ...................................  $17.00
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back 19.00
Synthetic Blue Spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 19.00 Synthetic Ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted back  19.00 Synthetic Ruby No. 2, faceted top and back____ 19.00 Synthetic Sapphire, dark blue ____________________ 19.00
Synthetic “Notre Dame” Blue Spinel
No. 1, buff top, faceted back .............   19.00
Synthetic “Notre Dame" Blue Spinel
No. 2, faceted top and back ..............    19.00
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
All-diamond cluster ____________________$165.00
Diamond cluster with oval synthetic sapphire, synthetic ruby or synthetic tourmaline center 100.00
WEDDING BANDS Lady’s, plain or beaded. Regular ........ $	8.00
Lady’s, plain or beaded, Contour ........  9.00
Man’s, plain or beaded. Regular .......   11.00
Man’s, plain or beaded. Contour _________ 12.00
Add $3.00 to the price of any buff top stone ring for 24K gold encrusted Notre Dame monogram. Tax — Add 10% Federal Tax to the above prices.
ORDER YOUR MINIATURE RING FROM
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Notre Dame, Indiana
46
The Scholastic
1961 SCHEDULE i
! Sept. 30—Oklahoma at Notre Dame
;	Coach Bud Wilkinson’s Sooners will be
i heading into South Bend with high hopes p	of erasing the sting of this year’s dismal
i	record. Tom Cox and Ron Payne are
but a few of the many returning vet. erans.
l^Oct. 7—Purdue at Lafayette
Quarterbacks Bernie Allen and Maury Guttman depart as does explosive Willie Jones, a fullback. Tom Yakubowski, another fine fullback, returns, and Coach j Jack Mollenkopf will mould his offense ; around him and a good line.
I Oct. 14—Southern Cal at Notre Dame
The Trojans will be heavily hit by June graduations. Such outstanding 1 linemen as Mike and Marlin McKeever and Dan Ficca are leaving. Coach McKay will build his team around quarter-j	back Nelson, fullback Tobin and center
i	Morgan.
■ Oct. 21—Michigan State at East
Lansing
।	Halfback Gary Ballman and center
'	Dave Manders will be Coach Duffy
;	Daugherty’s chief sources of consolation
I	for the loss of Herb Adderly and quar-
i	terback Tom Wilson. Once again, the
Spartans will be very hard to beat.
f Oct. 28—Northwestern at Notre Dame :	Dick Thornton, granted an extra year’s
playing time because of an injury, may decide to turn pro. His return would be a great boost to the Wildcats. Coach Parseghian faces several line and backfield problems.
Nov. 4—Navy at Notre Dame
The magnificent Joe Bellino will be gone. Adding to the backfield woes is ’ the graduation of Joe Matalavage and Hal Spooner. Coach Wayne Hardin will rely heavily upon linemen such as Hewitt, Von Sydow, Graham and Mather but a new backfield is a problem.
Nov. 11—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
Two thirds of the C Boys’ trio return in the persons of Fred Cox and Bob Clemens. Despite the loss of All-American Mike Ditka, Coach Michelosen will have a fierce line returning, headed by Larry Vignali and Andy Kuzneski.
Nov. 18—Syracuse at Notre Dame
Since a guy named Ernie Davis will still be around next year, the Orangemen will be good. Fullback Art Baker and end Fred Mautino furnish Ben Schwartz-walder with a few headaches by their graduation.
Nov. 25—Iowa at Iowa City
The Hawkeyes will be loaded. Coach Jerry Bums inherits from Forest Eva-shevski a backfield composed of Wilburn Hollis, Joe Williams, Larry Ferguson and Sammy Harris. This quartet will operate behind a big mobile line.
Dec. 2—Duke at Durham
The Blue Devils of Coach Bill Murray lose several top ballplayers including end „ Tee Moorman. Swift halfbacks Joel Harrington and Jack Wilson should make Duke formidable once again.
P December 2, 1960
Roy	Traver	Lind
. Buonicoati
Prospects For a (onobad
The year 1960 proved one of heartbreak and misfortune for the football forces of Notre Dame. Once again the Irish must have led the nation in injuries. At various times during the season, eight boys were tried at fullback. Almost every one of them came up with an injury. Red Mack, John Powers and Tom Hecomovich are but a few of the key performers who were struck by crippling injuries.
What will 1961 bring? No one can accurately answer that question, but it most certainly will have to bring improvement. The list of returning veterans is long; the list of departing graduates is short.
At quarterback, a spot which gave Coach Joe Kuharich many problems this season, four experienced performers return. Many of the quarterback problems this year stemmed from lack of experience. Both Sophomore Dai-yle La-monica and Junior George Haffner showed improvement as the season progressed. Sophomore Norb Rascher also returns as does junior defensive specialist Clay Schulz. Jack Castin, mainly a defensive performer, is the Ione important quarterback loss.
Despite the departure of Bob Scar-pitto, Ray Ratkowski and Mack, the halfback position should be loaded with talent. Juniors George Sefcik, Angelo
GEORGE SEFCIK
Irish rushing ace
Dabiero and Tom Liggio together with sophomores Ed Rutkowski, Frank Minik, Leo Caito, Chuck O’Hara and the untried Denny Phillips will provide plenty of depth. Dabiero and Sefcik frequently starred for the 1960 club while Phillips was injured.
At fullback many of this season’s horde of performers return. Juniors Dick
Bill
Haffner
Naab and Joe Perkowski, and Sophomores Joe Maxwell, Mike Lind and Bill Ahern all held the first string spot at one time or another during the season. Joining the ranks of alumni will be Bill Henneghan and Frank Gargiulo. The status of injured Gerry Gray isn't known at present. Gray, the 1959 team’s leading rusher was forced to drop out of school because of a back injury. His return would give the squad a big boost.
Heading the returning end group will be Junior Les Traver. He will be joined by Sophomores Jim Sherlock, Brian Bou-lac, Dennis Murphy and Leo Seiler. Juniors Max Burnell and the injured defensive standout, John Powers, will also be back.
Bob Pietrzak and Bob Koreck will be the only men graduating from the tackle ranks. Joe Carollo, Roger Wilke, Bob Bill and George Williams will be around for their final season. Sophomore Ed Burke, a frequent starter, is expected . to be outstanding.
Junior Nick Buoniconti, a fine linebacker, heads the list of 1961. guards. Another excellent linebacker, Captain Mo Pottios, is the chief loss here. Junior Norb Roy and Sophomore Nick DePola should be standouts next year. Juniors Mike Magnotta and Frank Grau, plus' injured Sophomore Bob Lehmann will add depth.	.
Late season discovery John Linehan . is the sole graduating pivotman. Soph Ed Hoerster and Juniors Tom Hecomo- . vich and Gene Viola will handle this job in 1961.	—Bob Chiappintili
This is the giant B-52. Advanced as it may be, this airplane has one thing in common with the first war-galleys of ancient Egypt... and with the air and space vehicles of the future. Someone must chart its course. Someone must navigate it.
For certain young men this presents a career of real executive opportunity. Here, perhaps you will have the chance to master a profession full of meaning, excitement and rewards — as a Navigator in the U. S. Air Force.
To qualify for Navigator training as an Aviation Cadet you must be an American citizen between 19 and 26%—single, healthy and intelligent. A high school diploma is required, but some college is highly desirable. Successsful completion of the training program leads to a commission as a Second Lieutenant ... and the coveted Navigator wings.
If you think you have what it takes to measure up to the Aviation Cadet Program for Navigator training, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Or clip
I am between 19 and 26J4, a citizen of the U. S. and a high school graduate with____years of college. Please send me detailed information on the Air Force Aviation Cadet program.
Ham_______________________________________
<1
Stmt
and mail this coupon.
There’s a place for tomorrow’s leaders on the Aerospace Team
NAIL THIS COUPOH TODAY
Aviation Cadet Information, Dept. 24SCMO11 Box 7608, Washington 4, D. C.
U.S. Air Force
The Scholastic^
48
I
; Card Section Revived By Sophomore Class
An important addition to the halftime ! activities was provided this season for , spectators at Notre Dame football ' games. For the first time in fifteen years, card stunts were performed at £)home football contests.
; The card stunt organization was be-■ gun last January by members of the > present Sophomore Class and sponsored by the Student Government.
The stunt committee received additional information from universities j across the country to learn the manner in which to begin such a program.
I Stunt committee. A committee of 30 1 men was responsible for the stunt de-.^»sign, the instruction card preparation r wand the stunt execution. Stunt design was prepared two weeks preceding each home game.
After the stunts were approved, the instruction cards were then prepared for the game. These instruction cards were small in size and just stated the color to be held by the students for each I stunt. Before the game, one of these i cards was attached to every seat in the rooting section.
| w The stunts were called by number ' from the playing field, synchronizing the action with the music of the band. A poster replica of each stunt to be performed was held up on the field to enable those in the section to see what design they were performing.
An interesting sidelight is the fact that there was no practice by the rooting section for the stunts. Thus, there was ; need for extensive detailed preparation ^and complete cooperation, leaving no room for error.
Purdue theme. At the Purdue game this year, the theme for the band and card section was a circus party. The stunt section depicted such things as a | clown and circus tent.
The halftime activities for the Michigan State game saluted the famous L American composer Harold Arlen with
NICOLA'S
Cracker Crust Pina
•
CE 4-6688
Free Delivery to Circle and WNDU Parking lot from 5:00 P.M. on the hour.
•
Restaurant in back at
607 No. Michigan
such songs as “Somewhere Over the Rainbow” and “That Old Black Magic.” Stunts illustrating a rainbow and pot of gold, black hat with a rabbit and others were performed in conjunction with the band.
During the Pittsburgh game, a political theme was presented with the stunt section spelling out “Dick,” “Jack” and “Vote.” These designs were independent of the band as the band gave only a limited show.
The Iowa Hawkeyes were honored with halftime stunts and a band show following the theme of the Broadway play “Music Man.” The Notre Dame R.O.T.C. units were also saluted by the card section at this game.
—Tom Haidinger
HAVE MORE HOLIDAY TIME AT HOME...
HAVE MORE FUN GETTING THERE... FLY UNITED AIR LINES
Be home sooner ... be home longer. Fly home for the holidays on a United DC-8 or 720 Jet Mainliner®.
Even if home is all the way across the country, it’s only a few hours away on a United Jet. You’ll like the convenience of United’s schedules—United flies the most jets and serves the most cities by jet. And you’re treated with extra care all the way whether you travel de luxe Red Carpet or economical Custom Coach.
If this is your year for a “Sunshine Holiday,” consider Hawaii. There’s time enough to enjoy the fun of the Islands when you go there on a United Jet. For reservations home or information on “Sunshine Holidays,” see a travel agent or call any United Air Lines office.
Seniors
(Continued from page 39)
Ratkowski had status as regulars during the 1960 campaign.
Dave Hurd, another senior, could not play because of an old knee injury which didn’t respond to treatment. Hurd utilized his time and talent to good advantage as he assisted Coach Hugh Devore in instructing the Freshman Team.
The 1960 seniors did not end their college careers with a winning record. Yet, their contribution was just as important. For this group leaves, knowing that they have done then- best in providing sound leadership for the younger players who will play on the team in the years to come.
December 2, 1960
49
“'RWTURBOW
ypPTOMinuer
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CE 3-0578
INQUIRIES INVITED
224 E. LA SALLE ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
ARMY-NAVY
AIR FORCE
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL 207 W. Washington—Phone CE 4-5777
Famous for Pizza, Spaghetti and Ravioli
Insignias
MILITARY SUPPLIES
GENDEL'S SURPLUS SALES
SPECIAL—A Used Alpacca Lined Parka—Only $7.95
YOU SAVE EVERYDAY AT GENDEL'S 512 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND
&

Tried Regular Filter Cigarettes?
Tried Other
Menthol Cigarettes?
NOW! Come Up...AU The Way Up to the MENTHOL MAGIC of KOOL!
When your taste tells you it's time for a change, remember: Only Kool— no regular filter cigarette, no other menthol cigarette—' gives you real Menthol Magic!
THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT
FILTEB
MENTHOL
I

01960. BROWN R WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
50
The Scholastic *
IDEAL GIFTS FOR CHRISTMAS
Twin Magazines!
Distinct . . . but reluted
CATHOLIC BOY
CATHOLIC MISS
Published at Notre Dame by the Holy Cross Fathers
EACH MAGAZINE
AQ pages chock full of sports. rO adventure, comics, stories, hobbies and Catholic inspiration.
r J
*And here are
EACH MAGAZINE, only $3.00
your handy subscription forms:
a year!
	CATHOLIC BOY	□ Notre Dame, Indiana	□ Dear Fathers: Please send CATHOLIC BOY to:	1 year, $3.00 2 years, $5.50 3 years, $7.50
	Name	
	Street and Number	
	City	Zone	State	
lb	□ Send Gift card to read from:	
	Your Name	■	
	Your Address	
CATHOLIC MISS	□ Notre Dame, Indiana	□ Dear Fathers:	. Please send CATHOLIC MISS to:	1 year, $3.00 2 years, $5.50 3 years, $7.50	• ” • • - ’ • _ ■ • - ' ■ • - • - •	- - • > •	- ■ _ - . ’ • - r . '	1 . 0	' • - . • 0	'	- • 9	- -
Name		0 - • - ' ' 9
Street and Number		« : • , ■ ■' • *. - ; y.
City	Zone	State	_ , -	•	' - V -a-	v-..* v
□ Send Gift card to read from:		S
Your Name		_ ■
Your Address		• - xi y

Created by R J Reynolds Tobacco Company
