
April 9~ 1987 . 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine Vol.128, No.20 . 


Paid Advertisement 

How Student Government Works 
Many times, students ask the question, "What does Student Government do for me?" One of the most important things that it can do is act as a mediator between the students and the administration. It is through Student Government that student input and opinion is voiced and received. What? You say that the administration never listens to students? Well, here are Father Malloy's views on student input 
Father Malloy has prided himself on his accessibility to the students and plans on remaining accessi­ble to the Notre Dame student body. His interest in communication with the students is very important to Student Government. Much of Student Government's credibility comes through the responsiveness of the administration. 
Through many different channels, the administration has given students an opportunity to provide input. Student Government hopes to be the means of providing student opinion to the administration by interacting with the administration in a very honest, professional manner. 
Through contact with the Office of Student Affairs -Father David Tyson, Sister Jean Lenz, Father Peter Rocca, Dr. John Goldrick, and Dr. Ann Firth -many students will have an opportunity to sit on committees c9mposed of students, faculty, and administrators. These committees will deal directly with student life afld the policies affecting it. In this way, student input will be directly considered in many decisions made by the administration. Please bring your thoughts and opinions to us so that we may util­ize these channels of communication. 
Father Malloy has extended an invitation not only to Student Government but to the entire body to share thoughts with the administration. We assured him that the students want this opportunity and we are assuring you that we will represent your opinions to the administration. 
Looking forward to a very positive year, Sincerely, 


¦ 
Contents 
April 9, 1987 Volume 128, No. 20


Scholastic 


Aren't You Hungry? 
By Mike Farnan, John Mikulak, Ron Mileti and Paul10 Sughrue 
Where are the best burgers on campus? Whose pizza is the pits? Finally a comprehensive guide to the good, the bad and the ugly. 

Departments 
4/Week in Distortion: A Different Spring 5/0n Other Campuses: Going Out of Business 9 /Music: Slick Sounds 22/Calendar 28/Final Word: A Voice for Peace and Justice 

Sports 
24/The Rights of Spring 
By Marty Burns Spring practice has presented Irish Coach Lou Holtz with a number of problems --the most pressing of which is a problem of numbers. 
27/ Scoreboard:LacrosseTeam Open Home Season 

News 

6/ Steering the Right Course By Mike Barbosa 
Although course selection is on the horizon, there will be no results from the Faculty Course Evaluations to make the choices easier. 
16/ 'M' Is For Melissa By Tony Lang 
The court battle is over for now and Baby M is officially Melissa Stern, but experts continue to debate the ethics of surrogate motherhood. 

Student Life 
19/ Jazzing It Up Again By Alex Peltzer 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival prepares for its 29th year as a Notre Dame tradition. 
Scholastic magazine is published weekly during the school year except during examination and vacation periods at Notre Dame, IN 46556 
and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, IN 46642. The subscription rate is $18.76/year and back issuea are available at $1.00/copy. The 
opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not neceaaarily repreaent the opinions of the entire editorial 
board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Editorials represent the opinion of a major­
ity of the editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All un101icited material becomea the property of Scholaatic. Scholastic is represented 
nationally·by CASS student advertising, Inc. · · 
C 1987 Scholastic magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permiuion ii prohibited. 
. ------­
, ,, ' ..':,~t.i:.&~.k,,C...:.,~::.iJ,~..,.':,±..:...1t.,.:.,, '-~---­
Edrtonal 

"\makes-its presen stu tuden
' ' •~ ' ~, ~ ,-::J ;. Jiffe,:M 
Lastshnest~'r,< st;cterits hadli chance to)nake an impact 011 their asadeinicl1vfs: ,,q¾'.then~.,cu\tMHPo~~~'~ Ey~;~atiq}?)l\VO ha . . .d stMJtent~ftf,~ 0 t:ll~!,flt:
.• :.se.lves;c}ioose\clf1.S~ Sche.dules us,ing1stll t ,Y.. o['pfo[ess6r§ a oul.'scs/y .. however, failed to takeadvaniage of that ch.an . 
:i:\Iln1nH1~g1, fttI?kve!tf~eof(\;j~.pJ)iint ....... tu ....•. i ... ch~~ur~e ti ... •·· ... ..... ··•.. ······ >
i,.. 

This•.school·year,.lessthan·.. 12percentof•the6,000formswere r~tur. The.seasonsiforthist .•. i~?{~stic;-.Agan:~t\;aret~~.cle~r;;Dl'•fai~i t~~ii:'~~i1?RS~~{!~t~n 'pli~¼tY { y i~~:? Y ..·~.···•··• 
.ycar-longabsence·urtd.~.r· Bill Healy's adm111:1strntion C~llSC th.e students t9Jorget1ts uses; Both••··• >,,,cases ,are •U:Iilikely because.•r:thev,ECE s •adv_ertisedJ. extensive Whateve . 
H:U;(t: ,<·= ,,·,~,:. : '~'\Y:):. . . ... . . i-·r\'i~:t . ,'.if-'i.;~'.? ·. .. :A.'.Jl~ . . ,<\::>t·"ti A·. ·~>r~,t.:. :-: ., . : : .\.t',~':)r
Jfiings[:remairi(~Ie, . 'I'J1eS\:\FC:EChas .Pofo11t,ia.blf9 lielp, s.t ntsl,rcqllr (;ly·ctiqps . q,through lack ofresponse, students demo~strntec(an apathetic attitude toward issues dfrectiY\
· I1~f.fecfm'ftM~Y 
, . . . .. .. 
. . . ... . .. , . 
.This year;~·.·FfE.mayhavebeenaf~il11re;.buj;by adctressihispedfkprOB1em~,.t11e·pfo ramf st
ii¥mit .~v~i~1Jitf;ii,;:~~1}1~1ffr&lr121. .. 11!i1~f~H~,i~~ F ;it .tion of. fhe•,:F,PE ei11,_c:fasse,~,.as •a;,stJ'ctc11t; COITlBJeni.f.nt. toits'PWil,,,Teacher···. · .. '/m9st\wpor~;!itly,.:;~i~ct,(;.~l~:,1hi.u§1iito/~eJi::~iyeriipJ~e; .. (S'.i:a,I}1,}i~Is~..ili~11:.9~1Wiqp 

Scholastic 
Vol 128 April 9, 1987 No. 20 
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vil'e Quasi Cras Moriturus 
Founded 1867 

Editor: Kathleen McKernan 
Managing Editor: Mark Dillon 
Business Manager: Cathy Coffey 
Editorial Staff 

. Sports: Marty Burns Departments: ·Mike Farnan 
Student Life: Sara Harty News: Steffanie Keller Copy Chief: Bob White 

Production 

Graphics Arts Manager: Patricia Brienza Photo Manager: Allan Lim Systems Manager: Lawrence Pravecek Production Managers: Jim Doerfler Amy Weber 

Business 

Administration and Circulation: Matt Bradley Controller: John Harper Advertising Manager: Dave Marcantuono · 
Issue 20 Staff 
Layout: Sue Ser~ato Mary Faith Feeney Diane Ricker 
. Copy: 

Sara Harty 
Art: 

Photography: 
Kathleen Kelley 

Greg Alberton 
Tim Letscher 

Joe Vitacco 
Distribution: 
Mike Hoban 






New General Board 
Takes Over With.This Issue 
Scholastic announces the 
remainder of its general board for 
1987-88. The new board starts its 
duties immediately with this issue. 
Mark Dillon, a junior American 
studies major from Bloomfield, 
N.J., has been chosen managing 
editor. Dillon returned from a 
first semester in London to join 
the news department, after being a 
senior staff reporter for The 
Observer as a freshman and sopho­
more. 

Catherine Coffey has been selected business manager. Coffey is a junior accounting major from Birmingham, Mich. She was pre­viously departments editor. As a sophomore, Coffey ·was also assis­tant features editor and f ea tu res design editor at The Observer. 
Allan Lim, a sophomore from Malaysia, will resume his duties as photography manager. Lim is a civil engineering major. 
Steffanie Keller, a freshman from Baltimore, Md., has been chosen news editor. Keller became assistant news editor in January after writing for the news depart­ment first semester. 
Marty Burns has been named sports editor. The junior from Chicago has been assistant sports editor at The Observer since the end of his freshman year. Burns also has written for the South Bend Tribune and worked for the Chicago Bears professional foot­ball team. 
Sara Harty, a junior English major from Memphis, Tenn., has been selected student life editor. Harty has worked as copy editor and has written for student life. 
Mike Farnan, froni. McMurray, Penn., has been chosen depart­ments editor. Farnan, a sopho-
April 9, 1987 

more, has written a weekly column 
for departments. He is an econom­
ics major. 

David Marcantuono, a junior accounting major, has been selected advertising manager. Marcantuono, from Sparta, N.J., has served as controller for Adworks. 
John Harper has been named controller. Harper, a junior finance major from Manila, Phi­lippines, currently serves on the Business College Council and is the only student on the Business College Dean search committee. 
Amy We_ber, a freshman from Canton, Ohio, has been selected production manager. Weber has written for the news department and worked as a design assistant. 
Bob White, a freshman from Glen Ellyn, Ill., has been named copy chief. White previously served as a copy editor and design assistant. He also acted in that capacity for The Observer. 
Patricia Brienza has been chosen graphics arts manager. Brienza, a freshman from Dillon, Mont., has served as a staff artist and design assistant. She is an art and English major. 
Lawrence Pravecek from Cen­tral Point, Ore. will resume his second year as systems manager. Pravecek is a fourth-year student in a five-year math and pre­medicine program. 
Matthew Bradley, from Wynd­moor, Penn., has been chosen administration and circulation manager. Bradley, an Americaµ studies major, has.been production. manager this year. He was manag,­irtg editor his sophomore year. 
3 






ADifferent Spring 
Mud and basketballs fly during _the week 
of rule breaking called An Tostal 
By Mike Keegan 

Springtime. Ah, the season of lovers. A time when young Notre Dame. rn:en can be found serenading their sweethearts while standing in line for ice cream. A period where innocent, Notre Dame women ignore the winter beer tires around their honeys' waists. A season in which the weather changes from snows­torms to rainstorms, an environ­ment more conducive to courting. Str_olls by the lake become favor­able as the ground on Ducky Island thaws, making it the perfect hideway for lat~ night "chats" with your favorite gal or guy. Ah, what romance. What love. What a lie.. 
Let's face it, spring at Notre Dame just doesn't promote the same erotic feelings as say, spring­time on the French Riviera So what does springtime mean to the average Domer? No, not love and romance. No, not sunshine and good weather. Maybe, a "chat" on Ducky Island. But for most Darners, spring either means rol­ling in a pit of mud at a chariot race· or thinking up wholesome names that Mom would be proud of ·for basketball teams. With this season comes the glories of An Tostal. · 
For all those freshmen who have never experienced the event 
and for all those sophomores, juniors, and seniors who were too busy studying for finals, An Tostal is the annual beer chugging, get­. down-get naked, weeklong party where the rules of du Lac are suspended and the alcohol policy is burned for fun. So maybe I'm exaggerating a bit, the alcohol pol­
icy isn't burned, just shredded. 
An Tostal begins with the annual Bookstore Basketball Tour­nament. Over six hundred teams compete for the glory of being crowned "King of the Blacktop Court." However, the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat, or is it the agony of victory and the thrill of defeat, is not the major guffaw associated with Bookstore 
Basketball. The major laugh lies in team names. Even with all of the censoring of team names this year, one still can find a good chuckle. 
For instance, how about Jump­ing and Jerking on the Johnson, one has to wonder how that one made it through editing? Or what about Liberace and His Aids? Laughing yet? Many teams are concerned with politics, like Fawn Hall's Desktop Aerobics and the Rise of Ollie North. Some are con:-· cerned with animal rights, Penguins in Bondage, for instance. Others don't know what they are concerned with, like The Flying Dingle berries. 
Many teams are overly optimis­tic about their chances, take We Stink, for instance. They are a definite contender. It makes you wonder, with team names like Puff My Magic Dragon and Five Screams from a Loft, what Team 178's real name was. 
In addition to Bookstore, An Tosta! brings the infamous mudpit Chariot races to Notre Dame. If you have ever thought of rolling around in the mud with 600 .other people or if you feel like just flinging mud for fun, this is the place for you. These chariot racers make Roman warriors look like s1ss1es. When Dillon's big red machine enters the arena, men and women alike stand· in awe of the immense size of the vessel. How­ever, it takes just a few moments for hundreds of crazed Darners to tear this chariot to pieces. With this action, the war begins. No one is safe. Mud flies through the air from every direction. Preppy Domers begin to ·iook more like Monsters from the Black Lagoon than actual students. Just remember though, that when it is all over, you will be washing mud off places on your body that you never knew existed. 

Students are not just limited to basketball and mud during this week of rule breaking. One can impersonate Ethel Merman to the che~rs of hundreds of onlookers, or one can just sit back and dream of ·next year's mauling of Miami while watching the annual Blue­Gold game. Ah, the rite of spring at Notre Dame. I still wonder though what team l 73's real name was?II 

Scholastic 


Going Out Of Business 
Edited by Steve Sparks 
Forty-seven students at University of Wisconsin face criminal charges in false identification scheme 


A false identification scandal recently 
rocked the University of Wisconsin, wrote the Chronicle cif Higher Education, when a freshman business major found himself out of business after being caught selling blank birth certificates. At the time of his arrest, the student had sold over one hundred of these certificates which he obtained through the Wisconsin Division of Motor Vehicles and which his customers used to obtain fraudulant state identification cards. Forty-seven students face criminal charges for using the certi­ficates for that purpose, a university police detective said. Every student involved in the scheme who is caught will be disciplined and the organizers will be -suspended, said a university spokesman. 


Relationships between Notre Dame 
men and Saint Mary's women are the brunt of jokes at Marquette in The Journal, Marquette's student magazine. In an article titled, "The Dating Game," Lisa Holewa describes the partnership as beautiful but also very unrealistic. Holewa believes that "society would be better off with Notre Dame guys and Saint Mary's girls, skipping through the fields of Indiana and begin­ning their wedded bliss with a lovely ceremony in the Notre Dame Grotto, happy to create a new generation of Gippers for the Irish football team." 

A car which was smashed by a student 
prankster at James Madison University will need over $500 in repairs reported The Breeze, James Madison's campus newspaper. The student was apprehended and charged by campus police on March 6 after he caused_ the accident by placing a chain across a road in front of one of the dorms. No one was hurt in the incident. Campus police, recently confronted with a wave of such dangerous practices, believe that punishing this offender could cause a break in the recent epidemic of prac­tical jokes. 

AIDS victim and world famous pianist 
Liberace left his entire estate in a trust that will be used to support a scholarship foundation he esta:. blished eight years ago. According to The Chroni­cle of Higher Education, the Liberace Foundation ;rovides scholarships to music students at 22 col­leges and universities across the country. Last year it awarded $220,000 worth of scholarships, but up until now, these have been financed solely with proceeds from the Liberace Museum in Las Vegas. "We hope to do more and hope to continue p_rovid­ing scholarships forever in Liberace's name," said Seymour Heller, the entertainer's manager and _a trustee of the Liberace Foundation. Liberace was believed to be worth millions. 
April 9, 1987 


News 

Steering The Right Course 
By Mike Barbosa 

Although course selection is on the horizon, there will be no results from the Faculty Course Evaluations to make the choices easier 
,, 

Late last semester, students across campus reached into their mailboxes to find yet another form. The questionnaire, with the letters FCE printed on the envelope, offered students the opportunity to express opinions about their professors and courses. Two years ago, a similar program garnered a significant response. The vast majority of 1ast semester's forms, however, were never returned. 
The 1986 Faculty Course Evaluation was a student govern­ment project that gave students a chance to evaluate their courses and professors. Designed to aid students during course selections, the form asks students to rate their professors and courses on clarity, preparation, and workload. This data was to be compiled by the FCE committe~ which consisted of· Chairman Doug Wurth, Dan VanHaitsma, and Mike Scott, and the results were destined for a spe­cial booklet. Of the 6000 forms distributed last semester, only 700 were returned. 
Because of the poor response, Wurth made the final decision not to print the FCE handbook. "I did not feel that the response was enough to merit publication, as I do not feel it accurately represented student opinion, not enough to put teachers' reputations 
6 
on the line," Wurth said. 
The FCE is not new. It was initially attempted in 1984, after the idea was developed by then 
Ull'lfRSITT OF IOTBE DAME FAall.ITCOUIUFfllUATJJI 
NAIi 1U1 CIICRUT .,._TII _,.. 
~ 
L -IBUJ,llllZ1'8a.RIJ. 
' ,.,.,....!1,1,camtann:&• ....... 
MJ.l(.EftlUUWllfa 
C. .l'CUMIIAll:RAll,EMstQ.!M.TNIObOIWll:ta.lll
._,...._ 


Only 700 Faculty Course Evaluations distributed last fall. 
sophomore Mark Rolincik. In 1984 the program had a good response, "at least 15 percent of students from each section responded, average response was close to 35 percent," said VanHaitsma. 
Wurth blamed a great deal of the program's failure on its absence m the 1985-86 school year. "The Healy administration was largely responsible for prob­lems this year. A lack of con-
I ¦¦ 
were returned out of 6000 
tinuity in the program last year may have caused its failure," said Wurth. 
The program was reinstated in 1986 because, according to Student Body Vice President Don Mon­tanaro, "Doug (Wurth) originally approached us with the idea and 
Scholastic 




News 

took it (FCE program) to Adworks. They did the best they could, about the same as they would do for anything else." 
Committee members had their 
Student Body President ·Pat Cooke and Student Body•.· Vice President Laurie Bink said· they are committed to the project and would like to see it attempted again. Cooke said that a cabinet 
asked if we (former Student Body President Switek Montanaro) saw merit in the idea. We did, so we gave it a go." 
Distribution was also a barrier to the FCE's success. "We had to depend on hall mail staffs for dis­tribution, and this proved to be undependable," Wurth said. 
Trimm agreed. "Distribution was a problem because, as delivered as campus mail, many students ·probably looked at it as just another piece of junk mail from the U nivcrsity," he said. 
Off-campus students were left largely . unaware of the program because it was not mailed out to them as it was to on-campus stu­dents. "We had difficulty in get­ting the form to off-campus stu­dents. Forms were available in own theories on problems with student participation. Trimm said, "The forms required students to know section numbers. Many stu­dents were just too lazy to look them up and simply discarded the form." 

An attempt was made to cir­cumvent this problem by distri­buting course schedules to the stu­dents, but the administration would not allow this because "it was a breach of confidentiality 

junior and senior class offices only, so it was hard for them to pick the form up," Wurth said. 
Freshman Kevin Curran never received the form. He said that the program was a good idea, "but it needed more publicity to explain that it was for the student's benefit." 
About publicity, Wurth said, "I 
April 9, 1987 
between students and the adminis­tration," said Wurth. 
Some students have said they see value in the project. "It's a good idea because you can get a11 average response on what people think about a course or professor, as opposed to just going on the opinions of one or two previous students," said sophomore Tom Stewart. 
position has been established whose responsibilities will include the FCE, in order to make the FCE more a part of student government. 
They also offcred a suggestion for a more efficient means of dis­tributing the forms, distribution in class along with its twin the Teacher Course Evaluation. Trimm said the FCE committee had approached the administration with this idea. "(The administra­tion) did not want the focus to shift to the FCE from the TCE, they wanted to keep the classroom for the TCE," said Trimm. 
I 

Bink said that she and Cooke were willing to work with the administration . to get around that barrier. "We see the FCE as a supplement to the administration's (course catalog and TCE), not a substitute," Bink said. "The administration might feel that the form is not academically benefi­cial, as it might cause student abuses of the program," she said. 
Wurth still believes the FCE can work. "Maybe students don't see the FCE as something that is worthwhile, but I don't think (that that is) so," said Wurth. "I still feel that (the FCE) is something most students would want if they were made more aware." II 
7 



The "Family-friendly" computer 

S500 FREE Software! 
•"Mouse" 
with window software •Digital Research, lnc:s GEMdesktop, GEMpaint, DOSPLUS, Basic2 •MSDOS V3.2 •512K Memory, IBM®-compatible 

•
Paper white monochrome monitor (16 grey levels) 



· •Optional RGB color monitors (16 colors) •Tilt and Swivel monitor stand •PC-XT-style keyboard •Joy­stick port •Speaker with volume control •Serial and Parallel ports •3 PC-compatible, full-size expansion slots • Quartz Real time clock • 16 bit 8086 proces­sor (8 MHz) •360KB double-sided Floppy drive 
•Optional 
Second Floppy drive or 20MB hard drive 

•
User manuals •CP/M-86 Software compatibility 

•CGA 
enhanced color graphics software •Expand­able to work in network environment for multi-tasking. 


C) 

[1·-II M '·LJ 
[7].'li\j.,..;..;;. _____:·______;,c_:_::_::s.tL~ 


Let Lisa show it to you at the COMPUTING CENTER DEMO ROOM and give it a test drive 
OR call Arlen Williams at 282-2311 for information or a presentation. 
Also at the DEMO ROOM: the Panasonic 1080i dot matrix printer with near letter (professor) quality, $265. 
Special prices also apply to much additional software and. other hardware, some on exhibit at the DEMO ROOM! 
* AMSTRAD 1512 Prices:  
COLOR·  BLACK/WHITE  
MONITOR  MONITOR  
1 Floppy drive  $ 999  $799  
2  Floppy drives  1099  899  
2  I Meg. hard drive, I floppy  1499  1299  
*Other Options:  

. Compu/Net Turbo XT complete system w/ 30 Meg. drive $1549 Compu/Net 286-10 lOmHz complete system 







Slick Sounds 
The secret' s finally out about Oingo Boingo and China Crisis and their new albums . 
By Don Seymour 

As is always the case, lots of good bands escape mass recognition. The mainstream 
music scene can have only so many 
stars. Plus, only so many bands fit 
into the · homogenized sound that 
wins Grammy A wards. True, 
there are exceptions when quirky 
or unique sounds arc widely 
accepted. 
· Remember Dire Straits' "Sul­tans of Swing" or Blondie's "Rap­ture"? More often, however, these quirky practitioners quietly follow their muses and are never appreci­ated, except by a small cult fol­lowing. But this doesn't mean their· music is bad, or even weird. 
Two such bands that come to 
mind are Oingo Boingo and China Crisis. With the release of Boingo and What Price Paradise, their respective new albums, neither seem any closer to •a commercial breakthrough. These albums and these bands are and wiil remain well-kept secrets, music enjoyed 'by a loyal following but with little potential for commercial growth. 
It's time to let the secret out. 
China Crisis is a British five-

some led by singer /songwriters Gary Daly, Eddie Lundon, and Gary "Gazza" Johnson. Their sound is mellow and melodic. I want to call it New Age Pop, but I hate the connotations of that term. China Crisis means sweet pop songs filled with soft guitars, synths and spare orchestration. They have no equivalent; there­fore, they are incomparable. 
What Price Paradise, their third album, is a strong outing. The songs may be a bit slicker than in past collections, but the sound is essentially pure· China Crisis. "Arizona Sky,'' the first single, is a love song to America that you may hear on adventurous AOR stations across the country. "June 

On the American front, out of L.A., comes the most underrated band in music today: Oingo Boingo. This band is led by eccen­tric singer and songwriter Danny Elfman. Over the last decade, Oingo Boingo has· established itself as a premier party band with a style all its own. Some of the band's most popular songs include "Dead Man's Party," "Wake Up (It's 1984)," and "Nothing Bad Ever Happens to Me." 
Elfman guides the band in much the same manner as David. Byrne controls Talking Heads.. He is a creative force and has such a powerful personality that it is easy to forget about other talented band members such as guitarist Steve Bartek, who co-,produced many of the band's albums with Elfman. Danny Elfman is still infinitely interesting. And he's a good song­writer, too. 
In fact, the strength of the band is its lyrics. "We Close Our Eyes" is as melodic as any pop single, but unlike most singles, it is about the transience of this world. "Not My Slave" deals with what Elfman perceives as wrong in exclusive relationships. And "Pain" is about repressed emotions. All these songs carry the distinctive Boingo sound: strong guitars that are not afraid of synths, heavily dom­inated by bass and drums, and Danny Elfman's manic voice. ¦ ' 


April 9, 1987 




Aren't You Hungry? 
By Mike Farnan, John Mikulak, Ron Mileti and Paul Sughrue 
Where are the best burgers on campus? Whose pizza is the pits? Finally, a comprehensive guide to the good, the bad and the ugly 


")students who sleep through dinner, late night munchies, or are just basically pigs need to find alternative 
food sources on the Notre Dame campus. Hall food­sales offers a convenient -and usually inexpensive ­alternative to the Huddle or the dining halls. Scho­lastic, realizing that many students take advantage of these grocery/restaurant establishments, has· com­pikd the following comprehensive review. Each foodsale is rated on a scale of one to five, five being the best and one the worst. Six undercover teams have reviewed four foodsales each, judging on the basis of the quality, variety and price of the food offered. Behind closed doors, the four reviewers have met to decide the fate of all f oodsales. Their findings are revea~ed in the following report. 
ALUMNI: Although rumors of beer sales have pro­ven to be false, Alumni foodsales provides a slightly better-than-average dining experience. Located in Alumni's basement, the foodsales is nestled in an attractive, brick-walled room that gives the customer the feeling of being in an authentic pizza parlor. Its atmosphere is enhanced by friendly service. It offers an adequate selection of reasonably priced items including burritos, hot dogs, pizza, pretzels and several types of candy. Nine-, 12-and 14-inch pizzas sell for $1.25, $2 and $3.50, respectively. Burritos sell at the "low, low price" of 85 cents. The food was basically well-prepared, and the pizza had relatively thick crust. (***1/2] 
BADIN: One thing-to remember before going to Badin foodsales is to bring a magnifying glass -that's so the pizza can be seen. It would also be advisable not to brrng your taste buds, but that's impossible. It's that bad! Now for the good news. The 'sales offers a respectable selection of eats, including nachos with cheese, Poptarts, and seven different types of candy. And for the soda lovers out there, it has 10 different kinds of beverages in stock; One of the more social atmospheres exists outside Badin foodsales -a popular place for Badinites to "hang." In fact, unattached guys should stop by to scope the Badin women ... but should remember to stay as far away from the pizza as possible. I**) 


BREEN-PHILLIPS: BP foodsales sells plenty of Pop Tarts, cookies and ice cream, but has a very meager chips selection. A 12-inch pizza costs a mere $3.25, bagels are 85 cents and nachos sell for $1.25. In addition to these more traditional foodsale iteins, customers will find cake mixes and frosting. I**) 


1111 
CARROLL: People who like simplicity will love Car­roll foodsales because it peddles only pizza, soda and -a recent addition -hot pretzels. A cheese pizza is $2.50 with a sausage or pepperoni topping costing an extra 25 cents. Despite its limited selection, the ser­vice is outstanding. Workers go out of their way to please, which is what saved this 'sales from an even lower rating. I**) 
CAVANAUGH: Neither great nor lousy, Cavanaugh foodsales is just sort of ... there. The pizza itself is fair or, maybe it's more accurate to say, it fills you up if you're hungry. Also offered are chips and candy. One problem with the 'sales, though, is its fluctuating hours. It is not uncommon for this food-sales to open after or close before 11 o'clock. But then again, it's not really 'Yorth the wait. I**] 



DILLON: The Big Red makes Big Red-Hot Pizza. Without a doubt, Dillon foodsales outstanding feature is its pizza. Cooked. to perfection with a thick layer of cheese, just the right amount of sauce, and a crispy yet chewy crust, a 12-incher sells for $4, mak­ing it one of the best bargains on campus. Dillon also provides a variety of other reasonably priced foods, including hot dogs, pretzels, subs and ice cream. And the eating area is festive with a pinball machine and color television. But there is one problem: service. Customers might not think this foodsales is so great when confronted with the I'll-get-to-you-when-I'm­ready attitude exhibited by its workers. Good pizza, ..,Q good selection, and good atmosphere do not make up 
O'I 

(1) for bad service. (***] 
~ 
C'" 
..,(1) 
g 
::, 


FARLEY: Farley foodsales is an experience not worth repeating. It does offer a strong variety of choices -cake mix, lots of cookies and chips, and a decent selection of drinks. However, the only non­prepackaged itepis are bagels and pizza. The pizza is expensive at $2.75 for a 10-incher, with each actdi~ tional topping costing 50 cents. Overall, Farley food­sales is not worth writing home about. I**] 
FISHER: A trip to Cralphie's, in Fisher's basement, is appalling. If mirrors on the walls forcing custo­mers to watch themselves gain weight on bad food isn't nauseating enough, try a hamburger. Fisher serves the frozen Totino pizza. For some reason the toppings look green, but green peppers are not one of the topping options. The hot ham and cheese is a sloppy, soggy mess -probably because it is cooked in a microwave. Even though they advertise a large selection, the variety of food is truly lacking because 
11 





0 foodsales supplies a pleasant setting, providing a
iil 

Oq large screen television and an adjoining game room, ~ for enjoying fairly good food. The 'sales makes tasty :i 9-inch submarine sandwiches ($1.25), and sells burri­g tos ($1), hot dogs (50 cents), candy (35 and 40 cents) and ice cream. In addition to these items, it also makes above-par pizza in a nine-inch ($2.25), a 12­inch ($3.25), a 14-inch ($4.25) and a 16-inch ($5.25) 
size. Unfortunately, at the time of this review, it was understocked and was out of pepperoni, roast beef and, would you believe it, napkins. [***1 /2) 
GRACE: Any foodsales tJ:i.at uses a cash register with 1000 buttons has got to be good. And "Sarge's" is. Peddling 12 different kinds of candy and 10 dif­ferent kinds of chips, Sarge's offers the customer an incredible selection. Pepperidge Farm Cookies (50 cents), hot dogs (45 cents, 60 cents with chili), Pop Tarts, burritos and a variety of Hostess items top the list. The pizza ($6.45 for a 16-inch, $3.60 for a 12­inch, $2.90 for a 9-inch) is great, although Sarge's can be a little chintzy with their toppings. Other than this, Grace has one of the best foodsales on campus. 
[****] 

HOLY CROSS: It must be hard to keep those hungry Hogs fed, but Holy Cross foodsales does quite well. The customer's order is taken at a counter and prepared in a back room, a system similar to a "real" restaurant. Booths which line the walls provide an attractive dining area and add to the professional polish of the foodsales. However, poor selection detracts from this otherwise five-star foodsales. In addition to hamburgers ($1) and hot dogs (50 cents), a 16-inch pizza runs about $5 and requires two hands to hold. Single slices cost only 70 cents and are com­parable in size to small pizzas in other dorms. Although closed on Friday and Saturday, the food­sales is open Sunday through Wednesday from 9:30 
p.m. to ·midnight and on Thursda:,1s from 8:30 to 
11:30 p.m. [****] 

HOWARD: Quality is not enough for a foodsales. Quantity counts too. Though the quality of food and the prices are up to campus standards, item selection is noticeably below par. Basically, the only items this 'sales offers are burritos ($1), hot dogs (80 cents) grilled cheese sandwiches (65. cents) and pop. Sorry, guys, that's not enough. Candy should at least be included to even consider this snack bar a foodsales. 
Scholastic 


It does allow students to charge their purchases, but unfortunateJy there isn't much to charge. [**] 
KEENAN: Although the hall makes Alcatraz look architecturally stylish, Keenan foodsales does manage to feed its inmates good pizza. In fact, the more toppings ordered, the better the pizza. The crust seems to vary from crispy to chewy -depend­ing on the pizza -and is moderately priced. Keenan falls short, however, in the variety of available items, with only hot dogs (40 cents), pizza ($2, 2.85 and $4.80), chips (35 cents) and candy being offered. A run-dow.n recreation room provides a poor dining atmosphere. [***] 
LEWIS: As Paul Schaffer, musician/comedian on "Late Night with David Letterman," might say: "Lewis Foodsales -What a gas!" In general, the variety offered at Lewis foodsales is good. The usual items are available -chips, sodas, candy, ice cream ­and it also serves hot pretzels, popcorn, cookies, and cookie mix. Tombstone Pizza is also offered in a 9­inch ($2.85) and a 12-inch size ($4). The atmosphere is in time with Lewis' "institutional" decorating motif. Sure it was clean -it was almost too clean. 
Unfortunately, not even Nurse Ratchet's electric shock could pep up its pizza. [***] 
LYONS: Though not perfect, Lyons foodsales is superior to many on campus. ·The pizza is a high 

point, made right in front of the customer out of fresh cheese, a pita-like crust, and a tasty (though canned) sauce. A 12-inch ($4.50) or a 6-inch ($2.25) pizza and pizza slices (65 cents each) are available. Another fantastic feature is their excellent selection. Lyons offers such items as chicken patties, turkey or roast beef subs ($2.50), soup -packets (35 cents), bagels, brownie mix, colby cheese, margarine, Wheat Thins and even Smucker's jam. The adjacent dining 
i:: 
2
..
.. 
.0 
< 
bO 
f! 
C, 


Jerry Melia pulls a pizza at Grace foodsales. 
area is comfortable and homey, complete with a wooden dining table and a well-equipped kitchen. {****] 
MORRISSEY: If the Manorites decided to rally, they could make their eating spot a focus of South Quad. However, the men of Morrissey have not rallied. This foodsales suffers from three major afflictions. First, the facilities look like an inner-city greasy­spoon. The floor is worn, the walls are dingy, the kitchen is grungy, and the counter and table are out­dated. Second, seldom is their incredible selection of items in stock. If looking for onion chips to go with a hot dog, one will probably be disappointed. Third, it serves Tombstone Pizza -pizza as hard as the object for which it is named. For $4.25 a 12-incher, one can do better. [**1/2] 
PANGBORN: Pangborn foodsales offers such items 
as shakes, nachos, burritos, hot dogs, pizza, ham­burgers and sundaes in miniature big-league helmets (just great for the kids!). The pizza is well-above average with a thick bread-like crust. Most pizza sales are made by the slice (60 cents), but a 12-inch pizza is available ($4). Unfortunately, Pangborn also offers hamburgers that taste like charcoal briqucts with cheese. Pangborn's selection and quality arc what merits its high rating. [***) 
PASQUERILLA EAST: P.E. foodsalcs has a great variety of items, including burritos, chicken nuggets, 
April 9, 1987 Pepperidge Farm cookies, hot pretzels, brownie mix, margarine, eggs and pizza. They also serve six types of ice cream treats, including two flavors scooped while you wait. But a wide range of foods does not 


"Call the neighbors! Wake up the kids and the dog! For fast and friendly service -eight minutes for a pepperoni pizza -and delicious food, Zahm food sales is place to be." 
completely make up for the lack of authentic pizza. Small pita pizzas ($1.50) are its only offering in this category, leaving the hungry 'za lover craving some­thing more. Because of this and the drab eating area provided, P.E. foodsales falls short of its potential. [***] 
PASQUERILLA WEST: Like P.E., P.W. foodsales also offers an extensive vatiety of food. Another similarity, unfortunately, is the eating area. Both eat­ing areas are sterile, dim and boring. P.W. 'sales, however, has PIZZA! Though this real sauce­covered, cheesy, chewy pizza is not the best on campus, the 12-incher ($3.50), 7-incher ($2.50) and a pizza bagel ($1) are fairly priced. Overall, it provides a good eating experience. [****] 

SORIN: The Screamin' Otters lack variety. At Sorin foodsales, the bare !!SSentials are all that's offered: hot pretzels (4·5 cents) chips, candy, and 7-inch and 12-inch pizzas ($2.20 and $3.20, respectively) and bottled soda (60 cents). The pizza is undercooked and the sauce lacks zest. The dining atmosphere is great if you like eating in hallways -there is no dining area per se. Sorin's foodsales could be described as "getting the job done" with no frills and no thrills. 
[***1/2] 

'. ST. EDWARD'S: If you're after really tasty food at decent prices, St. Ed's foodsales is the place to go. The pizza is very good, with a thin, crunchy crust, and a generous amount of cheese. Sizes include 14­inch ($3.75), 12-inch ($2.60) and 7-inch ($1). But that's not all! It also offers hot dogs (with the works provided -just 50 cents), ham and cheese sandwiches ($1), microwave popcorn, candy (6 types), and ice cream. If St. Ed's is nearby, stop in. [****] 

14 


Chris Borgstrom, St. Ed's foodsales worker, wonders if he should sell this one or keep it for himself. 
STANFORD: "Your Mother's" pizza never tasted so good. Stanford is one of the best foodsales, offering perhaps the best 'za on campus with plenty of cheese and toppings at a moderate price. Pizzas selections include 14-inch ($3.50), 12-inch ($3), 9-inch ($2.30) and slices (50 cents) with toppings co sting a little extra. In addition to the extraordinarily good pizza, Stanford also offers an excellent variety of chow from which to choose. So if Hungarian Noodle Bake isn't satisfying, it might be worthwhile to stroll across the quad to "Your Mother's" for some good home cooking. It's probably a good thing for Univer­sity Food Services that "Your Mother's" doesn't open until 9:30 p.m. [*****] 
WALSH: Offering a very limited selection of foodstuffs, Walsh foodsales is. no big affair. Custo­mers in search of "real food" might be disappointed because it offers only Tombstone pizza, and only two· varieties at that. The 'sales idea of quick and courte­ous service consists of handing the customer a pep­peroni or sausage pizza (small-$2.85 and large-$4) 
Scholastic 



and pointing him in the direction of the microwave. In addition to pizza, the 'sales offers popcorn ($1), bagels(85 cents), Pop Tarts -the average fare of an average foodsales at average prices. Customers should be wary of the sign indicating that the food-

c;:i 
nl 
gq 
~ 
.,
"' ... 
0 
::, 

~ 
Zahm Hall's Milt Miyashiro has his hands full meeting the demands of hungry Zombies. 
sale is open until midnight, as experience has proven that it usually closes closer to 11:30 p.m. (**] 
ZAHM: Call the neighbors! Wake up the kids and the dog! For fast and friendly service -eight minutes for a pepperoni pizza -and delicious food, Zahm food­sales is the place to be. Although only available in only one size, the pizza (12-inch) is extremely well­prepared with a thin yet chewy crust, not too much sauce and a good amount of cheese. It also offers an impressive variety of food, ranging from roast beef and sub sandwiches to burgers, burritos, pretzels and bagels. Sweet tooths can choose from more than I 0 types of candy. The prices, futhermore, provide a night of dining pleasure without having to resort to the Visa: a whole pizza is $3.50, and a slice sells for 65 cents, while burgers and ham and cheese sandwiches are 85 cents. Although its dining area is rather dull, consisting of a room with a table and a few chairs, the surroundings are clean, but the qual­ity and variety of food more than make up for the unexciting setting. The foodsales is open from 9:30 
p.m. to midnight Monday thru Thursday, 10:30 p.m. to I a.m. Saturday, and 10:30 p.m. to midnight on Sunday. (*****) 
15 


News 
0n March 27, a baby girl celebrated her first birthday. Although she is already one year old, she received her legal name only last week. One family calls her Sara, legally she is known as Melissa, but to most of the world she is known as Baby M. Although the decision has now been made, the recent trial for custody of the little girl has brought to light the controversial legal and moral issues of surrogate motherhood. 
The increasing number of sur­rogate mothers has generated quite a stir in religious and ethical cir­cles. The Vatican issued a doctri­
ii1, 
nal statement on March 10 titled
ij' 
l 
,, "Instruction on Respect for Human Life in its Origin and on the Dignity of Procreation: 
Replies to Certain Questions of the Day." The statement condemned most types of third party involve­ment in procreation by stating, "The child is not an object to which one has a right, nor can he be considered as an object of own­ership; rather, a child is a gift." 
On surrogate motherhood, the document read, " ...it represents an objective failure to meet the 
Hi 


'M' Is For Melissa 
By Tony Lang 

The court battle is over for now and Baby M is officially Melissa Stern, but experts continue to debate the ethics of surrogate motherhood 
obligations of maternal love, of conjugal fidelity, and of responsi­ble motherhood; it offends the dignity of the child to be con­ceived, carried in the womb, brought into the world and brought up by its own parents; it sets up, to the detriment of fami­lies, a division between the physi­
cal, psychological and moral ele­ments which constitute those fam­ilies." 
Along with the ethical problems in cases like this, there are also legal difficulties. For the Sterns and the Whiteheads, the problem began early in 1985 when Mary Beth Whitehead agreed to -carry the child of William Stem. His wife, Elizabeth, suffers from a 
mild case of multiple sclerosis and 
was ad vised not to bear a child. 
Whitehead refused to give up . the 
child and even spirited her off to Florida. The Sterns then took Whitehead to court for breach of contract and for custody of the child. 
The decision on the case was handed down by Judge Harvey Sorkow on March 31. He awarded custody of the child to the Stems. He ruled that the surrogate moth­erhood contract was legal, and that Whitehead was incapable of rais­ing the child. 
According to Eric Smithburn, a Notre Dame law professor who teaches a course in family law, the court can view a case like this in three ways. "The first way ... is whether these contracts (for surro­gate motherhood) are enforceable, or whether they should be void as against public policy," said Smith­bum. The contract iri the ·Baby M case was orchestrated by the Infer­tility Center of New York, and it stipulated that Stern would pay $10,000 to Whitehead and $10,000 to the center. Judge Sorkow ruled 
Scholastic 
News 

that the contract was enforceable in the context of the laws of adop­in this"situation. tion," said Smith burn. However, he made it clear. that surrogate "The policy which these con­motherhood diffcrs from adoption. tracts offend is the policy of 'baby In the case of surrogacy the selling' ... which has been outlawed mother agrees to accept money 

and to give up the child before its conception. He added, "Pro­ponents of surrogate motherhood argue that money is being paid for the services of the surrogate mother, while opponents argue that money is being paid for the baby." 
If the judge views the contract as unenforceable, then the court case becomes a custody battle. This is the second way the court can view such a case. As Smith­burn said, "The issue then becomes the best interests of the child, and all the evidence with respect to parenting skills and the mental and physical well-being of the child come into play. Thus, all the evidence of experts could be admitted by the judge in case he views the case in this way." 
Most of the experts in this case agreed with _Judge Sorkow in that the Sterns cortld better provide for the child. Richard Whitehead has a history of alcoholism and Mary Beth Whitehead threatened to kill herself when the Sterns took back the child. However, some experts thought Mary Beth would make a fine mother, including the county probation officer involved in the case, Charles Bene. Said Bene, in the October 29, 1986, edition of The New York Times, "The lack of finances and alcoholism should not be held against (the White­heads)." 
The third legal view in a . case like this is whether or not the con­tract is voidable in accordance with adoption laws, Smithburn said. These laws give. a specified period of time, usually six months, during which the natural mother may reclaim her child, because "a special bond has been created which cannot be duplicated, that of mother and child." If the judge viewed the case in this way; it would once again become a cus­tody battle. 
17 


News 
In a recent lecture at Nm:re Dame titled "High Tech Parent­hood and the Demise of the Fam­ily," Donald Demarco addressed various types of technological aids in parenting in addition to surro­gate motherhood. "What's h·1ppen­ing in the realm of technologized parenthood is that procreation is more and more becoming a branch of private enterprise, subject to all the deceptions and exploitations of commercialization," he said. 
Father Richard McCormick, the John A. O'Brien Professor of Christian Ethics at Notre Dame, said he sees an ethical problem in the Baby M case. "Although there may be a medical need, that does not make (surrogate motherhood) ethically justifiable," said McCor­mick. According to him, the pro­cess could cause prospective harm to the marriage. "That child will be a constant reminder to the · woman of her reproductive incapability, and the surrogate mother will be a psychological presence in the marriage, which could be potentially harmful to both spouses." 
The situation can also create problems for the child. In destroy­ing the genealogical link between mother and child, surrogacy would be undermining the "stability and self-identity of the child," McCor­mick said. "There is what I call an asymmetry in the relationship between the child and parents in that the father is the biological parent and the mother is not," he said. 
McCormick said he sees a diffi­culty in the medical profession, as doctors give in to the highest bidder in the surrogate process. The American Fertility Society, a body of over 10,000 scientists and doctors, feels the same way. The group issue.ct a report in which they stated that "there are serious 



reservations about surrogate moth­erhood." Although the group has no authority to set guidelines, because of their competent membership, many doctors have refused to participate in the pro­cess. 
Although the Whiteheads have said they intend to appeal to a higher court, the saga of Baby M is over for now. The debate over this issue, however, continues in legal and ethical circles. Perhaps the most difficult chapter is yet to be written, when Baby M. and other offspring · of surrogate parenting are old enough to ques­tion how they were conceived and what the original controversy was 
about. ¦ 
Scholastic 


Student Life 


I 
1958, two Notre DameIn seniors sat down and tried to 
think of something to enliven the student body. Their answer was unusual for college students. They put on a jazz fes­tival, to which they invited 15 midwest college jazz bands and offered prizes, including Chicago night club appearance dates. Down Beat magazine sponsored and pro­moted the f es ti val which first took place in April 1959 in the Old Fieldhouse. , 

Little did those two seniors know. that their brainstorm, the Midwest Collegiate Jazz Festival, would become the most prominent college jazz event in the nation. In 1960 the "Midwest" was dropped and the f es ti val became a natio.nal occasion that prompted Time magazine to dub it "the hippest college bash of them all." 
The festival quickly built a reputation for having a con­sistently respectable board of judges and for attracting the finest 
Jazzing It Up Again 

By Alex Peltzer 

The Collegiate Jazz Festival prepares for its 29th year as a Notre Dame tradition 
oldest of college festivals will be happening for the 29th time. 
One thing that sets the CJF 


apart from other college festivals is its noncompetitive nature. "There're a lot of college festivals going on," said Father George Wiskirchen, Notre Dame's jazz instructor, band director and faculty director for CJF. "What's different about this one is that it has turned into a noncompetitive thing." 
It hasn't always been that _way, though. In the early years the f es­tival featured cash prizes'· and scholarships from Down Be~t, as well as appearances at the·: Blue Note Jazz Club in Chicago and instrument awards from national instrument makers, for the best combo and individual ,perfor­mances. The festival was. also a place to make contacts for ·profes-


Student Life 

sional recording contracts or appearances. The U.S. State Department often offered an expense paid tour of Europe for the best combo band. 
The competitive aspect of the festival came into question in 1967, when larger, strictly com­petitive festivals began cropping up. A promoter in Miami proposed a national super-festival to be held in Florida that would include vari­ous regional competitions. Notre Dame's CJF leaders refused to make the festival into just another regional competition. They resolved to stay independent and, at the same time, to lessen the emphasis of competition. 
As a result, the CJF became famous for the peaceful atmo­sphere that it maintains today, free from the edgy emotions of other more intense competitions. Now, instead of awards for "best" musi­cians .and bands, judges assign "distinguished performance" awards to as many musicians as they wish. 
Kevin Cronin, this year's CJF chairman, said that even from a spectator's view, the relaxed atmo­sphere characterizes the f es ti val. 

"People bring blankets and spread them out by the stage. Before the alcohol policy people used to bring a bottle of wine out." 
The CJF's respectability has developed over the years. Esta­blished in early years by perform­ers such as Stan Kenton and Quincy Jones, the CJF has managed to maintain its reputation that, according to Wiskirchen, "gives it a little prestige that the other (festivals) don't have." 
A yearly feature of the festival is the Friday night Judges Jam where the five musician judges all take the stage and jam together for the final act of the night. CJF '84 featured a special treat. That year the judges enjoyed the Friday night jam so much that they decided to do 1t again after the Saturday night sessions. 


-
In his book, "Big Noise from Notre Dame," Joseph Carey, a former chairman of the f es ti val, calls the second ·jam session "an unheard of act of Collegiate Jazz Festival enthusiasm and commit­ment." The judges, consisting of Joanne Brackeen, Paquito D'Rivera, Dave Holland, Danny Gottlieb and Terence Blanchard, took the stage as the audience was filing out. They proceeded to improvise for all who cared to stay 1mtil the early hours of Sunday morning. 
This year the judge's panel includes pianist Kenny Kirkland, who has played with jazz artists Wynton and Branford Marsalis and 
20 

.-.,,·r-: ~_--:: __ •----. _ ~ ___ -. _ -• ,.'. • _ ~ _~ _._ _ -~~---,,-~---, -, --~_~.:: ~ :__, ~-• -• ·. :. '.0.., ';:; -,-: ~-"/_ , ::, •', ;' ·',, ;.',~~,: t~:~:--~~~ :-:-::i' ;""'::, • ( '-,µ:-;:;....,,j f 
i ~-•Yt, • 

Student Life 

An established floutist and saxophonist, Frank Wess year's five judges. 
most recently in Sting's back up band, the Blue Turtles; Frank Wess, a saxophone and flute player in Count Basie's orchestra for ten years as well as an established solo recording artist; Roy Haynes, con­sidered the father of the modern jazz drumming style; Charlie Haden, an acclaimed bassist who has recorded over 200 albums with· a variety of artists, three to be released this spring; Red Rodney, one time trumpeter with the Char­lie Parker band and prolific recording artist; and Dan Morgen­stern, jazz critic and judge for the CJF since 1968. Morgenstern, who is now director of the Insti­tute of Jazz Studies at Rutgers, became closely associated with the CJF as a past editor at Down Beat. 
Cronin, who was chiefly in charge of selecting the judges, said the Judges Jam should again highlight the f es ti val. "To watch five people, most of whom have never played together before, get 
up  on  stage  and  play  is  really  
exciting.  They  just  blend  
phenomenonally well."  

In the process of lining up the judging panel, Cronin said he talked to about 20 musicians, most of whom would have been willing to attend if not for schedule con­flicts. Two of these were Dizzy Gillespie and Branford Marsalis. 
It is not financial compensation that attracts the judges. "We just don't have the budget for that," said Cronin. Instead he has to rely on the prestige of the past CJFs, which seems to be effective enough. "Most of them had heard about it and were receptive to the 
?t::.>:Lt'.·h?·;,:·:,. ,.. ,. :.-~./l:\\1·;/t\Y>' T\:\)t>th."\JU\>~)t 
1


·•.•'wiiiilliii:ert~il!Ztt!iT!,t:i,lff!:tirrr,~l!ff~f~ 
[jfIBiilil~t~ti~iilftili. 
serves as a a meeting place for the best in college jazz. Wiskirchen said, "The biggest thing it does is it lets kids hear other college bands and lets them talk to the judges -a chance to perform at a place with good judges and good musicians. Plus it provides a good show." 
The kind of music played at the f es ti val usually mirrors the current trends in professional jazz. Wiskirchen said that there is room for experimentation and exploring new types of music at the festival but that it usually does not hap­pen. 
"I think the reason for that, by and large, is that there is a bigger and bigger body of knowledge and experience that a person has to go through before he's ready to break 

into  new  ground,  and  even  a  
genius coming along  is  going  to  
have to do that," he said.  

A form of music that usually is not found at the festival is new age music, which, said Wiskirchen, "is a watered down, popularized form of jazz. There is a lot of very excellent mainstream jazz -Wyn­ton and Branford Marsalis, Ter­ence Blanchard type straight­ahead jazz." 
The festival that grew out of the inspiration of two students in 1958 has become another Notre Dame tradition, something that 

idea. I didn't talk to anyone who didn't want to do it." 
Besides the entertainment of the judging panel, the festival Cronin was aware of in planning this year's CJF.' "I wasn't sure that we could live up to the past. But I think it promises to live up to the legacy that has been left for it."B 
Scholastic 



Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 
THURSDAY FILMS: 
"Selling of the Pentagon" Annenberg Auditorium 7p.m. $1.50 
"Green Berets" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:30 and 12 p.m. $1 
LECTURES: 
Charles Rosenberg "The Baroque: The Expanding Horizon" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. 
Ralph Della Cava and Paula Montero "The Church and Vatican 
Policy in Brazil" 131 Decio 4-6 p.m. 
Prof. Stephen Kern "Cubism, Camouflage, Silence, and a 
Democratic Phenomenological Approach" Library Auditorium 8p.m. 
SPECIAL EVENTS: 
Mexican Gala Luncheon Center for Social Concerns 1 p.m. $3 
FRIDAY 
FILMS: 
"Home of the Brave" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. $1.50 
"Top Gun" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m. $1.50 
MUSIC 
Collegiate Jazz Festival Stepan Center 
7:30 p.m. $5 
Beaux Arts Ball Featuring Blind River Architecture Building 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. $5 
LENTEN: 
Stations of the Cross Sacred Heart Church 
7:15 p.m. 



Compiled By Charlie Buckley and Mike Farnan 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
FILMS: SPORTS: 
"Top Gun" Men's Tennis Engineering Auditorium vs. Eastern Michigan 7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m. Courtney Courts $1.50 1 p.m. 
MUSIC: 
Collegiate Jazz Festival MONDAY
Stepan Center 1 p.m. $3 · FILMS: $3 "Stella Dallas"7:30 p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium
$5 
7p.m. SPORTS: $1.50 
Lacrosse: "Johnny Guitar" vs. Kenyon Annenberg Auditorium Alumni Field 9p.m. 1:30 p.m. $1.50 
TUESDAY 
FILMS: 
"Repo Man" Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. $1.50 
WEDNESDAY 
FILMS: "Paper Chase" Engineering Auditorium 7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. $1 
LENTEN: 
Prayer for Peace Grotto 
7:45 p.m. 

There will be no calendar in the April 16 issue of Scholastic. April 21 and 22 events are included here. 
TICKETS TO THESE EVENTS MAY BE PURCHASED THROUGH: 
Ticketmaster: (312) 559-1212 Ticketron:. (312) TIC-KETS Hot Tix Booth: Half-price "day of performance" tickets to theater, concerts, sporting events and other attractions (312) 977-1755 Theater Tix: (312) 853--0505 Curtain Call: 24-hour information line with performance schedules (312) 977-1755 Jam Concert Line: For complete concert information (312) 666-6667 
23


Sports 
There's the en(llcss cllisthen­ics, the wind sprints that leave your lungs feeling like they're about to explode, and, always, always, the hitting. But on a bone-chilling day like the one that greeted the Notre Dame foot­ball team in its scrimmage last Saturday, the hardest part, at l~ast for those who don't get to play much, is the waiting. Just ask Steve Huffman, usually a third­string center who spends a lot of time standing around on the side­lines just shivering, watching and waiting. 
--Huffman, h_owever, hasn't had to worry about keeping his hands warm these days. These days, the freshman from Dallas is likely to be found right in the middle of the No. 1 offensive unit, hands on top of the ball, bracing himself for an oncoming Irish nosetackle instead of a stiff spring breeze on the sidelines. Thrust into a role as the team's top center because of inju:. ries to starter Chuck Lanza and top reserve Jim Baugus,-Huffman now finds himself blocking for the traveling squad, instead of the taxi squad. 
"I was the only true center left because of the injuries," he said after his first scrimmage as a first-stringer. "It was pretty excit.; ing. Instead of having to wait around on the sidelines, I got to play right away with the first unit. I didn't get to take as many breaks as I was used to, but that was fine with me." 
Huffman's case may well be the most extreme, but it certainly has 

Holtz (above) has been counting heads, while Terry Andrysiak _ (right) is being counted on to take over at quarterback. 
not been an unusual one this spring. When Head Coach Lou Holtz embarked upon his 20­session schedule _March 22, he knew he had only 60 scholarship players returning. Those numbers alone were foreboding enough to make the second-year coach con­sider cancelling the traditional Blue-GoJd game. What Holtz didn't expect, though, was the additional losses brought on by injuries to key personnel· and the 

The 'Rites Of Spring 
Spring practice has presented Irish Coach Lou 
Holtz with a number of problems --the most 
pressing of which is a problem of numbers 
By Marty Burns ­


Sports 
suspensions of five scholarship players. 
"I think we're much further ahead of last year in terms of doing the things we want to do," said Holtz. "But we are not as talented as we were last year. We like the attitude and the intensity but we're really hurting in terms of numbers. I knew going in that we had lost nine starters on defense and six on offense, but you never-know what's going to happen with injuries. And there were a few suspensions." 

The injuries have hit the offen­sive line particularly hard. Besides Lanza (bruised thigh) and Baugus (back injury), tackles Tom Rehder and Pete Rokich have missed action, the former because of a bad shoulder and the latter because of a bad back. Other not­ables sitting out the spring, meanwhile, have included nosetackle Mike Griffin, receiver Alvin Miller, and Proposition 48 casualties Tony Rice and John Foley. Even All-America flanker Tim Brown has frequently missed workouts in order to run with the Notre Dame track team. 
hen there is the· matter of the suspensions. On March 21, Holtz announced that 
T
. . 

five of his scholarship players, linebackers Cedric Figaro and Dan Quinn, and freshman offensive linemen Jeff Pearson, Jason Cegielski and John Zaleski, had been suspended from this year's spring session because of disci­plinary problems. • 
Figaro, the team's leading returning tackler, was suspended as a result of a March 5 incident at Chips Night Club in which he hit another Notre Dame student. In addition to his suspension from the team by Holtz, Figaro also faces possible further punishments from the Office of Student Affairs, including expulsion. Du 
April 9, 1987 Lac lists "any... dclibcrate injury to the person of another within or without the University commun­ity" as sufficient cause for suspen­sion or dismissal. 
"Sitting out spring ball is going to hurt me a little bit in the area of fundamentals and in that there's a new outside linebacker coach (Barry Alvarez), but I should be able to come back in the fall and catch up," said Figaro, who declined further comment on his status. University officials, meanwhile, are prohibited by du 

Lac from violating student confi­dentiality in disciplinary matters. 
Quinn's suspension, on the other hand, was "entirely a team matter" and would not involve any further action by the University, ac.cording to the sophomore line~ backer. Neither he nor Holtz would elaborate. Quinn had been listed behind Figaro on the Irish depth chart and was expected to make a strong bid for playing time in the fall. "I don't know how much this suspension will affect me," he said. "When I come back 

· in the fall, initially I'll be further behind on the depth chart. But if I'm good enough I'll play." 
According to Zaleski, the suspensions of the three freshmen came from Associate Vice President for Residence Life John Goldrick, not Holtz. The punish­ment stemmed from a December incident in which the three players were caught with a BB gun in St. Edward's Hall, where Cegielski 

'-< 
0 
(1) 
~ 
.,,. 
l)l 
n 
n 
0 
and Pearson are residents. Zaleski said the suspensions were not directly related to the November 1 fight in a University of Illinois fraternity which got the three suspended for one game last se·a­son. 
"We were presented with a package by Mr. Goldrick whereby in exchange for not getting suspended from school, we agreed to certain penal ties," said Zaleski. 


Sports 
"One of them was that we weren't allowed to play spring ball. But we will be able to come back this fall." 
Just about all of the spring absentees should be back in August, when Holtz begins to prepare his team for its September 12 opener with Michigan. But for now, Holtz will just keep counting heads and scratching his head, try­ing to figure out a way to keep enough bodies around to hold the annual Blue-Gold concluding affair, tentatively scheduled for April 25. 

And Huffman? He'll continue keeping his hands warm by snap­ping a lot of footballs and leading the No. I offense. But like the rest of the reserve players who are get­ting an uncharacteristically large amount of experience, he realizes a permanent place in the spotlight may still be a year or two away. "With someone like Chuck Lanza in front of me, I realize he doesn't have to prove himself this spring. He needs, and can spare, a few days off to rest his body. But in the event he needs a break during . the season, maybe the coaches will know now that I can handle 
myself." II 


Scholastic 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine 

is accepting applications for: 

Assistant Sports Editor 
Any Notre Dame or_ Saint Mary's undergraduate may apply. Send resume and personal statement to: Marty Burns, Scholastic Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune, 239-7569 Applications are due by Tuesday, April 14,-1987 





Scoreboard 
Ardunduiir ih¢~eek i~'.tptii~~ -April 5·• ......... . Jordanich/ . 


Lacrosse Team Opens Home Season 
LACROSSE. -· Notre Dame opens its home season with a game against Kenyon College this Saturday at 1:30 p.m. on Alumni Field. The Lords arc also the first Midwest Lacrosse Association opponent on the Irish schedule. 
"Playing artcr a two-week layoff won't be easy," said coach Rich O'Leary. "Ir our week or practice is good, maybe we can avoid being sluggish on Saturday. Our kids arc just itching to play again." 
Attackmcn JOI-IN McLACHLAN and JOHN OLMSTEAD lead the 2-2 Irish in scoring. Mclachlan has nine goals and I I assists for 20 points while Olmstead has seven goals and six assists for 13 points. 
MEN'S TENNIS -Trying to duplicate last ycar\s 7-2 win over Eastern Michigan, the Irish will host its neighbors to the north this Sunday at I p.m. 
Senior captain DAN WALSH has led the Irish with a 21-I singles record and has a 10­3 record playing doubles with teammate PAUL DAGGS. Walsh and Daggs were the only winners for coach TOM FALLON'S squad in a 7-2 loss to Ball State last Sunday. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS -Irish coach MICHELE GELFMAN'S team went to 5-7 last weekend as it won one match and lost two others. An impressive 6-I victory over Wheaton was offset by losses to Ohio State (5-4) and dcrcnding NCAA Division II national cham­pion, Southern Illinois-Edwardsville. 
Co-captain TAMMY SCHMIDT, fresh­man RESA KELLY, and Scholastic athlete or the week ALICE LOHRER led the Irish with two victories a piece. 
This weekend Notre Dame hits the road for a Saturday match with' Toledo and a con­test on Sunday with Eastern Michigan. 
TRACK -Notre Dame splits its squad this weekend as coach JOE PIANE will send many or his charges to Evanston, IL for the Northwestern Invitational and accompany a group of about 15 runners to the Stanford Invitational in Palo Alto, CA. 
Last weekend the Irish turned in a solid performance at Indiana where they beat both Cincinnati and Bowling Green before falling to Indiana. 
BRIAN DRISCOLL in the javelin, Hcis­man trophy candidate TIM BROWN in the 200-mctcr dash, RICK MULVEY in the steeplechase, and freshman GLENN WAT­SON in the I IO-meter high hurdles were the first place winners for Notre Dame. 
"We had some very respectable perfor­mances," said Pianc. "In fact, I'm real pleased. We have nothing to be ashamed of this past weekend and it leaves me real upbeat for this weekend." 

GOLF -Notre Dame finished 10th out of 16 teams at the Purdue Invitational last week­end. High scores resulting from terrible weather conditions on the first day of play left the Irish in I 5th place. A vcraging 75 on the second day, coach NOEL O'SULLIVAN's team finshed on a strong note. 
Sophomores DOUG GIORGIO and PAT MOHAN led the Irish with two-day scores of I58 and I59, respectively. They also lead the Irish in stroke average thus far. Both have 
76.38 averages going into this weekend's Indianapolis Intercollegiate at Eagle Creek Golf Course in Indianapolis. 
The 36-hole event will feature 10 six­player teams from Indiana's top college golf programs. Last year, Notre Dame finished second. 
BASEBALL • A long stretch of road games starts this weekend for the Irish (7-14) as they travel to New Orleans for a three game series with Tulane (25-9). Next Tuesday and Wednesday will find the Irish at Valparaiso and Purdue for single games slated to start at 
2:30 p.m. 

Last week's six consecutive losses at home, including a 9-5 defeat at the hands of Val­paraiso and four losses to Wisconsin, were the result-of poor hitting. 
"We arc really struggling at the plate right now," said head coach LARRY GALLO. "You aren't going to beat too many people when you only score four runs in four games. The kids arc pressing a bit and swinging at some bad pitches. It is frustrating for them right now knowing that they are capable df doing much better." 
Sophomore pitchers TOM SHAW and MIKE PASSILLA had their best outings of the year last week. Shaw took a no-hitter into the fifth inning of his start before losing a 5-I decision to Wisconsin, and Passilla Jim­ited the Badgers to six hits and one walk in a 3-1 loss. 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 
ALICE LOHRER 
Lehrer, a freshman tennis player from the Republic of Panama, won two out of her three matches at the No. '3 ·singles position 
last weekend to raise her record to 5-4. Lohrer's wins were keys in Notre Dame's win over Wheaton and its close match against Ohio State. Lehrer also played No. I doubles last Friday, and her win against Ohio State with teammate and Irish co-captain Michelle Dasso included a strange· twist. The No. I match-up was the second"time this season Lehrer had faced her sister, 'Yvonne, a junior at Ohio State. Lohrer and Dasso had defeated Yvonne Lohrc:c and her partner at the Gopher Invitational earlier this year and repeated the achievement with Friday's 6-3, 7-5 victory. 

PAT PESA VENTO 
Pesavento, a junior shortstop for the Irish baseball team, has picked up right where he left off last year. After hitting .366 from the left side of the plate last season, Pesavento is leadinR coach Larry Gaile's Irish with a .354 average through its first 21 games. The Lockport, IL, native leads Notre Dame in runs, hits, and total bases in addition to his average, and his 14 RBIs are second on the club. Pesavento has also shined in the field for. the Irish, commit­ting only one error in his last nine games. Several of Pesavento's defensive gems have 


1thwarted big innings by opposing teams and kept the Irish close in the late innings. 
27 




AVoice For Peace And Justice 
Common Sense stimulates intellectual spirit by offering thought-provoking perspective on issues of public interest 
By Greg Maggetti 

You get a great feeling of satisfaction when you see a dream you've had come to fruition, especially when it appeared only remotely possible at its conception. Such a dream was fulfilled when the first issue of Common Sense went to press. Thus, it was with pride and joy that the staff of Notre Dame's new independent monthly publication distributed its first issue. Even as these first copies were being sent out, plans for the second issue were well underway, and the editors waited attentively for their reader's initial reaction. One person remarked that the subtitles for articles continued from one page to another were too small. It seemed a rather trivial comment on the surface, but to the editors it augured-well for the new publication. It implied that the articles caught readers' attention and that it was worth the effort of searching out the completion of articles to see the ideas that were developed. Nothing could be more satisfying to the editors whose aim is to offer thought-provoking per­spectives on issues of public interest. Another problem which arose, but which once again bodes well for the publication, was the fact that some people just couldn't get a hold of their own copy. Indeed, 
with the limited resources avail­able to a new venture, the distri­bution of the premiere issue was restricted. Yet it is hoped that as Common Sense estaMishes its place on the Notre Dame campus this problem will quickly fade into the past. 
But what precisely is Common Sense's place on campus? 
The founders of this new monthly publication perceived some time ago that, although the campus was being served by a daily student newspaper and a weekly magazine, there was no publication devoted almost entirely to raising issues of peace 
and justice. They felt that no ade­quate forum existed on campus where Notre Dame could debate these important issues i:l the con­text of politics, economics, culture 
and  society.  Common  Sense  is  
meant to fill this gap.  
Equally important  in  the  edi­ 

tors' eyes was the promotion of · culture at Notre Dame through the publication of poetry and artwork related especially to the topics of 
peace and justice. 
Another important aim was to bring to the attention of the Notre Dame community the views of people not directly related to the University. To this end, the edi­tors intend on printing articles written specifically for Common Sense by notable writers and reprinting pieces from other jour-­

nals. In addition, letters in and out 
of agreement  to  points  raised  in  
Common  Sense  will  always  be  
published.  

The University has long pledged its devotion to the search for a more peaceful and just world. Mariy of the institutions of this university do a great deal for advancing the realization of this visi.o.n, and many people associated with Notre Dame have contributed to this realization. Therefore, the presence of a publication devoted to raising issues of peace and jus­tice, such as Common Sense, is entirely appropriate here. 
We should also recall that Notre Dame is a human institution. And, just as with all human insti­tutions, this school has its failings and successes. Recognizing where things have gone astray from our original intentions is just as important as remembering the glories. Where peace and justice are concerned, there is always the need for a voice to stir the consci­ence lest we become complacent with our past successes and forget that realizing a dream requires commitment, determination and, often, humble self-criticism. 
Ultimately, the success of Com­mon Sense in serving the function of forum for discussion and expression of Notre Dame's intel­lectual and artistic spirit depends on the participation of the whole Notre Dame community. There­fore, everyone is invited to join in what promises to be a fruitful ven­ture. ¦ 






Paid Advertisement 
Ii 
' 
I I . s uI 
213 N. FRONT DOWNTOWN NILES 684-7774
·.IINTRODUCES: 
I
I HALF-PRICE 
I DR FTS 
:.1

I 50 CENT 12 OZ., 65 CENT 16 OZ. AND $1 24 OZ. DRAFTS 
M

~{ I SUN"DAY, MONDAY AND TUESDAY 
I 

AND 
~II-~ 
,;-:\.
i CINDY'S SPECIALS: 
t, 
i 
Ji ~ 

Ii $1MIXED
r,,~ 

I DRINKS 


