■Che
Dotre Dame Scholastic
DiSCG QVASI-SemPGK-VICTVRVS- \/l\/C QVASl- CRAS-IMORITVRVS-l	« A'
Vol. L.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, March 17, 1917.	' No. 23.
^bmiral William	Jenson
- Xactarc iflebalist, 1917
3 62
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Admiral William S. Benson.
Nobility, save that of merit, is not acknowledged by the Catholic Church. Lineage higher than the blood of kings she holds in her veins: • earthly aristocracy is aristocracy to her only . when it means nobility of, mind, aristocracy of character expressed in action.- The University of Notre Dame, as a leading exponent of those high ideals in Christian character which have ever inspired the only nobility to- which it z affords, special marks of consideration, selects even* year from among the millions of Catholic lay workers, some one whose extraordinary character and achievement have made him worthy of the Laetare Medal. This year the University’s emblem of distinction is conferred upon vWilliam Shepherd Benson, rankingadmiral of the United States Navy, whose sterling character and long years of service to the nation have not allowed his name to pass unnoticed. Admiral Benson’s life and labors make him eminently worthy of this distinction, and it is. particularty fitting that lie receive it this year when, entering upon new duties, his services' should be promptly recognized by . those of his own faith. It is scarcely two months since he became ranking-admiral of the Navy; it is only six months since he was made chief.of naval operations; but it is forty years since,- as a young “middy,” he was graduated from the Naval Academy at Annapolis, and entered upon active service'in the"
During all these years . in the Bahama Group. In January, 1888, he was ordered to the “Dolphin’” and.made a cruise
United States Navy.
the country has not heard profusely of the future Admiral, but navy officials have constantly kept his. work in mind. Admiral Benson has worked his long way up to the top in the • quietiest way, but now the country and those ' of his own faith will know and appreciate his
worth. Thus it is most. fitting this year that - the University, at one in judgment with the
hierarchy, consider Admiral* Benson worthy of a place among the Laetare Medalists.
William Shepherd- Benson, was born in returned to duty at ,the ,Naval Academy as Georgia, September 25th, ,1855. - His father was- instructor in the same department as during- . Richard A. Benson and his .mother Catherine his previous^ duty-there. -In' 1898 he was E. Benson. The former was a graduate of ordered toythe U. S. S. j‘ Chicago, ” and after .
the close of. the Spanish War he-made a cruise .
>on this, vessel; through- the Mediterranean and Red. Seas; and around 'Africa, returning to the
. Randolph Macon College and the latter the first woman to receive- a diplomaJrom a college ? ; for women, the one_in'Macon, Georgia. . Admiral - Benson’s paternal grandfather went to Georgia, >-with his slaves and belongings; from Isle , of
Wight County on the James River in Virginia, in 1S18.
Admiral ' Benson graduated at the United States Naval Academy in 1877, has served twenty-two years at sea and has occupied’ virtually every position on land and sea that his rank, would justify. In the .year 1877 he was ordered to the “Hartford,” Flagship of the South Atlantic Station, and remained attached
-to her on that station until-January 1st, 1879,
when he was ordered to the “Essex,” on same station. He was detached from “Essex” in May, 1879, and in October of same. year went to the “Constitution”
the the the
at
Norfolk. After serving for two years on that famous old warship on her last cruise, he was ordered, in July 1S81, to duty at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. The following year he was ordered to the “ Alliance ” on the home station, and the year after that he • was transferred • to the. “Yantic,” on which he cruised to Littleton Island, in, the Arctic regions-, in the -summer of 1S83 as convo}- to the Greely relief steamer “Proteus.” Later he was on duty under the " Naval Advisory Board at South Boston until ' March, 1885, when he .was ordered to the Branch Hydrographic Office at’ Baltimore.
After nearly a year’s' duty at .the Branch Hydrographic Office at Baltimore, he was ordered to the Fish Commission Steamer -“Albatross,” where he spent practically two years, being engaged most of the time in deepsea soundings and investigation of marine life off the eastern coast of the United States and
around the world on her, returning to New York, October jr'i889. In 1890 he was ordered to the United States Naval Academy as instructor in seamanship, naval architecture and naval tactics. He remained at the Naval Academy for three years and • after a couple of months ’devoted to special instruction in'torpedoes and __ ordnance he was detailed to duty in the Coast’ and Geodetic - Survey. In August, 1896, he

United; States' ■ via Rio Janeiro and the West Indies. In October, 1899, he was ordered to . .

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
duty as flag-lieutenant on the staff of the Commander in Chief of the Atlantic Squadron, where he served until June, 1901. After a few months spent at the Branch Hydrographic Office in New York, he returned to the Naval Academy for duty- as Senior Assistant to the Commandant of Midshipmen; continued on this duty until 1903, when he was detailed as Executive Officer of the U. S. S. “Iowa,” and remained there until August, 1905, having been promoted to the grade of Commander on July 1 st of that year; was detached and ordered as Lighthouse Inspector of the Fifth District; detached from this duty in 1907 - and went again to the Naval Academy, this time as Commandant of Midshipmen. In 1908 he was
A L
'modern battleships, the command of a division x of the Atlantic Fleet, and finally the command ~
‘of one of the greatest and most important navy . yards at a time when it was rapidly developing and. fitting... out to do shipbuilding on a large scale, and where he proved himself to be an administrator of the highest type.” .
Admiral Benson held the position of Chief-of ... Naval Operations with the- rank of Rear Ad- -miral until August 29th, 1916, at which time he was promoted to Admiral-by the Act of Congress of that date, and he is now the ranking naval officer of the Sendee. •
But Admiral Benson is not only a trusted chief" of the Navy, he is a . fervent practical Catholic as well. 'When in charge of the Naval
ordered to command the U.S. S. “Olympia,” and Academy, he was a daily communicant, and the practice squadron, consisting of five' vessels. though now imperfect health and distance
In September of^the same year he was detached from this duty and ordered to command the U. S. S. “Albany” on the Pacific Station. In July, 1909, was promoted to the grade of Captain and ordered as Chief of Staff of the Pacific Fleet. The latter part of February, 1910, after having cruised throughout the Pacific, he was detached and ordered to command the battleship “Missouri.” In October, 1910,' he was ordered to duty in connection with the U.S.S. “Utah” and upon her completion placed her in commission and commanded her until June 25, 1913. During the latter part of the time that he commanded the “Utah,” he was for several months in command of the First Divi-•sion of the Atlantic Fleet.
from the church prevent his daily reception of the Holy Eucharist, he still goes to the altar once a week. The chief pleasure he derives from having reached his present position, he says, is -the thought that it reflects credit on the Faith. All Washington speaks of him in terms of utmost eulogy.	'	-
Admiral Benson’s character and services make him especially worthy of a place among, the’Dae tare Medalists, the list of which follows:
18S3
18S4
18S5
t886
In August, 1913, he was ordered to duty as Commandant of the Philadelphia Navy Yard, and on May 11, 1915, he was detailed to duty as Chief of Naval Operations, Navy Department, the position which he now holds.
While in command of the “Utah” he created a spirit of marked co-operation and contentment in his ship to such an extent that it was famous . throughout the battle fleet as “the ‘Utah'’ spirit.” While he was Commandant of the Philadelphia Yard he succeeded in creating the same spirit of esprit de corps and contentment among the employees of the Yard. " '
Speaking of the appointment ‘ of- Captain .Benson to the post of Chief of Naval Operations in 1915, Secretary of the Navy, Josephus ’ Daniels said: “Captain Benson comes to this position after a ripe experience of. varied character and of comparatively recent acquirement; namely, the command, of one of the most
1SS7
1S8S
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894
1895
1896
John Gilmary Shea, the saintly and scholarly , chronicler of the Church in America; • .
Patrick J. Keeley, ecclesiastical architect; .
Eliza Allen Starr who did so much to educate' „ the people of her day to the beauties of . Christian'art;	..
General John Newton, the great army engineer, who, during the Civil War, constructed the ?. defenses about the city of Washington; - -
Edward Pruess, a great journalist and a man . . of unquestioned leadership; ,	. .
Patrick V. Hickey, founder of the Catholic Review;	* •	. .
Mrs. Anna Hanson Dorsey, novelist;
William J. Onahan, organizer American Catholic Congress;
Daniel Dougherty, the greatest time;
Henry F. Brownson, author and
Patrick Donahue, founder of the
of the first
orator of his
philosopher;
Boston Pilot,
Augustin Daly, theatrical manager and pro-; moter of high ideals in the drama:	.
Mrs. James Sadlier, writer of Catholic fiction;
General William S. Rosecrans, the leader of the . , Army of the Cumberland;	.
1897 Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet, distinguished.
. 1898
surgeon and grand-nephew of Robert Emmet.
Timothy'E. Howard, noted jurist, member of the Supreme Court of Indiana, and' counsellor of our Founders;	'
(Continued on page 370.) .	'	.	;
3^4
THE NOTRE DAME. SCHOLASTIC
Gonn of ^allplin.
• (H St. Patrick's Sag IRevetv.)
O-DAY shall I go back with memory
To an ash-strewn hearth, where embers long are cold	.
Nor ever, ever shall rekindled be;
Where songs were sung at night and stories told, » , How Milad’s sons sailed up the Northern Sea Seeking their- long-loved Isle of Destiny.
Ah, the memory of.you,.Conn of Ba.llylin, Is set in swish of rain and Banshee wailing! Cold was the'world without, but warm within,
When, freighted with dreams, your fancy ships came sailing	'
From sea-lapped coasts, where on fields forever green The black-eyed fairies danced before their queen.
The turf fire blazed and made the kitchen bright,
Expectant faces felt the warming glow; ■
Then heard we of Cuchulain’s last good-fight, ' i Lir’s lonely daughters, all the ancient woe
Of Usna’s banished sons, pining forlorn
For their waste fields and all their loves forsworn!
How rich that lowly roof when your dream voice Crooned of dead warriors on De Dauanii forts!
Bemoaned like regal bard in language choice
The Spanish ships that never reached our ports!
The'hard is dead and dead the fireside gleams: But thanks be to God this day—I have his dreams!
And so I keep my pact with memory,	_
And I shall follow where it leads: among '
The wan dead, may be, back in Athery
Where the hurrying Deel'makes every reed a tongue '
For low lamenting; where ’tis many the day
I’ve watched the gulls go screeching down the bay! -
And. so the fire yet burns, the sea-wind flings ‘ The rain with pattering feet against the door-.
The oak, new-sinewed down these hundred springs, Still grieves lone winter nights, as grieved of yore . Micha’s good Knights when their tall queen was slain, And happy days were banished from Emain.
. Nor shall I lonesome grow with the growing old
, Who’ve brought with me. the wine of dreams for
. ' drinking.	'
I’m.rich enough, thank God! Great Ossin’s gold
, Of song will last my day till the'sun’s sinking. . And time for all the frets has dealt well with me, To leave, against gray days, the memory
Of, happy childhood: fields flush grown with clover, Sheep tracks through hoary dew of summer morn, Honking, wild geese, home flying when day was - over, .	.	*	'	"
The early winter dark, the post-boy’s horn, ‘ -
The lifted latch, the salt-wind bursting in, And bless, him, good man-—Conn of Ballylin!

Alan Seeger.
BY THOMAS FRANCIS HEALY, y’19
: .On the island of Scyros- there is a grave, are running, there < sleeps America’s. great Amid the whitened,, crumbling , marble' of the soldier-poet,Alan Seeger... . ; . ...
. Isle, , hiddenj. beneath the abounding poppies, . The present - war has; produced - its poetry near the murmuringsea, it lies.. In it ;rest the and .its poets.. With thefirst notes of the reveille ashes of England’s great soldier-poet, Rupert : in 1914 our war poetry-came into being.’ Poets yBrodkely^^^	.7'.'.’A.I - the,world over liaveysung of the horrors- and .
Tbf jh^rancVto^	sloping' hates and shames of; strife, and their songs have
yhnEattHeUpvTen-Tsanterre, ami^	stood, above
.'arid^bufstihgtshdl^the^red fivers of'blood ;<theTba^^	and ?have’ seen the awful
A1'


* 4-- ■


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
WK
melee in the distance. But how common they seem in comparison with the soldier poets
: who have been in the very thick of the fight.' These have buried themselves in the soul of war and have seen pot only its horrors but. its glories as well. Theirs is the true singing, the true interpretation. Their poetry breathes . . the very breath of war; it shows what they - . themselves have seen and felt. And foremost among these is the late Alan Seeger.	-
Seeger was as much a soldier as a poet. ' It is well to know t'he facts of his romantic Career, for his life was a beautiful one. Before he can be fully appreciated as a poet we must see the man, himself—for the man is at least - as important as his work? He entered Harvard University at an early age, and in his college _ days was regarded as a very peculiar fellow. Not many understood his mind and ways or the noble ideals he held before him, so far was he above the common run of men. Unassuming and sincere in everything, he lived his quiet life aloof from the trivial things around him, preparing himself for the great cause to come. He reminds one verv much of Keats—gentle ( in disposition, refined and introspective in nature, remote from his fellows and. devoted ’ to music and books. He wrote much, but never sought publicity: for he destroyed most of his writings and kept the rest to himself. In 1912 he went to Paris, -'where, he says, he was: . 'supremely happy. Everyone he met there was impressed with the silent young American.
When the war came upon France in 1914 Seeger promptly offered himself for service. - ’ His mind was filled with eagerness for -the cause and his heart thirsted- to drink this cup . of experience.. He was enrolled in one of the bravest ' regiments of France—the Foreign Legion. With all the fiery impulse of youth he . marched away to fight, because he loved France apd had now ‘‘espoused a cause dearer than all' else to his heart.” He had found himself at ~ last, and all toward which he had been rather • hopelessly groping for years. War now engaged , his body, -his mind and . his spirit. Into the \ . depths of it,, he threw himself with ‘ all t*he -,	, courage and young idealism of his being; .
Rupert Brooke in his characteristic way had
said, ‘‘Well, if Armageddon’s on, one should ' Here.in simple beauty.is portrayed theyincerity
be 'there, I suppose,” ' and forthwith threw hiniself into the conflict. Seeger’s mood, was .
different. v ‘ ‘ At last, ’ ’. he says, ‘ ‘
come true.” He was filled. with a strange
exultation that he alone was capable of feeling ■ Through two long years his couragc-and energy?
never decreased with the strain: . -At The.M and at Champagne he volunteered for the most ' dangerous reconnoitring; he wrote poems night in the trenches, pouring out -his..soul in longing for the’moment when he could sacrifice': himself in the cause-of liberty. .	... -
This longing grew’ more intense, as time went; on. He had just one fear,—That he survives ' the great hour and. live to know anything: less,, glorious than war. From such a spirit‘sprang; the masterpiece of war song, “J have a Rendezvous with Death.” . No poem of the war has more enchanting lines than, this one. Glowing/ with imagination and. pulsating- with feeling ■ as quiet as it is powerful, it reveals the, sold of? the poet hidden in the soul of war. ’ . -Ayy?
Take the opening stanza:—;	yAy
T have a rendezvous with Death, '-yA?;
At some disputed barricade .	. ' ’L A”,
- When springcomes round.with rustling shade. .
And apple blossoms fill the air,	; T.-S
I have a rendezvous With Death -.	/ . / , AF?
When Spring brings back blue days and fair.: .;' W
How vivid these lines! -The second stanza, contains the strangely prophetic lines?—y?;-y;
It may be he shall take my hand . ' r . A ?.'.;: And.lead me into this dark land	y ?AL?T
And close my eyes and quench myrbreath;V A X It may be I shall pass him, still. A -.. - A I have a rendezvous with Death.’ AA WyS On some scarred slope of battered.hill, .	‘ A
And when spring comes round again this yea?: W-..: And the first meadow flowers appear.
- '	- '	_	-	. * , *	‘A/’
And the closing lines, wherein he reveals his.:

.^t:~






longing to meet death as his fellow-poet, Rupei®i>S|§^ft Brooke had said, -
Proud, then, clear-eyed and laughing go to greet;; -
Death as a friend.	‘	‘ =-;.A*
,	Jr** A'/; ^>4
•	'	- ■	• i-
And the last lines maintain the poetic intensityM^^
of the first:—	-	‘ TL
God knows ’twere better to be deep “X Pillowed in silk and scented down,-Where love throbs out in blissful sleep? •. Pulse nigh to pulse and breath to-breath W . Where hushed awakenings are so^dear,
But I’ve a rendezvous with Death ’ . ? At midnight in some flaming town, . - '?• When spring trips north again this year, / And I to my pledged word am. true //A I shall not fail that rendezvous? '	. A1


bf- his spirit.
. At Champagne under < heavy "
‘my dream.has wrotecthe' splendid .war. poem,-T Champag^ 1915.” It is flowing with.feeling forrt^
«*sz-3A»^w
Sy
SMgfe Xs- -'5'^3 sfegK®


366
THE NOTRE DAME-SCHOLASTIC
French soldiers and breathes out a delightful * freshness which belonged to its author alone.
A few lines will show sufficiently the beauty of its thought and diction.
In glad revels, in the happy fetes _ When cheeks are flushed, and glasses gilt and pearled
With the sweet wine of France that concentrates The sunshine and the beauty of the world.
Drink sometimes you whose footsteps yet may
■	' tread
The undisturbed, delightful paths of Earth, To those whose blood in pious duty shed,-■ Hallows the soil where that same wine had birth.
And again,
. Esteeming less the forfeit that he paid
• Than undishonored that his flag might float Over the towers of liberty, he made
. His breast the bulwark and his blood the moat.
Or,
Obscurely sacrificed, his nameless tomb, Bare of the sculptor’s art, the poet’s lines, Summer shall flush with poppj7 fields in bloom, . And Autumn yellow with maturing vines.
After seven or eight more stanzas of the same beauty, the poet ends:—	.
Drink to them—amorous of dear Earth as -well. They asked no tribute lovelier than this— And in the wine that ripened when they fell, Oh, frame your lips as'though it were a kiss.
He cannot forego his love for the dead heroes of France. Yet he soars even higher in his appeal to his own people. The last poem of his life is his famous ode to. the American Volunteers. who have fallen for France. The proud .	title-is'“ America and France.” He was to have
. read the ode at Paris, but he was'taken off before the occasion. In it his patriotism and faith broke their chrysalis completely, and many / the American hearts, in which it found-an echo.
- The-poem widens in its theme to a gloriolis vindication of the few Americans whose blood . was shed for. France. .The first lines are in the poet’s characteristic strain, quiet and. powerful:
: Ay, it is fitting on tliis holiday, < Commemorative of our soldier dead, .	.
’.	. y When., with sweet flowers of our New England .
-	May	_
<	Hiding thelichencd stone by fifty years made gray,
. .	. Their graves in every town'are garlanded .
? That pious tribute should be given, too,
:. M - To our intrepid few	_
.	5 Obscurely fallen here beyond the seas. ..	.
Then he praises France who gave to. him and 5 hisfelloyv/Americans:	< -	: . ?
'-a . ? ’ ’. That chance to live the life most free from strain ; 3 “ A : .y And that rare privilege of. dying- well"
Representative of the quality and' spirit of true war poems is the following:
And on those furthest rims of hallowed ground Where the forlorn, -the gallant charge expires, Where the slain bugler has long ceased to sound, And on the tangles wires'	.
The last wild rally staggers, crumbles, stops, Withered beneath the shrapnel’s iron showers Now heaven be thanked,- we gave a few brave drops,	.
.Now heaven be thanked, a few brave" drops were ours!
Best of all the last lines. They are full of dignity expressed in real poetic diction, and marked by a ceremonial stateliness that _ makes them the_ finest the war has evoked.
In them we .behold Alan Seeger in his -real mood—majestically calm, grand, noble and sincere, believing in the glory and high ‘ exaltation of the soldier’s life:	.	.
There holding still in frozen steadfastness Their bayonets toward the beckoning frontiers, They lie—our comrades—lie among their peers, Clad in the glory of fallen warriors, Grim clusters under thorny trellises,
Dry, furthest foam upon disastrous shores, ' Leaves that made last year .beautiful, still strewn Even as they fell unchanged,, beneath the changing moon,
And Earth in her divine indifference
Rolls on, and many paltry things and mean.	.
Prate to be heard and caper to be seen.
But'they are silent, calm; their eloquence
_ Is that incomparable attitude;
No human presences their -witness are,	.
But summer cloud and sunset crimson hued, And showers and night winds and • the northern star.	.	-	’	.	..	•
Nay even our salutations seem profane, Opposed to their Elysian quietude; . Our salutations calling from afar.
A few days after writing this Seeger met the . end he had longed for and fell bravely in a " bayonet charge on “some scarred slope of battle hill”’ ... z	;
On those red fields where blow with-furious blow	:
.Was countered. '	-	-	.	.:
Seeger’s poetry shows his' exceptional personality. It is marked by a buoyancy and flow that is almost perfect;, it excels in construction; it is .rich in imagery and. allusion; it has a feeling for contrast; it is musical; and it is peculiar, for its imaginative beauty and nobility of expression. Above all, his poetry is. intense ■ in its sincerity, and with all its distinguishing qualities, it, is most beautiful in its simplicity.	;
Blending all these virtues,, we have a fair	-
picture of - the.;Tsoldier-ppet; himself; and they...

uaww
i	„ . THE NOTRE DAME
.	are his legacy to the world he left after him.
,	The gallant young American had for twenty-
- seven years lived his poem as well as sung it.
. His great soul had seen below the surface beauty of things; and he loved the glory and breathing spirit of war as only he could love.
•	Always he pursued the nobler things. It is
’<•	true that his passion has left its undying record,
-	but it is also"true unfortunately that he had
_ followed in such a promising path such a little
:	way when the hand of death took him.
'	. The war made Alan Seeger a soldier and a
poet, yet impaired not in the least his funda-;	mental gentleness, the beauty of his spirit-.
;	The war held him up to the world as the emi	bodiment of all that binds in love the two yreat
!	republics—America_and France. For the latter
' country he had in full measure all of that •	grateful, hereditary love that sprang ' into
;	being in 1776. 'We shall always see him as a
»	. brave soldier:poet, everlastingly, divinely young;
I ’	his short life made poetry and his death has
[	made poetry, too. The tragedy of his death
i •	is offset by the pure beauty of it. The loss
j	is ours, not his. We have lost a poet, while
■	. Alan Seeger has found his glorious end at last.
’ A poet is dead, and in the words of his own
;	epitaph,—	.
■	Under the little crosses where they rise,
■ The soldier rests.	’
Junior Thoughts.
“Peace at any price,’’ is the slogan of the degenerate who is bankrupt in courage and manhood.	'	,
It’s as easy for a rich man to get through college as it would be for a poor man to buy out the Standard Oil.	.	,
^Small wonder a. woman’s reputation is so fragile: what a man accomplishes in the way. of feminine conquest he always publishes, and whey he fails he. is only too willing to lie about it. ’	_	'
Nothing is more, contagious than joviality of crowds. Had Shakespeare’ sent. Othello out ,to mingle with merry-makers Desdemona might have died of old age.	<
. Happy is he who rises 'with a song upon his lips! -There’s a boon that all the take-before-retiring tonics-in the world cannot give. -It is the prerogative of the one who is young, and clean of life, and clear of conscience. _
SCHOLASTIC -
Varsity Verse.	. T
"" St. Patrick. .	~	yA
He walked with'God a vision land,	IC1
Loud with a nation’s plea, -	: .
And with the crosier in his hand	' : r
He crossed the we tern sea.	NN
His harp—the kingdom of the Celt—	.	.	<
He tuned to newer refrains,	- 'A77
•	i	'	I	->■*. Lj;
And every age since then has felt	- ; -
The splendor of its strains.	b .	/ ..--A
He planted ewide the fertile sod t	' * '
Of pagan Inisfail,	•	' ' .
And gathered to the barns of God	.	?
A harvest of the Gael.	Z-- \-7
'	; B. M., 'I/.	'7 ;- ^
,	Purity.	. - N T
It is the voice of envy ever raised to tell the dead—'	.	-
It is the tongue of evil that speaks of virtue fled-— Az It is the whisper of the dark that cries of darker hearts .
They say that chastity is cold, nor loveliness imparts, s 7 'A
In white we have the rainbow, each color fair to see, 7 Its absence is the shadow upon the pleasantry.. . 7< In purity are graces new, are depths so fair we doubt .. NN All loveliness is there to view, nor can be, if without. 7-7
G. D. H-Niq, .
Blindness Forsaken. .	" INN
Tottering, touching my cane as I go.
With my hands that are stretched out still, fNf They feel not the guide they once did know	7 - ;
- Now in the grave on the hill. '	; . ;-Z77
.	’	G. D. H.r ’19. y z yy'A?
•	■	‘ -N'-'iNN'-
’ Conqueror. -	. . ;	7,7.
Drive the stubborn Irish to the fields of Donegal, . 'AZy?
And let those barren, stony hills become their funeral '
' pall.—Spenser.	.	* - - N NNl
Ah, well he knew, through centuries, if the cruel word.' were done, ..	I- 'NNN
That Irish blood would paint those hills more red. than , NNN "autumn sun,	-	.	- i ’ iNNN
And everv drop of blood that fell would turn' those"; 7ATT ; rocks to clay,	’	. > 7 f
And fruits would spring out of the ground where Irish'
heroes lay.	-	■	. ■ 1, -NNfi.
I	- R.M.1LN-I.N
April." . -	7.ZZ-7J
„ I am the laughing daisy’s soul,	T-7;
I am the violet’s opening;	. ’
-	' I am the sweetness of God’s breath,— ■■■-..yyA?
. I am the Spring. -	' J. H. McD.i ’ifi. . NNNfN
368
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MARCH EVENINGS.
The Banker’s Husband: A Scenario.
Across the brown fields tonight the sun was sinking and I, glad of the evening air, walked toward it. _Just beyond the earth’s dewy edge the sunset was unfurled.
Like a radiant garden, filled with crimson, and yellow, and white roses.
Thought I: “What glories shall .1 see this evening - when the Day is dead, When the winds of God arise, making the foundations .	of the sea to tremble;—	_	.
Scattering those roses on that unsubstantial earth;
’	Those white clouds will then be strewn with rose-
petals.”
Before me each bough was lined with gold: afar the depths of the sky were clothed in apocalyptal- beauty.
At the edge of the wood I stopped, and looked ■■ For there my path turned, • Going beneath gaunt maples and elms back to a cheerful fireside*
. And I thought: “I will forego the glories of the dying " day,—	•
Give up the sight of rose-petals scattered on snowy clouds,	.
. And hope	-	.
That in God’s evening meadows in the soft skies of - heaven
Are hoarded for me earthly sunsets.”
Down the hill I went into the shadows,
And felt '	-
The sweetness of young Night’s breath iii my face.
. ' When I reached home, I turned and looked.
.	_ Of all that sunset garden, onW one pink rose remained,
Hanging, trembling, upon a cloud-like stem.
’ And I was glad,	-
.	. But it was not alone because of the rose-gardens of the
' ’	sunset,	•
;	" But as I paused, returning,	*
; .A wind of dreams shook my heart.	-
I	,.	Richard- Byrne.
’	- A Prayer.	.	,
“ -	Likeyeloudy incense from s.weet censers; -
|	Or lilies fragraiicing the»air;	■
’	*	Lik^ nothing mortal tongue can speak
? -	■ Is God’s fair masterpiece,—-a prayer.
.	.	~	.	F. L., ’19.
i	'	.-	*
i	■	.
.5	Limerick.
. - -
i	-	a ' ■	-	-	-
|	■	A student in: history class	"	'
I' :Proved himself a permanent ass, . •
a	_ When-he.states that Rome
\	Was the original -home ;	'
l ~	' r Of the famous Thermopylae pass..______T. B., ’20.
BY HOWARD R. PARKER, ’17.
Our Scene I. gives a “close-up” of Mr. Henry ’ Coleman, president and cashier of the Golconda Desert Bank. The face of - Mr. Coleman shows a very thoughtful expression. He has reason to be pensive, as you may understand in hearing his history.
Borrowing for our purpose the wondrous power of the scenario - writer, who of all men ’ is able to turn back Old Time in h.is flight?: let us look upon Mr. Coleman as he appeared
-ten years ago.’ We must remove his tailored suit of Urquhart plaid and clothe him in the ' dusty raiment of a desert rider, a man wearing spacious corduroy trousers, a black soft hat, and. an olive-colored flannel shirt, gray with sage dust. From the pocket of this shirt there hangs a string, on the end. of which is a white, round tag, indicating that the man “rolls his own.” Having next provided our chief actor with a good riding-horse and a ready revolver, let us place him against a background of flat country marked by low hills devoid of vegetation. Now we shall get the action going at once, for our man is a western bandit, and ten years is a short time for even a man with a film-camera to evolve a full-blooded “bad man” into a respectable bank president.
Although three neighboring sheriffs had advertised large rewards for his capture, “Terry” Colton showed no sign of trepidation as he jested his horse on the road two miles out of Golconda, .the most flourishing of Nevada’s northern mining towns. As he looked toward the town spreading itself unmethodically over the desert below him and then coolly rolled a cigarette, you would scarcely have suspected for a minute that Terry was about ■ to make a big draw on the only bank in the place. He was cool and clever. If lie hadn’t
. been, perhaps one of those-nearby peace officers would have already visited the Frisco Fair on that reward money.	;
Colton remained in this .attitude of easy deliberation until his watch showed the time / -
of day to be just eleven-forty. Then with a cheery word to his horse h^ set off toward the town. Leisurely riding brought him to the edge of Golconda soon after twelve. This wae' . just right, he thought to himself: Most peopls
THE NOTREDAME SCHOLASTIC
are busy* between noon and twelve-thirty, and men of Colton’s profession are bored by .spectators.
The horseman rode up to the bank which stood on the Main Street, half a block from the hotel and general store? He climbed down from his horse and entered the bank. .From then until horse and ridei*were speeding out of town westward, there was quick action. True to Colton’s plan, only one man was on duty in the bank. This one rwas placing some documents in the one vault owned by the establishment. The rest you can readily supply for yourself. When thirteen miles out of Golconda, Terry the Wise stopped to examine his loot; he found that he had lifted nearly half of the town’s total resources.
James Morrison, head of the Golconda Desert Bank, very properly tore his hair when, on returning to the bank after/ dinner, he found his teller bound and gagged on the floor and the vault of the bank all but empty. Upon further investigation he realized that he had been made a comparatively poor man by the unknown marauder, for half the money intrusted to a bank is a big sum to lose.
Morrison was the father ,of a lovely daughter of twelve, and he shuddered to think what a' difference this misfortune would make in her position. So much did he think of the.blow that had befallen him and his family that it was but a few years until he had left his daughter Maud fatherless, and not comfortably far from penniless.
Maud' soon made up her mind to go forth in quest of employment. Hearing that Reno held forth the best opportunities, she took the Humboldt and Western for that notorious town. Sadly enough, she experienced great difficulty in securing employment there. Every store in the town was well supplied with clerks, and not an answer did she receive from her advertisement for a position as a servant girl. But the Odeon dance-hall . needed servinggirls. They were paying six dollars^ a week and board.'
Miss Morrison thought about this job a long time before accepting it. On the second day of her employment a husky person happened into' the place, and ordered beer. Someone greeted him -as “Terry.'” “Terry” was palpably. pained to see such a refined-looking girl carrying beer to rude men in a public
369
place. Fie determined to win her confidence - - ' and to learn her story, for he was sure she'must _ have one.. “Terry” was, human and even	• 1
straight in everything except his manner of	. ? •
earning a living.	"	*.
Maud did tell him her story, and it had not unfolded far before her new friend felt as * uncomfortable as any man could possibly feel. -Then he told his end of the story.	:
They went back to Golconda, the two of them, and Colton paid back to the last penny the money he had “lifted” from the town bank. , He had enjoyed a lucrative business during his days as a “stick-up” man, and he had carefully saved his money since his retirement from the game a few years after the Golconda job. By -	'
restoring the stolen money he escaped prose- -cution, for most people had forgotten the. robbery, anyway. The West does not remember -such incidents as does the East.	’
Maud could not forget the decency of the ' man who had taken her from the dance-hall •_ in Reno, even though he had ruined her father.
So it was not long after becoming" presi- -dent of the bank in pursuance of her father’s ' rights that she accepted Colton’s proposal of marriage, which brings us to the first scene . . of the narrative; namely, that of Mr. “Terry” J Colton, now known as Henry 'Coleman, .. \ gazing pensively across the Nevada desert ; - ... from his office in the Golconda Desert Bank. • You see, Mrs. Coleman found her duties at . ' .5 the bank too much of a burden, in view of the more womanly tasks that required her at home.
So it is that Mr. Coleman, although president	;	J
of the bank, Js in reality “the banker’s hus-	J	y
band.” Thus the title of our story is explained—	’	•
and now the whole fiction is readv for cine-	-.
matic visualization.	’
’ Thoughts. . —---------- / *“	I
Many a cub reporter has turned out to be a bear.
A }’ear in the big league’s worth two in the -	.
bush.	■	*	- J
The balm of friendship has soothed many .	.
pains.	.	1	U
Consider the hod-carrier—he seldom lets his burden slip.	‘	,	. .
We call them hard drinkers, but many of -them are easy ones.	’	,
Dimples, like human nature, show up best .	' /
when one is smiling. - ?	s. h. c. - ‘
37°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter,
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $1:50 per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Notre Dame, Indiana
L.
MARCH 17, 1917. '
No. 23.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard R. Parker, ’17
Edward J. McOsker, ’17
Michael J. Early, ’ 17 Stuart H. Carroll, ’17
Delmar J. Edmondson,’18
F. Jennings Vurpillat, ’ 18
SpEEr Strahan, Harry E. Scott, John. A. Lemmer, Charles W. Call, Thomas F. Healy, John Urban Riley
’17
’18
’18
19
17
—“In March, 1915, the J. P. Morgan interests, the steel, ship building, and powder interests, and their subsidiary organizations, got together twelve men
Arnolds of the Press.
high up -in the newspaper world and employed them to select the most influential newspapers in the United
States and a sufficient number of them to control generally the policy of the daily press of the United
States.
. They found it was only necessary to
purchase the control of twenty-five of the greatest
papers
an agreement was reached; the policy
of the papers was bought.......This contract is in existence at the present time.........—From a
■ speech made in the House of Representatives on February
■gth, by Congressman Gallovuay, of Texas. •
If these facts mentioned by the representative ‘ from Texas be true—and we have read no denial of them in* any of the big journals of
• the country—there are newspaper men in this
£
‘ country -who are guilty of prostituting, their great trust, who are. guilty of treason to their readers, to their country, and to. a profession which glories in the memory of a Greeley and a . Dana," a Nelson of out out! time, and which names among its present leaders a James Keeley and a Henty Watterson.	' ■	-
The greatest asset a newspaper can possess is the confidence'of its readers, and any act which tends to lessen this trust is a commercial
as well as an ethical mistake. The duty of a
ty newspaper,, as we conceive it,~ is to mold- and direct public opinion, and every J
no matter how large .its.'subscription list, no .. adaptation,! the prelate bestowing the honor matter how fortunate its finances, isjbound by prays;. tyReceive from our . bands this rose
all the laws of morality to perform this, duty as best it can. There is no excuse for a newspaper to sell its policy or to misrepresent conditions. No one can mitigate the seriousness of the offense charged by Representative Galloway, and before public confidence can be restored it will be necessary for the real newspapers in the United States to root out from newspaperdom those who have put the stain of treason on the honor of journalism. We have enough faith in the big men of the press of our nation to believe that they .stand ready and willing to punish the misconduct of their contemporaries and bo deal summarily with the traitors, the Arnolds of our press.
1899
1900
1901
1902
190,
1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
(Continued from page 362.}
Mary Gwendolin Caldwell, whose benefactions made possible the beginnings, of the Catholic University;
John A. Creighton, philanthropistyand founder of Creighton University;
William Bourke Cockran, the stirring orator;
Dr. John B. Murphy, surgeon;
Charles J. • Bonaparte, attorney-general under
America’s greatest
noted lawyer and
President Roosevelt;
Richard. C. Kerens, a kindly philanthropist and former ambassador to Austria;
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, prominent business man of-Bostonand known as a friend of the poor;
Dr. Francis B. Quinlan, a medical specialist of international fame.;
Katherine E. Conway, one of the makers of the Pilot and the Republic:
James C. Monaghan, noted lecturer and leader in the consular service of the United States;
Frances Tiernan (Christian Reid), a leader in Catholic literary circles;	.
1910 Maurice Francis Egan, noted professor and
1911
1913
’ J9I+
1915
1916
author, at present the American minister to Denmark;
Agnes Repplier, distinguished essayist;
Thomas B.. Mulry, prominent charity worker, and head of the St. Vincent de Paul Society;
Charles B. Herbermann, the blind scholar, and editor-in-chief of the .Catholic Encyclopedia; ..Edward Douglas White, chief-justice of the
United States;
Miss Mary V. ‘ Merrick, who though heavily burdened' with. bodily afflictions, founded . and still supervises the work of the Christ
Child Society; .-
Dr. James J. Walsh, physician, historian, litterateur of world-wide reputation.
the ceremony of the conferring of the newspaper, Golden Rose,* * of which the Laetare Medal is an
At

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC _
371
beloved son, who,' according to the world art noble, valiant, and endowed with great powers, ■ that you may be still more ennobled by every virtue from Christ, as a rose'planted near the streams of many waters.” Again and again this prayer has been realized in the recipients of the Laetare Medal, but never more fully, we
Book Review.
believe, than in the medalist of the year, Admiral William S. Benson.
present ’ s. s.
Obituaries.
Gervase
The sympathy and; students of
Augustine Irving.
and - prayers of the the University are tendered
faculty
Rev. Father Irving, C. S. C., in the loss of his brother, Gervase Augustine Irving, who died at his home in Watertown, Wisconsin, March Sth, 1917. He was nineteen years of age and was in the years 1912 and 1914'a member of Holy Cross Seminar}7, but was forced to leave on account of ill health, from which he never fully recovered. He will be greatly missed by his family and by those who knew him when he was here at Notre Dame.
The funeral took place from Sacred Heart Church, Watertown, Saturday, March 10th.. The Solemn Mass was sung by Rev. Father Irving, assisted by Rev. J. Burke, C. S. C., as deacon, and Rev. Father Warkin, C. S. C., as subdeacon.- The sermon was preached by Rev. Father Schumacher, C. S. C. ■
A Lass to Maryknoll. -
The Catholic Foreign Mission Society of . Maryknoll has lost a valuable worker by the death of Mary Louise Wholean. Miss Wholean was the first of a group of women-helpers who attached themselves some five years ago to the work at Maryknoll. 'These women now number nineteen and are formed into a society approved Ty the Church, to help in the foreign mission activities of this country. , The deceased was born in St. Mary’s parish, Westfield, Mass., in .1882. During her course at Wellesley College ‘ she won the Durant scholarship and was graduated with high honors. After several years of teaching in various schools, she decided to devote her life to the cause of the foreign missions, and accordingly offered her services to the society at Maryknoll. It is to be hoped that there will be many volunteers to take ter place
-----	'	. • J- ", ~
The Poets of the Future: A College’ 70 Anthology for 1915-16. Edited by 75 Henry T. Schnittkind, Ph. D., with an-?Fj Introduction by William S. Braithwaite.. 70 pp. 147. The Stratford Co., Boston. Sr.oo. -'S
Beyond the degree of doctor of philosophy, we dp not know what qualifications Mr. Henry T. Schnitt-~.< A kind brought to this work of selecting and editing /	.
“the best poems written by American university . A; students during the past college }rear,” but had: a reasonable degree of merit, rather than the exclusion ’ ' of no important colleges been the standard of inclusion, U/i? the collection might have been just as large, and would certainly have been far more important. The" - ?; . volume is bound in red cloth, perhaps to indicate, that. ■? ,7 here is the royal blood of song: the European -war is ' V S no doubt to blame for the inferior quality of. the paper. '	.	- .	_	'	7
Some sixty colleges are represented in the book; - , ‘—3 and while it would be violent to force the conclusion;. \ "‘S; that poetry must confine its bloom to the gardens of -7. three or four universities, yet is not the presumption against indiscriminate gathering? Obviously there is . -.AS too little good work in “The Poets of.the Future,” 7 -'S' and too much of the most ordinary student-verse. ■; Hence it will not command the interest that- an . American college anthology should command, while / ? S its admirers will be limited in the main to those con- J / -.' tributors who to procure copies of the great book have . - ASA mortgaged the family clothes-wringer and flat-irons. It is to be hoped that this work will not in any sense' 'AA: be considered representative of American universities?;- .
The boy destined to intone his “Gloria” before:the ?• V? consecrated altars of song rarely “finds” himself in.-college. Rossetti, it is true, wrote the “Blessed Damozel” at nineteen, but Shelley, who in this book?.L> .yx^ is said to have done his best work at the college age? ' -'77 was twenty-nine when he wrote “To a Skylark.”.-;;? 4?.'2 The college boy destined for song is usually tooyouhg ?;?; to realize fully the sweet seriousness of his divine.gift. AS Coleridge, Francis Thompson, and Keats are examples.?.: -AS that will be recalled. But comparatively late -as " poets usually are in laying hold of the kingdom within' ; - .7? themselves, many of these poets have already found -vL?: the new fashions in verse. Some’of them have, also 2? . .;? J found their own back-yards, and think these are- A--?;-?: poetry, though on the whole the traditions of English'?’ 'ASS verse receive the' homage of obedience.. The. best ? : '2?

7a-

in this great work.
M,J. E. ~
poems in the book are “The Hemp,” a long, ballad 'by Stephen Vincent Benet (Yale); “The Song .of
Our Lady,” by Joseph W. Singleton (Campion); “Our Lady’s Mite” by-Joseph L. Sadler (Holy Cross); “Victory,” by J. T.-Rogers (Harvard), and “Songs to-His Lady,” by John McClure (Oklahoma).- . It is gratifying to note, that even in this anthology Catholic colleges form an honorable fifth of the entire repre-; sentation. The sonnet reproduced from the Scholastic is copyrighted, and is here reprinted without permission of either the author of the verses or the editor of the Scholastic.	,	■	.'..7?
• Mr. William Stanley.. Braithwaite contributes: an
A .
•3/2	■	THE NOTRE DA
evasive introduction, in which he hopes that ‘in the poetry world it (this anthology, to be published annually) may serve as the yearly Spring of Song.’ If that be true, then we may expect in American poetry a windy summer. This statement and certain other features about the “The Poets of the Future,’’ make us suspect that Edith Rubright assisted the editor in his arduous labor of selection. Edith, it is to' be explained, is fulsomely described on p. 46, and has cousins in Spoon River. The really serious thing about the failure of Air. Henry T. Schnittkind. Ph. D., to make up a creditable* collection of verse from American college magazines, is that “ The Poets of the Future” may in some quarters be considered representative of the best that American colleges can produce. It is very much to be hoped that in justice to our schools, the selection for the next volume will, in so far as it can. correct the impression which must inevitably be given by this first, or else that the project of annual publication may promptly collapse. Verses for Thirty Years. By Rev. Michael
V. McDonough. Angel Guardian Press. Jamaica Plains, Boston, Mass. pp. 91.
In content and cover this latest contribution of a clerical poet to Catholic literature is more of a prayer book than a volume of verse. In the introduction, the author unodestly states that the enclosed pieces are not poetry, but merely verse. We hardly think the caution necessary. Obviously the majority of poems within the volume were written during the author’s - college days. Books of this kind do' not help very-much the cause of religious poetry, and one should remember that not all published pieces are worthy of book form. The volume is dedicated to the Brothers of Charity. .	~	m. J. E.
. Personals.
—Phillip Armstrong spent Sunday and Mon. day at Notre Dame visiting his old friends in Walsh Hall where he was a student during the _ years 1913 and 1915. His home is in Chicago.
—Prank Centlivre heard that Jerry Miller . was to sing at St. Alary’s last Sunday evening and left his home in Port Wayne to enjoy the - treat. The late Prohibition measure has not dimmed the cheery smile of our happy Hoosier.
—Rev. Brother .Michael, Si Al., Visitor- General of the schools of the Society of Alary, „. and the . Rev. Louis A. Tragesser, Provincial . of the StLouis. Province_of the saine Community, visited Notre Dame during the week. . . —The Milford Daily News, of Alilford, Alass., ’ .. February 23rd, contains the announcement that the George E/Stacy School was formalty opened. {'The. architects were Messrs. Phillips and Collins. - Wendell Phillips; wher is a 'graduate from :the - College of .Architecture, ’12, has been doing splendid work in his chosen profession/ •' *
ME SCHOLASTIC
Varsity News.
—The meeting of the Poetry Society-has been postponed until Sunday evening, Alarch 25th.
—After April 2nd, 1918, the State song of Indiana will be “The Land of the Sky-Blue Water,” instead of “Alighty Like a Rose.” .
—“Great Inspirers,” the latest book from • ' the pen of Rev. Dr. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., recentty published by the D. Appleton Company, is receiving much favorable comment.
—It has been announced that Archbishop Mundelein of Chicago will be present at the graduation exercises of the University, and that he will also address the students on June 10.
— At the St. Patrick’s Dav celebration in J
Lafayette, Indiana, to be held under the auspices of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, Father Walsh will be the principal speaker.
—Very Reverend Father Theisseling, the head, of the^Dominican Order, will leave Rome for America in a few weeks. Father Theisseling will attend^ the diamond jubilee celebration in June before making his visitation tour of this continent.
—For the information of students who have / • -
been inquiring whether or* not the Auditorium Theatre will show Marie Dressier in the famous five-reel comedy, “Tillie Woke Up,” the management wishes to announce that the play will be presented on Friday, March 23rd.
—On last Tuesday evening the preliminaries were'held in the Holy'Cross Debating Society. The following ‘men were chosen to represent the society in two debates, with St. Joseph’s and .Brownson Halls: William C. Havey, Leo Ward, James H. Brennan, Raymond Switalski, Arthur Plope and Thomas' C. Duffy.	.
—The first bust to be moved from the Alain Building to the new library was that of Cardinal Gibbons. The thirty busts transferred on Alonday have already been put in place. The books will'be moved from the old library to their new shelves during the Easter vacation, and the building will be opened for use some time next month.	.	.	'
—The. motion picture shown in Washington .Hall last Saturday night was one of the best given here this year. Valentine Grant as the brave little Jean in “The * Daughter of Mac-
. Gregor,’’ has all the grace and wihsomeness’ of Mary Pickford. The acting of “Lady,” thefamous Scotch J collie, surpasses anything.
'- (A	A '.UN. T ’
' G * - - ' . Tv jT	4 vy' / W'J '"A ' ’	■* /. * -'	-	.
THE NOTRE DA
of its kind ever shown at the college and certainly was a surprise to all. ; Besides the regular film, there was an animated cartoon from the Bray Studio, an educational reel, and the Ford illustrated travelogue. The entire performance was greatly appreciated by those present.
—Arrangements are being completed for the Glee Club’s concert in Orchestra Hall, Chicago, on Faster Monday. Mr. T. H. Bradley, prominent official of the Texas & Pacific Railroad. has invited the members of the club to be his guests in Chicago on Easter Sunday afternoon. Mr. Bradley was a visitor at Notre Dame last Tuesday.	.
—The Polish students of Holy Cross Hall have organized a Fleury Sienkiewicz Circle for the study of Polish literature. Father Truszyn-ski, of the St. Hedwige parish, South Bend, who has donated some valuable books to the circle, has been made Moderator. Max Kazus and Alexander Szczepanik will address the organi-' zatic-n in the near future.	_
—The Glee Club gave a concert in St. Angela’s Flail at St. Mary’s last Sunday night. A number of guests from Notre Dame and South Bend were present to enjoy what the club officials declare was one of the most successful concerts that have been given by their organization. . After the programme an excellent lunch was served to the Gleemen.
—An xoil painting of Archbishop Feehan has been presented to the University by Rev- F. J. Callahan, of Chicago, and will take its place "with other works of art in the new library.
Archbishop Feehan was for many years head of the Chicago archdiocese, and the rare like-■ ness presented by Father Callahan will enhance the great collection which is one of the treasures of Notre Dame.
—The standing of the three schools leading in college rifle chibs competing under the auspices of the National Rifle Association was recently
. announced at Washington.as-follows: M. A. C:, 5764; W. Virginia, 5598; Notre Dame, 5558. The men who made the annual trip to Culver with Sergeant Campbell were Leo Vogel, John Miller,-George Rinehart, Humbert Rivas, and Jack Young.	.
—For any of the students or graduates in mining engineering that may be interested we publish this note from the Johnston City Coal Company: “We are in need of one or two mining engineers. If you know of any place
ME SCHOLASTIC	373 7774
where we could get one or two young graduates/ . 77 7'77' we shall be glad to take the matter up with L5 them in reference to position.” Address 1700	7<
Old Colony Building, Chicago. ’	.	*	:
—The singers, and instrumentalists in the
Glee Club of the University of Chicago will . ?v appear in a joint concert with the Notre Dame A; club in Washington Hall Sunday evening, 7 / 7 March 25th. Arrangements for the affair were 747 completed last week. The. two clubs will / -divide the evening’s program. The Chicago, v < ’ club will appear here and in South Bend on a .	’ 7
trip through Northern Indiana.	7 ?
—At the suggestion of Father Crumley, 7 , T a course in ornithology is to be added to the x : curriculum of the University. The new course,	7'
which will begin about April 1st, is to be in . 7/.7, charge of Brother Alphonsus. Two trips will f . 7 be made daily into the regions about the	i	/
University and South Bend to observe and	'	77- .
study the birds. Brother Alphonsus is an , J y ? associate - editor of the Midland Naturalist,	:	v.7
and an eminent authority'in ornithological <; 7" matters.	' 7 "y
—The Reverend Father Morrissey, C- S. C., .	v -A
represented Notre Dame and was one of the 'y-yX speakers at the . investiture of Father Daniel .	: Y7
Riordan as domestic prelate in Chicago last y’.-Ty// Sunday. The Monsignor is a brother'of our NN distinguished alumnus, the late Archbishop of: N:'N Sap. Francisco, and has always been one of the . 7, . NN staunchest friends of Notre Dame. The Uni-/" 7. versity extends its heartiest congratulations to" .4 -7 the Monsignor, and hopes that he may enjoy 7.///;/ his new honors for many years.	- 7'AJA?
—The Mite Boxes in the .various halls were - NT emptied last week and the gratifying sum of	.<-77kN:
S46.51 was collected. The halls contributed.7^ as follows: Corby, S10.75; Walsh, S9.05; St./-,AAA§7 Edward’s, S7.00; Brownson, S6.47; Carroll,/7 7 Ay A/ $6,467 Sorin, S5.4S; St.. Joseph, S1.30; j/yA This-money will be forwarded to Bengal. at . 7/'-7 once. ,Through the Scholastic, Father-French? 7/:/yyy wishes - to' thank the students most heartily ' NNA for their generosity. We trust that when the,: boxes are opened at Easter even a larger sum ; A will be found.	.	; -4NNiNN
• —Attorney Twomey M. Clifford, graduate A-
■ of Notre Dame with the class of 1914, is chair- ; 4 4 man of the general co'mmittee in charge of the . 7 4 forty-seventh St. Patrick’s. Day . observance/, y J Aj at Indianapolis, Saturday. -Rev. Charles L. . 7
J	' 7— ''	--	’ 3
O’Donnell, C. S. C., assistant.-editor of the '	|
•’-■'A	- /	.	, -	-	7-7 -y
374
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ave-Maria, will be the orator of the day. The celebration, which is under the auspices of the Ancient Order of Hibernians of Marion County, will consist of a parade in the early afternoon, a patriotic meeting in Tomlinson Hall at 3:00' O’clock, at which Father O’Donnell will speak, and an entertainment in the evening.
Replies such as that received from President Twomey M. Clifford of the Indianapolis Notre Dame Club are highly appreciated by the
editors of the Scholastic.
Clifford’s v
willingness to co-operate with the hoard in making the Scholastic more interesting to students and alumni is an example for the other alumni associations.
—Douglas Fairbanks needs no introduction to the motion picture public. Last Wednesday night he made his first appearance in Washington Hall as Lo, the picturesque half-breed, in Brete Hart’s famous story of that name.' As a rule we do not favor Triangle productions, but this one was an exception. The story of the gold rush to California has been told many
. times, but no one has told it with clearer insight than the California writer, and his theme is admirably interpreted, by Alan Dwan, who directed the production. Mr. Dwan, by the way, is a graduate of Notre Dame, having received his degree in 1907. Naturally therefore we had more than an ordinary interest in the picture. The feature film was preceded'by a Keystone comedy, “Madcap Ambrose.” Bashful .Ambrose of the herculean strength is always funny and this time more than usual. The entertainment was attended by a full house.	.	■	-
—The first business discharged by the religious society at its meeting last Sunday night was to . settle - upon its name. The Eucharistic Union was the name chosen. The society
voted a resolution to set a. good, example.', by reverence in church, specifically, to kneel . properly and to make use of prayer bo«k or .. beads. In recognition off an appeal. from a . neighboring institution. of charity for good
/ reading -material, a- committee, composed of representatives, in each, hall was -appointed To
collect magazines and books;. A discussion of a suitable time for the meetings resulted in the .. selection,. tentatively, , of every- other Tuesday-
night,- counting, from the next.lmeetirig, which " . will. be March 20th, at 7 -30 p.; m;, room; 222,
Main : Building. .	?	' p. j. . E. . ;
/Athletic Notes!.
Brother Casimir, sponsor for the athletics in Brownson Hall, calls attention to the enviable record made by the Main Building boys during the winter season. They captured interhall championships in both basketball and relay racing '	.
Captain Schmidt, Zoia, Gipp, McGrain, W. Eigelsbach, Flaherty, King, Glynn, and Dent were the basketball men that outplayed the representatives of the other halls. They
to the campus championship
base their claim
on the following	record:		
St. Joseph	.	17	Brownson	45
Day. Students	forfeited	Brownson	
Corby	15	Brownson	3i
Walsh	_ i '4	Brownson	13
Sorin	15	Brownson	25
Walsh	10	Brownson	18
Not only was 1	the Brownson Hall relay		team
never defeated during the		season, but on	their
last appearance they hung up a new gymnasium record of 1136 4-5 for the half-mile. On the record-breaking sprint Walter Miller ran a lap in 17. 1-5; Maguire, 16 1-5;. McGinnis, 16; Hoerr, 15 2-5; Conrad, 16; Barry, .16.	•
. Carroll Hall won its opening, dual meet of • the year against the Y. M. C. A. Intermediates,
54 to 32, in the Notre Dame gymnasium on Thursday evening, March 8th. Led by Joe Wood, who gathered.twenty-five .points all by himself,'the. Carrollites were never in danger throughout the clash with the . Association boys. Welsh ran two pretty races for Carroll. His time of 59 1-5 seconds in the quarter-mile was excellent, while he looked far from bad' in the half-mile, which Miller, of the Y. M. C. A., won in 2:15 1-5. The meet was officered by several Varsity athletes, and it prbceeded with all the exactness of a major attraction. Father Ouinlan-and Coach Lydon are arranging further-competition for their team..
Carroll Hall, 54; Y. M. C. A. Intermediates, 32.
. - 40-yard, dash—Beroth, M; Y. C. A., first; Wood'
Carroll, second; Olson,_Y. M. C.A., .third. Time :o5-. . 220-yard dash—Olson, Y. M. C. A., first; Rokpsz, Carroll, second; Vaquie, Carroll, third. Time :27 3-5.
. 440-yard dash—Welsh,'Carroll, first; Miller, Y. M.. C. A., second; Wolf, Carroll, third.. Time'59: "1-5.
880 - yard run-WMiller, YAM, C.' A., first; .Welsh,
• Carroll, second;‘-Wolf, Carroll, third. /Time 2:15.1-5.. . . 40-yard.Idw hurdles—Wood, Carroll;- first; J Bailey, Cairo!!,/ second;. Olson/A., third. Time
:o6 1-5
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
High jump—Wood, Carroll, and Schutt, Y. M. C. A., tied for first; Beroth, Y. M. C. A., and Smith, Y. M. C. A., tied for second. Height 4 feet, 10 inches. '
Broad jump—Wood, Carroll, first; Olson, Y. M. C. A., se<fbnd; Schutt, Y. M. C. A., third. Distance 17 feet, 7 inches.
Pole vault—Early, Carroll, first; Wood, Carroll, and Goodenough, Y. M. C. A., tied for second. Height, 8 .feet, 7 inches.	.
Shot put—Wood, Carroll, first; Bailey, Carroll, second; Zilky, Y. M. C. A., third.' Distance 32 feet, 1 1-4 inches.	.
Relay—Won by Carroll (Vaquie, Rokosz, Welsh, and Bailey). Timeirii.	c. w. c.
375
I manicured my map and hair,	.
Invested in a “cady,”	.
Bedecked myself like Francis X., In honor of the lady.
I ordered up a swell bouquet, And planned to give a dinner,—	.
Although the jingle in my jeans, Was ever growing thinner.
Well, Bill and I are strangers now,	‘
As thick as Cain and Abel—	.
That'beauty dope Bill handed me, Turned cut to be a. fable. -
Scents d’ Humor.
These highly invigorating mornings, when the air is filled with scents of spring, find our respective professors taking after-breakfast constitutionals. On one of these aforesaid mornings a certain dignified professor of philosophy and a widely-known doctor of science 'were passing the Sorin Rest. The porch was strewn with an unusually large number of those who do not believe the female of the species is more deadly through the mail (with apologies to Woodyard Kind-, ling). They were draped about the pillars and hung in festoons over the railings. The above-mentioned prof, of ph. feeling particularly jocular over the turn in the weather, asked of one of the porch-climbers, ‘‘Pray, may this be the Sorin Inn?” Whereupon the questioned one replied, 'Jit is.” “Ah, but above in a third floor-window I see a man with.a book! I prithee, how comes it?” Whereupon the howed-one ere replying cavorted to the end of the promenade to investigate, fearing 'the reputation of the Senior Sanatarium to be in dire danger. He came back with a sigh of relief and the retort: ‘‘Be not alarmed; the one you see is but a visitor in bur midst.”
. ***
Rumor has it that the M. E.’s have adopted a slogan with which they are to greet each other when meeting in after years:—“What a fine oil can you turned out to be.”’	,	.	' • .	■
' ***
Oh, Bill and 1 were old-time pals;
We shared both joy and sorrow.
All mine was Bill’s, all Bill’s was-mine,— What wasn’t ours we’d borrow.	. •
Then one day Bill came up to me, . With slap and greeting hearty;	-
"Eve found a peach, and now you must' -'	, Attend the Junior party.”
The “peach” wore great big spectacles, With non-skid tire rims;
She" climbed my pumps and danced the. wax"
A dying sea-cow swims.
And when her finger bowl was passed, She drained it with a swallow;
Her conversation proved that from ’
The neck up she was hollow.	-
Oh, I suppose I shouldn’t rave -
And make a roarin’ racket, = Because old Bill, my one-time pal, . . Slipped me a lemon packet.	x
"My girl is going to have guests— I knew you’d think it jolly
. To have her for a partner, and- - 1 , _ -Thus help me on with Dolly.”
For Caesar had his “Brute,” they say, And Woodrow had his Bryan, But-that poor gaL Bill wished on me,
Will haunt me till I’m dyin’. X P. F.
9	’	•'	' '	__ '
' 3	■	'	. -l .
376
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Old Students’ Hal!—Subscriptions to March 17, 1917.
The.foUov.-ing subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall-were received by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the building committee:
§2000.00
Samuel T. Murdock, ’86.	.
$1000.00
Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, P. T. O’Sullivan, '6S; Right Rev. E. J. McLaughlin. ’75: M. F. Healy, ’S2; John C. Shea, ’9S; ClementC. Mitchell,'02; Byron V. Kanaley, ’04; Daniel J?. Murphy,’95; John P. Lauth, '68; Janies D. Callery. ’73.
-	S500.00
Robert Sweeny,’03; C. A. Paquette,'90; Rev. John Dinnen,’65: Warren A. Cartier, '87; Stephen B. Fleming, ’90; Thomas Hoban, ’99; Angfls D. McDonald, ’00; William A. Mclnerny, 'or; Joseph M. Byrne, ’79; Cassius McDonald, ’04; William P. Breen, ’77; Student from Far West; Rev. I. E. McNamee, ’09; C. C. Craig,'85; Frank E. Hering, '98; Peter P. McEIligott, ’02; James J. Conway, '85; George Cooke, ’90. John Dowd, ’99.
$300.00	’
Frank N. Maas, ’77.	’	'
$250.00
Fred E. -Murphy, ’93; John M. Flannigan, ’94; John H. Neeson, ’03;. Joseph B. Naughton. ’97; Peter Kuntz. ’98, Jolin H. Fendrich, ’ ’84; John Eggeman, ’00; A. A. McDonell, ’00; Eugene A. Delaney, • '99; R. A. O’Hara. ’S9; M. P. Hannin. '93.
-	$200.00
W. G. Dffendell, '01; John O’Shea, ’11; James F. Kennedy, ’94; Louis C. M. Reed, -’98; Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00; Joseph J. Sullivan, 02: G. A. Faiabaugh,’04; Robert Anderson, ’83; Joseph Lantry, ’07; Rev. F. J. VanAntwerp, ’14; L. J. Keach, 'oS; Rt. Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’03; Christopher C. Fitzgerald, ’94. F. A. Kaul. ’97; William Hoynes, ’77; Edwin J. Lynch, ’10; T. D. Mott, '95; F. Henry Wurzer, '98; Paul R. Martin, ’13; Timothy V. Ansberry, ’93; John M. Quinlan, ’04; Daniel Madden, ’06; Fred_ J. Kasper, ’04; J. S. Corby, ’98; Thomas Steiner, ’99; John F. Cushing, ’06.
-	$150.00	s
Rev. Michael Shea, ’04; Ambrose O’Connell. '07; William Byrne, '95; James L. Tong, ’94; W. A. Drapet, ’06; James E. Deery, ’09.
$120.00
Maximilian St. George, 'oS.	-
$100.00
Oliver J. Tong, ’73; Hermann C. R. Piper, ’11; Rev. Edmund OCon-nor, ’94; J.L.Lamprey,’03; Walter Joyce,’07; GeorgeN. Johnson; ’95; William H. Boland, ’88; William J. Granfield,'13; M. O. Burns,'86; Rev. Michael Ryan,’95; William P. Higgins, ’03; James Frederick Coll, ’89; George J.Hanhauser, ’01; James P. Fogarty,’00; Rev. John B. McGrath,'So; John F. Fennessey,’99; Cyril J. Curran.’12; Ernest E. L. Hammer, ’04; Alfred J. Pendleton, ’97; Edwin Wile, ’74; Francis C. Schwab, ’02; Rupert F. Mills, ’14; William H. McCaity, '99; Edward J. Glyhn, ’11; Frank P. Crowley, ’09; Thomas’ B. Curry, ’14; James A. Curry., ’14; Harry’ V. Crumley, ’03; Harry’ S. Cahill, ’08; Walter V. Heekin, '05; William McKenzie, '88;- Rev. Bernard P. Murray; Mark M. Foote.’73; Patrick J. Houlihan ’92; E. J. Maurus. '93; Thomas J. Swantz, ’04; H. G. Hogan. 04; Harold P. Fisher, ’06; John B. Kanaley, ’09; James F. Hines, ’09; John B. McMahon, ’09; Rev. John M. Byrne, ’00; J. H. Gormley, ’03; Thomas O'Neill, '13; Robert E. Pioctcr, ’04; John F. O’Connell. ’i3;. Frank C. Walker.’09; Rev. Gilbert Jennings. 'oS; .George O’Brien, ’90; Vitus Jones, ’02; W. A. Duffy, '08'; Rev. J. H. Guend-ling, ’14; Fred C. McQueen, ’00; Charles J. Stubbs. '88; Rupert Donovan. ’08; Rev. Francis H.- Gavisk, '14; . Rt. Rev. Frank O'Brien, ’95; Frank L. McOsker, ’72; Charles E. Ruffing, '85; James F. Foley, ’13; Rt. Rev. T. C. O’Reilly, ’09; Thomas J. Welch,-’05; William E. Cotter, ’13; John C. Tully, *rx; John F.
. O'Connor, ’72; T. P. O'Sullivan, '02; G. M. Kerndt. ’82; Dr. Frank JI Powers, '94;-Rev. John Talbot Smith, ’07; Daniel C. Dillon, ’04; Thomas C. Butler, ’08; Edward M. Kennedy, '08; James Fiancis Odem, ’16; Emmett P. Mulholland, ’16; Thomas A. Hayes, ’16; Frank J. Hiss, ’16; Joseph J. McCaffery, '16; Walter • P. McCourt, ’16; M. J. McEniry, ’Sr; Thomas J. Shaughnessy, -’15;
James F. O’Brien, ’13; Michael L. Fansler, ’04; A. C. Fortin, ’01;
- Daniel J. O’Connor, '05; M. HrMiller, ’10; "William D. Jamieson, ’05;-Grover F. Miller, ’16; Thomas A. McLaughlin, ’16; -Edwin H.
- ' Sommerer, ’16; Joseph O'Sullivan, ’16;'Jacob E. Eckel, ’16; Vincent . Mooney, '16;' John T. Shea, '06;. Edward Ml Schaack, '93;. Anton - C. Stephan, ’04; Dr. F.-B. McCarty. .’07; Harry F. McDonagh, '10; ’ Charles "W.Lahey,: ’.13;- Adam J. ’Kasper, ’95;-George W. Kasper,.
’95; Robert'A. Kasper, ’07; Charles Girsch, ’94;- Gerald A. Fitz- '
gibbon, ’07; John B. Fruechtl, '04; Hugh J. Daly, ’12; Edward K. Delana, '13; Harry’ Curtis, ’08; Charles Cullinan, ’07; Daniel Cullinan, *07; Dr. W. P. Grady, '99; Edgar Crilly, ’90; George S. Crilly, '88; James V. Cuningliam, '07; M. H. Miller, 'io; Frank X. Cull, 'oS; Jesse E. Vera, 'io; Walter Duncan, ’12; James W O’Hara, ’13; Joseph Collins, '11; Dr. H. G. McGarry, ’12; James ' Dubbs, ’06; Raymond E. Skelly, ’11; William-R. Ryan, ’11;
William A. McKearney, ’08; Maurice J. Breen, '09; Raymond C. Langan, ’93; Charles A. Grossait, ’96; Edward J. Rauch, ’95; William J. Mooney’, Jr., ’14; John J. McShane, ’14; Henry A. Wim-berg, ’96; Gerald S. Clements, '14; John G. Wimberg, ’96; Philip B. O’Neill’ ’02; Elmo A. Funk, 'oS; Rev. J. C. Scullin, '09; Oscar A. Fox, ’06; Dwight Cusick, ’12; Paul F. O’Brien, ’12; C. P. Somers, ’15; F. W. Durbin. ’i3;^.Atthur W. Ryan, ’13; E. H. Savord, ’12; Robert L.^Fox, 'or; John McKeefrey; Harry- J. Zimmer, ’09; Owen Murphy, ’13; Thomas A. Havican, ’09; Jacob W. Kraus, '98; James Devlin, ’13; Thomas C. Hughes, ’09; A. W. Page. ’03; John W. Ely,’09; John McCague,’12; Cleveland Alumnus, ’12.
$75-00
John W. Costello, '12.	’	,
$50.00
Albert B. Oberst, ’06; Louis P. Chute, '92; William Fish, '12;
J. Clovis Smith, ’14; Frank B. Cornell, '00; Rev. John Schopp, ’94; A. J. Major, ’86; Charles Vaughan, ’14; Stephen H. Herr, ’10;
J. N. Antoine, ’70; Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’09; Fred Stewart, ’12; Rev. John J. Burke, ’S3; Rev. M. L. Moriarty-, ’10; Rev. John P. Quinn, '83; Simon E. Twining, ’13; J. V. Birder, ’13; Cecil E. Birdet, '14;- M. Emmett Walter, ’15; iialph Eberhart, ’02; Rev. John M. Gerenda, '09; Timothy- P. Galvin, ’16; Ray M. Humphreys, ' 1 <j; Hugh E. Carroll, ’16; Jesse C. Harper; Ronald S. O’Neill. '14; Louis P. Hari, ’16; Joseph D. Kovacs, ’16; Patrick Maloney, '16; J. F. Delph, ’16; Hugh O’Donnell, ’16; James Sanford, ’14; Ira W. - Hurley, ’14; Emmett G. Lenihan, ’15; Francis H. Hayes, '14; Raymond J. Kelly,'16; Ernest P. Lajoie, '15;-Rev. P. J. Crawley.-’95; Arthur Pino, ’06; William .Milroy, '13; Dr. Robert Frost, '02; Eustace Berry, ’03; A Fiiend from the South; Daniel Shouvlin, ’14: R. B. McConlogue, ’09; Thomas J. Jones, ’03; Twomey M. Clifford, ’13; Cletus H. Kruyer, '12; Carmo F. Dixon, ’09; Joseph P. O’Reilly-, ’03; W. B. Helmkamp, ’11; Rev. M. T. Griffin, ’04; Robert E. Daly, ’15;' Ray J. Daseh-bach, ’04; M. P. Clinton. Jr , ’08; Matthew A. Campbell, ’06.
$40.00
V. E. Morrison, ’89; Gerard N. Krost, ’04; Stephen A. Fazekas. •» . . $25.00	’
John M. Culligan. ’15; 'Joseph M. DeLone, ’02; Simeon T. Flanagan, '14; W. B. McLain, ’04; Lawrence Janszen. ’09; Rev. A. A. Lambing, '83; James M. Riddle, ’13; Henry Hess, '82; Dr. E. M. McKee, ’06; Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13; Rev. John H. Mullin, ’11; I. N. Mitchell, Sr., ’92; Frederick Williams, ’13; Rev. Joseph Toth, ’11; Joseph M. Walsh, ’14; Max Adler, ’89; John G. Mott, ’95; Rev. T. O. Maguire, ’09; Paul J. Smith, ’16; C?I. Krajewski, ’16; Joseph P. Flynn, ’16; John P. Conboy, '16; W. W. Turner, ’16; Alfred Fries,* ’16; J. A. McCarthy, ’16; J. Hairy Sylvestre, '16; Harold P. Burke, '16; Peter C. Yearns, '16; Fred M. Pralatowski, ’16; Francis J. Kilkenny, ’12; Edward L. Figel, ’11; Thomas J. Dooley, ’97; Mark A. Devine, 'io; Daniel E. Cooney, ’10; Fremont Arnfield,’12; W. W. Harless, *86; Edward J. Walsh. ’00; Thomas Curran, ’16; D. D. Myers, Jr., ’00; Dennis Moran, '’14;- Leo F. Welch, '12; Ralph A. Reitz, ’14; Lawrence Luken, ’02;
William L. Beckham, ’11; . Frank C. O’Rourke, ’12; Martin Hena- -han, '15; Robert’J. Dederich, ’09; CarlK. Rowlands, ’06; Clarence-W. May, ’06; J. S. Cangney-, ’12; George Rudge, ’74; Rev. Patrick A. Barryr^'12; William B. Akin, ‘88.
- $20.00	,
Gabriel Davezac,’94; James R. Devitt, ’13; Albert A. Glockner, -'16; .Julius M. Hack,’92.	_	”
'	.	$15.00	-	•
Bernard Durch, .’13. -	'-
<	$10.00	■	.	.
P. J. O’Connell,’73; PaulT. Markey,’08; Edward J. Markey,’06, Alfred Vignos, ’95; Andrew L. Shimp, ’91; Frank Niedecken, ’09; Harry Kirk, ’13; Louis'Chute, ’92; J. J. Deasey, ’06; H. King, ’16; James E. Roach, ’16; J. E. Hogan, ’16; Frank Maher, ’02; Frank W. Bloom, ’84; George-F. Pulskamp, ’96; Joseph J. Hinde,’09;
. John'A. Saw-kins, ’13; Bernard Bannori, ’07.
* ’ - .	- ”	.	$5-oo	'	.
Robert D? Murphy, ’or; ‘ Mark Duncan, ’15; Hiram Hallida.y W. Bloom, ’84; -George F. -Pulsampk, -’96; Joseph J. Hinde, ’09. ’06; Claude-Si Moss, ’95; -John Bell, ’08; . P. M. O’Meara, ’09;
' A. I. Strickfaden; A.~K. Grimes, ’14.	. .. , ■ /	’	'	'