
I	_
»The Notre Dame
My favorite sport’ is
SKIPPER
SPORTSWEAR
says JIM FERSTEL
MAX ADLER COMPANY Michigan at Washington
HECK & AKER 111 W. Jefferson Blvd.
RASMUSSEN MEN’S SHOP w« s.. M.in st.
ROSE & KATZ, INC. at Colfax
WYMAN’S 103 No. Michigan
PLENTY OF COLORS and patterns from which to choose! Skipper Sweaters give you lots of warmth, little weight. Priced from $3.95 to $19.50.
When you’re in a hurry, Skipper Sportswear is the handsome answer. Comfort? There’s nothing like it —trim-fitting and casual.
THEY NEED NO IRONING, SO there’s no laundry problem with Skipper T-Shirts—wash ’em out quick yourself. Many patterns and models. $1.00 to $3.95.
THE MOST FITTIN THING you can wear—Skipper Sportshirts are tapered neatly at the waist, broad through the shoulders. Washable, too. $3.95 to $15.00.
2
The Scholastic
Letters
Hninini!
There has been a great deal of pro and con about the ND cheerleaders. Personally, I think that they are almost tops. However, I would like to offer a suggestion. Here’s hoping that it will y not cause those under the Golden Dome to distort an eyebrow. Why not have a few—one or two—feminine cheerleaders too. Although Notre Dame is not co-ed there is St. Mary’s, the Main Building girls, and the little noticed Lobund technicians (we don’t clutter up the Huddle at any time). I’m sure that we could help lead cheers too, and it would give us an opportunity to express oui- loyalty in an “extra-curricular” way. What do
Pat Wolfe
Lobund Technician
McGoldrick Castigated
Editor:
Since last week’s issue of the Scholastic contained Mr. McGoldrick’s second feeble attempt to ridicule the band’s uniforms, about which he quite obviously knows nothing, I believe that it is time for those who read “The Week” to be made aware of the fact that this is McGoldrick’s way of work-'' ing off his “post-war neuroses.”
However, Mr. McGoldrick does deserve praise for at least being original since he is the only one, out of the approximately 800,000 people who have seen the uniforms, who has complained.
The band’s comparatively new uniforms are the result of many hours of planning by the best-known uniform authorities in the country, and they were designed especially for the Notre Dame band. Unfortunately more important matters keep us from checking all of the theatres in the country to see which have copied them.
Further, since Mr. McGoldrick’s un
just criticisms morous rather felt that no necessary.
William
were meant to be huthan constructive it is further explanation is
James Ensign,
Drum-major, University Bands, University of Notre Dame
The college graduate considered by Mr. Romaker knows his varnishes, and has proper mannerisms and refinements. He’s in the game because “salesmanship represents opportunities for making
money . .
He’s “got to work seven
days a week (all seven, yet) . . . and
Two things enxy college man should know!
This is a girl athlete. Likes tennis— eager for love match. Good golfer, but heart belongs to caddy. Even tries to make the football team—one at a time. Dangerous when exposed to a "Manhattan” shirt.
plug, plug, plug.” Whatever personality he brings to his work is soon stifled by the false courtesy that is a “stock in trade.” His devotion is transcendent: “Don’t let . . . even your personal life interfere with your work.”
What sort of materialistic distortion
5
• This is the n Manhattan” Ethan.
Variation of the widespread collar—rounded points make it extra sharp. Size-Fixt (average fabric residual shrinkage 1% or less).
Materialistic Distortion?
Editor:
The interview, “Your Future — As a Salesman” (Scholastic, Nov. 18), is probably not the complete picture of Mr. Robert Romaker’s sense of values, and I hope the article reflects the attitude neither of the Scholastic nor of the university. However, when taken simply as it stands, it puts Notre Dame in a mighty dim Christian light.
* Dec. 16, 1949
CAMPUS FAVORITE
THE MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY
Copr. 1949, The Manhattan Shirt Co.
3
is this? If Notre Dame graduates, past and future, follow this advice and assume this attitude, then they might well have gone to a scientific finishing school.
In an editorial appearing in this same issue you say that “Notre Dame is in the public eye perhaps more than any other Catholic institution in the country/’ For reasons sometimes seasonal and sometimes sensible, this is probably true. Let’s hope that public eye doesn’t take too close a look at this article, nor draw too many conclusions from it.
Terry Dooley St. John’s University,
We believe Mr. Laivton means that a salesman should be prepared to work at any time and that it isrit an eighthour day or five-day week. Later on he says honesty and character are necessities.—Editor.
A Missing Hat
Editor:
Last night in conjunction with the celebration of the arrival of the team from Dallas, a group of juvenile hoodlums representing themselves as (choke!) “Notre Dame men” paraded through the Blarney Room of the Oliver Hotel. To this I have no complaints, but in the process one of these fine young “Christian gentlemen” lifted my hat from a rack. If this poor soul has no hat and no means of purchasing one in the ■ accepted manner, let him keep it.
If this is not the case I hope he fails all of his semester exams.
John T. Doyle, ’48 South Bend
Rebuttal
Editor:
If the only way that Jim Marheine, Head Cheerleader, can reply to a perfectly justifiable criticism is to deride and ridicule one who is apparently trying to bolster the current “spirit of Notre Dame,” he merely further demonstrates his incompetence, and ought to hang up his pen along with his megaphone.
Mike Tarr 102 Dillon
Smoking on Stage
Editor:
Tom Mitchell’s letter re smoking on the stage gave food for thought to many of us who missed the “International Relations” address.
Far from being critical of the smoking habit, Tom approves of it to the extent of being a smoker himself. Your editorial comment missed the point of the letter. The criticism was not about
4
smoking, but rather it called attention to a University regulation as to time and place, when and where smoking is prohibited, to wit, classrooms, hall chapels, lecture platforms, etc.
Jack Murphy 113 Zahm
An Apt Name
Editor:
The following quote is taken from your Entertainment column of Dec. 2:
DALLAS—The you-allers of Southern Methodist, suh, will learn a lesson in midwestern style football.
But, as Aristotle proved, the pupil is sometimes greater than the teacher, or then maybe midwestern style football is not as invincible as some would have us think. In any case, let’s thank our lucky stars we were playing the fifthplace team in the Southwest Conference and not one of the top four.
A. SchMU
Correction, Please
Editor:
In your article “Knocking Around the Halls” you state that in the Volleyball contest, “Dillon has set the pace.”
I would like to correct this statement. It is the AIEE (American Institute of Electrical Engineers) that is setting the pace.
Dillon happens to be the hall where the manager, Sam Samarie, resides. Mr. Maxwell has been corrected in this regard and I would like to see credit given to the organization which deserves it by the Scholastic.
Richard F. Hahn 428 Howard	'
Plaudits for WND
Editor:
If the Scholastic is a channel for the students’ peeves and plaudits, let me congratulate the university radio station, WND, for their special Christmas
Masses for Dec. 17 Through Dec. 20
Saturday, Dec. 17.—Simple—Violet—Ember Saturday; 2nd Coll. Blessed Virgin, 3rd Church or Pope; Common Preface. Day of Fast and Abstinence.
Sunday, Dec. 18—Semi-double—Violet—IV Sunday of Advent; 2nd Coll. Blessed Virgin, 3rd Church or Pope; Creed; Preface of Trinity.
Monday, Dec. 19—Simple—Violet—Mass of the previous Sunday; 2nd coll.
Blessed Virgin, 3rd Faithful Departed, 4th Church or Pope; Common Preface.
Tuesday, Dec. 20—Simple—Violet—Vigil of St. Thomas the Apostle; 2nd Coll, of the Sunday, 3rd Blessed Virgin; Common Preface. NOTE—
Missa Recitata in Sorin Hall every morning, 7:00 o’clock. .
Compline and Vespers—Dillon Hall daily, 5:30 p. m.
Vespers—Howard Hall daily, 5:30 p. m.
Compline—Walsh Hall, 11:00 p. m.
broadcast of Handel’s oratorio, The Messiah, this coming Sunday evening.
Joseph Acey
317 Dillon Hall
A Southern Bouquet
Editor:
This is, quite unabashedly, a fan letter. I want to let you know we think your newsmagazine absolutely tops. It’s undoubtedly the most original approach to college news gathering and dissemination we have ever seen.
I bless the day our exchange editor arranged to trade issues of our paper with you. I read the Scholastic religiously, every week, and was probably no less concerned over the absence of an issue week before last than students up there.
Here’s wishing continued success with your very excellent publication. By &1 the way, we’re sorry to note you (all) are having bad weather up there. This season, for once, we can actually live by that rather dangerous phrase, “the sunny South.”
Yours very truly,
Albin Krebs, Managing Editor The Mississippian University, Mississippi
Scrutinizing Frosh
Editor:	MT
We agree with everyone that the . football issue of the Scholastic is terrific. The individual write-ups of the players is an exceptionally fine treat to us Freshmen and the general pictorial layout of the issue is fine. However, we have detected several inaccuracies: in one of the sketches, in one of the action shots, and in one of the statistical columns.
On page 9 in the illustration of “The Notre Dame Spirit” a player wearing' number nine, who we feel sure is Bob (Continued on Page 32)
The Scholastic
'the week
by flack McGoldrick. =
Top of the Week
Only four more days and we go home for Christmas.
Roll Call
The new student directory is out and on sale at the bookstore for two bits a copy. Everybody is listed alphabetically, and data is given on each student’s campus address, home address, class rating, etc. It’s a handy thing to have around (paid adv.), and aw is possibly one of the best literary productions that has appeared on the campus all semester.
Rumor has it that student directories in the past have been helpful to traveling students, especially in the summer. Some lads have been known to hitchhike from Ohio to Arizona, bumming meals and lodging from classmates en route.
Out of deference to this group, we hear that next year’s directory -will inelude more detailed information. Along with each home address, it will feature details on accommodations, Duncan Hines rating, number of cars and daughters in the family, and types of food served.
This is just a rumor, of course, and is not to be taken as a warning by stu-
dents who live along main highways.
Scholastic Fiction
This is a little story about an incident which may or may not have happened. Due to our inability to check for its verification, we won’t mention any names, but just print it for what it’s worth:
One Sunday morning, in the very recent past, a rector of a certain hall returned to his residence. Feeling very contented after a large breakfast, he unwrapped a cigar, placed it in his _ mouth, and began to check the rooms * to make sure that everyone knew it was Sunday, and was up in time for Mass. In the first room he came to, there lived one Joe X, who had risen early, been to church, and returned to eagerly read the World’s Greatest Newspaper. When the Reverend Father opened the door, Joe was deeply engrossed in Dick Tracy, and didn’t pay too much attention when a voice said, “Go to Mass, Joe?” Looking up and seeing the rector with an unlighted
cigai- in his mouth, Joe presumed the question had been “Got a match, Joe?” so he merely said “no, Father” and returned to Tracy.
At this, the padre checked his watch, saw that it was 11:30, and asked, “Well, when are you going?” Joe caught the first few words, and figured that the good father wanted to know when he was leaving for Christmas vacation. Without looking up, he replied, “Oh, about 4 o’clock Tuesday afternoon.”
There’s more to this story, but we’ll leave the rest up to your imagination.
Season’s Greetings
While we’re on the subject of Christmas, we might mention the fact that, to our knowledge, The Rumor has not yet appeared. The Rumor is the one that starts every December, rain or snow, in the library, in the Rock, in Badin Bog, as one student whispers to another — “Did you hear we’re getting off three days early?” The reply is usually “Yeah, I heard they were tacking the between semester holidays onto Christmas vacation.” Sometimes there’s a variation, like “the paid-up members of the California club get to leave on
GET SET FOR
HOLIDAY FUN
FREE TRIAL LESSON — Phone or Come In.
George and Alice Davis
Phone 3-8229
106 W. Monroe at Michigan
TLLIOS
NORTHERN INDIANA’S LARGEST DANCE STUDIO
LEARN TO DANCE THE GEORGE DAVIS WAY.
NEW 2 FOR 1 RATES NOW IN EFFECT TWO CAN LEARN TO DANCE AND SAVE 50%.
Friday,” or “school won’t open until Jan. 15 because of the coal shortage.”
We haven’t heard The Rumor yet, and at this late date, it doesn’t seem probable that we will. But, rumor or no rumor, Xmas vacation starts next week, and the WEEK would like to take this opportunity to say to the mailman, the maid, the roommate, floor prefect, rector, associate editors, censor, prqfs, correctors, the bus driver on the 11:45, Gene Autry, Rudolph, and anybody else we forgot — Merry Christmas (New Year’s will take care of itself).
There is a Santa Claus
In the past, it has been traditional for the WEEK to write a letter to Santa Claus. This year, due to a heavyoutside reading program, we won’t have time to dispatch a personal note to the North Pole, but if Santa (who is an . avid WEEK fan) gets hold of this issue, we’d like to ask him here for a few small favors. Santa, if you could, there are a few seniors who would like to have the ethics final by Jan. 15; Ed Hudak would like a new roommate; Parker-Winterrowd would like to catch up with the payments on a few suits, and Jack O’Donnell would like a stuffed goat-head to mount on the wall of his single. For ourself, Santa, all we ask is a schedule without 8 o’clock classes, and enough anecdotes to keep this column filled until June.
Bottom of the Week
Only 18 more days and we’re back again.
9
Dec. 16, 1949
5
Entertainment
DECEMBER 16
COLFAX (through Dec. 21)—The first book of Galsworthy’s Forsyte Saga is brought to the screen by MGM in their lush production entitled That Forsyte Woman (Legion of Decency Rating B). Filmed in technicolor, the settings and costumes almost steal the show from the tear-jerking story. The large cast is headed by Greer Garson, Walter Pidgeon, Errol Flynn, Robert Young and Janet Leigh.
DECEMBER 17
AVON (through Dec. 24)—Farley Granger and Cathy O’Donnell star in They Live by Night (B), the much-praised sleeper of the year. Done on a modest budget, it is a fine story of two young people, fugitives from the law, and their efforts to live a normal life.
DECEMBER 18
GRANADA (through Dec. 24)—Two top pictures return on the reissue circuit: Holiday Inn and Lady Eve. The first is that musical which stars Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire and features the song White Christmas. The second re-run is Preston Sturges’ farce with Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda in the stellar roles.
STATE (through Dec. 21)—One of the finest, if not the finest picture about the South Seas is Hurricane. Dorothy Lamour, Jon Hall, Mary Astor and Raymond Massey are featured. Some of the storm shots are unforgettable.

WASHINGTON HALL—The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, presents its annual campus Christmas concert. Seasonal carols and old favorites will be featured by the much-travelled and highly touted songsters.
DECEMBER 20
CHRISTMAS VACATION—The holidays officially start at 5 p.m. but many will be headed home long before that. Those who have thriftily saved their cuts will have gone on Saturday. Those without Tuesday afternoon classes will have flown the coop soon after noon. This year planes will play a big part in transporting the lads throughout the country.
Many geographical clubs have parties rigged up. Among them are the Chicago, Erie, Toledo, Detroit, Iowa, Central Illinois, Nebraska and Met Clubs.
The two weeks will be jammed with fun, late hours, more fun and more late hours. Then with bags both in hand and under eyes, the legions will troop back to balmy South Bend. Only 13 weeks to go until Easter!
SOUTH BEND'S MOST SANITARY BARBER SHOP
Shives Barber Shop
221 S. Main St. South Bend, Ind.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Enjoy MORE Days at Home Christmas!
Turner Airlines
4 FLIGHTS DAILY
FROM SOUTH BEND
Southbound 10:00 A. M. 4:30 P. M.
TO
KOKOMO INDIANAPOLIS
Northbound 8:04 A. M. 2:34 P. M.
TO
KALAMAZOO GRAND RAPIDS
For Reservations and Information Call 2-9597
FOR SALE — TUXEDO
Size 38, double breasted, good condition. Worn twice.
Reasonably Priced
Phone 3-3572
JANUARY 1
COLFAX (through Jan. 6)—Bob Hope is up to his oldi merry-making in The Great Lover (A-2). With Rhonda Fleming playing opposite him, old ski-nose overcomes the weak script to be entertaining as ever.
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 December 16, 1949 No. 12
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101. October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR WALTON R. COLLINS News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI._______Assistant News A. J, S CRIB A__________Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT Sports
WILLIAM RILEY._________Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN.________Photography
LEON GARDNER________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER___________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO____________Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY______________Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.

COVER: Once each year Our Lady’s Chapel in the Sacred Heart Church is / A converted into a beautiful panorama of the Nativity. As Christmas approaches the Scholastic would like to take the opportunity to wish all its readers very holy and happy holidays.
Within four days the campus will i be deserted as the student body heads for home. We hope that the two weeks , vacation will be rewarding in every re-■ spect and that the most glorious feast of the Christian calendar will be re-! membered and kept in the true spirit I of Our Lord.—Photo by Hal Munger. ♦
1 Dec. 16, 1949
From the Editor’s Desk..
Halfway Through a Century
This issue of the Scholastic marks the end of the first half of this century. These past fifty years have been momentous ones—and for us, in particular, so have the past ten.
Most of us were in the early grades of high school when ’39 became ’40. What are the things we remember of the ’30s? The Depression? Hardly, since few of us were old enough to know it even existed. Some things, though, we do recall. For instance, the World’s Fair. Countries from all over the world erected buildings there, trying to assume a false mask of peace. The education and exhibit part of the fair grounds were unusually vacant in comparison to the tawdry entertainment, loop area. The Fair was, indeed, a fine way to end a decade of sham.
Then the war broke out and spread like a lighted cellophane wrapper. To hear people talk, no one was outside of their homes, away from their radios on that fateful day in December, 1941. Soon after our brothers began to enlist or were drafted. There were the big send-offs at the depot with bunting, speeches, gifts, and music by the high school band. It was all such fun.
A few months later the telegrams started to arrive. Gold stars were seen in windows. A few still at Notre Dame took part in the fighting. Others were spared, but were sent overseas after the war. The land was quiet by then. But entire cities lay prostrate, roads were blocked with tons of rubble. Weeds were growing pathetically in the ruins and in the Summer you could smell the stench of those who were buried in their homes.
Peace did come, a victorious one. Then even before the celebrating had stopped another war broke out; only this time it was a cold one. The past ten years have been called the disastrous decade . . . true, but think, aren’t there many things for which we should be thankful.
We have our parents. They’ve sacrificed for us. They’re putting us through college, a privilege many of them were denied. We have our health. We have friends; it would be hard to find finer ones. But transcending everything else— we have our religion.
With the season of the Nativity upon us we become even more aware of this blessing. We are watched over always by Our Lord and Our Lady. It is only right, therefore, that we should offer prayers of thanksgiving; every week, every day, every hour.
As we prepare to enter into the second half of this twentieth century, it would be well for us to look into the future. There will be many joys, many sorrows for us all. But we should remember that we are all Children of God. And as such we should pray for our salvation. With that in mind, nothing can hinder our mortal life. Come bad days, come good days . . . the final one is the one that counts.
7
TO

GIVE DAD ARROWS FOR XMAS
(AND YOU'LL BE SURE TO PLEASE HIM!)
Suggestion I—A box of fine, long wearing Arrow shirts in Dad's favorite collar style. A white, a solid color and a stripe! $3.65 up.
Suggestion 4—For outdoor Dads, a couple of rugged and handsome Arrow sports shirts will hit the spot. $3.95 - $10.
Suggestion 3—A box of Arrow's man-sized handkerchiefs, colored borders, whites, or with Dad's initials. 35c up
Before the vacation rush begins, see your Arrow dealer for some grand Christmas gift suggestions for Dad, rich Uncle George, or the kid brother.
You'll be sure to please them with "Arrow" giftsgifts any man appreciates.
Suggestion 2—Be choosy and pick out a few good looking Arrow ties—a rep stripe, a foulard, a polka dot, and a bold panel. $1 - $3.50.
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
TOWUW
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
£ VOLUME 91, NUMBER 12
DECEMBER 16, 1949
Eager Students Await Council Plans 1950 Mardi Gras Carnival;
Christmas Evacuation Prizes Include Buick Riviera. Chevrolet
There’ll probably not be any sleighbells ringing around the campus for the next few days, but the traditional tinkle and clang will be replaced by the roar of engines as Notre Dame men take off for the Christmas vacation.
This year many of the students will really “take off’ since many air line companies have arranged special holiday flights for homeward bound, book-weary students.
The other travelers will rely on railroads, special busses, and “the thumb” to take them away from the Golden Dome and back to friends, relatives, and all that goes with the Yuletide celebrations in every part of the (J country.
The Christmas vacation for the University officially begins after the student’s last class on Tuesday but this year as always many NDers will leave early because they saved their “cuts” during the semester. Those triple “cuts” inflicted for absence from class two days prior and after the official vacation time are too big an obstacle in a lot of students’ eager desire to get home.
The two week lay-off from dining hall meals and 11 o’clock lights is just about the best Christmas present Notre Dame men will receive, but there are plenty of hometown get-togethers and dances to bring them together during the vacation.
Probably the largest dance sponsored by geographical clubs at ND will be the Met Club Christmas formal on Dec. 26. The Met men and their dates will _ dance to the music of Harry Arnold ® in the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in Manhattan. The affair will last from 9 to 2 and the bids are priced at §6.00 a couple.
Not far from Gotham, the New Jersey Club will hold their Christmas dance in the Elizabeth Carteret Hotel from 9 to 1 on Dec. 28. With tickets for this dance selling at §4.80 per couple, many ND men from the East will have a chance to really dance their (Continued on Page 32)
® Dec. 16, 1949
By DON CARBONE
Two very lucky lads will launch Lent in fashionable form, and with flashy flivvers to match.
A Buick “Riviera” and a Chevrolet convertible have been chosen as prizes in the annual Mardi Gras Carnival, sponsored by the Student Council through the Notre Dame branch of the National Federation of Catholic College Students.
The person possessing the winning ticket will receive the Buick, while the Chevrolet will be presented to the student selling that ticket. Both cars are 1950 models and will be placed on display some time in January. The “Riviera” is a steel-top, convertible-style sedan in dark blue and gray; the Chewy
Jim Garvin, chairman of the student relief drive, stands beside the Buick Riviera which will be awarded to the winning ticket holder at the Mardi Gras Carnival.
convertible will be green with a black hood.
Today, in time for the holidays, hall councilmen are distributing to each student two five-dollar books, each containing 20 chances. Donation is 25 cents per ticket. Extra books may be procured in the basement of the Dining Hall.
A football autographed by our National Championship team will be awarded to the student who sells the greatest number of tickets. The next nine best salesmen will receive Notre Dame blankets.
The drawing for the car will climax the celebration at the Mardi Gras Car-(Continued on Page 32)
9
January Senior Ball committee talks over plans for the dance to be held at the Palais Royale. Left to right: Gerry Begley, Jim Heaney, John McShane, Jack Connor, Tom Farley, Matty Romano, Bill Kennedy, Jim Slattery and Hugh Mulligan.
Beginning of END Set For Engineers' Ball
Representatives of the campus engineering clubs have selected Feb. 3, 1950 as the date for the second annual Engineers’ Ball since the war. During the past two weeks posters asking “Are you preparing for: The Beginning of the END?” have been sighted on various bulletin boards. The Beginning of Engineering at Notre Dame (END) — 1897 — has been chosen as the theme for this year’s dance.
Decorations will be carried out in the “Gay Nineties” motif. Ball co-chairmen, Vai Reisig and Gerry Griesmer, have announced that the ball will be formal and open to all Engineers (freshmen included)—but open to engineers only. As a result of a poll conducted of the engineering students, the Palais Royale will be the site of the dance. Car permissions and 2 o’clock permissions wall be extended to the Ball-goers.
The Engineers’ Ball will be the first formal dance open to the freshmen. The arrangements committee, under Bill Gordon, promises to supply the engineers with the best danceable music possible while still keeping the price of bids at a minimum. Tickets go on sale immediately after Christmas.
Committees formed include: Tickets
10
— Bill Eggers, Bill Pierson, Jim Drennan, Joe Gerardi; Publicity — Lee Brown, Neil MacKay, Joe Eger; Programs—Ed Hughes, Ray Gans, Bernie Dwyer; Arrangements — Bill Gordon, Dick Klee, Vince Post; Decorations— Vince De Crane, Joe Nemeth, Bob Molloy, Nick Pagoria; Entertainment— Bob Hockman and Don Zwerski.
Farley Freshmen Give Aid .. To Needy in Foreign Lands
The men of Farley Hall this week donated ovei- $120, their- quota, in a drive to aid a Philippine parish and a community of French nuns. This amount represents an average of better than 50 cents from each freshman that contributed.
All receipts from the Farley Hall council’s Christmas Fund Drive are being sent abroad to aid in reconstruction of a devastated Philippine church and a nursing sisters’ convent destroyed during the British evacuation of Dunkirk.
At 8 o’clock tonight John Wise, Farley Hall president, will formally present a check for the entire amount to Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., prefect of Religion, who will divide it between the beneficiaries.
The straight collection was directed by Tom Field, Ed Duggan and John Roy.
January Graduates	|
Finish Dance Plans	|
Final arrangements set the January Graduates’ Ball for the Palais Royale | Ballroom Friday, Jan. 27, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.	5
The ball is especially for the January f graduates, who number approximately 380. But it is open to all seniors. JI
Bids to the ball are priced at $3.60 and will go on sale after the Christmas vacation. Gene Hull and his orchestra j will provide the music at the dance. ?
Co-chairmen John Connor and ? Thomas Farley announced the chair- = men of the committees this week. James Heaney and James Slattery will make the arrangements. The ballroom will be decorated under the direction -of Gerald Begley. Bids will be han-died by William Kennedy and programs by Hugh Mulligan. John McShane is j in charge of reservations, Joseph Ar- g chibald, publicity, and Matt Romano is g business manager.	t
Annual Communion Sunday F Observed Throughout U. S.
More than 20,000 alumni and former J students of the University participated in the 12th annual Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday in principal cities all over the United States last week.
Members of nearly 100 Notre Dame alumni clubs throughout the nation traditionally attend mass in a group and receive Holy Communion on Universal Communion Sunday. Communion breakfasts followed in many cities.
Theme of the 12th annual Universal Sunday was “Religion and Science,” in observance of the part which religion -should play in science. At many Notre -Dame club observances, scientists and j other members of the faculty served | as speakers at the Communion break-	i
fasts.	;
Electrical Utility Jobs Open for Able Engineers
The Rural Electrification Administration has announced job openings for qualified engineers with experience in any of several branches of the electrical utility industry.
These positions are open because the rural electrification program of the REA is progressing at a faster rate than ever before. The salaries for these j’obs, which are available both in the field and in Washington, range from $4600 to $5400 per year. Inquiries should be directed to Personnel Division, REA, USDA, Washington 25, D.C.
The Scholastic
Catholic U. Players Present Campus Hit
By KEN THOREN
Washington Hall harbored an unqualified hit last week when the Catholic University Players set up shop for three performances of Shakespeare’s Much Ado About Nothing. The production was bright, the play was hilarious and the acting was sprite. In all, it was a merry romp.
Much Ado is far from being one of Shakespeare’s top comedies. It does, however, contain some wonderfully funny quips, some good, fat parts, and some whimsical situations.
Like all of the master’s comedies, the plot becomes greatly entwined as it progresses. Beatrice, a real sister to the Shrew’s Katherine, is a misan-thorpe, at least where the dashing Benedick is concerned. The hero, a gesturing buffoon who might be described today as being a bag-of-wind, but, nonetheless, likeable, is a misogynist, at least where beautiful Beatrice is concerned.
Catholic University Players' production of Shakespeare's 'Much Ado About Nothing' reaches a serio-comic climax as Claudio falsely accuses Hero of being unfaithful.
After Hero and Claudio have been granted the right to marry, they take (J pains to bring Bea and Ben together. Many amusing incidents have been peppered in the path of true love, but by the final curtain all the strings have been as snugly tied as if it were a soap opera.
The Catholic University Players acted the farce with great relish. And the players were all first rate. Teddy Marie Kinsey and Bill Callahan essayed the leading roles perfectly. Miss Kinsey ® was the antithesis of spirit, fire. The others in the cast offered fine support.
Walter Kerr’s astute pruning of the script helped the play’s fluid pace. The costumes, especially Dogberry’s, were giddily nonsensical and were designed by Tom Bohen.
If Much Ado is any criterion of what the Catholic University Players can do, then let’s hope the Concert and Lecture Series ■will invite them back soon. Washington Hall could do with more spoofing; the kind which Shakespeare and his youthful devotees presented last week.
Nutmegers Plan Gathering
Naugatuck Valley Club plans for a gathering at Wrights’ Night Club on the Plainville road have been announced. Anyone interested in attending the affair is urged to contact Paul Fitzgerald at 138 Alumni Hall.
® Dec. 16, 1949
Pilgrimage Features Audience With Pope
Highlight of the Holy Year pilgrimage to Rome for Notre Dame students will be an audience with His Holiness, Pope Pius XII. The 30-day tour of Europe will begin some time in early June, and will include Fatima, Italy, Lourdes, and Paris. -
Cost per person is §750. This includes round trip by special planes, rail transportation to and from the various sites, three meals a day, hotel accommodations (two persons to a room), sightseeing tours, and such expenses as tips, taxes, and baggage fees. Not included are passport and excess-baggage fees, beverages other than at meals, and personal items such as laundry, souvenirs, incidentals, and communication.
The itinerary of the tour, conducted by World Travel Service, Inc., begins with the special flight to Lisbon from New York. After a visit to the shrine of Our Lady at Fatima, the group moves on to Rome for seven days. There they tour- Rome and the Vatican, participate in ceremonies at St. Peter’s, and on the sixth day of the tour, visit the Pope.
From Rome the entourage journeys to Naples for three days, seeing the city, nearby shrines, Pompeii, and the Blue Grotto on the Isle of Capri. The
next 11 days are spent in Florence, Venice and Milan.
Then the party entrains for Paris and a five-day stay. After a day at Lourdes, they return to Paris, board their plane, and are homeward bound, arriving in New York on the 31st day.
Since the scheduled sightseeing jaunts take only a portion of their time, the travelers will be at leisure and liberty quite often.
Complete details, including the exact date of the pilgrimage, will be announced later. Applications can be made with and further information obtained from the Prefects of Religion.
Two ND June Grads Killed, Two Hurt in Car Accident
Two men who graduated from Notre Dame last June were killed and two others were injured in an automobile accident in Washington, D. C., early last Saturday.
Those dead are James C. Harding, Jr., 23, of Washington, who was a law student at the University of Pennsylvania, and George T. Giragi, 21, of Washington, and originally from Holbrook, Ariz. Injured in the accident was Joseph T. Maloney, 21, of Trenton, N. J., who was a law student at Georgetown University. Also injured was Frank Finn, of Denison, Texas, who was president of the University debating team while a student here.
11
Third Natural Law Institute Proceedings Draw 600 Prominent Jurists, Lawyers, Educators
By JACK POWERS
The importance of a universally understood and accepted natural law was the underlying theme of the third Natural Law Institute, held last Friday and Saturday in the College of Law. Over 600 jurists, lawyers, educators and students attended the sessions which were opened by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University.
At the first session, Father Cavanaugh read to the Institute a blessing received from Pope Pius XII. The opening address was given by the Hon. Richard O’Sullivan, former king’s counsel of Great Britain. Mr. 0 Sullivan defined the natural law as the law of God as recognized by human reason. He stated that the lawyers and law schools of the United States have a heavy responsibility “. . . to elucidate the philosophy and theology of law, which is their highest inheritance.”
The London jurist went on to praise Notre Dame for her steps in seeking a statement of the fundamentals of law and justice. Professor Edward S. Corwin of Princeton University, addressed Friday night’s session on the importance of natural law to constitutional law. Our constitutional freedoms, he said, are offsprings of the natural law.
“A society which does not concede that its members have rights which it did not create, and could not have created, is a herd, ready to receive any tyranny,” Professor Corwin emphasized. These natural rights must be supported by an organized society.
General Carlos P. Romulo, president of the United Nations general assembly, was scheduled to give the keynote address. The pressing duties of the assembly’s final sessions, however, prevented him from attending. General Romulo’s address was entitled “Natural Law and International Law” and was read to the Institute by Professor Edward I. Barrett of the College of Law.
“. . . the most important lesson which the work of the United Nations has taught us is the realization that we cannot have lasting peace in the world,” Romulo declared, “until we have established a system of just law which shall be universally accepted and applied.”
General Romulo explained that by a just law he meant a law based on reason and deriving its ultimate sanction from God. He rejected as false that law which recognizes the state as the final authority. This theory has led to regimentation, tyranny and class war, he charged.
“We live in an age permeated with the spirit of secularism,” the Philippines statesman said, “and it is not often that we find even the leaders of Christian states publicly professing their faith in the moral principles upon which the structure of the peace we are trying to build must rest.” He expressed hope that the United Nations will continue its tendency to make the international law conform to the tenets of natural law.
Professor Stephen Kuttner, of the Catholic University of America, gave
the final address of the Institute. His subject was: “The Natural Law and Canon Law.” He stated that the canon law has given us our western foundation for the principles of criminal justice. The greatest contribution of canon law to the doctrine of natural law is, he demonstrated, “To have shown that the natural created order of right reason persists within the unique framework of society.”
Duiing the first session, the Natural Law Institute plaque was unveiled by Mi. 0 Sullivan. The plaque was given to the University by Alvin A. Gould, of Cincinnati, who sponsored the institute. Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law announced at the final session that Mr. Gould will also sponsor the 1950 institute.
NROTC +o Present Fourth Annual Ball
“King Neptune’s Court” will be the theme of the fourth annual Navy Ball to be held in the University Drill Hall on Jan. 13 from 9 to 12:30 p.m.
Co-chairmen Jack Courtney and John Terry, senior members of the ND Naval ROTC unit, have announced that members of the Air Force ROTC have been invited to attend the dance.
Miss Jo Anne Murray, of Youngs-town, Ohio, a junior at St. Mary’s, will share the queen of the ball title with Miss Mary Ann Holter, of Columbus, Ohio, also a junior at St. Mary’s.
The co-chairmen will be assisted by the following committee heads: Phil Doney, decorations; Charlie Mauch, transportation; John Thornton, date bureau; Ed Sullivan and Jack O’Brien, tickets; Jim Schmidt, orchestra; Jack Donahue, publicity.
Dean Manion, Prof. Corwin, Father Kenna, Alvin A. Gould and Richard O'Sullivan watch unveiling of new Institute plaque.
Prof. Kuttner (left), Mr. O'Sullivan (center) and another Institute guest hear proceedings from the Law Auditorium stage.
12
The Scholastic
University of Salzburg Offers Classes To Coincide With Summer Music Festival
By JACK POWERS
“University courses in English, lasting five weeks, will be held at the Catholic University of Salzburg, Austria, in the summer of 1950, at the time of the great Music Festival,” Rev. Thomas A. Michels, O.S.B., professoi-at Salzburg, announced during a visit to Notre Dame last Tuesday.
Father Michels is in the United States recruiting students for the 1950 Summer session. The courses will be accepted at Notre Dame as regularcredit, if the required attendance and lecture stipulations are met. Next summer’s session will cover the last two weeks of July and the first three weeks of August. A trip to Rome at the end of the session is being planned for those who wish to go.
Started in 1931
Salzburg has conducted international Summer courses since 1931. Closed by the Nazis in 1938, they were re-established in 1946. In the past, the sessions proved a meeting ground for Catholic intellectuals from all over Europe, including such men as Jacques ™ Maritain and Etienne Gilson. During the past two years, Professors Dietrich von Hildebrand and Waldemar Gurian of Notre Dame have been among those who taught at Salzburg.
Proposed courses for the 1950 meeting include social and cultural histories of the United States and of Europe, histories of art, music and liturgy, philosophy, archeology and the appreciation a and social implications of natural science. The world famous Salzburg Music Festival will be taking place at the same time.
Cost Between $700-8800
Although the exact curriculum and program will not be announced until January, Father Michels said that the approximate cost of the trip will be between $700-$800. This will include passage, travel in Europe, room and board, and the trip to Rome. Passage will be by ship and the final bookings will be announced in April. Lodging during the session will be in private homes and religious institutions.
In explaining the arrangements for the 1950 session, Father Michels stated that American support is urgently needed to put the international meetings back on secure footing. “We live in the American zone, close to the Iron Curtain,” he pointed out; “Salzburg is one of the last fortresses of western
culture and Christian civilization in central Europe.”
Besides the support necessary, the meetings will bring Americans into closer cooperation with Europe, intellectually and spiritually. “Only the united forces of Christianity can withstand the onslaught of Eastern ideologies,” warned Father Michels.
Wrote Against Nazis
The Austrian professor was born in Krefield on the Lower- Rhine, and became a Benedictine monk at the famous Abbey of Maria-Laach. He has studied at Rome, Bonn, Breslau, and Muenster. He joined the faculty at Salzburg in 1928, as professor of liturgy. Having written against the Nazis, he fled to the United States following the German coup in 1938.
He remained here until 1947. During his stay in America he taught at St. Michael’s College in Vermont, Man-hattanville College of the Sacred Heart, and Notre Dame. For five years, he served as Prior of St. Paul’s Benedictine Priory in New Jersey. He resumed his professorship at Salzburg upon his return in 1947. Fathei-Michels is also one of the directors of the international Catholic Summer sessions at Salzburg.
The aging Austrian priest intends to remain in the United States until the end of January. He will try and contact as many American students as possible in that time. “I have hopes,” he concluded, “for a great deal of active American participation in the 1950 session.”
Registration details, curricula, and travel arrangements will be announced in January, following the NFCCS conference in Cleveland.
New Yorkers Hold Breakfast
The Met Club held its first Communion Breakfast of the year last Sunday morning. More than 100 members attended the Mass in Alumni Chapel. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president, and chaplain of the New York club, celebrated Mass.
The contingent then went to the Hotel LaSalle’s Bronzewood Room for breakfast. Mr. John Broderick, assistant dean of the school of law, delivered a talk. He explained the necessity for a firm defense of Christianity against the evils of Communism.
Joe Moschella, chairman of the Met Club’s Christmas dance gave a report on the progress of the ticket sales and again urged the “hearty cooperation of all members in making the affair a success.”
Council Warns Clubs; Accepts Palais Bid
President Bill Kirchner opened the Student Council meeting Monday night with a warning that only 47 of the 115 clubs on campus have registered for a renewal of their charters. According to regulations, Kirchner added, those 47 are the only organizations en-
Kelley and Yanics
titled at present to use University property for their meetings.
The Social Committee, headed by Verne Kelley, reported on the contract of the projected Spring dances downtown. Ray Yanics, a member of the committee, read the contract which provides for three dances next Semester and a renewal of the document in 1951. Yanics explained that the affairs will be held only on Feb. 4 and 11 and May 6 because of previous commitments of the Palais and the already-full schedule of social events arranged by the various classes and clubs on campus. The council voted to accept the report.
Ed Farrell of the Blue Circle presented the names of 15 nominees to the honor society and asked the Council to elect 11 to replace members lost by graduation. The Council chose Frank Crovo, John Broderick, John Maher,. John Harrington, Bernard Lavins, Joseph Conlon, William Sahin, William Carey, Edward Noonan, John Shanley and Peter Cassidy.
3 Dec. 16, 1949
13
Five Veterans' Wives Add Comedy Charm
The University Theater presented Holiday, a light comedy by Philip Barry, as its second production of the semester in Washington Hall Dec. 12, 13, 14 and 15. Five Vetville wives in the feminine parts added their beauty and charm to the efforts of the Notre Dame men.
Mary Roach, as Linda Seton, and JoAnn Smith, as Julia Seton, shared the feminine leads, and vied for the love of James Maher, a senior journalism major, as Johnny Case, a young rags-to-riches lawyer.
Others in the cast included Lawrence McDermott as Edward Seton, the pompous father, James Beymer as Ned Seton, a young alcoholic, dissatisfied with his life of ease and luxury, Leo Blaber and Eleanor Thompson as Nick and Susan Potter, friends of Linda, Frank Malzone and Jane Marqueling as Seton and Laura Cram, stuffy socialites, Charles McCauley as Henry, the butler, Walter Werner as Charles, a young man-servant, and Avalon Vogan as Delia, the maid.
The play, billed as a light comedy, was just that, and a very enjoyable one. The plot was fast-moving and interesting, and full of satirical humor about the plight of the rich.
The story concerned a young lawyer, Johnny Case, who fell in love, or thought he did, with Julia Seton, of the Park Avenue Setons, who measured character by the size of the bank
account. Johnny wasn’t too concerned about his bank account, however, and decided he wanted to learn how to live happily. He found that he was much happier with Linda Seton, a happy-go-lucky young lady, whose sentiments coincided with his own. Linda realized that she loved JoKnny, but would not hurt her sister. The climax was reached when Johnny realized he could never be happy living for just a bank account, and he left.
But the inevitable happy ending comes when Linda realized that Julia did not want him back, and that she could have Johnny without hurting her sister. The play ended as she rushed to catch the ship to Europe with Johnny.—Bob Finney
Science Fund Donations Hit New High for 1949
Another record month for the Notre Dame Foundation’s Science Fund!
During the month of November the Foundation received contributions totalling $167,618, a record for 1949. Of this amount $100,000 was a single gift, donated by an alumnus who prefers to remain incognito.
Up through October contributions this year have averaged $47,854 per month. The $167,618 figure for November dwarfs this average.
The total for 1949 has now reached $646,138. Last year at this time contributions totaled $351,061, which shows a considerable gain for 1949.
Alumni of ND are responsible for
$383,054 of this year’s total while the | remainder, $263,084, has been donated I by friends, other than alumni, of the I University.	|
Part of this, $46,138, is restricted by | donors who ask that their contributions 1 be used for specific purposes. The re- < mainder will be placed in the fund for j the much-needed Science Center. Con- | struction of the center is planned for J this Spring if the present rate of con- < tributions continue.
Gould Foundation Director Discusses Public Relations
In two talks before Notre Dame students recently, William A. Castellini outlined the advance of public relations in the United States and the practical applications of public relations.
Speaking to Notre Dame journalism students, Mr. Castellini told in detail of the various public relations campaigns he has participated in over a period of 25 years. He also discussed the personal qualifications necessary for public relations work.
For students of the College of Commerce Mr. Mastellini analyzed four stages through which public relations has gone in the United States.
Mr. Castellini is vice-president of Dinerman and Co., and executive director- of the Robert Gould foundation. He was at Notre Dame as a representative of Alvin A. Gould, who sponsored the Natural Law Institute held here last week.
Students Swarm Downtown to Welcome Irish Home
Student body, followed by band and team members, parade Band members entertain the crowd that turned out for the down South Bend's main street in demonstration for '49 champs, welcoming home, rally before the gridmen arrived from Chicago, 14	The Scholastic j
I
Colorful Dillon Carnival Swells Rec Room Fund
A crowd surrounds the dart throwing booth at Dillon Hall's Jim Farrell, Bob Joyce and Al Zmijewslci bark their wares for carnival. ^X^ork will start immediately on the new rec room, benefit of new rec room at last week's carnival in Dillon Hall.
There was much merriment deep down in the dungeons of Dillon Hall on the night of Dec. 7, when the inhabitants of that Senior residence hall staged a carnival for the benefit of a proposed Dillon Hall lounge room. The drone of the ever-spinning pin wheels was hardly audible over the shouts of the enthusiastic barkers and the general hum-drum of the milling crowd, composed mostly of Notre Dame students. A few ‘ young ladies mingled among the throngs, adding the feminine charm to the gay, if not elaborate, carnival.
Free cider and doughnuts were served at the doorway and other refreshments
could be purchased. The pin wheel booths, featuring prizes ranging from ND ash trays and charms to such treasured gifts as cakes, pies, cheese and crackers, and bread and bologna, attracted much attention. But the busiest corner of the Dillon basement featured a novel game, in which the participant tried to spoon a golf ball into a barrel 15 yards away. Several students received door prizes and more valuable gifts resulting from donation drives which were conducted by the Dillon Hallers throughout the semester. Super-salesmen of the hall are Dalton O’Sullivan, who sold §50 worth of donations and Verne Kelley and Jim
Heaney, who sold the same amount.
The carnival and the games were all a part of a campaign to raise money for the Dillon Hall lounge room and, according to Father Broestl, Rector of Dillon Hall, and “Moe” Ferriter, chairman of the carnival, enough money has been accumulated to make the lounge room a reality in the near future. Much of the work on the room will be done by the students living in the hall.
Father Broestl wants to have part of the lounge completed when the students return from the Christmas vacation so those men who will graduate in January will be able to study for their finals in the new room.
) ------. . ~ Registration High
For Washington Trip
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, Department of Political Science, announced that the registrations for the trip to Washington, D. C., between semesters are coming in much better than previous years.
He said that “in past years between I 25 and 30 have attended these interesting trips to the Capital. But this year reservations are coming in faster than any other, and it is expected that more will attend.”
As yet, there is no definite closing date on registration for the trip, but Dr. Bartholomew has tentatively set Jan. 18 as the final day.
Members of the touring group will stay at the Lee-Sheraton hotel which
is very close to the Capitol building and is a good central location in Washington.
Dr. Bartholomew has had offers to visit both the French and Spanish embassies. Each of them has set the visiting time at 4 p.m. on Monday, Jan. 30. This is an unfavorable hour, for the train home departs at 5 p.m. that same day. Dr. Bartholomew, is attempting to arrange a more suitable time.
A possible feature of the trip might be a visit to the home of Walter Tro-han, chief of the Chicago Tribune Washington Bureau.
Last year’s journey-people were invited to his home and entertained quite regally. The troupers went to his home at 8 p.m. and left at 3 a.m. and enjoyed his talk as well as refreshments in the interim.
For the past two years some St. Mary’s girls have been enlisted for the trip. This year they will again be represented.
Those who have registered for the trip will be notified, via post card after the Christmas holidays, when they shall pay their trip fares.
Radio Education Class Airs Program on Station WHOT
Station WHOT in South Bend presented a half-hour program this week which was written, cast, produced, and recorded by the ND Audio-Visual class in Radio Education. The program, entitled “Christmas Is Costly,” is the result of a class project. It was aired over station WHOT last Wednesday night.
) Dec. 16, 1949
15
Nightwatchmen Find Work Pleasant, Enjoy Relations With Most Students
By BILL WEIR
The average student thinks nothing could be duller than the life of a nightwatchman, but the watchmen themselves don’t agree.
It’s not that anything exciting happens here—we don’t have many murders and bank robberies—but they find the work agreeably pleasant. If they didn’t, they wouldn’t sit up in a chair from ten o’clock at night to five in the morning. Most of them are retired and have pensions; they don’t need the money.
For one thing the nightwatchman’s job is a good way to meet people. Several of the watchmen know every student in their halls by name. They try to get along with them, too. They don’t, as many new freshmen think, sit around hoping someone will come in late so they can mark it down. Sometimes the job takes a lot of tact: new students often find it hard to get accustomed to the rules and act as if the nightwatchman is purposely trying to hurt them. But they soon learn that he isn’t such a bad guy.	„ .
Two years ago a watchman had to tell a freshman to stop making so much noise. The freshman got mad and threatened to kick the watchman downstairs. The next night though the student came down and apologized for the way he acted. Last year the same student left school to get married, but before he left, he came all the way across the campus to say goodbye to the watchman.
It seems to be a toss-up which students give the most trouble: some watchmen say the freshmen do, because they aren’t used to the rules; others say it’s the seniors, because they get more stubborn as they get older. But all watchmen agree they don’t get much trouble anymore. The students this year are tamer than they were five years ago and completely docile compared to the ones ten years ago.
Besides routine things like coming in late, about the only students the watchman has to look out for now are the ones who try to sneak pets into the building. Sometimes outsiders try to sneak themselves in, too. The watchman has to be on the lookout for people who sign Mahatma Ghandi, 565, on the signin sheet. Where they sleep is one of the local mysteries, but they try it all the time.
The guard at the circle has slightly different problems. The biggest one is people who want to drive up the restricted side road. Sometimes offenders
are students, but mostly they’re visitors. People often drive up and ask if they can drive around and “see” the campus —at two oi- three in the morning when the lights are out. They say they’re just passing through and they’d like to be able to tell the people back home that they’ve seen Notre Dame.
The only trouble the circle watchman has is the students who drive up with their girls and park in the circle, then wake up everybody in Alumni with their singing. There are usually three guards,
Mortimer Adler Speaks
Mortimer Adler
Mortimer Adler highlighted the Concert and Lecture Series for- this year by lecturing in Washington Hall Dec. 2.
He is a nationally-known author and Professor of the Philosophy of Law at the University of Chicago.
one in the circle, one at the entrance and one in the parking lot, on Saturday to stop this.
One watchman in particular likes his work. He was a railroad detective before he came here, and he finds the students are much easier to get along with than hoboes and train burglars he used to deal with.
“Besides,” he adds, “I like to watch how they change. When they first come here, all the rules are new to them, but after they’re here a while they get used to them and start to grow up.”
Notre Dame Debate Team | Enters Pre-Season Meets	f
With their regular season still two j | months away, the Notre Dame Debate | team has already attended two inter- I collegiate debates. On Nov. 18 and 19 f the team participated in an invitational | tournament at Purdue University. Thir- | teen colleges from all over the country were present at the meeting. Representing Notre Dame were Pete and £ Tom Ninneman, Bill Carey and George =-Pea’ce.	j
On Dec. 2 and 3 Notre Dame was 1 represented at a competitive debate held at the University of Iowa. Out of the 18 midwestern colleges participating, the ND affirmative team, con- ■ sisting of Bill Carey and Bill Dempsey, finished second. The team was given a • rating of third in extemporaneous ] speaking, while Bill Carey led the de- | baters to first place in competitive j discussion.	|
I
The debaters are planning an .exhibi- | tion trip to Cincinnati some time be- : fore the regular season begins in -February.	•
North Dakotans to Send e Orphans Christmas Gifts
The infant North Dakota Club will celebrate its first Christmas with a warm feeling in the hearts of all members over the club’s first major project. It was recently decided by club members to carry out some worthwhile project in accord with the Christmas spirit. This project took shape in the form of 15 or 20 gift packages which will be distributed to young orphans in ‘ the Catholic Orphanage, Fargo, N. D.
Funds with which to purchase the I gifts were contributed by club members under the direction of Francis Webb, graduate student from Bismarck, N. D.,	;
president of the club. Realizing that < the material necessities of the orphans are taken care of by the orphanage it was decided to present them with gifts emblematic of Notre Dame — ND T-shirts, copies of Notre Dame prayer books autographed by members of the National Champion football squad, and ; the like — gifts any American kid will J be proud to possess.	[
The North Dakota Club came into be- ’ ing only this Fall with a small, but ? growing membership. Last night the | club held a banquet which constitutes, | with their Christmas drive, its only ac- i tivities thus far, but shows promise of l-many in the future.	X.
The Scholastic
¥
16
Dateline:
Notre Dame, Ind >
Ray Donovan and His Cohorts Manage Well the Difficult Task Of Putting and Keeping Name of Notre Dame Before the Public.
By JACK BRADSHAW
Ray Donovan
Safe from the basement’s clomp of collegiate clodhoppers and the undusted dorms of the third floor is the Department of Public Information. Hardly a day goes by that the outside world does not receive some timely, interesting and vital publicity releases from this small, unpublicized but important organization.
Keeping in close contact with thousands of newspapers, magazines, and with the various radio and press services, this department goes nonchalantly about the tremendous job of keeping Notre Dame in the news, and this involves the threefold task of getting the
RIGHT news to the RIGHT people and at the RIGHT time.
The fact that the Department puts out such a considerable volume for its size is due to the fact that it is headed by blond, amiable and efficient Mr. Ray Donovan. A native of Hammond, Ind., he was graduated from Notre Dame with an AB in Journalism in 1942 and immediately became Assistant Director of Publicity (as the Department was called then) under Mr. James E. Armstrong. After a short sojourn as sports editor of the Logansport (Ind.) Pharos-Tribune, he returned to Notre Dame in 1945 to become Assistant Di
rector of Publicity under Mr. J. Walter Kennedy and later under Mr. John V. Hinkel. On Jan. 1. 1949, he was named Director of Public Information.
“The chief purpose of our department,” says Mr. Donovan, “is to increase the prestige of Notre Dame by bringing before the publics eye the academic accomplishments and achievements of the University, through the dissemination of stories to the newspapers, the magazines, the radio and television, all with specific accounts of academic achievements or progress - at the University.”
(Continued on Page 28)
Bill Leeds, Joe Conerty and Jim Lund prepare mimeographed Things are hectic when an important story breaks. Left to releases for mailing as Dick Rosengarten (rear) files copy of it. right: Jim Kelleher, secretary Catherine Brennan, Jim Frick.
Dec. 16, 1949
17
First Nigerian at ND to Start Next Term; Community Sends Him for Higher Education
By CHARLEY DULLEA
“Sana Sun yak Abasi Odu ya Afo,” said the Youth Association of Afaha Obong and Midim to one of its members several months ago. Today, preparing to spend Christmas in the United States, he well remembers those words: “Farewell — may God be with you.”
With the start of the second semester, Michael Udo Akpan will become the first Nigerian ever included in the ranks of Notre Dame men. Just now, he is biding his time at the rectory of St. Augustine’s Church in South Bend, not to see home for the next five years.
Mike has had a long road to travel in his 24 years from Ibibio territory to Notre Dame. Educated by a mission of Irish secular priests, he was a studentteacher in training at St. Charles’ Training College from 1937 to 1940 and then, for eight and one-half years, taught in the Catholic Mission at Calabar. Finally, in consideration of his scholastic achievements and initiative, the young West African was awarded an overseas scholarship to the United States by his Clan Council, representing 16 local villages.
Palm Trees Provide Wealth
Life may have cited some pretty unusual scholarships in its recent issue, but Mike’s bids fair to top any. Since the Nigerian people’s main wealth is in the products of the palm tree, all collection of fruits was prohibited for a month by the Council. At the end of that time, only those purchasing a special stamp were allowed to harvest the produce. Thanks to the stamps’ revenue, the Council has been able to send Mike from Lagos, the capital, via London, on to the Golden Dome — thus proving that more than song hits can stem from “a lovely bunch of coconuts.”
A good deal of credit for acquainting the traveler with his new home goes to Rev. Vincent Thilman, C.S.C., pastor of St. Augustine’s. Playing Vergil to Mike’s Dante, Father Thilman has his hands full explaining America to his guest. However, things have come along fine and Mike, himself, says, “I thought, when I came here, that everybody would look down on me, but they all seem very ready to help a stranger.”
Coming to Notre Dame was no mean feat in itself, for his neighbors were much opposed to Mike attending a Catholic school. Several secular insti
tutions, among them Harvard and Pennsylvania, were also in the running and the people felt he could secure a better education there than in such a place as Notre Dame. It was claimed that religion would be the only subject given attention and that a conspiracy between Mike and the local priest was afoot. However, since a nun’s advice had set him on coming here, the opposi-
Michael Udo Akpan
tion gradually died down. The fair sex’s opinions are held in much greater reverence in Nigeria than in the land of Dorothy Dix.
Nigeria, a British colony, is a country where teachers are few, their salaries extremely slender, and the general level of education quite low. Only by augmenting the force of native instructors can the situation be bettered. To this end, Mike will enroll in the College of Arts and Letters, concentrating on history and education, with a view to the possibility of heading a secondary school back home.
Gangsters Galore Expected
Just one thing made the newcomer afraid of life in America, and that was the notion that “everyone went around shooting all the time.” Messrs. Bogart, Raft, and Cagney would probably find this very flattering to their artistic egos, but to Mike it was a source of terror. However1, he does hold an impression of New York which would warm any Met Club member’s heart.
Mike was exposed to the great i , autumnal madness at the Iowa game, t Being a soccer man from ’way back, i his attention was focused mainly on ' the number of cars and spectators, with	, 5
apprehensions as to how the latter ; 1 would all find their way home. As to affairs down on the turf, Mike’s classic ' post-mortem was, “I liked the cos- } tumes.”	*.
Long Way From Home	;
Notre Dame is a long way for Mike from his native village, from his wife and child, from his aged mother. He is far from the people who opposed his coming to Notre Dame and those who felt he already had a “good-paying” job and did not need more learning. There are many miles between Notre Dame and a land where a priest may get to a settlement once in two months; where education is, at best, meagre; where a man may work a month to earn two , pounds.	i
But, as Mike puts it, “I have come : not so much to get a degree or personal gain, but to go back and help my own people, for it is they who have sent me here.” If ever a Notre Dame Club of Nigeria is formed, there can be no quibbling as to who its president will be.
Professor Ross Oversees * December History Panel
Dr. Arnold Ross of the Department of Mathematics led the December History Department Discussion on “The Relation between Mathematics and History” on Tuesday evening, Dec. 13.
He was joined in the discussion by Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons of the De- , partment of History. Chairman for the discussion was Dr. John J. FitzGerald of the Department of Philosophy. Dr. Ross discussed the formal and accidental relationships between science and history. Dr. Fitzsimons stressed more the relation between science and history.
The January discussion on “The Relation between History and Economics” will be led by Professor John J. Hooker of the Department of History and Dr. Marcel P. Gaspar of the Department of Economics.	»
MIT Prof Speaks Here
Charles C. Coryell, Professor of Chemistry at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, gave a talk to the Notre Dame chapter of Sigma Xi last month in the Engineering Auditorium. He spoke on “The Preparation and Properties of the Seven Synthetic Elements.”
The Scholastic
18
Bored With Life? Go to a Polka Party — Lively Music Will Help You Forget Cares
By ROBERT ROMAKER
Are you tired of the routine? Does the everyday life of school and studies get you down? Are you bored by the ordinary? Then follow me to a polka party for adventure and romance.
This adventure and romance awaits you at St. Casimir’s, St. Adalbert’s or a half dozen other places on South Bend’s west side where king polka reigns. Here wine, women and song release you from the ennui of everyday life. Here an air of mystery and the commonness of the unexpected provide your escape—all this for only half a buck.
Yep, that’s all it costs for an evening V of convivial and jovial entertainment. On polka nights walk into the hall where the dance is held, convert your half a buck into a ticket, and pass into the inner sanctum. Stay near the walls at first until your eyes grow accustomed to the low lights. If you don’t, whirling, gyrating couples may send you sprawling. As your eyes gradually pierce the semidarkness, you’ll note . chairs placed around the outside of the rectangular floor. Here you find your dream for a night. If your name happens to be Dombrowski or Koscieski, chances are you’ll do better as most of the girls at these parties are pretty little Polish girls.
But if your name is Flynn or O’Brien
Rosary songstresses are directed by Al Gavan, prexy of the Notre Dame Glee Club, as they transcribe carols for an NBC broadcast to be aired Dec. 24 at 1:30 p.m.
9 Dec. 16, 1949
don’t fret. The girls are friendly and even anxious to teach you the hippity hop of their folk dances.
It’s a lot of fun to polka and it’s not hard to learn. Just stamp heavy on your right foot, step, skip and then stamp heavy on your left foot to the rhythm of da da da da da-da; da da da da-da. But be awful careful lest your size twelves stomp on the dainty foot of your date. A faux pas here could end your polka career.
In case you’re a little stiff and self conscious at first, run down to the refreshment bar in the rear. Some good old Hoosier or Drewrys cures all stiffness and you’ll amaze yourself by actually dancing to some of the more familiartunes like “Charley was a boxer” or the “Helen” and “Barbara” polkas.
The largest and most elaborate of these polka parties usually are held at St. Casimir’s ball room. Here George Kurdys, the South Bend polka king, and his band direct the festivities. George features a wailing clarinet, squeeze box and a piano. These instruments are basic to all polka orchestras.
George plays a number and the polka begins with skipping, stamping, and stepping for almost four minutes. Just
when you think the number is about over, he shifts into high and really revs her up. Laughing couples catch their second wind and join into the spirit, stomping heavily with a staccato beat, whirling faster and faster as the tempo increases. Now the band yells “yah ha ha” and the dancers echo “yah ha ha.” This is the real thing.
So if the four walls of your room threaten to close in on you, hop aboard a bus, get a transfer, and ride out to a polka party. You’ll hear the music when you are still a block away and your step will quicken as your feet catch the lilt of the polka beat.
Glee Club to Present Carol Card Sunday
The Notre Dame Glee Club will make its first foi-mal campus appearance Sunday when they present their annual Christmas concert at 8:15 p.m. in Washington Hall.
The singing group, under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke, joined forces with- the Rosary College Glee Club of River Forest, Ill., last week for two big productions. Forty ND singers and 70 members of the Rosary group recorded a one-half hour program of Christmas songs at radio station WMAQ, NBC in Chicago. The transcribed show will be re-broadcast from coast to coast at 1:30 p.m. (CST) on Dec. 24 ovex- the entire National Broadcasting Company network and their independent affiliated stations.
After- making the radio transcription, the Glee Clubs gave a joint concert before a sell-out audience at Rosary College.
This Sunday’s campus concert will include many of the traditional Christmas carols and also selections by Tenor soloist, Robert Ruetz; Baritone soloist, Roy O’Neil, and pianist, James Etling.
PROGRAM
.-Ive Maria Gregorian Chant
Angelus -Id Pastores_____________Sweetlinek
Crucifinus _------------------Antonio Lotti
The Creation W. Richter
Hallelujah Chorus (Mount of Olives)
------------------------------ Beethoven Notre Dame Glee Club
Piano solo. Rigoletto	Verdi—Arr. by Liszt
James Etling
King’s Messenger  Bantock The Siesta (Spanish 16th Century)
___________________________Arr. by Cain Galway Piper  Irish Folk Song The Singer’s March_________from the German
Suabian Folk Song___________________Brahms
Notre Dame Glee Club
INTERMISSION
Why Don’t You Try Pietro Yon
’Twas the Night Before Christmas Darby-Moore Lo, How a Rose.___________________ Praetorius
Notre Dame Glee Club' Oh, Holy Night Adam
Roy O’Neil. Baritone Gesu Bambino  Pietro Yon-Robert Ruetz. Tenor
Carol of the Bells (Ubrainian Christmas Carol) ; Christmas Carols: Silent Night; The First Noel; God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen; O Come All Ye Faithful
Notre Dame Glee Club
19
New Kormendi Plaque To Honor Truman
President Harry S. Truman will be presented a plaque at the end of the month by a joint organization representing Displaced Persons in America. The group will bestow the plaque as a token of their gratitude for invaluable assistance in securing the admission of the DP’s to the United States.
Commissioned by this group to make the plaque was Mr. Eugene Kormendi, artist in residence at the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Kormendi worked on the plaque in August and September both in Washington and here on campus. President Truman posed for the plaque on three occasions and during this period Mr. Kormendi fashioned the clay model. The final casting was performed in New York after the mold had been constructed in the art shop behind the Main Building.
. The plaque is bronze and lifesize; after the clay model had been finished in the White House, President Truman added a distinctive feature by etching his signature on it. The acknowledgments of the DP’s are also impressed on the plaque.
This is Mr. Kormendi’s second official work in Washington. Previously he had executed a 22-foot statue of Christ — the Light of the World. The statue was dedicated last Easter by the Apostolic Delegate, and is located in a giant niche in front of the Catholic Welfare Building on Massachusetts Avenue in Washington. Mr. Kormendi has also done a monument in stone at Boys Town, Neb., of its founder, Father Flanagan.
Geology Club Meets
The Notre Dame Geology Club held its final meeting of 1949 last Wednesday in the clubrooms of Hotel Mishawaka. After a short business meeting the guest speaker. Dr. Bernard Waldman of the Notre Dame Physics Department, gave a timely demonstration of the Geiger counter as it is employed in work with radioactive minerals. The minerals tested were some of those received in a recent addition to the Geology Department’s collection. A buffet luncheon vzas served after the demonstration.
Cherns Have Busy Week
Two social events were conducted last week by the student chapter of the AJ.Ch.E. On Sunday, Dec. 4, a Communion breakfast was held. Following Mass in Dillon Hall chapel, the breakfast was enjoyed in the faculty dining room. Speakers for this event were
20
Rev. Frank Nealy, O.P., ■who spoke on “Ideals,” and Dr. Ernest Wilhelm of the • Chemical Engineering faculty.
The second event was the semi-annual banquet in honor of the graduating seniors. A steak dinner at Rosie’s was enjoyed, after which a short busi-
AULT'S SHUTTER BUGS

11 hold \tZ"

A GIFT FOR DAD
Guards A z® your Bottles
VENUS TTLE UMD

to protect father’s favorite bottle
$2.95 SUEDE CLOTH
$7.50 GENUINE LEATHER
INITIALS IN GOLD AND GIFT WRAPPING AT NO EXTRA CHARGE
75 Cents to $6.00 plus tax
ness meeting was held when nominations for next semester’s officers were announced. Toastmaster Jim Carberry then introduced the members of the faculty — Messrs. Rich, Wilhelm, Smith and Howerton — who each made brief speeches.
If you want to get those fastaction shots, the New Century Graphic Camera will do the job.
SEE US FOR
YOUR PHOTO NEEDS
AULT
Camera Shop, Inc
122 South Main St.
Phone 3-5041
BUXTON KEY-TAINERS
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
N U, Irish Cagers to Tangle in Chicago
Ray Ragelis, Northwestern
i...............................
Keglers Open Season With Loss +o DePaul
Notre Dame’s intercollegiate bowling team opened its season last Saturday against DePaul and found rough going, as they lost three to two. The loss was a narrow one, with the Keglers showing strength by coming back to win the £ last two games after dropping the first three. Chief reason for the Chicago club’s victory was Gene Zylstra. Zyl-stra had a smashing five-game total of 1003. King-pin for the Irish was Joe Shannon who marked up 920; Tom Simon was second man with 873.
Kampus Keglers Campus League is off to a roaring start and, with two weeks of competition completed, thcic is every indication of a down-to-the-wire race for team honors.
Bob Breton’s Met Club is on top in the Gold League, while in the Blue League there is a three-way tie, with Detroit, Metallurgy and Minnesota knotted for first.
Currently leading the race for individual scoring honors are Dick Fitzpatrick, Gene Greuz and Tom Simon. ' Kreuz and Fitzpatrick take high single laurels in their respective leagues with 230 and 231, while Simon has high series ■with a 551 total.
Iowa’s Fast Hawkeyes Show Here Monday
By RAY FITZGERALD
Chicago Stadium, home of midwest basketball doubleheaders, gets look number one at the 1949-50 edition of the Notre Dame basketball squad tomorrow, as the Irish tangle with Northwestern. This is the first of four appearances in the stadium for Moose’s boys, and they’ll be up against a rangy but erratic veteran outfit when they meet the Wildcats.
Coach Dutch Lonborg lost only one man, Captain Bill Sticklen, from the 1948-49 starting team. Back for more action are Jumping Jake Fendley from Chicago; Ray Ragelis, one-time Hoosier high school terror from East Chicago, Ind. (home of wartime ND ace, Vince Boryla); and the co-captains, Jim Barr and Bob Hughes. To go with them is Don Blasius, sixth man last year, a left hander who will jump center.
Ragelis, tenth in conference scoring last year, and Fendley are expected to throw most of the hoops for the Cats. Either one or the other has been high -man in N.U.’s first three games. Fendley made 25 points in the close 58-55 battle with Ripon, a team which sounds like a pushover but evidently isn’t. Northwestern also beat Western Michigan 54-43, and dropped one to Colorado U. last Saturday in the Stadium, after being ahead all the way.
Next Monday, the always-running Iowa Hawkeyes come to the ancient and aching fieldhouse to match wits and baskets with the Irish. Those looking for improvement over the first 1949 home showing of ND should attend this last 1949 showing, because the Irish sophomores will have tossed off those first game shakes by then. They’ll have to, for Iowa coach Pop Harrison always has a bunch of hustlers that keep opponents on the move. Murray Weir, little sharp-shooter of a few years back, - is a good example of the Iowa type of ball player. The Hawkeyes this year started off in fine fashion, taking their- first two from Colorado College and Michigan State quite handily. Then
Gene Ring, Indiana
last week they took a trip to Detroit to play a school called Lawrence Tech. Doesn’t sound like much of a place, but the boys from Tech didn’t realize this, and beat Iowa 54-49. So the Hawkeyes will be careless no more, and the game on the 19th should be quite a battle. Top men for Iowa this year are Bob Vollers and Frank Calsbeck.
Smoother After Holidays
The pre-Christmas edition of the basketball Irish is never as smooth as what follows after the holidays. This year will probably be no exception. Notre Dame against Creighton showed that they have a balanced scoring club. They have in Don Strasser something they’ve been lacking since Fran Curran graduated— a good long set shot man. Leroy Leslie and Dan Bagley will be a big help on rebounds and on scoring. There was much ragged play in the Creighton opener, but there will be improvement, and it is refreshing to see those three new faces in the starting lineup.
The Irish will have to be lots better after Christmas, because they run head on into a pile of basketball trouble. On Dec. 29 they meet a veteran Indiana team in the annual Hoosier classic in the Butler fieldhouse. Unbeaten so far, the Hoosiers have Bill Tosheff, Bill (Continued on Page 25)	'
I Dec. 16, 1949
21
Jerry Groom Accepts Captain's Shillelagh As 1200 Honor ND's Football Champions
Center Jerry Groom, star linebacker of the 1949 Notre Dame football team, officially accepted the captaincy of next year's squad in the feature attraction ■ of the 30th annual civic Testimonial Banquet for the ND team. The banquet, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, was held in the Notre Dame Dining Hall last Monday night.
Jerry Groom
Groom took the traditional Shillelagh from the 1949 co-captains, Leon Hart and Jim Martin, and expressed the hope that, when he in turn gave it to
the 1951 captain, ND’s unbeaten string would stand at 47 games.
The new captain comes from Des Moines, la., and is 20 years old. Playing very little on offense, Jerry distinguished himself on defense as one of the country’s finest linebackers and most vicious tacklers.
All the football players were honored Monday and the lettermen received ND blankets, pen and pencil sets, gold footballs and various awards.
Principal speakers were Carl Snavely, North Carolina’s wily coach; Dr. Karl Leib, President of the N.C.A.A., and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c., executive Vice-President of Notre Dame.
The crowd of approximately 1200 stood and applauded when Coach Frank • Leahy was introduced. Coach Leahy again said that this was his finest team; then urged the boys in the postseason games to play as well for the all-star teams as they had for Notre Dame. Coach Leahy told the under-classmen-players that they should stay in shape and begin thinking about spring practice.
Ray Roy, President of the Notre
Dame Monogram Club, presented to Coach Leahy the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell Memorial Trophy, emblematic of the National collegiate football championship.
The rest of the program included invocation by Rev. Vincent Thilman, C.S.C.; an introductory speech by Fran Messick; a welcome by Dean Manion, substituting for Mayor Schock; an introduction of newspaper and radio men by Paul Neville, South Bend Tribune sports editor; a silent tribute to Jim Costin, Ray Eichenlaub and Orv Mohler; a tribute to Bill Duley, retiring head usher; a narration on Notre Dame football through the years by Paul Kruyer (accompanied by slides of the past ND squads); and introduction of Irish lettermen by Moose Krause.
Jimmy Britt, popular sports announcer, served as toastmaster. He provided the people with the evening’s best jokes and always had the right thing to say.
The Notre Dame lettermen honored were: Bill Barrett, Jim Bartlett, Jerry Begley, Byron Boji, Paul Burns, Gus Cifelli, Dick Cotter, Larry Coutre, Ray Espenan, Bill Flynn, Del Gander, Bill Gay, Jerry Groom, Walt Grothaus, Jim Hamby, Leon Hart, Johnny Helwig, Ed Hudak, Rod Johnson, Bob Lally, Jack Landry, Jim Martin, John Mazur,
Leroy Leslie, star soph forward, takes a rebound in the opener against Creighton. Other Krausemen are John Foley, on the left, and Marty O'Connor under the basket.
Ralph McGehee, Jim Mutscheller, Steve Oracko, Chet Ostrowski, Art Perry, John Petitbon, Emil Sitko, Frank Spaniel, Mike Swistowicz, Bob Toneff, Frea Wallner, Doug Waybright, Bill Wightkin, Bob Williams, Ernie Zalejski, and Al Zmijewski. Monograms also go to the senior managers, Jack Finnegan, Don Lueck and Jim Funari.
Rifle Eliminations Held
To Name Squad Members
After four weeks of intensive preliminary practice, the Notre Dame rifle squad held an elimination tournament late this week. The 15 survivors will represent the Irish in a posted match this afternoon with Dayton University Flyers of Dayton, Ohio.
The Flyers will be led by Bob Min-nerup, holder of a torrid 383/400 average in all major meets. Captain Daly, USMC, coach of the Irish, will respond with Donal J. Murphy, who overwhelmed Michigan in a recent NROTC tournament with a blistering 197/200 effort. Pressing Murphy will be J. W. Hartman, another recruit from the Navy.
Eighty-three candidates answered the initial call for marksmen last month. The fine ability of these men necessitated a minimum qualifying mark of 185/200 for eligibility in the eliminations. Since the squad is flexible, men who show marked improvement will be awarded positions in the top 15.
22
The Scholastic
9
* Fleming Accepts Bid To Sugar Bowl Meet
Bill Fleming, stellar hurdler on the Notre Dame track squad, has accepted an invitation to compete in the Sugar Bowl track meet on Jan. 1.
Only five of the nation’s best hurdlers have been invited by the Sugar $ Bowl Committee. Besides Fleming, they are Craig Dixon, ex-UCLA star and last year’s national champion; Jim Gehrdes of Penn State, Augie Erfruth of Rice, and Bill Mitchell of Georgetown. Every year the Sugar Bowl opens the track season by inviting four or five outstanding track men to compete in each event.
It won’t be Fleming’s first appearance at this great sports spectacle. & Last year, fresh front the infirmary " and far from being in top shape, Bill went to New Orleans and finished fourth in a five-man field.
Bill Fleming
Bill is a Rhode Islander who learned his timber-topping at LaSalle Academy in Providence, a school that has no less than five alumni now running for ND. Bill had his best season last year. He set school records in three events — indoor and outdoor high hurdles and indoor low hurdles. His 14 seconds flat for the 120 high sticks was the nation’s best for most of the season.
Fleming’s national fame rests primarily on his high hurdle prowess, but, ever since he came out of the army two years ago, he’s been winning three first places in most meets. He usually wins both hurdles and the high jump. Bill has the speed to be a sprinter, too, and Coach “Doc” Handy may give him a chance to show what he can do in the flat races this season.
—Ted Prahinski
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box
Mustang Moaning
After all the complimentary writeups on the SMU-ND game, we were beginning to think some of the soreheads had quit writing. They haven’t, though. The other day we came across The SMU Campus and the headline read: “Ponies Trounce Irish, 20-27.” The author of the story, Ben Peeler, attributed our victory to “luck.” Then he moaned about SMU missing the “grand little man” who, believe it or not, is Doak Walker. It got so mushy farther on that we gave up on it.
SMU had more breaks than the Irish on Dec. 3 and the Mustangs would be plenty lucky to ever come that close again. For four years now, the old diehards have been moaning about Irish “luck” and what might’ve happened. They still pay off on the score, soreheads, and ND always winds up with the most points.
A lot of people called the New York Yankees lucky last Summer, too. The Yanks, like Notre Dame, are always good. The also-rans can’t beat them so they moan about the champs being lucky. The baseball championship flag is flying over Yankee Stadium and the national football champion trophy will be at Notre Dame for the Winter. You can claim superiority for your team, Mr. Peeler, when SMU beats Notre Dame. And don’t hold your breath until they do it.
Captains Played the Most
Notre Dame’s football co-captains, Jim Martin and Leon Hart, saw more action than any other team members this Fall. Jungle Jim played for 405 minutes whereas Leon was in there for 392. Considering the use of the platoon system and several runaway games in which reserves played most of the time, that’s a lot of football. They both have been real All-Americans and great captains.
Subway Alumni Come Through
You can really get an idea of how popular the ND football team is by reading some of the thousands of orders for the Scholastic Football Issue. They come from just about everywhere and from all types of people. There were many orders from Canada and
some from the Hawaiian Islands. A lot of GI’s ordered them, and one request came from a prison inmate.
New Cagers Look Good
The Irish basketballers didn’t look like national champions in their opener against Creighton, but they didn’t look bad either. It was good to see some new faces on the team, and the three newcomers who started were impressive.
Don Strasser not only looks something like Ralph Beard, but he plays like him too. He’s the most polished first-year man the Irish have had in some time. Of course, Kevin O’Shea wasn’t exactly ragged when he came here in 1946, but he had graduated from high school a few years before and had already played in the bigtime.
Leroy Leslie is a good jumper, a hustler and a fine scorer. Dan Bagley, not so colorful as the soph hotrocks, will be an invaluable man on those rebounds.
O’Shea wasn’t “on” in his shooting, but he did some nice passing. Four of Leslie’s second half buckets came on beautiful passes from Kevin. John Foley’s accuracy at the foul line was pleasing to see. Think what the final score might’ve been if John had made only one instead of missing only one.
Cheers for Moose
We went to the fieldhouse last Thursday with our Hemingway Viking Portable in hand. But, instead of reading for an hour or so, we had the pleasure of seeing a veiy interesting preliminary game. Nice going, Moose. We think the students liked the preliminary game and would like some more if they can be arranged.
Suggestion of the Week
It appears that Notre Dame students might not fill up the fieldhouse for most home games. We have no complaints to make as far as Mr. Cahill’s efficiently-operated ticket office is concerned, but we do have a suggestion. Before the general public is allowed to come in, we suggest that some arrangements be made to have the students’ wives seated. They’re certainly a part of Notre Dame and probably the most loyal rooters the Irish have.
$ Dec. 16, 1949
23
Conway Molds Squad Of Frosh Hoops+ers
Drawing his prospects from as far west as Colorado and as far east as New York, Coach James Conway has material for one of the finest ND Frosh basketball squads in recent years.
Six men are battling for the two top forward posts. They include Larry Eaton, an all-state selection from Greeley, Colo.; Joe Dombrowsky, from Turtle Creek, Pa.; Ed Condon, another all-Catholic selection from Chicago; Dan Spika, who was all-state while playing in his home town LaCrosse, Wis.; Harry Osterman, all-sectional from Evansville, Ind., and Paul Taglia, all-conference from Bridgman, Mich.
At the guard positions are Dan Farrell, all-city from New York; Jerry McClusky, all-state from Toledo, Ohio; another all-Catholic selection from Chicago, James Gibbons; Bill Kelly, from Terre Haute, Ind.; Dave Schmelzer from Ohio and Bill Halley from New York.
These 13 freshmen plus about nine other players still to be picked from the general call will make up the final freshman squad.
While there is very little to choose between these men seven or eight of them appear to have the inside track. At forwards Eaton, a clever ball handler, and tall Ed Condon are leading the way noth Osterman and Kelly close behind. Hook shot artist “Gooch” Lewinski from Chicago has the center spot nailed down. James Gibbons, the best
Coaches Jim Conway and Ralph Hinger instruct the freshman basketball team. In the preliminary to the Creighton game, the frosh beat the varsity reserves by a point.
Vacation Hoop Games
Dec. 17—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium
19—Iowa, here
29—Indiana at Butler Fieldhouse
30—Purdue at Butler Fieldhouse
Jan. 4—Butler, here
7—Mich. State at East Lansing 11—De Paul, here
defensive player on the club, and Jerry McCluskey, one of the best shots, have fallen heir to the guard positions although line drive shooter Dan Farrell has been pushing them both.
Freshman basketball has had something new added this year. The squad plays preliminary games against either the third string varsity or a club team from town as a part of each home basketball attraction.—Frank Ronnenberg
Irish National Champions Win Total Offense Crown
Statistics don’t always show who the best team is, but Notre Dame’s 1949 national champions were away up in the yardage figures too.
The Irish won the total offense title by averaging 434.8 yards per game. No team except ND has ever won the total offense title more than once. The Irish took top honors in 1943, 1946 and this year.
The rushing offensive title went to
little Texas Western. Notre Dame was fourth here with 290.4 yards per game. Army and ND are the only schools ever to win this bracket twice.
On the defensive side, the Irish were a little lower. They ranked fourth in rushing defense and eleventh in total defense. Oklahoma headed the ground defensive list whereas Kentucky topped the total defense.
ND was twentieth in team punting and Bob Williams, ace booter, ranked thirtieth among individuals.
Other individual statistics showed Bob to be sixth in the nation in total offense. He accounted for 1437 yards. Johnny Bright, Drake’s soph sensation, won total offense with ease.
1950 Football Sked Lists
Nine Games, Four at Home |
The 1950 Notre Dame football schedule, released this week, lists nine games, four of them here.
The Irish open their 62nd season of football against North Carolina at Notre Dame Stadium on Sept. 30, and they close it by traveling to Los Angeles for the annual game with Southern California on Dec. 2.
The lone new opponent is Pittsburgh. The Panthers come here Nov. 11. Two of this year’s foes, Southern Methodist ~ and Washington, are not on the 1950 schedule. However, the Mustangs will visit the North for a contest in 1951.
Coach Frank Leahy begins his eighth year at Notre Dame next fall. His record here stands at 60 wins, three losses and five ties. ND’s over-all 61-year record is 388 victories, 77 defeats and 30 ties.
The 1950 schedule:
Sept. 30—North Carolina, here
Oct. 7—Purdue, here	d
Oct. 14—Tulane at New Orleans
Oct. 21—Indiana at Bloomington
Oct. 28—Michigan State, here
Nov. 4—Navy at Cleveland
Nov. 11—Pittsburgh, here
Nov. 18—Iowa at Iowa City
Dec. 2—Southern California at Los Angeles
Three Dual Meets Planned For Indoor Cinder Season
Notre Dame’s cinder-pounders are getting ready for their indoor schedule these days and Coach “Doc” Handy is busy lining up the schedule.
Right now, the tentative schedule looks like a good one for local track enthusiasts. There will probably be three dual meets held at home — with Missouri, Purdue and Indiana. Most of the other dates will be taken up by the usual open meets like the Central Collegiate Championships and the relay carnivals put on by Michigan State, Purdue and Illinois Tech.
24
The Scholastic 4
O'Shea, Wray, Bagley scramble for ball
Basketball
(Continued from Page 21) Garrett, Tom Schwartz, Lou Watson, Phil Buck, Jerry Stuteville and Gene Ring back from last year’s fourth-place conference club. Most of these returnees are home-grown Hoosierproducts (Ring is from South Bend Central), and they can really throw that ball around.
The next night ND goes up against Purdue in the Butler fieldhouse. The Boilermakers have been hot and cold so far this brief season. They have veterans Dick Axness, Billy Butterfield and Howie Williams to go along with some untried sophs and juniors. Williams and Axness are the top point men.
Butler Here Jan. 4
(W On Jan. 4, Butler’s colorful Bulldogs come to the ND fieldhouse. Butler got off to a bad start this year, as they did last season. They dropped two early heartbreakers to Illinois, 67-63, and Ohio State, 67-65. Last season they lost their first two, and wound up with a record of 18-5. It’s always a good ball % game when Butler comes to town, and the main reason is a sawed-off, frail little guy who looks out of place on the court — until the whistle blows. Five feet nine and 160 pounds, Ralph “Buckshot” O’Brien is his name. A wonderful two-handed set shooter, he’s not too publicized nationally, but those who have seen him play know he’s an AllAmerican from the word go. In the games against Illinois and Ohio State this year he made 22 and 30 points, respectively. Last year he made 364 points in 23 games, and had a shooting average of 41 percent. Buckshot is backed up by good men, too; men like
clever guard Jimmy Doyle and captain Ralph Chapman.
Old rival Michigan State entertains ND on the 7th and, although the Spartans haven’t been as tough to beat on the hardwood as they have been on the football field lately, they still give each opponent his money’s worth. All-time Michigan State scoring leader, Bill Rap-chak, leads the Spartan offense.
ND-DePaul, Jan. 11
On Jan. 11, the hottest, scrappiest knee-and-elbow exhibition in the midwest takes place in the ND fieldhouse. It’s the annual ND-DePaul brawl, and this year the game should be just as exciting as it has been in seasons past. For instance, in 1946, Billy Hassett beat George Mikan and mates with a half-court set shot as the gun went off. In 1947, John Brennan made six baskets and a free throw in the first eight minutes, and ND hung on for the victory. The Demons always have a sharpshooting team. Head sharpshooter this year is a squatty fellow with a funny name — Bato Govedarica. There’s nothing laughable in the way he throws set shots through the hoop. The Chicagoans won their first three games this season before bowing to formidable LaSalle College of Philadelphia. One of DePaul’s early season wins was over a very good Ohio State team. There will, it seems, be plenty of basketball trouble in the next month for- Coach “Moose” Krause and his hustling bas-keteers.
Interhall Fall Season Ends As AIEE Cops V-Ball Title
The last of the Fall interhall sports activities concluded with the A.I.E.E. club sweeping the volleyball championship from a persistent, but height-deficient La Raza Club. The South American lads captured the runner-up spot with a single loss to the powerful A.I.E.E. club.
The Winter edition of interhall sports was started last Tuesday with wrestling, and will be followed by a singles handball tournament which is to begin immediately after the Christmas vacation. The wrestling prelims were held Tuesday and the finals last night, too late for publication.
The wrestling contestants were:
137 pounds: C. Carlson, James Kish, James Hoholik, Jim Flood; 145 pounds: C. Pasquette, Joe Sergio; 155 pounds: Dick Burke, William Wuetcher, Eugene Sullivan, Jerry Ledwidge.
165 pounds: Bob Bickert, John Dom-broski, Elry Falkenstein, Matthew Clune, Don Bergman, B. Carlin; 175 pounds: Len Drew, E. Perry, Robert
Little Marty O'Connor outjumps Bluejays
Whalen, Bill Kramer; 185 pounds: Joe Connell, Patrick Vito; heavyweights: Tony Zambroski, Jack Nusskern.
—Jack Varley
Irish Footballers Perform Before 575,278 in 1949
Playing to capacity crowds in nine of their ten games, Notre Dame’s footballers appeared before more people than any Irish team except the 1948 squad.
This year 575,278 watched ND perform. Last fall the mark was 580,268. The biggest crowd to watch the national champs sat in on the last game; there were 75,457 in the Cotton Bowl for the SMU affair.
In ND’s unbeaten string of 38 games, there have been 35 sellout crowds.
Twe/ve Gridders to Play In Post-Season Games
The football season isn’t over for at least 12 Notre Dame senior gridders. At last count, an even dozen Irishmen had agreed to pai-ticipate in post-season all-star games.
The big East-West Shrine game in San Francisco Dec. 31 will see Leon Hart, Jim Martin and Emil Sitko in action against the Westerners. Two other ND boys, Ernie Zalejski and Gus Cifelli, go to Birmingham for the Blue-Gray affair.
Seven seniors will play for the North in the North-South tussle at Miami on Dec. 26. They are Mike Swistowicz, Larry Coutre, Rod Johnson, Ralph McGehee, Bob Lally, Walt Grothaus, and Bill Wightkin.
Only seniors are eligible for these all-star affairs. Over half of ND’s departing men were invited to play.
Dec. 16, 1949
25
For Appointment Phone 3-0678	5 Barbers Manicurist
CYR'S BARBER SHOP "South Bend's Leading Barber Shop" SAVE TIME BY CALLING FOR APPOINTMENT W. E. Cyr, Prop.	100-102 South Main Street	Chair No. 5
Dutch Criminologist Blames Individualism
By JACK POWERS
“I feel that crime in the United States might often stem from an individualistic reaction to authority,” stated the Rev. Marinus Van Roi, one of Holland’s leading criminologists, at a conference with Prof. Hugh P. O’Brien, of the Department of Sociology, last month.
Father Van Roi, who has just completed a study of juvenile delinquency in Elkhart County, is studying in this country under a three-month fellowship granted by the United Nations. He will return to the Netherlands at the end of this month. Besides his post as Professor of Criminology in the state University of Utrecht, Father Van Roi is advisor to the Dutch Minister of Home Affairs in the care of ‘problem families.’

D'yuh see what I see?
Betty’s switched to Philip Morris!"

You don’t need 20-20 vision to discover that everybody’s switching to the one cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any other leading brand.

No Cigarette Hangover
• • • that’s the reason!
^PHILIP MORRIS
“I am interested in the prevention of juvenile delinquency, especially in problem families,” he explained. The Franciscan priest went on to say that during' the war many homeless families were moved from the coastal cities to the eastern rural areas of his country. After the war, many of these families remained in the unemployment relief camps in which they were housed. Instead of re- _ turning them immediately to the crowded city slums, the Dutch government is trying to re-educate them in the “small village” atmosphere of the camps.
Father Van Roi pointed out that life in the camp-villages is more conducive to personal restraint than the atmosphere of the larger cities. It is also easier to promote a sense of personal responsibility in small communities. By a gradual change-over, the Dutch are trying to re-educate the family as a unit. j
There are about 30 such camps in operation now, along with four institutions for difficult juvenile cases. All of these are purely voluntary. Each camp has its own social workers and physicians.
After camp life, the families are moved into individual homes supplied by the government. The families can purchase these homes gradually through a system of wage deductions. The Dutch hope to re-educate much of their poor city population in this way. In a-nation of ten million people, living in an area approximately the size of New Hampshire, the crime problem can be a serious one if allowed to go unchecked.
Father Van Roi is interested in the comparison of crime conditions in urban and rural life; he has-had a work published on the subject, Crime in City and Country. He points out that even in rural areas, poorer soil and economic conditions breed more crime than *do prosperous areas.
26
The Scholastic
A Man Around the House, Norbert Engels; Prentice-Hall, Inc., New York; 1949; §2.95, illustrated.
The young man about town evolves >in time to be the man around the house. What he does with the time left after his regular occupation largely determines whether he be man or mouse. Norbert Engels has written a book which points the way for a man to retain a good share of his masculine superiority.
' Under the pressure of domestic distractions there is no better outlet for that “Now what?” feeling than to get busy working with tools and materials. When there is no pressure, the idle hour is most happily employed in the home workshop. That corner of the home set aside for the good, sharp, and efficient tools, in due time becomes the man’s best haven from the cares of a busy day and his most satisfactory off hour pleasure resort.	.
Mr. Engels’ book covers a lot of ground on the subject of the “Man Around the House,” and furnishes a good store of practical information about tools, materials, and substantial work projects. While it is not an exhaustive manual for the home workshop, it makes a very good introductory piece for the man who has never made a try at this kind of avocation. The emphasis falls mostly on the woodworking tools and arts, with various kinds of indoor and outdoor furniture as main objectives, so the book offers just what the amateur cabinet maker needs.
To many readers the chapter concerning the hoarding of junk would alone be worth the price of the book. Here, for the first time, is given a lucid and logical explanation for a man’s basement and garage collection of loony loot. The chapter gives word and argument, rhyme and reason that can be used by the previously dumb male who, before this chapter was written, had to dumbly clutch that old brass bed, unable to explain to his wife about the top pipe organ, the toy cannons, the clever gadgets that existed embryonically in his mind and in the fine brass tubing of the old snoozer.
If there is any criticism due, it would be that the book might have been enlarged to include the many other enterprises that fall to the lot of the well experienced “man around the house.” In defense of the metal industries it should be said that there is a fascinating and satisfying array of
tools and projects that involve sheet metals, the soldering business, electrical work, plumbing, heating, and machinery anatomies. All these offer the home craftsman a chance to assert his skill and dominance over merely material things.
The National Safety Council would also be happier if all such books would spare a few paragraphs on how to avoid getting hurt, especially with power tools. Their studies show that it is not enough to know that a machine is dangerous; that the operator should also know how to protect himself. Mr. Engels testifies from first hand experience that the new jointer or planer owner generally pays one quarter inch of finger tip to find out about push sticks.
It is not fair, however, to expect to find the complete omelet with trimmings in a single egg basket. It is fully good enough that A Man Around the House gives a man a flying start
After Graduation, what will YOU do?
EXECUTIVE CAREERS in RETAILING
reward Trained Men and Women
Interesting, responsible positions in merchandising, advertising, fashion, management, personnel, or teaching await men and women graduates of the foremost School of Retailing. A one-year graduate program leading to Master’s degree combines practical instruction, market contacts, and supervised work experience — with pay — in leading New York stores. Special programs for bachelor’s degree candidates and for non-degree students.
REQUEST BULLETIN C-57
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF RETAILING
100 Washington Square, New York 3, N. Y.	-
BE THRIFTY ... SHOP AT BREEN'S AND SAVE $ $ $
•	Nationally Advertised Watches
•	Diamonds
•	Birthstone Rings
•	Men's and Women's Costume Jewelry
•	Rogers Silverware • Electric Appliances	.
— — USE OUR LAYAWAY PLAN — —
ELLEN’S JEWELRY EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
406 SO. MICHIGAN ST. - z.......................PHONE:	2-0400
in the right direction. Later on he can branch out for himself on any of the many enticing paths offered through the use of home workshop tools.
When he becomes older, grumpier and perhaps dissatisfied with the furniture whims of his spouse, he will have acquired ability to construct for himself completely unmousey paraphernalia for the man about to leave the house with his well made rowboat loaded on his own made sturdy trailer.
—F. J. Scriba
Villagers Plan Dance
The Villagers’ chib has announced that it will hold its traditional Christmas dance this year on Dec. 28. The site will be the Erskine Country Club where Bobby Morris and his orchestra will play foi* dancing from nine until midnight. George Schwind is general chairman and Robert Bott is ticket chairman for the affair.
® Dec. 16, 1949
27
Dateline: Notre Dame
(Continued from Page 17)
The Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-President in charge of Public Relations, is the administrative co-ordinator between the Department of Public Information, the Department of Public Relations, the Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Notre Dame Foundation. It is also his duty to formulate policy between these departments.
One of the bigger jobs of the Department was the advance publicity work done in preparation for the Natural Law Institute which was recently held here at Notre Dame. Just to show you how it operates, here is a blow by blow account of what went on behind the scenes in bringing the Natural Law Institute into the national and even the international, headlines.
Round one of the “campaign” began last September. From then till the time the Institute was held, one release was sent out every week to 200 daily papers throughout the country, to all the Catholic weeklies and to more than 100 law publications. Besides the original announcement, these releases contained: individual stories on each of the four speakers; a story on the dedication of the Natural Law Institute Plaque; a story on the foundation of the Alvin A. Gould Natural Law Library; and finally a roundup story for release the day prior to the opening of the Institute.
In addition to spreading this nationwide publicity out over a period of three months, individual stories were sent out to the home town papers of each of the 70 law students who served on committees for the Institute. These went to all dailies and weeklies in their home towns as well as to each Catholic paper in the diocese.
While doing the special promotional work for the Natural Law Institute, the department prepared a 15-minute radio script and sent copies to the . Presidents of 100 Notre Dame Alumni Clubs in all of the principal cities. Each President was asked to approach . the radio stations in his locality, asking them to donate time to air the special script prepared by the Department. Most of them agreed, with the result that many prominent Notre Dame attorneys and judges went on the air with the program.
The Department also prepared and sent to the Alumni Presidents a proposed “Letter to the Editor” asking them to mail it to the Editors of their local papers, signing their own names. The letter described the underlying philosophy and the reasons for holding the Natural Law Institute.
Following up their first barrage, Mr. Donovan and Co. approached each big radio network asking that they broadcast part of General Romulo’s speech, and the Columbia Broadcasting System agreed to a 15-minute show. When the General was unable to attend because of United Nations duties, the Department arranged through CBS to transcribe his talk through their New York studios and it was broadcast from 4:45 to 5:00 p.m. last Saturday, just as if he had been at the Institute. Local radio programs were also presented over South Bend stations WHOT and WSBT.
Clean-Up Time
C Fritz Hoelzer cleans masterpiece as Wightman collection loses its grime.
So much for the advance publicity work of the Department. But its job is not finished even when the big day arrives. Finally, on the very day of the Institute, the Department had to mimeograph and stencil more than 100 pages of speech manuscript so that the staff writers of the Chicago Tribune, New York Times, Newark News and Time magazine could write their stories. And, in addition, it had to see that they received every courtesy and service during their stay on campus.
To round out their work on the Natural Law Institute, the Department wired about 500 words on each session of the Institute to the Associated Press, United Press, International News Service, and the South Bend Tribune, servicing each with photographs, while sending a roundup story, covering the whole Institute, to the Catholic weeklies and law publications.
Such is a typical publicity campaign for any major academic event at Notre Dame.
These national and local releases, properly timed and spaced, constitute the normal advance publicity for any big event in which the University participates. However, when an extra important event occurs, a certain amount of special publicity work has to be done and then the job really gets interesting. Once, when the Bishop of Lourdes, France, visited Notre Dame, the publicity boys had to dig up an W interpreter before they could get their story, for the eminent churchman spoke not a word of English. On another occasion, when the Mayor of Munich, Germany, visited the campus, conversational German paid off and Joe Dukert, a student assistant, was able to interpret well enough to get the story.
Although publicity is by far the most important job of the Department, it is not the only one. The Department also finds time to put out the University “ Calendar, which has lately been the product of Dick Rosengarten.
Last spring it worked hand in hand with H. Lee Hope in preparing a lengthy publicity brochure to be sent to the various towns along the itinerary of the Band’s spring tour. Besides containing the answers to every conceivable question about Notre Dame Music, the brochure gave complete instructions as to how and when to print press re- — leases, secure advertising, sell tickets, „ etc.
Whenever a national magazine decides to take a few shots at Notre Dame, that immediately creates jobs for some of the part-time student assistants. The photographers have to be shown the campus, the equipment has to be set up, and all this requires time, money and the Department of Public Information. Holiday magazine was recently on campus doing a picture story on Indiana; Life recently did a seven-page story on LOBUND; several weeks ago it came out with a picture story on the ND-Tulane fracas, “The Game of the Week.”
For most of the away games this year the Department prepared a large spread of informal campus shots, featuring students from the respective cities where the games were played. Part of these displays were sent to the city newspapers and the rest to several of the cities’ larger department stores, this latter set including 60 pictures of campus life and complete instructions for setting up a store window display.
A smooth-running outfit composed of nine men and one secretary, the Department goes daily about the highly important and fascinating job of bringing Notre Dame to the public’s eye and, what is more important, of keeping it
there.
28
The Scholastic
NFCCS Town Hall Meeting Covers Inter-Regionalism
On Nov. 21, a Town Hall Meeting was held in the Law Building. This meeting was a preparation for the NFCCS Triregional Inter-American Action Congress held at Mundelein College, in Chicago, recently. The theme . of the meeting was Inter-Regionalism before Universalism. This topic was based on a recent book by Carlos Davila titled We of the Americas.
With this theme in mind a panel of ' six campus clubs representing Notre Dame and St. Mary’s was chosen to participate in the discussion and Frank Schwab was appointed chairman. The
discussion was divided into three parts: political, economic and cultural. At the end of the discussion six “consultants” spoke from the floor.
Speaking on the political side of the question were the La Raza and the International Affairs clubs. The La Raza Club was represented by Adolfo Calero and the International Affairs Club by John Gallagher. The economic phase was discussed by Bob Scheel of the Inter-American Affairs Club and Charles Hickman of the Economic Round Table.
Misses Mary Ann Fatum and Patricia Quinn of St. Mary’s College spoke about the cultural aspect of the question. Miss Fatum was a representative of the Santa Teresa Club and
Miss Quinn was a representative of the International Relations Club. Will Fechner of the Propeller Club and John Bodolay of the Commerce Forum served as consultants.
This Town Hall Meeting served as a basis for consideration of further problems which were discussed at far greater length at the Congress.
PHOTO CREDITS
Page 9 by Brickson; 10 by Kinville; 11 by Munger; 12 by Ferstel; 13 by McLaughlin; 14 by Fitzgerald (left) and Ferstel; 15 by Munger; 16 by Jackson; 18 by Brickson, and 19 through the courtesy of the Chicago “SunTimes.”
The lamp that’s bright all over—an inside story...
I
You could look directly through the clear glass of Edison’s first lamp and see the hot filament. While this may have been interesting, the glare
made it unpleasant. Many attempts were made to diffuse the light and cut the glare by coating the bulb, without loss of too much light.
A General Electric lamp researcher named Marvin Pipkin was the first to offer a practical inside frosting for lamps, with little light loss. His method, perfected in 1925, was a milestone in lamp research.
The G-E inside frosted incandescent lamp is still today the one most commonly used.
But during years of work on many varied lighting projects, Pipkin kept up the search for a still better coating. He has found it—a new silica
finish that diffuses the light almost perfectly and gives softer, more beautiful illumination. It is used in the G-E Deluxe-White Lamp now on the market.
This new success of Marvin Pipkin has come only after thousands of experiments and years of investigation. It illustrates again how General Electric emphasizes research and creative thinking, encourages fertile minds to follow their own imaginative bent, and so stays in the forefront of scientific and engineering development.
GENERALELECTRIC
i
Dec. 16, 1949
29
Names Make News
Compiled by DAN BRENNAN
I. A. O’SHAUGHNESSY, wealthy St. Paul, Minn., oil man and benefactor of Notre Dame, wanted to hear the Irish football games broadcast in the Twin Cities, so he laid down the necessary cash. O’Shaughnessy put up about $1,000 to have two of the games broadcast by radio station WLOL and he didn’t want any commercials, not even his name mentioned on the programs. . . .
Professor JAMES A. REYNIERS recently summarized the research in the bacteriology laboratories at Notre Dame for 73 members of the South Bend Dental Society at a dinner meeting on the campus. Professor Reyniers later took members of the society on a tour of the Bacteriology laboratories. . . .
Dr. MAURICE H. GOLDBLATT, director of the Notre Dame art galleries, recently made the news for his recognition of an unsigned painting as the work of a master, and as a result enabled his client to come out with a potential profit of about $100,000. In examining a catalogue for a sale in New York, Dr. Goldblatt saw a reproduction which he recognized as a work of Jean Clouet the Elder. The client, Bailey Stanton, Chicago attorney, bought the picture for $1,200 and subsequent examinations proved it to be the real thing, estimated to be valued in the neighborhood of $100,000. . . .
The last in a series of lectures on childhood, sponsored by the South Bend
deanery, National Council of Catholic Women, was held recently at South Bend Catholic High School. Rev. JAMES SMYTH, psychologist from Liverpool, England, and visiting professor at Notre Dame, spoke on “Problems of the Teen Ager.” . . .
Announcements of two approaching marriages and two engagements of Notre Dame men have recently been made. HARRY E. MONAHAN, of San Diego, former Scholastic sports editor, will be married Dec. 29 to Miss Geraldine Cassutt, also of San Diego in St. Didacus Church in that city. And in April Miss Jo Ann Hertel of South Bend will be the bride of THOMAS F. HANLON, formerly of South Bend, and now of Worcester, Mass. JOSEPH P. NORWAY has become engaged to Miss Ruth Olsen. Both are from Chi
30
cago. RAY O’CONNOR, of Rockford, Ill., is engaged to Miss Kitty Ryan, also of Rockford. . . .
Dr. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER, dean of the College of Science, spoke last Sunday on “Harmony of Religion and Science” before the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis at its “Universal Communion Sunday” breakfast in the Marott Hotel. Dr. Baldinger was introduced by MICHAEL B. REDDING-TON, master of ceremonies at the breakfast. NICHOLAS CONNOR was in charge of reservations. . . .
Dr. JOSE A. CAPARO, former head of the Department of Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame and Dr. KNOWLES B. SMITH, former head of the Department of Mining Engineering at Notre Dame, are the only two residents of St. Joseph County to be included in the recently published “International Blue Book of World Notables.” Doctors Caparo and Smith are professors emeritus at Notre Dame. About 1,200 world personalities are listed in the book. . . .
BUDDY HASSETT, former Notre Dame baseball star, will manage the new Colorado Springs club of the Western league, it was learned not long ago. Hassett, former major league first baseman who managed the New York Yankees Newark farm club in the International League last year, has been
transferred to the Chicago White Sox ’ organization and will take over the Sox class A farm club. . . .
Professor FRANK W. KELLY, of the department of speech at the University gave the principal addresses in the Elks’ memorial day services held recently in the Elkhart and Michigan City lodges of the B.P.O.E. ...	~
Two people intimately connected with Notre Dame died recently. Mrs. WARREN A. CARTIER, widow of the donor of the east campus athletic field, died in her home in Ludington, Mich., after an illness of four months. Angelo M. Carideo, 74, father of FRANK CARI-DEO, former star quarterback at Notre Dame and now assistant athletic coach at Iowa U., died Nov. 30, in his home in Mount Vernon, N. Y. . . .	-
On Dec. 28, 29 and 30, Dr. PAUL BARTHOLOMEW and Dr. F. A. HER-MENS, both of the Department of Political Science, will attend the National Convention of the American Political Science Association in New York. The Convention will be held in the Roosevelt Hotel. Dr. Bartholomew will take part in a discussion on Pathology of Democracy in Latin America, and Dr. Her-mens in a discussion of New Constitutions in Western Europe. ...
Rev. GERALD PHELAN, head of the Department of Philosophy, returned | this week from St. Vincent’s Archabbey ! at Latrobe, Pa., where on Dec. 8 he ’ gave the annual Boniface Wimmer lecture entitled The Wisdom of St. Anselm. This annual lectureship was established in 1946 to commemorate the founder of the abbey, Father Boniface * Wimmer.
'Joyful Hour1 to Be Aired Sunday Evening by MBS
The annual Joyful Hour will be broadcast this Sunday evening at 7:30 CST over the Mutual Network. Under the direction of Rev. Patrick Peyton, c.s.G., who spoke at Notre Dame Dec. 4, the 60-minute program will feature recitation and dramatization of the Joy-ful Mysteries of the Rosary.
On this year’s show, MacDonald Carey, portraying Saint Joseph, will narrate the events of the mysteries with Ann Blyth portraying Mary. Other participants include Jeanne Crain, Don Ameche, Maureen O’Hara, Ricardo Montalban, and others. Christmas songs will be performed by favorite opera, concert, and radio stars, among them Mario Lanza and Bing Crosby. Father & Peyton will close the program with a short message.
The Joyful Hour, with its Easter counterpart, the Triumphant Hour, has been one of the most outstanding broadcasts since its origin two years ago. Usually presented on the Sunday preceding Christmas, the program has received so much acclaim that it has been scheduled for rebroadcast on Christmas Day.
ARTHUR MURRAY
DANCE LESSONS Actually
COST LESS
At Arthur Murray’s, it takes only a fraction of the usual time to learn to dance. Your expert teacher-partner will develop your talent into lasting ability. With the amazing new Arthur Murray discovery — “The First Step To Popularity”—you can Waltz, Tango, Rhumba, Samba, Fox Trot in almost no time.
So come in to the studio or phone 2-3339 now. Be ready for a really gay vacation.
Arthur Murray
120 E. Wayne Street Phone 2-3339
Miss Cochran, Aviatrix, * Speaks at Aero Banquet
Jacqueline Cochran, internationally prominent aviatrix, who spoke at a banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame branch of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences last week, expressed the hope that air racing will continue in this country and even be extended to an international scope. Miss Cochran, who won the 1938 Bendix trophy race, said | that ail- racing has contributed greatly to the advancement of aviation as a whole.
The owner of a cosmetic company bearing her name, Miss Cochran expressed her wish that she will yet be able to fly a jet plane.
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, and Professor W. D. Drinkwater, the club’s faculty advisor, also spoke at the banquet.
Press Club Officers Named
At an election conducted among students in the Department of Journalism, the officers for the Press Club of the University of Notre Dame were chosen for this year.
Those elected were: Dick Rosengar-ten, president; Vic Dorr and Joe Archibald, senior vice-presidents; Jim Kingsley, junior1 vice-president; Jim Carroll, secretary, and Joe Scheidler, treasurer.
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. All clues are in ad-
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers fromdifferentstudents win acarton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each-
4. Enter as many as you like, but one Chesterfield wrapper or facsimilemustaccompanyeach entry.
S. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue's publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners will appear in the next issue.
7. All answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges will be final.
QUESTIONS A sign of omission is found with ease, Phonetically speaking, it’s found between these. It’s twice shown here, and if you stop to think About the difference, you’ll find the missing link. 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 about this time of year Is spread and wished by people far and near.
ANSWERS WILL APPEAR IN THE NEXT ISSUE OF YOUR MAGAZINE
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS & WINNERS
A FILE in the title “The File on Thelma Jordon.”
g CHESTERFIELD. A form-fitting coat and a pleasure-giving cigarette.
Q CLAUD POPE. A cirrus, nimbus or cumulus is a CLOUD. Change one letter and you have CLAUD. Sisal, manila and hemp is ROPE. Change one letter and you have POPE. WINNERS...
Jim O’Brien. 120 Cavanaugh; Charles Mattingly, 713 N. Notre Dame Ave.; Rev. Basil Mattingly, 138 Howard; Brother Edwin Mattingly. Community House; Jack McManus, 388 Dillon; Jim Lillis, 309 Lyons; Ken Watkins. 158 Alumni; Harold Munger, 105 Alumni; Jim Kelleher, 11 Lyons; Ed. Snyder, 209 Napoleon Blvd.
Dec. 16, 1949
31
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) Williams, is depicted as a southpaw passer. In the upper right hand action shot of the Notre Dame-North Carolina game on page 38, Jim Martin doesn’t appear to be living up to his ferociousness as a tackler, and on closer inspection you will note that it is Williams, not Hayes, who threw the long one and Martin is doing some fine blocking for him.
On the statistical page in the record of pass interceptions, Del Gander, who intercepted a Navy pass behind the goal and ran it out of the end zone in the closing seconds of play, seems to be neglected.
Again let us offer our congratulations on a fine magazine. We hope that this letter will not sound too critical, but rather that it will help prove that the Freshman class is vitally interested in the athletic achievements of our school.
Ed Condon
■	John Weber
Zahm Hall
TFe thank readers Condon and Weber for their congratulations and admit that it was Williams throwing the pass as many others have since told ns. You’re right on the other two counts also.—Editor.
Carnival
(Continued from Page 9) nival, to be conducted in the Drill Hall on Feb. 20 and 21, the two days preceding Ash Wednesday. Various campus clubs will participate in the festivities.
Assisting General Chairman Jim Garvin are Bill Kirchner and Ed Farrell, raffle and carnival chairmen, respectively. Dick Brodeur handles the publicity for both committees, while Don Mahoney is business manager.
Ray Yanics has charge of the Mardi Gras Dance, sponsored by the Junior class. This dance will be held Friday, Feb. 17, at the Palais Royale in South Bend.
Garvin, chairman of the local NFCCS group, stated that the first $10,000 of the carnival and raffle proceeds will be turned over to the NFCCS, to be devoted to Foreign Student Relief.
Additional receipts will constitute a Notre Dame Charity Fund; whereby all ND students would benefit. Such a plan would replace various campus solicitations for charities like the Community Chest Fund and the Red Cross.
If possible, another portion of the proceeds will be used to provide scholarships here for some deserving Dis
placed Persons from Russian-dominated countries.
Further plans for the carnival were made at a local NFCCS meeting last Wednesday night. Present at this session were representatives of the campus geographical organizations, who were to determine the parts their clubs would have in the pre-Lenten festivities.
Tentative NFCCS plans for the future include a clothing drive for needy peoples in Europe, to be held during Lent.
Christmas Exit
(Continued from Page 9) vacation away by attending both dances.
The New England Club will hold their holiday dance in Boston on Dec. 27 at the Copley Plaza Hotel. For all of ND’s St. Joseph Valley residents and students who won’t trek homeward come Christmas, the Villagers Club will hold a semi-formal dance on Dec. 28 at the
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
FOR A WHILE, Sheedy’s life story was a pretty sad tail. People rode him about his wild, unruly hair. And it wasn’t until his favorite filly gave him the gait that he decided to do something about it. He trotted down to the corner drug store and bought a bottle of Wildroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. You should
see him now! Non-alcoholic Wildroot containing Lanolin keeps his hair neat and well-groomed all day long. No more annoying dryness, no more loose, ugly dandruff.
Take a tip from Sheedy. If your sugar balks when you ask for a date, you need Wildroot Cream-Oil right away. Get it in bottles or tubes at your local drug or toilet goods counter. And ask your barber for professional applications. You’ll be a winner every time!
* of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
OSOMWIMi
OIL
Erskine Park Country Club in South Bend from 9 to midnight. Bobby Morris and orchestra will play and tickets are $3.60 a couple.
Up in the Motor City, the Detroit Club is sponsoring their annual Christmas Ball in the Arabian Room of the Hotel Teuller on Dec. 28 from 9:30 till 1:30. If a sudden blizzard doesn’t snowbound the Nebraska residents, a large crowd is expected to attend the Nebraska Club’s dance in Omaha on Dec. 27 at the Blackstone Hotel. Dancing will be from 9 to 1 and the admission is $3.00 per couple.
The Urban Room of the William Penn Hotel will be the scene of the Pittsburgh Club dance on Dec. 28 from 10 to 2. Jack Walton and his orchestra will play and $4.50 is the tariff.
It all looks like a fun-packed holiday for Notre Dame men wherever they live and when Jan. 4 rolls around you can bet that everybody will talk about their Christmas, 1949.
32
The Scholastic
Final Tabulation Reveals Cotillion Net ot $478
The Sophomore Cotillion on Nov. 18 netted $478.80, Ed Vasta, financial secretary for the dance, announced this week.
Ticket sales reached $2533.47 and the money was spent as follows:
The Griff Williams Band _____________$1000.00
Rent for the Palais Royale  125.00 Decorations 	33.58
Publicity 	12.30
Favors  412.93 Flowers .............................   31.00
Printing of tickets and placards ______ 62.50
Miscellaneous _________________________ 16.31
Federal tax  361.05
Total ---------------------------------$2054.67
Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., reported that the attendance was the largest of any cotillion in the school’s history. The $478.80 represents the greatest profit ever achieved at a Notre Dame dance.
Vasta stated, “The financial success of the affair was due in a large part to George Sweet, chairman of the decorations committee, who cut expenses to a minimum by using ingenuity to decorate the hall so superbly.” The profit was turned over to the Student Council, which underwrote the dance.
TO EUROPE IN 1950
Budget trips for students under the guidance of congenial Englishspeaking local councillors.
Frequent departures between June 1 and August 1, 1950 by regularly scheduled liners or by air.
4 weeks	in	England (London, South Coast, Midlands)	$620.00
3	weeks	in	England and 1 week in Paris . .	.	$665.00
4	weeks	in	France (Paris, French Alps, Riviera)	.	$690.00
3	weeks	in	France and 1 week in London .	.	.	$720.00
Each additional week in England $50, in France $60. Each additional week in Ireland, Scotland, Belgium, Holland, Scandinavia, Germany, Switzerland, Austria or Italy $75 for the first week, $60 for each consecutive week in each country.
Including transportation (New York to New York) to, from and within Europe*; full board in good hotels or modern university acommoda-tions; and a complete supervised educational and recreational program of excursions, sightseeing, theater and concert visits, conferences, lectures, political and professional contacts and social and sport activities.
Prices valid for registration before March 1, 1950; a $100 deposit will secure your place—pay the rest in convenient instalments.
Individual itineraries arranged for groups of 15 or more.
For full information write
ACADEMIC TRAVEL ASSOCIATION, Inc. -(A non-profit organization)
42 Broadway, New York 4, N. Y.
* Minimum nite: superior accommodations at the official supplement rates.
Economic Round Table
The Economic Round Table held a joint meeting last month with a group of economics students from St. Mary’s College. Four papers covering the economic, historical, political and social aspects of England’s devaluation of the pound were read.
At the first of the last two Round Table meetings, Charles Hickman read a paper on Capital, Labor and Democracy. The paper was well received and brought forth a lively discussion from the members present.
An equally fine discussion resulted from Roy Porter’s talk at the second meeting held at Clark’s Restaurant. Porter spoke on the parity price system for agriculture.
15 PHOTOS $100
for
• FRIENDSHIP • APPLICATION
Size 2/2 x 3/2
Copied from your favorite photograph.
MAIL $1.00 and PHOTO to
"PROcopy"
Box 115-A Greenville, Ohio
SPAGHETTI HOUSE
Last Chance Supper Thursday Night is your night here.
T-Bone Steak Dinner—Only $1.00
415 North Michigan	-	Phone 3-0903
B Dec. 16, 1949
35
Roughly Speaking
by Kat Zkoren
Our Radio Station
For some unknown reason we have listened to station WND more this year than at any other time during its brief existence. Being such a constant listener, we couldn’t help but come up with a few remarks — both pro and con. Before we put them down, though, we’d like to make it clear that we are merely a listener, and as such have gathered some opinions — no more than that.
To begin with, we think WND has made tremendous strides since its hectic conception two years ago. The only trouble being that some of those strides have been in the wrong direction. But let’s first take a gander at its assets.
We think that the finest work on the station is done by the announcers. For the most part they are expert. In fact, they are such a polished group that the trite scripts they often have to read seem silly in their hands. To name a few: Joe Shelley, who has a friendly rumble, Jack Hynes, whose voice is sharp even though his Bastan accent trips it up at times, and John Broderick, who brings a certain air of quiet reserve to his program with his husky voice.
As far as the sports staff goes — all we have heard are the station’s two commentators. Both are prone to speak too fast, but when they’re good they’re very good. Skip Rosser’s interview with Hart and Martin was top stuff. We wish, however, that he would dig up some more interesting sports tidbits, rather than rely on the South Bend Trib for his material.
One of our favorite programs during the week is Winter Theater. They do a fine job with that spot—but, also, make some bad blunders. The last two airings of South Pacific had the betelnut-chewing Bloody Mary cast as her beautiful daughter Liat. Gentlemen, Liat does not sing a song in the entire show. Then when Allegro was presented something very funny happened. The hero, Joseph Taylor, Jr., sang his first song as a baritone and his second as a tenor. If the script writers would check their story they would find that the first song, A Fellow Needs a Girl, is not sung by Joe, Jr., but by Joe, Sr. Then a third fluff. Mr. Hynes recently announced the playing of Wunder bar as “an old German piece.” We’ll bet
34
Cole Porter, who wrote this tune for Kiss Me, Kate, would have something to say about that.
We hope WND doesn’t find these objections picayune. We realize they are small, but not to one who likes to hear a show in its original form. As we said, we think Winter Theater is tops, but please, whoever is at fault, how about checking up on your plots?
On the debit side, we find the engineers at the top of the list. Take, for example, the afternoon, uninterrupted programs of music. Why must a station break come right in the middle of a song? Sometimes the song is really worth listening to and such a rude break is aggravating. Naturally, we know that the time must be given every half hour — at least that’s the custom, but who listens to these programs in order to find out the time?
Another thing that gnaws at us is the habit of playing faulty records. Isn’t there any way you can play them before putting them on the air, to find out whether or not they’re broken or scratched?
That’s just about it. We hope these remarks will be taken in the right spirit. We think WND has done and is doing a terrific service for the campus and the student body. There’s still a long way to go, but with the energetic crowd who unstintingly devote so much of their time to the station’s operation, leading it, we feel certain that the future can’t help to be anything but bright.
Two Weeks Off
Before closing out for the Christmas holidays, we’d like to say a word or two about some manifestations of spirit that has reared its wonderful head during the past two weeks. There was the welcoming-home pep rally down town. That was something we’ll all remember. But how many know that much hard work went into its planning and execution?
A person who is seldom, if ever, applauded for the work he does around school is Dave Schoen, a junior member of the Blue Circle. Dave has had his finger in all the pep rallies this fall and has really done a fine job. So here’s to you Dave—great going.
Dillon seems to have captured the most-spirited-hall title. Their intimate
carnival was a big success and the " profits are going to a sitting room in the basement. Then, too, there was that one dead end wing in Dillon which decorated itself up like a war dance Indian. If only all the halls could arouse such spirit.
Before we get cut off the bottom of the page we’d like to wish everyone, especially our friends, happy holidays.
------- <
Address by A. J. Schied, Jr. Highlights AMS Meeting
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metal held its monthly meeting this week. A dinner in the University dining hall preceded the technical session held in the Engineering Auditorium. Mr. A. J. Schied, Jr., vice-president of the Columbia Tool Steel Company addressed the group on 1 “Tool Steel — The Key to Efficient Production.”
E. A. Peretti, of Notre Dame, is chairman of the group.
FOR THAT
GIFT
MONOGRAM BLANKET
CHOICE OF COLORS:
Blue with Gold Monogram
or
Kelly Green with White Monogram
ONLY
$
95
MAIL ORDERS ACCEPTED
Rvsc s K^tz
■ % MEN AND I ^.VOUNC MEN
MAIN
SOUTH BEND 7. INDIANA
The Scholastic
»
Drawn exclusively for THE CATHOLIC BOY by Bob Coyne of the Boston l‘ost.
THE CATHOLIC BOY
Congratulates
LEON HART
and ALL NOTRE DAME MEN on	.
A PERFECT SEASON
and Recommend
A PERFECT GIFT
THE KID BROTHER
or
THE BOY DOWN THE STREET
	Detach and Mad i his Coupon	
$200 A YEAR	The Catholic Boy, Dept. S.	
	Ndtrc Dame, Indiana	
	Dear Fathers:	
Published monthly except July and August by	Please send The Catholic Boy	
THE HOLY CROSS FATHERS	To								
RIGHT HERE at	Street						o	■
NOTRE DAME	City.	  Zone	 State.				r’s Nai t	
	My remittance enclosed	ono reel itv..
*	□ 1 yr. at $2.00	□ 2 yrs. at $3.50 □ 3 yrs. at $5.00	Q m U
Dec. 16, 1949
35
Chesterfield Contest—Sec Page 31
•3C»BSwrswrwsc5»r
JMUs'SS.™

