The Notre Dame Scholastic
611
( ( HHIM
It seems to be a generally accepted fact that when you travel you must see certain things and certain places. A case in point, for anyone on a Western journey, is the Grand Canyon.
Now this state of affairs has both advantages and disadvantages. To see something, blindly, because other peo-<. pie have liked it, and therefore you must, is, of course, quite mistaken; yet what you see may be something quite fine, of real value to you.
Again: you have heard a great deal . about a particular piece of scenery.
You have read columns of print frankly declaring it to be the greatest thing the writer has ever seen, and you go to see it out of a sense of duty—and are disappointed. You have been led to expect a Titan—and . you encounter a rather fair sized gnat. ’
And then, on a morning that was like a blue vase holding hot lilies of light, we walked off the earth and into the Grand Canyon.
We might give you figures and facts on the extent and size of the place, but we prefer not to. There are certain objects, which, once seen, are like great lumps of coal forced into the furnace of the mind. They burn and burn; but so gigantic are they that they will never- be totally consumed, their ash will never trickle into grey pails of language.
It was almost absurd, when standing on the brink of the Canyon, to think that these clouds of iron, fallen from the sky that is above the sky and pasted with frozen red flames, were present merely because they quite accidentally happened—were in existence only because of a shifting of atoms.
The Grand Canyon had something to say and we tried to hear; but it was like a mute talking to a deaf man.
Yet, even then, there is a sign language; but its characters are not learned in a school of science nor are they mastered under the taskmaster Logic! For the alpha of that alphabet is day, and the omega night!
' Ghe
No^re Dame 5cholas^ io
I) isee - Q,uas i - 5 ermper-ViclmFus«Vive-Quasi-CTas-Moritum
Founded in 1872
Murray Hickey Ley
Harley L. McDevitt.
____Editor-in-Chief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire Emil L. Telfel...... Joseph B. Reedy..... J. Archer Hurley. .. Walter Langford.... Joel Egerer......... Ramon G. Smith...... Paul J. Hallinan. ..
Edward
E. Brennan
........Managing.Editor .Assistant Managing Editor Assitsant Managing Editor ........The......Week ........The College Parade ........Music	and Drama ........Campus	Clubs ........Features.Editor ........Script.Editor
NEWS STAFF
Ja.mes Collins Howard Webster Austin Boyle John Motz
William J. Magarral
Harry A. Sylvester,
John Bergan. News Editor
Neil Hurley Lawrence Dunda Georce Allan Richard J. O’Donnell
SPORTS STAFF
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor
Jr.
Henry B. Asuan
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon,
Edward Connors William Karl James Carmody Russell Scheidler
F. Granger Weil
James E. McFeely, Jr.
Local Circulation Manager
Chester M. Ashman. .Foreign Circulation
Frederick N. Davis James L. Rizer. ...,
...Local Advertising
Foreign Advertising
Manager Manager Manager
James H. Rorke Frederick J. Bauer Merle V. Baldwin
William Sherman Frank J. Conboy
John Blanda Andrew McGuan Norman E. Duke
Vol. LXVI
And Yet-

FEBRUARY 28, 1930
No. 20
TABLE OF CONTENTS
.Frontispiece
Junior Prom Tonight—McIntire-Smith_________________ Partial List of Prom Guests________________________ A Man You Know—Edward J. Flynn_____________________ A Man About the Campus—Emil L. Telfel______________ The Week—Ramon G. Smith____________________________ Ode—Washingon’s Birthday, 1930—Louis L. Hasley_____ Seniors Hear Father Mulcaire, Stanton, Reardon, and Hasley— Campus Clubs_______________________________________ Editor’s Page______________________________________----
College Parade—Walter Langford________ The Wink______________________________ Blue and Gold Runners Trim Indiana, 44-42—Henry B. Asman- Tentative Baseball Schedule Announced—James E. McFeely--- Interhall Items_______________________ Splinters From the Press Box—Harry A. Sylvester---------- On Down the Line______________________-------------------
614
616
618
620
622
623
624
626
627
628
629
630
631
633
637
640
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building:.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
liitiiintittHtintHHUHi
9
i
612
The Notre Dame Scholastic

Qiimimtmnimiiiiiimiimiiiiit limit mtttiiimmt.......tmmmmmittmmmttmtttmttmmmmmttmmimmmmimmmtmtimitmtmmimm...................................mmmttmmmmmmmttmmmmmttmmtmmmtimmtmmtmimmmmmtmimmtmmmmmmmmmttmttmmmm|
Jlnd Yet—?
The other day the music of your smile leapt at the air
And leapt at me, and my brain danced and sang.
(But tall dark books by tall dark men
Stand waiting for me . . . grimly waiting)
And yet...........?
Your hair like coils of black gold, your eyes night suns.
The curve of your mouth a bent arrow of silver.
(But duty stands waiting round the comer
And all common sense says “Hurry, hurry!”)
And yet..............?
—M. H. L.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
613
>-------------------------$
Coming Events
❖-------------------------»>
FRIDAY, Feb. 28—The Prom of 1930, Palais Royale Ballroom, 9:00-1:30.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler, Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.— Scholastic Editorial Staff meeting, Publications Office, Main Building, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, March 1—Track, Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin at Madison.— Movies, “The Viking,” Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.— Junior Class Dinner Dance, Gold and Venetian Rooms, Oliver Hotel, 6:30-11:30 p. m.	'
SUNDAY, March 2—Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.—Special Junior Class Mass in Morrissey Hall Chapel for Prom guests, 9:00 a. m.—Breakfast following in the Lay Faculty room of the University Dining Halls, 10:00 a. m.—Meeting of Presidents’ Club, Law Building, 10:00 a. m.
MONDAY, March 3—Dome picture of the Sophomore Class, Library steps, 12:30.—Deadline today for Fashion Number of the Juggler.— Meeting of Notre Dame Academy of Science, Science Hall, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, March 4—Dome pictures of individual halls. — Wranglers meeting, Public Speaking room, Walsh Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Scribblers meeting, Howard Hall “Rec” room, 7:45 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, March 5—Ash Wednesday. — Mass, Sacred Heart Church, 6:15.—Beginning of Lent.
THURSDAY, March 6—Debate, Notre Dame vs. City College of Detroit, Washington Hall, 8:00 p. m. —Spanish Club meeting, Law Building, 7:45 p. m.—Spectators meeting, Journalism room, Library, 7:45 p. m.
FRIDAY, March 7—First Friday, Adoration all day.—Services, Sacred Heart Church, 6:15 a. m.— Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Debate, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State at Lansing.
ENGLISH MAJOR EXAMINATION SOON
The qualification examination for the English major will be given on the two Sundays, the 9th and the 16th of March. The subjects of the examination will be: Writing, at 40% possible; English Literature, at 35%; and Miscellaneous English, at 25%. The period for the examination in Writing will be from 8:30 a. m. to 12:00 m. on Sunday, March the 9th; the period for the Literature, from 8:30 to 10:30 on Sunday, March the 16th; and the period for the Miscellaneous English, from 10:30 to 12.00 on the 16th. No extra time will be allowed in any of the subjects. Off-campus students who take the examination have permission to attend an earlier Mass on the two Sundays of the examination.
The examination papers will be graded at 100%, apportioned among the three subjects as noted above. The minimum grade for approval for the English Major will be 75%. The student who gets a grade between 63% and 75% will be conditioned. The approval of a conditioned student will depend upon the quality of his schoolwork this semester, and the first quarter of the next schoolyear, and upon his passing a second qualification examination, to be given immediately after the mid-semester tests in November, 1930.
Seventy-eight students have made application for the examination, a - somewhat larger number than the number who took the examination last Spring. Last year fifty-five students took the examination, and of these, thirty-three were approved, sixteen were conditioned, and six failed. Ten students took the second qualification examination for conditioned students, given the November of 1929, in which, nine passed, and one failed.
Any sophomore who wishes to take the qualification examination, and has j not yet made application should see Professor Fenlon, chairman of the Committee on Approval for the English Major, as soon as possible.
TOM LIEB AT LOYOLA
Tom Lieb, former assistant coach at Notre Dame, arrived in Los Angeles this week to assume his new duties as head football coach, of Loyola University. Lieb will issue the first call for spring practice there within the next few days.
PUBLICATIONS FORMAL DINNER DANCE APPROVED
According to an announcement made by Harley McDevitt, Graduate Manager of Publications, the annual Dinner Dance has been approved by the Faculty Board of Publications. At a meeting held in the Publications Office on Monday evening, the Board voted that the members of the three major Campus Publications, namely, the Scholastic; the Juggler, and the Dome, shall be peiinitted to hold their dance sometime during the middle of May. The actual date has not been determined, but it will be announced in a later issue of the Scholastic. This dinner dance, which is one of the most important^ social functions of the Spring Tenn., is limited expressly to members of the various Editorial and Business Boards of the Publications.
N. D. Academy of Science Notes
Father Joseph Carroll, a student in the summer s chool for several years, has forwarded a box of books to the dean of the College of Science. Father Can-oil was a professor in Columbus College, Sioux Falls, and is now active in parish work in Henry, South Dakota.
Among the more valuable books in the shipment is a “Conchology” by George Perry, London, 1911; “Tertiary Insects of the United States” by Samuel Scudder, 1890, two volumes; the “Contributions to the Natural History of the United States” by Louis Agassiz, 1857, four volumes; and a Luther Bible, dated Wittenberg, 1556.
❖ * *
Seniors in the College of Science are hereby notified that the final drafts of the dissertation is due on April 1st.
*	* A
Dr. John B. Berteling, alumnus, former University physician, and at present secretary of the South Bend Board of Health, will address the members of the Notre Dame Academy of Science on next Monday evening, March 3rd. The lecture is for members of the Academy and guests.
IHKP
614
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Junior Prom To-Night Is
Vernon J. Knox
President of the Junior Class
Extent—Junior Prom Place—Palais Royale Time—9 until 1:30 Essentials—A ticket and a girl Music—Excellent Decorations—Stunning
There you are. All in a nutshell. Tonight the Juniors, a few lucky Seniors, and a host of beautiful girls will enjoy the most elaborate Junior Prom ever staged at Notre Dame. All
“MY PROM SWEETHEART”
Let music repeat a melody sweet As I promenade with you;
Lights softly glow, they seem to know
I’m singing this love song to you.
My Prom Sweetheart, you are a part
Of all that my love dreams unfold;
Deep in your eyes, as in azure skies,
Lingers a love tale untold.
Loiv soothing strains, waltzing refrains,
Make all our dreams come true tonight.
And when it ends, I’ll still have as friends
Dreams of My Prom Siveet-heart.
------------------------------
the available talent of the third-year men was recruited to put this affair-over in a big way, and to all appearances the result will be a shatteringsuccess. While the committee-men made no effort to dress up the event with descriptive titles, it could be called the “Prom Distinctive,” and justly so.
To the Junior, this is the nights of nights, the big night of the entire school year, the one night that is his, and his alone. He can, he should, he probably will, enjoy himself, for this night is dedicated to the premiersocial event of his year.
The symphonies of striking colors, charm, grace and gaiety that always embellish a gathering of Youth and Beauty will delight the Junior for a short, brilliant span that will remain in his memory forever. He will not be able to escape the spell that has been crystallized from the romance of a thousand romances, from the music of as many poems, from the splendor of hundreds of glorious nights—of nights created in dreams of gardens and flowers, of youth and romance, of soft moonbeams and glowing stars.
Mr. Vernon J. Knox, President of the Junior Class, is to be congratulated on his excellent choice of chairmen to handle the various details of the dance. The general concensus of opinion is that his selection for General Chairman, who, by the way, is Mr. William J. Sullivan, could not be improved upon. Both gentlemen deserve generous applause for their untiring efforts to make the Prom of 1930 an affair to be long remembered. As it is, the whole scheme is so elaborate and ambitious that it makes a bid for the honor of being the most impressive event ever held at Notre Dame, Senior Balls included.
When Robert Balfe, Chairman of Publicity, announced that several novel schemes would be used to advertise the Prom, many were inclined to be skeptical. But even the dourest cynic gave an involuntary start when signs appeared shortly before Christmas vacation to present “her” with a bid to the Prom as the ideal present. Attractive posters constantly reminded the “eligibles” that the time Was swiftly drawing nearer. Mr. Balfe succeeded in interesting the local city newspapers to such an extent that
daily accounts of the progress made were published. Undei- his direction, large electric signs were made to shine nightly from the various residence halls as a constant reminder of the great event. Climaxing his energetic drive to supply sufficient publicity, he enlisted the aid of several talented assistants and designed a large electric sign bearing the word “Prom” which was placed nightly in front of the Dining Halls. An electrical re-
Miss Ruth MacBride, of Columbus Guest of Mr. Knox
productive device, amplified by giant speakers, filled the air with peals of melody. This ingenious scheme was but one of many used to advertise the Prom. A full page advertisement in the Juggler, with a special Prom supplement, completed the elaborate system of giving publicity.
' Music
Everything has been done to make a perfect Prom. Under the chairmanship of Edward B. Ryan, the Music Committee, after long and careful consideration of the finest orchestras in the Middle West, has selected Wayne King and his Aragon Orchestra to provide one of the most essential elements in the festivities of the evening. King’s orchestra is noted for its distinctive interpretation of current hits, its slow dreamy music, and the brilliance of its individual entertainers. Wayne King, himself a colorful figure, promises to offer several novelty numbers, and
The Notre Dame Scholastic
615
High Light of Social Season
promises also to comply with any requests for particular selections.
The Men of ’31 may well look forward to the “Waltz King’s” rendition of the Prom Song, My Prom Sweetheart. Composed by John Beljon and Zeno Staudt, and inspired by the Prom of 1930, it will be one of the chief attractions of the evening. Mr. King’s arrangement of this song should fit in exceedingly well with the schedule of melodies
Miss Irene Geary, of Chicago Guest of Mr. Sullivan
that he has prepared. The song has been so well received at this date that it promises to be one of the most popular Prom songs ever written for a Junior Class at Notre Dame. Other universities in the Middle West have endeavored to secure the melody for their own proms, but its presentation at the Prom of 1930 will be its premiere. The appeal of the song might possibly be shown in a few of its lines:
Let music repeat a melody siveet As I jjromenade with you;
Lights softly glow, they seem to knoiv I’m singing this love song to you.
Decorations
The decorations are quite foreign to the usual run of furnishings used. This year the motif is a romance scheme. Floral pieces representing the four boundaries of our nation will be used. Completely disregarding labor, the Decorations Committee has arranged for a garden theme to be
used, not only in the ballroom but in the lobby, foyer, and mezzanine as well. The theme will be built around four toy bungalows. The first mil represent the meeting place of two lovers. Here will be the trysting place where the young couple pledge “undying” love. The second cottage represents the place where they obtain their marriage license. The third is the site of the wedding and the fourth and final bungalow will, be the home where “they live happily ever after.”
The orchestra will play from a specially constructed terrace, lending an enchanting effect to the occasion. Imported Mexican smilax, roses, and seasonal floral pieces will be banked around the terrace. On the floor in the center of the ballroom will be a flower bed of choicest blossoms.
The color scheme will favor blue, with subtle blends of gold and other subdued shades. In order to obtain the best interpretation, John Kuhn and Timothy Benitz, co-chairmen of the Decorations Committee, were forced to extend themselves to the limit. A novel system of lighting effects was produced to properly illuminate the decorations. Gold and old rose lights have been installed to play upon the floor, while blue effects will be used to obtain a moonlit atmosphere. The alternating symphony of light will- bear out admirably the * modernistic effect of the corners and orchestral terrace.
From all parts of the United States, —East, West, North and South, girls will be on hand to add to the beauty of the affair. The Guest of the Evening will be Miss Ruth J. MacBride, ■ a student at Ohio State University in Columbus. Miss MacBride is the guest of Vernon J. Knox, President of the Junior Class. Miss Irene Geary of Chicago, the Prom Queen, will accompany William J. Sullivan, general chairman of the Prom of 1930.
The guests of honor will be: Robert ' L. Pendergast, editor-in-chief of the Dome; Murray Hickey Ley, editor-in-chief of the Scholastic; John L. Nanovic, editor-in-chief of the Juggler; Robert Hellrung, chairman of the S. A. C.; Robert Kuhn, chairman of the Blue Circle; J. Archer Hurley, director of public relations, and Frank Kersjes, chairman of the S. A. C. dance committee.
William J. Sullivan
General Chairman of the Prom
Mr. Frank Hoffman announces the following patrons and patronesses for the Prom. They are: Dean and Mrs. James McCarthy, Dean and Mrs. Thomas Konop, Mr. and Mrs. Norbert Engels, Mr. and Mrs. William Benitz, Mr. and Mrs. Jose Corona, Mr. Daniel O’Grady, Mr. Louis Buckley, Mr. William Coyne, Mr. John Connolly, Mr. L. Thomas Flatley.
Turn to Page 617)
THE JUNIOR PROM PROGRAM
Friday Afternoon— Reception of Guests.
Friday Evening—
Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Butler, 8:00 p. m.
The Prom of 1930, Palais Royale Ballroom, 9-1:30.
Saturday Afternoon— Informal Parties in South Bend.
Saturday Evening—
Dinner- Dance, Gold and Venetian Rooms, Oliver Hotel, 7:00 till 11:30.
Sunday Morning—
Mass, Morrissey Hall chapel, 9:00 a. m.
Breakfast, Lay Faculty Dining Hall, 10:00 a. m.
616
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Partial List of Prom Guests
Katherine Meyer, Mishawaka, Ind. Dorothy Louise Weber, Olney, Ill. Mary Louise Hunter, South Bend, Ind. Irene Geary, Chicago, Ill.
Ruth McBride, Chicago, Ill. Katherine Walsh, Rosary College Frances Jennings, Denver, Colo. Elizabeth Carney, South Bend, Ind. Helen de Clercq, South Bend, Ind. Elizabeth L. Noble, Brooklyn, N. Y. Bernice Kintz, South Bend, Ind. Lucille Phillion, Mishawaka, Ind. Gertrude Rigney, River Forest, Ill. Margaret Bergan, South Bend, Ind. Veronica M. Vander Heyden, Tulsa Peggy Angus, South Bend, Ind. Helen Cannon, Columbus, Ohio Lila Fern Hunkins, Faribault, Minn. Isabel Edelen, Muskogee, Okla. Vivian Breaux, Morgan City, La. Lilian Klepper, Libertyville, Ill. Adeline Meiser, South Bend, Ind. Angela Curtin, Springfield, Ill. Albertine Gagnier, Cherabusko, N. Y. Bernice Moran, South Bend, Ind. Mildred Turnus, Humphrey, Ill. Joan Brusman, Dayton, Ohio. Mary Lahey, Chicago, Ill.
Kathryn Singler, South Bend, Ind. Dorothy Schram, Rockford, Ill. Margaret Kopland, Palestine, Texas. Ann Vendley, Chicago, Ill. Mary Butler, Lakewood, Ohio. Camelia Lapaco, South Bend, Ind. Audrey Marsh, Chicago, Ill. Catherine Kelker, Fort Wayne, Ind. Martha J. Doran, South Bend, Ind. Rosemary Lennon, St. Mary’s, Kans. Mary Daley, Seton Hill, Pa. Agnes Breitenback, Lansing, Mich. Alice Tobin, Elgin, Ill.
Catherine Bleeg, Sioux Falls, S. D. Mary Raweu, Flint, Mich. Helen Sale, Chicago, Ill. Elizabeth Link, Norfolk, Ohio. Mary Robinson, Waterbury, Conn. Theresa Edwards, South Bend, Ind. Olive Geis, Casper, Wyo. Mary Hoifman, Seattle, Wash. Ethel Miller, Mount Cannel, P. I. Edna McCarthy, South Bend, Ind. Mary Vaglewede, Decartus, Ind. Marian Elbel, South Bend, Ind. Sally Randolph, Chicago, Ill. Irene Scott, Hume, Ill.
Virginia Koch, North Branch, Mich. Ida Wolf, LaMonte, Ill.
Ada Lockwood, Chicago, Hl. Betty Winder, Chicago, Ill. Ruth Harrington, Mishawka, Ind. Lucille Riggens, Culver, Ind. Marion Geddes, Chicago, Ill. Louise Atwell, Cincinnati, Ohio. Frances Grisey, Laporte, Ind. * Edwina Liebner, Chicago, Ill. Mildred Moynihan, Streator, Ill. Jean Killean, Chicago, Ill. Eileen Maloney, Decatur, Hl. Marcelle Snell, Toledo, Ohio. Lorrietta Anuszkiewicz, Detroit, Mich. Muriel Stapp, South Bend, Ind. Betty Schreiner, Chicago, Ill.
Mary Schuster, Joliet, Ill. " Miss Welter, Chicago, Hl. Frances Minnier, Chicago, Ill. Elma Dunn, Denver, Colo. Jerry Koch, Cumberland, Ind. Dorothy St. Johns, Goshen, Ind. Rosemary Gies, Great Falls, Mont. Julia Prender, Gary, Ind.
Marie Lienhart, South Bend, Ind. Mary Rovain, Keokuk, la. Gertrude Hummel, Cincinnati, Ohio Mary Cunningham, Arcola, HI. Jane Bringman, Cleveland, Ohio Alice Frieder, Chicago, 111.
Helen Cartier, Chicago, 111. Elizabeth Bauge, Jeffersonville, Ind. Jane Collier, Madison, Wis. Betty Tuomy, Chicago, Hl. Claire Allender, Chicago, Ill. Edna Schuster, Joliet, Ill. ' June Clark, Oak Park, Ill.
Louis Ullery, New York City Alice Ullery, New York City Jane Hartrich, Chicago, Ill. Marva Long, Rochester, Mich. Norma Olson, Madison, Wis. Alice Buckley, Chicago, Ill. Margaret Bartholomew, South Bend Eunice Yanke, Evanston, Ill. Helen Barcome, South Bend, Ind. Ruth Carpenter, Mishawaka, Ind. Tyris Donathen, South Bend, Ind. Lucille Walters, South Bend, Ind. Eileen Sheridan, Chicago, Ill. Claudia Goetzinger, South Bend, Ind. Celia Janeskeski, South Bend, Ind. Thelma Deres, South Bend, Ind. Agnes Simons, Lima, Ohio.
Frances Curran, Perth Amboy, N. J. Mary E. Tigner, Rosewell, N. Mex. Mercedes De la Fuenti, South Bend Genevieve Skorupski, South Bend. Lamer Smith, Chicago, 111. Maybelle Julien, Chicago, Ill. Evelyn Ann Canty, Rock Island, Hl. Cecilia Zimmer, Bay City, Mich. Mary Bradley, Detroit, Mich. Rose McCarthy, Chicago, III. Helen Gish, South Bend, Ind. Myrtle Kearney, South Bend, Ind. Gertrude O’Neill, Mishawaka, Ind. Mary E. Erwin, Detroit, Mich. Christy Haller, Altoona, Pa.
Virginia Amberg, Chicago, Ill. Mary Riley, South Bend, Ind. Fay Reiner, Winetha, Ill. Helen C. Callahan, Chicago, Ill. Josephine Humphrey, South Bend Vera Crowley, South Bend, Ind. Anne Marks,, Chicago, 111. Jane James, Chicago, Ill. Mary Bradley, Detroit, Mich. Jean Survis, Detroit, Mich. Eleanor Moore, Chicago, Ill. Mary Lou Porter, Crawfordsville, Ind. Irene Kolski, South Bend, Ind. Patricia Crimin, Sioux City, la. Bernice Cannon, Grand Rapids, Mich. Betty Richard, Mishawaka, Ind. Betty Seebert, South Bend, Ind. Jeanne Morgan, South Bend, Ind. Marjorie Holland, Elyria, Ohio Jane Brown, Chicago, Ill.
Alma Hodgson, South Bend, Ind. Elinor Mason, South Bend, Ind. Eleanor Boyle, St. Louis, Mo. Helen O’Shea, St. Louis, Mo. Marie Linehan, Chicago, Ill. Helen Salzwedel, South Bend, Ind. Doris Bramann, Oak Park, Ill. Ruth Snoke, South Bend, Ind. Vera Gorka, South Bend, Ind. Lucille Rusk, Chicago, Hl. Evelyn Anderson, Chicago, Ill. Agnes Whalen, Grand Rapids, Mich. Winif d Hartsock, Minneapolis, Minn. Gladys Walsh, Cedar Rapids, la. Jean Grady, Chicago, Hl.
Isabel Scherer, Davenport, Iowa. Elizabeth Meyes, Mishawaka, Ind. Dorothy Smith, Denver, Colo. Cameo Herbert, Lima, Ohio Betty Kahl, Davenport, la. Julianne Britz, New York City Vera Hemminger, South Bend, Ind. Jean Wasley, South Bend, Ind. Rosalie Malin, Evanston, Ill. Dorothy Grittie, Terre Haute, Ind. Audrey Walsh, Indianapolis, Ind. Edna M. Donoghue, Iowa City, la. Francis Roderiez, South Bend, Ind. Mary G. Brown, Flint, Mich. Barbara Garza, Mexico City, Mexico Mary E. Dacy, Duluth, Minn. Joan Berry, Pittston, Pa.
Helen Ridenour, South Bend, Ind. Vera Rogers, Mt. Carmel, 111.
Elena Alverez, Mexico City, Mexico Clara Huston, Mishawaka, Ind. Helen L. Ristey, Mt. Carmel, Hl. Evelyn Kortzeborn, Prescott, Ariz. Theresa Parks, Fort Worth, la. Thelma Lewis, South Bend, Ind. Anne Hayes, Butte, Mont.
Virginia Henneberger, Mt. Carmel, Ill. Irene Bansback, Oak Park, Ill.
Ruth Alhering, South Bend, Ind. Margaret Daele, South Bend, Ind. Agnes Sobatski, Coal City, Ill. Dorothy Healy, Waterloo, la. Cecilia Guedeehalfer, Los Angeles Ruth Deitz, South Bend, Ind. Lydia Wininger, Washington, D. C. Lucille Haney, South Bend, Ind. Catherine Moran, Cincinnati, Ohio Mary Krausman, Detroit, Mich. Evelyn Quinn, Laporte, Ind. Frances Kotteman, South Bend, Ind. Marie Blackwell, Indianapolis, Ind. Virginia Ryan, El Paso, Texas Janet Fitzgerald, Chicago, Ill. Catherine Staunton, Shreveport, La. Elizabeth Hardy, Niles, Mich. Margaret O’Neil, Prairie du Chein Kathleen Flynn, Faribault, Minn. Thoma Sutton, Ann Arbor, Mich. Rosa Hanson, Sioux City, la. Adeline White, South Bend, Ind. Mary Helen McNamey, Wabash, Ind. Miss Grisez, South Bend, Ind. Esther Specht, South Bend, Ind. Margaret Eby, Tana, Hl.
Rosemary Turpin, Indianapolis, Ind. Louise Shepard, Indianapolis, Ind. Marie Halter, Akron, Ohio Dorothy Van Durant, Plymouth, Ind. Johanna Noonan, Indianapolis, Ind. Charlotte Shuberth, Chicago, Ill. Fredricka Grossant, Indianapolis, Ind. Alice O’Toole, Chicago, Ill.
Lucille Ferrel, South Bend, Ind. Marge Tierney, Chicago, Ill. Bernice Kuhn, Mishawaka, Ind. Dorothy Rich, Marinette, Wis. Margaret O’Neill, Prairie du Chein Bertha Deviser, Mishawaka, Ind. Ann Cotter, Chicago, Hl.
Grace Lanzinger, Toledo, Ohio Renerte Helierlieu, Milwaukee, Wis. Ida M. Lencioni, Kenosha, Wis. Mary Harold, Portsmouth, Ohio Virginia Ruh, Covington, Ky.
Mary Ann Caldwell, Indianapolis, Ind. Florence Miltner, Cadillac, Mich. Dolores Leys, Mishawaka, Ind. Frances Reyner, Detroit, Mich. Margaret Webb, Joliet, Ill. Blanche Peach, Chicago, Ill.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
617
THOMAS A. CANNON
Robert C. Balfe
Francis N. Hoffman
William C. Brown
Edward B. Madden

Junior Prom Committees—1930
Publicity Committee — Robert Balfe, chairman; Ramon G. Smith, Robert Pendergast, Joe Wilk, William H. O’Brien, Ralph Garza, Donald O’Toole, Edward J. Meagher, Walter Cahill.
Decorations Committee—John J. Kuhn and Timothy Benitz, co-chairmen; Robert Neydon, Frank Flannery, William Leahy, John Zaback, Thomas Ashe, Frank Holland, Albert J. Tuohy, John Hickey, Edward Everett.
Favors Committee — William C. Brown, chairman; Joseph F. Deeb, iimiiiiiittiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitii
iiiintiiitisinitiiiiiiiitiiiiiuiiniiHitiiiiimiiiiiiiitiimiiiiiiiiiittitiiiiitiuMi iiitmtiiifiiiiiniiitiuiiiiiiiiittiiitiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiniititiiiiiHiiiiiiiii miiii nt iiitiiitiiiniittiiit mini mil
Walter DeBaene, Matthew Cullinan, Edward Hosinski, Charles Slack, Paul F. Fox.
Reception Committee—Thomas A. Cannon, chairman; Vincent Ponic, Walter J. Murphy, Henry G. O’Connell, Malcolm McVean, Pat Leahy, John E. Dempsey, Robert Gore.
Ticket Committee — Edward B. Madden, chairman; Joseph O’Hora, Al Seymour, John Blackwell, Joseph Lauerman, Thomas F. Monahan, James Rich, Frank O’Neill, Jack Shively, Tom McGough, John Bergan, Phil Konop.
Music Committee — Edward B. Ryan, chairman; Rollin Poulin, Clay Adams, Joe Blaney, John C. Sullivan, Joseph Kirby.
Arrangements Committee — Ray Manix, chairman; Richard Baker, Phil Angsten, Edward Mehren, Charles Cushwa, John Agamy.
Programs Committee — Raymond Collins, chairman; Joseph Keogh, Donald Mihan, Howard Maloney, Clarence Brink, Alfred Gall, Charles Stack.
Junior Prom To-Night
(Continued from Page 615)
The reception committee, under the supervision of Thomas Cannon, extend a cordial welcome to the Class of 1931 and their guests. They will be ready to take charge of the comfort of the guests during the course of the evening and will act as a floor committee to keep things running smoothly- _
Notwithstanding the heavy drain on the class treasury through the cost of the decorations and music, William Brown, chairman of the Favors Committee, was able to select a very novel and practical favor* in the form of a
ladies’ beautiful suede coin purse with “Junior Prom” and the date engraved in gold letters on the outside. The cost of the favors was given as being half again as much as any favors used in former Proms. An attractive suede strap on the outside of the purse serves as a handle. The selection came only after much deliberation and debate on the relative merits of other favors. Combined with this lovely favor is an elaborate program in the form of a sixteen-page memory book. The cord and tassel are blue and gold, while the facing on the program is pressed gold lettering, with
the gold dome and University seal. William Brown and his committee deserve credit for their excellent choice.
Ray Manix and his staff have been the official “men of all work.” They have been busy helping all the committees, gathering together all the loose ends and taking care of any details and arrangements that may claim their time. They have done noble work to date, acting as property men, carpenters, painters, or what have you. In fact they were indispensable and their efforts are appreciated.
iiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii*iiiii'HiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii»»iiiiiiiii»iiiiiiniiiliiiiiiiiiii»ii*iii»n«iiniiiiiiiiii»i*i>*,|,,,,,l|l*u,,n^
Raymond H. Mank
Edward B. Ryan
Raymond F. Collins
John J. Kuhn
Timothy E. Benitz
618
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man You Know
The ideas generally associated with the word “engineer” are not what might be called cultural. Most people have come to consider an engineer
Doctor Jose A. Caparo
as one who has devoted himself so in-
FORMER STUDENT WINS SHORT STORY HONORS
. Basil Rauch, a graduate of the university in the class of 1929, has received recognition for his literary work, from Edward O’Brien, compiler of the annual Yearbook of the Short Story. This authority has given one star to “Evening of Nibs,” a short story by Mr. Rauch, which appeared in John T. Frederick’s “Midland” magazine last year. In O’Brien’s system of rating, one star is given those stories which he considers deserving of recognition for either substance or form.
Mr. Rauch’s story was accepted while he was still a student at the university, and appeared in the May-June issue of the “Midland.” He is a brother of Rufus W. Rauch, instructor in English here. Mr. Rauch is now enrolled at Yale in Professor George Pierce Baker’s famous Playwriting “47” Workshop, and is doing very promising work there.
---------------------4
| College of Commerce.
I Notes
❖—  ------------------.
The Remington Rand Business Service of Buffalo, has placed in the hands of Dean J. A. McCarthy of the College of Commerce a number of applications for positions with the organization. It is their desire to interest seniors in the Commerce School, in the advantages offered by the company and to acquaint them with their methods. Anyone interested in finding out more about the concern, may see Dean McCarthy in Room 125, Sorin Hall, and obtain applications and information.
j
Dean McCarthy also announces that a representative from a prominent bank in Detroit will spend a few days on the campus interviewing prospective bankers of the senior Commerce class. Full information may also be obtained in this matter from Mr. McCarthy. -
❖
tensely to the study of his particular branch of technology as to rob himself of those bits of education which serve to broaden him and widen his view on life. The engineer must specialize in his field if he wishes to derive the most practical benefits from it. It is for this reason that an engineer who has added a cultural and a scientific education to his technical knowledge is rather a rare individual, and consequently respected as a truly learned man. Doctor Jose Caparo is such a man. He has mastered the science of engineering and the art of teaching it. He stands out in his chosen field of study and he has a broad background of wide research and scholarly attainments. His life has centered around engineering, yet he has strayed into distant fields of learning to browse about a while before returning to his chosen work.
Doctor Caparo was born in Cuzco, Peru, on November 2, 1888. His family extends back to an ancient Spanish house. His elementary and high school training he received in South America, and he came to the United States, at the age of seventeen, to continue his education at Notre Dame. He took up Civil Engineering here and graduated with a B.S. in C.E. in 1908. During the four years he worked diligently and was awarded
the Elsworth C. Hughes Medal for having the highest average in his engineering class. He remained at Notre Dame as a graduate student, and the close of the school year of 1909 found him in possession of two more degrees: Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, and Master of Science in Civil Engineering.
Liking the atmosphere and the spirit of Notre Dame, Doctor Caparo decided to stay and teach here. Hardly had he held his first class when news of his father’s death summoned him to South America. Some time later the University of Peru offered him the professorship of chemistry and anthropology, which he accepted. In 1910 his work at the South American university merited for him the degree of Doctor of Science. A month later he was appointed state engineer of Cuzco, in which position he remained for one year, and then returned to Notre Dame in 1911, to become an assistant in the College of Engineering. In 1912 he received the degree of Master of Science in Mathematics; a year later the degrees of Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering, and Doctor of Philosophy, all at Notre Dame.
In 1915 Mr. Caparo was appointed delegate to the second Pan-American Congress, where he presented two
papers on South American history. In 1916 he became head of the Department of Electrical Engineering.
When the United States was caught in the maelstrom of the World War, Doctor Caparo was one of the first to offer his services to his adopted country. Carnegie Tech is proud to claim him as one of its most efficient R. O. T. C. instructors.
When the war ended, Doctor Caparo set out in search of more degrees. In the summer of 1919 the University of Chicago confered the degree of Master of Arts upon him.
Numerous societies of national importance have Dr. Caparo’s name on their membership rolls. Among others, he is a charter member of the Indiana Academy of Science, and is a member of the Laetare Medal Committee.
“My hobbies,” said Dr. Caparo when questioned about them, “are rather limited. Although I like music, and enjoy swimming, my love for a real, hard mathematical problem places all other diversions in the background. My work as consulting engineer for the Indiana Bell Telephone Company and the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company has also afforded me much pleasure.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
619
PROM TIME
The Junior Prom tonight—. deserted tables in the Dining Halls....envying glances from sophomores—sneers from seniors....admiring men in hotel lobbies....smartly dressed guests ....brisk business for barber shops....girls with chaperons ....Perspiration in the Residence Halls....Meeting trains....borrowing money....Excitement—loaned tux’s....derby hats....the driving of the family car....
The fellow who got his date that morning-four men dressing one....pre-Prom vertigo.... the tired decoration committee ....South Bend girls who are making their fourth successive Prom....St. Mary’s girls awaiting tardy escorts....the girl that missed her train....The cry of “fix your tie”....Where’s my compact?”....“Trade a dance” ....girls who had a better time at the Illinois Hop....wanta go home feelin’ at twelve.
The evening drawing to a close....three classes tomorrow ....Will the prof show up?....no date with her next year.... Crowds at the check rooms.... scurrying for taxis....ha, ha’s of the Off Campus boys....Prom is over....See you at the dinner dance....Better cut that nine o'clock class....
❖-------------------------:-----
NOTICE!
The following men must return their caps and gowns to 15 Corby Hall, or to 307 Sorin Hall, by Monday noon, or same will be charged to their account: Armstrong, E; Biuska, Dominick; Culp, Wilbur V.; Gibbons, John; McDougal, R. E.; Norton, Donald; Oprey, Howard; Otto, Merritt; Rooney, F. J.; Sanduskey, R. D.; Scales, J. M.; Schettig, D. A.; Schoppman, Fred; Shanahan, Mike.
Music and Drama
Mr. Zirrn, (we hope that’s right), the scenic artist of the Armstrong Players has prepared some stage settings which should make St. Elmo the best scenic production offered here to date. The action takes place during the period of the Civil War. Consequently Miss Rey will dash about the stage in billowing hoop skirts and Bentley Wallace will strike the famous St. Elmo pink in lace collars (I believe they are called fichus) and lace cuffs.
The Armstrong Players will do St. Elmo with all seriousness and if you enjoyed After Dark you are going to like it. If you didn’t see the latter, see St. Elmo. It should “knock you out of your seat.” We are going and we intend to add some of its lines to a very personal repertoire consisting of choice bits from Diamond Lil and After Dark, or Neither Maid, Wife nor Widow.
The Colfax has been showing The Taming of the Shrew which was remarkable mainly because the producers didn’t try to improve on Shakespeare. Perhaps Miss Pickford remembered what happened to Coqziette when she suited the part to her reputation.
The Granada gave us Happy Days. We "were inclined to say ho-hum until we learned that Happy Days was the first picture to be made expressly for Magnafilm or Grandeur Pictures or Stupendous Successes or whatever it was made for. We rather wondered, you know.
JANUARY CATALYZER BEING DISTRIBUTED
The January Catalyzer, edited by the Chemists’ Club, was released for distribution Wednesday morning. An article of particular interest, entitled “Organic Chemistry, its Contribution to Pharmacy and Medicine” is written by Mr. Lawrence H. Baldin-ger, Ph. C., B.S. of the Department of Pharmacy. In his discussion, Mr. Baldinger demonstrates the fact that organic chemistry has contributed the more potent drugs which are used in the medical profession today.
News of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society, and of the American Society for Steel Treating, is to be found in this issue.
DEBATERS SPEAK AT DETROIT
The varsity debating team will hold its first intercollegiate contest of the year this evening, in a debate with the University of Detroit, discussing the question, “Resolved: That the nations of the world should adopt a plan of complete disarmament, ex-
Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C. Debating Coach
cept such forces as are necessary for police purposes.” The Affirmative team which will travel to Detroit is composed of Walter Stanton, William O’Malley, and Thomas Keegan. The debate will be judged by Professor O’Neill of the University of Michigan.
On March 6, the Negative controversialists—James Walsh, Wiliam Kirby, and John Keefe^-will meet the City College of Detroit here at Notre Dame. The judge, on that occasion, will be Professor C. C. Cunningham, prominent instructor at Northwestern University. It is possible that some of the debates this year will be judged by an audience vote, but most of the decisions will be' of the judicial type. It is also possible that one or more of the debates will be held in South Bend.
The squad has made a thorough study of the question, under the direction of the Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., and the members of the teams feel sure that they will be able to meet the competition throughout the year. This year’s schedule deserves especial interest because of the high caliber- of the teams which it includes. Contests with representative schools of both the East and the Middle West have been arranged: with Princeton, New York University, the University of Florida, and Purdue. Such a worthwhile program as this is indicative of a renewal of interest in forensic activities here at Notre Dame.
620
The Notre Dame Scholastic
--------------------------.j.
A Man About the Campus
If you have heard of the Prom, you have heard of Vernon Knox. But if you are one of the few who are ignorant of the annual classic to be s t a g ed at the Palais Royale tonight, there is still a p o ssibility that you have heard of him. For Vern has not limited his abilities
Vernon J. Knox ^.o ^jg w01-k as president of the Junior Class. The field of his activities is a broad one; and his accomplishments, since he first bade farewell to the townspeople of Crystal Lake, Illinois, to journey to Notre Dame, have been many.
Since it has been mentioned that Mr. Knox is president of the Junior Class, you have probably figured it out that he is in his third year at the University. He is in the College of Arts and Letters and is taking the pre-legal course. Judging from the choice selection of books which he has kept secure from borrowers in his room, we might risk the guess that he is a good student. His private library is really impressive; the volumes vary from The Spirit and Substance of Art, by Flaccus, to Herr Spengler’s Der Untergang des Abend-landes, with about six Spanish grammars scattered among the intervening tomes. May we suggest the by-word, “If it’s not in the five-foot shelf, see Vern Knox”?
Vern is rather a “home body,” if we may borrow that term from the girl reporters’ description of movie stars. He has made a hobby out of his room and has expended his talents as an amateur interior decorator in - arranging it. He has succeeded in making it one of the most attractive in Morrissey Hall, and Morrissey, you know, has a “rep” for room designs that are the envy of the Statler Corporation. Vern’s scheme of decoration seems to revolve about numerous pictures of a charming young miss who will probably be “among those present” at the formal Junior festival tonight.
SIEGLER, BENITZ TO REPRESENT S.A.C. AT ATLANTA Jackson Siegler and Tim Benitz, off-Campus and junior class Student Activity Council representatives respectively, departed for Atlanta, Georgia, Tuesday evening, to attend the mid-western student governing assembly held at Georgia Tech University, Thursday, Friday and Saturday of this week.
This is the tenth annual convention held for the purpose of considering student governing problems presented in reports by college representatives from every university in America.
Knox has run in two class elections for the office of president. His batting average for the two campaigns is .500. In the race for the presidency of the Sophomore Class last year, he came in a close second on the heels of Tom Conley. Being a nominee in two successive years is in itself an honor .... one of the goodly number of honors which Vern has enjoyed in his three years at Notre Dame. In his freshman year he was a Blue Circle man, and also upheld the honors of Howard Hall on the basketball floor. Last year he was on the Cotillion Committee, and the Reception Committee for the K. of C. Ball. While a sophomore he was elected Financial Secretary of the Knights of Columbus, an important and laborious office, since the six hundred members of the local council are scattered far and wide throughout the country. As the executive of the Junior Class he is entitled to membership in the S. A. C. until he graduates. He belongs, furthermore, to the dance and ring committees of the Council. His social status has been firmly established by his admission to the Chicago Club as a social member.
All in all, Vern’s career, since he received the key to his room in Howard Hall, seems to have been one of success and accomplishment. He is to be congratulated for what he has done, and admired for the modest and unassuming manner in which he carries his honors. Vern’s pre-University days are not mentioned here, for we were a bit timid about inquiring concerning them, after reading a certain headline tacked above his desk. Instead, we asked him about his hobbies, but fled when he started an enthusiastic recital of his love for philosophy. The last we heard as we closed the door hastily were the words “But on the other hand, Hegel, in. his Philosophy of . . .”
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS INAUGURATE MEMBER-
SHIP DRIVE
Although a large class of sixty-five new members were attending their very first regular meeting last Monday night in the council rooms, Grand Knight John Ch evigny, of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus announced that there would be two more membership drives by June. If these drives are successful the council should be near the top in the membership contest now being conducted in the United States and Canada. A very elaborate program has been planned for the spring as an added cajolement for potential candidates. The meeting was spiced by the delightful singing of a colored male quartet from South Bend. The evening was topped by a very instructive and interesting talk in which the speaker of the evening, the Reverend George O’Connor, C.S.C., of South Bend, told of his work among the Indians and their wonderful conception of the word, “sacrifice,” and its meaning compared to Knighthood.
The next regular meeting of the order will be held on Monday evening, March 10, in the Council Chambers.
PROM DINNER DANCE AT OLIVER HOTEL
The dinner dance, as has been announced in the program, will be held tomorrow evening in the Gold and Venetian rooms of the Oliver Hotel. The dinner will be served at 6:30 and the music will very likely start at seven. The evening will be one of those delightful affairs that few fail to enjoy. Good food, good music, and a good dance floor seldom got together with such success as this dinner dance promises to attain. Dancing will stop at 11:30 when adieus may be said until the next morning, when there will be Mass in Morrissey Hall Chapel at 9:00. Morrissey Hall has such a beautiful chapel, so quiet and restful after the hectic enjoyment of the two previous evenings (tonight and tomorrow night), that it must certainly be an ideal way to begin the last day with the guests of the Juniors. Following that, in the Faculty Dining Room, the Juniors and their guests will enjoy the breakfast that Mr. Borland and his able assistants have prepared. That finished, there will be an ideal chance to show the way about the campus to the guests who have little chance to see the grounds at the Prom this year.
f
The Notre Dame Scholastic
621
“JUGGLER” RECEIVES WIDE PUBLICITY
Following closely upon the almost nation-wide publicity which the Notre Dame “Juggleris” Christmas number elicited, due to its unusual treatment of a serious theme as a feature of a college comic magazine, additional news items have spread the name of the Juggler and Notre Dame is a result of the “Home Town Paper” in * the Home Town Number. The special newspaper supplement which was a part of the Home Town Number was made up of clippings from papers of different states. Copies of the Juggler were mailed to the papers represented in the issue, and almost every-one of them has turned about and given the Juggler a very flattering account of the magazine and many compliments upon the originality and perfection of the Home Town Number. Everyone took the issue in the spirit in which it was intended, and more than one of the clippings returned is headed “Notre Dame Juggler Has Fun With Us.” Several of the papers had turned the copy of the Jtiggler over to their local libraries, where all might take advantage of it.
The April issue of College Humor, / likewise, will carry special mention of the Juggler. Mr. Eggleston, college art editor of that magazine, pictured one impression of the campus during his short stay here while he talked to Juggler staff men some time ago. Before the end of this school year, College Humor will also feature the Juggler in a full page story.
Deadline for material for the next issue, the Fashion Number, will be Monday, March 3. All material should be submitted to the Editor, John L. Nanovic, 130 Sorin Hall, be-Ji fore midnight of that day. The number promises to be one of especial merit, since the subject is so adaptable to campus life.
Sisters of Notre Dame students, their friends, as well as girls of all other schools, are invited to contrib-4' ute poetry, humorous verse, short jokes or longer humorous articles, cartoons, drawings, and any art work, for the Girl Number, which will be out in April. Deadline for all material for the Girl Number is Saturday, March 29. Prizes for the best material, a Juggler key for the best art work, and another for the best written work, will be given to the two girls whose material is judged best.
BASKETBALL BANQUET SET FOR MARCH 11
The annual testimonial basketball banquet will be held this year on Tuesday, March 11, in. the University Lay Faculty Dining Hall.
For the past several years just as the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Association has held a testimonial football banquet, so the Villagers’ Club has held a testimonial banquet in honor of the basketball team. Each year has seen a more successful basketball banquet than the one before and the promoters of the affair for this year are making plans for a banquet which will surpass those of former* years.
It is at this annual affair that short talks are given by prominent sports writers and coaches. In addition to this, letters are awarded to the players of the team, and a captain is chosen for the succeeding year.
Although there may be some changes made in the list of guests and speakers, it is very probable that those whose names are given below will be present at this year’s banquet. Among the coaches there will be: George Veenker, Michigan; Pete Vaughn, Wabash; Dutch Lonborg, Northwestern; Walter (Doc) Meanwell, Wisconsin; Dr. Carlson, Pittsburgh; and George Keogan, Notre Dame, In addition to these, the following sports writers will be present: Archie Ward, of the Chicago Trib-une; William Fox, of the Indianapolis News; and Jimmie Corcoran, of the Chicago Evening American.
Among the clergymen of the University who have been invited are, the Very Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., the Reverend Michael A. Mulcaire, C.S C., and the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Norman Hartzer is the general chairman for the banquet, and his assistant chairmen are as follows: Ed Riley, arrangements; Louis Chapleau, speakers; Howard Webster, entertainment; Tom Brandon, publicity; and Forest Hazen, tickets.
A------------------------------❖
NOTICE!
Contributions for Scrip — poems, essays and plays—should be sent to Louis C. Heitger, 305 Walsh Hall.
❖------------------------------♦
LAW CLUB DANCE CAT J.ED “BEST EVER”
“The finest dance ever sponsored by the Notre Dame Law Club.” That was the opinion of the 800 couples who atended the fourth annual Law Club Formal at the Palais Royale, last Friday evening.
Robert F. Eggeman, president of the Law Club, and John H. Flanagan, chairman of the Formal, deserve all the credit they will receive foi* their work in sponsoring the dance. These men, both seniors in the college, did all that could be expected of them, and the large crowd testified to the fact that their* work was well done.
Each of the chairmen of the dance, Raymond Sanduskey, Earle Barry, John Nelson, Morton Goodman, John Chevigny, Lawrence O’Connor, and Harrington Noon, as well as their assistants, deserves credit for his share of the work. The smoothness with which the entire affair was carried off, was, in itself, a compliment to their ability.
Marion Hardy and his Alabamians, dusky musicians of recording fame, furnished the music for the evening in a way that only a Negro orchestra can. Many novelty acts were performed by the musicians, and the dancing of Mr. Hardy was especially well received.
The reported attendance of 800 couples set a new attendance record for future Law Formals to rival. Eggeman and Flanagan announced this week that the profit accruing from the dance would be turned over to the business manager of the Notre Dame Lawyer to be used in the publication of this magazine.
BAND WILL GIVE BENEFIT
CONCERT MARCH 19
The University Band will appear in South Bend, on the evening of March 19 in a concert at the Oliver Theater for the benefit of the new Nurses’ Home of St. Joseph’s Hospital.
The Band, under the direction of Joseph Casasanta, will present a full program. The selections to be played are very diversified and of wide musical range. The famous “Victory March” and the “Hike Song” will be featured numbers, having been specially arranged for the concert.
The ticket sale is in charge of the Ladies’ Aid Society of the Hospital, and representatives will be on the campus. The price of the tickets is one dollar.
622
The Notre Dame Scholastic
| UESDAY night will be a busy night for some because they consider Lent as something of an exile, to last until Easter. One last big splurge, then the jump-off into Stygian rectitude. Of course, I expect everyone to give up cigarettes for pipes, pipes for chewing tobacco, and licorice for snuff. Some might even change their brand of chewing gum just to fool the storekeeper. Dancing, even in the best regulated circles, will be absolutely taboo. The moving picture palaces will suffer terribly. The Granada and Colfax authorities may even be forced to send out representatives from the city to exhort the men to come down on Wednesday afternoons. The Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants’ Guild will probably be forced to spread literature around to force them from the campus. Knees will begin to come out from long retreats in the stillness of the chapels.
OR another week after that, I will listen to the prating
visitors that come slyly into my room (after leaving dents in the door panel), and sympathize with their efforts to keep the thousand and one resolutions they have made. Then, too, there is the fellow who makes a resolution never to make a resolution. He also makes a lot of disagreeable noise.. The usual eight weeks’ wail will rise and fall, and fall and rise. The Dining Halls will come in for a great deal of the useless winds blowing about every bull session on the campus. It may even grow blustery in the West Hall. Steaks and French fries will come in for the annual deification and beans for their everlasting condemnation. The age of eggs, an old question, to my mind, will be discussed pro and con, and will be passed up for more exotic, stranger things.
And now, that we know what Archer Hurley has to go through every week, we will atempt as graceful an exit as possible and wish him the speediest of recoveries.
| GATHER from appearances .that the Junior Class is having a Prom at the Palais Royale Ballroom tonight. For the past two weeks I have been listening to the old excuse— “Oh, well, it comes hut once a year.” Yes, thanks, it comes only once a year. Tonight we will see the old, old story re-enacted all over again, sox by George, tux by Jack, shirt by Bill, shoes by Smitty, and collar buttons by Max Adler. The story began about noon today after such unimportant
things as corsages, and hotel rooms are arranged. Even my friend the Judge got “that way” and before long I will have to go over and examine, in him, the appearance of the whole Junior Class. Foi- the tyro, I might mention that a big black spot on the shirt front is very nicely taken out by art gum. If none can be found—and it won’t elide, soap and water will do. Thumbprints were made for experts, and laundry comes high these days. Bill the Barber, by this time, is either moaning- or groaning. Groaning at too much to do with all too short a time in which to do it. Moaning if there isn’t enough to do and too many to do it. Then the final struggle into the cast and that horrible feeling at the first slump into the cab seat. The gasp at the. new gown that hasn’t been seen since it was last made over —and the doors of the Palais. The entrance into the ballroom is something you are supposed to remember always, but memory sometimes fails one. Yet—it only comes once a year. It is over all too soon, and then next year- it is the same except for the fact that instead of a flower garden in the center, there might be a laughing, tinkling fountain.
t HIS time last week I was reminded by the writer of The Week that things do not seem to be as they are. Archer Hurley, time-honored writer of this page, didn’t know half that when he mentioned it. I don’t blame him at all for feeling hurt after placing his confidence in a railway at the wrong moment. Anyway, another week pases, and we have another Week, such as it is, and another writer who is making a desperate attempt to follow his illustrious grandfather, who acquitted himself so nobly at Hastings.
| OR a few days now, the aftermath will remain in the shape of ogling freshmen, staring sophomores and cynical seniors, not to mention the regretful juniors. The Crowd in the “caf” lasts longer after eacK meal, the crowd begins earlier before each meal for a few days, and then it is over until the Senior Ball, and sophomores and freshmen have something else to look forward to. If the weather is as nice as it is when this is written, we will notice greater numbers standing about on the campus, and on the street comers downtown. Hotel lobbies will look like the old village store, but as I said—it only comes once a year.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
623
Ode—^ashington^s birthday,
Louis Leonard Hasley
(W ashington—Solus )
This vineyard is a window for those souls Whose blood has seeped into the restless soil, And stained with crimson a blue wave that rolls Toward some dim horizon. Here, no toil, No sorrow, no regret; there, day and night Are laboratories where a white-haired Fate Takes portions of vast stores of right and might, And so works out the chemistry of state.
Here one may eat the fruit without the sin, Yet know the throbbings of his watered blood Within the furling wave, and hear the din Above the roiling of an angry flood;
Here in my timeless sight I see the birth, The first faltering steps, the child, the youth, The man; all in one Now; the plangent earth . . . I pluck a grape to soothe unsorrowed ruth.
Jfc *	#	* 4s
The spirit in the vineyard mused and dreamed, Became as flesh and bone in his own child, Passed adolescence, youth, and then it seemed That his clean manhood was to be beguiled.
“Heart that pounds a leaden bell Till it ring a silver strain, Free me from this earthen Hell, Set me free upon the main.”
1812 The thunder and the lightning raged on high, But with the warm entreaty of his words Rolled softly back, leaving in the sky The music of a wedding feast of birds.
So to his quiet arbor then be turned And there upon a seat he built a scale, Sat smugly down, while strife and discord churned Within his proud interior coat of mail.
“I have slept my youthful sleep And my arms are brown and strong; It is time for me to reap, Be the harvest right or wrong.”
1844 To conquest of dark peoples and bright land Of palms and orange-frond he fought his way, Building his stately palace on the sand To flatter vain inhabitants of clay.
Held by the glitter of a despot’s shield, Yet yearning foi- a lofty brotherhood, He quit the sunlight of the fragrant field 1860 For war within a dark and sunless wood.
“How can ^ve know, how can we know Who guards the wrong, who guards the right? We cannot know . . . can never know . . . • We can only fight.”
A tall and homely figure stalks the stage, Throws off the fetters and pulls down the bars, Receives his passage from his mortal cage And takes immortal place among the stars.
Soon brown graves turn to green, and yellow wheat Blows on the plains, wild flowers fringe the streams Lovers exchange their kisses, breathless sweet, And love is dearer than life ever seems.
“Be quiet, heart!
I hear a roar
And I feel a dart . . .
Joy is no more.”
The winds blow gently, and the clouds float by Serenely over tall untroubled trees, And sleepless Beauty hovers ever nigh
To cool her cheeks against the mountain breeze.
The ever changing artistry of years
Sees soldiers charging up a Cuban hill,
1898 Sailors triumphant, and a flow of tears To vindicate the avarice of will.
“Oh, for a ribbon of glory!
Oh, for a quiet breath!
Oh, for two hands not gory
With the scarlet stains of death!” Make way for Peace! The country must go on! . And spires rear their symphony of space;
While all is hopeful as the strains of dawn Betray the power in the living face.
But blackened clouds obscure the sun once more,
A leprous spectre rasps its raucous call,
1914 And over all the vicious vultures soar
While men like hail lie thick where’er they fall.
“A cross of white
To mark the spot
Where for might or right One lies forgot.”
The flares die down on No-Man’s Land; the sun Climbs furtively the rim to view the scene, And little matters it who lost or won, Because the silver sword has lost its sheen.
Grim aftermath of tears and blood; then flight And wild cacophony of horn and fife Of vain escape in darkness and in night From all this parallelogram of life.
But the blood within the rivers is not lost, For clearer eyes detect its warmer strain, While love fraternal mourns its sacred cost, Yet feels a benediction with pain.
4? sjt	4s Jjs
The spirit wakened with a heavy sigh
And in the vineyard a bright radiance shone;
He knew the binding of an earthly tie, He knew his child would never walk alone. His child would sometimes wander, that he knew, Sometimes to pass the nectar for the brine;
And plucking off a grape all wet with dew He joined the wedding feast of bread and wine.
624	The Notre Dame Scholastic
Seniors Hear Father Mulcaire, Stanton, Rear-
In accordance with the traditions of the University, the Class of 1930 observed the annual Washington birthday exercises, February 22, in Washington Hall. At ten o’clock the members of the graduating class, led by the deans of the respective colleges, proceeded from the Main Building to Washington Hall, where selections from Washington’s farewell address were delivered by Walter Stanton, an Ode was read by Louis Hasley, and an acceptance of the American flag, presented to the University by the graduating class through its president, Raymond Reardon, was delivered by the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C.
The following are the presentation and the acceptance speeches, delivered, respectively, by Raymond Reardon, class president, and Reverend Michael M. Mulcaire, C.S.C., vice-president at the University, together with the speech of Walter Stanton.
Raymond Reardon
“Reverend Father Mulcaire, Reverend Fathers of the Holy Cross Order, members of the faculty, and gentlemen of the Class of 1930.
“Thirty-four years ago the members of the graduating class of ’96 assembled in this hall to pay tribute to our University. Each ensuing year has brought another senior class within these cherished walls to recall the moments when Father Sorin first accepted the American flag and publicly recognized our Catholic love of God and country. Washington, symbolizing all that is God-fearing and liberty-loving, stands revered in memory as the founder of our great republic. So it was but fitting and just that the class of 1896 gathered here on the anniversary of his birth to express their devotion to the principles for which he fought. Today we, the members of the Senior Class of 1930, have come to continue that honored tradition.
“The flag which is so dear to us all represents the power, the majesty, and the integrity of our government. It stands as an ever-present reminder of that document which declared all men to be endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, and that these rights are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. It recalls to us that our government
is but an expression of the sovereignty of the governed, a sovereignty without religious or racial qualifications. It represents the unblemished record of our people and the unsullied acts of our government. It signifies the liberty that inspired Washington, the spirit of freedom that imbued the sacrifices of Lincoln, and the idealism that will immortalize the acts of Wilson. In the memorable parade at Versailles in 1918, when the ambassadors and representatives from all the sovereign powers were ' assembled, when the flags of the nations they represented were dipped respectfully as they passed, it was our flag alone that refused to do them honor. And instead of the colors being dipped when our representatives passed, those Americans- stood and doffed their hats in obesiance to our National Emblem. Our flag stood as the only one in the world supreme in its significance, as the only flag which knew no sovereign other than the sovereign people which it represented.
“And so it is that we here at Notre Dame are thrice blessed. We have been given the opportunity of a sound education; we have been reared in the path of Catholics; and we have inherited the rights and privileges compatible with American citizenship.
“Father Mulcaire, on behalf of the Senior' Class of 1930 I present to you this American flag. May it float over the campus of Our Lady and over the students of Notre Dame with the same magnificence with which it has floated these last thirty-four years. May it inspire in the hearts and minds of those beneath its protection, the fervid patriotism so adequately depicted by the life of the man whose birthday we are now commemorating.”
❖--------------------------------*
| Father Mulcaire |
«--------------------------------❖
“Gentlemen of the Senior Class:
“As your president has said, you have gathered here this morning to perpetuate an honored tradition of your Alma Mater which dates back more than thirty years. Washington’s Birthday is one of those beautiful traditions of this University which has become more sacred as the years have gone on—sacred in its significance because it commemorates the solemn pledge of unselfish loyalty of each graduating class to the exalted ideal of a true patriotism; sacred be
cause it commemorates the consecration to the holy purpose of faithful citizenship of young men who have all but finished their formal education, and are about to go out from the guiding influences with which the University has surrounded them into a world that has perverted notions of civic obligations; sacred, finally, because of the hallowed memories it awakens of the bravery with which those pledges have been kept by those who have gone before you.
“It is impossible for me to sit through this exercise, year after year, without recalling this same day thirteen years ago when, as a member of the graduating class, I took paid; in the exercises in which you are taking part today. On that day the Class of 1917, through its president, pledged its devotion, as you have done, to the flag it presented to the University. Little did they anticipate, when the pledge was given, that before that flag would be borne to the altar on the day which was to be their day of graduation, to be blessed with the prayers and blessings of the Church, they would be called upon to leave books and friends and families, and follow it into foreign lands, there to suffer, and some of them to die, as testimony that their pledges, given here, were not idle words or their consecration an empty formality.
“The record of their heroic achievements in the great struggle, has made forever sacred the ceremony at which you now assist, and their names, and the names of those who went before them and did not return, and who sleep today under foreign skies, are carved in glory everlasting at the door of the church they loved so well, where they learned, as you have learned, that the love of God and the love of Country are one and inseparable in the heart of every Catholic.
“Since those days of awful carnage, the world has lived in hope that the day would some time come when human sacrifice would not be exacted in the settlement of international differences. . Peace treaties have since been formulated to the end that those dif- -ferences shall in the future be submitted to the arbitrament of peace rather than force. But those dreams of peace have gradually been shattered, as it became more evident that the treaties were written with misgivings and were accepted with insincerity.- -
The Notre Dame Scholastic
625
don and Hasley In Washington Day Exercises
“For the last month the eyes of the world have been fixed with fervent hope on London where the dele-, gates from the five great naval powers of the world are deliberating on the limitation of armaments. And yet from the beginning it has been evident that the same insincerity and the same diplomatic intrigue have cast their shadows over that conference as they have over so many conferences before; while the delegates were talking peace, they were thinking of war. And when, at last, they placed their cards upon the table and set forth in detail the claims they had come to urge, what do we find? Instead of a proposed limitation of the naval fighting strength of the nations there represented, which the world had hoped for, four of the five nations are about to begin the most elaborate program of naval expansion in their histories. Japan has stated its requirements for national safety, which necessitates the expansion of its navy; France is determined it cannot trust its security to treaties, which it considers mere pious resolutions unless protected by the sanction of a large fighting force; Italy will have to keep pace with France; and the American delegates estimate that a minimum expenditure of $900,000,000 is necessary on the part of this country to maintain a nominal equality with the fleet of England. And so the mad race goes on, and the hopes of the world for a lasting peace are beginning to fade, as they have so often faded before, and must of necessity continue to fade, so long as the lust for powei* and commercial supremacy, rather than the Christian principles of brotherhood and forbearance, dictate the international policies of the counsellors of nations. While national jealousies and national suspicions cast a shadow over .the conferences of nations, the hope of a lasting world peace is but a will-o’-the-wisp.
“What the future may have in store, we do not know. I pray that none of you may ever be called upon to redeem the pledges of loyalty you have given this morning to the flag of your country on the field of battle. Should that day ever come, I know that you would write as glorious a chapter in the annals of Notre Dame as any ever written by her sons who have gone before you.
“But there is a patriotism of peace as well as the patriotism of war, less
spectacular though it may be than that displayed on the field of battle, none the less essential to the continued welfare of our country. I have often felt that it is not quite so difficult to march in the uniform of a hero when bands are playing and drums are beating and admiring crowds are applauding, as it is to be loyal to the duties of honest citizenship in the every-day humdrum of ordinary life.
“You are going out into a world in which you will find distorted principles of patriotism and false notions of civic duty. You will meet, for instance, men and women who regard the exercise of the rigth of suffrage as a privilege to be used for personal advantage rather than as a sacred duty to be exercised in the promotion of the welfare of the state or of the nation. You will meet men and women who seek political preferment or public office only because of the plunder which it may possibly afford them. You will come across those exaggerated nationalists who hold that the state can do no wrong, and that there are no individual rights, so inviolable, which the majority is obliged to respect. You will meet men and women whose respect for law is determined by theii- convenience, and whose attitude towards the fundamental institutions of our national life is one of necessary toleration. Into that world you are now about to enter, destined by your educational opportunities to become leaders in the communities in which you may live. There it becomes your duty to preach by word and example the lessons of true patriotism which you have learned here.
“In behalf of the University, I am pleased to accept the flag which you present this morning. We have no doubt but that the high resolve which animates you today will inform youi' lives in the years to come, that the lofty principles of patriotism which have distinguished the men of Notre . Dame in other years, will inspire you to greater' achievement in the cause of God and Country.”
❖---------------------------------❖
Walter Stanton |
❖-----------:---------------------.>
“Reverend Father Mulcaire, Reverend Fathers of the Holy Cross Order, Members of the Faculty of Notre Dame, Gentlemen of the Class of 1930:
“We are commemorating today the anniversary of the birth of one of America’s foremost statesmen. We are adding our tribute to the traditional tribute that each year is rendered to George Washington by the Senior Class of Notre Dame. We are renewing in our minds the spirit, the purpose ,and the glory of our American government, as it was expressed by the man who fought that we might live without tyranny and who labored for the perpetuation of a free people. We are recalling the salient words of advice and admonition of his famous farewell address in which he said: ‘The unity of government which constitutes you one people is the main pillar in the edifice of youi' real independence, the support of your tranquility at home, your peace abroad, your prosperity, of that very liberty which you so highly prize. The name American, which belongs to you in your national capacity, should always exhalt the just pride of patriotism. You have one religion, manners, habits and political principles. You have in common cause fought and triumphed together; the independence which you possess is the work of joint counsels, joint efforts, of common dangers, sufferings and successes. This government, the offspring of your own choice, uninfluenced and unawed, adopted upon full investigation and mature deliberation, completely free in its principles, in the distribution of its powers, uniting security with energy, and containing within itself a provision for its own amendment, has a just claim to your confidence and your support. Respect for its authority, acquiesence in its measures are duties enjoined by the fundamental maxims of true liberty. The basis of our political system is the right of the people to make and alter their constitutions of government. But the constitution which at any time exists till altered by an explicit and authentic act of the whole people is sacredly obligatory on all. The very idea of the power and the right of the people to establish governments—presupposes the duty of every individual to obey the government already established. Toward the preservation of your government and the permanency of your present happy state, it is requisite, not only that you discountenance irregular
(Continued on Page 634)
626
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Lent begins next Wednesday, and with its coming, the campus clubs assume a new responsibility on the campus. Notre Dame men have a splendid opportunity to deny themselves pleasures such as movies, smokes, candy and dancing during Lent, but in return they must have some other sort of amusement. It is this amusement which the campus clubs must offer.
We consider this new responsibility the campus club must assume to be of the utmost importance. Club meetings have fallen off a trifle since Christmas, have risen a bit, and now they have fallen again. They may, at the time they are most needed, during Lent, fall off again, despite the fact that they can often do their best work during that period.
We know of several Club presidents and officers who are disheartened at the progress their clubs have been making. During Lent, they have a fine opportunity to arouse their clubs from lethargy.
Communion Breakfasts have long been popular in the campus clubs. There might be -a great many more of them during this Lent. Ordinary meetings might also be held oftener, if nights could be chosen for the meetings that will not interfere with other events in the program of the members. The Prefect of Religion, I am sure, would be only too glad to offer, if the Clubs consider it at once, hours in which the Club might take care of a day’s or an evening’s perpetual adoration. It has also been called to our attention that several clubs have placed many of their members on committees to consider entertainment for the Easter vaaction. In other clubs, meetings are to be held at which individual members will read papers. Still others are arranging details for banquets and smokers before Easter. Of course there are others worrying about payment for their Dome pictures. The Campus Club Editor suggests again in this page that those club officers who wish to see the group pictures of their clubs, and suggest types of the write-up desired, might come to room 7A in Science Hall. If this is not done by Friday of next week he will write the kind he thinks best.
The PRESIDENT’S CLUB will meet again next Sunday morning, in the Law Building, at ten o’clock. Presidents of all the clubs on the campus are asked to attend.
The SPECTATORS held their usual meeting last evening in the Library. Interesting discussions were held over papers presented by Victor Martzel and Thomas Keegan.
The DETROIT CLUB has arranged a program for Easter Monday night, which is also Universal Notre Dame Night, in Detroit. The Alumni of Detroit offered several programs to the undergrad Detroiters for consideration—a banquet, a smoker, followed by a dance—and a dinner dance. President Sullivan of the Campus Club informs us that the club members believe that the dinner dance wjll be the most practical and that because of the hardships
which would arise if the Campus Club officers took over -the details, the alumni have been asked to take charge of the affair.
The SPANISH CLUB is again going along smoothly, after its recent election of officers. Meetings are held each Thursday evening at 7:30 in the Law building.
The PHILADELPHIA CLUB, Harry Francis tells us, is considering a banquet for the Eastei' Vacation. A meet- L ing is to be held soon for appointing the various committees.
Tim Toomey of the CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB appointed Ray Snyder chairman of a committee for a banquet last Wednesday evening. The banquet is to be held within the next two weeks.
The GRAND RAPIDS CLUB will hold its next meet- — ing, we are told, on March sixth, at 8:00 p. m. in the Law Building. From the write-up, we gather that the club is intending to hold an Easter Party. Committees will be appointed at this meeting for both the party and for a banquet to be held for the members of the club later.
The AUBURN CLUB promises to hold a meeting within a very short time. It is their intention to offer some sort of entertainment on the campus either just before, or right after, the Easter Vacation. •	"
The METROPOLITAN CLUB has been holding several meetings here lately on which we have not been able to secure information. It will suffice to say that they have probably been very active.
The BOSTON CLUB is holding a meeting within the next two weeks. The club plans something in the way of . entertainment for its individual members.
The CHICAGO CLUB, which some time ago mentioned something about a handball, and even an indoor baseball tournament, has given us ho further information on that subject.
The CLEVELAND CLUB intends to keep up its ac- , tivity begun recently with banquets, meetings and tournaments. Their pool tournament plans are progressing rapidly.
Our atention is called to the fact that we failed to mention a meeting of the NEW JERSEY CLUB a week or	,
so ago. This club, until two weeks ago, had been some-	s
what inactive since Christmas and its secretary is sometimes hard to find. There are at least three places in which	y
write-ups for Clubs may be left for the Campus Club	'
Editor of the Scholastic.
The A. S. M E. postponed its meeting from last Monday evening to March 17th when they will hold a joint y meeting with the ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS. An attempt has been made to secure for the speaker at this meeting, Mr. Stout, of the Stout Air Lines.	.
The ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS will hold their usual meeting in the Engineer’s Room of Badin Hall next Monday night, March 3, at 8:00 p. m.



The Notre Dame Scholastic	627
SWANS AND FALCCNS
.*	An event occasioning considerable comment in New York City, at the present time, is the per>	formance of a company ofChinese actors, who number in their midst, as their chief attraction, a man
b	generally held to be the leading actor of the Orient. The whole art of Chinese acting is in graceful and
effective movement of the body; it has a close kinship with the dance, and disdains the more obvious 1- expression of emotion and feeling afforded by concentration on words.	.
Some writers, and especially some prominent representatives of the more active fields of contemporary life, have criticized this manner of expression because, so it seems to them, quick action '" and attainment of the immediate end are sacrificed to slow expressiveness and a measured indifference Z- to success for its own sake.
a.	Strictly speaking, these men are quite right. But at this point, the whole matter sheds the cloak
of immediacy and provincialism, and becomes symptomatic of a general state of mind existing in contemporary society.	'
. 4	Today, action for its own sake, and prompt winning of anything to which the mind gives its
attention, are viewed as means to the ends that are implicit in them—more action and more winning. But this is plainly a vicious circle; an ordered and intelligent conception of existence must U • consider Life as a calm and considered progress from one state of being to another.
!	Along the way there will be countless opportunities to experience'a complete realization of the
r beauties of that wayfaring. Action and success are not ill advised means by which the path may be more easily trod; but it is quite necessary that they be seen as nothing more, at best, than a good walking stick. If we stop along the way and give all our attention, to that which assists us in our walk, we soon twist a straight and effective staff into a circled whip.
In their own way the methods of the troupe of actors, mentioned above, are representative of one manner of holding to the right path; their critics make the mistake of measuring the far-stretch-L ing road by a stick that has curled into a circle.
I	Our lives are quiet lagoons into which float the swans of the days; they may7 bring trouble and
sorrow and grief, but none is altogether ungainly; and when from the backs of great flocks , of these swans the falcons of the years gently rise into the air, we realize that beauty and grace and magnificence are the final and only criterions of action—and are in themselves, if we may use the word in its finest sense, success!	—M. H. L.
r
f	THE II NK I DDCM
Tonight the Junior Class of Notre Dame celebrates, socially, its third year at Notre Dame, and, i fittingly, it celebrates with music and cheer and dancing. Tonight the Juniors are paramount. Notre ' Dame and South Bend belong to them. They will gladly accept the well wishes of the entire Uni, j- versity in staging their annual Promenade.
Three chapters are near completion in their lives in the University. They7 are fine chapters. Men of ’31 have been prominent in practically every campus activity. From their ranks almost all branches of sport have received representatives. Juniors are members of the football, basketball base> ball and track squads. They have composed a large part of the membership of the debating teams. They7 are outstanding in the fields of literature, art music.
'	Soon the span of college years will be over for the Juniors. One more year and they too, will take
i, their place among the graduates of the University. One more year and they will step/ .t of the carefree life and enter manhood, when certain responsibilities must be shouldered by them. The Uni-f	versity	will graduate the class of 1931 next year knowing full well	that	they	will carry	high the banners of	Notre Dame. Tonight we rejoice with the Junior class.
For the past six weeks the various committees have worked earnestly and industriously for the <	success	of the dance. May the Prom of 1930, with its large number	of cosmopolitan guests, be the best
’	in the history of the University!	—J.E-B-
628
The Notre Dame Scholastic
In the Holy Cross paper we find a list of traffic rules which are posted at the Central Police Station in Tokio, Japan. We reprint the rules here for the benefit of any of our readers who contemplate a journey to that country, as well as for the enjoyment and education of all others. The rules are:	,
1.	At the first rise of the hand police stop rapidly.
2.	Do not pass him or otherwise disrespect him.
3.	When a passenger of foot hove in sight tootle the horn. Trumpet at him, melodiously at first, but if still obstacle your passage, tootle him with vigor and express by word of mouth a warning “Hi-Hi.”
4.	Beware of wandering horse that he shall not take fright, as you pass him by. Do not explode exhaust box at him as you pass by, go soothingly by.
5.	Give big space to the festive dog that shall sport in the roadway.
6.	Go soothingly in the grease mud as there lurks the skid demon.
7.	Avoid entanglement of dog with your wheel spokes.
8.	Press brakes of the foot as you roll round the corner to save collapse and tie-up.
A certain professor of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has declared in a speech before a group of students that bridge playing is the “lowest depth to which a human can fall.” Pardon us while we permit ourselves the luxury of a hearty guffaw. If this professor be correct, we shrink from flunking of how many utter degenerates there are in our glorious country. We can, however, partly agree with the professor in another statement of his to the effect that bridge playing as a pastime is entirely without value and is a thief of hours that could be spent in infinitely more profitable ways. We confess this agreement, moreover, with a full realization that it will probably evoke, from such of our readers as are acquainted with our total lack of ability at the game, numerous cries of “Sour, grapes!”
Incidentally, we desire here and now to disclaim any and all responsibility for the two paragraphs we discovered in the Parade of last week that had to do with Berlin, horses, executioners, and other things. Those two para-• graphs were impostors who slunk into our column by means unknown to us. Certainly it is difficult enough for us to bear up under the barrage of sneers which inevitably greet our column, without having to suffer also the consequences of the ravings of someone else. That’s what we consider as something just about like the final wisp that crushed the dromedary’s full-laden hump.
—o—
It seems that Ohio State students can get thrown out of theaters just as ungracefully as can students of any other university which we know. A few weeks ago about 40 College of Dentistry students went into a Columbus theater with the evident intention of enjoying themselves. We present herewith a few excerpts from the story of the affair, as set forth in the Ohio State Lantern:
“The show was in full sway, and so were the boys. Comedians came upon the stage with wisecracks and clever repartee, only to be hissed at by the prospective dentists; dancing ladies fleet-footed across the stage, much to the delight of the audience—all except the army of teeth-pullers, who exhibited the powerfulness of their lungs with yells and razzing during the songs and dances.
“Then came the ushers with the emphatic request that the students would either have to discontinue the merrymaking or else, but to no avail. It seemed that they would rather else. Again came the whistling and cat-calls, and one student even arose during a feature and, imitating a hawker, endeavored to sell peanuts with a burst of oratory.
“Then came the manager, accompanied by two stalwart men of the law, who dogmatically informed the boys that the show had just terminated—for them. In a group they stood up—and one by one 40 young men walked slowly and quietly from the amusement house.”
—o—
“Chicago Professor to Make Hill Study,” declares a headline in the Syracuse Daily Orange. Well, all we have to say is that maybe he can make that fellow Hill study, but we’ll give odds that he can’t make any of our co-members here in Playboy Alley study.
Some professor of Cornell University has come forth with the statement that about eighty per cent of the average college freshman’s time is spent in eight activities, which are, in order of time occupied: sleeping, attending classes, studying, eating, working for pay, walking, physical exer-’ cise, and “bull sessions.” This last named activity is defined as periods of informal conversation in which the undergraduates discuss every subject under the sun. Perhaps this order may be the actual one as applied to freshmen, but the Board of Directors in Playboy Alley, in solemn conference, decided that the proper order for that great organization is this: sleeping, bull sessions, attending classes, eating, walking, studying, physical exercise. Working for pay was an activity which was not rated because the directors found themselves with absolutely no information on the subject. Also, they decreed that once Spring has come these changes in the order will take place: sleeping will be tied for first place with walking; studying will cease to be rated, because of insufficient data.
—o—
Speaking of freshmen, how about presenting some sort of medal to the freshman of the University of Furman who wrote this theme?
“We have a nice professor. He ain’t so pretty like some others, but he is funny with jokes and stories and he parts his hair on the side of his head. He stays near the campus so when it is bad weather and roads is too bad to go by he won’t miss any classes. He wears on his head a little hat to keep the wind from blowing his hair all around, and sometimes totes an umbrella, but he is an awful nice professor to me.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
629
Someone has suggested that our legislators be called “Dirigibles,” because the profuse amount of gas contained therein. Oh, Senator Heflin, we really didn’t mean that last crack.
I-	— o—
The Scotch joke of the week goes to one about the fellow - who paid twenty-five pennies to go to the Palace, thinking that he would see two shows in one because it had been advertised that Blackstone would be at the palace . . . And , then they wonder why so many readers of this column go ’ gaga.
—0---
?	EXCLUSION
Beyond me, just beyond me, Its beckoning beauty lies. Before me, e’er before me '	Is blessed Paradise.
I	.
>	I seek it, I pursue it,
This Phantom of my mind;
And yet, ne’er can I grasp it;
It leaves me e’er behind.
J
In eveznj place I see it,
*	It beckons me in every way,
,	In every night, in every day.
O Phantom Spirit, stay
A moment, that I may Be zuith you, just today.
—W AZMUS.
THE WINK’S ROAMALOGUES Picture this
■ " ’	~1 poor man’s em-
barrassment; our
cameraman caught him in a rather awkward position just after he had accidentally dropped a bottle of Engle-dinger’s Never-fail Hair Tonic on the grass of the Quadrangle. Note the look of utter disdain on the face of this victim of progressive science.
Dear Sans Gene:
In view of the fact that other campus organizations are conducting poetry contests, may I suggest that you also hold one entitled the “Quibbler’s Poetry Contest.”?
May I go farther and suggest that you limit all contributions to five lines because—well we don’t like long poems anyway? I hereby submit my contribution for the “five-liner championship” of the Archdiocese:—
This love of procrastination
By the younger generation
Will cost these curs Their midnight pers When they go on probation.
—The Ped Knight.
And then there’s the girl who refused to go to the prom because she was taught at home never to go out at night unless called for by a gentleman friend . . . A rather strong argument against early environmental influences.
“TENEBRES”
The midnight breeze fled through the trees Down by the flood-ivorn flume.
The stars were dim; the night zuas grim— Hzished, as an eerie tomb.
And there nearby zuere you and I— Dozun by the yazvning fame— ’Mid zuinged pests and Viper’s nests • We sat in the midnight gloom.
Yoztr hair zuas night; yowr eyes so bright Were the only stars that shone.
Your breath zuas the breeze; your lips were trees, And I kissed you there—alone.
Azid as I kissed, a gentle mist
Welled in these eyes to shine: I thought of you, a dark night, too, Of a love that once zuas mine.
.	My heart zuas zurung; I held my tongzie;
I sazu zuhat zuas my doom . . . .
That love, my dear, is lost ozit there
Izi the depths of the flood-zuorn flume.
—Number 55.
We read the other day, of a fellow in Shreveport, La. who was so moved by orations derogatory to chain stores given by one Henderson that he absolutely refused to put the chains on his car. If these Southerners can’t be Democrats, they at least are loyal to one another.
—Illini Pat.
And now, dear readers of Ancient Almanacs, we’ll dismiss this class because we know that you’re all just dying to dash to the trains to meet the B. and C. Don’t be afraid to show them dear old Freshmen, because it’s only a temporary structure (emphasis on the structure). Be sure to inform them that the room doesn’t always look as it will this week-end, and don’t be ashamed to admit that it took you three days to borrow all the rugs and the pennants.
630
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Blue and Gold Runners Trim Indiana 44-42 -
Wabash Trounces Cagers — 21-16
Little Giants Avenge Previous Victory; Notre Dame Five
Off Color
THE Little Giants of Wabash College handed Coach George Keo-gan’s Notre Dame five then-sixth defeat of the season last Saturday evening at Crawfordsville. The score of 21-16 indicates just about how much the down-staters outplayed the Blue and Gold.
Grabbing the lead soon after the opening whistle, Wabash was never headed, nor even in danger of losing their lead. Notre Dame showed a complete reversal of the form they displayed in the Michigan State game last week. Their passing was inaccurate, dribbling poor, shots wild, and their teamwork anything but that shown a few days before on their horne court.
Coach Pete Vaughn’s men were “on.” Their tricky and speedy passing attack bewildered the Blue and Gold five. The tightness of their defense is shown by the fact that Notre Dame failed to score in the first fifteen minutes of the second half.
Trackmen Engage In Dual Meet With Badgers
Coach John P. Nicholson and his Notre Dame track squad left this morning for Madison, Wis., where they will meet the Wisconsin trackmen in a dual meet tomorrow afternoon. Approximately thirty runners, together with Senior Manager Anthony Kegowicz, made the trip.
Wisconsin is represented this year by an unusually well-balanced team. They boast a clean slate thus far this season, having bested Northwestern, Chicago, and Ohio State in a quadrangular meet several weeks ago and
The score at the half was 13 to 7 in favor of the winners. Notre Dame outscored their opponents by 9 to 8 in the final period, but Wabash’s lead was too much to overcome.
Howell, Wabash floor guard, was high point man of the night with four field goals to his credit. Groves, his teammate, chalked up two goals and three fouls for second honors for the winners. Ed Smith’s work was easily the best for Notre Dame. Besides sinking three baskets and one free
throw, Ed played 1 game.
The score:
NOTRE DAME (16) G F P
Crowe, f 112 McCarthy, f 0 1 2 Gavin, f 0 0 0 DeCook, c 114 O’Connell, c 0 0 0 Busch, c 0 0 0 Smith, g 3 12 Donovan, g 1 0 2 Conley, g 0 0 0
Totals 6 4 12
usual flashy floor
WABASH (21)
G F P
Chase, f	1 0 J.
Bash, f	112
Haskett, f	0	0	0
Groves, c	2	3	3
Howell, g	4	0	0
- Harbison, g	0	1	1
Totals 8 5 7
Officials — Referee, Strohmeier (Chicago) ;
umpire, Maloney (Notre Dame).
then they thoroughly swamped the Gophers, of Minnesota, last week, at Minneapolis.
Last year the Badgers took the Blue and Gold into camp by some thirty points. Therefore Notre Dame is out for revenge tomorrow and will be hard to beat. Darling, who was left at home last week because of illness, and Fishleigh, who was spiked in the Indiana meet, are both expected to be in action tomorrow.
The team will return to the University Sunday.
Four Gym Records Broken As Coach Nicholson’s Boys Best Hoosiers
BREAKING four Indiana fieldhouse records, Coach John P. Nicholson’s Blue and Gold thin-lies defeated a strong, well-balanced Indiana team last Friday night, 44 to 42, at Bloomington. It was Notre Dame’s third straight victory and Indiana’s first defeat of the season.
In the course of the evening seven fieldhouse records fell, and another one was tied. Marty Brill tossed the shot a distance of 43 feet 11 inches to take first place and annex the record for that event. John Abernathy returned to his old form and added more than an inch to the record in the high jump, when he cleared the bar at 6 feet 2 7-8 inches. Johnson was the first man to clear more than 12 feet in the pole vault and set a new record of 12 feet 6 inches. Alex Wilson took the measure of Abe Streicher, of Indiana, in the 440 and in so doing set a new record of 512-10 seconds.
Leas and Clapham, Indiana’s stardistance men, set new marks in the two mile and mile runs respectively. Leas’ time was 9:41, and Clapham covered the mile in 4:24 4-10. The Indiana mile relay team ran their race in 3:30, six seconds faster than the record held by these same four-men.
Bill McCormick won his heat in the preliminaries of the 60-yard dash in 6 3-10 seconds to tie the fieldhouse record. Bill later won the finals in 6 4-10.
Alex Wilson was, without a doubt, the star of the meet. Besides his record-breaking performance in the quarter-mile Alex came home ahead of the field in the 880-yard event. His time in this race, 2:00 8-10 seconds, narrowly missed being a new record.
Todd, by virtue of three seconds, and Clapham, with a first and a second, were high-scorers for Indiana
(-

The Notre Dame Scholastic
631
’> -
with nine and eight points respectively.
Notre Dame scored the only slam of the day when McCormick, Boagni, and Cummings finished in that order in the sixty-yard dash. Hatfield, of Indiana, won from Johnny O’Brien in an extremely close finish in the 70-yard high hurdles. Roy Bailie took third.
The results:
60-Yard Dash—Won by McCormick (ND); Boagni (ND), second; Cummings (ND), third. Time :06 4/10.
70-Yard High Hurdles—Won by Hatfield (I); O’Brien (ND), second; Bailie (ND), third. Time :09.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Wilson (ND); Streicher (I), second; Smock (I), third. Time :51 2/10.
880-Yard Run—Won by Wilson
3
-5

Tentative Baseball Schedule Announced Today
With the official announcement concerning the Florida trip during the Easter vacation still pending, varsity pitchers are already beginning to warm up the “ol’ soupbone” in the gym, every afternoon, in anticipation of a very strenuous season. The Notre Dame nine swings into action on the home sod for the first time
A-------------------------------
1930 BASEBALL SCHEDULE (Tentative)
April 14—Armour Tech at Notre Dame.
April 19-26 — Southern Trip (tentative).
April 30—Wisconsin at Madison.
May 3 — Michigan State at East Lansing.
May 10 — Iowa at Notre Dame.
May 13 — Northwestern at Notre Dame.
May 16—Illinois at Urbana.
May 17 — Northwestern at Evanston.
May 20 — Bradley at Notre Dame.
May 23—Luther at Decorah, Iowa.
May 24—Iowa at Iowa City.
May 26—Michigan State at
Notre Dame.
May 30—Wisconsin at Notre Dame.
May 31 — Navy at Notre
Dame.
(ND); Clapham (I), second; Mc-Connville (ND), third. Time 2:00 9/10.
Mile Run—Won by Clapham (I); Brocksmith (I), second; Little (ND), third. Time 4:24 4/10.
Two-Mile Run—Won by Leas (I); Shafer (I), second; Biggins (ND), third. Time 9:41.
Shot Put—Won by Brill (ND); Todd (I), second; Hoffman (ND), third. Distance, 43 feet, 11 inches.
Pole Vault — Won by Johnson (ND); Slattery (ND), Todd (I), tied for second. Height, 12 feet, 6 inches.
High Jump — Won by Abernathy (ND); Todd (I), second; Banks (I) and Haven (I), tied for third. Height, 6 feet, 2% inches.
Mile Relay — Won by Indiana (Brown, Banks, Streicher, Smock). Time 3:30.
against Armour Tech, of Chicago, on April 14, according to the schedule which awaits the sanction of the University authorities
At a meeting of baseball candidates last week, over 90 aspirants to varsity honors responded. Of that number 25 are pitchers. And a large number of experienced men is to be found on the list. Coach George Keogan will have 25 veterans on the roster this season, from which a fast moving combination may be chosen. Keogan stressed to his men the fact that the university is seriously contemplating the dropping of baseball from the list of major sports next year.
If a creditable showing is made by the Notre Dame outfit in competition this year, the university cannot discard baseball, it was pointed out. Among the pitchers who are expected to come through this season, the names of Dilley, Mannix, Lisicki, Dor-win, DelPrete, and Palt are prominent. The last two were members of the freshman squad last spring, and turned in a very creditable showing.
Practice for all candidates will be held for the first time next Monday. The men will continue the workouts in the gym until the weather permits outdoor practice. Seven games will be played on the home lot this year.
If the Florida trip materializes, the squad will play two games at Gainesville, Fla., two at Fort Benning, in Columbus, Ga., and two against Georgia Tech, at Atlanta.
FINAL CAGE GAME OF .
SEASON TONIGHT WITH BUTLER
Notre Dame’s last home game of the current season will be played this evening with Coach Tony Hinkle’s Butler Bulldogs as opponents for the second time this year. Coach George E. Keogan has been prepping his boys for this concluding contest on the home floor bearing in mind the determination of the Bulldogs to
❖--------------------------------------.>
1929-30 Basketball Schedule
Dec. 2—N. D. 40, Kalamazoo Col. 16
Dec. 7—N. D. 49, Lake Forest 21
Dec. 13—N. D. 59, Albion 11
Dec. 19—Northwestern 30, N. D. 28
Dec. 23—N. D. 32, Iowa 19
Dec. 28—Ohio State 29, N. D. 22
Dec. 31—N. D. 22, Northwestern 19
Jan. 7—N. D. 30, Indiana 29
Jan. 11—N. D. 44, Marquette 29
Jan. 18—Pitt 33, N. D. 13
Jan. 20—N. D. 29, Mexico City Fai 23
Jan. 22—M. S. C. 28, N. D. -21
Jan. 31—N. D. 26, Wabash 10
Feb. 4—N. D. 20, Marquette IS
Feb. 8—Pitt 25, N. D. 16
Feb. T4—N. D. 28. Butler 20
Feb. 18—N. D. 29, Michigan State 17
Feb. 22—Wabash 21, N. D. 16
Feb. 28—Butler University at Notre Dame
Mar. 8—Univ, of Penn, at Philadelphia »:•----------------------------------—>
avenge the previous 28 to 20 Notre Dame victory two weeks ago on the Butler floor.
Reynolds, Evans, and Christopher of Butler were the stars of the initial tilt between the two teams. Reynolds scored two field goals and three fouls for a total of seven points. Butler had a state championship team last year and has retained many of the players who have filled the gaps left by ineligibility and graduation during the past month.
Before losing Hildebrand, Hosier and several other star performers, Butler trounced such teams as Purdue, conquerors of Loyola, 36-29, and Chicago, 28-21, besides other powerful western quintets.
Ray DeCook and Ooney Donovan were the Blue and Gold stars in the game several weeks ago, both dropping in four field goals. Donovan added five free throws and DeCook four.
The game tonight will be the last home appearance of Captain Ooney Donovan, Ed. Smith, Jack McCarthy, and Marshall Kizer and a capacity crowd is expected to fill the gymnasium to view the contest.
632
The Notre Dame Scholastic
FROSH WIN AGAIN; BEAT FROEBEL
The track men of Freshman Hall added another victory to their growing list last Saturday afternoon when they downed the Froebel High squad, of G^ry, in the University gymnasium. By taking five firsts and six seconds the Notre Dame freshmen piled up 50% points to their opponents 44%.
The pole-vaulting of Wonswitz of Froebel, who cleared the bar at 12 feet 8 inches, was the feature of the meet. Brantford of Freshman put the 12-pound shot 47 feet 6 inches to win by a comfortable margin. Dilling and Garrett, both of Freshman, ran good races to place one-two in the 60-yard dash. Dilling’s time was 6 2-5 seconds.
Anthony, Froebel’s dusky distance star, defeated Troy of Freshman by about six inches in the mile run. Anthony’s sprint on the last 220 overcame Troy’s fifteen yard lead. His time was 4:51.
The results:
60-Yard Dash—Won by Dilling (FH); Garrett (FH), second; Pie-woti (Froe), third. Time :06 2/5.
60-Yard High Hurdles—Won by Abrams (Froe); Corcoran (FH),
second; Ackerman (FH), third. Time :08 3/10.
65-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Mullins (Froe); Garrett (FH), second; Corcoran (FH), third. Time :07 5/10.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Kelly (FH); Smith (Froe), second; Kempf (FH), third. Time :54 5/10.
880-Yard Run—Won by Macbeth (FH); Mullins (Froe), second; Anthony (Froe), third. Time 2:07.
Mile Run — Won by Anthony (Froe); Troy (FH), second; Hoyt (FH), third. Time 4:51.
Pole Vault—Won by Wonswitz (Froe); Milan (FH), second; Jask-wich (FH), third. Height, 12 feet, 8 inches.
Shot Put — Won by Brantfort (FH); Smith (Froe), second; Gordon (Froe), third. Distance, 47 feet, 6 inches.
Broad Jump — Won by Mullins (Froe); Gough (FH), second; Dilling (FH) and Scott (Froe), tied for third. Distance, 21 feet, 2% inches.
High Jump — Won by Gordon (Froe); Wonswitz (Froe), second; Dilling (FH), third. Height, 5 feet, 6 inches.
880-Yard Relay—Won by Freshman Hall. Time 1:37 7/10.
FOOTBALL RELAY TEAM WINS AT BUFFALO
Notre Dame’s football relay team won the special 880-yard relay of the Buffalo A. C. games last Friday evening. With Frank Carideo, Bucky O’Connor, Moon Mullins, and Cap Kaplan each running 220 yards, the Blue and Gold pigskin artists easily outdistanced the University of Buffalo team.
The running of O’Connor was the feature of the event. Bucky was timed, unofficially, in 25 seconds for his leg of the race.
Franklin O’Marah, assistant Senior Track Manager, who is a Buffalo boy, accompanied the men on the trip.
4
BACHMAN WANTS ROCKNE TO GIVE ADVICE
. Charles W. Bachman, football coach of the University of Florida, has invited Knute Rockne to confer with him during one of the Gators’ spring football practice sessions. Bachman played football at Notre Dame in 1916 and 1917 and was a member- of the track team during the same years.

For the
BEST HAMBURGER SANDWICHES AND THE BEST HOME-MADE PIES in South Bend or Mishawaka STOP AT THE 2i4 LUNCH ROOMS
232 N. Main St.	123 S. Main St.
South Bend	Mishawaka
WE GRIND OUR OWN MEAT DAILY.
NO extra charge for toasted buns. Open All Night
Shoe Repair and Hat Cleaners 214 North Michigan Street (Next to Granada)
A
NEW ESTABLISHMENT WITH SPECIAL SERVICE
TO STUDENTS
Hats Cleaned ___________________$ .50
Shoes Shined-------------------- .10
Shoes Half-soled and Heeled_____ 1.75
—Also—
Suits Pressed while you wait in
special dressing rooms--------$ .40
Suits Cleaned and Pressed------- 1.00
The Notre Dame Scholastic
633

H'..................................................................................      nnmiuii	gj
INTERHALL ITEMS
iiniiiiiiiiiiiliiiitiiiiiiiii mu.min.mu.mmiiiiiimimm.mi.mu.....      „|g
INTERHALL BASKETBALL STANDINGS
(Including games played February 23) Heavyweight Division
> Morrissey and Sophomore fives are still leading the heavyweight and lightweight divisions, respectively, in n-, the interhall basketball league. Neither team has suffered defeat in com-< . .
petition and still maintains the high average.
St. Edward’s team furnished the most surprising upset of the interhall league season when Sophomore’s “galloping horsemen” fell victim to
■* the Blue and Grey attack.
> , Two hundred and fourteen entrants from six halls is ample testimony of the popularity of interhall track this season. Seven more halls in competi-
> tion by March 1 should furnish fire-works galore. The winners meet in the finals March 15.
. * * *
Bob Law, of Morrissey, is setting a fast pace for interhall scorers with a , total of 62 points while Harrison, of Carroll, has amassed 46 to take second A ’ place in the scoring ladder.
* $ *
Waterson, Sophomore, in the light-weight league has garnered 66 points with Rohrbach, Badin, in the runner-up position with 51.
,A * * *
Morrissey holds the league scoring record to date with a 54-7 win re- . corded against Howard.
Morrissey meets Brownson heavies in a playoff of a postponed game on Monday, March 3, at 9 p. m. Other playoffs will take place after the close of the regular schedule.
* * *
Much interest has been aroused in anticipation of the championship games between Morrissey and Badin on Sunday, and the Morrissey- Sophomore game on Thursday. These two games will probably draw the largest crowds of the league season.
* * *
Brownson, Carroll, St. Edward’s, Sophomore, Walsh, and Morrissey Halls, will compete tomorrow night in the second of the two sectional track meets being held to select the competitors in the final meet of the season. The finals are to be held one week hence, on Saturday, March 15.
*
The Morrissey Lites finally won a game; but the only way they could win was by a forfeit, as, so it seems, Howard failed to put in its appearance at the scheduled time.
# * *
Lyons’ two teams are rushing along at top speed. The Heavy and Lightweight teams rest in second place in both of those leagues. Concurrent games may change the standings sufficiently to reward them with the titles. But that theory is thin, the way Morrissey Heavies and Soph Lites have been playing.
LEADING INTERHALL SCORERS
Heavyweight League
Lightweight Division
	Name	Hall	Points	Name	Hall	Points
	• Law	Morrissey	62	Waterson	Sophomore	66
	Harrison	Carroll	46	Rohrback	Badin	51
-	Izo	Sophomore	40	Duke	Corby	50
-	Duffy	Morrissey	40	Thompson	St. Edward’s	‘ 46
	Campbell	Brownson	35	Reaume	Walsh	42
T	O’Donnell	Brownson	33	Oakes	Lyons	39
M	Dolan	Lyons	,	33	Gorman	St. Edward’s	36
	Hertz	Off-Campus	32	Orthmeyer	Brownson	30
i	Medland	Walsh	32	Montgomery	Carroll	29
•	Igo	St. Edward’s	31	Angster	Badin	29
	Palt	Lyons	31	Thompson	Brownson	28
	Ziliak	Badin	30	Clark	Morrissey	28
	Kremer	St. Edward’s	' 30	Sullivan	Freshman	27
	Bloom	Corby	27	Malloy	Sorin	26
	O’Neil	Freshman	26	Golden	Off-Campus	25
	Games	Won	Lost	Pct.
Morrissey	8	8	0	1.000
Lyons	8	7	1	.875
Sophomore	8	7	1	.875
Badin	8	6	2	.750
St. Edward’s.	9	5	4	.555
Sorin	9	4	5	.444
Brownson	8	3	5	.375
Freshman	9	3	6	.333
Off-Campus	9	3	6	.333
Corby	8	2	6	.250
Carroll	8	2	6	.250
Howard	9	2	7	.222
Walsh	9	1	8	.112
Lightweight Division				
	Games	Won	Lost	Pct.
Sophomore	9	9	0	1.000
Lyons	9	7	2	.777
Off-Campus	10	7	3	.700
St. Edward’s	9	6	3	.666
Brownson	9	5	4	.555
Badin	9	5	4	.555
Corby	9	4	5	.444
Freshman	9	4 •	5	.444
Carroll	8	3	5	.375
Sorin	8	2	6	.250
Walsh	9	2	7	.222
Howard	9	2	7	.222
Morrissey	10	1	9	.100
INTERHALL BASKETBALL RESULTS
Heavyweight League
Wednesday, February 19—
Morrissey 16, Off-Campus 10 Badin 18, Freshman 16
Carroll 19, Walsh 18
Thursday, Febntary 20—
Lyons 13, Brownson 11
Sorin 20, Howard 17
St. Edward’s 18, Sophomore 12
Sunday, Febntary 23—
Sophomore 22, Badin 16 Morrissey 58, Howard 7 Corby 30, Off-Campus 21 Brownson 20, St. Edward’s 15 Walsh 2, Sorin 0 (forfeit) (Lyons-Carroll game played
Tuesday, February 25) •
Lightweight League
Wednesday, Febntary 19— Sophomore 43, Badin 8 Brownson 10, St. Edward’s 4 Walsh 2, Sorin 0 (forfeit) Morrissey 2, Howard 0 (forfeit) Off-Campus 2, Corby 0 (forfeit) (Lyons-Carroll game played
Tuesday, February 25)
634
The Notre Dame Scholastic
SENIORS HEAR FATHER MULCAIRE, STANTON, HASLEY AND
REARDON IN WASHINGTON DAY EXERCISES
(Continued from Page 625)
opposition to its acknowledged authority, but also that you resist with care the spirit of innovation upon its principles—however specious be the pretext.
“ ‘Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity religion and morality are indispensable supports. In vain would a man claim the tribute to patriotism who should labor to subvert these great pillars of human happiness, these firm props of the duties of men and citizens.
“ ‘Against the insidious wiles of foreign influence the jealousies of a free people should be constantly awake. Since foreign influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican government, it is our true policy to steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the foreign world.’
“These, gentlemen, are the words of George Washington, our first president. They explain the fundamental principles of our government. If the time should ever come when equal rights are temporarily displaced by special privileges, if the nations should be stirred by the knowledge of the dishonesty of our officials, if we should learn of scientific bribery and paid lobbying in our national capitol, if the very foundation of our representative government is shaken by rottenness and corruption in positions of trust—then, gentlemen, recall again the principles of government as expressed in this farewell address. Remember that the trunk of the institution is sound and that if the limbs of the tree have become decayed they can well be pruned. The principles of liberty, morality, and national isolation, as expressed by Washington, are the criteria of our conduct. And these principles can only be maintained in the spirit of sacrifice and faith in which they were instituted.”
BOXERS TO MEET
Jack Keefe, secretary of the S. A. C., announced this week that the council 'will sponsor an undergraduate boxing tournament. Preliminaries will be held soon, and the finalists will meet in a big meet in the gymnasium, about the middle of March.
REEDY AND BRENNAN RECEIVE “SCHOLASTIC”
PROMOTION
Joseph Reedy, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been appointed assistant managing editor of the Scholastic to succeed Thomas Cannon. Mr. Reedy is majoring in journalism and has worked faithfully for his promotion. He has occasionally assisted Mr. Emil Telfel on the Man About the Campus column, and has written news stories and features.
The office of Script editor, formerly handled by Alfred Gall, has been assigned to Mr. Edward Brennan, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. Mr. Brennan has been a member of the news staff for some time and his consistently good articles are responsible for his appointment to the office.
FACULTY MEMBERS SPEAK
BEFORE SOUTH BEND
•	CLUBS
During the past week a number of members of the Notre Dame faculty have appeared before various South Bend clubs and have given speeches.
On Monday, Professor Knowles Smith, of the Department of Engineering, addressed the members of the Nature department on the subject of “Geology in Nature.”
Dr. R. M. Kaczmarek, of the College of Science, addressed a group of Boy Scout leaders on the subject of “Our Hereditary Background.” An Tuesday and Wednesday, Coaches Anderson and Chevigny spoke before the University Club on the topic, “Notre Dame Football Prospects for 1930.”
NEW BOOKS LISTED IN LIBRARY FILES
A number of new books have been purchased by the University librarian and are now listed in the files as follows : J. M. Campbell, “The Greek Fathers”; D. B. W. Lewis, “King Spider”; C. G. Bowers, “The Party Battles of the Jackson Period”; H. Liddell, “Sherman’s Soldier, Realist, American”; Robert T. McKenzie, “Exercise in Education and Medicine”; Howard H. Jones, “Football For the Fan”; Thomas D. Wood, “Source Book in Health and Physical Education”; C. E. Carpenter, “Dollars and Sense.”
*-----------------
Gleanings
Many graduates of last year’s College of Law were present at the Lawyers’ Ball, last Friday evening. Among those seen were: Jerry Roach, Grand Rapids, former president of the club; Henry Hasley, of Fort Wayne; Tom Happer, of Elkhart; Paul Butler, of South Bend; Oscar Rust, of Chicago; George Beamer, of South Bend; Michael Khourry, of South Bend and David Stanton, of Gary.
The guests at the Prom tonight will represent 22 states, the majority claiming Indiana and Illinois as their residences.
E. M. Granfield, a student at the University in 1920, has been recently elected to Congress from Massachusetts. Granfield, while at the University, was a member of the varsity basketball team.
The third member of the Walsh family, athletically renowned, has enrolled at the University this semester. This lad, like his brothers, is a blonde, and is called Paul. Prior to his coming, Adam and Charlie were members of the varsity football team.
Approximately 500 students of the University attended the dances held by the various classes of Saint Mary’s during the past two weeks. Guess they had a good time!
Tom Cunningham, erstwhile campus journalist, is busy writing a number of skits for the Knights of Columbus Revue which will take place after Easter, using the personnel of the local Knights as players.
William Montavon, ’98, is the author of an outstanding article, “Present Conditions in Haiti,” in the current bulletin of the National Council , of Catholic Welfare.
Z $
J
aasvaajfeKU
The Notre Dame Scholastic
635
Freshman and Howard Lead in Track Meet
In the first of the preliminary Interhall track meets on the program for this month, six teams, representing Freshman, Howard, Lyons, Sorin and Off-Campus entered 214 men in the ten events. The meet turned out to be hardly more than a dual meet between Freshman and Howard, with the former' winning, 54% to 40%, but despite this the contest served to show the great amount of interest in the sport, around the campus The entries in the various events were divided as follows: Dash, 39; Hurdles, 24; 440-yard, 15; 880-yard, 14; mile, 18; shot put, 24; high jump, 26; broad jump, 23; pole vault, 13; and relay, 18.
Lyons Hall took third place with four points, Sorin scored three, and Corby and Off-Campus one each.
Garrett, of Howard, ran the sixty in 6 5/10 seconds to take first place in that event. He also won the 65-yard low hurdles, and placed second in the broad jump to win high-scoring honors for the evening, with thirteen points.
Jack Cannon, the iron man of Sorin’s four-man team, entered every event on the program but succeeded only in taking seconds in his heats of the dash and hurdles, neither achievements qualifying him for the finals.
Vejar’s leap of 21 feet 8 inches won the broad jump for Freshman, but he was closely pressed by Garrett and Abbatemarco, both of Howard. Ab-batemarco also took second in the dash, and fourth in the high jump to score six points for the Gold-Coasters.
Malan and Jaskewich, both of Freshman, tied at 11 feet in the pole vault. St. Clair, of Howard, and Ves-sely, of Freshman, cleared the bar at 10 feet 6 inches.
The results:
60-Yard Dash — Won by Garrett (H); Abbatamarco (H), second; Busch (H), third; Kempf (OC), fourth. Time :06 5/10.
65-Yard Low Hurdles—Won by Garrett (H); Corcoran (H), second; Macbeth (F), third; Schricte (F), fourth. Time :07 8/10.
440-Yard Dash—Won by Kelly (F); Schricte (F), second; McKeever (F), third; Foxen (H), fourth. Time :56 5/10.
880-Yard Run—Won by Macbeth (F); Woods (L), second; Masterson (F), third; Monahan (H), fourth. Time 2:14 3/10.
Mile Run—Won by Troy (F) ; Dore (S), second; Hoyt (H), third. Time 5:01.
Shot Put—Won by Brantfort (F); Beaudine (H), second; LeJeune (F), third; Sweeney (C)*, fourth. Distance, 41 feet.
Broad Jump—Won by Vejar (F); Garrett (H), second; Abbatamarco (H), third; Bice (F), fourth. Distance, 21 feet, 8 inches.
Pole Vault—Won by Malan and Jaskewich (F), tied; St. Clair (H) and Vessely (F), tied for second. Height, 11 feet.
High Jump—Won by Kenny (H); Hughes (F), second; O’Hara (H), third; Abbatamarco (H), fourth. Height, 5 feet, 5 inches.
Relay—Won by Freshman (Macbeth, Schrichte, Masterson, Troy, McCarthy, Kelly); Howard, second; Lyons, third. Time 2:30 3/10.
r / they shall not have om*
Pipes!
PIPES and pants are masculine prerogatives that defend themselves and us. Where else could men find sanctuary?
Pipes, stout pipes, and packings of good old Edgeworth—what perfect expression of man’s inviolable right of refuge with other men behind barriers of redolent smoke!
Tobacco with the whiskers on, that’s what man wants—good old seasoned pipe-tobacco, the best of the leaf, all blended and flavored and mellowed . . . Edgeworth, in short.
You don’t know Edgeworth? Then no time must be lost. Buy Edgeworth or borrow it, or let us send you some. There belowis even a coupon, a free ticket for your first few pipefuls of the genuine.
Send us the coupon and we’ll send you the Edgeworth.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality andflavomeverchan^e. Buy Edgeworth anywhere—“Ready Rubbed” and “Plug Slice”— 15 e pocket package to pound humidor tin. -
WANTED?
“GOD’S MAN”
First Edition By
Lynd Ward
Mark Twain Christopher Morley Eugene O’Neill First Editions or What Have You?
F. M. Gardiner
839 Lincoln Way East South Bend
Phone 3-1254
Drs. Singler & Probst
DENTISTS
261 Associates Bldg.
Edgeworth
SMOKING TOBACCO
LARUS & BRO. CO.
IOC S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try it in a good pipe.
Name____________________________
Street__________________________
Town and State___________________
Now let the Edgeworth cornel V
636
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Starting Saturday for 4 Days
They found happiness on an island of burning death. The dashing, fearless man and the innocent tortured girl. The year’s master romance!
RONALD
Colman
in
“Condemned”
With
ANN HARDING
LOUIS WOLHEEM
A United Artists’
ALL-TALKING PICTURE
— Wednesday — Friday —
There’s dynamite in the laxity of the idle rich! Dynamite in the clash between the upper and lower worlds 1
M. G. M. Presents
“Dynamite”
Cecil B. DeMille’s
' FIRST TALKING SPECTACLE
With
CONRAD NAGEL
KAY JOHNSON
Others
R. K. 0.	'
PALACE
Y’
3 Days Commencing Sunday
A million dollar comedy-romance with a laugh and a roar for every cent. A merry matrimonial mix-up that’s worth its weight in laughs
Loose Ankles
With .
LORETTA YOUNG and
. DOUG FAIRBANKS, JR.
and
•-1
^1
*
5 Great Acts
Vaudeville
COMING WEDNESDAY
THE SHOW OF ALL NATIONS
The Famous YOUNG KING TROUPE From China
From Italy
JACK WILSON & CO. From Africa
THE GRADUATES From America

The Notre Dame Scholastic
.637
Splinters from the Press Box
❖----------------------------------------—.>
To the list of “Great Competitors” add the names of John Abernathy, James Slattery and Martin Brill.
* * *
Bill Cunningham, sports philosopher of the greatly esteemed Boston Post, rises to protest against the free and easy use of the terms “bravery” and “courage” in the reports of certain sports events. He decries the use of these terms in sports such as golf and tennis, and claims that they may only be used in writing of sports in which there is physical contact, save, he says, in the instance of a player in a non-contact game who labors on although under’ a physical handicap, such as a turned ankle or a cramp.
And one cannot help agreeing with Mr. Cunningham. There has been entirely too little restraint placed upon the use of the terms he mentions. Writers have used them so much and so lightly that they have become cheapened and well-nigh meaningless. But we think that there are one or two non-contact sports in
imu ii unit mu i uiiitiiiiinitiiiiiitiiiuitiniiiiiiiiiiiiitiHtiiiiii
which the terms “bravery” and “courage” may well be used in describing a competitor’s performance. Surely Mr. Cunningham has seen men collapse at the end of a foot-race, and even more surely—has Mr. Cunningham seen the members of an eight-oared crew bowed semi-conscious— over their sweeps after a hard-fought race.
In basketball as in other sports, the end of the season finds upsets oc-curing more and more frequently. Wabash’s victory the other night may be classed as such, even though the Little Giants held the ball for some thirty of the forty minutes of play. The victory of the mediocre Columbia team over Syracuse was probably the most sensational upset thus far. Moreso, since the Orange was in a - fair way to gain recognition as National Champion.
* * $
When Horton Smith beat Bobby Jones last Saturday in the Savannah open he was the fifteenth man to beat the great southerner in medal play championships in the last eight years. No golfer has accomplished this feat more than once, however!
iiiiiiiititiin ii iiitttitii 111111111(111111111 it ii niiniiiiiinuiiiiiiHiiiiiiittuiuiiuiiii
Habitual smokers on the University of Washington track team are not required to stop smoking. Faculty members have asked them to continue smoking in order that they may determine the effect of nicotine. All very well, but what about the track coach ? And the morale of the team ?
* * *
Bradford Lair, of Monticello, Kentucky, is quite an asset to the local basketball team. Standing 6 feet, 9finches, he can reach as high as ten feet, one inch, and has little trouble in dropping the ball into the basket instead of throwing it in. He has averaged 24 points a game this season.
>c
Larry Johnson, latest colored fistic sensation, is rapidly learning that the way of the negro in the ring is a rough one to travel. He decisively defeated Pete Latzo the other day, only to see the fight given to the former miner by one of the worst decisions ever handed down anywhere. But that has been the story in the past of every colored prize-fighter. Sam Langford, Joe Gans, and Peter Jackson are only a few of the great colored prize-fighters whose color has been a handicap to them.
D A NT A D A For Four Days V jlv/N IN1Saturday, Feb. 30
“The Sky Hawk”
A Thrilling—All-Talking Drama Of The Skies From The Liberty Magazine Story, “Chap Called Bardell”
—3 Days Starting Wed. March 5—
“Second Wife”
With
CONRAD NAGEL
AND LILA LEE
—Coming Next Week—
“Lone Star Ranger”
With
GEORGE O’BRIEN SUE CAROL ZANE GREY’S FIRST All-Talking Picture
638
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A
GIL-BRO’S
Formerly U. S. Army Store 330 South Michigan
GEORGE L. MILLER 103 No. Main Street South Bend, Ind.
of
New Spring Oxfords
TOWERS FISHBRAND SLICKERS Green-Yellow or Black $7.50 values
New imported lisle half Hose French English - German
$1.00 to $3.50
—o—
Imported and Domestic Men’ sWear

4
J
Say it With Flowers
South Bend Floral Company
11 J, S. Mich. St. -
Flowers telegraphed anywhere on Short Notice
lib S. Mich. St.
Telephone 3-8227
Follow The Crowd, Men,
to
The Rainbow
■ Restaurant
South Bend’s Most Beautiful Place Opposite Palais Royale
—0—
We serve
Special Breakfasts, Lunches and Dinners.
Mid-night Specials also, c
—o--
OUR COOKING AND FOOD
ARE WONDERFUL.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
639
NOTRE DAME GRADS SEEK COACHING FAME
Three Notre Dame graduates were the recipients of coaching positions during the past week. John Law, 1929 football captain, was named head football mentor at Manhattan College Law succeeds Joseph K. Schwarber, who resigned. Law was named as assistant to Schwarber some weeks ago and was moved up to the head coach’s position when Schwarzer resigned to enter business.
Richard (Red) Smith, member of the Notre Dame baseball teams of ’25, ’26, and captain in ’27, and of the football teams of ’26 and ’27, was selected as baseball coach at Georgetown University. Smith was with the New York Giants for a year as catcher, later going to Montreal in the International league. The last year was spent with the Boston Braves in the National league. Smith’s appointment at Georgetown gives that school’s athletic department five former Notre Dame men. Head Coach
Tommy Mills, John Colrick, Ed Collins, Tim Moynihan, and now Red Smith comprise the list of former Notre Dame men.
Harry O’Boyle, football star on the “Four Horsemen” team of 1924, 1925, and 1926, and players on the baseball squads of the same three years, has been named coach of football, baseball and basketball at St. Anselm’s College, in Manchester, N. H. O’Boyle succeeds John J. Mitchell, former Holy Cross athlete, who has held the post for the past four years.
a brief pause for station
announcement
Delicious and Refreshing
Drink
MILLION a day
,he Pause
that refreshes
Stand by everybody I for Coca-Cola broadcasting a program of delicious refreshment from every ice-cold glass and bottle. Operating on a frequency of nine million drinks a day. The happiest, shortest cut to refreshment is the briefpause for Coca-Cola. The drink that tunes in with all places, times, occasions and moods. The easiest-to-take setting-up exercise ever invented, while its deligntrul, tin-
The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Ga.
CW-2
1 S
640
The Notre Dame Scholastic

Books Authors and Literary Events
A page in the Sunday paper of interest to thinkers
Are you reading Prof. Phillip’s Sunday articles?
THE
NEWS - TIMES
On Down the Line
The most popular ready-to-eat cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include Kellogg’s Corn Flakes, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kafifee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep.
OLDER PEOPLE often think that college life is one of easy lolling around. You know better. You know that the steady grind of classes and outside activities takes every ounce of energy you have.
Keep fit if you expect to keep it up! Kellogg’s ALL-BRAN will prevent constipation, the cause of most ill health. Two tablespoonfuls eaten every day will keep you strictly regular. It’s guaranteed. ALL-BRAN is a pure, wholesome cereal, delicious with milk or cream, mixed with other cereals, or with fruit or honey added. Ask that it be served at your fraternity house or favorite campus restaurant.
. . . MARY K. BROWNE, professional tennis player and golfer of . amateur standing, is the only woman to achieve prominence in both sports . . . Thirteen of the Brooklyn Robins in the National League are holding out for more money . . . included on the list are DAZZY VANCE and BABE HERMAN . . . The Cleveland Rosenblooms, first half winner in the American pro cage league, recently lost four games in four successive nights ... all were lost by only one point, which creates some sort of record . . .
... Old CHARLEY WHITE, who began his ring career when Sammy Mandell, the present lightweight champ, wias born 25 years ago, tried a comeback last week against one of the PERLICK twins . . . WHITE’S 39 years proved too much of a handicap, and HENRY PERLICK laid him out cold in the second round .. . MISS -ELEANOR HOLM, pretty New York school girl, has gained fame in women’s swimming circles . . . Three back-stroke records in four days comprised her recent drive against world records.
.. . MISS STELLA WALSH, Cleveland railroad clerk, equalled all existing world records for the girls’ 50-yard dash in the Millrose games recently . . . she ran the fifty yards in six seconds flat . . . She was declared winner of the RODMAN WANAMAKER international trophy award, given to the outstanding athlete in each year’s games . . . MISS WALSH is the first girl to get that honor . . . DR. MAX KRAUS, president of the Hakoah Soccer Club, never wears hat or overcoat ... He has scorned them since he served as captain in the Hungarian army years ago . . .
. . . Patrons of the Boston Braves will be entertained by a band concert before every home game this season . . . When they start putting on “baseball contests” in that town they won’t have to resort to the bands . . . Spring football training began last week at the University of Hlinois . . . Prospects are dismal . . . COACH ZUPPKE, will have but six letter men returning . .. sixteen letter men u will be graduated in June . . .

- A
The Notre Dame Scholastic
641
tSMBHtaUHg
Springtime is
MaltedMilk Ti me—
4 •
Clear skies, gentle breezes, warm sunshine, lighten the troubles of winter months and stimulate the student’s mind and body bringing contentment, gayety and a feeling of lassitude.
>.•
Walgreen’s malteds have the same effect, but banish all lassitude; they are refreshing, invigorating, light, tasty and typical of Spring,

©
toalcp,eeiie>
DRUGS WITH A REPUTATION
Where Notre Dame's Men are seen and WELCOME!
642
The Notre Dame Scholastic
HERE’S
VALUE!
SPRING
|2 PANTS SUITS

University men with one eye to economy and the other to quality will respond to this initial showing of Two-Trouser Spring Suits. We ordered these clothes to your specifications, stipulating definitely the style, the fabric, the colors and the kind of tailoring. The result is a suit exceeding even our own expectations.
Others to
$50
ADLER I K IM15