•	§
i	I
>
i
■	In this week of Memorial Day the SCHOLASTIC presents an
’	artist's conception of the proposed Adoration Chapel under con-
I	•	!-V
sideration as the University's War Memorial for Notre Dame men	3?
HOW MUCH TO MOVE A WAR?
A S SOON as we can, we’ll bring to bear on the Japs all the additional might we’ve been using against Germany.
What will it cost, this Moving Day of War?
Estimate it in these terms: The job of moving millions of men from one front to another.
Thousands of ships to carry the supplies of battle. Swarms of new-type aircraft to blast the
path into enemy territory.
You can get an idea of the cost from the fact
that Uncle Sam needs 7 billions from us in the mighty Seventh War Loan—now!
The Seventh War Loan will call for the greatest bond-buying we have ever done. If you
have an income — whether from work, land, or capital — you have a quota in the 7th War Loan. Be sure to make it!
FIND YOUR QUOTA.. .AND MAKE IT!		
IF YOUR AVERAGE INCOME PER MONTH IS:	YOUR PERSONAL WAR BOND QUOTA IS: (CASH VALUE)	MATURITY VALUE OF 7TH WAR LOAN BONDS BOUGHT
$250	$18730	$250
225-250	150.00	200
210-225	131.25	175
200-210	11230	150
180-200	93.75	125
140-180	75.00	100
100-140	37.50	50
Under $100	18.75	25
ALL OUT FOR THE MIGHTY 7th WAR LOAN
THE SCHOLASTIC
•A- Tbit is an official V. S. Treasury advertisement—prepared under the auspices of Treasury Department and Wiir Advertising Council -jf
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 84
JUNE 1. 1945
NO. 11
University Professors Organize Local Chapter
Twenty professors of the University of Notre Dame met this week to form a chapter of the American Association of University professors. Professor Boyer T. Campbell presided as chairman at this initial meeting.
Prof. Willis D. Nutting
• Mr. Willis Nutting, of the University’s department of History, was elected chapter president and Mr. Paul Fenlon, associate head of the department of English, was elected secretary-treasurer.
The chapter plans to encourage greater participation by the entire faculty of the University in matters concerning academic and post-war problems.
Photo Exhibit in Library Changes Tomorrow
The photographic exhibit appearing in the card catalog annex of the University library will be removed today and a new gallery of photos will be presented tomorrow, to run for two weeks.
The Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., is arranging for the exhibition of . the handiwork of the St Joseph County .camera zealots here at Notre Dame. The photographs which have been exhibited for the past two weeks were of high calibre, great interest and variety. Father Keller has promised a similar group of prints for the coming exhibit.
Plans are under way to arrange an exhibit of photographs by the Notre Dame V-12 camera club, recently organized by Father' Keller.—F. V. C.
Ft. McAvoy Receives Coveted Copy of Book About Founder of Congregation
BY FRANK V. GRIMALDI
From the University of Notre Dame archives comes another story of an unusual chain of events intimate to the early years of the Congregation of Holy Cross and the correspondence of its holy pioneers. This one is about the founder of the Congregation, the Rev. Basil Antoine Moreau.
In a book just published by the Canadian province of the Congregation, Rev. Phiieas Vanier, C.S.C., general archivist, presents an interesting revelation of a controversy between Father Moreau and St. Euphasie Pelletier. The book, Recueil Documentaire Le tres reverend Pere Moreau, presents to public reading for the first time some historical and significant letters of Father Moreau which were written during his early life and which reveal some interesting facts in connection with the disagreement he had with St. Euphasie.
It was over the reorganization of the Sisterhood of the Good Shepherd in the 1830’s that the two holy people were in disagreement. Father Moreau was director of the Order’s convent at Angers, France, when Sister Euphasie was carrying out the reorganization. All the convents carried out her reorganization-
Knights of Columbus Building Corp. Meets
The Knights of Columbus Building Corporation, a group of local Knights charged with the responsibility of administering money contributed towards the erection of a permanent building to house the Notre Dame Council No. 1477, met last week. Mr. Leo Kuntz, head of the department of education, presided. Mr. James E. Armstrong, vice-president and acting secretary, led the discussion on the question of re-organization. Mr. Herbert Jones, treasurer, gave a report
al plans except the one under Father Moreau at Angers. These facts were presented and weighed at the canonization of Sister Euphasie in 1940, but documents backing up Father Moreau’s ideas were lacking.
The Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., Notre Dame archivist, recently discovered in the Notre Dame archives some letters written by Father Moreau at the time he was in disagreement with St. Euphasie. The copies of these letters make up a good portion of Father Vanier’s book on Father Moreau, and might well have been presented.at the canonization had their existence been known at the time. The rest of the book is on letters which were in the possession of Father Napoleon Perche, who was archbishop of New Orleans in 1870.
Notre Dame received the significant personal papers of Fathei' Moreau about 1900. Father McAvoy, having discovered them and presented them to Archivist Vanier, is singularly privileged to have one of the first copies of the book containing a discourse on the rare documents of Father Moreau, and members of the Congregation eagerly await an opportunity to delve into it.
on the financial condition of the corporation. On motion from members present, several investments were made.
Because all members were not present, a motion was entertained to postpone serious discussion for reorganization until a meeting with complete attendance could be held. It was agreed that this meeting should be held on Friday, June 15 at 4:00 p.m. in the office of Herbert E. Jones, second floor, administration building. At this meeting, there will be a new election of officers, and specific problems on investment will be discussed. For this reason, it is urgent that all members be present.
3
College Parade
. . . By E. F. Gillespie
^he ^Notre S£)ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victwrus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1867
*1111111II111111111 Ui 11111111 III 111 UI 111 III 111111 II 11111111 It 111111II111111IIIMIII1111111111111111 It 1111 ■ I ■ 1311111111111111
MtltllllilllilHIHIIIIIIIilltliltlllltltllllltllliltlllHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIilillHIHIIIIItlllitttlHltllllllllllltl||llt||t||t
THE STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN, Editor-In-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND -	- Navy Associate Editor
GEORGE DESPOT -	-	- Managing Editor
JAMES REGAN -	-	-	- Sports Editor
JAMES F. McCARTHY -	-	- Feature Editor
AL KUENZLI -	-	- Advertising Manager
RALPH HAYMAN -	- Circulation Manager
BOB O'TOOLE -	-	-	- Promotion
COLUMNISTS
POWER - WALTERS -	- The Green Banner
E. F. GILLESPIE -	-	- The College Parade
ART WAGNER -	-	-	- Swabbie's Log
FRANK GUIDO -	-	-	- Photography
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Adviser
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
FRANK GRIMALDI JOHN DEFANT GERARD HEKKER OCTAVE EMOND
JOHN FEENEY J. J. TENGE DAN DANISZEWICZ TOM RYAN PAUL WEYRAUCH
JOHN MILES LOUIS HAFNER ROBERT J. SHAW JOHN THOMAS
Member ol Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
ACROSS THE CAMPUSES
The Los Angeles Collegian, published by the students of Los Angeles (Calif.) City College, received the one hundred dollar war bond awarded by the Associated Collegiate Press for the outstanding college newspaper coverage of the spring war bond program . . . 630 students were numbered among the 92nd annual commencement at the University of Wisconsin. This brings the total number of degrees awarded by the university to 65,543 . . . The Auburn unit of the army ROTC was recently given the rating excellent after a federal inspection . . . Also from Alabama Polytechnical Institute we learn that engineers from all ovei- the country are meeting on the Auburn campuses to take a short course in statistical production control . . . The psychology club of the University of Maryland is conducting a poll of students to ascertain just what they would like incorporated into the university’s post-war plans . . . Northwestern students have been stymied for transportation after the Evanston police department started to enforce the no-hitch-hiking ban. So now there is a campaign for fifteen minute breaks between classes to enable the Wildcats to traverse their- large campus . . . The president of Creighton University, The Very Rev. Thomas S. Bowdern, S.J., has decided to continue the operation of the dental school after the alumni and the Nebraska State Dental Association rallied to its support . . . Vincent Lopez furnished the music for pre-war style formal dance of Georgetown University which was held to raise funds for the new $2,000,000 hospital being erected on the campus ... In response to pleas for all-campus activities the Union-A.W.S. Social Committee of Indiana University has planned a campus-wide picnic and dance.
* * *
INDIANA SPRING
Noah had nothing on us
With his forty day record of rain.
We could show the old gent a few things That would reallly drive him insane. When his forty days were up Out came the rainbow and the sun, But no such luck for- the Notre Dame ark, It’s raining on day forty-one.
* * *
COMPLIMENTS OF THE PLAINSMAN
Willie stood on the railroad track, He didn’t hear the bell.
The train, it went to Halifax
And I bet you think you know where Willie went;
But he didn’t,
He was standing on the other track. * * *
HERE AND THERE
This past week-end saw a conference emphasizing social security through personality adapted for success in marriage, business, and society held at the University of Kansas . . . Northwest Airlines recently donated $5,000 to the Mayo Memorial fund for the establishment of a research center on the University of Minnesota campus, as a tribute to the contributions of the Mayo clinic in pioneering scientific aviation research ... a rocket society has been established at Georgia Tech to study the Nazi “buzz bomb” and the problems and potentialities of the rocket in (Continued on page 17)
4
Organize Volunteer V-12 Honor Guard;
Bill Welch Selected as Guard Commander
The scene is the court between Dillon and Alumni. The time—1800, any day of the week. Suddenly the voice of a big red head calls out, “Guard, Fall In.” With a quick jerk of rifles, forty men snap to attention, “Inspection, Arms.” Forty bolts click. Observing this scene, you turn to the fellow beside you and ask what is going on here. He looks at you as much as to say, “Didn’t you know? This is the Honor Guard.”
Some time ago, Lt. (jg) B. E. Hum-
V-12 Honor Guard proudly shows its colors.
mon, Drill Officer of the V-12 Unit, and Bill Welch, one of our V-12 trainees, talked over the possibility of a special drill unit. As it finally developed, the idea was this: Why couldn’t the V-12 Unit at Notre Dame have a drill squad? It was decided that the Honor- Guard (as it was called) would be made up entirely of volunteers. After the call went out, men flocked to join. Through a series of cuts, the organization was whittled down to five squads of eight men each—forty men who in the opinion of the Guard
officers had the required ability and characteristics for membership.
The organization which followed was one of which the organizers could well be proud. The men sacrificed a great deal of time and effort to make the thing click. No one likes to drill, but the fact would seem to be contradicted if you were to watch these men. They march along, heads high, arms swinging, and shoulders back. To their cooperation and efforts goes all- the credit for any successes which may become apparent. Equaling the loyalty of the men in the ranks are the officers who lead them. These officers, besides the Guard Commander W. B. Welch of Arthur, Ill., are: P. H. DeVries, sub commander and first section commander, of Lansing, Mich.; W. N. Schaap, second section commander, of St. Paul, Minn.; R. W. Coyle, the red-headed C.P.O. of Jacksonville, Fla.; and last but not least, C. R. Burket, the boy with the guidon, of Osceola, Ind. Squad leaders: D. J. Vala of Cleveland, Ohio; C. J. Wolf of Detroit, Mich.; H. J. Benson of Geneva, III.; J. A. Culligan of St. Paul, Minn.; and D. P. Siegel of Belleville, Ill. The front guide is W. B. King of Anderson, Ind., and the rear guide is J. E. Cronin of Chicago, Ill. An outfit composed of such officers and men is one which reflects credit on the V-12 Unit at Notre Dame.
Bob Hope and Crosby Stage Bond Show
Staging the most hilarious goal line stand ever witnessed in the Notre Dame Stadium, Bob Hope and his crooning crony, Bing Crosby, brought some of their horseplay to entertain some 50,000 bond buyers of St. Joseph county who jammed the stadium almost to capacity last Monday evening.
The gates of the stadium were opened to an already large crowd at 4 p.m., and the stadium was nearly completely filled by 6 p.m. when the pageant of bands started entering the tunnel. Nine bands in all marched onto the field, executed a maneuver, and played a number. Following the bands came the principals of the Hope show, riding in South Bend’s Studebaker Weasels, and after circling the stadium, stopped at the temporary stage erected at the south end of the field.
The entire cast of the Hope show, Frances Langford, Jerry Colona, Trudy Erwin, Tony Romano, Vera Vague, and Skinnay Ennis and his band, entertained the crowd for over an hour and a half.
Tuesday evening the regular weekly Hope radio show was broadcast from Washington Hall before the assembled midshipmen.
5
NROTC Completes Final Arrangements for Batallion's Eighth Naval Ball next Friday
Entering the last week of preparation at a height of anticipation and exertion, the members of the NROTC are now putting on the final touches to the elaborate eighth Naval Ball which will feature the rhythms of Raymond Scott next Friday, June 8, at the South Bend Servicemen’s Center.
With meticulous care and a certain flair for excellence and novelty, the ball committee, under the direction of Rudy Anderson and John Caron, has come up with several new features. They are providing beautiful genuine leather programs inscribed with the NROTC seal in gold. To the delight of gorgeous young souvenir hunters, there will be an ample supply of matchbooks, especially designed for the Notre Dame NROTC unit.
With discerning judgment, Joe Lauck and Tom Brownell took their committee on decorations to see the accomplishments of the V-12 group. Carefully observing the difficulties that are inherent in practice, they have met again with electricians and engineers to smooth out the details of their over-all plan. With the conclusion of the V-12 Ball, work was started on the actual construction of backgrounds, special effects, and all the closely guarded secrets of the actual theme.
John Caron has been hard at work arranging intermission entertainment
even surpassing the program of last semester. Under Dave Murphy’s direction the service at the balcony tables will be the delight of the most demanding bon vivant. Music will be continuous, and a roving photographer will be on hand to snap the charming couples. The prints of these shots will be mounted in a special printed folder.
“The intermissions, however,” warned John Caron, “will be few and far between, for Raymond Scott assures us of fine and unusual arrangements of the best in popular music as well as the most distinctive of his own compositions. The nationally known orchestra will feature comely Dorothy Collins, who will supply the vocals. The entire elaborate proceedings will be broadcast from 11:05 until 11:30 over WSBT. Bob Whitcomb will announce the festivities.”
"Biblical Archaeologist" Makes Offer to Students
During the month of June, the Biblical Archaeologist, a magazine published by the American Schools of Oriental Research, is announcing a special introductory offer of subscription to students of bible classes. The rate is a three years’ subscription for $1.00. Those interested should write to the American Schools of Oriental Research, 409 Prospect St., New Haven 11, Conn.
Comdr. McDaniel New NROTC Executive Officer
Commander Ralph T. McDaniel, U.S.-N.R., reported for duty as the executive officer of the N.R.O.T.C., last Monday. May 28. His home is in Columbus, Ohio and previous to his assignment here, he was attached to the Naval staff in the Southwest Pacific area.
Commander McDaniel graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1924 and was assigned to the U. S. S Maryland until 1927. In that year, he was attached to the U. S. S. Rochester after which he resigned his commission. He was employed as a telephone engineer for the Ohio Bell Telephone Company until he was called back to active duty in 1940.
In the summer of 1941, he trained aboard the U. S. S. Wilmette later going to Great Lakes for several months. From September 1941 until July 1942, he acted as the executive officer of the U. S. S. Borie, seeing action in both the Carribean and Pacific areas. Next he went to Yorktown, Virginia, to serve aboard a United States mine sweeper. He took command of the Fleet mine sweeper U. S. S. Staff in October 1942 until November 1943 after which he became the commander of Squadron 11.
Commander McDaniel wears a star for action in the Phillipines and has service ribbons for Asiatic, Nicaraguan, Pre-Pearl Harbor, and American, European and African defense.
Mrs. McDaniel is remaining in Columbus for the present. They have no children.
Again this semester the B. O. Ball will be attended by many.
6
'Scholastic' Receives All-American 'Superior' Award for Second Consecutive Time
Word was received this week by the Board of Publications from the Associated Collegiate Press that last semester’s Scholastic, under the editorship of Al Lesmez, received the honor rating of All-American—Superior in the thirty-' second Critical Service contest sponsored by the Association.
The Associated Collegiate Press are the editors and distributors of the Collegiate Digest, and other collegiate publications. This honor rating was determined after all the newspapers and news-magazines having approximately the same circulation as the Scholastic’s 4,000 had been judged by standards set by the papers. The score which the Scholastic received for the different departments such as “news-coverage,” “features,” “editorials,” “make-up,” etc., placed it in position for consideration and comparison with the others in its group.
Compared to a low of 800 points received by those getting this same honor rating, Scholastic amassed a total of over 1,010 points.
No attempt was made to compare Scholastic’s efforts with a mythical, perfect paper, for as the Associated Collegiate Press judges stated: “We do not think in terms of a perfect periodical, but rather in terms of group accomplishment and group comparison. The rating, therefore, depends entirely on the quality of the other publications entered in the contest.”
In awarding this honor rating, the judges stated: “Student newspapers of today are far superior to those of a short
An Analysis of an American Industry;
Its Products Can be Viewed for 55 Cents
This is the gripping tale of the decline and fall of an empire that is less Roman than it is Roman-nosed. In an age which has been frustrated by its own acceleration, it has become the all-providing substitute for the discarded Loganberry Festival, the passe art of pulling taffy, and the long-forgotten pastime of singing barrack room ballads around the parlor pianola. This empire has run the gamut of nomenclature from flicker to cinema to talkies to movies and is now well on its way back toward the flicker stage. To the youngster, the movie is a place to see an animated Superman and to learn all about juvenile delinquency. To the oldster, the movie is either a place to sleep or an opportunity to recall how the spouse looked before falling hair took
while ago. Each year improvements are noted and as a result standards are mucn higher. This constant improvement means that no matter how good a naner may have been yesterday, it is surpassed today, unless it too has progressed.”
Special mention was made in awarding this high rating in the form of penciled notations by the judges noting that:
“. . . the Scholastic has excellent column material throughout.”
“News stories are very professionally done.”
“Feature coverage is excellent!”
“Significant interview with the student body on post-war training. Well done!”
“Good use of double-page spread in the center. Usually very attractive.
“Good column. ‘The Green Banner.’ ”
“Scholastic covers are very attractive. They are simple, modern, and inviting. Your Christmas issue, and the cover with the top-hat on it shows that simplicity has much art.” . . .
“You’re doing superior work, every week.”
The rating “All American—Superior” is a distinction given to those newspapers or magazines which are outstanding in their all-around quality and whose ability makes them leaders in the college journalism field.
A certificate of award for this honor rating is being hand-lettered, and will be mailed to the Scholastic during the month.
over where Ry-Krisp left off. In between comes the adolescent who uses the movie as a graphic running account of the life he should not expect to live.
Movies are of three types. The first is the romantic love story, also known as the emotional Mickey Finn. These are usually embellished with some sentimental title like “Habe, Habe, Habe” or “Go Away Closer” and invariably depict the exploits of an imported Central European gigolo who lays the groundwork with a cosmetically preserved matron (whose true age is a geometric multiple of her movie manner) by being suave, cosmopolitan, and casual in 48 different ways. The match is clinched when our hero saves the mortgage on the family heirloom by drop - kicking the 52 yard
field goal that edges out Old Eli, in spite of the fact that he has kicked nothing but muskmelons since his undergraduate days in Prague.
The second current favorite is the war epic which either traces the clumsiest oaf in town from K.P. to the Medal of Honor or else propels the movie patron into a gushing geyser of intrigue. The latter type is characterized by frequent round-table discussions among a handful of sultry-eyed underground agents who have single-handedly demolished, every bridge and ammunition dump in occupied Europe. The climax usually comes when one of the agents turns out to be Hermann Goering in a foundation garment. Even Hermann, however, is not quick enough to prevent the escape of Ace Hot-pilot across the channel to rejoin his squadron.
A new innovation is the hodge-podge or “everybody works in the theatrical union” type. This type, entitled “Osceola Canteen” or “Elkhart U.S.O.,” features 98 top-flight stars, 12 name bands, Roy Rogers and Trigger the Wonder Horse. The 98 stars are around long enough to give their profile and a club sandwich to admiring servicemen, the 12 hands combine on eight bars of “Don’t Fence Me In,” Trigger neighs, and the rest of the story is built around the experiences of Joe Shapiro on an eight hour pass. Joe Shapiro is played by a talented thespian who was around Hollywood just long enough to have his option dropped.
The golden age of movies goes far back to the days when Cecil B. DeMille sent a cast comprised of half the population of Pennsylvania rashing headlong into a milk bath and ends where Dorothy Lamour stands unafraid against the fury of everything from a hurricane to tidal wave while armed only with a sarong, a chimpanzee, and Jon Hall.
After that comes a long parade of white elephants, which are not worth the reduced rate ducat which the centurian ticket taker tears in half. With that, I am off to the Palace to see “Doctor Kildare Sees a White Elephant.”
—Gene Diamond
Student Council to
Meet Monday Night
The regular bi-weekly meeting of the Student Council will be held next Monday night at 7:30 in the basement of the Law building, council president Frank Linehan has announced. At this meeting arrangements for the forthcoming Field Day will be discussed, and plans for the council for next semester. Also on the agenda will be the drawing up of any necessary arrangements for the graduation exercises to be held June 22.
7
Eric Gill Press Expands Under Students;
Print New Pamphlet by Father Leo Ward
BY GEORGE DESPOT
Some time when you’re in the Law building, drop down into the basement and put your ear to the door of the Law auditorium. You’ll probably hear a voice screaming, “No Harry! Absolutely No! You simply cannot take up any more room with that press!”
The Eric Gill Press was founded in the fall of 1944 by several students, and the press remains a student function. It is a corporation with Harold Berliner as president and George Haley as secretary-treasurer. The Eric Gill Press devotes much of its time to Catholic Ac
tion publications and campus publicity. It prints regularly the Catholic Action Leaders Bulletin and the Movement. At the moment, its latest work is now on sale in the bookstore, Liturgical Worship and the College, the printing of a talk delivered by Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., head of the Philosophy department of the University, last semester.
The equipment consists of a large Colts Armory press, a folding machine, and a large supply of hand-set foundry type. The students work in the pressroom amid shelves of type, cuts, press furniture and, of course, the press itself.
Harry Berliner is reputed to be an
expert in printing and it might be well to add that the Eric Gill press is not his first venture in printing. He served in a similar capacity before entering Notre Dame, for he owned a small printing shop in San Francisco.
Each year the press prints a number of Christmas cards where the full extent of youthful talent is shown in the use of color and make-up.
The Eric Gill press has come far since its inception almost eight months ago, when the sum total of equipment consisted of one platen press. Headed by
Harry Berliner, Catholic Action students pitched in and results arrived soon. With the purchase of the folding machine recently, the organization was subjected to reorganization. Equipment was taken apart, repaired, painted and placed in perfect condition.
This is the explanation of the success of this little organization. Students have been found ready to help at all times, in all emergencies, and there have been several crises which could not have been faced without student aid. George Haley has worked tirelessly with the records; and Bob Grisley and Jay Schribner have worked often with Harry Berliner.
V-12 Regimental Ball
Enjoyed by Big Crowd
The V-12 unit has reverted to form now that the excitement and ballyhoo surrounding the semester’s big social week-end has once again passed and trainees have been left with only their slide-rules, a picture on the desk, and many pleasant memories. The week-end was a complete success from start to finish and was acclaimed by all in the unit who took part.
The initial and most important feature of the week-end was, of course, the regimental ball in the Service Center. The decoration theme was centered around spring with accent on floral arrangements as well as other natural settings including a small waterfall.
Music as supplied by Ted Fio Rito and his band was one of the most completely satisfying aspects of the formal ball. The diversified style of the Fio Rito arrangement was wholly appropriate for the mood of the ball. Vocalist Ward Swingle was outstanding on the ballads.
On Saturday, the entire unit participated in a dress review on the Navy drill field and a special exhibition of precision drill was presented by the V-12 Honor Guard, which showed a mastery of execution quite uncommon since the departure of the Marines and probably the outstanding demonstration in the history of the unit.
Saturday evening saw the contingent moving down to the Rockne Memorial for an informal dance with music by the Commanders. Most of the Friday group was in attendance to fill the basketball gym. Aside from the dancing, there was a water carnival staged in the pool during intermission and refreshments were served on the sun roof between dances.
Those who gave their time and energy in assuring the success of this semester’s ball as members of the committee are as follows:	-
General Chairman, J. A. Schneider; Refreshments, J. C. Butler (Chairman), R. L. Baddour, D. L. Toker, and J. R. Sayers; Decorations, R. N. Waterhout (Chairman), R. P. Nyemer, P. T. Salcido, J. Breslaw, F. 0. Allee, C. F. Krecke, J. Hamilton, L. B. Kreissl, I. P. Rekhoff; Special Help, Herbert Eaton, Robert M. Cleary, and H. Maninger.
Tickets, R. E. Harrington (Chairman), R. A. Candee, V. R. Jury, M. B. Susman, F. X. Pendarvis, J. R. Healy; Publicity, A. L. Wagner (Chairman), E. F. Diamond, and R. L. Vosburg; Housing, G. D. Schubert; Favors, C. J. Toddy (.Chairman), L. E. Herzstein, and R. H. Shorr; Financial Secretary, P. W. McDonald; Saturday Night Dance, J. M. Haggar (Chairman), W. S. Bevington, C. D. Marx, and R. L. Shapiro.
8
FROM THE COB. OR, I WONDER WHAT DAY THIS IS?
I tried to talk, but no sound came;
I tried to walk, but all in vain.
I tried to see, but no sights centered; I tried to hear, but no sounds entered. I guess I’m dead!
This may be a heck of a way to put forth a dynamic opening for a joyous column, but frankly it expresses just about the extent of how dynamic we feel right now. We really have absolutely nothing to say this week (assuming, of course, that occasionally in the past we have had something to say), and nearly a whole page in which to say it. Some excuses are, the too great success of the V-12 Regimental Ball and the rest of the week - end; this spring - fever - inducing weather; and a tough, but common, week of quizzes.
My old rich Uncle Oscar always used to say that if all the people who didn’t have anything to say would just keep their mouths shut, this would be a much better world in which to live. Also — I once heard him give some good advice that went something like this:
When you want to be heard—speak up! When you want to be seen—stand up! But, when you want to be appreciated— shut up!
After coming this far we decided that we’d better just say we sent the copy for Swabbies’ Log of June 1, 1945, to the cleaners in our other suit, and that it hasn’t returned yet; but then we thought that a blank page with a lonesome column head on it, wouldn’t be good journalism. (See The Green Banner, authorities on journalism — the last word, in fact). We are also getting a little sentimental about having to write this column for only three more issues of the Scholastic, before shoving off for pastures which couldn’t possibly be greener.
With this as the dynamic, awe inspiring preface, we’ll proceed with what we
(do not) have to say in this week’s hashbasket of words, more commonly known as, but not always called by some, Swabbies Log. As my old rich Uncle Oscar used to say: “The show must go on!” (My old rich Uncle Oscar is really a great guy; but, now that you mention it, I don’t believe I have a rich uncle, young or old, Oscar or anything else.)
THANKS!
As chairman of the publicity committee for the sixth Notre Dame V-12 Regimental Ball held last Friday evening, your columnist would like to take this opportunity to extend a sincere thanks to Gene Diamond, Bob Vosburg, Bill Bevington, Bob Whitcomb, and Father Carey, C.S.C., who cooperated wholeheartedly, and made the effective and wide-spread publicity of the affair possible.	•
ORCHIDS!
We are ignoring the much heralded “Marines can drill” of the past, when the marines were on the campus of the University; but we would like to add to it that the Navy V-12 Honor Guard of Notre Dame can drill too. You did a swell job, fellows, and got very little of the much deserved recognition and praise for the display of real precision drilling, last Saturday afternoon.
"Smokin' on the campus again, eh. Droopier? Swallin' the evidence won't do no good!"
Band to Give Concert
Next Wednesday Night
The Notre Dame concert band, Mr. H. Lee Hope director, will present a spring concert in the Navy drill hall on the evening of Wednesday, June 6. Mr. Hope will be assisted by Chief Musician Lloyd Anderman, U.S.N., director of the local midshipmen’s band and formerly band director aboard the valiant United States aircraft carrier, the Fighting Lady.
The front third of the Navy drill hall will be reserved for Navy, University officials, and students and their guests until eight o’clock, after which time this reserved section will be opened to the public. Students and their guests will be admitted to the reserved section if the student will, for identification purposes, present his Dining Hall meal book.
Each of the four student groups here at the University are represented in the present organization of the University band. Musicians from the midshipmen’s school participate in the band’s activities on their time, since their schedule varies from that maintained by the University. Other musicians from the NRO-TC unit, the Navy V-12 unit, and the civilian group complete the personnel of the band. This concert will be open to the public without charge, and it will begin promptly at 8:15 o’clock.
PROGRAM
Arioso Bach
Springtime Overture ____________ Leidzen
Symphony in C minor (Larghetto)
Williams
Three American Sketches: Mood Mauve Hawland
By the Waters of the Minnetonka
Lieurance
El Relicario Padilla
March of the Steel Men Belsterling Intermission
Newsreel Suite Schuman Horse Race Fashion Show Parade
Polka and Fugue----------:__Weinberger
Midshipmen Exercises
Slated for Next Week
Baccalaurate services for the ninth class of the Midshipman’s school at the University wil be held at 9 o’clock on Sunday, June 3, in the mammoth Navy Drill Hall. There will be approximately 250 men in the class to receive honors at this exercise which will undoubtedly prove to be a colorful spectacle.
On Saturday, June 9, approximately 250 midshipmen will graduate in the Navy drill hall. These middies will receive the commissions of ensigns in the Naval Reserve. The remainder of the midshipmen crew will receive their commissions on July 9.—Louis Hafner
9

Irish Nine to Face Strong Seahawk Team; To Play Four Game Schedule Next Week
BY PAUL WEYRAUCH
Following a clean sweep of two games over Ohio State last week, the Notre 'Dame baseball team will go out to the corn country today and Saturday to meet the Iowa Seahawks at Iowa City. A Notre Dame baseball team has yet to gain their first win over a Seahawk nine, the Navy flyers having beaten Notre Dame twice last year, 2 to 0 and 10 to 2.
The Seahawks are coached by Lt. Carlos Ratliff, a former baseball manager in the Mountain State League of professional baseball. Besides coaching the team, Ratliff plays and in no uncertain manner; he batted .375 last season. Notre Dame football fans may remember Lt. Ellis Johnson, who is Rat-lifFs coaching assistant. Johnson played on the 1943 Seahawk football team that forced the Irish to go all out to win. Johnson was an outstanding athlete at the University of Kentucky.
Shortstop Lou Rochelli is the only returning veteran on the Pre-Flight baseball team besides Coach Ratliff. Rochelli batted .375 last year and was a member of the Brooklyn Dodgers before entering the service. Working with Rochelli at the keystone post will be Bill Schoeberlein, who is owned by Albany in the Eastern League. Milt McGrath, former star with the University of Oklahoma, will be at third, and John Burrell at first. As a tarmac, Burrell played with the Minneapolis Naval Air Station team.
One of the most outstanding players on the Seahawk nine is Luke Majorki, 18-year-old centerfielder. Majorki topped all batters in the Ohio State League as .a professional last season with a .356 batting mark. He is the property of the St. Louis Browns. Besides baseball, Majorki is quite adept on the basketball court. He was third highest scorer on the Great Lakes quintet last season and was also a star at South High in Fort Wayne in his high school days. Don Wyman will probably be in leftfield for Iowa Pre-Flight with Ratliff in right.
Steve Stuka and Henry Kaiser will be the probable starters on the mound against Notre Dame. Stuka won the -Knute Rockne trophy as an athlete at
Clinton, Mass., high school. Kaiser is a youthful right-hander from Greenview, Ill.
The second 18-year-old player for the Seahawks is catcher Bob O’Neal. He hails from Belleville, Ill., where he got much experience as a semi-pro. O’Neal played with the Seahawks’ cage crew this year.
Notre Dame will be facing an experienced group of ball players when they visit Iowa City, but the Klinemen have shown signs of returning to their winning ways and intend to keep going. Barrett, Stewart, and LeBrou will probably share the pitching duties for Notre Dame. Kline is experimenting with Neil Kelly as a catcher and Ratterman in the outfield.
In the week following these games the baseball team will see intensive action. On Wednesday they travel to Great Lakes to play the major-league-studded Navy nine. The team will be host to Northwestern on Friday, visit Lafayette to play Purdue on Saturday, and return home Sunday again to face the Seahawks. In all, Coach Kline’s boys are scheduled to play six games in ten days.
Tennis Team Meets
Purdue Here Tomorrow
The Notre Dame tennis team under the handling of Coach Walter Langford will close its regular schedule Saturday on the Notre Dame courts against Purdue University, one of the stronger teams of the Big Ten. Coach Langford considers Purdue as the second strongest opponent of the Irish this year, Michigan, of course, being the most potent.
Purdue is led by Walter Lum, runner-up for the Big Ten singles title last season; and Jerry Kalkofen, another letterman of last season. Surprise of the team is the number three man, Albert Matisse, V-12 transfer from North Carolina University. Matisse is undefeated during the regular season.
The Purdue doubles teams have turned in the amazing record of 16 wins in 18 matches. The team as a whole has won six matches and lost two.
Golfers Meet Baer Field
Tomorrow Afternoon
The Notre Dame golf team plays Baer Field tomorrow at Fort Wayne in the first of a home and home series. Baer Field, fresh from a victory over Zollner Pistons of Ft. Wayne, boasts a strong squad, featuring Sergeant James R. Brown, former Georgia Amateur Champion who is playing in the number- one slot, and Sergeant Anthony Jurkewicz, winner of numerous invitational tournaments in Indiana and a regular on last year’s squad.
, Sergeant Brown has the honor of tying Henry Picard for the unofficial world’s record for low score in a qualified golf tournament with a blistering 62.
Two other vets from last year’s team are Sergeant Edward Gross, who has won numerous tournaments in the New England States, and Private Russell Harris, amateur golfer from Bloomington.
The Notre Dame golf team made it four out of seven Saturday when they defeated Wayne University on the local course, 15% to 2%. Low scores were two 76s, both by Coach Rev. George Holderith’s boys, Tom Kennedy and Art Mosher.
Again the weather man was co-operative, and the course was in good condition, as Notre Dame took an early lead of 8% to % and was in no danger of defeat throughout the afternoon’s play.
Art Mosher scored the only 3-0 victory in the singles, and while playing "with Kennedy,. also won 3-0 from Wayne’s Stan Setere and Steve Sherer. Setere turned the best round for the losers with a 77, but picked up only a half a point in so doing.
Summaries: Doubles: Kennedy, 38-38—76, and Mosher, 37-39—76 (ND), defeated Setere, 39-38 —77 and Sherer, 47-43—90 (W), 3-0. Clynes 41-39—80 and Morow, 44-42—86, (ND), defeated Lemak 46-39—85 and Kallay 43-43—86 (W), 2(4-
Singles: Kennedy (ND), defeated Setere (W), : Mosher (ND), defeated Sherer (W), 3-0: Clynes (ND), defeated Lemak. (W), 2%-%; Morow (ND), defeated Kallay (W), 2-1.
Total score: Notre Dame 15(4, Wayne 2(4.
SPORTS SCHEDULE FOR THE WEEK-END
Baseball: Friday, Iowa Preflight at Iowa; Saturday, Iowa Preflight at Iowa City, Iowa.
Tennis: Saturday, Purdue at Notre Dame.
Golf: Saturday, Baer Field, at Fort Wayne.
Track: Saturday, Centred Collegiates, at Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
10
Field Day Scheduled for Next Week-end
Student-Faculty Softball Game to Highlight Program
Next week-end, June 9 and 10, the second annual Student Council Field Day will be held in Cartier Field and St. Joseph Lake. Jack Allen, student council secretary and chairman of the field day, has announced that track and field events will be held Saturday afternoon in Cartier Field with the swimming events at St. Joseph lake to be held Sunday afternoon.
Track and field activities are scheduled to open at 1:30 Saturday afternoon with four softball games being run simultaneously, to be followed at 2:00 with a game between a student team and a team representing the faculty. The most recent rumor to hit the campus concerning this faculty team is that it will be composed of priests, Brothers, and lay members of the faculty.
Although plans are not yet completed in this regard, the PHOMP race may again be featured. If it is, Walter L. (Jelly-belly) McDermott, at present holder of the title of High Exalted Phomp as a result of his sterling performance in the first Field Day PHOMP race held last September, will no doubt be in the race to defend his crown. “Mac” won out over seven other aspirants, including Harry Ryan, in the race that climaxed the track and field events.
Other events of the day will include football and baseball throws for distance, running and standing broad jumps, and baseball fungo for distance. Races .will include a 60 yard dash, 240 yard man relay, bicycle race, sack race, three-legged race, and a novelty race. Other events will include a tug of war and a round of barrel boxing.
Swimming events will be held in St. Joseph Lake Sunday afternoon, June 10, following the Notre Dame-Iowa Seahawks baseball game in Cartier field. Events will include a dry carry race, a soccer dribble, and a relay, with the possibility that two or three other events may be included before final plans are drawn up.
So far, Allen, and Joe Brady, also on the committee, have signed eleven faculty members for the faculty-student softball game for Saturday afternoon. Heading the list will be Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, Prefect of Discipline, and Rev. Chas. McCarragher, Rev. Tom Brennan, and Rev. Joseph Miller. Lay members of the faculty will include Dean Clarence E. Manion, dean of the Law school, Dr. L. H. Baldinger, dean of the Science College, Dr. J. P. Mullally of the philosophy department, Wesley C. Bender, head of the Business Administration Department of the Commerce College, Dr. John D. Mizelle, professor of biology and moderator of the biology club; Mr. Don J. Plunkett, professor of biology; and Mr. Robert F. Ervin, professor of biology and author of the famous “little red book” known to all students in connection with Biology courses 21 and
The start of last year's Field Day Phomp Race

22. It is expected that a strong reserve team will be available to replace any of the starters in case of emergencies which are fully expected.
Plans have been made for the awarding of prizes to all individual winners and a plaque will be awarded to the winning hall. In last year’s Field Day St. Edward’s hall captured the plaque by a confortable margin and the boys from the “A.C.” will again be out in full force, this year under the captaincy of Ed Mieszkowski, St. Ed’s Hall representative, to defend their title.
Stiff competition is expected from all quarters, with the V-12 expected to enter two teams, the ROTC one team, and all other halls and the off-campus students one team each. Admission to all events will be absolutely free.
11
Irish Nine Takes Two from Ohio State;
Barrett and LeBrou Pitch Klinemen to Wins
The Buckeyes of Ohio State had the misfortune of facing the Notre Dame baseball team on two of their better days in Columbus, May 25 and May 26, with the result that the Bucks dropped a pair of gam^s, 3 to 1 and 10 to 8. In the first of the two games, it was the stellar pitching of Jack Barrett that paved the way to victory for the Irish. Don Grate, erstwhile basketball and baseball star for Ohio, lost in a pitching duel with Barrett. Johnny LeBrou played fireman in Saturday’s contest and put out an Ohio rally, then turned himself into a slugger to chalk up a 10 to 8 decision for Notre Dame.
Barrett had a 3 to 0 shutout going into the ninth inning on May 25, but three Buckeye singles cost him a run but no more. Up to that time, it was all Notre Dame. Tracy singled and Barrett was safe on an error to start the first Notre Dame scoring session in the third. Billy Hassett drove the runners home with a single. This same Mr. Hassett had a failshare to do with the third Notre Dame run in the eighth inning when he doubled and came in on Frank Gilhooley’s single. Hassett had three for four in the day’s work.
The second game was a little rough around the edges as far as baseball finesse was concerned, but it didn’t matter so long as Coach Jake Kline proteges came out on top. Ohio State got away to a two-run lead in the first three innings off Jack Stewart, but a five-run
SANDWICHES
SOFT DRINKS
ICE CREAM
FINE PIPES
TOBACCO
THE HUDDLE
fourth inning by the visitors changed the picture. As in Friday’s game, Hassett pounded out a two bagger to get the • show on the road. Gilhooley was safe on Fearing’s error, and Neil Kelly pushed out a single good for a run. Tom Martin was hit by the pitcher after which Jim McGurk singled for a pair of runs. A single by George Ratterman accounted for the fourth run, and George scored himself a few moments later on Stewart’s single.
Ohio State countered with two runs in their half of the fourth with the help of two errors. Schnedier sent Tracy home with a run in the Notre Dame sixth to make the score 6 to 4, but again the lead changed hands as the Buckeyes drove Stewart from the mound with a three-run attack in their side of the sixth. At this point, LeBrou made his entrance. Johnny gave up a run in the seventh on two errors by his mates and a single by Nakama, Ohio swimming champion, but kept the Ohio bats quiet the rest of the way.
Slugger LeBrou made the first of his two hits in as many times at bat in the eighth after Tracy had hit safely. These hits plus an error netted two runs to tie the score again. Notre Dame came through in the ninth inning with two more runs that proved to be the margin of victory. Kelly singled, advanced on a passed ball while Martin was put out. McGurk drew a pass as did Barrett. Tracy struck out for the second out. So
STATIONERY
GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
"T" SHIRTS
(Monogram and Plain)
Johnny LeBrou came to bat in a Frank Merriwell setting—bases loaded, two out, ninth inning, and the score tied. The picture was too inviting, so he politely rapped out a single and sent the winning runs home. Line scores:
Notre Dame _________ 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 0- 3- 8-3
Ohio State --------- 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1- 1- 7-3
Batteries: Barrett and Tracy: Grate and Ernst.
Notre Dame ___________ 000 501 02 2—10-13-fi
Ohio State ----------- 1 1 0 2 0 3 1 0 0— 8-11-1
Batteries: Stewart, LeBrou (5), and Tracy: Cromi, Tuttle (4). and Ernst.
BOOKS
Reading Enjoyment
"THE BEST FROM YANK"
Yank Magazine's best in fact, fiction and picture from every battle-front and camp.
Brave Men
Moral Conquest of Germany Mexico	’
American Guerilla in the Philippines The Father Brown Omnibook Pride's Way Commodore Hornblower The Upstart Poor Child Captain from Castile A Lion Is In the Streets The Wine of San Lorenzo Quit for the Next Border City
For Your
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction.
runner’s
NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STORE
127 W. Washington St
"In the J. M. S. Building"
12
Track Squad to Enter
C.C.C. Meet at Lakes
Notre Dame’s varsity track squad will trek to Chicago tomorrow in order to , compete in the Central Collegiate Conference meet to be held at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station. The Irish will be up against two top-notch competitors in the host Bluejackets and the newly-crowned Western Conference champs, Illinois. The Irish finished third in last year’s gathering and should repeat. Competition should be closely contested throughout the day’s festivities if the dope sheet holds true to form.
In last Saturday’s engagement with Western Michigan, the Irish grabbed the lead from the start and never were headed as they finished on the long end of a 67.5 to 54.5 score. The Handymen won nine first places and swept the half mile run, while the Broncos broke the tape five times and scored a grand slam in the broad jump. Only one new mark was registered during the day’s proceedings, this by Billy Moore, Western’s stellar vaulter, who exceeded his previous jump by a half inch. Bill Porter was high scorer for the meet with fifteen points, constituting firsts in the century and the two hurdles. For Notre Dame, Joe Kelly in the discus and shotput, and Bill Tully in the mile and half mile runs, each took two firsts, though Tully had to share honors in the half mile with Pat McCarthy when the blonde towhead ran his best race of the season to finish in a dead heat with the Irish distance star. Frazier Thompson continued his point-getting ways by placing second in the 100 and 220 yd. dashes. Dave Murphy took third and first, respectively, in the same two events. Victories by Fred Jones in the 440-yd. dash, Marler, in the high jump, and White in the two mile, plus Notre Dame’s triumph in the mile relay with Duarte, reformed broad jumper, running the anchor lap, completed the Irish first place scoring for the afternoon. This meet marked the end of the dual season for Coach Handy’s trackmen, with the end of the season not far away.—John C. Thomas
Following Mass and Communion the Knights will hold a group breakfast in the cafeteria, and will depart from there for Hudson Lake via the South Shore. A full schedule is worked out, and assurances have been made that the event will carry on with plenty of momentum in merry-making.
Thanks are due South Bend council 553 for a memorable meeting this week. The N.D. council assembled in the South
To honorably discharged ex-servicemen
HERE'S AN "HONORABLE DISCHARGE" BUTTON with our compliments
As a tribute to you who were prepared to give your all for your country, here is an Honorable Discharge button we’d like you to accept, without charge, of course.
Briny your discharye papers with you. (The buttons can only be yiuen to ex-servicemen in person)
Bend chambers this week to hold their regular meeting, and the event was livened up considerably by the presence of several guests from the downtown council.
Deputy Grand Knight Richard Martin, who has organized the picnic as chairman of the committee this year, presided at the meeting in the absence of Grand Knight Walter McDermott.
—F. V. G.
K. of C. Ready for Biq Outing on Hudson Lake
Final plans were made for the annual Knights of Columbus picnic at the regular council meeting Tuesday evening of this week. The program calls for a full day of fellowship, beginning with a corporate Communion to be held in the Walsh Hall chapel at 7:30, with Council Chaplain Father Goodall celebrating the Mass, Sunday.
^GILBERTS
813-817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN! *
13
*7«e tyueeM, HoMte/i
ATMOSPHERE
These are the days when it is definitely perilous to lose oneself in thought as one goes one’s way about in the lush greenness of the campus. To meditate on the soothing effects of nature is to invite destruction in any of a hundred ways. Golfers who take a few practice swings before heading for the course are exceedingly proficient in knocking out teeth with a single clout, and wild, slugging softball players break bones with precision and finality. But the greatest danger of all comes in the form of the new, panzer division of grass cutters which sweep up and down the land with absolute disregard for life, happiness, and the pursuit of indolence.
SENIOR SEQUALS
Rushing to get locked in before you get locked out. . . . Explaining to her where you got that set of tails. .. . Keeping her as far away from your roommate as possible. . . . Cut classes Saturday morning, knowing she will sleep until noon. . . . Living in fear of running into that girl from South Bend. . . . Explaining to her that orchids aren’t being worn this year. . . . That it always rains like that here. . . . Come back to your room on Sunday night and count the days until exams.
4*
FLASH! FLASH!
Your nosey reporter reports: In a surprise move designed to catch his public off guard, Dick Sadowski entered the Oliver last night, and ordered a cup of coffee. . . . John Vaughan, author of the much talked-about best smeller, Inside Mishawaka, returned yesterday from his recent northern lecture tour of Niles, to begin work on his new novel, As the Drewry Swallows Fly. He was accompanied on his tour by the famed philosopher, J. John Linehan. ... It was re-
• Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I. W. Lower Co
- DECORATORS 128 North Michigan Street
vealed in findings released today by Stroyna Statistics, that exactly half of the married couples today are men. . . . The dining hall plans new surprises in its unending series of delights. We refuse to be skeptical about even the most fantastic possibilities for the future. But we can easily allow for the rumor that there will be snug booths for intimate student cliques. You can form your own opinions about the duration of mystery balls. . . . We have heard so many stale jokes lately that we are seriously thinking of conducting a national cliche week. Are you interested?
HOME OF THE BRAVE
You have to hand it to the independent ROTO crowd, brave and bold enough to hold a shindig minus the presence of our neighboring cousins. Last week-end, the men of the 'U.S.S. Walsh sat quietly back, watching the goings-on of the Seniors and the V-12, saying nothing at all, mind you, but thinking up great things for the Prunellas they will be inviting to the Battalion Ball, come next Friday evening. “They will be imports,” said John Caron, veteran of many campaigns, as he scanned the latest Central High School News sheet. Frankly, we feel sorry for the ones who are not going to the affair; they will, we feel sure, live to regret their failure to participate in a memorable occasion. We have not yet heard of a disappointed ROTC at a Battalion Ball.
IT COULD HAPPEN!!
Unshaven, and weakened from hunger, Lig O’Donnell, of Walsh’s ROTC, was found today in a sand trap on the seventeenth hole of the N.D. golf course, by his partner, Rudy Anderson, and opponents, Jim Clynes and Harry Ryan, who had reported him missing two days
Glasses Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
ago. After blasting the ball out in twenty-seven strokes, O’Donnell found that he had dug himself in so deeply that he was forced to wait for help to get out. The ball, incidentally, was found x on the green, wrapped in O’Donnell’s
I-D card. That may sound like a whopper of a yarn—but have you heard the one about Kennedy? According to most reliable golf authorities, he, using a four iron, last Tuesday afternoon, drove a tractor 325 yards.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
HAMPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
Reminding you to Remember DAD on
Father's Day, June 17th
An attractive line of Greeting Cards Now on display.
Stop in Today and pick a card to please POP!
Notre Dame
BOOK STORE
Badin Hall
14
Notre Dame Press in Centennial Year
BY FRANK GRIMALDI
Delvings into the dusty-edged books and papers on which are written the early history of Notre Dame have revealed another “first” for Father Sorin’s noble efforts. An article in the current
be taken down to Father Badin’s room.
The second press operated at Notre Dame was set up in 1865, and on it were printed the two publications, The Ave Maria and the Scholastic. Both made
tensive research on the history of Notre Dame in conjunction with the centennial observance in 1942. Mr. Corbett has been on the faculty since 1935 and has published discourses in mediaeval studies.
Indiana Magazine of History by James A. Corbett, professor of history at N.D., unfolds the story of the first printing press established on an American university campus.
Although the title “University Press” was not used at Notre Dame until 1883, there had been two presses on the campus previous to that time. Because the title was not used until that time, the universities of Cornell and Pennsylvania are officially credited as having established printing facilities before Notre Dame. Actually, Father Sorin had set up a press on the campus here in 1845 to print texts. This press was utilized for two years. With it the rules and constitutions of the University were first printed.
The historic little old-timer had a moving beginning. It was established in the infirmary, a possible indication of a not too healthy beginning. In October, 1846, it was decided that “as soon as time will permit the infirmary shall be moved to the printing office and the press shall
Pictures of the "Ave Maria" Press. Left to right: An aerial view of the new "Ave Maria" building; the press room, and the composing room.
their debut 80 years ago this year. Numerous books were published on this press, also.
Professor Corbett’s article on these early publishings at' Notre Dame appeared in the current March edition of the quarterly historical magazine. The material was uncovered while he did ex-
When you’re down-town . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP
130 N. Michigan
NAVY MEN!
Here’s where you can get
Delicious Italian and American Dishes
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED.
Make Sunny Italy a first stop on your liberty night!
ooo
Phone 3-3702
Notre Dame Jackets Sweat Shirts Pennants
Golf Clubs Hand Balls and Gloves
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP
121 W. Colfax
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
A Notre Dame Tradition
15
By GEORGE DESPOT
That eager little fellow we see running across the campus each day isn’t Frank O’Malley; it’s Al Lesmez, the “energetic engineer.”
Al was born in Bogota, Colombia, S.A., in 1925, but three years later, the Lesmezes left Colombia to make New York City their home. Al later attended Stuyvesant Technical high school in New York, and, from what we hear, his record there was very promising — but sometimes we don’t hear very well.
Al Lesmez
In May 1942 Al came to Notre Dame and has established a long record of accomplishments since that historic day. He was a member of the freshman track and cross-country teams in which he won his freshman numerals, and in ’42, he won the University cross-country meet. In his sophomore year, Al dropped track in order to work full time on the Scholastic. He started as a reporter, then began writing “Man About Campus.” From there, he went to the positions of Campus Editor, Managing Editor, and finally became the first engineering student to become Editor-in-chief of the Scholastic.
He is a member of the local branch of the American Institute of Aeronautical Sciences and served as chairman of this organization during the winter semester of ’44-’45.
Al’s talents have been recognized for he has been on a scholarship presented by the Notre Dame Alumni club of New York for the last two years. He also holds a United States Student War Loan scholarship.
From you and me would come a weary “Whew!”, but not from Al. He has earned the title of “energetic engineer,” for in addition to this record, he has served as a calculus corrector for four semesters, an aero corrector for two semesters, secretary to Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., for two semesters, and worked in the dining hall for four semesters.
Al graduates this semester if he can get past Dynamics; his favorite subjects are airline operation and internal combustion engines.
His immediate future is a possible commission in the navy which he is working on now, but he says that “it is as tough as getting two packages of cigarettes from Helen in the Huddle.” And, if it falls through, he will consider the army (and you know how a young man considers the army!).
After the war, Al would like to work for Pan-American World Airways, either at their La Guardia Field base or at their Miami branch.
THESE NAMES ARE FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW
Shirts and Neckwear
VAN HEUSEN
Shirts and Sportswear
B. V. D.
Underwear and Sportswear
McGREGOR
Sportswear
SUPERBA — BOTANY — WEMBLEY Ties ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
You'll find them all at
ROBERTSOYS
SPouUtdiend
211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S. 623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2874
COOPER
Underwear
BRENTWOOD
Sweaters
MARLBORO
Sportswear
HICKOK
Belts and Braces
16
Senior Ball Ends Social Calendar for Grads: Dinner*Dance Affair a Complete Success
The 1945 Senior Ball, held last Saturday night in the Oliver Hotel, proved to be one of the most successful dances ever held at the University since the decline in enrollment due to the needs of the war. The group paused during the evening’s program to remember that the members of the class who were absent would return again to the campus of Our Lady after the job of winning the war is done.
Much credit for the success of the evening is due to the untiring efforts of the co-chairmen, Elmer F. Gillespie and Robert Riordan, who worked together to make the ball possible. An admirable job as master of ceremonies was handled by John C. Bresnahan, who conducted the program during the dinner and who introduced all of the graduating seniors in attendance.
The simple impressive decorations were under the direction of John V. Allen, and consisted of a floodlighted “45” on a huge mirror in the room lighted by blue and gold candles. A very beautiful centerpiece adorned the head table, and palms were effectively used throughout the room. A large blue and gold N.D. was on the door.
lections of the entire menu.
The music of Myron Walz and his band, for the dance half of the dinnerdance, was arranged for by Frank Linehan and his committee. Operating under a very limited budget, Mr. Linehan came up with a band that provided just the type of music the seniors and their lovely dates wanted.
Hailed as the greatest social success of their collegiate careers by the seniors, the dinner-dance was so successful only through the integrated efforts of all committees and every person in attendance.
COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 2) general . . . Rev. Louis Kelleher, valedictorian of the class of 1910 of Boston College, has been named auxiliary bishop of Boston . . . 500 Ohio State students assembled recently to hear pleas for a new union oh the Buckeye campus . . . Beardsley Rumi, tax expert and financier, will be the speaker at the baccalaureate commencement service which will highlight the 106th annual commencement exercises of Miami University, Ohio.
Notre Dame BOOKS for Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gift with the flavor of the campus. Order today!
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00
•
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to:
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
Reservations were handled efficiently by Tom Bergin, chairman, and Frank Pendarvis, in charge of the Navy students. It was through the efforts of these two men that the Ball proved the financial success that it was, and in view of the financial records of recent balls, it is unusual that the affair should not lose money.
Arrangements, including the unusual programs which served as placecards were supervised by George T. Haley. It was because of his work that the seating arrangements of three couples at each table was worked out to the satisfaction of all.
All publicity for the ball was handled by Robert H. O’Toole and his committee, and through their efforts all seniors and the entire campus were kept informed on the progress and success of the Ball.
The appetizing menu, with roast turkey as the entree, was arranged for by the menu committee in charge of Walter L. McDermott. All ball-goers were high in their praise of Mr. McDermott’s se-
Public Stenographer
Theses typed — Manuscripts copied. Rates reasonable.
MISS MABEL VAN SCOIK 460 Oliver Theatre Bldg. Phone 3-3659
Father's Day is June 17
Fit for a King and They Always Fit
He’ll have a fit and a perfect one too over a gift sport shirt from our Men’s Shop. His favorite makers style them in plaids and solid colors.
2.25 to 10.95
Men's Shop . . . Main Floor
17
NTEPS
FRO/A THE
«£SS BOX
By UM REGAN
Future opponents of the Notre Dame golf and tennis teams will be insisting that the games be played away from Notre Dame, if these teams continue the pace they are setting during home matches. The Irish tennis team has met and conquered three opponents on the courts here, while the golf team has emerged victorious in each of the four tilts played on the local links.
Whether these Notre Dame teams can keep their undefeated records at home intact is problematical since they both still have to face their hardest home opponent. The tennis squad face Purdue tomorrow in what should prove to be the most difficult home test, while the golf team will meet the Baer Field linksmen at home next week-end.
* * *
Considerable publicity has been given to the conversion of Paul Robeson, Jr., son of the famous singer, from an end to a back by Edward McKeever, Cornell football mentor. Although Robeson was used at end by Cornell last year, he was a back during his high school days, so McKeever’s idea is not original. The younger Robeson may inherit his football ability, for his father was an AllAmerican end at Rutgers.
*	* *
Bill Tully turned in a busy two days last week-end. He competed in the halfmile and one-mile in the dual track meet with Western Michigan in Kalamazoo on Saturday, traveled to Appleton, Wis., and played with the tennis team on Sunday. Although these are the only two varsity sports in which Bill competes, he won the handball contest held last winter and finished “in the money” in two events in the recent swimming meet.
*	* *
Although it is a little early to concede the major league pennants, this columnist thought it might be well to compare the pre-season predictions made by members of the Scholastic staff. Leading the National League as the Scholastic went to press were the New York Giants, with the Brooklyn Dodgers in second place, the St. Louis Cardinals in third, and the Chicago Cubs rounding
out the first division. Of course, not one of the “experts” of the Scholastic named either the Giants or the Dodgers to capture the pennant. The Cardinals were named by five to finish first, while two named the Cubs.
The American League had the New York Yankees on top, the Tigers in second position, the White Sox third, and the Browns fourth. Two writers named the Yankees to cop the flag, six voted for the Tigers, two chose the Brownsf and one named the White Sox. It can therefore be seen that the Scholastic predictions weren’t too accurate. Four of the votes for the National League pennant were for teams now in the second division, while only one person (Father Carey) voted for a second-division team to date (Red Sox) to finish first in the American. The cry of the Scholastic writers varies from “I told you so” to “Wait until next year.”
Leroy Pfund, rookie pitcher with the Brooklyn Dodgers, refuses to appear with the Flatbushers in any Sunday game. This attitude is not frowned upon by Branch Rickey, president of the Brooklyn club, for he himself has attended but one Sunday major-league game in his life.
* * *
Answers' to last week’s questions: 1.— The New York Yankees lead the American League teams in the number of championships with 14. In the National League the Chicago Cubs and New York Giants have each won 15 pennants since
From Down-Town South Bend to Down-Town Chicago
There is always a South Shore train to or from Chicago. Hourly service each way. For information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
7	Specializing in the ex-	7
y	amination of the eyes.	y
J	Dr. E. J. Cain	I
Z OPTOMETRIST I
z Prompt Lens or Frame Repair 7 a service in our own laboratory. \
7	212 S. Michigan St. Z
S	Phone 4-8251	4
When romantic thoughts in spring demand
GIFTS
especially for "her" Visit
18
1876. The Giants lead in the number of pennants since 1900 with 13 to the Cubs 9. 2.—William “Big Bill” Tilden leads all others in the number of U.S. National men’s singles wins with seven. Mrs. Helen Wills Moody leads the women by winning seven championships also. 3.—The Green Bay Packers have won the National Professional Football League title the most times. The Packers have won the title six times.
Dame’s stars of last year’s championship team. Evert was in Appleton to play a match against Lawrence the day before, and consented to play against his old mates. Samson and Tully won in straight sets, 6-3 and 6-1.
Arotropic by Arrow
Summary: Singles only: Samson (ND), defeated Flom (A). 6-4, 6-2; Tully (ND), defeated Dickinson (A). 6-0, 6-1: Griffin (ND), defeated Jones (A), 6-1, 6-2; Brown (ND), defeated Harris (A), 6-3, 6-2; Fountain (ND), defeated Hartman (A), 6-2, 3-6, 6-2; Jorganson (A), defeated Bniocchi (ND), 6-1, 6-3.
This week’s questions: 1.—Joe Louis fought in 57 professional bouts. How many of these ended in knockouts? 2.— Foui’ stadia in the country are said to have a seating capacity of 100,000 or more people. Where are they located? 3.—There have been five “million dollar” gates in the history of professional fighting. Can you name the man who fought in every one of the five bouts and who his opponents were?
* * *
Not satisfied with impressive records on the gridiron and basketball courts, the U.S. Military Academy and the U.S. Naval Academy are undefeated on the diamond this spring. Army has racked up 10 wins in a row while Navy is undefeated in two starts.
* * *
Two of the greatest pitchers in major league baseball in the past decade opposed each other in an exhibition game last Sunday. The pitchers were Chief Specialist Bob Feller, who was pitching for the Great Lakes nine which he manages, and Jerome “Dizzy” Dean, former St. Louis Cardinals’ mound ace, who was hurling for an All-Star team. Feller yielded five hits and one run in the five innings he pitched, while striking out 12. Dean pitched two innings, allowing only two hits and no runs. The Great Lakes team won the game played at Moline, Ill., 5 to 1.
Langfordmen Defeat Lawrence College, 5-1
Walter Langford’s Notre Dame tennis . team defeated Lawrence College of Appleton, Wisconsin last Sunday, 5 to 1, in an abbreviated match before rain stopped the scheduled nine point event. Notre Dame took five of the six singles events, and were leading in two of the doubles events when rain forced cancellation of the remaining matches.
In an exhibition doubles match, Charles Samson and Bill Tully,. number one and two men for the Irish, defeated Leonard Flom, Lawrence, number one man, and Jerry Evert, one of Notre
The Sportingest proposition in shirts • • •	wen what else but
these handsome looking Arrow Arotropic shirts that are getting the spotlight in the Saturday Evening Post this week.	,
Arrow Arotropics are cool, give you a precision lit and you can wear them places assured of their correctness and good taste.
ON INE (0KNEK...MKM6M(MM6VM
19
yr
r
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
-1 -        .     
HEOTERFIELD s ,	,	-f. vi**"*"
WGffnCCMfZ^mW • MWD'S ^sr 70B4CCOS r.	; - .
„_L_
fLDNESS . .. COOLER SMOKING BETTER TASTE


Yes, Chesterfields are packed with pleasure... for your smoking enjoyment. Their RIGHT COMBINATION ... WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS gives you the three things that

REAL