	Disco quasi semperEvicturus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.	
Vol. XVI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, SEPTEMBER 30/1882.	No. 4.
Marshal Lannes.
Rocky Mountain Reminiscences.
The Lay of the Cactus.
Aria: El Usando del Verde.
i.
Oh! glorious is the cactus in the merry month of May:
With crimson, pink and amber hues the mountain side is gay;.
You might travel many a weary league nor see a view so bright;
But the cactus isn’t just the thing to sit upon—not quite!
Ii.
I was scrambling up the cafion side, my level on my shoulder—
The way was steep and treacherous with broken stone and bowlder,
And one uncertain foothold brought a trouble unto me, For upon a rampant cactus I sat down so suddenlee.
in.
If you sit upon a thistle, it may startle you, ’tis true,
Yet when you rise the thistle’s thorns are growing where . they grew;
But the stickers of the cactus will desert the parent stem, And attach themselves to any that make overtures to them.
IV.
As the squaw from out her husband’s chin doth carefully erase
Each- sprouting hair that threateneth to beard his gentle face,
So from me a friendly flagman undertook the extrication,— Each individual thorn required a separate operation.
V.
And while the friendly flagman for those cruel thorns did look,
Beneath his patient surgery I shivered and I shook;
And though he said they all were out, that is, all he could get,—
Is it fact or is it fancy?—sometimes I feel them yet!
Justin Thyme.
A beautiful eye makes silence eloquent, a kind eye makes contradiction an assent, an enraged eye makes beauty deformed. This little member gives life to every other part about us, and I believe the story of Argus implies no more than that the eye is in every part; that is to say, every other part would be mutilated, were not its force represented more by the eye than even by itself.—Addison.
One of the bravest of the brave men who bore the Marshal’s baton under Napoleon was Marshal Lannes. In him was realized many of the qualities that unite to constitute a great warrior. One quality alone, however, was sufficient to arrest the attention of Napoleon, who always chose, his Marshals on the eclectic principle. He was not deluded as are many who bring every one to a single standard and judge them by a single rule.
Wherever he found one good quality he laid it under contribution, knowing well that a combination of men each of whom could do one thing well must do all things well, and, acting on this principle, he never allowed a man bf any striking quality to escape him.
Of course it needed the master mind and genius of Napoleon to bring together and to consolidate into one body, working in perfect unison, men so different in character as the intrepid Ney, the chivalric Murat, the rock-fast Mac Donald, the tempestuous Junot, the bold yet cautious -Soult, and the impetuous Lannes.
It is indeed astonishing to see the spirits that Napoleon moulded into his plans, and the combined energy he let loose upon the armies of Europe. Neither education nor royal blood induced him to make his selections. Moral power he. wanted, nor would he have any leader without great and striking qualities.
Jean Lannes was not conspicuous for any of the favors of fortune. He was born in Lectoure, a small town in Normandy, in 1769. . The son of an humble mechanic, he passed his early days, not in. a military school, but as an unpretentious apprentice in a lowly workshop, and at other, times would probably have remained in the humble station in which his birth and fortune had placed him, becoming perhaps, a passable shoemaker or carpenter. But the call which the Revolution sent forth for the military talent of France could not be resisted; so young Lannes rah away from his master and .enlisted as a common soldier in the army. Soon after, he was sent to the frontier of the Pyrenees, where he exhibited the two striking features of his character, reckless daring and unconquerable resolution.
These qualities shining out in the heat of battle, soon won for him the regard of his officers, and he
5°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
was made chief of a brigade. But in a short time he lost his commission, for some cause not made known,. and returned to Paris? -Here his bold politics and his bolder manner soon attracted the attention of the Government, and we find him soon again at Milesimo, where he fought so.gallantly that N apoleon rewarded him bj' making him Colonel on the spot. Soon after, under the enemy’s fire, he crossed the Po, was himself the first to reach the opposite bank, and finally crowned his brilliant exploits at Lodi, where, because of “ the terrible passage of the Bridge of Lodi,” he was made General of a brigade.
This bridge was defended by twelve thousand Austrian infantry and four thousand cavalry, with a battery of thirty cannon. Against this, Napoleon and Lannes marched at the head of a column of 7,000 men. The cannon balls and grape shot, and the bullets of the infantry smote their breasts like a shower of hail-stones, making them reel and stagger back as if by a thunderbolt from heaven; but seeing themselves supported by the tirailleurs that were fording the stream beneath the arches, the soldiers shouted “ Vive la Refrubliqtce! ” and, rushing forward, bayonetted the artillery men at their guns.
Lannes was the first across, and Bonaparte the second. One banner Lannes had snatched. from the Austrians, and while seizing another his horse fell dead; having extricated himself, he arose, ’ among the sabre-strokes that fell like lightning ■ around him, and, mounting the horse of an Austrian officer whom he slew with a single stroke, wheeled on the enemy, charged the cuirassiers like a thunderbolt, and fought his way back to his followers. It was by, such acts of heroic valor that Lannes acquired in the army the sobriquet of “ Orlando ” and “ Ajax.”
One of the most remarkable deeds of his life was his battle with the Austrians at Montebello. 'To describe this battle would be beyond the limits of a brief essay; suffice it to say, that it needed the hardihood of Lannes to face an army outnumbering his by ten thousand, and possessing at the same time the advantage ■ of position. From eleven in the morning to eight at night—for nine long hours—did he- press with an army, first of six, then of twelve thousand, against one of eighteen thousand.
. Napoleon himself just came in time to see the battle won. He rode up to Lannes, surrounded by the remnant of his guard, and found him drenched with blood, his sword dripping in his exhausted hand, his face blackened with powder and smoke, and his uniform as if dragged all day under the wheels of the artillery.- But a. smile of exultation passed over his countenance as he saw his commander gazing with pride and affection on him, while the soldiers could not restrain their joy at the victory they had won. Speaking after-, wards of the deadly fire of the artillery at Montebello, he said: f‘I could hear the bones crash, in my division like hail-stones against the windows.”. A more terrific description of the effect of cannon shot on a column of men could not be given.’ At
all events, Lannes never fought a more desperate battle; and, asa; recompense, Napoleon gave him the title of « Duke of Montebello,” a title which his family bears with pride to this day.
Lannes fought with his usual valor at Marengo, Austerlitz, Jena, Saragossa, and elsewhere. During the campaign un.Spain he would have lost his life, by his horse stumbling and crushing his body, were it not for the surgeon, who ordered a sheep to be skinned immediately, and the warm pelt secured around the invalid’s body. After a while he fell . asleep, and shortly after began to perspire; five days after he led his army, and routed a column of forty thousand men.
Lannes was one of the seven men selected by Napoleon to return with him to France, where he played an important part in that conspiracy by which the Government was overthrown and the Commander-in-chief of the army became the First Consul of the Empire.
In consideration of the wonders wrought by Lamies, he was selected by Napoleon to present to Government the colors taken from the enemy. This was the occasion of the funeral service of the Father of our own country. The news of Washington’s death had just been received, and Bonaparte made the announcement to his army: “Washington is dead! That great man fought against tyranny: he consummated the independence of his country,” etc. Ten days’ mourning was,appointed, and a solemn ceremony performed in the Church of the Invalids. Under the dome, Napoleon assembled the people and there Lannes presented ninety-six colors taken in Egypt. He afteiwards fulfilled the post of ambassador at Portugal; but he.was not a diplomatist; his home was at the head of a column.
Lannes was a man.of a frank disposition,—frank even to bluntness. He was impetuous, and had little mastery over himself; he had none of the martyr spirit, for although he could encounter any obstacle against which he could dash, yet the reverses of fortune he could not endure. It is surprising to see a man who would not be daunted at any obstacle, even the storming of a battery or the routing of an army eighty-thousand strong, unable to subdue himself, to bear up with the solitude and silence of a desert or the hunger and thirst of a burning sun. Napoleon says of him that he was “ wise, prudent and, withal, bold, gifted with imperturbable sang-froid in the presence’ of an enemy.” His intellect was rapidly developing, and, had he lived longer, he would have become as distinguished for his military skill as for his bravery. Napoleon himself said: “ I found him a dwarf and left him a giant.” - -.
. Never did Lannes appear, to better advantage than fin.-the engagement in which he. lost his’life. The French army was retreating under fire of the enemy, at the battle’ of Aspern, when Lannes, dismounting from his horse to escape the tempest of cannon balls which swept down everything, was struck with a shot as he reached the ground, thus losing the whole right leg, and the foot and ankle of the'left. It miist.be a feeling sight to see Na
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	51
poleon turn in the midst of that awful carnage, reckless alike of his defeat and of the peril of Iris army, to save the dying friend by his side. The lip of Bonaparte, that seemed made of iron, now quivered with emotion, and the eye that had never blenched in’ the fury of battle now flowed with . tears as the fainting Marshal grasped his hand, exclaiming: “ Farewell, sire! Live for the world, but -bestow a passing thought on one of your best friends who in two hours shall be no more.” Soon after he fainted away, and then became delirious. Thus he lingered foi- nine days; at one time charging in his frantic dreams at the head of his column; now calling wildly on the Emperor to come; now raving about his cruel fate. He could not hear of death: “Not save a Marshal of France?” he would say; but no! cruel death beats alike at the cottage of the poor and the palace of the rich; death spares neither Marshals nor Dukes, and the hero of so many combats was to be no exception. Less fortunate than his chief, who even on the barren rock of St. Helena was fortified by the consolations of religion, he died without a thought of the God before whom he had soon to appear.
M. J.
Th© Cultivation of the Oyster.
Doubtless, one of the most interesting studies in natural history is that of mollusks; for not only do some of these possess shells of wondrous' beauty and diversity of form, ■ but many of them represent modes of living so different from all other animals that they deserve special study. Among this number may be mentioned the oyster, since, perhaps, it is best known and enters so largely into our daily food. Glancing at the pages of history, we find that these animals ’ from all ages were known and appreciated for their palatable' qualities. The Athenians, those most polished of people, considered them as an article-of food unsurpassed in their day; and the wealthy Romans esteemed them so highly as to pay enormous prices for them. The Lucrine Lake and the Abydos in the Hellespont were the favorite fisheries, in those days, as the Chesapeake Bay, and the American and British coasts are now. The British oysters, especially, have long been known, for even in the days of Juvenal, as is seen in his satire against Montanus, “Richboro Shore” was remarkable for its resources. Not only were there fisheries, but parks and other places, as Pliny re-. -marks, were set aside for their cultivation. They were eaten cooked in every possible style, and Sergius Orata was th© fortunate one to introduce the oyster-stew, which gained such popularity that in a short time he became, not only wealthy, but exceedingly famous.
Oysters are found in almost all seas and are very numerous along the coasts of England and America. Being fond of tranquil waters and the gulfs formed by mouths of rivers, they are never discovered at a great distance from the shore, nor- at
a greater depth than from two to six fathoms. The species common to America is the Ostrea Virginiana. This class of oysters has a long and narrow shell, of dull, leaden color, measuring from 12 to 15 inches in length, but scarcely gaining more than 3 inches in breadth. It is found in the Chesapeake Bay and southward, but sometimes as far north as Boston. The propagation of this species is so extensive as to offer an impediment to navigation. Along the coasts of Georgia, the land being for the most part alluvial, great walls of these oysters are formed, presenting a powerful resistance to the course of the current.
The principal fisheries in North America are along the Chesapeake Bay, New Jersey coast and Long Island Sound. The northern beds were almost wholly kept by seed taken from the Chesapeake Bay and Hudson River.- The spot is now secured at spawning time and special care is taken for the preservation of the beds.
It is difficult to obtain a reliable account either of the oyster area in the United States or the annual product, but we may form an opinion, since New York alone has an annual wholesale trade of $25,000,000. In England ■ there are some rigorous laws formed to increase the cultivation of oysters. Fishing begins in May, by separating the spawn from the cultch, the former being returned to the beds in order to preserve the stock for future seasons. And in England it is felony to take any oyster between whose shell a shilling will rattle when the valves are closed. This severe penalty is imposed, probably, to save the oyster; for when the cultch is destroyed, the ooze increases and the cockles-breed-ing in the beds occupy the places where the spawn should be cast. The principal breeding times are in April and May. During these months they cast the spaw, or spats, as it is called by fishermen, upon rocks, stones, shells or any hard substance convenient; this substance, no matter what it may be, is called the cultch. On this the spats adhere until they gain their testaceous film. From spawn-ing-time till the end of July, oysters are said to be sick, but by the end of August they are entirely recovered. They are considered unfit for eating during these months, and this is noticeable by the males having a black and the females a milky substance in the gill. At the age of a year and a half they are considered suitable for the table, as then they are in a healthy condition.
The means by which oysters are taken from their beds is very simple, and consists of a dredge formed of net, and held open by an iron scraper; this dredge is attached to a boat by a rope, and is drawn over the place where the oysters are supposed to lie. When removed, they are placed in pits formed for the purpose, and furnished with sluices, through which, at springtide, the water is suffered to flow. This water being stagnant, in warm weather becomes green, and the oysters soon partake of the same color, which renders them of great value in the markets; remaining in this condition for six or eight weeks, they gain their best quality and are fit for sale. Oysters in
52
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the pits are always loose, but on then' native beds they are fixed by their under-shell from the time they are cast. In the pits their quality is said to be materially affected by their being placed with the flat shells downward, not being able in that position to retain sufficient water for their support.
The shells of an oyster are irregular, lamellated, and united together by a hinge, and these are joined to the animal by means of muscles. The right or upper valve is the smaller, and is generally flat, bending forward with age, leaving a lengthened groove for the ligament seen along the beak of the adhering valve. This valve is the left and lower, deepest and most capacious, attaching itself to foreign bodies by a calcareous outgrowth. The age of an oyster may be calculated from the number of layers visible at the groove; the average duration is uncertain, but they have been known to attain a number of years remarkable to animals of such a low order of life. Prof. Samuel Lockwood was recently presented with a pair of oysters belonging to a planting thirty years ago.
The structure of an oyster is very simple in itself; the mantle or covering has a double fringe, and its lobes are widely separated, united only near, the hinge; there is no vestige of a foot; respiration is effected by the aid of four ribbon-like gills attached to the inner surface of the mantle; water is brought by cilia lining the gills; the mouth is a mere slit in the upper part of the body, and is both toothless and jawless, being provided with short labial processes for the selection of food. This food consists generally of the infusorial products of the water, and is drawn in by the cilia. Some supposed the yellowish crab found in the oyster to be part of the animal’s food; this is absurd, since the softness of the mouth prevents it from prehending such a hard substance.
Great speculation was circulated in former years regarding the locomotive powers of an oyster, but any one acquainted with the mechanism of an animal knows that this cannot take place by means of a foot, as is usual in other bivalves, such an appendage being altogether wanting.
The Abbe Decqudmaire, who was a close observer of the habits of these as well as other ma-.rine animals, assures us that oysters possess the power of moving themselves; which is accomplished by drawing in water, and then ejecting it with considerable force from the shells, thus enabling the oyster to gain a-limited distance. He says anyone may amuse himself with the squirting by placing a number of them on a plate filled with sufficient water to cover them.	'
Formerly, the oyster was supposed to be destitute of motion and every species of sensation, but Dec-qudmaire says that it is able to perform actions consonant to its habits, either of comfort or defense. When removed from situations constantly covered by the sea, from’ want of experience they open their shells, lose the nourishment, and in a fevy days die. But when taken from similar situations and laid down in places from which the sea occasionally retires, feeling the heat of the sun’s
rays, or apprehending the attack of an enemy, they soon learn to close their shells until the tide returns.
It was the opinion of many that oysters were hermaphrodite, but Siebold says that they consist of separate sexes, of which the female vastly preponderates and is oviparous.
The celebrated scientist Lbvenhcek, whose microscopic investigations have led to so many important discoveries in Natural History, gives the following observations respecting the oyster: “In the clear liquid, surrounding the animal, many minute, round animalcula have been found, whose bodies being conjoined formed spherical figures with tails, not changing their places otherwise than sinking to the bottom. In other oysters ani-. malcula of the same kind were found, not conjoined, but swimming by one another; these, seeming in a more perfect state, were judged by him to be the semen of the oyster.
A female being opened, incredible numbers of small oysters were seen, covered with little shells, perfectly transparent, and swimming along slowly in the water; and in another the young were of a brownish color and apparently lifeless.
There are about 60 different species throughout the world; those of the tropical climate being less delicious, and it has been estimated that at least two hundred more, according to the fossil remains, have existed. The Anomia, of the same family as the oyster, is of a pearly whiteness within and attaches itself by a calcareous plug which passes through a notch in the right valve, to rocks, weeds, etc., thus gaining a variety of forms, since it takes the shape of the thing to which it is attached. Other species, as the paraselica and polymorphia, adhere to mangrove trees in the tropics, containing within their shells enough water for respiration. The placenta of the Chinese seas possess shells of such transparency as to be used by'the natives for glass in their windows. Many more species of oysters may be mentioned, as the pearl, which, for beauty of shell and utility, deserve special attention, but for want of space are omitted
J. A. McIntyre, N. D. S. A.
Art, Music, and Literature.
—Cardinal Newman was a skilful violin player in his early years, and even now, when he is more than 8o, he sometimes draws the bow.
—Mr. Edward Healy Thomson, M. A., is preparing a.new and enlarged edition of his “ Life of Jean Jacques Olier,” founder of the Seminary of St. Sulpice.	•	.	'
—Louis Rubio, an Italian painter, who died a few months ago at the age of 8<, was distinguished 1 at 25, and gained-a European-reputation by many , considerable pictures. of historical and symbolic s subjects. ■	~	‘
—The Pope has lately given a fresh proof of his interest in literature. He has directed the
• formation of a library for the Catholic Scientific
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	53
. • . .
Institute. Several libraries have been secured for the purpose—notably that of Prof. Feliciani, which contains a large number of rare works on surgery, costing 25,000 francs.
—An equestrian statue of Paul Revere is to be the latest addition to Boston’s already large and miscellaneous collection, making three portrait monuments which are in immediate prospect—the other two being a high relief of Col. Shaw, by St. Gaudens, and a statue of Theodore Parker, whose F'	artist is not yet decided upon.	-
—Tennyson says that he meant to refer to Grethe in the much queried lines of “In Mc-moriam ”:
“ I held it truth with him who sings To one clear harp in divers tones, That men may rise on stepping-stones Of their dead selves to higher things.”
—On the eve of his name-day the Holy Father . was presented with the first volume of the great edition of the works of St. Thomas, which was ordered by him and done at his own expense in the Propaganda. This volume was presented by Cardinal Zigliara, the superintendent of the edition, and Mgr. Jacobini, Secretary of the Propaganda. The printing is splendid, the paper fine, and the commentaries inserted by Cardinal Zigliara are learned.
—Miss Frances Fisher, who screens her identity by the name de plume of “ Christian Reid,” and whose writings are so pleasantly familiar to our reading people, is a North Carolinian. Her home ;	is at Asheville, and her early life was blessed with
but few advantages of wealth or travel. “Miss Fisher is a Roman Catholic, a convert and an enthusiast,” says a Washington paper, “ as indeed all converts are, their zeal possibly'arising from the ,	fact that they are dazzled by the light of their
new faith, to whose radiance those who are to the manor born have grown accustomed.” It is said Miss Fisher is now gathering up material for a “ story ” from which she expects lasting fame.
—The celebration of the centenary of Guido d’Arezzo has begun with the unveiling of a statue of the inventor of the musical scale, and the inauguration of an industrial exhibition of the province. ' Music, as was natural, had a foremost place in the programme. Thirty-two bands, during the ceremony of unveiling the statue, executed a composition in honor of the occasion. Concerts were given; and an exhibition. of musical instruments opened. The festival is to continue for another week; and will be closed by the meeting of an international congress of cultivators and patrons of ’l	sacred music. The King showed some discrimi-
. nation in honoring by his presence the centenary of this pious monk, after declining to be present at . the celebrations of the apostate Arnaldo da Brescia.
—Liverpool Catholic Times.
—Gounod’s new Oratorio, “ The Redemption,” which was produced at the late Birmingham Festival, is declared by the author to be the “great work of my life,” opus vitce mece. It was begun during his sojourn in Rome, in 1867, and while
there, the Grand March of Calvary- was written, which is.said to be the best number in the work. Twelve years afterward it was again taken up, in order to finish it in time for the Birmingham Fes-
•	, _ ■	o
rival. This festival was first held in 1768 and was originally established to aid the funds of the General Hospital. Ten years elapsed between the 1 st and 2d performance, and six between the 2d and 3d. Of late years it has been held every three years and the greatest composers, musicians and singers have been proud to contribute to its success. Gounod himself says of his work, that' it is a lyrical setting forth of the three great facts on which depends the existence of the Christian Church— the Passion and Death of the Saviour, His glorious life on earth from His resurrection to His ascension, and the spread of Christianity in the world through the mission of the apostles. These three parts are preceded by a prologue on the creation; the fall of our first parents, and the promise of a Redeemer. The theme, certainly, is the grandest that can possibly be conceived; and, it is said, the treatment is most reverent, and much of the music novel and beautiful.	.
Books and Periodicals.
Kerney’s Compendium of Ancient and Modern History. For the Use of Schools. Corrected, enlarged, and brought down to 1SS0, by John O’Kane Murray, M. A., M. D. Baltimore: John Murphy & Co. 1SS2.
The Compendium of History written by the late Martin J. Kerney, a lawyer of Baltimore, and the author of several educational works of no little merit, has been before the public for more than thirty years and enjoyed a high reputation and an extensive circulation. The compendium passed through nearly as many editions as it has seen years of existence, and is now perhaps more popular than ever before. The many important events that have occurred since .the latest revision by the author necessitated its continuation to the present time. The work was entrusted to Dr. Murray, who, besides, has revised the entire book and added much valuable matter of his own. It is to be regretted, however, that the reviser had not expunged such matter as that on page 20, relating to the vicious career of King Solomon. It is hardly a fit subject for the minds of children. In the history of the United States, Dr. Murray, following Mr. Kerney, has also retained the statement that De Kalb was a Prussian. Steuben was a Prussian; but the Baron de Kalb, although often represented as an Austrian, was an Alsatian by birth, therefore a Frenchman, and previous to his volunteering in the American cause was an officer in the French army. Notwithstanding Mr. Kerney’s purity of style in general, he at times allowed such slipshod expressions as “Grecian history”—, when referring to the history of Greece—and Galileo “ embracing ” the Copernican System, to slip from his pen; these we find reprinted in Dr.
54
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Murray’s revision. Other evidences of haste are occasionally met with, but as they pertain chiefly to the style of writing, and not to the subject matter of the history, they are of little consequence. Taken as a whole, Kerney’s Compendium can fairly claim to be the most complete summary, in one handy volume, of ancient and modern history in the English language. Besides its undoubted excellence for schools, its compact form and the chronological table and brief biographies supplementing it make it a handy volume for private reading or reference. The book is gotten up in the handsome and substantial manner of all Murphy & Co.’s publications. It is printed from large, clear type, on excellent paper, and is in every respect a credit to the publishers.
Catholic Controversy : A Reply • to Dr.
Littledale’s Plain Reason. By Father Ryder, of the London Oratory. Catholic Publication Society Co., New York.
To be attacked is the normal condition of the Catholic Church. Periodically, however, the attack becomes more virulent. The Church is attacked because she possesses the truth; the periodic increase of virulence usualty denotes an uneasy recognition of the.fact. Dr. Littledale’s “ Plain Reasons Against Joining the Church of Rome,” is the outcome of the last periodic fit; the work is a rechauffe of all the old, many-times refuted calumnies. Dr. Littledale is an English parson, consequently a gentleman. In personal controversy he would not so far demean himself as to make false statements against his opponent, yet without the slightest scruple he deals thus unfairly when his opponent is the Catholic Church. His work is. full of • errors, not errors in reasoning—these can be pardoned—but errors in statement, false quotations, garbled extracts, etc. He writes thus, either consciously or unconsciously; if the latter, he only shows his own ignorance of the matter in controversy, his unfitness and carelessness; if the former, no words of ours are strong enough to stigmatize his conduct. Dr. Littledale’s work has had a large sale and must necessarily exert a deep influence on the class of readers for whom it was intended. For of his readers not one in a hundred, not one in a thousand has the knowledge to detect or even the. wish to discover the falseness of his accusations, or the insufficient evidence he adduces. Most opportunely, then, comes the “Reply to Plain Reasons,” by Father Ryder of the London - Oratory. The work of the able Oratorian is clear and concise, and, though short, will give the careful reader a thorough grasp of and answer to the oft-recurring attacks made on the Catholic Church. One by one,-Fr. Ryder takes Dr. Littledale’s charges and holds them up to the clear, searching light of reason and history. The result is curious; to the unprejudiced mind most convincing. - Whether the matter be the Supremacy of Peter, the Infallibility, the worship of Our Lady, the condemnation of Galileo, the massacre of St. Bartholomew, or Casuistry, etc., on each and all Dr. Littledale’s ignorance and unfair statements are clearly shown. In so small a compass there is no book better
adapted to enable the Catholic to hold his own and give a reason for the Faith that is in him. We recommend it warmly.
Scott-Browne’s Text-Book of Phonography.
A New Presentation of the Principles of the Art. For
Schools, Colleges and Private Instruction. By Mr. and	.
Mrs. D. L. Scott-Browne. Part I. New York: D. L.	•
Scott-Browne. 18S2. 88 pages Svo. Price,,$1.
This is not a new system of Phonography, but simply a new presentation of the old and popular system of Benn Pitman—or rather what for yearn	' |
has been known as the “Benn Pitman” system, but which is, in reality, the old Isaac Pitman system as modified by his brother Benn. The joint authors of the new text-book—well-known as the editors of Broivnds Phonographic Monthly and	'
teachers of the art of short-hand in New York city, have incorporated in their work such modifications as, during a course of eight years’ teaching, and in the practice of reporters by that method ' i during the past ten years, have been suggested	1
and deemed worthy of acceptance. Many of	I
these are valuable,—and one of them alone, the tick joined to the double-vowel signs to express a third vowel, as in “ royal,” . “ trowel,” “ con-tinzwty,” etc., is worth the price of the book to any stenographer. Other devices there are which may be practical, but we consider them inferior to the methods in Isaac Pitman’s later textbooks; of these we will mention only the prefixing of the ess circle to the tick on qu, which gives a very cramped outline, and one that will not at all bear comparison with Isaac Pitman’s free outline	*
for the same characters.
Scott-Browne’s text-book professes to discard “many of the expedients, devices, contractions, words-signs, arbitrary and illogical principles found in other text-books, and not found in the practice of reporters.” The ticks for a and an are discarded, although they could hardly be called an objectionable feature when judiciously employed, while the dot for a and and are retained, which on unruled paper are liable to get mixed. With these comparatively few exceptions, and the third position for horizontal letters, which is common to the Benn Pitman, Graham and Munson modifications of phonography, Scott-Browne’s text-book is a decided improvement over the old . Benn Pitman method of writing, and offers many devices that will prove useful to writers by all methods.	'	. -
The lessons—twenty-five in number—are admirably arranged in consecutive order, and fully illustrated with engravings. The print is clear, on fine toned paper, and the book is in every respect creditable alike to authors and publishers.
- .	--'2 a------_ ■- - - •-
Polish journals call attention to a memorial tablet in a Warsaw church, which contains the reeord of the age and death of the oldest man, concerning whom’ there is any authentic account in existence. The priest Cybulski is shown by this table to have	(
been bom in 1500, and to-have died in 1667.
There is said to be unquestionable evidence of the	=
correctness of these facts.	'
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	55
Exchanges.
—The Berkeley an is nearly one-third coyer-— pretty well covered, we should think. It wants it clearly understood that it is not a fraternity organ, that it takes an independent position. The Occident, from the same University, is an anti-fraternity paper, but as we don’t exchange with it we have no idea as to what its ability is, or its exact line of policy. As regards ability, The Berkeleyan is ,	only so-so, but perhaps its editors have not got
fairly started yet.	•
—The' Paper World for August contains an elaborate sketch of the history of The Boston Post and of Col. Charles Gordon Greene, its founder and for many years its editor. Col. Greene celebrated the 78th anniversary of his birthday on the 1st of July last. Among those who were at one time connected with the Post were N. P. Willis, whose poetical career began with the Boston Statesman, the predecessor of The Post; John G. Saxe; Wilson Flagg; B. F. Hallett; B. P. Shillaber (“Mrs. Partington”).
—The Polytechnic prints the names of all the exchange papers on its exchange list in the order of the rank they hold in its estimation. In a list of 112 papers we find the Badger number 24 and the University Press 89. The Polytechnic is a model paper itself.—Badger.
And in that list the Notre Dame Scholastic stood sixth. We cannot help feeling flattered at Poly's good opinion, even though we be sporting r	the laurels won by last year’s editors. Whether
the Scholastic will this year maintain the high position obtained for it by former editors and contributors remains to be seen. We hope the boys . will rally round the flag and not allow it to lose ground.
—The first number of The Echo, for August, contains a stirring “ Appeal to the English-speaking Catholics of the United States,” from Right Rev. Bishop Marty, of Yankton, Dakota; the Prospectus of the paper, by Prof. John Singen-. berger, the editor; an article on “Gregorian Chant ”; and one on “ Music and Liturgy ” from the pen of Rev. Francis Witt, Mus. Doc., translated by Prof. Butterfield. The music of the number—8 pages—is a “ Veni Creator"''' by Han-ich, for four voices, with organ accompaniment, ad libitum; a “ Tantum Ergop by Palestrina; “ O Quam Amabilis” Singenberger, and an “ O Salutaris Hostiav> for four voices by Dr. Franz Liszt,—all with organ accompaniment.
—The exchange editor of The College Courier 1	thinks the Scholastic ought to take a vacation.
“ We confess,” he adds,'“ and we do so with joy, that we did not read the-Scholastic this summer. We preferred light reading during the heated term.” Heated term I Where in the world could a heated term be found last summer, unless one went to the tropics for it? The weather here was delightfully cool all summer, with the exception of a week or so. We fear the Cotirier man worked himself up to fever heat; he does well to avoid solid reading and solid food until he has toned his
system a little. We were not aware before that it required such a strong effort to abstain from reading the Scholastic; it is rather encouraging to learn that such is the case. *
—The Guardian Angel, which had been published for a year at Keokuk, Iowa, finding that place loo small for its growing field of usefulness, or for some other occult reason, packed up and emigrated to Quincy, Illinois, where it has made its entree in. grand style under the new title of 7he Western Catholic Magazine. With toned paper, new type, and a neat cover, The Western Catholic Magazine makes a very creditable appearance. It is under the editorial management of Mr. P. F. Pierce, who, if we do not mistake, will rive it a large circulation before the end of another year. Mr. Pierce possesses editorial grit of the right sort, and always manages to have something in his neat quarto monthly that people connot well do without when once they have had a taste of it. The subscription price is $1 a year, or $1 per year, as some will have it who like to make an unreasonable mixture of Latin and English.	-
— The V idette-Reporter, from the Iowa State University, has been gathering itself up. and putting itself in shapej and the hitherto loose sheet of odds and ends now comes out in good style. In its own words, there is something of “ that exquisite something which, like the grace of perfect . breeding, everywhere pervasive and nowhere emphatic, makes itself felt by the skill with which it effaces itself.” The Vidette-Reporter seems to have effectually effaced its former self, and we congratulate the new editors on the manifest success of their efforts in building up a paper that is likely to reflect some credit on themselves' and their University. The second number of their paper is as • far ahead of No. 1 as that distanced those of last year. There is some style about it; more than that, there is brain-work-in it. The exchange editor is evidently a live ’un. Among other things he says: “ The indications this fall are unmistakably for war. The whole field of college journalism is bristling with batteries only waiting for a pretext to open. Some have already opened, and before another week we shall probably hear from others. The policy of The Vidette-Reporter is pretty well known, so if you come at us look out for broken bones.” That sounds warlike. He doesn’t know whether to make friends with us or not; he is evidently in doubt as to our calibre. We can inform him it is a forty-ton rifle bore, good for a long or short range, and never misses tiie mark. The Vidette man throws out, evidently as a feeler, the remark that “ The Notre Dame Scholastic has got a new head, but whether the new head contains more brains than the old one, . remains to be proved.” Lots of brains, old fellow! Could lend you some if you were in need, but, from present indications, we think you are as well sup- -plied as ourselves. That short-hand column of yours is decidedly good: the right thing in the right place. You can now lay some claim to the additional title of Reporter. Ta-ta!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MM sew
Notre Dame. September 30, 1882.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct	.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, St.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
If a subscriber fails to receive the Scholastic regularly he will confer a favor by sending us notice immediately, each time. Those who may have missed a number, or numbers, and wish to have the volume complete for binding, can have back numbers of the current volume by applying for them. In all such cases, early application should be made at the office of publication, as, usually, but few copies in excess of the subscription list are printed.
The Editors of the Scholastic will always be glad to receive information concerning former students and graduates of the University.
—We be? leave to remind the students of the o	-
fact that it is the intention of the College authorities to give this year special medals for essaywriting. We know that many will enter into competition for these medals, and between now and June devote their spare time to exercises in this branch. We would suggest to them that no better medium can they find than that presented them by their own paper. The Scholastic, in accordance with its object as a college journal, will ever be found ready to lend its aid towards furthering this movement. We say, then, to one and all, “Write! try what you can do, and if at first you don’t succeed, try, try again.” Be sure and put your productions in “ our box.”
—We regret very much that want of suitable type prevents us from reprinting the kind notice which our spicy and welcome weekly visitor from Athens, Ho Astcer Tees Anatolies, gives in a late number, concerning the representation of the “(Edipus Tyrannus”by the students of Notre Dame, last June. • W^e present the following extract in English characters :
“Metapollaes taes eucharistaeseos ex Amerikies mantha-
nomen, hoti en to Panepistiemio ties Notre Dame en In-dianie parestathae hupo ton phoitieton, tie sunergeia ton kathiegzeton, to drama tou Sophokleous ‘ CEdipous Tyran-nos ’ meta megalaes epituchias. Hoi paristontes ta dia-phora prosopa phoitaetai lesan endedumenoi stolas homoias tais archaiais Hellaenikais, kai en genei hie parastasis apeikonidzen akribos kath hosa gignoskomen peri ton bion kai tas endumasias auton.”
With.the “Star” a letter was received by Rev. President Walsh from the manager, Mrs. M. ,K. Kalopothakes, in which she most heartily congratulates the students of Notre Dame upon the successful reproduction of the immortal work of Sophocles, and is much gratified to learn that Greek letters are so enthusiastically studied in this institution. The Astcer tees Anatolies is a very interesting and instructive little weekly. It is published in Athens, No. 39 Aiolou street. The subscription price for this country is only $1.50 a year.	.
—Pustet & Co., the well-known publishers of The Ccecilia, have taken a commendable step in the publication of The Echo, a translation or counterpart of the excellent German periodical, for English readers. Like The Ccecilia, The Echo will be issued monthly, and although the subscription price is only $1.50 a year it is accompanied by a bulletin of church music of itself well worth double that sum. Messrs. Pustet & Co. have of late years distinguished themselves as publishers of liturgical church music of the highest order, and we have little doubt that the new English periodical will soon prove a powerful means of making the Cecilian reform better known and appreciated in this country. First inaugurated in Germany, where Dr. Witt in a short time rallied more than 10,000 members, including many eminent composers and musicians, around the .St. Cecilian banner, the German Catholics of the United States next took up the reform, followed by the Catholics of Ireland under the leadership of the Rev. Nicholas Donnelly, editor of the Lyra Ec-clesiastica and the Magister Choralis. In France liturgical music had always a strong following. England came next, with Cardinal Manning at the head; then Holland, Belgium, Italy, Slavonia, until • now the reform has obtained a footing in nearly every civilized country on the globe. It was uphill work, but with talent, persevering industry, and the encouragement and blessing of the Apostolic See, the movement has gradually spread and is still spreading, notwithstanding the tenacity of musicians to the voZe-stirring music of their boyhood days. A notice of the first number of The Echo appears in our exchange column.
—The “ Visit to Notre Dame,” which was published in our last number, is. certainly a striking proof of the very favorable impression which our Alina Mater produced upon the mind of the writer, and, we have no doubt, Notre Dame’s numerous friends will say that all the high praises bestowed are well deserved. However, the great anxiety of the writer to do justice to his subject
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	57
and to satisfy all the emotions of love and respect with which his visit impressed him—such, or kindred feelings, we might say—led him to speak of the University as if it were what he, with all the friends of Notre Dame would wish to see, already completed. The “magnificent dome” of which he speaks, is, alas! only on the picture; it is the want of this crowning- work that is the great sub-ject of regret to all visitors. “ The College is nothing without the dome! ” is ever the first expression of the visitor, as the stately pile of buildings meet his eye while coming up the broad avenue from. South Bend. He sees, indeed, the large magnificent statue of Our Lady occupying its temporary position over the balcony of the College, but evidently it is. out of place, and he is informed that it is awaiting the day when the grand dome, which is to form its pedestal, shall be built. From time to time letters are received, expressing regret at this state of affairs, and sometimes enclosing “ a little mite to aid in the placing of Our Lady’s statue upon its final resting-place.” We are happy to announce to our readers that measures have been taken to have this grand work begun, by next spring, and it is confidently expected that, with the assistance of kind friends, ’84 will see it completed, and the College, as it should be, surmounted with its stately dome, the fitting pedestal of the statue of Our Lady, under whose protecting mantle all the inmates are placed.
—It has often been remarked that great minds are generally humble ones. Diffidence is one of the most common characteristics of superior ability. It is precisely because they view things from a higher standpoint than the generality of people, that great men are so dissatisfied with their ef-forts; what to others seems without a flaw is to their eye full of imperfections.
• It is good to be modest. Those who regard all their doings as perfect, and cannot brook a friendly criticism, render themselves incapable of improvement. Who is competent to teach one who fancies he knows more than everyone else? It is hard to understand how anyone can be so foolish as to imagine himself superior to all others, and yet many persons act as if this were theii' firm conviction. They never listen to advice, a suggestion is an insult to them; and the consequence is that they soon come to be looked upon as monuments of self-conceit. One who believes himself capable of something better than he has ever yet accomplished is never offended at honest criticism. Only those who are perfectly satisfied with themselves and their endeavors delight in expressions of unqualified approval, and unqualified praise is generally bestowed only by those whose opinions are without weight ’or' worth. It is related of Rembrandt that he became so’ much disgusted at the fulsome praise which visitors to his studio were accustomed to bestow upon all his paintings, whether finished or half done, that he used to keep within easy reach a nutmeg-grater which he never failed to produce with the remark, “ Here is a greater,” whenever anyone spoke of some work
which he considered in any way imperfect, as “ a’ great work.”	’	-
We are opposed to indiscriminate puffing, and we shall try to act up to the rule of conduct: “ Express your approbation in guarded terms, and don’t say more than you mean, unless you would have sensible people understand you as not meaning
• anything.”
—The Colorado students all speak in the high-, est terms of the courtesy of the officials of the' Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railway, and of the efforts made by everyone connected with the road to make their journey as comfortable and agreeable as possible. They are especially eloquent in their praises of Messrs. E. J. Swords, and A. J. O’Reilly, and Mr. Millner, the gentlemanly agents of the company in Denver, whose invariable kindness makes everything doubly pleasant. Although but recently completed to Denver, the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad is the best equipped, as it is the fastest and most direct line to the Centennial- State. Being the only through line from Chicago to Denver, it will al-ways be a favorite route for tourists, as it is now the favorite road of parents and students coming to Notre Dame. As to the comforts and luxuries of ’ modern railway travel,—palace, sleeping and dining coaches, the C. B. & Q. Ry. leave nothing’ to be desired.
Personal.
—W. G. Jones (Com’l), of ’80, is book-keeper at the Citizens’ Bank, Columbus, Ohio.
—Eugene F. Orrick, ’82, has found a splendid opening as a civil engineer and embraced the opportunity. .	. \
—PhiLG. Lilly (Com’l), ’74, now with theU. S. Express Co., Chicago, paid a flying visit to the College last week.
—J. Francis Smith, formerly one of Prof. Gregori’s Art pupils, is how engaged in teaching Drawing and Painting at Denver, Colorado.
—W. P. Breen, ’76, (and Valedictorian) is the Law partner of Judge Wethers, at Ft. Wayne, Indiana, and commands a very extensive practice.
—W. L. Dechant, ’78, now practising law at Lebanon, Ohio, paid a short visit to his Alma Mater this week, and was heartily greeted by many old friends.
—W. J. Clarke, ’74, retires this fall after serving two very successful terms as City Attorney at Columbus, Ohio. His many friends, will be pleased to learn that Will is enjoying good health and meeting with great success in his profession.
— F. X. McPhillips, a Junior of last year, writes from Assumption College, Sandwich, Ontario; and show’s he has not forgotten his former friendsL-He contemplates entering upon a course of study for the sacred ministry. We wish him all possible success.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—Cards are out announcing the approaching nuptials of Mr. Edward G. Ohmer, of Dayton, Ohio, and Miss Clara C. Legler, of the same city. Mr. Ohmer was a student here in ’72-’73.- We unite -with the numerous friends of les fances in wishing them un bon voyage through life.
—The many friends of MrJJohn English, of ’75, will rejoice to hear that he is rapidly recovering health and strength. Indeed, so marked has been the improvement brought about within the past few weeks, that it would seem as though our Blessed Lady had taken the case in her own hands.
—We are pleased to hear that the services of W. J. Hoynes, Esq., of Chicago, have been secured for the Law department. Mr. Hoynes was a member of the Class of ’68, and after graduation earned for himself a brilliant reputation, both as a journalist and a lawyer. In this connection we might say, that this engagement gives new evi--dence of the great interest which the College au-thoiities have ever taken in this department.
—Eugene F. Arnold, of Washington, D. C., is now one of the teachers in the . Law Course, at the University. Mr. Arnold took his degree of Bachelor of Law here in 1878. After leaving College, he entered the Georgetown University Law School in his native city (Washington, D. C.), and graduated with signal honor, receiving his Master’s degree there in 1879. He practiced law for two years with Shellabarger & Wilson, in the District Courts, and the United States Supreme Court, and relinquished a successful and lucrative practice to return to Notre Dame.
—Mr. A. J. O’Reilly, of ’68, is now a prominentrailroad man, and has his headquarters in Denver, Col. Besides being connected with the C., B. & Q. Ry., he has recently been appointed General Western Freight & Passenger Agent of the Hannibal and St. Joseph R. R. Company for Colorado, New Mexico and Arizona. Mr. O’Reilly’s many friends among the old students, will, we are sure, be rejoiced to learn of his success in the far West. All who know Mr. O’Reilly, and he makes friends wherever he goes, speak of him as a gentleman of sterling worth and bright promise.
—T. A. Dailey, M. S., ’68, has resigned his professorship at Goliad College, Texas, which he held for many years, and has leased The Winona (Minn.) Herald. Mr. Dailey was, during his college days here, one of the editors of the . Scholastic, and is said to be a ready, as he is certainly a pleasing, writer. We augur that the turning of the Winona Herald into a Dailey paper will not be to the disadvantage of the paper or its readers. Mr. Dailey’s ability fits him for d much heavier grade of literary work than the editing of a newspaper; but the editorial notes, and especially the crisp exchange notes in the number of the Herald now before us, leave it beyond a doubt that he can adapt himself to any kind of - literary work. This is, probably, in -a great measure owing to his practice with the pen. during his college career. We wish the Herald success under its new management.
Local Items.
—^Esthetic.
—Cusihuinachic!
—Long live the Chef!
—MAy his shadow never grow less !
—All the Platos came in due time.
—How can they.think of such things!
—No allusion to the melancholy days, please!
—He says he is training for the five-mile race.
—Dick paid a flying visit to the College, last week.
—A Latin Class has been started in the Minim department. .
—Competitions in the Preparatory Course will take place next week.
—Two new validores will be put up in a short time in the Juniors’ Campus.
—Among the visitors last week was the Rev. Mr. Seahorn, of Honolulu, Hawaii.
—The Juniors are reading in their refectory “ Excelsior,” by Prof. T. E. Howard.
—Master J. Wright of Montana, who arrived on Monday, makes the seventy-fourth Minim.
—It is really affecting to witness the unction with which he says: “ Will you pay now, Madam ? ”
—A concrete side-walk between the Printing-Office and the College would be a thing of beauty and utility.
‘ —The names of the twin burros are Emma and January ; at least, so their facetious and genial proprietor says.
—The courses of Christian Doctrine have been fairly started, and are well attended. Those in charge are the same as last year.
—The Philopatrians return thanks to Rev. President Walsh for a beautiful picture of St. Stanislaus, the patron of their Association.
—The buildings of the Manual Labor School are being thoroughly renovated. When the work is completed they will present a very fine appearance.
—We regret to say that B. Francis Assisi is laid up with a sprained knee.. We trust that he will soon have no need (no pun intended) for a walking-stick.
—A copy of Scott-Browne’f "Text-Book of Phonography ” has'been mislaid, xiny one finding it will confer a favor by leaving it at the Students’ Office or the printing-office.
—When they started out last Tuesday morning, they were going to get a whole day. Well, they didn’t:—a half day?•’ No!—They came down to two hours after halffastfour!—Rec! ■
—Mr. Otto Schnurrer, formerly Professor in the University, is bringing out a work oh “ Mosaic Cosmology.” The advance sheets have already been forwarded to Very Rev. E. Sorin.
—Our weather-prophet started out early on Monday morning to see the new comet, but he didn’t see it “ worth a cent.”
- P. S.—He says he saw it next day. It’s all right.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
59
—All who sit at the Vice-President’s table, speak in the highest terms of the attention, neatness and general politeness with which they are attended by the one who serves them, Master De Groot.
—The retired, shady walk in the Botanical Garden should be called “ Ave Maria Lane.” It seems to be a favorite haunt of some of the denizens of the printing-office during' their leisure hours, p	—The Minims’ new play-hall is going up fast,
I	and when completed it will be a thing of beauty.
;	It will be 100 feet long, with two g-aZZej (we think
t that’s the name), and rooms for gymnastic exeri cises, etc.
—The great attraction of the field-sports on the j	13th will be the “burro race.” There will be
J	two entries, one for a trotting-match, and the
! other, “a go as you please.” (No remarks upon this last entry.)	.
—Quite a large number went from the College, last Monday night, to attend the grand opening of. Moses Livingston & Co., in South Bend. All say it was a great success. Fr. M------- does not forget his old friends.
—Our young friends of the Minim department ’ now number 74, and are about the happiest crowd of boys we have ever seen at Notre Dame. Much is due to the kind and paternal direction of their indefatigable Prefect, Bro. Francis Regis.
—The electric light will soon again be in operation, and the students may take theh evening recreations outdoors. New engines have been procured, one of which has already been placed in position. Everything betokens complete success, as regards illumination. ■
—The Juniors took advantage of the quarterday “ rec.” last Tuesday, and had a game of football. Master Dolan was chosen Captain of the “West Side,” and Master Lund of the “East Side.” The game was close and exciting, and was finally won by the “ West.”
—Take Notice:—That unfortunate and magnanimous beast from Colorado is husbanding his forces. Wait till he gets limbered up a little, and he won’t tolerate more than three small boys on his back at the same time. This warning, however, is especially intended for those who bring up • the rear.
—A large number of very select specimens for the Museum, from Mexico, New Mexico, Colorado and Wyoming, are on the way, and are expected here in a few days. Their intrinsic value may be j realized from the fact that they were collected per:	sonally by the Curator of the Museum, the Rey.
J. A. Zahm.	.	. ,v .
—The Juniors’ Campus will soon be transformed into “a thing of beauty”—(By the way there are a great many of these things flying around now). Mr. Carpenter, of Galesburg, Ill., the great landscape gardener, who laid out the grounds in front of the College, has been expressly engaged to lay out the Campus, and we have no doubt he will do it to the satisfaction of all. ’	’
—The Archconfratemity in the Senior department was reorganized Sunday, Sept. 17. Rev. Father Walsh presided. The election of officers took place, and resulted as follows: W. Arnold, President; M. Burns, Vice-President; T. Clarke, Recording Sec’y; A. Zahm, Corresponding Sec’y; J. Solon, Treasurer; J. O’Neill, Censor.". Catholic students are requested to attend the meetings...
—Through the kindness of Mrs. Wright, mother of Master John Wright, of the Minim department, the members of the Denver delegation enjoyed a grand excursion to South Bend, last Tuesday afternoon. They visited the Studebaker works, and other points of interest in the city, and returned-in the evening, pleased with their trip. They wish . to return, publicly, their heartfelt thanks to Mrs. Wright for the pleasant recreation afforded them. - —Prof. Gregori has completed his painting of “ Columbus in Chains.” It is declared by all to be a masterpiece. To our mind, it is a greater, work of art than his last grand painting- of the “Reception at Court.” We hope to present a'more extended notice next week. The Professor has already commenced work upon the new painting, the subject of which is “ The Death of Columbus.” ' —A meeting of the Columbian Literary Society was held for the purpose of reorganizing. The following officers were elected: Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director; Prof. J. A. Lyons, Honorary President; Prof. J. F. Edwards, President; J. Farrell, "Vice-President; J. E. Browne, Recording Secretary; J. R. Marlett, Corresponding Secretary; H. Morse, Treasurer; J. Conway, Historian; R. Becerra, 1st Censor; W. Ruger, 2d Censor.
—The Scholastic is enthusiastic over the prospect of-Notre Dame for the coming year. A large delegation of-students from Denver and Chihuahua arrived on burros in grand style.— 1~psilanti Sentinel.	-
We doubt that Notre Dame University has ever seen a more prosperous year than the present one; and we doubt, also, whether in any other college in the United States a better class of students can be found in such number. A large additional wing was added to the main building of the College during vacation, but if the influx of students continues at the present rate the other wing will soon be needed.	.
—Sunday evening, Sept. 17th, a meeting of the Archconfratefnity of the Junior department was called for the purpose of electing officers. The election resulted as follows: A. A. Browne, 1st Vice-President; J. H. Fendrich, 2d Vice-President; * C. Ziegler, Recording Secretary; J. M; Courtney, Corresponding Secretdry; J. Halligan, Treasurer; D. G. Taylor, 1st Censor; J. Kahman, 2d Censor; M. L.Foote,Sergeant-at-Arms; M.Dolan,Standard Bearer. The following were appointed as essayists for the next meeting: Master- A. A. Browne, “The Aim of the Confraternity”; Mas.-ter D. Taylor, “How we should Attend Mass”; Master J. Fendrich, “The Feast of the Seven Dolors.” " After a few remarks from the President, the meeting adjourned.
6o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—De Profundis Minimorum^—The more profound among dur little friends have already cast aside all thoughts of homesickness and settled-down to solid study. In this respect they form a marked contrast to the reckless Juniors, the skittish Seniors, and those giddy and light-minded . young things, the members of the College Faculty. Their, organizations exemplify the full tide.of vitality. The Society for. Offering Miscellaneous Advice to - Persons in Authority met on Monday evening last and prepared for carrying on their career of usefulness and self-devotion during the coming year with renewed vigor. An Association for Holding Direct Communication with the Cabinet at Washington is also projected, and its reports will adorn our columns from time to time. But we will proceed to quote from the documents placed at our disposal..
Master W. T. Prindiville, after expatiating on the advantages offered in the new house erected for the especial benefit of the department to which he belongs, spiced with complimentary notices of the trapeze, the canary birds and other objects of interest, adds mysteriously: “The Minims have fifteen lights’ in the big study-hall.” It is not to be supposed that Master Prindiville has in view the mere sources of physical illumination with which his hall is provided. Such an idea would be an insult to the superior talent of the writer. No: he must mean intellectual luminaries—youths in whom the fire of genius has already manifested itself, destined some day, no doubt, to blaze forth before the gaze of an astounded hemisphere. But Master Prindiville is too modest. May we not say there are sixteen such—he himself being not the least?
Master John J. McGrath comes again to the front with an account of an athletic contest in which the Juniors were beaten. But is it not a little too hard to designate them as “June-bugs”? not that a JuneJmg, considered simply as a bug, does not fill a sufficiently important position in the department of Coleoptera, but the name implies a certain amount of case-hardening, which we should hesitate.to attribute to our Junior friends. Master McGrath, however, probably knows best. He would not apply such an epithet without giving the subject due consideration, and perhaps viewing it from standpoints to us inaccessible. He subsequently states that “the Minims could double the Juniors up and put- them in their vest pockets.”- He' will permit us to hope that no such severe measure may be deemed necessary.	•
Master Paul P. Johnson says: “I spent my vacation in New York, and was through a great many buildings, but when I saw the Minims’ new College, I said to myself: ‘That beats them all’; and when they get the fountain going and the large picture that Gregori is going to paint, it will take the whole bakery.” The last expiession is an amplification. of the antique trope, “ take the cake.” He proceeds: “I.heard somebody say that when the College got her other wing she was going to fly away. I hope she don’t get her wing till I get my diploma.” We are-afraid she will, Paul.
Master J. Hopkins also makes the new building his subject, and .compares it favorably with those he has seen during vacation in Pittsburg and New York. Master George P. Costigan pursues the same theme. He tells us: “I came from the town of Ouray, in the State of Colorado. It took us one week to get here.” As a Colorado boy, Master. Costigan will do well to give us some illustrations of life "and manners in that mountainous and interesting State.- We have heard several reports of it from members of the Faculty and others who have visited that part of dur Republic; We do not exactly disbelieve all we hear from these sources, but there are strong'grounds which render corroborative evidence advisable. If Mr. Costigan could furnish a few graphic - sketches on; let us say, “The Rocky Mountains in General,” “The. Domestic Habits of the Burro,” or “ The Philosophy of Stage Robbery,” we should hail them as filling a want long felt'
It’s no’in-books, it’s no’in lear, .	•	.
. To make us truly blest; .	■	. /
If happiness has not her seat. .	•
And cenfye in the breast,
We may be wise, or rich, or great, ~' But never can be blest. . . ’* .. . .
.	.	—Burns.
Boll of Honor.
| The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
senior department.
J. C. Armijo, T. Ashford, W. H. Bailey, W. E. Bowers, J. J. Brady, J. F. Browne, M. T. Burns, E. Bailey, T. Carroll, S. Crawford, F. W. Coakley, G. L. Castenado, G. Clements, L. A. Celia, J. J. Conway, A. M. Coghlin, T. F. Clarke, W. Cleary, J. Donohue, H. Drover, A. Dorsey, M. E. Donohue, W. S. Bolton, C. E. Carroll, J. F. Carroll, J. Eisenhawer, N. H. Ewing, B. Eaton, F. Freeze, J. E. Farrell, H. Fitzgerald, R. Fitzgerrell, R. Fleming, T. FenIon, E. Fenlon, E. Gall, W. Gray, J. Grever, J. W. Guthrie, A. J. Golonski, W. F. Grange, F. W. Gallagher, T. Flynn, W; Hofstetter, J. Heffernan, J. J. Gallagher, R. Becerra, A. Jones, W; H. Johnston, J. Deinhart, C. C. Kolars, G. A Kimmell, A. Koehler, F. E. Kuhn, L. J. Kavanaugh, E. L. Lease, J. C. Larkin, F. Monoghan, G. E. McErlaine, J. R. Marlett, W. J. McCarthy, J. McNamara, T. McNamara, J. Molloy, E. Mullen, J. McIntyre, C. M. Murdock, S. T. Murdock, H. W. Morse, H. Noble, J. Neeson, T. Noonan, W. C. Orchard, W. J. O’Connor, J. P. O’Neill, E. A. Otis, J. B. O’Reilly, E. J. O’Brien, F. Paquette, L. Pour, R. Parrott, A. Peery, F. A. Quinn, W. Ratterman, G. J. Rho-dius, J. M. Rodgers, W. Ryan, W. E. Ruger, J. Solon, F. Stover, C. L. Smith, T. E. Steele, E. W. Seitz, C. M. Stull, C. D. Saviers, O. Spencer, J. E. Walsh, W. Warren, F. G. Wagner, W. Whalen, A. F. Zahm, A. P. Coll, F. R. Delgado, F. T. Fulton, W. Fogarty, F. Godfroy, M. Gooley, Jas. Delaney; Jno. Delaney, R. Anderson, W.. Arnold, E. Blackman. .	;	.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
H. L. Auston, C. F. Ackhoff, F. Brice, A. A. Browne, W. T. Berthelet, W. F. Bacon, J. H. Bush,’ A. S. Brewster, J. D. Crawford, T. J- Cassilly, J. M. Courtney, J. S. Courtney, F. M. Danielson, M. A. Dolan, S. J. Dickerson, J. R. Dorenburg, E. A. Dillon, J. H. Dwenger, H. P. Dunn, M. L. Foote, H. G. Foote, F. Ferguson, J. H. Fendrich, F. Fishel, H. Goldsmith, J. M. Grathaus, E. B. Gerlach, C. Hornaday, H; D.’Hibbeler, H. N. Hess, J. A. Herrmann, J. J. Halligan, J. C. Hellebush, W. F. Hannavin, E. M. Holbrook, P. Hagen, F. R. Johnson, W. E. Jeannot, J. F. Kahman, C. Kerndt, S. H. Katz, F. H. Kengel, J. Livingston’ F. C. Lund, D. L. McCawley, W. T. Mug, C. Mason, J. T. McGordbn, J. McDonnell, T. R. Morris, W. T. Murphy, J. P. O’Donnell, D. A.. O’Connor, B. C. Ohnick, M. O’Connor, S.. L. Peery, A. Pick, B. Rothschild, W. J. Schott, A. P. Schillo, J. J. Smith, G. H. Schaeffer, G. S. Smeeth, F. Sanford, J. J. Talbott, J. C. Warren, T. D. Walsh, W._ P. Worcester, J. C-.’Wagoner, A. Wilkinson, C. Zeigler, W. L. Coghlin, W. Dare, D. G. Taylor, J. M. Flynn, J. N. Hetz, P. C- Caveroc, L. Cain, H. G. Sells, A. M. Chirhart, C. Duffin, J. A. Ruppe, W. P. Keegan, M. J. Keegan, J. A. Devine, J. F. Nester, F. Ryon, T. C. Ryan,-J. McCartney.
’■	7- MINIM DEPARTMENT.
. FI. J. Ackerman, E. A. Adams, J. S. Beall, J. L. Bunker, T. Banhantine, W. Burlingame, F. I. Coad, G. Costigan, • E. Costigan, C. Cain, J. S. Chaves, W. H. Colwell, M. Cummings, E. Chirhart, J. P. Devereux, H. Dirksmeyer, F. Dunford, G. Dunford, Hi Dyer, J.’ Dyer, W. Devine, A, Devine, H. Hynes, C. Harris, G. Huestis, J. A. Hopkins, P. P. Johnson, F. Kellner, J. Kraus, J. Luther,- G. Landenwich, B^ Lindsey,. C. Lindsey, G. Lare, J. J. McGrath, C. A. McGordon, j. McGrath, E. McGrath, W. R. Moss, R.. Morrison, C. Metz, W. M. Masi, W. McPhee,' W. McGuire, F. • P. Nester, F; I. Otis, A. J. Otis, T. Otis, J. Pick, R. V. Papin,’ W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, C. Quinlin, V.’ A..Rebori, T. Roper, A. Roberts, W. Rea, O. Sommer, W. Stange, C. H. Spencer, J. M. Studebaker, C. Smith, H. Schmitz, E. A. Thomas, S.'Unger, J. Warner, E. Walsh, F. S. Whitney, W. Welch, A. Windsor, J. P. Keeffe, Wright, C. Young, L. Young. .
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6r
Saint Mary's Acabemy.
One Mile West.of Notre Dame University.
, :	—Miss Jennie Forbes, .Class of ’72, and'Miss
I . Jessie Schley, an esteemed pupil of ’66,-are guests ’	of the house at present.
—Mrs. Julia Cannon, Class of ’64, was at the Academy last August, with her niece, Miss Bessie ■ | Stace, the eldest daughter of Frank Stace, Esq., j:	Marshall, Mich.
H	—P. F. Tricou, Esq.j and lady, of New Orleans,
I	on their way home from Europe, where they
|	have passed the summer months^ paid the Acad-
emy a most welcome visit.
—’Tis said that old adages are founded on ob-servation; may St. Mary’s reap the benefit of “coming events, cast their shadows before!’’ It seems a visitor lately passed through the Musical department and, bewildered by the perfection of . ‘	“ three-voiced harmony ” issuing from so many
.; pianos, lost his county and beat a retreat to the i	grape arbor. To make his figures good before
5	the Mathematical Board, he concluded to make a
I present to the Conservatory of the no pianos nec-I essary to strengthen the number, and thus add his i . name to St. Mary’s benefactor's.
1	—On Sunday, Feast of Our Lady of Mercy,
the first issue of Rosa Mystica for the scholas-:	tic year; Vol. IX, No. I,-was read. Editresses,
!	the Misses Feehen, Clark,- Dillon and Wiley,
i	Contents: I, Editorial; II, Changes; III, The
<	Roll in Rhyme; IV, Conversation and its Legiti-
mate Province; V, Anomaly; VI, Historical; VII, Our Lady of Ransom; VIII, Agricultural;
; IX, Royalty at St. Mary’s; X, The Light-Bearer; ; XI, Interesting to the Cook; XII, What to do in such a Case; XIII, How to Reach the Climax; XIV, Botanical Excursion from Dixon to Anderson; XV, Exquisite Manners; .XVI, Where, but at St. Mary’s can Like Advantages be Found?;
j ‘ XVII, The Grandeur of Life; XIX, In Memo-‘I	riam.
—The Literary Societies .made their choice of officers on Tuesday. The results are as follows: St. Teresa’s Literary Society:—President, Miss Mary T. Clark; Vice-President, Miss Mary Campbell; Secretary, Miss Maude Wiley; Treasurer, Miss Laura Fendrich.
.St. Catharine’s Literary Society.:—President, Miss Henrietta Keenan; Vice-President, Miss Grace Taylor; Secretary, Miss Jane Reilly, Treasurer, Miss Clara Ginz.
St. Angela’s Literary Society:—P.residerit,. Miss Jessie Pampell; Vice-President, Miss Alice Gavin; Secretary, Miss Mary Chirhart; Treasurer, Miss Bertha’ English.
St. Agnes’s Literary Society:—President, Mary Dillon; Vice-President, Marion Morgan: Secretary, Catharine Ducey; Treasurer, Agnes English Librarian, Elizabeth Considine.
Botanical Excursion from Dixon to Anderson.*
‘Wednesday, bright and early, sharp at. five o’clock, by some indescribable means. a botanical excursion of St. Mary’s pupils found themselves-’at Dixon. ? From this point they started. Whether, from' Dixon, Ill., or elsewhere, this deponent saith not (Knott). Be- that as it may, the noise they made in preparation was ill enough. They had not gone far before Miss Fendrich dropped her beautiful music medal (Medole), and, of course, she began to dun (Dunn) every one to hunt (Hunt) for it. “Now,” said Mary Ryan—Mary, from the far distant north of Michigan—KI shall (Schull) not trouble myself about it.” “Very well,” rejoined Miss Fendrich,you do not harass (Harris) me in the least by your refusal to assist me.” This she said in a somewhat indignant tone of voice, adding, “ One who owns (Owens) a gold graduating music medal can afford to search
• for it herself.” Just at this moment, Miss Maude Wiley came up, her eyes fairly dancing with delight. At first Miss Fendrich did not know what to make of it as Maude is such a laugher (Lafier), no one. would be likely to mind her exuberant spirits, but with Maude came the medal. “O, thank you kindly!” said Miss Fendrich, and on the party went. They had been delayed so long it was no more than right (Wright) that they should hurry now. They crossed Cliff-Ford (Clifford) all in brown (Brown) .cloaks, grace-.
fully made by the tailor (Taylor), and they .met with no ob-stacle (Stackerl) in their path, though once or twice they found the bar-low (Barlow), and had to pick-(Pick) their way through hene-berry (Heneberry) bushes, and marshy duff-fields (Duffields). Once a little gale (Gale) detained them for twenty minutes in a coast-tornado (Cas-tenado), but Miss Van Patten kindly rescued thein and they hastened forward. Though many an adder-lay (Adderly) under the grass, no one was
. bitten, for .(Fehr) all were on the look-out. Five -English (English) girls were of the party, and . as they got completely chilled through at Snowhook (Snowhook) they declared they would die of hunger (linger) if they could not reach the lunch-basket. Julia Hogan and Jessie Pampell ran with all their might to bring it to them. It left Dixon (Dickson), filled with the best (Best) that the city could afford. It was as much as the girls could do to haul-it (Howlett) along, but, strange enough, as they opened the basket, Jessie said: “ Though you make all-a ( McCawley) fusS, a hawk-in’s (Hawkins)’ here, and beside that, noth- . ing is left but a com-cobb, (Kolb) and a few green-jpeas (Pease);” At that moment a drover (Drover) came up, and-kindly gave-in (Gavin all he could spare of a fine Welch (Walsh) rabbit, which with todd-y, (Todd) and a grist (Grist) he brought, made out a good meal.
* The use of names belonging to the pupils, in a man-ner to make grammatical sense while they are employed at random to complete the transposition, is the object of the above play on words. The real names are given in . parenthes, where there is a transposition.
62
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The expedition finding the Eld-ridge (Eldridge) unsafe, crossed the Cummer-Ford (Cummerford), but the pet donkey who had followed the party began to assert his dignity, and, standing on a mole (Mohl) hill close by, the King (King) refused to go forward. Loro Williams called to Clara Richmond who blew the van-.horn (Van. Horn) to call the hunter (Hunter) that he might shoot the stubborn creature, but Francis Keifer hit the fowling piece and he missed his aim, and the charge came a-gainst (Ginz) the two Slatteries, but it only grazed the seams (Semmes) of their dusters. The report of the gun. however, gave the hints (Hinz) to a fowler (Fowler) in a neighboring place, and, coming up with a mor-gun (Morgan) and a costi-gun (Costigan) on one shoulder and a coo-gun (Coogan) and a haregun (Harrigan) on the other, it would have taken but a short time to bring down all the weather-cocks (Cox), turkeys, and fee-hens (Feehan) in the neigborhood, but the night was mooney (Mooney), and he could not see straight, so they all flew away. Agnes Dillon came up just then . and inquired as to what had become of the lunch. Miss Foster and Miss Donnersberger, in the same breath, said, “ Who took it ” ? Bertha Legnard answered “I don’t know who (Donohue) took it.” Now little Eva Bathrick came up with a little bonnet made of wal-lace (Wallace), on the extreme point of her pompadour and Charlotte Alexander ran up to her and said, “I declare! I never saw- you ( Sawyer) looking one half so well.”
Then appeared on the scene Mabel Barry, in a linsey (Lindsey) woolsey dress, bringing with her the Daily (Daily) Johnston and Westfall News. She offered them to Mabel Newton, who took them both, glanced at them for a moment, 3 O	__ 7
. then cast them tragically at her feet. Folding her arms composedly, she burst forth into the well-known song, “O-’tis (Otis) not while riches and splendors surround us”; we, con-doling (Dolan) with her visible interior emotion, considerately informed her that we would di-spenser (Spenser) from further exertion. Hereupon the McGinns and the McGuire, the O’Connor and the Myers seemed to take all the hues (Hughes) of the rainbow, for Miss Gallagher and Miss Coakley were riding off" in the direction of the Black (Black) Forest on a Ley-den (Leydon) jar, drawn by two camels (Campbells). Miss O’Connell, Miss Fen-Ion, Miss Beal and Miss Danforth called to the - Misses Jane and Veronica Reilly to bring the white rind (Ryan) of a watermelon to Hepsey Ramsey and Josephine Spangler, for fear, they would not be able to get to Anderson. At that point, Miss Rettig, Miss Donnelly, and Miss Ed-gerly appealed to the party to sit down and rest, and to postpone: the botanizing until next spring.
The sweet strains of the violin told the weary travellers that they were close by Anderson, and, overcome by their numerous vexing exploits, they sat down in the wood ( Wood) to read Prescott’s (Prescott) Ferdinand and Isabella, and await the arrival of Shickey's carriages.
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, -CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Clarke, Dillon, Feehan, Wiley, Wright, M.' Campbell, C. Campbell, Edgerly, Johnson, Laffer, Ryan, Sullivan, Shickey, Walsh, Todd, Barlow, Beal, Bathrick, Call, Dunn, Duffield, Ginz, Gove, M. Heneberry, Knott, Mohl, Owens, O’Connor, Pease, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Richardson, B. Semmes, Slattery, Ramsey, Van Patten, Wood, L. English, Sawyer, Adderly, Munger, Heckard, Stackerl, Danforth, Daily, Dickson, Coakley, Williams, Clifford, Unger, Madole, Hunt, Cox, Taylor, O’Connell, Harrigan, Black, Anderson, M. Hawkins, King, 3*1. H. Ryan, Fenlon, Chirhart, Kolb, T. Slattery, Rettig, Mc-Cawley, B. English, G. Legnard, Hughes, Donnersberger, Hagan, Castenado, Newton, Pampell, Foster, O’Neill, L. Heneberry, Commerford, Myers, Gavin, L. Hawkins, Fowler, McCarten, Eldridge, Schull, Drover, Maginn, Mooney, Hintz, McGuire, Gallagher. Id Tablet—Misses Fendrich, Donnelly, Keenan, B. Legnard, Wallace, Pick, Leydon, H. Hicks, N. Hicks, Hunter, Harris, Donahue, Dolan.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Dignan, Dillon, Coogan, Donnelly; Richmond, Johnston, Van Horn, Best, Chaves, Otis, Snowhook, Spencer, B. Haney, T. Haney. 2d Tablet— Misses Spangler, M. Ducey, Morgan, Nevins, Considine, Howlett,Grist,Gale, Ewing, Smith, Hetz, McGrath, English Shephard, Hibben, Moshier, Coyne, Sullivan, Alexander.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Barry, Martha Otis, J. English, B. Westfall, A. Sawyer, J. McKennon, M. Lindsey, M. Paul.
Class Honors.
Graduating Class—Misses Clarke, Dillon, Feehan, Wiley. .
ist Senior Class—Misses .C. Campbell, E. Donnelly, M. A. Ryan, Todd, Fendrich.
2D Sr. Class—Misses Barlow, Duffield, Dunn, Ginz, Keenan, B. Legnard, Mohl, O’Connor, Pease, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Semmes, E. Slattery, Spangler, Ramsey.
3d Sr. Class—Misses L. English, Wallace, Heckard, Dickson, Williams, Clifford, Pick, Cox, Taylor, Leydon, Black, O’Connell, Dignan, Morrison.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses M. Chirhart, Mc-Cawley, Pampell, M. Dillon, C. Ducey, Coogan, Considine.
2D Prep. Class—Misses Richmond, Fehr, A. English, Fisk, Ew’ing, McGrath, Hibben, Rodgers, Moshier, Van Horn, Haney.
Junior Prep.—Misses Chaves, Best, M. Otis, Coyne, Alexander.
ist Junior Class—Misses Snowhook, Barry, Burtis, J. English.
GERMAN.
ist Class—Misses A- Dillon, C. Ginz.
2D Class—Misses Van Patten, Keenan, Todd, Unger, Pick, M. Chirhart.
3d Class—Misses Considine, M. Ducey, C. Ducey, J. McGrath, M. Coogan.
FRENCH.
ist Class—Miss M. Feehan.
2D Div.—Misses J. Reilly, A. Castenado, M. Campbell.
2D. Class—Misses Barlow, Leydon, Clarke, Semmes, Morgan,zF-Castenado.	\
3d Class—Misses M. A. Ryan, Call, Shickey, Donnelly, Owens, Wallace, L. English, Taylor, -Walsh, Adderly, Pease, Beal, Sullivan.
4TH Class—Misses Bathrick, O’Conner, Laffer, Donahue, Hunter, Coakley, Hawkins, E. Slattery, Fenlon, Pampell, Cox, Hicks, Knott, Anderson, Edgerly,. Howlett, Mohl, Dunn, Gallagher, Morrison, A. Duffield, Alexander, Snowhook.
5th Class—Misses Otero, Chaves, Brown, Barry, Richmond.
2D Div.—Misses Paul, Campau, Robinson.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Minim Department.
L. S. & M. S. Railway.
This is a separate Department in the Institution or Notre Dame, for Boys under 13 years of age.
Thorough and comprehensive Instruction in Reading, Writing, Spelling, Arithmetic, Geography, Grammar, and United States History, is imparted? ‘The discipline is parental, and suited to children of tender years. Personal neatness and wardrobe receive special attention from the Sisters, who take a tender and faithful care of their young charges.
Board and Tuition—$125, per Session of Five Months. German, Latin, Drawing, Vocal Music, Violin, and Piano, free in this Department.
For further particulars, or Catalogue, address
Rev. T. E. WALSH, 0. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Ind.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
(Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana,)
Conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross.
Tn the Academy the course is thorough in the Preparatory, Academic. and Classical grades.
The institution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for German or French, as these languages enter into the regular course of academic studies .
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete corps of teachers, eleven in number. It comprises a large Music Hall, and twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, and organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition —A large Musical Library in French. German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music, Vocal Culture, Chorus Singing and Harmony.
On and after Sunday, Nov. 7, 1881, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.33 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toled<>, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.39 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.05 p.m. •	.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
9.27 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m ; Cleveland, 7.05 a m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m.
12 38 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m. Cleveland, 10.10p.m.; Buffalo, 4 a.m.
6 35 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 1.0.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 145 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.25 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 6.10 a.m.
4.48 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.45 a.m. Chicago, 8 20 a.m. '
7.40 a.m., Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte,8.44 a.m. Chesterton, 9.40 a m.; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.17 p.m, Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte 215 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.10 p.m ; Chicago, 5.00 p.m.
426 p.m. Special Ch'cago Express. Arrives at Laporte 5.18; Chesterton, 6.07 p.m.; Chicago, 8 p.m. -
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.	•
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
J. H. PARSONS, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P. JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup’t., Cleveland.
JOHN NEWELL, Gen’l Manager, Cleveland.
Wabash, St Louis & Pacific Rwy.
The Popular Passenger Route of America I ■ •
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.
is modelled on the great Art Schools of Europe, drawing and painting from life and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish Is connected with
ing Gold Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or in the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, for which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., Ind.
Smooth Track, Steel Rails, and Elegant Equipment serve to make a
TRIP OVER THE WABASH
Safe, Rapid, and Pleasant ! 11
V Special Tickets Sold to Students attending Notre Dame University.
Tourist Tickets to all Summer Resorts throughout the Country, at Greatly Reduced Rates, for Sale by all Agents of the Great Wabash Route. ■
gy Special inducements offered to Colonist, LandSeeking, and Emigrant Parties.
PRELUDES,
An Elegant Volume of Poems,
By MAURICE F. EGAN.
Published to Aid in the Rebuilding of Notre Dame '	University.
Price, postpaid, -	-	•	-	$1.00
Address
PETER F. CUNNINGHAM & SON,
Philadelphia, Pa-
IF YOU ARE CONTEMPLATING
A JOURNEY IN ANY DIRECTION you should apply either in person or by letter to the nearest Agent of
The Great Wabash Route
and obtain full information, Tickets, etc.
Rates always as Low as other Lines; and facilities for ease and comfort far superior.
F. A. Palmer, Pass, and Ticket Agent, Indianapolis, 40 W. Washington St.	.
Jno. C. Gault, ad Vice-Preefc, St. Louie, Ma
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
(MAIN B UlZDING.}
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, and chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with power to confer all the usual degrees. The buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque lakes of pure spring water, in the fine and healthy farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the river The College can be easily reached from all parts of the United States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—the Lake Shore aud Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central: the first two passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at Niles with the railway between that city and South Bend.
The College buildings are massive and commodious, and capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students. The University affords every facility for acquiring a thorough knowledge of
■ CLASSICS,
MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE,
LAW, MEDICINE, MUSIC.
To. such as wish to devote themselves to Commercial pursuits, Notre Dame gives a more complete business training than canfoe obtained in any purely Commercial College
THE COMMERCIAL COURSE
has always received the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial Faculty of the Institution. In all the courses, the best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected.
■ New Students will be received at any time, their term beginning with date of entrance. ’ Catalogues, giving full particulars, will be sent free, on application to the President,
Kev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C., Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.