scholastic 
.. 
\
I ' 
Beechwood Ageing could be an "advertising gimmick." 

But .it isn't. 
.....-••:·-· 
(For instance, i="' last year we bought /.,:::··.·· almost 2½ million f: · 
;·.· ­

pounds of Beechwood 1-: strips ... enough to f.,: 
~ -: .

fill 67 freight cars.) ·-=-· 
WHEN YOU SAY 


Budweiser® 
YOU'VE SAID IT ALL! 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 
december 10, 1971 notre dame, ind.

scholastic 
volume 113, no. 8 

football review 


4  introduction  
the season  
5  northwestern  
8  purdue  
10  michigan state  
12  miami  
14  north carolina  
16  southern california  
18  navy  
20  pittsburgh  
22  tulane  
24  louisiana state  
28  coming attractions  
32  only a game  

Football Review Editor: Don Kennedy 
Art Director: Rick Fitzgerald 
Writers: Don Kennedy, Vic Dorr, Mike Mooney 
Photographers: Joe Raymond, Jim Hunt 
Staff: Dan O'Donnell, Pat McCracken, Greg Chinchar 
Mimi Wheeler, Tim Walsh, Joe Hotz 
"Doonesbury" cartoon courtesy of G.B. Trudeau 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the SCHOLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Pub­lished fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and e.xamination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is printed at AYE MARIA PRESS, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including al! issues and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the ScHOL,\STIC. 



introduction 
It was not an exciting year of football. Nor were the season's expectations fulfilled in the slightest way. Perhaps the 1971 edition of Notre Dame football could simply be written off as the "Year of the Great Dud." But to lightly pass over a team that, nonetheless, won eight of ten games would be unfair. After all, the 8-2 record for 1971 is the fourth best registered by an Irish eleven since 1952. Some colleges haven't seen 8-2 sea­sons in ages. Perfection, or, winning if you will, is the ultimate stressed at Notre Dame. And when a team falls short of that idealized goal, it is met unfairly with choruses of jeers an·d catcalls. 
The distasteful aftermath of 1971 can be attributed to much more than the team's performance throughout the season. When a Sports Illustrated or the like tabs Notre Dame as its preseason favorite for the coveted National Championship, expectations understandably reach lofty perches. The preseason prognosticators, and most Irish fans, ignored ( or maybe simply underrated) the consequences of Joe Theismann's graduation and departure from the team. 
Theisrnann was, simply, the main reason the 1970 offense moved so well. He had his weak points, but it was his ability and combined skills at quarterback that led the '70 team to a 10-1 record. You just don't remove so integral a part of a winning unit and nonchalantly expect practically the same squad to perform even better. Not unless, of course, you've got a better part with which to replace the old one. There wasn't even the slightest indication of just -who would replace Theismann at the time everyone was picking Notre Dame number one. Everyone "assumed" that Ara would come up with another "Jersey Joe." This false assump­tion led to an overrated team. And this overrated team consequently disappointed the same individuals who overrated them. The fault lies not with the players, but with those who expected so much. 
A former Notre Dame gridder was overheard this fall commenting on the style of the 1971 team's play. "Watching Notre Dame play football this year," he analyzed, "is like watching to men fish." True, Notre Dame's "grind-it-out" game plans didn't exactly bring the crowd to its feet every minute or so, but, really, what else could they do? Had they abandoned the rudi­ments of the ground game for the :flashier attack of seasons past (which they were incapable of handling) they would've lost more than the USC and LSU games. The Irish were forced to implement an offensive attack that suited the ability of the personnel available. It didn't always work, but it was the best of possible offensive arrangements. 
Success can't be measured this year with a yard­stick molded out of the performance of past "great" Notre Dame teams. Maybe 8-2 was the best that could've been asked from this year's team. Everyone can conjecture about what might have been, but the only ones who know just how well the '71 team per­formed are the players themselves, and they're not telling anybody. ­
-don kennedy 

THE SCHOLASTIC 

northwestern 
From the moment the final gun had sounded the death-knell for Texas in the 1971 Cotton Bowl, Notre Dame fans had waited apprehensively for the season opener against Northwestern. They knew that the great Irish defense would be back, but they also realized that the offensive wizardry of Joe Theismann had traveled north with him to Toronto. "Who's gonna be the quar­terback?" was the question being asked all summer long in bars and living rooms throughout the country. "Steenberge, Etter or Brown (or maybe even Bulger)" was the answer everywhere. No one was quite sure, not even Coach Parseghian, just who would finally emerge to lead the Irish in '71. Sports Illustrated didn't think the question merited much thought, as its crystal ball predicted a Notre Dame National Championship. But the skeptics were wary. "Can't win without a quarterback," they'd say. But even the skeptics felt that, even though the quarterback problem was not yet solved, some vital clues to its solution would emerge 
·after the meeting with the Wildcats. 
However, to the dismay of many, the only clues this game provided were the obvious ones: the Irish defense had actually improved (if that were at all pos­sible) to impregnable proportions; and, there was yet to be found someone to fill Joe's shoes. 
The Irish defense had a field day. They intercepted seven Wildcat passes, recovered two fumbles, blocked a punt and scored twelve points. What the statistics don't show is that the defensive marauders, aside from stifling Northwestern's attack, provided the Irish of­fense with excellent field position the entire afternoon. 
First-quarter action was lackluster on both sides. After Walt Patulski blocked a Marty McGann punt and recovered at the NW 32, Bill Etter guided the Irish rushing game into the end zone in five plays. Etter himself netted 26 of the 32 yards in the drive on three keepers. 
Three minutes later the Wildcats had knotted the score at seven apiece. On fourth and four from his own 45, punter Marty McGann hit flanker Barry Pear­son for 16 yards on a fake-punt pass. Two plays later Clarence Ellis was ruled interfering with Pearson on a questionable call and the Wildcats had momentum at the Irish 23. Northwestern's lone score of the afternoon came when quarterback Maurie Daigneau passed 7 yards to his halfback, Johnny Cooks, with 4:55 remain­ing in the quarter. 
Neither team had genuinely established a "drive" for their first scores. The Irish capitalized from a trick play and a penalty. At the quarter's end it ap­peared that the game was developing into a struggle of two stubbornly opposed defensive units. 
The Irish offense had other things in mind. With Steenberge and Etter sharing duties at the controls the offense rolled off a 66-yard scoring drive at the opening of the second quarter. Steenberge guided the Irish from their own 34 to the Wildcats' 38. Etter took over and combined with halfback Bill <;;,allagher on a 32­yard pass play that brought the Irish to the NW 10. Two plays later Bob Minnix broke over right tackle for the 4-yard score that put Notre Dame in front for good. 
This drive sent Northwestern reeling as the Irish scored the next three times they had the ball. A 36­yard Bob Thomas field goal was sandwiched between a Steenberge-to-Gatewood touchdown pass and a Ciesz-

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
kowski 4-yard touchdown run. :1n eleven_minutes Notre Wildcat -Head. Crnich Alex Agase,· notably upset . ­Drune's offense and defense had rolled to -a: 30 ·to 7 over the afternoon's'· events, had ·only a: few gruff com-· halftime margin._ -.. ments:to make after the· game. "li you·· can't run 'the 
The second half was all Notre Dame-,Notre·name's football yo\i_can't<wiri. 'Period. We ran· _into -their -line. defense, that is. Stepaniak and Crotty-raised. Wil_dcat and only-gained ayard so-we had'.to throw. When we Maurie Daigneau's TJ? passing total to three. as .they'. threw they had people back there waiting _to·pick them both picked off _two of his passes and_returned··ihem for: -off." In his own ·way Agase had _summed up the rea­touchdowns of 40 and_ 65 :yards; respectiveiy. ·Ken : sons for-his tearri;s humilia_ting defeat. ----Schlezes' third interception. of the afternoon gave the Maurie· Daigneau, the ·Northwestern quarterback Irish offense the ball at the NW 22; and _Cliff Brow~ · who himself had been quite humiliated, was a bit more directed the second-stringers 'to the final tally. · receptive -to·· questions after ·_ the game than was his 
The success ·of the Irish. secondary (they 'inter-coach. In fact, Daigne~u had nothing but praise for cepted seven Daigneau aerials) ca11 be attributed to the · -Notre Danie._ "They're easily the_ best team in the success the Irish front' four _had in both shutting off country,'' commented Daigneau. "Their·-front four is the ·Wildcats' ground gam~ and pressuring Daigneau one· of the best I've: ever played_ against. We piayed with an effective pass ~riish. Thanks to the efforts of_ ..Michigan lasf week arid I ·a.on't· thinkthey come dose the front four' Notre Dame was ~ble to alternate.their -to Notre Da~e.-:You deserve to be number one." Wheri. defensive backfield alignment -to better 'contain the -asked about' th~ -Wildcats' iahure:to; move the ball on Wildcats' passing attack. _On -key passing downs. Keir: -. the ground, Daigneau bent forward -from his locker. and Schlezes was inserted in· tp.e lineup to ·give ·tlie _Irish' whispered, "Those guys· ave~ there. They:re· my offeri­four,· instead of their :_normal three,--deep_ defenders.-sive linemen. -·They're a ifrtie green." ---, _ _ Northwestern _was forced, by.-its failure to· ~stablish a Across· the way in the'jubilant Notre-_Dame, locker running · attack, -to· play right into the hands _of the room Coach_ Parseghian · was reeling · off two -of the 
-Irish-defensive strategy. -And against Notre Dame's year's top understatements}, First~ ·lie said, -~'Noithwest­defense, that proved to be disastrous for them. ern made·some mistakes·and-·had some·turnovers: We 

·~ ~ -:-; \.:~::~>_.:-._-..' •__ 
.' 

.Btei!nl/ergt/r~~s-,~ , 
~yar_dage~against'. the Wildcats. 

took_ :advantage of them and they had to play catch-up 
, football."' "He followed-this' by commenting that "we are deeper af offensive halfback_ now than. at any· time since I've been at Notre Dame.''. : Twelve Irish backs had carried the ball 63 ·times.that afternoon for _242 yards. One might say that Notre Dame had ahalfback or two on the squad. . ·Parseghian was -pleased with_ the performance of his . shuttling quarterbacks and felt that he would "continue to shuttle them if circumstances dictate it." But quite afew Irish fans left the ·stadium wondering whether or. not such a. system could produce a con­sistent winner. Some·students ·could be overheard mut­tering "if only·:Daigneau ·played for us we wouldn't have to worry.". The Irish defense had impressed all, but neither_ -Etter nor. Steeriberge ·displayed even the slightest flash ·of brilliance that was Theisniann's. Both ·J-iad played w~ll, but apparently for· many their best was not· going to be good enough . . Sports · Illustrated ·didn't care, as they-later said "even a cheerleader could run the team." Ancl the poll­sters· _agreed that Notre Dame\vas ·indeed. one· of .the best· -around. ,But ·they· all ignored: the·--.fact :. that -the question _remained.unanswered. :'~Who's gonna:be·_quar­terb~ck?!' -would have to be ·aecided ·anpther .day~ . . . 
North~~ste~ ~ ...~.:......~...... ;............. .7 · 0 i~:-> 0 ' · ­... 0 . · -·: 7 . Notr~ Dartie:. .. : .... ~~ ...... : .... ::....~ ........ : · i ·'_ 23. 6­· 14·-·50 . sc·oring: ' . \ND:_ Gulyas, 3-yard.run (Brown kick): -. _ NU:·_Cooks, 7-yard_pass from-Daigneau (Planisekki~k) .. -· ND:' Minnix,•+:-yard run= (Brciwn;kick).' ·. C ••<, . . . ND: ·-Gatewood, 8-yard pass "from Steenberge :(Bio,vn. kick) .. . .ND:·_.:rhomas, 36-:yard field~goal:_ ,-· .. : :: . ·. . _ . :_ND:: Cieszkowski, 4-yard ruiC(Kicldailed)~ . · .. ;_­. . ·._.ND:.· Stepaniak, 40-yard interception ret~rri (Kick failed). ·· ND: -Crotty, 65-y~rd :intercepf~on _return: (T_homas ,kick) .. _ · ND: Hill; 4-yard "run·' {Thomas 'kick): ·. , : . : · · .> · · ;~AM.,s_~~TISTrcs _:-~::-,-~-~/·:~n-;·,~-:·· ...· -~u~ -. ~.. ,._. '­_T~tal Fir~t ·Downs ·:·:::_.-~··::·::~·::: \~~-: _­· · ·, _, _, ·16 · ._'""'. ._ .:Yards,Gamed_Rushmg .... ~ ..0~:~:-:-:-·L .:· ,'-.--·,_ 37 -:, '-'· 'Yards Gained Passing-~:~..~.::~=-:: ~:11:4 ... ,.• .<215 ~ -::.· ,-· ·. To.tal ·Offensive _,Yardage ~~-f:.> 35.6 ;:-. ·.. , · 0 :~52_ ., .: .'_ · Passing (Att'd-:Com'df..:'.~"::. ·· 27::;-9,:-.-.: _.·•. :;4-4-::19 ' .·· . · .·:·:Interceptions _by .....:.,.-:.._:.:.:~.' ./[,)·._"::. _.: '· 2· · . Fumbles lost ..... : ..... ~~..:.~.~;:.:::_:. ' ..::,-.2 ,. : : . · 2 · . · Punting (No.-Ave:·) .~.::.:.:.:t5~2.5_ ':­~ ·:-'-7-36.4 , : -­Total Yards Penalized-~:·;~::·· .. 41 ' .. _ · 50 Weather: Cloudy and warm.. .. . , : Attendance: 59,075 > -' -~ ! , , - 


. · Irish defensfoe back Ralph Stepaniak exults after •interception return for TD. ­

NOVEMBER 30,· 1971 


purdue 
Rain-slicked highways, a muddy field and , soggy souls in the sta11ds. · All too reminiscent of the USC 
. . 
tragedy .last November. Rain-. the great equalizer. 
Add to it the-rivalry of Notre Dame-Purdue and the 
memory of a 48-0 shellacking and you've got the mak­
ings for one hell of a ball game. 
For the longest time-.-58 mi~utes and two seconds 
to be exact -it appeared that the weather was guiding 
the Boilermakers. to a 7-0 upset of Notre Dame.. The 
Irish. '71 season, a season filled with the hope for and 
dream of a National Championship, was being washed 
away by the fickle moods of Indiana's autumn weather. 
Neither team could muster ·much of an attack in 
--' -­

ihe early goings. Two .Bob Thomas field goal attempts failed: once, when a bad pass ·from center·foiled the attempt; . and, early in the second quarter, when· . Thomas' kick was wide to the right.. The Irish running game was moving 1n, spu.rts, but just couldn't ~manage to squeeze together enough sizable gains on one series io. crack Purdue's. end zone. Notre. Dame's passing game was,:understandably, having its· problems··in the 
wet weather. · 
.The Riveters: gro_und game also met with compli­
cations -the Irish front. four. But their passing at,­
tack was fairly ·successful in penetrating the creases in 
the Notre Dame . zone defense. Hook patterns and 
quick-out passes were helping them move the ball. 
Late in the second quarter Purdue's passing game 'took them· in for what later ap~eared to be the only 
score of theday. Taking over on their own 47 after a 
Brian Doherty punt,. Purdue's Gary Danielson teamed 
with split-end RickSayers on two hook passes to move 
the. Boilermakers to within striking distance at the 
Irish 26. A third pass _to Sayers was just barely over­
thrown at Notre Dame's 10-yard line. 
Purdue's success with• the pass had the Irish de­
fense a· bit shaken. On second down from the Irish 26 
the Boilermaker offense ran what might be called "the 
perfect play.". Danielson dropped back, faked a draw 
io his fullback ( which suckered the entire Irish defense 
except for Ralph Stepaniak) and lofted a lazy screen 
pass to Qtis Armstrong in the left flat. All that was 
between Armstrong and the Irish end zone were about 
six Purdue blockers and Ralph Stepaniak. Stepaniak 
fought off four of the blockers, but couldn't get by 
the Boilermakers' left guard, Ken Watkins. Armstrong 
Ylalked into the end zone unmolested and Purdue fans 
were delirious. 
At half-time the rain suddenly stopped .. Purdue's 
band (complete with the Golden Girl) went through 
their routine sans rain. · No sQoner had the · band 
marched off the:field and the two teams had ·returned 
for the second half,;when·the'rains reappeared; It was 

that kind of day. The monsoon that hovered over· Ross-Ade Stadium in the ·second half was unbelievable. Almost as un­
-. --. 

believable as the events that were about to unfold. At times it rained so hard it was almost impossible to see the field from the'::pr~ss .box perched at the rim of.the stadium. And the harder it rained the worse playing conditions got. It was not, to· say ili:e least, the type of · conditions that were suited for a ·team to play catch­
up football. 
Pat Steenberge, ~ who quarterbacked most of the 

game because, according .to Coach Parseghian, "he 
worked better·with _that center and under those condi­
tions we didn't want _to· risk a fumble," just couldn_'t . 
seem to get the Irish offens~-to catch up to anything, 
let alone Purdue's 7-0·lead. But·then, late in the game, 
the Irish got the first of two big _breaks that would 
lead to their victory. 
Standing on his own 12-yard line, Purdue punter 

Steenberge drops back in the rain. 

Scott Lougheed sliced a punt off the side. of his foot 
and·the Irish took over at the Boilermaker 42. Steen­
berge quickly moved ·the Irish to the Purdue 5. On 
second down from the 5 Pat lost control of the slippery_ 
ball and Chuck Piebes, former Purdue·· quarterback 
turned safety, fell on it to apparently · ice Purdue's 
upset. But the weather, which had equalized things 
all afternoon, soon evened that mistake. · 
Notre Dame's defense dug in a:nd forced Purdue to punt from its own end zone.· Scott Lougheed dropped back; the snap was low, and the ball was_ loose. He managed to regain control and tried to roll to his right in an attempt to get the punt off. Just as he was re-. leasing the ball for the punt Clarence Ellis blind-sided him from his left. Fred Swendsen fell on the loo~e ball and it was suddenly raining Shamrocks in Lafay­ette. The two-point P,ass ·play from Steenberge to Creaney sealed the win, but seemed a bit anticlimactic after what had preceded it. Somehow everyone knew that the conversion was going to work after the defense had scored. After all, they were just following the script. 
Purdue Coach Bob DeMoss took the blame for the blocked punt upon himself. "I never thought about the safety," commented a downcast DeMoss. "I just told him to punt it out of there. It was my fault, I should have told him to fall on the ball if he got 
CT,arence Ellis rejoices _on the sidelines after forcing Lougheed's fumble in the end zone. 
NOVEMBER 30,· 1971 
in trouble." 
· So the Irish fans left Lafayette a bit shaken but ecstatic nonetheless .. "No one could beat us today," one was overheard saying. "That old Notre Dame charisma came through again. The luck of the Irish still lives!" Bob DeMoss knew what they were talking about. He shook his head and sighed, "I guess we just weren't meant to win today." 
Notre Dame  ·······················---·····  0  0  0  8-8  
Purdue  ··························---­ 0  7  0  0-7  
Scoring:  

PU: Armstrong, 26-yard pass from Danielson {Renie kick). ND: Swendsen, fumble recovery in end zone (Greaney, pass from Steenberge). 
. TEAM STATISTICS ND PU 
Total First Downs ···········-··· 14 12 
Yards Gained Rushing........ 114 108 
Yards Gained Passing.......... 105 138 
Total Offensive Yardage .... 219 246 
Passing (Att'd-Com'd) ........ 26-7 24---:12 
Interceptions by .. ___ 1 1 
2
Fumbles lost ·······-················· 1 Punting (No.-Ave.) ............. 10-37 16-35.3 Total Yards Penalized ........ 20 52 Weather: Plenty of Rain. Attendance: 69,765 


michigan state 

The familiar twinkle was noticeably lacking in Duffy Daugherty's eyes after the Irish had extended their winning streak over State to three games by a 14-2 margin. The referees, _insisted Duffy, had won the game for Notre Dame. "This was the worst officiated game I've seen in all my years of coaching," ranted Duffy. "They missed two roughing-the-kicker calls and plenty of offensive interference ·against them (Notre Dame).'' · 
Now, let's be fair, Duffy. The Irish outgained your Spartans by a 306 to 136 spread in yardage alone. We don't even have 10 mention the fact that Notre Dame had 22 first downs to your 9 (but we just did, anyway). Just because your offense could penetrate the Irish 50 only once the entire game (all the way, in fact, to Notre Dame's 47-yard line) is no cause for you to rake the officials over the coals. Surely, you've seen worse officiated games. than this one. Like back in 1968, for _ example, up at Spartan Stadium, when you upset the Irish, thanks to a blown call by the official on an ob­vious pass interference against Jim Seymour by your own Al Brenner. That missed call won you the game, Duffy, but you didn't ch~stise the men in stripes then, 
Michigan State's Duffy Daugherty lets the official know what he thinks of his calls. 
now, did you, Duffy? C'rnori, Duffy, let's )Je a good sport and not blame the officials for your troubles. You got beat and you know it. No excuses, okay? 
Notre Dame's defensive unit performed superbly in its battle with the Spartans. They simply-took away everything State had going for them. After the Irish offense had scored the first two. times they got their hands on the ball State was forced out of. their game plan. From the beginning the Spartans had to play catch-up football; and the Irish defense just wasn't going to let anyone catch up with them. 
The first Irish score came as a-result of an excel­lently executed· drive after the opening kickoff that spanned 80 y~rds in 17 plays.__Ball control was the key here as the Irish picked up six first downs and ate up 8 minutes and 10 s~conds of the clock.. Etter, Gallagher, Huff and · Minnjx simply· ground out the yardage until Minriix ·carried over from the 1 for the score. 
Musuraca recovered a Spartan fumble on the State 17 and the Irish went·to work again. ·Greg Hill circled left end for 12 yar_ds to MSU's 5 and Minnix again hit pay dirt over. the left side on a 5-yard jaunt. Only a 


' . ' 
... ,. -; _, ... 

__,·.'THE SCHOLASTIC 

State's Butler (87) appears to shove Ellis into his own punter. 

safety that resulted when Bill Etter fell on his own fumble in the Irish end zone prevented the Spartans from being shut out. They simply couldn't get any­thing going. 
Penalties did hurt the Spartan chances, though. A 52-yard pass from State quarterback Frank Kolch to tight end Billy Joe DuPree was nullified by an off-side call midway through the first quarter. Numerous other Spartan pass plays were called back on offensive pass interference·calls. Duffy had a gripe, all right, but not at the officials. His. own players were the ones that beat him on penalties.· 
Probably the calls that. gave Duffy the most grief during the afternoon were the ones he claimed weren't called -the "roughing-the-kicker'' calls. The referees claimed that Irish rusher Clarence Ellis was "blocked into" the punter by Spartan protective blockers. This is strictly a judgment call. The referee was right· on top of both plays and, I'm sure, he has seen a lot more roughing plays than Mr. Daugherty. Anyway, the camera's eye caught one of the so-called infractions; and, it sure looks like someone is shoving Mr. Ellis into the State punter. After the game Duffy said, "If those weren't roughing-the-kicker calls, then I don't know a thing about football." Judge for yourself. Does Duffy know anything about football or doesn't he? 
To say the least, this game was far from exciting. Most of the fans were bored by halftime of a game that apparently was going nowhere after the score had reached 14-2. For many the most exciting part of the day's activities was a jaunt on the field at halftime for the benefit of a national television ~udience. Too many people have made a bigger deal about what occurred on the field at halftime than is probably justified. It was a boring game and it was hot (in the 80's). The only thing they can be blamed for is interfering with the band, which was inexcusable. But I'm sure you've seen much worse examples of childishness than this at other schools. \Voody Hayes even did it single-handedly, and he's not even a kid. 
Notre Dame blew three more scoring opportunities in the second half. Bill Etter fumbled inside the Spar­tan 5. Bob Thomas missed a field goal from 23 yards. And Larry Parker was unable to pick up a first down on fourth and one from the State 7. Coach Parseghian mentioned something about this failure to score from close in after the game. "I was pleased to win although I was disappointed we didn't score in the last three periods. We moved the ball more consistently today," he continued, "but we're going to have to develop more goal-line punch as the season goes along." That lack of a "goal-line punch" would later prove to be the downfall of the Irish in Baton Rouge. 
Michigan State ·········---2 0 0 0-2 Notre Dame ..........~····---14 0 0 0-14 
Scoring: 
ND: Minnix, f-yard run (Thomas.kick) . 
.ND: Minnix, 6-yard run (Thomas kick). 
'MSU: Safety, Etter falls on.own fumble.in end zone. 
. TEAM STATISTICS . ND MSU Total First=Downs ................ 22 9 Yards Gained Rushing ........ 214 32 Yards Gained Passing .......... 92 . 104 Total Offensive Yardage .... 306 136 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) ......~.16-i0 32-10 Interceptions by .................. 1 , 1 Fumbles lost .............. · 1 1 Punting (No.-Ave.) .... ~....... 4-42 9-38.1 Total Yards Penalized ........ 60 91 ­Weather: Overcast and warm. Attendance: 59,075 
m1am1 


About sixty-five thousand showed up for this game at Miami's Orange Bowl. But just about everyone from Notre Dame caught this one on the tube. It was a peculiar game to watch on television -it had to be one of the shortest (in duration of time) games ever played (an hour and 55 minutes to be exact). And when you're watching a quick game like that on tele­vision it appears to be even shorter. It was kind of like watching one of those movies pre-made for tele­vision. In fact, it had the markings of a live TV drama: the hero gets injured and his faithful understudy takes over and saves the day. A simple plot. A simple game. 
For a while it looked like the Hurricanes would be in this game all the way. Their quickness surprised the Irish both on offense and defense. Twice it ap­peared they were headed for long scoring drives in the first quarter until the Irish defense stiffened and shut them off on key third and short-yardage situations. 
The Hurricanes' defense badgered Notre Dame in a somewhat similar manner to the way Georgia Tech stopped the Irish attack last year. The Irish moved the ball, but couldn't seem to be able to break through Miami for the score. 
With 13:42 left in the second quarter, a single play changed the course of Irish football for the '71 season. On second and nine from his own 37, Irish quarterback Bill Etter dumped a screen pass to Tom Gatewood. The play lost two yards, but the Irish lost more than that. Etter somehow injured his knee on the play and would be lost to the team for the season. 
Enter Cliff Brown. On his first play he dropped back to pass, slipped on •the Orange Bowl's "polyturf" rug, and lost seven yards. The next time the Irish got the ball Brown slipped and fell on an attempted hand-
Parker turns the corner against the Miami defense. 
off for a 2-yard loss. Brown was making an inauspicious debut; or so it seemed. But a quick change of shoes saved the day for the Irish. Brown slipped no more and he directed Notre Dame to its fourth straight win in '71, 17-0. A four-star performance by a novice actor, to say the least. 
After Brown changed his shoes to a pair more suit­able for traction on the "polyturf,'' he brought the Irish down to the Miami 22 where Bob Thomas kicked a 38-yard field goal to give the Irish a 3-0 halftime edge. 
In the second half the Miami Hurricane abated. Outweighed by Notre Dame's interior line, Miami's defense just ran out of gas. Their quickness, which had held the Irish in check in the first half, was gone. Without it they were helpless. They simply couldn't outmuscle Notre Dame. 
Cliff Brown apparently wasn't hampered by the jitters in his first long-range debut as quarterback. No sooner had the Irish received the second-half kickoff than Brown and the offense went to work on Miami's tired defensive line. From the Irish 34 Notre Dame ran inside and around the befuddled Miami defense in eleven plays with Andy Huff capping the drive on a one-man-show run for 16 yards and the score. In the middle of the fourth quarter the Irish scored again, as Brown highlighted a 68-yard scoring drive with a 33-yard keeper through the middle of the Hurricane defense. Six running plays later Irish halfback Darryl Dewan swept for 6 yards around left end for the game's final tally. 
For the fourth straight week the Irish defense had turned in a stellar performance. They limited the Hur­ricanes to a mere 60 yards.rushing and 7 first downs. Around· campus, people were beginning to feel that the '71 unit would better the '66 team's outstanding de­fense. Some even felt that few teams would score against the Irish for the rest of the year. "The best offense is a good defense" was the watchword. 

The offense was beginning to show signs of coming along. The running game was working well, but the passing attack had a few kinks in it. One thing was certain, though; the great "quarterback question" had seemingly been answered for good. Cliff Brown was the man, and the fate of the Irish would be riding on his successes for the remainder of the year. But no one really cared. After all, no one was going to score against us anymore, so why worry about the lack of a balanced attack? Only time would tell.... 
Notre Dame ....................................  0  3  7  7-17  
Miami ·······························--­ 0  0.  0  0-0  
Scoring:  
ND: Thomas, 38-yard field goal.  
ND: Huff, 16-yard run (Thomas kick).  
ND: Dewan, 6-yard run (Thomas kick).  
TEAM STATISTICS  ND  MU  
Total First Downs ................  20  7  
Yards Gained Rushing ........  257  60  
Yards Gained Passing..........  35  51  
Total Offensive Yardage ....  292  111  
Passing (Att'd-Com'd) ·······­ 10-6  16-4  
Interceptions by ..................  0  1  
Fumbles lost ..........................  1  0  
Punting (No.-Ave.) ............6-36.5  10-39.4  
Total Yards Penalized ........  35  21  

Weather: Clear and warm. Attendance: 64,357 

north carolina 


A defensive back's view of a Bob 
Thornas field goal try. 
The fans came hoping for the first real offensive showing of the 1971 · season. ·With USC only a week away they wanted to be assured that a Cliff Brown-led attack would be able to manhandle the hated Trojans. Surely Cliff was the man to take over where Theismann had left off; and, today everyone came to see him buckle into Joe's shoes. But they left a bit disappointed. They came looking for an aerial show and found only the same "grind-it-out" rushing game. They also were treated to what they expected: another superlative ef­fort by the Irish defense. 
North Carolina brought with it a team similar to the Miami bunch the Irish had faced the week before. Very quick and mobile, but not that strong. As Miami had done a week ago, the Tar Heels were able to move the ball in the early goings; but, like Miami, they were unable to click on the third down plays and sustain a drive. 
The Irish, or better yet, Bob Thomas, scored the first three times they had possession of the ball. Each time they drove deep into Tar Heel territory only to sputter and settle for three Thomas field goals. Carolina could do nothing. Their ground game obviously missed the attack of their leading rusher, Ike Oglesby (who was sidelined with an injury), and when they went to 
the air the passes were either overthrown or dropped. Notre Dame's defense wasn't giving them an inch. 
Perhaps one of the season's most outstanding de­fensive performances by an individual developed early in the second quarter following the second Thomas field goal. Scott Smith kicked to Lewis Jolley who returned up the middle to the NC 10. Then he pulled up short, whirled, and threw a lateral to Earle Bethea on the left sideline. Bethea had six blockers and Clar­ence Ellis in front of him. Ellis managed to break through the wall of blockers and prevent a touchdown by stopping Bethea at the ND 43. As if that wasn't enough, Ellis intercepted a Paul Miller pass on the very next play. 
Commented Tar Heel Coach Bill Dooley about the previous turn of events: "On that kickoff play, we had noticed that when the receiver ran straight to ·the middle of the field, Notre Dame would close in and converge on the runner. That's why we put in the lateral pass play. Ellis just came up with an unbeliev­able effort. Even though, we still had the momentum until he intercepted that pass." 
So much for individual defensive efforts. In the second half the entire Irish defense came up with a team effort that nailed the lid on the Tar Heels' coffin. With the Irish still leading, 9-0, Cieszkowski fumbled and Brafford recovered for NC on the Irish 33. Two pass plays later the Tar Heels had the ball first and goal at the Irish 4. The shutout string was on the line 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


and the Irish defense measured up to the test. NC tried three running plays but could get nowhere. With fourth and goal at the four, Ken Craven lined up for a field goal attempt. But the Irish defense was not to be scored upon today, as Mike Kadish crashed through the right side of the Tar Heel line to deflect Craven's kick to the ground. The defense, understandably, went nuts. Now everybody believed. "We can't lose this year," yelped some students, "'cause nobody's gonna score on us." 
Everything after that scene was anticlimactic. Tom Gatewood caught his second touchdown pass of the season in the fourth quarter to sweeten the victory to the tune of a 16-0 shutout -the second in a row for Notre Dame. 
Bill Dooley pointed to the third-quarter stand by the Irish defense as the turning point of the game. "We had momentum in the third quarter with a first down at their four. But," he added, "Notre Dame came up with that great stand and the momentum switched. Up until then I thought we still had a chance to win the game. Notre Dame is the best defensive team I've ever seen. They are tremendously big and very quick. At times, they made us look very bad offensively. And the truth is, we are a good offensive football team." 
Once again the defense had turned the trick. They did it all and made it easy for the still-sputtering Irish 
Field goal attempt by Tar Heel l[en Craven i.s deflected by Mike Kadi.sh. 

offense to win. Now halfway through the season the Irish remained unbeaten and were beginning to taste the sweet delights of a National Championship. The SC game would be the first hurdle, but it didn't appear to be such a big one after all. They were losing to everybody and couldn't possibly stop the Irish express. After all, nobody was gonna score on Notre Dame. 
North Carolina ................................ 0 0 0 0-0 Notre Dame .................................... 3 6 0 7-16 
Scoring: ND: Thomas, 28-yard field goal. ND: Thomas, 27-yard field goal. 
ND: Thomas, 24-yard field goal. 
ND: Gatewood, 4-yard pass from Brown (Thomas kick). 
TEAM STATISTICS ND NC Total First Downs ................ 21 8 Yards Gained Rushing ........ 207 92 Yards Gained Passing.......... 82 57 Total Offensive Yardage .... 289 149 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) ........ 17-5 17-7 Interceptions by ···-··--····-1 0 
Fumbles lost .......................... 2 1 
Punting (No.-Ave.) ·······-···6-46.2 8-43 
Total Yards Penalized ........ 51 55 
Weather: Sunny and warm. Attendance: 59,075 

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
southern california 
Some years ago, 1966 to be exact, Notre Dame humiliated the Trojans of Southern California, 51-0, on their way to a National Championship. To make things worse, they performed this feat on SC's home turf. The Irish have been paying interest on that shellacking ever since. Once again the "ghost of '66" returned to haunt the Irish and smash their dreams of an undefeated season. 
John McKay's Trojans made it look easy-all too easy. All they did was wreck the pride and joy of the '71 Irish -the defense. A defense that had seemed impregnable for the first five games crumbled like dust at the hands of SC's duo of quarterbacks, Jimmy Jones and Mike Rae. As in '70, Jones could do no wrong. Only this year he had an able assistant in Mike Rae who also played to perfection. Both riddled the highly respected Irish defense with ease. Without the help of the defense, Notre Dame's offense was lost. It simply wasn't ready yet to assume the burden of winning a football game on its own. 
After SC's Bruce Dyer picked off a Brown pass at the Irish 49, Jones proceeded to do what he knows best -fling that football. And fling it he did, for a 31-yard scoring strike to Edesel Garrison, who simply out­raced Clarence Ellis to the ball and the end zpne. 
The Irish looked as if they were going to make a game of it on the next series. Gary Diminick brought the crowd to its feet with a 66-yard kickoff return to the SC 34. Seven running plays later Andy Huff had tied the score on a 1-yard plunge over left tackle. 

But then SC retaliated with a long return of its own. Charley Hinton gathered Scott Smith's kickoff at his own goal line and raced 65 yards to the Irish 35 where Clarence Ellis stopped him. Once again it was Edesel Garrison outracing the Irish secondary as Mike Rae, with all the time in the world, lofted a 24­yard scoring strike to him to put the Trojans in front for good. 
Things looked bad, but they got worse in the second quarter. Taking over possession at the ND 46 after a Brian Doherty punt, good ol' Edesel went to work again. Jones found him on a 42-yard pass play that moved the ball to the Irish 4. Notre Dame's defense stiffened, but only momentarily, as Sam "The Barn" Cunningham hurdled for 1 yard and the score three plays later. 
The Irish began to panic prematurely. They aban­doned their game plan and went to the air. It didn't quite work. On second and ten from the Irish 49 Brown tried to hit Dewan in the middle of what looked like a sea of Trojans. It never quite got to Darryl. Bruce Dyer picked off Brown's pass and raced 53 yards, unmolested, to seal Notre Dame's doom. At 2:20 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, the Trojans had done it again. 

The Irish desperately tried to get back in the game in the second half, but could only muster a third­quarter touchdown by John Cieszkowski for their efforts. They had som~ excellent scoring opportunities handed to them by Trojan miscues, but they were just too tight to get the offense to click. Their spirit was broken; they were a defeated team before the game was over. 
Just what happened to an Irish defense that had been so stingy giving up points for the first five games? John McKay had the answer. "We were hoping they would play Garrison with single coverage. All week long we had practiced throwing the bomb to him. We weren't sure we could run against them, so we wanted to be able to pass. Garrison runs the 440 in something like 45 seconds, so we didn't think any of their de­fenders could stay with him deep. Our blockers did an excellent job of shutting off their pass rush and all our quarterbacks had to do was just wait back there for him to get open." 
Edesel Garrison, the speedy end who gave the Irish nightmares all afternoon, gave his account of what hap­pened. "On the first touchdown pass I simply beat Ellis to the corner. The second time I beat Ellis deep he tried to beat me to the corner, but I caught the pass underneath him. On that second touchdown I gave their defender (Crotty) an inside move and he slipped." 
And that's all there was to it. Three big offensive plays and one big defensive play.· All led to USC touchdowns. The Irish simply couldn't come up with. the big plays that USC did. A dejected Ara Parseghian 
Southern Cal .................................. 14 14 0 0-28 Notre Dame .................................... 7 0 7 0-14 
Scoring: SC: Garrison, 31-yard pass from Jones (Rae kick). ND: Huff, 1-yard r·un (Thomas kick). SC: Garrison, 24-yard pass from Rae (Rae kick). 
SC: Cunningham, 1-yard run (Rae kick). SC: Dyer, 53-yard interception return (Rae kick). ND: Cieszkowski, 4-yard run (Thomas kick). 
TEAM STATISTICS ND SC Total First Downs ................ 17 17 Yards Gained Rushing ........ 144 183 Yards Gained Passing.......... 160 194 Total Offensive Yardage .... 304 377 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) ........ 37-12 18-9 Interceptions by .................. 2 3 Fumbles lost .......................... 1 2 Punting ('No.-Ave.) ............ 8-39.3 7-39 Total Yards Penalized ........ 65 46 Weather: Cloudy and cool. Attendance: 59,075 

echoed this feeling in a hushed locker room after the game. "All I can say," summed Ara, "is that we needed the big play several times and did not get it; whereas, Southern Cal got it when they needed it." 
So once again the cry of "wait till next year" can be heard resounding around the campus. Maybe our dues to USC will be all paid up by then and we can take out another big loan like in 1966. Or maybe John McKay can start paying back part of the debt he's run up. But it better be soon. The debt's getting bigger and bigger every year. 

navy 

Where do you pick up the pieces after your glitter­ing season has been shattered into worthless pieces by the · likes of the SC Trojans? Where do you begin? Why, nowhere else than on the field of battle with the hapless Midshipmen of Annapolis. Only, someone forgot to bring the glue to this game and the Irish could do no better than sweep ~e pieces under the rug. 
The Irish were obviously not "up" for the Middies. The strain of the SC loss and the knowledge that Navy would be a pushover shackled the Irish in an ·attempt to rebound from the SC loss. For all apparent pur­poses Notre Dame's eleven were just going through the motions in a very mechanical and lackluster win over Navy. 
For a while the game tended toward rout propor­tions. After· Navy turned the ball over on a punt to Notre Dame at the Irish 22, the ND offense ground out a78-yard scoring drive.. It was similar to the TD drive that gave the Irish a 7-0 lead over -MSU four games ago..Only this time Gulyas, Parker and Huff were the stars of the show. Gulyas capped the march with a 1-yard fourth-down plunge to pay dirt after the Irish had run the Middies' defense to an apparent early sinking. 
The Irish added two quickies in the second quarter to up their lead to a 21-0 count. -A 64-yard "grind-it­out" drive ended when Bob Minnix plunged a yard over left tackle at 4:42 :of the quarter. . On the ensuing kickoff Navy's George Berry fumbled into the. hands of ND's Ralph Stepaniak at the Middie 36. Once·again Minnix closed out a scoring. drive on the ground with ·a 10-yard run a.round the ·right side at 3:32 of the quarter. ­
This was more like· it. Two scores in a minute and the Irish looked like they ~ere ready to finish the Mid­dies for good. The crowd was hungry for more points: hungry for an assurance that the loss to SC was only a fluke and that Navy, lowly Navy, didn't deserve to be on the field with one of the clas~ teams in the nation. The Middies, however, had apparently not read the script. They stubbornly refused to knuckle under at the hands of the Irish. 
Notre Dame came close to scoring only once more the entire afternoon. Early in the fourth quarter they moved to the Navy 17, eager to get more points on the board for a better showing. But Greg Hill fumbled in 
Irish back Bob Minnix signals his first touchdown of the afternoon. 

the backfield and Hamrick recovered for Navy on his own 21 to kill the drive. 
Notre Dame's defensive unit had little trouble re­cording their third whitewash of the year. Navy just wasn't strong enough to handle Notre Dame. They lacked the quickness of Miami and North Carolina that had brought limited success to those teams in earlier games. Obviously aware that the Irish were vulnerable to the passing attack after learning of SC's successes with it, the Middies tried to penetrate the Irish sec­ondary for yardage. But the Navy line simply could not give sophomore quarterback Fred Stuvek the time he needed to throw. The Irish front four hounded him all afternoon. 
Navy's only scoring threat came late in the fourth quarter when they drove to ND's 15. But Stuvek's fourth down pass to Van Loan was high and wide and the Irish shutout remained intact. 
Coach Parseghian was a bit miffed about the team's performance against Navy. "I thought we played a very good first half today. But," he added, "we played a very ordinary second half. We made mistakes in the second half that kept us from scoring. I wasn't satis­fied with our offensive performance in the second half." 
It really wasn't much of a game. The 21-0 win over Navy _proved little, if anything at all. People were 
Navy ................................................  0  0  0  0-0  
Notre Dame ....................................  7  14  0  0-21  
Scoring:  

ND: Gulyas, 1-yard run (Thomas kick). ND: Minnix, 1-yard run {Thomas kick). ND: Minnix, 10-yard run (Thomas kick). 
TEAM STATISTICS_ ND NAVY Total First Downs ................ 20 9 Yards Gained Rushing ........ 281 43 Yards Gained Passing .......... 45 66 Total Offensive Yardage .... 326 109 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) ........ 10-5 22-10 
· Interceptions by .................. · 0 1 Fumbles lost .......................... 2 1 Punting (No.-Ave.) ............ 6-37.7 8-39.1 Total Yards Penalized ........ 55 0 Weather: Sunny and warm. Attendance: 59,075 

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
beginning to doubt, for the first time in many years, the ability of Notre Dame to bounce back. An upset­minded Pitt team was next, and the Irish simply did not look ready to play football. 
QB Brown sets the offense inside t.he Middie five-yard line. 

pittsburgh 


Larry Parked races to the left corner of the end zone for a first-period TD. 
Pittsburgh is a strange city. And it's got . some strange places in it. Like Pete Coyne's Bar, for example. A little cubbyhole recessed a few blocks from the Pitt campus, Coyne's stands with all the appearances of the average "dive" that can be found in cities across America. But it's more than that, really. Beneath the dust and grime that lends an air of dinginess to the place lies a soul of sorts. 
This mood is hidden in the bar's extraordinary four walls. They're murals. Old paintings of ancient 
.heores and places that live in Pittsburgh's sport history. Forbes Field, the Pittsburgh Steelers (1940's model), some unnamable Pirate veterans and two pre-World War II city boxing champs have been preserved in oil for as long as Coyne's weathers time. The soul that lurks behind these haphazardly painted murals repre­sents more than just the history of Pittsburgh sports. On the eve of the ND-Pitt game it stood for just about anything great in sports you could think· of. You couldn't escape it. It stared at you from all corners of the bar. 
It was here, then, over endless draughts of Iron City beer, that a handful of diehard Notre Dame stu­dents and fans came to the full realization that, corny as it may sound, the "Notre Dame legend" was still as much a part of the 1971 football experience as it was in more glorious years past. Coyne's soul rekindled the spirit that had seemingly died at the hands of USC. The handful of Pitt students seated at the rim of the bar couldn't understand why the "Fight Song" was sung over and over again. "You guys were finished by USC," they'd say. "You ain't goin' nowhere." But they just didn't understand. 
The spirit of Coyne's bar apparently spread up Cardiac Hill to Pitt Stadium the next day, as the Fight­
ing Irish turned in perhaps their best overall per­formance of the 1971 season. The Panthers were cer­tainly no pushover. They were big and strong and capable of delivering the Irish their second loss of the year. Notre Dame, however, simply came through with the ultimate in excellence both offensively and de­fensively for the first time this season and whipped Pitt in every department. 
Notre Dame's offense, shifting into high gear after weeks of development, amassed 534 yards in total of­fense. The ground game Coach Parseghian had been structuring his offense around broke through Panther lines for an incredible 464 yards. And the Irish defense turned in another exceptional game, limiting Pitt to 113 yards in total offense and halting the Panther attack in the second half to only 2 yards. 
Just about all of the Irish's endless list of backs got into the act. Brown: 92 yards, one touchdown pass. Gulyas: 57 yards, three touchdowns. Cieszkowski: 59 yards. Minnix: 42 yards. Parker: 63 yards, two touch­downs. And eight other backs combined for the addi­tional 141 yards and two touchdowns. 
The Irish offensive line manhandled the Panther linemen. Such holes they opened had rarely been seen so often in one game this year. Panther supporters in the press box raved about Ralph Cindrich's 19 tackles from his linebacker position, just about the only thing they could rave about all afternoon. But they over­looked one thing. Cindrich got his chances to make those tackles only because his linemen were never in the game. His tackles were admittedly many, but most came after substantial Irish gains. 
Cliff Brown finally had come of age in his quar­terback spot. He ran the team smoothly and efficiently without signs of the nervousness that had plagued him in his previous outings. For his performance the writers in attendance at Pitt Stadium voted him the "outstanding player of the game," a well-deserved award. 


What was apparently a day of sunshine for Notre Dame met with a tragic turn of events in the second half. All-American defensive end, Walt Patulski, had to be carried off the field on a stretcher after sustaining an injury to his knee. Pitt fans in the press box gloated over Walt's injury claiming that "Notre Dame deserves that for rolling up the score." Wherever the Irish play, someone always has a bowl of sour grapes around to detract from their victories. 
In reference to the lopsided score Panther Coach Carl DePasqua commented, "I didn't feel they were rolling up the score. We gave them such good field position all day on poor punts and fumbles that they couldn't help but score. They were able to do any­thing they wanted offensively." 
Ara denied that his team was trying to run the score up to impress the pollsters. "I've said it over and over again," he explained. "I don't care if we win by one point or fifty, just as long as we win. We got a lot of breaks today and consequently came up with 
Notre Dame .................................... 14 14 14 14-56 Pittsburgh ........................................ 0 7 0 0 -7 
Scoring: ND: Parker, 9-yard run (Thomas kick failed). ND: Parker, 6-yard run (Minnix run). 
ND: Gulyas, 1-yard run (Thomas kick). ND: Gulyas, I-yard run (Thomas kick). UP: Hogan, 1-yard run (Knisley kick). ND: Gulyas, 1-yard run (Thomas kick). ND: Gatewood, 8-yard pass from Brown (Thomas kick). ND: Townsend, 12-yard run (Thomas kick). ND: Dewan, 5-yard run (Thomas kick) . 
TEAM STATISTICS ND UP Total First Downs ................ 28 7 Yards Gained Rushing........ 464 85 Yards Gained Passing .......... 70 71 Total Offensive Yardage .... 534 113 Passing (Att'd-Com'd) ........ 13-5 14-5 Interceptions by .................. 1 0 Fumbles lost .......................... 2 4 Punting (No.-Ave.) ............ 3-35.6 7-34.6 Total Yards Penalized ........ 45 52 Weather: Cloudy and cool. Attendance: 55,528 

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
a couple of cheap scores." 
Redirecting his comments to an evaulation of the team's performance the Irish Head Coach said, "We have improved greatly on offense over the last two weeks. I don't think there's any question about Cliff's performance today. He was excellent. Cliff finally got it all together." 
All-American Walt Patulski grabs 
Pitt QB John Hogan as he runs the option. 
-., ' -: ·f 
iit~;;i<iy ~~--~ 
·:•)??\t\:f.> ·,. 
...: . ~ ' ' 
tulane 

Tulane brought a mediocre team with a mediocre record to Notre Dame Stadium. They had lost to Ohio University (they have a football team?) by a consid­erable margin the week before. It might well have been another mediocre game, but it wasn't. 
The Green Wave from New -Orleans apparently didn't realize that their meeting with the Irish would be the final home appearance for an outstanding crew of Notre Dame seniors. They didn't know what usually happens in the farewell game to foolhardy opposition. And, for the first half, neither did Notre Dame. 
The same Irish offense that had looked exception­ally sharp against Pitt the week before reverted to its old sputtering ways for the first 30 minutes of action. Twice, late in the second quarter, Notre Dame drove to within striking distance only to be shut off by an­aggressive Tulane -defense. From the Greenies 17 _ Gulyas struggled to gain first down yardage in a fourth and two situation but was stopped inches short of the mark. On the next Irish series a Bob Thomas field goal attempt from the 20 was blocked by Tulane's scrappy linebacker Mike Mullen. 
· Early in the second quarter Tulane made its only big move of the game, resulting in a Greenie touch­down. The Irish were now behind in a game for only the third time of the year. Starting their drive from their own 35 Tulane went_ to work on the outside of the Irish defense. -With the aid of a "piling on" call 
Tight end Mike Greaney lunges for additional yardage. 
against the Irish the Green Wave rolled to the ND 32. Five running plays through the interior of the Irish line brought them to the 14. Quarterback Rusty Lachausee closed the drive out with a 14-yard TD toss 
1.o his flanker, Steve Barrios, thereby providing Tulane with a halftime 7-0 edge. ­
The second half _saw_ Cliff Brown and the Irish offense regain the forni they had displayed against Pitt. While -the Irish defense dug in to limit the Greenies to only 78 yards total offense in the second half, the Irish offense went to work on Tulane's front line.­
-At first the offense sputtered a bit, but the second time the Irish got possession_ they marched 66 yards for the equalizing touchdown. Brown clicked for a first down on fourth-and two from the Tulane 5 to keep the drive alive. -Two plays later Brown carried the final yard for the score. _ 
Brown and Cieszkowski highlighted the next Irish journey to paydirt, as both came .up with the big third­down play to =sustain _a 72-yard scoring drive. Cisco 
_bulled his way over the right side of the Tulane line for 17 yards on third and one from the Irish 37. Facing a third and three at Tulane's -39, Brown hit Tom Gate­wood for-is yards and _another first down. Mike Creaney took an 8-yard Brown pass and Tulane de­fender Paul Ellis into the end zone for the go-ahead 

-THE SCHOLASTIC 

score three plays later. 
In the fourth quarter the Irish ball-control game worked to perfection again: 20 plays, 75 yards, 6 first downs, 9: 13 in elapsed time and a touchdown. The Notre Dame success on third-down plays during this drive was remarkable. Five third-down and one fourth­down situations were met with success by the Irish. Brown capped the drive with his second touchdown of the day, a 5-yard keeper around left end. 
Brown's second-half play, and that of the entire Irish offense, left a deep impression on Tulane's rookie Head Coach Bennie Ellender. "Y'all got a real good football team," he drawled.· "You came up with the· big third-down plays when you needed them. Your Cliff Brown was the big difference in the game as far as your offense was concerned. He made those big third-down plays that hurt us. They kept the drive alive, and they turned things around." 
Ara cited the team as a whole for its second-half comeback against Tulane. "It was difficult for our coaches to convince our players that Tulane was as good a team as we knew them to be," he explained, "but I was really proud of the way they came from behind in the second half. It was really a team victory for us as Cliff Brown threw well and ran well, his receivers made some great catches, John Cieszkowski both ran and blocked extremely well, and our defense shut them off after their first score." 
In two weeks the Irish finally looked like a team that had its offense and defense working smoothly together at top performance. Their 8-1 record was top-notch by any standards, eveh their own. Only one game stood between Notre Dame and their third-best record since 1952. 
Tulane ..... · --------------------------------------7 0 0 0-7
Notre Dame _______________________ 0 
0 14 7-21 

Scoring: TU: Barrios, 14-yard pass from Lachausee (Gibson kick)_ ND: Brown, 1-yard run (Thomas kick). ND: Greaney, 19-yard pass from Brown (Thomas kick)_ ND: Brown, 5-yard run (Thomas kick). 
TEAM STATISTICS Total First Downs _______________ Yards Gained Rushing________ 
Yards Gained Passing__________ Total Offensive Yardage .... Passing (Att'd-Com'd) ________ 
Interceptions by -----------------­
Fumbles lost _________________________ Punting (No_-Ave.) ____________ Total Yards Penalized ________ Weather: Sunny and cold_ 
ND TU 25 
11 
241 124 154 65 395 189 
20-15 
18-5 0 0 
0 
0 
6-35_3 
9-33 70 15 Attendance: 59,075 

Tulane QB Mike Walker barely releases '[)itchaut to his fullback. 
. ,.. ~ .--.....-:"•~ls:%-' A";;""'~ .. . . ?~» .• 
-;\.r~~-.:.·~ ,:~..~;' 
' r:.' 'I".
·"'· ~-~ 
. -'<./ 
.~ 
·Tx., .. -­
. --lr"·..-..­
l 
r­

louisiana state 

Go to hell Notre Darne, go to hell. Go to hell Notre Dame, go to hell. Go to hell Notre Dame, go to hell. 
Notre Dame went to hell, ~lias Tiger S~adium, alias _The Pit; and got burned. 
"Go to hell Notre Dame" was a popular slogan down in Bayou Country for the fall of 1971. Originally,· before LSU and Notre Dame initiated their two-game series, it had been reserved for ·the Bayou Bengals' arch rival, Ole Miss. "Go to hell Notre Dame" bumper stickers were plastered all over southern Louisiana, and outsold even. Colonel S.anders' finger-lickin' fried chicken. Notre Dame's popularity in Baton Rouge apparently ranked a little below that of General Grant. 
A year ago the Irish had dashed Tiger hopes for a Cotton Bowl bid in a 3-0 squeaker at Notre Dame Sta­dium. Following that game LSU's Coach Charley Mc­Clendon promised that "things'll be different ·when we get them down here· next year." And, as it had been pointed out time and agairi throughout the .'71 season, LSU had been priming tliemseives·for their "only game of the season." Rumor had· it that the Tigers had been setting aside time in all their practice sessions to ready themselves for their showdown with the Irish. And were they ever ready. 

The Bayou Bengals, in the words of "Jolly Cholly," 

"took away everything Notre Dame had going for 
them." Short-yardage plays that met with success 
against Tulane· couldn't get the job done against a 
fired-up LSU defense. 
Actually the key to the. game's . outcome was the 

flow of momentum that . snowballed_ the Tigers' way 
to frenzied heights by the game's end. Andy Hamilton's 
first tou_chdown reception of the evening gave LSU the 
confidence that they could; indeed, score against the 
fearsome Irish defense: And when the Tiger defense 
shut off the· Irish attack three tiID:es in the first half 
within LSU's 10-yard line, the momentum swung LSU's 
way for good. 
The failure ·of Notre Dame's otfense to collect points 

these three _times appeared to break the Irish spirit. 
Each time they failed, the Tigers' confidence in winning 
increased. Nothing was working right for Notre Dame 
and everything, it seemed, went well for. LSU. 
LSU . capitalized . on·two Irish miscues and converted 

them into Tiger touchdowns.. Late in the second quar­-1.er a Cliff Brown· pass. was intercepted by the Tigers' Capone and returned to.th~ Irish: 32. -On the next play Bert Jones, with.all day to throw/waited for Hamilton to break over the middle and hi(him with a· 32-yard scoring strike that -sent.. the_ 'Irish to the -lockers at 
halftime traili~g, ·14-o:. · ·. -. · ·-.-· . 
With 2:13 remaining in the third ·quarter Brown 

fumbled as he tried to· 1-:.01f arcniO:a ·left end and the 
Tigers .were poised 'for. another strike.on the Irish 33. 
Two passes :from.Jones to Hamilton·carried the Bengals 
to the Irish 8.• Bert Jones rolled through. left tackle 
two plays later and loped into the end zone for a5-yard 
score. That was the first time the Irish·had been scored 
' --­

upon in ·the second -half all season long. The Tigers. 
were apparently out to do more than beat Notre Dame. 
They were bent on crushing Irish. pride. 
Tom Gatewood closed his illustrious _career at Notre 

Dame by notching the only Irish score of the day in 
the waning moments of the ball game: He beat the 
"great" Casanova to the right corner of the end zone 
to snare a 7-yard Cliff Brown aerial to ruin the Tigers' · .. 
bid for a ·shutout and their complete disgrace. of the 
Irish with 2: 54 left to play. . · 
But ·the Tigers weren't finished just yet. They. re-· 

covered a Scott Smith onside-kick attempt at midfield: · 
with only 2: 30 , left. But they didn't try to run out 
···.·.~~dj/ ii~U:-fai"k to cross the goal-line (right)~ 

the clock. They were going to go · all out for the final 
blow. As McClendon said; "We would've kicked a field 
goal if we had to, •just to score on Notre Dame.in the· 
fourth quarter.". They didn't have to. Andy Hamilton 
finished a night's brilliant performance with his third 
TD of the game on a .13-yard Paul Lyons pass that 
found him all alone in the :r:ight corner of the Irish end 
zone. Insult to injury, to say the least. 
Ara Parseghian's worst loss as head coach of Notre Dame was a particularly distastefut one. The Tigers beat Notre Dame, make no mistake about that.-They whipped 'em. But the way they did it, particularly in their fourth-quarter. score, hurt more than anything . else. They not only beat Notre Dame's football team;. they crushed the pride and spirit of Notre Dame and left it, they. thought, to rot in the swamplands of Bayou Country. 
•It would be.hard to end this story on an optimistic note'. It certainly was not th~ way a team would like to close out a football season. But just remember this: you can't kill the spirit of the Fighting Irish no matter 
· how bad you may heat the team itself. Someday in the near future Notre Dame· will hopefully schedule LSU 

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

1971 final statistics 
SCORING BY QUARTERS TEAM SCORING PASS RECEIVING 
ND Opp.

Notre Dame . . . • . . . . . . . . 52 60 48 55 -225 PC Yards Avg. TD longTotal Points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . 225 86
Opponents . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 42 7 7 -86 Gatewood 33 417 12.6 4 39 Average • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • 22.5 8.6 
Townsend ..••.. 8 95 11.8 0 23 Touchdowns . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • 29 12 
Creaney •••.... 11 151 13.7 1 42 By Rushing . . . . • . • . . . • . . . • . . . 22 3
TEAM STATISTICS Minnix ....••.• 5 29 5.8 0 13 
By Passing . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . 5 8 
Huff •.••.•..•• 4 39 9.7 0 11
ND Opp. 

By Return . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . 2 1 
Gallagher •.••• 4 69 17.2 0 32

Total Offense ..••.••.•.•••.•••• 3,329 1,969 
By Recovery................. 1 0 
Dewan •.•..•.• 4 42 10.5 0 13

Totals Ploys ................ . 819 598 
Field Goals (Made-Alt.} . . • . • • . • 5-9 0-3 
Porker •••.•..•• 10 109 10.9 0 35 

· Yards Per Play •....•........ 4.0 3.2 
Safeties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . • 0 1 
Diminick .•••..• 2 14 7.0 0 9

Yards Per Game ...........•. 332.9 196.9 
PAT -Kick . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . 24-27 12-12 
Trapp .•..•.... 1 8 8.0 0 • 8 PAT -Run . . . • • . . . . . • . . . . •. . . • 1-1 0-0 
Gulyas •.••.••• 3 16 5.3 0 16

Net Yards Rushing •••••.....••• 2,321 864 
PAT -Pass . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • • . . . 2-2 0-0 
Hill •.....•..•• 1 7 7.0 0 7

Attempts ....•............... 613 383 Cosper .•....•• 1 12 12.0 0 12
Yards Per Rush ••..••.•.•...• 3.7 2.2 
Yards Per Game ...........•• 232.1 86.4 INDIVIDUAL SCORING Notre Dame •..• 87 1,008 11.5 5 42 
Opponents •.... 89 1,105 12.4-8 42
P.A.T. 

Net Yards Passing ...••........ 1,008 1,105 
TD'S Kick R PA FG TP 
Attempts ................... . 206 215 
Thomas . . . . . . . . 5 21-22 5-9 36 Completions ..........•...... 87 89 
Minnix . . . . . . • . 5 2-0 34 RETURNS 
Completion Percentage .•..... .422 .414 
Gulyas . •. •• •• . 5 30 
(Number -Yards -TD"s} ·

Had Intercepted .......•.•.•• 12 13 
Gatewood ....• 4 24 
lntercep. Punts Kickoffs

Touchdown Passes ....•••.... 5 8 
Brown . .. .. .. . . 2 3-5 15 
Schfezes 4-63-0

Yards Per Attempt ........... . 4.9 5.1 
Huff . • . . . . . . . . 2 12 
Crotty •....•••• 2-66-1 33-297-0

Yards Per Completion ..•..... 11.5 12.4 
Cieszkowski . . . . 2 12 
Ellis •.....•..•• 3-34-0

Yards Per Game ............• 100.8 110.5 
Dewan ...•.••. 2 12 
Stepaniak .•..• 3-40-1

Parker ......•. 2 12
Interceptions Made .•........... 13 12 Garner •.•.•... 1-0-0
Creoney . . • • . . . 1 0-1 8
Yards Returned ..........••.. 203 129 Hill •••••.•••.• 2-7-0 7-147-0
Crotty . . . . . . . . . 1 6 
Diminick ..•...• 7-199-0 

Punt Return Yards ••.......••••• 316 97 Stepaniak . . . . . . 1 6 
Gallagher •••.• 3-53-0 Number of Returns .......•••• 36 24 
Swendsen . . . . . • 1 6 
Rudnick ..•..•• 2-18-0 Average Return ......•....•.. 8.7 4.0 
W. Townsend . . 1 6 
Potulski .••.•.• 1-12-0

Notre Dame . . . 29 24-27 2-1 5-9 225 
Notre Dome ..• 13-203-2 36-316-0 19-417-0Kickoff Return Yards .•.•.•.•... 417 813 Opponents ....• 12 12-12 0-3 84 Opponents •••. 12-129-0 24-97-0 37-813-0Number of Returns ....•....• 19 37 

Average Return .....•........ 21.9 21.9 
PUNTING 

No. Yards Avg. Long
Total Return Yards •.••.••••...• 936 1,039 DEFENSIVE STATISTICS Doherty . . • . . . . .• . . 58 2,259 38.9 61 
TM TL-Yards PBU FR

Average Punt ................. . 38.9 37.4 Notre Dame . . . . . . • 58 · 2,259 38.9 61 Kadish •.•..•••••.• _. 97 8-40 6
Yards Punting .........••.... 2,259 3,034 Opponents 81 3,034 37.4 63 
.Hod Blocked ............•.•. 0 2 
Marx . •••• •. .• .• •••.• 85 12-44 3 
Potulski • . • • • . • . . • • • • . 74 17-129 6
PASSING

Penalties Against •••..•...••••• 44 42 Parton . . • . • . . • • • • • • • • 79 2-9 3 Yards Penalized ..•.••...•... 442 395 No. Comp. Int. Yards TD O'Malley ••.••••••••. 72 1 Brawn ...........•. 111 56 9 669 4 
Musuraca • • • . • • • . . • • • 66 1-4 6 5 

Fumbles (Lost) ..••..••••.•••••• 20(14) 22(15) 168 1
Steenberge . • . . . . • • 47 13 1 Crotty • • . . • • • . • . •• • • . 65 1-1 9 
Etter • . . . . . . . . . • . • • 26 15. 1 140 0 Thomann •• ••• . . .•. ••• 48 2-12 2
Total First Downs • • • • • • . • . • • • . • 206 110 
Bulger . . . . . . . . . • . . 11 3 1 31 0 Swendsen . . . . • • . . • • • • 40 11-76 3 3By Rushing . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 154 48 Gallagher . . . . . . •. . 1 0 0 0 0 Stepaniak • . . • • . . • . • • • 39 1-3 4By Passing . . • . . . . • . . . . • . . . • • 47 50 Gulyas . . . . . .• . . •. • 1 0 0 0 0 Schfezes • • . • • • • . • • • • • 30 1-4 6By Penalty . . . • . . . . . • • • . • • • . . 5 12 
0 0 0 0
Porker . . . . . • . . . • . • 1 Ellis • • . . • . • • . . • • • • . • • 35 8 Noire Dame • . • • . . • 206 87 12 1,008 5 Raterman . . • • . . • • • • • • 15 1 Opponents .•.•...•. 215 89 13 1,105 8 Zikas • . • • • . • • • . • • • • • • 21 2-23
INDIVIDUAL TOTAL OFFENSE 
Webb •.•..•..••••••. 8 Plays Yards Avg. RUSHING Garner • •• . • .••• •• •• • 7 Cliff Brown .•.•............ 196 922 4.7 Townsend M. • • • • • • • • • 5
TC Yards Avg. TD Long
Bob Minnix ............... . 78 337 4.3 Freistroffer . . • • • • • • • • • 5
Minnix . . • . . . . . . 78 337 4.3 5 16 
John Cieszkowski ..•........ 69 316 4.6 Sullivan • • • • • • • • • • • • . 4
Parker . • . . . . . . . . 80 299 3.7 2 20 
Larry Parker .............. . 80 299 3.7 Hooten • . . . . • • • • • • • • • 4
Cieszkowski . • . . . 69 316 · 4.6 2 17 
Potempa • . • • • • • • • • • • • 4

Huff . . . . . . . . . . • . 68 295 4.3 2 21 
McGraw • •• ••. • ••• ••• 3

Brown • . • . . . . . . • 77 253 3.2 2 47 
Hayduk •••••••••••••• 3

RESULTS Gallagher . . . . . . 49 180 3.6 0 15 Devine • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2Won 8, lost 2, Tied 0 Gulyas . . . . . . . . . . 56 220 4.4 5 19 Rudnick . • . • • • . . . • • • • • 1
ND Opp. Attendance Dewan . . . . . . . . . 35 119 3.4 2 9 Cloherty • • . • • • • • • • . • • 1 · 50. Northwestern (HJ 7 59,075 (C} Etter •.. : ...•.••.. 35 114 3.3 0 19 Tereschuk . . • • • • • • • • • • 1
8 Purdue (A) 7 69,765 (C} Hill ...•......... 16 84 5.2 1 20 
Townsend ••••.••••••• 1

Diminick . . . . . . . . 17 61 3.5 0 16
14 Michigan State (HI 2 59,075 (C} 17 Miami (Fla.) (A) 0 66,039 Steenberge • . . . . . 23 5 0.2 0 . 7 Notre Dome ••••••.••• 59-349 54 13 
Rudnick . . . . . . . . 1 2 2.0 0 2 Opponents •.••••••••• 48-68 39 11
16 • Nortli Carolina (H) 0 59,075 (C} 14 Southern Cal (H) 28 59,075 (C} Bulger • . • . . . . . . • • 4 -1 0.2 0 10 -59,075 (C} Gatewood . . . . . • 2 -7 • -3.5 0 3
21 . Navy (H) 0 
·Townsend . . . . • • . -3 · >32 10.6 1 . 34 /(ey: TM....;.Tockles Mode; Tl-Yards-Tackles mode 
56 Pittsburgh (A) 7 _55,528 (C} 7 59,075 (C} Noire Dame .•.. 613 . 2,321 ·3.7. 22 47 from minus yardage to opponent; PBU-Passes
21 .Tulane (HJ . 28 66,936 (C}. Opponents . . . . . • 383 964 2.2 3 29 Broken Up; _FR-Fumbles Recovered.
8 Louisiana State (A) 
Tl

•

coming 
attractions 
Denny Murphy, Notre Dame's freshman football coach, sat in his ground-floor office in the Athletic and Convocation Center and scratched a few hasty figures onto a memo pad. 
"I know the old adage that statistics are supposed to be for losers," said Murphy, "but I've figured out a few things from our last three games this year, and it's interesting the way they come out. In those last three games, we gained an average of 433 yards in total offense to 283 for our opponents. We averaged 205 rushing, and allowed 139. We averaged 228 yards in the air, and allowed 143. But we were outscored by an average of 21-19." 
Murphy's note pad summed up the freshman season in the best possible way. The Irish yearlings played a four-game schedule in 1971, and finished with a 2-2 record. But only three of those dates can really be called "games." Murphy's crew opened the '71 cam­paign in_ Mexico City's Aztec Stadium, in an exhibition contest against a team of Mexican All-Stars. The fresh­men won that one, 80-0, and Murphy still smiles when he remembers it. 
Could Eric Penick (27) be another Nick Eddy in 1972? 
"When you talk about our season," he said, "you can't really talk about that game in Mexico. 'Ne've got statistics for that game (statistics like 795 yards in total offense),-but when you throw them in with the rest of our figures, they knock everything all out of proportion." 
So the Irish freshmen began their "real" season the week after. the display in Mexico, and they began it in East Lansing, against the Baby Spartans of Michi­gan State. The· frosh toppled the Spartans 38-14, and then returned to South Bend for their only home game of the season, against the Michigan Wolverines. 
But just as Murphy's freshmen swept their first two games of the season, they suffered a reversal of form in the second half, and dropped their last two outings. The yearlings fell to the Wolverines, 20-6, and were downed by Tennessee, 30-13, in the season's finale. 
In every one of their last three _games, the Irish were statistically dominant. But against Michigan and Tennessee, offensive miscues ( especially turnovers ­the Irish committed seven against Michigan and five 

THE SCHOLASTIC 

against Tennessee) cost the freshmen their perfect season. 
Now that the season is over, though, the '71 fresh­man team has become a genuine source of blue-chip talent for Ara Parseghian and the Notre Dame varsity. 
And it's well that this is so, for spring graduation will not be easy on the ND roster. The offensive team will lose five regulars, including Tom Gatewood, Dan Novakov, Ed Gulyas, Bob Minnix, and Bill Gallagher. But the losses suffered by the defensive unit will be much worse. Eight of the eleven starters will be leav­ing in the spring, and the ND coaches will be faced with the task of replacing three defensive linemen (Patulski, Kadish, Swendsen), two linebackers (Patton, Thomann), and the entire defensive secondary (Ellis, Stepaniak, Crotty). And that's just where the fresh­men may play a big part. 
"The defense will suffer a heavy graduation loss," said Murphy, "and some of the people I had have the physical attributes to contend for starting positions. But whether or not they'll move in as sophomores is something else again. There's the motivation factor, and the experience factor, and this will do a lot in de­termining what \\'.'ill happen. The present varsity back­ups may not have a whole lot of experience, but they do have some, and that has to be an edge." 
Murphy, while he was right about the experience factor, was also right about the size factor. The fresh­men have plenty of it. Defensive linemen Kevin Cos­tello (6-5, 240), Mike Fanning (6-6, 235), Kevin Nosch­bush (6-4, 255), and Bob Sweeney (6-5, 230) could well challenge for the three open spots beside co-captain Greg Marx in the Irish front four. But also contending for the vacancies up front will be Tom Freistroffer and George Hayduk, both of whom saw limited varsity action this season. 
The competition will probably be most intense among the linebackers, where sophomores Tom Devine, Tim Sullivan, and Gary Potempa have already estab­lished themselves as contenders. But even here there will be pressure from the first-year men. Especially from the likes of Sherm Smith (6-2, 214), and Greg Collins (6-3, 215). 
Despite the loss of all three starters in the ND secondary, the deep three won't be lacking much in the way of strength -or depth -when the '72 season rolls around. Ken Schlezes, Mike Townsend, and Terry Gar­ner, last year's backups, will all return to challenge for the starting roles, as will sophomore Tim Rudnick. And Murphy's roster will supply three more talented deep backs -Reggie Barnett (5-11, 180), Al Samuel (6-1, 175), and Jim Chauncey (6-0, 190). These three have the ability, but they are lacking in experience, and their value will be as added depth at a key position. 
Graduation will be a bit kinder to the Irish offense. On the line, "only" center Dan Novakov and wide re­ceiver Tom Gatewood will be leaving. Novakov's posi­tion will probably be filled by Dave Drew, but freshman Lorenzo Scott ( 6-3, 225) could cloud the picture before the fall opener. Everyone else-including co-captain John Dampeer -in the interior line will be returnin·g, and the team is well stocked with depth here, too. But freshman Gerry DiNardo (6-1, 230), and Steve Neece 
(6-3, 240) could make their presence felt before spring practice ends. 
Tom Gatewood, who has been an Irish regular and one of the most feared receivers in the country for the past three years, will not be easy to replace. But the offense will have both ability and depth at the wide slot next year. -Willie Townsend will return for his final season, but he will be pressed (or joined) at split end by a promising first-year receiver, Pete Demerle (6-1: 187). 
Demerle led the freshman team in receiving, and could very well team with Townsend next year -in a split end/flanker offense. 
"Demerle has a good set of hands," said Murphy, "and he has the concentration to be a good receiver. He's certainly got the attributes to contend, but don't forget that Willie Townsend'll be back, too. We could end up using both of them. When we want to catch the ball, then we'll put our best people in." 
A core of experienced runners will head up the 1'4"D backfield. John Cieszkowski, Larry Parker, Andy Huff, and Greg Hill all saw time last season, and all will be returning for another campaign. But they will have competition, and much of this competition will come from a quartet of frosh backs -Eric Penick (6-1, 195), Ron Goodman (5-11, 185), Chuck Kelly (5-9, 185), and John Freeman, who played both run­ning back and linebacker for the freshmen. Fullback Wayne Bullock (6-0, 210) was injured during the latter part of the frosh season, but will be back in the thick of things once spring practice gets underway., 
This spring's quarterback race (the ND coaches dis­like the term "quarterback problem") is shaping up as a possible repeat of last year's. Cliff Brown, who guided the Irish varsity through the last seven games of the season, and who improved steadily along the way, will return for his junior season. Pat Steenberge will also return, and so will Jim Bulger, who saw some action towards the end of last season. 
But much of the spotlight during spring practice will be on Tom Clements, who was Murphy's sole­signal-caller throughout the frosh season. Clements, at 6-0, 175, passes well and is a proven scrambler. He drew raves during the season -both from the coaches and from the fans.: Still, Murphy is rightly cautious: 
"Tom Clements and Cliff Brown both did very simi­lar-type jobs for me," he said. "Their records against the same teams (Michigan, Tennessee, Michigan State) were identical (1-2), and I just don't want to compare them. Clements did a good job for me, but so did Cliff Brown. I'm not going to say that Clements is going to clear up our QB situation, and I sure don't want any­body thinking that Clements is going to be some kind of savior. 
"I can't say what's going to happen; I have no idea. But Cliff does have valuable experience, and that's bound to work in his favor." 
The experience should work in Brown's favor, just as it should work in favor of all the returning players. But there are 13 vacancies in the Irish lineup, and Mur­phy knew what he was talking about -until the close of spring practice, it will be impossible to say just who will be filling the open positions. 
-vie dorr 

NOVEMBER 30, 1971 

America's Largest _Family Clothing Chain ROBERT HALL CLOTHES 404 WEST WESTERN AVENUE • SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Open every night PHONE: 287-6722'til 9 :30  
Louie's the fas test, the friendliest service· the best, the most delicious pizza we would not kid you 744 N. Notre Dame Ave. 233-0380  A PAULIST DOESN'T WAITTO BE ORDAINED TO GET INVOLVED. If you think that ordination is something like graduation -and the time in between is similar to marking time-then you couldn't be more mistaken. The Paulists were founded with the belief that each man is a member of the community and he contributes his own thing. Each is an individual with his own talents and he is given the freedom to use them in his own way. But not later. Now. For instance, during the no­vitiate, novices work in such diverse areas as hospitals, voca­tional rehabilitation centers and Universities. They serve as assist­ant chaplains, co-retreat masters, student teachers and psychiatric aides. Paulist Seminarians create recreational programs, direct "Days of Recollection" for CCD students, direct film series, ex­periment with the use of media in the liturgy as a preaching tool, originate and edit the Paulist Free Press, coordinate Lenten lectures and organize Home Masses, to mention just a few. When you commit yourself to the Paulists, it isn't a someday thing. It's now. Today. For more information about the Paulists write to: Rev. Don~ aid C. CampbelJ, C.S.P., Voca~ tion Director, Room 300. pa.f15tfothets.  
Make Christmas Really Sparkle This Year Give the extra-special, perfect gift ... a Keepsake diamond ring. Flawlessly clear, beautifully styled, , Keepsake will be a joy forever. Visit our diamond counter and see thc:t special "Keepsake sparkle."  
R. K. MUELLER, INC. 233-4200 218 S. Michigan St.  415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y.10019  


NOVEMBER 30, 1971 
only a game 
Down the hall, a friend of mine is listening to the Notre Dame-Louisiana State game. Every once in a while, he knocks on the door and reports the game's progress over. my stereo's reports of Christ's demise in "Jesus Christ, Superstar." I'm sure someone will like to see an analogy in this, something in the line of Ara Parseghian as Christ-figure crucified at the hands of a neo-Roman/Philistine/agnostic Southern horde. Sorry, folks, nothing of the sort; at last count -biblical specu­lation aside -it was LSU 21, ND goose, with little in­dication of improvement in the Notre Dame point of view. Oh, well, it's only a game. 
There are·a lot of people who will dispute that last statement, that somehow football .isn't just a game, that somehow. it really is the sum, substance and goal of life, that it really is (to paraphrase a theology pro­fessor of mine) "the coming of the eschaton." I remem­ber a high school coach saying bluntly, "football is life," and, by God, he meant it and expected his team to believe it. 
A larger portion of fans, coaches and players aren't quite that devoted to the game; for them, football is more of a passionate interest. Even in this larger group; however, the opinions can be bizarre. A case in point is the reaction to the decision by the Notre Dame team not to go to a bowl -game. The Notre Dame stu­dent newspaper thought. it appropriate to run a cartoon depicting the football players as petulant infants. A local radio· sports commentator wondered over the air why any team would pass up the "honor" of playing in a postseason game. 

I'm sure that these examples are indicative of a · largely held sentiment, that the football team "owes" it to the students, alumni, and friends of Notre Dame to 
·play in a bowl game. It is as if those privileged to wear a football uniform owe a debt of another month of grueling practice, disrupted study and assorted mental and physical agonies to those who don't wear a uniform. Even at the level of a "passionate interest,'' football can cease being a game to become a debt of honor. I don't acknowledge such a debt and I was happy to see that the majority of the team didn't either. 
I suppose I am one of those students hinted about in "alumnus" magazine and written about (I'm told) in The Sporting News; that is, I am apparently one of the "apathetic Notre Dame students." There's a real danger in my claiming this title; there are some stu­dents here who make a point of not going to the foot­ball games, and I shudder to think I may be one of them. It's no more "right" to get stoned and not go to the games than it is to get drunk and go; to impart an objective level of truth to either one gives to the game an importance that is not really there. 
Conversely, however, I'm acutely aware of the image that Notre Dame boasts(?): when informed that I go to Notre Dame, a new acquaintance invariably asks, "Oh, how's the team this year?" or states "You've got real tradition there!" OK, they've got good reason to associate Notre Dame with football, but Rockne, the Four Horsemen and pep rallies aside, those associations and my associations are not the same and neither set has any more inherent value than the other. If this is apathy, so be it. 

I just don't go to football games. I always seem to have something more pressing to do on Saturday after­noons than to sit/stand for three hours in a stadium. And I'm not alone; none of my friends regularly attend the games. I admit we're in the minority, but being in the minority does not make us wrong (nor martyrs, for that matter), it just makes us different. 
And that brings us to the question that's probably on your mind: what is this doing in the Football Re­view? Contrary to popular belief, this Review is not produced by the Notre Dame Sports Publicity Office. It is produced by the same happy bunch that puts out the bi-weekly student magazine, the SCHOLASTIC; or more accurately, the Review is produced through a lot of hard work by the magazine's sports editor and some of the staff working as copy readers and layout people. What I'm getting at is, Football Review or not, this is a student magazine and I'm a student. 
.. 

;fl 
If you're an alumnus, you should know about people like me, the growing minority of students who don't go 
1.o football games. I don't presume to speak for all of us, but we do have certain things in common; for ex­ample, our memories of Notre Dame will not center around football Saturdays. What this means ·is, despite the subtle and overt efforts by the administration, pub­lic relations and alumni, the Notre Dame student is changing. It's going to become less and less possible for this student to experiern;e anything more than catharsis while watching football, less possible for him or-looking toward the future-for her to be pla­cated by organized violence on scattered autumn Sat­urdays. 
I say these things not to the students, the majority of w4om already realize the limitations of football, whether they go to the games or not, but to all the people Out There who are reading this Review and who feel justified in circumscribing the core of Notre Dame with the oval of the stadium. You can't do it, we won't let you. Notre Dame is becoming more than a Midwestern football college, its becoming a univer­sity. To become a university means to have a number of different parts; this part just doesn't go to football games. 
-mike moone1J 

~ 
' --~-:-' , -::f:':",i~·'' 
' . 
--,-~-: 
• ·.'f~ 
: ..__~~~'l:";3 
•• \ 
\. . 

~-­fl 
~~ 
0.­
.J 
'~ . 
. ~ 
~-..-. 
~ .....~ .,__ 
t"',.
• 
. 
... 
r" ­
~-" . 
~ 
. -·~.. 
....... ' ~ 
C 
"­
"· \ 


The first malt liquor good enough to be called BUDWEISERc~ 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 

111 worked hard all summer to get enough bread for a down payment on my new bug. So I'm going to baby it~' 
~...,..,,.._._ ... 
........... ........ ...... 
....x,..~.;:> ..... ..,... . 
...,.....,.,,,.,....,,,,............,,,.. 
.....,""">-.),-.;.,,..,,._
............,.,._..,........._.. 
,( .., .. 
->>Y ._ 

You worked hard for that new car of yours. Now all you have to do is take care of it. Part of ifs using the right gasoline. Amoco@. The type most new car owner manuals recommend. 
Amoco is specially formulated for your new car's anti­pollution engine. Made to help it run better. longer. And Amoco can double the life of your tail pipe and muffler compared to fully leaded gasolines; spark plugs last longer. too. 
That's why more new car buyers use Standard gasolines 
than any other brand. When it comes to high-quality 
gasolines. you can depend on Amoco and the other 
gasolines at· Standard. All the time. 
So now that you've got that new car. use the gasoline you can count on. 
You've got a new car. We've got a new car gasoline. 

~ 
I 

You expect more from Standard and you get it.TM 
@Standard 011 D1v1s1on of American Oil Company 



