HOW THE STARS GOT
SO MANY OF OUR FRIENDS LIKE CAMELS BEST
Sr MILDNESS and FLAVOR
"THAN ANY OTHER. CIGARETTE !
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!
MARGE and GOWER CHAMPION met as schoolkids at dancing school. Their paths criss-crossed for years as each sought a career. Finally, Gower, back from Service, “teamed up” with Marge. After months of rehearsal, they were a sensation in TV, movies and stage.
They are now Mr. and Mrs.
kMo

THAT WE TRIED THEM.
CAMELS'MILDNESS AND FLAVOR. SUIT US JUST RIGHT! WHY DONT YOU TRY CAMELS?'
Ed “Moose” Krause
Athletic Director Notre Dame University
says:
“BRAND NAMES at Gilbert’s
are my choice for Quality”
WHEN GILBERT'S and leading makers of men's wear team up you have a quality combination that is hard to beat. The measure of confidence Notre Dame men have placed in Gilbert’s is due in no small share to the hundreds of brand names that have been available here, day-in and day-out, for more than a third of a century.
809-817 S. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND, IND,
February 19, 1954
Want to travel and study abroad?
Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel '
Visit the countries of your choice .. . study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service.
For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph. D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.
twa
WHS tVOW AIHUM
Don’t Like ‘The Medium’
Editor:
The committee on films of the Department of English would like to say to those members of the student body and the faculty who saw our last movie, The Medium, that we, too, were disappointed with the relatively poor quality of the sound in some parts of the film. This was probably due to the sound track in the print which was sent us by the distributor. We hope, however, that in spite of this defect all those who saw this remarkable production did enjoy it.
Rufus W. Rauch, Chairman
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
RESTRING

WITH
At tennis shops and sporting goods stores.
STANDS UP in yaw racket • Moisture Immune • Lasting Liveliness
STANDS OUT in play
• Harder Smashes • Better Cut and Spin
AAHAV.AT BR AIDID RACKtI STRING
C^o<e o’ The Champions
costs less than gut
APNLOX. STRINGING COST: Pro-Fected Braid....$6.00 Uulti-Ply Braid..$5.00
Belated Pigskin Greetings
Editor:
Being an ardent Notre Dame football fan, I am most happy to congi’atulate the 1953 Fighting Irish for a very successful season. Once more Notre Dame has returned to the top rank in intercollegiate football.
' Though not having been declared as the national champion, I still consider
CLODUALDO ORTUOSTE Regards from Philippines
them the best in the land, and it is only proper that they should have been acclaimed that coveted title.
I would like also to compliment some seniors like Capt. Don Penza, John Lattner, Neil Worden, Art Hunter, Jim Schrader, and Menil Mavraides whose outstanding performances during the course of the season contributed to many Irish victories, and whose valuable services, I am'sure, will be greatly missed next year.
Coach Frank Leahy should also be accorded heartfelt congratulations for a job well-done, and to every boy on the squad, I will say, you have never done better.
Sincerely yours, Clodualdo Ortuoste
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen’s
WATCHES	DIAMONDS
RADIOS	SHAVERS
EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING
BREEN’S
Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Men
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty % Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls
$1.30
JOE WICIT’S Restaurant "Chicken in the Rough" 213 N. Main Open Sunday
The Scholastic
J
throwing around, no one has come up with the correct answer to our question as yet. Each WEEK the pot is getting bigger, you know. “Yeah? Well then, I’ll take three cards.” Oops! Got carried away there for a minute. Where were we? Oh yes—the clue. Well here it is—clue the second:
Scrabble, like football, is a game.
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
We sold two books of Mardi Gras tickets ...
Query Clue—Number Two
We’re still writing poetry, as you probably noticed. Our resources are running a little thin, though, as you also probably noticed. But let us, as they always used to say in journalism, get down to the nub of the matter. (They used to say it, that is, until we started saying it.)
Despite the enlightening clues and helpful hints we’ve been
The Good Things in Life Are Free
It’s a good thing no earth-shaking events took place on the international scene last WEEK, such as the outbreak of World War III or the impeachment of Georgi Malenkov, because there just wouldn’t have been room for it. With the preceding issue dedicated to Frank Leahy, there wasn’t much space left for any of this international hogwash, although we might have been able to squeeze it into the Capsule Corner.
The feeling around campus concerning the resignation of Coach Leahy was rather nicely summed up by Bob Fletcher, transfer student from Stittville A & M, who has apparently become indoctrinated with the old Notre Dame spirit.
Said Bob:
“Cheez! I feel lousy.”
And that brings up another point. Since Leahy has done just about everything else, maybe he should take a crack at becoming President of the U. S. If he wants to run, he’s sure of at least two votes—Tom Duggan and yours truly. Bet that Irish forward wall could really raise havoc with those Russian tanks.
Just Call Me Crosiar
Francis (the talking radio announcer) Crosiar, official Hooser Hysteria propagandist for radio station WHOT, came up with a pretty good one the other night. While in the process of translating ND’s three-point’ romp of Michigan State, during which process State’s Julius McCoy dumped in 29 points, Francis said: “We’re seeing the real McCoy here tonight, fans.”
Whether you know it or not, F. C., you made a funny. And incidentally, we don’t like basketball referees either.
How Green Is My Mardi Grass
The local version of the annual Mardi Gras festival took place last weekend.
’Course, it wasn’t nearly so exciting nor stimulating as the New Orleans version, but it was pretty much of a success. Don’t believe me? Take a gander at all the empty pants pockets walking around campus.
Yours truly didn’t fall into any evil habits, though. We didn’t stray from the old straight and narrow. Nosireee! . . . we didn’t have any money—still paying for JoAnne’s ring.
A bunch of St. Mary’s girls stole the show, however. For a measley thirty cents one could watch a line of neighboring lassies perform their version of the dance for 20 solid minutes.
We think the girls put on a fairly professional performance which showed definite signs of improvement over the outmoded tea parties. It also showed a few, as our grandfathers say, well-turned ankles. Which all goes to prove that the girls really can, like the song says.
Another added attraction consisted in the sale of a type of beverage named “near-beer.” The only drawback was that it wasn’t very near. In fact, one may say that it was quite a distance out of it. It was an improvement over the dances . . . like I said before.
Marteriedom Is Back
Reports have it that the Senior Ball bigwigs had quite a bit of difficulty procuring accompaniment for the dancing shoes of the fourth-year men. After much dickering and bickering with Don Gels, Frankie Yankovick, Tiny Hill and the other big names of the music world got them no place, they finally had to settle for some guy named Ralph Mar-terie or something. Oh well! You can’t win them all.
Bottom of the Week
. . . we’re still ridin’ the N.I.T.
^ARLttt^OSDICK
AT ANY TOILETRIES COUNTER. GKT WUMOOT
you CAN'T FOOL FOSDICK*—NO SELFRESPECTING LION WOULD EVER HAVE SUCH MESSY HAIR.’f-HE'D
KEEP ITMUCBUTNOT-W GREASY, WITH WILDROOT
CREAM-OIL*
Cope. United Feature Syndicate. Ine. 1953
WUrMt Cnaai-Oilh*a*rka’s favorite hair toaic. It’s aoa-afcabofc. Ceataiaa saotkiag LaaaKa. Craian bar, refcwa*yma,iiaimr han iiaAaff. fiat WUraat Ctam-fi<Ctafia!laaia29K.
I'M NOT AMY FACE* I'M AN HONEST-TO-GOODNESS. LAW-ABI DING LION * IN FACT I'M PRESIDENT OF THE LIONS
CLUB OF BUFFALO. NEW YORK* .

BUT, WHERE CAN A POOR. HELPLESS
LION 1—
BUY *— WILDROOT CREAMOIL?
, February 19, 1954
Parker-Winterrewd
Inc.
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - to - wear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Winterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
1151/2-1171/2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
FEBRUARY 19
AVON (through Feb. 23)—Rhonda Fleming and her headhunter friends are still here in Jivaro (A-2). Nothing much happens till the last third of the picture when Fernando Lamas saves the day and annihilates the nasty villains.
COLFAX (a week)—Lucille Ball returns to the movies and brings along her husband, Desi Arnez in The Long, Long Trailer (A-l). The couple do as good a job in this as they do on their TV show. It’s slapstick, of course, but the high quality kind that’s sure to appeal to most cinfema fans.
GRANADA (ends tomorrow)—A pair of pics that have been in town long enough for you to know how bad they are—Three Sailors and a Girl (B) and Killer Ape (A-l), a Jungle Jim special.
PALACE (ends tomorrow)—We’ve changed our minds since last week. Man From Cairo (A-l) is not quite as poor as Sins of Jezebel (B).
FEBRUARY 20
FIELDHOUSE (1:30 p.m.)—Coach Wilson’s tracksters, in search of their first victory, take on Indiana.
CHANNEL 7 (1:30 p.m.)—The Irish eagers face one of their toughest foes when they meet Navy in a nationally televised game.
WASHINGTON HALL (1:30, 3:25, 6:40, and 8:40)—June Allyson and Van Johnson have the leads in a mystery-comedy called Remains to Be Seen (A-2). Miss Allyson, usually cast as the girl-next-door type, plays a band singer. She still looks like the girl next door.
FEBRUARY 21
PALACE (a week)—One for the basketball enthusiasts, Go Man, Go, featuring the Harlem Globetrotters. Dane Clark takes the part of owner-promoter Abe Saperstein, about whom the story revolves. The second attraction is Riders to the Stars with Richard Carlson and Herbert Marshall.
GRANADA (through Feb. 25)—Killing time between CinemaScope shows, the management brings back a couple of real oldies that have been reissued, Little Caesar with Edward G. Robinson and Public Enemy with James Cagney.
FEBRUARY 22
DRILL HALL (8:15 p.m.)—The annual Washington Day exercises. Seniors are required to attend; everyone is invited to attend.
FEBRUARY 23
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (7:30 p.m.)—Father Hesburgh opens the Marriage Institute with a talk on courtship. Seniors, Law, grad, and married students may attend.
FEBRUARY 24
127 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE (7:30 p.m.)—The first session of the States of Life series features two talks, one by basketball coach Johnny Jordan on Marriage, A True Vocation; the other is by Father Sheedy on Preparation for Marriage.
WASHINGTON HALL (8:15 p.m.)—The Albeneri Trio.
AVON (a week)—Jean Simmons plays a scatter-brained heiress trying to get rid of her money in She Couldn’t Say No (A-2). The plot is composed of a series of trivial incidents that add up to a somewhat amusing, if not substantial story. Bob Mitchum is the male lead.
FEBRUARY 25
FIELDHOUSE (8 p.m.)—The final home game for the Jordanmen finds them meeting Marquette. The Hilltoppers do not have a good record, but in the past they’ve always managed to give the Irish a rugged time. This should be no exception, especially with ND looking forward to that NCAA bid.
6
The Scholastic
Scholastic
Vol. 95 February 19, 1954 No. 16
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER ....................News
FRED C. ECKART ..................Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS _______Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE....Assistant Copy ROBERT B. FROLICHER .......Sports JERRY D. BAIER ----Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL .....Circulation BOB FOWLER---------Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE------Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Paul Clemens, Dave Cohen, Dick Connelly, _ Mark Connelly, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Jack Flynn, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jim Healey, Jerrold Hilton, Ellis Joseph, Robert Kaufman, John Mannion, James Mason, James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Ronald Michaud, Roy Moxley, Francis Newman, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Ken Woodward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Dave Kilkeary, John Phelan, and Bob Ruhl.
LIBRARIAN: Noibert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: Introducing the new Student Senate president, Tom Field. On pages 14-17 this week, Scholastic’s editors give you a glimpse of President Field’s views on student government—complete with expenditure ratios that compare last semester’s expenses with what is proposed for this second semester. After-the recent controversy, our editors felt that such a story was necessary to help the student form his own opinions in the future.
Campus Pop-Offs: Loud Snores in a Deep Sleep
The best thing that can be said of Notre Dame men, with regard to their knowledge of student government, is this: they excel in their class. It must be admitted, however, that the class in which some of them excel is ignorance.
At first glance, it may appear to be just the contrary. Ever since the Senate asked for another $1 semester fee, controversies over the justification of the request have increased. High-powered, self-styled political critics around the campus have been at work whispering sweet nothings into each other’s ears, convincing themselves that they are correct in their protestations. You can’t buy a cup of coffee at the Huddle any more without hearing a watered-down version of Huey Long’s campaign oratory against the Senate’s activities. You can’t even get into a bullsession without having at least a couple of die-hard dissenters who’ll tell you the Senate is a “farce.”
All of this would be valid and healthy, of course, if the puny little individuals knew what they were talking about. But, if the recent poll taken among 450 Notre Dame students is any fair indication, the big noise most of them are making really amounts to nothing more than a loud snore during a long sleep. Every time one of these small-minded individuals goes into his little act, it brings to mind the answers the psychology prof got when he asked his students what their “most valuable asset” was. Two replied “intelligence”—and both misspelled it.
The poll indicates that 69 per cent of the interviewed students didn’t even know who the Senate president was. Twenty-nine per cent didn’t know their class president; 17 per cent didn’t know their hall president’s name: and 72 per cent didn’t know who their college representative was.
Well qualified to argue, these boys .. .
If you’re not surprised at these results, you might be interested in knowing that two out of every five students fail to read the Senate’s news in1 the Scholastic; and three out of five don’t bother to read the Senate’s minutes on the hall bulletin boards. When asked if they would be interested in attending a Senate meeting, 34 per cent of the interviewed students answered “No.”
If all of these students were generally disinterested in the Student Senate, the problem would be simple enough. But the fact remains that a good number of the students who go around popping off about the “inadequacies” and the “injustices” of the Senate are the same ones who answered “I don’t know” when the poll was taken. Anyone who has the gall to go around making dirty cracks about the Senate while, at the same time, he doesn’t even know who the president is or what was done at the last meeting, ought to be tarred and feathered and put in a cage in the Pottawattomie zoo, or he ought to be gagged until graduation time. We find no issue with the individuals who have legitimate gripes. After all, that’s the business of the qualified student—to keep his representatives in check. But for the others, who talk in their sleep, not much can be said.
One ridiculous aspect of this argument pops up every now and then when the same sagacious bloc of the nation’s 18-year-olds (“mature,” “old enough to fight,” etc.) clamors for a vote in the national presidential elections. If our poll is a fair indication of student interest in government, we’ve only one comment: God spare the king . . . nothing can save the democracy.
February 19, 1954
7
A major in glibness and a minor in solid information—those were the mythical requirements for a salesman in the old days. But they really never sufficed for a man selling the products of chemical technology.
Today, the diverse applications of Du Pont’s 1200 products and product lines create a need for trained sales personnel representing many different technical backgrounds. These men must deal intelligently with problems in chemistry and engineering applied to such fields as plastics, ceramics, textiles, and many others.
Du Pont technical men are assigned to various types of technical sales activity. In some spots they are equipped to handle all phases of sell-
Technical Sales
ing. In others they deal mainly with customer problems. Also, certain departments maintain sales development sections, where technical problems connected with the introduction of a new product, or a new application for an established product, are worked out.
For example, a technical man in one of Du Pont’s sales groups was recently called upon to help a customer make a better and less expensive hose for car radiators. Involved were problems in compounding, such as choice and amount of neoprene, inert fillers, softeners, accelerators, and antioxidants. Correct processing methods also had to be worked out, including optimum time and temperature of milling and extruding. The successful completion of this
project naturally gave a good deal of satisfaction to the customer as well as Du Pont.
In another case a customer wanted to reduce carbon contamination of arc welding rod stock. A Du Pont technical service man suggested changes in cleaning procedures that lowered contamination by 90 per cent. The new process also reduced metal loss during heat treatment—a benefit that more than offset the cost of the additional cleaning operations.
Technical men interested in sales work usually start in a laboratory or manufacturing plant where they can acquire needed background. Depending on their interest and abilities, they may then move into technical sales service, sales development, or direct sales.
In any of these fields, the man with the right combination of sales aptitude and technical knowledge will find interesting work, and exceptional opportunities for growth in the Du Pont Company.
W. A. Hawkins (left), B.S.M.E., Carnegie Tech., demonstrates extrusion of "Teflon” tetrafluoroethylene resin for a customer.
James A. Newman, B.S. in Ch.E., North Carolina State (left), discusses study of optimum settings and conditions for carding nylon staple with Prof. J. F. Bogdan of North Carolina State’s Research Division.
ASK FOR "Chemical Engineers at Du Pont." This new illustrated booklet describes initial assignments, training, and paths of promotion. Just send a post card to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware. Also available: "Du Pont Company and the College Graduate” and "Mechanical Engineers at Du Pont.”
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Watch “Cavalcade of America” on Television

The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 16
Notre Dame, Indiana
February 19, 1954
Foster Will Represent University's Collective Bargaining Conference Hoover Monday Night To Host 500 Management, Labor Men Feb. 26
The 105th annual Washington’s Birthday exercises will be highlighted Monday by the presentation of the “Patriot of the Year” award to a personal representative of J. Edgar Hoover, Mr. Harvey G. Foster. The exercises will be held in the Drill Hall at 8:15 p.m.
Mr. Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, will be unable to attend the ceremonies because of official business.
Mr. Foster, whom Mr. Hoover has designated as his personal representative, will accept the award on Hoover’s behalf and read a message prepared by Hoover for the occasion. Foster is the
HARVEY G. FOSTER
Pinch-Hits for Hoover
chief of the Boston bureau of the FBI and former president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. He graduated from the Notre Dame Law School in 1939.
In notifying Mr. Hoover of his selection, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president, called him “a man who has devoted his life to the highest type of public service.”
Mr. Hoover was selected for the honor in a recent poll by Notre Dame’s Senior Class. The award will be made annually to “the outstanding patriot of the year who exemplifies the American ideals of (Continued on page 32)
Francis A. O’Neill, Jr., chairman of the National Mediation Board will be the principal speaker at the Conference on Collective Bargaining and Arbitration to be held here next Friday, Feb. 26. Mr. O’Neill will speak on “Mediation and Fact Finding in Labor Relations.”
Another highlight of the conference will be J. Noble Braden’s keynote address. Mr. Braden is executive vicepresident of the American Arbitration Association.
“The current period of economic adjustment and the many problems it presents to both labor and management underscore the need for arbitration and sound collective bargaining in the coming months,” said the Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., conference chairman and associate professor of economics at Notre Dame.
The campus conference is being sponsored jointly by the University’s Department of Economics and College of Law and the American Arbitration Association. More than 500 industrial execu. tives and labor leaders are expected to attend the sessions. Advance registration has already topped the 300 mark.
Other items on the conference agenda include a panel discussion on recent trends in labor arbitration, a practice collective bargaining session and another panel discussion on President Eisenhower’s proposed amendments to the Taft-Hartley Act.
Spillane Serves as Moderator
James J. Spillane, regional director of the Federal Mediation Service in Chicago will serve as moderator for the practice collective bargaining session. This session will consider the part seniority should play in determining layoffs and the controversy over plant-wide departmental seniority, union security and grievance procedure as management and union officials negotiate a hypothetical dispute.
Representing management’s position are: Robert J. Meehan, director of industrial relations, Continental Can Co., Chicago; William F. Price of Vedder, Price, Kaufman and Kammholz, Chicago; Samuel H. Reed, director of industrial relations, Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., East Chicago, Ind. and Anthony
Schreiner, director of industrial relations, Combustion Engineering Co., East Chicago.
Supporting labor in the practice session are: Lester Asher of Asher, Gubbins and Segall, Chicago; Raymond H. Berndt, regional director for UAW-CIO, Indianapolis; Peter J. Crotty of McMahon and Crotty, Buffalo, N. Y., and Thomas Peth, president of the Chicago Mailer’s Union No. 2, AFL, Chicago.
Serving as chairmen or moderators of other parts of the program will be W. Willard Wirtz, professor of law, Northwestern University and Carroll R. Daugherty, professor of economics at Northwestern.	•
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will welcome the registrants to the campus.
Schumachers Become 2-Car Family; ’Glad1
The Schumacher clan of Chicago became a two-car family Tuesday at the finale of the 1954 Mardi Gras. Richard Schumacher was the lucky student at the Tuesday event. The Schumachers live at 3705 West 64th place in Chicago. Dick lives in 239 Dillon.
Mrs. Schumacher received the 1954 Chryslei- while her son drives home the 1954 Ford.
Patrick Nakfoor of Lansing, Mich., was the “overwhelmed” winner of “The Millionaire Vacation” in Florida. He is a sophomore football player residing in 109 Farley. He has never been in Florida and is looking forward to the trip at Easter.
The “Storyville Saloon” of the North Dakota Club won first prize in the booth contest. The award was worth $25 to the winners.
A prize of $15 for appearance was won by the Art Guild for their booth in the carnival. The booths were judged on attractiveness, originality, and novelty.
The proceeds of the carnival were well over last year’s approximate fig-
(Continued on page 32)
February 19, 1954
9
Albeneri Concert Trio Fills Wednesday Bill
Vincent Giese, '50 Political Science Graduate, Studies Laity's Mission in 'The Apostolic Itch'
The Albeneri trio will appear at Washington Hall Wednesday evening at 8:15 under the sponsorship of the Concert and Lecture Series in conjunction with the Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge Foundation of Washington, D. C.
The trio is on its fifth transcontinental tour, playing the great works of Beethoven, Brahms, Schubert, Faure, and Ravel. They have been acclaimed by both critics and fellow musicians for theii- interpretation of the contemporary and modern trios.
Now in its sixth season, the trio includes Erich Itor Kahn, pianist; Giorgio Ciompi, violinist; Benar Heifetz, cellist.
Mr. Kahn, pianist of the trio, was born in Germany. Before reaching the United States, he studied or toured in France, England, Holland, Belgium, Italy, and North Africa.
Mr. Ciompi, the trio’s violinist, was born in Italy, concertized in Holland, France, England, Switzerland, Sweden, Spain, Portugal, and Balkan countries, made a trip to the United States for debut appearances in New York and Boston and returned to this country six years ago to take up permanent residence here.
Mr. Heifetz, the cellist of the ensemble, was born in Russia, studied in Germany, and had traveled all over central Europe and Russia by 1926, when
THE ALBENERI TRIO
Transcontinental Tour Through Washington Hall
Vincent J. Giese, graduate of the Department of Political Science and former Catholic action worker here with the Y.C.S., has recently published his first book, The Apostolic Itch. It is a layman’s point of view on the apostolate and some of its most pressing problems.
He attempts to discuss some of the aspirations of the laity in their recently discovered mission within the Church, and reveals some of the tasks ahead for laymen, particularly in the social, political, and economic fields of the United States.
Mr. Giese is currently editorial director of Fides publishing house in Chicago, a non-profit organization that Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., professor of religion, established.
he joined the Kolisch Quartet. The list of countries which he toured with this group reads like a Baedeker of the world. Mr. Heifetz has been a resident of the United States since 1937.
Probably one of the greatest compliments ever paid the Albeneri Trio was the result of a recent poll of Louisville, Ky., concert-goers. The Trio’s concert was voted the “best of the season” against outstanding competition. Critics from New York to Chicago have hailed the ensemble’s 1954 work.
It was at Notre Dame that Mr. Giese became active in Catholic action under the direction of Father Putz.
Father Putz characterizes Mr. Giese in these words, “I would like to have a dozen more like him. He is a talented, hardworking, unselfish person who is really dedicated to the apostolate. It is people like him who have advanced the work of Catholic action in the United States.”
Probably no one is better able to praise Mr. Giese than Father Putz because the two men have worked together many times on different projects.
They made a trip to Europe in the Summer of 1952 to contact authors and publishers about various articles to be published by Fides.
They edited the Fides album, which is a pictorial explanation of the sacraments and the life of Christ. They also are co-editors of Anima, a quarterly review published at Notre Dame for all those interested in the lay apostolate.
Besides his work with Fides, Mr. Giese carries his Catholic action work into his parish. At St. Francis of Paula, Chicago, he is active in social work, helping the youth and working against racial prejudice.
Although a resident of Chicago, he comes originally from Fort Wayne, Ind., where he graduated from Central Catholic high school.
He received his bachelor’s degree in philosophy in 1945 from St. Joseph’s College and entered the Marquette school of journalism on a scholarship immediately after graduation. He received his master’s there in 1948.
Mr. Giese taught journalism at Marquette for a year and edited a labor newspaper in Milwaukee for two years. In 1950 he received his master’s degree in political science from Notre Dame. While doing graduate work at the University, he was editor of Concord, a Y.C.S. magazine. He also worked for the Ave Maria press.
Mr. Giese symbolizes the men of the lay apostolate who are following the words that Pope Pius XI wrote in Quadragesima Anno which reads, “Our beloved sons devoted to Catholic action, who with extraordinary zeal aid us in the solution of social problems, in so far as the Church in virtue of her divine institution has the right and duty to concern herself with them. With repeated insistence we exhort all these in the Lord to spare no labor and be overcome by no difficulty, but daily more to take courage and be valiant.”
The Scholastic
10
Bass Fishing Contest Has April 30 Deadline
An early closing date is the only vital change as plans are now being made for the fifth annual Spring fishing contest.
This year’s crop of bass fishermen will have to catch their prey fast and early as the contest will end April 30. The Student Senate has appropriated $30 in prize money for the tourney.
In past years the contest has lasted until late in May but an Indiana state fishing law, which does not allow bass fishing after April 30, has forced a change in the local rules.
Rev. George Baldwin, C.S.C., who has been in charge of the contest since its inauguration, thinks the early closing date could have a radical effect on the contest.
“The boys usually bring their equipment back when they return from Easter vacation. But if they follow that policy this year they will only have a few days to fish before the contest closes,” said Father Baldwin.	.
“This year’s contest will start as soon as the ice melts completely and the boys really should get theii- equipment here and start as soon as possible,” he added.
Contests in past years have been limited to just bass. But because of the rale change, Father Baldwin is considering holding a bluegill contest during the month of May after the bass contest ends.
Father Baldwin stated that, “since so many of the boys have expressed a desire to cast for bluegill, the extra contest could be quite successful.”
“There is no closed season on bluegill in Indiana. In fact the state wants to get rid of them. But the bluegill contest is merely in the consideration stage,” he concluded.
Debaters Win Purdue Meet;
Take 14 of 16 Matches for .875
The Notre Dame debating team amassed one of the highest winning percentages in its history recently at the Purdue Novice Tournament in West Layfayette. The Irish won 14 out of 16 debates, an .875 percentage.
Representing Notre Dame in the tournament were Frank Draine, Bill Clark, Pat Curran, Al Riley, Stan Kus-per, Kemal Hossain, Ray Long, and John Bure. The Clark-Draine team and the Kusper-Hossain team were both undefeated, while the other two teams each lost one debate.
Notre Dame finished second among the 31 teams which were entered in the tournament, placing behind Northwestern.
SARA STRUETT	GRETCHEN HARTMAN
Snow Queens Reign in *A Winter Fantasy’ Next Friday Night
Servicemen Bring Sun and Snow to Center Next Friday in Last Big Winter Social Event
Miss Sara Struett and Miss Gretchen Hartman will reign over the annual Science Ball next Friday in the Student Center. “A Winter Fantasy” is the theme of the semi-formal dance, the last majoi- social event of the pre-Lenten season.
Escorting the respective queens will be John Doherty and John Queenan, dance co-chairmen. Miss Hai-tman is a native of Aurora, Ill., and Miss Struett is from Chicago. Both girls are from St. Mary’s.
The dance will last from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Car permissions, as well as 2 a.m. hours, will be available to those attending the ball. No corsages will be allowed.
Dick Carlton and his orchestra will provide “America’s smartest music” for the ball-goers. Carlton has provided music for dancing at many of the country’s outstanding hotels, including the famous Broadmore Hotel in Colorado Springs and many of the Statler hotels throughout the country. He recently performed here at the Engineers’ Ball.
In keeping with the “Winter Fantasy” motif, William Tunell and his decorations committee will transform the Student Center into two contrasting scenes. The lower lounge will be decorated to represent a cold northern Winter, while the second floor will introduce the dancers to a tropical Winter in Miami.
Tickets for the event are still available to all students and faculty members. The price of a bid is $3.75. They may be obtained in Dean Baldinger’s office in the Nieuwland Science Hall or room
382 Dillon. Ticket sales are under the direction of Kim Hewson.
The ball committee and Dean Bal-dinger are expecting that the tradition of a large faculty turnout for the dance will continue this year.
Refreshments will be served during the dance and favors will be distributed.
The ball will highlight the weekend which will also include science lectures, demonstrations, and an open house in the Nieuwland Science Hall.
Assisting co-chairmen Queenan and Doherty in the preparations for the hall are John O’Brien, publicity chairman, and Forst Brown, business chairman.
'The Mikado* Headlines Film Series' Twin-Bill
The committee on films of the Department of English is sponsoring two movies today.
The Mikado, a J. Arthur Rank production in color, is one of the movies. This movie features a fine cast in the tradition of the famous Savoy Company of London, long famous for its superb production of Gilbert and Sullivan on stage.
The other movie will be a film short of the new 20th Century Fox series on art entitled The Light in the Window. It concerns the works of the great Dutch artist, Vermeer. This will also be in color.
These two movies will be shown today only. The times will be 3:30, 6:50 and 8:40 pun. in Washington Hall.
February 19, 1954
11
Microfilm History of Catholic Church in U. S. Soon Will Be Available in University Archives
Thousands of documents on the history of the Catholic Church in the United States, formerly inaccessible to historians in America, soon will be available in microfilm to scholars in the University of Notre Dame archives, it was announced today by Rev. Thomas T. Me Avoy, C.S.C., university archivist and head of the Department of History. These documents include letters from American Catholic bishops and missionaries of the nineteenth century to European mission societies which supported them in their work in this country.
Since most of these letters were written precisely to tell the societies about conditions in American missions, they from an indispensable source of the history of the Church in America, Father McAvoy explained. Included are letters by such Church leaders as Archbishop John Hughes of N. Y-, Bishop John England of Charleston, S. Car., and Rev. Francis Pierz, a missionary who worked among the Indians of Michigan and Minnesota. The collection also includes correspondence of Rev. Stephen Theodore Badin, first Catholic priest ordained in the United States, and Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first president of the University of Notre Dame.
The letters were written by the American churchmen to mission societies in France, Germany, Austria, Rome, present-day Yugoslavia and Ireland. Father McAvoy began collecting them in Europe in 1951. The project was greatly advanced in 1953 by the travels and research in Europe of Joseph Gregorich of Oak Park, Ill. Gregorich assisted Father McAvoy while collecting materials for his biography of Bishop Frederick Baraga, first bishop of Marquette, Michigan.
Since the microfilm collection .is currently being used in preparation of the cause for Bishop Baraga’s beatification, it has been named the Bishop Frederick Baraga Collection, Father McAvoy said. He indicated that the collection eventually will be available for hundreds of similar studies of the heroes of the American Catholic missions of the nineteenth century. Represented .in the new collection are the records of the Leopoldine Association of Vienna which supplied money and missionaries for the most of the dioceses of the Middle West and the Ludwigsmission Verein of Munich which was very active in assisting the American missions during the second half of the nineteenth century.
Originally Father McAvoy undertook to gather only copies of letters from mis
sionaries who worked in the Middle West. However, it became difficult to limit the letters to this one area because some of the missionaries also worked in other sections of the country. As a result, the project was broadened to include all documents dealing with American missionaries which were available in European archives and the collection will be extended as means and materials continue to be made available for copying. Eventually the collection will include copies of letters in the possession of private families and in the records of business concerns, such as fur companies, which had extensive dealings with many missionaries.
According to Father McAvoy, the value of tin’s collection can best be understood by comparing it with the famous
FATHER McAVOY
Microfilms for Valuable Documents
“Jesuit Relations” of Jesuit missionaries of the Great Lakes area during the 17th and early 18th centuries which have long been the chief source for the history of the American Indians. While the new Baraga collection tells of the Indians and the frontier, it also documents the work of the missionaries among the newly arrived immigrants along the eastern seaboard and later in the rich farmlands of the Middle West.
There is scarcely a religious community or Catholic charitable or educational institute that did not apply to these European missionary organizations for some aid and in so doing placed be
fore them the story and their description of their missions and their institutions in this country, Father McAvoy pointed out. Some of these letters have been published in Europe, but few copies of the publication were received in this country. More frequently, only parts of the letters were published and thousands were never published at all. «
In collecting these microfilm copies, the University of Notre Dame .is carrying on the pioneer work of the late James Farnham Edwards, librarian of the University until his death in 1911. In the 1880’s .Edwards saw the need for preserving the records of the Catholic Church in the United States in a national archives. He enjoyed the cooperation of several prelates, notably Archbishops William H. Elder of Cincinnati and Francis Janssens of New Orleans. He collected several thousand items and called his collection the Catholic Archives of America. While lack of funds and his duties as librarian of the growing University kept Edwards from realizing his dream in full, he must be credited with preserving many important letters and documents in the Notre Dame Library for a longer generation of historians.
Although thousands of feet of microfilm have already been received in the Notre Dame archives, much work must be done before the materials can be made generally available to scholars. Present plans call for the preparation of a catalogue of the contents of the rolls of film and a' calendar of the letters which will require the work of many scholars. In the meantime, the collection continues to grow and to offer a new and interesting challenge to the student of American history and the role the Catholic Church has played in the exploration and development of a new nation.
Dr. Francis Writes Articles For Canadian Encyclopedia
Dr. E. K. Francis, associate professor of sociology, is currently writing two articles for the Encyclopedia of Canada which is prepared by the Grolier Society of Canada, Ltd.
The two contributions stem from his recent studies on ethnic groups and race 'relations’and will be-entitled “Mennonites” and “Hutterites.”
Dr. Francis carried out his studies under the auspices of the Historical and Scientific Society of Manitoba and with the support of the Provincial Legislature of Manitoba and the Canadian Social Science Research Council.
Negotiations are also under way to publish the whole manuscript from which the two articles were taken, either in microfilm or book form.
12
The Scholastic



MARRIAGE INSTITUTE COMMITTEE
Fr. Putz, Bill Guilfoile, Fr. Cavanaugh
Fr. Hesburgh to Talk At Marriage Institute
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will open the 1954 Marriage Institute this Tuesday with his annual talk on “Courtship.”
The theme of his past talks has been the importance' of choosing the right girl, and the widening and deepening of the love leading to marriage.
Father Hesburgh will be the first speaker on the slate of seven informal lectures that will end on April 6. A question and answer period will follow each talk.
The Institute is limited to seniors, law students, graduate students, and married students.
Father- Hesburgh has specialized in the subjects of Christian marriage, Catholic action, and in the theology of the modern period of the Church.
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, will deliver the second lecture on March 2. His topic will be “Sex Morality.” He is a former head of the Department of Religion and author of a textbook on morals and various magazine articles.
Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former-dean of the A.B. school, and Rev. Thomas McDonough, assistant chaplain of the Calvert Club at the University of Chicago, will be the other clergy speakers.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe and Mr. and Mrs. William Burke will speak on “Family Psychology” and “Success in Marriage,” respectively, at later sessions. Dr. Robert McCready will speak on the “Doctor’s Point of View.”
Ralph Marterie Signs Senior Ball Contract; June Grads to Bid ’Auf Wiedersehen’ May 14
Ralph Marterie, Mercury recording star and 1953 Mardi Gras music-maker, has been signed for the 1954 edition of the Senior ball, co-chairmen George Pflaum and Ron Mazzoli announced this week.
Marterie’s band will complement the announced theme, “Auf Wiedersehen.” Decorations will carry out a carnival atmosphere with the setting being an Austrian village city square. Construction of the center of attraction in the square is progressing with secrecy according to decorations chairman, Louis Bazany.
Trumpet playing Marterie, dubbed “The Man Born for the Horn,” is known to popular music fans through his recordings for Mercury and his own radio shows over the A.B.C. net-work. His troupe includes 20 musicians who will provide the melodies at the Student Center on May 14.
A veteran of many years of radio work, both in the popular and concert
Marshall Cites Tools Essential to Novelist
Mr. Bruce Marshall, popular- Scottish author and humorist, stated in the first Student Senate-sponsored lecture last Tuesday that the three most essential attributes of a novelist are excellence of writing, informativeness, and sincerity, and the most important is sincerity.
He urged the prospective novelist to learn at least one other language, learn another profession, and write only to please self.
He is the author of The World, the Flesh, and Father Smith and Vespers in Vienna. He first gained prominence in 1929 with his novel, Father Mul-cahey’s Miracle.
He stressed the point that “Good literature should be concerned with the ordinary and not with the bizarre.” The tools of the novelist, he showed, are clarity and economy of phrase and they are only acquired through work.
He recounted his eariler writing failures and then pointed out that he became a writer of best-sellers only when “I started writing what I wanted to write instead of what I thought the public wanted.”
Currently touring the United States on one of his frequent lecture tours, Mr. Marshall is a firm believer in the reality of a Catholic novel because the faith and spirituality of the writer are reflected in the material.
field, Marterie’s working knowledge of his material is veritably encyclopedic.
The instrumentation of the Marterie band is made up of four trombones, five trumpets, five reeds, three rhythm, and both a male and female vocalist.
“The public wants good, sweet, and tastefully arranged music with a danceable beat—that’s what my band is prepared to give them,” Marterie states.
Marterie was voted one of the most promising new bands of 1951 in the annual Billboard magazine poll of America’s disc jockeys. He has had a varied orchestral career with many of America’s most famous radio network conductors, among them Paul Whiteman, Percy Faith, Frank Black, and John Scott Trotter.
Week end plans for the ball include an open house at the Student Center on Friday afternoon that will feature Dixieland music by record.
All Senior Dance Saturday
The Center will again be the host for the couples on Saturday night as an allsenior dance will highlight the tunes of Bob Brown and his Spotlighters.
The weekend will terminate with the traditional Communion breakfast on Sunday morning at the Morris Inn.
Tickets will go on sale for the ball and Communion breakfast March 29. If any of the 580 ducats remain after the first day’s sale, they will be available on March 30 and 31.
Only about 30 reservations remain for the Morris Inn. Jim Bouly of 115 Alumni is handling these reservations. Bill Cavanaugh of 238 Alumni and Rich Hohman of 327 Alumni are representatives of the Oliver and Hoffman hotels, respectively.
RALPH MARTERIE
Maestro’s Lungs, Music for Senior Ball
February 19, 1954
13
‘Scholastic’ cartoonist Bob Fowler catches some of the frenzied action that typifies Senate’s weekly meetings.
Tom Field and the Student's Buck
Standing in the Student Center after the .Senate discussed need for a new tax law at a recent meeting, President Tom Field declared: “What we need around this University is a revolution a week!”
Field believes such a revolution is almost necessary for the Senate to fulfill its function of serving the whole Univer-
24
By LARRY BREHL
sity—students, faculty, and administration—properly. To do this, he says, “Students must take an active interest in the Senate by expressing opinions and desires to their Senators, by approving or objecting to Senate actions, and by
keeping the Senate aware of its duties through constant check on it.”	<
Such comments reflect only slightly the attitude of the new president and g the Senate which will govern this semester. Already they have begun to wrestle with the tax problem. They be- M lieve taxes necessary to support sponsor- F ship of 20 parties, three dances, a lec- g
The Scholastic
ture series, engineering and science open houses, a technical contest, records, phonograph, a movie screen, and other additions to the Center, family rosaries, administrative expenses, and other prospects this semester.
These and other activities, including the underwriting of the three class dances, during the semester will involve the expenditure of more funds than last semester.
Last year the Senate spent $2,000; additional activities in the Fall semester of this schoolyear cost $3,100 and even further expanded activities planned for this semester call for the spending of $5,400.
So, Field thinks, there is good reason to believe that almost every student gets the use of his dollar from Senate-sponsored or underwritten activities even if he doesn’t take part in the increased social functions.
“We feel that the Senate fee is justified in view of the
extended program planned, for which additional funds are
required. Just the social program seems enough, for in the past many students requested more dances and parties. Now there are more,” Field declared.
The recent uproar about the levy of an additional dollar Senate fee—which more than 25 per cent of the undergraduate students did not pay in January—is an example of what the president means by ‘revolution.’
Field assumed the presidency of the Senate at the end of the Fall semester when Jim Richards resigned to attend Georgetown university. The new president is a senior from Wilmington, Del., enrolled in the General Program. During his high school days, Field participated in public speaking and debate, which he continued in his freshman year here. He was also secretary of the ND unit of the YCS group.
Field was elected a member of the National Council of the NFCCS in the Summer of 1951. As a sophomore, Field served on the Master Plan Committee to survey student government operation, later changed to the Constitutional Revision Committee. It formulated the “3-R” plan in the Spring of 1952, now the basis of the constitution. He was elected as the first Arts and Letters Senator at that time.
Last Fall Field was vice-	NEW STUDENT
president of the Senate, working especially with the Student Center Committee and the Hall Council System.
The new president feels that the Senate can best implement its service activities to the whole University in a cooperative effort involving not only students, but faculty members and administrators as well.
“Since Notre Dame is a world within a world,” he states, “here we can find many of the faults plain in the political structure of the United States, when we work with student government. Among these are voters’ apathy, bureaucracy, poor officials, and popularity elections.”
The fact that participation in student government entails the assumption of responsibility by students brings maturity to both student government members and students is one of Fields’ arguments for active student government. Stu
dents will graduate into a society where government is an important function for both officials and citizens.
The fee problem here is quite similar to national taxes and has aroused much the same interest that an increase in taxes would.
“The Student Council was formed here six years ago;” Field says, “the Senate two years ago. Since then we have progressed, but through mistakes as well as success. There is a necessity of trial by error,” he adds.
Field’s general goal is to encourage Senators to continue active at all times—one move toward this was to have each Senator define his program for the semester. The securing of individual pledges will lead to maintained action by the Senators, he feels, who are responsible to their constituents. The officers are more directly responsible for the maintenance and operation of the Senate as a group.
Among his more concrete goals, Field lists better- Senate
public relations, which will get the facts to the students and bring Senators into closer contact with their constituents-Finances, too, are recognized as important. He wishes to establish a solid, coherent financial policy. One move toward this was the setting up of a permanent system of Senate bookkeeping and the outlining of an itemized projected budget program for the semester.
Believing that the Student Center is a little too formal for many students to derive the real enjoyment for which it was intended, one goal of the Senate this semester is the development of the basement in the center. Here, a rumpus-room is planned, with game rooms and a refreshment bar.
More integral to the Senate functionings stands the development of the Student Activities Court and better working relations with the Blue Circle, both actually parts of the student government here.
This Student Activities Court would, ideally, lay the groundwork for functioning honor and student disciplinary systems. Already it has attempted to assure good attendance at Washington Day exercises, by instituting a fine for absentees without good excuse.
Monday night the Marketing
SENATE PRESIDENT	Club went on trial for selling
■	University Theater tickets for a
commission. Ordinarily the Blue Circle handles tickets without charge. The specific charge against the Club is that of
not registering the activity.
Twenty-five years ago, the Blue Circle was founded and ran what student government there was at the time. Six years ago the Student Council was founded to represent the student body. As a result, Field believes, a sore spot exists between Circle and Senate.
Actually, the government here is three-pronged. The Senate is the legislative body, the Circle is the executive body, and the Activities Court handles the judicial problems.
Field believes the Senate must represent the student to every office in the administration whose decisions concern him. He says: “Many improvements desired by students could not be achieved by individuals; it takes a represen-
February 19, 1954
15
tative body to effect them.” “Since the existence of a governing body is required,” he adds, “it necessarily needs funds to exist, as well as to sponsor the many social, academic, spiritual, and other activities added to this schoolyear’s calendar. The Senate fee levied is the best way to secure funds, though the present system of taxation is bad,” the president declares.
As Field points out, there are two alternative systems of taxation:
(1)	Placing the fee on the University bill. But the University does not desire additions to the bill, it would take control of taxation from the hands of the student (changes in rate—up or down—would involve great difficulty for Senate and University), and the educational value of taxation would be lost.
(2)	The Senate would petition the University to make payment of the fee mandatory from completion of registration for all except those who claim a special exemption. To get class cards a student would have to pay his fee or
Expenditures chart shows how 1952-53 and 1953-54 Senates spent
$W0
SEFT.MN MN.MNE SEPT. JAN MN JUNE H51	1153	1153	l<|$4
sign a statement in which he would state that he was financially unable to pay.
This second plan, Field thinks, is better because it would keep taxation in the hands of the students, and changes in it could be made by representatives of the students with little red tape. It would put an end to differential prices, he added, and it would make activities available to nontax-paying students at the same rate given to tax-paying students.
“If one of these plans is not adopted, I see nothing ahead but an increasingly unfair tax structure or eventual bankruptcy for Notre Dame student government,” he says.
The new president explains that the present tax system only hurts those it is designed to protect, and educates Notre Dame men to avoid payment of just taxes. It is a system of taxation which cannot be properly enforced. It is, in short, a system which must be changed.
He contends that payment of taxes is an obligation, but students have the right to bring pressure for lower taxes—not by refusal to pay, but by asking their representatives on the Senate to raise or lower them. A valid petition from 10 per cent of the undergraduates would be sufficient to force a referendum on tax rates or any other issue.
Tax money is not used solely for social activities, where it tends to keep prices low to benefit the student. These functions could be put on a self-sustaining basis, but only with a substantial advance in prices. But more than half the Senate activities cannot be run on a self-sustaining basis. Some of these are lectures, furnishings for the Student Center, spiritual activities, and membership in NS A and NFCCS.
One thing which resulted from the Senate’s membership in the National Students Association was the reinstatement of Air Force and other ROTC members who were dropped last year because' the program was overcrowded. The Senate representatives to the national NS A congress last Summer made a motion that the organization appeal for its members to the Federal government for reinstatement. The appeal was successful.
“Without funds, our student government would not be a member of the NS A; without funds Notre Dame might not have a functioning government,” Field points out.
When he took office, Field requested each Senator to submit his semester’s program. As a result, Senators have applied themselves to achieve their programs, which have become Senate programs.
Field hopes for the emergence of a true campus political party this semester, such as an Economy Party. By the party system students could more directly influence Senate decisions. These parties could also train students for a part in student government. He foresees a party system, especially with economy as a major issue.
16
The Scholastic
Ron Mealey defends Marketing Club before Student Activities Court. Case dismissed.
This year’s election will occur during the week after the end of Easter vacation, probably April 28 and 29. The new senators will take office May 1.
But Field stresses that students can affect Senate policies by using their speaking privileges, as well as their votes. That is, they can address the Senate in session by requesting their class, college, or hall senator to waive his speaking privilege to them. “A student’s approval or objection to a matter could possibly influence a vote,” he declares.
Another means for students to have
Income
Activities Fee .............$4,815.37
Concessions (photo)	....... 91.05
Underwritten Dance	Income	171.59
Cake Raffle—Dec., 1952 ______ 1,568.42 Social Committee ____________ 8,261.77
$14,908.20
SENATE'S INCOME AND EXPENSES FOR FALL SEMESTER
direct voice on student government will be offered by the NS A committee here at an open forum on March 4 in the Law Auditorium. There, any student can voice his opinion regarding the Senate. If successful, plans will be made for more such forums.
“But, if a student does not wish to speak, he can ask any one of his three senators to broach his opinion for him,” Field says. A YCS poll in Lyons and other sophomore halls showed that a majority of those polled (450 sophomores) knew' who the Sophomore Class president and the hall
Expenses
Academic Committee ------------------$ 875.15
Blue Circle _____ 350.00
Underwritten Dance Losses ------------ 341.34
Classes ------------------------------ 114.48
National Student Association---------	242.55
Nat. Fed. Cath. Col. Stu. ------------ 118.00
Physical Facilities Committee .........358.75
Publicity 	81.84
Senate Office Expenses -------------- ‘ 246.47
Subtotal ........................... $2,728.54
Social Committee—Advertising ------$ 229.10
Social Committee—Piano ________ 490.62
Social Committee—Bands ____________ 3,452.50
Social Committee—Labor ______________ 666.50
Social Committee—Prizes —.. 229.80
Social Committee—Refreshments	....	530.44
Social Committee—Rentals ---  1,437.05
Social Committee—Supplies —...- 590.44
Social Committee—Transportation	_	1,046.00
Total Social Committee ------$8,674.45
Spiritual Committee _________________$ 81.80
Cake Raffle for Student Center ------ 1,568.42
Subtotal ____________________________$1,650.22
$13,053.21
Unexpended funds for semester --------------- $ 1.854.99
president were, but a minority knew w’ho the Senate president and their own college senator were.
Field feels that few students actually know what the Senate does.
He invites students to weekly meetings on Monday evenings and welcomes the request of any student to look at the Senate’s books or files— which is his privilege. Student peti-■ tions on any important issue would help give the Senators knowledge of student needs and desires, something they can’t know' entirely without being told by the students.
“We make mistakes,” Field concludes. “We need student interest to keep us on our toes and to keep those ■ toes pointed along the right path for student benefit.”
“What we need around this University is a revolution a week!”
Tumpane Sets Cast For Theater's Drama
With the selection of a cast earlier this week the University Theater officially began work on its forthcoming production, The Lady's Not For Burning. It will run from March 18-21, Professor Tumpane has announced.
During the next two weeks the members of the cast will spend their spare moments reciting the poetic verses of Christopher Fry. Meanwhile the stage crew will prepare the scenery and sets for the three-act comedy.
Fry, the author of the play, is noted for the blank verse poetry which he employs to unfold the story of his play. Besides The Lady's Not For Burning he has also written A Phoenix Too Frequent and Thor-With Angels.
The Lady's Not For Burning was first produced in England1* and later had a very successful Broadway run with John Gielgud and.Pamela Brown as the stars.	.
The plot is simple and;revolves about Thomas, a discharged soldier, and Jennet, a young English girl. Jennet, an unconventional fifteenth century girl, is suspected of turning a* missing rag man into a French poodle. Thomas, weary of life, declares '-that he has murdered the rag man and demands to be hung. The officialdom- of the town refuses to accept his confession and instead condemns the lady who has no wish to die to be hung as a witch.
Thomas attempts to prove how absurd it would be to refuse to hang a man who wants to be hung and at the same time bum Jennet, who is not only innocent but does not want to die. He, of course, falls in love with Jennet and decides that maybe life is worth living.
February 19, 1954
17
The Architects Go High-Brow
Notre Danie’s juniors in architecture designed and constructed a series of intricate miniature sets for the Henrik Ibsen play, Peer Gynt. Done as a studies in color class project, they are now on display in the Architecture Building.
Peer Gynt, more of a ballet than a play, is a fantasy with an undercurrent of philosophy. In it are combined nonsense lined with truth, murder with love, mirth with sorrow.
The youth, Peer Gynt, begins his career as a good-for-nothing who lets his farm go to ruin and watches his mother die in misery. He becomes a slave-trader and makes his fortune. and even kills a man trying to share his raft in a shipwreck.
Peer becomes involved with the Mountain-King, and the Trolls, whose motto is “Be Thyself.” This, in reality, is Peer’s motto, and—for the philosopher—is the apology of egotism and free will.
Peer journeys around the world in search of self-realization. When he thinks he has found it, Peer finds treachery
and contempt, and comes home as an old man, as poor as in his youth. He has to face death and judgment.
To avoid having his soul melted into a different one, Peerappeals to the devil for admission to hell—sure that his evil deeds will give him entrance. But the devil won’t let Peer in until he brings testimony of his wickedness from just one victim.
None of Peer’s victims bears a grudge, and he despairingly seeks Solveig, the girl who loved him since youth. His trust in her saves him.
The tiny sets, none exceeding 18 inches in width, combine many varying features. All are executed in great detail and contain minute figures. Some exhibit colored and flashing lights, gauze screens, brilliant coloring, and one' even has alternating lights—worked by an electric motor.
Music written for the play by Edvard Grieg is played as part of the exhibit.
The studies in color- course, whose students each did a set, is taught by Prof. Paul Jacques Grillo.
Peer enters hall of the Mountain-King, is greeted by subjects—trolls and gnomes, two-headed frogs and unicorns.
I
L
i L
1
I
f
I
A madman offers Peer the opportunity to live in the world of trolls, who are in iron cages put around them by sane people, yet they are freer in spirit. Peer becomes confused and is imprisoned by the madman.
Ase, Peer’s mother, lies on her deathbed; he carries her to Paradise, where St. Peter lets her in. Then Peer leaves Norway to seek his fortune as a slave-trader.
Peer picnicks on the coast of Morocco with four “friends,” who later steal his yacht and maroon him.
February 19, 1954
19
Owners of heads in front row peer up at high kicking chorus cuties from St. Mary’s who contribute to the carnival air.
Mardi Gras — Hoosier Style!
What’s with him?
It was Friday night. An atmosphere of gaiety filled the Student Center—noise-makers, colorful balloons and streamers, beautiful girls in formals—and the danceable music of Ray McKinley. The dance floor was crowded, but the couples didn’t seem to care. They were having too good a time.
The successful Ball was only the start of things. There was plenty yet to come.
On Saturday night, the gaiety shifted to the Carnival in the Drill Hall. The booths were better than ever—and there was the added attraction of the St. Mary’s Gay-Nineties show, featuring an expert can-can exhibition.
Some were very lucky; most were not—but all enjoyed themselves.
Sunday afternoon, a little party was held in the Center. There was dancing, TV, movies, and refreshments.
By Monday night, many of the girls had disappeared. The campus had almost, but not quite, returned to normal. The Carnival resumed in the Drill Hall. More money was lost; more people had fun.
Tuesday night, it all came to an end. The cars and the millionaire vacation were given away, and everybody filed out of the Drill Hall, agreed that these had been a wonderful four days.
This was Mardi Gras, Hoosier style—not as spectacular as its New Orleans counterpart—but still one great big, good time.
The Scholastic
February 19, 1954
21
Christian Marriage Is Initicd Topic Wednesday As Religion Dept. Opens Slates of Life Forum
By JIM O'BRIEN
Forums on the States of Life, sponsored by the Department of Religion, will begin next Wednesday with two talks on Christian marriage.
Each year during the Spring semester, the Department cf Religion sponsors two complementary programs to assist Notre Dame students in preparing for their Christian role in life. The Marriage Institute treats this particular vocation for those who will probably choose this state in life.
Forums on the States in Life are open to the whole student body and are intended to acquaint the student with the various possible vocations to assist him in making a mature choice of his own vocation.
The initial forum of the 1954 series, to be held in the Law Auditorium, is concerned with Christian marriage. The program will discuss both preparation for marriage and Christian marriage itself.
Notre Dame’s basketball coach, Johnny Jordan, will share the spotlight on the first program with Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Jordan will have for his topic: “Marriage, a True Vocation,” while Father Sheedy will discuss “Preparation for Marriage.”
“This first Forum should prove of special interest to most students,” said Father Haley. “Coach Jordan, the popular and successful mentor of our winning basketball team and a model Catholic husband and father, will speak on marriage as a vocation.” Father Sheedy, former head of the Department of Religion, will discuss the principles and problems of a realistic preparation for marriage.
“Literature on the subject will be made available to the students. Tickets for the whole series may be purchased at the door for 50 cents.”
“Dedication to Evangelical Perfection” is the general title of the second forum, to be held March 3. Rev. John Wilson, C.S.C., will discuss this dedication in the religious life, while Father Haley speaks on dedication in the world and secular institutes.
Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C., will speak on the nature of and preparation for the Catholic priesthood and its role in the modern world at the third forum, March 10.
The fourth forum will discuss the student vocation with its present opportunities and responsibilities. Dave Burrell, a senior in the General Program,
will give the only lecture scheduled for the evening of March 18.
The fifth and last forum considers two problems of most immediate concern to most students in its topic: military service and the job. Lt. Col. George Cookson, U. S. A., will discuss “The Military Service,” and Mr. William Dooley, of the
PROGRAM OF THE FORUMS ON STATES OF LIFE:
February 24
Christian Marriage-.
Marriage: A True Vocation.
Coach Johnny Jordan Preparation for Marriage:
Fr. Charles Sheedy, C. S. C.
March 3
Dedication to Evangelical Perfection:
In the Religious Life.
Fr. John Wilson, C. S. C.
In the World: Secular Institutes.
Fr. Joseph Haley, C. S. C.
March 10
The Catholic Priesthood:
Nature, Role and Preparation.
Fr. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C.
March 18
The Student Vocation:
Present Opportunities and Responsibilities
Dave Burrell March 25
The Military Service and the Job.
The Military Service.
Lt. Col. George Cookson, U.S.A. The Job after Graduation.
Mr. William Dooley.
Placement Department, will talk on the “Job After Graduation.”
“Ignorance and prejudice on this matter are common and dangerous, even among Catholics,” Rev. Joseph Haley, C.S.C., director of the forums, states. “Every well-informed person needs an accurate' knowledge and appreciation of these states in order to choose his own wisely and to prudently advise others, as youth leaders, or as parents counseling children,” he added.
The talks will be 45 minutes in length and will allow an equal time for questions and discussion from the audience. All the forums will be held in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Building with the exception of the first forum.
Campus ASCE Plans Spring Lecture Series
The American Society of Civil Engineers at Notre Dame has announced a list of six speakers who will lecture at meetings of the ASCE during the coming semester.
Program Chairman Richard Jacob and Richard Meagher, who arranged for the speakers to appear, have announced the following program for the Spring-semester :
On Feb. 24, Mr. Robert A. Matthews, vice-president of Precast Industries, will present a movie and speak on the precasting of concrete.
On March 10, Prof. James A. McCarthy of the Department of Civil Engineering will discuss the EIT examination that is required for all engineers.
On March 22, Mr. Henry L. Kennedy, retired president of the American Concrete Institute, will speak on the uses of concrete.
On April 27, Mr. Harry E. Schlenz, vice-president of the Pacific Flush Tank Co., will speak on “Opportunities in Sanitary Engineering.”
On May 5, Mr. Don M. Corbett, of the U. S. Geological Survey, will show 3-D pictures and speak on highway bridges and water works.
The final program of the year, on May 19, will feature Mr. Arthui- D. Kidder, Cadestual Engineer, from Terre Haute, Ind., who will deliver an address on surveying, entitled “Pages from the Notebook of a Surveyor.”
All meetings will be held in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall and will begin at 7:45 p.m.
Morris Inn Announces Rates For Parent Weekend Visits
Parents of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students are being invited to stay at the Morris Inn at special weekend rates, according to Armand E. Lysak, manager of the campus hotel. The Inn has sent a letter to parents quoting attractive rates which include both room and meals, Lysak said.
The new parents week-end plan will remain in effect until Sept. 1 with the exception of March 19, 20 and 21; com-' mencement weekend, June 4, 5 and 6; and other special University occasions. Parents may check in on Friday and remain until Monday, Lysak explained.
Accompanying the Inn’s letter to the parents was an attractive color brochure and a rate card. Under the new plan, the rate for a single room and three meals is $10 per day while a twin bedroom and three meals is $9 per person a day.
TAe Scholastic
22
Shell Oil, Pillsbury, Colgate-Palmolive, GMC Top Placement Bureau Job Slate Next Week
The Placement Bureau has announced the following interviews for the week of Feb. 22-26. The company representatives, unless it is otherwise stated, are seeking both master and bachelor candidates expecting to receive their degrees in either June or August, 1954. Only those officially registered in the Placement Bureau are eligible to sign up for the interviews.
A Shell Oil company representative will be here on Tuesday to interview Ph.D. chemists for Research work with the Shell Development company of the Shell Chemical corp.
Pillsbury Mills Inc., of Mineapolis will interview mechanical and chemical engineers, chemists, A.B. and Commerce students who are interested in sales, office management, purchasing, accounting, marketing, market research, credit and traffic on Wednesday.
American Seating Co. of Grand Rapids, Mich., will seek A.B. and Commerce seniors and mechanical engineers interested in sales, personnel, accounting, clerical, engineering, supervisory, and administrative work on Wednesday.
Arthur Anderson and Co. will have a representative to interview accounting majors and law students with accounting majors for public accounting.
Johnson Service Co. will be seeking mechanical, electrical, and civil engineers for engineering research or for sales engineering in field.
The National Advisory Committee, for Aeronautics is in need of aeronautical civil, chemical, electrical, mechanical and metallurgical engineers.
The Columbia Gas System Corp., will interview mechanical, electrical, civil and chemical engineers for engineering production, transmission and distribution of gas. Commerce seniors will also be sought for statistical work and general accounting.
On Thursday the Colgate-Palmolive Co. will interview chemical, mechanical and electrical engineers for central engineering department and plant engineering and production, and also chemical engineers interested in foreign work.
Olin Industries, Inc., will have a repre-
K of C INITIATIONS
Knights of Columbus will have first-degree initiations for new members in the near future. Those interested in joining the K of C can contact Louis Basso in the K of C office in the basement of Walsh Hall from 4 to 5 p.m. on Mondays through Fridays.
sentative here to interview mechanical, metallurgical and chemical seniors for production research, development, quality control, technical sales; also Ph.D. candidates in metallurgy and chemistry for research.
Bendix Products Division, Bendix Aviation Corp, of South Bend will seek mechanical, electrical, civil, metallurgical and aeronautical engineers for design.
General Motors Corp., will have a representative here both Thursday and Friday to interview: mechanical, electrical and metallurgical engineers for product design, machine design, development, testing, process engineering, production engineering, plant engineering, sales, field service engineering and production supervision.
Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Co., Atomic Energy Installations, Oak Ridge, Tenn., will have interviews both on Thursday and Friday for chemical, mechanical, metallurgical, and electrical engineers, and chemistry, physics and math majors for development, design, production, maintenance, plant engineering, testing and super-vision.
On Friday Mathieson Chemical Corp, will seek chemical engineers and chemists for varied work.
Bendix Radio Division, Bendix Aviation Corp, of Baltimore will interveiw electrical and mechanical engineers for research, design development, production, testing of electronic communication, and navigation equipment and Ph.D. physicists for research.
Chem. Engineers to Hold Fourth 'Institute' in Moy
The North Central Regional Convention of Student Chapters will present its fourth annual Institute of Chemical Engineers here on May 21 and 22. Scheduled events for the two-day gathering are: a student technical paper contest; several plant tours in South Bend; and a banquet and dance on Saturday night.
The convention’s committee is headed by Chairman Jim Reddington, assisted by Vice-chairman Lionel Baldwin. Rounding out the committee are Mike Hanley, head of correspondence; Jerry Schoenherr, director of social activities; and Dick Lyons, in charge of the program arrangements.
Present at the affair will be representatives of the seven team chapters located here in the mid-west. In addition, 100 delegates from the North Central Region of Chemical Engineers are expected to attend.
MIASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, Feb. 20—Saturday of Our Lady.
Sunday, Feb. 21—Sexagesima Sunday.
Monday, Feb. 22—Feast of St. Peter’s Chair at Antioch.
Tuesday, Feb. 23—Feast of St. Peter Damien, Bishop, Confessor, Doctor.
Wednesday, Feb. 24—Feast of St. Matthias, Apostle.
Thursday, Feb.- 25—Ferial Thursday.
Friday, Feb. 26—Ferial Friday.
Ryan Polls Employed Fathers of Freshmen
Nearly 65% of the fathers of Notre Dame’s Freshman Class who are gainfully employed are professional men or proprietors, managers or officials of a business enterprise, according to recent research directed by Dr. John F. X. Ryan of the University’s Department of Education. The same occupational'classifications represented only 16.5% of the employed males in the 1940 census, Ryan said.
This study, which involved the parents of 1,379 freshman students, reveals that about 15% of the fathers are engaged in wholesale or retail work in such fields as real estate, insurance, automobile sales and other similar enterprises. Only 1.84% of the fathers are property-owning farmers as compared with 14% of the employed males nationally.
The number of the fathers who are skilled workers or foremen corresponds closely to the national census average of approximately 15%. The remaining 3% of the fathers are semi-skilled workers, farm workers and laborers.
The study shows that fathers of 79 freshmen or 5.73% are deceased while only one-half of 1% of the fathers are divorced and not responsible for their son’s education. The education of 102 freshmen is being financed by some source other than the father. The mother was listed as financially responsible in 58% of these cases. Other sources of support are benefactors, 17%; and trust funds, 3%. Nearly 8% of these students financed their own education through employment while the education of 14% is being provided by the Navy.
A separate study indicates that 78% -of the students’ mothers are housewives ? while 18% are employed and approximately 2% deceased. No data was available on the remaining 2%.
February 19, 1954
23
Moving to the of O’Shaughnessy Monday”
NEW TELEPHONE
640
OLD FREQUENCY
WNDU
—Advertisement
Fr. Hesburgh, Coach Brennan Will Welcome Junior Class Parents at March 20-21 Weekend
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, and head football coach Terry Brennan will officiate at Junior Class Parent-Son Weekend to be held Saturday and Sunday, March 20 and 21. Both Father Hesburgh and Coach Brennan will be at the Student Center to meet the parents personally.
Beginning at 10 a.m. Saturday, the Blue Circle will provide guided tours of the campus. Parents will see classes in action in the Nieuwland Science and the O’Shaughnessy Buildings. The Saturday morning tour of the O’Shaughnessy building will include a tour of the art galleries and WNDU’s new campus radio studios.
At noon parents will be able to step out of the various campus buildings and into the Dining Hall for a lunch ■with their sons. The family will eat under the usual student dining conditions. Arrangements have been made for off-campus students and their parents to enjoy the same privileges.
During the afternoon there will be receptions in each of the colleges with the deans and faculty members present. Stu
dent representatives will be present to assist the deans. Ronald Kueber will be commerce chairman; Jim Norton, science chairman; Larry Buckley, arts and letters chairman; John Battalora, engineering chairman and Jerry Hughes, the law chairman.
Football Highlights to be shown
From 3:15 to 5:15 p.m., head football coach Terry Brennan will meet the parents personally during the continuous showing of the movie “Football Highlights of 1953” at the Student Center.
In the evening Father Hesburgh will speak at the President’s Dinner. Jim Sherer, junior class president, will be toastmaster and the Notre Dame Glee Club will provide the entertainment.
Following the dinner there will be an open house for the parents and sons in the Student Center. Father Hesburgh and other University officials will be present to meet the parents.
Sunday morning there will be a reserved section for the parents and sons at the 9 o’clock High Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Activities Court Acquits Marketing Club at Trial
The newly-formed Student Activities Court tried its first case last Monday evening when it, met to consider the Student Senate vs. the Marketing Club of Notre Dame.
The Commerce men were accused of participating in an activity, the sale of tickets for the comedy, Kiss Me, Kate, without first registering the activity with the chairman of the Campus Club Committee.
Judges of the Student Activity Court, John Houck, Tom Moore, and Phil Walker found sufficient reason to dismiss the indictment against the Marketing Club.
Early in the proceedings, controversy developed as to whether the Campus Club Committee had ever received from the Senate the power to regulate campus clubs. The defense argued that such powers could not be assumed by the committee and since such powers were not specifically stated the court decided in favor of the Marketing Club.
The Marketing Club was represented in the case by Ron Mealy, Marshall Desmond, and John Moore and the prosecution was handled by Tom Ahern, Ray Galvin and Bill Canning.
24
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
IRISH CAGERS HEAD INTO HOME STRETCH
Rod Duff Unbeaten in Ten Fencing Matches; ND Five Invades East Leads Mates Against Host Illinois Tomorrow To Face Navy, Penn
i
The Notre Dame Fencing team will be seeking their fourth victory of the season when they travel to Champaign tomorrow to tangle with Illinois. Illinois, winner of 35 straight matches and Big Ten champs since 1950, administered the Irish their only defeat last year.
The Big Ten champs halted the longest Irish consecutive winning streak at 17. The string extended from 1951 until the 14-13 defeat last season. Although Notre Dame has not dumped Illinois since ND’s undefeated season in ’50, the Illini hold only a single game edge in the nine-match series.
Both squads are heavily strengthened by experienced returnees. Langford will rely chiefly on Captain Rod Duff and NCAA veterans John McGinn and Gerry Finney. Tomorrow’s match could prove to be an important meet towards another successful Irish season.
The Illini are strengthened by such standout returnees as Capt. Bill Shew-chuck and Tony Zambolas in the sabre, Velasco in the foil and Kaufman and Bell in the epee. Coach Langford of the Irish rates Illinois stronger in the foil, Notre Dame in the epee and stated that the match will probably be settled in the sabre.
Return For Triangular Meets
The Irish then return home to meet Michigan State and Wayne in a triangular meet on Friday night, Feb. 26. Wayne, one of the best teams in the Midwest, has returning letterman Dave Clinton; the number three foil man in last year’s NCAA tournament, back again. Notre Dame will attempt to counter Wayne’s strength in the foil and sabre, with Finney and John McGinn. Finney was sixth in the sabre and McGinn eighth in the epee in the NCAA last season. Michigan State is only subpar this year and isn’t expected to give the Irish much trouble.
On Saturday, Feb. 27, Notre Dame has another triple meet with Ohio State
and Northwestern, also at home. Ohio State ranks next to Illinois in Big Ten fencing and the Buckeyes are very strong in the foil.
The Irish notched their third victory in four outings by defeating the University of Detroit, 18-9 last Friday. After piling up a 17-3 lead, substitutes were used and the Irish dropped six out -of the last nine matches.
In the epee, Captain Rod Duff, John McGinn and John Malfa gained two decisions against no defeats. Duff’s seasonal record is now ten victories and no losses. Gerry Finney, Tony Mandolini, and Gene Gase won twice without any defeats to give the Irish regulars a clean sweep in the sabre. In the foil, Dick Hull, Jerry Brainerd, and Tom Beeler split two matches each with the Titans.
Notre Dame has now defeated Iowa, 16-11, Case Tech, 17-10 and Detroit, 18-9. The only loss this season has been to Wisconsin, 14-13, in the tightest match the Irish have had this year.
ND WINS ROUGHHOUSE, 86-71
Bertrand Evades Opponent in Layup
By ERWIN ALFONSUS
Tomorrow afternoon the eagers of Johnny Jordan journey to Annapolis'.to Z tangle with the Midshipmen in a nationally televised game. Coach Ben Carnevale’s Middie squad has felt the loss of last year’s captain and playmaker and a pair of 6-4 rebound specialists.
However, their absence has been overshadowed by the fact that the same regulars that constituted the starting lineup for the past two years have returned. Don Lange, the Academy’s 6-4 center, who reportedly owns the' best hook shot in collegiate ball, broke no less than six individual records during the 1952-53 campaign. Lange ranked 18th among the nation’s scorers as a sophomore last season.
At the forwards are 6-3 John Clune, an honorable mention All-American for two seasons, and 6-0 Larry Wigley, a good rebounder and defensive man. Clune, together with Lange, form the one-two punch of the high scoring Midshipmen.
Six-foot, three-inch Ed Hogan, captain of this year’s squad, is playing his third season as one of Carnevale’s starting guards. At the other guard post will be 6-1 Ken McCally, also in his third year as a starting guard.
To complete their second and final eastern swing of the season, the Irish invade Philadelphia to face coach Howard Dallmar’s Red and Blue at Palestra Stadium Feb. 22. In 14 games the Quakers have an impressive slate of 10 wins and four losses. Their best performance was a 78-60 victory over Navy.
Gone from last year’s squad which finished with a season mark of 22 wins and five losses is All-American Ernie Beck. Last year Beck scored 673 points to set a new Penn point record. Penn also won the Eastern Intercollegiate league, but dropped a 69-57 decision to ND in the NCAA regionals in Chicago.
Penn, however, has filled the pivot spot in their offense with 6-4 Bart Leach. •
February 19, 1954
BART LEACH
Quaker’s Leading Scorer
Currently he is leading the Quaker offense with a 16-point per game average. Captaining the present edition of the Red and Blue is Dick Heylmun, a six-foot one-inch 190-pound forward, whom rival coaches agree is the most underrated player on the squad. Heylmun has been the team’s second highest scorer for the past two seasons.
Karl Hoagland, a 5-11 junior, is the other returning veteran. Hoagland is a top defensive man and has an outstanding shooting percentage. Completing the starting five for the Quakers are sophomore Joe Sturgis, Penn’s second highest scorer to date, and junior John Lavin, a right end on the varsity grid squad. Sturgis is often called on to move into the pivot position.
In the 18 games played in the Notre Dame-Penn series which started in 1928, the Irish have won 16 and dropped only two.
The Irish will play their final home contest of the season Feb. 25 when they host their old rival, Marquette. The Hilltoppers, who dropped two decisions to Notre Dame last season, are playing their first year under new head coach Joel (Jack) Nagle.
Marquette will sport more front court height and scoring balance with the shift of high scoring Russ Wittberger to a forward post. Wittberger, a 6-7 junior, is a good rebounder, fast for his size, and an excellent hook shot artist.
Moving into the center slot vacated by Wittberger is Terry Rand, a promising 6-9 sophomore, who is extremely well poised for a big man. Rounding out the front court trio is lanky Rube Schulz, a six-foot, six-inch junior.
In the back court Nagle has juniors
Bob VanVooren and Doug Gill, small men in relation to the towering front court members, but both deadly long shot artists. In the 56 series games played between the two schools, the Irish have won 42.	.
Coach George Ireland’s Loyola Ramblers will provide the opposition for the Irish when they make theii- final season appearance in Chicago Stadium on Feb. 27. Notre Dame won the first game in the fieldhouse by an 81 to 65 margin.
Dick Clark, who played his high school ball under Jordan at Mt. Carmel, is the starting center and captain. Art Schalk 6-1 and Ray Jendra 6-1 are the starting guards. Ireland’s forwards are hustling Bill Palka, 6-2, and Eddie Stube.
In another rough and tumble game, Notre Dame won over DePaul for the second time in as many games, 86-71. A total of 65 fouls were called in the contest that at times appeared more like a wrestling match than a basketball game.
Sharpshooting Demon guard Jim Lamkin was again the evening’s high scorer with 30 points. It was to little avail though. DePaul’s next closest pointmaker was centei- Ken Jaksy with 11 points.
The Irish were led by guard Junior Stephens with 26 points and Captain Dick Rosenthal close behind with 19. ND forward John Fannon seemed to suffer the brunt of the elbowing tactics, but the sophomore sensation came through with another outstanding game off the boards, and scored 11 points.
It was Notre Dame’s 14th win of the season. The Jordanmen have suffered only two losses.
JOHN CLUNE
Part of Navy’s Scoring Punch
DICK HEYLMUN
Captain of Ivy League Leaders
Virginians, '53 Finalists, Gain Win In Second Round Game
The second round of the Interhall basketball league got into full swing as the campus eagers began firing away at the nets .in quest of the campus championship. A tough West Virginia quintet, highly rated finalists from last year, rolled into high gear to trip a stubborn Washington-Maryland-Virginia five, 29-22.
In other second round action, a strong Texas contingent rode over an out-classed Buffalo team, 34-19, after leading by one point at the half. Third-seeded Akron squeezed out a 31-30 verdict over Farley Hall, while Sorin Hall found little trouble in downing the Syrian-Lebonese Club, 58-19.
A strong Toledo Club, led by Tom McHugh, dumped the Generation Club, 38-30, and Dillon Hall trounced the Aero Club, 50-15. The Old College scoring five, paced by Jimmy Walden and Pat Hart, combined to stop Kansas City, 28-18.
In other games, Walsh dropped the California Club, 50-24; Canton sidestep-ed Cavanaugh, 24-20; and the A.S.C.E. won by forfeit from Off-Campus. The Electrical Engineers short-circuited the Air Cadets, 33-23; a strong New Jersey entrant bumped Dillon, 32-21; Kentucky’s husky Colonels ousted Cavanaugh, 56-22; Morrissey won from the St. Louis Club, 42-22; and Cincinnati had Indianapolis in complete control, 48-34.
26
The Scholastic
ND Soars To Basketball Heights Under Jordan
Captain “Gootch” Lewinski had out-scored Don Schlundt, and Notre Dame had roared from behind to within one joint of Indiana with eleven seconds left to play. Jack Stephens grabbed a rebound and dribbled the length of the floor. At the IU foul line, he drove between two Hoosiers and scored on a twisting layup to give the Irish the ball .game, 71-70.
“This,” Irish Coach Johnny Jordan said, “was the best victory of last year’s campaign. But I think that the team reached its peak in the home finale against DePaul when we scored 93 joints. That DePaul game was one of the best games that a Notre Dame team lias ever played.”
In spite of the excellent record of last year, Coach Jordan insists that this year’s team is a shade better than his ■outfit of a year ago. Although two regulars and two reserves were lost by Jordan through graduation at the close of the 1952-53 season, there remained a formidable array of talent in Capt. Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand and Jack Step-liens. Also returning was letter-winner Bill Sullivan, always a dependable man. This group faced as difficult a schedule as any every attempted by an Irish team.
“The improvement,” Jordan stated, ■“is attributed to two things. One is the high-scoring play of Rosenthal and the •other is the help given us by two sophomores, John Fannon and Bill Weiman.”
“Fannon is playing remarkable ball for a sophomore. Remember he’s playing with four experienced men. Weiman is one of the steadiest playmakers on the squad, and he’s a flashy type ball player ■with a great pair of hands. Reserve Ed McGinn has been one of the greatest helps this year also. He always responds to any situation by playing steady ball. He is a dependable type player.”
This year’s quintet has developed into one of the highest scoring fives Jordan has ever coached. “The reason for this,” he said, “is that Rosenthal, Bertrand and Stephens have maintained the scoring pace in all the games. Currently Rosenthal has an average of 19.4 points pei- game while Bertrand and Stephens have 17.6 and 16.8 averages respectively. Whereas most teams have one heavy scorer we have three. Another factor is that we dominate the offensive boards on many occasions.”
Ever since Jordan came to Notre Dame in 1951 from Loyola of Chicago basketball has been on the upgrade. He started his first year with three men in the starting lineup that had never played a college game. The only veteran starters were Leroy Leslie and Don Strasser.
Working with these holdovers as a
By DAVE KILKEARY nucleus, Jordan wove this five into a winning combine. In spite of being handicapped by the losses due to ineligibilities, which took three key men in mid-season, Jordan came away with a fine record of 16-10.
Last season the Irish had their- best record in several years finishing with a 17-4 mark. Included in the victories were five over Western Conference opposition with the one point win over Champion Indiana heading the list.
To top off the season, the Irish accepted a bid to the NCAA tournament to become the first basketball club in the school’s history to participate in a post season engagement. The Irish advanced to the regionals before bowing to the Hoosiers.
Jordan proved himself as one of the leading coaches in the land by bringing this team home with a record of only five losses in 24 games and pocketing the invitation to the NCAA on the way.
To date the Irish have dropped only two games, to Bradley and Indiana. Jordan said, “You can’t expect to go through undefeated. We won a few this year where we should have lost. Bradley was a tough club, and although we lost by only two points, they are almost unbeatable on their home floor.” Even in the loss to Indiana, Notre Dame had the ball most of the game. The Irish had 93 shots to 66 for the Hoosiers, but hit on only 21 percent, whereas Indiana hit on 39.
“Indiana, Holy Cross and Michigan
COACH JOHNNY JORDAN AND IRISH STARTING FIVE
Nationally-Ranked Quintet Eyes Possible NCAA Bid
State provided us with the stiffest tests so far this year,” Jordan says: “When you’re up against players like Indiana's Schlundt and Leonard, Holy Cross* Togo Palazzi and State’s Julius McCoy, you know you’re in for a battle.”
Of Captain Dick Rosenthal’s play to date, Jordan says, “He certainly has filled Lewinski’s shoes adequately. He got off to a slow start because he had not played center for a whole season. He played the pivot as a sophomore and was in the forward slot last year. It was just a matter of adjustment with Rosie.”
Rosenthal recently broke the three year Irish scoring record of 973 points set by forward Leslie from 1949 to ’52. Going into the DePaul contest Feb. 6, he needed only three points to break the mark. With games up to Butler, Feb. 17 he needs only 34 points to crack the four year record of 1,065 set by Kevin O’Shea from 1946 to ’50.
The coming Eastern trip, which includes games with Navy and Pennsylvania, will be rough! “This is perhaps one of the crucial points in the schedule because Navy is always tough, especially on their own floor. They have two boys in the first 15 of the nation in scoring, Clune and Lange. Penn, despite the loss of Beck, is the leader in the Ivy League.”
At this point the Irish can better the finest season’s mark compiled by a Notre Dame basketball club, that of 18-2 turned in by the late George Keogan’s last team in the 1942-43 season. If Notre Dame maintains their present winning clip, they are shoo-ins for a bid to the NCAA tournament.
February 19, 1954
28
Touche . . . Thrust Home
by Bob Frolicher
Percentagewise the most outstanding team at Notre Dame is the Irish fencing squad. In their seventh year under the tutoring of Coach Walter Langford, the Irish swordsmen have won three of their four games to date. Their only loss, a 14-13 verdict, was inflicted by Wisconsin in the third match of the season. Tomorrow ND tangles with Illinois, perennially one of the Midwest’s finest squads. In 1953 the Irish fencers won 13 matches and lost
WALTER LANGFORD
Chief Swordsman of Irish
^only one, that to Illinois in their final bout of ) the season. In the NCAA tournament last season the Illini finished sixth, Notre Dame directly behind in seventh.
Although six men were lost through graduation, Langford again fields an experienced team. Among the losses were Captain John Mooney, Jim Hurley and Dave McBride, last season’s individual leaders in the foil, sabre and epee divisions, respectively. However, returning lettermen Rod Duff, John McGinn and Gerry Finney have continued to carry the Irish along their winning ways. Captain Duff has not tasted defeat yet this season, going undefeated in 10 straight matches. Both McGinn and Finney are veterans of last year’s NCAA tourney. In the tournament McGinn, an epee man, won 22 and lost 11, while sabreman Finney copped 24 wins
and dropped nine. In the regular campaign last season Finney compiled the best individual fencing mark in winning 28 of 33 bouts.
Overall, Notre Dame’s all-time fencing record stands at 121 victories against 36 defeats and two ties. The swordsmen had their best season -in 1950 when they finished their 10-game schedule without a defeat and then placed sixth in the NCAA finals. Under Langford they have won 50 and lost 15, including their four games this season. The longest consecutive string of victories was also reached undei' Langford’s tutelage extending from the Chicago win on March 1, 1952 until the Illinois setback on March 15, 1953.
Success At A Mere Relaxation
Langford, present head of the Modern Language Department of the University and former Irish tennis coach, considers coaching the fencing team as a job of relaxation and a change of pace from teaching. Langford succeeded Professor Pedro De Landero, originator of the sport at Notre Dame, in 1940 and held the post until 1947 when Herbert Melton, formerly a fencer under him, took over. (There was no fencing at Notre Dame from 1943 to 1947). In 1950 Langford again took over the head fencing reins.
Fencing was first made a major sport at Notre Dame after the 1948 season. It holds the distinction of being the only sport in which a squad member is not required to have previous experience. Coach Langford believes that fencing accounts for faster thinking, more complete co-ordination of mind and muscle, development of poise, and the ability to remain calm under fire.
Langford has produced many fine fencers since he began coaching in ’40. Gerry Finney, now a senior in the sabre division, ranks with such fencing stars of the past as Russ Harris in the foil and epee, Nick Scalara, foil, and John Gavan, in the sabre, as Langford’s best. Two things have contributed heavily to the fencers’ success this season. Brilliant individual performance in each division along with great team balance and depth have proved the deciding factor in many matches. .
Tracks+ers Face IU In Third Indoor Meet
Tomorrow afternoon the Irish will entertain the Indiana Hoosiers here in the fieldhouse in its third indoor track meet of the season. Two Hoosier lads by the names of Lambert and Van Eck are returnees from last year’s squad which beat Notre Dame, 73-31. The mile run is expected to be the big event of the day.
On Feb. 27, Marquette moves in as last season’s Central Collegiate Conference Champions to lock horns with Coach Wilson’s thinclads. The Irish defeated the Hilltoppers in a dual meet last year by one point. Marquette is strong again this season in both the field and running events.
Captain Carries Hopes
Notre Dame will base some of its hopes, for victory on Captain Joe Springer in the pole vault, Bill Squires in the mile and half mile, sprinters AI Pestrichella and Tom Rohrer, and Harvey Newquist in the hurdles.
Last Saturday Notre Dame, although victorious in only one event, well represented the Irish in the Michigan State relays. Captain Joe Springer’s 13-8 pole vault won meet honors for the Irish in that sector. Jim Harrington, ND’s ace vaulter, sprained his ankle on his first attempt. Harrington will be lost for about two weeks. In the high jump, lanky Bernie Allard of the Irish cleared the bar at 6-4 to tie for second place.
Squires Comes From Behind	’
Fleet sophomore Bill Squires overcame a 40-yard gap in the two-mile relay to capture third place for the Irish. In the mile medley, won by Kansas, Notre Dame again was able to attain only third, behind the second-place Spartans. ’
Wes Santee of the Kansas Jayhawks put on the outstanding performance of the afternoon. Santee was the anchor ' man in helping set new distance and sprint medley records. Santee' ran a 4:02.6 mile to aid in establishing an ■< American mark of 9:51.4 in the distance medley event.
Then, after a 40-minute rest, he returned to pace the Jayhawk sprint relay team with a 1:51.8 half mile for a meet record of 3:28.7. Although Santee’s 4 mile bettered Gil Dodds’ indoor mile mark, it is not considered as a record because the speedy Jayhawk had the advantage of a running start.
The Scholastic
Fischer, Dickson Added to ND Coaching Staff; . Brennan Retains Assistants Druze and Earley
Bill Fischer, twice an All-American guard at Notre Dame and captain of the 1948 team, and George Dickson, former reserve quarterback of the Irish during the 1948-49 season, were named last week to complete the varsity coaching staff of Terry Brennan. Earlier, Johnny Druze and Bill Earley, both veterans of Leahy’s staff, were retained by Brennan.
Fischei' and Dickson, both former teammates of the new head coach, were named as line coach and backfield coach respectively.
The 26-year-old Fischer, nicknamed ■“Moose,” majored in physical education at Notre Dame, graduating with Brennan in 1949. When Brennan was appointed head coach to succeed the retired Leahy, he immediately contacted his former teammate, who gave his final consent last Thursday.
Fischer- played pro ball with the Chicago Cardinals for the last five years, and was three times named to the’ National Football League All-Star team. The 240-pounder won the Outland Trophy as the outstanding lineman of the year in ’48, was the most valuable collegian in the 1949 game, and missed only one game in four seasons of play.
His only previous coaching duty since graduation was as an assistant at Weber High School in Chicago in the Spring of ’49.
Dickson comes to Notre Dame from Dayton University where he had re-
GEORGE DICKSON Ex-Teammate Joins Brennan
joined the staff of Coach Hugh Devore only a month ago.
Though Dickson has gained a reputation as student of the T and split-T formations, he did not win a monogram while at ND. A 1950 graduate, Dickson was a part-time assistant coach at Pasadena High for two seasons, backfield coach at Glendale Junior College in the Fall of 1950, and head coach of Excelsior High in Norwalk, Cal., in 1951.
In 1952 he joined Devore’s staff at. NYU, but when football was dropped there, Dickson became an assistant at Mt. Carmel.
Skippers Begin Instructions; Commodore Elected to Office
The Notre Dame sailing team will begin sailing instructions in the fundamentals and theories of sailing at their next meeting, Feb. 24. The meeting at 7:30 in room 209 of the Engineering Building, is open to all students.
Commodore Don Matthews, vice-commodore Paul Miller and Ed Rodgers traveled to Ann Arbor, Mich., on the weekend of Feb. 13-14 to represent the Irish sailing team at the annual meeting of the Midwest Sailing Association. Policies for the coming year were discussed and the 1954 regatta schedule was also planned. The election of new officers followed and Don Matthews was selected vice-commodore of the Midwest Association.
BILL FISCHER
Irish All-American Returns
ND Keglers Gain Sweep In Meet With St. Joe's
- In theii- first home match of the year Notre Dame’s bowling team swept all five games of their meet with St. Joseph’s College of Rensselaer, Ind., last Saturday. It was the Irish’s best performance of the season.
John Aquilla’s 968 series and 225 single game sparked Notre Dame’s victory, while Wally Clarke hit a 925 series and a 213 single game for the day’s best effort. Paul Pfohl’s 916, Buz Velotta’s 903, and Jack Battel’s 728 for four games all contributed to the team’s outstanding roll. The highlight of the match was Notre Dame’s second game, in which Aquilla hit 225, Velotta 233, and the team totaled 999.
Last Sunday saw the Cleveland dub strengthen their first-place lead in the Blue League as they swept four points, while the K of C club maintained their lead in the Gold League. In the Blue League the second place Met club took only two points from the A.S.M.E. team, and the Erie team dropped all four of their points.
Rosenthal Paces Teammates To Maintain Scoring Margin
Captain Dick Rosenthal continued to lead the Notre Dame five in scoring after sixteen games by contributing 19 points to the Irish cause in their 86-71 victory over DePaul Monday.
“Rosie has a 310 point total thus far. His 19.4 average and his .787 free throw percentage continues to top his teammates, while his .328 shooting percentage is third among the regulars.
At present Rosenthal is only 35 points away from the four-year record of 1065 held by former Irish captain Kevin O’Shea and there seems to be little doubt that the record will fall, since ND has six remaining games not including a possible NCAA bid.
The highest shooting average is still held by Joe Bertrand among the regulars with a .437 percentage and his 17.6 points per* game is second on the squad. Bertrand has 94 field goals and 93 charity tosses for 281 points.
Completing the “big three” among Irish scorers is Junior Stephens, whose 26 points against the Blue Demons raised his average to a respectable 16.8 average. Stephens has tossed in an even 100 field goals and 68 free throws for his 268 total. Stephens has committed the least personal fouls among the starting five, being charged with only 43 infractions.
In the 16 games played to date the Irish have scored an average of 77 points per game, while limiting their opponents to a mere 62.1.
February 19, 1954
29
DR RW TURBOW
^OPTOMETRIST
— OPTICAL REPAIRS —
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated "Bring In The Pieces” — EYES EXAMINED---
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone 4-5777
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trefhewey
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
Record Collectors
Hard-to-get Jazz Albums (33 1-3 and 45 RPM)
Brand-new Hi-Fi Recorded, featuring the biggest and best names in JAZZ. Send for FREE lists.
MEADE MUSIC HOUSE
6018 W. Henderson Street Chicago 34, Illinois
Back Skop We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquete and Parties -
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Flamingo Restaurant Open Sundays 610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blks. N. of South Shore Station
Noted Economist Von Mises to Speak Tuesday In Commerce Spring Lecture Series Inaugural
Ludwig Von Mises, “one of the world’s greatest economic thinkers,” will inaugurate the Spring Semester Guest Lecture Series of the College of Commerce next Tuesday. His theme, which will be carried through two additional engagements, on Thursday and Friday, will be entitled “The Economic Role of Capital.” The lectures will be presented at 2:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
Mr. Von Mises is an international authority on business cycles, money and banking, inflation, socialism, and bureaucracy. He is a visiting professor at the Graduate School of Business Administration of New York University. Besides his lecturing in the United States, he is a guest lecturer for universities in great Britain, Germany, The Netherlands, France, Italy, Mexico and Peru.
Mr. Von Mises was also a professor of economics at the University of Vienna. He was previously Economic Adviser of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and vice-president of the
Gainsborough Portrait Given to ND Galleries
An early self-portrait by Thomas Gainsborough, eminent 18th Century English painter, is among four recent acquisitions of the University’s galleries, according to Curator Paul Byrne. The foui* paintings currently are on view in the galleries of the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, Byrne said.
The Gainsborough work, “Portrait of a Young Boy in Grey,” is the gift of Mr. Irvin Rooks of PalmcBeach, Fla. It is believed by critics to be a self-study done by the artist at about the age of 17, shortly before his marriage. Although relatively small in size, it is a fine example of Gainsborough’s early work and is remarkably well preserved. Mr. Rooks’ gift is the first Gainsborough painting to be included in the University’s collection.
The other three paintings all were presented to the University by Chicago art patrons. “St. Francis in Meditation,” a work by Jusepe Ribera, 17th Century Spaniard of the Neapolitan school, is the gift of Dr. Paul E. Lawler. Mr. Waldstein Findley, Jr., is the donor of “A Woman at Prayer” painted by Christoforo Allori (1577-1621), one of the finest artists of the Florentine school. ‘“The Tax Collector” by Marinus Van Roymerswaele, 16th Century Flemish painter, was given to Notre Dame by Dr. and Mrs. Dudley E. Kean.
Austrian Institute for Business Cycle Research. Another position he formerly held was Professor of International Economic Relations at the Graduate Institute of International Studies, Geneva, Switzerland.
A few of his more famous books include: Liberalism, 1927; The Theory of Money and Credit, 1934; Omnipotent Government, 1944; Bureaucracy, 1944; Planned Chaos, 1947; and Planning for Freedom, 1952.
Prof. Thomas P. Bergin, head of the Department of Business Administration, has also announced the lecturers and dates of their talks for the balance of the Spring semester. Dr. S. I. Hayakawa will present a series of lectures throughout the month of March. At 2:30 p.m. on March 1 and 2, the first two lectures will be given. Set dates for which no hour or place has yet been determined are March 8, 9, 15, 16, 22, 23, 29, and 30.
Dr. John Van Sickle of Wabash College has been engaged for talks on May 19 and 20 in the Law Auditorium. An Archbishop O’Hara Seminar Lecture will be given by Mr. Alex F. Osborne of Batten, Barton, Durstine, and Osborne, Inc., on March 24, also in the Law Auditorium.
Students, faculty, and the public who desire to attend these lectures are urged by Professor Bergin to keep the dates open. Anyone desiring additional information may contact Professor Bergin.
Engineering Department Adds New Professor to Faculty List
Only one new full-time professor has joined the ranks of the Notre Dame faculty this semester. Harold Antony Foecke has joined the Department of Electrical Engineering.
Foecke received his B.S. degree in electrical engineering in 1945 from Iowa State College and obtained his doctorate degree at Polytechnical Institute of Brooklyn in 1952.
He enlisted in the Navy in 1943, reaching the rank of lieutenant j.g. in 1948. He was an instructor of electrical engineering at Iowa State College from 1946 to 1948. From 1949 to 1952 he was employed as instructor and assistant professor of electrical engineering and math at Polytechnical Institute of Brooklyn.
In 1952 Foecke was recalled to active duty in the Navy where he was assigned with the research and development program in guided missiles. He is expecting his release this month.
The Scholastic
30
Card Medical Tests For May 8 and Nov. I
The Association of American Colleges has announced Saturday, May 8, as the date the Medical College Admission Test will be administered. All students seeking admission to medical colleges in the Fall of 1955 must register for the MCAT before April 24.
Students should register directly with Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the tests for the Association of American Medical Colleges, on application blanks which are available in the office of the Dean of the College of Science, Dr. Lawrence H. Bal-dinger, Room 248, Nieuwland Science Hall.
For students who are absent from the May 8 test, a second regularly scheduled administration will be held on Monday, Nov. 1, with a closing date for registration on Oct. 18.
The Association of American Medical College recommends that candidates for admission to classes starting in the Fall of 1955 take the May test.
The MCAT consists of tests of general scholastic ability, a test on understanding of modern society, and an achievement test in science. According to Educational Testing Service, no special preparation other than a review of science subjects is necessary. All questions are of the objective type.
Prettiest Coeds Seen Dancing With Men in Arrow Radnor
Outstanding social success of the current season is called Arrow Radnor . . . the rounded-collar shirt that has become a favorite of well-dressed men-about-campus. This popular shirt style is now available at all Arrow dealers — in white or colors, and in a variety of fabrics.
ND Profs Edit and Illustrate New Lenten Devotions Booklet
The Way of the Cross, a new booklet of Lenten devotions edited and illustrated by two Notre Dame professors, has been published by The Ave Maria Press on the campus.
Rev. John A. O’Brien, noted author and convert-maker, has edited the text of the prayers which are based largely on the meditations of St. Alphonsus Liguori. Father O’Brien also has written a foreword in which he traces the history of the traditional Lenten devotion and suggests the way to derive the most spiritual benefit from it.
Robert A. Leader, liturgical designer and a member of Notre Dame’s Department of Art faculty, painted the Stations of the Cross which illustrate the new Lenten booklet. The illustrations are reproductions of his Stations which now hang in the chapel of St. Francis Xavier High School, St. Louis, Mo.
The booklet is available at 10 cents, but pastors and Catholic supply houses may order in quantities of 100 or more at reduced rates.
For free booklet, “The What, When and Wear of Men’s Clothing," write to: Cluett, Peabody and Co., Inc., 10 East 40 Street, New York 16, N. Y.
ARROW »»------------ TRADE ® MARK
-- SHIRTS • TIES « UNDERWEAR * HANDKERCHIEFS * SPORTSWEAR -
See the new Arrow Shins at
Michigan at Washington — On the Comer
February 19, 1954
31
Want to be a sought-after
Join the fun at Arthur Murray's become a popular dancer overnight!
You’ll have the time of your life learning to dance at Arthur Murray’s. There are student-teacher parties all the time and gay, get-together dances, too. It’s the new way, the Murray Way, to learn to dance. It’s quicker and easier
Will You Accept a FREE Trial Lesson?
this way because you start right in dancing. You see, Arthur Murray has discovered a simple, basic step that anyone can master in almost no time. So don’t miss out on fun and popularity that should be yours. Come in or phone the studio now.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 EAST WAYNE STREE Phone 2-3339
Washington Exercises
(Continued from Page 9) justice, personal integrity and service to country.”
Thomas Field, president of the Student Senate, will make the presentation to Mr. Hoover on behalf of the Senior Class.
Also highlighting the traditional observance’ will be the presentation of a new American flag to the University by William Guilfoile, president of the Senior Class. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, will accept the flag which will be blessed and flown for the first time on the seniors’ commencement day, June 6.
Music will be provided by the University orchestra directed by Mr. Charles Biondo.
All seniors are required to attend the exercises as part-fulfillment of the requirement for June graduation. Suits and ties will be worn by all those except R.O.T.C. members who will wear their uniforms. The seniors will assemble according to colleges in the Fieldhouse at 7:30.
Although p r e vi o u s Washington’s Birthday exercises have been confined exclusively to seniors, this year’s exercises will be open to all interested students and faculty members.
HOW MORAL CAN A VICTORY GET?
p a or... don’t put all your vm goose eggs ip J V one basket
I
Once there was a Basketball Team that had Plenty of Nothing. It was so poor that even the Coach hadn’t gone to a game all season. Couldn’t stand co watch his Scoreless Wonders. So the Futile Five careened through the schedule and hit the road for the Big Game. Due to lose by 45 points, the Experts said.
But somebody back on campus had a Brainstorm. He whipped out his Trusty Telegrammar (the Telegrammar being a pocket-sized guide to telegraph use. If you’d like one, incidentally, for gratis, just write to Room 1727, Western Union at 60 Hudson Street, New York City.) ►
Spotting a likely idea he started the wheels moving! So, just before game
105 N. Main St.
time, the team got more Telegrams than you could shake a Referee at. Group telegrams from fraternities and sororities, personal telegrams from Prexy and the Dean of Women, hundreds of telegrams from students ... all saying “We’re behind you, team!” The reaction? Tremendous. The boys pulled themselves together, went out and lost by only 28 points instead of 45.
The moral is Obvious. The more you encourage a guy, the better he’ll do ... and Giving a Hand by telegram works wonders. In fact, whether it’s Money from Home you want, or a Date, or just to send a Soulful Message to Someone Special, just call Western Union or whip down to your local Western Union office.
Telephone 3-6101
2-Car Family
(Continued from Page 9) ure of $10,000, chairman Joe Madigan announced.
Madigan said, “Everyone concerned with the 1954 Mardi Gras willingly yielded their support to make this a most successful event.”
The proceeds will be used in part to reimburse the Campus Charity Chest. A large portion will be given to the Student Center.
Madigan also expressed his thanks to the various committee heads, Ned Griffin, Jim McComb, Dick O’Donnell, Bill Reynolds, John Reidy, Jim Griffin, George Carhart, and Mick Moran. He also voted a word of thanks to the allimportant contribution of the St. 'Mary’s girls, especially Pat Cutter.
IDENTIFICATION CARDS
Every student must have a University Identification Card and carry it with him at all times. Any student who has no Identification Card should come to the Office of the Prefect of Discipline (232 Main Building) and get one.
Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C.
Prefect of Discipline
32
The Scholastic
BROTHER
“FLASH” BROWN’S
TWO-HEADED
A certain Sophomore named Brown acquired the appellation “Flash,” not because he was lightning on the gridiron, but just because he was never without an answer.
You’d pass him on the quadrangle and say “How’s it goin’, Flash?” He’d answer, “Air Express.” Get the pitch?
Brown often referred to his “two-headed brother” in conversations. One day a few men in his fraternity were needling him.
“Your brother’s two heads must present quite a few problems.”
“Not really. The only problem was his neatness,” said Flash.
“Neatness?” “Yes,” answered Flash, “he worried about it. Said he couldn’t find a shirt that didn’t wrinkle around the collar. You see, he was often looking in two directions at once, or eating and talking on the telephone.
Hard on a collar.”
“What did you do?” They knew he did something about it.
“Simple. I got him the Van Heusen Century shirt with the exclusive soft collar that won’t wrinkle ever! I got him different collar styles and colors. S3.95 for the white, §4.95 for the colors and superfine whites. You should have seen the grins on his faces when he saw how those collars stayed neat all day and night without starch or stays.”
“I guess he can really hold his heads up now,” said one.
“Yep. He figures he gets four times more wear from Century than from other shirts. Of course, he actually only gets twice the wear. He just figures in both heads.”
One of the men visited Brown at Christmas, and found it was all true.
Rouault.Japanese Art Featured in Exhibits
The Department of Art is currently sponsoring two exhibitions of prints —one of the work of George Rouault and the other of Japanese masters of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries—in the Liberal Arts building, and a showing of student sculpture in the Library. The exhibits will be open through Feb. 28.
The largest and most important showing of the three, the Rouault prints, is in the University Art Galleries in the Liberal Arts Building. The galleries will be open from 2 to 5 p.m. daily and from 7 to 9 p.m. each evening except Saturday. Several lectures have been scheduled in connection with the exhibit.
The Rouault prints, which were lent to the galleries by Mr. Joseph Shapiro of Chicago, are not reproductions but prints made from the actual copper plates which Rouault himself engraved. They trace the development of his work from his early satires exposing the hypocrisy of a love-less world to his faith in a suffering purified by the suffering of Christ. Because of the .intensity and depth of this faith, he has been called the greatest Christian artist of our time.
Contains “Ukixoye” Work
The Japanese prints, which are on view in the display cases on the first floor of the Liberal Arts Building, come from the Ainsworth Print Collection of the Allen Memorial Art Museum of Oberlin College. The exhibition includes representative work from the earliest “Ukixoye” primitives of the seventeenth century to the great landscapists of the nineteenth century. • Among the Japanese masters represented are Moronobu, Horonobu, Shunshq, and Utamaro.
The exhibition of Japanese prints was intended to coincide with the Rouault exhibit. The Japanese print exercised a marked influence on the post-impressionists of Paris and thus on the print-making technique of Rouault.
The third exhibit, that of student sculpture, is in the catalogue alcove on the main floor of the library. The work ranges from woodcarvings of the Sacred Heart to twisted wire representations of birds.
The major portion of the exhibit is. a selection of ceramic work intended to illustrate many of the possibilities and techniques of that medium. A notable feature of this show is a group of small clay brooches and medallions which attempt to portray the “spirit of Notre Dame.”
33
February 19, 1954
by Gordon Bergquist
Before plunging into the general subject of the Student Senate budget for the second semester, it would perhaps be wise to get a few things straight. Contrary to the opinion expressed by some, (roughly 1500), I do believe that the Student Senate should have another dollar from each student for the second semester.
The mere use of the Student Center is worth at least a dollar a semester. My personal criticism is against the manner in which the dollar was and is being collected.
The method in use at the time of registration was very
poor, to say the least, and I think that the members of the Senate realize this. Also the method of charging exorbitant fees to students who have not paid the fee when they seek admittance to various functions, seems to be quite unfair. Naturally, a student will pay the one-dollar activity fee in lieu of the two-dollar entrance fee to a record dance. Even though the record dance is not worth one dollar. I know not what theory of government, student or democratic, the men who run our student government favor, but what they are doing in fact, is to force the student to do something which he feels to be wrong.
I naturally agree with the idea that those who have not paid the activity fee should not share the same benefits with those that have, but the difference in prices is—I think—ridiculous. I rather feel that an assessment of a quarter or fifty cents would be more equitable. This would take care of those members of the student body who only attend one or two Senate functions in the whole year.
What Does Senate Do With Your $1?
But assuming that the Senate has your dollar, what do they do with it? Through the great courtesy of Mr. Phil Bolin, I have an amended copy of the budget that was passed at the Senate
GLASSES HTTED
Satisfactory Optical Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER
Assomates
228 So. Michigan St.
meeting on Feb. 8. Through his efforts also, I was able to look through the books both of the Senate and of Mr. Bolin’s Social Committee. I can assure the members of the Senate that I was not looking for double entries or for evidence of fraud. I merely wanted to see where the money went—and where it is going.
Despite my lack of knowledge of the intricacies of accounting, Mr. Joe Gio-vanini, who is currently doing an excellent job on the books, was kind enough to point out to me that for the first semester, the Senate took in and paid out a total of somewhere in the neighborhood of $13,000 dollars. It seems that in the process, about an $80 profit was made, but that need not concern us. I raise no questions as to the ethics of this $80 profit.
This semester the Senate plans to spend a total of $5,300. It is most interesting to read the information sheet which Mr. Tom Field sent along with the proposed budget.
Mr. Field drew a sharp distinction between those activities which are open only to one group, and those which may tend to help or benefit certain groups. Yet, requests from halls and some of the
classes were approved. On this basis also, the requests for money for a science seminar and technical contest were approved. In theory both of these are open to any student, but in fact they are limited to members of the colleges of Science and Engineering. Perhaps the theory gets a bit ahead of the practice.
Minor Sports Clubs Rejected
One thing which seems to me most unfortunate is the fact that requests, and rather modest ones at that, from
the Minor Campus Sports Clubs were rejected. These clubs fill a necessary function for those students so inclined to compete in the various sports in which there is no intercollegiate recognition. These clubs can get their funds from no other source. If the Senate can give $150 to the Blue Circle, which is supposedly an independent organization, then it seems that they could do the same for the campus sports clubs.
Along this same line, I notice that the general category of InterCampus Relations, which receives some $383, is devoted mainly to appropriations for sending representatives to various student conventions. Now I realize that this is supposedly for the benefit of the student body as a whole, but it does smack a bit of political nepotism and the perpetuation of the ruling class here on campus.
A most interesting item is the Physical Facilities Committee budget. Their expenses are almost entirely composed of equipment for the Student Center. Yet I was informed that the only connection which the Center has with the Senate is in the way of getting started on a paying basis.
But all is definitely not black in the Senate. For really the first time in four years of my experience here, something is being done. Arguments may be raised as to some of the methods employed but I doubt whether anyone can quibble with the fact that they are doing something. And any member of the Senate is more than glad to use a little of his time and explain some of the “whys” and “wherefores” of the Student Senate.
One last point which bothers me, as well as a few of the senators, is the comparative discrepancy between the cultural and social budgets. I realize that if there is one thing in which Notre Dame lags behind other schools, it is in the .field of social activities. This is being remedied. In fact, it is being remedied so well that there will be approximately 15 to 20 parties during the Lenten season.
Balance Shifted “Other Way"
The point is this: Mr. Bolin’s Social Committee receives about $1500 while the lecture and movie series combined receives only $290. Perhaps the emphasis has shifted a Ititle too much the other way.
The Scholastic
34
A CAMPUS-TO-CAREER CASE HISTORY
The class reunion at his alma mater, Swarthmore College, was an eye-opener for Ed Mahler. The talk among the Class of ’50 switched to jobs. Ed had taken it for granted that everybody was happy with his work.
Then he found that some of his classmates had had two or three jobs since leaving school. Others had kept the same one but weren’t satisfied. By sticking with his first job and intending to make it a lifetime career, Ed suddenly discovered he had a head start.
After being graduated with a B.A. in Economics, he went to work for Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania in 1950. He reports he chose the Telephone Company because it seemed to offer the best chance for a career.
After a year of training in which he worked in each of the departments — installing telephones, handling business contacts with customers — Ed felt he had a good look at the entire company.
He was assigned to the Traffic Department, which has the responsibility for seeing that customers’ calls are handled efficiently. The job included personnel work in addition to developing better operating methods and practices. He was quickly put on his own.
Now Ed has been transferred to the job of estimating the amount and type of new equipment which will be needed in central offices as their customers increase.
Ed points out that projecting himself into the future isn’t anything new. That’s precisely what he attempted to do when he chose his first—and only—job.
• • •
Ed Mahler’s job is with an operating company of the Bell System. But there are also jobs for engineers, arts and science and business administration graduates with Western Electric, Sandia Corporation, and Bell Telephone Laboratories.
AJ BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

OKtliLiBuL
PL
Copyright 1954, Liggett & Myim Tosacco Co.

FROM
smokers by the thousands now changing to Chesterfield
... enjoying the one cigarette that’s highest in quality, low in nicotine And remember, only Chesterfield has this proven record with smokers. No adverse effects to the nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield. Both these statements are a matter of record.
i movies—on the stage—wherever I am—you'll see me enjoying my Chesterfields—best for me, best for you. ”
Starring in the Broadway Hit Tea and Sympathy"
CHESTERFIELD
BFSTfOfirOV
