VISIT THE CAMPUS SHOP ...
ONE OF AMERICA'S
. . . WITH A BIG SELECTION OF
HABERDASHERY
The Notre Dame Campus Shop is here for one purpose only: to serve your clothing needs as conveniently and satisfactorily as possible. To achieve this our buyers have searched the world markets to bring you the smartest styles, the most famous men’s clothing labels, the largest selection, the
Charge it The Campus Shop Way:
Every Notre Dame man has a charge account at The Campus Shop. Use it to purchase the things you need now — pay The Campus Shop way:
Pay 1/3 in January — Pay 1/3 in February Pay 1/3 in March
No Carrying Charge
FINEST CAMPUS STORES
THE FINEST CLOTHING AND
OBTAINABLE . . .
lowest possible prices, and the best tailoring service. Enjoy the convenience of our Campus Shop charge account and get what you need, when you need it. We invite you to visit the Campus Shop soon ... you’ll find sizes to fit all men, even if you are taller, smaller or larger than average.
On the Campus—Notre Dame
SAIL ON, SAIL ON!
I suppose October 12 is just another day to you. You get up in the ordinary way and do all the ordinary things you ordinarily do. You have your breakfast, you walk your ocelot, you go to classes, you write home for money, you bum the dean in effigy, you watch Howdy-Doody, and you go to bed. And do you give one little thought to the fact that October 12 is Columbus Day? No, you do not.
Nobody thinks about Columbus these days. Let us, therefore, pause for a moment and retell his ever-glorious, endlessly stirring saga.
Christopher Columbus was born in Genoa on August 25, 1451. His father, Ralph T. Columbus, was in the three-minute auto wash game. His mother, Eleanor (Swifty) Columbus, was a sprinter. Christopher was an only child, except for his four brothers and eight sisters. With his father busy all day at the auto wash and his mother constantly away at track meets, young Columbus was left pretty much to his own devices. However, the lad did not sulk or brood. He was an avid reader and spent all his waking hours immersed in a book. Unfortunately, there was only one book in Genoa at the time—Care of the Horse by Aristotle—and after several years of reading Care of the Horse, Columbus grew restless. So when rumor reached him that there was another book in Barcelona, off he ran as fast as his fat little legs would carry him.
The rumor, alas, proved false. The only book in Barcelona was Cuidar un Caballo by Aristotle, which proved to be nothing more than a Spanish translation of Care of the Horse.
Bitterly disappointed, Columbus began to dream of going to India where, according to legend, there were thousands of books. But the only way to go to India was on horseback, and after so many years of reading Care of the Horse, Columbus never wanted to clap eyes on a horse
♦ * *
And thank Columbus too for the king-size Philip Morris Commander. If unfiltered cigarettes are your choice, you’ll find Commander the choice of the unfiltered. Welcome aboard.
again. Then a new thought struck him: perhaps it was possible to get to India by sea!
Fired with his revolutionary new idea, Columbus raced to the court of Ferdinand and Isabella on his little fat legs (Columbus, though six feet tall, was plagued with little fat legs all his life) and pleaded his case with such fervor that the rulers were persuaded.
On October 12, 1492, Columbus set foot on the New World. The following year he returned to Spain with a cargo of wonders never before seen in Europe —spices and metals and plants and flowers and—most wondrous of all — tobacco! Oh, what a sensation tobacco caused in Europe! The filter had long since been invented (by Aristotle, curiously enough) but nobody knew what to do with it. Now Columbus, the Great Discoverer, made still another great discovery: he took a filter, put tobacco in front of it, and invented the world’s first
filter cigarette!
Through the centuries filters have been steadily improved and so has tobacco, until today we have achieved the ultimate in the filter cigarette—Marlboro, of course! Oh, what a piece of work is Marlboro! Great tobacco, great filter, great smoke! And so, good friends, when next you enjoy a fine Marlboro Cigarette, give a thought to the plucky Genoese, Christopher Columbus, whose vision and perseverance made the whole lovely thing possible.
© 1961 Mix Sbutman
GLANCES
Jolly John Bellairs comes bouncing out of the pages of yesteryear (Feb.
20, 1959, to be exact) and sings of Bohemian life on . . . page 7.
Among the items of vital interest reported in the week’s “News and Notes” are the coming Fiesta Otonal ' and last Saturday’s postgame ex-, cursion . . . page 9.
Peter Clark looks at Look’s recent article on Father Hesburgh and Notre Dame . . . page 10.
The freshmen are really going to be in for it in '62; our very own Dome wins an award, and the Hall President’s Council advances a new solution for an old problem. All this on . . . page 11.
The week’s entertainment fare “In Town and Around” is reviewed on . . . page 13.
Out of the mists of anonymity come comments on contract bridge — that great collegiate pastime; also on . . . page 13.
Come away with us to the Art Gallery, look around, meet the new curator .. . page 14.
Tomorrow’s encounter with the Trojans will probably hold many surprises for you if you don’t read the article on . . . page 19.
Senior pass-snaring end Les Traver gives an end’s eye view of last week’s game with Purdue . . . page 20.
And Cary Calls ’Em on ... page 21.
Art Graham gives his report on the week’s happenings in Student Government, see . . . page 24.
Joe Baroody, Young Republican president and a state director of Young Americans for Freedom, and John Kolbe, a national director of Y.A.F., come to the defense of the new campus conservatives in the Scholastic’s “Forum” . . . page 25.
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by D°n Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC,15 printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscrip’ tion rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185,, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
4
The Scholastic
The Notre Dome
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief THOMAS WEISS
i
associate editor
MICHAEL ZWETTLER
news editor
JOHN McCABE
features editor
THOMAS HOOBLER
sports editor	*
WILLIAM CARY
copy editor PHILIP LARRABEE
art editor
THOMAS HANSEN Patrick Saxe Robert Sajnovsky
layout editor
STEVEN PODLAS
business manager JOHN WARD . Robert Buckley
circulation manager JAMES CREAGAN
faculty advisor ' DONALD COSTELLO
THINGS ARE LOOKING UP: It’s a promising season in more ways than one. Not only has the Irish football team been climbing steadily in the national ratings in the wake of last week’s victory, but it seems that, if last Saturday’s sally across the Dixie is any indication, those periodical “student riots” are becoming increasingly more successful. Time was, and not so long ago, when the term ‘student riot’ meant that 100 or so people were gathered in one place, all with a vague premonition that something might happen and fairly tingling with self-consciousness and goose-pimply guilt feelings, and dispersing at the first faint strains of a police siren or at the wave of a black-robed arm. We have actually been quite pleased by the decisive, unfaltering spirit shown by student rioters in the past year. Community action apparently is possible. Truly this is a “new approach to spirit.”
REVISION: Well, the latest step in the revision of rules, providing later Saturday night curfews is a welcome one, we suppose. But this coming after more than three years of dashing frantically back to campus in fear of being turned into pumpkins at the appointed witching hour, makes us wonder just why we should have to bother with all this falderal in the first place. Some may say that it’s good character training for the lads, gets them used to an orderly existence, healthy habits, etc. Oh, this might be true in the case of freshmen, but upperclassmen take it as just another insult to their maturity and apply the customary rodential double M term to it. Or, it may be that, as one official has put it, “There’s not much to do in South Bend after midnight anyhow.” No comment here. Maybe we’re all being protected from something, though, it should be noted, not very efficiently. Or maybe it's the fault of the IBM system. So, it’s a war of attrition — another year, another quarter-hour.
MINUTIAE: Putting the dining hall silverware and napkins at the end of the food lines certainly can’t be called a brilliant innovation. It creates an awkward and unnecessary bottleneck that could be eliminated by putting these utensils at the front of the lines where they were in past years. Also, going through the line in the past few days, we have been somewhat puzzled by the appearance of a new man and a new job. At each milk machine stands a man who takes two glasses from the racks and simply sets them atop the milk machine, from whence the next man in line picks them up. Perhaps there is a reason for this seemingly pointless routine, but even so there is no reason why the man handling the glasses couldn’t just as well put milk in them and speed up the lines.
OUT OF LUCK, EH?: In an atomic attack, is the Christian required to remain outside his neighbor’s fall-out shelter, unprotected from the rain of radioactive debris, while his more affluent acquaintance sits, lead-enclosed, in relative safety and comfort, perhaps with space for at least three or four more Christians?
Ordinarily we would not attempt to consider such a cosmic problem; but since recently it seems to have become a Burning Issue, we feel compelled to say something in behalf of the gnashers of teeth outside the shelter.
Thus we reply, “No!” In conscience the Christian cannot risk the welfare of his wife or children, and may, we think, at least knock to be admitted; and if no one opens, presume that no one is at home. Then, proceeding on this supposition, he would be suffering from misguided charity if he did not force the hatch to this haven — taking every precaution, of course, to prevent harm to himself and his family in this hour of peril. It is the height of nonsense to say that the Christian ethic demands, or even permits, a man to leave his family in the rain of fallout when an apparent refuge is at hand. And, if he becomes panicky in his haste to provide safety for his family, none, we hope, could object to his desperate application of even so unchristian an instrument as a crowbar to the shelter door.
W. & Z.
The Scholastic, in pursuing a somewhat different editorial policy, seeks to represent a larger portion of the Notre Dame community. With this object in mind, we will welcome longer articles on subjects pertinent and impertinent, as well as shorter “Repercussions,” from both students and faculty. All letters and manuscripts should be addressed to the Editor, 425 Walsh Hall.
5
AN UNPAID TESTIMONIAL
Napoleon Bonaparte says:
I'd never have lost to Wellington* ...II I'd ken wearing a
Jockeu ® BRAND K
POWER-KNIT
T-SHIRT
Q: You mean... ?
A: Oui! I spent so much time tugging at my baggy, saggy T-shirt... I couldn’t concentrate on the battle.
Q: I see. Well do you realize that Jockey’s new T-shirt is PowerKnit with a quarter again as much resilient combed-cotton yarn to stay soft and keep its perfect fit, even after countless washings? The new Seamfree® collar won’t sag; the full-proportioned body won’t bag. And the deeptuck tail stays every inch as long as the day your Jockey PowerKnit T-shirt came fresh out of the package.
A: NOW he tells me!
^Napoleon s final defeat came at the hands of the Duke of Wellington in the Battle of Waterloo, June 18, ISIS.
G). I fl	fl fJ POWER-KNIT
T-SHIRTS cooper's, INC. " KENOSHA, WIS.
OUR COVER: The Trojans embarrassed! Or so we all hope, including the cover artist, Pat Saxe. Pat is predicting a casual, yet decisive, victory for the Irish.	—Tom Hansen
OUR 346 SPORT JACKETS in exclusive new Fall colorings
The good-looking light and mediumweight tweeds of our "346” sport jackets are woven exclusively for us in our own designs and colorings...and the jackets themselves cut and made on our 3-button model with welted edges. In Glenur-quhart plaids, herringbones and fancy stripes...featuring new soft colorings in browns, greys or olives, $65 and $75
Also our "346” jlannel Odd Trousers, $26.50
ESTABLISHED 1818
Sgen’s ^urnislUngsT^
7+ E. MADISON ST., NEAR MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • PITTSBURGH • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES
6
The Scholastic
bohemian life in our very midst
by JOHN BELLAIRS
I have often viewed that gay and mysterious group of Bohemians, the University Theater actors, from afar, wistfully longing for a taste of the wild, dissolute life which they lead. My only taste of forbidden pleasures in the past has been a coke chugging contest held at a meeting of Scout Troop 680 in the Old Grange Hall in Calhoun Country, Michigan. Then too, I had longed to tread the boards (or board the treads, I wish someone would clear me up on this). I was, however, driven from this pursuit when I lost a declaiming contest for leaving out the “raven’d sea shark” while reciting the cauldron scene from Macbeth. I have had a distaste for seafood ever since.
But, at any rate, I was approached last week by a fellow named Thespis Pananacreon, who said that he was a representative of the University Theater group. He said that they had heard of my longing for Dionysian pleasures, and that they would be most happy to take me with them on a junket. I joyously accepted. On seeing the gold-trimmed tunic which Thespis wore, and on hearing the lyre which he strummed constantly, I could not help but smirk at the thought of the world I would be entering, and the pleasures which lurked behind the pink doors of Washington Hall. “Once, a philosopher, twice a Bacchante,” I gurgled to myself.
Thus it was that one night, after a performance given by the Theater group, I scuttled surreptitiously into a side door of Washington Hall (all those who have seen me scuttle surreptitiously will know what I mean). Inside, half-overpowered by the smell of grease paint and mothballs, I was introduced by Thespis to those who would be my companions on this memorable evening. Each actor, clad in the costume which expressed his soul most perfectly, greeted me in mellifluous accents and proffered a goblet of Kool-Aid (grape flavor). And you may be sure that I drank my fill. The actresses were primarily young intellectuals from St. Mary’s, who were gaily discussing the latest play of their leader, Megaera Plotz. She herself read me part of a critique which she had written for a literary magazine; she called the work “Parnassus among the Paperbacks : Frank G. Slaughter as an Existentialist.” I devoured the work
greedily between munches of jelly sandwiches and draughts of Kool-Aid. Eventually the sound of a bronze gong told me that our group was going forth on a revel. At last, I thought, we are going out to mingle with the cocottes, sansculottes, or whatever they are. A momentary blush crossed my face, but I rushed madly on, tripping over the hem of my tunic.
We boarded the South Shore Train, and took over one whole car, which we decked with myrtle and thyme (ground). In one part of the car Hecuba Thurgood, whom her friends call “The Muncie, Indiana Muse,” was doing a pantomime of Wallace Stevens’ Sunday Morning, although we had no cockatoos with us. The group that I was in was listening to Thespis and Caliban Gloam do a duet with lyre and Phrygian flute. After one number an actor nudged me. “That’s the Lydian mode,” he said, leering. He then offered me a gumdrop (rum flavor), and after two or three my head began to spin and I blurted out the entire third act of Macbeth, then sank into a swoon.
When we got to Chicago, the group swept out of the car (swept out the car is more accurate — the conductor was quite peeved at our antics) and were rushed by taxi to the favorite “coffee-house” of the theater crowd, The Golden Bough, operated by Arthur and Letty Fraser of Bindle-stiff, Ore. Once inside, we found our way to small tables in the dimly lit room, and began to talk over the cosmos in a leisurely fashion. Sparklers were passed around, and I lighted mine from the flame of the candle (set rakishly in a Pepsi bottle) on my table, and let it burn till it almost singed my fingers. Miss Thurgood read to me parts of her epic poem, The Dragon of the Dixie Highway, which is written in dactylic monometer. At each strophe I became more ecstatic, and was on the point of hysteria, until the spell was broken by the sensuous voice of Thyrsis Cranch, the entertainment chairman:
“We’re going to play ‘Spin-the-bot-tle,’ ” he said, with a goatish look.
Soon we were engaged in this riotous game, and my pockets were full of candy kisses which I had won by lucky spins. The next game was “Guess Who I Am.” My imitation of Nestorious stumped the whole panel, and you may well guess my amuse
ment. The game broke up when Clytemnestra Fenley, attempting to imitate the Winged Victory of Samothrace, set fire to one of the featherdusters she was using as wings. We all had a stirrup cup of tomato juice, with a dash of Worcestershire sauce for tang. I will confess that I don’t know how the ancients balanced a cup in a stirrup. It is quite hard.
We left the Golden Bough, and took the train back to South Bend, arriving just in time to get back to campus. The merest thrill rem through me as I signed in at 12:05, for I was just beginning to fully realize the depth of my experience that night. The next morning, when rosy-fingered dawn painted the Nieuwland Science Hall with vermilion beauty, (I have become quite lyrical since that night of nights), I looked about my room. All I had to remind me of my first taste of Bohemian life were a slightly dented bay wreath, a Dixie cup smelling of grape juice... and my memories.
SOCIAL DEPT. '
I feel it my duty to be the first to report on an event on prime importance, the first Lost and Found Party ever held at the University. Last Monday the students gathered in the Dining Hall for this gala event. Gaiety was the watchword as the hall, decorated in a white elephant motif, rang to the shouts of rummaging students. Dendron Foley and an unidentified commerce major put up a spirited battle over a green parka with “Hanseatic Bowling League” on its back. Two seniors managed to carry off the largest item on display, an Italian automobile which had been left in the foyer of the O’Shaughnessy Building. Here are some statistics on the outcome:
Most Loot: Lasciate O. Speranze, who got twelve overcoats, nine copies of “Steam Pipe Fitters Annual,” a size 22 Triple E Cavalry Boot, and a biretta.
Least Loot: Cranbrook Oaf, who not only got nothing but left minus a shoe and half of his pair of pince-nez glasses.
Tea and cookies were served and a young woman sang a song of her own creation, “The Lost and Found Mambo,” and favors were distributed. All who attended felt it a success and hope the party will be repeated.
October 13, 1961
7

In days of yore, men feared not only their mortal enemies, but the elements too. It was the medieval armorer’s task to protect his chief against foemen, but weather-protection was a more difficult matter. Thus many a knight was spent in rusty armor.
Engineers and scientists at Ford Motor Company, engaged in both pure and applied research, are coping even today with the problem of body protection (car bodies, that is). Through greater understanding of the chemistry of surfaces, they have developed new paint primers and undercoatings, new rustproofing methods, and special sealers that guard entire car bodies against nature's corrosive forces—all of which add armor-like protection to Ford-built cars.
From other scientific inquiries will undoubtedly come new materials with protective properties vastly superior to those of today. This is another example of Ford's leadership through scientific research and engineering.
MOTOR COMPANY
The'American Road. Dearborn, Michigan
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD • THE FARM INDUSTRY • AND THE AOE OF SPACE

The Scholastic
MARDI GRAS BIGGER, BETTER
Bigger and better than ever is this year’s Student Government-sponsored Mardi Gras, says Jim Smith, general chairman of the affair. The year’s big weekend will be March 2-6.
The band for the Mardi Gras Ball Friday night and the combo for the Saturday afternoon concert will both be big-name entertainment. A new feature will be a jazz jam session in the student center Saturday morning.
This year the new geodesic-domed Student Activities Center will house the New Orleans Street Carnival, with the campus clubs trying to capture the Mardi Gras gaiety in their decorated store fronts. Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday nights, students will try their luck at the usual and unusual games of chance.
The grand prize in this year’s raffle, a 1962 Cadillac, will be awarded at the close of the Carnival on Tuesday night. The goal this year, with expansion of ticket sales, is well over $40,000. Proceeds will go mainly to charity, after providing some maintenance funds for the Student Government.
Mardi Gras raffle tickets will be distributed before the Christmas vacation. For each book of ten $1 tickets each student sells, he can keep $2.50 and gets a chance on a 1962 sports car and a second prize, something new this year. In addition, each hall will be given a sales quota and, if this is met, the hall will receive money for a party.
FIRST FALL CAUCUS OF MARDI GRAS CHAIRMEN
The St. Mary’s prize will be new, and bigger than the previous award.
Heading the committees this year are Andy Burd, Publicity Manager; Paul Butras, Ball; Bob Krause, Carnival; Ron Nahser, Raffle; Mike Sanderson, Concert; and Roger Kelling, General Business Manager.
DANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Social festivities for this year’s Homecoming Weekend will begin with the traditional dance on Friday, Oct. 27. The Homecoming Dance Committee under Rich Jalovec has decided on a football theme for the semi-formal affair.
Jimmy Dorsey’s Orchestra, directed by Lee Castle, will play in the La-Fortune Student Center from nine to one. Two o'clock permissions will be extended for the evening.
The available 550 tickets were distributed through Tuesday’s IBM lottery and Thursday’s sale. Arrangements for hotel accommodations and tickets for the Northwestern game and Saturday’s Victory Dance were also handled at that time.
This year’s Homecoming Queen will be selected by the Social Commission from the photographs of girls entered in the contest by their beaux. Benefits to be provided the queen are a $100 cash prize, box seats at the game for her and her date, a chauffeur-driven car for the weekend, and a part in judging the Hall Homecoming displays.
THERESA LYONS
“FIESTA OTONAL" TONIGHT
Another product of this year’s Social Commission will be enjoyed tonight by some 470 couples dancing to the music of Skitch Henderson at “Fiesta Otonal,” the first campuswide dance of the year. The queen of the gay Latin “Autumn Party” will be Theresa Lyons, escorted by the general chairman Phil Melchert.
Miss Lyons is an English major from St. Mary’s College. She hails from New York City, where she attended the Academy of Mount St. Ursula.
She will be attended by the dates of the dance committee: Miss Rosie Messenger, Miss Pat Devine, Miss Marty Stephan, and Miss Joan Mou-saw. Members of the committee were Gil Rodriguez, Pete Clark, Greg Risch, John McGuire, Phil Ruddy, and Dan Baldino. The standard permissions will be in effect for the dance, including two o’clock and car permissions. The dance will be held from nine until one in LaFortune Student Center.
SENIORS PLAN PROGRAM
Faire-neantism or just plain senior apathy are facts seemingly ignored by Earl Linehan, senior class president. Linehan, assisted by Mark Marquardt, Terry McCarthy, and Tom Quinn, has planned an ambitious program of senior activities.
Academically, the senior class plans to sponsor a lecture series with discussions centered on such practical matters as job interviews, income tax statements, and insurance policies.
Socially, the class holds parties at Giuseppi’s after each home football game for seniors and their dates. Plans for the Senior Ball will be Tor
s’
October 13,1961
mally implemented with the selection of a chairman.
Plans for two other senior class projects are nearing completion. On Oct. 21, seniors will travel to East Lansing to see the Notre Dame-Michigan State game. Next day, after a Marygrove College mixer, buses will take those interested to the Detroit Lions-Baltimore Colts game. Nov. 2 will find seniors voting on the Patriot of the Year. The names of ten men and women will be submitted to the senior class during the week of Oct. 22, and the selection will come from this list.
IRISH RAID SMC
Releasing tensions built up by the account of the Irish’s comeback victory over Purdue, two thousand cheering ND students took advantage of Indian summer weather to hold an inpromptu pep rally which before long culminated in an equally impromptu college-type raid on SMC.
Beginning in the Frosh quadrangle, activity spread to the main quad where a chance word changed the nature of the assembly from pep rally to mass exodus. Arriving at Holy Cross Hall, the throng was confined mainly to a demonstration with but few gaining entrance to the dormitory. Those few were enough, however, to penetrate the upper stories where a helpful lass furnished a sheer feminine undergarment which soon accompanied a bicycle to the top of the SMC flag pole.
With the approach of several of South Bend’s “finest” the raid subsided and all but a few returned home empty-handed.
HOLY CROSS HALL?
10
UP FROM OBSCURITY
Three times in the past two weeks the national eye focused on the University of Notre Dame. On Sept. 30, 30 million viewers tuned in the Irish victory on ABC-TV’s Game of the Week. Next, the Oct. 9 issue of Sports Illustrated filled the newsstands with word of the revival of ND football and the cycle was completed with the latest issue of Look magazine and a six-page feature article on ND’s President, Father
• Theodore M. Hesburgh.
Liberally using quotes from the Scholastic, alumni, faculty, and students, Look Senior Editor Gereon Zimmermann, has written a thorough study of our president, emphasizing his versatility, and characterizing him as "a public figure at ease in governmental, military, educational, and international circles.” To support this, Mr. Zimmermann cites Father’s membership in the National Science Foundation, President’s Commission on Civil Rights, Policy Advisory Board of Argonne National Laboratory, National Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Program, and the International Atomic Energy Agency.
The article goes on to point out that Father Hesburgh demands the same excellence of all Catholic education that he does of Notre Dame. In his speech in Atlantic City before the National Catholic Educational Association convention last year, Father said: “It is futile comfort for a Catholic university today to point with pride to the lively intellectuality and critical vitality of the Catholic University of Paris in medieval France. Let the dead bury the dead . . .”
His carefully considered criticism — “We have generally neglected the sciences . . . and have not particularly distinguished ourselves in the humanities, either” — aroused a cry of protest from such figures as Msgr. William McManus of Chicago, who protested that “this epidemic of selfcriticism” could “undermine Catholic confidence in a school system which is excellent from kindergarten through college.” Similar expressions of dismay have been expressed by other Catholic educators.
Father has demonstrated his reaction to these protests (“Piety is simply no substitute for scholarly competence") — although few seem based on piety — by raising Notre Dame to high scholastic achievements. Since he took office, 12 major buildings have been raised and the faculty
budget has increased 150 per cent in ten years.
He is in the midst of an $18 million fund drive for still further improvements, notably the new library. The best evidence that his efforts have been successful is the disproportionate number of awards won by Notre Dame graduates in recent years, for example eighty Woodrow Wilson Fellowships and three Rhodes Scholarships.
Father’s success has been recognized by his colleagues who elected him president of the Association of American Colleges, and have awarded him nine honorary degrees, most recently from Columbia and Princeton, both of which cited him for outstanding service to Catholic education.
The author of the Look article attributes much of Notre Dame’s unique character to its fame as a football power, ultimately resting, of course, on Knute Rockne. The distressing consistency with which the Fighting Irish under Rockne clobbered larger football powers of this country hauled Notre Dame out of obscurity.
NOTRE DAME CHALLENGE RALLY
Notre Dame alumni clubs in over 125 cities will join in a coast to coast telephone hook-up Tuesday evening, Oct. 17, to kick-off the largest fund-raising drive in this University's history. Speakers for this first simultaneous nation-wide function include Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., I. A. O'Shaughnessy, and J. Peter Grace. The North Dining Hall will serve as the focal point in this $18 million rally. Students, faculty and friends are invited to the 7 p.m. open house.
Mr. Zimmermann gives the misleading impression that Father Hesburgh is “haunted by the Fighting Irish legend.” One need only recall Father’s words last year, when he was haunted by a poor season, to realize that he recognizes the essential place of football at Notre Dame.
It is Father’s firmest wish to preserve the “All-American virtues of manliness, straightforwardness, and joyful belligerence” which are a natural product of Notre Dame’s “combination of belief, tradition, and practice.”
The Scholastic
NEW REGIMEN FOR FROSH
The upperclassman returning to the hall he occupied as a freshman next year will notice a changed nameplate on the door. It will still say Fred Smith from West Pitchfork, Ark.; but the line designating his college will be gone. Beginning in 1962, the freshman will not enter directly into one of the four undergraduate colleges. Instead, according to a new program announced during the summer, he will commence a Freshman Year of Studies. Replacing his specific entry into a college will be a “declaration of intent” indicating the student’s preference. His decision will not become final until the spring of the freshman year.
Dr. William M. Burke will administer the new program under the title of Dean of Freshmen. A faculty member since 1949, Dr. Burke is presently the Student Adviser. Assistant deans for the new program will be the Rev. Daniel O’Neil, C.S.C., assistant professor of theology, and Vincent R. Raymond, assistant professor of business administration.
The program is designed to present a curriculum in which, to as great an extent as possible, all students take the same basic courses. AU freshmen wiU continue to take English, math, philosophy and theology and will now also take a laboratory science. Those intending to enter the science or engineering colleges wiU take an added lab science. Arts & Letters, commerce, and preprofessional students will have an option between European history and a social science. The content of the math courses will differ according to the student’s intended coUege.
In adopting this program Notre Dame foUows the trend developing among Eastern universities, especiaUy the Ivy League. Chief reason for it is the frequency with which students, particularly in science and engineering, change their minds and coUeges during their first year. Dr. Burke declares that the new program would ease such changes by “aUowing flexibility for entrance into the sophomore year with the least possible backtracking and making up of deficiencies.’’
According to Dr. Burke, students forced to change colleges or even to leave school because of an unfortunate choice at the beginning of their scholastic careers pose a major problem for American universities. For this reason he plans to expand the testing and counselling program. Students will be carefully advised on their choice of college and major subject. As a result the student will be in a position to make a more thoughtful choice and the college accepting him will be able to do so more confidently.
Tradition and Transition Will Dominate Dome; 1961-62 Yearbook Includes Novel Features
“Tradition and Transition,” a phrase symbolic of Notre Dame these past few years, is the theme of the new Dome. While holding to many of the finer features of past years, the Dome’s editors have sought new ways to better Notre Dame’s awardwinning yearbook.
Last year, for example, with its new burlap cover, the Dome was one of five yearbooks in its category to be given the highest rating by the Associated College Press. It also received the highest award of the National School Yearbook Association. Its Academic and Features sections were especially lauded by these judging organizations.
With this record of success standing strongly behind them, 4 Editor Tom Gettlefinger and Associate Editor Frank Oberkoetter plan what they hope will be significant advances. The introduction will be almost doubled
October 13,1961
with an expansion from 12 to 22 pages. The introductory photographs will cover all aspects of campus life.
The Features, Organizations, and Sports sections will remain substantially the same in light of last year’s success. Juniors will be especially interested in the undergraduate pictures. For the first time in the past few years every junior will have his picture in the Dome. Pictures of every senior will also be included, as in previous years.
One of the big changes this year occurs in the Academic section. Instead of traditional department-by-department listing of each college, one extended photographic essay will cover every college and every department. This Js intended to harmonize the various educational aspects of the University, bringing all activities into a central focus.
As in previous years, the new' Dome will be distributed in late May.
COUNCIL SHOWS NEW LOOK
With the "new look” at Notre Dame, the Hall Presidents’ Council is looking forward to an active year. Under the new frontier of responsibility, hall government will take on a literal meaning as well as promoting hall activities.
The Council, moderated by Father McCarragher, consists of Chairman Mike Hartnett, Vice-Chairman John Davis, Secretary Fred Fitzsimmons, Treasurer Leon Raymond, the seventeen hall presidents, the off-campus president, and three stay members, Kev Hart, Joe Simoni, and Mike Kingston.	s
The main purpose of the Hall Presidents’ Council is to organize an active student government in each hall and to assist in arriving at a workable framework for the proper functioning of that government. The Council has already organized hall service committees in the various halls. A list of these volunteers will be presented to the hall president upon his election and should form a pool of willing workers. Past hall presidents went into each hall to work with those interested in laying the groundwork for the soon-to-be-elected individual hall councils.
The Council operates with teamwork to solve common hall problems and to aid the hall president in planning activities. Each president will give a weekly report of his hall. The voice of the Council is heard in the Senate, as the chairman is an authoritative member of that body. The Senate and the Council work closely together throughout the year and past work with such organizations as the Blue Circle and Mardi Gras committee has also been encouraged.
The officers and stay members of the Council, all experienced in hall government, will aid the new presidents. They will attend the individual hall council meetings to offer suggestions on organization and activities. The Council has its own religious, academic, social, and athletic commissioners who will also operate on the hall level to coordinate individual or combined hall activities. In the works is an individual hall talent hunt, the winners of which will participate in a campus-wide talent party.
• The Council recognizes that each student must do his part in striving foj; 'the common good and individual responsibility. It will help «the hall governments in achieving these aims. Student cooperation will be greatly appreciated, especially in electing the best men to office.
4A
WHO is at work on a satellite system for global telephone and TV transmission?
WHO provides the communications channels for America’s missile defenses?
WHO is girdling the globe with communications for America’s first man into space?
WHO tapped the sun for electric power by inventing the Solar Battery?
WHO used the moon for two-way conversations across the country?
WHO guided Tiros and Echo into accurate orbit?
WHO made your pocket radio possible by inventing the Transistor?
WHO maintains the world’s largest, finest industrial research facilities?
WHO supplies the most and the best telephone service in the world?
WHO has the UNIVERSAL communications organization?
THERE’S ONLY ONE ANSWER TO ALL TEN QUESTIONS
BELL	SYSTEPJ3
Pioneering in outer space to improve communications on earth
12
The Scholastic
Of Special Interest. South Bend houses a very fine Art Center which, in addition to classes and exhibitions, features an excellent program of classic films over the course of the year. The first of these will appear TONIGHT on the screen of the Schuyler-Colfax library in town at 8 P.M. and is of special interest by all means: Shakespeare’s Richard HI. It cannot be rated too highly. It was premiered on television a couple of years ago and was immensely popular — even to nonintellectuals like me. John Gielgud, Claire Bloom, Ralph Richardson, and Cedric Hardwicke head the star-studded cast. If you aren’t going to the Fiesta Otonal, it’s worth a trip to town.
Advise and Consent with Farley Granger and Chester Morris comes to the Morris Civic stage on Oct. 17-18. The show, modeled after the novel of the same name, won accolades on its Broadway stint and begins a great series of performances at the auditorium.
On a lighter note, Shriners’ Circus will come to the city’s cultural center on Oct. 20 to 22 for seven big shows. Just getting a circus into the old Palace might be a show. Even better than cotton candy, maybe.
Avon. Have you ever seen Femandel? Like wild, huh? He is hard to understand since he speaks only French. But as long as you can see him you’re okay — his comedy routine is in a very understandable international language. This time: The Virtuous Bigamist. A story about a French traveling salesman (beat that if you can) and an estranged young lovely (Guilia Rubini) who has been wronged and deserted by her lover. Paul, the salesman, steps out of his drab existence and offers the distraught chic his assistance. . . . Thus, he accompanies her to papa’s house just for the evening, supposedly, so as to lead the dear, sweet parents into thinking that she was married before being dumped on. But, alas, the bus departs and leaves poor Paul stranded with the farmer’s daughter. C’est la vie . . . that’s the French . . . and Fernandel.
An Eye for an Eye is the second show. An Arabian theme — filmed on the searing Syrian desert, yet... and is based upon the ancient custom of returning any wrong done with equal zest and rancor. The wrong was done by goodly Doctor Walter (Curt Jurgens) who is the head surgeon at a Middle Eastern hospital. He sends a patient to the clinic instead of treating her himself and a clumsy assistant botches. Ergo, according to vicious custom, the patient’s husband, one Bartok, must kill the kind physician. And the chase is on — across the burning sands. Does the good win out — or is the ancient proverb fulfilled? Huzzah!
(The Avon asks to be excused but American censors have so cut their foreign imports as to make time schedules impossible for our publication. Time, then, will be published for the Avon only for holdovers or domestic shows.)
Colfax. The Thief of Baghdad this week with none other than strongman Steve Reeves in the lead — playing Karim, the greatest outlaw of them all (including Jesse James ... I theenk). Ever try a get-away on a camel? Or a love scene in a tunic? Georgia Moll is his leading lady ... and the whole thing is a monster production of the Arabian Fairy Tale. Supposedly there is lavish production... but we’ve seen it all a million times before (remember Buster Crabbe and his legion?). It looks juvenile but maybe there’s an orgy or two to adult it up a little. On — Hajji Baba.
(Thief: 1:25 — 3:25 — 5:25 — 7:25 — 9:25.)
Granada. Another Peyton Place is in the ofiing: Splendor in the Grass. (Continued on page 17)
iWs
I wonder if any of us have really realized the depth of meaning inherent in the statement, “Sure I play bridge.” Perhaps you’re not as confident later as you reach for your checkbook, but you may find that there are separate species of the bridge animal, and you must know each one’s habits thoroughly to catch them all. Perhaps this column will be boring to the bright young men who go downtown to play and scare those sweet old ladies with their complicated bidding and criminal preempting, but they can take a day off. They need it.
When we normally speak of bridge, we mean the familiar rubber bridge which is played in dorms, frat houses, and ladies’ clubs throughout the country. The scoring is simple: When a bid is made, the value of the tricks is placed below a line and all overtricks, undertricks, slam and game premiums, etc., are placed above the line. When a game is completed (i.e., 100 points are scored below the line), a line is drawn under this to show that a game has been made; but no one may score any bonus points for a game until a rubber is completed (two games are made by the same pair). The emphasis here is on the bidding of slams and games, because they are worth so much more than part scores both actually and potentially. Pre-emptive methods do not have a very good percentage in many cases because a very bad set costs too much.
An entirely different problem is duplicate bridge. Here there is an entirely different set of scoring rules, and some changes must be made from rubber bridge strategy to compete successfully. Each hand is called a board and is played by all of the same people sitting in a certain direction. At the end of the hand, the results are recorded on a special slip which travels with the board, and at tournament's end, each board is scored independently of the other in the following fashion: The scores of each pair who played the hand are ar-
(Continued on page 16)
October 13,1961
13
"presides over the big and small business of running the art gallery"
ART, HISTORY, and PROGRESS
BY TOM CULLEN
At a time when the whole atmosphere of Notre Dame is filled with an element of change in all areas, one of its most significant enterprises, the University Art Gallery, is engaged in a rather dynamic change of its own. The change is taking place in the physical composition of the gallery, but more important is the change which its enthusiastic new curator, John Howett, is seeking to make in the very relationship of the gallery to the University community: “We must make the gallery a vital part of the life and education of every student on campus.”
"every possible effort to round out the gallery's collection"
Howett an art historian, assumed the position of curator this summer. He studied art and related subjects at John Herron Institute of Art and the University of Chicago. He is currently working on his doctoral thesis. For a man who began his education with an eye to becoming simply an artist, lie seems to have successfully made the adjustment to curator. He still has not given up artistic creation entirely, and as he himself puts it, “I feel that my interest in art history has made me a better artist and that my being an artist has made me a better student of art history.”
All of this faith, conviction, determination, and scholarship Mr. Howett brings to his position as curator of the galleries. When we visited him at his office in the basement of O’Shaughnessy Hall, he showed us an example of research he was doing for another gallery, working with such tools as ultraviolet lights, etc., on a particular painting to determine its worth. In addition to a considerable amount of work of this nature, he carries a teaching load, writes, studies, and presides over the big and small business of running the art gallery. While he obviously maintains a tremendous interest in all phases of his work, especially’ painting, his most challenging and stimulating endeavor at present is the art gallery. For in the gallery, he is not only an artist or a scholar of art, but he becomes the instructor and the salesman of the whole world of art.
"working with such tools
The Scholastic
Mr. Howett speaks of the University Art Gallery with an obvious and justifiable pride. The gallery is said by many to be one of the finest university galleries in the country.
Although Notre Dame’s first “galleries,” properly speaking, were built in O’Shaughnessy in 1952, University inventories of as early as 1850 listed ' an “art museum” with a collection of 150 paintings of portraits and picturesque scenes as well as 386 objects of natural and scientific interest. These were displayed on the walls of the corridors and classrooms of the Main Building, which was totally destroyed by fire in 1855.
The University began to rebuild its art collection through gifts and donations (incidentally, the gallery still depends primarily, on donations for the acquisition of new art works) until, in 1917, it purchased paintings from the Bracia Estate in Rome. The present gallery owes its existence to this
purchase. By 1930 the number of paintings had been raised to over 300. Many of these, however, were since found to be of inferior quality and were discarded or otherwise disposed of. In 1952, the gallery moved to its new O’Shaughnessy Hall home, which consists of five large display galleries and three storage vaults, all with temperature and humidity control.
At present, Howett admits, the gallery has some faults. The collection is somewhat overbalanced in favor of Italian art. Since Mr. Howett’s specialty is 14th century Italian, he feels rather at home. It should be pointed out, however, that the board of accession, which does the gallery’s shopping is making every possible effort to round out the gallery’s collection with the very finest representatives of every school of art. It has also undertaken some very interesting special programs lately, such as the establishment of a fund for the purchase and display of primitive art in honor of the late Notre Dame alumnus, Dr. Thomas Dooley, who gave his life to serving primitive peoples.
Under John Howett and Father Anthony Lauck, head of the Art Department, the University Galleries
are almost constantly showing exhibitions on loan from other galleries and private collections. These exhibitions supplement the University’s own collection in no small measure. At present, the gallery is featuring a collection of paintings by Everett McNear. In the very near future, the gallery will sponsor an exhibition of Belgian painters in cooperation with the Arts Club of Chicago and several other important galleries.
All of this signifies the fact that the University Gallery is moving up in the world of art and finding a place for itself among the finest galleries in the country. It is doing so because of dedicated men like John Howett, Fr. Charles Sheedy, Fr. Lauck, and others in the College of Arts and Letters. But an institution like the gallery, which depends so much on the need and support provided for it by Alumni and members of the University community, can only go so far no matter how dedicated and talented are its curators and officials. This is why a man like John Howell becomes the curator of an art gallery, because he feels that he can perform a great service not only for art, but for every member of the University as well.
"We must make the gallery a vital part of the life and education of every student on campus."
Qs ultra-violet lights, etc.”
October 13, 1961
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
• IMAGE
The Man Who Was Chesterton
Bond
- ' •
Understanding Europe Dawson
• NEW AMERICAN LIBRARY Case Against Adolph Eichman Zeiger
•
Seven Storey Mountain
Merton
•
Doctor Zhivago
Pasternak
•
Nuremberg Diary
Gilbert • CREST The Ugly American Burdick
• -
LITTLE BROWN
Franny and Zooey $4.00
Handbook of Chemistry & Physics
$12.00
Notre Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
kibitzer’s korner
(Continued from page 13) ranged in decreasing order, beginning with the pair who gained the most or lost the least on the hand on down. You are given one point for every pair which is below you, and a half point for each team which you tie. This is called match point scoring. With this scoring, it can be seen that the slam and game hands are demoted in value, since the same number of points can be obtained from bidding and making a slam or a part score which no one else makes.
Defensive bidding tactics become more important in duplicate bridge because the infrequent bad sets which make them such a hazard in rubber bridge are relatively unimportant due to the method of scoring. We are not concerned with the probable points gained and lost, but rather the frequency with which the bid succeeds and fails. This frequency of success, rather than points, makes it necessary to bid part score hands more aggressively; and the penalty double must be used more frequently to keep the opponents’ bidding honest. The weak no-trump is especially designed for this style of bridge. When game is scored, a specific bonus is given to the bidders, differing with vulnerability, because obviously there is not a rubber to be finished.
The other two forms of bridge in wide use are the team-of-four match and the aggregate, and they combine aspects of the first two. Team-of-four has two teams of two pairs each, and the boards are played duplicate style, one pair playing the boards sitting east-west and the other northsouth. The scoring is similar to duplicate, the same bonuses given for partscores, games, and slams; however, the big hands regain their importance because the number of match points obtained is proportional to the number of points scored, unlike duplicate, which, as we remember, scores each hand that same way, no matter how big the hand. The difference between the two results is termed a swing, and it is this point difference on which the match points are awarded. Aggregate is very similar, only each board is not treated separately and all the hands are added together like a giant rubber, and the team with the most total points wins.
I hope that I have made it clear that bridge is a game capable of much improvisation, and each version has its own peculiar demands. In fact, if you feel you have conquered all of the bridge worlds in your hall or own circle, come over to the Stu-
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER
BUILDING HOURS:
Sunday thru Thursday—9:00 a.m. - 10:30 p.m.
Friday and Saturday—9:00 a.m. - 11:30 p.m.
Football Saturdays—9:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m.; 4:00	'
p.m. - 6:00 p.m.; 7:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m.
OFFICE- HOUHS:	z
Center Manager, Timothy F. Hand:	I
Monday thru Friday—3:00 - 5:00 p.m.;	*
7:00- 10:30 p.m.
Saturday—9:00 a.m. • 12:00 noon; 1:00 - 5:00 p.m.; 7:00 - 11:30 p.m.	'	.
Sunday—1:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.; 7:00-10:30 p.m.
Vice-President, Student Affairs, Rev. Charles McCarragher, C.S.C.	;
Assistant, Rev. Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C.
Monday thru Friday—10:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m.; 2:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m.	'
Saturday—10:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
Off-Campus Chaplain, Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C.	;
Monday thru Friday—10:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.;	;
2:30 - 5:00 p.m.	:
Saturday—10:30 a.m.	:
NOTE: This is a correction of previous hours posted.
Student Government, SBP Chris Buckley: Monday thru Friday—1:00 - 4:00 p.m.
Blue Circle Honor Society, Joe Della Maria:
John A. Morrissey Loan Fund, Dick Haley,	\
Administrator:	1
Tues., Wed., Thurs., 11:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.	'
Friday, 10:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
Student Insurance Representative, Larry Schrubnell:	;
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 3:15-5:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Thursday—10:00 • 12:00 a.m.
YCS-NFCCS, Paul O’Bryan:
Monday thru Friday, 5:00 • 6:00 p.m.;
7:00 • 8:00 p.m.
Scholastic, Tom Weiss:
Sunday, 7:00- 11:00 p.m.
Monday, 1:00 - 3:00 p.m.; 7:00- 11:00 p.m.
Tuesday, 6:45-7:30 p.m.
Dome, Tom Gettelfinger:
Campus Press, Andy Hartnett, Manager:
Monday thru Friday, 10:30- 12:00 a.m.; 1:00 - 2:30 p.m.	'	*
(Printing jobs will only be accepted during these hours.)	,
Pool Room, Jim Gmelin, Supervisor:	*
Monday thru Friday, 9:30 a.m. - 10:30 p.m.
Football Saturdays, 9:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.
Sunday, 6:00 • 10:30 p.m.
Huddle:
Monday thru Saturday, 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
dent Center this Sunday at 1:30 and play some duplicate bridge; you may like it and you will surely appreciate how fascinating and complex this game can be.
16
The Scholastic
in town and around
(Continued from page 13)
“A provocative theme . . . about the troubled years between childhood and the adult.” And you know what that means! If you don’t know, it means that there is a sex-obsessed mother (Audrey Christie) and her love-starved daughter (Natalie Wood) and a “High School Harry” beau (Warren Beatty). But, for the very degenerate in the crowd, there has been added a pinch of “orgy-loving” collegiate sister (Barbara Loden) and a town push-over (Jan Norris). A real chummy sort of flick — just like the old home town. There are a couple of suicides and a scene or two in an asylum. Real true to life, according to Warner Brothers.
(.Splendor: 1:15 — 3:50 — 6:26 — 9:00.)
The River Park. Ben-Hur is with us all week. Do you remember? The lavish sets, the wild chariot race — complete (I am told) with an actual death during filming. And then the Roman Navy with a cast of thousands . . . “Cruising speed . . . ramming speed.” It’s still the same movie. And still worth those million Oscars. Charlton Heston plays the lead.
(Ben-Hur: 7:30 weekdays; 2:00 — 7:30 Sunday.)
The State. Paul Newman moves down the street. Anyone who saw Paris Blues last week will remember the able job Newman did in his portrayal of a jazz musician. His character study this week is not much different, and portrayed as ably. The Hustler is a gambling picture: (pool — that starts with “P” and rhymes with “T”). And the hustler is Paul Newman who comes to town to hustle, no less. Particularly one Minnesota Fats (Jackie Gleason) . . . and the stakes are high and the game is wild, but one man must win and one must lose and the hustler retreats with his bottle to the Westbound ticket office of the nearest bus depot where he meets Sarah Packard (Piper Laurie), the lonely match-girl type. Whence ■he leaves the big city and the rotten, hard fisted manager. Go West, young ■man . . . and he does. But then the ■Story gets a mite complicated and ■I’U leave it to Twentieth Century to reveal the “meaty” conclusion. And meaty it is. The dialogue is packed with questionable invective, and the 'Couple imake uninhibited recourse to ‘the fluffy bed. Nothing novel for “.‘meaty" Jjewman. Enjoyable, adult, mobster fare.
{(Hustler: 1:20 — 3:50 — 6:20 — 18:50.)	— John McGuire
'October H3.,Infill
Get Your Ticket Now
Morris Civic Auditorium
Eileen Farrell and the South
Bend symphony.
Oct. 15 — Morris Box Office $1.50 —$3.25
Advise and Consent
Oct 17-18 — Morris Box Office $2.25 — $5.50
Presbyterian Players
Made Animal
Oct. 19, 20, 21, 27, 28
Box 932 South Bend $1.25 — $3.25 a season
Notre Dame Theater
Subscription Tickets
Oct. 16 to 20 — Wash. Hall 4 - 6 $2.00 and $3.00
TURBO W
KpPTOMBTRIST
EYEGLASSES REPAIRED
CONTACT LENSES
INQUIRIES INVITED
EYE EXAMINATION
OLIVER HOTEL
207 W. Washington — Phone CE 4-5777
SPECIAL COMPLIMENTARY OFFER
FOR COLLEGE MEN
Learn the Pleasures of Fine Tobacco,..
Enjoy the Original Extra-Mild Cavendish in the Handy “Poly" Pocket Pouch
©BIB!
Blended in Holland by Douwe Egberts Royal Factories
AMPHORA, is cool, even-burning, long-lasting. Its pleasurable smoking qualities have won loyal friends—it outsells all other tobaccos in its class! If you haven’t tried AMPHORA, be our guest. Simply fill in the coupon below and mail it. You will receive a complimentary full 2-ounce pouch.
ROMICK'S INTERNATIONAL TOBACCO CO.
11918 Vose Street, North Hollywood, California
Gentlemen: Please send me a complimentary full 2-ounce pouch of AMPHORA. I enclose 10; coin to cover cost of handling and mailing, (PLEASE TYPE OR PRINT)
NAME
STREET______________________________________
CITY, ZONE, STATE.--------------------------
U Nl VERSITY________________________________
This Offer Expires December 31,1961
WANTED!
BRIDGE PLAYERS—for free training as Future Champions. No experience needed — we furnish partners.
Notre Dame Bridge Club
Every Sunday — 1:30 p.m.
Room 2-C — Student Center
You’Ll find that learning to dance at Arthur Murray’s is quick, easy—it’s fun
and costs less. Studios open daily 11 a.m.-ll p.m.

WILL YOU ACCEPT A % HOUR
TRIAL
ARTHUR MURRAY 130 EAST WAYNE CALL: CE 2-3339

17
youaooinions
r^-TTWho'd make fhe best wife?

L
Q WOMAN EXECUTIVE Q FASHION MODEL
O Is if better io marry in colleqe-or wail fill lafer?
NURSE □ SECRETARY Q 1
© How many cigareHes do you smoke a day?

3
fa
to O37VSO1 SM1AM t X1199n
allows ooa b3hl3hm ZJJBAQ
jiqBu nofi sfiwniD fidyjL
Wn HUM HS3HJ AVIS 'MV3U9 V 31SV1 anOA 3AI9 '101 V BO
Q MARRY IN COLLEGE Q WAIT TILL LATER

Startfresh Stayfresh M
Any way you look at them—L*M’s taste better. Moisturized tobaccos make the difference! Yes, your taste stays fresh with L*M—they .always treat you right!
LIGGETT A MYERS TOBACC
H

uuaI-
■ UUAMIU
31HH V %SI %8? %6l %8I %0?
Zl-8
8 ueqjssai
%9’V8 Wl IIU W %^g[ aSaipo ui Xjjbw
%0'£ %fr'9l %6Z? %6ll
aNjnoaxj
[apopi uoiqsej jaqoeaj
iacl
>0
^Tomorrow afternoon the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, fresh from a great 22-20 victory over Purdue’s Boilermakers, return to Notre Dame Stadium where they will host the surprising Trojans of Southern California.
After winning 19-6 and 22-20 over Oklahoma and Purdue, the Irish risk their winning streak against a Southern Cal team that was barely edged, 35-34, by the highly-rated Iowa Hawkeyes last Saturday.
Notre Dame will have its hands full with Coach John McKay’s Trojans, who outpassed, outrushed, and totaled five more first downs than the mighty Iowa football machine.
It was said before the current season that if college football teams were ranked by the ability of their halfback corps alone, McKay’s team would be right near the top. McKay has five returning halfbacks from the 1960 Trojan squad, and one of the most highly-touted sophomore speedsters in the history of southland prep football, Willie Brown. Brown claims the starting assignment at right half, and wears number 26, reminiscent of one of Southern Cal’s all-time great running backs, “Jaguar Jon” Arnett. Old-time Trojan railbirds say that the 5-11, 170-pounder also inherited Arnett’s running ability. Brown is backed by speedy Lynn Gaskill and Jim Maples, both lettermen.
Left half has swift three-year man Al Shields at the starting position. Shields was last season’s number two rusher, and is spelled by 155-pound conversion expert Carl Skvarna and 215-pound Billy Wilson. Wilson, the larger of the Mut-and-Jeff duo, resembles former USC great C.R. Roberts in both size and manner of play.
Hal Tobin is the Trojan fullback. Smaller than Notre Dame’s fullbacks at 195-pounds, Tobin averaged 5.2 yards per carry last fall for Southern Cal. Tobin is spelled by punting star Ernie Jones and Richie McMahon.
Quarterback has to be the most important position for Southern California’s Multiple-T offense, and the Trojans have eliminated any possible problem here
UNBEATEN IRISH FACE SURPRISING TROJANS
With the continued development of junior Billy Nelsen, last year’s passing and total offense leader. Nelsen came into his own last Saturday in Los Angeles, where he passed for three touchdowns, and ran for a fourth against Iowa! He is ably supported by sophomores Pete Beathard and Craig Fertig.
Experience-wise, the Trojans expected a little trouble at the end positions this year. So far the previously untried flankmen have stood up well in competition. Second-stringer Ben Rosin is the only letterman from last year's squad at the end position. Rosin backs up Ronnie Butcher at the right end slot.
Left end is a little stronger, with Jim Bates, converted fullback Warren Stephenson, and Hal Arnest manning the spot. Bates busies himself in the off-season by running 9.6 dashes for the USC National Championship track team. He is deadly on defense.
Coach McKay was left with a frightening task when called upon to replace last year’s 250-pound All-American left tackle, Dan Ficca. He appears to have found an adequate replacement for Ficca in senior Frank Buncom. Buncom, noted for his great blocking ability, is bolstered by Bob Fisk and Stu Busby.
Mike Bundra starts at right tackle, with a year’s varsity experience. Mike Eaton and Marv Marinovich, a returnee from 1959, add beef to this position.
With USC all-time great Mike McKeever graduated, the guard position at Southern California has posed somewhat of a problem. Right guard is fairly solid with Britt Williams, Pat Shea, and Ronnie Smedley helping the Trojans thus far in the season. Left guard has proven a little troublesome in the first three games. Chuck Anderson, Harold Beach, and Jim Fugman are battling for the position.
The only loss from the 1960 center corps was third-stringer Jack Treier. Skip Johnson has been the starter, being pushed by last year’s starter Dave Morgan and Gary Webber.
Irish eyes had better be alert on the gridiron tomorrow, if Irish eyes are to smile tomorrow night in South Bend.
— Tom Walsh
Bill Nelsen, junior quarterback
October 13,1961
19
by BOB CHIAPPINELLI
~ It is often said that at World Series time people do strange things. Last Friday, an avid but rather scantily clad fan of the Cincinnati Reds did his best to perpetuate that saying.
Clad in his birthday suit and without even a “One man tells another” label to protect him from the hot sun, this chap perched upon the elevator tower of Cincinnati’s Crosley Field and proclaimed his intention of jumping. He finally came down to earth in a more conventional manner and wTas quickly escorted to the nearest jail.
It is unfortunate for this performer that he did not make his unusual appearance here at Notre Dame where his unique attire would probably have been greeted with a sympathetic comment such as, “I understand buddy. The laundry did an awful job on my clothing this week also." . . .
Notre Dame, which always prides itself on the high quality of its football schedule, may have set a new high in “excellence” this season. Two teams, Southern California and Northwestern, which rated as lesser powers on the Irish slate at the beginning of the season, have muscled their way into much more prominent positions in recent games. Everybody, of course, was amazed by Southern California’s near miss against Iowa, but equally as impressive has been Northwestern’s performance in the last two games. First the Wildcats mauled a supposedly strong Boston College team and then dumped Illinois. In the process, they scored seventy-three points and granted their opponents a total of seven. Ouch!
In addition, Navy, although not yet stumbling upon another Joe Bellino, has uncovered a fine quarterback in Ron Klemick. . . .
Throughout much of last year’s dark 2-8 season, only two seniors, Bob Scarpitto and Captain Myron Pottios, were consistently in the starting line-up. It is strange, then, to find that three 1961 Notre Dame graduates, Scarpitto, Pottios, and Red Mack, are presently playing pro ball and that a fourth, Ray Ratkow-ski, lasted through the first game of the season before being dropped.
20
Irish end says of Purdue game . . .
“A Team Victory”
by LES TRAVER as told to JOHN BECHTOLD
Our victory over Purdue was a great team effort. The victory can be attributed to a combination of the seniors’ experience and the sophomores’ enthusiasm. Everybody put out all he had. We made a lot of mistakes, but we overcame them.
I think the fact that we were stopped cold the first time we had the ball and that they marched right down the field, scoring quickly, helped us more than it hurt us. We knew then that this was a very good team, and that we would have to fight harder to win.
The long pass that I caught from Daryle Lamonica in the second quarter was a l-4X-trap pass. The play was set up for the Oklahoma game, but wasn’t used because of the wind. It is one of our “long-pass” patterns. It is the hardest kind of pass to catch because the pattern requires an “over the shoulder” catch, but Lamonica threw the ball very w’ell — the pass was right there.
The only time I had any serious doubts about the final outcome was when Angelo Dabiero fumbled when Purdue kicked off after building up a 17-7 lead in the second quarter.
It is hard to determine one key play or turning point in the game. Jim Kelly’s catch was important in that it set up a desperately needed score in the second quarter. But every time we stopped them in the second half was important. Every play counted when they started to drive. But if I had to single out one play it would, of course, have to be Joe Perkowski’s field goal.
After we went ahead on Perkowski’s field goal in the final period, I knew that the game was ours. We had to fight back all the way and I didn’t think that after w’e finally
Les Traver
did take the lead that we were going to relinquish it too easily.
Purdue is a funny kind of team. It is a brute strength team with straight running plays, a few countertraps and straight pass patterns. Therefore, it isn’t hard for a quarterback to step in and take over their offense as soph Ron DiGravio has this season. DiGravio, incidentally, by the time he is a senior, will be one of the best.
The much publicized Purdue line was tough, but our line got a little bit tougher and gradually wore them down. Our tackles — Bob Bill, Joe Carollo, George Williams and Roger Wilke — hit in and penetrated their line which helped to stop their best plays: off-tackle and sweeps around the end.
This year’s Boilermaker team was as good or better than the two I have previously played against. The difference in our performance is that now we are getting the “big play” from the backs. They really have been coming through.
The sophomores — Paul Costa, Jim Snowden and Frank Budka — looked the way they were expected to. All three of them have gotten the ‘‘big buildup” and they are living up to it. They are only sophomores, but they are a different kind of sophomore. They have class and poise, due, I think, to the fact that they are playing with seniors who steady them and help them out.
Naturally we will be looking ahead to Michigan State, but I don’t feel there will be a letdown for tomorrow’s game with Southern California. Any team that can almost beat Iowa will be tough. We are going to have to be in top form to beat the Trojans.
The Scholastic
CARY CALLS ’EM
The song goes, “What though the odds be great or small, old Notre Dame will win over all.” The odds indeed were great midway through the second quarter last Saturday as Irish field general Daryle Lamonica l	faced a fourth-and-one situation on the Notre Dame 45-yard line.
'	Purdue led at the time, 17-7, and was moving with almost comic ease
• through the Irish tackles and ends. If the Irish punted, Purdue would have the ball again; and at the rate they were moving, another score was a very distinct possibility. Lamonica, after a hasty glance toward the bench where Kuharich was fidgeting nervously and probably remembering the 51-19 pasting in 1960 by these same Spoilermakers, called a quarterback sneak. He made the necessary yard behind the charge of center Tom Hecomovich and left guard Nick Buoniconti. The Irish went on to score two touchdowns and a field goal while holding Purdue to a field goal and win the game, 22-20. Lamonica’s decision to gamble and go for the first down and his successful attempt probably was the key play of the game. If he had failed, or if the Irish had punted, and also if Purdue had gone in for another score, the result could have been a 1-1 record for the Irish instead of the 2-0 standing of today.
MANY HEROES
The comeback win over the Spoilermakers was a team effort. The Irish simply refused to give up. They battled back from the 17-7 second quarter deficit to dominate the second half and win going-away. In victory, the heroes were many. Lamonica, the cool Californian who seems to have found himself this year, directed all three touchdownproducing drives. His play selection left little to be desired. His passing (4 of 7 for 77 yards and one touchdown) was pin-point and timely. The fullbacking of Gerry Gray and Jim Snowden, both of whom scored touchdowns, showed that the team did not miss Mike Lind as much as some people had thought they would. Paul Costa showed his open field running talents with a 29-yard scamper to the Purdue 18 which set up Joe Perkowski’s winning field goal. Angelo Dabiero proved his opening game performance gainst Oklahoma was no fluke by averaging 4.8 yards per carry against a Purdue defense set specifically to stop him. Frank Budka, the highly-regarded soph quarterback, showed great improvement over his Oklahoma performance and ran the team with calm assurance. Jim Kelly and Les Traver, two sticky-fingered ends, caught everything thrown in their direction. The “men in the trenches,” the interior line, after a shoddy defensive performance in the first half, tightened up and shut out the Spoilermakers in the second half. Hecomovich, Bill, CaroUo, Wilke, Williams, Roy, Buoniconti, Lehman, Burke, Hoerster — you name them, they did it. A great team victory all around.
TROJANS NEXT
Tomorrow, the opponent is Southern California. This rivalry, begun during the coaching reigns of Howard Jones and the immortal Knute Rockne, is one of the keenest in the country. The first game was played on Dec. 4, 1926 at Los Angeles. The Irish won in the closing seconds on an Art Parisien to John Niemiec pass, 13-12.
PICK OF THE WEEK
Two down, eight tough ones to go. But after tomorrow, there will be only seven to go as the Irish vanquish the Trojans, 27-13. Too much Irish depth and power will wear down the visitors just as it did Oklahoma and Purdue.
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES
Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
305 S. Michigan AT 7-5477
Medusa was once heard to rave: “A new hair-do is just what I crave. With my Swingline I'll tack All these snakes front to back, And invent the first permanent wave!"
SWINGLINE STAPLER
no bigger than a pack of gum!
98C
(kclatat KOO itylis)
Unconditionally Guaranteed • Made In America!
* Tot 50 refills always available!
• Buy it at your stationery, variety or bookstore dealer!
OF STAPLERS FOR HOME ANO OFFICE
Oc/o6er 13, 1961
RAH! RAH!
ALBRIGHTS
MODEL 22AW
For all details see your campus Raleigh dealer.
Raleigh bicycles were made for college life and the student body. And speaking of bodies a Raleigh is measured by frame size, not wheel size.
For example: Collegemen over 5'9" specify 23’ frames. Men under 5'9* specify 21* frames.
Try a Raleigh out on Campus — You’ll feel better for it — Raleigh you will!!
2720 Lincolnway West Mishawaka
Telephone BL 5*8988
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typing errors never show on Corrasable. The special surface of this paper makes it possible to erase without a trace—with just an ordinary pencil eraser. Results: cleanlooking, perfectly typed papers. Next time you sit down at the keyboard, make no mistake—type on Corrasable!
Your choice of Corrasable in light, medium, heavy weights and / Onion Skin. In handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet boxes. Only Eaton makes Corrasable.	,
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASS.
Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week
Tonight
Colorado 20; Miami (Fla.) 14
Tomorrow
Alabama 19; No. Carolina State 16 Penn State 20; Army 15 Arkansas 24; Baylor 21 Washington 14; California 8 Navy 38; Cornell 6
Florida 16; Rice 7
Georgia Tech 9; Duke 7	•
Mississippi 34; Houston 7
Ohio State 31; Illinois 7
Iowa 28; Indiana 6
Kansas 26; Iowa State 13
Kentucky 20; Kansas State 7 LSU 21; South Carolina 3 Maryland 21; No. Carolina 10
Purdue 40; Miami (O.) 14 Northwestern 20; Minnesota 9 Missouri 19; Oklahoma State 7 Syracuse 17; Nebraska 6 Wisconsin 20; Oregon State 18 Pitt 16; West Virginia 15 Tennessee 28; Tulsa 7 UCLA 20; Vanderbilt 7
Game of the Week
Michigan 28; Michigan State 17
Upset of the Week Oklahoma 15; Texas 13
Last Week’s Results 14 right, nine wrong, two ties 60.9 per cent
Totals to Date 28 right, 18 wrong, four ties 60.9 per cent
AUTO INSURANCE
for young drivers
Complete Coverage
Monthly Payments Available
GEORGE ELICH
2103 S. William St.
AT 9-2650

EATON'S PAPER available at
Notre Dame Bookstore
The Scholastic
FUTURE OPPONENTS
Of the eight teams barring the way to an undefeated season for the Irish, five won and three lost in last week’s action. Michigan State, Northwestern, Navy, and Iowa added victories to their records, while Southern California, Syracuse, and Pittsburgh claimed the three defeats.
In the only game featuring two future Notre Dame foes, Southern California, a two-touchdown underdog, failed in a last minute bid to upset Iowa, and succumbed 35-34. Iowa took an early 35-20 lead on a touchdown by Wilburn Hollis and two Hollis-Joe Williams passes, but saw the lead vanish in the fourth quarter as the Trojans scored on pass plays of five and seventy-one yards.
ATTENTION, GYMNASTIC FANS
Anyone interested in gymnastics is invited to a meeting to be held on Wednesday, Oct. 18, at 7 p.m. in the apparatus room of the Rockne Memorial Building.
IRISH BACK OF THE WEEK
Junior quarterback Daryle Lamon-ica led the Irish to thre touchdowns, completed 4 of 7 passes for 77 yards and one touchdown, called a good game.
IRISH LINEMAN OF THE WEEK
Jim Kelly, a sophomore from Clairton, Pa., caught three Lamonica passes for 40 yards, one for a touchdown. All three catches were of the spectacular variety.
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
Classified Advertising
NATIONAL COMPANY HAS EXCEPTIONAL OPPORTUNITY FOR TWO COLLEGE STUDENTS FOR PART-TIME WORK. EVENINGS AND SATURDAYS IF POSSIBLE. MUST HAVE CAR. CALL CE. 2-4596 BEFORE NOON MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY.
RUBIN CLEANERS
★
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card ★
217 E. JEFFERSON
Downtown—on the Bus Line
*
Complete Laundry Service
★
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!
AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD-NOJ FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
k
October 13,1961
23
■M
MARDI GRAS — $40,775
mantel and Mardi Gras Ball Chairman Paul Butrus gave excellent explanations of Mardi Gras policy. The estimated profit was $40,775.
The Senate passed the ball, concert, and carnival budgets. Some
Senators were concerned over the proposed $1 price of raffle tickets, and not realizing that the price of the tickets had nothing to do with the budget, they voted to table the raffle budget until the next meeting.
Monday night most of the Mardi Gras budget was passed, $550 was appropriated to the United Fund, a fee of $.25 was placed on election nominations and Dick Meece gained speaking privileges.
Chris Buckley, SBP, reported that abuses of the Senate office phone would stop. A lock has been put on it and
only seven men have keys.
The Senate’s financial watchdog, Tom Schlereth, announced the appointment of a business manager, Phil Melchert, to the social commission. This new office will give the Treasurer more internal control over the commission.
A new commission, the campus organizations commission, headed by Dick Meece, has been established. Meece has become the benevolent dictator coordinator of campus clubs: “If any one of you want to use the engineering auditorium, I now own it.”
Every year the Blue Circle is given an appropriation of $45 to pay for election expenses. As an alternative to this the Senate passed a motion requiring a fee of $.25 for all election nominees. The United Fund appropriation was routine. It is given every year by the Senate.
Student government is characterized by efficiency and organization this year. Debate at Senate meetings sometimes degenerates, but Senate committees are run very efficiently. Indicative of this was the Mardi Gras budget presented by Jim Smith, chairman of the Mardi Gras.
The budget was very comprehensive, with particular expenses well substantiated. Smith, Greg Weis-
ARTCARVED DIAMONDS and WEDDING RINGS . . . JEWELRY
J. Trethewey, Jeweler
★
For: Hamilton - Elgin Bulova - Longineg and Wittnauer Watches
★
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S.Bldg.
SUPER SMOOTH SHAVE
New"wetter-than-water"action melts beard’s tough, ness—in seconds. Remarkable new “wetter-than-water” action gives Old Spice Super Smooth Shave its scientific approximation to the feather-touch feel and the efficiency of barber shop shaves. Melts your beard’s toughness like hot towels and massage—in seconds.
Shaves that are so comfortable you barely feel the blade. A unique combination of anti-evaporation agents makes Super Smooth Shave stay moist and firm. No re-lathering, no dry spots. Richer and creamier...gives you the most satisfying shave...fastest, cleanest—and most comfortable. Regular or mentholated, 1.00.
SHU UTO
24
The Scholastic
I
i
| FORUM
I NEW CONSERVATISM ... A SEARCH FOR ROOTS
by JOE BAROODY and JOHN KOLBE
Mr. Wade Clarke’s discussion of “the Buckbeats” in the September 29 Scholastic was such an exhibition of misinformation and self-contradiction that we cannot allow it to go unchallenged or uncorrected. But to do justice to the cause of conservatism we must, of necessity, transcend the limited bounds which Mr. Clarke set for the discussion.
A comparison of a modern, young conservative with a member of the “beat generation” is analogous to comparing “Eddie’s” to one of our campus dining halls. Both serve food. Similarly, both the conservative and the “beatnik” find their vehicle for expression in public dissent. But there the likeness ends, and likewise, the validity of Mr. Clarke’s clever comparison.
The “beatnik” is a rebel against the surface manifestation of the social order around him. He cannot accept the mass conformity which is so ingrained in what David Riesman has called the “other-directed” society. But beyond a rejection of the sameness prevalent in our society, the “beat” becomes the same type of person that he is so vehemently rebelling against. For all his rebelliousness, he fails to analyze the causes which have brought society to this situation; he becomes a prisoner of the very limitations which encircle his fellow men of a more conformist bent.
M. Stanton Evans, editor of the Indianapolis News, makes the point lucidly in his forthcoming book, Revolt on the Campus. “The common Philosophy of the beats — the rejection of value, the submersion in
October 13,1961
subjective apprehension — is in fact the prevailing philosophy of the age. The root affirmations of positivism and pragmatism, which have, in their popular modulations, presided over our descent into the mass . . . (They) are fugitives from value.”
The very ground upon which the “beat" operates, then, is really the same philosophy which, contrary to Mr. Clarke’s specious declarations, characterizes the modern “liberal” and distinguishes him from the conservative. For in criticizing society, he offers no viable alternative, nothing to* which men can turn in retreat. He is satisfied with doing nothing more than rebelling; he is a mere “aginner.”
The conservative’s rebellion, on the other hand, is one against the total vacuity of contemporary political and social modes. Seeing nothing firm upon which to plant his feet, he demands something for a foundation and finds his answer in absolute value, in institutions proven by the test of tradition (although rejected by the onslaught of the new conformity), in a concept of transcendant order. He has his substitute, and charges into battle with it as a sword and shield.
And here rests the fundamental difference between the conservative and the “beat,” who, it now appears, is little more than a “liberal” with sandals and a dirty face. The rebellion on the left is waged for the sheer ' novelty and thrill of the fight. The cause itself takes secondary importance to the excitement of battle. Not satisfied with the status quo, the “liberal” fights it (although increasingly less as his political and social ideology gains dominance) —
for the mere sake of changing it. The word “progress” achieves overwhelming importance because it becomes synonymous with “change,” and change is always good.
But a movement founded on mere novelty cannot last, for it has no roots in the ground. It is a tumbleweed, moved by the winds of changing opinion and unnourished by the soil of faith in absolutes. And so the conservative endeavors to furnish those roots for revolt by articulating a philosophy of values.
In the light of this, it seems strange that Mr. Clarke can accuse the conservative of favoring the status quo or of seeking security. The entire idea of rebellion, which the conservative is admittedly waging, precludes satisfaction with the status quo. Today’s conservative is profoundly distrustful of an ever-increasing accumulation of power in Washington; he doesn’t seek government handouts for carrying on the business of making a living; he feels shackled by the increasing restrictions which are placed upon his activity in nearly every sphere of life; he is opposed to the current “accommodating,” “negotiating” policy toward Communist governments; he does not believe that true respect for American ideals can be purchased with more and more foreign aid; he distrusts the current activities of the United Nations which seem, with few exceptions, to follow closely the Communist line.
This is not a status quo position; it is obviously in profound disagreement with the accepted policies of the day. It seeks change of a large order. It seeks a return to values and
25
traditions of self-reliance which have been lost in the rush for a “new order,” which has revealed itself as little more than monstrous disorder.
It follows that anyone advocating such a position could hardly be in pursuit of the comfort of security. Again quoting Mr. Evans in his forthcoming book, “Rebellion against an established orthodoxy takes individual initiative, and a fair amount of courage. . . . The movement comprehends the aggressive, resourceful, and articulate members of the college community.”
The security which the conservative seeks is the knowledge that he is not merely floating on the tidal wave of
“Probably the most lucid articulation of this very philosophy came from the Bishops of the United States in their annual statement of 1960. ‘We must seek to enlarge the area of personal autonomy,3 they said, ‘to protect the human personality from a greater encroachment on its freedom and responsibility .. .3 33
novelty but has the reality and root strength of value, tradition, and order under his movement. Beyond that, he seeks to unbridle the human being from the arbitrary force of power centralization and collectivization and leave him to his own resources to interpret and utilize the transcendant values which are his guidelines.
Probably the most lucid articulation of this very philosophy came from the Bishops of the United States in their annual statement of 1960. “We must seek to enlarge the area of personal autonomy,” they said, “to protect the human personality from a greater encroachment on its freedom and responsibility. The individual person must assume as his proud right the accomplishment of whatever he can for himself and for others, especially those of his family, and herein lies the importance of the Christian home. The same principle of responsibility must be consistently applied to every level of action.”
Given this lofty moral base for a conservative philosophy, it becomes nearly superfluous to comment on Mr.
26
Clarke’s absurdity that “the conservative leader seems to forget that freedom means far more than his desire to multiply the fortune which he inherited.” For therein lies a fairly concise statement of the reverse of conservative belief.
In demanding, “Give me the right to spend my dollars as I see fit,” William F. Buckley, Jr. has sounded a clarion call for individual freedom rather than economic aggrandizement. It is not the loss of his fortune which he finds abhorrent in the contemporary economic system, but rather the institutional compulsion — sanctioned by Public Opinion as well as law — which limits his freedom of choice
in accumulating and spending his wealth.
Thus, Mr. Clarke, in his shallow examination of the conservative’s motivations, has totally misunderstood the essence of conservative thought. He fails to comprehend the inseparability of man’s economic life from its spiritual aspects. They are, as Sen. Barry Goldwater has written, “inextricably intertwined. He (man) cannot be economically free, or even economically efficient, if he is enslaved politically; conversely, man’s political freedom is illusory if he is dependent for his economic needs on the State.”
The conservative, then, puts man’s material life in its proper place, but does not elevate it to the place of primacy which it enjoys in the “liberal” rhetoric. In spite of his numerous slogans about freedom, there is no doubt that in the "liberal’s” constant concern with human welfare, higher standards of living, and improved economic conditions — admirable though such concerns may be — is manifesting his overpowering con
cern with man’s material nature. The ; means with which these ends are j effected become subordinated to their final realization.
So, the “liberal” can justify the case of the farmer who was fined for growing wheat above a quota to feed his own chickens — because this is part and parcel of a larger program to increase agricultural income through subsidy and price supports. He can justify the case of the Amish farmer who had his horses seized and sold by the government because he refused to pay compulsory Social Security taxes, which happened to be contrary to his religious beliefs.
The conservative desires such material improvements only through programs which are consonant with individual liberty and established law. He believes in removing oppressive burden imposed on the individual by increased taxation and controls and releasing men’s personal energies for the welfare of themselves and their fellow men. Only out of this condition, as Russell Kirk has pointed out, can a spirit of true charity prevail — a charity untainted by com-	;
pulsion. Heavy taxes, unwillingly	!
given, used to feed the unemployed	j
and build homes for the poorly	j
housed can be called “individual	I
charity” only by a considerable stretch of the “liberal” imagination.
In criticizing the founding statement of the conservative Young Americans for Freedom for its economic provisions (and thus construing this to be an “economic solipsism”), Mr. Clarke totally ignores the fact that in the twelve-point statement, six points precede any mention of	i
economic conditions. The first six	|
paragraphs concern themselves with	I
“God-given free will,” “indivisibility	j
of liberty,” “preservation of internal	■
order and administration of justice,”	i
and the Constitutional division of powers. Hardly solipsistic measures, j their primary mention is an indication ! of their corresponding position in the j conservative ethic.
Summarily, this is the philosophy j of Mr. Clarke’s “Buckbeats.” His uninformed venture into a system of | thought which he obviously neither j has examined nor seeks to understand hardly does credit to the ideology which, by inference, one can assume that he adopts. Hopefully, he declares that the new upsurge is a mere “passing phenomenon,” but fails to reckon with the intelligence and energy of its advocates or the strength and vitality of the verities which it espouses. Mr. Clarke, and others of his ideological bent, will be sorely disappointed.
Short sleeves $4.00
Long sleeves $5.00
In a class by itself
•Vi iiWft?*
There’s never been a casual sport shirt so richly endowed as Arrow Batik Prints.
The patterns are subtle, imaginative, and authentic. The sleeves come in your exact sleeve length — plus the famous Arrow contour tailoring for a slim, trim tapered waistline fit. Sanforized labeled.
ARROTT
From the
“Cum Laude Collection”

BATIK PRINT CLASSICS
The richly colored prints of Java Batik offers a new change of pace in the traditional styling of men’s shirtings. Your wardrobe will be given a lift by the inherent good looks of this classic sport shirt from our Arrow Cum Laude Collection.
Short sleeves $4.00 Long sleeves $5.00
saw
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend