Little things help to keep telephone
Developing better apparatus of many kinds at lower cost is a continuous process in the Bell System. It plays a major part in making your telephone service the finest and cheapest in the world. Here is one of many cases in point:
Above you see two telephone loading coils—one old, one new. Such coils are spaced at regular intervals along telephone circuits. They reduce electrical losses... help to bring your voice through clearly, strongly over long distances.
Through the years, engineers at Bell Telephone Laboratories have succeeded in making these coils smaller and smaller. In so doing, they have greatly reduced the cost per coil, which...multiplied by the millions in use...has helped to keep the cost of out-of-town service low.
Why not telephone home at least once a week? Long Distance rates to most points are lowest any night after 7 P. M. and all day Sunday.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE == RAYMOND J. KELLY ™ —
Speaking of Exams
It has been tradition here at Notre Dame to confine stories of intellectual and scholastic aberration to the members of the English department and their followers. However, the phy ed boys should be brought out of their gymnasiums and exposed, sweat-shirts and all, to public, scrutiny. In a recent exam, a prof asked: “Name two ancient sports.” To his astonishment, one lad, who like Gene Tunney had a fondness for Shakespeare, answered: “Anthony and Cleopatra.”
❖
Chamber of Commerce Stuff
At intervals the back page of the Minnesota Daily blossoms out with a bright, airy column, entitled “Not that it Matters.” It is devoted to the thoughts of a certain Ted Peterson on everything not of consequence. After poring over pages of significant writings on the momentous issues of the day, after reading the labored efforts of columnists and editorial writers to analyze and attempt to simplify the problems of the world, it is delightful experience to encounter one
who doesn’t give a dam about Europe, who, in fact, would rather write about his own home town. In his latest article, he told some of the folklore of Albert Lea, the place where he spends his vacations.
It is a fine little town, probably not much different than the little towns that send Dome editors to Notre Dame. One story that particularly tickled Ted concerned a goat that walked into the office of one business firm and ate all the papers off the desks. When a fellow dropped dead on the courthouse lawn, right downtown, the body lay for two days before anyone discovered it. After the city had finished building a fine, new concrete water tower it was found that the dam thing wouldn’t hold water and because there wasn’t anything in the builder’s contract that said that it had to, the city had to spend a few thousand more dollars waterproofing it. Albert Lea is that kind of a place that is sometimes plastered with signs, “Big Formal Dance (Men must wear coats and neckties)
♦
Oops!
At Marquette, the favorite story these days concerns the campus romeo who
went to a fraternity convention and after three days, wired the local girl; “Having a swell time. Wish you were her.”
♦
Start 'em Out Early
Much has been made of the fact that at many schools members of the alumni associations go out and recruit athletes for the school’s various teams. Miami IL doesn’t bother with the oldsters who might be too preoccupied with the draft, families, business or any of the other affairs that take up the time of excollege students. Just before the Christmas holidays, Coach Frank Wilton, in an open letter to the Miami Student urged the undergraduates, as representatives of their school, to contact prospective athletes during the vacation and urge them to come to Miami.
♦
Agent 2-X Reports
When things get dull and cigarette ashes are mixed in with the last bit of ice in the coke glass and it seems, as if
Well, Doody, the ball was a social success, anyhow.
there is nothing to do but go back to the room and start studying, someone is apt to ask “Just what happened to that funny green hat that ran around the campus last spring?” Usually, no one knows, but the Parade, with its nose for news, ran down an item in the Holy Cross Tomahawk, telling that, before Christmas, the Cross had “the opportunity of listening to Hamlet, Falstaff, Blessed Thomas Campion, and the Archbishop of Canterbury all rolled into one.” It was our friend of the green hat, still in America and in mufti. Despite all Wemhoff’s predictions, Churchill is still saving England by himself.
Reward
Not far from where the Parade eats and sleeps during vacations is a girl’s school, much like our own “Rock.” Eager to hear about the home town no matter what the source, we put them on the list of exchanges at the beginning of the year but got no response. Even a particularly pointed post card had no effect. Finally, upon returning from the holidays we found that, at long last, Mary-grove had come through. What struck us particularly about the paper was the custom the editors had of giving by-lines to the poor drudges who write the advertising copy. It is notable victory for’ the underdog.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
= FRANK WEMHOFF——
1941
January
Dining hall signs a non-aggression pact with the students. —ASCAP bans “do” and “re” from the air.... Adolph hurls a wild appul pitch.... Nick-Nacks for the Nazis group sends 32 pairs of old underwear and six dining hall cards abroad....135 professors receive notes ___________highest . average men rumored to receive caf books._Scrip provides fun for all after a lovely exam session.... discarded cribs dam up the St. Joe river .... star morning checkers rumored to receive caf books___ John O’Dea holds first TEA dance.... Bud Simpson and his Loggy Rhythms play for the Engineers Formal.... Jim Moran plucks his eyebrows in fit of anger.... the Scholastic moves to a new homestead across the tracks.
February
Basketball team wins tenth one-point overtime since Coach Keogan announced heart trouble.... Seniors hear warnings of dire perils, pitfalls, etc., on Feb. 22... Juniors make the usual Dorsey, Miller, Shaw, announcements but finally Promenade with Ray Herbeck.... Rumors of sabotage in the laundry.... everyone admits it so there is no investigation.... John O’Dea holds 28 tea dances.___ brand new shiny cuts.... 4th floor Dil-lonites receive caf books.... dining hall helper caught and sentenced to 30 days in the salt mines for putting cream in the milk.... Lessons in Liberty now in its first printing....
❖
March
Beware the Ides and their “pinkies”... pigeon-toed sleepwalkers receive caf books.... Scrip again.... Tommy Owen sells “Concerto for Whistle” to BMI for pair of quadruple-focals.... John O’Dea holds flag-pole sitting contest next to the Yacht Club.... George Sobek named 1941-42 basketball captain.... Kelley, White, Coppinger, clique presents a Bungles for Britain musical comedy.... “Frenesi” becomes the national anthem over NBC.... Jim Newland manages the Bengal Bouts to perfection with Lou Nova guest-starring.... Lou Rymkus
fights Sorin Hall for the heavyweight title.... Donald Dennis Connors quits school to write Easter greetings....
April
In which we tear away for a slight vacation.... and tear away.... John O’Dea sponsors New York student special and applies for brakeman’s license ... .all sophomores having over 372 white corpuscles receive caf books.... Notre Dame football team receives Nobel Peace award.... John O’Dea elected mayor of Dogtown.... Buffalo Club accused of subsidizing members.... 83 major league clubs claim to have signed Ray Pinelli as the baseball season approaches.... Washington Hall premieres “Birth of a Nation.”
May
.... 2,568 corsage salesmen besiege 532 seniors.... sentimental seniors adopt slogan “Bawl at the Ball”.... Modem- • aires are underbid by Jimmy Dorsey.... Joe Kaltenbach gets the bounce for taking off his shoes and playing “Three Shifless Skonks”.... rejected theses are given as favors to the female guests.... Chairman Larry McLaughlin stuns campus with momentous statement that “the credit goes to my fellow committeemen” .... the Dome arrives with pictures that “don’t do justice to a dog”.... all freshman coeds receive caf books.... Scrip is quartered for keeps.... John O’Dea, ambassador without portfolio, leaves Nome, Alaska, by dog sled on second leg of appeasement tour___ Mulvey originates Amulets for the Americans Movement... Bob McBride shines at fullback in spring practice.... Varsity defeats Old-Timers 20-13.... “The Gondoliers,” a musical extravaganza, plays to a full house.... five of a kind.
❖
June...
Seniors embark on another speakers’ “stormy sea of life”.... Italy asserts neutrality... John O’Dea settles ASCAP-BMI feud.... but not before Stephen Foster has supplanted George Washington as the father of our country..... three A.B. men get jobs, breaking a century-old precedent.... the University presents gold and blue identification tags to each graduating draftee.
OPINION
Culled from the iveek’s mail ivere the following two letters:
Jan. 15, 1941 Dear sir:
I am a faithful follower of your column and have been waiting many weeks to be approached for my opinion. As yet, I haven’t been. Maybe it’s because I’m only a “freshie”—one of many. But I thought maybe that if I wrote you, you could use my name in one of your future columns.
This fall has been a busy one for me, and my work has taken me to the library several times. Each time I have had trouble. The first time was when I spent a whole evening trying to get a copy of Johnson J. Hooper’s book, The Adventures of Simon Suggs, and found myself locked out of my hall when I got back.
Another night when I tried to get the same book again, not one of the five copies was in. There was even a waiting list, and when I tried at the reserve desk, theirs was out, too. You can see it hasn’t been easy going.
Well .... I guess that’s all I have to say for now. Hoping that you use this, I am
Your devoted reader,
Mortimer Webb
P.S. My friend, Bud Smith, says you spelled his name wrong last week.
* * *
Jan. 14, 1941 Dear Sir:
The Law Building is unquestionably one of the truly choice edifices on the campus, but it has one outstanding and unforgivable shortcoming: the water in its drinking fountans is never cold. We could even overlook the fact that you’ve almost got to take your hat and coat off to get at the stream if we wem’t always thirsty when we finished. Please, please, can’t we get a Kelvinator, a hand pump or something?
Yours truly,
Corny Clay .
* * *
If you would like to hint at some problem, as Mortimer does above — though we're not quite sure yet just what his is—or if you have the urge to speak out on some issue,- as does Corny Clay, this column will be glad to consider your contributions.
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing
'	at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 74
JANUARY 17, 1941
Number 12
Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., Named Superior of Holy Cross Seminary
Succeeds Rev. Christopher O'Toole, C. S. C.
During the holiday season the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., Provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation in the United States, named the Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., as superior of Notre Dame’s Holy Cross Seminary. Appointed to Father Grimm’s vacated assistant prefect of religion office in Cavanaugh Hall is the Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., who for the past year and a half has been teaching English at Holy Cross Seminary. Father Grimm’s appointment follows the promotion of his predecessor, the Rev. Christopher O’Toole, C.S.C., to the presidency of Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C.
In his new position Father Grimm has charge of one of two preparatory seminaries in the United States that are conducted by the Holy Cross Congregation. Notre Dame’s seminary, the first such to be founded by the Holy Cross Fathers in the United States, was built in 1886 through the efforts of the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. At present Holy Cross Seminary is a high school, though for 33 years after its founding it was used for complete high school and college training courses. Candidates for the priesthood now get their high school training at this seminary, after which they enter the Novitiate of the Holy Cross Order, located 20 miles west of Notre Dame at Rolling Prairie, Ind. After one year of intensive religious training at the novitiate, the young men enter Moreau Seminary for their college course. The next and final step before ordination of the candidate is the four-year theological course taken at either Holy Cross College or at the Bengalese (the latter being the Foreign Missionary Seminary), both of which are located at Washington, D. C.
Father Grimm’s superiorship of Holy Cross Seminary climaxes three and one-
REV. PAUL BEICHNER, C.S.C.
Successor to Father Grimm
half years spent as assistant prefect of religion.
In a farewell statement, Father Grimm said: “Tell the students whom I have met and worked with that my three and a half years as assistant prefect of religion were enjoyable; that I thank them for their splendid cooperation; that wherever I am located they are always welcome. My one prayer for all of them is success and happiness, both here and hereafter. I hope that all men on the Cavanaugh Hall side of the campus have by this time met Father Beichner, and that they will give him the same friendly cooperation they gave me.”
In a statement issued to The Scholastic, Father Beichner said: “I am entirely new to the job but find it very interesting. In my opinion it is the most priestly work at the University. I will try to come up to the excellent standards of my predecessors in this office, and right now I am anxious to become acquainted with all the boys of the University.”—John Casey
Rev. Joseph Burke, C.S.C., Dies During Holidays
The passing of the old year marked the death of one of Notre Dame’s best loved former faculty members. Reverend Joseph B. Burke, C.S.C., who died in New Orleans, La. on Dec. 30, 1940. Death was attributed to a severe attack of influenza and complications of the heart.	’
Father Burke was well known, having been constantly associated with the University of Notre Dame from the time of his ordination in 1909, until 1925, and again from 1933 until 1937. He received his A.B. degree from Notre Dame and his Ph.D. degree at the Catholic University, Washington, D.C. During his early years at the University, Father Burke was successively, professor of history, prefect of discipline and director of studies. From 1925 to 1931 he was president of St. Edward’s University at Austin, Texas, and then headed the St. Thomas Military Academy at St. Paul, Minn., for two years. Between 1933 and 1937 he served as rector of Dillon Hall and as superior of the Community Infirmary at Notre Dame. Three years ago he was named pastor of St. Bernard’s Church at Watertown, Wis., and last July he was transferred to the pastorate of Sacred Heart Church at New Orleans, where his death occurred at the age of 64.
Few of the present students knew the white-haired priest whose body was brought back to Notre Dame to be buried beside his friends who knew and respected him, however countless alumni mourn him and miss the spirit of geniality and good will he radiated.
—Elmer D. Silha
Plan Tryouts Soon For Operetta, 'The Gondoliers'
Cecil Birder, head of the department of speech, who has had much experience in choral work, will direct a presentation of the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta “The Gondoliers,” here early in March.
Announcement of the try-out dates will be made soon. It is to be an all student show. This will be the first light opera to be produced at Notre Dame in several years.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Prof. Yves Simon Lists Reasons Why France Fell, in "Review of Politics"
“The French Downfall” is the subject of an article appearing in the January 1941 issue of The Review of Politics, which came off the press last week. This article is written by Dr. Yves Simon, associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame.
Dr. Simon blames the downfall of the French Republic on that country’s inability to choose a course of action. Simon states that the popular tendency to explain France’s defeat on the lack of equipment and on the individual mistakes of military chiefs and political leaders is to miss the main point. He wishes to learn the reason behind these facts.
Simon points out that after the Armistice of 1918, France wanted more than anything else to have peace. But in seeking this peace she over-simplified the cause of the World war. She refused to accept President Wilson’s distinction between the German nation and the government of the Kaiser. As a result she demanded that Germany be punished. This punishment was to be in the form of reparations.
But according to Dr. Simon, “reparations could be afforded only by a strong Germany, whereas security required that Germany should remain permanently weak.” France believed that Germany under the Republic was secretly rearming and preparing to attack France. This idea was fostered by French politicians in campaign talks and by the press in countless articles on the subject.
Simon continues by saying that “French foreign policy had to be, first of all, a struggle for security.” This security could come from either “a system of security based upon collective assistance (or) a system of security based upon military alliances.” French policy, according to Simon, refused to choose between these two systems.
France continually feared Germany but “did little or nothing to promote the success of democracy in Germany.” Simon states that “nowadays, the leaders of German democracy either have been killed, or are being held in concentration camps, or have been forced to leave their country. No longer can it be denied that the enemies of France were also their relentless enemies.”
The French belief in German military might during the Republic led France to remain quiet when Hitler remilitarized the Rhineland in 1936. “The French people did not know That the German
army was still far from being able to meet the French power on the battlefield. The best patriots rejected absolutely the idea of what was called a preventive war.”
The French, as .the years went on
Professor Yves Simon
after the peace treaties, came to the conclusion that “the Peace treaties in central Europe were precarious, un-politic, (and) “unjust” “that not a single French boy should be sacrificed to prevent Germany from recapturing Danzig and the Corridor.” The French believed that the treaties should be revised but the “date for revision was always postponed.”
The action of France at Munich was the result of many years of belief in France that Benes and the Czechoslovakian Republic were anti-Catholic, because Benes had opposed the Haps-burg restoration in Austria. Benes had been depicted as “the agent of the ‘international masonry.’ ” Hence it proved easy to convince a number of Frenchmen that the state founded by Masaryk and Benes was not worth defending.” The French believed that this German “drive to the East” would keep Germany occupied for some time.
Dr. Simon stresses the fact that Frenchmen wished to be friendly to Italy and Russia. They failed to see that Italy’s friendship with Germany made this course impossible.
Other articles in this issue include one by Denis de Rougemont who writes on “Passion and the Origin of Hitlerism”;
and Mortimer J. Adler’s “A Dialectic of Morals.”
While the regular price of the Review of Politics continues to be $2.50 a year and 75 cents per single copy, special rates are being given to students. These rates are $2.00 for a year’s subscription, and 50 cent per, single copy. The single copy purchasers must procure their copies from the Review office on the second floor of Science Hall.
—Thomas F. Carty
U. S. Must Lay Plans
For Just Peace—O'Brien
“The greatest contribution which America can render to the preservation of Christian civilization is to use her good offices and her great moral influence to bring the warring nations to the conference table to lay the foundations for a just and lasting peace,” declared the Rev. John A. O’Brien, Ph.D., professor at University of Notre Dame, in an address at a winter rally of the members of the Holy Name societies of the Lafayette deanery at Purdue University Memorial Hall on Jan. 2. The Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, was the guest of honor. Speaking on “The Challenge of Our Day,” Dr. O’Brien said in part:
“There is no problem, no matter how great and complicated, which can’t be solved if both sides bring to its discussion good will, sympathy and understanding.
“On the other hand, there is no dispute, no matter how small and trivial, which can be solved, if the disputants abandon good will and understanding and adopt an attitude of arrogance and intransigence.
“The greatest misfortune that could befall America and the civilized world would be the adoption by our government of the attitude that the European war is irreconcilable through conference of warring nations. To scorn to use her good offices in the cause of peace, to cease to search unwearingly for ways of bringing the belligerents to the conference table, to ascertain their minimum peace terms is to fall into the same mistake made by the diplomats of Europe—the mistake of seeking to solve their problems by seeing which side could destroy more buildings and slaughter more of the common masses of the people, who were not even consulted.
“It was against the adoption of this irrational and unChristian attitude that our Holy Father, Pope Pius XII, pleaded so earnestly in his Christmas Eve message to the world. His plea should be hearkened to particularly by America.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
“We seem to be forgetting that the proudest title of the Divine Master was that of “Prince of Peace,” and that He said: ‘Blessed are the peacemakers; for they shall be called the children of God.’
“It was in the spirit of the Prince of Peace that our Holy Father pleaded for a new order based on a victory over hate, for the cessation of propaganda and methods based on hate, for victory over lack of trust, and for the observance of pacts between nations.
“Members of the Holy Name Society are followers of the Prince of Peace. Let us mobilize the millions of our members in a mighty crusade to keep America out of war, and out of all the steps which lead inevitably to it. We need to heed the warning of Holy Writ: ‘He that loveth danger shall perish in it’.”
—James P. O’Loughlin
C. P. T. C. Requisites For
New Course Announced
Notre Dame assumes an increasingly important position in the national preparedness program with the announcement by the office of the prefect of discipline that applications are being accepted for both the primary and secondary phases of the Civilian Pilots Training Corporation. The new program will begin Feb. 1, and will be completed by June 30.
Total cost for the course, either primary or secondary, will be $15, $9 for the insurance premium, and $6 for a medical examination. The primary course will consist of 72 hours of ground instruction, and from 35 to 45 hours of flight instruction. The secondary course will consist of 108 hours of ground instruction, and 40 to 50 hours of flight.
All applicants must have written permission from their parents, and permission from their respective deans. In addition, there are certain requirements for each group as follows:
Primary Phase: They must be citizens of the United States. They must have reached their 19th but not their 26th birthday on or before Feb. 1, 1941. They must neither hold nor have a pilot’s certificate of private grade or higher. Applicants who are undergraduates still in college must be fully matriculated for a degree at the participating institution.
Secondary Phase: They must be citizens of the United States. If naturalized, they must have obtained full status on or before Oct. 1, 1930. In so far as age requirements are concerned, graduates of the fall session, private course, college phase, are eligible to enroll in the spring secondary course without age restric
tions, but all other applicants must have reached their 19th birthday but not their 26th birthday by Feb. 1, 1941 and must meet all other eligibility requirements. They must possess a currently effective
This Little Pig Went to Market...
After completing a speaking tour last week in Kentucky, Tennessee and Alabama, Brother Leo, C.S.C., 72-year-old manager of the Notre Dame farm and nationally known as an expert cattlefeeder, entered a carload of prize hogs in the Chicago Livestock shows. It marked the twenty-fifth consecutive year that Notre Dame has participated in the exposition.
Through the courtesy of a phosphorus company whose product for 32 years has
Farm headquarters
helped to build the farm to the present high standard of productivity, he was given an opportunity to observe the farming conditions of the South. Brother Leo addressed farm gatherings at least once a day during the ten-day trip. In his talks he told how scientific knowledge of farming has enabled him to bring the Notre Dame farm from a state of virtual unproductivity forty years ago to its present high standard.
And so Brother Leo, despite a serious automobile accident less than a year ago continues to take part in agriculture. He was named Indiana champion cattle feeder in 1937, the same year his prize steers, averaging 1397 pounds a head, sold in Chicago for $16.25 a hundred-weight on the hoof, breaking a 20 year price record.
It was in 1900, three years after he joined the Holy Cross Brothers, that Brother Leo assumed the management of the 900 acre farm just east of the cam
private pilot’s certificate obtained for. satisfactory completion of the private course in a previous session of the Civilian Pilots Training Program
—Bill Welch
pus proper. Through his outstanding farming ability the Notre Dame farm has benefited by a restoration of soil fertility, and its hog and cattle-feeding operations have commanded nation-wide attention.
In addition to its many contributions to the cultural life of Indiana and the United States, the University of Notre Dame has greatly assisted in the agricultural advancement in this section. Annually on its 900 acres are grown 300 tons of alfalfa, 150 acres of corn and an average of 450 beef cattle and some 700 hogs. Until seven or eight years ago. Brother Leo’s farm supplied all the beef for the stalwart appetites of University students and the quest for beef took him annually into the vast regions of the West and Southwest.
Now a Business
Now, however, the University dining halls buy their meat on the open market but Brother Leo still runs the farm with the assistance of Brother Marcus. He does much of his buying and selling in Chicago. Steers are bought there and fattened on the farm for a period of ten months and then the prime beef is reshipped to the open market.
On many occasions his prize hogs and cattle have won high awards in livestock exhibited in national competition. Four times his hogs have carried away grand championships in the Chicago Livestock shows.
Brother Leo’s idea of a little vacation, he says, is to show some of his prize porkers in stock exhibits.
—Francis Carver
Engineers See Movie
A sound movie, “Bridging San Francisco,” was shown in the auditorium of Cushing Hall of Engineering Monday night under the auspices of the Notre Dame Civil Engineer’s club. The picture showed the building of the great bridge that crosses San Francisco Bay joining Oakland, Calif., and San Francisco.
Gerald Hickey, off-campus, is president of the Engineer’s club. Professor Walter L. Shilts, head of the department of civil engineering, is faculty sponsor.
—James V. Cunningham
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
By Russell L. Harris
Perhaps the most explosive people in the world are redheads and Irishmen, and it is only natural that one expect thunderous results in a combination of the two. But the ways of nature are indeed strange and unpredictable. Dick Dora is both redheaded and Irish yet there is nothing at all bombastic about him, unless you persist in calling him “torch” or “brick.” Even then he is qu forget, almost to sr
one doubts his Irish lineage.
Fearing the wickedness of the press and the possible consequences of publicity in the Scholastic Dick tried to evade this column by protesting a very uneventful life, beginning in Vincennes, Indiana and continuing up to the third floor of Walsh. Never having played football he denied all claim to fame. A
Dick Dora
ick to forgive and ich an extent that
little probing, however, revealed many interesting things about this down-state boy. Perhaps the first really memorable thing that he did was to burn down his father’s garage. This happened before he was twelve and the resulting impression on his posterior region induced him to give up smoking for several years. While in high school he put his many years of mother-enforced piano playing
Series of Tea Dances Offered Students
For years students of Notre Dame have been cognizant of a gap in their social life between Christmas and the beginning of Lent. Since this is especially evident on Saturday afternoons, it remained for Alumni Hall’s John O’Dea to do something to alleviate this condition.
O’Dea’s remedy consists in offering a series of Tea Dances from 2:30 to 5:30 p.m. on successive Saturdays. The first dance in this series was held last Saturday in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle. Marty Ross and his orchestra supplied the music for the dance.
The next dance will be held on Feb. 1, following Notre Dame’s exams and the Freshman Formal at St. Mary’s.
- There will also be a dance on Feb. 8,
to practical use by playing in a dance band. At present his musical inclinations are attested to by his large collection of records — everything from Beethoven’s Fifth to “Beat Me Mama With a Boogie Beat.”
When Dick came to Notre Dame, he decided to enter the College of Commerce and as yet he has not reached the repentance stage. In fact he has entered into that life with such enthusiasm that he is now the vice president of the Commerce Forum and the head of that organization placement bureau. Strangely enough there has been no stream of applicants to his door. Dick explains this peculiar phenomenon by pointing to army competition.
Dick has solid, substantial ambitions. He wants to get into sales work and perhaps someday become an important executive. He has already started to develop himself for this future day by collecting an extensive wardrobe and by becoming an authority on what the well-dressed man should wear. The boys come from miles around to have him select their ties.
Socially speaking Dick is a Woodsman rather than a Rockefeller. It all began beneath the Wabash moon whose virtues Dick extols above even the famous Carolina moon. But, of course, he’s prejudiced.
Dick’s chief worries are those common to all Notre Dame seniors—his girth is expanding and he is losing his hair. He knows of no remedy for the latter affliction, but after a conference with his local board he has decided that a year in the army might reduce his waistline. So next year Dick will be shouldering along with the best of them and in his heart he will be happy, for he will know that he has thwarted the premature encroachments of the middle age spread.
following the Notre Dame Monogram Ball.
These dances have the approval of both Notre Dame and St. Mary’s College.
Math Professors Talk
At Louisiana Conclave
Four members of the University’s department of Mathematics attended the Christmas meeting of the American Mathematical Society at Baton Rouge, La., during the weekend of Dec. 28-29-30
Professor A. N. Milgram presented a paper on the dimension theory; Professor J. L. Kelley spoke on “A Theorem on Continuous Transformations”; and Dr. C. B. Robinson talked on metric geometry. Dr. J. P. Nash of the faculty also attended the meeting.
Msgr. Sheen Succeeds
Dr. Francis E. McMahon
Dr. Francis E. McMahon, professor in the department of philosophy, presided at the 16th annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association in Detroit on Dec. 30-31. The Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, of the Catholic University of America, who was a guest lecturer at Notre Dame in 1936, was elected president of the organization for 1941 to succeed Dr. McMahon.
In his retiring presidential address Dr. McMahon spoke on “Metaphysics and Culture.” Dr. Yves Simon, also a professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, spoke on “Liberty and Authority.” The general subject discussed at the meeting, attended by noted Catholic philosophers from all over the United States, was “The Problem of Liberty.”
In his presidential address, Dr. Francis E. McMahon said that “If modern culture is in the process of disintegration, it is chiefly due to causes which are not primarily economic, or social, or political, but metaphysical. It is always hard to trace in detail the process by which a philosophical doctrine, concocted perhaps at a green-table in the darkened room of a philosopher, gradually finds its way among the masses, and becomes the chief ingredient of the spiritual air they breathe.
“Who could possibly trace step by step the influence of a Descartes upon the thinking processes of the man in the street? Who can outline with precision and thoroughness the effects of a Fichte upon the modes of behavior of a German corporal? Who can show how the heavy thoughts of a Hegel have infiltrated down into the recesses of the mind of an obscure Italian editor?
“Consequently, crass materialism, scepticism, subjective idealism are now producing their bitter fruits. False philosophies have severed modem man from his ontological roots. His natural linkage with being and the Source of being has been broken. The road he now takes is the road to moral and physical death.”
Dr. McMahon went on to say that— “The philosopher realizes that success or failure in the fight to save what deserves to be saved in our culture will depend ultimately not upon military or economic strength, but upon the strength of our belief in the ideals we are fighting for. We are ideologically and spiritually unprepared for the ordeal that awaits us—tragically so. It is relatively easy to pile up armaments and to speed planes and ships on their way to meet the foe. It is much harder to instill into ourselves solid convictions regarding the value of the free life and human dignity
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE
and absolute truth. And yet without these solid convictions we are lost.
He concluded that “Never was a group of philosophers faced with a more urgent task than that which now confronts the present generations of Thomistic metaphysicians. They must meet the ideological crisis by providing the last defense of the democratic ideal with the weapons by which may be forged those solid convictions necessary for the successful defense of our culture.”
—James V. Cunningham
Bud Simpson's Band Plays
For Engineer's Formal
Slide rules and drawing boards will be put away for a few hours tonight
when the boys
Thomas Talty
from Dean Jackson’s school dance to the music of Bud Simson and his orchestra at the annual Engineers’ Ball. South Bend’s Palais Royal Ballroom will be the scene of the affair which is under the chairmanship o f Thomas Talty, an electrical engineer
from Chicago, Ill. The Queen of the Ball will be Miss Mary Rita Murphy of St. Mary’s College.
The dance tonight differs from the Engineers’ Ball of former years in the fact that students other than engineers may attend. This fact accounts for the large Ballroom and the favorable date which the engineers have obtained this year.
Frank Doody, president of the Engineers’ Club, will escort Miss Alma Nar-dine of St. Mary’s. Doody, a mechanical engineer from Chicago announced that the committee includes John Tormey, Robert Bartie, Robert DeMoss and Jerry Hickey.
The dancing will last from 9:00 until midnight, with students in their place of residence by 12:30.
History Organization Plans Essay Contest
A society organized by Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., for those students who have history as their major has had a full schedule since September. With James O’Brien as president, Gerald Fisher as vice president, and Donald McGinley as secretary - treasurer, the club has started its campaign to foster the study of history on the campus.
Earlier in the fall, the organization heard Professor Yves Simon speak on “Religious History of France from 1918-1939.” Before the presidential election
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
Vacations, we must admit, are great things. They bring rest to tired bodies and peace to tortured minds. They bring money to railroads, movie houses, dance halls and taverns. They bring attention to relatives, affection to young ladies, amusement to neighbors. They help transfer news, styles, and regional philosophies. They aid and abet, sustain and stimulate. But they are a nuisance. They are a nuisance for many reasons, but particularly for one reason. At the close of every vacation of the past four years we have had to listen (and express the propel’ emotions) to the various descriptions of individual vacational activities. We have been forced, at different times in the four years, to chuckle, giggle, roar; shake our heads, pound the table, smack our lips, sigh, whistle and say “no kidding.” And it has been a hard job because the stories have always been the same. Only the name of the girl and the brand have changed.
* * *
No one can claim, incidentally, that the University went to sleep during the Christmas period. Several professors and some students kept her name in the public eye by endorsing a presidential message which assured help to England. The signatures (and the message) were printed in newspapers throughout the country and we were as proud as can be when we saw them. After all, endorsing presidential messages is no ordinary Christmas occupation. It’s a lot different from singing carols and sipping the wassail bowl.
*
We don’t know what general effect the endorsement had, but we know one fellow who fails to be impressed by those big names. He intends to start an organization in opposition to that “Bundles For Britain” outfit. He is going to call his invention “Nick-nacks For Nazis,” and will accept all contributions from soap to syringes.
the Rev. William McNamara presided over a discussion of the history of the third term tradition.
In conjunction with the Teacher’s History club of Notre Dame, organized last summer by Father McAvoy, the student society will be the judges of an essay contest to be held in the schools taught by the Teacher’s club. Over 50 secondary schools will offer essays on different phases of American history.
—Robert Nenno
The first Saturday afternoon tea dance of the series proposed was held last week, and according to unimpeachable sources was a pleasant affair. One fellow told us that it was “a howling success”; that it was “the best dance I’ve ever attended.” And if he said so, it must be true for — he promoted the thing.
* £
Over at Holy Cross Seminary last Sunday, a group of anonymous young men who are preparing for the priesthood presented an Irish play called “Playboy of the Western World.” Some of the seminarians became women for the night, some drunkards, and some idiots. One even became a “playboy,” and a very good playboy he was. And in these incongruous roles the actors began to shpit and dhrink liquor and taalk o’ th’ wingein’ banshees. They blusthered and they batthled and shplit opin shkulls, and in giniral, conducted thimsilves in a whay no true prayst o’ th’ Church would. But in portraying some wild Irishmen, they didn’t fail at all, at all.
£ # *
While we were home last month we dropped into a local book shop in order to obtain some of the works of the poets, Keats and Shelley and Walt Wordsworth Whitman. We were tramping through stalls when we heard a sales girl say: “Where’s Aristotle! Where’s Aristotle, he was right next to Kathleen Norris a minute ago.” Not having heard of any return on the part of The Philosopher we dashed to the spot to see him and learn what he was asking the good right arm of the “Women’s Home Companion.” Of course, we were disappointed. Aristotle was not there in person at all. It just happened that his works along with the novels of Kathleen Norris and the writings of some other established classical figures like St. Thomas and Dale Carnegie were being featured on the special bargain counter at 56 cents that day. For all we know. Aristotle is still in the first circle in the Inferno.
* * *
Whether the treasury department of the University realizes it or not, they accomplish a crafty and delicate maneuver each Christmas vacation. Right in the midst of joy and plenty, just when every person is flushed with the spirit of love and peace, the treasury department send their semi-annual message. And who can become indignant with a tuition bill during the holy season? It’s like taking castor oil in orange juice.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
10	THE
Byrne Contributes to
Catholic Reading List
Paul R. Byrne, Ph.B., B'.L.S., University librarian, is one of the contributors to A Reading List for Catholics, which the America Press of New York City has recently released. This reading list was prepared for National Catholic Book Week under the auspices of the Catholic Library Association; it is edited by John M. O’Loughlin.
The reasons which prompted the Association to sponsor a National Catholic Book Week are the same as those which prompted the committee to arrange for
Catholic Book Week observed here
this bibliography. As the Introduction states there is and has been for some time, a clear demand on the part of Catholic laymen for an authoritative list of books, which would be classed and annotated, which might be used as a guide to both recreative and instructive reading.
The introduction asserted that the compilers, whose names appear at the head of their respective sections, have restricted themselves to titles published since 1910. The list is prepared for the average Catholic man who would like a solid but non-technical list from which to choose his reading. That the compilation was an arduous task is obvious; the problem of space was especially bothersome; it was necessary to limit the titles in each section. The difficulty was not in finding suitable works but in the wise selection of those works.
The list contains 12 sections: Bibli
ography, biography, fiction, general reference, literature, mission literature, philosophy, religion, science, sociology, and young people’s section.
Mr. Byrne, who compiled the titles for the general reference section, introduces the section with the following commentary:
“Reference books are libraries in miniature. ... shortcuts to learning, passkeys to the accumulated wisdom of the ages.’ An attempt has been made in this brief list to call attention to those titles which the average reader might have occasion to consult and which would be a help to him in his reading and study. These are books which are to be consulted for information—not to be read through. Special treatises in the various field of knowledge often contain better or more up-to-date information than reference sources and these should also be consulted.”
Mr. Byrne lists the following books: American Yearbook, Catholic Encyclopedia, Columbia Encyclopedia, Encyclopedia Americana, Encyclopedia Brittan-ica, Index Librorum Prohibitorum, Lincoln Library of Essential Information, National Catholic Almanac, Official Catholic Directory, Statesman’s Yearbook, Home Book of Quotations, Classical and Modern, Statistical Abstract of the U.S., Webster’s New International Dictionary of the English Language, World Almanac and Book of Facts, World Book Encyclopedia.
Alumni, Dillon To Clash
For Campus Debate Title
Their heads crammed with facts and figures, members of the Alumni affirmative and Dillon negative interhall teams will battle for supremacy Monday evening at 7:30 at the Law building. Chairman of interhall debate is Tom Grady. Mr. William Coyne, director of debate, will judge the contest.
The Alumni team members are: Tom Carty, Joe Mulligan, and Paul Vignos; Milt Williams is coach of the team. The Dillon team, directed by Jack Hennessey, is composed of Don Casey, Rog Young, and Jim McVay. The interhall debate series is sponsored each year by the Wranglers Club, honorary forensic society of the campus. Wrangler members are appointed to coach each of the various halls entered and also to judge the preliminary debates.
The winner of tonight’s battle will receive the interhall trophy which is held at present by Howard hall. The first hall to win the trophy three times will keep it permanently. All those interested are invited to the debate tonight.
—Robert LeMense
Father O'Toole Named
Holy Cross President
The Rev. Christopher J. O’Toole, C.S.C., former professor of philosophy has left Notre Dame to take up the duties of his new appointment as president of Holy Cross College, Washington.
He succeeds the Rev. William J. Doheny, C.S.C., who was made assistant superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross several months ago.
Father O’Toole was ordained to the priesthood in 1933 and joined the Notre Dame faculty as professor of philosophy after spending a year at St. Edward’s university, in Austin, Texas. He pursued graduate studies in the University of Louvaine, in Belgium, from 1936 to 1939, but was forced to return at the outbreak of war.
After the death of the Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., last spring, Father O’Toole became master of ceremonies for University religious ceremonies and last August was also named superior of Holy Cross seminary at Notre Dame.
—James V. Cunningham
Notre Dame Glee Club Invades Ohio, Indiana
A group of 45 members of the Notre Dame Glee Club is preparing for something other than the fast approaching examinations—a concert tour through the east.
On their musical tour, the Notre Dame singers propose to entertain audiences with their extensive program. Soloists Donald Tiedemann, Anthony Donadio, and Robert Bischoff will take an important part in the program, Bischoff taking precedence in his home town, Cincinnati, Ohio.
The traditional version of the “Victory March” had been abandoned for a new arrangement that consists, in the beginning, of a choral background to the words of Grantland Rice’s poem honoring Knute Rockne, with the entire Glee Club singing the chorus. A surprise feature to be rendered is a “Progress of Song” narrating the story of America in music. The piano duet by Bill Mooney and Joe Lavord, that made such a hit at the K. of C. vaudeville will accompany the Glee Club on this brief tour.
The trip thus far, is as follows: Jan. 31—Cincinnati, Ohio; Feb. 1—Anderson, Ind.; Feb. 2—open; Feb. 3—St. Mary-of-the-Woods, Terre Haute, Ind.
A full conceit season is in store for the future. Already the Glee Club has received 20 offers from cities extending between here and the Atlantic coast.
—C. S. Coco
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Students Participate in Notre Dame
Speaker's Bureau With Apostolic Zeal
OUR DAILY BREAD
Many have been asking, “What is the Notre Dame Speaker’s Bureau?” “What is it’s purpose?” In an interview -with Rev. Regis O’Neil, C.S.C., we learned more about the organization. “It came about in this manner,” said Father O’Neil. “Many of the boys in my religion classes expressed a willingness to give speeches in class on subjects
Rev. J. R. O’Neil such as ‘The Danger of Mixed Marriage,’ ‘Free Masonry,’ ‘The Evils of Birth Control,’ and many others. The speeches often terminated with discussion. Some of the talks were so well given that I wondered if some kind of an organization could be formed which would serve as an outlet for their enthusiasm. The Notre Dame Speaker’s Bureau was then organized.
“In the beginning we did not know whether it would survive. From September 1939, to November 1940 it had its ups and downs. Some of the members were very skeptical, others attended the meetings but soon dropped by the wayside. Those few who remained worked hard to keep the organization intact. Now they are beginning to realize the
Speaker’s Bureau: Seated—John Specht, Francis King, and Carl Coco; standing—John Donovan, John Malone, and Robert Marbach
fruits of their labors.
“After receiving the official approval of the University and of Bishop Noll, a contact man was appointed. It is his duty to make speech-engagements for the other members. He contacts the pastors. If they are too busy to handle the matter themselves they refer him to the presidents of the different parish organizations. In this way a speech appointment is made.
“Some of the boys have gone into various parishes and spoken before C.Y.O. groups. Others have gone into private homes putting more interest and enthusiasm into study club groups. Still others have spoken before larger groups, telling men and women of different walks of life the purpose of the organization.
“More and more do they realize the importance of their religion,” Father O’Neil continued, “and the need of increasing their knowledge of Catholic doctrine. Once they have mastered their subject they have no fear of appearing before any group. When their speech is completed—it usually lasts about a halfhour—they carry on a discussion with the audience.”
The boys who participated in the work of the Bureau soon began to realize that many hours were required for the preparation and mastery of their subject. In spite of the extra work which a speech (Continued on Page 20)
LITURGY	.
“Let’s go” is well known go-getter slogan. ... It is altogether Rotarian. . . . Success is a matter of sound and fury .... Line them up, count heads and, lo, the thing is done.... By contrast, the coming of. salvation to the world was done in silence.... In the silence of men’s hearts thpt work continues to be accomplished.
The familiar phrase has real meaning in the sense of promptness to divine inspiration. ... The shepherds said, “Let us go over to Bethlehem”.... The Magi said, “This is the sign of the great King, let us go and search for him.”
Over against the turmoil of the holiday was almost the quiet repose of the Crib.___Now we can again enter more intimately into the spirit of the Liturgy as it unfolds the infancy and the growing years of the Man-God.... For the season after the Epiphany is as truly a manifestation of the divinity for us as was the actual experience for the Magi.
We are not unlike them, in this regard, that we live at a time when worldly power seeks violently to dethrone the new-born King from the hearts of men .... Though we are far removed from the scenes of actual conflict, yet the assault is in the printed and spoken word.
The Magi went home by a round about way to evade the craft of Herod.____No idle curiosity, no wish to fawn upon or truckle with power caused them to dis-■ regard the inspiration they had received .... Herein is a great lesson against trusting to human standards, against sole reliance upon human fallibility. ... It is only the triumph of grace that counts.
The theme of this Sunday’s mass is the royal power and dignity of Christ___ It is the assurance of victory that can come only in Christ and through Christ .... The miracle of Cana betokens the miracle of the Mass through which we are made one with Christ.
(Mass Calendar on page 19)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM 0. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing; Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES.
Literary Editor
WILLIAM BAADER
Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI. C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building: Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
U. S. Recognizes Progress
Notre Dame took a prominent spot in the news this month—and a little man accounted for it. Joseph Gregory Rice, America’s major threat to the long list of accomplishments once thought wellhandled by the Finnish national stars, became the eleventh winner of the 1940 James E. Sullivan Memorial trophy.
“It is the highest honor I’ve ever received,” Greg beamed as he prepared for a practice session at the Notre Dame fieldhouse last week.
It was truly a remarkable achievement: The award is given each year to the amateur athlete who “by his performance, example, and influence as an amateur and as a man, has done the most during the year to advance the cause of sportsmanship.” More than 600 sports leaders from various parts of the United States voted in the poll which found Notre Dame’s favorite son, an alumnus of 1939, on top. He polled 1,013 points, more than the next two of the five finalists collected together.
Rice’s triumph is unusual. He won the award the first time he broke into the list of nominees. Precedent had dictated that the' winner take the award in a gradual process. The chunky little Irishman from Montana was the hero of the 1940 indoor campaign. He defeated Tais-to Maki, champion Finn, in all their meetings; he shattered the world indoor two-mile record with an 8:56.2 effort; and twice toppled the 15-year-old three-mile standard with times of 13:55.9 and 13:52.3. He won the National Amateur Athletic Union indoor three-mile and outdoor 5,000 - meter titles and was
awarded the Track Writers’ Association trophy as the top athlete of the indoor season.
A daily communicant at Notre Dame, Rice has lived the traditional Notre Dame life after graduation. He was active in the “No-Smut” committee for decent literature; took a lead in Adoration plans during May, October, and Lent; and captained the track team. He dedicates every race to the saint of the day. His favorite patrons to whom he dedicates his practice sessions are St. Anthony and St. Theresa.
Encouraging it is to note that the United States still recognizes one who has accomplished something positive. Many of his international rivals have been shunted into athletic inactivity because of unsettled situations abroad. But Rice’s fervent prayer and hope is that 1944 will find the resumption of world peace in the materialization of that symbol of international peace—the Olympic Games. That is his goal for future competition. In the meantime he runs often. His next date is the Knights of Columbus games two-mile race at Boston on Jan. 25.
Notre Dame hails Rice’s inspiration to youth—more power to you, Greg!
—Bill Scanlan
An Appeal to the Audience!
On the Wednesday evening preceding the closing of classes for the Christmas vacation a group of talented young actors and actresses bowed to an opening night’s applause for their presentation of Mr. Sutton Vane’s play, “Outward Bound,” on the stage in old Washington Hall. For more than a month previous
this group had worked ardently each night and sometimes into the morning hours to perfect the lines which were to entertain their fellow students. Readily they gave up their time, time which could have been more profitably and pleasantly spent, until at last the lines were learned and the stage business completed.
The show ran for two successive nights, and for the first two performances an appreciative audience, composed mostly of faculty members, their friends, and a number of the Notre Dame student body, praised the true versatility of the young artists. Then came the third and closing night. The actors portrayed their parts eagerly and well, but the audience spoiled the night. Notre Dame was disgraced on that night by the ignorance and contempt of a small group of students who formed part of the vast audience. Loud, uncalled-for criticism and boisterous laughing rang out during the last two acts of the play. A number of young ladies from nearby St. Mary’s, interested in dramatics, were in the audience, and their presence, much less the presence of a group of faculty members should have prompted respect. But no! To the gang of show-offs who openly showed their disdain of the affair, respect was sadly wanting and the honest endeavors of the cast went unappreciated.
Many times in the past when University students or guests have entertained in Washington Hall unfavorable comment has been caused by the behavior of the student audience. Is there an excuse for this? Are Notre Dame students any different from students from other schools? Usually when a group of young men gather to see a show they outdo themselves in radiating poise so that they will be the more respected by their companions. It seems, however, that in every group there are those few who must start something radical, and those who must follow in order to showoff. There is no reason for the Notre Dame student body to be termed “unappreciative” when that term belongs to a very few. And from the example of the majority those few will soon come to realize the folly of disrespect.
We all know that it’s very hard to get out on that stage, to perform flawlessly in word and action, and to remain composed before even the most perfect audience. The players of “Outward Bound” received only the justly acquired praise . of those who appreciated their efforts, and their performance certainly deserved more respect than was shown. When the next show comes to Washington Hall let’s greet it with the proper respect.—Frank McDonough
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Father Connor Honored by Congregation
On 50th Anniversary of Ordination
Still Active as Chaplain of St. Mary's College
Two hundred and fifty members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross assembled in the Notre Dame dining halls during Christmas vacation to honor Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C., who is celebrating the golden anniversary of ordination to the priesthood. He is 76 years of age.
Father Connor is still active as chaplain of St. Mary’s college and has spent his entire religious life within two miles of Sacred Heart church on the Notre Dame campus, where he received holy orders in 1890.
During most all of this time he has been the community authority on church rubrics and he is regarded as one of the best informed authorities on the ritual pageantry of the Catholic church. His advice frequently is sought by clergymen from all parts of the country.
As master of ceremonies, Father Connor has directed the religious ceremonies coincident to the ordination of most of the priests who assembled to honor him.
For a quarter of a century, until relieved in 1920, he served as master of novices, then for a time was superior of the community house for older religious and now for more than a decade has been in his present post at Saint Mary’s.
The dinner was arranged by Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial. Among others attending were Very Rev. Albert Cousineau, C.S.C., superior general of the congregation who delivered the felicitations of the entire community,
and Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.
—James V. Cunningham
Following is the sermon preached at the Golden Jubilee Mass of Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C., on Dec. 21, 1940, by the Rev. Richard J. Collentine, C.S.C., superior of the Mission House.
Notre Dame has been the scene of many a Jubilee, commemorating anniversaries of ordination and religious profession in the Congregation of Holy Cross. Already God has blessed a large number with the privilege of reaching the Golden Jubilee of their ordination to the priesthood. Today we can congratulate this distinguished group on the arrival of another who can stand on a
pedestal in their midst—the Reverend William R. Connor, C.S.C., a man who has been a figure of prominence in the religious and liturgical life of Notre Dame for half a century.
A day like this prompts reminiscence along with profitable and consoling thought. As we try to visualize the Notre Dame that formed the setting of Father Connor’s ordination in 1890, and compare it with the Notre Dame of today, we are moved to gratitude and awe; gratitude for the benign Providence which has blessed Notre Dame with survival, success, and growth; awe, at the gentle, mysterious and irresistable manner in which that Providence has worked.
Another reminiscence occurs, a bit sombre but helpful, because it ensures the supernatural angle for a view of the day’s events. This calls up faces, which look out at us from the shadows of the past; priests and brothers, some of whom reached the Golden Jubilee milestone, and many who did not. They are the members of Holy Cross who live only in their record as religious, and in the visible works that perpetuate their memory. The Jubilarian, I am sure, would have no difficulty in picturing the smile their faces would wear, or in imagining the heartiness and the cordiality that would be in their handshake and their word, were they here to congratulate him today.
This occasion, of course, directs chief attention to the priesthood itself and the Eternal Priest Who established it. It reminds us not only of the Divine Love and Wisdom from which the priesthood sprang, but also of the Divine pow
Father Cousineau, left, and Father Steiner, ri ght, at dinner in honor of Father Canner, eenter.
er that sustains the priesthood and guarantees its perpetual survival. On occasion God offers evidence of this, evidence adjusted to our human vision, which reveals in startling clearness the divine strength which guards the priesthood. Queen Elizabeth, unwittingly, supplied some of this evidence, when in her reign priests were hunted like predatory animals, apprehended, hanged, drawn, and quartered. This Queen is now only an ignoble memory, while the priesthood lives on and works in her land. Tyrants in modern times have put priests before firing squads, they have put priests to death by slow torture, or given them over to a living death in prisoncamps; yet Catholics of the future will thank these tyrants for the evidence they have unwittingly given of the Divine power sustaining the priesthood.
It should add to the holy pride of Father Connor to ponder over the reason why God sustains the priesthood. God has provided abundant means to aid men in securing the happiness possible in this valley of tears and in securing the eternal happiness for which man was made. Included among those means and occupying a position of prominence is the priesthood. To the priest is assigned a special task. To gauge the importance of that task scrutinize a few items of the priestly equipment.
First, consider the power he wields at the Consecration during Mass; the power to say words which make the Divinity and the Humanity of Christ a living reality on the altar; words, which reenact the Holocaust of Calvary, with its tremendous effects of adoration, reparation, thanksgiving, and petition. Second, consider the power of absolution in the confessional; the power to say words, as a result of which a man, who at one moment deserves eternal damnation, the next moment is transformed into a can-
(Continued on Page 18)
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Ray Meyer, Former Irish Captain, Becomes Assistant to Coach Keogan
Played on '36 - '37 Teams With Moir and Nowak
The appointment of Raymond Meyer, former Irish cage star, as assistan to varsity basketball coach George Keogan was announced by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice president of the University on Jan. 4. Mr. Meyer will work with Coach Keogan for the remainder of the season since the latter has been advised by his physician to relax the strenuous pace he has been following.
Ray, as he is called, received the honor of being one of the few eagers in the last 25 years of Notre Dame basketball to captain the varsity for two years. He did so in the seasons of 1936-1937 and in 1937-38. These were the years of the great Moir - Nowak combination. Meyer, the steady man of the club, has been named one of Notre Dame’s greatest players by Coach Keogan.
Director of Athletics Elmer Layden says, “He was a fine leader and competitor. He’s a fine boy and we’re mighty glad to have him.”
Since he left Notre Dame, Ray has been playing for the LaSalle Hotel team of Chicago. He captained this array which played under A.A.U. sanction. While working at the LaSalle, he found time to do some field work in sociology.
In 1933, Ray Meyer starred for St. Patrick’s high school of Chicago. He says his greatest thrill was “being on the St. Patrick’s five which won the National Catholic tournament at Loyola.”
After the tournament, Meyer swore he would never play basketball again, but Ed Krause, of football and basketball fame, persuaded him to come to Notre Dame.
Returning after a two-year absence, Ray Meyer is again in togs on the Notre Dame hardwood. This time he takes part in the moulding of a new Irish cage squad, and he has the sincere backing of all Notre Dame fans.—Bill Rogers
Soph Stars Plentiful
As Track Season Begins
With bright prospects for the 1941 track season, the Notre Dame runners and field men are training intensively for their seven-meet indoor schedule. The first meet will be Feb. 7 when the Irish meet Michigan State at Notre Dame. Loss of the late John P. Nicholson, coach
Ray Meyer—twice captain, now a coach
from 1928 until his death last April 2, is somewhat offset by one of the most promising but yet untried aggregations of sophomore runners in the last decade.
Last year’s team, while comparatively weak, rallied in the latter part of the season to trim the favorites, Indiana, in the State meet at Lafayette. Coach William P. Mahoney, with about nine-tenths of his men sophomores, repeated what he said some time ago about the team: “Plenty of very promising raw material in almost every event. Whether they will develop into fine form when the going gets tough remains to be seen.”
Mahoney, 1938 captain, hurdler „and quarter-miler, was an understudy to “Nick” and acted as freshman coach while completing his law course the past two years. He was recently admitted to the Arizona and Indiana state bars and plans to combine his coaching and law.
The Irish are expected to show un
usual strength in the mile and four mile relays; the combination of Ray Roy, George Schiewe, Jay Gibson and Dick Tupta expect to approach the University record this year. Four sophomore milers who can do 4:18, Oliver Hunter, Frank Conforti, Wilbur Riordan and Tony Maloney comprising the four-mile relays, are the boys Coach Mahoney expects to smash all kinds of records before the sophomore foursome is graduated two years from next June. Captain Joe 01-breys and Tupta will run the 880 yard event.
Traditional strength of Notre Dame shot-putters is not lacking with Cliff Brosey, holder of Notre Dame’s indoor and outdoor records expected to reach last year’s form, and Frank Delaney who has approached 50 feet in practice.
Pole vaulters Ezra Smith and Jack Wietoff are expected to do 13 and 12 feet respectively indoors. Bill Nicholson, son of the late Irish coach, is a promising high jumper and hurdler, following the path of his father who was a star in those events 20 years ago. Keith O’Rourke, another sophomore, has cleared a lofty 6 feet seven inches in the high jump. Bob Garvey, another sophomore, is capable of 23 feet in the broad jump.
In the sprints, are veterans Bob Sag-gau, Frank Sheets and Bill Buenger.
The following is the Notre Dame indoor track shchedule:
Feb. 7, Michigan State here; Feb. 15, Illinois Relays at Champaign; Feb. 22, Indiana at Bloomington; March 1, Marquette here; March 7 and 8, Central Collegiate Conference, here; March 15, Butler Relays, Indianapolis; March 22, Chicago Relays.—Francis Carver
Change Wildcat Game
For Centennial Year
In order that Notre Dame may present its best possible home schedule in 1942, centennial year of the University, the 1941 football game between Notre Dame and Northwestern will be played in Evanston. This announcement was issued by Mr. Robert Cahill, secretary to Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden. Mr. Cahill pointed out that while chronologically the game next year should be played in the Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish have agreed to award the site of this year’s game to Northwestern so that the Wildcats will play here in 1942.
Previous to this announcement some confusion resulted from the fact that the Notre Dame schedule for 1941 showed the game to be played in Evanston, while schedules released by the. Associated Press called for the classic to be played at Notre Dame.—Ray Donovan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Rockne Memorial Sports In Full Swing For 1941
Interhall basketball got off to a fine start Monday night with four games played in the heavyweight division on the Rockne Memorial floor. The scores: St. Edward’s 40, Carroll 18; Howard 38, Breen-Phillips 21; Alumni 39, Zahm 23; Lyons 62, Villagers 18.
Examinations necessitate a temporary letup in the schedules, thus there will not be any games played the week beginning Jan. 25.
LIGHTWEIGHT DIVISION
Jan. 20: Dillon vs. Carroll, 7:30; Zahm vs. Walsh, 8:30 : Morrissey vs. Off-Campus, 8:30.
HEAVYWEIGHT DIVISION
Jan. 21: Alumni vs. Breen-Phillips, 7:30; St. Edward’s vs. Lyons, 7:30; Howard vs. Zahm, 8 :30 ; Carroll vs. Villagers, 8:30.
LIGHTWEIGHT DIVISION
Jan. 22: St. Edward’s vs. Sorin, 7:30; Howard vs. Cavanaugh, 7:30; Lyons vs. Breen-Phillips, 8:30 ; Badin drew a bye.
HEAVYWEIGHT DIVISION
Cavanaugh vs. Walsh, 7:30; Brownson vs. Dillon, 7:30; Sorin vs. Morrissey, 8:30; Badin vs. Off-Campus, 8:30.
In the ladder handball tournament completed just before the holidays Jack Lucas of Alumni Hall won out over Brownsonite Jack Woods.
A ladder tournament in squash will begin next week. This is not an elimination tournament and will last for five weeks. At the end, the eight top players will be selected for the final round. Everyone, whether a good or bad player, is asked to participate in the tournament which affords exclient opportunity to become proficient in the game. All handball players are especially urged to enter.
* * *
Dave Reidy of Sorin Hall emerged the victor in the pre-holiday novice squash tournament.
* * *
All swimmers interested in a Senior Lifesaving course should register immediately with swimming instructor' Gil Burdick.
Following are the results of the intramural swimming meet held at the Memorial before the holidays:
50 yard backstroke, time 31.2: 1. Bob Levernier, Dillon; 1. John Griffin, St. Edward’s.
100 yard free style, time 57.5. 1. Lee Hastings, St. Edward’s: 2. Bud Russell, Off-Campus.
75 yard medley, time 48.5: 1. John Doerr, Lyons; 2. Frank Pollnow, Dillon.
50 yard breast stroke, time 34.: 1. Frank Pollnow, Dillon; 2. John Walsh, Off-Campus.
50 yard free style, time 25.4: 1. Tom Hoyer, Off-Campus; 2. Heninger.
200 yard free style, time 2:22.3: 1. Bud Russell, Off-Campus; 2. George O’Connor, Morrissey.
Tom Hoyer, Off-Campus, won the high board and low board diving events.
(Continued on page 18)
Splinters From the Press Box —	-	;■ ■ JAMES NEWLAND—
Plans for staging the eleventh annual Bengal Bouts were launched this week — so, come on you fighters, taper down that waistline and start timing your timing I Sponsored annually by THE SCHOLASTIC, this year’s tournament of campus champions and challengers promises to surpass any previous Notre Dame boxing carnival for two very good reasons. First of all, every title holder of last year, eight in all, has returned. Secondly, as in past years, this season’s crop of freshmen mitt slingers will definitely give these champions a run for their money. There is talent in the freshmen class — plenty of it.
Historically, the Bengal Bouts go back to 1930, when the old Students Activities Council gave birth to the first boxing show. Only a handful of fighters turned out for duty at that time and as a result the S.A.C. had to do some fast talking with you know who, in order to again sponsor the only boxing tournament Notre Dame has ever known. In 1932 The Scholastic assumed sponsorship duties in behalf of the Holy Cross mission fund and since that time the tournament has become probably the outstanding individual winter sports show at Notre Dame.
In the presence of Billy Conn, former light-heavyweight king who is scheduled to battle Joe Louis for the heavyweight title in June, last year’s bouts were thrill-packed to say the least. Round for round they were probably the outstanding fights in the history of the tournament. Probably the most conspicuous heavyweight ever to perform in the local bouts was Max Marek in 1934 and ’35. He later fought under the banner of Chicago’s C.Y.O. He also holds the distinction of defeating Joe Louis — once upon a time.
The usual seven or eight week’s training grind under the capable guidance of Professor Dominic P. Napolitano has started in the Memorial. “Nappy” is an expert boxing instructor and a fine sportsman who has probably as much experience as any amateur boxing trainer and referee. The University is in a position to offer any boxing enthusiast an excellent opportunity to strut his stuff in good, clean, exciting competition. Freshmen especially should take advantage of this opportunity. Traditionally, the frosh have dominated this tournament to a great extent. Invariably they capture their share of top honors.
The bouts every year are studded with Golden Glove fighters and State boxing stars. This should not, however, discourage any fighter to the point of not entering simply because “1 wouldn’t have a chance against such stiff competition.” This item is given consideration when pairings for preliminary bouts are made. An inexperienced man will not be forced to fight a champion. Drawings will be made as evenly as possible. Three former champions were dethroned last year, proving that champions do not always come through.
Here’s a list of the present title holders and their respective fighting weights: Sammy Meyer, 135 pounds; Rod Maguire, 145 pounds; Jerry Ryan, 175 pounds; Paul Malloy, 120 pounds; Bob Steele, 127 pounds; Joe D’Ambrosio, 155 pounds; Bill McGrath; 165 pounds; Lou Rymkus, heavyweight.
“The Week,” we know, is THE SCHOLASTIC sophist,
But here is one we could not resist.
When pa was young and courting ma They thought it was great bliss Upon the old-time garden bench To sit apart like this.
But nowadays when dancing shieks
Drop in to call on sis
They cuddle in on the davenport Andsitapartlikethis.
Notes jotted down on a Christmas card: To Coaches Keogan, Kline, and Mahoney — Down in Jasper, Indiana, Roman “Nig” Pfeffer has been voted one of the most valuable and outstanding basketball players in southern Indiana. . . . Last summer he pitched six no-hit baseball games against high school and semi-pro teams. . . . He runs the 100-yard dash in 10 seconds regularly. . . . Several big league teams are after his services. . . . But we understand he wants to go to school next year. . . . Greg Rice “by his performance, example and influence as an amateur and a man” did the most to advance the cause of sportsmanship during 1940 ... so he was awarded the James E. Sullivan Memorial trophy. . . . This is a deserving award to a truly deserving athlete. . . . The “little bugger” is holder of more awards than you can count on the fingers of your right hand ... or left.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
■ "^By ALBERT DEL ZOPPO.T —
The scrappiest basketball player in the land — that’s Edward Riska, captain of Notre Danie’s basketeers. Ever since George Keogan took over the basketball coaching job here 17 years ago, Notre Dame has put a bunch of battling ballplayers on the floor. But in those 17 years there has never been a player who has displayed the combination of speed, skill, and fight that Ed Riska has shown in his three years of varsity basketball. There have been players at Notre Dame who possessed a little more skill than Riska in some departments of the game, but there has yet to come one who can match this year’s captain in punch, drive, and toughness.
Only 5' 11" in height, Ed is not too tall for a basketball player. But on that 5' 11" frame, 180 pounds of flesh, bone, and muscle are almost perfectly proportioned. It is not this rugged physique alone which has enabled Riska to battle and battel’ the opposition for forty minutes of almost every ball game. But it is this physical ruggedness plus an intense competitive spirit, a desire to fight and win, that has already earned him a place on the list of great Notre Dame athletes. Seldom, while he is still in school, does an athlete receive a ranking with the great stars of the past. But at the end of last season’s schedule, Coach Keogan, in an interview, mentioned the name of Edward Riska as one of the ten best basketball players in Notre Dame history.
Edward broke into the N.D. starting line-up as a left forward in his sophomore year and capably filled the vacancy left by All-American Johnny Moir. In his first year of varsity competition Riska led the team in scoring, pushing the ball through the nets for a total of 202 points in 21 games, averaging close to 10 points a game. Last year Riska found the competition a bit easier and managed to average 11 points against some of the best teams in the country. After some of the games played this season there was talk that Eddie was slowing up a bit. But there won’t be anyone believing those stories after see
ing Ed rack up 18 points against a strong Butler outfit last Saturday. Up to date the Irish captain has totalled 113 points in ten games, and it is not at all unlikely that he at least will keep pace with his last year’s scoring record.
In the South Side of Chicago where Riska was reared, especially in the vicinity of the Hamburg Club, there is no greater favorite than this year’s Notre Dame captain. And to deny that Eddie
HOF NOTRE DAME
is the best all-around athlete, and the swellest guy ever to come out of the South Side is to invite yourself to the toughest fight of your life. For Ed has hundreds of rabid rooters in Chicago who have followed his basketball and football play at De LaSalle High, and his softball play with the better independent Chicago teams, and they think he’s "tops.”
In his junior year at De LaSalle, Riska helped his team to win the National Catholic Basketball title, and also won for himself a berth on the AllNational team by his scoring sprees and ball-hawking floor play. Riska followed in the footsteps of another De LaSalle football and basketball star — Moose Kraus — by enrolling at Notre Dame. But unlike Krause, Riska has eased the worries of Coach Keogan by confining his athletic activity to playing basketball.
28 Varsity, 26 B-Squad
Monograms To Gridders
The singular antics that, during the past week, have bewildered, amazed and finally heartily entertained campus folk, will draw to a close next Sunday afternoon, when present members of the Notre Dame Monogram Club will welcome into their midst this year’s group of newly initiated monogram winning football players. To those who watched future monogram wearers shiver through an early morning face-wash on the frost-bitten shores of St. Joe’s lake prior to reporting to their taskmaster at Alumni hall, and who were lucky enough to hear Bob Maddock’s pleasant if somewhat unharmonious rendition of his Santa Ana High school song, the closing of the week will indeed be a calamity.
But not so with the initiates. The monogrammed sweaters, which are already in the closely guarded possession of their future wearers, will make their first legal appearance on the campus very early next Monday morning, after this week of friendly hazing has been rushed into recollection.
The following list of monogram winners, yet to be approved by the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, has been issued:
Bob Dove, L.E.; Ray Ebli, L.E.; ’George Ras-sas, L.E.; *Phil Sheridan, L.E.; Jim Brutz, L.T.; *Tom Gallagher, L.T.; ’Pete Kelly, L.G.: Bob Maddock, L.G.; John McHale, C.; Martin O’Reilly, C.
♦Bob Osterman, C.; Hercules Bereolos, R.G.; ♦John Gubanich, R. G. ;Joe Laiber, R.G.; Capt.-elect Paul Lillis, R.T.; Bob Neff, R.T.; Walter Ziemba, R.T.; John Kovatch, R.E.; *Johnny O’Brien, R.E.; Bob Hargrave, Q.B.
♦Jack Hayes, Q.B. ;0wen Evans, L.H.; *Bob Saggau, L.H.; Steve Bagarus, R.H.; Steve Juzwik, R.H.; Bernie Crimmins, F.B.; ♦Albert Lee. F.B.; ♦Capt. Milt Piepul, F.B.
♦—Indicates graduating players (11).
The following “B” squad men, all of whom will be lost by graduation, will not receive varsity monograms, and thus have not undergone the woes of initiation into the Monogram Club. They will, however, receive the Athletic Association Reserve Monogram, likewise subject to the approval of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. They are:
Martin Ingwerson, L.E., Joseph Papa, L.T.: Walter Cronin, L.G.; James Essick, L.G.; Henry Schrenker, L.G.; John Maloney, C.; John Mortell, O.; Howard Korth, R.G.; Harry John, R.T.
Charles Schmid, R.T.; Thomas Grimes, R.E.; Edward Hoyne, R.E.; J. J. O’Brien, R.E.; Francis Doody, Q.B.; Robert Koch, Q.B.; Walter O’Meara, Q.B.; Alfred Frericks, L.H.; George Marcucci, L.H.	-
William McGannon, L.H.; Thaddeus Cassidy, R.H.; Francis Lauerman, R.H.; Clarence Marquardt, R.H.; George Thompson, R.H.; Noel Wilkins, R.H.; Robert Leonard, F.B.; Vincent Spcsato, F.B.
—Mark G. McGrath
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Keoganites Travel East to Meet Penn And Once-Beaten Syracuse Quintet
AS I SEE IT By John Patterson
N. y. U. Five is Only Team To Beat Orange
Leaving Notre Dame at 5 o’clock today, the varsity basketeers set out on their only two game trip of the year. They meet Pennsylvania in Philadelphia on Saturday night. Syracuse will be encountered there on Monday night.
Mr. Keogan thinks that his boys may win both games, but he says he will be very much satisfied if they split for Penn is a good team and Syracuse is rated as one of the best in the country. The touring squad will certainly be out-manned in height as both opponents average well over six feet.
The game on Saturday night is probably a toss-up. Penn is playing pretty well, and they have always been an out-. standing team in the Eastern league. They have won more championships in that league than any of the other participating schools.
Up at Syracuse they have a team which is touted as the best in the history of the Hillmen. A sophomore, Dan DiPace, is the star of the five. Captain Paul Kartluke is a high-scoring pivot man, who also excels at snaring rebounds. The Orange team has lost only one game this season and that was to New York U’s veteran array, 46-42, in New York City. Recently Syracuse defeated a crack Fordham five 60-44.
Twelve men will be taken on the trip.
Irish go East, aim to extend win streak.
Riska, Sobek, Quinn, Smith, Ryan, Carnes, Singer, Butler and O’Leary have been chosen. Four more will be selected Thursday night.
Penn: L.F., Caputo, 6'2"; R.F., Vig-uers, 6'4"; C., Soleliac, 6'3"; L.G., Hahn, 5'11"; R.G., Schrieber, 5'10".
Syracuse: L.F., Couray, 6'; R.F., DiPace, 5'11%"; C., Berger, 6'3"; L.G., Kartluke, 6'3"; R.G., Kruse, 6'.
—Bill Rogers
Irish Swimming Prospects
Renew Practice Sessions
A Notre Dame varsity swimming team is still a definite possibility. Twenty-six men turned out for the preliminary organization meeting just before Christmas vacation and Bob Russell, director of the team, hopes to get regular practice sessions under way within another week.
The matter of scheduling a meet with some school in the near future is now before the Athletic Board. Indiana University and the University of Chicago loom as possible opponents.
Gil Burdick, swimming instructor and lifeguard at the Rockne Memorial, will be able to offer help and suggestions to the swimmers. Anyone interested in coming out for the team who did not attend the first meeting is urged to hand in his name to Mr. Burdick.
Comes now’ the inevitable question as to whether it is safe for “an Irishman to play in an athletic contest which puts a stick in his hand.”
With winter comes ice, with ice comes the hockey season, and at Notre Dame the hockey season arouses a kind of futile enthusiasm among skating bugs. Looking, hovrever, at past history, we can see that the enthusiasm is not 100 per cent futile.
Three seasons ago, Joe Sullivan, a fine goalie out of the East, did his best to make hockey a part of Notre Dame’s athletic program. The following year he kept on with his campaign. Result— Notre Dame played two games against Illinois plus whatever happened in some wild battles on the lake every Saturday of the season.
Last year it was Jimmie Brown of Bengal Bouts fame who took over Sullivan’s promotion post. But ice was scarce. The rink built next to the gym looked more like an outdoor swimming pool than a hockey arena. Things were tough, but once in a while the Irish got sticks in their hands without a single fatality.
Absolutely unconcerned with the haphazard success of his two predecessors, Bill Stewart this year steps in as publicity man, manager, player, and promoter of hockey at. Notre Dame. Bill should be used to ducking bottles and shrugging off taunts about his ambitions for hockey here. Reason—his father is a baseball umpire and also referees hockey games for the big league stick-wielders.
Important point in Bill’s favor is the weather. Not since 1937 has Jack Frost been so kind to Notre Dame skaters. Seldom it is that St. Mary’s lake freezes before Christmas.
On the fire are two or three games for Notre Dame’s make-shift club. Official negotiations cannot begin, however, until a rink is built. The spot on Brownson field is still open and weather conditions are ideal. Optimistic hockeyites predict that a rink will be ready by the end of the week.
Material is skating loose all over Saint Mary’s lake. Bill Stewart, Jack Barry, Tom Reilly, Don Stapleton, Dick Clemens, and Bob Byrne are only a few of the fine hockey players on campus.
For a coach, no one need look further than Chet Grant, football’s backfield coach and head mentor of the hockey teams of past years.
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
JUBILEE SERMON
(Continued from page 13) didate for the eternal happiness of heaven. Behold two items in the priestly equipment which point to the exalted position of the priest in the work of Christ. And that office, with powers that have not been vouchsafed to the highest ranking angels, has been held for half a century by Father Connor.
That office of his, carried so long and so well, is the magnet which draws the Jubilarian’s confreres to this church today. And they rejoice at the happy chance, which puts them near enough to join ■with him in trying to signalize and make this day memorable. However, there is a portion of this celebration which is beyond the range of our vision. I refer to the sanctuary of the Reverend Father’s soul—this is the Holy of Holies, reserved alone for him and for the Eternal Priest Who gave him the priestly vocation. During the Masses he has been saying these days, what have been the thoughts, the liftings of the mind and the heart? Likely the words have never been coined in any language which would give these thoughts a full expression.
In our good wishes this day let us include the following: may the Reverend Jubilarian have a full measure of the holy pride that comes to the priest when he says the words which bring the Real Presence to the altar; may that pride be his daily portion for many years. May he continue in the patient zeal, which has always made a haven of his confessional; and may that consolation be his for many years. May he continue to reap the reward that God lavishes on the good example of the priest and the religious; and may the peace, mentioned by the angels when they brought the glad tidings, be his for many many years.
Thomas Nash Speaks At
Sociological Convention
Thomas D. Nash, of Chicago, a junior in sociology, spoke on “Labor Relations and the Encyclicals” at a student meeting of the Third Annual Convention of the American Catholic Sociological Society, held in Chicago on Dec. 28, 29, and 30. The Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C., head of the department of sociology at Notre Dame, was chairman at the luncheon meeting on the first day of the convention. Prof. Frank T. Flynn, also of the department of sociology, was chairman at the luncheon meeting on the last day.
Louis A. Radelet, instructor in sociology at the University, spoke about “Population Pressure and Maternal Care” at the convention; and Loren J. Hess, also of the sociology department, participated in a symposium on “Crime and Community Responsibility.”
"Student-Prof" Smoker
To Be Held Next Thursday
On next Thursday evening the Catholic Action Student will hold their third regular Student-Professor Smoker in the recreation room of Cavanaugh Hall, beginning at 7:30 p.m., and continuing until about 9:30 p.m.
Inaugurated two months ago as a meeting place where students could meet the professors on an informal basis, the smokers have enjoyed an increasing popularity; and the C.A.S. expects this one to be the most successful so far in the series. Any students who wish to stop in during the course of the evening are cordially invited to do so.
All professors contacted have been whole-hearted in their cooperation; every one who was invited came, and most have promised to return at future meetings. In addition, an entirely new group
is invited monthly. The affair is conducted as an open-house; refreshments are served; and everyone present may wander about at will, play pool, ping-pong or piano, and meet whomever he pleases. The following professors, in addition to those who may visit again, will be invited to the January 23 smoker: Mr. B. G. DuBois; Rev. C. J. Laskowski, C.S.C.; Mr. Henry Rago; Mr. Clarence Finlayson; Mr. F. J. Hanley; and Rev. T. J. Brennan, C.S.C.
ROCKNE MEMORIAL (Continued from page 15)
Father John J. Bednar, C.S.C., won the priests’ and brothers’ handball tournament.
* * *
Mr. Thomas Mills, Director of the Memorial, announces an interhall volleyball tournament starting Monday night, Jan. 20. This tournament gives the men who are not on the hall basketball teams a chance to participate in intramural athletics for basketball players are ineligible for volley-ball. You need not be an expert volley-ball player to make your hall’s team. There will be instruction in the game for all players. The schedule is not yet complete; however, present plans call for games three nights a week.—Bill Reynolds .
A Variety of Pipes— A Variety of Prices—
JANUARY CLEARANCE SALE — includes our regular stock — made-to-measure ADLER-ROCHESTER suits — selection of fabrics and colors — values from $35.00 z*iLopto	to $55 — now
$29.50	$34.50	$37.50
PARKER-WINTERROWD
1151/2 - 1171/2 N. Main Street
Come to our upstairs shop, or see our campus representatives: JOHN SIEVERT	CAPT. MILT “MOOSE” PIEPUL	JOHN RYAN
234 Alumni	107 Alumni	337 Walsh
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow .............  $1.50	.
Yello-Bole Regular....... 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial...... 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ..... 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor..... 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran...... 5.00
Hollyclourt ............. 3.50
Sasieni ................. 5.00
Comoy ................... 5.00
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
Fencers Open Season
Against Badgers Tonight
“The Wisconsin fencers are reported strong this season, boasting an entirely veteran array supplemented by several talented sophomores. This, coupled with the fact that Notre Dame suffered staggering losses through the medium of graduation last June, makes the Badgers the natural choice tonight. However, the Irish can be counted on to offer most stubborn opposition.”
Such is Coach Langford’s opinion as to the outcome of tonight’s fencing match with Wisconsin which will be held in the fencing room under the north basketball stands.
With but two of last season’s six lettermen returning, Notre Dame’s pros
LEARN TO DANCE
★ IMPROVE YOUR DANCING
We teach thorough foundation and the newest steps in Waltz, Fox Trot, Rumba and Conga.
Call 3-4079
Maxene Mollenhour School of Dancing
Indiana Club — 320 W. Jefferson Street South Bend, Indiana
pects are truly not designed to foster optimism. The returning sweater winners are foilsmen, Captain Jack Gaither, and Russell Harris.
This pair along with Hubert Schlafly, senior foil man, will round out the foil. The former two, abetted by veteran Jim Corbett, will also double in epee. Sabre men Mike Humphreys, Lou Peck, and Herb Melton will complete the Irish array.
Potent in epee and sabre last year, the Irish swordsmen compiled five victories in nine matches. Now strangely enough Coach Langford finds himself totally devoid of epee and sabre veterans.
At this writing the complete schedule has yet to be approved by the athletic board but tonight’s opener will be followed by a match with Chicago, Big Ten champions last season, in the near future.—Frank L. Kunkel
Mass Calendar: Jan. 19-25
Siinday, 19—Second after Epiphany. Second prayer, Sts. Marius and Companions, Martyrs, 3rd, St. Canute, King and Martyr, 4th, for Peace.
Monday, 20—St. Fabian, Pope and St. Sebastian, Martyrs. Second prayer, for Peace.
Tuesday, 21—St. Agnes, Virgin, Martyr. Second prayer, for Peace.
Wednesday, 22—Sts. Vincent and An-astasius, Martyrs. Mass: In tret (in Common) Prayer proper. Second prayer, Bl. Virgin (Christmas to Purification) 3d, the Church, 4th for Peace. Votive or Requiem
Thursday, 23—St. Raymund of Pennafort, Confessor. Mass: Os justi (in Common) Second prayer, St. Emeren-tiana, Virgin, Martyr, 3d, Bl. Virgin (Christmas to Purification) 4th, for Peace. Votive or Requiem
Friday, 2!t—Saint Timothy, Martyr. Mass: Statuit (in Common) Epistle proper. Second prayer, for Peace.
Saturday, 25—Conversion of St. Paul, Apostle. Second prayer, St. Peter, Apostle, 3d, for Peace.
'Buck Benny Rides Again'
Is Movie Tomorrow
Tomorrow evening Jack Benny will shoo poor little Rochester across the screen of Washington Hall, in Paramount’s musical comedy “Buck Benny Rides Again.” A Popeye cartoon and an RKO news will complete the program. Last Saturday afternoon a Disney cartoon and an RKO news ushered in the Warner Brothers film “Brother Orchid,” starring Edward G. Robinson.
—Mark G. McGrath
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Saceeator to ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SPEAKERS BUREAU
(Continued from page 11) requires, they are always willing to take over a new assignment. The members themselves say that they feel more confident each time they appear before a new group.” Father O’Neill said that he has been very much inspired by their enthusiasm. “I am firmly convinced,” he said, “that our Catholic young men are willing to do their part in the furtherance of Catholic Action. Give them a
Here's one way to go—
But It’s Easier to Take The SOUTH SHORE
On icy, wind-whistling days you appreciate South Shore service the most.
Cozy cars, convenient schedules, fast runs — dependable service to and from Chicago despite Old Man Winter’s most contrary efforts.
Bide the South Shore to Chicago. For detailed information call
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
TO CHICAGO
■ FROM SOUTH BEND
cause to work for; convince them of its importance; tell them what to do, and then give them the opportunity to do it and they will exert themselves to no end in cooperating with the bishops and priests in the work of re-christianizing the whole world.”
The following students are members of the Notre Dame Speakers’ Bureau:
Robert Marbach, White Plains, N. Y.; John Donovan, Binghamton, N. Y.; John Malone, Toledo, Ohio; John Specht, Chicago, Ill.; Francis King, Jamaica, N. Y., and Carl Coco, Lake Charles, La.
—Carl S. Coco
Fr. Gorman Represents University At Meeting
The Rev. Leo W. Gorman, C.S.C., head of the department of classics at the University, and rector of St. Edward’s Hall, represented Notre Dame at the annual meeting of the American School for Classical Studies, which is affiliated with the American Academy of Rome.
This meeting was held on Dec. 27 at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. The American Academy of Rome is supported by 38 American universities, including Notre Dame. The purpose of the American School for Classical Studies is to foster and encourage study in Rome.
Due to the current war in Europe, the Academy has announced this year that two prize scholarships with stipends of $1,000 each will be given for study and research at any American university for one year.
While in Baltimore, Father Gorman also attended sessions of the American Philological association and the Archaeological Institute of America, which held their respective meetings in conjunction with the American School for Classical Studies.—James P. O’Laughlin
Military Men Talk
Both Army and Navy aviation were represented at a meeting of the Notre Dame-South Bend chapter of the Insti-stitute of Aeronautical Sciences held here last Wednesday evening.
Major S. R. Brentnail now stationed at Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, spoke on “Military Air Expansion Under the National Defense Program,” and Lieut. A. N. Kelly, U.S.N., now stationed at Great Lakes, took as his subject “Naval Pilot Training.”
Speakers were introduced by Professor F. N. M. Brown, head of the department of aeronautical engineering.
—James V. Cunningham
Presenting
WYMAN'S
JANUARY CLEARANCE SALE
$$$$$$$$$
$2.00 WILSON and KINGLEY
SHIRTS
Now $1.55, or 2-for $3.00
WILSONS $1.65 SHIRTS Down to $1.15
FAULTLESS NO-BELT PAJAMAS Formerly $2.00 Now $1.55, or 2 for $3.00
0
SWEATERS
Once $2.95, now down to $1.95
•
Take advantage of this bargain in
HOSE
Stock up. While they last: 50c Hose, now........35c
35c Hose, now........24c
25c Hose, now........19c
NEW MEN’S SHOP
GEO. WYMAN & CO.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
When the New York Film Critics met recently, they calmly and easily chose “The Grapes of Wrath” as the best picture of 1940. The only noticeable competition came from “The Long Voyage Home,” and to some extent, “The Philadelphia Story.” How many other groups agree with the New York “crickets” we won’t consider at the moment. Why? Because in the March 15th (1940) issue of The Scholastic we climbed out upon a limb and the limb hasn’t broken — so far anyway. We delightedly and somewhat gloatingly now quote from that article:
“ ‘The Grapes of Wrath.’ It’s going to take a rather magnificent movie in the year of 1940 to beat this one for the Academy Award. Just as we stuck with ‘Wuthering Heights’ through 1939, not counting on ‘G.W.T.W.’s under-the-wire release to entei- the derby, we’ll stick with ‘Grapes of Wrath’ to cop the prizes next January.”
Well, this is “next January” and one oracle met at least. The Academy Awards have not been meted out as yet however. So we are thus far only partially right. We wait with bated breath for news of the Academy Award winner.
“The Long Voyage Home,” the most logical competition to our pet 1940 movie, is a fine product of the Hollywood machines. Its cast has in combination all the elements of greatness. Its director, John Ford, who also did “Grapes of Wrath,” operates with a sensitivity and introspection that makes his scenes tingle with beauty and truth. Its musical score is as tastefully handled. And its photography is beyond doubt the most excellent of the year.
Now if such is the case why did this great contribution to the art of moviemaking fail to win the New York Critics Award. We won’t say because “The Grapes of Wrath” is a better movie, even though we think it is. We’ll only take this opportunity to propound our theory on what was wrong with “The Long Voyage Home.” Here is a case of a movie being so good, that it is too good. It is so permeated with mood, and so crammed full of effects, photographic, musical and dramatic, that it seems to lose itself in them. Each detail is heightened with a rare use of the camera, each scene is pointed with grand acting, every element of plot is pushed to the fore so strongly that we become lost in the labyrinth of effects. Simply then, it strikes us that in this movie there is a lack of subordination. We can take it scene after scene and praise each one
in itself, but try to analyze the finished product and see what happens. There is theme criss-crossing theme, plot and subplot intermingling, separating and joining. If we wanted to be petty, we could even carry this criticism further to say that the movie might easily have continued for two hours past its ending.
But under any circumstances don’t miss seeing “The Long Voyage Home;” it’s a memorable experience.
5
Add Zest to Your Daily life Chew Delicious doublemiht gum
long-lasting flavor. aUMnl treat daily helps And chewing this	ion Aids your
,our b“ai
•	healthful, refreshing
noUBLEMINT GUM every day.
* Buy several packages of DOBBIEMIMT BUM tetaj
HEADS INDIANA SOCIETY
Vincent F. Fagan, professor of architecture, was elected president of the South Bend chapter of the Indiana Society of Architects at a recent meeting on the Notre Dame campus.
Until 1928 an elementary school was conducted at Notre Dame in St. Edward’s Hall. Until 1920 a student could receive his entire education at Notre Dame.
5
5

22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
Following its practice of devoting one or more concerts each season to the music of a distinguished visiting contemporary composer, the League of Composers presented a program of works by Darius Milhaud on the Friday after Christmas at the Modem Museum of Art in New York. The composer was at the piano, and his wife acted as narrator in the first American presentation of M. Milhaud’s “Cantate de la Mere et de 1’Enfant.” Excerpts from his opera “Christophe Colomb,” based upon the play by Paul Claudel, were also presented for the first time in this country.
M. Milhaud, who was born in Aix-en-Provence in 1892 was, after the close of the first World War, a prominent member of the “Groupe des Six” and one of the most active young writers in what was then thought an extremely modern musical idiom. He has made previous visits to this country, in 1923 and 1926, at which times his music was heard in various concerts in New York. When he left France to return to this country again, it was shortly after the Nazi invasion. As a tribute to his fallen countrymen, Milhaud wrote the “Cortege Funebre,” a work given its first performance by the Columbia Broadcasting Symphony. He quite recently conducted this work with the Boston Symphony orchestra.
As for Milhaud and Claudel, they have been collaborators for some time. One of the first compositions of Milhaud to be performed in the United States was the extraordinarily brilliant orchestral suits taken from his music to Clau-
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D.
E. C BERRY. O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a life
del’s “Protee.” Milhaud, in addition to his music for Claudel’s work on Columbus, has also done a setting for what is thought by many the most magnificent creation of Claudel, “L’Annonce faite a Marie.”
“Christophe Colomb” was first performed, strangely enough, in a German translation on May 4, 1930 at the State Opera in Berlin, which was at the time a celebrated center for the production of new lyric stage works. An enormous work, it has 27 scenes and 50 characters. The plot is not a factual account of the events of Columbus life, but a far more
When the game ends
ice-cold
Two words describe
Coca-Cola... delicious and refreshing. Delicious, because it is always a pleasure to taste. Refreshing, because it leaves a delightful after-sense of refreshment. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA - COLA BOTTLING CO. of South Bend, 1107 Beyer Avenue
complex anad intricate conception attempting to show the life of Columbus and the effect of his achievements upon his contemporaries and upon posterity.
The music for this work is said to be characteristic of Milhaud’s simultaneous employment of two or three tonalities in one work, the so-called bi-tonality or poly-tonality with which Stravinsky is so specially concerned. And this may be the same as saying that Milhaud’s music to the play of Claudel is exuberant and vital, that it is marked with all the invigorating sounds and startling rhythms of a primitive music.
pause and ^1?
Drink
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
THE MUSIC BOX
By Felix Pogliano
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.
PHONE 3>2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X-RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.	M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose. d.d. s.
Cyril F. Rose, d. d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
With a stack of holiday releases waiting to be reviewed, let’s hit the high spots and cover as many as possible without wasting time.
Victor, consistently good in bands, choice of numbers, and quality of recordings, released two “Star Dusts” — one by T.D. and one by Artie Shaw. Both good, Shaw’s is better; its back-up: “Temptation.” Dorsey gets 99.44% for “Springtime up in Harlem,” with the reverse, “Swing High,” almost as good. The outstanding release, however, and as yet only in the hands of reviewers, is Artie Shaw’s “Concerto for Clarinet,” a 12-inch, two-part recording. With an amazing variety ranging from boogie-woogie to symphony, it has everything. Shaw does a very fine job, and some day I’m going to find out just what note above high C he does hit at the end.
Bluebird’s bids for the jackpot included such releases as Tony Pastor’s “Let’s Dream This One Out,” and Glenn Miller’s “Along the Santa Fe Trail,” “Yes, My Darling Daughter,” and “The Anvil Chorus.”
Columbia gave a great blow to its 12-inch Benny Goodman plate, “Benny Rides Again,” but the flip-over, with Helen Forrest singing “The Man I Love,” walked to the head of the class. But you ought to know that by now. B.G. did a swell job on “Frenesi,” and I’ll take a chance and say it’s better than Artie Shaw’s, but “Benny Bugle” is a let-down. Will Bradley came through with another knock-it-out jump arrangement—this time, “The Lonesome Road,” anything but that with Ray McKinley delivering some awe-inspiring drum breaks. Ray Noble, on the right track with “Harlem Nocturne,” stays in the groove by cutting “Sioux Sue” and “Far Away.” Jimmy Lunceford, always good for something other than common riffs, takes first again with “Rock It for Me” and “Barefoot Blues.”
Okeh presented Gene Krupa with two of his best records for a long time: “Washington and Lee Swing” (clean-cut, fine variations and solos) and “Feelin’ Fancy;” and “Yes, My Darling Daughter” and “Blues Krieg.” Other hits: “Goin’ Conga” and “North of the Mohawk Trail” by Cab Calloway, and Count Basie’s excellent jump version of “The Five O’Clock Whistle.”
Decca didn’t release over the holidays but here are two of its best and latest: “Rocco Blues” and “Rhumboogie” by Maurice Rocco.
Musical Masterpieces 50% Off
•
Visit our Newly Enlarged RECORD Department!
10 Listening Booths
STRAUSS — Don Quixote — Philadelphia Orchestra, conducted by Eugene Ormandy —was $10.00—now $5.50.
RACHMANINOFF—Eleven Piano Pieces —played by the composer. Five 10-inch records—was $7.50—now $4.25.
DeFALLA — Nights in the Gardens of Spain — Cubana — Paris Conservatory Orchestra—Lucette Descaves, pianist—Three 12-inch records—was $5.00, now $3.50.
VICTOR RED SEAL
SINGLE RECORDS
JESSICA DRAGGNETTE — Soprano — “Lullaby for a Doll" — “The Owl and the Pussy Cat”—was $1.50—now 75c.
LILY PONS—Soprano—“Estrellita” and “Cupid Captive”—was $1.50—now 75c.
VICTOR POPULAR RECORDS, 50c
TOMMY DORSEY — “Stardust” and “Swanee River.”
ARTIE SHAW—“Stardust” and “Temptation.
BLUEBIRD RECORDS, 35c
GLENN MILLER — “Anvil Chorus” — parts 1 and 2.
GLENN MILLER — “Frenesi” and “My Blue Heaven.”
' CHARLIE BARNETT—“I Hear a Rhapsody” and “The Moon Is Crying for me.”
iioiiins
'12	4/jv .
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 10 Listening Booths Electric Victro.’as Well-Informed Clerks
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
This book TOBACCOLAND*U*S*A* gives thousands of smokers like yourself the facts about tobacco and... (chesterfield’s MILDER, BETTER TASTE
Capt.JOHN M.MILLER, America's No. 1 autogiro pilot and pioneer of the world's only wingless mail plane route between Camden, N. J. and the Philadelphia Post Office, is shown here enjoying Chesterfield's new interesting book "TOBACCOLAND, U.S.A."
Copyright 1941, Liggett & .MiHits Tobacco Co.
To the keen interest of the thousands of men and women who visit our Chesterfield factories, we owe the idea of publishing the book, “TOBACCOLAND, U. S. A.” It is a comprehensive picture story about the growing, curing and processing of tobacco, telling you why Chesterfields are MILDER, COOLER-SMOKING and BETTER-TASTING.
We are proud of the hundreds of letters from smokers like yourself who have seen "TOBACCOLAND, U. S. A. ” Many have asked us to send copies to their friends. We would take pleasure in sending you a copy—just mail your request to Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co., 630 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y.