
In Step With 'Tradition ........... . 

.  DO YOU PLAY A MUSICAL INSTRUMENT?  
.  DO YOU LIKE TO TRAVEL?  
.  DO YOU LIKE SPORTS.........FOOTBALL?  

. DO YOU WANT TO PARTICI;I>ATE IN THE BEST ORGANIZATION ON CAMPUS? . DO YOU WANT TO PROMOTE ND PRIDE? 
IF THE ANSWER IS YES ! ­ITHE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME BAND I WANTS YOU! 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE WRITE OR CALL: 
DR. LUTHER M. SNAVELY, JR. DIRECTOR OF UNIVERSITY BANDS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME BOX 1023 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 (219)631-7136 or (219)631-5054 
"A-TRADITION OF MUSICAL EXCELLENCE SINCE 1846." ~ 
SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
Volume 136, Number 1 Founded 1867 Summer1994 
" Familiar Faces 
8A quick gu.ide to the faces of some Notre Dame personalities that will become familiar over the next few months. 



Tomorrow's Racecar
1
.6What do you get when you mix 25 
engineers, a$5000 prize and a challenge to build the best electric car? 


A Night on the Town
3 2 So, the most you've seen of South Bend has been the airport and the mall? Don't despair, there's some hope yet ... 


FEATURES 

The Ins and Outs of 1994-94 •Michelle Crouch............~ ....... · ...: .............................................................................. 4 The ·Dark Side of the Dome· Mark J. Mitchell IV ................................................................................................... 7 Notre Dame 101.• Katie Wiltrout ..........................................................................................................~ ..................12 Something to Prove• Jake Schaller ....................................................................................................... ~ ..................21 Leagues of Their Own · T. Ryan Kennedy .............................................................................................................24 Week in Distortion• Kenneth A. Osgood ........................................................ , ........... ~ ...........................................29 Notre Dame Speak · Miranda Sanford ....................................................... : ...: ......................................................... 34 Notre Dame in the Rear View Mirror •Margaret S. Kenny ............................................... : ................................. 36 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SUMMER 1994 

"We are ... ND. We are ... ND." So goes the chant in the student section of the football stadium. Yelling it in unison with every student and hearing our roar is an affirmation, a declaration of membership in this community. Those four syllables unite thousands of diverse students, and for a few seconds the bond is palpable. We are ND, and we let the other team know that we take our membership seriously. 
And now, you are ND. Welcome. For the next four years you will grace this place with your energy, determination and spirit You will give to it, and it will give back to you-education, friends, choices you nev~r knew.existed. Spend your four years here wisely because they are precious. 
I decided to stayin South Bend this summer to work. NotreDameis quietand calm, and I have enjoyed running on the sidewalks and lake paths that wind around campus. I have grown into Notre Dame; most buildings hold memories and faces offriends. I run the paths confidently, surely, knowing with each step I take that-I belong here. 
Until this past weekend. It was reunion time at Notre Dame, and thousands of alumni ofall ages came flocking back to relive old memories and feed their lifelong friendships. Stopping in my old dorm to visit a friend, I was shocked. Old men were staying there, in my dorm -guysfrom the class of 1949. It did not seem right They joked around with me, showed me their senior pictures in the yearbook, told me about their escapades. And I realized that their claim to this campus isjustas strong as mine. The Notre Dame I know holds ghosts of their college days. 
Their presence knocked my ego down a few notches. But it was also, somehow, reassuring. I know that when I leave here next year, I must turn the place over to the next class of Darners. But I will never really leave, I will just join the ranks of tens of thousands of Notre Dame alumni. "We are ... ND." All ofus. 
What Scholastic is all about 
The staff ofScholastic produced this issue for two reasons-to give you a student perspective on Notre Dame life and what you can expect here, and to make you familiar with the magazine. This fall, Scholastic will begin its 128th year of production. We are proud to be the country's longest running college publication. Our mission is to provide the campus with weekly news stories, features, sports and humor. We hope each issue will make you think, keep you informedand bring a smile to your face. 
As for your worries and expectations about the coming year, relax. The most important thing to bring with you in August is an open mind. Your four years here me a chance to rrieet many people, take diverse classes and join organizations that interest you. Ifyou concentrate on the important things, the rest will fall into place. Enjoy the rest of your summer, and we'll see you in August · 
Katie E. Wiltrout Editor 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SUMMER 1994 
111---------------------1 
The Notre Dame Alumni 

AssociationAnd now, 
is a non-profit organization serving 

a·few words 


from your 
students 
and alumni.


most •
We're at 201 Main Building


important 
631-6000 
• 
Stop by or Call.

connection . 
WE'LL BE HERE. 

A recent survey of Notre Dame students revealed that 

See --you're already smarter than the seniors. 
NOTRE DAME ALUMNI AssOCIATION/201 MAIN BUJLDING/631-6000 CHARLES F. LENNON, JR. '61, '62MA ·EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
1992, 1993 Grand Gold Medal Winner, "Best Overall Alumni Program" 

The Year in Review 
A recap ofthe notable events ofa year at Notre Dame 
TeGratefulDeadisnot.a band that one would usually associ­ate with Notre Dame's con­servative image. But bringing the Dead to campus was the platform that won the student government elec­tion for Dave Hungeling and Matt Orsa:gh. On February 9, Hungeling and Orsagh were elected student body president and vice president for the '94-'95 school year with 44% of the votes. Initially ,many people thought their cam­paign was a joke. Tthey·based their cam­paign on stripping student government of all projects that are not fun, having free 
student football tickets and bringing the Grateful Dead to campus. 
But, according to Hungeling, they were able to make their campaign into a "grass roots, campus-wide social movement." As a result, they won the election, which re­ceived national media coverage. 
Will they be able to come through with their promises? Many obstacles currently stand in the way of bringing the Dead to campus, including a lack of space for such a large concert and the fact that the Grateful Dead's schedule is booked until 1996. Hungeling and Orsagh also recently admit­ted that they would have to make some compromises in their plans to downsize student government if they hoped to ac­complish anything. . · 


Dave Hungeling and Matt Orsagh, Notre Dame's student body president and vice president for the '93-'94 school year. The pair was .elected on a platform calling for more fun at Notre Dame, Including campaign promises to abolish student government and get students free football tickets. 
SCHOLASTIC 


Bans Initiation Rites 
A time-honored tradition in many men's donns is freshman initiation. Zahm Hall's tradition included dressing the freshman in togas, covering them with shaving cream and baptizing them in the library reflection pool. Dillon Hall initi­ated their freshmen with an ingenious scavenger hunt. Most·students view these initiations as a bonding'ritual, but the· administration apparently saw them as a risk to student safety.· After some ·controversial inci­dents this year, they passed a directive banning all initiation· rites, on and off campus.. The directive sparked much contro­versy, but the administration would not budge. As a result, the donns wjll have to think of new ways to welcome theirfirst­year students. . 
MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1994 

Construction continues on the $23 million business building. The structure, located directly behind DeBartolo Hall, Is slated to open next fall. 
Brent Tadsen 

The Changing Face of Campus 
r"f"%s past year, the administration announced many changes that 
J. willalter theface ofthecampus. Oneofthe more controversial of thde changes is the conversionofNorth Quad'sCavanaugh Hall to a women's dorm, begi~ing this fall. In order to accommodate the higher percentage ofwomen being admitted to the university, Cavanaugh is the second dorm to beconverted in the lasttwo years. The first was Pangborn Hall on South Quad. 
At the end of last April, the administration also announced that Grace Hall, one of the Mod Quad tower dorms housing over 500 men, will be converte4 to an administration building. Because the Main Building (the "Dome") needs to undergo·considerable reno­vation, all of the administrative offices will be moved to Grace in the fall of 1996. The construction oftwo new, all-male residence halls will begin in April 1995. The 18-hole Burke Memorial Golf Course on the south endofcampus will be converted to.anine-hol~ course to make space for the new construction. Even after the. completion ofthe Main Building'srenovation, Grace willcontinue to be used as an administrative office building. 
A final change in the campus will be the addition of a n~w business building. Scheduled to be completed in the fall of 1995, the building will hold most graduate and undergraduate business classes, replacing Hurley and Hayes-Healy, where classes are currently held . · 
-compiled by Michelle Crouch 

Notre Dame at the Cinema 
Ken Osgood 

Sean."stln., Rudy Ruettlger and Ara Parseghlan at a dinner celebrating the premiere of Tri-Star's Rudy. 
Rudy, a movie based on the real life story of Daniel E. "Rudy" Ruettiger, premiered October 6, 1993 atMorris Civic Audito­rium in South Bend. It was the first film produced with the cooperation ofNotre Dame since Knute Rockne: All American in 1940; Starring Sean Astin as Rudy, it was a story about reaching an impossible dream. . 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SUMMER 1994 




(_.  LATEST VIDEO GAMES  
1&  EIGHT FuLL-SIZE POOL TABLES  
(_..  NIGHTLY SPECIALS  
1&  RECREATION TOURAMENTS  
(r/lr"  FREQUENT SPECIAL EVENTS  
I&  BOARD GAMES FOR CHECKOUT  

~~ 

1& (tr  UP-TO-DAIB CAMPUS EVENT INFORMATION TICKETS TO CAMPUS PRODUCTIONS  
1&  DISCOUNT MOVIE TICKETS  
(tr 1& (..  WINDY CITY SHUTILE Bus TICKETS TO CHICAGO ND MERCHANDISE·& WATERCOLOR PRINTS MAGAZINES AND NEWSPAPERS FOR CHECKOUT  







-.,§iifl:l) 1¦ 

The Dark Side ofthe Dome 
Tales ofhaunted halls, supernatural bells and seqret tunnels shroud Notre Dame· in mystery 
by Mark J. Mitchell IV 
If you have a grandfather who gradu­ated from Notre Dame, there is little doubt that ever since you were very young; he sparked your imagination with stories of the university. Even if you do not have relatives to regale you with uni­versity legends, a campus tour will supply you with several bits of university lore. 
While these tales add color to the university's history, some of them bend the truth a little. Scholastic has tried to get the stories behind the legends and the secrets. 
Hauntings 
Some of the favorite Notre Dame tales revolve around the reputed ghosts of the campus. The most popular story is about the Ghost of Washington Hall who has supposedly haunted the old theater since 1886. In that year, a steeplejack was killed in a fall from the fly loft high' above the stage. Since then, students and professors have reported hearing voices, loud thuds and music coming from the stage area, according to Tom Barkes, the manager of Washington Hall. Barkes added· that he puts no stock in the haunting tale, saying that all the noise is probably attributable to echoes and pipes. 
Other documented reports of strange occurrences and haunting center around men's dorm Morrissey Manor. Accord­ing to ~ecurity guards' reports, residents of Morrissey have complained of strange noises coming from the room at the top of the tower since the late 1960s. In additon, security guards who are assigned to the hall in the summer have reported finding room doors open some mornings, even though they made sure all the rooms were closed and locked the night before. 


Supernatural Forces 
Sacred Heart Basilica is also the centerof a popular campus legend. According to legend, one of the Basilica's bells named Saint Anthony of Padua weighs over three tons. When it was first rung in Sacred Heart in 1875, it reportedly broke the wooden beams supporting it. It was then hung with 
The Ghost of Washington Hall has haunted the old theater · since 1886 when a steeplejack was killed in afallfrom the fly loft. 
metal beams, and it pulled the beams out of the wall again. 

So the Saint Anthony bell was allegedly left resting on a platform high in the tower, never to ring again. But its famous low ring can be heard from-time to time across the campus. Supposedly, the great bell rings only when Saint Anthony of Padua himself strikes it, and ifyou hear the deep gong of the bell and you say a prayer to Saint Anthony, your prayer will be an­swered. 
In reality, there is such a bell in Sacred. Heart. It weighs 7,000 pounds and hangs on its own rack. According to Brother Dennis, the Basilica sacristan, the Saint Anthony bell rings only a few times each year on the most important and solemn occasions. Because it is the loudest and biggest bell in the Basilica's tower, when it does ring, it can be heard across the campus. 

Hidden Floors 
Since it is the center of the campus, the Main Building carries with it many legends of its own. 
Most of them center around its reput­edly condemned fifth floor. Though visi­tors cannot go up to the fifth floor, it is only closed, not condemned. There is no access because, without an elevator, it is too difficult to put offices up that high. 
The fifth floor also holds the entry to the hidden staircase to the balcony inside the dome. Hidden ladders lead all the way up to the pedestal under Mary's feet. 


Secret Tunnels 
Miscellaneous legends surround the se­cret tunnel system that runs all over the campus. The tunnel system provides every building with heat, electricity and phone service. 
Exits to the tunnels are scattered around campus. Students are prohibited from entering the securely locked tunnels be­cause of the danger of electrical shock from the wires and the chance of collapse in some of the older sections. 
The catalogue of legends about Notre Dame could stretch on indefinitely. You will hear hundreds of tales in your four years here; and you'll probably tell them all to your grandchildren. 0 

~CHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SUMMER 1994 
7 
---' ~ ~ -. . . ­
---~-­





Family Portrait 

A guide to afew campus personalities 
by Michelle Crouch 
The Manin 
Charge 
Rev. Edward A. "Monk"Malloy,C.S.C., isinhissecondfive-year teimas the 16th presi­dentofNotreDame. For­merlyamemberofPresi­dent George Bush's Advisory Council on Drugs, he is now a memberof the Commis­sion on Substance Abuse at Colleges and Universities. He is also afounding director of thePoints ofLightFoundation, a national initiative to promote community service. 

FatherMalloy hasbeen afaculty member in the Department ofTheology since 1974, and he continues to teach today. Father Malloy resides in Sorin Hall, one of very few university presidents in the country who lives in a dorm with students. 
An Emeritus Extraordinaire 
Rev. FatherTheodore MHesburgh,C.S.C.,re~ tired in 1987 after serv­ing as Notre Dame's president for 35 years. He spends much of his time traveling, making speeches and fulfill­ing his obligations as a memberof a number of international organizations. 

Despite these obligations, Father Hesburgh is still involved with Notre Dame students. He can be found making guest appearances, lecturing in classrooms and presiding over liturgies in the residence halls. In addition, he chairs the advisory committees oftwo ofthe University's aca­demic institutes. 
Father Hesburgh is probably most well­known for his public service career. J:Ie has held 15 presidential appointments over the years, involving him in many major social issues, such as civil rights and atomic en-· ergy. He is also a national leaderin the field of education, as reflected in his 127 honor­ary degrees, the most ever awarded to a single individual. 
· Contrary to the rumor that Father Hesburgh lives on the 13th floor of the library named after him, he actually resides in Corby Hall, the residence of many Holy Cross priests. 
The Woman Who Makes the Rules 
The vice president of studentaffairs,Professor Patricia A. O'Hara is the woman who makes many of the decisions that af­fect Notre Dame stu­

dents. She sets the agenda for and makes decisions about campus ministry, campus security, student activities and residence life. 
Consequently, her relationship with stu­dents is bittersweet, as many students asso­ciate the department ofstudent affairs with discipline and punishment "That comes with the territory," said O'Hara. "Part of our work is with rules and expectations, but there is so much more to what we do, from campus ministry to student activities to counseling." · 
O'Hara tries to maintain a lot of contact with students, spending time in each dorm atleastonceayear,andworkingpersonally with theresidentassistants and studentgov­ernment. She also continues to teach two classes in the law school.. 
O'Hara was elected vice president of student affairs in June 1990, becoming the first woman to serve as an officer of the university. 

"Lou" 
WhenLouHoltzcame 
to Notre Dame to take 
over as the head football 
coach in 1985, rio one 
knew for sure what was 
in store. It did not take 
long to find out 


After only two years under his guidance, 
the Irish earned an invitation to the Cotton 
Bowl. It was their first New Year's Day 
appearance in seven years. The next year, 
in 1988, Holtz produced a national champi­
onship. 

In his eightseasons atNotre Dame, Holtz 
repeatedly proved that he has made Notre 
Dame one of the best in college football. 
The Irish victory over Texas A&M in the 
1994 Cotton Bowl marked Notre Dame's 
seventh bowl appearance in as many years, 
something no othercoach in the countrycan 
match. Moreover, he was only a stone's 
throw away from securing a national cham­
pionship for a second time this past year. 

Probably the most telling aspect about 
Holtz's success as a coach is the students' undyingloyaltyandrespectforhim. Thisis evident between the third .and fourth quar­ters of every football game, when thou­. sands of students hold up their hands to form the letter "L" and chant the name "Lou" over and over, to the tune of The 
1812 Overture. 
Dean of 
Freshman Year 
TheDeanoftheFresh­
man Year of Studies, 
Eileen Kolman spends 
most of her· time doing 
everything she can to 
make the adjustment to 


college life easier for the freshmen. 

Under Kolman's guidance, the Fresh­
man Yearof Studies assigns eachfreshman 
an adultadvisorand a peeradvisor. Kolman 
advises about 50 students herself. 

The department offers sessions in test 
preparation;note-taking and time manage­
ment. Moreover, they will find a tutor for 
any freshman who is having trouble in a 
·class. Through these and other programs, 
Dean Ko~an has helped to make the col­
lege transition much easier. · 
8 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1994 

HAVE YOU EVER DREAMED ... 
* 
OF SINGING WITH ONE OF TI-IE MOST DISTINGUISHEDMALE CHORAL GROUPS INTHEWORLD? 

* 
OF TOURING EXOTIC PLACES SUCHAS LONDON, PARIS, DUBLIN, ROME,PUERTORICO,NEWYORKANDNEW ORLEANS? 

* 
OFSINGING TI-IE NOTRE DAME VICTORY MARCHTOTHOUSANDS OF CHEERING FOOTBALL FANS? 

* 
OFWOOING WOMEN WITH TI-IE SOUND OFYOURVOICE? 


IF SO, THEN JOIN US 


THE NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
* 
AUDffiONS WILL BE HELD DURING THE FIRSTWEEK OF CLASSES! 

* 
LOOK IN CROWLEYHALL OF MUSIC & INYOUR NEW RESIDENCE HALLS FOR DETAILS! 


COME JOIN ONE OF THE OLDEST TRADITIONS ON CAMPUS!! 
¦ Pt!.l 1 1!1-il iii¦ 


gthelssue 

A new campus tradition comes in the form ofa tee-shirt 

'' AglanceacrossNotreDamestadium
ii 
I; isapowerfulsight Thereisnoth­ing like 59,000 fans screaming with pride for the Irish. And for the stu­dents, occupying approximately 10,000 of those seats, presence means more than just being there. Sinceitsfoundationin 1842,NotreDame 
'I 
! ! 
hasbeenaplaceofrichtradition. Someof the most famous traditions include those of Knute Rockne, the golden dome, the grotto and Touchdown Jesus. Amid its 152 year was created by Brennen Harvath as a fund-raiserforAnTostal,NotreDame'sannual Spring Festival. He envisioned the entire· student body dressed in the same tee-shirt atthehomefootballopenerin 1990. In the first year, 9,500 shirts were sold to the students on campus. In fact, over 85% of the students purchased ''The Shirt" and wore it to the stadium, where they wit­nessed Notre Dame's comeback victory over the Wolverines of Michigan. 
The following year the project contin­enue," Ewan said. 

In an,attempt to unite the entire Notre Dame family behind a single cause, the Notre Dame Alumni Association sponsored the project Permission was granted to advertise off-campus and the foundation 
· was laid for taking the project to anew level. Campus retail outlets joined the effort and over41,000shirtsweresoldin 1992. That year marked a turning point in the project as various charities, as well as student organi­zations, began to benefit from ''The Shirt''. 
history, many new traditions.--------------------------,With these funds, a student . 
have emerged and found their own special place at Notre Dame. Among these new tra­ditions is ''The Shirt" 
"The Shirt" project was 

I' 
started in 1990 with the dual 

l' purpose of promoting school 
1:11' 
spiritandgeneratingfundsfor

i, 
scholarships,charitiesandstu-

I: 
dentorganizations. Eachsea­

ii son, the student body wears 
: •. •.1'
'i 
''The Shirt" to the first home football game, unifying the studentbodyinonesolidcolor. 

La,st year, 53,000 shirts were sold as the project explored yet
another horizon by expandin,g 
the national marketing planto 
include television advertising. 
controlled scholarship fund was created in the memory of Meghan Beeler and Col­leen Hipp, two Notre Dame swimmers.who were tragi­
callykilledinabusaccident
in 1992. 

Last year, 53,000 shirts 
were sold as the project ex­
ploredyetanothemewhori­
zon by expanding the na­
tional marketing plan to in­
cludetelevisionadvertising. 
•Half the proceeds were do­
"When I was a freshman, I was so im­pressed with the unity of the student body that was generated by 'The Shirt' Every­one waswearingit Itwasthefirsttimethat I had really felt that special spirit of Notre Dame that everyone talks about -it was very powerful," said Kristi Broderick, now a junior at Notre Dame. 
This year, ''The Shirt" returns in its fifth edition, ''The Shirt '94." This year's Shirt is kelly green and features the spirits ofpast Irish football legends Knute Rockne, the Gipper, and the Four Horsemen awakened by the cheers of the Notre Dame Football Stadium. 
''The Shirt" has come a long way siQce its humble beginnings in 1990. The project ued and was once again a great success. Over 90% of the student body purchased and wore ''The Shirt '91" to see the Irish triumph over the Indiana Hoosiers. In total, over 9,000 shirts were sold and the proceeds were divided between AnTostal and various student groups. 
''The Shirt" was taken to new heights under the leadership of Steve Hank and· Jesse Ewan, who directed the project in both 1992 and 1993. Hank and Ewan ana­lyzed the first two years of the project, hoping to discover new possibilities. for expansion. ''Through the analysis, we· discovered that the alumni and the friends ofthe University had not been included in the past so we chose to explore that av­nated to cover the medical expenses of Todd Broski, a Notre Dame rugby player who was paralyzed in a match at Notre Dame in the spring of 1993. 

In its first four years of existence, the project has generated nearly half a million dollars. As a result, it has become the largest student fundraiser at Notre Dame. Looking ahead to the 1994 football season, Matthew Macura and committee are work­ing to continue the success of ''The Shirt" project A~ording to Macura, several or­ganizations will once again benefit from the proceeds of ''The Shirt", but more impor­tantly, they hope to capture once again the spirit and unity of Notre ~e. 
10 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1994 

9'he (iJQolligt on Campug
* g1tesh Cut S'Qowe1ts
* CBaQQoon c.Atutangement~ 
• Happu Birthdau • Get Well • ThinRing ofYou • Love • · • Hang In There • Good LucR • Congratulations • Miss You • 
Deliveru On and Off Campus Mondau-Saturdau 12:30-5:30 pm Use uour Credit Card and charge bu phone 
(219) 631-4004 

In the Basement of the Lafortune Student Center . 
-

.:•:•:•:•:•:•:.:-:-:-:-:-:-:•:•:•:•:•:•:-:-:-:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:,:-:·.~· •::,:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:-:-:-:-:-:,:,:,:,:, .. ·,:,:,: ·;-·-:•:•:•:•:•:•:••·•·•·•·•·•·••: •• •:•:•:••·•·•·••:•:-:-:-•, ;.;,:,:-:-:-:,:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:. :Y' ·-·•·•·•·•·••:•:•:•:•:-:-:,:-:-:-. ·,•. .,•:-:-:-:,~-·.-.-..:-: .:•:•:•:•:-:.:.:••·•·•·•·•·•-.-.•:-:•:-:-:-:•.· .................... : :-:,:.yy..,.,....,............-•..• •,•.•,• • .. :.............,..•,••: .v....... . 
. ·· . .· '· 
• • • ' • • • •~ • ' .,. _,.• ' • • • I : • ,,.. ' -_• • 

D+iSiii-iiiil¦ 
Notre Dame 101 
A quick guide to the basics ofwhat you will need to get through yourfirst semester on campus 
by Katie Wiltrout 

Lyons. Flanner. Dillon. Knott The names may not be familiar now, but in the next few months they will be instantlyrecogniz.able,alongwith thenames of many other dormitories. One of these funny-sounding places, like Pasquerilla or Zahm or Pangborn, will become your new home. Much ofyour freshman yearis shaped by the computerin the administration building that assigns incoming students to dorms. Will you be in a traditional, ivy-covered dorm or a modem, air-conditioned one? Will you be on the North Quad near the library oron South Quad, close to theRock? Most importantly, will you be assigned a roommate who will be a lifelong friend or year-long annoyance? Only time will answer these questions. Fornow, all you can do is arm yourselfwith knowledge of some basics about moving in and what you can expect in your first few weeks at Notre Dame. Dorm Life Your dorm will obviously be the center of your activities, at least in the beginning. Notre Dame's dormitories run the gamut from almost brand-new to ancient, from small and cozy to large, from a location at the heart of campus to one on the other side of the lake. Although each dorm has a uniquepersonality and characteristics, there are a few things in common among them. Dorm rooms are never large enough, at least for your first year. In older men's dorms like Morrissey and Dillon, freshman rooms are downright tiny. Space maximi­zation is key, no matterwhatdorm you may find yourselfin. Many students use lofts in order to raise the beds to bunk-bed height, opening up valuable floor space. Loft kits can be boughtatnearby $tores like Builders common tools. They are not much fun to put together, but if you need the space, the time and money are valuable investments. 
The university provides every student with a desk and chair, and in all. roorris except for those in Grace and Flanner (the 
. men's towers) there are sinks and medicine cabinets. You will need a desk lamp, and floor lamps are also agood thing to bring­the overhead lighting is typically weak. 
As far as furniture goes, it'srisky to bring along anything big before you see how much space you have to work with. If you decide that you do need acouch for napping or a recliner to channel-surf, you can buy one when you get to campus. There is something called the Fall Mall in Stepan Centeratthebeginningofevery year, where you can buy couches, chairs, carpets, bean­bags, posters and other articles 

there's always plenty to eat, even if you're picky. At lunch and dinner there's always a fully-stocked salad bar with plenty of dressings and toppings. Another popular stand-by, if you don'tlike the entrees, is the cereal bar. The cereal bar is available whenever the dining hall is open, with at least a dozen cereals, enough to please even Mikey. 
Other popular dining hall options are the deli and the pasta bar. The deli is open for weekday lunches and dinners with a decent selection of meats, cheeses and breads. Pastaria is also a big hit. There are always three kinds of pasta and as many kinds of sauce, as well as crusty Italian garlic bread. The last option for dining, other than the entrees, is Grab-n-Go. Grab-n-Go was a· new feature this year that enjoyed great 


to make your room more com­fortable. You can also rent re­frigerators there. 
However, if your budget is tight or you really don't want to go to the trouble ofbuying these comforts, don't despair. Every dorm has televisionlounges with couches and TVs and a bonus youdon'tgetinyourroom:cable. Dorms also have community kitchens where you can store food or cook for yourself if the dining hall fare does not excite you. 
. Food for Thought 1j 

Thisbrings up thesecond-mbst important place on campus, at least for some: the dining hall. Those two words instill fear in many students, butdon't give up A familiar sight In la.te August. hope before you get here. Notre Damehastwodininghalls,NorthandSouth, success. Ifyou don't have time to eat, you named for the quads on which they are can walk through the Grab-n-Go line for a · 
located. Both ofthem serve the same meals :sandwich, fruit, cookies and a drink. 


Square for under $50, and assembled with 
each day. What can you expect? Well, Last aie the entrees, the main fare at the 
12 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE a SUMMER 1994 
. !: . . 
I • , ..., ' • / • ~ • ­
• -' • 
. . 
dining halls. There are both meat and veg­etarian options for hot food, although the vegetarian entrees sometimes leave a little to be desired. For those dieting, there are "lighter fare" choices, which are lower in fat and calories. Some entrees are truly interest­ing -orange roughy, meatless baked ziti and California EI Dorado casserole are just a few that you will become all too familiar with during the next four years. And, of course, if you get sick of the dining hall, you can buy food. Lafortune Student Center has four mini fast food eater­ies collectively called The Huddle -one serving Mexican, one Oriental, one pizza and the last hamburgers. The other place you can gethotfood all day and until late at night is the Oak Room, a pay cafeteria located in South Dining Hall, with a better selection than the regular dining hall offers. Finally, thereis alittleconveniencestoreinLafortune where you can buy milk, beverages and a very limited supply of groceries, but prices tend to be inflated. Martin's and Kroger's, two chain grocery stores, are just a short bus ride from campus. 


Books 
After you've unpacked, decorated your room and tested the dining halls, it's time to get down to what you're really here for­school. (Ifyou were thinking football, nice try.) The best advice about buying books is · to attend a few dasses before heading to the bookstore. The bookstore's return policy is not very accommodating. They will refund you only ifthe book has not been written in and ifyou have a drop slip to prove you've dropped a class. A lot of sophomores sell books they don't need anymore, and many times you can save a lot of money buying these used books. Look for advertisements on bulletin boards as soon as classes start. 
• 
For the second year, 
Student Government 
will offer the ·Book 
Fair, a used-book ba­
zaar where you can 
pickup somebargains. 
There's also 
Pandora's Books, a 
used bookstore not far 
from campus. See 
whatyoucanfindout­
side the bookstore be­
fore buying there. Not 

only can you save yourself a lot of money, but you can avoid 
the awful lines that occur at the beginning of every semester. ' 
Clothes and the Weather 

Last, but not least, you've got to be prepared for the weather, and that means dressing smartly. Most of the horror stories you've heard about Indiana weather are probably true. When you arrive in August, it will most likely be humid and in the 90s. It stays hot for a few weeks, so bring along your shorts, tank tops and bathing suits. 
Fall is gorgeous but quick. By Novem­ber you will be needing a good winter coat Another essential for winter is a a pair of snow boots (your mother is right on this one). Whenyouhaveaneighto'clockclass and there's a foot of snow on the ground, . you will care little for fashion. Any kind of hiking boots, such as the ones made by Nike and Reebok, will serve you well, as will typical winter boots. A scarf, gloves and a hat are also good bets, as is long underwear for cold football games and playing in the snow. 
Campus fashion runs the gamut from the university uniform of jeans, sneakers, a sweatshirt and a baseball cap to J. Crew outfits straight out of the catalog. Classes are pretty casual, although women don't look out of place in a skirt and flats. Bring clothes that are comfortable, easy to take care ofand that you enjoy wearing. You'll also need some·dressy-clothes for dances (see sidebar). Mostimportantof all, upper­classmen will tell you, is plenty of the essentials -socks and underwear. Ifyou don't want to be doing laundry every week­end, stock up on your whites. · 
There you have the basics. But don't worry. If something goes wrong, your family is just a phone call away. D 
• ' ~ • • • , • • 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE II SUMMER 1994 
13 




YOUR FIRST UNOFFICIAL 



COLLEGE EXAM. 
RELAX, IT'S TRUE OR FALSE. 
D T D p .Army ROTC courses don't fit into your Notre Dame schedule. 
(False . . . Military Science classes are electives which fit into most 
degree programs. The I-credit freshman course even satisfies your 
first-year P.E. requirement.) · 
D T D p Only 4-year scholarship students can take .Army ROTC courses. 
(False ... Many students try Military Science courses as freshmen, then apply for 3-year scholarships worth $46,000 at Notre Dame. About 6 · Notre Dame students win 3-year scholarships each year.) 
Students who complete the .Army ROTC program serve their
.T .F country as .Army officers after college, 
(True ... Over 40 Notre Dame students earn their Army officer com­missions each year. Many enter full-time active duty for three or four years, with starting pay and allowances ofover $24,600 plus 30 days annual vacation. Others pursue their civilian careers after college while serving part-time as Army Reserve or National Guard officers in their communities.) 
Ifyou take an .Army ROTC class, you'll be co;mmitted to milituy
.T .F service until you're 103 years old. · 
(False • • • You can take freshman and sophomore Military Science courses without obligation. When you accept a scholarship or enter advanced courses as a junior, you'll make a commitment to serve as an Army officer when you graduate.) 
Now here's the fill-in portion ofthe exam. Fill in "MSCI I I I-Introduction to Military Science" on your freshman schedule this fall. · 



ARMY ROTC 

THE SMARTEST COi.LEGE COURSE YOU CAN Tm• 
.FOR DETAILS, CALL 1-800-UND-.ARMY (On campus 1-6265) ASK FOR CAPTAIN ERIC VAN VLIET 


Eric Strong, ND Freshman, Science/Pre-Med 
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, THIS c·uy IS IN CLASS. 
"My three year.ROTC scholarship is paying for 
most of my Notre Dame education. It's WQrth 
over $45,000.00" 
Eric Strong is one of the many Notre Dame 
students who have won Army ROTC 
scholarships. YID! gnirul, 


CALL 1-800-UND-ARMY 
(on campus 1-6265) ASK FOR CAPTAIN ERIC VAN VLIET 
ARMY ROTC 
lliE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 



•J 

Engineering students prepare an electric car to compete at the Cleveland Electric Formula Classic 


by Chris Blanford 

T heframeisnamedFonnulaLight­ning. Thecardrivesfasterthan 150 miles per hour. The propulsion is entirely electric-andentirely designed by students. The national competition provides a hands-on research and developmentoppor­tunity for students to advance electric car technology. Twelve universities partici­pate in the challenge. Undergraduate stu­dents wereinchargeofdesignofthemotor, drive system and batteries for their car. 'The bottom line is which university's students can build the best electric propul­sion system," said Colonel John D. Miles, assistant dean of the college of engineering and a faculty advisor on the project "Our two main objectives are to provide under­graduate research experience to our stu­dents and to advance the technology of electric vehicles." "Racing has been a research means to . produce breakthroughs in technology," he said. The race's sponsors, including the Solar Electric Racing Association (SERA), hope that this competition will produce similar breakthroughs. The specifics of the design are kept se­cret, said Peter H. Bauer, an electrical engi­neering professor and a faculty advisor for the project Miles explains the reason for this se­crecy: 'Thisisacompetitiverace. We don't want other universities to know what sys­tems we have." Just knowing the type of motor a car is using will give competitors a clue about the racing strategy a team will use, he said. The Notre Dame car holds 26 batteries and _uses an AC motor. The Cleveland Electric illuminating Company, a sponsor ofthe race, requires thatthere be at least one battery change during the race. One of the challenges will be to do this as efficientlyas . possible. 
ThepublicgottheirfirstglimpseofNotre Dame's entry on May 12 when the car was rolled out onto DeBartolo Quad. People also got to meet the pilot of the car, Mark Folkert. FolkertwontheSportsCarClubof America (SCCA) Central Division Nation Championship in 1993 and is a leading driver in the Midwest 
Kevin Gardner, an~=========""""" 
electricalengineeringstu­dent, loves his experience working on the car, de­spite the long hours. "Sometimes it's eight­hotir days, but others are 12, 15 and up to 17 hour days." He will be travel­ingwith lOorelevenother students to Cleveland the week afterIndependence Day. 
The caris test driven at racetracksin thearea. Just weeksbeforethebigrace, the Notre Dame racing team took their car. to Putnam Park near India­napolis to work out the final details of their car's systems. 
Not all the testing is mechanical, though. ThomasLischke,a senior engineering student, wrote software to simu­late race conditions such as time in.the pit for bat­tery changes and the pat­tern oftheracecourse. Bes cause they had little in­
<·•rt•·•<) >: .\.( \ ·····•····•••· ··••····••· 

fonnation about their competitors' cars, the simulation is not perfect 
The ultimate test wiil come when Notre Dame's vehicle is pitted against the cars from the other universities on July 9 at the SO-kilometer Cleveland Electric Fonnula Classic. This is the first race in what should be an annual and growing competition. This race is part of the Budweiser Grand Prix of Cleveland. The winner of the race will receive a $5000 grant to establish a scholarship for deserviqg students. tl 
Brent Tadsen 
Notre Dame's racing crew checks out the car during the rollout on DeBartolo Quad. 
16 

SCHOLASTIC .MAGAZINE• SUMMER 1994 

i
\ i 
MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL "WE BRING YOU THE WORLD FO.R FREE" OCTOBER 2 -OCTOBER 8 
' 

A MARATHON OF ACTIVITIES ALL IN ONE WEEK 
Campus Bands Entertainment 
October2 
on the Quad 

12:00-2:00 p.m. · Fireside Chats 
October3-7 Fieldhouse Mall 
Monday: Fr. Don McNeil, ''Unity 4:30 -6:00 p.m. Through Community" Fieldhouse Mall Spiritual Tuesday: Dr. Joe Miller, "The Earth is Your Home: Is Your Room Clean?"
Celebration Special Events 
October2 -Wednesday: Dr. Mara Ryan, October4-6 2:00-3:00 p.m. "Relationships: The Building Blocks 7:00-11:00 LaFortune Ballroom LaFortune Ballroom 
Toward a Global Family" Thursday: BarbaraMarxHubbard, "How Culture on the to Create a Global Family" Taste _of Nations · Quad Friday:Dr.JanetKouranyandJimSterba, October& October3-7 "The Ideal of a Feminist Family" 8:00-Midnight Stepan Center 
12:00 -1 :00 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall 




Anthony Travel Inc. 


Welcome to Notre Darnel 

We'd like to be among the many friEJndly faces welcoming you to Notre Dame. Our offices are located downstairs in the LaFortune Student Center, and we're here to help you. Please call us with any questions you might have about travel. Here is some information you may find useful: 
PLAN AHEAD -The best airfares are available to those who plan ahead. It is almost impossible to book your travel too far in advance. 
TELL YOUR PARENTS -and friends that we arrange discount airfares and hotel accomodations for most occasions when they will be visiting campus ­football games, Junior Paren1s Weekend, graduation, etc. We can also help them with any other travel arrangemen1s they may need. 
KEEP IN MIND-that we are a full service agency. This means we can arrange any kind of travel service you need -international and domestic air, group travel vacations, hotel and car reservations, rail transportation -even United Limo service to and from the Chicago airpor1s. Let us assist you. 
AVOID WAITING IN LINE -The agency on campus is less busy in the morning than in the afternoon, so save time by coming to visit us early in the day. You can also use a credtt card and make reservations by phone. We accept whatever form ofpayment the airlines accept, i.e., all major credtt cards. Ifyou paybycheck, there will be a 14-daywaiting period before you canpickupyour ticke1s. 
TAKE THE BUS-United Limo. providesbusservice between both Chica_goairpor1sand the main circle of the campus. The buses run almost every hour. Round-trip fare is $50; one way is $27. Ticke1s can be purchased atAnthonyTravel on campus. 
University of Notre Dame 

2602 McKinney Avenue 
LaFortune Student Center 
Suite 110
P.O. Box 1086 

Dallas, Texas 75204-2507
Notre Dame. IN 46556-1086 
AANTHONY TRAVEL, INC Phone: (214) 922-8011
Phone: (219) 631-7080 
Fax: (214) 871-0420
1-800-00MERS-2 

1-800-7-DOMERS Fax: (219) 631-8504 
Owned and operated by siH Notre Dome alumni who remember what it was like to be a freshman. 
. , , ~~ -' • --' ~ • • i t'--" ~ ~ 
-. ---­' ' -. -. -' ~ 


--ii•isi 


With a preseason number-two ranking, unlimited potential, but many skeptics, Notre Damefootball has 
pleting 12 of 16 passes for 106 yards, and winning offensive player-of-the-game hon­ors. 
However, the Irish have many gaps to fill this coming year on both sides of the ball after losing 22 lettermen. Seniors leave every year, but this year's group was spe­cial. All four of the 1993-94 Irish captains, 


Solllething to Prove 

by Jake Schaller 
Saturday,April23, 1994. RonPowlus, 
, dubbed "The Messiah" of Notre 
Dame football when he first signed his letter of intent to attend Notre Dame, finally stepped onto the field of the fabled Notre Dame stadium for the annual Blue and Gold game. Fighting Irish fans had awaited this moment for almost a year. 
With eager eyes, the fans watched as he took his first snap for the Blue team during its secon.d possession. Powlus dropped back, and delivered a perfectly-thrown 26­yard fade to tight end Pete Chryplewicz in the comer of the end zone. This glimpse of greatness .electrified the otherwise quiet crowd. 
Afterthis spectacularstart, Powlus' s per­fonnance was at best mediocre. Powlus went 2-for-9 for IO yards, including two interceptions. His debut symbolized the outlook for Notre Dame as they approach the 1994 season: unlimited potential, but many question marks. 
For the second straight year, head foot­ball coach Lou Holtz must place an inexpe­rienced player at the.honored spot of Notre Dame quarterback. Though already grac­ing the pages ofSports Illustrated, Powlus, the projected starter, has yet to take a snap ina college gamesituation. "Quarterback is an unknown," Holtz remarked. "We have to keep in mind that Ron Powlus hasn't played for two years, he's never played on this level, and he's still only a freshman. But he's a talented individual." 
PowluscametoNotreDameasoneofthe most heralded Notre Dame recruits ever. Despite the flashes of brilliance, like his first throw in the Blue-Gold game, the rust on him was evident. Still, Holtz insists that Powlus will be the number-one quarter­back. "I have no doubt whatsoever in my mind that Ron Powlus is number one com­ing here in the fall. I was extremely encour­aged by the play of Krug, and I think he will make a great back-up." 
SophomorequarterbackTom Krug had a tough spring, going through soine practices as the only quarterback who could be hit, and taking all the snaps. He had a very good performance in the Blue-Gold game, com­offensive linemen Aaron Taylor and Tim Ruddy, defensive lineman Bryant Young, and safety Jeff Burris, were selected in the first two rounds ofthis year's NFL draft. A total of 10 Irish players were chosen, the 
. most players from any college for the sec­ond year in a row. ­
· The quarterback position seems to be the strongest area on the entire team. Yet Notre Dame's running game could be the best in the nation next year, with the top five rush­ers returning. At tailback, senior captain Lee Becton returns as only the fifth Notre Dameplayerin history to have a 1,000-yard season. Becton also set a Notre Dame record with six straight 100-yard perfor­mances in the last six games ofthe year. He added a seventh in the Cotton Bowl, and garnered Outstanding Offensive Player honors for the game. Many people still feel Becton has something to prove, though. B~ton doesn't mind. "To me it isn't very frustrating. As long as the team's winning andlcanhelptheteam,I'mcontent. l'mnot outthereforthefansoranyoneelse. I'm out there for my teammates," he said. 
continued on page 22 
Draped In a bright yellow jersey, Powlus cooly threw a touchdown In his first play from scrimmage In the Blue-Gold game. Powlus will have prime duty In the 


SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SUMMER 1994 
19 

~·. -., ._, ~-1,,..( .. 
' -. . 

llfl 1Gf~5 AGEN D~ ·· 
L q,q+etv I 1)-ectd coneert 
l.Ft-e<: ~II +icket9 
3. fvfl If vn 1 -Fun lj. Lo.r(e '?ceded i9a~r 
On bellalfofstudent government we would like to welcome you to Notre Dame. Enjoy the last few weeks of unabashed leeching off your parents. When you do arrive at school be sure that you stop by--the second floor of LaFortune and meet Barb the Wonder Secretary. She will 
·be ableto tell you allaboutus andwhatlarge-scaledisasters wehave planned for the up-and-coming year and what you · can do to become a part of it. 
.;; 

\ -Crave unlimited power ... · -Revel in the epicure~ life~style _and all the · . ·. · debauchery it entails ... .~ Now devote yourself to the teachings of Kurt 
Cobain ... -Like to fmger-paint ... -Have cool stuff you want to give us ... -._ Prefer RC Cola to· either Coke or Pepsi ... -Like to drive, look at or think about pickup 
trucks ... 

-Have ever fantasized about what it would be like to be a love slave to· a Saturday morning cartoon character ... 
1 You'll fit right in here at Notre Dame. If you can't 
l 
· identify with any of these things -don't worry, you have a whole year to conform. We'll make sure you· do. Stop by and see us.­

Matt & 'Dave 

Senior Ray Zellars will accompany Becton at fullback. Zellars rushed for 494 yards last year and hauled in 14 receptions for 109 yards. Joining these two are three sophomores who all stepped into major roles last year. Tailback Randy Kinder, who gained 537 yards, gives the Irish big-play potential with his break-away speed. Robert Farmer, another tailback, and Marc Edwards, a fullback who led the Irish in scoring last year, will round out Notre Dame's lethal rushers. 
Holtz and offensive line coachJ oe Moore have quite a job in front of them to prepare next. year's offensive line. When asked about when the line would gel, Holtz even quipped" Ninety-Six." The main problem is at center. The Irish used four centers during the spring, and are still without a definite answer. 
With the graduation of Lake Dawson and ClintJohnson, and the uncertain status of Mike Miller, who was implicated in the theft of a donnTV, widereceiveris another questionable position. Leading the Irish receiver corps will be junior Derrick Mayes, an explosive split end who ended last season with a seven-reception, 147-yard performance against Boston College. The only other letterman back is Charles Stafford, who had a good spring, but lacks experi­ence. 
A pleasant surprise for Holtz during the spring was the superb play of tight ends Oscar McBride and Chryplewicz, who combined made nine receptions in the Blue-Gold game. Those nine recep­tions were more than the total passes caught by tight ends in 1993. This year, however, under new offensive coordinator Dave Rob­erts' scheme, tight ends will beused more than in the past Roberts, who formerly coached Eastern Kentucky, took them to the NCAA Division I-AA playoffs three of the last four years. 
Joining Roberts on this year's coaching staff are three other new faces. Notre Dame acquired a new defensive coordinator in former Texas A&McoachBob Davie. Davie's "Wrecking Crew" defense finished number one in the nation in 1991, and last year's squad finished third. Joining Davie on defense are Dan Pees, who will coach the secondary, and Kirk Doll, who will handle the Irish outside linebackers. Such piajor coaching changes have to be a concern, but apparently all have fit in and adjusted well. "I think the transition with the four new coaches went smoother than I could've ever hoped for," commented Holtz. 
Holtz believes that the Notre Dame defense is more advanced than the offense, although he points out that spring practices can be deceiving because the team plays against itself. "It is the most aggressive defense we've had since I've been here," said Holtz. "I feel real positive. with the defensive sytem with Coach Davie coming in," noted junior All-America safety Bobby Taylor. "We have a lot of speed, and we like to attack and make things happen." Nonetheless, the Irish defense will be totally rebuilt in 1994, after the loss of seven starters and five of the team's top six tacklers. Captain BrianHamiltonand Oliver Gibson, both fifth-year seniors, and Thomas Knight are the returning linemen with experience. 
The secondary may seem devastated, losing three of four starters, but the one returning is Bobby Taylor. He is the most decorated returning All-American for the Irish and will mostlikely be playing a new position this year. After finishing last year as one ofthreefinalists for theJim Thorpe Award as the top defensiveback· in the country while playing cornerback, Taylor will be moving to safety. According to Holtz, safety is Taylor's natural pasition, where he can better utilize his athleticism and instincts. 

GET REAL EXPERIENCE MANAGING A BUSINESS 
APPLY FOR A STUDENT MANAGER POSITION AT THE HUDDLE 
REWARDS: REQUIREMENTS: 
* 
$6.10 PER HOUR * 15-20 HOURS PER WEEK 

* 
WORK ON CAMPUS * A STRONG DESIRE TO LEARN 

* 
FREE MEALS AT WORK *HARD WORK 

* 
GREAT EXPERIENCE TO ADD TO * WORK SOME.NIGHT_SHIFfS YOUR RESUME * WORK SOME WEEKENDS 


* BE ABLE TO WORK EXTRA ON HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 

APPLY IN PERSON AT THE HUDDLE (LOCATED IN THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER). POSITION IS FOR FALL -SE:MESTER. ASK FOR JIM 631-6902. TRAINING WILL START AS SOON AS THE SUCCESSFUL APPICANTS ARE AVAILABLE. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1994 

-
-· Notre Dame foresees theimportanceofthefirst 
· the kicking game as a two games, cand how problemoncemore. Last tough it will be to open year's place-kicker, on the road, against Kevin Pendergast, and Northwestern, and then 
·top punter Adrian Jarrel play Michigan the sec-have both graduated, ond week of the season. leaving both jobs wide The toughest team may open. Stefan Schroffner be USC, who Holtz appears to be the leading claims "may be the best candidate for place in the country." kicker, while Holtz be-Though there wereru­lieves Powlus has estab-mors of Holtz being lished himself as the _named coach of an NFL punter, with Brian Ford expansion team or the on back-up duty. With Dallas Cowboys, he in-long snapper Lance -sists that he is extremely Johnson and returner content where he is, and ClintJohnsongone,spe-_ready to coach. ''There cial teams effici_ency ap-Brent Tadsen are 28 NFL teams, but 
pears skeptical. The Irish plan to steamroll opponents with their punishing running only one Notre Dame," Many answers are yet game, to which Randy Kinder is a major contributor. Holtz explained. 
to come with next year's freshman class. This recruiting class does However, it will not get any easier next year, coaching a team not have a Powlus or a Kinder, but does have two Parade All-that is ranked second in the pre-season poll, but still faces many Americans, and twelve Blue Chip Illustrated All-Americans. questions. ''The strong point is the togetherness· of the team," 
Thisyear'sscheduleisalittlemoredifficultthanlastyear's. The stated Becton, "because we certainly don't have the marquee only different team is Air Force, whom the Irish will face instead players. I feel very confident with Ron back there. I think ofPittsburgh. Holtz says that most teams they will face next year everything will work out" 0 will be betteron paper than they were last year. He also pointed out 
6¢· 
COPIES 
6¢ 
COPIES 
6¢ 
COPIES 
6¢ 
COPIES 
6¢ 
COPIES 
-6¢ 
COPIES 
6¢ 
COPIES 
"6¢ 
COPIES 
6¢ 
COPIES 
6¢ 
COPIES 


LaFortune Student Center University_of Notre Dame 
Phone (219) 631-COPY Fax (219) 631-FAX1 
WELCOME CLASS OF 198! 
The Copy Shop, located in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center, is Notre Dame's student copy center. The Copy Shop offers a wide selection of products and services. 
,High..Speed Copies • Printing • Binding • Fax Resumes • Posters • Computer Disks • & MORE! WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, &WEEKENDS 

6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 6¢ 
COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES COPIES 
6¢ 

COPIES 
6¢ 

COPIES 
6¢ 

COPIES 
6¢ 
COPJES 
6¢ 

COPIES 
6¢ 
COPIES 
6¢ 

COPIES 
6¢ 

COPIES 
6¢ 

COPIES 
6¢ 
COPIES 

S C H O L A S T I C M A G A Z I N E • S U M M. E R 1 9 9 4 
---~ ill 





Leagues of Their 
Own 

Likefootball, many Irish teams enjoy rich heritage and success 
by T. Ryan Kennedy 

Evenif youhaveforgottenaboutNotre Dame's top-25 academic reputa­tion, don't call it a football fac­tory-call itaiiathleticpowerhouse. Notre Dame's 1993-94 athletic teams once again displayedthattheuniversityhasothersports going for it besides football. The 1994 NCAA men's and women's combined fencing championship exempli­fied Notre Dame's unprecedented showing inpostseasoncompetetion during the 1993­
94 season. The fall sea­son saw a run of eight different Notre Dame teams ranked in various top 25 polls at one time. 
Last fall, the women's soccer team advanced to theNCAAtoumamentfor the first time everby·win­ningtheMidwesternCol­legiate Conference (MCC). They finished the season ranked thirdin· the nation with a 19-3 record. and the likes of sophomores phenoms StaciaMastersandCindy Daws promise a winning future. The men's teaqi madeitto theNCAAsfor the first time since 1988 thanks to its MCC title, finishing the season meet, finishing 14th in the nation. 
Notre Dame volleyball advanced to the NCAA tournament for the first time since 1988 thanks to an MCC title. They defeated Nebraska and Minnesota before falling in the Mideast Regionals to Penn State. The Irish were ranked I7th in the nation with a 17-8 record. 
In the USA Today/National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics all­sportscompetitionfor 1993-94,NotreDame stood second behind Penn State in Direc­tors' Cup points throughout the fall sports season. Unfortunately for Penn State, the 


As a freshman, Cindy Daws led the women's soccer team to a won the MCC postseason number three ranking. With the coaching under Chrl.s Bertlcelll and; title for the fifth time in six 
the talent, a championship looms ahead for the Irish. 
. . . 

ranked 20th nationally with a 15-6 record. men and women of Notre Dame fencing 
Themen'scrosscountryteamwereranked edged. out Penn State for their fifth tearir fifth in the NCAA meet and finished sev­national championship (men: 1977, 1978,. enth in the final NCAA poll. This.was the 1986; women: 1987). The Irish epeeists teams's fifth toP: IO finish in six years. The erased a 275-point .deficit to defeat ttie women made it to their first-ever NCAA Nittany Lions on the final day. · 
Despite another less-than-spectacular showing during the 1993~94 season, the men'sbasketball teamhasastoriedpastand apromising future. NotreDame basketball ranks eighth on the all~time NCAA Divi­sion I victory list with 1,362, behind such perennial powerhouses as North Carolina, Duke, Kentucky, and Kansas. Although theyhaveneverwonachampionship,Notre Dame has been to The Dance 23 times out of the40 tournaments,with one appearance in the Final Four. They have been in the NationallnvitationToumamentfive times. 
The Irish have a great head coach in John MacLeod, one of nine coaches in the NBA to win 700 games, who took the Irish to the 18-win bench­mark in his first year. Fur­thennore,Notre Dame has two top-40players coming outofhigh school,anNBC contract, and possible membership in a confer­ence sometime in the near future. 
Of course, one cannot overlook the effort of this year's women's basketball team, who advanced to the NCAA tournament for the second time inthree years. The Irishfinished 22-7and 
· · years. 

For the last l Oyears, the . Irish hockey team could have been mis-· ·taken for the Ice Capades. But with the 
· recenthiringofheadcoachRicSchaferand an influx of talented young guns, Notre Damehockeyisontheedgeofthespotlight Two years ago, Notre Dame re-joined the 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1994 


Central Collegiate Hockey Association (CCHA),oneofthepremierhockeyconfer­ences at the university level. Last season, the Irish icers earned respect by playing with teams like Michigan and Michigan State and by defeating the eventual 1994 national champion, Lake Superior State. One ofIJ)e team's goals in the next couple ofyears is to make it to the NCAA champi­onships. 
In the spring Notre Dame softball fin­ished the regular season ranked seventh in the NCAA Mi~ Regions. The 1994 baseball team has ranked consistently in the top 20, not bad for a ''rebuilding year." Notre Dame baseball has made 11 appear­ances in the NCAA tourilament and 2-4 in the College World Series. Last year the Irish reached the regional final before los­ing to Long Beach State. 
The 14th-ranked Irish lacrosse team se­cured its third straight trip to the NCAA's, its1 fourth in the last five years; In 1996 Notre Dame lacrosse will join the ranks of football and basketball, when the program celebrate its 100th anniversary as an orga­nized sport at Notre Dame. 
Although a graduating senior, Monty Williams will have been the 

foundation of a 
conipetltve Irish basketball 
team. 
Named the number two. seed for the 1994 NCAA Region IV Championship ­(playedatNotreDame),NotreDamemen's 
-tennisappearanceintheregionalcompeti­tion marks its fourth straightyearthatithas advanced to NCAA play. 
The women's tennis team proceeded to the second round of the NCAA Division I Championships, their second appearance in two years. The team finished in the country's top 15. Sophomore Wendy Crabtree achieved all-American status as both a singles and doubles player, Notre Dame's first women player to do so. 

The athletic teams of Notre Dame ~n­joyed success in 1993-94, proving orice again that the Irish can do more than play 
football. D 

) 
Sliare in ourtradition of~celknce ... WriteforScfwfastic :Magazine 

If you are interested in writing, drawing or ta1$g photographs for the nation's oldest collegiate publication, stop by our booth on: ·Activities Night or give us a call at 631-7569. 

·i 
' 
SCHOLASTIC  MAGAZINE  ¦ SUMMER  1994  25  
.  .  
..._ ::::  ,,_ ....  ··• '•  41 .....  \ -~,.  ~-·· ...~  




Kevin McDougal: McDougal, a graduating senior from Pompano Beach, CA, led Notre Dame football to an I 1-1 record and a number-two ranking as quarterback. When Powlus wentdown with a broken collarbone last fall,· McDougal promised Coach Holtz a national championship and nearly brought it to him. He posted great numbers, passing 98 of 159(62%) for 1541 yards. McDougal was named ABC/Chevy Notre DameMVPagainst Michigan and NBC/Chevy Notre Dame MVP against Boston College, a · game that was nearly the greatest college football comeback victory ever. 

Cindy Daws: Daws, a sophomore from Northridge, CA, led Notre Dame women's soccer in scoring with a season record 52 points on 16 goals and 20 assists as a freshman. Daws was named MVP of the Midwestern CollegiateConferenceTournement,and won Newcomer of the Year for the MCC. She led the women's soccer team to a 19-2 record for the regular season and a #3 national .ranking. 
Women's Soccer Midfielder Cindy Daws 
Monty Williams: A graduating senior from Forrest Heights, MD, Williams was named team MVP for the second straight season and led the Irish with 
22.2 points per game and 8.2 rebounds. Coming back from a heart ailment, Williams was named an All-America Honorable Mention pick by the Associated Press, finishing his career with 1,371 points, the 12th highest in Notre Dame history. Williams recorded a double-double (double-digits in points and rebounds) 11 times in the 1993-1994, as well as a 42-point performance, the mostby a single Irish player since Ardian Dantley in 1975. 

Basketball Forward Monty Williams 

Haley Scott: A native of Phoenix, AZ, Scott recovered miraculously from a severe spinal and back injury sustained when the swimming team's bus crashed in 1992, killing two. Scott, who will be a senior, endured a year of rehabilitation and returned to the Irish women's swimming team in January of 1994. Scott won the 200-meter butterfly in her first meet after returning to Notre Dame. 




Women's Freestyler · Haley Scott 

Terri Koba ta: A junior from Villa Park, CA, Kobata proved skeptics wrong with an incredible freshman season, leading the nation with an average of 
10.9 strike-outs per game, and finishing the season with a 0.51 ERA, the seventh best in the nation. As a sophomore she had 12 shut-outs and led the MCC in wins, strike-outs andERA With eight no-hitters as a sophomore, . and 13 in her career, Kobata·has thrown 18 consecutive innings without an earned run. 
Randy Colley: A graduating senior from Wilton, CT, and tri-captain of the lacrosse team, Colley is Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer with 197 points. He has broken single-game and single-season point records for the Irish lacrosse team, scoring over 100 career goals. 
Lacrosse Attackman Randy Colley 
-compiled by T. Ryan Kennedy 

All photos courtesy of Sports Information 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1994 

· A TTElJTIO-lJ 


l=RE~M~IEW! 
Take advantage of your dorm's VCR -­Become amember of NDVideo 
TODAY!! 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
.· I
. I---------------------------------------1 
: ~.~ ndv1·de11r-~~. : 
-~~'f,j . .. ~~.­
:~~ • • ~:
• . Freshme·n • 
I I 
: Present this eoupon to get 2 FREE : 
I I 
• movie rentals when you come to 1 
I I 
: purcltase a ndvideo memb~rship : 
I -. I 
·--------------------------------------­
.*** ND VIDEO IS LOCATED IN THE BASEMENT OF THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER *** 
~t· 

he Shirt 
The Official Football Shirt of the Notre Dame Student Body 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
r>:' 
~•() ,,~e,':> ~o\. 

'O'l>-c  
·:-.~\ei ~s  fl>.\-$J>  0~ ~e,  ·  A kelly green XL shirt emblazoned with the phrase "Wake up the Echoes" and the pictures of past Irish. football legends.  

Becotne Part of a Tradition by Turning Michigan Green with Envy 
Available on campus at: 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore· · · LaFortune Information Desk The JACC Varsity Shop AlumniAssociation Irish Express 

i' i 
Ii ,I·, l!J . 
I ! ~ . !!: . . 
•' • • '-I • '1 ' •
' . -. '. . . -. . 



Where I Come From 
A West-Coaster in the "East" 
by Kenneth A. Osgood 
Wen two freshman meet for the first time, the first question al­ways is, "SO, where ya from?" It gets tedious. But is also gets worse. For two sophomores, the questions is, "So, what'syourmajor?" For juniors, "So, what do you want to do with your life?" For seniors, "Got a job yet?" As freshmen, you don't have to worry about your major, your life or a job just yet Just worry about the first question. Prepare your answer before­hand because where you are from is very important Say, for example, that you are from Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. Clearly no one knows where Lewisburg is. So when some­one asks you where you are from, be pre­pared. Answer, "Have you ever heard of Bucknell University? ·well, that's where it is." Naturally that answer doesn't help much, so provide additional trivia. ''That's where they invented the pocket diaper steamer." Suppose, however, that under remark­able circumstances you encounter someone who is also from your hometown. You now have the basis for not only an enduring friendship, but also for interesting conver­sation. Imagine: "You 're from Lewisburg? Me too!!!" "No way! Where do you live exactly?" "On the West side." "Is that near Dairy Queen?" "No, north of that" "Oh, that's right Don't tell me ... Near the tanning salon, right?" "Yeah. How 'bout you?" "I live near the kennel." Some people will assert that where you are from doesn't matter, people are people. Where I come from, things are different. I arrived at Notre Dame with the preconcep­tion that everything west of the Rockies is the West Coast, and everything east of the Rockies is the East Coast Someone from Boston might be disturbed to note that they are in the same category as someone from Topeka, but the fact remains, they are all East Coasters to me. 
So, I tell people that I am from San Diego, a city clearly on the West Coast They answer, "Oh really? You ever been to the zoo?" 
"Once, on a field trip," I answer, won­dering why they are asking me about my 
zoo. 
Where you are from and whatyou know about where you are from is important But be wary of misunderstandings! I quickly learned that even though East Coasters speak English, they speak a dif­ferentkindofEnglish. Firstof all, theycall soda, "pop," they don'tsay"right-on," and they don't call everyone "dude." This is inconceivable to me. I can't imagine life without the word "dude." What do people from the East do when they are at a party and they don'tremembersome.one'sname? I just say, "Hey dude!" and they are none the wiser. East Coast people have to ask. 
Where you are from affects your recre­ati?nal interests. Facedwith myfirst snowy winter ever, I wasn't prepared for indoor recreation. I was always taught by my peers that if I am 18 years old and still playing Nintendo, I need to get a life. I arrived at Notre Dame and watched with disgust as 15 of my new Eastern friends gathered around the TV and cheered my roommate on in "Super Mario Brothers II." Cheering on a video game? 
But what else is there to do? Play cards. Before traveling to Indiana, I had never heard of Hearts or Euchre. Now these two games are integrated into my lifestyle. In the course of one year I pulled at least a dozen all-nighters, not to study physics, but just to finish a good card game. 
Where you are from and how you talk is important. I learned this after my first communication problem with my room­mate from Delaware. I asked him, quite innocently, "Dude, do you wanna hook-up with me by the lake after lunch?" 
"Excuse me???" he responded with a 
baffled look on his face. He was probably 
thinking "Maybe it's true what they say 
~bout California and the land of fruits and 
nuts." 
"I'm going to lunch,"I clarified. "Do you 
wannahookuplaterthisaftemoon? Maybe 
at two?" 
"Uh, no thanks. I'm not into that," he 
replied. 
I couldn't figure out why he looked at me 
with such surprise. Two weeks passed 
before I unraveled the mystery of miscom­
munication. I had used incorrect terminol­
ogy. "Hook up" atNotre Dame means "ger 
together" for West Coasters. 
Allow me to explain. When a guy and a 
girl "hook up" after a party, they mash, 
make-out, watch thesubmarineraces,goto 
the inspiration point, scam, kiss; in other 
words, "get together." I have since adjusted 
my vocabulary accordingly. 
Where you are from affects your percep­
tions. I had scarcely unpacked by Gordon 
and Smith tee-shirts when my new room­
mates and I entered into our first scholarly 
discussion, whether people from the West 
or the East are more laid back. 
"Clearly people from the West are more 
laid back," I argued. 
"Clearly they are uptight," he rejoined. 
"Everyone from the East smokes," I ob­
served_. 
"I don't," he replied. 
"Oh." 

We worked ourselves into quite a frenzy · 
over obviously indefensible positions and, 
in the end, only clearly established that we 
were both getting rather uptight over who · was more uptight. I guess I was wrong. Where you are from isn't that important People are people. 0 
Ken Osgood is a 1994 graduate and the former managing edi.torofScholastic. After a short sti'}t as a chef. he plans on traveling around the country. 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1994 
29 

..di 
. . .-. . . ; 
' • • •' • • • • I • • • • , -,r • c" l \. • ,.. I I• ' 
. . . . . ­





<S'.~i Country
by Miranda C. Sanford 


Wenever my friends and I go to the movie theater, we always buy a huge bucket of popcorn with butter, 
1-(arvester

butter in the middle, on the side, extra butter, butter everywhere! After a study conducted by the Center for Science in 
11A great little gift shop on campus 11

the Public Interest my habits will change pennanently. They revealed the evils present at movie theater concession stands. Popcomhasrecentlybeenrevealedasoneoftheworstfoodspeople can consume. A medium bucket of buttered popcorn has 97 grams 



0~~~'5 THE SHOP

offat-three times the amount people are supposed to get in a day 
c,~~ YOU'VEALWAYS

-which equals scrambled eggs, bacon, home fries, Spam on rye, a porterhouse steak, baked potato with cheese and a slice of cheese 


WANTED TO FIND 

cake -all in orie bucket of popcorn! Unbuttered is barely better because the kernels are often popped incoconutoil. Ithas 60 grams 
Discover delightful surprises in our 

of fat in a medium portion. No wonder the price to enter movie 
quaint country store here on campus.

theaters has risen; their audience is shrinking! The council pro­
We carry a variety of items such as

posed air-popped com. I don't know which is worse, pounds of fat 
country crafts, cards, and candles.

entering my body or knawing on flavorless, styrofoam-like pop­corn for two hours. 
• Begin your collection of Irish Village today. 

Superstar Streisand 
These are authentic wood replicas of Notre

I just do not understand this strange fascination with Barbra 
Dame buildings.

Streisand! To begin with, she announces her first tour in 25 years 
• Wann up in "Irish" cardigan sweatshirts. 

and demands $350 per seat As ifthat was not enough to make one 
• Bundle up in 100% cotton ND Blue & Gold 

gag, she will also be introducing her own fashion line of products 
blankets.

thisyear. InapattemsimilartoChristieBrinkley,IvanaTrumpand 
• Enjoy browsing for treasures handcrafted by 

Jacqueline Smith, Streisand has teamed up with Sony to design and 
local artisans. 

marketalineofclothingandsouveniers. Thegoodswillrangefrom a $400 tour jacket to $15 coffee mugs with stylized pictures of 

Monday thru Friday

Barbra to $5.98 audio cassettes. They will be available at "Barbra Boutiques" in department stores such as Bloomingdale's, Macy's 
10-5

andMarshall Fields. If anyone cannotmake itto one of herconcerts or stores, her products will be available through mail catalogs. . Somehow I do not think I will be rushing to the stores to lay my 
Saturdays 11-2 

hands on Barbra bathroom accessories. 
(extended hours during special events) 

Strange Vacations 

Vacation possibilities always vary from very nonnal to incred­ibly odd activities. Now, the odd category has grown by one. 

The ·country Harvester 

Owners of a former Nazi prison camp in southern Denmark are 
LaFortune Student Center 

offering tourists a new experience this summer -a night in the 
Lower Level 

wartime barracks, built in 1944 to intern Danish resistance fighters. 
(219) 631-6714 

Itwill be a sort of bed and breakfast for $29 a night at the Froslev 
U.P.S. VISA & camp. It will also incorporate a museum to the 160-bed "hotel" for 
SERVICE MASTERCARD 

_tourists to better understand what prison conditions were like. 
DAILY ACCEPTED

Thanks but no thanks. 0 
Miranda C. Sanfordis the EntertainmentEditor/orScholastic. She writes the weekly Out ofBounds column. She will be in Londonfall semester. 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SUMMER 1994 31 









Mission: Impossible 
The challenge offinding fun in South Bend 
meal includes? We pulled up to the drive-chicken? Didn't he eat spinach? By the 
by Kathleen Lynch thruandaskedawomanwhowaslookingat way, Popeye's chicken is talcing applica­
us suspiciously. She told us there were two tions once again. We were fed up with the mundane large side items, four biscuits and a large At the next red light, my companion 
entertainment around here. rotisserie chicken in the meal. We thanked thought a nun was in the car next to us, but 
Wecould no longer find Thurs-her and pulled away, thinking this was a it was only a group ofannoying adolescent day night satisfaction attending Acoustic definite possibility for future fonnal and men who threw ice cubes at our car to get Cafe, watching Seinfeld and going to bars SYR dinners. our attention. When the light turned green, where we are SUDS targets. Last week we We started on the road again when a big we gunned it because we figured their old, were on a mission to find fun in South Bend red and white van cut in front ofus. All we red Pinto would not have the engine power ifitkilledus, whichwasadefinitepossibil-saw were huge block letters CHURCH to keep up. As predicted, we blew them 
ity. Not just looking for bar-----------------------...... away. We felt redeemed. room, beer and hook-up fun, Ourdestinationwasonthe we were on a mission for ad-horizon. The Beacon Bowl venture and zany thrills. sign was burned out and only So, wepulledoutofthepark-said BOWL. A sign outside ing lot with Welcome to the stated that summer leagues Jungle -somewhat apropos are forming. Good news for to the evening's upcoming ac-~:.. anyone who will be at sum­tivities -blaring on the radio . mer school. of an '87 charcoal grey Olds, Upon entering the Beacon with one Texas license plate, . Bowl, we inquired if there oneheadlight,aquartertankof JI-were any unusual activities gas and an innocent prospec-offered to the general public. tive student in the back seat Much to our smprise, we dis-She wanted to see the true grit covered a lingerie show in 
Destinationnumberonewas pickup trucks and Old Mil-· Beacon Bowl. Sure, ev-waukeebeercansin thepark­eryone has seen the fliers for it, ·. ·.··· ·~· ing lot, as well as the rational buthas anyone ever been there? behind attendance ofseveral As we drove we noticed other ofourfriendsonmostThurs­opportunities along the way. day evenings. We could not We passed the Faith Apostolic'------------------,,---------__.understand why there were Church which looked like a televangelist VAN. We followed the Macedonian Mis~ not more women in attendance to admire sermon hall; It was closed and only offers sionary Church van but, unfortunately, they the various fashions. The red teddy. with servicesonSaturdaynights. weregoing45mphina25mphzoneandwe black lace trim we saw was a personal U93 just does not cut it and was quickly lost them. So, we did a U-turn, narrowly favorite. After a while we got tired of the annoying us with ads for theM aster Blaster avoiding an accident, and continued on our show and left tool. A.nyway, the KFC looked mighty merry way. alluring because a whole meal was only As we drove we discussed such deep · ry,he Brentwood Bingo Hall was our next $10.99. But, we wondered what a.y,,hole questions as: why do they call it Popeye's .1 stop, unfortunately it was closed as the 

SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1994 

hour was late for the primary clientele. The hallgreetedall visitorswitha six-footstuffed . gorilla. With the number of handicapped parking spaces, you might want to arrive early for optimal parking. The hall accom­modates at least 2000 individuals and no tipping is allowed. This place is a definite 
must for all Notre Dame students. 
At the 800 block of Olive Street, we 
encountered our youthful buddies once 
again. But the grey Oldsmobile allowed us 
to blow forward past the 1961 Pinto once 
more.. 
Just how many Taco Bells are there in 
South Bend? 
. Our attitude became .more positive as 
U93 played a great blast from the past ­
Raspberry Beret-eventhough heis weird, 
Prince is cool. So, we cranked it up and. 
stopped at the cash station. After all, thegas 
light was warning us to refill the tank or 
else. . 
For people who are tired of the same old 
fast food, Franny's ribs at the 200 block of 
Monrpe Street guarantees "good hot eats" 
for even the most hearty eater. 
When we passed the Studebaker Mu­seum, we discovered that tours are offered for the culturally aware. After all, we thought it might be fun to relive the glory days of South Bend. 


I finally discovered what some male friends had been talking about when we discovered the Glo Worm stripper bar on Michigan Ave. Common sense and good Christian values kept us on the road. 
We saw the Potowatami Zoo but kept driving. We did not want to wake the animals, but it is a great idea for hand­holding, balloon-buying couples. 
We discovered an old-fashioned movie theater in town. Beethoven's 2nd and Ju­rassic Park are currently showing. Old summer movies-for all of us from major cities-are$3forstudents. Wedidnotstop though as the car was too big to park. 
We stopped off at Heartland and 'were denied because we did not meet age re­quirements. We must credit the expert ID checkers. After all, we tried to pull the "we're writing an article and we've got a laptop computer so we don't need to be ID'd trick". That's the oldest one in the book. We did find out that there is two-
THEN JOIN 
dollar line dancing on Tuesdays, Thurs­days, Fridays until 11, and all Saturday night We also saw a bunch of recently engagedNotreDamewomen observing the America's Lover Boys all-male review. Definitely worth the cover charge -they were very h,ot We wondered why Paula Abdul was playing in a country music bar, though. There was a little critique from the Texas contingent in the group -there is something morally wrong with playing Paula Abdul at a supposed country-western bar. Nice try, guys. When we saw the other clientele -middle aged women all with personal cellular p!l,ones-we understood and left 
We soon discovered our prospective student snoring lightly in the back seat and felt badly that we had dragged her all over South Bend. She was probably discouraged that we found nothing for col­legegirls under21 to do. Ah well, Acoustic Cafe and Seinfeld are not so bad after all. After a quick visit to one ofthe many Taco Bells, we turned for home. Wehadsearched for fun and been denied. 




WSND 88.9FM 
WE HAVE POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR CLASSICAL ANNOUNCERS, NEWS ANNOUNCERS, AND MUCH MORE! 
NO PREVIOUS RADIO EXPERIENCE OR BACKGROUND IN MUSIC NECESSARY. 
CALL CHRIS RICE AT 288-5282 THIS FALL 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE• SUMMER 1994 
33 



bookstore has coolstuff at high prices. Wait good. People, especially guys, may try by Miranda C. Sanford untilyouhavetobuyyourbooks! TheRock venturing over to SMiCk (Saint Mary's isgreat forworking out They offer aerobics College), theall-girls school across theroad. though it's been two years, I re­classes, weight rooms, machines, a pool, For people who desire a little culture, and ~ member some of the challenges I racquetball courts, basketball, even rock I do mean a little, events constantly occur discovered while finding my way climbing. across campus. There are always small around my new home. I am going to ease The Mod Quad, made up of the six dramatic productions around and often they your potential sufferings by providing a list newest donns on campus, is close to the are more fun than large productions. Notre of tips, tenns and destinations which, nor­library and North Dining Hall. What these Dame has its own art museum, the Snite. mally, you would have to learn on your donns may lack in tradition, they make up Music recitals often take place in theSnite's own. for in amenities like air conditioning and Annenberg auditorium, which also shows 
ThefirstthingtounderstandishowDuLac lounges. films-usually more avant garde movies will affect your life over the next four years. The campus is filled with things to do, and artistic than the ones shown inCushing, This. is the very comprehensive book of you simply have to find them. Be sure to the engineering building, every weekend rules set forth by the university. Itregulates check out Stepan or the ·volleyball pits for$2. · everything from parties .----------------------------, Going off-campus is toroomdecorandfood. an adventure in itself. I 
Themostimportantrule amsurethatduringyour
Nu tounderstand,however, . L!Nr-o first month or so here is parietals. Parietals • • lJ · youwillhearcertainoff­are the hours during 101-/1 campus destinations whichpeopleoftheop-which might confuse positesexmayvisityou "'Br~~: n._tie Ii bra.ry you. Words likeTurtle in your room. They are • .L\ Creek and Lafayette
'd 1e I~ 5: n. 11.D. Curfew .
from 10 a.m. to m1 -will become common, nightonweekdaysand :n. ~int Mary's so here is the break-· 10 a.m. until 2 am. on College down.. Turtle Creek, we~kends. Breaking Lafayette Square, them is pretty risky so I Castle Pointand Cam-would not recommend pus View are off-cam­it pus apartment com-
Another thing you plexes where some up-should know is which perclassmenlive. Since quad you are living on there are no parietals, and what is around it off-campus activities North quad is the one are especially popular. by the 'Brare (Library), LaFortune (the aroundcampus. Stepanisthelovely-just Somepeopleliveinhouseswithnameslike Student Center) and Stonehenge (the war kidding, it looks like a sixties architectural Swim House, Crew House and Potato memorial fountain). LaFortune has just nightmare-geodesic dome you will see if House~ CJ's,the 'Backer(TheLinebacker) abouteverythingyoumightneedlikefood, youliveonNorthorModQuads:Thereare and Coach's are popular area bars, but tickets to campus events, a hairstylist, bank, indoor and outdoor basketball courts, and watchout for SUDS (Stop Underage Drink­video store, florist and coffee shop. Warn-concerts are held there. Volleyball pits are · ing and Sales), the South Bend police task ing though: it is all at a high price! The located outside of Lyons (South Quad); force that enjoys arresting Notre Dame infonnation desk does sell discount tickets Zahm (North Quad) and Pasquerilla East students for underage drinking. to off-campus movies, though. (Mod Quad). · So, there you have it. Some key terms 
South Quad is near the Lakes (scenic Every Thursday night in LaFortune is. whichshouldaidyouoveryourtransitional areaandmake-outspot),theRock(Rockne Acoustic Cafe. Basically, campus bands months here at good ol' ND and make Athletic Center) and the bookstore. The come to perfonn and usually they are pretty things easier to find. __O 
·scHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1994 

Phone bills too high? Your son or daughter can't find _ 
the time to write? If you want to know what's going on at Notre Dame, subscribe to 



SCHOLASTIC 
MAGAZINE 
The best way to keep up with Notre Dame students. 
Read about the latest campus news and sports, check out what's happening on the weekend, and enjoy some college humor. You can be part of all this for the introductory price of$20-just a dollar an issue. 
·. Subscribenow andbecomepart of the 128.:.yeartraditionofScholastic Magazine. You'11 receive your first issue before you start missing your son or daughter. 
Please put me on your subscription list for 1994-95. 
Name:------­
Address: _______ 
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $20 x _ years =$ _ 
Please send this form, with payment, to: Business Manager Scholastic Magazine 303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Notre Dame in the Rear-View Mirror 
MargaretS.Kenny was the 1993-94 editor-in-chief ofScholastic Magazine and is a recent alumna of Notre Dame. She is currently working for the Buffalo News. 

Fur years ago, I arrived at the University of Notre Dame for the first time. It wasn't the first time I had ever been to the university, but itwasthefrrsttimelwasthereasarea/student And it was the first time my parents were going to leave there without me. As an only child who had led a relatively sheltered life and was extremely close to her parents, the concept terrified me. A lot So, determined to be brave, I checked into my dorm -a process that seemed a combination of checking into a hotel and being sentenced to a jail term -and went to my new home for the first time. With my parents sitting on my bed, I put my suitcase down,openeditandstartedputtingmyclothesaway. After I hung up two shirts, I sat down next to my father and began to cry. "Can we go home now?" My time at Notre Dame didn't have the most auspicious start I cried through most of orientation; l begged my parents not to leave me there. But amidst excuses of work, responsibility, caring for a dog we didn't have, they left me there. Alone. Afraid. And free. Yes, free. For the frrst time in my life, I had no one -and I mean no one-telling me how I should budget my time, when I should go to bed, what I should eat, who I should see. Wow, freedom. What a concept I quickly got over my overwhelming homesickness-aboutanhouraftermyparentsleft When my parents came to visit me a month later, I was happy, well-adjusted, free. My first year at Notre Dame was all about, you guessed it, freedom. But freedom can be taken a bit too far. I know; I did it Without a set of parents telling me to study, I didn't Without a set of parents telling me to stay home on weeknights, I didn't Without a set of parents telling me to go to bed at a decent hour, I didn't. The lesson I learned as a freshman: Freedom is easily abused. Sophomore year started my major dilemma and my minor academic problems. Freedom had taken its toll. My father decided to shatter my illusions of complete freedom and instill the idea that he was paying my tuition for me to get an education, not for me to run around campus with my best friend until 4:00 a.m. on a Tuesday. He sternly pointed out at Christmas: "From now on, the only C's that will appear on your report card will be the ones in our address." Point taken. 
Iby Margaret Kenny 

Anyonewhoknowsmecantellyouthatlhavemy own brand oflogic, only understandable to me and only effective for me. So when I realized I needed to concentrate more on my studies and less on my social life, I decided that I needed a hobby. Journal­ism had always been a passion, and I had joined the staff at Scholastic freshman year. So I threw myself into my work there, and I realized just how much education one can get outside the classroom. 
I spent the second half of my college career juggling schoolwork with Scholastic and my social life. Somehow, I got them all done with a sufficient degree of success. I found that the less time I 
. budgeted to get something done, the greater chance I had of doing so. Strangely, my life started to fall into place. I was happier than ever before, and I felt like I was accomplishing something. I had found my niche, and I stayed there. 
Then one Sunday in May, it all ended. Gradua­tion. It's even a scary word. For me graduation meant not just the end ofclasses, but also the end of youth. I was leaving Notre Dame to enter the "real world." Notre Dame is not the real world by any stretch of the imagination. It is a bubble, but it is a good place. It was the bestfouryearsofmylife,and it was the bridge I needed to prepare myself for the real, real world.. 
Iftherewasonelessonlcouldpassalong,itwould be this: Don't spend the next four years ofyour life in the classroom and the library.· The most important educationyouwillgetatNotreDameistheoneyou will get outside the classroom. You will make good friends,meetinfluentialpeople,seeinterestingsights, do impressive things; But only if you let yourself. 
In 20 years, you won't think back and remember the 74 you got on a calculus test or the C-you got on an English paper. But you will remember the faces and places ofNotre Dame, and how you felt laugh­ing with your roommates or crying on your best friend's shoulder. Your most significant memories will be the ones of life, not of grades, and the world will remember you better as a person rather than a statistic. ... Returning to my parents' home after graduation, "I leftmany dear people behind me. When I got there, .I took all my stuff into my room, sat down on my bed 
·· arid quietly said, "Can I go home now?" Enjoy and make the most of your time at Notre Dame. You'll miss it when it's gone. D 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ¦ SUMMER 1994 

COUNCIL ON•INU_!3NATIONAL BUSINES§..OEVELOPMENT 
Class of 1998, 
fWith more than 100 members, the !Notre \Dame Council on :Jntanational fJ3usiness f1.leodopmmt is !lvotre (])ame's largest student organization. 2/,ere is what "7he Council" can do for you: 
• Provide you with a foreign internship opportunity 
--during the summer of1994, 51 ofour members are working in internship positions on 6 continents 
• Expose you to the fascinating world ofinternational business and politics --every year, The Council invites top American and foreign business leaders 
to speak to us concerning contemporary issues such as world trade, ,NAFTA, South African politics, how to compete in global business, and more 
• Give you the chance to develop your leadership potential 
--The Council is entirely student run,from our president, to our six division leaders and their assistants, to those who take an active role in organizing our special events 
• Allow you to explore you entrepreneurial dreams --Not only does The Council provide you with the opportunity to rub elbows with 
successful business men and women, members commonly work together to develop foreign contacts and explore post-graduate business opportunities abroad 
(We're ,Looking:for a:few §ood c.JJ1en and rubmen 
• 
Freshman, start developing your potential with us, now! 

• 
Not planning to major is business? --No worries! The Council is geared toward every student with an international outlook. We develop as you develop. 


Visit With Us at Our Booth at Student Activities Night in Septemier. 
Come AkoarJ With Us, Come AkroaJ With Us! 


PREVENT STUDY OVERLOAD. 


JOIN THE  ~I  
STUDENT UNION BOARD  I l  
We are a bunch of dedicated, _hardworking, crazy, unpaid_· people who Spend our time planning and promoting fun things for ND students. _. Come check us out! •,• We have something for everyone·!  ]  


215 LaFortune Student Center 631-7757 
Be watching for upcoming SUB events... 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 






