wins on flavor!
■ Happy homecoming! Winston brings flavor back to filter smoking — real tobacco flavor, rich and full. What's more. Winston also gives you the benefit of a finer filter. The exclusive Winston filtei’ really does the job so the flavor really comes through to you. King-size Winstons are easy-drawing, smooth-smoking, good-tasting!
R J REi MOLDS TOJ^CCO Co . W t N STON-SA LEM , «. C.
L
tllLBERT’S CAMPUS SHOP...
to everyone of you we say
MERRY CHRISTMAS!
. . . and may the new year bring you much happiness!
^EILBERVS iQ^ampus^hopS.
December 16, 1955
The Notre Dome
Editor:
Enclosed in this letter is a direct quote from an off campus student to the Senate Public Relations Committee:
“To the Student Government:
I have one big gripe about the Student Senate, and it is that the members of the Blue Circle are also members of the Senate. Do you realize that our student government is antiquated because of this? The Senate is the legislative branch of government and the Blue Circle is the executive. I will not deny the fact that the Circle does a great deal of good work, but it is my opinion and the opinion of the American people that the executive and legislative branches of government should be separated for obvious reasons. This is a legitimate gripe, but what chance does it have to be heard by the rest of the students, when the editor of the Scholastic is a Blue Circle lad? Remember, .gentlemen, you are not in office for your •own personal glory, but to represent the students. I will not sign my name to this letter for the possibilities of it getting printed in the Scholastic are quite negligible; however if our dear editor has enough intestinal fortitude to print this, I will be glad to make myself known and speak before the Senate on this degrading situation.
Sincerely, A Fellow Student
P.S. I am not a member of the Senate and obviously not a Blue Circle lad.”
We thought you might be interested in the above.
Sincerely yours, Don Walz, Public Relations Commissioner.
Editor’s Note: In running this lettter we are going against our policy of not printing anonymous mail. However, we would like the student body to know of this rather timely issue and, “Fellow Student,” your off-campus Senator, Mike Kiley, says he will be glad to yield the floor to you during a senate meeting, if you make yourself known.
Tuesday and Thursday
T-Boie Steak $1.25
Pork Chops $1.10
These are complete dinners
Flamingo Restanrait
610 N. Michigan o
OPEN SUNDAY
THE
Chicago Club
OF NOTRE DAME presents its annual CHRISTMAS DANCE featuring
Ralph Marterie
8:30-1:00 Wednesday, Dec. 28 Merchants’ & Manufacturers’ Club ------Merchandise Mart-
Bids: $3.50 on campus: $5.00 at door Semi-formal No Flowers
MITCHELL Travel Service LaSalle Hotel
CE 2-2253 Phones CE 3-1181 Residence CE 2-0185
Open Saturdays to 3 p.m.
INVENTORY
Repercussion —......—............. 4
Campus Scene ..................    7
Folio ......................      10
Showcase ........................ 12
Irish Scene ................      13
Back Page ___________________     18
DRRWTURBOW
ypPTOMCTRIST
--- OPTICAL REPAIRS -
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces’*
-- EYES EXAMINED ----
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
Scholastic
Vol. 97
Dec. 16, 1955
No. 10
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JOHN ADAMS
Editor
PAUL LaFRENIERE
Associate Editor
CHARLES McKENDRICK ... News Editor ED JOYCE....................Copy Editor
BOB KAUFMAN__________Production Manager DAVE KUBAL __________Assistant News
DAVE THOMPSON .......Assistant NewRR james McDonald............Assistant News JIM O’BRIEN ........ ...Feature Editor
JOHN GUEGUEN ....Feature Co-ordinator RICHARD NAVIN.................Art Editor
KEN WOODWARD____________Business Manager NORB RADZIWON ..Circulation Manager JIM FITZGERALD ....Photo Co-ordinator
DAVE DAVIN . JOHN GLAVIN JOE NORTON .
....Sports Editor ..Assistant Sporta Assistant Sport?
NEWS STAFF: Joe Accardo, Frank Biedka, R. Lee Brand, Jim Carroll, George Clements, Thomas Clifton, Andrew Connelly, Jim Dulan, John Has-Icy, Joe Heimoski, Tom Holberg, Greg Kilduff, Jim Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Harry McKee, John McMahon, Jpe Mocarski, Dave Noland, Bob Plante, Terry Plunkett, Marsh Pidgeon, Joe Schaefer, David Schwartz, Jim Steintrager, Louis Stettler, Bob Vondrasek, Ray Walsh.
SPORTS STAFF: Jack Barthel, Andy Carnazola, Paul D’Amore, Pat DeFoe, Dick Donovan, Bob Early, Joe Foreman, Jim Goethals, John Grady, Russ Hopkins, Jim Langford, Fred Lavin, Ray Lescher, Brian Moran, Vince Naimoli, Bob Par^k nell, Jim Reiher, Ed Rohrbach, Jim Short, CaHV Skiff, Dick Sofranko.
BUSINESS STAFF: Harry Conlon, Loran Sheffer.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, I™-,. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and ^amination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185 Notre Dame, Indiana.	*
ON THE COVER Artist Dick Navin captures something of the powerful serenity that must have overshadowed a small manger in Bethlehem two millenia ago.
The Scholastic
“Story to Sod
in the highest;
Seace on Sarth
to SKen
of Sood clo)ill. . ”
May the blessings of the Christmas season be with you.
—THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF.
December 16, 1955
5
All the pleasure comes thru
©AT. CO.
Zxll the pleasure comes thru in Filter Tip Tareyton. You get the full, rich taste of Tareyton’s quality tobaccos in a filter cigarette that smokes milder, smokes smoother, drawseasier... and it’s theonly filter cigarette with a genuine cork tip.
Tareyton’s filter is pearl-gray because it
contains Activated Charcoal for real filtration. Activated Charcoal is used to purify air, water, foods and beverages, so you can appreciate its importance in a filter cigarette. Yes, Filter Tip Tareyton is the filter cigarette that really filters, that you can really taste...and the taste is great!
FILTER TlpTAREYTON
t
I
PRODUCT OF
AMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
The Scholastic
$
CampuA, Scetm
'senior don sniegowski wins COVETED RHODES SCHOLARSHIP
_ 'Dome' Editor, Baseball Star Plans Literature Study In England in Preparation For Educational Career
Don Sniegowski, senior English major from Toledo, 0., editor-in-chief of the 1956 Dome, was recently awarded a Rhodes Scholarship, for two years of study at Oxford University in England.
In addition to his position as editor of the Dome, Sniegowski is a member • of the Blue Circle, on the Dean’s List in the College of Arts and Letters, and has received two letters in baseball, holding down the regular third base position last year.
Certain qualifications were necessary for eligibility in the Rhodes competition. A candidate had to be: 1) unmarried, male citizens of the United States, 2) between the ages of 19 and 25, 3) at
MORNING MUSIC ON WSND
Radio station WSND will pioneer an entirely new phase of campus broadcasting on the morning of Jan. 10. On that day the station will officially sign on at 8 a.m. instead of its regular 12 noon time, and broadcast uninterrupted music during the morning hours. The music will be broadcast from a Chicago FM station, and will be basically classical and semi-classical.
“These added hours of music,” said Station Manager Pat McCartan, “will be a great service to the Notre Dame student because he is presently unable to find good programs in the morning. Most morning programs are low-grade popular music shows, and network dramatic and variety shows that do not interest him.”
The music rebroadcast by WSND Bwill be interrupted only briefly for commercials and station breaks by the Chicago FM station.
least a junior in the university which he is representing, 4) and receive the official endorsement of the university.
In addition to the above four points, there were five other requirements: 1) literary and scholastic ability and attainments, 2) qualities of manhood, truthfulness, unselfishness, courage, and fellowship, 3) exhibition of moral character and leadership, 4) physical vigor, as shown by fondness for or success in sports, 5) one outstanding quality of intellect or character. This was the most important of the five requirements.
Sniegowski was selected to represent Notre Dame in the competition. Following his selection, his credentials were examined by the Indiana State Board and he was twice interviewed by the board on December 7. He then journeyed to Chicago where he was interviewed twice more by the Great Lakes District Board on questions ranging from current events to a knowledge of Chaucer. He was one of four candidates to receive awards from this district, which comprises the states of Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Wisconsin, and Michigan.
Sniegowski plans to study literature at Oxford, and he will receive a bachelor of arts degree in this subject. He plans to be a college professor, in English, upon his return to the United States.
Study in England differs from that in the United States in several ways. The school year begins on October 14, 1556. From that time on, students alternately attend classes for two months and receive a one month vacation, in addition to a four month summer vacation.
While in England, Sniegowski intends to become active in one sport, preferably rugby or cricket. He also intends to travel, both in England and on the continent, during the vacation periods.
DON SNIEGOWSKI
. . . on to Oxford . . .
Remember ND Dead At Mass Tomorrow
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will celebrate a Mass tomorrow at 7 a.m. in the Sacred Heart Church, in memory of Fred Miller, Jr., and all other Notre Dame men who have died during the past year.
Students are urged to attend the Mass and receive Communion as a preparation for the trip home and a safe and happy vacation.
Fred Miller, Jr., is a former classmate of this year’s Senior Class. He died last year while traveling on his Christmas vacation.	'
The men who traveled with him remember his words of encouragement on that day, “Get to Mass and Communion this morning, then we will be ready for the trip.” Ten hours later both Fred and his father were dead.
The Mass is also offered in memory of other Notre Dame men, Philip L. Twigg and Chester A. Wynne, who died during the past year.
The Mass is being undertaken by the Milwaukee Club of Notre Dame, which will handle all arrangements. A Spiritual Bouquet will be offered by the Milwaukee Club members to Mrs. Frederick C. Miller, Fred’s mother.
December 16, 1955
7
CHIEF REVELERS IN ‘KING COLE’S’ COURT
Committee plans for Jan. 13 ball.
Mother Goose Mood Pervades '56 AB Ball
“It will be an evening of dancing amid the golden land of fantasy and merriment. From Little Bo Peep to the Pied-Piper the Arts and Letters men and their dates will wander in the Student Center through a wonderland ballroom for the young at heart,” heralded by Charles Vandegrift, forecasting the annual Arts and Letters Ball.
Old King Cole and his court will reign over this “first of its kind” AB Ball from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. on Jan. 13. Characters from childhood nursery
LIBRARY VACATION HOURS
The University Library will close Saturday at 7 p.m. and will reopen again Monday on its vacation schedule. The Library will be open during the week, Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and will be closed Saturday, Dec. 24, and Sunday, Dec. 25.
The following week it will be closed Saturday, Dec. 31, Sunday, Jan. 1, and Monday, Jan. 2. Tuesday, Jan. 3, it will be open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Wednesday the regular schedule will go into effect.
All books in circulation should have been returned to the circulation desk by Monday Dec. 12. No library books may be taken out of the city during the vacation period.
rhymes will come to life before the 300 assembled couples.
Semi-formal is more than just the uniform of the evening, for at the hour of midnight, all feminine shoes come off and the famed glass slipper shall seek its Cinderella from the group. Cinderella shall then continue to dance to popular music, Latin songs and waltzes played by guest band leader Bud Dinwiddie, of television and piano artistry fame, and the Lou Breese orchestra.
Regular car permissions will be available and tickets may still be obtained from Dick Scherer in 109 Walsh. The price of bids is $3.75. A 9:00 Mass at Sacred Heart Church followed by breakfast at 10 a.m. in the Morris Inn on Sunday, Jan. 15, will complete the weekend.
Rev. Fitzgerald Elected V-P Of Catholic Economic Assn.
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald C.S.C., associate professor of economics at Notre Dame, has been elected first vice-president of the Catholic Economic Association for 1956.
Dr. Goetz Briefs of Georgetown University will serve as president during the coming year. As provided by the organization’s constitution, Father Fitzgerald will succeed Goetz as president in 1957.
A specialist in industrial relations, Father Fitzgerald is the author of the new book, Britain Views Our Industrial Relations. He is the director of Notre Dame’s annual Union-Management Conference and is a member of the American Arbitration Association.
Mardi Gras Gives Buick ® j As Festival Grand Prize
A 1956 Buick Super four-door sedan is to be the grand prize awarded at the 1956 Mardi Gras festival, to be held on Feb. 11, 13 and 14.
The student handling the winning ticket will receive a 1956 Plymouth V-8 convertible. Five extra cash prizes^ ranging from $75 to $10 will be awarded.
Five hundred bids will be available for the annual Mardi Gras Ball, held * on Friday, Feb. 10, in the Student Center. This semi-formal dance officially opens the pre-Lenten celebration devoted to raising funds for the Notre Dame Charity Chest and the Student Center Fund.
There will be an informal dance at® the Student Center, Feb. 12, in conjunction with the Mardi Gras activities.
Pete Cannon, Mardi Gras contest chairman, reminded the students that: j “The Christmas holidays present a splendid opportunity to sell Mardi Gras tickets.”	j
General Chairman Jack Casey added, “The 1956 Mardi Gras cannot be a success without full student backing.” A ------------------------©
Show Works of Iowa Artists In O'Shaughnessy Galleries
A new group of art works has been j assembled in the display cases of the Art Wing of the O’Shaughnessy Hall by Robert A. Leader of the art department. ( There are 25 paintings, the recent works of two well-known Iowa artists, covering a wide variety of subject matter and technical media.
The artists are Sister James Ann, B.V.M., who heads the art department at Clarke College in Dubuque, Iowa, and Mr. Edmund R. Demers, who is at present artist-in-residence at Clarke. !
Sister James Ann paints religious subjects in a semi-abstract vein, and has ■ studied with Grant Wood and Jean Chariot. Mr. Demers features a painting in oil of the Nativity, that won an award in the recent Hallmark Greeting Card national competition.	_
DEVELOPMENTAL READING
Applications for the elective course to develop reading comprehension and rate are now being T accepted for the coming semester. £ Any student may participate and add this program to his regular schedule of courses. There is a laboratory fee of $30, which is added to the student’s account. Stu- J dents may register in person or by A sending a postcard to Mr. R. D. I Willemin, Director, 240 Main Bldg. I -------------------------------- {
The Scholastic |
I-
8
i ^lubs Announce Social Plans For Holidays;
j Annual Christmas Dances Highlight Activities
A full schedule of holiday social plans tops the dockets of Notre Dame’s geographic clubs for the coming Christmas vacation. Clubs from coast to coast ^have planned activities for the vacation period.
The Detroit Club in affiliation with its Alumni group, will present its annual I Christmas dance over the holidays.
The club also plans a Mass and Communion Breakfast. To continue the trend started last year, the club is including parents in this year’s observance. The Mass will be offered at 9 a.m. ^n St. Aloysius Church and the breakfast will be held at the Tuller Hotel. Speakers at the breakfast will be Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., and Mr. Ar;	thur Cronin, president of the Detroit
,	Alumni Association.
The dance will be at the Latin Quar-; ter on Dec. 28 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The music will be furnished by Dave Farley’s Band. Organizers of the evening’s affair are Jerry Pastula, and Terry Mc-ACafferty from the campus club, and Dan ^Bradley and Tim Cruice of the Alumni group.
The Metropolitan Club will hold its annual Christmas dance in the Astor Roof of the Astor Hotel on Dec. 26 from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Music for the dance will be provided by William Scotti. The bids are priced at $5.50 on campus, and $6.50 at the door.
This year the Cleveland Club will hold •Aits annual student-alumni dance on Dec. ^30, from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. at the Statler Hotel. Bids are $4 per couple; and the band will be that of George Duffey. Dress is semi-formal.
Those who wish to buy their tickets on campus can contact either Tony Van
Rooy in 119 St. Ed’s or Bob Wasko in 305 Morrissey.
The Dreshler-Hilton Hotel will be the scene of this year’s Columbus Club Christmas dance, which will be held on Dec. 27 from 9 p.m. ’til 1 a.m. Tony Marvin and his band will furnish the evening’s music. Tickets are $3.50 both on campus and at the door. Dress will be semi-formal.
Tickets may be purchased on campus from Jim Watson, 150 Alumni; Ted Wolfe, 242 Dillon; Jim Barr, 331 Lyons; and Paul Sapko, 140 Farley.
The Milwaukee Club will tour the Miller Brewery on Dec. 21, with a party afterward at the Miller Inn. They will also hold a holiday dance on Dec. 28 at the Milwaukee Athletic Club in the Elizabethian Room. Admission for the semi-formal dance is $3.50 and each member may bring two guests.
The New England Club will hold a dance on Dec. 28 in the Sheraton-Plaza Hotel in Boston. Fred Vino’s orchestra will play and admission is $5.50 at the door.
The Buffalo Club ■will hold its dance in the Hotel Statler Ballroom on Dec. 28 from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Buddy Mack and his Orchestra will play. The dance is semi-formal with a $5 admission price.
Norton Trustman will play for the Colorado Club Christmas dance to be held at the Town House Supper Club in Aurora, Colo., on Dec. 29, from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Tickets are $3.25 per couple, payable at the door.
Reservations may be made at home with Don Rieger. Dress is semi-formal.
The campus and alumni clubs of Cincinnati will hold their Scholarship Fund dance on Dec. 27 at the Netherland Plaza Hotel in the Pavilion Caprice.
Bids are $7.50 for the formal dance.
The Dayton Club will hold its Christmas Dance at the Miami Valley Country Club on Dec. 28. The informal affair for both students and alumni will cost $2.50.
At Houston on Dec. 29 the Texas Club’s annual Christmas Formal will be held in the new Houston Club. The regular price is $5.50 but students of the University will be admitted free.
The Minnesota Club will hold a semi-formal dance in the Lowry Hotel in St. Paul on Dec. 28.	.
The Rochester Alumni Club will hold a dance on Dec. 25 in the Locust Hill Country Club.
Glee Club Presents Concert Of Christmas Music Tonight
The Glee Club will present its annual Christmas concert tonight at 8:30 p.m., in Washington Hall.
The program will be divided into three parts. The first part will feature the Ave Maria by Witt, Cantate Domino by Hasler, Lacrymosa from a Requiem Mass composition by Mozart in honor of the bicentennial anniversary of his birth, Angelus ad Pastores by Swe-linck, Halleluia Chorus from the Messiah by Handel, and a solo by tenor Bob Ogburn, O Divine Redeemer by Gounod.
Schubert's Military march, Onivard to Victory, will open the second phase of the program. Among the other selections in this part are: Mary Had A Little Lamb by Murray, Old Mother Hubbard by Hutchinson, and Jerusalem Morning by Bartholomew.
The Glee club will continue the concert in a lighter vein ■with The Sleigh by Kountz, The Night before Christmas by Ringwald, and Christmas Day by Holst.
The concert will close with the traditional Christmas carols O Holy Night, The First Noel, God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen and Adeste Fidelis.

Pictures of these students were omitted from the original “Who’s Who” section in the Nov. 18 issue.
December 16, 1955	9
the acceptable time
by DAVID McNUTT
very dawn a crimson* prophecy is sketched across the eastern sky—
a prophecy unseen, untouched, yet ever there and waiting to be found.
This morning, with the world muffled in the shroud of sleep, this vision spanned the sky again, coming crimson from the east, as it had come yesterday, as it had come the day before, as it shall come tomorrow.
Someday before the dawn breaks red, someday before the first, faint bells of light, with darkness still upon the earth, go out and wait for it, you will hear the world under darkness breathing in expectancy, hushed in the night of fear, where every noise could be the soft footstep of death; then when the darkness presses close, then when the straining eye sees nothing but the night, then when the ear can hear the heart beating like drums of death in the sky, look toward the east and watch dawn coming —the first, faint flecks of life, then the whole sky slowly coming into view, slowly rising from the earth, slowly flooded with red, as if by blood from some great wound within the earth: a massive, crimson sky that slowly fades and changes into day and the gold-dripping sun. It is a coming back, an escape, a return to life; but it only comes through blood-like light. It is like a resurrection, but only because it had been like a crucifixion.
For this is how all redemption must be done. This is how Christ’s Kingdom came; this is how it shall return. When first it came, it came through blood, the blood of Christ and of His saints. But then that blood had seemed to drain away into that last terrible sunset before the long night of disbelief and agony which now surrounds us like the walls of a tomb.
Now the darkness seems complete. The day seems far, but only because we have not been out early enough to see the dawn. For darkness is already being conquered. The blood of the martyrs already flecks the eastern sky, the blood of more martyrs than was shed in the first three hundred years of the Church. The new day has begun. But the night fights hard to hold it back, for the world is not yet ready for the dawn. The martyrs’ crimson seed is in the earth, that seed from which shall spring anew the Church of Christ. But the fields are empty; they spring up bare because they are uncared for, because there are no
laborers to tend to them, no voices of laborers, but only the sound of the howling wind over barren land. If only the laborers could be found, the job could be completed, the prophecy fulfilled, and the Church of Christ firm and tall once more upon the face of the earth.
But where are the laborers to be found? Who shall they be? Not isolated individuals, for no one by himself can cultivate the face of the earth. An individual can no longer have a lasting effect upon more than a small number of people, for the moment he leaves,
Folio here presents the prizewinning essay in the Student Senate contest: The Catholic College Graduate in the World. David McNutt, the winner, is a Sophomore AB student from Howard Hall and Chicago, Illinois.
For his efforts, McNutt received the award of $25 from Richard Clark, Student Senate academic commissioner. Second prize, and $15 went to J. Dennis Ryan of Walsh Hall, while Richard Vorwerk of Walsh copped the $10 third prize with his essay, “The Incarnate Word.”
Judges for the contest: Clark, William Sullivan, Steve Rogers and Jack Crutcher looked for thoughtstimulating writing on the role of the Catholic College graduate in the world. Paul LaFreniere, associate Editor of the SCHOLASTIC, also served on the judging board.
Chairman Clark expressed regret that several essays were not qualified for judging because received after the contest deadline.
some immediate circumstance, some part of the social order, some part of the environment presses upon the seed he has planted and bears it along like a leaf in a storm. The job must be done through the various organisms of society —through the entertainment industry, through fairness in labor-management problems, through justice in racial relations—through every organism, or institution, of society. The way the world is formed today, the way it is bound together, the way each part is trapped by all the rest makes one thing plain: individuals can influence, but only institutions can transform.
But before these institutions can transform anyone, they must first be transformed themselves; and this can only be done by an army of well-trained men, who know the different rocks and crevices of the terrain as well as the enemy does. They must be among lead-^ ers of their fields before they can evei-hope to lead those fields to God.
But even this is not enough. For they may want to do God’s will, may want to bring His Kingdom to this earth, may even have the place of leadership from which to do it; but they can never do His will unless they know precisely what it is in each particular case in their society. For a good individual is not necessarily a good leader. Love for Goc’® and the desire to do His will must somehow be linked with the special needs of a person’s role in life; and the only way to do this perfectly, the only way to transform society with the principles of Christ is to know these principles perfectly and to remold that society until the basic motives underlying every human act performed within it conform to these principles of Christ. But this knowledge of the principles and of how^ to apply them can only be gained byv* diligent study.
It is therefore obvious that any man who hopes to bring Christ back upon the earth, who wants the world to live again to God, who wants to see that rising sun grow gold, must possess three necessary qualities: he must love God; he must be a leader in his field; and he must have a good grasp of his principles and of their application.
But leaders with such qualifications can be formed only in Catholic univer- ■ sities. And since this is true, there is < a great moral obligation resting on the back of every Catholic college graduate. For all men have a right to hear the Word of God, all hunger for His Life by which alone men live, all hunger and shall not be filled unless we who have been given the Bread of Life will go out and bring it to them.
That is why every crimson sunrise is ' a reminder and a prophecy—a reminder J of the Cross and of all that Christ has r done for us, a reminder of the un- B finished task we are pledged to com- I plete, but most of all a promise and a r prophecy that, if we come to realize this | pledge and all it means, if we prepare | ourselves to meet its challenge, if we s remain faithful to the end in working i for it, we shall then soon see the golden j dawn, not merely of the sun of earth ~ rising once again, but of the far more g dazzling Son of God, the Word of Light’S made Flesh borne flashing from the east through crimson clouds to take His golden throne.
10
The Scholastic
Merry Christmas to all.
to
. W
Social chit-chat midst the females.
A break in the monotony.
yule tour
Nowhere locally was the Christmas spirit made more manifest to all than at the Senate-sponsored parties held last weekend for South Bend children and old people. Over 100 students of ND and St. Mary’s gave of their time and happiness
those who would be institutionalized over the holiday.
Does that thing gurgle?
December 16, 1955
11
by JIMMY MANAHAN
James Manahan hails from the song-celebrated town of Kokomo, Indiana, ichen not in residence at Badin Hall. Although a Science student in the department of Physics, he claims to have no future ambitions. This is his first publication in the SHOWCASE.
Delbert Wimple had graduated in Commerce from Lockland University with the class of ’35. He had then set out to make his fortune as a clothing merchant.
In the years that followed, Delbert did very well for himself, and being a modest type of person, he gave full credit to the education he had received at Lockland. And though Delbert did little financially for his alma mater, he was very generous with his praise.
It would be difficult to describe the joy that came to the heart of Delbert Wimple when he entered into an agreement with the administration at Lockland, which permitted him to open a store on the campus. It would be even more difficult, however, to describe the shock he felt, upon learning that his campus store did not meet with much success. He had been cautious in his selection of a manager; but obviously he had made a mistake. Upon receiving the first financial report, he packed his bag and set out for Lockland.
Delbert’s life had been one long struggle to overcome the unpleasant connotation to be found in his name. Throughout grade school, and the early part of high school, Delbert had been regarded as a sissy by his playmates. Even in college his name had been held against him. Because of this, Delbert had acquired a very forbidding personality. After seeking out the manager of his new store, he made full use of this personality to the manager’s obvious discomfort.
ivy style
“Awright, Smith!, what kind of a salesman are you?”
“But sir, it’s not my fault; the students here simply don’t spend their money on clothes.”
“What do you mean, everybody buys clothes.”
“Oh we’ve sold lots of wash pants.”
“Wash pants!! I can’t make anything off of wash pants.”
“I know that, sir, but that’s all they’ll buy.”
“What do you think a salesman’s for? You’re supposed to make them buy something expensive.”
“I’ve tried, but they simply won’t. I tell you I can’t understand it.”
“You’re fired, Smith.”
And so it happened that Delbert found himself, once again, in the role of a man who was starting from scratch. The business at his campus store was practically nil. He assumed the role of builder with a great determination.
First he placed several ads in the campus magazine. He intended these ads to cause a reaction that would shame the students into buying better clothes. He attempted to utilize that instinct clothing salesmen utilize everywhere, the instinct by which one strives to keep abreast.
Delbert caused a reaction all right. There was quite a stir when the students opened their campus magazine, to find on the first page:
BE DAPPER AT DELBERT’S
COME AND SEE WHAT THE IVY
LEAGUE IS WEARING
—GO IVY
* * *
“Hi Bill.”
“Hello Tom.”
“Where you heading, the med building?”
"No, I haven’t a class till eleven o’clock.”
“Hey, I see your pants are pegged.” “They’re leftovers from high school. ’
I’ve got a corduroy jacket too.”
“Oh did you belong to a gang?” Tom’s voice showed a trace of sarcasm.
“Look Tom, it wasn’t a matter of choice; you either belonged or you became a hermit.”
“How’s that?”	_
“Either- you wore pegged pants and £ turned up your collar, or you got the reputation of square. And on top of that, you just had to get into a gang;	(
it was sort of a feudal system.”	.
“I think I get what you mean. I had the same sort of deal in grade school.”
“Grade school?”
“Yeah, up to the fifth grade anyway.” Tom shifted his books to the other arm. “It was like this, Bill. There were the w Captain Marvels and the Supermans, , with sweaters to match. The girls even I had some Lori Lanes.	I
“Sweater girls?”	।
“Kind of flat.”
“But you had to wear your Superman sweater.”
“Not always; in the summer we had Superman T-shirts.”	i
“That sounds like	quite	a	wardrobe.”	i
“It didn’t last too	long of	course;	we	t
sort of outgrew it in two or three sum- j mers.”	|
Bill slowed his pace. “Well I’ve got to turn off here.”
“Where you going?”
“I’m going to be ‘Dapper at Delbert’s.’ ”	j
Delbert Wimple was eagerly awaiting his first customer. Being of a £ superstitious nature, he was inclined to feel that his first attempt would predict -the success of the entire venture. When :
Bill walked in, Delbert was ready to pounce. *
“Why hello there, come right in. Say, I’ll bet you saw my ad didn’t you; well come right over here. Oh we’ve got everything a college man could want. Look at these slacks; exactly what they are wearing at Princeton. And here’s a Columbia Jacket that will match them perfectly. Oh, and here are our Ivy League suits. I’ll bet you’ll want one of them. We’ve got all kinds, Harvard, Dartmouth, Yale. If you ask me, you look like you’d be one of the Harvard group, but of course you never can tell. Now if you’re a Princeton follower, we have some dandy Dick Kazimier sweaters. Kazimier, Cashmere, get it? heh, heh.”
Bill stood patiently, awaiting his chance to speak.
“Well what is it you’ll have?”
“Where do you keep your wash pants?”
12
The Scholastic
D>uik
IRISH TO PUT SUGAR BOWL TITLE ON LINE
£ COACH JORDAN, CAPT. FANNON Wonder if they can?
Swimmers Improving; Two Meets Added
The Notre Dame Swimming Club has recently added two more meets to its schedule. Aside from the one already planned here on Feb. 22 with the University of Chicago, there will be a meet with Xavier- of Cincinnati on Sunday, Feb. 26, as well as the one already concluded with Loyola of Chicago.
The main strength of the club will lie with free-stylers. Mike Regan, Gene Loveless and the president of the club, Paul Kerwin, look good in the short distances, and Mike Connelly and Jim Swaim in the 440 and 220. Gene Loveless, John Kroha, and Dick Bruener, all breast-strokers, and Jim Garrity, a back-stroker, round out the swimmers.
The club has been practicing for over a month now, and it shows in the improvement of all the swimmers. As of now the club has not received varsity status but they have scheduled the Xavier meet on a Sunday and hope that the student body will give it some support to become an official team. Father Pelton, faculty advisor to the club has hopes of gathering followers for this reason. The last swimming club failed for lack of support.
Spartans, Utah, Tide,' Warriors Highlight Vacation Against Slow-Starting Irish Cogers
The Irish will travel to Minneapolis tonight in an all-out effort to improve their slow-starting record against the Minnesota Gophers. After a five day break the Irish again hit the road to face a snappy Michigan State quintet next Wednesday night at East Lansing, Michigan. Then they go to the Sugar Bowl.
Graduation bit deeply into the powerful Gopher squad, calling the services of Big Ten stars Chuck Mencel and Dick Garmaker.
However, Coach Ozzie Cowles will start a young and speedy squad of five returning lettermen. Dave Tucker, top rebounder for the Gophers, will be at
Interhall Handball, Basketball In Full Swing on 'Rock1 Card
Forty-six students have signed-up for the novice handball tournament at the Rockne Memorial. All first round matmatches will be played off before the Christmas holidays tomorrow and the finals of the tournament will be over before semester exams.
Interhall basketball at Notre Dame will be increased from the present 40 teams to nearly 50 next semester when • the floor in the Fieldhouse is utilized. Prompted by lack of space in the “Rock,” use of Fieldhouse floor will also step up play with each team playing at least one game every week. However, only recognized campus clubs and interhall teams will bes able to play there.
ART BUNTE	JERRY HARPER
Center from the West ...	... and the South.
forward. Capt. Dave Noack and Buck Lindsley will open at the guard slots. Noack, the only senior of the quintet, saw action last year as a reserve. Although Jed Dommeyer, six-three, is the shortest center in many years of Gopher history, his sparkling jump shot and sure rebounding could spell disaster foi-the Irish.
The big man for the Ii-ish to stop, however, is Jerry Kindall, leader of the Gopher frontal attack. His lithe reflexes pose a sure scoring and rebounding threat.
In the game at East Lansing, Michigan State will balance their loss of high-scoring Al Ferrari with the addition of some much-needed sophomore height. Moving up to the varsity are Max Gon-zenbach, six-eight, Larry Hedden, six-five, Al Rosenberg, and Jack Quiggle, the best looking prospect among the newcomers. The sophomores are not the whole story, however, as State still has Julius McCoy, a left-handed jump shooter, and Duane Peterson, six-seven at
December 16, 1955
13
TERRY RAND
Marquette’s big contribution.
center. McCoy averaged over 16 points a game for the Spartans last year. The team will be deeper, if less experienced, and will be able to keep its fast-moving attack going at full speed.
The Irish will invade the Loyola University Fieldhouse in New Orleans, La., for the Sugar Bowl tournament, Dec. 29-30. As Sugar Bowl champions last year, the Irish will meet some stiff competition in this year’s tournament. Coach Johnny Jordan’s five will play Alabama in the first game. The winner of that game will meet the winner of the Marquette-Utah game for the championship.
Coach Johnny Dee of Alabama says that this year’s club will be the best he has had since coming to Alabama. All five of the men who have been his starters for the past three years are back for their senior season. The five are: Jerry Harper, George Linn, Leon Marlaire, Dennis O’Shea and Dick Guilder. Harper, the Tide’s six-seven center, holds the Alabama career scoring mark. But scoring isn’t his only asset. Last year he averaged 19 rebounds a game to rank ninth in the nation.
Marquette climaxed a brilliant season when it upset Kentucky in the NCAA regionals last year. The Warriors lost to Iowa in the finals, by five points, for an overall record of 24-3 that included a 22-game winning streak and fourth place in the AP poll. Included in the 22-game winning streak was a 84-74 -win over the Irish. The Irish, however, ended the streak with an 85-64 win over the Warriors in the final game of the season.
Returning lettermen for Marquette are big Terry Rand, six-nine, Gerry Hopfensperger, Don Bugalski and Bob Walczak. Coming up to the varsity are Jay Schauer, a six-six sophomore, and John Glaser.
LLOYD AUBREY
Senior center paces scorers.
Utah finished first in the Skyline conference last year with a 13-one record, and went on to the Western Division playoffs of the NCAA before being stopped by San Francisco. While the team lost a few players, Coach Jack Gardner has his key players back, notably the “three B’s” of the team— Bunte, Buckwaiter and Bergen.
Art Bunte is only six-three but averaged over 19 points a game last year. • Gary Bergen, six-eight is the club’s top rebounder and number two scorer. Morris Buckwaiter is the team’s playmaker.
Bouncing out of the Sugar Bowl, the Irish will play host to three teams in a row. On Wednesday night, Jan. 4, the Irish will face Butler, a squad deep with veterans. Guards Dave Scheetz and Bob Plump will pace the Butler attack. The following Saturday night,
CURTIS JENSON
Ute sparkplug.
Jan. 7, De Paul invades the Fieldhouse. Top scorers for the Demons are: Ron Sobiesczyk, Bill Robinzine, and Ken Jaksy. On Wednesday night, Jan. 11, the Irish will meet the Louisville Cards, paced by Phil Rollins and 6-8 Charlie Tyra. Rollins was named on the Irish’s all-opponent team last year.
The Irish clinched their second win of the season last Saturday night, with a 71-61 win over Northwestern, at W Evanston, Ill. Irish ace Lloyd Aubrey, top scorer of the game with 26 points, paced Notre Dame’s attack to a solid seven point lead at intermission time. Up to the Illinois game, Aubrey was averaging 27 points per game. Dick Mast’s hook shot gave the Wildcats a one point lead in the second half. But rapid fire baskets by Aubrey, Fannon, and Gleason pushed the Irish ahead to £ their ten point victory.
Novice Bout Results
The 1955 Novice Boxing Tournament came to successful completion last Saturday night. The 18 finalists fought their way through some 100 boxing aspirants during the fall. Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano did his usual commendable £ job of getting the young boxers into w shape before they stepped into the ring.
Of the nine winners only Ed. Riccuti and Jack Parker won by knockouts.
The results:	[1
135 lb. Ed Riccuti TKO’d Jerry : Brann; 140 lb. Bob Weingart dec. Jim Haley; 145 lb. Frank Johnston, dec. Ed » Caren; 155 lb. Jim Canny, dec. Jerry Wilson; 160 lb. John Krause, dec. Bill Moore; 167 lb. Hugh Ball, dec. Frank Macozy; 172 lb. Jack Parker, TKO’d V Paul Oberhauser; and 177 lb. Joe Brennan, dec. Tom. Sheehan. Heavyweights : Mike O’Connor, dec. Phil Reisert.
RON SOBIESCZYK
DePaul demon . . . Irish pesf.
I
14
TRANSFER OF THE CAPTAINCY. Irish Captain for 1955 football season, Ray Lemek (center) hands shillelagh, symbol of rule, to Jim Morse, captain elect at the football banquet last Thursday. Morse, a halfback, is the first backfield man to hold the position since 1945. John Carmichael, (left) Sports Editor of the Chicago ‘Daily News’ and toastmaster of the affair, looks on.
Detroit Club Posts 29-3 For Best Kegler Mork
Three divisions of the Kampus Keg-lers leaders are still battling neck and neck for first-place honors with the first round of play completed.
The Chicago Club managed to open up a two-game hold on first place in the 6:45 Wednesday division with their 17-7 record. The Industrial Engineers and California Club are tied for second with 15-9 records. Jim Chestnut of the Chicago Club leads all bowlers with a W 167 average.	.
In the 8:45 Wednesday division, Toledo hung on to their one-game lead over the Cleveland Club. Toledo’s record now stands at 14-4. Dick Hummer of the Cleveland Club leads all scorers with his 172 average, followed by Dick Torda’s 170.
The 6:45 Thursday division shows a triple tie for first place between the _ Civil Engineers, the Irish Club and the 9 Wisconsin Club all with 17 points. Bill De Bot’s 163 average for the Wisconsin Club is the individual high.
The Detroit Club is making a rout of the 8:45 Thursday division with their 29-3 record. Dick Torda holds the high individual average with 181.
The Rinky-Dinks, with a 16-5 record, hold a commanding five-point lead over the second-place Villagers in the 8:45 Sunday league. Tom Guilfoile and Ray 9 Lescher are tied for individual high average at 159.
All league Play will continue after the Christmas holidays.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. TRETHEWEY
JOE, THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
for the very finest
STEAKS and CHOPS
EDDIE'S STEAK HOUSE
M2 S. WALNUT
: DETROIT’S good-will hotel
• Hofei
■WOLVERINE
In'the heart of downtown ELIZABETH...
Block East of Woodward
John Sakmar, Manager
Detroit
Michigan
Overlooking Grand Circus Park in the heart of the downtown theater and shopping district.
500 modern, comfortable rooms—all with tub and shower, radio. T-V available. Home of the air-conditioned “Tropics”, Michigan’s most unusual night spot — unique "Rainfall Bar”. Excellent Coffee Shop. Moderate Rates. Adequate Parking.
CHILDREN under fourteen FREE
IBS BIB
JIB III
December 16, 1955
15
'ND Lawyer' Features Articles, Book Reviews
The December issue of the Notre Dame Laivyer, the quarterly law review put out by the students of the Notre Dame Law School, is off the press, Editor James Murray announced this week.
Featured articles of the issue are W “Freedom of Inquiry Versus Authority: Some Legal Aspects” by Joseph O’Meara, Dean of the Law School, “How to Write a Law” by Reed Dickerson, Chief of the Codification Section, Department of Defense, and recent author of a book on legislative drafting, and “The Practice Court at Notre Dame” by Edward E. Barrett, Professor in the Law School.	*
Recent books reviewed in this issue include Roscoe Pound’s An Introduction to the Philosophy of Laiv, reviewed by Anton-Hermann Chroust; Leon Petrazy-ki’s Law and Morality, reviewed by Zygmunt Epstein; Reed Dickerson’s Legislative Drafting reviewed by Alfred L. Scanlan; and Walter Lippmann’s The Public Philosophy, reviewed by George Constable.
Student writing by Patrick Foley on $ the burlesque of a literary work as a violation of the copyright laws, and one by Norman H. McNeil on the introduction of new evidence at the appellate court level are included.
In addition, seniors Edward J. Griffin, John E. Roberts, Raymond P. Knoll, Manuel A. Sequeira, Jr., James E. Sullivan and J. Robert Geiman, and juniors Robert P. Gorman, Ralph B. Blume, Edward S. iMraz, Paul M. Kraus, John $ F. Chmiel, and Jack Economou have described recent case decisions.
It’s a pleasure to get to know Old Spice After Shave Lotion. Each time you shave you can look forward to something special: the Old Spice scent—brisk, crisp, fresh as all outdoors... the tang of that vigorous astringent—banishes shave-soap film, heals tiny razor nicks. Splash on Old Spice—and start the day refreshed!
Add Spice to Your Life... Old Spice For Men SHULTON New York • Toronto
Slavic Rite Mass on Jan. 6 Commemorates Unity Octave
In anticipation of the annual Church Unity Octave, January 18-25, a Mass in the Byzantine-Slavonic Rite will be celebrated in the Sacred Heart Church at 8 p.m., January 6. Communion will £ be given under both species.
Those who wish to receive Communion at this Mass may not receive Holy Eucharist during the day and must fast from 6 p.m.
The Mass will be celebrated in Slavic, not Latin. Those attending the Mass will be given Slavonic-English missals.
Three priests will celebrate the Mass together, using one host. The con-celebrants will be: Rev. Athanase Res- A zee, O.S.B.; Rev. Demetrius Kowalchik, O.S.B.; and Rev. Vladimir Tarasevitch, O.S.B.
16
The Scholastic
Workshop Produces Music, Comedy Revue
The Theatre Workshop presented an innovation in campus entertainment last Sunday night. A seven scene Musical Revue completely produced, directed, and acted by Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students was viewed by a small audience which included Earl MacVeigh, the male lead of the musical comedy “Kismet,” which is now playing in Chicago.
The Revue was directed by Gene Leyval and Jerry Dodge both sophomores and alumni of last spring’s “Seventeen.”
Bob Moran released a type of comedy which promises a real treat for future Washington Hall presentations. Moran, ’M a second semester freshman, portrayed a famous British comedian. His typical English dress and absurd humor stopped the show in a funny skit where he is trying to disillusion a feminine admirer who was played by Pat Smith, a SMC junior.
The Workshop also produced a promising comedienne in the person of Miss Sue Brown, a freshman at St. Mary’s. Miss Brown brought smiles to many 0 faces as she led the chorus in a novel rendition of “It’s Me!”
।	Committee Sets Policy
,	For June Inn Problem
:	The Student Senate has appointed a
committee of Senior Class Officers and the Junior Class President to recommend a plan for the allocation of rooms in the Morris Inn for parents of Seniors on the weekend of June Graduation Exercises.
The committee studied various proposals for relieving the problem of accommodations in the Inn. With consideration of all fairness to the largest i number of students, the committee an-l nounces that the following plan has been accepted by the Morris Inn management and University officials.
1) An undetermined number of rooms — will be reserved for University guests. ™	2) Ten rooms will be reserved for
parents of seniors who will take part in the Graduation Exercises. The rooms will be given to the parents of the four i	class officers, the four academic leaders
I	of each college, the Student Senate
I	President, and the Blue Circle Chair*	man.
3) The remaining rooms will be reserved on a first come, first serve basis. Starting at 5 p.m. on January 15, the i Senior Class student must register for his parents at the Morris Inn. Each student will be allotted one room, and , his Notre Dame I.D. must be shown at the time of registration.
..DETROIT
for the best buy MAKE IT THE
——HOTEL
Fort Wayne
TEMPLE & CASS AVENUES V
Adjoining the largest Masonic Temple in the world.
300 delightful rooms with tub and shower. Radio, television, air-conditioning, Parking Home of Detroit’s most attractive and renowned Cocktail bar— CAFE BURGUNDY Coffee Shop,

n in	BIMjlrnin
Cigar Store, Barber Shop,	Rooms
Beauty Shop, Bowling Alleys. from
Tel TEmple 1-8600
MB

Affiliated with Hotel METROPOLE—Cincinnati, Hotel DESOTO—St. Louie
ROCCO'S
South Bend's Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11 — 1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
AQUINAS LIBRARY aid BOOK SHOP
We Sell Truth New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
Sunny Italy Cafe
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 North Niles Avenue
uuoBm
208 E. Jefferson Down Town Use Our Drop Off Service Leave it and We Do it.
Washing Drying at Reasonable Rates.
Colored Hose Washed Free
Ask For Sof-t in your next wash — No charge o
We DO Shirts.
CLOSED THURSDAY AFTERNOONS
Nationally Advertised Watches—Diamonds—Jewelry Guaranteed Watch Repairing Fine Engraving
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
December 16, 1955
17
Back Pajt
by Curt Matthews
the gentleman *
—a definition
PROBABLY EVERYONE HAS HIS OWN idea of what constitutes a real gentleman. The dictionary definition says a gentleman is a well-bred, courteous, gracious, considerate man of good birth and social standing.
That’s a pretty exhaustive definition. I guess originally the stress was put on the part of the definition that speaks of being well-bred and of good social standing, figuring that if a person was well-bred and moved in the right circles the other desirable traits required of a gentleman would follow automatically.
Today, however, enter democracy and all that it entails, and the emphasis in the definition of a gentleman shifts from the. hereditary to the social. A gentleman then becomes one who is merely courteous, gracious, and considerate.
Unfortunately (and as you might have suspected) neither the old definition nor the modern interpretation of it is in complete accord with what I suppose a gentleman to be. For, both the old and the new ideas of what a gentleman is ignores three things which I feel are indispensable to a man if he is to be considered a gentleman.
These three things are uncompromising principles, genuine friendliness, and a trait I’ll call “openmindedness” for want of a better term.
Although these three characteristics may be closely connected with those of courtesy, grace and consideration mentioned above, they are nonetheless, in my opinion, separate elements; each contributing to the personality of the gentleman in a different way.
I say this because I feel it is possible for a person to be gracious without being genuinely friendly, or considerate without being openminded, or well-bred and still lacking principles.
One of the misconceptions that seems to have developed concerning a gentleman today is that he is more “gentle” and less “man.” Too often a gentleman is assumed to be one who patronizes
almost to the point of being obsequious.
A man is considered a gentleman if he always allows others to have their way. Nothing could be further from the real meaning of a gentleman, I think. A gentleman may sometimes have to step on a few toes and injure a few prides simply because that’s exactly what some people need.
A man who has uncompromising principles will sometimes find occasion to use bluntness and the quick retort. However, it must be emphasized that such things must be used discriminately and only as a last resort.
To guard against the indiscriminate use of brusqueness the gentleman must be openminded and considerate.
By openminded I mean that, with the exception of his uncompromising and well-grounded principles, the gentleman is not obsessed with anything. He gives the ideas and beliefs of others what is commonly called “the sporting chance.” The gentleman is a good listener, a modest proposer.
He is sympathetic to the appeals and demands of others. At the same time the gentleman always looks critically at his own appeals and demands. However, it can be reasserted that the gentleman never compromises his principles merely to win his point.
When the social aspects of the gentleman are over-emphasized, as seems to be happening today, it results in a lot of false heroics, in my opinion. Nothing is more easily discernible or more flatly distasteful than the “gentleman” who is a gentleman only when other people are around to appreciate him.
This “gentleman’s” only uncompromising principle is social acceptance. He gives his seat on the bus to the old lady, he says all the right things to all the right people, he follows all the protocol of his social role—but not without a certain flourish for all to see.
Such people forget a gentleman is not just a social being—he’s also an
ethical being. A gentleman does things for other people to help them—not himself.
Another result of the over-emphasis of the social requirements of a gentleman seems to be the growing urgency for him to avoid what is commonly called “the scene.”
To me it seems that a gentleman is not one who has the ability to avoid the scene but the ability to live through one. If a question of social conduct comes up he doesn’t try to squirm out of his obligations and thereby evade any “circumstances.”
Rather he does what he thinks best, and, if what he thinks best happens to be wrong, he rightfully accepts responsibility. He doesn’t feel completely mortified or ashamed (though he may sometimes be annoyed with himself) for the gentleman has the self-pride and confidence that lifts him through such occasions.
Genuine friendliness is something every gentleman should possess and cultivate. We, here at Notre Dame, sometimes like to take occasional potshots at the state university and its ever accompanying “evil,” the fraternity. But, I for one, while not in complete accord with the fraternity system, must admit that some good can be derived from the concepts of genuine friendliness that fraternities try to develop.
Based on my own experience I would say this genuine friendliness found in fraternities is not just a sugar-coated attempt to impress visitors. Genuine friendliness seems to be one of a fraternity’s uncompromising principles. I think it’s a pretty good one.
Sir Francis Bacon had this to say in his essay called Of Friendship: “For it is most true that a natural and secret hatred and aversion towards society, in any man, hath somewhat of the savage beast.” Gentlemen and savage beasts have little common ground.
18
The Scholastic
New... a comfortable collar you cannot outgrow
The new Arrow Lido shirt has no top button at the collar; your necktie alone closes the collar neatly. And even if your neck size grows, the “expandable” collar stays comfortable. Get yours today—wear it with a tie tonight—open at the neck tomorrow. Priced from $5.00.
-first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR
See how ARROW’S new collar works!
A completely new idea in shirts—a completely new standard oj comfort—the Lido by Arrow. Your tie alone closes the collar—no button I And as long as you own it, the collar fits, because it expands when you do. See it in white or solid colors . . . oxford or broadcloth.
Prices start at $5.00.
Mt*
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS
(Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend)