. 
-;,._ 
~
;,,; ~·. 
: ' ' .: 
,t'.­

Piclrrre u/ Jlini11u ,11 S11trr-/),mu. l!lUj. /,_,. /l,,/,,•,1 I'. C:,,tt,,,n,y 

SCHOLASTIC NEEDS YOU 
SCHOLASTIC is now for 
Managing Editor Photography Editor Sports Editor Systems Manager News Editor Graphic Arts Manager Features Editor Business Manager 
Copy Editor Advertising Manager Departments Editor Advertising Design Manager Saint Mary's Editor Layout Manager 

Applications are due by 5 p.m. Friday, February 23. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduate may apply. Contact Mike Wieber for information at the SCHOLASTIC office, 3rd floor LaFortune, 239-7569 or 239-5029. 

SC 
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE 


COVER 
14 
Lady Killers The women's fencing team has dominated in the Midwest 
and is now a top contender for the NCAAs Chris Fillio 
17 
Rebels with a Cause A full team at the NCAA tournament could spell national 
championship for DeCicco's swordsmen Chris Fillio 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
Reflections on Eastern Europe 

Author shares his views on the radical changes sweeping this vital region of the world by Derik Weldon 
6 
FEATURES 
Notre Dame's Only Fraternity 

The Knights of Columbus focus on charity, service, and Catholicity as the chapter bounces back from adversity by Scott Brutocao 
8 

12 Computer Matchmaking 
.· "Domer Dating" raises money for the Model United Nations Club by Frank Barletta 

LETTERS 



Flying Eagles Volunteer Service to SafeWalk 
Dear Editor: 

In your article "Safety First" printed in the 1 March issue of Scholastic, you made reference to "a handful of volunteers who work one night a week on a rotating schedule." I presume that this was a reference to the FlyingEagles, a service/fel­lowship organization on the Notre Dame campus consisting of Eagle Scouts. We are more than a handful ofvolunteers. The flying Eagles provides five escorts every Wednesday night to SafeWalk who volunteer three hours of their time as service to the ND community. Fifteen volunteers work on a rotating basis, each scheduled for one week out ofevery three. I am not surejust how much in­formation you were given, but I think that these volunteers would at least deserve the mention of the fact that they are volunteer Eagle Scouts. 
Sincerely, David F. Michael President, Flying Eagles 
;le,ttersyfatii~ol~.lf211~tst·.•.•·be 2i*~t1.,.and:!iiEtTI~~-,~f
~rjsiiarrie;. ~dcfr,ess and, phoneiuunber..Uhivf!rsity:students,
' .'. ;···,', .>.~:; ,'.:; ·...:·.,,....'.· ,,,, : / .., , :' : :... . . \ .'·, . : : : '. ·. ',..·, ,. , . '. ; , ·. ~ ;, ,..,,· .. .. • . ,· , . .. : '. ·. . . ';. , ~· 
·slj:_Rµl~iinclud~·thei!' year tn s~hool and c~llege. RipuJn, mem­::e0_,.,:: :.h~uld includ€'their depanirient. Allleiiers musi'Be"signed. 
.J{l,ti~l1~~!;iltit~Jti!i1:.;:
:afq\*lµ edit fJi,~§pyfittirig{ta:mmati¢a1§f,spelling eftors aiip­t~,sJi§1~spj~ sty)e'.i·B~cause;·<>f'space limii:ations,. Scnglas#c-.caj~, 



?""!J>ni;~t1i2l~:~a~I1ce;,!1/i' 
.-, ; • ~ "/• • -·• 
0

.. 'TJie:Editor ,< .. ·Scholastic ­·'i.aFortiirte Ce11ter • 
SCHOLASTIC 
---, ' ' . 
,·.::;_______: --·:· ----·--·--:--· -----~ ,. ~ ·..''". ·.. -,-----~:-;_,;< _-: --:-~-,.~ ~----: ---.-. .,'_ ,, -,--· ~~;,_;':,i_:;ilc:,; ,:.'-":y, ·.\r;(~{t:½f_. -'.,_ ..;,: ,) 
ON OTHER CAMPUSES 
I Heard It Through The Grapevine 
EDITED BY CHRIS FILLIOIf you think paying professional athletes millions ofdollars to 
play a game is ludicrous, then listen up! Dr. Mario Perez-Reyes, 
professor of psychiatry at the University of North Carolina­Chapel Hill's med school, was surprised by the incredible number of volunteers for his experiment involving video games and controlled substances. A brief in National Lampoon reported that the solicita­tion offered twenty-five dollars per day for people to play video games while drinking screwdrivers, smoking marijuana, or taking amphetamines. "The response was immediate," said Perez-Reyes. "This [news] spreads through the grapevine. Good drugs, good money." 
0 


Some of the best journalists at the University of Miami may be students who submit ads to The Miami Hurricane's classifieds section. One such ad was a photo ofa man in swim trunks, sunglasses and a baseball hat, posed like a Greek discus thrower. The caption read as follows: "Have you seen this man? This is Dick. Dick lives in Hecht. Dick thinks Hecht is gonna win SportsFest. Don't think like Dick. Signed, all the others." Otherads were for "Fun Day '90," yoga classes, and the Hooter Recruiter. Don't ask. 
There's plenty of cause for alarm at Holy Cross College cv,lorc­ester, MA). The security notebook in The Crusader reported that six alarms were activated over a ten-day period in early February, including five fire alarms, three in one hall alone, two in the same night. None of the alarms were warranted due to pranks, vandalism, or trash can fires. One door alarm was set off when it was propped open by a student. When advised that this had activated the alarm the student defended herself by saying that she was "not letting any weirdos in." The report included a warning of severe penalties for those caught activating alarms unnecessarily. 
This spring marks the fourth semester that students at Brown University have followed the characters of "Thatch," student Jeff Shesol's comic strip which appears in The Brown Daily Herald four times a week. But a story in the same paper reported recently that soon students in as many as 200 colleges and universities nationwide may also have the opportunity to read the popular strip. Beginning next fall, Shesol's work may be nationally syndicated through Gannett Broadcasting and Apple Computer. However, the junior says that if he cannot publish both nationwide and atschool, he would most likely opt for the latter. "'Thatch' comes from my Brown experience," said Shesol, "And it would feel really wrong for me to abandon that completely and place it in some random context." Shesol further added that he uses the school for his subject because "this is an inherently silly place." 
The best college football team in the nation is not Miami, Notre Dame or even Florida State, say supporters ~f the Shorter College (GA) squad, a team which has not lost a game in six years. Ofcourse, that may be due to the fact that they have not played a game in six years. A clip fonn theNational On-CampusReportstated that despite the lack of bodies, the football program at Shorter includes two coaches, an open air stadium, a weekly radio program, and a home­coming weekend every fall. The school's athletic director feels that the college shouldn't be deprived of the fun of football just for lack of funds. The teams that the Hawks don't play include Nebraska, Notre Dame and traditional rivals Georgia Tech and Georgia. 0 


WEEK IN DISTORTION/TIM ROGERS 
The Rogers Guide To Proper Shower Etiquette 
Forget all that tomfoolery about being either part of the solution or part of the problem. There are two kinds of people in this world: those who blow their noses in the shower and those who don't. Actually, I guess that isn't completely true. Some folks don't blow their noses at all, but they don't count I think everyone will agree that people who sniffand gurgle in church, or anywhere else for that matter, deserve to be summarily executed in one of three ways: (1) by allowing them to stand on the top rung of a stepladder, (2) by encouraging them to carry a pair of scissors with the point up, or (3) by putting them in a room filled with those bags you get from the cleaners whose warn­ing labels have been altered to read, "To avoid danger of suffocation, keep away from babies and children, BUT FEEL FREE TO USE AS AN AMUSING TOY." So let me change my mind and say that there are three kinds of people in this world. There are those who blow their noses in the shower, those who don't blow their noses in the shower, and those who don't blow their noses at all. This classification of people seems obvious to me because I like to label people. I also have no qualms about judging a book by its cover. On more than one occasion, I have picked up a dictionary and said, "You're going straight to hell if you don't change your ways." Labeling people is a little trickier because you almost always have to do it behind their backs. Folks get bent out of shape when you call them Machiavellians or tell them they blow their noses in the shower. Not everyone will admit they blow theirnose in the shower. Some people still cling to unnatural Puritan notions. The idea that blowing your nose in the shower is taboo has carried over from the founding of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. In those first, few, lean years, colonists could not afford Puffs™ and they began blowing their noses in the shower. This made Roger Winthrop very cross because the Massachu­setts Bay Colony had only one shower and he had an aversion to mucus. Roger had a recurring nightmare wherein he accidentally inhaled a chickpea which blocked his nasal passage anddrowned in his own snot. This is a little known historical fact. 
So let me reformulate my statement once more. There are four kinds of people in this world. There are those who blow their noses in the shower, those who blow their noses in the shower but won't admit it, those who don't blow their noses in the shower and those who don't blow their noses at all (but they don't count). 
Using this classification scheme to screen prospective mates would make everyone's life much simpler. That business about "morning people" and "night people" can finally be thrown out with the rest of Freud's work. It was Freud who first said that people who prefer morning over night have an un­healthy fixation with phallically shaped breakfast cereals. He argued that this fixa­tion makes morning people utterly incompat­ible with night people. Freud was wrong. By instead using a person's nose blowing prefer­ences, we could eliminate guesswork and make marriage foolproof. We should require interested couples to fill out the following simple questionnaire: 

A careful analysis of this questionnaire would ensure marital bliss. If someone checks both (I) and (2), he would be a liar, the rest of his questionnaire would be discounted and he would not be allowed to marry. If someone checks either (6) or (7), he should be kept out ~f the gene pool and he would be sterilized at his own expense. Once these undesirables have been dealt with, we would only have to pair the 3's, 4's and S's and presto: UNCONDITIONAL LOVE AND FIDELITY! UTOPIA! 
Don't get me wrong. Marriage isn't some­thing to be taken lightly. It demands hard work and a willingness to compromise. It demands a good prenuptial agreement and a morally dubious attorney. Above all, mar­riage requires answers. Which goes back to my earlier point: If you 're not part of the solution, then you're part of the problem. D 
Tim Rogers Is a smart ass living In Fisher Hall and is not, under any circumstances, to be taken seriously. 
SCHOLASTIC 
~---' . . 
0

-:). __ : • • ,.s-•--• • •--• °' • •-: --C.' > • ::---• • .:: r ;--, • '• • • •• • '-• • • ,•,•-~, ~• ~» ~ • • ' • '• , '>; • ~ ' , • {~ 
M U S I C / J E F F J OT Z 
•



Bad 
rains 
Sitting around on a Sunday afternoon with nothing to write about could be hazardous to your brain. To compli­cate matters, covering myself in the Sunday Chicago Tribune didn't result in a miracu­lous osmosis of ideas either. How could I write to a bunch of nice, quiet Domers whose idea of "alternative" meant seeing R.E.M. at theJACC last fall? Desperately brainstorm­ing for some clues, I called the legendary Ted Leo over in Stanford Hall for some insight. Ted said, "Jeff, why don't you review the new Bad Brains album?" Ah, yes, Bad Brains. Those ragin' dudes of Ras ta, those heretic high priests of hardcore. Ted used a great disaster-like analogy to explain "What is Bad Brains?" 
Hard core reggae like Aswad and Black 
Uhuru are on a train heading North. 
Hard core rap like Boogie Down Produc­
tions are on a train heading South. 
Hard core funk like George Clinton is on a 
train heading East. 
Hard core hardcore like Minor Thrept are 
on a train heading West. They all crash, and the out of the rubble 
comes Bad Brains! 
Yes, kids, that is Bad Brains. A mixture of so many musical styles that it makes neurotic music writers like myself blow our cerebral cortices. This band is definitely one of the most influential artists of the past ten years, spawning folks like Living Color, Fish bone, and the Red Hot Chili Peppers. 
Bad Brains began in the mid-70's in Wash­ington, D.C.,as ajazz-fusion band. Around late 1978/early 1979, Bad Brains entered the 
D.C. punk scene, and they have not been the same since. Around. that time, the band became Rastafarians. By embracing the ideals of the Rasta movement, Bad Brains found an almost endless supply of musical, lyrical, and spiritual elements to draw upon. 
Since then, Bad Brains' musical style has expanded to include reggae, reggae elements in the punk scene, and hard n' fast hardcore. Today, however, the band has become heav­ier and funkier, using their past influences to accomplish a unique sound. 
H.R. (real name Michael Hudson; Rasta name Ras Hailu Gabriel Joseph I), acts as Bad Brains' frontman and energetic lead singer. Bad Brains also boasts of a talented trio of musicians: Earl Hudson (brother of H.R.) on the throbbing drums, Darryl Jenifer on the funky bass, and Dr. Know on the searing guitar. 

The boys of Bad Brains. 

All four members of Bad Brains have done extensive work outside their own band. H.R. and Earl are involved in an all-reggae band aptly-titled H.R. (Human Rights). Back on March 2nd, they played a fun-filled show to a packed house at Chicago's Cubby Bear Lounge. Darryl was recently involved in a side project called "Brooklyn" with the Beastie Boys' M.C.A. and Douggie Beans from Murphy's Law, while Dr. Know has turned to producing albums, most notably, Token Entry. 
Bad Brains' most recent offering and their fourth studio LP, Quickness, is a masterful weaving ofclassic Bad Brains with the power chords of heavy metal and funk. Tradition­ally, the lyrics of Bad Brains have been very spiritual, progressing from angst-filled, punk-pissed vocals to a kinder, but!!Ql gen­tler approach. Presently, Bad Brains sings about topics that hold emotional and spiritual meaning. Social issues, such as racism, greed, and all those other nasties have always been a big part of the band, but they're now looked at from the spiritual angle. Musically, the band's sound comes out and hits you in the face on Quickness. The new album just demonstrates one thing: Bad Brains may be the most mature and diverse band around without losing the hard edge. Even reggae songs like ''The Prophets Eye" don't hold any boring or weak points. 
My favorite picks on Quickness ? "Soul Craft" explodes out as the album's lead cut, catching your ear while raising a curious eyebrow. "With the Quickness" soon fol­lows as the get-up-and-dance type march, 
a.k.a. the Red Hot Chili Peppers. "No Con­ditions" later attacks your eardrums as a rallying cry of loyalty for Haile Selassie. Ted's favorite picks also include "Soul Craft," but he adds the pounding cry for freedom, "Silent Tears," and the bouncy, reggae tune, ''The Prophets Eye." 
Do you find yourself falling asleep to "You are the Everything"? Do the guests at your party ache with boredom when "Achin' To Be" is on the.CD player? Well, slap some funky hard wax on your turntable and get down to the Rasta quickness of Bad Brains. Your brain may never be good again! . 
Jeff Jotz would like to give lots 'o' thanks to Ted Leo for this article; 'cause without him, Jeff would be forced to review the "World Serles of Rock" concert (featuring Whltesnake, Great 
White, Skid Row, and Bad English). 

NEWS ANALYSIS 
Reflections On Ea tern Europe 
In response to the panel discussion headed by members of campus media, the author shares his views on the radical changes sweeping this vital region ofthe world 
BY DERIK WELDON cans was a stereotyped-vision of the Evil Obviously, a new conception of this his­
W 
Empire-a vision perversely analogous to toric, vital region of the world is necessary, 
atching the evening news or that of the American Indian after Holly­especially with democratic reforms sweep­
reading a newspaper these wood reduced him to a common savage. ing former communist strongholds like Po­
days is a confusing 
....----------'------------, land, East Germany, Romania and experience. Americans finally were 
Czechoslovakia. Looking deeply able to feel comfortable with their 
with a scientific eye snaps Eastern enemy-the Evil Communist 
Europe's reform blur into sharper Empire comprised of the Soviet 
focus. Union and its satellites-by the end 
Reductionist theory, an attemptof Ronald Reagan's presidency.But 
among biologists to explain com­now the rules are changing so fast in 
plex biological processes usingthose Eastern European nations that 
the laws of physics and chemistrythe press is tongue-tied, unable to 
that govern inanimate objects, has analyze and forced simply to de­
fallen out of favor in the scientific scribe events as they happen. What 
community. Yet, atomic and cel­sense can we, as students, make of 
lular interactions provide an inter­these changing social and political 
esting metaphor for Eastern Euro­times? 
pean reforms. After all, human It will not help to watch Western 
beings full of passion and convic­movies to gain an insight into East­
tion are, in the end, made up of ern Europe's modification. Presi­simple atoms and e:ells. 
dent Reagan tried that, but all that Particles, as well as people, are registered in the minds of Ameri­subject to inertia, a property that 


NEWS ANALYSIS 
keeps matter moving at a constant speed in a straight line unless it is acted on by an external force. The movement toward re­form fo this region began in Poland approxi­mately ten years ago. With the help of the Solidarity labor union and pressure from influential individuals like Pope John Paul II, the movement picked up speed, albeit slowly and with initial set backs, gradually gaining enough velocity to prevent commu­nist leaders from restraining democracy's speeding locomotive. 
Collisions are common between particles in the environment as they follow random paths, but no simple atomic collision can match the force felt when Poland's runaway democracy train slammed into the eastern border of its neighbor, communist hotbed East Germany. Rather than taking ten years for significant reform, as in Poland, demo­cratic advances took ten weeks in East Ger­many, swiftly reducing staunch, hard-line party leader Erich Honecker to a criminal in his own country. Reform in East Germany, highlighted by East and West Germans dancing atop the Berlin Wall, remains the most endearing vision of what is proving to be the Cold War's Goodbye Bash. 
In similar fashion, democratic reform swept Czechoslovakia. The process, which took a startling ten days to formalize, com­pleted a historic chain of political and social modifications. The prior examples of Po­land, East Germany, and Czechoslovakia highlight encouraging indications about the responsi~e~ess of existing leaders to change. Transformation of national govern­ments, often achieved through bitter infight­ing or civil war, was essentially bloodless in these countries. The dark spot in Eastern Europe remains Romania where political reform has cost countless lives, including those of tyrannical dictator Nicolae Ceaus­escu and his wife. 
Another curious question crops up at this point. Didn't the Soviet puppeteers put walls around their satellite countries that would prevent reform ideas from even reaching the citizens? The answer is not simple. Certainly, through various forms of coercion, the Soviets intended to keep the nations of Eastern Europe politically aligned with Moscow. Yet, the cost of maintaining an empire overwhelmed the Russians, so they had to let the satellites go. Do not be fooled. Reform in Eastern Europe is a generous gift from Mikhail Gorbachev. Soviet tanks could have stopped each and every reform movement dead in its tracks, just as they did to Prague in 1968. 
Acknowledging that reform was and con­

tinues to be a gift from the Soviets is vital because it allows observers to see that the spread of democratic fervor was like simple, passive diffusion rather than a miraculous act of God. When the pressure for reform in Poland was finally allowed to build, the rush of change flowed to its neighbors down a concentration gradient similar to that in a cell. Just as a drop of ink will spread throughout a beaker of water given time, so too with democracy if free to flow through national borders. 
Nearly every student on campus has taken an American history course, so Eastern Eu­ropean reforms should fill a void that text­books left from those classes could not fill. Because no one on campus was alive to see the early days of democratic development in America, Eastern Europe serves as a labora­tory for observing democratic growth. Fur­thermore, democratic ideals which were preached in eighteenth-century America are being echoed today in Eastern Europe. 
America's role in Eastern Europe remains a mystery. George Bush has never been accused of being too decisive on any issue, and in this case, he appears more interested in running off to drug summits than in re­sponding to Eastern Europe's needs in any­thing but a token manner. Yet this is telling. 
Clearly, if President Bush is forced to beg other nations to stop sending their drugs to the United States, this nation is much weaker on a global level than any flag-waving American is willing to admit. Assuming this is the case, the only real option for American involvement in the region is private or cor­porate investment. 
Notre Dame also has a role in Eastern Europe. As Li Zhah, a citizen of China who is currently working in the biology depart­ment, pointed out at the Eastern Europe panel discussion on March 1, it was the students who had studied in American uni­versities that were leading many of China's demonstrations for democratic reform last summer. Notre Dame can step to the fore­front in Eastern Europe through promoting exchanges with universities in this region. 
Although Notre Dame does participate in faculty exchange with universities in this region, the opportunity for students to study in Eastern Europe needs to be pursued with utmost speed. Nations like Poland, East Germany, and Czechoslovakia have con­tributed significantly to centuries of history, and since they are breaking out of the Soviet shadow for the first time in forty years, Notre Dame student have the opportunity to par­ticipate in relevant, long-awaited research in the area. 
For Eastern European students, the chance to study at Notre Dame would introduce them to American democracy as well as allow the students to study at an institu'tion that would be at home in any nation of Europe, a university with a strong sense of history. Prague and Dresden look and feel much the same as they did 100 years ago, so students from cities like these would be comfortable at a university like Notre Dame where a class of 1930 graduate can still feel at home. 
Ultimately, the best anyone can hope for Eastern Europe is that its citizens remain patient and supportiye as democracy be­comes a workable, efficient reality. No for­mer Soviet satellite is ready to step straight into a new government supported by a new economy. Transitional planning is crucial so that progress may be gradual enough that citizens of Eastern European nations can enjoy happy, prosperous lives in due time. 
. 

FEATURES 


Notre Dame's only Fraternity 
The Knights ofColumbus focus on charity, service, and Catholicity as the chapter bounces back from adversity 
brate their 80th anniversary at Notre Dame. valved in the community and to better him­
BYSCOTTBRUTOCAO 

But what is this institution, and what does it self, both spiritually and as an all-aroundDennis Mccann, a freshman from do? person." 
Dillon Hall, is a new member ofthe "It's a Catholic, fraternal, charitable and No, this is not a seminary, this is the 
Knights of Columbus. His father Knights of Columbus, founded in 1882 in has been an active memberofthe Knights for New Haven, Conn., originally designed to as long as Dennis ~an remember, and now the provide for the widows and children of men younger Mccann has the opportunity to who leave them in financial difficulties. continue the family tradition of service, fra­Since then it has grown into a multi-faceted ternity, and faith. operation with 1.3 million members and 
McCann and 28 other new members gath­7000 councils. ered in the Knights ofColumbus building on The crux o\-the organization is its Catholic­Sunday, February 25 to participate in the ity. Not only must the members be Catholic, second stage of initiation, a secret affair to but they must be male. They perform chari­which only members are admitted. This table services by providing both labor and group of new inductees is vital to the future donations to a host of needy groups. The success of the organization. Notre Dame council's two primary charities 
The Knights ofColumbus? Aren't they the are the Corvilla House, a senior citizen home guys who sell those steak burgers before in South Bend for the mentally retarded, and football games? Isn'tthat the building next to the Gibault School in Terre Haute for young the bookstore that nobody ever goes into? boys with family difficulties or discipline Don't you have to live in Ohio or something problems. Most of the money the Knights to be able to join? anyone who wants a simple answer in less donate comes from money generated from 
These are some of the popular questions than thirty seconds. "ForaKnightofColum­steak sales during football weekends. asked about that very curious organization, bus, we're looking for a good Catholic gen­The main project for the Knights this year which happens to be the oldest and largest tleman who has shown through his life that is the Corvilla House. They are looking to Knights of Columbus college council in the he's a good Catholic, with true concern for expand their involvement with Corvilla by country. On April 22, the Knights will cele-his fellow man. He must want to get in-working at the house and scheduling visits. 


The Knights have been doing other chari­table works such as participating in a phone­a-thon at the South Bend Women's Care Center and ushering at masses in Stepan Center. In addition toitspresentactivities the council would like to increase its participa­tion with the Women's Care Center and to start work at the South Bend homeless shel­ter. 
In all activities, this group ofCatholic men acts as a fraternity. Zadrozny, a junior from Holy Cross, proudly proclaims that the coun­cil is the only fraternity on campus. "We use the fact that this is the only fraternity on campus in our campaign," said Zadrozny. "It's not a fraternity in the sense that it's used in other universities in terms of a dormitory situation, but it's a fraternity in terms of people gathering for similar causes with similar ideas in mind." 
This aspect of the Knights may be surpris­ing, since fraternities technically are forbid­den on campus. But for these estimated 120 student members of the Notre Dame council, the exception is the rule. "We're allowed to exist because we do a lot of great work both 

FEATURES 

on and off campus, we've been around for a long time, and because there is a Knights of Columbus school fund which has been help­ing members of the community for a long time," said Zadrozny. 
The administration explains the Knights of Columbus's existence in more simple terms. ''The Knights of Columbus have local chap­ters in many Catholic campuses," said Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president for stu­dent services. "Their being here is only an exception in that they have their own build­ing. It's true that it's aCatholic fraternity, but as a group it differs very little from other organizations on campus. As for the build­ing, history accounts for that" 
Rocca was alluding to the unique situation in which the Knights acquired the building. It is the gift of Eli J. Shaheen, an entrepreneur who, according to Zadrozny, "invested very wisely," and under his guidance the Knights ofColumbus were able to purchase the build­ing from the university in 1969. · 
Walking into the Knights of Columbus building, one might get the impression of entering a colossal recreation room. Due to the extensive expansion and rennovation following Shaheen's bestowal, it is difficult to detect that the building used to be a post office prior to its rededication on April 26, 1969. It now includes a new large screen television, plush lavender couches, a pool table, a ping pong table, and even a soda machine. Downstairs, there are carrels where members can study. The Knights use the building for relaxation, socializing, and the college specialty of"hanging out." 
Putting its Catholicity, fraternity and serv­ice together, the Notre Dame council is true to the Knights of Columbus ideals of faith, fellowship and philanthropy. Unfortunately, this idealism has not always found its way into Columbian practice at Notre Dame. On October 2, 1988, the council was closed down by the university for certain wrongdo­ings by the officers. The only tmce of occu­pation left was a bed sheet hung from the roof, fluttering in the winds with the words "Knights of Columbus" spray-painted in blue and red. Among the allegations were stealing mail, unauthorized duplication and removal of files, erasing ofphone messages, and embezzlement of funds. 
Due to university policy, details of the charges have not been released. "It's the 

faculty that would review the allega­tions and recommend a course ofac­tion that the university could take. After a week of testimony and two weeks of deliberation, the commit­tee gave its suggestions. Ultimately, the university suspended the Knights for the remainder of the school year. The council did not reopen until the fall of 1989. 
"There's a lot of us who've put a
: 
lot of work into this organization who would like to forget about last year, especially me," said Faehner. "I went through hell last year. I was threatened with physical violence, I changed dorms, I had an unlisted phone number; and during the sec­ond semester last year nobody knew where I lived. I was a security risk; I really was. It got so bad ·that I thought of transferring. But I real­ized that I couldn't give up. I have no regrets of coming forward, be­cause I know in my heart I did the 

Knights Amel Gallanosa and Michael Faehner play a game of pool In the Hall. 
nonnal policy or this office (Student Affairs) that we don't divulge names, specifics and allegations of cases that are being investi­gated, or even ones in which decisions have been made," stated Rocca. 
Michael Faehner, program director and membership chainnan of the Knights of Columbus this year, blew the whistle on the operation in September of 1988 when he occupied the office of Chancellor. Claiming many actions of the officers were malicious and unethical,Faehnerreported the crimes to then-Grand Knight Michael Feely. 
"Someone could have taken a thousand dollars from ourfunds and no one would have known," said Faehner, whose father was also a Knight. "The university never pushed the issue so they never checked our books. Nobody suspected anything going wrong anyway. It was a Catholic organization and there was honor involved, and you would never expect someone to get involved in stealing. 
"I learned what they were doing about a week before I went to Mike Feely," contin­ued Faehner. "I couldn't live with myself. I was being told to put aside a couple hundred dollars out of the steak sale profits, and to deceitfully raise the steak prices." Faeher and Feely reported the allegations to the then­chaplin of the Knights, Father Pat Sullivan .. 
The Notre Dame Auditors could not verify or disprove any ofFaehner' s claims. When it undertook the task of auditing the KOC's financial records, it soon found that any such 

attempt would be impossible because the rec­ords were in such disarray. There was virtu­ally no bookkeeping sysfem since the steak sales were strictly a cash operation. 
The Office of Student Affairs appointed Father David Tyson to put together a six­person committee comprised of students and right thing." 
Now the Knights are under new leadership with a renewed resolve to get the organization on the right track, a reason why the 29 new inductees are so important. "I see the events of last year as things that went on in the past, important only as far as history goes," said Zadrozny, who studied abroad in Angers, France last year. "That is in the past, and now we're moving on in history. We're starting a new chapter in the history of the Knights of Columbus." 
One area in the new chapter which needs some worlc\is publicity. Student familiarity with the functions of the council, aside from its steak sales, is remarkably low. BrotherEd Luther, rector of Fisher Hall and member on the KOC' s board of trustees, claims that there has been a gradual decrease in visibility over the last fifteen years. "I don't think they've had the visibility in the last fifteen years that they've had in the past," said Luther, who worked with the Knights from 1963 until 1977, when he became rector of Fisher. "There was a time when the Knights of Columbus were ushers at Sacred Heart Church. That gave them a certain amount of visibility, and they were active on campus and in student government With Vatican II, the purpose changed for the 
10 

Knights ofColumbus. Sacred Heart Church didn't see the need for the formality of ush­ers, and for some reason there was a decline in charitable works as well." · 
The present Knights of Columbus chapter is working to change this trend. After a semester of regrouping, the Knights launched an ambitious recruiting program in January that netted the new members, includ­ing Dennis McCann. Furthermore, they are always interested in getting new members. 
"We're trying to show that we're open," said Zadrozny, who rejects the low public profile as a problem. "We had a membership 

drive when we got back from break. We had Open House for a full week, giving the campus a chance to see what the Knights of Columbus is. We've advertised a couple of times in The Observer, and we're always open to get more people involved." 
Brother Tom-..Tucker, added to the Knights of Columbus to keep separate financial rec­ords of the council, believes that building membership is the key to a healthy organiza­tion. 
"I think their goal is to build up their membership," said Tucker. "If they don't, then it (the council) dies. These twenty-nine in January should really help. The leaders should explain what goes on so the members can carry the ball. The more new members there are, the more ideas there '11 be. We have to do our homework come springtime to plan for next year, because we'll have new offi­cers then." 
The future looks promising for the Knights. Equipped with a healthy new membership and energetic officers, it is looking to expand in the next few years. Along with this growth is an auxiliary group, the Ladies of Colum­bus, which had been defunct for the last two years. The goal of this group, under the leadership of Saint Mary's junior Lauren Leshnock, is to augment the .services of the Knights of Columbus and to embark on ac­tivities of its own. 
"We've been going mainly by word of mouth," said Leshnock, who claims leader­ship ofabout 14memberssofar. "We'd like to expand our membership. So far it's worked out really well, being an auxiliary group to the Knights. We do projects with them, and we have access to their building. We're just getting started, but I'm very opti­mistic about it." 
Brother Luther shares the optimism. "What they need to do, and they're doing it very well, is build a good solid foundation," he said. "They've got interested officers in seeing-it move along. The membership has to be dedicated, and they (the members) need to give to charity groups and confirm their be­lief that the Knights of Columbus is a viable Catholic organization. I think this is happen­ing, but it will take at least this year and another year before they increase their visi­bility." 
Faehner is willing to use his experience to help in the rebirth of the Knights. "Since November I've rededicated myself, and I think since then it's been absolutely success-

FEATURES 


ful," said Faehner. "We've got a great group ofguys in here who are enthusiastic and want to make a difference, and I think that's what this organization is about: helping people and making a difference. It's not about petty politicking, clashing egos or religious zeal­ots." 
Meanwhile, the new members and leader­ship are erasing the old scars quickly. Dennis McCann's common sense view should be music to the ears of Zadrozny, Faehner and all Knights of Columbus enthusiasts. 
"One little blemish on the record done by a minor group ofpeople that are now out ofthe organization shouldn't affect what people think about us. With all the new members, it hasn't seemed to affect us too much. I mean, we're getting back on our feet so quickly." 
. 

I 
'i 
I 
I 

11

MARCH 8,-1990 

FEATURES 

:! . 
BY FRANK BARLETTA 

Sometime in the past two weeks you may have received a questionnaire in campus mail from Domer Dating, a new computer matchmaking service, offer­ing the opportunity to get the names of three potential dates for a dollar. This service isn't the creation ofa con artist trying to earn some quick money from a phony club. Domer Dating is the brainchild of the Model United Nations club, intended to provide a helpful service to students while giving the Model U.N. with the funds needed for its upcoming competitions. The Model U.N. was created three years ago, to give students interested in interna­tional relations the opportunity to see inter­national issues from the perspective of other nations. In Model U.N. competitions, teams of students take on the roles ofU.N. member nations and vote on proposed resolutions in the same way that the real U.N. members would vote. "You have to leave your U.S. passport at the door, and learn to think like a Communist or an Ayatollah," said Matt Crowley, the president of Notre Dame's Model U.N. "Hopefully, this will let you see the other side ofissues, and get rid of a lot of stereotypes." Mostofthe funding for the Model U.N. has come in the form of donations from such supporters as the College of Arts and Letters, the Government department, and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. The group also raised $6,000 through the sale oft-shirts before a home football game. The money raised in these projects was not enough to cover the costs of traveling to upcoming competitions in New York and Washington, D.C. 
12 


SCHOLASTIC 
. MridefU.IN. pr;1111iclent MatfCrowley wHI use lhls CO'l'flpU;lerto match clients with people who have similar Interests. 
It was Crowley who came up with the idea of a dating service. Most club fundraisers have concentrated on providing goods to students; Crowley saw the chance to provide a worthwhile service. 
Crowley sees Domer Dating as a way to let students meet other students with similar interests. "If you're looking for a serious relationship, there's no way you can ever guarantee that you'll get it," he said. "We'll match you up with someone looking for the same thing, and the probability goes up. Or if you' re just dating for fun, we' II do the same· thing, and the other person won't be likely to get seriously involved." 
Crowley spent two weeks developing the questionnaire for the service, making up questions and taking suggestions from friends on what to ask. The questionnaire emphasizes the personality of the clients, asking about what they like to do on dates, what topics they are interested in, and whether they prefer double dating or dating one-on-one. 
Next Crowley and a friend designed a computer program that matches students with similar interests, especially those whose preferences are the same. When a client's name and interests are fed into the computer, the computer prints out the names and tele­phone numbers of the three students whose questionnaires provided the most similar answers. "We didn't want to just shuffle the names and match them up. We wanted a 





Co1Dputer Matchlllaking 
"Domer Dating" raises money for the Model United Nations club 


FEATURES 
something unusual, be in the spotlight of the OAS competition's so I'm willing to action, because. they represent the recently give it a whirl." troubled nation of Panama The team's re­When asked why he search into their role was interrupted by the was willing to try overthrow of the Noriega government, and the dating service, they had to start their preparations from Hogan simply said, scratch after the installation of the current "Boredom." government. The team is now researching 
Not everyone is Central American issues with actual OAS as confident as documents provided by Edgar Maya, the Crowley about OAS official who coordinates the Model Domer Dating's OAS. chances for sue-Those members of the Model U.N. club cess. Cathy who will not take part in the Model OAS will McLaughlin, a travel to New York for a competition with Notre Dame stu-about 300other schools at the United Nations dent who received General Assembly, in which the Notre Dame the Domer Dating team will represent Cambodia. Because this form in the mail but is the first time Notre Dame's club has par­ignored it, said, "I ticipated in this competition, the team is don't think a lot of unsure of exactly what to expect. According people are going to to Tore Steen, head of the team's New York use it I thought it delegation, their research into Cambodian 
Crowley speaking before the OAS convention In Washington. was a cute idea, but affairs is complicated by the conflict there high-quality product," explained Crowley. Idon'tknowifanybodywillbebraveenough between rival political parties. "The party These names and numbers are given to the to actually try it." controlling the government and the party client, who can the get in touch with the The Model U.N. is hoping to raise up to represented in the U.N. are not the same," names provided by the computer. $12,000 through the Domer Dating project explained Steen. "So we'll be discussing the 
After getting the project approved by the and from donations. The club will use the whole issue of the U.N. 's presence in Cam­Student Activities Office, the next step was money they raise to attend several upcoming bodia." to distribute the forms to the students. At competitions, including the Model Organi-In addition to these competitions, the first, Model U.N. officers planned to distrib-zation of American States (OAS) competi-Model U.N. club has been invited to a Model ute the forms by personally placing them in tion in Washington, a national Model U.N. International Court of Justice at the Hague. every mailbox on campus. Whenthisproved competition at the United Nations Building Notre Dame's team will compete against impractical, the Model U.N. enHsted the aid in New York, and possibly a Model Interna-teams from throughout Europe, including at 
of dorm mailmen, who distributed the forms tional Court of Justice at the Hague in the least three teams from the Soviet Union. to almost ;v~ry student mailbox on the Notre Netherlands. "We'11 represent France, giving us a lot of Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. The Model OAS competition, set to take power. We'll have the veto vote, and we 
Crowley described the response so far as a place in early April, is run by the actual really couldn't ask for better," said Crowley. "qualified success." So far, Domer Dating Organization of American States, intending Theteamistryingtoraiseabout$5000forthe has received about ten responses a day, about to teach students about international rela-Hague's competition, and hopes that Domer two-thirds of them from male respondents, tions in the Western Hemisphere. This pres-Dating will provide a large part of that with the total clientele expected to double in tigious competition is attended by 33 univer-money. the next week as the responses from St. sities, including Princeton, Tulane, and the Notre Dame's Model U.N. team has also Mary's begin to arrive. The staff expects to Catholic University of America. Notre been invited to attend other competitions, start running the names through the computer Dame has a good reputation at this competi-including those at Harvard, Princeton, and and sending out the results before spring tion, having finished in second place three Toronto. However, the club has turned down break. years ago. At the Model OAS, students can these invitations due to a lack of time. "We 
Clients of Domer Dating are looking for-meet and talk to actual ambassadors to the decided to go to the three best conferences. ward to receiving the names and numbers of OAS. Describing a past competition, There's no way to beat the ones we're going their potential dates. Domer Dating client Crowley said, "We sat down with the · to. They are incredible opportunities," said Alan McKellar said, "I see this as a good way Argentinian ambassador and discussed Crowley. When asked how well he expects to meet people. The way llookatit, you can't Argentina's positions on everything from the the team to do in the competitions, Crowley lose." Client Ron Hogan added, "It seems Malvinas to trade barriers." said simply, "I think we can deal with the prettyinteresting,andihopeitwillwork. It's This year, Notre Dame's team expects to sharks." D 
MARCH a; 1990 
SPORTS 


Reggie Leach 
Auriol has already led the women to two NCAA titles in his first four seasons. 
W 
BY CHRIS FILLIO 
hat more can be said about a 
college varsity squad whose 

record over the past five years has been 99-4 for a winning percentage of .961, including two national championships as well as second-and third-place showings? 
The answer is quite a bit more if you're talking about Notre Dame's women's fenc­ing team. It's a little known fact that they have become one of the top collegiate teams in the nation, though in a reserved and quiet fashion, with little media attention and even less notice from the university and students. 
So who are these kids so often mistaken for band members or student managers when they wear their letter jackets? You don't see them on the six o'clock news or the cover of Sports Illustrated. The coaching staff is never on an evening radio show to discuss an upcoming match. Annual competitions against Midwestern rivals are not nationally televised, not even by ESPN or SportsChan­nel. 





Lady Killers 
The women's fencing team has dominated in the Midwest and is now a top contender for the NCAAs 
In short, Notre Dame's fencing teams are probably the best-kept secret of all varsity sports on campus. The women's squad in particular has garnered consistent success in recent times, with strong team performances and several All-Americans. 
Yves Auriol, in his fifth season as head coach of the women's team, carries extra duties by coaching the men's foil and epee teams. An excellent fencer in his younger days, the native of France has served three times as coach for the United States Olympic team, from 1980-1988. A former coach at Portland State, Aurioljoined the Irish shortly before the 1986 school year. 
The savvy Frenchman's impact was noth­ing short of immediate. He led the women's team to 42 straight victories between 1986­88, and 58 out of 59 wins through 1989. By that time, Auriol already had two NCAA Championship trophies on his bookshelf, and it became clear that he might need to invest in a bigger shelf. 
"I can't stress how valuable it is for us to have an instructor the caliber of Yves," said Irish head fencing coach Mike DeCicco ear­lier this season. "He offers so much to both of our programs, and he has done a fabulous job with the women. He has taken a good team and turned it into a national champion." 
Arguably the biggest problem for Auriol as the NCAA tournament approaches is too many good fencers and not enough starting spots. The 1988 national championship team included four-time All American Molly Sul­livan and, more importantly, Anne Barreda, Kristin Kralicek and Lynn Kadri, all three of whom remain with the Irish this year. 
Barreda, the senior captain, hails from the talent-laden Peabody, Massachusetts area, home for dozens of other Irish fencers past and present. Barreda spent her junior year in Angers, France, and was missed dearly as the Irish fell short of a second straight title with a third-place finish. 
Barreda wasted no time upon her return, quickly asserting that the Irish were intently in search of another national titie. She closed out the 1989-90 campaign at 48-6 (.889) to bring her career record to 132-18 (.880), sixth 

SPORTS 

highest in career wins and fourth in career winning percentage. So how good is Barreda as an individual competitor? 
"If anyone in the country expects to win the individual gold medal, they're going to have to contend with Anne Barreda first," said DeCicco. 
More than the wins and percentages, Bar­reda is critical to the team's success as a bona fide leader. She gets the job done, both on and off the fencing strip. When she is not competing, she is calling out advice and pointers to other teammates from the side­lines. 
"We don't have anyone else on the team who fences quite like Anne Barreda,"said DeCicco after the captain went 5-0 at a meet held during the season at Northwestern University. "She knows just what to do when she goes into a match. And then she does it. She's just that good." 
What might propel the women's team to the top this year is unprecedented depth and experience combined with overall team unity. Return starters include senior Krali­cek, junior Kadri and sophomore Heidi Piper. Sophomores Tara Kelly and Rachel Haugh have been vying against Kadri all season in an effort to nail down the fourth spot. 
"They are certainly stronger this year, and have always been tight as a group," said Auriol. "The team unity is in­credible, and that's why they're fun to watch. With the women it's more of a team sport." 
As good as she is, the All-American Barreda was not given a minute's rest, thanks to the aggres­sive and competitive Piper. The sophomore 
out of Brisbane, Austra-With a little luck, the Irish might need some lia has exceeded all ex-more wall space In the practice gym. 
pectations since securing a starting position at the Penn State Open in her first competi­in her freshman year, tallying an 80-11 record tion. This year's 50-6 mark placed her third over that time. She burst into the collegiate on the all-time list for single season wins (50) ranks in 1988 by winning the individual title and fifth in career winning percentage (.879). 
"Heidi is fencing even a little better than last year," said DeCicco, who ac­knowledges that the tal­ented Australian was not even recruited actively. "Perhaps it is from the pressure that she knows she will have to come through. She is definitely an integral part of our en­tire program." 
IfPiper is noted for her aggressiveness on the fencing strip, Kralicek can be id~ntified by her pas­sive -defensive manner, lying in wait for her com­petitor to approach and then quickly scoring touches with skillful adeptness. A starter since her freshman year, the fifth-year senior has been the model of consistency for the Irish in compiling a 142-30 career record, 

Sophomore Haugh celebrated with Barreda after she won a crucial 
come-from-behind bout against rival Wayne State. 
good enough for fifth on the all-time list. As On Kralicek's heels are a host of competi­a member of two national championship tors attempting to secure the elusive number teams, her tournament experience is undeni-four spot which seems to have eluded able, finishing 13th individually in 1988. women's fencing squads in the past Kadri 
"I'd agree that this is probably her finest has two years of tournament experience and season," said Auriol, who has seen Kralicek is 11th in career wins at 101-33. Presently, progress since she was a memberofAuriol 's the Chatham, New Jersey native is a good bet fencing club in Portland, Oregon. "[She] has to be among the starters for the NCAA finals had an outstanding career and has been an in March. important part of our success in recent But Kelly and Haugh are making it a very years." tough problem for the coaching staff to re­solve. Kelly went 28-2 in her freshman year and is probably the most athlete for the dollar at just 5 feet 2 inches tall and 103 pounds. Haugh started the season in October at the Junior Pan-American Games in Havana, Cuba. Add to this her first-place finish in women's epee last year at the Junior World Championships, and that's a lot of experi­ence for a second-year fencer. 
Right now the women's team is well poised to contest for the NCAA title. Over the course ofthis season they have faced most of the top contenders nationwide, including Columbia, Temple and Penn State. Last week's narrow victory over defending na­tional champion Wayne State could be a pleasing harbinger for the Irish. 
"That could very well be the matchup for the finals at the NCAAs," said Wayne State coach Gil Pezza of the 8-8 finish which the Irish won by virtue ofoverall touches, 64-54. "I think, from what I know ofeither team, that we're the top two contenders. Both teams are almost equal in strength." 
Wayne State indeed remains a formidable force, returning starters Yasemin Topcu and Loredana Ranza, who placed first and fourth respectively in the individual standings last year. The Irish coaching staff has decided to limit upcoming practices to just those team members listed to travel to the Midwestern Regionals on Saturday, in order to give them more attention and training lessons. 
However, an unexpected loss against Far­leigh Dickinson on February 24 gave rise to new concerns as to whether or not the women are prepared to battle the eastern power­houses which-have traditionally dominated in the tournament 
"Going undefeated on the season doesn't always mean that much," said Auriol. "I'd rather fence the best teams and drop a match or two than go undefeated against poor teams. We are very solid, and I believe that we will rebound." 
They have done just that, defeating Wayne State's top-notch lineup and heading on a collision course with the rest of the nation's finest. Few questions remain to be answered by this year's women's team. That is, except for the question as to where Auriol might be able to fit another trophy. Defi­nitely a problem he'd like to deal.with. 


SPORTS 

Mari Okuda 

Extra hours In the gym have made the men's teams among the strongest In the nation. 
Rebels With A Cause 



A full team at the NCAA tournament could spell national championship for DeCicco's swordsmen 
head fencing coach Mike DeCicco late last and trophies upon plaques upon medals.
BY CHRIS FILLIO . 

season. "I wish I knew why these kids write DeCicco' s honors arc far to many to simplify
W hat exactly is that seemingly to me to apply for admission. I've got kids on with words. intangible but ever so power­the (fencing) team who I'd never heard of In addition to years of experience from ful attraction that draws stu-before last year. In fact no one had. Then assistant coach Yves Auriol, the Irish have 
dents and athletes alike to the University of they come here and they're All-Americans! I been blessed with several other talented as­Notre Dame? High academic standards? can't figure it out. Ifl could, everyone would sistants in Mike Marx, Atilla Tass and Adam Successful and nationally renowned athletic think I'm a genius." Zyczkowski. Marx is in his third year at programs? Years of tradition and excel-Some already consider the 29-year coach Notre Dame and works primarily with the lence? · ofthe Irish to be a genius in his own right (see foil squads. One of the top foilists in the "I really can't answer that," said Irish box). His office is cluttered with paperwork country in his category, Marx has won count-

SPORTS 

less awards in national competition and is currently seeking yet another gold medal for foil. 
Tass is a two-time member of the Argentinian Olympic team and currently resides in Hungary for training experience. He has lent his prowess to the men's sabre team, which improved by leaps and bounds over the course of the year. 
The men's epee team benefits greatly from second-year assistant Adam Zyczkowski, a native of Poland who is presently enrolled in Notre Dame's MBA program. As the season comes to a close, Zyczkowski may have his hands full as the men's epee squad struggles to gain an NCAA bid. 
The "which-came-first" argu­ment may be applied to successful teams with great athletes and great coaches. For the Irish this is proba­bly a moot point, since they are blessed with both. Notre Dame's 
men's teams have enjoyed 28 straight winning-seasons from 1963 to 1990, with 1966 being the "low-


Even though Nowosielski (above) sat out the fall Mari Okuda ,21 semester, Marx and the rest of the coaching staff were more than happy to welcome him back. 
squad? Senior four-time letter­man Danny Yu (42-2) and junior returnee Dave Kirby (17-1) will not see action in this year's tour­nament. You may be the best college quarterback to be drafted this century, but you won't be starting with three Joe Montanas on your team. 
"Last week at the Great Lakes tournament, I had some guy ask me why I would be so crazy as to go to Notre Dame," said Yu com­menting on the incredible depth of the sabre squad. "Someone else asked· me to transfer and coach 
their team!" 

While we're talking about depth, let's continue with the foil team. Following the loss of four­time All-American Yehuda Kovacs, it appeared as if the Irish would need something short of a miracle to make up for the va­cancy. 
They got just that in freshman Noel Young and Jeff Piper, two 
point" at 17-4. Match this with more All-Americans than can be counted on your fin­gers and toes and you've got a hell of a con­sistent program. 
The 1989-90 team is by far no exception. The fourth-place team in the 1989 NCAAs, the Irish returned 10 members from last year's squads, including three starters and 16 lettermen, in going 24-1 over the regular season. 
Th(: impact of assistant coach Atilla Tass can easily be seen in a strong sabre team that went 18-0 on the season. Junior Leszek Nowosielski is a two-time All-American after completing two years of undefeated fencing at 48-0. After sitting out the fall se­mester, the Ottawa, Ontario, native upped his record to 70-2, second in career winning percentage (.972) behind four-time Irish All-American Mike Sullivan, who established an incredible 183-4 mark. 
"Atillahasbroughtthesabrementogether and taught them to work as a team," said fellow assistant Mike Marx. "He has been a true catalyst on a talented squad. Now they know what they need to do -together." 
18 
Returning to the sabre team from previous years are the brothers Baguer, junior captain Chris and sophomore Ed. The two went 45-3 and 21-4, re­spectively, for the 1989­90 campaign. However, Ed will most likely have to take an alternate spot for the NCAAs due to a barnstorming freshman out of East Orange, NJ: James Taliaferro. 
A transfer from Holy Cross Junior College, Taliaferro was all-state three years in a row and has been a member of nu­merous national squads. With a 39-7 record this season, he will fence behind Nowosielski as the number two sabre­man. 
How deep is the sabre 


-
enJ 6~6isW 

J55j5: 

'iilig~J
i~'1971, ifi\AI.i.+

#!~~ iti6J 

blue chip foilists from the land down under. Young nailed down the number one spot on the foil squad with a powerful 28-4 record this season. Piper (23-2) made the continental shift along with long­time friend Young, joining older sister Heidi, who is a member of the women's team. Jeff is cur­rently fencing in the third foil spot, and figures to hold that position in theNCAAs. 
And the number two spot? Look no further than junior Phil Leary, undoubtedly the most con­sistent foilist for the Irish in his three years atNotre Dame. With a 33-4 season, Leary now ranks seventh in all-time career winning percentage at .875. In 1988, he was the first freshman foilist to qualify for theNCAAs since 1984. 
In light of this, it is quite obvi­ous that the foil and team captain 

would be... Joel Clark? 
The senior was a freshman starter and well on his way to several Irish records before youthful newcomers set him aside. More importantly, however, he is the team leader. When itineraries and travel squads need to be set, DeCicco looks to Clark for advice. 
''Right now, ifI had to pick four foilists to go to the NCAAs, I wouldn't know what to do," said DeCicco during midseason. But since then, the tune is slightly different. 
"Even though Joel is no longer a starter, he contributes so much to the team as a leader," said DeCicco of the senior captain. "He knows who's fencing well, and who's not." 
The early question mark for the men was the epee squad, which continued to trouble the coaching staff throughout the season. However, last weekend's performance at the Great Lakes tournament brought renewed hope. 
Sophomore J ubba Beshin took first after his initial year of coUegiate fencing, one in which he led the 13-5 epee squad with 33 wins. Beshin is a three-timeJ uni orOlympics team member, placing fifth in 1988. Sup­porting him will be classmate David Calder­head, who ran his two-year record to 61-25. Once considered somewhat inconsistent, the colorful Englishman worked out during the summer and was a steady epeeist for the Irish this year. 
Probably the biggest surprise came from senior Derek Holeman. One of the best foilists in the country last year, Holeman has decided to sacrifice individual goals and switched his attention to epee in order to give them a stronger squad. At the Great Lakes, Holeman took everyone by surprise as he almost beat out teammate Beshin. 
"IfDerek does what we feel he's capable of, then he'll makeourepee team much more competitive," said DeCicco. 
"I feel pretty good about switching to epee," said Holeman, "And I feel even better ifI can help the whole team, knowing that the foil team won't fail. I don't plan on being a superstar, just a fresh spirit." 
Going into this weekend's Midwest Re­gionals, the Irish are~ good bet to qualify for one of the NCAA tournament bids out of the Midwest, and likely will be represented in all three weapons .. That representation will be essential if they are to contend with schools such as Penn, Columbia, and Penn State. Even if they do not win each weapon, their strength and depth could be enough to vault them to the top. If so, make room for more clutter in the trophy case. D 
SPORTS 

COMPILED BY BJORN NITTMO

SCHOLASTIC 
·so, you think you're prettyfunny, eh? Have something to get off your chest? Want to ntake ene­mies on cainpus really, really fast? Then contribute to this year's Sarcastic issuee Material noiw being accepted through March 25 for this journalistic bastion ofaggression relief! Call editor Chris Fillio for further info at 239-7569 or 283-4078. 

EDITORIAL 








Supply an emand 
ids love to eat out Everyone remembers mom or dad making that special trip to 
McDonald's for passing swimming lessons or cleaning his room without being 
asked. Nothing tasted as good as that greasy Big Mac and those soggy French fries. 
Even after we grow up, eating out is a treat. But as we get older, the quality of food and servicebecomes important. And that quality is not without a price. Tippecanoe and Jeremiah Sweeney's are no Burger Kings when it comes to cost. 
As students, we are not given a decision when it comes to paying the price. On-campus students are required to pay a set rate for dining hall service whether they eat 19 meals a week or two. They frequently complain about the quality offood, yet, with the systems as it stands, the dining hall has no incentive to improve its food and service. If students could make a choice, the dining halls would be forced to consider student interests more carefully. 
For the going rate ofa dinner or lunch at the dining halls, a student could buy a hamburger, fries, a coke, and a candy bar at the Huddle with enough change left to buy the first round at Club 23. Unless the Huddle is operating at a loss, why do meals at the dining halls cost more? Efficiency is one consideration here. 
Maybe the dining hall could afford to dismiss a few of the blue coats whose job, at least in part, is to insure that students only get five chicken nuggets or one hamburger at dinner. This limiting, in turn, leads to long lines when students go back for seconds. In the long run, the policy may save the dining halls some money, but only at the cost (if they consider it one) of the students' time and happiness. 
Sunday evenings present a related problem. Week after week, North Dining Hall has an overflow crowd and a shortage offood on these nights. Obviously lines can build up due to rushes at certain times ofday. What is bothersome, however, is that although Sunday nights seem to be the busiest at the dining halls, there are only four lines open at these times. Moreover, the rush is nonstop from 5:00 till close on these evenings. 
Another disturbing fact is that dining hall usage decreases from ninety percent in September to seventy in December and finally to sixty by the end ofthe year. The dining hall blames this on the better weather. The weather nowadays sure doesn't seem much better than it was in September. 
One final consideration the dining hall claims to keep in mind is a responsibility to provide students with well balanced meals. But ifpeople aren't eating the food, who is really paying the price? 
-Scholastic 

SCHOLASTIC 
-

From an embryonic idea has 
grown what may well become, 

within the span of a few short years, the ultimate in collegiate jazz competition." 
1959 Collegiate Jazz Festival program 
On April 11, 1959, sixteen college bands from the Midwest met together in the old Fieldhouse on a Saturday evening. They were accompanied by four judges, four corporate sponsors and four small cash prizes. The result was known as the Colle­giate Jazz Festival. 
Each year since then the nation's top col­legiate jazz bands audition to come to Notre Dame. We also invite six professional mu­sicians to critique their efforts and perform 
1

in the annual Judges' Jam. ' 
The judges who have performed at the Festival read as a who's who in the jazz world. I wouldn't stoop so low as to start mentioning all of their names just to im­press you. (Stan Kenton) The Festival stands as a cultural and music phenomenon on this campus without the use of the such immature tricks. (Branford Marsalis, the same guy who tours with Sting) 
In the sixties CJF was the place to be. A..n oustanding award meant a ticket to just about anywhere in the world. Ask John Garvey, the director of the University of Illinois Big Band. (Bill Evans) They won the competition in 1968 and were asked by the State Department to serve as ambassa-
FINAL WORD 
The College Jazz Festival BY KEVIN KEANE 
dors to the Soviet Union where they toured for the summer. 
When I think of jazz, I picture myself walking down the stairs into the basement of a run down apartment building. (David Sanborn) I would have a cigarette in the comer of my mouth, probably a filterless Camel. A billow of smoke would cover my face as I see a blue light in the comer of the room. 
After ordering four very dry martinis, I would take a seat at a small table near the back. Four guys, wearing dark sunglasses, would appear shaking their heads like Ray Charles playing Harlem Nocturne. (Quincy Jones of Michael Jackson fame) 
Unfortunately, the Festival resembles nothing like that. (Roberta Flack) Al­though, a few years ago in Stepan Center audiences brought blankets, lawn chairs and their own (now-banned) beverages to the Festival. Stepan Center never had it so good. 
Well, that is gone too. In the first years of the Festival outstanding soloist were awarded new instruments for their efforts. Imagine coming to South Bend as the snow has finished melting playing a tune or two and walking away with a $1,000 instru­ment (Herbie Hancock) Ifyou were really good and won the oustanding big band award, CJF booked you a gig in The Blue Note nightclub in Chicago. 
Sorry, we don't give away those prizes anyqiore. (Billy Taylor) We have main~ tained much of the tradition which has brought CJF to national acclaim. We only select the best groups to perform. 
The mystique of the Festival is hard to put a finger on. Students who come here as per­formers and leave to start professional ca­reers in jazz. Later, they come back to the Festival as judges, musicians who have master their craft (Nat Adderly) 
We also have the beginnings of profes­sional groups. Judges will often pull a drummer or base player aside to get their phone number and ask about their plans after graduation. 
One never knows what the Festival will bring. I think you don't even have to like jazz to go to the Festival. I didn't the first time I went, alright even the second time. (Sonny Rollins) 
Soon though, you develop an apprecia­tion foryourpeers who have reached the top of their field. (Miles Davis, PYSCHE! we have never had him because he cost too much money). ThemusiciansattheFestival care about the music they play and the people who listen to it. 
CJF has dropped the competition aspect of the Festival. Bands are still critiqued but only for their own use. (Wyn ton Marsalis) The judges award oustanding performances to those groups and individuals who exhibit exceptional qualities. However, any band which has been invited to the Festival is already in a class by itself. CJF is 15 hours of great jazz brought right to your doorstep. 
If you still not sure what CJF is or even what jazz is, mark March 30 & 31 on your calender and come and find out. You will not be disappointed. . 

Off-campus Students, Faculty and Graduate Students: 
Please go to the information desk in LaFortune to pick up your personal copy of the 
1989 Football Review 
Act Today. Supplies Are Limited. 

SCHOLASTIC 


l.lffltJ 

1-\~ 


HOW TO ARGUE THE AKBAR &JEFF WAY 
-<> -a Q 
a,..

_ ___,______________.________........ ......., .........____....._....._____...____-'--__________.__l" 

THE. SE.C.C"1Q ~ou~ oPPoNENT ~e.e.cn.£ ~ovfa OPPONl:.NT W\-HP ~ouQ OPP0Nei-JT INTO t 
lS £1'11\6T\0tJALL~ E.NGA<",ED, vJ l"i\-\0\JT M~R.c.~. A l=G!E.N'Z.';1. 
M~\'::E. LlbH"t" OF HIN\ o~ HEQ.. 
~Ou \i::f'.)OW I CAl-l'T SlANO \ I.) CA l.l. "'ES C:,2U 


E.NJO,Y YOUR. MU'TUAl. t,IOW WAIT FOR. .YOUR HAPPINE.SS', OPPONt:.,,n·~ TU~N. 







2 
0 
z 
e 
.. 
a. 

·-·-:-:-:,:,;........:•:•-•·· 

... ···"······............_"'~¾·~~ 
performed live by 

St. Paul and the Martyrs 
with cinematographic and lighting effects 
March 22 and 23, 1990 
8:00 p.m. Washington Hall 

Tickets go on sale March 5, 1990 at the La Fortune Information Desk for $3. All precedes to benefit St. Hedwig's Outreach Center and The South Bend YWCA Women's Shelter. 
Program will Include songs !rom the Pink Floyd album as well as other selections. 










