
•
1.e• 

Xenophobia /zen-o-fo-be-a/ n (NL): Fear and hatred 
of strangers or foreigners or anything strange or for­
eign 

Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary 
English, they say, is a challenging language for foreigners to learn. The grammatical constructions lead the student of English down a circuitous path with exceptions to every rule, miles and miles of vo­cabulary to traverse, and detours into potential idi­omatic landmines. The Anglo-Saxon and romantic roots of the English language pour words into a lin­guistic canal brimming with synonyms, antonyms, and homonyms. The multitudinous vocabulary choices prove more complex to decipher than Ru­hick's cube combinations. 
The American culture, much like its native tongue, offers a kaleidoscopic view of itself to an outsider. Old-fashioned Vjilues and newfangled methods, a friendly openness and a glossy superfici­ality strike many foreigners as disturbing signs of a schizophrenic nation, a witch's brew and not a melt­ing pot. 
Yet still, foreign students flock in greater numbers every year to study both our language and our life­style. International students here at Notre Dame and St. Mary's come from all over the world to become citizens of all four colleges, dorms, and campus ac­tivities. Despite their interest and determination to · discover America under the Dome, little effort is made as a whole community to listen to the different perspectives of our fellow classmates from abroad. 
In this issue, Scholastic shifts its focus from the Dome to the globe as seen through the rich and di­verse experiences of the University's foreign students. Implicit in these articles is the authors' desire to overcome the hurdles of language and culture to communicate to the rest of us who they are, what they think, and where they call "home." Straight from the horse's mouth (an idiom Mr. Ed and many foreigners might find distressing) these students' viewpoints offer a rare insider's glimpse into political issues, literature, and landscapes spanning the globe. 
Scholastic's brave reach beyond the Dome could never have been possible without the editorial advice and organizational expertise of Winston Griffin and Maher Mouasher of the International Students Or­ganization arid without the attention and enthusi­asm of Fred Zimmerman, Scholastic's executive con-­tent editor. 
SCHOLASTIC 
Volume 127, Number 5 
FEATURES 


6/The World at Notre Dame by Brother George Schmitz, C.S.C . 
.., 9/A Synthetic Nation by P. Suresh 
12/Outside Psychology by Naji Boutros 
13/Humoring the 'Situation 

by Luis F. Razon and Margarita F. Villalon 17/The Tug of War by Santiago O'Donnell and Winston Griffin 
19/Nothing Is Black and White by Murray Leibrandt 
23/A Jewel in the Crown by Luiz Hernandez 
25/Uphill to Independence by Joe Bongiovi 
30/The Endless Spirit by Cam Sylvester 

32/A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the States ... 
34/Real Men Don't Play Football by Winston Griffin and Maher Mouasher 
ELAN 

36/There Are No Kangaroos in Egypt by Michael Varga 
40/The Shadow Boxer by Jurgen Brauer 
42/0 People of Lebanon by Ronnie Karam 

43/Gabriel Garcia Marquez: Collected Stories by Mark Melchior 
44/Resume by Sean P.A. Mcsweeney 
DEPARTMENTS 

Calendar 3; Notables 4; Artistic Opportunities 48; WSND 50; idie banter 52 
Editorial Board 


CONTRIBUTORS 
Editor-in-Chief 
Kathleen McGarvey 

General Manager 
Mary Ellen Arn 

Editorial 
Jim Basile/News/Sport,s Editor Kathleen Doyle/Campus Features 
Editor Ann Gallagher/Saint Mary's Editor Timothy Gianotti/Culture/ Fiction 
Editor Fred Zimmerman/Executive Content Editor 

Graphics 
Darryl H. Daniels/Executive Design Editor Kathleen Keifer/Art Editor 

Marketing 
Patrick D. Conboy/Advertising 
Editor Tom Curtin/Distribution Manager Dan Poorman/Business Manager 

Advisory Bo~rd 
Prof. Elizabeth Christman Mr. Michael Garvey Prof. Marjorie Kinsey Prof. Robert Schmuhl Dr. Linnea Vacca Mr. Paul Matwiy 


Design Staff 
.Jean O'Bryan Thomas D. Grantham Becky Miklos 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the stu­dent body. 

Joe Bongiovi is a senior govern­ment major from Williamsville, New York, who has traveled extensively throughout 
Central America. 
Naji Boutros is 
uncertain whether he is a junior or a sophomore, although he's qujte sure that he is an Electrical Engineering major from Bhamdoun, Lebanon. 
Alfredo Domin­guez is a sopho­more Mechanical Engineering major from Valencia, Venezuela, who misses coconut trees. 
Mark Melchior is a senior PLS major from Kansas City, 
Winston Griffin is a very diligent Senior from England and Peru. 
Paul Komyatte is a senior govern­ment major from Munster, Indi­ana, and is a frequent contrib­utor to Scholas-· tic. 
Murray Lei­brandt is a graduate student from New York, the Big Apple. 

Maher Mouasher is a sophomore Business major from Amman, Jordan. He is the General Manager for next year's 
Scholastic. 

Luis A. Hernan­dez is a sopho­more Electrical Engineering major from San Juan, Puerto Rico, who likes beaches on a sunny day. 
Sean P.A. McSweeney is a senior govern­ment major from Guatemala City, Guatemala. 
Photo Credits 

Bruce Harlan; Cover, 1. Courtesy of The Observer; 8,10,11,13,14,15, 16,17,18,19,20,22 Theodor Mariani; 47,48,49 Darryl Daniels; Inside Back Cover Reem Mouasher is a sophomore Business and Art major from Amman, Jordan. 
Santiago O'Don­nell is a senior government major from Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
Margarita Villalon is a junior Finance/ Economics major from Makati, Philippines, and Luis Razon is a Chemical Engineering graduate student from Manila, Philippines. 
Sanjeev Tak is a sophomore business major from Nairobi, Kenya, who is known in his American home of Stanford Hall as "chief." 
Cam Sylvester is a graduate student from the Great White North. 
P. Suresh is a graduate student in Civil Engi­neering from Bangalore, India. This is his first contribution to 
Scholastic. 
The magazine is represented for na­tional advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and ex­amination periods. Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $9.00 a year and back issues are available from Schola~tic. Please address all manuscripts to Schola~tic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All un­solicited material becomes the prop­
erty of Scholastic. Copyright © 1984 Scholastic I All rights reserved/ None of the contents ~ay be reproduced without permis­
sion. 


Illustrations 
Jean O'Bryan; 32,33,51 Jeff DeGraw; 35,41 Cindy Jett; 37 Darryl Daniels; 43 
SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 1985 

March 18-20 
N.c:A.A. Fencing cham­pionships: Angela Athletic Facility/SMC Pollitt Lecture for Living Series: "Facing Reality In Relationships" with Patri­cia Livingston, M.A., 
,counselor and National Consultant, Livingston As­so6iates. Held in the Ben­dix Theatre, 7:30-9:00 
p.m. Free. 

March 22 & 23 
Maple City Postcard Club Show: Held in the Conven­tion Hall in the Century Center; the show will be held Friday, 11:00 a.m.­
8:00 p.m. and Saturday, 
9:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m. Ad­mission is $1.00. · 

March 22-24 
The Fischoff National 
Chamber Music Competi­
tion: America's best young 
chamber musicians gather 
to compete for $5,200 -in 
cash awards. The semi­
finals on Friday and Satur­
day will be held in the 
Bendix Theatre and in the 
Recital Hall. These are 
open to the public. The fi­
nal competition will take 
place on Sunday and adc 
mittance is by ticket only. 
Contact the Century Cen­
ter Box Office for more in­
formation. 

Ma.rch 22-24 
The Home .and Garden Show: ACC/Fieldhouse · 
March 24 
The Notre Dame Concert Band's Spring Concert: At the ACC/Arena at 7:30 p.m. 

March 25~28 
Room Selections for 1985­'86, Saint Mary's College 


March 26 
South Bend High Schools Track Classic: ACC/ Fieldhouse 

March 26 
Pollitt Lecture for Living Series: "Sexuality and Teens: Values, Conflicts and. Decisions." The speaker is Gary Ingersoll, Ph.D., Department of Ed­ucational Psychology, I. U./ Bloomington. The lecture will be held in Bendix Theatre, 7:30-9:00 p.m. 

March 29-31 
Senior Formal: A weekend for seniors to go all out and enjoy themselves! Pass the time watching Second City, party on Rush Street, stay in the luxurious Palmer House, wine and dine in the Grand Ball­room, and dance until dawn to the music of an eight-piece band! Go and have a great time, Sen­iors!! 

March 31-1 

Candidates for hall offices at SMC: Mandatory meet­ing for all those interested, H.C.C. 


April 13-16 
Campaigning for SMC hall offices 

April 14 
The Crop Walk: A ten­kilometer pledge walk from Saint Joseph High School and back. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are urged to par­ticipate. The proceeds go to relieve the hunger prob­lem around the wnrlrl. 

April 15 
"Brian's Song": Carroll Hall (SMC). 7 & 9:30 p.m. Admission is $1.00. 


March/ April Calendar 
March 27-31 
The Ice Capades: Always a good time, this show is to be held at the ACC/ Arena. For further information concerning times and prices, call the ACC Box Office. 

March 28-30 
The RV Super Show: An RV fan? Then head on over fo the ACC/ Fieldhouse to see one of . the largest RV shows in the country! 

March 29 
Czechoslovakian Camber Soloist: Come listen. to some truly fine mu.sic and singing. For more informa­tion, call O'Laughlin Au­ditorium. 

March 29· 
Professional vVrestling, Bendix Theatre, 8:00 p.m. Admission is $5.00. 

March 31-1 

"Brother Sun, Sister Moon": A wonderful movie\about the life of St. Francis of Assisi. It will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium, 7 & 9:30 p.m. The price is $1.00. 
Hall and Oates Concert: Coming soon in the first week of April. Watch for it! I 

April 12 

Medalist Football Coach­ing Clinic: ACC 

April 12 

Holy Cross Hall (SMC) Spring Formal: Dance in Spring at the Century· Center from 9:00 p.m.-1 
a.m: Tickets are $10.00/ couple. 

April 14 

Spring Day on Campus: Approximately 400 inters ested women will be visit~ ing Saint Mary's for the day. Let's make them feel welcome! 

-April 19 
. The Harlem Globetrotters: ·If you think N.D. basket-. ball is comical, then wait until you see these guys! l The show is to be held in the ACC/ Arena. For ticket 
· prices and more informa­tion, call the ACC Box Of­fice. 

April 20 
LeMans Hall Formal: Get 
· a date, LeMans women, and celebrate Spring in style at the Century Cen­ter! The price is $10.00/ couple and the time is 9:00 p.m.-l·a.m. 

April 20 
The Charity Ball. If you want to help a great cause or just have a great time, head on over to the Stepan Center. The attire is semi­formal ·and tickets are $6.00/person or $10.00/ couple. All proceeds will be sent to Ethiopia. 
SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 


NOTABLES 

Music warmed the cold, enjoyed the various February air, and dance musical and dancing sparked a fire in the events on Saint Mary's imaginations of those who . campus during the past 

month or two. On February 15, the College hosted the Chicago City 
. Ballet under the direction of Maria Tallchief and Paul Mejia in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tallchief, one of America's most prolific dancers, was the prima ballerina in the late 1940's and '50s. Under the direction of her husband and teacher, George Balanchine, she domi­nated the realm of international dance for two decades. Following Balanchine's creative and artistic patterns, she developed the Chicago City Ballet in 1980. Balanchine's influence was clearly noticed by the speedy musicality and athleticism of Tallchiefs dance movements during her performance. Mejia, also a master of the Balanchine style, directed and choreographed most of the pieces. The audi­ence, including a large number of Seniors who were present for "Senior Night at the Ballet;' responded very favorably to both Mejia and Tallchiefs presentation. In addition to the dance perf9rmance, Saint Mary's played host to the Midwest Historical Keyboard Society in mid-February. The three-day event, sponsored by the Music Department, featured scholarly papers on harpsichord practice and performance. Recitals were given on each of the three days of the festival by members of the society._ Bach, Handel, and Beethoven would have been delighted by the moving'recitals. The music continued to play on when Saint Mary's hosted a concert by internationally acclaimed . Canadian classical .. guitarist, Liona Boyd. Ms. Boyd, who. has been ranlced as one of the top classical guitarists in the world, played selections 
from Bach and Chopin among others. The classical approach is a switch for Boyd who travelled for three years with Gordon Lightfoot, but she has indeed made her name in the business. Her records outsell every other classical guitarist by ten to.one, and she has performed for such people as Ronald Reagan, Pierre Trudeau, Margaret Thatch~r, and Francois Mitterrand. It was a pleasure to have had her at Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's faculty has been making a name for itself in music too. Jeffrey Jacob, a concert pianist and professor at the College, recently returned from a tluee-month European tour where he 
received rave reviews and honors. Jacob's tour began successfully in Belgium . and followed with concerts in England; Germany and Poland. In Holland, he · was hailed as "a young · musical genius" and in each country such praise was ordinary. Jacob's program featured contem­porary music,-and in a few instances he.played· music that was expressly written for him by such composers as Britain's George Crumb and Francis Routh. Jacob also recorded several times while in Europe. While he was in Poland the Polish television recorded Jacob's recital in Paderewski Hall, Warsaw. The Polish National Radio is planning to broadcast the concert this month throughout Poland. 
Jacob's ingeneous · manner and prodigious · talent made him a remarkably effective goodwill ambassador for Saint Mary's and his country as well. And pleased as it is about his radiant success;,the College is proud to have its first-rate musician ... return home. 

Help bring the world together. 

Host an exchange student. 
· As part of International Youth Exchange, a Presidential . Initiative for peace, your family welcomes a teenager from another country into your home and into your way of life. 
Volunteer host families from all segments of American 
society are being selected. If youti like to be one of them, · 
send for more information. 
Help bring the world together, one friendship at a time. 


\\rite: YOUTH EXCHANGE Pueblo, Colorado 81009 ~ A message from The Advertising Council and The International Youth Exchange. 
SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 



The World at 
.by Brother George Schmitz,. C.S.C. 
From the founding of the University of Notre Dame to the present, its inter­national connections have been consist­ent and pervasive. The relationship of 
· the University to concerns wider than just the boundaries of the United States reflects the spirit of the French mission­aries who arrived here in 1842, and it has continued for a century and a half as Holy Cross missionaries,. Holy Cross as­sociates and Peace Corps workers have 
· left Notre Dame to labor in Asia, Africa and Latin America. The international aspect of Notre Dame with which most of us are familiar, however, is the gro~p of students who comprise the interna­tional portion of the student body. 
The first foreign students arrived on the campus of Notre Dame in 1929, and by the late 1940s there were 50 or 60 for­eign students at the university. Mo.st of them were Latin Americans and Cana­dians with a very few students from Eastern countries or Europe. In the 1960s the numbers began to increase as the university drew more students from Asia and Europe. In 1965 there were 250 foreign students on campus; by 1975 there were 300 and today there are ap­proximately 375 foreign students from 64 different countries. Indian students. 
comprise the largest single national group followed by Canada and the Peo­ple's Hepublic of China. In the past two years the number of students from the ·People's Republic of China has grown rapidly as the. Chinese government has become more open to the West. As a unit though, the students from Central and South American countries still com­prise the largest group of foreign stu­dents on campus. 
The special needs of international stu­dents. are met through the Office of .In­ternational Student Affairs. This office was established in 1969. Until 1969 the foreign students were riot given much more information than the American students received upon acceptance to the university. An interesting series of letters in the archives of the Office of Interna­tional Student Affairs shows how a cam­pus organization called Young Christian Students (YCS) took on the task of writ­ing letters to newly accepted foreign stu­dents. The purpose of _these letters was to make the foreign students feel wel­come and, also, to advise them of Amer­ican customs and of the rigorous winters of Northern Indiana. (We can only spec­ulate what would have happened if Fr. Sori~ had been so forewarned.) 

Notre Dame
. . .:,:1 . 
. . 

· The foreign stude_nts had organized cricket back to Notre Dame last fall. (A 
· the International Student Organization · Cricket Club had been established in the early, on. Their representation in Stu-late 1970s.) Other International Student dent Government was through a branch Organization activities which have kept ofStudenf Government referred to .as -.the international students busy this year "The International Commission'/' have been a Big Brother-Big Sister pro-which, in the ea~ly 1960s,organized gram, an Adopt-a-Child program, the quite popular panel discussions, .deba.tes . · International Banquet, the International and· lectures on international topics. In Festival and this "international" edition the midst of the campus unrest ofthe of the Scholastic. In addition to the In-. late 1960s, the InternationaI·.Sfodent. ternatiorial Student Organization there Organization formulated a list ofgriev-· •· are several national organizations such, ances and. petitioned the· administration . . as· the India Association, the Chinese · to appoint a full-time foreign student -Students Association, the Chinese · advisor and to· establish a separate office . · · Scholars· Association, the Korean Associ~ for foreign· stu~en_t affairs .. · This was·. · ation,. the Lebanese-American Club, 
I done in 1969 wheri'the late Rev. ·oaniel · : and the Japan Club. These groups orga­
I. O'Neil, C.S.C., Assii;tant Vice President . . nize special activities which br~ng na-. for Student Affairs,' was appointed full-· .· . tional groups together for camaraderie
I 
time Foreign Student Advisor and Direc:: . · and to celebrate national holidays. . . tor of International St_udent Affairs.. Fr. This year Notre Dame's foreign stu-· . O'Neil held that pO!;t until his death jn · dent population increased by 9% . This 
1978. He was succeeded ·by the Rev.·. is at a time when the number oHoreign Thomas Tallarida, C.S.C., who directed-students nationwide is decreasing. As the International Student Affairs Office our world-becomes a global village and until June, 1984; Brother George· as internatioanl relations become a force ·Schmitz, C.S.C., is the current d~recfor. that shapes our future, we at Notre The present academic yea(has been . ' Dame can be thankful for the "strangers . an especially active one for· the Interna..: . iri our midst" who come to learn from us tional Student Organization. The Inter~ · . and to share with us the wealth of their 
.. riati~nal Student Organization brought' . · traditions and cultures. · • 

,,.,.. if:';,·

(¥,\...,. 
·.,,..... 
'< . ' 

A Synthetic 
A bizarre assassination, an indus­trial catastrophe, a seemingly endless 

Nation 

orgy of communal violence . . . and the list goes on. Certainly, it is a little too much for a Third World nation to grapple within a span of less than six 
by P. Suresh months. Especially so for a develop­ing country desperately fighting against hunger, poverty and a host of other social evils. But amazing is the fact that the country takes all the ter­rible onslaught in stride, holds gen­eral elections for the world's largest electorate and pulls along as if noth­ing ever happened. 
· A mighty nation tucked away un­der the southern slopes of the Hima­layas, India is a country known for its spiritual strength, a country which professed peace and nonviolence to the rest of the world, but had to wit­ness one of the worst bloodsheds of recent times. India, however, has sur­vived: 
India has never ceased to fascinate both West and East. Scores of Euro­pean adventurers set their sails dur­ing the 13-16th centuries hoping to discover India-the exotic land of spices, silk, muslin and gems. Credit goes to the Portuguese sailor Vasco da Gama who first landed on the west coast of India. However, those that followed him, the French, the Dutch and the English were the ones that made the best of the then existing sit­uation in India. After 200 years of foreign rule the once prosperous and flourishing land found itself reduced 
to shambles-a land utterly divided, dismembered and disorganized. 
The liberal spirit which helped get independence from the British in 1947 brought about new hopes for a free and united India. Although Ma­hatma Gandhi, the chief architect of India's freedom struggle, was gone not long after independence, leaders of stature like Nehru, Patel and oth­ers were able to mold all the splinter elements into one strong India. And so, on 26th Jan. 1950, India adopted its Constitution and declared itself a Sovereign Democratic Republic:. 
Although intended to be like a strong alloy, it was more a heteroge­neous mixture of people, religions; languages and cultures. Sixteen States and Union territories were carved out during the Reorganization of States in 1956. There were fourteen offi­cially recognized languages, not to mention hundreds of dialects spoken in different pockets of the country. Arid India became home to six major world religions. 
Today, with a population of over 730 million, India is the-largest De­mocracy in the world. This is nearly three times the population of the United States-a problem which can be better appreciated considering the fact that India is only one third the size of the U.S. Over 75% of this pop­ulation lives in villages where agricul­ture is the only source of livelihood. Abject poverty exists next to ridicu­lous affluence, which leads to ten­sions between the haves and the have­nots. Add to this the haunting ghost India's former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi (left) and former U.S. Secretary of State Edmund Muskie (second from right) attend a ~ulti­faith memorial service for independence leader Mohandas Gandhi. 

of illiteracy: only 37 % of the popu­lace can read and write while only 3 % can understand English, which has so far been the sole language used in government offices and other offi~ cial machinery. Even giving credit to the fact that there are twice the num­her of educated people today than there were at the time of indepen­dence does not make matters any bet­ter: the country's population has also doubled over the same period. 

On the whole, however, through the last 37 years of independence .In­dia's progress has been, to say the least, extremely impressive. The first leaders of the nation adopted the pol­icy of five-year plans to help the country march towards a definite goal. While the first two five-year plans heavily stressed agricultural progress, emphasis slowly shifted to­wards industrial development in the later years. Under these five-year plans five major steel plants and a couple of fertilizer and chemical -in­dustries were set up. The industrial development since then has simply been phenomenal. The country now boasts industries of all classes-light, medium and heavy. Aircraft build-· ing, machine tools, earth movers, heavy electrical industries and tele­phone industries are the most pro~ gressive ones in the public sector. In the private sector, however, there are textiles, electronics and a host of other consumer service products. Cheap labor and comparatively low cost of production have resulted in the country taki_ng over most of the overseas market in Africa and South Asia. 
The progress on the scientific and research front has also been incredi­ble. The climax to this progress came when, in 1974, India successfully conducted its_ first Nuclear Explosion test in the Thar Desert of Rajasthan. It thus became only the sixth nation 


Rajiv Gandhi 
10 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 






"Today, with a population of over 730 million, India is the largest de­mocracy in the world. This is nearly three times the population of 
·the United States 
guage issues have only helped under­mine the unity of the country. To add to this, religious tensions prevailing in different parts of the country have raised serious doubts about the State's ability to remain Secular. 
in the world to acquire nuclear tech­The Country, currently run by the 
?:}~

nology, an act which left the devel­Central Government seated in New .,•~·-,,'
'/ >·';

oped world stupefied and spellbound. Delhi, has State Governments in each The late seventies even saw India 
of its States and Union Territories. build its own space satellites, de~ The bulk of the authority being con­.. .
~ ~ 
J' -·~-•'-·: 


I-·•

signed to help improve its telecom­centrated at the Centre, however, has munications and its weather forecast­recently opened up raging controver­ing system. sies about conferring greater auton­
Thus, starting off as a poor and omy to the States. The States feel ;:;;,£ . );;;;;·~~;;;._;'-r~--_-_.-.-.~ibattered nation in the forties, India they have had little or no say in mat­
I /~
,~ ,•.•
has now established itself as the most ters such .as Resource Allocation, de­




I. .f~/
progressive developing nation in the velopmental policies, etc., while at world. A founder and a staunch ad­the same time the Centre, in the ,\ >,-,.. ,. -i/." 
~ .• ,-~-..
vocate of the Non-Alignment Move­name of preserving the unity of the 
ment, which avoids siding with either country, is refusing to loosen its grip · ;;·::~ ·:,\t :.: : ::J .:. of the two superpowers, it has now over the States. Perhaps it is time the grown independently into an indus­Centre made attempts to put an end trial giant in the Third World. to this tug-of-war and accepted the 
l(11r~'l '\f
However, the running hasn't been fact that real unity could only be as smooth as it may seem from the . achieved by recognizing the true aspi-· outside. India has had more than its rations of its diverse society. In this share of troubles and disasters over regard can there be a better example 
Indira Gandhi, shortly before she 
the last four decades. It has had to than the great United States itself? 
was assassinated by members of herfight three expensive wars and face Today, there is a new and ambi­own security guard. 
an incessant fury ofalternating floods tious government in charge at the 
and famines. Moreover, even the Centre raising new hopes for rapid scene within its borders has not been all-round progress. However, prob­next couple of years are, without all too rosy. The formation of States lems like exploding population, un­doubt, going to be the most crucial in in 1956 was based on linguistic lines employment, corruption at all levels the history of this illustrious nation. 
and has taken its toll time and again. of the bureaucracy and widespread The history of India has been a This was perhaps the greatest blun­restlessness among the people are also story of a continuing strnggle for der that the founders of this nation raging at peak. It will be interesting identity. It's a struggle for identity committed. The country has dearly to see how the government tackles among the States within the country 
paid and will continue to pay for this these issues and maintains peace both and a struggle for identity as a na­. lapse. Recurring flare-ups on Ian-within and outside the country. Jhe tion, as an equal in the higher ranks of the world. • 
SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 11 


by Naji Boutros 
L193i, in the great city of Bos­ton, the traffic came to a halt along the route that would take a man from Lebanon to his temporary resting place. Many people followed the pro­cession and, weeks later, the silent homE:wardjourney of Kahlil Gibran ended at a cemetery in Lebanon.· Nowadays, in the middle of Copley Square in Boston stands a bronze­and-granite memorial erected by a grateful city in honor of this gentle poet from Lebanon. 
"His power came from some great reservoir of spiritual life else it could not have been so universal and po­tent, but the ma;esty and beauty of the language with which he clothed it were all his own." 
Claude Bragdon An exceptional childhood in the town of Becharre, under the "cedars of the Lord"-the cedars of Lebanon-prepared Gibran for a life of greatness. Gibran's mother real­ized the exceptional talents of Kahlil when at four he planted torn paper so that it might take root and pro­duce white sheet for him to draw upon, and when, at six, he said that he was an Italian after seeing paint­ings of Leonardo da Vinci. "My son is outside of psychology," said his mother, claiming that her son's voice was vested with an authority not to be confused with mere human excel­lence. In short, he was a dreamer, be­lieved by many to be beyond his world and his time in his perception of truth and of beauty. 1n 1895, and because of economic hardship, Kahlil's mother journeyed to the States with her 4 children, joining the immigrant Lebanese com­munity in Boston. The 12-year-old Gibran eventually moved to the Denison settlement house where his talent as an artist was discovered by a publisher, Holland Day: "When his brush and pencil visited canvas and paper, these became endued with a vital and vibrant force that rendered them no longer dead, but living." In 1896, at the age of 15, Gibran 

travelled to Lebanon where he im­mersed himself in Arabic literature and developed a keen consciousness and a thorough appreciation of the Bible. Back in the States, he began writing for "Al Muhajer" ("The Im­migrant"), an Arabic newspaper pop­ular among the Arab community in the United States. His literary works were influenced by the American transcendentalist movement and the Romantic literature of the West. This influence is obvious in books such as "Spirit Rebellious" and "Nymphs of the Valley.'' 
Mankind have I loved. Ay, much 
have I loved men, 
And men in my opinion are three; 
The one who curses life, the. one who 
blesses it, and the one who .contemplates it. 
The first I have loved for his mystery, 
the second'jor his beneficence, and 
the third for his wisdom. 
Nymphs of the Valley 

"He is a world in himself. His soul is that of an excited god who, being sad and weary and homesick, passed the time singing of other worlds." 
But the American art was soon un­able to satisfy his literary and artistic ambition. He therefore decided to travel to the art capital of the world, Paris: "... The time which I'll spend in the city of Light will be, with the help of God, the beginning of a new Chapter in the Story of my life . . . My trip to Paris will offer me an op­portu ni ty to write about things which I cannot find or imagine in this mechanical and commercial country whose skies are replete with clamor and noise.'' 
After 2 years in Paris, he returned · to the United States and settled in New York for the rest of his life. 
Gibran's works have always been controversial. His first writings, in­cluding such notable books as Jesus the son of man, Sand and Foam and The Forerunner, were religious in context and their unorthodoxy even­tually led to his temporary excommu­nication from the Christian Maronite church in Lebanon. The maturity of his thought is revealed in The Prophet, a book deeply spiritual in nature, written in simple and beauti­ful language and reflecting optimistic tone in presenting man's innate good­ness. Gibran later wrote of this work, "While I was writing The Prophet, the prophet was writing .me." 
When Kahlil Gibran died in 1931, the world lost a great man, a man whose fame and influence spread far beyond the Near East, whose poetry has been translated into more than 20 languages, whose drawings and paintings have been exhibited in the great capitals of the world and com­pared by the famous French artist Auguste Rodin to the work of Wil­liam Blake, by Day to the incompara­ble and by Shelley to a god: "He is a world in himself. His soul is that of an excited god who, being sad and weary and homesick, passed the time singing of other worlds.'' 

· In spite of all the fame and glory, Gibran remained faithful to his homeland, spreading his word of wis­dom throughout the whole world, without ever. forgetting the feeling of the glory, · under the almighty Cedars of the Lord, until his last whisper. 
"_Sons of my ancient mother, you 
riders of the tides, How often have you sailed in my dreams. Avd now you come in my awakening which is my deeper dream. · 
Ready am I to go, and my eagerness with sails full set . awaits the wind."• · 
12 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 


KNILA-Deo. 29, 
1984. "All Armed Forces of the Philippines po­lice units on red alert." 
MANILA-Jan. 3, 1985. "Gover­nor hurt; mayor shot dead." 
It cannot be said that the Filipinos never laughed while all this was hap­pening. To newcomers, the·barrage of jokes about the Aquino murder, the high inflation rates, arid Marcos' health can be disconcerting; the Phil­ippines has just gone through one of the worst years in its recent history. Devastating typhoons, earthquakes, a volcanic erruption, an inflation rate of 63 % , and viciously con'tested Par­liamentary elections just aren't the · sort of things Americans .are accus­
tomed to laughing_ about. Yet in the Philippines the jokes and the laughter persist. 
The ability of Filipinos to laugh at their own shortcomings has always set them apart. Call it a blessing be­cause it helps people get through dif­ficult days, but call it also a curse­they seem never to worry or do anything about a situation. 

The population of the Philippines · totals 56,000,000, scattered over 7107 islands comprising an area of 115,831 square miles. The climate is largely tropical with a short, fierce season of typhoons and heavy rain in the cen­tral and northern regions. The coun­try is located north of Indonesia and east of Vietnam. It sits squarely on the most important sea lanes from the Indian Ocean to the Pacific. 
The original inhabitants were an aborigina~ people from mainland Asia; the Aetas, and the Malays came from the south. The sixteenth century brought the Spaniards and with them, Roman Catholicism and a very strong Western influence. While this succeeded in modifying the indige­nous Filipino culture, it did not com­pletely replace it, and the result was a rather unique blend of East and West. 
In 1965 Ferdinand E. Marcos was elected as the seventh president of the Republic of the Philippines, and re­elected in 1969. During his term in office, the threat of a general insur-
SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 13 




·-· 
j:•;

IE ll on,,
'-" ...,,,.. 
... I 1s··-· -' \~'.­
~ _.:,:<• . ' ·,. . 
• • < H,/) ' 
r -.-. , -<

},.';,. . .,,, . •, . ' .. "V •• "•• •• < '. • C • • •• --. ' •
•

"'.2i?Bll!\\____ -~~---·--·. .__ ....-"-. __ ----~-.. 
bility, but pulled the plug on the economy as well. · 
On the lighter side, Filipinos still manage to keep making jokes and laughing at events as they unfold. Maybe this blessing in these troubled times will keep them from losing their minds. One joke that circulated in Manila after the Aquino assassina­tion had to do with Rolando Galman, his alleged killer, who was shot immediately after Aquino. After Aquino died, his soul went up to heaven and right before. he entered the gates he noticed Galman standing in line in front of him. Aqufoo tapped him on the shoulder and / asked, "Hey, why did you shoot me?" ·· Whereupon Galm an answered, ., "Shoot you? I was here long before · you arrived!" How's that for humor­
ing the situation? 
Manila Arch bishop Cardinal Jaime 
L. Sin has long been dissatisfied with the Marcos government. 
SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 15 



The 

of 
Notre Dame University is a strange place-Arabs meet Jews, Hindus talk to Moslems, Argentines come across people from Great Britain, and we all manage to coexist. 
. Our nations are supposed to be en­emies, "adversaries" at best. but for the international student th~ is diffi­cult to grasp.. We.learn about differ­ent cultures, and listen to different opinions about our own. Little by lit­tle we learn about similarities, differ­ences and the misconception we had about our alleged "enemy:'· 
Wars are usually associated with honor, power and nationalism. When war is declared the public always ral­lies around its flag, usually blind­folded by the media. Many people believe that war has a "positive" im­pact on society. Two years ago my country (Argentina) went to war over a couple of islands called Falkl~nds and I couldn't understand why every: body was celebrating. And then one morni~g my friends started returning home m wooden boxes and it was too late. Too late we realize that war is a game, and we finally discover the The small Argentine contingent on the Falkland Islands proved to be no match for the technically advanced British naval force. 



real seeds.of war: greed, dishonesty and stupidity. 
The Falklands/Malvinas war was 

no exception. This is what we consid­ered the importance of writing testi­monial. essays for both sides of the conflict. In the process we rediscov­ered that our only enemy is the evil and absurdity of international wars. 
by Santiago O'Donnell and Winston Griffin . 
In London 
January 10, 1985. Leicester Square 
I'm in the Prince Edward Theatre watching "Evita"-the famous Ar: gentinian musical-for the second time. Saw it first in the Spring of 1982. Isn't it funny how some events just stay in one's mind. From that period 3 occurrences stick in my mind. First, joining the audience in a standing ovation at the conclusion of the performance. Second, reading in The Times the next day that "Char­iots of Fire," a British cinema produc­tion, was topping the charts in Buenos Aires. And third, the ironic realization, that at that same mo­ment, 7000 miles south, Argentines and Englishmen were killing each 

.9!her~ Do you remember the conflict? If not, allow me to refresh your mem­ory: April 2, 1982, Argentina invaded 
the Falkland Islands, claiming sover­eignty. Great Britain declared war on Argentina the next day, and sent the fleet to the South Atlantic. The result was a bloody conflict, lasting a 
SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 17 



month, and killing over a thousand. 
Let us reflect for a moment on the respective claims for sovereignty over the islands. The first thing to realize is that the wealth of ambiguous-his­torical fact regarding the Falklands does confuse the issue. For instance, does discovery, mapping and landing imply sovereignty? Or is a territory claimed only after it is settled? Are economic settlements the defining criterion? A military base perhaps? Or must a system of government be first established? Depending on our interpretation, both sides have valid arguments. The problem, then, seems to be putting historic detail into a workable and current context. 
As history is unable to help, maybe geography will provide an answer. The Falklands are a ,tiny group of is­lands, 200 miles off the Argentinian coast. Their value? Potential fis~ery 
and strategic ·location (overlooking the Strait of Magellan) or so I'm told. Self-defense? Definitely not. Anger? No, I don't think so. Fear of being la­
. belled cowards? Perhaps. Pride? That's more like it. A calculated po­litical game? Better still. 
Back to the academic world. There is a theory in political science called "Internal cohesion through external conflict." Just a posh name for dis­tracting people's attention from do­mestic issues and focusing them on a common external influence. I believe 
. this idea can be applied to some ex­
. tent to England. (Before proceeding, allow me to include a caveat-I'm staunchly conservative and back Thatcher on most issues.) Thatcher was suffering from decreasing popu­larity, 11-12 % unemployment, and an almost· zero growth economy. Af­ter the conflict, her popularity had jumped, allowing her to score a land­slide victory over Labor in the next election. 
I do not think Britain planned the conflict, but I do think they were in­directly responsible for not avoiding the war by seeking a political solu­tion, which, given previous relations between Argentina and Great Brit­ain, could surely have been achieved. 
In any event, Thatcher won, and Galtieri lost, but far too many young lives were sacrificed on a senseless po­litical wager. 


In Buenos Aires 
Suddenly there was an explosion. I opened the window of my apartment and the trumpet of a thousand horns of cars calling for celebration. In a matter of minutes the streets were a festival. A mass of people had t_aken them, interrupting the traffic to the scream of Ar-gen-tinal Ar-gen-tinal 
It was rush hour in Buenos Aires, but nobody was in a hurry. Without distinctions of any type, the whole city was celebrating a historical mo­ment. Surprisingly there were no pro­tests, no political slogans and no po­lice brutality. The atmosphere was identical to the 1978 celebration of the Soccer World Cup victory. 
What was going on? Our illustri­ous president Leopoldo Galtieri had just made a· chain announcement on the National Broadcast and Radio system declaring that Argentina had finally "repossessed" the Malvinas. I call General Galtieri illustrious be­cause Pink Floyd's "Final Cut" album made him famous, and I call him "president" because he self­proclaimed himself s·o, and the United Nations approved. Otherwise he is directly responsible for the mas­sacre of at least 1500 boys, the chil­dren of the Malvinas. Many of them never celebrated their 19th birthday. 
But when General Galtieri made his announcement on April 2, 1982, nobody was thinking about the conse­quences. The islands have always been a big issue. We learn about them in school from first grade on. To the whole population the islands have come to symbolize British imperial­ism. The scapegoat for Argentina's failure to achieve greatness. The na­tional dream is that someday, through some process of historical de­terminism, the islands will be Argen­tine again. 
The prophecy had been fulfilled and Galtieri was the Messiah. Most Argentines were so convinced of their righteousness that they never stopped to think. For the first time in years Argentina was united! But something was wrong. Two days before the an­nouncement, this same country had been paralyzed by a general strike and a massive demonstration in front 
of the government house. The econ­omy was in the worst crisis in the na­tion's history, and the government had reached the lowest point of popu­larity of any Argentine government. 
Why would millions of people sup­port the same dictatorship that had oppressed them for the past five years? This is one of the evils of war. Nobody wants to be called a coward or a traitor. War can be a magical so­lution. Galtieri was well aware that World War II had solved the Ameri­can depression and he lived to do the same thing with Argentina. After five years of galloping inflation and inter­nal violence Argentines needed a cause to rally around, a reason to cel­ebrate. Galtieri, on the other hand, needed all the support he could get. 
The authoritarian control over the mass media allowed the government to deceive public opinion and dissent­ing voices were promptly silenced. 
The chances were one in a million, but Galtieri's back was against the wall. He knew that victory would make him a hero and reinstate his credibility. The price of his gamble was 1500 lives-boys who never dreamed when they were drafted out of the slums, that a month later they would be facing in combat an army of computerized NATO veterans. In their graves are buried the illusions of millions of Argentines who chose to dream because that was all they had left. They had been robbed of every­thing else. • 
18 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 
Bishop 1\.itu with the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Robert Runcie. 
SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 19 




Nothing Is Black and White 
South Africa is much in the news Political economists looking at . these days. Almost daily the newspa­South Africa begin with one common pers bring further details of the inhu­assumption. This is that the political mane and abhorrent system of apart­and economic spheres cannot be heid. There is increased pressure in viewed as two independent and unre­the United States for Reagan's Ad­lated realms but, rather, 'they must be ministration to abandon its policy of . seen as being in complex int~raction "constructive engagement" with the with each other. However, from this South African government in order to shared beginning there are very di­pursue a more confrontationist and vergent views on the specific~ of this direct role in bringing about change interaction. Generally speaking these 
in South Africa. _!{ow one goes about views can be separated into two 
analyzing the South African situation· schools of thought: the reformist and 
will determine one's ideas about the the revisionist schools. "correct" United States policy to­The reformist school represents the 
wards South Africa. What is a useful liberal orthodoxy in South Africa. Its 
framework for an analysis? · basic thesis is that the process of capi­

talist development has been and con­tinues to be a motor for the moderni­zation of South African social relations. The capitalist market oper­ates within an environment set by the social rooms and institutions of South African society. For the market to op­erate efficiently, some measure of consistency must exist between the re­quirements of the market and these broader social relations. Thus, in its interaction with the wide society, the market will become a force for mod­ernization as it attempts to being about this consistency. To the extent that South African society remains tradition-bound and unwilling to change in response to the logic of the market, the development of capital­ism will be impeded. 
For the reformists, the policy of apartheid has always constituted such an impediment. Apartheid discrimi­nates between people of different races and justifies this by a complex mixture of political, cultural and reli­gious arguments. This discrimination is a constraint on the efficiency of the labor market which attempts to use "the person's ability to do the job" as the only selection criterion. Despite the stubbornness of the apartheid ad­ministrators, the growth of the capi­talist sector with its acute need for a skilled, settled labor force has acted as a catalyst for some significant re­forms in labor relations and black ed­ucation and housing as well as intro­ducing many South Africans to nonracial interaction for the first time. 
The multinational corporations cite these reforms as evidence to sup­port their claim that they can do more good for the people of South Africa by remaining within the coun­try than by disinvesting. Their argu­ment proceeds by pointing out that in recent years the apartheid state has come to realize that it can only sur­vive its present crisis if it shows its willingness to listen to the business community. It cannot afford to alien­ate this community. Cons~quently, more than ever before, the market mechanism is in aposition to dictate the pace of change in South Africa. This is said to present South Africa with its only opportunity for peaceful reform over time, thus avoiding the horrors of revolution the results of . which are deemed to be unfavorable to all South Africans. With the mar­ket breaking down apartheid in some de facto sense, there will be a general 13ishop Desmond Tutu of Johannes­
burg was awarded the 198-! Nobel 
Peace Prize for his struggle against apartheid. 
move towards a more integrationist society. The political process will re­flect this by dismantling the apart­heid structures. 
In the early 1970s this reformist position suddenly found itself under attack from a newly emerging school of thought which became known as the revisionist school. This group of 
younger academics proposed a new thesis that sharply conflicted with the reformist thesis. They maintained that apartheid had never constituted a stumbling block to South Africa's capitalist development. On the con­trary, if the apartheid master plan was carefully scrutinized it could be seen to provide for a powerless, cheap supply of labor vulnerable to exploi­tation. Thus, the implementation of apartheid as official government pol­
icy and the subsequent modifications 
that apartheid policy nas undergone 
are very much related to the needs of 
the capitalist sector in South Africa. 
This revisionist thesis clearly makes use of a class analysis. Given this, the question that immediately springs to mind is why it is black workers rather than all workers who find themselves suffering under capitalism. To answer this the revisionists took a fresh his­torical look at South Africa in the early 1900s. During this period there were a number of attempts made by the capitalists to replace white work­ers with cheap black labor. The white workers were able to muster enough political muscle to prevent this and to make sure that their inter­ests were always well represented at .the level of government. This then 
20 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 
. · .. · . . ,·... : . . ·­

Notre Da#te·'s Role 

by Paul Komyatte 

There seems to be no doubt that "shows no grounds for hope that it some of Notre Dame's money is will fulfill its ethical responsibilities." invested in South Africa via major · · · · · · · · · •. · · The policy statement concludes by . m11ltinationals. The _remaining ·. ; "Notre pa,ne's policy statingthatappropriatecompany 
. question concerns the policy stance· . . h managements will be informed of •. · ofthe University with regard to these ffi ain ta.in S ·J at it is the policy, that companies will be · .investments. During,our conveisa-. more e"f"r_e··c·ti·-·-.:,._e to work·· reviewed to examine their conipli­·_ ;'tion; Father Richarcf Zang,_C.S.C., I1 v' ance to,the goals of the policy, and ·. University Investment Officer, towards fair and thatthepolicyshould be"reexam­
provided me with a copy of this ined regularly in light of changing 
policy stateme_nt. · · Proper cor_·porate be-events in South Africa." 
Passed by the University Board of Father Zang told me that .the· Trustees on October .13, 1978, the . havior than it is to sup-· University has carried through with statement outlines Notre Dame's . h · thd } divestiture in some cases in which 
•position on the inv:estm_ent issue, pOI4tt .e Wi . rawa · Of the company did not meet the policy· . Stating that ·corporations are faced. l•n-.:~e·Stm·e_·_n···__ -ts·_· -. e·n·tI•re·1y·•" standards; and he also said that.
·_

with a variety of arguinerits for · v · Notre Da:me has supported share:.. either staying in South Africa and . -. . . . . holder petitions for withdrawal of affecting constructive change by companies in some instances.. their presence, or for withdrawing 1984, there were 121 signatories to · In terms of black majority desires, from the country in the hope·or the codes;incfoding most major U.S. ·. Father Zang expressed that if the · · 
· influencing the apartheid nation to employers in South Africa. The first view·ofthe majority of black South change, the statement maintains that three Sullivan principles deal with Africans could be ascertained, it "_it does not seem that the University· · . the actual workplace, including · . would be an important consideration of Notre Dame.... can advocate a radal non.segregation iri all eating . to be taken into account. The stance for simply r:emaining or arid work facilities, and equal pay . essential question boils down to how withdrawing (from South Africa)." . for ¢qual work. The next ~wo · to best help blackAfricans: Should Instead, the University outlines aset principles serve to address the . . U.S. companies adopt progressive ._ ofguidelines \Vith which to monitor current imbalance inracial job · · employment practices in the hope of and assess its investments.· . · positions; stressing the need for influencing wider change in the . 
With regard to shareholder training programs to prepare blacks, apartheid structure, or should U;S. petitions for withdrmval of a coloreds, and Asians for supervisory firms take stronger measures such as .company from South Africa, the_ and technical jobs, and also stressing divestment in order to affect the University will support such petitions .the need to increase the number of government by hitting it where it. · 
· in severalinstances: if the company · these 'en1ployees in management and -hurts? Notre Dame has taken the does not adopt principles "whose supervisory positions. The final former option. objective _is to provide improved principle seeks social advancement This issue, however, is not likely to 
. opportunities and employment · by urging improvements in _areas ·. · die out, on the Notre Dame campus. practices for nonwhites," if the such•as_ housing, transportation, and Director of African Studies Peter company-given a reasonable schooling-:-areas _sorely neglected by Walshe and Director of Black Studies amount of time-refuses to demori­the apartheid government. Signatory · Fred Wright are currently iri the stiate "its determination to initiate companies pledge to follow the process of forming a student coali­progressive employment practices," if Sullivan codes and agree to be rated tion which will study the investment the company fails to effecUvely . annually on their'performance. • issue as well as wider aspects of the implement such progressive prac-· Notre Dame's,policy maintains South African political scene. On his. tices, and finally, if the company's that it is more effective to work recent visit to the U.S., Desmond. South African presence·."does more to .towards fair and proper corporate Tutu told the American people, strengthen the_ ap~rtheid regime than _ behavior than it is to support the . "there is no.doubt we are going to be to contribute to the welfare of the withdrawal of investments entirely. ··.·free." Whether or noUhe South nonwhites.'; The principles to which The University statement maintains African people gain their freedom the statement refers are employment ·that Notre Dame will consider . through a violent, bloody struggle or codes designed to provide blacks · · divestitu.i:e only if three conditions through a process of more evolution­improved economic, educational, are verified: if the company has ally reform ,vill depend, in part, on and-scfoial opportunities. The failed "to conduct its business iri an how much the U;S. assists them in primary example today of such .. etl1ica{way," if the co11_1pany ''l_ias their noble cause,:'f.his promises to principles is the Sullivan Principles. -· clearly'failed to change its policies'~ .. keep the investmeil.tissiie in the 
The Sullivan c<;>des were drawn up . despite persistent efforts to persuade. limelight for the foreseeable future. • by the Rev. Leon Sullivan in 1977. In . it to dJ,ange, and if the company 
8CHOLASTIC/MARCH 21 


forms the backdrop to the establish­
ment of apartheid in 1948; · 
How do the revisionists explain the 
fact that there has been an overhaul 
of labor relations legislation in order 
to include black trade unions, or the 
fact that the capitalist sector has be­
gun to provide for the training and 
housing of its black workers, or the 
fact that discrimination on the basis 
of skin color has indeed been disap­pearing from the job selection proc­ess? Once again they place these re­forms within a historical context. By doing this they show that the black trade union movement was vicari­ously repressed by the apartheid state in the 1960s and early 1970s and this repression met with no indignant cries from the capitalists. Yet, despite this repression, the 1970s witnessed an astonishing growth in the black unions. In an ironical twist, once the black unions had emerged they found themselves in an environment with · no rules dictating their behavior be­.cause the rules had been designed only to prevent their emergence. The capitalists found this situation to be unacceptable and quickly engineered a restructuring of the industrial rela­tions regulations to include the black unions. Viewed in this light the labor reform becomes an attempt at con­
straint an_d co-option. 
In a similar vein, the revisionists 
suggested that by the 1970s the needs 
of the capitalist sector were such that 
the whites could no longer supply 
sufficient skilled and semiskilled la­
bor to meet the increasingly skill­
intensive production requirements. It 
was for this reason that industry be­
came involved in the training and 
housing of black employees and that 
the practice of reserving jobs for 
whites disappeared. Thus, even if 
these "reforms" could be labelled as 
market initiated, for the revisionists, 
the market could never catalyze the 
type of charge that black South Afri­
cans are looking for. Capitalism is 
seen as being very much part of the 
problem and it is seen as standing in 
the majority of South Africans. For 
this reason, a gradual reforming of 
the system is not possible. Rather, a 
complete revision of the system is 
nece~sary whet~er change comes by 
nonv10lent or v10lent means, it must 
be revolutionary. 
How can one use the framework of 
these two schools of thought to assist in an analysis of South Africa's prob­lems and the possible solutions? An­swers begin to emerge when we look at the implications of the U.S. adopt­ing a policy that calls for disinvest­ment in South Africa and economic sanctions against South Africa. This certainly is a topical issue in the U.S. and especially so to us at Notre Dame in view of the considerable disquiet some of our students have expressed over the possibility of Notre Dame having some investments in South Af­rica. The Observer of September 6, 1984, has front-page headlines which read: "Notre Dame joins study of American companies in South Af­rica." There is little doubt that stu­dent rumblings played a major part in catalyzing such a move. It there­fore seems pertinent for us to see what light the reformist/revisionist framework throws on disinvestment in South Africa and sanctions against South Africa. 
Within the reformist framework, anything which strengthens South Af­rica's capitalist development is help­ing the country alongthe road to sig­nificant evolutionary change. Thus, the first insight is that there can be no argument for disinvestment or sanctions within a reformist perspec­tive. The only possible exception here is if the threat of disinvestment or sanctions is to be used as a political tool but there is no intention of actu­ally implementing such a threat. On the other hand there is a clear argu­ment for both disinvestment and sanctions from the revisionist perspec­tive. From this perspective, real change in South Africa requires the dismantling of the structures of racial capitalism. Disinvestment and sanc­tions would constitute an important condition and perhaps even a pre­condition for a fundamental revision of South Africa society. 
In the U.S., the argument for dis­investment in South Africa is often based on the feeling that money in­vested in South Africa is "dirty money." These investments are seen as giving legitimacy and even support to the apartheid regime. In terms of the revisionist/reformist framework, such a contention implies a revisionist ar­gument. Herein lies a thorny issue for the U.S. disinvestment campaign, for, while one would never want to na­ively transfer South Africa's experi­ence of capitalist development onto an analysis of the U.S., the fact re­mains that the revisionist position does embody a critical assessment of the capitalist system. 
Lus, the reformist/revisionist framework reveals some important though not always obvious insights about disinvestment in South Africa and economic sanctions against South Africa. The broad hope is that knowledge of these two opposing schools of thought will help to render the complex situation in South Africa more intelligible, while at the same time bringing to bear some fresh per­spectives upon the position of capital­ism itself within an ethical context. • 



BIG@ 

LUMBER CENTER 
• ARMSTRONG CEIUHG TILE • POWER toots 
• 
CABINETS • lUMSER 

• 
P1.YWOOD • HARDWARE 


• OI.YMPIC STAIN • Pf.UMBJNG & 
• PANEUHG ElKTRICAl SUPPUES ANO MUCH, MUCH MORE . 
EASY 

!l!!!!.!11..!!!.~ 

-;~ 
272-6500 
125 DIXIE WAY NORTH


LUMBER 
ROSELAND
CENTER 
22 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 


A 









JEWEL IN THE 
by Luiz Hernandez 
Upon my arrival at Notre Dame, I was surprised and perturbed at the number of students who did not know where Puerto Rico is. South America, Central America and Africa were some of the answers I received. Some of them did not even know that Puerto Rico is a territory of the 
United States and that i 
American citizens. As a 
can, allow1i to tell yo 
about .. fl ·,e. 
R-erto Ri , the small ~---p of islands called "Les ,. ti ~-yores" (Cuba, Jamaica, -~-Es­!fl-ala), is locate Jn the C[J,tl!i.b.ean!l"" 1050 miles s uth of'Florida. T' · all islan 00 miles x 50 mil ._di , ered by Christopher Colum on November 19, 1493. He named the island San Juan Bautiste and formally claimed it for Spain. The main harbor and capital city in the northern part of the island were named Puerto Rico (Rich Harbor). Eventually the capital came to be called San Juan and the island Puerto .Rico. · 
J uly 25, 1898, is one of the most important dates in our history. On this day, the United States Army en­tered the Bay of Guanica and in­vaded the unresisting island. Spain's subsequent defeat in the Hispano-American War forced it to give Puerto Rico, Guam and the Philip­pines to the United States in the Treaty of Paris. 
Our political system is molded af­ter the United States. A "new kind of state'.' was formally established on July 25, 1952, The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Elections are held every four years. There are three main par­ties: The PPD (Popular Democratic Party) which believes in the Com­monwealth, the PNP (New Progres­sive Party) which supports statehood, 
and the PIP (Puerto Rican Indepen­dence Party) which strives for inde­. pendence. Last year's elections were won by Rafael Hernandez Colon (PPD) who defeated two-term gover­nor Carlos Romero Barcelo (PNP). The Popul~cratic Part now has cont[:rq_l.slover oot •;..the Sen t~.; a d 
the Hal"·~.·· of Repres -.-. atives. ~., ese 
recent ~t ctions wer clear '.". ta­
ment Jfhe ideal of ; _e ocra · · by 
the Isl ll-; . /,: 
The -·-1,!:, rto R1co-U,) ed State ­
lationsHi? . is one . · reciproc 
ough res1 ts,,,-erto Ricans H ve 
o voting representation in the United States Congress, and are ex­empt from federal income taxes. On the other hand, we are eligible for the draft, and the United States maintains important naval bases on the island. Furthermore, we do par­ticipate in federal programs such as Social Security, Food Stamps and Medicare. 
It is precisely this relationship with the United States that is the most pressing issue on Puerto Rico's politi­cal agenda: Commonwealth vs. Statehood, Commonwealth vs. Inde­pendence. In truth, the only verifi­able fact concerning our status is the 1967 national plebiscite, that resulted in 60.4 % preferring Commonwealth, 39% opting for Statehood and .6% claiming Independent status. Noth­ing can be done with regard to Puerto Rico's status, however, until a new plebiscite is made: Puerto Ricans must decide this issue by themselves, democratically. 
Puer_!9 Rico's economy is troubled by 22 % unemployment and a high cost of living. Still, one of its main sources of income, the tourist indus­try, is flourishing. Many Americans escape from the heavy winter of the States to the tropical weather. Touris­tic attractions abound. Old San Juan, Fort El Morro, and, of course, the 

. beaches are a few examples. Investment by private corporations has resulted in an increase in the manufacturing industry. This invest­nt, primarily by United States cor­. as a result of a law con­x-exempt status to th ean. Digitel, Co Johnson & re just a­t have es to Rico. ant 
of~evue the 
1~uor indus r~ Ba nd Don Q a . o of ro­ducers and exporters n the world. 
:e.rto Rico's shift from an agricul­tural economy to a manufacturing economy began three decades ago. Sugar cane, coffee, sweet potato and other products are still grown but not at previous levels. The government has been promoting programs to in­crease the production of crops and la­bor. One of the latest programs is the development of rice crops in large quantities. With time and effort, ag­riculture has the potential to regain 
. the importance it had three decades ago. 
One seems to be able to write end­lessly about one's own culture, history and people. But I trust you now know a little more about my home­land. With the wealth of detail pre­sented, I hope that you ,will remem­ber that the sun shines and a gentle breeze flutters over our island. (Un­like one place we all know well!) Spanish and American traditions mingle, making us special and proud to be born in Puerto Rico. • 
SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 23 


• 

Uphill to Independence 
A REPORT FROM NICARAGUA 
by Joe Bongiovi 
Where to begin and what to say are two.of the many obstacles which present themselves to anyone trying to do justice in writing on the topic of Nicaragua today. You may arrive in Nicaragua one way or thinking some­thing,. but your ideas and preconcep­tions are destined to be jolted by the complexities of history, tradition, family relations, development pat­·terns and other phenomena in a na­tion trying to rebuild itself after a devastating earthquake in 1972 and the costly civil war in the late 1970's. 
After two semesters of research on Nicaragua, a summer studying in neighboring Costa Rica and a pre­vious visit to Nicaragua, I had hoped that my second trip would help to clarify my understanding of the revo­lution and the renewed civil violence which engulfs Nicaragua today. The contradictions, tensions and frustra­tions of trying to understand a revo­lution struggling to define itself, how­ever, were not to disappear. 

The difficulties and contradictions inherent in Nicaragua today reach out at you from the moment you be­gin to plan to visit the "land of San­_ 
dino." U.S. citizens do not even need a visa to enter Nicaragua. All you need is to express an urge to see and 
· to understand Nicaragua. If you go by bus, you have to be willing to wait three to four hours at the border in the hot sun while undergoing a rigor­ous bureaucratic regimen and being -scrutinized rather thoroughly. If you go by airplane, you have to be willing to change $60.00 at the official ex­change rate of 10 cordobas to the dol­lar. This is a bit of a sacrifice since the black market rate is between 260 and 350 cordobas to the dollar. 


Once in Nicaragua, one's attention is immediately drawn to the almost anarchical social patterns. Even for one accustomed to travelling the back roads of Latin America, Nicaragua is the world of the bizarre between western capitalism and third world !'evolutionary socialism. By the time you've ventured as far into Nicaragua as the frontier town of Rivas, you've seen walls plastered with the slogans of a half dozen odd political parties and organizations, Toyota pickups, Soviet Jeeps and Ladas, Swedish Volvos, West German Mercedes, East German military vehicles, Chevron, Shell and Essa gas stations, a horse cart or two and plenty of signs for Coke and Pepsi. There is no shortage of soldiers. Extremely young militia­men, volunteers and draftees mill around bearing Soviet automatic ri­fles and clad in mix-and-match uni­forms made up of parts from Cuba or Somoza's National Guard. 
Coming into Nicaragua from Costa Rica, most of the road is peaceful as you pass the massive Lake Nicaragua. It is the third largest lake in Latin 

"There is no short­age of soldiers. Extremely young militiamen, volun­teers and draftees mill around bear­ing Soviet auto­matic rifles and clad in mix and match uniforms 
made up of parts 
from Cuba or So­
moza's National 
Guard." 

J 
America, spanning nearly the entire isthmus, and connected to the Carib­bean by the San Juan River. Lake Nicaragua also has the distinction of being the world's only freshwater home of sharks, swordfish, seahorses and other typically ocean fish. 
At the northern end of Lake Nica­ragua is the colonial city of Grenada. It is the traditional home of the Con­servative elite and one of the few ma­jor cities to have escaped the devasta­tion of the insurrection of 1977 to 

. 1979. Its beautiful churches and colonial-style buildings are conspicu­ous in Nicaragua for their lack of pockmarks from machine gun and ri­fle fire and the occasional city block reduced to rubble by the artillery and f aircraft of Somoza's National Guard. 
What has happened since the July .\ 19, 1979, victory is open to much dis­pute. Many who visit Nicaragua on government-sponsored tours travel­ling in air-conditioned minibuses have one story to tell. They would tend to agree with the many hun­dreds of thousands of Sandinista bu­reaucrats, soldiers and members of 
26 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 


the mass organizations who find all of their problems linked to U.S. im­perialism and all their answers wrapped up in a neat little ball called the "historic plan of the FSLN." A Sandinista labor union (CST) official told me that Nicaragua had a work­ers' government. It didn't seem to bother him that workers lost the right to strike in the March 1982 State of Emergency and that nongovernment unions were repressed. A vehemently pro-Sandinista taxi driver explained that while the people overthrew the tyranny of Somoza, it was the van­guard FSLN which inspired them, showed them how and was now de­fending their interests. 
The opposition, however, has a dif­ferent reading of events since 1979. Theirs is one of growing alienation and frustration. Alfonso Robelo, who was a member of the first govern­ment junta, fled in 1982 to take up arms against his former employer. Robelo complained of repression against the private sector, constraints on political parties and the breach of 
the revolutionary victory. The Sandinistas had enlarged the quasi-legislative Council of State 

"Nicaragua is tired of so much war. For 160 years gov­ernments have only changed by the bullet. Now, we will fight in the civic field against this Marxist­Leninist govern­ment to avoid (be­coming) what 
Cuba is." 
from 33 to 47 members and enlarged their own representation to a major­ity. They then postponed elections for a span of five years as they gradually built up a parallel government struc­ture. It is pretty well accepted that most important decisions made in 1984 were made by the Sandinista National Directorate, often over the countermanding decisions of the Il)ulti-partisan Council of State and the Junta. 
The Army became the Popular Sandinista Army and the police be­came the Sandinista police. There were the Popular Sandinista Militias, · the Sandinista Defense Committees, the Sandinista Workers Communes and the Sandinista Workers Central. 
The army of the Sandinistas stood at 22,000 in 1981, with an active re­serve force of 50,000 and a militia of 80,000. Somoza had kept a standing army of 8,000 until the insurrections of 1978, when he enlarged the Na­tional Guard to 15,000 men. Eden Pastora (Comandante Zero), who had created the Sandinista Militia, finally 

I• 
I 
I 
i. I: 
lated their own legal provisions for an 
orderly and fair draft. Exemptions 
for being an only child, the head of a 
household, physical handicaps, prior 
service and working in certain indus­
tries are systematically ignored. He 
also said that recruits are subject to 
FSLN propaganda and after only two 
weeks of training are frequently sent 
to the fronts. 
According to the Permanent Com­
mission on Human Rights, the DGSE 
is responsible for torture and deten­
tion of political prisoners who go be­
fore the "Anti-Somocista Tribunals" 
and who are usually sentenced by 
their own confessions. Nicaragua has 
1,250 to 3,000 political prisoners and 
several hundred "disappeared" attrib­
uted to the government. While this is 
still slight by Central American 
standards, it demonstrates a disturb­
ing trend in a revolution originally 
marked by its tolerance, generosity 
and respect for human rights. 
Another major complaint of the 
people of Nicaragua is over wages, . rationing and shortages. Soup, milk, cooking oil, beans, rice, corn and 
gasoline are all rationed. Other 
things such as toothpaste, bread, 
meat, eggs and toilet paper are in ex­
tremely short supply. While rationing 
helps to ease the burden of shortages 
and high prices, it is not able to meet 
the nee~~ of the people. They are of­
ten forced to the black market. In a 
nation where the minimum wage is 
1,700 cordobas a month, the cost in 
Managua's sprawling "Mercado Ori­
ental" is 50 cordobas for three kilos of 
beans, 25 cordobas for 3 kilos of rice, 
250-300 cordobas for a tube of tooth­
paste, 250-400 cordobas for a bottle 
of shampoo, 150 cordobas for a dis­
posable Bic razor and 130 cordobas 
for three rolls of toilet paper. Govern­
ment workers and members of mass 
organizations, however, have access 
to special government stores and ben­
efits. 
Another major complaint is over 
censorship and the media. The gov­
ernment controls boi:h of the televi­
sion· stations, one of the three news­
papers and 13 of the 39 licensed radio 
stations. The government is the only 
one allowed to broadcast radio news 
and maintains strict censorship of the 
newspapers. According to Jaime Cha­
morro, General Director of the news­
p a per La Prensa, censorship has 
forced them to suspend printing. on 
30 occasions. Immediately after the 
November 4, 1984, elections, Cha­
morro and 30 other opposition lead­
"I had hoped that my second trip . wquld help to clar­ify my understand­ing of the revolu­tion and the renewed civil vio­lence which en­gulfs Nicaragua 
d ,,
to ay. · 
ers had their passports revoked and were not allowed to leave Nicaragua for a month. Officials at both La Pre­nsa and the Permanent Commission on Human Rights claimed that the DGSE had broken into their office and taken files. 
In November 1984, the Nicaraguan people went to the polls in the first open and competitive elections since 1932. The FSLN won with 63 % of the vote as 75 % of the electorate voted. There was, however, much controversy over the use by the FSLN of their position of being virtually synonymous with the state. It was this issue which led the main opposi­tion coalition, the Nicaraguan Demo­cratic Coordinate (CDN) and their presidential candidate, and former Junta member, Arturo Cruz, to drop out of the race. Another demand which the CDN made was that a dia­logue be opened with the U.S.­initiated and funded Counter­revolutionaries. The FDN, which operates out of Honduras, claims 12,000-15,000 combatants. The ARDE, which fights from Costa Rica, claims 4,000. The cost of the fighting has been 8,000 dead and at least 300 million dollars in damages since 1981. 
I asked Diputado Gustavo Men­
.doza Hernandez of the Democratic Conservative Party (PCD), who had just been elected to the Assembly, about the elections. He spoke harshly about the CDN, La Prensa and other groups which had led the fight to boycott the elections. He, however, spoke more harshly of the Sandinis­
. tas. I asked him why the PCD which came in secoi:id in_ the voting, had participated. He said that they wanted to lead a legal opposition. He felt the elections were clean, if un­fairly weighted to the FSLN, and that his party could play a positive role in the legislative Constituent As­sembly. "Nicaragua," he told me, "is tired of so much war. For 160 years governments have only changed by the bullet. Now, we will fight in _the civic field against this Marxist­Leninist government to avoid (be­coming) what Cuba is." Lino Hernandez of the Permanent Com­mission on Human Rights said, "The United States and the Russians have much to blame for what is happening in Nicaragua. Each one has its own interests, the CIA as the KGB. Who is dying? The same peasants who al­ways die!" 
28 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 





SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 29 









ism certainly had some unwanted side effects. With equal amounts of French required on all packaging, the space for English on the back of corn­flake boxes was reduced by half, and the literacy rate among anglophones in Alberta plummeted. 
By far the most influential person in Canadian history was Mackenzie King who ran the country for nearly a quarter of century by consulting his dog on matters of state. He's followed closely by Lorne Greene, the anchor­man on CBC nightly news before sir­ing three sons and moving to a ranch near Virginia City. Geography: Canada is located hun­dreds of miles north of any point in the United States, including Alaska. Its demanding climate can sustain life for just three short weeks in July. 
· Thus, in the interest of preventive medicine, the socialized health-care system each year finances a mass exo­dus of the Canadian population to Florida or Bellingham to avoid frost­bite. 
The country itself is divided into ten provinces: Ontario, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island (PEI) Quebec, Montreal, Toronto, West of Toronto (WOT), the Yukon, The Place Where They Kill Baby Seals (TPWTKBS), and Wayne Gretsky. Each of the provinces has a capital city and par­liament. For instance, the capital of West of Toronto (WOT) is Victoria, located on Vancouver Island, which should not be mistaken for the village of Vancouver which is not on Vancou­ver Island, but on the mainland next to New Westminster where the old parliament buildings are located, but 
_is not the capital, and certainly shouldn't be confused with Westmin­ster which is in London-the one in England and not the one in Ontario. I'm sure you get the idea. 
Ninety-six percent of the country is covered by lakes. The other four per­
. cent is tundra and mountains. The population is an equal mix of French, English, Ukrainian and elk. Culture: Americans tend to view the Canadian people as a group of beer­drinking, axe-wielding, overweight bores who speak with a funny accent and sperid most of their time in front of their TV's watching hockey games and Jacques Cousteau documenta­ries. This simplistic, though fairly ac­curate, description will not suffice for those Americans hoping to survive in the wilds of the north. 
The American tourist must first prepare for the shock of Canadian football, a game modified to blasphe­mous proportions to account for play­ing fields the size of Namibia. To be­gin with there are only three downs and· three quarters which substan­tially reduces the length of games, and allows for the whole schedule to be played out in the short summer season. The field •is marked in meters and the score is kept in liters. Of the sixty-two players permitted on the field at any time-all of which, in addition to the referees and cheer­leaders, are eligible receivers-thirty­four ,must be Canadian. Needless to say, coaches try to pass off American ballplayers as native Canadians but with little success. Last fall, for in­stance, Warren Moon failed to.locate Hudson's Bay on a map in the pres­ence of the league commissioner and as a result was relegated to the NFL. 

Another hurdle to overrcome is the Canadian language,a cross between English and comatose. Three simple rules will suffice for a working knowledge of the dialect: 
1. 
"Out" and "about" are pro­nounced "0000-t" and '1ah-booot." 

2. 
The plural of "beer" is "beer"; the plural of "leaf' is "Leafs." 

3. 
Canadians, suffering from an inferiority complex, crave your ap­proval on any statement they venture (i.e.: "I was walking down the street, eh? And this guy comes up to me, eh? And he asks me to bet on the Leafs' game, eh?") If this occurs, as it most certainly will, be as supportive as possible of the Canadian. Pat him on 



the head and say "Very good, son. You'll make it as an American yet." He'll be forever grateful for your en­couragement; 
One last issue remains-that of money. How much should you take with you? More to the point, what· are the ethical implications of a two­dollar bill and why does it look like the· Queen trapped in a Peter Max painting? Recently, the Canadian dollar dropped in value again, mak­ing it possible for you to go out, have a nice dinner with wine and a few drinks, take in a play and purchase PetroCanada from the federal gov­ernment for fifty or so American dol­lars. A good rule of thumb is to sub­tract t)Venty percent from everything, including hotel bills, travelling time between Canadian cities, and the number of slices in a loaf of bread. If visiting the Stratford festival, be aware that the last act of The Mer­chant of Venice will not be shown. That's just one effect of a sluggish Canadian economy. 
Unfortunately, not all questions about Canada can be answered in fif­teen minutes. Burning issues like manifest destiny and Margaret Tru­deau were not even addressed. Never­theless, I hope that with the above guide in hand, you will be prepared for the strange culture and hardy souls that await you in the magnifi­cent land to the north. 
Then again, maybe this was all in­formation that you, as an American, already knew about Canada. • 
ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
• 
GARIJ!.N 

SUf'E'I.IES • HC1JSl:WARES 

• 
HARDWARE 

• 
Sl'OR rING GOOl>S 



lfQURS-­
FREF. PARKING 
FRONT & Rf.AR 
219 lllXIE WAY. NO. IN RCSEI.A:-JD 
• 
PAINTS 

• 
TOOLS 

• 
Pll!M!llNG & Elf.CTR ICAL <;1Jf'PI 1r.s 



272-7535 
SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 31 




A FUNNY THING HAF ON THE WAY TO 
--------··--·--------· ·-------·~---,...•• c-•---·-------:-----··--~-~-----­
by Alfredo Dominguez 
.Qn coming to the U.S. foreigners have to go through many adjustments in order to get used to a new way of life. Everyday things that you've done since your childhood may be unheard of here and what you consider ordi­nary could set off a wave of surprise. and astonishment. · 
Though often embarrassing, these moments of cultural clash are the ones that one laughs at later and keeps recounting forever. So, if you ever come into contact with a for­eigner and something embarrassing happens, just remember that some­day you'll find something funny in all of this! 
As with all other freshmen, the first thing I did when I arrived here at ND was to start meeting people. However things weren't simple, espe­cially when I met those people again-no, I hadn't forgotten their names; but in Venezuela (or rather, in Latin America) when you say hello to a girl (whom you have met before) you kiss her ... on the cheek. During my second encounter of the third kind with the first 'girl, I almost got slapped! After saying hello I ap­proached her ... and she. backed off. She must have thought something like "Boy, these Latins sure are fast!" or 

"Please, I'm Catholic!" In either case, you should have seen the look on her face. It was very embarrassing and later funny for me. It took me a while to get used to this (about. four or five girls), but after almost two years of going back and forth to Ven­ezuela, I think I've got the situation under control. • 

You Kno~ You're aForeigner When . -' . •· 
.... You think "parietals" are a man~ eating fish.·. 
. . . You think a "trashed" person is a member of the sanitation depart­ment . 
. . . You think "The Super Bowl" is a bowling championship. . . You think a "throat" is someone who has laryngitis. · 
.. You hear people talking about . football and you .start debating the ·virtues of the Brazilian team. 
... Nobody laughs at your jokes.· . . On the first day of class the teacher looks troubled. You know 
he'sreach~d your name. 
. '. You think you've found a good, bargain-priced carpet and you re­alize, after paying for it, that 
.·you're still thinking in meters. 
.... Nobody understands what you're -saying in the morning and you re­alize your system hasn't switched 
· languages. · · . ,You think "pot" is what you make soup in. · . 
.. You finally find your way to a highway and all the cars are com­ing straight at you . 
,, . , . You find yourself resorting to sign 
by Reem Mouasher 
language, . 
.. You always buy "sugar-free" items because they contain sugar that you don't have to pay for. · 
. .. You.hear the weather report and · it takes you 15 minutes. to figure it out.in Celsius. · ... You never get care packages. 
. . You get a· Jetter from. home 
and everyone gathers ar9und 'to see how "neat" your mother's writing is. .· 
.. You're the only one in your sec­. tion celebrating Thanksgiving in South Dining Hall. • 
32 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 

America: Home or a 
by Sanjeev Tak 
"America, here I come!" I said to my­self on Wednesday, the 24th of Au­gust, 1983, at 4:30 p.m. as I entered Chicago's O'Hare International Air­port. America-big roads, big build­ings, big cars. Big everything and friendly people. At least this was my preconception of the United States before I arrived. Soon, I was to pass through the U.S. Immigration and Customs. "Good afternoon!" I said to this old, mean-looking guy at the Im­migration desk. Perhaps he did not have a decent lunch or perhaps it was too hot for him (it was in the upper 90's, but for someone like me from Africa, I felt at home) or maybe his 





PENED 
Lonely Place? 
wife told him off earlier that day. In any case, he was rather abrupt: "Not if you are a student!" It seemed like this officer had seen many foreign students go by and wasted most of his time by going through all their visas and documents. Well, I was out in less than two minutes and to ensure that the officer did not spoil my day, I said,"That wasn't too bad, was it? Bye!" I just knew that this country was going to be a heck of an experi­ence. 
Like all the people before me, I was fascinated by Notre Dame's golden dome, glittering away in the dark sky, when I first saw it from the bus a few miles from the University. As soon as I entered my new home, Stanford Hall, I was met with an un­expected atmosphere of friendliness. I certainly did feel at home, but little was I to know that there would be many amusing instances when I would b_e "out of place" in this great country. 
"Oh sure, we live in the trees and I even have a pet lion!" I told my new 



THE STATES ••• 
Being from the Middle East; the question I have most frequently been asked since I've been here went some­thing like: "Do you have cars at horrie, or do you ride camels?" I had been determined to be patient and answer the question very objectively, suppressing any giggles so as not to offend my enquirer. One day, it so happened that I was introduced to many people. At the end of a long humid summer afternoon, for the tenth time that day, the question came, this time from a guy named Tom: "Do you have cars at home?'' At 
-that moment, my patience failed me and I couldn't resist a sarcastic "No we don't ... I have a pet camel ~nd I ride him to school every day across the oasis in front of our tent." To my surprise, Tom still believes that. • friends who, 1 think, easily believed me when they learned that I came from Kenya, East Africa. They even thought that the sun grilled us, down in hot, equatorial Africa. Such igno­rance! But who could blame them! I knew that I would also have moments of stupidity. 
It was not long before I found out that some of my "English" vocabu­lary was simply hilarious to nearly everyone. I always thought that the phone was engaged, not "busy" as Americans would say. I thought that chips were chips, not french fries. What they called chips, I called crisps! Crackers were biscuits and I could have sworn that ·a torch was a torch, not a flashlight! When some­one asked me what would I call that flaming torch that the Olympians carried, I thoughtlessly replied, "Oh, that's called an Olympic Flashlight!" The front of a car was always called the bonnet, not a hood and the back of a car the boot, not a trunk. 
Another memorable incident was when I actually thought that a rest­room was a place where one could go to rest-you know, after eating a bit too much, lie down and relax on a sofa?!? Was I ever shocked when I found out that it is just an ordinary toilet; a "we," or a water closet in Europe, Africa and Asia. 
In conclusion, I would like to say that I do feel at home in this great university. The people in this magnif­icent country are friendly and I am certain that this makes all the differ­ence. Finally, I would like to thank all the wonderful people for their hospitality. ''America, here I am!" • 


SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 33 

"We-suggest that the name of this sport be changed to 'ovoid-punting' oi­'ovoid-throwing.' " 
Don't Play Football 
by Winston Griffin and Maher Mouasher 
Ticket is a gentleman's game played by gentlemen, rugby is a hoo­ligan's game played by gentlemen, but football is a hooligan's game played and watched by hooligans." 
-An Anonymous English Gentleman 
The nice thing about football (soc­cer to you lot) is the honesty behind the actual name. As the name im­plies, the game is played by kicking the ball with the foot most of the time. Also, the ball is spherical and handling is strictly prohibited. Simi­lar honesty can be observed in sports :mch as handball, racquetball, bas­ketball and others. Unfortunately, there exists a sport that defies all logic by calling itself something that has nothing whatsoever to do with what is done on the field of play. Yes, all ye ardent American football fans, we are referring to your precious sport! 
Given these premises, we suggest that the name of this sport be changed to "ovoid-punting" or "ovoid-throwing." 
Having clarified differences of opinion on terminology between Yanks and Limeys, we would like to go ahead and present a brief descrip­tion of football, and its competitions worldwide. 
A very primitive version of football was played in China, but it wasn't until 1872 that the ·game was first codified in England with the creation of the Football Association. (By the way, the word soccer derives from the abbreviation Assoc.) It quickly spread throughout Europe and to the rest of the world. 
The two centers of world football 

are Europe and South America. 
Europe: Europe holds three major 
competitions: 
European Cup: By far the most im­
portant. Played by the winners of the 
le~gue from all European countries. 
1984's trophy was claimed by Liver­
pool (England) who defeated Roma 
(Italy) 5-3 on penalties. 
Cup Winner Cup: As the name sug­gests it is played by the winners of a knockout competition from every country in Europe. Juveiltus (Italy) triumphed over Povto (Portugal) in last year's fin!1l l-O. 
U.E.F.A. Cup (Union of European Football Associations): Played by the 
· top team from each country not par­ticipating in the previous competi­tions. Tottenham Hotspur (England) won last year's event by defeating An­derlecht (Belgium) 6-5, again in a penalty shootout. 
South America: The one major club 
event in this continent is the Copa Li­
bertudores (Liberator Cup). The two 
top teams from each country qualify. 
Independiente (Argentina) won last 
year (for the 7th time), defeating 
Gremio (Brazil) 1-0 on aggregate.' 
The culminating footballing event 

of the season at world level is the In­
terclub final, pitting the winner of 
the European cup and the winner of 
the South American Cup against each 
other. Last year, Independiente (Ar­
gentina) defeated Liverpool (En­
gland) 1-01 thus claiming the title of 
World Club Champions. 
As you can see, football is the 

world's most popular sport. It's a 
shame that America's desire to rein­
vent everything has denied them such 
a beautiful game. • 
34 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 








ere are··no 

·'

aroos 
• 
I 


by Michael Varga 
IA7 .. . .
ltlJ m I a fool? I-ca_n't get this question out of my he_ad. I thought I was doing the right thing but ri9w that I'm so alone, left to be pounded by my own sel.f­doubt, I can't help but hug this question, lie down with it tonight, st~re at it in the darkness. Am I fool? 
We had coine to Egypt on a l,ark. Mitch's dad is a travel agent .and so Mitch can always get the best air fares. To any\Vhere. ·:We'd. already been to Australia together-where Jhe worst:thing'_that happened was one night outside ofPerth ,vhen we collided with a kan­garoo. We didn't try to hit itof course, but it hopped right in front of the headlights of the 404 we'd rented. It had no chance and neither did we·. In the darkness it had seemed to. jump up fro~ somewhere within the road itself. We decided to.carry the mangled body into the brush.. · · · · · 
It seems strange to me now.} had completely re­pr~ss.ed that incident-obliferated it from· my memcfry-yet now, after all that's happened here in · Egypt it all comes back to me so dearly. I remember that we were shocked at how h~avy the ka'ngaroo's body seemed,_-Mitch used to play footbaHin high school; he . still sports all the muscles from those days. I'm not very·· big physically, but I can benchpress 160. And so. we thought we'd be able to carry the dead animal into the 
36 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 
bush quickly and easily and get out of there. But each time we tried to raise up the body one of us wouldn't be able to hold on, the blood oozing from the flesh making our grasps always t;entative. ._ 
· · Mitch suggested. that we drag it and started tugging it to the side. We both pulled at its warm feet, but as 
. we did so its entrails spilled into the road-leaving a track of organs shining in the headlights. We managed to pull the body into the tall' grass and then gathered up the loose, scattered parts. · · · 
It was a messy scene. We drove off as f~st as we could although the blood we'd wiped on ·o.ur clothes re­.· mained .a..constant reminder of the death we'.d wit­nessed, ·the death we'd caused: And the animal's smell inside the 404 made us wish to return the truck to the 
. rental agent as quickly as we could.. We knew the smell · was on us but we both attributed it to the truck. 
· Up to then we hadn't used the VISA ..card Mitch's Dad had given us "for an emergency;" but after we un­loaded the truck. w.e went into a department store and b<>ught whole new sets of clothes (even new white un­derwear) with the card. -When we handed our stinking, sticky jeans and shorts to the clerk, he said sarcastically: "Are you sure you boys don't want . to. take. these with 
you?" · · 






As I s1id thaL,vas the. only ,ba.d thirig that's hap~ · -!irieetiipwith some "r~~ffEgyptians'' -farmers and poor •. peneci t9 us .abr,oad ...Until•.iww: Tl:i,is trip •to ,Egypt :·· women and struggling students.· He said• those. we!d met .,vasn'teven planned.. Makes Ille .yecallwhatJoh.fl. f,e.n~ • . ,. fn N.exandria were just"too Western;'. apingthe Euroc . non is supposed to havesaid: "Life iswh11:thappens.to ... pean style <>flife, ,ahyays ogeringto bur the T-shirts <>ff you~whileyou'replanning·.toclo,something elset· Egypt · --, oFourbacks>.He '\Vantedto.shake:an Egyptian farmer's ·.· Js happeriingt.<riIIe H<>;Nancl:GodJnpw~--r-never -1handand foelth~calluses h,e eamecl in his fields. That's 
. 
_ pfanned. for jt. }\yeiJt)'-<>ne _years<?ld, siUi11g)1lo11e i11 a . . .: what,. Mitch said. Ai:id the moreJ Jistenedto him the prisori)n Cairo/waitingforthe ".t\mericlln: ~Oll~uJ·~o ··,lllOre <!Onvince<.II-~vas_that wewerepassing. lifeby:-we . . show; God, am Ta fool? : .•.•. ··-. ·_··· -· .•. -.· ...-.--.-..·.·. -.-. rwerfglidiiiglhrotigh Egypt the Sllille waywe slid _>'Mitch's ,dad· had two)a,st,miri_iite ca11cellations on ·Jthrougli ourHyes !nthe US: ··•-··...• 0_. -•. ·.-.--... -.•..•..-..•· ·•··• .• ..·. 
> this chllrtere<lJourtoCairoand~he.Y;all&ofth,e :Kings.. •:.--.-· i Lcould see a•sandyexi,t·•i.Ip·.on··the,righfthat· ap-··· . -.Whenlie'offered-·tis tlle[sp9ts forfr~~-~e. copld_11'trefMse'" ••::)peared t<> b_~ a,stoppii;}g-0Hpoh1t for the cr<J\Vded -buses ·, theill;.altliougfrwe: set'it.up'"sp-that'Ne dicln'thavet<>:/< :ilthattra~eled. tb..e ro,utei/fhere :were··.~.•n11mber of .Egypc ,.fotlo\V•.theJoui:.' 011cf~e go.J ,to.qairoweleft th!ltl:roop ·<,••. jtian wo111e1f st~nding,th_ere__•.. ·. S<>IIle,•withvaHses, .. others -..,. ofster(_!Otypical -~iri~ricapJ<>tiri~ts ..\Yi.th, th~irl'<>l,aroi,ds•:·;·· ?with:biin,dles beiii~ethem; aHofthem holmng .·u_mbrel­an.cl _th.eirpa.ntsuits.•·:vve ljo~p!!d:tJ:ie gaj1ft<> J\J~Jea..ndria, . ;Jasto keep the).1ot sunoffoftheiifaces,-l told Mitch ·we 

--~:~ 


SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 39 


By Jurgen Brauer 
Round 1 
GONG 
I depressed the accelerator sharply and repeatedly, 
and the motor responded well. It had better, I thought, 
for this was going to be a long trip. An important one 
too-one I had never taken before. And so I was very 
pleased to hear and feel the motor running well. I 
wanted this whole thing to be fun, not grueling, and 
therefore I had prepared myself as well as anyone possi­
bly could have. . 
The first few corners were a breeze. Yeah, sure, they 
were a little bumpy here and there, for we needed to 
get to know one another. Soon enough I was on the 
highway which led to the other highway which led to the other highway .. and so on, until I eventually reached The City. Just be cool; have a clear mind, re­.lax, observe, don't miss your turns (so to speak). The traffic got a little more stretched-out on the highways but also increasingly fast. One has to keep up with it, I · thought, and so I did. Slowly but surely my heart began to accelerate with the engine as I took a few road bends rather harshly so as to avoid more hair-raising situa­
tions. 
For a while I went along like this, and eventually I 
felt fairly comfortable (although I knew that eventually 
we must reach The City and that that would be the 
tough part). Stay calm now, I admonished myself. 
Don't squander your reserves before you need them. 
40 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 
Don't overexert yourself (This speed though!). The closer we got to The City, the speedier it got-and that on seemingly narrower roads. And already it felt like a rather long drive. Too long. I gradually become more and more nervous, and when the 


GONG 
.came, I had just about cornered myself. At times we are plain lucky, aren't we? 
Pause (one minute) 


GONG 
The City's skyline rose before my eyes as I prepared to drive into its heart. Already its noise began to fill my ears. Its music hammered over the car's stereo and en­thralled me with its bewildering beat. I felt a little trapped, and in despair I opened the window. For a while I accelerated the car in tune with the music's rhythm; for I felt I needed to exert some pressure on the traffic myself. But my heart felt as if I had had a coffee too much, and at last I was forced to succumb to the traffic flow. Scarcely did I know how to defend myself 


SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 41 
in it, nor how to will my way through it. I felt very much reminded of the days when I was still a novice fjghter and had my first appearance on Paris' Champs Elysees which ensnared me and spit me out offside to watch the pros from under the Eiffel tower. Here, I had at least advanced to lace up with the traffic, not quite like going. under, not quite like winning, over it. Never­theless, it was still a fight which could end either way at any time. Ahl Damn it! The traffic had pushed me right into a parking lot while I was thinking of days gone by. Enraged, I jacked up the radio's volume which blasted its sound into my ears and through the open window. 
We clashed again. I had no idea how long this one was going to last, and consequently I tried to double my efforts, blindly raging through the darkening City. The lights went on and shone brightly into my eyes, hurting what I needed most-:-my sense of sight (The hearing was already more or less gone). Worse, rain set in! It slowed me down considerably. Would I ever make it across this battlefield? I began to wonder. Then I quickly used an unexpected lull to sigh heavily, getting some much-needed air into my pinched-in lungs. And now l jolted forward to give what I had left to give, and so did the traffic. When the · 
GONG 
came, it cut my effort shor_t,:preveriting me from giving my last and best punch. Now, it would be yet another round. I dreaded it. Nothing's ever over, ain't it so? 
Pause (one minute) 
Johannesburg is fast and takes one onto a fun ride if one can keep up with its pace. Paris is for the world class only. ·1n Berlin one must prove one's clever wit; and in Naples only the home team ever wins. Atlanta takes one by surprise, and Chicago is then just a piece of cake. But Prague is lovely! 
Round3 
G O N G 
I arose and readied myself. Perseveran~el The audience applauded, wildly clapping its hands and chanting songs in the heated atmosphere which perspired through the speakers with an ever ear-deafening mad­ness. The bloody. rain had halted for a moment, and I wiped its remnants-off the window screen, eagerly in~ haling the fresh scent ·and licking my tongue in it to moisten my dried~out throat. As the bot.it went on, time and again I felt as if I was losing my senses altogether. Now I was running in circles; then I was backing out of dead ends. I felt enraged by the sight of mastery before me, having no ability J:o attain it myself. And slowly I began·to settle for being pushed around-resisting with· belligerent hate but weakening strength as the gloves became too heavy to keep my arms up in defense._ It was as if I was targeting: myselfl And the blows came in! Oh, Prague, why did I ever leave you? Why must I_ go from· orie bout to another until, at last, the knockout 
shall corrte? .•. . I fell, and as I fell I accidentally hit the radio'~ t~n­ing knob;-the station changed, and it was then that the final, yet liberating blow came'. "I am leaving, . I am leaving; but the fighter still remains." The speakers blasted into my half-dead brain. "Oh, God," Tcried out in anger and in shame, "I've been aShadow Boxer!" • · 
Uurgen Brauer is an economics graduate student from · Berlin;. Germany. He says he shadow ·boxes alot with homo oeconomicus.) · · 
42 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 

QabtrteQ QatrCLa uUatrquev 


Collected Stories 
by Mark Melchior 
Before we sleep, an discovered: it is a man. angel comes to awaken 
But who is he? . 
dreams in us. The angel To whom does he returns every night, belong? They search to bringing remembrance find answers in the 
and telling those stories neighboring villages but 
that we cannot forget. none are known. Nor does When the angel is Gabriel he answer for himself: he Garcia Marquez, the simply testifies to the 
annunciated stories are mysteries of a life and 
lullabies in which, as death known only by the children and adults alike, sea. we may recognize our own His presence unleashes dreams. the imagination of the 
Collected Stories is a people. In discovering this voice speaking our dreams man of the sea, they in a vernacular that 
recover their dreams that 
crosses the borders .of had for so many years nations, the boundaries of been forgotten. He is a consciousness. If we have hero. To them, he is the 
not written the words as largest man, the _most 
the author writes, we have handsome, Esteban. They spoken them_:_or dreamt choose names for him and them. The stories resound · in doing so, identify our sensibilities; they 
themselves. They live in chronicle the desires that Esteban's Village. From 
.,
reach beyond the reason­the drowned man comes a 
able. The mythic, mystical legacy for the living, out 
moment in which only the of the sea comes an angel fantastic exists, there, through which the 
Gabriel Garcia Marquez villagers may realize their dwells with dreamers, dreams. telling those stories that 
Like other stories in we cannot forget. the volume Collected 
Like the angel, the sea Stories, "The Handsomest returns dreams daily. In Drowned Man in the "The Handsomest 
World" offers the reader Drowned Man in the an exercise in intuition. World;' a body arrives on The meaning of the simple 
the shores of a small words of Garcia Marquez' village and answers the 
prose is lost to a mind of 
weariness of a people born rational response and 
in a nameless town to logic. The intention and 
nameless traditions. They achievement of Collected 
are dying a nameless death ·stories is not in showing us 
as well, consumed by a what we do see with our 
predictability that collects eyes, but what we can see 
lives at the bottom of the by our faith. The angel 
sea. Then, the body is eludes those who shut 
their eyes too soon..• 


c__Re_su_m_e_» 



BY SEAN P. A. MCSWEENEY 
Puchica ... Como empezar? Too confused. Attempting to explain what he was, he is engaged in explaining what he is. Rather, to express what he hopes to be. The typewriter spells: RESUME JOSE MARIA GOICOECHEA MOELLER HOME ADDRESS: CURRENT ADDRESS: 9a. Calle 2-81 Zona 14 315 Harbin Hall 
Guatemala City, Guatemala Notre Dame, IN 46556 001 (502) 268-1091 (219) 283-2486 "Should I write this?" 
Something had already been written on this paper. A single piece of paper that pictured the most positive aspects of Che­ma's life. "... Y que otra ... I guess I should go on ..." 
PERSONAL AGE: 21 years old BIRTHDATE: October 16, 1963 BIRTHPLACE: Bilbao, Spain CITIZENSHIP: Spaniard 
MARITAL STATUS: Single HEALTH: Excellent "Should I give my life to other people, or should I rather take advantage of all those material privileges I can exploit?" 
"Mierda!" "I guess this will carry me into a venture for prosperity-wealth ... I just don't know why so many people argue the contrary-that I should become sensible to so many things I've experienced at home ..." 
CAREER OBJECTIVES 
To work in an international related field that makes use of my language skills ai;id cultural background. To work for the promotion of mutual understanding among nations .. . "I guess I've given my share in helping other people ... that earthquake killed twenty-three thousand people ... I guess 
we all helped each other ... Si pues ... so did other nations too .. :· Chema, as he used to be called at the Valle Verde School, wished that he had been called by his proper name: Jose Ma­ria. His classmates at all times called him by his nickname. But there were other things that bothered him .. The divorce of his parents. He wished he had forgotten about it-those many times that by mere circumstance he was caught in the middle of everything. Their anguish was still impressed in his mind. Even though he had spent his fourth year in North 
America. On his own. Finally achieving what was most important to him, a mature character, self-respect, and the mu­tual respect he expected in almost every intrapersonal relationship he had with others. He continued: 
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 From August 1981 to May 1983 
Bunker Hill Military Junior College Radnor, PA 19087 From February 1980 to June 1981 
EDUCATION Candidate for a B.A. degree in International Relations, with a 
concentration in Latin American studies. Graduated Cum Laude with an A.A. 
degree in Liberal Arts. 
* • • 


His American classmates smiled jokingly at his past. Yet Chema's past was something his family wanted him to be proud of. Cherna's mind was growing out of that immature uncertainty. His heart was with his family's, but had theirs always been with his? Why question that? 
The only reassurance that Chema needs at the moment is that he is not living for the name of his family. He knows what they want out of him, but he does not know what he wants for himself. He knows at heart that he has to avoid his trou­bled past, and thus, he will endeavor to replace those terrible eighteen years of his life with a better one.. 
Future .. . Future .. . Future? ... past 





WORK EXPERIENCE The Bailey's Inn Worked as a waiter and handyman, 
Duke St. from June to July 1982. Dublin 2, Republic of Ireland Finca El Rosario, S.A. Worked as a handyman at .a coffee 
Cohan, Alta Verapaz plantation, from October 1979 to 
Guatemala January 1980. Neither did Joao, nor did Professor Stern, or the rest of most of those American schoolmates and friends understand what the meaning of home was to Chema. 
It was a country, his land, a place that Jose Maria could call his own paradise. But then came the issue of Central Amer­ica. It bounced in his head and shook his body-open ears, unsettled stomach. What was worse were the impertinent criticisms of those who were third persons criticizing the conflict: fixing the rear sight with the front sight and targeting his national brothers and his homeland. 
"'So you belong to one of those rich, oligarchical elites of Guatemalal"-said one without any conception of what he was saying, or, needless to say, of whom he was referring to. 
I 

"I can't let these people give their own personal remarks of those things they have never lived through." Chema's thoughts would sometimes echo an insulting ripple: "Hijos de la gran pu ..." 
What did they know of terror and violence? One of several memories always lingered in Jose Maria's mind. It was probably one of the reasons why his family's name was so important to him. "Te recordas de aquel dia en que tu Tio Alfredo (Do you remember that day that your Uncle ...), the day that he was about to be kidnapped by four terrorists .. :'-the memory of that voice of his mother would always exhume flashbacks. Chema remembers that it was the one and only time that he got on his knees and prayed. 
(proceeds again:) 
ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENTS 
University of Notre Dame: Activities included: Member of the International Student Organization, International Festi­
val. Bunker Hill Military Junior College: • Honors included: Dean's List [Fall 1980-Spring 1981 semesters], Pan-American Medal of the United States, for Hemispheric Studies and Cultural Interaction 
"Who cares about my awards or achievements ... all I hope is to get some reassurance from my parents that I am doing the correct thing .. :• "Why wo~ld some be against my decision of joining a volunteer-service group? ... 
Sometimes I can't (desperation) ... no los comprendo ..." The conversation he had with Joao four nights previous to his actual encounter with himself began to resurface. Joao was his roommate from Brazil: And most important was the fact that both found themselves in a polemical discussion that demanded the highest elements of their learning. 
"Yes, Joao, you talk about the undernourished, the illiterate, the landless, but I don't see why you object to that. Life 
must not be so different in Guatemala than at your homeplace in the wealthy suburbs of Botafogo ..." "That is true, Joze Maria, but realize that there are leftist groups struggling to some power of some sort, some represen­tation . ·:' ." 
Jose Maria proceeds in writing the one particular item of his resume that justified his expectations. He stops. His head 
falls upon his hands. There is no notice of whether it is a lamented thought, or perhaps desperation. Tio Alfredo, his favorite uncle, went through an attempted kidnapping. According to the family tradition, what saved him was the Blessed "Virgen del Socorro." But young Chema's sentiment could not refuse that it ,vas the bravery of his uncle that had made him unholster his weapon and repel the aggression. Tio Alfredo was injured, and he survived. One "guerrillero" was shot. 
"Leftist bastards-don't you ever try to deal with the Goicoecheasl" That was young Chema's favorite cliche. 
·.· ·· : ~~JIOLASTIC/MARCH .. 45 .. 



"Oh well, ..."-Jose Maria murmured-"! guess I should get this bloody resume done." There is an attempt to do some­thing. But those memories of Jose Maria's uncle getting nearly assassinated by the guerrillas still agonized in his mind. Those were nine years after that incident took place! The stabbing criticism of impertinents worsened the stability of his emotions. Every time that a word was raised regard­ing Guatemala or Central America, it was hard for Chema to swallow. Trying to settle those same words in his stomach was worse. "I want to speak it out . . . but I guess I should hold it inside . . , Who would like to hear a story like this? . . . They would think that I am begging for pity or some sort of remorse ... but never ..." 
"Que se vayan esos desgraciados a la ..." A thought in his maternal Spanish. He continues again: 
Almacenadora Gursa, S.A. Worked as a handyman/ "dang! Another mistake! This doesn't go here! I can't think straight!" Jose Maria ponders. 
He takes his time. He writes: 
COMMUNITY SERVICES 
Acolyte at the Roman Catholic Services of the Church of Saint Catherine of Siena, Wayne, Pa. Helped family deliver food and medical supplies to victims of the February 4, 1976, earthquake in Guatemala. 
OTHER 

Completely bilingual (English/Spanish), French (Fair), and Portuguese (Fair). "Ya casi ... I'm almost done!" 
"Now ..." 
Meditation: 
"I guess human nature is like two hands at work;' he thought. He is finished with this pie~e of paper that will bring all factors of time into one being--:his future. "I guess the right will be my dexterous hand-but I couldn't have done anything without my left. Is there a reason for 
that? ... puchica ... I don't know ..." "One hand can do it-but the other cannot. Ability perhaps. There must be a mind that controls it-growth, body, function ... It runs the world ... puede ser. If we could only understand each other ... Guatemala ... Central Amer­ica (breathes between the teeth) . . . · ·· Understanding is the key ... Communication! If only Marni and Papa could have understood themselves ... But is there hope? Past . . . Present . . . . Future . . . and the Present will be the Past . . the Future the . Present ... Future will be ... UNCERTAIN, like this resume . . . . • 



Artistic Opportunities 
ARTS AND CRAFTS SHOW 
Deadline: June 30, 1985 
Harbor Country Ship and 
Shore Festival, Inc. 
announces their second annual juried arts and . crafts show. Work will be 
accepted in the categorie~ 
of oils, watercolors, . 
drawing, pottery, jewelry, 
fiber, woodcrafts, etc. All 
work except hobby crafts 
must be original in 
concept, ·design and· 
execution. Cash prizes and 
ribbons will be awarded 
by judges in the major 
categories of Fine Art, 
Original Crafts, and Hobby Crafts. J:wo current photographs or slides of the artist's work are required with the · entry; and if the entry is selected for exhibition; a $20.00 donation will be charged for the space used to show the work. Even if the artist doesn't get selected for exhibition, the festival sounds like a good timei It will not .only . feature a juried arts and crafts show, it will have beach games and contests, food and beverage concessions, an evening lighted boat parade and fireworks followed by an outdoor dance. 
ROLLING WRITERS 
Deadline: April 26, 1985 
Rolling Stone magazine 
proudly annourices its 
tenth annual 1985 College 
Journalism Competition· 
and offers a totalof 
$4,500.00 to the three top 
writers. Submitted articles 
must fall into one of the 
following categories to be 
eligible: Entertainment 
Reporting (profiles and 
news features'on music, 
film and personalities in 
art), General Reporting 
(any subject), and Investi­
gative Reporting (a single 
article or series of articles 
that has had a tangible 
impact on the college 
campus or surrounding 
community). Entries will 
be judged by the editors of 
Rolling Stone. Each 
entrant must have been a 
full-or part-time student 
during the school year in 
which the entry was 
published, and the article 
must have been published 
in a university or college 'newspaper or magazine 
between May 16, 1984 and 
April 26, 1985. 
. . WORKS IN WOOD 
'Deadline: May 7, 1985 

American Contemporary Works in Wood, a national competition sponsored by the Dairy Barn Southeast­ern Ohio Cultural Arts 
· Center, is offe~ing $2,300.00 to artists who submit contemporary works in wood from throughout the United States and Canada. Works may be functional or sculptural,· being the original creation of the artist within the last three years. Submissions must be presented in 2x2 35mm 
· slide form; and a maxi~ mum of three works.may be submitted for a $15,00 nonrefundable entry fee. The contest is open to all living artists. 
OLD ORCHARDS AND 
ART.·. 
Deadline: March 6, 1985 
A minimum of $3,000.00 in awards and purchase prizes will be awarded to artworks in Drawing, Graphics, Mixed Media, Painting, Photography, and Sculpture at the Old Orchard Art Festival in Skokie, Illinois. The · 
. festival is open to all artists who exhibit work of original concept, design and execution. Submis­sions will be taken in 2x2 
' . 35mm slide form, and entry fees of $15.00 or less will be claimed. In the event of sale, a 20 % commission will be claimed by the festiv~l. 
. . For more information, contact the Fine Arts people at Scholastic. 

INDIANA ART FAIR 
Deadline: April I, 1985 
The 15th annual Northern Indiana Art Fair will toss up a total of $2,000.00 for works in painting, prints, drawings, photography, sculpture, pottery, jewelry and fiber this coming May. The fair will be held on the "beautifully land­scaped, spacious grounds: of the·Munster Town · Hall;'. and.artists can'.even · park free! Entries must be · · submitted in•35nim slide form (three per entry), . and. a,$35.00 entry feewill be chai:ged by the fair. · Applicants not accepted. will receive a $30.00 refund. All works dis­played must be original, and)n the case of sale, no commission will be charged by the fair. 
ND & SMC HISTORY BUFFS 
Deadline: April 19,.1985 
The Department of History is offering $50. 00 for the best essay on the history of Notre Dame or Saint Marfs written by a · student (graduate or undergraduate) currently enrolled in:either ~niver­sity. · Concerts 

UNIVERSITY ARTISTS SERIES 
Karen Buranskas, Cello 
Sunday, March 31, 4:00 p.m. 
Karen Buranskas, Assistant Professor.of Music at Notre Dame, has been awarded many honors during her outstanding musical ca­reer. She received her Mas­ter of Music degree from Yale University under Aldo Parisot,. her Bachelor of Music.degree from Indiana University under Fritz Magg and studied with Gregor Piatigorsky. Ms. Buranskas has won compe­titions throughout the United States, Brazil and Europe. 
Faculty Violin and . Cello Recital · 
Sunday,_April 21, 4:00 
p.m. 

Notre Dame f~culty mem­bers Laura Klugherz and Karen Buranskas present an evening of violin and cello duets. Ms; Klugherz, having fravelled exten­·sively as a soloist and chamber artist, has re­corded for the Bavarian State Radio: the North German State Radio, and the South African Broad­casting· Association. fyls. Buranskas, having won competitions in the United States and Brazil, pre-· sented her New York debut in· Carnegie Recital Hall in 
1977.. 

48 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 

.·. The.. Snlte Museum of Art
··., , . , ,, . -, ,_. .. . . . . ­
The Snite Museum of Art University of Notre Dame 
Exhibitions 
GLENN ZWEYGARDT: 
Steel and Stone Sculpture 
February 17-April 1, 1985 O'Shaughnessy Gallery East 
Glenn Zweygardt teaches and is department chair­man of the New York State College of Ceramics at Al­fred University. His monu­mental steel and stone sculpture has been fea­tured in numerous one­man shows, as well as in private and public collec­tions in the United states. 
GEORGES ROUAULT: Graphics from the Muse­urn's Collection 
March 17-June 30, 1985 O'Shaughnessy Gallery East 
A selection of prints from Georges Rouault's series: Miserere and Les Reincar­nations du Pere Ubu will be on display from the per­manent collection. This ex­hibit gives the viewer an opportunity to take a closer look at Rouault's ex­pressionistic approach to art. 
April 28-July 28, 1985 Print, Drawing and Pho­tography Gallery 
This exhibition will focus on the significant Northern European contribution to graphic art from the 15th to the 20th century. Works by such major artists as Al­brecht Di.irer, Hendrick Goltzius, Rembrandt and Max Beckman. 
Nineteenth-Century Mas­ter Drawings from the Per­manent Collection 
March 3-April 14, 1985 Print, Drawing and Pho­tography Gallery 
This selection of nineteenth-century draw­ings from the museum's permanent collection will feature works by Ameri­can, English, German, French and Belgian artists. Included will be important drawings by John Flax­man, Conrad Gessner, Jules Dupre, Eugene Dela­croix, and Paul Huet. 
Annual Student Exhibition 
April 14-May 19, 1985 O'Shaughnessy Gallery East 
This exhibition presents projects completed as par­tial requirement for the Master of Fine Arts de­gree, as well as undergrad­uate and graduate student work completed in the 1984-85 school year from the Department of Art, Art History and Design. 
DON VOGL: Faculty Ex­hibit . 
March 24-Jurie 30, 1985 O'Shaughnessy Gallery East 
A selection of recent work by this prolific artist and member of Notre Dame's Department of Art, Art History and Design. 

SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 49 

50 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 
New York Philharmonic 
March 26 
Zubin Mehta, conductor 
-ttt' j . ~ l';§H ,p,v j
Joseph Robinson, oboe WOLF: Italian Serenade GEORGE ROCHBERG: Oboe Con­certo (World Premiere) BEETHOVEN: Symphony No. 7 in A, Op. 92 

~$aA1~.esW!fw1q,~
April 2 
Andrew Davis, conductor and organ­ist Alicia De Larrocha, piano HAVEL: "Alborada de! gracioso" FALLA: "Nights in the Gardens of Spain," Symphonic Impressions for Piano and Orchestra FHANCK: Symphonic Variations for Piano and Orchestrn SAIN'l:SAENS: Symphony no. 3 in C t-.linor, Op. 78 
April 9 
Andre\\' Davis, ·conductor Glenn Dicterow, violin OLIVER KNUSSEN: Symphony No. 3, Op. 18 PROKOFIEV: Concerto No. 2 for Vi­olin and Orchestra in G Minor, Op. 63 BEETHOVEN: Symphony No. 4 in B-flat Major, Op. 60 
April 16 
Zubin Mehta, conductor Daniel Barenboim, piano Charles Rex, violin Paige Brook, flute Joseph Robinson, oboe Philip Smith, trumpet MOZART: Three German Dances, K. 605 Concerto for Piano and Orches­tra, No. 22 in E-flat Major, K. 482 GUNTHER SCHULLER: "Concerto Quaternio," for Violin, Flute, Oboe, Trumpet and Orchestra (World Pre­miere) STRAUSS: "Burleske" for Piano and Orchestra in D Minor 
April 23 
Zubin i\lehta, conductor Kiri Te Kanawa, soprano WEBERN: Symphony Op. 21 STRAUSS: Four Last Songs ELGAR: Symphony No. l in A-flat Major, Op. 55 
April 30 
Zubin Mehta, conductor Gidon Kremer, violin SOFIA GUBAIDULINA: "Offerto­rium" Concerto for Violin and Or­chestra (U.S. Premiere) BEETHOVEN: Symphony No. 7 in A t-.lajor, Op. 92 
Chica__go Symphony
Urchestra March 21 
Leonard Slatkin, conductor Joseph Guastafeste, double bass (t-.lr. Guastafeste is also CSO Princi­pal Bass) BACH/RESPIGHI: Prelude and Fugue in D Major, BMV-532 WM. KARLINS: "Reflux" 
ELGAR: Symphony No. 2 in E-flat, Op. 63 
March 28 
James Levine, conductor Johanna Meier, Judith Blegen and i\larvis Martin, sopranos Florence Quivar and Isola Jones, mezzo-sopranos Giuliano Ciannella, tenor Hyan Edwards, baritone John Cheek, bass Chicago Symphony_ Chorus (prepared by Margaret Hillis) Wisconsin Conservatory Chorus (pre­pared by Margaret Hawkins) Glen Ellyn Children's Chorus (pre­pared by Doreen Rao) MAHLER: Symphony No. 8 in E­flat, "Symphony of a Thousand" 
Saturday Afternoon Opera March 16 
WAGNER: "Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg" 
March 23 
GERSHWIN: "Porgy and Bess" 
March 30 
PUCCINI: "Tosca" 
April 6 
VERDI: "Rigoletto" 
April 13 
BERG: "Lulu" 
April 20 
\\:-\GNER: "Parsifal" 
April 4 

Sir Georg Solti, conductor Peter Frankl, piano i\lOZART: Symphony No. 25 in G i\linor, K. 183 Piano Concerto No. 25 in C, K. 503 Symphony No. 40 in G Minor, K. 550 
April 11 

Rafael Kubelik, conductor BRUCKNER: Symphony No. 8 in C i\iinor 
April 18 
Leonard Slatkin, conductor Mark Peskanov, violin 

_ BEETHOVEN: .. King Stephen" Overture, Op. 117 HINDEMITH: Violin Concerto PROKOFIEV: Symphony No. 6 in E­flut, Op. 111 
April 25 

Claudio Abbado, conductor Curter Brey, cello TCHAIKOVSKY: Symphonic Ballad, "The Voyevode," Op. 78 SCI-IUt-.lANN: Cello Concerto in A i\linor, Op. 129 TCHAIKOVSKY: Symphony No. 5 in E Minor, Op. 64 
AMERICAN PUBLIC RADIO 

Bach/Handel/Scarlatti Ter­centary 
Bach Documentaries 

These documentaries, broadcast on Fridays at 8 p.m., describe the world of Bach in honor of his 300-year an­ni\'ersary. 
March 15 

Bach and the Church: The Chorale Bach and the Church: The Passions 
March 22 
Leipzig, 300 Years 

SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 51 

idle banter 

by Laurel-Ann Dooley 
To the outsider, it is the hotel/motel capital of the country, a land of endless lounges and patio bars noted for wet T­shirt contests and exotic drink specials. At once a haven for the elderly and a mecca for college students, it conjures images of sand-blanketed beach and string bikinis, intermingling suntan oil scents, surfers, and shuffleboard. 
But to the Fort Lauderdale native, the town is much more than a combina­tion condo kingdom/tourist trap. It is soft ·summer twilights and afternoons spent sailing. It is low-key marina eateries­dank Southport for steamers and draft beer, the Pelican Pub for freshly caught snapper and just-squeezed orange juice. It is "lobstering on the reef and luxuriat­
ing in the heat of the tropical sun on 
beaches known only to natives. It is the 
Christmas boat parade, restaurants trans­
formed into lighted fairylands for the 
holiday decoration competition, strolls 
across brilliant green Bermuda grass de­
livering gifts. It is the grizzled old-timers 
eating black-eyed peas and cornbread at 
Grady's. It is Jimmy Buffett, sandals, soft 
sea-scented breezes, ceiling fans, water­
ways, and bridges. 
It ·is a culture all its own-a mesh of 
flash and old Florida, down-home charm 
and fast-lane glitz. It is a palm-fil_led gar­
den city of perennials, annuals, and 
transplants, ever green and always in 
blossom. The· bloomtown of the South 
. . . Fort Lauderdale. 
t.;•. 
~ 
':' .:.1:.....
.;*;.­
.· ~ 
~,­

52 SCHOLASTIC/MARCH 

All around the world, Scholastic is what Notre Dame reads. 
, 
BULK RATE 

U.S. POSTAGE 
PA ID 

Notre "Dame, Indiana Permit No. 7 
!­






