.,, 
l , • J ', 
-, 
">', L' 
,_ t 
•,•, 
,',~'~I
•,/ j ..... < 
f:~: ,n: / J> ,\," ,, : 
•, • ~ ~ ', ' I , 1/ 
<1' 
:,,• I 
,1, •,, 
,, '"') .·.' .' , \', 
•1
j i ~. ,t;,. .'.',' 
·:l i  ·.. :1,  I , ......... >  
; .~1,'  
'i',•'  : ''  J '. : ' ;  I : ,',;  :•  

,_. O'Hare ional Airport \
lnte 

t  
Schiller  
- 
JBe~~::. ~~lside ~  
i w e ,.,, . ~ J.: ,._, "Z<-\t_;_:.-:efB~ ~'tti....--:4•~~~~.... ~"(;~~ ..~."~~ere....'-;. :--,.~ii~t~La-..,~ t._.;::r~'t..~~~~t~..t~ -__ :.,. ~~"  
McCook  
/-t  

,,,.
Chicago 
" 

... 
,,,. 
u-' ~ i . .._..,.-; ...... 
letters 
OF CONSTRUCTIVE CRITICISM 
Editor: 
Recently I finished reading the last 

issue of the Scholastic which dealt 
with the problem of relationships be­
tween faculty and administration 
and students -and administration. 
I would like to commend you and 

your staff on what I consider to be 
a very honest and courageous pres­
entation of the problem. The overall 
tone of the magazine was one of 
constructive criticism based upon a 
very real loyalty to the University. 
I thoroughly enjoyed all the pre­vious issues of the Scholastic but found your approach to the problems of our University very encouraging and hopeful after the great amount of sensationalism reflected in our other campus publication. 
Thank you again and continue to produce the fine piece of journalism that you do. 
Sincerely, 
Sr. Paula Kleine-Kracht 
237 Lewis Hall 


1'1"'UMBERS CONSCIOUSNESS m 
Editor: 
I noticed in today's edition of The Observer that Father Riehle had up­held a ruling forbidding women to live off-campus next year. While I cannot believe that such a discrim­inatory policy will be allowed to continue, I am obliged from my own anger at this injustice to state my feelings on this issue. 
No minority at this University has been treated the way that women have -especially within this past year. Black students, foreign stu­dents a th 1e t e s and scholarship 
' " I
students have never been so we ­corned" as a significant new presence which would make this a better place to be. If Father Riehle had issued a ruling forbidding any of these minorities to live off-campus (excepting scholarship students), he would be immediately accused of violating the Civil Rights Act. Cer­tain!~ such a ruling concerning women violates the spirit, if not also the letter, of United States Federal Law. In fact, when I spoke with one of the Deans of Arts and Letters last spring about coming here, he admitted concerning housing all women on campus: "Of course, it's discriminatory." 
The Notre Dame administration impresses me as unbelievably blind concerning the place of women on this campus. For me as a senior, the welcoming speeches beginning ·Jiis year were awkward and ironic --as I had considered myself a part of t.'1is University for all of my four years of classes here. The "weIcome" 
was not so welcome when one con­
siders that many female students 
gave up _ as well as gained ­
something when they chose to come 
here. 
Since Notre Dame does not offer 

financial aid to first-year transfer 
students, a regulation requiring all 
women to live on campus becomes 
strongly discriminatory. As one who 
lost a scholarship when I came here 
and is working now to pay my way 
through this year, the financial facts 
of attending school are very real to 
me -and I think to others. 
I also think that you could ask any upperclassman at Notre Dame about the "visibility" of women on this campus and be contradicted con­cerning the supposed purpose of the ruling. This year there are fewer women around campus than there have been during any of my years here -primarily because of limita­tion on co-exchange classes with Saint Mary's. However, no one can be so narrow-minded as to think that to be a part of Notre Dame, a student must necessarily spend all his or her time here. 
Forcing the few women who are here to live on campus is a sicken­ing form of tokenism. For four years I have been one of the few girls in my classes, but hopefully this is not as significant as the fact that I my­self was there. Notre Dame cannot believe itself to be educating students when some students are obliged to become symbols and not allowed to develop as themselves. The very slow process of coeducation on this cam­pus is so numbers-conscious _and quota-conscious that one quest1~ns how conscious it is of the people m­volved in this place. Although only a small number of women desire to live off-campus, this is no justifica­tion to prevent every woman from choosing where she wishes to live. People are what really will make coeducation here. 
If some people are not given the responsibilities and privileges which others enjoy, then these people are obviously being treated as second­class persons. A Catholic university like Notre Dame which stresses "commun~ty" so much becomes very hypocritical and very un-Christian. 
--Jan Reimer 240 Badin 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
i 
ana 
Americans have always had a spe­cial relationship with.Europe. It was the Jwmeland of the vast majority of our ancestors and 1nillions of us travel there every year. Even for those Americans who have not been there) the idea of Europe maintains a unique significance. It serves as a basis of com,parison for rnany ele­ments in our own culture i.e.) French wines) Italian food) English sophisti­cation. Europe has also been a major re.source for our literary imagina­tion. Henry James) Nathaniel Haw­thorne, Mark Twain and others have written rnajor works concerning Americans and Europeans. The fol­lowing juxtaposes extracts from one factual and two fictional accounts of a 19th-century American in Europe with the recollections of a visitor to Europe in 1972. It is by no means meant as a conclusive study but per­haps it will give an initial insight into whether or not our relationship with Europe has undergone some changes in the last one hundred years. My thanks to Professor John McDonald of the English department for his aid and advice during the preparation of the article. 
Still gliding onward, Hilda now looked up into the dome, where the sunshine came through the western windows and threw across great shafts of light. They rested upon the mosaic figures of two evangelists above the cornice. ·These great beams of radiance, traversing what seemed to be empty space, were made visible in misty glory, by the holy cloud of incense ... which had risen into 



Frisbee 
the middle dome. It was to Hilda as if she beheld the worship of the priest and people ascending ·heavenward, purified from its al­loy of earth, and acquiring celes­tial substance in the golden atmo­sphere to which it aspired. She wondered if angels did not some­times hover within the dome, and show themselves ... .floating amid the sunshine and the glorified vapor, to those who devoutly wor­shipped on the pavement. From The Marble Faun by Na­thaniel Hawthorne (1860) 
We arrived in Rome on September 15th but it was a good three weeks before I made a concerted effort at sight-seeing. One Saturday morning Rick and I decided to make an all­day tour. We started out for St. Peter's figuring we'd stop at some of the more important sights along the way. Our first stop was the Castel St. Angelo and standing on top of the tower, just below Cellini's bronze Michael, we first saw the giant dome of the cathedral. But we'd seen other big domes, like the capitol in Wash­ington, so St. Peter's didn't really impress us. One doesn't appreciate the sheer immensity of the building before entering, and even then it takes several visits to realize the full effect. Amazed by the scale of the space and the brilliance of the gilded bronze and marble, we wandered up the center aisle. To our right was the fifth-century statue of St. Peter. Two old peasant ladies bent over to it, kissed the toe, and set a string of rosary beads on it to gain some sort of indulgence. Their mystical devo­
.. 
-__.,it/I.·­

·:--. 
tion was strange to us but its obvious sincerity precluded any inclination toward ridicule. Nevertheless tlie contrast between the ostentatious wealth of the church and the pov­erty of the worshippers was pierc­ing. We began to look around with a more critical eye. 
After a few minutes at some of the side altars we looked for the entry to the dome. What we saw there made us laugh incredously­it seemed the only possible reaction. In front of the entrance was a ticket booth, with a little, uniformed man behind it, like an amusement park. Tickets to the dome were 300 lire ( 60 cents) if you walked; 400 lire if you preferred the elevator. The sign did not ask for a donation-it demanded a fee. Immediately to the left of the sign was a big photograph of Pope Paul, just like the picture of the President on display at all feder­al offices around the world. 
As we reached the top of the first level we stepped out onto the roof of the nave and stared up at the still staggering height of the main dome. Then as we looked down we saw it­a religious articles store. Inside an auxiliary stucco shelter in the middle of the rooftop, tourists from all parts of the world were perusing the wares: post cards, religious calen­dars, and statues. After our tempers cooled we reentered the staircase to continue to the top of the dome. There is an inner walkway around the base of the dome, and as we ap­proached the entrance there was an inscription on the wall written in plain American graffiti, "Welcome to God's living room." It seemed 
~;' :' + -~-•• ; _ ..~.--+ 
• _, ~, -+ 
• + ~ ' 
-;•: ::: -. ' 
• ~ • ,.__: + • • ! ­
--~ . 

fitting sarcasm for a Church and a world that had made such a mockery of the message of Christ. 
"My father ain't in Europe; my father's in a better place than Europe." Winterbourne imagined for a moment that this was the manner in which the child had been taught to intimate that Mr. Miller had been removed to the sphere of celestial rewards. But Randolph immediately added, "My father's in Schenectady." From Daisy Miller by Henry James (1878) 

It was an extraordinarily lovely day for the first week in January when I got off the train in Nice. My four years of high school French turned out to be useful, at least for reading the signs. Eventually I found a room for fourteen francs, a little exorbitant but then this was Nice. She wouldn't arrive until tomorrow night so I had a full day on my hands. What to do with my first day on the French Riviera? The French Riviera!-Bardot, Garibaldi, Picasso. . . . I welcomed these delu­sions of grandeur as if I alone had ever felt them. Finally I sighed to myself in mock sophistication, "Matisse will do." My mother had 
told me of the chapel he had de­signed at Vence, a small town just to the north. My anticipation was blunted temporarily by the bus ride which featured a typically meaning­less "Where are you from? Where are you studying?" conversation with two giddy homesick American girls. After waiting until they left 
FEBRUARY 16, 1973 
-

the bus stop I headed in the general direction of the chapel, not knowing what to expect, but genuinely excited to be where I was and to be there alone. En route I met a fellow sight­seer. He was French but in my happy mood he reminded me of Rodney Dangerfield. He didn't look the same but he spoke and gestured with that same sputtering delivery. Surprisingly I caught most of what he said, though my response was slow and unsure. "What is wrong with this crazy president of yours?" he said. "I do not understand what goes on in his head." I recalled read­ing earlier that morning of Presi­dent Nixon's renewed bombing of North Vietnam. Sadly I tried to ex­plain that I could not answer the question. I was ashamed to be recog­nized as an American and I couldn't defend my country-a powerful feel­
ing on foreign soil. So we walkea together, talking at each other, con­demning Nixon and De Gaulle and proceeding toward the work of art that was our mutual interest. There aren't too many tourists around in January so we entered the chapel alone. No gold, no marble, just a small white room with two blue and green stained-glass windows. Over­whelming simplicity. The individual features, color, line, and texture combined in powerful unity. Staring at the altar, I felt comforted, safe from the war and the problems of the world that had dominated our conversation. Nationalism made no sense here. I looked at the French­man-he was looking at some post cards and chatting with the nun who 
sold them. But for that one brief 
moment I felt very close to him. 
Here, as it seemed, had the Golden Age come back again within the precincts of this sunny glade, throwing mankind out of their cold formalities, releasing them from irksome restraint, mingling them together in such childlike gayety that new flowers ... sprang up beneath their footsteps. The sole exception to the geniality of the moment, as we have under­stood, was seen in a countryman of our own, who sneered at the spectacle, and declined to com­promise his dignity by making part of it. 
From The Marble Faun by Nathaniel Hawthorne (1860) 
Spring had arrived and dark, rainy, winter Rome was now preparing it­self for its summer metamorphosis. Sunlight rebounded gaily off the travertine stone of monuments and tour busses became more numerous. We all felt that unique exhilaration that comes with spring as we walked up the Corso to the Villa Borghese, a public park which had originally housed the private gardens of the powerful Borghese popes. There were five of us, and we couldn't have looked more typically American­long hair, beards, guitars, cut-off jeans and a frisbee. 
The park was lush, beautifully landscaped with Berniniesque foun­tain figures and closely trimmed hedges, but nobody seemed to notice it like we did. Old men with classic Italian features sat on benches, smoking cigars and exchanging small talk, never looking at each other but always seeming preoc­cupied with what was happening around them. We started throwing the frisbee and instantly captured their attention. They stared in won­der like children seeing their first airplane. We couldn't understand their sudden interest and then we realized that frisbees dori't exist in Italy or in any part of Europe. They were amazed. Children began to gather in groups of two or three, chattering Italian faster than any of us could understand. Finally one or two approached shyly, ""Where did you buy this?" "May :i; try it?" Be­fore long the old men and children were joined by another group of 
spectators who did~'t share their enthusiasm. Strolling couples stopped to permit the meticulously dressed Italian male to demonstrate his machismo to a spellbound girlfriend. Invariably they had no competence with a frisbee. Their mightiest ef­forts crashed quickly to the ground, delighting their younger and older countrymen. We didn't expect them to be good and we tried to help them, but they made no effort to improve. After one or two futile attempts they walked away scoffing at this crazy American game. 
Mrs. Sturgis is beginning to won­der whether Julian will not be "unsettled" by America, but I don't quite see how you can un­settle anything that never had equilibrium.... Of books there are none on this side. As for society it is as dingy and solemn as ever.... Europe has got to do some more heavy revoluting in the next twenty years, and America has a long start. 
Henry Adams to Henry Cabot Lodge July 9, 1880 
When I woke up that morning I felt good enough to be consciously aware of it. Brian had come home from Greece just in time for finals, my parents had come and gone after a mutually renewing visit, the weather was beautiful. I smiled at myself in the mirror, no loose ends. I decided to skip classes and go to some of the churches we had been assigned to see for art history. On the way out of the pension, I stopped to see my friend at the bar for a pizzetta and continued on my way past the corner newsstand. "George Wallace is Shot." I stared at the headline on The Daily American and for the first time in a long while I was afraid. I didn't enjoy the rest of the day; my thoughts couldn't escape from the idea that I would soon be going back to America. It would mean hustling for grades for the hassle of grad school. It would mean plastic flowers and artificial Christ­mas trees and what I feared the most was the least specific: turmoil. Mur­ders, rape, Vietnam, hateful rhetoric and rushing, rushing, rushing. I felt guilty thinking this way about my home, but I didn't want to go back. 
-greg conti 

King Kong is Alive 
and Well and 
•

Living 1n Philly 
On the first morning of this year, the ·ride on the subway-elevated train through West Philadelphia toward center city was a ·journey caught at the crossroads between an­ticipation and sleepy anxiety. Demi, her brother Peter, and I were going into town to watch the fascinating and renowned spectacle which is the Mummers' Parade. There lay the seeds of anticipation. Whereas Peter, however, possessed the wide-eyed attentiveness a n d early-morning exuberance that are normal fare for any twelve-year-old after a decent night's sleep, Demi and I, on the other hand, nursed the swollen head that accompanies too few hours of sleep, after too long and too busy a day. Oddly enough, our somber and quiet demeanors were truly not products of too much drink on a New Year's Eve when a goodly share of America flies off the edge of so­briety and into drunken voids. Dur­ing the bona fide New Year's Ball we had attended, Demi held only a token glass of wine. One of life's pleasures for me is a not infrequent cup of wine or whatever; yet, we had to attend more than one party that night and, since it is no mean task to drive on that night of ma­niacal highways, I kept my habit in check. 
So it was, in fact, very under­standable that after four hours of sleep, our ride on the el at the crack of ten a.m. was not a time of merry ebullience. It was a quiet ride and not so inspirational. To travel on the train before it went underground was to travel in company with West Philadelphia's rooftops of broken glass and deflated rubber balls. Dur­ing one tired, anemic conversation, Demi made the point that her pri­mary image correlation of the city was to look out from the window of the el at the countless rooftops. She had thought so much of_ the sight that she had even, at one time, painted the scene for an art presen­tation. I countered by offering the gutter as my image of the city. Gut­ters say much about the city -any city. It is through the gutters that the city sludge is washed toward the sewer. It is in the gutter that many rest tired feet as they sit upon the curb. On that morning, my head was so drowsy that the gutter related especially well to the limitations of my mental prowess and wit. 
With such thoughts, I was not surprised to find myself meditating upon what seemed to be a curious disproportion. As I bounced in my seat, it appeared peculiar that such profound celebrations were reserved for seeing the old year out and wel­coming the new one in. Who is to say that the New Year will not be utterly terrible? What if the old year had been good and one would just as soon stay with it? While my cloak of cyn­icism is seldom worn, 1972 was, after all, one of the better years of my life. I was not sure that I was glad to see it go. During the year, January to the end of December, r had made a fair amount of correct decisions and the good seemed by far to outweigh the bad. The only period of chronic darkness that transformed me into the cynic was a month before and after the reelection of R. M. Nixon. Even then, the events were so in-comprehensible that one could not safely brood upon them for very long. 
Riding into town on New Year's morning, I was not in very fine humor. My mood was akin to the irascible sentiments that wild bears would harbor as they run amok and trapped through dark sewers. This was the third day that I had consid­ered when the time most proper for celebration might be and was rather uncomfortable with the whole ques­tion. The flash of discomfort had first arrived on Saturday night, New Year's Eve Eve. By chance, some friends from Notre Dame arrived for the weekend and it was deemed an excellent opportunity to have a par­ty. One reason we had called the party for Saturday night instead of New Year's Eve was that we did not wish to compete with the oceans of other parties that are traditional­ly on the boards for the big night. The competition may have proven quite devastating for our party. Any New Year's Eve party worth the name would undoubtedly be far more rich in food and liquor than we could ever hope to provide and pos­sibly even possess a better qual­ity of excitement than ours. The decision was irrevocably made. We 
would have a New Year's Eve Eve party. Thus committed, time was in­vested to phone even the most sel­dom seen acquaintances. 
The party turned out to be a grand affair (with Mike Young of Dillon Hall teaching the funky chicken). The atmosphere was loose and there existed little pressure to have a good time. Very prob13.bly, the 
FEBRUARY 16, 1973 
psychology of the guests was that 
if our party bombed, well -there 
was always New Year's Eve. None­
theless, the fine success and relaxed 
mood of our New Year's Eve Eve 
party also gave birth to my minor 
dilemma. The question of the most 
relevant time to celebrate and the 
proper emphasis for the New Year's 
festivities-the gazing backward or 
the looking forward-offered no easy 
answer. 

By now, the train had long since entered the subway and, looking out the window, I could discern only my own reflection in the glass. Demi sat to my left. Peter was alone in the seat behind us. I abandoned my heavyweight investigations as we prepared to leave the train to then_ ascend the staircase to the surface of the street. Although Demi and I were tired -Peter alone felt physi­cally well -and we still had long hours ahead to stand on the curb watching the parade, we all sensed an air of anticipation. 
The parade of Philadelphia's 15,000 Mummers was truly great fun to watch. Philadelphia has for so long been the prey and butt of a long tradition of bad jokes that it is a rather momentous experience to be able, actually, justifiably and pub­licly, to cerebrate my affinity for the city. Even with Frank Rizzo for mayor and even with my numerous misgivings about the existence of any great measure of "Brotherly Love," I still liked the place. The New Year's Mummers' Parade is in­deed living tradition and the Comic, Fancy and String Band grandeur is 
a phenomenon specifically of Phil­adelphia. 
The 1973 parade was the seventy­third annual affair. There are three separate divisions included in the parade: the Comic, Fancy and String Band divisions. Officially, there are five Comic Clubs. It is not unusual, however, for various, individuated, "anarchistic" clowns to join the parade on their own ac­cord and march for the sport of it. 
In the Fancy and String Band divisions, the operations, by nature of their increased complexity of function, are a bit more controlled. For example, the Fancy division winner this year, receiving $2,775 from the city, was the Charles Klein Club whose captain wore a suit that depicted "Dante's Inferno." The suit itself was sixteen feet high and 1.wenty feet in diameter. To complete the scene, the Captain was accom­panied up Broad Street by ten pages dressed as devils and wearing suits of eight-feet-high "Flames." The club also consists of various brigades whose diverse entries ranged from "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" to "Cleopatra Enters Rome"; from "Spider-Man" to sundry sharply and beautifully arrayed clowns with triple-tier umbrellas. 
Possibly the most exciting, most anticipated and most aesthetically pleasing contingent, also the group which more clearly contains the roots of the Mummers' tradition, is the String Band division. This year, twenty-two String Bands marched.. Only one club can win the first prize of $2,850. In 1973, the winner was the Fralinger String Band which 
were "'Jazzmen of Mardi Gras" and played Dixieland music. Later on in the day I would wonder aloud if the method of selecting winners was by nature academic as well as prob­lematic. Every club looked good to me. This point contains the seed of what may well be most essential to the Mummer "philosophy." Since winners, in ratio, must indeed be few and also since the winning club's financial stipend is a rather paltry sum when viewed in relation to the huge expenditures of money and physical man-hours of labor, it is of great importance to note that all the Mummers enthusiastically enjoy the parade and many have said that it is truly in their blood. If one considers \\·inning first prize to be an essen­tial aspect, then the character of this "first prize" is indeed not financial. In light of the relatively meager size of the sum, the true prize must be sought in more intangible terri­tories. The honor of winning is the 
· motivating force that compensates for an entire year of preparation for a one-rlay, one-shot opportunity. 
Demi, Peter and I ascended out of the subway darkness and into the bright daylight. (At the time, I had no conscious concern with reflections upon honor, prizes or who the win­ner could be. Such thoughts arrive unannounced in secret and retro­spect.) I was still not concerned with a more in-depth examination of my rather caustic train-ride meander­ings. The · pressing issue of the mo­ment was to wheedle our way through the crowds and get a good view of the parade which, at that hour, was well under way. But first, we had a few blocks to walk. On the way down Broad Street, I was struck by the immensity of the crowd. Newspapers estimated the spectator population to be approximately 1.25­million individuals. We happened upon a great location· at Broad and Samson streets and were able to squirm our way to the front. 

On the sidewalk behind us, numer­ous peddlers were scattered selling everything from straw hats to sa­lami sandwiches. After the purchase of a red bullhorn from one of the peddlers, some insensitive child blew a coarse, loud note directly into my ear. If a peddler was indirectly re­sponsible for that brief discomfort, he could also carry the potential to relieve various species of human anguish. Since none of us had eaten that day and since the laws of chance demanded that we all should become hungry at the same time, I looked around and spied a pretzel vender. The price was listed at twenty-five cents a bag. Th~re was great dismay when we found that in­flation does not discriminate. "One bag" contained only two rather sick­ly looking pretzels. Up to this point, I considered the cultural phenome­non of the "Philadelphia Pretzel" to be untouched by corruption. Eating my two-thirds of a pretzel, I recalled the conservative regret that there is little left to be called sacred. 
We viewed the parade from an e?'­cellent location. It was a pleasing revelation to discover that many of the clubs drilled -i.e., performed the routines which the judges would watch two blocks away at City Hall -in the street directly before us .. Perhaps the two most -memorable performances were . the Original Hobo Band and the Golden Sunrise Fancy Club's depiction of King Kong dashing from behind the famous jun­gle wall to grab the "girl" from atop the altar of sacrifice. (Note: It has been no small surprise that I have never heard news of any protesta­tions from the local Women's Liber­ation camp. It seems that 1.adies are not allowed to be officially Mum­niers. King Kong's "girl" was in fact a young boy in drag.) 
The day was long. We stood for five hours and made one more pur­chase from the Pretzel Man. Un­appeased hunger and the lateness of the hour drove us homeward. On our way back to the subway, Demi made the mistake of buying a damnable, apocalypso bullhorn for Peter which could bellow loudly but not toot soft­ly. Although the monotonic notes which Peter blew on the horn were raucous and ultimately unbearable, my mood ·and the tone of my thoughts were far less desultory and much more joyous than they had been at the day's beginning. 
Let the New Year be celebrated, I thought. For if the old year was not completely devastating for me, still there were enough sour moments to leave a bad taste. Let the new year be celebrated, I thought again, for it is in the future only that hope re­sides. While I write, people still starve, the parasitic war is couched in ambivalence, and who knows how many snipers are now planning a re­peat of the New Orleans shooting of innocents in the street. Yet these problems were also problems of last year. If there is no hope in the meta­phor of the New Year, then the correlating metaphor must primari­ly be a metaphorical step from the old. It no longer seemed important as to what the actual day for a blow­out of a celebration should or should not be. At the end of this year, the gang can again choose to have our New Year's Eve party. The rest of America can have raging celebra­tions on New Year's Eve. Neither way is of any real essence. Finally, if the New Year metaphor of a new birth and, of course, a new child has any efficacy at all, it can only be di­vined in the wish that the metaphor 
will cease to be metaphorical. The hope may then become that the first baby step to be taken will be the first step toward the actual re­acquisition of a new national mood to replace the tattered rag of a cos­tume that is now worn. 
-jack wenlce­

analyses 

A Chicago Loop Architectural Tour 
Chicago seems to me, architec­turally speaking, America's most in­teresting city. From the air or the deck of a boat, Manhattan is more dazzling, but up.close Chicago build­ing is more original and varied. 
For one thing, it all started here, or very nearly so. Modern architec­ture is a Chicago invention. Most of its founders lived and built there: the straightforward engineer, Wil­liam Le Baron Jenney; ambitious, elegant Daniel Burnham; cultivated, facile John Root; inventive, brilliant John Holabird; and the great pair of Louis Sullivan and Frank Lloyd Wright. Wright trained in Sullivan's office and got his vision largely there. Which of them deserves the title of the greatest artist this coun­try has produced is a nice question. Surely it is one of those two. 
That's the early generation. They, and many others too numerous to mention here, during the period from 1875 to 1925 dug Chicago out of the Lake Michigan sand and swamp and swept away the debris of the great fire of 1871. How often a holocaust like the fire turns, or seems to as far as can be judged, into a blessing. Chicago had to rebuild and had learned to build as nearly fireproof as possible. So its architects seized on every new technology that came along-first iron then steel framing, elevators, plate glass, revolving doors, flush toilets, all the rest. Un­challenged by any such catastrophe, other cities went at a slower pace. 
But the triumphs were not merely technological. Most of these archi­tects were real artists in handling scale, proportions and textures. Above all, they knew how to deco­rate their new steel cages. Had Sul­livan and Wright done nothing but their decorative designs they would 
FEBRUARY 16, 1973 
still be known as fine artists. Begin­ning on February 24 the Art In­stitute of Chicago is presenting a special exhibition of Arts & Crafts in the United States, including some work of Wright and Sullivan, but the decoration in and on their buildings is superior to anything in this show. 
When the early generation petered out, the city's architecture got a new impetus when Mies van der Rohe moved in. Already famous, Mies had been working in Berlin, but his way of building found no favor with Hitler's Germany and even­tually he was officially proscribed. Coming to Chicago in 1939 he soon became the inspiration of the build­ing of the last thirty years. H;is Chicago legacy is enormous-four­teen apartment towers all over the city, practically an entire college campus, the great new Federal Cen­ter and many other office buildings, and numerous houses, including the famous Farnsworth vacation home in Plano, Illinois, 50 miles southwest of Chicago. Rivalling Mies' influence is that of the firm of Skidmore, Ow­ings and Merrill. Provincial New Yorkers please note that two of Man­hattan's most admired newer build­ings are by these two Chicago in­stitutions: Mies' Seagram Building and SOM's Lever House, practically across Park Avenue from one an­other. Other fine Chicago architec­ture firms include Bernard Goldberg Associates, C. F. Murphy Associates, Perkins & Will and many others. 
So, Chicago remains of paramount interest to building watchers. Of course there are fine buildings every­where in the United States, many of them the work of such great archi­tects as Eero Saarinen, I. M. Pei, Philip Johnson, and others who prac­ticed little in and around Chicago. 
New York is a fascinating city archi­tecturally, of course. So's Pittsburgh. And so's little Columbus, Indiana, where there is a fine collection of smaller buildings, churches, schools, banks, offices by famous contem­porary architects. If you go to Co­lumbus, which is about 40 miles south of Indianapolis, go on another 40 miles southeast to the beautiful old river town of Madison, a town frozen in the great style of the 1830­1850 period of American building. 
Perhaps it's worth noting that until recent times the United States hasn't done much in the traditional arts of painting, sculpture and music. We have properly looked to Europe for these. And, naturally, much of our earlier building both good and bad was copied from European models. But with modern architecture it's the other way around. European and other cultures don't seem able to handle steel very well-the new steel cage architec­ture of London and Paris is mostly tasteless and insipid. If you want to see what's best in modern architec­ture, you've only to go the short 90 miles to Chicago. 
The Loop ( downtown) part of the following tour can be easily done in 2 to 3 hours, and even if the north­side part is added it will only take a long afternoon. This tour is ob­viously incomplete and as obviously represents my personal taste. 
A convenient place to begin is the Art Institute of Chicago, which is the only building on the ~ast side of Michigan Street, in Grant Park, at the foot of Adams Street. Randolph Street, five blocks north, is the termi­nus for both bus and South Shore. Automobilists take Lake Shore Drive along Lake Michigan to Congress 
Street, then follow the signs to the 
underground parking; or stay on 
Lake Shore Drive and turn left 
(west) at Monroe Street and park in 
the slightly less expensive huge lot 
there. 
Don't miss the superb collection of 
modern French painting, the finest 
in the world, in this museum. The 
American wing is also good, but no 
better than many another. Let's 
place you as you pause coming out 
of the Museum. It will then be at 
your back, and you'll be facing west. 
Pause there for a moment and look at the splendid panorama before you, one of the world's finest at this distance. New York's Fifth Avenue in the fifties is more elegant at shop­window distance, but for the long view it's Chicago-and Rio de Ja­neiro. To your left is the fine old Railway Exchange Building, a big square faced with delicately designed terra cotta blocks on the corner of :Michigan and Jackson, designed by Daniel Burnham. To your right, a block north, are two buildings on either side of Monroe, both designed by Holabird and Roche, the 23 East Monroe Building and the University Club. Purists sneer at them because of the derived decoration, but they seem to me to have some style. 
Now, turn right and sweep the horizon toward the east. You'll see at considerable distance four new skyscrapers: the Prudential Build­ing, the still unfinished Standard Oil Building, farthest away Lake Point Towers, with its rounded four ends, like a gigantic and elegant Sorin Hall, and the apartment "building at the foot of Randolph Street, much nearer to you. Of these the only one of any distinction is Lake Point Towers, designed by Mies' disciples Schippereet and Heinrich in 1968, and the main reason for this eye­sweep is that it's so far out of the way you might not otherwise get a glimpse of it. 

Turn back now and cross Michigan Street. Hang a right and walk a few doors to the building at 18 South Michigan, whose facade is the work of Louis Sullivan (1898). Note the delicacy and charm of its orna­mentation-compare it with the inept decoration of the Chicago Athletic Club next door. 
Turn around and head south till you hit one of Sullivan's master­pieces, the Auditorium Hotel and Theater. The Hotel is now Roosevelt College, but the Theater has been tastefully refurbished by Harry Weese. It's worth the price of admis­sion to go there just to see Sullivan's glorious ornamentation, around the stage especially. There is nothing like this in the world so fine-the somewhat similar work of Victor Horta, mostly in Paris and Brussels, is simply not as imaginative. Per­haps the Plateresque decoration of southern Spain and northern Mexico comes closest, but this, executed fo plaster and terra cotta, seems heavy by comparison. Across the street from the Auditorium is the Pick­Congress Hotel, designed by Clinton 
J. Warren, which a few of us persist in thinking one of the finest hotel buildings in the world, inside and out. 
Head west on Congress Street to State Street, only two blocks, to the Sears Roebuck downtown store, de­signed by William Le Baron Jenney in 1889. Think of that date as ycu look at this utilitarian structure, no work of art, but perhaps the very first modern building, with plenty of windows for light and air set into a free-standing steel-and-iron frame. This is a genuinely important land­mark. 
Keep on State Street another block to Jackson, and turn left on it a block or so to 53 West Jackson, the famous Monadnock Building, de­signed by Burnham & Root in 1889 and added to by Holabird & Roche in 1893. This turns its back on Jen­ney's brilliant originality; it is a masonry building with immensely thick walls, like the Auditorium. Sullivan did not master the steel structure form for another two years. 
Keep going down Jackson Street till you hit LaSalle, then turn right till you come to the Rookery, at 209. Designed by Burnham & Root in 1886, and a precursor of the modern skyscraper, this building was re­modeled in 1905 by Frank Lloyd ~'right. You can see his hand in the beautiful lobby, with its tinted glass and wrought-iron staircases and elevator cage. 
Now turn back east, still on Jack­son, till you come to Dearborn Street. There before you, still only about half completed, is the vast Dirksen Federal Center, basically the work of Mies van der Rohe. C. F. 
Murphy worked with van der Rohe on this complex, but I prefer his Continental Center, a few blocks east on Wabash and Jackson. 
That takes you back east almost to Michigan Street, but now go west again, only one block to State Street, then north a couple of blocks to Madison Street. There you will see, in the Carson, Pirie & Scott store, how a great architect, Louis Sulli­van, improves the work of an engi­neer like Jenney. Note the beautiful broad windows, the famous "Chi­cago" windows, with side panels for air. Note especially the beautiful decoration over the entrance-and once again compare it with the vul­gar stuff on the O'Connor & Gold­berg store next door on Madison Street, to see the difference. 
From Carson's go north on State Street another block to Monroe Street, and there turn left to the In­land Steel building one block west. Many think this the masterpiece, along with Lever House in New York, of Skidmore, Owings and Mer­rill. Look in the lobby at Richard Lippold's beautiful wire construct, the most perfect decoration for a big building lobby I know-superior, I think, to the similar one he did for the new Metropolitan Opera House in New York. 
Standing in front of the Inland Building, look down left on Dearborn Street to the fine new First National Ba.nk Building, the work of Perkins and Will, but walk north (right) on Dearborn, to Skidmore, Owings & Merrill's fine Brunswick Building. Stand in front of this for a good look at the new Civic Center, obviously inspired by Mies though the work of others, and see if you like the Picasso sculpture. Many think it may have been well enough as a smaller piece, but that it is gro­tesquely blown up here. 
That ends the Loop tour. But let's go on. Go back to State Street, about two blocks to your right from the Civic Center, and turn left, i.e., north, till you come to Wacker Drive 2.nd the Chicago River. Look across it at Bernard Goldberg's imaginative and beautiful Marina Towers, and at Mies' fine IBM Building just across the street. But wait till you get to Michigan Street to cross the river, where you can see the Wrigley Building (designed by the same firm that did our old Commerce. Building, 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

Graham, Anderson, Probst & White) on your left, which looks like a giant wedding cake, and on your right the Tribune Tower, designed by Ramond Hood in 1924. Hood had gotten over his fascination with Gothic orna­mentation by the time he designed, for the same ownership, the Daily News Building in New York. The prize he won in competition for the Tribune Tower should have gone, many think, to the Playboy Build­ing much further north on Michigan Street, the work of Holabird & Root. 
But on the way there you pass the charming old Water Tower, Chi­cago's oldest landmark building (1867), and the controversial John lf.ancock Bldg., another Skidmore
' 

Okings & Merrill design. I am one 
of those who think it very beautiful. 
For a buck you can whisk to the top. 
Well, that ends our walking tour. You are now in Chicago's fashion­able near north side, and you can keep on going to your satisfaction
' 

perhaps as far as the now-fading hippie hangout, Old Town, about a mile north to North Avenue and then west to Wells Street. 
But, if your architectural sensibi1i­ties are still a-quiver, and there's a tomorrow or another day, you might try some further excursions. Two fine college campuses are quite close to the Loop,· Mies' Illinois Institute of Technology, 3300 South State, and Gordon Bunschaft's (for SOM again) Chicago Circle campus, 1800 South Halsted. The University of Chicago is well worth a visit, for the new Regenstein Library (SOM yet again), Eero Saarinen's Law Quad­rangle, and Bertram Goodhue's older (1929) chapel. 
You don't have to drive around to see the 30-odd buildings, mostly houses, that Frank Lloyd Wright built in the near-west suburb of Oak Park during the early 1900's, for they are mostly close together. His home and studio are at 428 For­est A venue and a list of his other Oak Park buildings may be had from the Chicago Public Library. Bear in mind that most of these are very early designs, not the work of the mature Wright you know. That is best seen in Robie House, 5757 South Woodlawn, near the University of Chicago. 
Professor Thomas Stritch 
Acting Chairman of the American Studies Depart­ment 

Chiculture 
To acquire insight into the pos­sible existence of a Midwestern re­gional culture, Notre Dame's Ameri­can Studies Department is conduct­ing an exploration of the Midwest's largest city entitled: Chicago: Stud­ies in a Regional Culture -1811­1920. There are twenty students in this major seminar taught by Mr. Thomas Schlereth. The objectives of the seminar are trifold: -To acquire insight into the possible existence and relationship of a re­gional culture (Chicago and the ~Vlid­west) and the natfonal culture. -To apply the methodology of var­ious disciplines (history, architec­ture, literature) toward understand­ing the origins, development, and consequences of the cultural move­ment often called the Chicago Ren­aissance. -To gain expertise in the interpre­tation of diverse source materials and cultural artifacts by studying in depth a segment of the American cultural experience in a specific geo­graphical area and time period. 
The question may be asked: Are there regional idiosyncrasies attribu­table to a unique Midwestern cul­ture? This is one of the many ques­tions the seminar will be asked to answer during the semester. Mr. Schlereth believes that in the time span the class is looking at, 1878­1920, a unique culture does exist. Seminar participants are researching its chraracteristics in Chicago's ar­tists, architects, journalists, poets, politicians, and musicians. 
One of the highlights of the semes­ter is "An evening with Ben Hecht" featuring Mr. James Sullivan of Chi­cago's New American Theatre. On February 27 in Notre Dame's Wash­ington Hall, Mr. Sullivan will pre­sent his interpretation of the wit and intelligence of Ben Hecht-journal­ist, raconteur, and general jack-of­all-trades, in a show recreating his exploits as a gutsy newsman who ''.invented" news when actual events failed to match his imagination. One of the stories ran under a seven-col­umn front page headline and des­cribed an earthquake in Chicago. Hecht and his friends dug a fissure on a beach to add to a realistic touch to the story. His imaginative news stories ended when the paper ran a story and picture of a "runaway princess who chose love over the crown" and the princess was recog­nized by the publisher as one of Chi­cago's best known prostitutes. 
During the semester each student, in collaboration with a colleague, will prepare and be responsible for a class presentation, demonstration, or panel discussion dealing with an aspect of Chicago. Mr. Schlereth has opened the door to the wealth of cultural materials available to sem­inar participants at the major his­torical research centers for study of Chicago. Seminar participants will be encouraged to utilize these facili­ties-Chicago Public Library, '!'he Newberry Library, Chicago Histori­cal Society, University of Chicago, McCormick Historical Association, Burnham Library, Art Institute and others. 
-ann arbour 

LAMPOON HARPOONED
week in distortion 
Recently missing from the shelves 


SCIENTIFIC l\lETHOD HELPS WITH SCORING 
of the infamous Huddle: The Na­tional Lampoon. Perhaps things aren't so bad in Larnpoon Central, though. After all, Playboy received that honor several years ago and look how its readership soared. 
ALL ANll\lALS ARE EQUAL ... 
A couple of weeks back, Father 

Riehle projected that Farley and Breen-Phillips combined would hold 450 ·women instead of the present 475 men. 
By means of our trusty slide rule we calculated that one man is equal to .95 of a woman in the eyes of the A<lministra tion. 
If you feel like you're only half the man you used to be you're off by 45%. . . 
PHILOSOPHY 
Back in tlie dorm we formulated a statement that could do for philoso­phy what Newton's laws did for 
. physics. It takes care of the Problem of God, the Problem of Existence, the Problem of Self and the Problem of the Other, not to mention Prob­lem 3 on the last Chem Quiz. It goes like this: 
If it is, so what? If it isn't, there's nothing you can do about it. 
We also humbly submit our proof that beer is better than God. Noth­ing is better than God, right? Well, 
beer is better than nothing, so ....
SLC (Scientific Leadership Coali­• A better male-female ratio in tion) leader Michael Carl Goetz is science programs. "With the aca­back in the headlipes again. The stu­demic pressure science majors.have 
l\lISSAPPREHENSIONS 
dent leader noted that "Notre Dame to cope with, it's a wonder anyone is a place with two totally different has managed to stay in the College The Security Department has an-cultures, the A-L culture and the of Science," Goetz noted. nounced another goodie: Groups of scientific culture; it should provide a The SLC leader concluded by say.: more than three women may request social life for both of these groups." ing that, although he is proud o.f his an escort from the Security Depart­
Goetz also had a few more de­affiliation with Notre Dame, he does · ment if they put in a request more mands he wished. to add to the list not want. the tension of the "Notre . than fifteen minutes ahead of time. of grievances he released ,last semes­Dame Stereotype" hanging over him. · Of course there will be few such re­ter. Among his new requests were: "Not everybody at Notre Dame can quests, since groups. of more than 
• The establishment of an off­play football," he added. "Somebody three girls do not usually need es-campus "science house" where sci­.has to keep score." corts; ence students·could experiment with 
. pair bonding and perhaps strike up· 
A THOUGHT FOR. THE WEEK 
some "simple ·linear relationships." 
SHORT AND PITHY
• A course in contributions of sci­_____________.,;,_~-. ·Perhaps the whole Lewis Hall af­
.entists to society as part of the re­Our favorite quote of the week; -· fair could be written off as a miss-quired curriculum. from Cathy Kelly: "No." apprehension. That's punishment. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 


the windy city 



Unwind 
in Windy City 
This article is aimed at introducing new points of interest in the city. Unlike. other urban centers, such as New York, New Orleans, or San Francisco, Chicago is a city that hides her treasures. It seems that, perhaps, they ·are hjdden even to the natives as many Chicagoans 
· themselves are unaware of unexplored eating houses, museums, gardens, cultural events and others. 
The focus is essentially geared towards things to do in areas of eating, social life, museums, zoos, and cul­tural events. 
Historically, Chicago is a city of neighborhoods, ethnically orientated ·and· seemingly locked within boundaries outlined by streets, parks, or train tracks. Name the ethnic group an_d most probably there will be a neighborhood associated wit~ it. 
Politically, the Democratic machine has thrived on this principle. The reinforcement of ethnic areas, thus retaining security for tho_se areas, has enabled the party to· thrive. and remain a self-perpetuating force. Other reasons are political patronage and general American politics at its best-avoiding the issue head on. Prob­lems of the city are given immediate solutions that lack long-term tenacity. 
· Yet, this should not scare the visitor. The city works. Garbage is collected, streets are cleaned, major strikes are averted, in · general, problems or strikes of the city are either worked into the facade of the present situation or used for political expediency. People remain content as long a,s their lives remain unchanged. 
The city presently offers itself as an ever-growing organism see:mingly hung up on its number-two com­plex. Growth in the Loop has· been unprecedented except possibly · since Mrs. O'Leary's cow -caused the great Chicago fire resli~ting in Chicago's entry into the big time. When the Sears building is completed, Chi-town can claim the tallest building in the world. 
Getting into the city offers no problem with or with­out a car. For the big time,· you cari charter a flight from St. Joseph :County Airport straight to Meiggs Field and from then~ taxi into the Loop. Or consider flying the friendly skies of United into Midway or O'Hare and from there hopping on the limosine into the illustrious Palmer House in the center of the Loop. By land, the Greyhound Bus Company offers excellent scenic, cruises straight to the Loop ( exactly across from City Hall) on a daily service. By rail, the South Shore, (they'v~ mo_ved the South Bend station somewhere near the Bendix.plant),, will take you within one block of Marshall Field or the. Art Institute. 
Without a doubt, .the best manner to experience a trip to Chicago is driving and playing Meille Borne into the city by way of its expressways. Two routes seem to offer their. own separate visual delights. (If the auto­mobile has FM stations· then turn to WLS, WGLD, WMAQ or WSDM; if AM is in the dashboard then don't bother to turn on the radio unless you haven't heard a radio station in years.) 
Route one, completely free of tolls, is established by following route 20 to Michigan City; there it runs into Interstate 94. Follow 94 until it veers at almost a right angle to the right onto the Calumet Expressway pro­
. ceeding north; As that road reaches 103rd Street it will automatically run into the Dan Ryan Expressway, other­wise known as the world's largest, widest road and a 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

marvel of urban planning under Democratic auspices. (When driving on this pretend you have no rear win­dow and be careful of turns as radar cars quietly wait for speeders. Don't worry though; the traffic, at large, is usually over the speed limit.) Stay to the left lanes after 43rd Street (before that you'll be in the local lanes) and·watch for signs stating Lake Shore Drive. This segment of road seems as though it will take you into the lake, but it doesn't. Obviously. Instead it turns north again, running by McCormick Place (the new one) on the right, Soldiers Field and the Field Museum on the left, and on the right again Meiggs Field, the Shedd Aquarium, Adler Planetarium and the Burnham and Monroe Harbors. Looking towards the north to the Navy Pier and right is a Miles van der Rohe-inspired Lake Point Tower. The driver of the car may see all of this splendidly, and on the left, if you haven't noticed, is the skyline of the Loop. 
Parking there is your problem. Best bet is offered in Grant Park undergrounds or private lots in the Loop. But be careful if you want your car in one piece when you return. Or if you have California plates and you're graduating, why not overpark; the most they can do is give you a ticket. 
The other route is taking the Indiana Toll Road to the end (on the Illinois frontier), over the Chicago Skyway and either heading into the Dan Ryan again as formerly directed, or getting off at 79th Street and taking Stony Island north till it connects with Lake Shore Drive somewhere around Jackson Park. There at 55th (or 57th) is. the Museum of Science :md Industry and nearby is the famed center of learnL,g, the Uni­versity of Chicago, located next to the famed Robie Home of Frank Lloyd Wright. 
Sight-seeing by air-Sky Harbor-Northbrook, 30­minute flight in a 4-passenger Cessna over Northwest­ern University, Bahai Temple, Wilmette Harbor. $3.45 per person in groups of 3. CR 2-4000. Howell Field­13202 S. Cicero. Call for information. FU 92231. 
Sight-seeing by bus-Chicago Gray Line offers tours by air-conditioned bus to North or South Sides, $3.50. Four-hour tour of entire city, $6.00. Children 5-12 ride at half fare. Daily. 738-2900. 
Sight-seeing by boat-Boat sight-seeing_ available.on the MERCURY SCENICRUISER, south side Michigan Avenue Bridge at Wacker Drive (DE 2-1353); the Wen­della Streamliner, north side of Michigan Avenue Bridge at the Wrigley Building (337-1446); SKYLINER, at State and Wacker (236-9717) ; Shoreline Marine, dock at Shedd Aquarium (days), Buckingham Fountain (eve­nings) (HA 7-2900). 

PLACES TO VISIT AND SEE 
ART GALLERIES DOWNTO\VN 
American Academy of Art Gallery, 10th floor, 220 S. State Street. 
Circle Gallery, Ltd., 108 S. Michigan. 
Illinois Arts Council Gallery, 111 N. Wabash, room 
1610. Kenneth Nebenzahl, Inc., Rare original American historical prints. 28th floor, 333 N. Michigan. 
Tie One On, Located at the Macrame and Weaving Supply Company. Exhibits works of the same field. Room 403, 63 E. Adams. 
\Vabash ~~ransit Gallery (school of the Art Institute of Chicago) 2nd floor, 218 S. Wabash. 
Aiko's Galle1·y, Japanese, 714 N. Wabash. 
American Society of Artists, Inc., 737 N. Michigan. 
The Arts Club of Chicago, 109 E. Ontario. Artists Guild of Chioago, Inc., 54 E. Erie. Arts International-Le Garage-modern. 58 E. Wal­
ton. Benjamin Galleries, contemporary graphics, Suite 318, 900 N. Michigan. 
The Carlsan Gallery, Handwoven contemporary Aubusson tapestries and wall hangings. 226 E. Ontario, Deson-Zaks Gallery, Modern, contemporary, 226 E. 
Ontario. Distelheim Galleries, Contemporary and modern. Suite 6E, 67 E. Oak. Fairweather Hardin Gallery, Contemporary, 101 E. Ontario. 
Galleries lUaurice Sternberg, 140 E. Ontario. 
The Paper Gallery Museum and art gallery posters. 223 E. Ontario. 
Shop for Prison A.R.T. The non-profit gallery is de­voted exclusively to the work of inmate artists across the U.S. and Canada. Prices range from $1-$150. 72 E. Oak. 
Van Straaten Gallery. Posters and art, 646 N. Michi­gan. 
Michael \Vyman Gallery, 233 E. Ontario. 
Phyllis Kind Gallery, 226 E. Ontario. 
GARDENS 

Lincoln Park. The main, formal garden, with St. Gaudens' and Mac Monnies' fountain and the Schiller Statue; the rock garden of plants and annuals and some unusual (for Illinois) trees; and the grandmothers' garden; perennials and annuals, including yarrow, meadow rue, milfoil, and Mexican torch. 
Grant Park. The rose garden in the Versailles Style (beds and grass panels with appropriate statuary and fountains), lighted at night and in view of the Bucking­ham fountain; the formal court of Presidents, origi­nally supposed to enstatue all the Presidents but, to date, only St. Gaudens' seated Lincoln is here. 
Jackson Park. Perennial garden, a sunken lawn with stone-wall terrace, planted for the three flowering sea­sons. (59th and Stony Island Ave., the east end of the Midway Pliasance, south). 
Lincoln Park Conservatory. Covering 3 acres, this landmark of flora and fauna ranks among the best of horticulture centers of the world. Rooms devoted to all types of plants. Lincoln park near Fullerton. 
l\lUSEUl\lS 
Chicago Fire Academy. 558 W. DeKoven St. 744­4728. Tours of firefighting training. Call for specific time. 
Adler Planetarium and Astronomical Museum. East of the Shedd Aquarium and Field Muse, 1m. 922-4488. Cost: free admittance; however, Sky Shc•ws are $.75 adults and $.35 for the kiddies. This place, over the years, for some reason or other has increased in popu-
FEBRUARY 16, 1973 
see ultra-violet paintings of a solar eclipse 
larity. See: astronomical, navigational, and mathemati­cal instruments; astrolabes, sundials, armillary spheres, telescopes, calendars, and measuring devices. See: ultra­violet paintings of a solar eclipse, the Andromeda galaxy, meteorites, numerous temporary exhibits and (in the summer) demonstrations of the coelostat. The Sky Show is definitely****· 
American College of Surgeons, 55 E. Erie. 664­4050. The history of medicine. · 
Art Institute of Chicago. Adams and Michigan, 236­7080. If time warrants only one place to visit in the Windy City, this is the place. Of particulc1r interest is the museum's collections of Impressionists, Renaissance Period, and Oriental (Far East) periods. Masterpieces may be noted in artists such as El Greco, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Seuret, of course, Picasso and many others that deserve mention. One should also take the time to view the Medieval Room, the Thorne Miniature Rooms, the Primitive Art Gallery, the Photography Gallery, the Graphics Gallery and the Morton wing of twentieth-century art. 
Balzekas l\lusuem of Lithuanian Culture. 4012 S. Archer. Free. Generally a museum noted for the ethnic group's arts and crafts that influenced much of the art of Europe. A good place for studies in Lithuanian cul­ture. 
Chicago Academy of Science, 2001 N. Clark. 549­0606. An old place depicting the history of natural science with an emphasis on Illinois. 
Chicago Historical Society. North and Clark. 642­4600. History freaks will enjoy the displays of the "Chicago story" and "Lincolniana." 
DuSable Museum of African American History. 3806 
S. Michigan. 624-8121. Devoted to the history of well­and not so well-known black Americans. Especially noted here is the fine collection of African Art and Art by black Americans. 
Field Museum. Lake Shore Drive and Roosevelt. 922-9410. Admittance fee, but well worth the effort and cost. Essentially a museum of art for when does one 
divide the line between the formal and "applied arts"? 
The Arts and Crafts Movement was established long be­
fore Rosetti and Morris' time; indeed here is recorded 
a unique history of woven cloth, decorated paddles, 
tools, furniture, and other artifacts. Outstanding among 
these collections are the American Indian and primitive 
art sections. And, of course, don't miss the dinosaur 
eggs, the bone constructions of prehistoric animals and 
man and mummies. For the campus room one may buy 
a lovely metal dinosaur. This is definitely a place to lose 
your mind in and re-create past segments of natural 
history and anthropology. 
Hull House. Halsted St. and Polk St. This home, 

given to Jane Adams by the Hull family, was orginally 
a farm. Now this elegant little mansion fits in like 
blackwall tires on a Cadillac as it is surrounded by the 
Union Building and the University of Illinois at Chi­
cago. See it to believe it. 
l\laurice Spertus Museum of Judaica. 72 East 11th 

St. Not open on the Sabbath and Jewish holidays. Col­
lections of manuscripts, religious art objects, and cere­
monial art. For the scholar and the casual viewer. 
Morton B. \Veiss l\luseum of Judaica. 1100 Hyde 

Park Blvd. By appointment and after services. Unlike 
the Spertus Museum this concentrates on Persian art 
of the same categories as above. 
Ling Long Chinese Museum. 2238 S. Wentworth. 

225-6181. Before taking that summer trip to China, 
learn about the Chinese culture at this fine institution. 
See: the great monad, discovery of fire by Sui Jen, the 
great flood of 3000 BC and flood-control engineering, 
opium in China, the Great Wall, and others. 
l\luseum of Contemporary Art. 237 E. Ontario. 943­7755. 50c. A museum that exhibits "current ideas rather than a repository for recent art." For the place to see "the b,;st that is created today, regardless of medium or locale" this is it in Chi-town. Once the place was wrapped entirely under canvas. The building is six stories high. 
·Museum of Science and Industry. Lake Shore Drive and 57th Street. The Industrial Revolution has made it­self a museum to industrial research. See industrial landmarks as they made social, cultural and economic history. Most significant are the coal mine, the German U-Boat, the Nickeloqeon, steam trains, antique cars, Paul Bunyan, more antique cars, railroads, a pumping heart, gigantic washing machine and others. This is the play as you see museum. All along the line one gets the chance to prove his intellectual and trivia powers by answering questions, pushing buttons, answering tele­phones, and generally taking part in the celebration of industry's museum. 
Oriental Institute. U. of Chicago, 1155 E. 58. 643­0800, Ext. 2471. The presence of this institute is quite overwhelming. One is offered the chance to study the antiquities from Egypt, Turkey, Libya, Iraq, Iran, Israel, Syria, Jordan and others. The reason for the term "oriental" is that it was used before the more recent term "Near East." 
· Polish l\luseum of America. 984 Milwaukee. 384­3352. Before taking that summer trip to Poland, learn about the Polish culture at this fine institution. Polish folklore, crafts, art, archives, technology, and areas de­voted to Paderewski, Kosciuszko, Pulaski, Helen Mod­jeska, Marie Sklodowska Curie, Copernicus and others. (Someone told me they have an antique Skidoo here.) 
Shedd Aquarium. Lake Shore Drive and Roosevelt. 
939-2426. The world's largest aquarium that isn't just 
devoted to raising guppies and black mollies. Rather it 
has amassed some 7500 specimens of 350 species. 
Here is offered a srnall listing of Chicago's eating places, selected with enough variety, we hope, to satisfy m~st any appetite on a Windy City excursion. Not all of the restaurants have been staff-tested, but we've had recormnendations on all of them to rnake us think they're worth a try. 
Dill Pickle, 26 Van Buren Street, is a friendly delica­
tessen and pub, with pickles and sandwiches for cheap. 
Submarine Village, 213 S. Wabash, specialize in the 
sandwich of the same name. Lots of students and sand­
wiches for about a buck. 
Char-Lite is across from the Peoples Gas building at 67 E. Adams and serves three meals a day to a mixed clientele of students, businessmen, and people in general. 
Golden \Vay Snack Shop is at 74 East Jackson Boulevard, with soup and sandwich for about a dollar. 
Jolly Chefs are at 17 N. Wabash, 227 W. Jackson, and 10 S. LaSalle. There's a quick order place upstairs at the Wabash location with big hot sandwiches and beer for a quarter. 
Blackhawk is an expensive place where you can find the businessmen of Chicago meeting for lunch. There's a cheaper place downstairs with students in it some­times where you can get hot sandwiches and drink beer for substantially less money. 
Shanghai, at 406 S. Cark, has enough Chinese food to fill you up for little enough money to make your wallet happy, too. Also Philippine dishes. 
\Vimpy's has a Chicago location on Wabash with daily specials and a cheap menu. 
The Berghoff is a classy restaurant at Adams and Wabash with meals around two bucks. They're proud of their German dishes, and the old wooden rooms ancl well-dressed clientele make for quite an atmosphere. 
Kramer's Health Bar is on Adams, about two blocks from the Art Institute with celery juice, yogurt, and the regular health fare, if you want it. 
The Beef ;pub is on Wabash and has giant half­pound hamburgers and scratch pizzas. Quick service, good, tasty food. 
l\larshall Field's Department Store at Wabash and State has, count 'em, seven restaurants, and mostly on the seventh floor. The Walnut Room has roses, silver, music, and a lot of lady shoppers; in the Veranda Room, you can get a full meal for a buck and a half. There's a gourmet foods department and a bakery on Marshall's seventh floor, too. 
Carson, Pirie, Scott have a good ice cream parlor on their third floor, with old-fashioned decor and good ice cream. (Also on Fridays take note of their smorgas­bord lunche,m-cheap.) 
Fannie Jtlay Candy St.ores are all over the Loop in case your sweet tooth gets to bothering you. 
marshall field's has seven restaurants--­mostly on the seventh floor 
University Snack Shop on North Wabash is a good place with a large menu and low prices, as_ is Nick's Snacks, 16-18 E. Jackson Boulevard. 
The Stop & Shop is a grocery store at the corner of Washington and State with all kinds of gourmet and imported foods and a large candy department . and bakery. . 
Geja's at 340 W. Armitage has wine and cheese 
until two a.m. It's a fine place, recently moved from Old 
Town. 
·Gennaro's is a home-style Italian restaurant at 1352 
Taylor. Look for the specialties every night that aren't 
on the glorious menu. _ Ann Sather's, 925 Belmont, has· Swedish and Scandi­
navian specialtie~, as does the nearby .Quiet Knight. 
Both eateries are near the Belmont L stop. The heart 
of the Chicago Swedish population, and several more 
fine Swedish restaurants, lie in the N. Clark area 
around 5400, and over to Foster and Darnen Avenues.· 
Greek Islands at 766 W. Jackson is another place in 
which to forget the twentieth century and relive an Old 
.World feast. It's in the back of an old grocery store,· 
hung with beads and with the kitchen showing it makes 
for that quaint rustic atmosphere. Noted are the Greek 
specialties from octopus to souvlaki. 
. Parthenon is at 314 S. Halsted, in the same area as 
Greek Islands and Diana, with fine food at prices a_ bit 
higher than the other two; how~ver, that shouldn't of­
fend anyone's budget since they· ~re· all reasonable. 
Naniwa has some of the best Japanese_food in Chi­
cago. It's at 923 W. Belmont, next door to the Swedish. 
delight, Ann Sather's. · ·. · 

Grandma's Recipes, 2837 N: ·Clark;· is hung with . 
Tiffany lamps and serves.solid American.food (chicken 

and dumplings and apple pie) in-giant servings.--.Take· . 
note of the Sunday Brunch. _ 
\Vhite Eagle, 3724 N. Clark. 327-2226.·Serbian;_Spe­
cialties that run the Balkan gamut-even: to·"Turkish 
coffee. 

Le Bordeaux, 3 West Madison. French. The Loop's .. 
only authentic French :restaurant. Reasonable for lunch.· 
Sophie's Ukrainian American, 2132 w~ Chicago. Ask 
for Sophie to serve you. 

Alice's Revisited at 950 W. Wrightwood has ~usic_ · 
and blues singers besides food and drink. Informal and': ­
cozy. 
Gran Colombia at 3908 N. Lincoln specializes in Colombian food and has a special weekend menu. Also look for El Inca and Pique for good food in the Peru­vian style. 

Bowl and Roll at 1246 N. Wells is at the gaudy end 
of glorious Old Town· and specializes in spooning out 
soup for a buck and a half. · 
Grecian Restaurant at 2423 W. Lawrence has honest 
Greek food in the afternoons. 
Delphi is nearby at 2659 W. Lawrence with the same 
kind of food. Both places ruri about. two dollars for a 
main dish. It's not a bad idea to order ala carte in most 
Greek restaurants; the portions are usually larger. 
Bratislava is at 2527 N. ·Clark and serves Czecho­
slovakian dishes. The place isn't as large as the South 
Dining Hall, only about forty seats or so, so weekday 
nights are your best bet if you want a place to sit. 
· Schwa.hen Stube at 3500. N. Lincoln hat· deutsches Essen und Bier on tap. Open 'til one on Friday and · Saturday. 
Sam Mee at 3370 N. Clark is an oriental restaurant 
with food a bit spicier than the usual Chinese or Japa­
nese fare. Korean Pagoda is in the same area at 2834 N. 
Broadway with excellent food for.a: "rittle" more yen. 
Hubertus at 2305 N. Clark. Czechoslovakian. Charm­
ing and quiet is the setting-enjoygram_ma-like cooking 
in this seven-table restaurant. 
Mamma Lena•~-24 E. Chicago. Sicilian .. Seating 
twice a night by reservation only. No liquor, bring 
your own wine. No menu, a party every time. 
La Cucina Italiana di Mamma Lena. Siciliana. 
Prendera prenotazioni due volte a notte. Senza liquori; 
porta il vino. Senza il menu, una festa tutte notte! 
Mandar-inn, 2130 S. Wentworth. Mandarin. Come 
here for a Nixon-Chou banquet running $100.00 per 
table, serves ten. (Peking duck). 
Pizzeria Uno E Due, 29 E. Ohio and 609 N. Wabash. 
Italiant Save your appetites all day for the pizza at 
these grotto-like places. 

..·. · THE SCHOLASTIC 

·America, 1871-1920: A View from Chicago 
.«How I wish I could go to America-if only. to see that CHICAGO!"-Prince Bismarck to General Philip Sheridan (1870) , 
Among the twenty-seven million people who went through the turnstiles at the World's Columbian Exposi­tion held at Chicago .in the summer ~f 1893 was the historian Henry Adams. In fact, the Fair so intrigued Adams-··he found it "a matter of study to fill a hundred years"-that lJ,e went back a second time especially to ·· decide on Chicago's relationship to the rest of fin de siecle America. In Adam's .estimate, "Chicago asked in 1893 for the first time the question.whether the Ameri­can people knew whe.re they-were driving." Adams admitted that he did not know but when he sat down in · the shadow of Richard Hunt's French Renaissance dome 
· he could not help but brood, much-like his idol Edward Gibbon had mused over the direction of Roman civi­lization, whether: the American people "might still be driving or drifting unconsciously to some point in thought; as their solar system was said to be drifting · towards· some point in space;·and that, possibly, if rela­tions enough could be observed, this point might be 
. fixed." · · In attempting to understand the emergence of mod:. . . ern America in his owri lifetime, Adams did eventually find '.'the point in thought" that his restless but monistic mind sought so desperately. As all readers of his unique autobiography know, Adams lingered among the West.: 
•inghouse and Edison dynamos at Chicago, concluding · that they "gave history a new phase" and causing him to· employ them as 1.he symbol of the chaotic modern "multiverse"· he saw replacing the medieval universe 
. • which had· centered in the virgin of Chartres. 
Had Henry Adams .the historian not ·evolved into Henry Adams the philosopher of history, he might have looked at Chicago as a symbol of modern American history. That is, given his historical perspicacity, he might have appraised the city and its development with the imaginative breadth he had once displayed in his classic single-chapter survey of American life in 1800 in the nine-volume History of the United States Dllring the Administrations of Jefferson and Madison. He could then have read Chicago's history from the 1870's to the 1920's as a striking microcosm of the political, economic, literary and artistic developments happening in· the nation at large. 
In. economic development alone Adams could not avoid the conclusion that the striking and in a sense quintessentially "American" fact about Chicago was the unparalleled rapidity with which in three genera­tions it · passed from wilderness to a predominantly agrarian culture and then to becoming the industrial heartland of the United States. In 1825, there were only an Indian agency and about fourteen houses around the river .that those Indians called the Checagou; by the 1880's Chicago was already the nation's "Second City," having surpassed Philadelphia, and when Adams came to visit in 1893, the population exceeded. the million mark. During the nineteenth century, no part of the republic underwent a more amazing transformation 
· from a state of nature to a state of industry; for some early city residents the resulting industrialization and urbanization took place within their life spans. 
·The· inventions and techniques of a gigantic indus­1.rfal order expanded and, in some cases, were expanded by Chicago: the endless freight and passenger trains of 
FEBRUARY 16,· 1973 
slums were 
th_e regretable side effects of a sound economic order 
the city's six major rail terminals; the booming steel mills first along the north branch of the river then iii. Calumet and Gary; the stockyards, miles of them, feed­ing the packing houses of Swift and Armour; the mass transit network of Charles Yerkes; the agriculture im­plements of the McCormicks; the dynamos, power plants, and financial pyramiding of Samuel Insull's Chicago Edison, and the volume merchandising tech­niques of the numerous dry-goods merchants-Leiter, Field, \1/ard, Sears. Like mysterious genii these "forces of the future" as Adams would call them, drew thou­sands from the country, from the East and the South, and from Europe; hordes of laborers, skilled and un­skilled, who lived in areas like the 19th \1/ard slums (sometimes called "patches") which the new million­aires of meat, steel, transportation, corn, electricity, wheat or banking never saw, or seeing, simply regarded as regrettable side effects of an otherwise sound eco­nomic order. 
A closer investigation, however, would indicate other "forces" also at work in Chicago and the America it so accurately represents. The industrial progress at the World's Fair that so impressed Adams-the high-ten­sion currents of Nikola· Tesla, the long-distance tele­phone to New York, and, of course, the dynamos, "those symbols of ultimate energy"-expressed one important facet of late nineteenth century America. Yet Chicago in 1893 suggested other signs of the times. There was the nation-wide financial panic that carried over into a depression which in turn begat Coxey's Army, the militant workers who struck Pullman, and the Populists who streamed into the Chicago Coliseum to thrill to \1/illiam Jennings Bryan's "Cross of Gold" speech at the Democratic National Convention of 1896. And it should be remembered that there was another historian at the Columbian Exposition who, like Henry Adams, pondered the direction of America. Appearing there at the meet­ing of the newly formed American Historical Associa­tion, Frederick Jackson Turner asserted that the chief influence on three centuries of American life had been the almost unlimited existence of unoccupied land be­yond the western border of settlement. By examining the 1890 census Turner concluded that the frontier line had disappeared, the American frontier was closed, the country settled. Checagou had become Chicago. 

Adams might have made use of Turner's insight in his own interpretation but no matter what aspect of the nation's history he examined from the end of Re­construction to the conclusion of World War I, he would have found highly representative illustrations in Chicago's parallel history. The history of American labor could be viewed from the turbulent "Bread or Blood" riots of 1873 when Chicago workers, in imitation of Paris Communards, carried flags of "the red and the black," or their battles with the Pinkertons (Chicago­based detective agency) in the Great Strikes of 1877, to the brutal Haymarket Affair, to the A. F. of L. Na­tional Congress under Samuel Gompers in 1893, to the bloody Pullman affair a year later. The "Wobblies," the International Workers of the World, owe their birth in 1905 to Chicago and the organizing skill of Eugene Debs, Daniel DeLeon, Vincent St. John, and Big Bill Haywood; the radical labor faction also met its demise in the city when one hundred of its leaders were tried in 1919 before Federal Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis and found guilty of criminal syndicalism. 
An important chapter of the black man's American 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
~~ 
' . 
~--r----.......
::2 . 
....J_; 
,, . 
i . 
~-••..}
.L-i-.: 
f~~ -l 
·r­
u 
__ .J.. .L. 
J
-r­
' 
history is also encapsulated in Chicago, especially after World War I when European migration declined and southern Negroes, prompted by newspapers like The Chicago Defender, began moving up the Mississippi Valley. This long internal migration provided a major test case of race relations in the North. One test tha't the city unfortunately failed was the terrible fourteen­day race riot that broke out on the 25-29th Street beaches in the summer of 1919. The toll was awesome. 
Thirty-eight were killed including twenty-three black men and boys. At least 537 were injured, of whom 342 were black. The Chicago racial conflict was but one of the "Red Summer" riots that bloodied the streets of twenty-five American towns and cities in the six­month period from April to October 1919. 
Henry Adams might also have been expected to see in Chicago two final trends characteristic of a rapidly urbanizing America: increasing protests for social re­form and the rise of city bosses and ethnic politics. Adams himself had been a gentry-type reformer and, along with his brother Charles Francis, had attempted exposure of political corruption and economic exploi­tation in Jay Gould's Erie Railroad. Henry would have 
felt at home with certain Mugwump reform movements 
afoot in Chicago. He could have easily considered the 
city's Civic Foundation and the Muncipal Voters League 
as Midwestern counterparts to organizations such as the 
National Civil Service Reform League. Likewise, given 
his sensitivity to the "woman question," he could have 
applauded the high-minded idealism of the social settle­
ment and social service movement of the heroic women 
at Hull House on Halsted Street. The work of Jane 
Adams, Florence Kelley, Julia Lathrop, Ellen Gates 
Starr, Dr. Alice Hamilton not only had important rami­
fications for local and national social reform, it also 
contributed to the tides of feeling that eventually led to 
the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment. 
The reform impulse assumed other faces in Chicago. Frank Norris's exposure of the Board of Trade in The Pit or Upton Sinclair's equally graphic portrayal of "the yards" in The Jungle were fictive expressions of the general muckraking vogue. Clarence Darrow, a Chicago-based criminal lawyer, sought revision of the legal code and jurisprudence practice in a series of 
FEBRUARY 16, 1973 
verse, like meat and grain, became a specialty 
sensational trials from his defense of Mayor Carter Harrison's assassin in 1893 to his involvement in tlie more famous Leopold-Loeb case in 1924. 
In juxtaposition to these urban reformers, Henry Adams could have nicely arrayed the ward heelers, city bosses, city councilmen, and venal legislators who were on the take, or as the Chicagoans put it, "on the boodle." Chicago "grey wolves" or "Lords of the Levee"­Johnny "De Pow" Powers, John "The Bath" Coughlin, Michael "Hinky Dink" Kenna-the city's most pictur­esque aldermen would compare favorably in exploits, extravagance, and extortion with others of their stripe in any American city of the 1890's. As in other cities the boss system thrived, in part, because it exploited the polyglot nature of Chicago's inner city-the Irish, Germans, and Scandinavians that came in droves in the 1840's and 1850's; the immigrants who traveled later from Austria-Hungary, the Balkans, Greece, Italy, Sic­ily, and the black Americans from the South. Hence there grew up Kilgubbin, Conley's Patch, the Nord Seite, Bronzetown, Little Italy, and even, during the twenties, a colony of Persians on the near north side. What was diluted in the nation was concentrated in Chicago, and where in the nation lines were blurred, in Chicago they were as distinct as city blocks. 
II 

Even if one realizes the bravado in H. L. Mencken's famous statements of the early twenties that Chicago was the literary captial of America an dthat prac­tically all American writers of consequence had been molded by the city, it must still be granted that from Hamlin Garland's publication of Crumbling Idols in 1893 to Sherwood Anderson's departure for New York in 1920, the city had a significant share in the nation's literary inspiration, production, and consumption. Henry Adams, who had been but a young man when his own New England had had its "flowering," sensed the "literary possibilities in the Midwest" and W. D. Howells, Ohioan gone to Boston and self-transplanted to New York, also acknowledged the vitality of the liter­ary tendencies that came to be known by various names: realism, naturalism, regionalism, the local color movement. Nevertheless, it remained for Garland, son of the middle border, to issue the call for a fresh, truly indigenous Midwestern literature in Crumbling Idols, a set of essays elegantly published by the Chicago firm of Stone and Kimball. 
Although Garland eventually became disillusioned with his prophecy for a Chicago literature, for a bril-
THE SCHOLASTIC 
liant moment it was a reality. A group of writers native to the city plus a stimulating, avant-garde younger gen­eration of men and women from Midwest towns like Clyde, Ohio, Terre Haute, Indiana, Garnett, Kansas, Galesburg, Illinois, and Davenport, Iowa made it so. While it is often remarked that many of these writers owed their success to their revolt from the villages, it should not be forgotten that they came to a rich city, well endowed with nineteenth-century culture and also familiar with late nineteenth-century literary innova­tions. The city was as much a magnet to the aspirant writer as to the immigrant. Felix Fay, the hero of Floyd Dell's autobiographical novel, Moon Calf) was typical when he recalled a map that hung in the small town railroad station and symbolized his aspirations: "the map with a picture of iron roads from all of the Middle West centered in a dark blotch in the corner ... CHICAGO!" Dell, like his persona Fay, as well as an impressive list of American authors made the exodus along those iron roads for many of the reasons that have always drawn creative young men and women to urban centers: anonymity, learning, cultural institu­tions, bohemian slums, conversation of like-minded peers, and also an old guard both to join and to fight. ,vith its curious mixture of crudeness and culture, provincialism and cosmopolitanism, vulgarity and ag­gressiveness, Chicago consequently became, if but for a few decades, not only the hub of the country's rail sys­tem but also of its literary creativity. 
The Chicago press was perhaps the liveliest in the nation between 1875 and 1925. Over a dozen dailies flourished and the newspaper offices and city rooms were one source of genuine literary talent: Eugene Field's column, "Sharps and Flats" in The News; George Ade's "Stories of the Streets and Town," illu­strated by John T. McCutcheon's famous cartoons in The Record) and Francis Hackett and The PostsJs "Fri­day Literary Review." Of course, Finley Peter Dunne's creation of "Mr. Dooley" of Archey Road (his original was a barkeeper in Dearborn Street) was the humorous, indulgent, skeptical and very popular commentator on the nation's political scene, particularly its imperialist adventures. Heir to Dunne, Ade, and others was Ring Lardner, and then, novelist, wit, essayist, bon vivantJ short story writer, raconteur, and journalist, Ben Hecht, who along with Charles MacArthur, captured much of the delight of a city with over a dozen dailies in the play, The Front Page. 
Theodore Dreiser, Carl Sandburg, Sherwood Ander­son, and Floyd Dell cut their literary teeth on Chicago journalism. But before this cadre of writers came into their own, an older generation had begun to explore a variety of new literary topics even if they were reluc­tant to experiment with new literary forms: Henry B. Fuller, Hobart Chatfield-Taylor, Francis Fisher Browne, Edith Wyatt, Joseph Kirkland were all primarily con­cerned with the impact of the dominant business ethos upon cultural values and aspirations, especially tho~e of the leisured and cultivated middle class. The gen­eration that followed these gentry authors are even more familiar to the student of American literature. Here a sample catalog includes the massive, stolid naturalism of Dreiser's Sister Carrie or his trilogy on the traction-magnate Yerkes (The Financier., The Titan) 
The Stoic), the unbounded curiosity of Dell's Moon Calf and Briary Bush) the haunting estrangement of Edgar Lee Masters' Spoon River Anthology) Sherwood Ander­son's Windy McPhersorrs Son) Marching Men) or Wines­burgJ Ohio. It is no exaggeration, argues Bernard Duf­fey, historian of The Chicago Renaissance in American Letters) that "the group reality of twentieth-century American literature began in Chicago because in Chi­cago a chief strain which has formed our modern writ­ing was first recognized." The Chicago writers defined a literary culture deliberately hostile to and liberated from the dominant forces of a modern business civiliza­tion. In Duffey's estimate, this was the legacy of the. Chicago renaissance to the following decades. 
Most of the Chicago writers were also poets; verse, like meat and grain, became a Chicago specialty and for a while the city was the poetic center not only of America but the Anglo-Saxan world. The movement's chief organ, Poetry) A Magazine of Verse) burst upon the country in 1912 due to the tenacity of little Har­riet Monroe. Miss Monroe, a native Chicagoan and a formidable entrepreneuse, convinced a hundred city residents to subscribe fifty dollars a year for five years, and though a Philadephia paper sneered at Chicago for using "the proceeds of pork for the promotion of poetry," the journal was a success from its origin. "Poetry is my mother," wrote Amy Lowell exuberantly calling Chicago "her adopted city." "General William Booth Enters Heaven" gave Vachel Lindsay his first national audience via publication in the magazine and Mrs. Carl Sandburg credits the journal with bringing her husband back to creativity after years of dis­couragement. Poetry "discovered" Tagore, gave a ban­quet for Yeats, enlisted Pound as foreign editor, and published Eliot. 
Thus for anyone willing to look closely, Chicago's literary and poetic achievements not only paralleled currents in other parts of the country but in several instances stimulated them. For many years the East had dismissed Chicago as a smoky slaughterhouse, a Porkopolis, devoted to "cash, cussing, and cuspidors." But between 1871 and 1920, the city became self-con­scious and self-corrective about its cultural life and had produced a first-rate set of cultural institutions. These decades saw the founding of the American Conservatory of Music (1883), John Root's building for the Art Insti­tute (1887) and its new structure (1893), the opening of the Chicago Public (1872), the John Crerar (1889) and the Newberry (1887) libraries; the creation of the Field Museum (1894), the organization of the Chicago Civic Opera Company (1910) and the founding of the Chicago Symphony (1891) under the baton of Theodore Thomas. In the same year that Harriet Monroe first published Poetry) Maurice Browne, along with Anna Morgan, created the Little Theater (1912) .which sig­nificantly influenced both the Provincetown Players and the Washington Square Players, and two years later prompted the Drama League of America to make Chi­cago its headquarters. 
Moreover, the founding (1892) of the University of Chicago-created practically overnight with Standard Oil money, land from Marshall Field, and the presiden­tial entrepreneurship of Hebraist William· Rainey Har­per-nicely represents the important trends of late nine-
FEBRUARY 16, 1973 
chicago contains the history of contemporary design 
teenth-century American higher education: the rise of graduate and professional schools, the new emphasis of the social and behavioral sciences, and the increased concern to involve the university in social issues. Presi­dent Harper recruited a quality faculty with such vigor and largesse that some claimed the highest degree an educator could get was a C.T.C. (Called To Chicago). Harper successfully scoured the groves of academe for talent like Thorstein Veblen, A. A. Michelson, Jacques Loeb, Charles Merriman, George Herbert Mead, Albion Small and John Dewey, who established the famous Laboratory school and the principles of Progressive education. Dewey and Harper's tradition of educational experimentation continued, although in a · different di­rection, under Robert M. Hutchins when Chicago be­came, among other things, a center of Neo-Thomist thought and the academic wags spoke of it as a Baptist institution engaging in teaching Catholic theology to Jewish students. 

Chicago architects developed this modern perspec­
tive in at least two directions which periodically merged 
m into a single style. One tendency might be symbolized by 
William LeBaron Jenney, in whose office Sullivan had 
once worked: the other direction was inspired by Sulli­
Despite his unusual receptivity to new ideas in edu­van himself. Jenney, along with Chicago architects cation, science, politics, philosophy, and history, Henry ·John Wellborn Root and William Holabird, developed an Adams could not appreciate Chicago's truly greatest architectural style .th~t might be characterized as contribution to American cultural history: The Chicago. aesthetically· clean, and striking in its use of natural School of Architecture. Adams' own artistic sensibilities light. remained markedly traditional, a mixture of the classi­Jenney, like the Chicago .architects in general, cal and the Gothic. He would hardly have been dis­coupled aesthetics with innovations in building technol­posed to describe, much les~ try to explain, why Chicago ogy. In 1883, trying to provide as much window space not St. Louis or Cincinnati-important river and rail -as possible, .Jenney discovered the true skyscraper prin­centers before Chicago-had not produced ·great art ciple by using a skeleton type of construction (wrought from its commerce; he could not have asked why Chi­iron to the sixth story and Bessemer steel beams above) cago not New York nor his native Boston-which also . on the teri-sfory Home Insura.11ce Building. Three years had . a great fire and a talented architect in Henry . later, Holabird employed a complete, riveted steel frame Richardson-had developed the architectural principles from the foundation up in the Tacoma Building, and in and practice that would mark it as a historic site in 1891, Daniel H. Burnham and Root put up the twenty­the arts. In the estimate·of one architecture historian two s_tory Masonic Temple, then the. highest building Ch!cago contains "the entire history of contemporary in the world. Significantly in the same year Maitland's design." Dictionary •of. American S,lang . defined the term · sky­scraper as "very tall building such as now being built in Chicago." The Monadrock Building and the Reliance Building with its "Chicago windows" were further elaborations of this Chicago architectural innovation. 
Nonetheless the unchallenged master of the sky­scraper was Louis Henri Sullivan-a self-conscious ro­mantic, idealist, Emersonian democrat whose Chicago practice (1873-1924) aptly spans the fifty years when the city can be seen as the nation in miniature. In his numerous and varied architectural landmarks-the Schlesinger and Mayer Building (now Carson, Pirie, and Scott, Co.), the Stock Exchange Building, the Ryerson and Getty Tombs in Graceland Cemetery, the World's Fair Transportation Building, the nine business blocks and banks scattered throughout the Midwest-· Sullivan sought not only the perfection of architectural form but also a way of expressing an organic, demo­cratic social philosophy to which he felt America could and should aspire. In many ways, the recently restored Auditorium Building which Sullivan designed with his partner Dankmar Adler was representative of his ge­nius. When the Auditorium, a four-hundred-room hotel combined with business offices and a concert hall seating four thousand, opened on December 9, 1889, the audi­ence could not help but be struck by the sweep of Sulli­van's imagination. It was reported that President Ben­jamin Harrison leaned over to Vice-President Levi P. 
Morton and mused, "New York surrenders, eh?" Four years after the successful triumph of Sullivan's Auditorium, Chicago had an unprecedented opportunity to show its architectural creativity to the world in the 1893 Exposition. In Sullivan's estimate, the_ city com­pletely muffed its chance. Despite the sculptor Saint­Gaudens hyperbole that the Fair architecture com­mittee had assembled "the greatest meeting of artists since the fifteenth century," Sullivan knew better. Only his Transportation Building and the Fisheries Building in the Richardsonian manner by Chicagoan Henry Ives Cobb deviated from the prevailing classical pattern of "The White City." Sullivan probably overemphasized the setback done by the Fair to the originality of Chi­cago's architecture when h~ pre~icted it would take fifty years ,for the city to recover. As Christopher Tun­nard reminds us, D. H. Burnham would never have dreamed of his famous "Chicago Plan" of 1909 if he had not first gazed on Frederick Law Olmstead's la­goons in Jackson Park. Burnham's scheme, although never fully deployed, was a pioneering effort in city planning that not only prompted the dramatic develop­ment of. Chicago's lake front but also revived L'Enfant's plan for Washington, D. C. Moreover the heritage of Sullivan himself under­went ·a brilliant artistic• exegesis in the work of his protege, Frank Lloyd Wright. The domestic buildings that Wright created in and around Chicago and its suburbs are among the most dramatic uses of space and native materials ever achieved in modern art. Wright's "Prairie Style" homes-the Robie, the Willitts, the Coonley residences-sought an indigenous and organic relationship to· the Midwest landscape on which they were built; other superb examples of Wright's work abound in Riverside and Pak Park, where the architect made his home.· The modernity of the Chicago School extends beyond the early. twentieth-century accom-
FEBRUARY 16, 1973 
plishments of Sullivan and Wright; a third generation of architects represented by Mies van der Rohe and many of his followers acknowledge their indebtedness to the two early masters. · 
So when Henry Adams came to Chicago in 1893 he could have early paraphased Alexis de Tocqueville's famous remark about seeing more in America than America. In seeing Chicago, Adams rightly saw more than Chicago ; he had a large part of the truth he re­alized that the city's history could be seen as a frag­ment of the American whole, a case history sliced off for the microscope, showing in enlarged form many of the inner characteristics, tensions, and aspirations of · the wider society. None of the struggles, problems, and achievements common to the nation, 1871-1920, were missing in Chicago. Sectional antagonisms merely fired the energy of this restless city where eastern industrial drive meshed with frontier vitality. Immense wealtli shared the sidewalks with abject poverty; the capital­ism of the Gilded Age rode rampant ignoring the na­scent labor movement in its ranks. Within the midst of an established high culture, largely borrowed froin tJie European past and the British tradition of a classical education, arose a "New Poetry" and a new, American literature in which a daring younger generation would say new things in new ways. In another area M the arts, Louis Sullivan could be seen as the prophet or modern architecture and Frank Lloyd Wright as the first great modern architect. Finally the cultural history 
of Chicago at the opening of the twentieth century could be viewed as one of the loci wherein a prolonged cultural debate went on among classicists, humanists, engineers, novelists, academicians, poets, reformers, architects, and artists over how to create democratic forms of life, thought, and art. 
Adams was right about Chicago in the 1890's when he said "one must start there" in order to understand "American thought as a unity." For there in Chicago was not just a middle America, but a little America, an America writ small-or as the residents of the City of Big Shoulders ,votild have probably preferred it-an America writ large. 
Thomas Schlereth 
Father James Flanigan Recent Drawings 

at the Notre Dame Art Gallery through March 4 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
perspectives 
Beat Swords into Ploughshares 
Frank O'Malley 

Observing now the cessation-however limited, 
selective and cloudy-of the carnage that has crushed 
us, crippled us, perhaps we can begin in this country 
to speak of, to hope for a new age of the spirit. We 
have known for too long evil and devilry unsurpassed 
and unnecessary. Still we can dare to think that the 
horror-with its ineffable mortal suffering and death 
-can be transfigured creatively, that before us there 
are horizons of moral beauty that the fire of the spirit 
will stir us to create. Maybe we have a new chance 
to regard ourselves as persons rooted in the commu­
nity, rising out of it in creation, then to return in order 
to give out. Remember: all creativeness is love a.nd all 
love is creative. If you want to receive, give; if you 
want to obtain satisfaction, do not seek it-never think 
of it and forget the very word; if you want to acquire 
strength-the true strength of human decency-mani­
fest it by giving it to others. Spiritual persons must not 
remain proudly on the mountaintops in separation from 
the carnal world; instead they must devote their ener­
gies to its spiritualization and to lifting it to the highest 
levels. Ambition, the lustful will-to-power, the fierce 
competitive push to glory-these are not creative mani­
festations. They are the warping and distortion of what­
ever in personality could be creative. They lead to 
satiety, dullness, disillusionment-and destruction. 
Yet-even as blood brimmed our eyes during the 
past decade, we could continue to discern certain 
characteristics of the moral life circling over and 
under-indeed in the very midst of-the outrageous, 
God-forsaken, men-forsaken mess, a total vipers' tangle. 
Within our land we could still see citizens struggling 
for freedom and justice as never before; perceive also 
a vast awakening of compassion and of pity and 
increased sensitivity, and realize the human longing to ·create and even to find religious justification for human creativity. Sadly, however, other instincts have been at work in us ( especially the instincts of cruelty and brutality) which we show in a lack of creativeness, leading us to thwart it and deny its very existence. Nevertheless, in us remains the striving for freedom, compassion and creativeness, ever old and ever new . 
. So our ethics in the time now apparently given us must 
be an ethics of real freedom, compassion and creative­
ness. The emancipation of the human spirit begun by 
Christ is a process from which there can no longer be 
any turning back in America. The young mind, for sure, 
I 
I 
' 
will no longer be warned off certain areas. The young mind is wonderfully conscious of freedom; and, how­ever helpless a person's feeling of slavery to money, to the machine, to war and to the state may be--to his thought no bounds can be set, the thought that restores to him his dignity, his hope, his belief in his person, his nature and destiny, his basic freedom of spirit, his creativity-which no regime can destroy. Yes, tired o~ 
a.11 the drumming, shouting, spirit-blocking, mind­numbing nonsense that we somehow compose a "holy nation," we should now, without fear, urge the actualization in America of a new spirituality, the genuine experience of creative energy and inspiration, the transcending of our camouflaged, flag-waving ego­ism. What will this mean? It will mean first hand con­tact of our spirit with the Holy Spirit. It will mean an out-going, transfiguring activity directed towards humanity and to the spiritualizing of all the new forms and developments of our human society. 
Of course, we do not believe that our future is fated. We believe that men made in God's image must them­selves be creators out of the freedom which neither God nor man can destroy, though at times we may suffer enslavement to a variety of men, things or ideas. We are not to break with our nation or our church, though seeing clearly and exposing their faults. We are not to seek for salvation in self-righteous cliques or claques; nor by withdrawal from the tasks with which our present, painful history now confronts us. 
Those of us who are Christians in America believe in men; we know that in the God-man, Christ, man's divine image, currently scarred and wounded and dis­figured-never to be drained out or dried out entirely­can be renewed, that we in America, like all the people of the world, are still called to be fellow worl{ers with God, that the end of our time is a divine-human event to which we are summoned for the sharing. We are not to be deluded anymore by the shams of the established order-or by the lies and phrases and slogans of those who recklessly and arrogantly in­voking "God and Country," would renew the face of the earth by phony patrotic pieties. Admitting rather than blessing our sins and shortcomings, we, c1s honest, humble, non-hypocritical, non-self-righteous Christians enduring in the density of American civilization of the seventies, shall in all circumstances know that we are 
FEBRUARY 161 1973 
· called to look forward and to go forward-that is, to rediscover for ourselves at first hand the sources of new spiritual power and vision; and above all to see, to seek, the creation of new life, new love, new good­ness and new beauty as the supreme task of those whom illimitable freedom has brought to Christ. 
After all that has happened to us recently, we should not be ashamed anymore to go as the Holy Spirit leads us, sustaining us all the while in the freedom, compassion and creativeness of which we are capable. Today this is all there is to say; we must, after the carnage, have the courage to move through and with our complicated matter up the avenue of the spirit. And at last we can only pray: Anticipate our actions we beg you, 0 Lord, by Your inspiration and assist them with Your help, that our every prayer and deed may in You ever have their beginning, and, once begun, may by You be brought to completion. 
. 

Mr. O'Malley is a professor in the Department of English. The text printed above is a cCYpy of the address given by Professor O"Mall,ey at the Peace Observance held at Notre Dame on January 28. 

Linas A. Sidrys 

Tests, Tubes, and Wisdom 
A person in science must often step back from his scientific work and justify his own existence. Not orily does he feel a need to demonstrate t6 others that science is important and relevant, he feels an urgent need to demonstrate this fact to himself. More importantl)'.', ' . such a person wants to prove.to himself that he is a person first and a scientist .only secondly. . . . 
In fact, what science student has not caught him­sell wistfully wishing he were an infallil:>le computer . -after getting back those crucial exams whose grade is pretty good for provinihow human we are, but not at all good for showing that we really, un.derstood. the material?.A blush of:embarrassment·is quickly followed by a blaze of contempt for one's .qwri.sfopidity, then a heated·concern ·tor:future exarris:and their charring ·consequences. on our future: Ironically, itis.exactly at such.wa:rmly liumrui'moni~nts·,,that we wish for the ideal 
· coldness of a computer! -. 
In this •oft-repeated ·experience duringifresliinan year; 'tlie.studei1t begins t9::wonder:. does OU~ humanity. really"c~nisist. 'in making stupid)itlle mistakes.?-:-0r is there more, to.i(tlian_ that; something that makes it.'all 
. worthwhile? Tluis, tb:E{ID.Istra:tj~n of science quizzes. . can .lead to the exploration .of first .causes, to an inquiry 'of·what it=really rrieailS to'be human. 

· ·If)uck is· witlfhlm, perhaps the science student ~ill be able.:to:enroll ·in a philosophy co{irse \\dth substance-:-.. 
..witli aprofessor who truly "loves ·wisdom," and is able .. to· communicate both the love and the wisdom. With suclf a·professor's aid, perhaps he will see that to be·. really human requires a receptivity to' the whole of = · · reality, through the labor of the intellect and personal spiritual experience; as Jacques Maritain notes, through a wisdom that is gained with _much difficulty 
--.
---l-:. --::;_, ~-, -~:: ­
-: -·::.. ~ 
,.. 
::_•,,,~ • .. ••,-~::~• --~• ~~-:' -T• ~ .•• ,:_._._ •• •• ,..._''c ­
; -~--' ,-..-' _'­
'. 

and always. held· insecurely. Perhaps the student will . begin such apursuit himself:, it's· called "the liberal edu-. catiqn.''-~ ·~ · · ~_, ..~ · 
·How.ever·, more'often. than.not; the science student 
. with: ·his'.one. philosophy· elective· will find· himself in a . course in which ."what men have said" is.studied rather. than. ''what fueri ·cari know. ~f ~eality by.the light of their_ nat~ral re~so~:". Cop:tr_adicto~y ~.ssertfons of dead men are·quc;>ted-ajid::in9-st b.e repeated b_ack, .word studies analyzed, th_e. prejudices of other-students are endlessly 
. debated; the in1tiaf confusidn'. ii deepened, the.force of wonder weakene_d; ·,_the scieric~ sh1dent' gladly_ r~turns , to the or4er:of the·.naturat's_ci~n·ces,Tetaining a life-Jong scorn of,"philosophical_ nonsense:,, < . .-· . . -. .Such a student.is 'indeed-unfortunate because the 
.. undergra.du~t~ fe~;s· ~f. c~lJige.are probably the last. ,chance really to~-enter .deeply)nto the _fulfi.Hing acts of human lif~what Josef Piper 'calls.·the philosophical,·_ 
' > -------._ --• ---­
. ------­
; \, • --I 
---~.
~ ':.-:._ 
~ A ,, 
,, '-.._ ·_-' --: -. -~ ----c. --• • : ' 
. .,__ ­-. ., ~ -~-~: -1--; 'j ' • --­
-~ --: ' ---:,_­
-, ----"-_---< -_,

:· .·; .'·_-· )-> ·:, .. ·:-.. ' .. :','-' :·> :<:·,t:· 
--...,,._ -::·-, 
-,~•. ; __ --.:--~:;__ :,_~·-,-J 

. ' -­
-,--­
-~, -~ 
' ·­
aesthetic and religious acts, which administer a shock of wonder to-the man who is proceeding .through his life's journey half-asleep, and enable him to transcend the . confining deadening bounds of the utilitarian. world: , The student who misunderstands and turns away from . the philosophical act, the. essence of a liberal education, turns away from the eternal, final ·ends which can be understood only·in this manner; he loses part·of-his being, in that he loses th_e,chance to be a more complete 

. person:. the ability toJove well, to contemplate truly, to reason deeply, to see clearly, to do the great things that he may have bee~ c_alled to do dur:ing his life time. 
In The Ultimate B_elief, Sir A.:rthur Clutton-Brock 

concluded: "Education ought to-teach us how-to be in i love always and what to be in love with. The great 1 things of history have. been done by the great lovers, 
I 
by th~··saints and men of science and artists; ... men 
. must.be taught what it means to be these things."-This 
! 
I 
E is ·why .the right teacher is so important. Unlike the machine, a person not only by demonstration, presen­.}ation--a~_d logic but by what he is and what he has · 
' 
really:seen. it makes all the difference in the world . 
· whether.a science teacher merely reads his lecture · 
I notes/brilliant though they may be, and endlessly . quotes. what other people have said; or whether he .. · loves·the· truths that he has learned, in that he carries · 
_them-within himself and in presenting them to others ·. g~nerates · a love and enthusiasm for that science at . 
'.the same time that he is addressing the rationanntel­
. lect of his students. Similarly the liberal ·arts and 
. ·: ·philosophy professors must embody the principles they: · · : -···teach: the-virtuous man is the measure for.the:student · := _; ·\vho p_onders the deeper questions of life and ·returns 
.·. with a ·greater love. -:; ·Unfortunately, the initial rebellion against the /frustration and dryness of. a scientific, solely vocational· : ... training usually does not last long enough. We becom~ ·..•~ -:· __ <!omplacent and satisfied with mediocre, habitual ends and.search no longer for the more mysterious, more ::·.: ·. _elusive springs of life. We lose the freshness and sim­:'· ·. · · plicity which perpetually keep on asking: why this, · why that, what is this for? . 

Linas A. Sidrys is a senior pre'[)Tofessional major in the College of Science. 
-_ .:, : 

kulchur 

Marceau the Mime Man 
Marcel Marceau, 'Will be appearing tonight, Feb. 16, at 8 :00 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College. The performance is being sponsored by the Cultural Arts Gorn­mission of the University of Notre Danie. 
"One cannot exercise an art unless 
one has a love for it. I became a 
mime because of my love for an art 
as old as the world itself." 
Marcel Marceau is an artist. His art breaks through the barriers of culture and nationality. His panto­mime expresses the human condi­tion as it has never been expressed before. The essence of this expres­sion is that it speaks the language of the heart. Marceau firmly be­lieves, and proves each time he walks onto a stage, that "by breaking through the wall of languages, a mime can become a brother to all the audiences of th~ world." 
Identification is considered by many to be an important facet of ,art. Though many artists may dis­agree and call it a debasement of the. art, people love to experience some­thi1:1g-they themselves have ques­tioned, felt or dreamed-as it is ex­pressed by the artist more beautiful­ly than they ever could. The work of l\farcel Marceau shows people them-. 

selves. He has shown that laughter 
or tears are the same in all audi­
ences. His pantomime, whether as a 
butter.fly hunter, lion tamer, skater, 
professor of botany or guest at a 
social party, bears silent witness to 
the lives of all men, struggling 
against one handicap or another, 
with joys and sorrows as their daily 
companions. 

Marceau believes the art of mime 
portrays the human being in its most 
secret yearnings. The success of the 
portrayal lies in the fact that, unlike 
words which can be deceitful, mime, 
in order to be understood by all, 
must be simple and clear and with­
out ambiguity. 

"The art of mime, halfway be­
tween dancing and the theatre, is a · complete art in the sense that it tends toward an all-embracing · definition of the human being. . . . Above all, and this to my mind is essential, it is a form of art we might call un­assuaged, and the only material it 
uses is the human being." _·· 
Nonetheless, mime is a symbolic 
art. Marceau conceives it as a sys­
tem of conventions whereby the 
component · parts of reality are 
broken down and stylized. Certain 
gestures are easily identified by the 
public, ·but they must still be • re­
stricted by aesthetic rules. Mime is also an art of illusion. Itwill blossom only under the spell of a well­trained magician, one who makes the audience identify with the char­acters and even the trickery of the spell. 
Marceau is an inspirational artist, but as he himself points out, "though there is no art without inspiration, of course, there is just as surely no form without technique." Marceau has developed the technique of a master. Having mastered the me­chanics of the art, he is free to create around them. It is rumored that once an· eager French reporter asked him about how meticulous he was with regard to the technique of his art. _He a1:1swered, "Il faut s'en foutre de l'art autrernent l'art en s'en fountra de toi." You must give a damn about art otherwise art won't give a damn about you. 
The performance that Marceau · ·gives is divided into two main pro­grams. One consists .of a series of "style pantomimes." The other por­trays· the various escapades of Mar­ceau's created alter ego, Bip, who is characterized by his white face, his · striped shirt, his tight pants and most especially his tattered hat 
· topped with a trembling flower. . The style pantomimes, such as "The Cage," "The Staircase," and 

ft(~{/::". 
," ," 
"Youth, Maturity, Old Age and Death," are short interpretations of a human being in a specific situation. Without words, the mime convinces the audience that things invisible are very obviously present and real. Each movement or expression is carefully worked and directed to­ward the creation of a certain emotion. With a single facial expres­sion, for example, the expert mime can convey emotions with a clarity a writer could attempt for volumes and never achieve. 
As is quite obvious, the form of the pantomime is the means toward the end of the dramatic tone. It gives the color to the work. The physical action of the mime, by its detail and accuracy, is what brings the art to its perfection. In this marriage of form and content, the audience re­ceives pleasure from the artist's gracefulness while being harmoni­ously moved by the content. The style pantomimes are very similar to musical pieces in that they move in a dramatic crescendo· and end with a fall. 
As Bip, Marceau creates a tragi­comic hero as diverse as Man him­self. He is beautiful yet pitiable, foolish yet wise, humorous while tragic. The audience is fully aware of the people and forces that act upon Bip, but what they see is one man alone and they·witness his sol­itary struggle.. 
While his pantomime is uniquely his and Marceau is definitely a con­temporary artist, the art form itself is one of the oldest. Since the days of the Golden Age of Greece and Rome and probably before that, artists have attempted to present the passions and aspirations of men by movements of the body alone, dis­regarding the tangled mess of verbal communication. The artists of the Commedia dell' Arte, the Roman Arlequins, the English Punch and the French Pierrots were all the fathers of the modern mime. Charlie Chaplin,· Buster Keaton ·and Laurel and Hardy set the stage in their silent films for the likes of Danny Kaye, Red Skelton and, of course, Marceau.. 
Probably the greatest influence in Marceau's career was Charlie Chap­lin. He says of Chaplin, "To us he was a god. He made us laugh and cry, purged us of our own misfor­tunes, showed us a thousand tricks. And, always, no matter how beaten down, he triumphed over his tribula­tions in the end. At the fadeout, there was that black silhouette, walking with his feet pointed out­wards along the bright road of hap­piness and hope. 
"As a little boy I sat entranced in movie houses as I watched those shining images unfold before me. It 
37 



was then that I determined to be­come a mime. To be capable of ex­pressing a wealth of emotion in one look, one gesture, to be able to inter­pret the slightest nuance of the soul -was that not a prodigious am­bition?" 
At the age of twenty, Marceau actively began the fulfillment of that ambition. He began studying panto­mime under the direction of Etienne Decroux at the School of Dramatic Art in the Sarah Bernhardt Theatre in Paris. From there he began a steady climb. In 1947 he created Bip and the character was an immediate success. He was called the "little brother" of Charlie Chaplin's tramp. Marceau began touring all over the world and was welcomed warm­ly. He founded his own acting company and theatre. He made nu­merous television appearances and movies. The language of the heart was well understood and applauded everywhere. Recently the French government honored Marceau with its highest award when it named him a "Chevalier de la Legion d'Ho~­neur." 
Marcel Marceau is, without ques­tion, a very talented, very creative man. As a pure dramatist he must be seen to be fully appreciated. As unromantic as it may seem, however, Marcel Marceau is also a very useful Ilian. He provides a desperately needed communion between all peo­ple who crave for love and beauty. 
All references to Marcel Marceau, copyright 1971 by Dunetz & Lovett. 
-jim gresser 

Loggins and Messina: Rockin' It 
Every once in a very great while, a new group comes along that is so good its sudden importance cannot be denied. Such a group is Loggins & Messina. 
Born in 1970, the Loggins & Mes­sina band has enjoyed immense suc­cess, both commercial and creative. Their first album (Kenny Loggins with Jim Messina-SITTIN' IN) was an enormous hit among those who were fortunate enough to discover it. Its success was fostered by two hit singles, Messina's "Nobody But You," a nicely done rocker, and "Vahevala," a calypso sailor's song, with steel drums and superb vocaliz­ing. But, in fact, these two songs are only the highlights of a strong, strong album. Other gems include the trilogy with Messina's "Peace of Mind" as the closing song, and two Loggins tunes, the whimsical "House at Pooh Corner" and his simple bal­lad, "Danny's Song." 
LOGGINS & MESSINA, album #2, was released in November of last year, and once again was an imme­diate success. The great popularity of "Your Mama Don't Dance" on AM radio assures the band that this al­bum will be more widely enjoyed than its predecessor, and therein lies an unbeatable formula-the appeal of the group in Top 40 circles will certainly help in getting wider FM airplay and greater potential sales. And by the way, "Your Mama Don't Dance" is a superior Top 40 tune when compared with some of the watered-down commercial pap that dominates AM airwaves. 
"Good Friend" opens in a vaguely blues-oriented sound, a good rocker (chunkachunkachunk) that is none­theless nicely understated. Horns are used very effectively, and the whole song is full of surprises. though they are subtle and easy on the ear. Mes­sina's lyrics here are quite good: "I knew a fine man/So strong in strife/ He ran for.-election/And he lost his life . . ." "Good Friend" is nicely done, probably the strongest tune on the album. 
Loggins' "Whiskey" and "Long Tail Cat" are gently uplifting (like most of his material), and though they are simply constructed, each is tastefully instrumentalized-"Whis­key" with organ and harmonica; "Long Tail Cat" with organ, dobro (by Rusty Young of Poco), and voices. One of Loggins' strongest as­sets is his voice, and he uses it well in both tunes. 
Messina's "Golden Ribbons" is the sleeper on the album, a sad song that changes complexion many times without ever abandoning its domi­nant mood. Messina has developed a strong melodic sense that is unusu­ally pleasant, showing strongly in the vocal lines. Once again, the use of horns and backing instruments is well accomplished, and Messina's guitar is, as always, perfectly suited to the vehicle which the song pro­vides. "Golden Ribbons" is a song of protest that probably won't alienate anyone: "I see young men my own age in coffins/And mothers in tears for their son / And sweethearts and wives alone with their memories/ And golden ribbons, those fortunes of war." Sung with grace and gen­tility at first, then building in power and movement, "Golden Ribbons" is a lesson in precision and practice. 
Each of the other tunes on the album is well written and well per­formed, in particular, Loggins' "Till the Ends Meet" and "Lady of My Heart," and a co-written song, "An­gry Eyes." 
Both Loggins and Messina are ex­ceptional music makers. You'd be hard pressed to find two people more suited to each other. Ken Loggins got his start several years ago with the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band. Jim Mes­sina, comes by way of Buffalo Springfield and Poco, and he's cer­tainly one of a handful of good pro­ducers now in the business. His play­ing, and especially his \vTiting, have now developed to a professional de­gree with this band. With Spring­field and Poco, he turned out only a handful of tunes, but he's supplied this band with roughly half of its material, and it is consistently good. 
Perhaps the greatest quality of Loggins & Messina is that they have impeccable taste. They know what they want their music to do, and they know how to do it. The end product very nearly approaches per­fection. Their two albums are as good as any two albums I've heard in almost two years. But more than ability, this band has something in­finitely more important. They've got class. And that, my friends, makes all the difference in the world. 
-kevin dockrell 

the.power ·and the powe_r 

In Boss Richard J. Daley of Chi­cago, Mike Royko is.' a journalistic surgeon who incisively cuts to the marrow of the political bone and ex­poses the malady for . all , to see. A crisis . of political · schizophrenia exists in the character of Chicago, residing most profoundlyJn the per-. sonality of the·city's most· powerful man. If we may consider Chicago an organic entity, then the very face of the city poss_esses a dichotomous composition. On one side of the face,_ there are political leaders and party members with all the power and money that the party machine can 
. · supply; on the other side . reside the politically impotent voters in one. party .~ho ·. continually . elect the "bosses" into power. beneath the·. fear·, of iosing. the mere , pittai{ce which they insecurely possess. From out of this divide comes Mike Royko . with his· very angry, yet ·~xtremely well-wrought book. 
Boss is a· stunning indictment of Mayor Daley and the American city. It is ·also a scathing jeremiad of 'hard-core facts, top-notch journalism .and a fair measure of lip-bitten cyn­icism that conducts the reader on a journey through fifty years of polit­ical machination. There are some . who-romantically consider it a bless­. ing_ that the Chicago politician is :typified as one who loathes to drink ·his political whiskey any way but straight; yet Royko has neither time nor use for such modifications. To him, a lie is a lie; hypocrisy, no mat­tery how florid in presentation, is still hypocrisy; . political power breeds more power and always at the ·expense of the individual lack­
ing power. 

. · Indeed, Boss is a journalistic brick to the head of Mayor Daley which has undoubtedly grown from -the seed of a_ long-simmering rage. Al­
.tliou_gh Royko . can justifiably suffer criticism ·for grinding a very hard axe,· he can, · nevertheless, be for­given for the sin. The book is a "reality trip" where the facts bel­low loudly through the journalistic slant. · Boss is ultimately a book about Power, Politics, and Mayor Daley which speaks boldly about the infested political air smothering the great American city; Chicago. 
Boss begins by conducting the :reader through a typical day in the life of Daley: Daley, we discover, is a religious man, a man o{ simplicity not given to extravagance. To ex­plicate this, Royko . numbers the constituents of Daley's. private_ li­brary. "There. are only a few vol­umes. -_ The Baltimore Catechism, 
· the Bible,. a leather-bound ProfiJes in Courage and several self-improve­ment books. All of the art is reli­gious, most of it is bloody with crucifixion and crosses of thorns." One can divine here a curious single-mindedness which will be profoundly manifested in the biog­raphy. Somewhere between the great divide between the Baltimore Cate­chism and the U. S. Constitution resides the single tenet, that one un­written ethical measure of power, corruption, pragmatism, racism, fear, favors and America which Chicago and Daley have come to ex­emplify. This . one standard is the· Democratic Party of Mayor Daley. , , , 
· · As · we ride to work with . the 
mayor, Royko speaks .of the · Ian-
THE SCHOLASTIC
,40 

guage of the party code. It is a jar­gon. of property -buildings, ex­pressways, patronage. In the Daley canon, the · Party is imbued with mystical and religious significance. If one is faithful to the political ma­chinery, all will be well. Here lies the root of the army's dedication. "The· person becomes more than an employee: he joins the Political Ma­chine, part of the army numbering 
·in the thousands who help win elec­tions." The war that the army wages is a.holy war, striving to beat down or convert 'outsiders." Salvation and spoils come together at the polls in November. 
Boss is primarily ·biographical. Royko. pointedly establishes Daley's intrinsic· relationship with violence, beginning in 1919 with the Hamburg Athletic Club. Great pains are taken to show that, for Daley, violence is common truck. He began at the bot­tom. by ringing doorbells and -con­tinued to "plod" until he secured power. While Daley was aware of much of the corruption, Royko is clear when he asserts that Daley· did not personally participate -in . the widespread practices of graft and se_xual exploitation. Daley, accord­ing to Royko, was content to co­exist with these vices. From this, 
•Royko imposes on_ Daley this moral code: "Thou shalt not steal, but thou , shalt not blow the whistle. on any­, body who does." In 1953, Daley ·reaped the benefits of his patience · and loyalty when he became Chair­.man of the Cook County Democratic 
Central Committee. Royko com­ments, "He finally had his own machine.'' 
R.oyko is, indeed, in high feather as· he races through the psychology 
·and structure of the machine. Every-: 
· thing is designed to get power and then to securely retain_ it. The Ma; chine is composed of four· rather amorphous and inseparable entities: patronage, labqr unions, m9ney and nepotism. For example, there are thirty-five hundred precincts in Chi­cago. "Every one of them. has a Democratic captain and most cap­tains have assistant captains.. They all. have, or can have, jobs in gov­ernment.'.' The exact size of the Army is impossible to ascertain unless, of course, you happen. to be Mayor Daley. 
The visible manifestation of the Army's effectiveness, as was men­tioned, comes in the forms ·of con-: crete, steel and glass. They are the signs of progress. Royko is quick to 
· note that these great constructs do little good_ for the common voter. The new buildings cover the ground that a new school or a park or a recreational center could have occu­pied.. Yet, since these . poor people· are :with the wrong contingent of the political. dichotomy, they. must re­main· content :to, pull the co~rect • lever and collect a mere chicken as 
. they step from the, booth. 
The Mayoralty years of. Daley,· from · 1955 to 1968, were. years of reform -i.e., massive construction. They were also years blighted by various scandals which reached an apex when certain policemen were found to lie among those who bur­glarized. Reforms were continually launched. Royko, however, calls upon the Daley Code to qualify this: "Ignored was the fact that he insti­
.tuted reforms only after his people got caught." 
There is probably little needed to be said ·about the fact of the 1968 Democratic Convention. The section of Boss dealing with the convention is characterized by a clear and clean reporting. I found it curious that this incident was least trafficked in ven­detta and cynicism. Royko is to be applauded because he declines to lean heavily on the situation. He lets the facts speak for themselves. Reporters, we should remember, were among those victimized by what was later termed a "police riot" by the Walker Report. 
Chicago is a hard town. Boss is an excellent piece of journalism which, like the man it studies, pulls few punches and even takes a few hard jabs after the bell has sounded. Be­fore reading Royko's book, I was secure in the notion that it would be merely another scandalous rag -a wad of muck-raking trash. There are, however, too many facts. Royko is truly biased, but he is angry. Boss is a book that was launched from a writer who lived too long amid the disproportionate reality. Given Chi­
. cago and the power of the man who runs it, Boss is also a courageous book, for it• speaks of things which 
· the power of the Press will not change. In this light, I find it diffi­cult to discern the pragmatic pur­pose of writing such a book. What­ever the reason may be, I am sure it is that same reason shared by peo­ple who write books explaining the operations of the Mafia. Only a fool would see this type of literat\lre as reformatory. Perhaps we should be content with the half-comfort of so­cial awareness. Indeed, Chicago is a hard town. 
·-jack wenke 

FEBRUARY 16, 1973 

With theAnny ROTC Two~e11r_Program. 
Army ROTC usually takes four years of college. But you can do it in two. If, for example, you couldn't take Army ROTC during your first two years of college. Or if you just didn't want to take Army ROTC before. But now you recognize the benefits. You start the Two-Year Program by going to our six-week Basic Camp the summerfollowing your sophomore year. 
Camp-alittle classroom work; some challenging physical training-replaces the Basic Course you would have taken during your first two years of college. You're ,vell-paid for this six-week catch-up. 
Then, after camp, you complete your Advanced · Course during your junior and senior years. 
Maybe you'll decide that the chance to get real n1anagement experience earlier than most people will be worth a lot later on. 
Maybe you can use the $100 per month subsistence allowance you will get for up to 10 mo11ths of each school year. Maybe qualifying for two careers simultaneously­military or civilian-is insurance against job uncertainties. .,./ Or, maybe the opportunity for an Army ROTC scholar-// ship is exciting. ,,.,,./ The Army ROTC Two-Year Program is another .,,,.,,,.-­chance for a better career, through Army ROTC. .,.,/~ Talk over the Two-Year Program with // Jal
S • h 1 / Army ROTC
the Professor Of MI•1I•tary c1ence at your SC 00 . // University of Notre Dame Or use this coupon. There's no obligation. /.<ell ::tl::ll~::::,~~:iana 46556 Army ROTC. The more you look /// .\rmy ROTC "fo·o-Yl'.tr l'rn~rmn. at it, the better it looks.. // x"""' 
.,.,.-A,hh,•"·-------­
, . -, ­.,/ C:ity______County-­
42 /" .,.-Stat':-'.______Zip--­.,.­
' 
.,/ Co11,•;,:,•pm·n•attcnding___phmw·___ 
., . COL 3-02-12
_,,' 



SAMUEL LOYD 
Leipziger Illustrirte Zeitung October 23, 1869 
White mates in three moves 

SOLUTION IN NEXT ISSUE 
SOLUTION TO LAST PROBLEM (11/17/72) . 
1. N-Q5 P-B4 2. R-Nl PXP 3. N -N6 mate B-R2 B-R7 BXP N-K3 mate 
. . .. 
· Art Professor Arthur Leipzig: · · ·. ·-, 
-.-A GOOD TEACHER 
.. =·.: ·• · _A good faculty is a collection of good ·· ·.; teachers in all their variety. 
A full range of summer undergraduate and graduate courses, special institutes and workshops. Residence halls available. 
2 sessions: June 18-July 20 and July 23-August 24 (day and evening) 
Call or write for the Summer Bulletin: 
Summer Session Office, C.W. Post Center, 
Long Island University, Greenvale, LI., N.Y. 11548 
... (516) 299-2431 
_\i:':::'~_:··:=,::·-_·-__ --:. C. W. POST CENTER ==·-::__-\·:_-_·__ :.:\,-_'.--~-:-__----SUMMER SESSIONS .. _.,,_-:--~-­
. . . ·:. :··.•.: . . 
.... 

FEBRUARY 16, 1973 
to some postseason activity. The Basketball team meets Western
coming distractions 
Michigan on Feb. 28 at 8 p.m., and South Carolina March 3 at 3 :30 p.m. 
FILMS 
Be prepared as "Zeppelin" comes crashing to the screen this Sunday, February 18, at the IUSB lecture hall: 75c ... Not a bad hors d'oeuvre for the Orson \Velis Film Festival which comes to ND with "Citizen Kane" on Feb. 18, "The Magnificent Amberson" Feb. 19, "Lady From Shanghai" Feb. 20, "Macbeth" Feb. 21, and "A Touch of Evil" Feb. 22. All Sl at the Engineering Audi­torium. Finally, Brazil's answer to the Marx brothers is here March 2 with "Macunaima." 
EXHIBITIONS 
All you exhibitionists are in for a lot of good cheap thrills at the Uni­versity Gallery in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Contemporary Photography Since 1950 will be exposing itself through March 15. March 4 is the last day for the r~cent works of Fa~her James Flannigan, and until Feb. 25 you can see a visiting exhibit from the New York University Col­lection featuring Milton Avery, Will Barnet and Willem ];)eKo;'ming. The Moreau Gallery at SMC counters with several exhibits of its own until Feb. 24, a display of poetry and paint~gs entitled "Who Am I?" by Pat Dmnen, an exhibit of prehistoric ceramics and a show of Japanese woodcuts by Ryaji Kaskaka. Tues.­Fri. and Sun., 1 p.m.-9 p.m., Sat., 1 p.m.-5 p.m. Closed Mon. 
(..__________LECTURES _;_____ 
Get into,a taste of "Bitch's Brew" with a lecture/discussion of "Tne Art of Miles Davis" at LaFortune Center. After your five-course meal of four potatoes and a beer all you Me's can catch a lecture on "Ethnic Conflict: Irish and American" by Professor McKiernan in the Library auditorium Feb. 16. Professor John Searle from the University of Cali­fornia will lecture on the Philosophy of Language in the Library audi­torium Feb. 19 and 21 at 8 p.m. and Feb. 23 at 3 :30 p.m. The "India '73" lectures continue with Professor Kenneth Jameson speaking on "Eco­nomic Problems in Modern India" on Feb. 22 and Professor S. I. Ali on "India's Relations with Pakistan Bangladesh, and the U.S." on March 

1. 
SPORTS 

The ND cagers and stickmen face some tough competition on their way Both at the ACC. The Hockey team faces off against the 'Wisconsin Badgers Feb. 23 and 24 at 7 :30 also at the ACC. 
Get a glimpse of the summer and watch the swimming team as they meet Purdue Feb. 17 at 2 :00 p.m., Illinois State Feb. 23 at 4:00 p.m., and Wayne St. Feb. 24 at 2 :00 p.m. 
CONCERTS AND SPECIALS 

It's time to visit IUSB again if you want to hear some symphonic melodies. The ID Symphonic Band is in concert at Goodman Hall Fri. at 8 :00 p.m. Admission: adults $2, students $1. Just as good and even cheaper is the free concert by the Jazz Band at LaFortune Center Feb. 24 at 9 :00 p.m. Veteran gondola drivers may be interested in the fifth appearance on campus of the Phi­lidor Trio with their concert entitled "The Silver Age of Venice," Library auditorium, Feb. 24 at 8:15 p.m. $1. The ND-SMC theater prepares for spring in South Bend with the open­ing of a new production "After The Rain," Feb. 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30 in Washington Hall. $1.50. The Ice Capades is at the ACC for a two­day stint Feb. 16 at 8 :00 p.m. and Feb. 17 at 2 :00 p.m. If none of these a.~peal to you, you can take a trip with the ND Flying Club to the St. Joe County FAA facilities, Mon. Feb. 
26. Call Bill at 1854. 
-kerry 1ncnamara 



CHlcoming distractions 
CONCERTS Feb. 3 -Apr. 1, Morton Wing Feb.22 "The Arts and Crafts Movement in "Bondu Saved from Drowning,"
• Chicago Symphony String Quartet 
America" 1932, Jean RenoirFeb. 25, Sunday, 3 p.m. 
Feb. 24 -Apr. 22, Montgomery Mar.1­
Randolph St. & Michigan A venue Ward Gallery
-Auditorium, 2nd floor 

"Claes Oldenburg -Object into MUSEUMS Monument"
• Chicago Symphony Orchestra • Field Museum of Natural History
Through Feb. 25
Thursdays, 8 :15 p.m. Lake Shore Drive at Roosevelt Rd. Fridays, 2 p.m. 75th anniversary exhibition: "A
LECTURES

Saturdays, 8:30 p.m. Sense of Wonder, A Sense of Orchestra Hall, 220 S. Michigan • Art Institute of Chicago History and A Sense of Dis­"The West's Romantic Encounter covery" 
• Chicago Symphony Chamber with the Exotic" Hall 3 
Music Concerts Thursdays, 6 p.m. Feb. 16, 20, 8 :30 p.m. Fridays, 11 a.m. DANCE Orchestra Hall 
• The Alvin Ailey Dance Company 
FILlUS 
February 23, 24, 8 p.m. 

EXHIBITS 
• Art Institute of Chicago Auditorium Theatre, 70 E. Con­
• Art Institute of Chicago "Elena et Les Hommes," 1956, gress 
"Paintings by Renoir" Jean Renoir 
.··Aninvitaliontojoin.... 
_ThePaulist Fathers •••A contemporary religious community·. serving the people ofAmerica comnmnicating the Christian message: in the city. on the campus, in the parish. on radio and T.V: Dispelling tmcertainty and imparting peace, cele­brating the hope of the people of God and speaking on issues that concern the Church. 
As an individual, you can develop and shaie your 1alents with others. As a member of the Community, you will ex­
. periencetheencouragement and support of fellowPaulists. We're interested, ifyou are. 
For mom infonnalion write: 
Father Donald C. Campbell, 
Room 104. 
·-Pa11listFathers. 
415 West 59th Street NewYork.NY 10019 
$3.50-10.00 

REGAL NOTES 
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS 
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES We're new and we're the bigest! Thousands of topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our subjects include not only English, but Anthro­pology, Art, Block Studies, Ecology, Eco­nomics, Education, History, Law, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology,' Religion, Science, Sociology and Urban Prob­lems. Send $2 for your catalog of topics avail­able. 
REGAL NOTES 
3160 "O" Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20007 

FEBRUARY 16, 1973 

The reactions seemed to range from· surprise to skepticism, praise to disappointment; but they all seemed to stem from the sense that the intent behind the issue was to launch some sort· of attack against the Administration. That :was simply not our purpose: What could be gained from adding even more fuel to the flames of misunderstanding? 
Now that a week has passed I am questioning why the issue was so misunderstood. Our only purpose when we sat . down to discuss the issue was to raise some questions about the Notre Dame "Christian"/academic community, questions that we find extremely bewilder­ing. Our mistake was that we. made the issue seem too personal, that is, directed at only one or two individuals in the Administration. ·I suppose the reason .for this apparent emphasis was our preoccupation with recent activities and statements by the Administration that exacerbated ·the already-inflicted pains of those ques­tions. 
The questions we decided to think out publicly­and the decision was not an easy one--were not ques­tions about the alleged "outrages" of administrators, but rather questions about human decency, to use an embarrassingly lofty term. And administrators are not the only ones ·who are vulnerable to lapses in recalling 1hat the people they deal with are human being. Stu­dents and Faculty members sometimes, and in similar fashion, tend to forget the feelings of administration; and I am reminded of the many ways, the infinity of ways that students forget that.other students are hu­man beings. I guess that is what makes us human: the The week was hell. I found early in the week that ability to be hurtin ways that are not physical, and the there were no retreats from the barrage of comments wea.kness that we often forget that we have the power about the last issue of the SCHOLASTIC. Twice I was late to hurt others. And that is what we hoped would be for class after being cornered oy presumably well-mean­clear was the thrust· of the questions raised in the last ing readers offering their comments on the Christian . issue of the SCHOLASTIC-that we are a community, and community, on academic freedom, on the Administra-· that as a community and as individuals, we must look tion, etc. No issue that I recall has produced such a carefully at ourselves and try to be aware·of our recent response, and never have I felt that our words were so human failings in dealing .with others as human beings. 
widely misunderstood. This·is not to._diminish the sense of bewilderment we felt when we :were thinking o~t the specific questions in . writing. They are no less bewildering now than they were then·, ·but it is: necessary to state explicitly that it was not our intention .that ·any one individual be "attacked''personally. 
Shortly.after·the-·celebrated author Norman Mailer visitecLthis 'campus during the first semester, he wa~ quoted_ in a -:Chicago -paper as saying in reference to Notre ,Dame:. '-'.Whaf yo_u.:get ·'from the students"js an interesting ·,mix ·Of. a lively ·catholicism·: and . a' lively agnosticism. I can ·use··1:he word 'soul'. there-and they don't. n~ce~sarily. snicker/'. ·orcourse. it: is difficult to 
.· know \vhen ·9ne_ is-·to Jake-M~iler seriously~ but I can recall reading·that.'with· sorri~thing of as~nse of·pride, .mixed with: the· hope that .h~ was ri'ot being facetious.· 
· I think perhaps whatmakes Notre Dame unique is that . .mariy_ of:the me~bers·.of its_ coniri{inity are persistently •arid_ stubbornly• striving. after an-unattainable ideal, an ideal that0 was·-realized probably by·only one· man: You . . · may :call ~that ideal the· Christia·n·· ideal. ·Ana,· in our : weakhess·.·and failures, ,thaf-'striving 'becomes .·a v~~y 

)airi~fprocess... ..< . .: .. '· : ---~ '--. -~:-. ~ ':. -. 
--greg' stidham. 

.·. THE SCHOLASTIC 
"They do not love 
that do not show their love." 
William Shakespeare 
Choose Keepsake with complete confide·nce, because the famous Keepsake Guarantee assures a perfect engagement diamond of precise cut and· superb color. There is no finer diamond ring. 
sake 
DIAMOND RINGS 
Rings from S100-S10.000 T-M Reg. A.H. Pond Co. 
.• .. 

·....._,: 
. :.~ 
_ _.:._--~. • ____,:; .. ______________ 

' . 
HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING_ 7 . 
I Send new 20 pg. booklet, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" plus II fuJI color folder and 44 pg. Bride•s Book gift ·offer all for only 2S¢. S-73 I 
I Name-------------------'-----. I
I · · 1Plu'< Pronll • f 
. I 

I Address;____________________ I 
l .City----------Co,---------. 1,.
1

:_1 
I: ' State ip-----I, 
l_:~EEP~AK~~IA~o~.:....R~~s.'.... BO~ ~·-S.:_RA::1~~..:..Y._ 132~ :· .1 : '----------------------'---------' 
R. K. MUELLER, INC. Downtown 233-4200 218 S. Michigan St.  
PARTY STORE Liquor Beer & Wine Champagne Gou.rmet Foods. if we don't have it-we'll get it U.S. 31 South, Niles Mich. · 1 Block No. of Ind. Line 683-9875  
YEAGER MOTOR Co.~ Inc. BUICK--OPEL-..-VOLVO • SALES · • SERVICE . • PARTS • ·ACCESSORIES "Where customers send their friends" . 215-225 South Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 288-2531  


\Ye'rc looking for secmities analysts. Actuarie:-;. A.ccountants. Computer pro­grammer:-;. And JK'Ople \\·ho like the chal­lenge of figurl's, financl' and mone>·· 
But \Ye're also looking for J)l'Op!e \\·ho han' a hit more than anah·tical skills to offer. Because though \Ye'rc abig company, \\·t,.n: made quite a few departurl's from the "big company" \\·ay of doing things. 
For one thing, \w°\·e made octiun our lff\\·ord. Not onJ,, ac-tion in terms of our relations \\·ith thl: puhlic, hut also action in recognizing and promoting talent \Yithin our mYn company. 
Stop by your collegl' placement oftice and read our brnehure "The \iVhole Truth." It spells out how )Etna \\·orks, and the many specific-opporlunilips \H' han, for people of alI tak•n ts. 
Thl'n think about \\·hat vou want from a eareer. If it's something inore than the an'rage, think about JEtna. 
After all, we're not your average m­suranc-L' compan>'· 
LIFE & CASUA~TY 
= 
You get action vvith .IEtna. 





