NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 24, 1893.
No. 40.
Vol. XXVI.
The Dignity of Labor.
Oration of the Day
Delivered at the Forty-Ninth Annual Commencement of the University of Notre Dame, .
BY THE RT. REV. MGR. ROBERT SETON, D. D.
The dignity of-labor appeals to us immediately, because its origin is in the mind itself of God. The history of creation begins with a record of work. In Genesis we read: “ So the heavens and the earth were finished and all their host. And on the seventh day God ended His work which He had made.” Hence the . title of St. Gregory of Nyssa’s exegetical treatise in the Latin translation from the original Greek is De Opere Sex Dientm. Man, the noblest of God’s works here below, was not ever to be idle. His Creator, the Scriptures tell us, “put him in the paradise of pleasure, to dress it and to keep it.” Thus occupation of some kind was assigned to man from the very beginning. Even in a state of innocence he was not inactive. God gave him work to do, and his employment contributed to his happiness. Even in Eden a law of labor was imposed:
“ God hath set
Labor and rest, as day and night to men Successive; and the timely dew of sleep, Now falling with soft, slumberous weight, inclines Our eye-lids; other creatures all day long Rove idle, unemploy'd, and less need rest;
Man hath his daily work of body or mind
. Appointed, which declares his dignity
. And the regard of Heaven on all his ways.”* Cain and Abel are represented in the Bible as a shepherd and a husbandman.
______ f
“ Par. Lost,” iv. .	« “	.	-	- J
The discovery of different arts, doubtless the offspring, for the most part, of necessity—which is the mother of invention—dates from the earliest ages of the world. Even before the Deluge many arts were .known and practised. The building of cities must have had a favorable effect upon the advancement of the arts; . for then men could readily get assistance in their work, could profit by the experience of others, and could find employment by which to earn their daily bread. Moses testifies that Tubal-Cain “was an artificer in every kind of copper and iron work.” This name resembles, that of Vulcan, and it is probable that the fables concerning the Roman god of fire arose from traditions regarding the famous biblical work-: man. The scholarwill here recall to mind Virgil’s description of . the subterranean furnace of the.. Cyclops in the 8th Book of the 2Eneid, in which the poet’s imagination seems to have anticipated the busy scenes in one of our own great: founderies, ending with
Illi inter sese multa vi brachia tollunt ,	"
In numerum, versantque tenaci forcipe massam, . , where we may say, as in the “Essay on Griti-cism”:	.
“ The line too labors, and the words move slow.”
The celebrated Smithsonian Institute at. Washington carries in its name a tribute to the dignity of labor, Smith being the oldest and most respectable of all names of occupation. It is derived from the Anglo-Saxon smitan. formed in imitation of the sound of smiting, striking, pounding, as of hammer, anvil, and metal. Hence the_pld English couplet:	,
“From whence came Smith, whether artisan or squire,.
But from the smith- that forgeth at the fire? ”	.
The just reproaches which Jacob made to Laban show us that the ancient patriarchs took
6jo
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
labor very seriously and were not backward in turning their hands to it. We may judge of how the men worked in that earlier and simpler age, from the way that even the women worked whose fathers were yet men of substance and consideration. Rebecca came from a distance to fetch water from a- well and carried the “pitcher on her shoulder”; Rachel fed her father’s flock, and took them to water. Their beauty and their station, raised far above necessity, did not lead them to disdain work.
A similar simplicity was then the universal rule. Homer describes kings and princes working with their own hands; and one of the very oldest writings that have come down to us from classical antiquity is a tribute to the dignity of labor. It is the 'JEpY»- *01 ’llpspac, or “Works and Days” of Hesiod, who was a poet of the plow and of the people, inculcating the peaceful pursuits of agriculture and mechanical labor. Xenophon tells of a citizen of Athens who went out every morning into the country to superintend his workmen and help them with his own hands, thus encouraging the rest and keeping himself in perfect health. Cyrus the Younger had a private garden which it was his recreation to tend unaided. Cicero says that he knew of some Sicilian laborers who, although they moved the ground themselves, pruned the fruit trees, dressed the vines, and engaged in all sorts of manual labor, yet lived in houses adorned with beautiful statues and eat off of plates of silver and gold. It has been a custom for over three thousand years in China—the most industrious country in the world—for the emperor and court officials to go out solemnly towards the end of March every year and begin the agricultural work of the season by putting hand to plow and tracing each a long furrow in the ground.
After the Israelites had occupied the Promised Land, we find manual labor ever held there in the highest estimation. Everyone made his own instruments of husbandry. Women, even matrons of rank and wealth, were employed in spinning, weaving and embroidery, making garments not only for their own family, but also to sell to strangers. We may here remark, as showing the respect of our ancestors for work, that spinster—one who spins—is the English legal designation of a single or unmarried woman. Gedeon engaged in threshing and cleansing wheat when an angel of the Lord appeared to him to declare the deliverance of Israel; Ruth gleaning the ears of corn in her kinsman’s field; Saul, although king not changing his manners or pursuits on account of his
elevation, but found “following oxen out of the field,” when summoned to the relief of Jabes-Galaad; David keeping his father’s sheep; Eliseus receiving the holy mantle from Elias when plowing the soil; Amos called to the prophetical office while a herdsman of the kingdom of Juda, are so many examples among others that might be given, which illustrate the dignity in which labor was held by the chosen people of God. Indeed, after the captivity we find the Talmudists laying it down as a precept to parents not to neglect to teach their children some trade or mechanical art. Then mention is made of several even learned Jews who practised a manual art. In the New Testament we have St. Joseph a carpenter, Simon of Joppe a tanner, and St. Paul and Aquila tent-makers. It might here be mentioned, as akin to this part of our subject, that it was formerly the rule for every prince of the blood in France to be taught a trade of some kind, and Louis the Sixteenth, who helped the American colonies to Independence, was a skilful locksmith. It is still a custom for the sons of Roman princes, who count themselves at the head of the European nobility, to be aggregated to one or other of the many guilds or confraternities of mechanics and tradesmen, which the wisdom and liberality of the popes have multiplied in the Eternal City.
Slavery may be likened, wherever introduced, to the fabled upas-tree of the East which gives death to those who rest in its shade. There is an irrepressible conflict between free and slave labor: they cannot , long exist under the same government. The innate dignity of free and honest labor would be insulted and finally extinguished if placed in competition with the enforced and degraded labor of the slave. Two salient examples from ancient and modern history confirm the maxim of economics that in all places and at all times and in every circumstance the same effects follow from similar causes. Slavery, introduced among the Romans by war and conquest, gave the first blow to labor among a free people. In course of time the whole country, of which Rome was the capital and centre, became covered with vast farms called Latifundia, tilled by slave labor; so that the same amount of land which in the time of the Republic had contained from one hundred to one hundred and fifty farmer families, was later occupied (and only occasionally), as a single estate, by one patrician family and perhaps fifty slaves. Pliny denounced this state of things as the ruin of the empire.
With^ the preaching of Christianity a new
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
651
principle was introduced, or rather reintroduced: the principle that labor of itself has nothing humiliating, nothing degrading, and is not incompatible with liberty and knowledge. One of the aims of the Church, from the very beginning, was to rehabilitate manual labor in public estimation, and thus to abolish slavery itself in the Roman world. Before the end of the fifth century labor was restored to its original dignity and the economy of work found its proper place once more in the social conditions of mankind. How could it, indeed, be otherwise? Many of the parables of. our Lord were taken from subjects of labor. He even deigned to liken His Eternal Father to a husbandman, a vine-dresser; He was Himself called a carpenter—“Is not this the carpenter, the Son of Mary?” The insults and objections of pagans, who turned upon the Christians their own contempt for labor, were commonly directed against the humble and laborious origin of their Founder and His Apostles. It has never been attempted by our Apologists to explain away these conditions. On the contrary, they were boldly and gladly accepted and insisted upon. The pagans, being ashamed of manual labor, avoided all mention of it on their tombs. Only the burial urns of slaves and freed-men told of their occupations. On the other hand, the Christians gloried in doing so, and in representing on their burial slabs the instruments of their work. Cicero couples “workman” with “barbarian,’’.using both words as terms of reproach; but among Christians the expressions op er arias, operaria, were held in honor. Thus in a beautiful inscription of the middle of the fourth century the noble widow of Junianus styles herself ainatrix pauperum et operaria—“ a lover of the poor and a working-woman.” To be a breadwinner, a wage-earner, a worker, was to be esteemed mean and contemptible by pagans, but praiseworthy by the Christians; for labor, although, in its present aspect, a penalty of the Fall, is also a remedy of sin and a condition of future reward.
In the fifth century we behold a complete • restoration of the dignity of labor. We can conceive how great has been the moral revolution in the minds and manners of men throughout the ancient world on hearing St. John Chrysostom tell his hearers, the pleasure-loving people, the luxurious nobles, the imperial dignitaries of Constantinople: “When you see a man who cuts the wood, or who, grimy with soot, works the iron with his hammer, do not despise him, but rather for that reason admire him.” *
* Hom. xx, 12.	’
In the primitive Church the Fossores, or gravediggers, belonged to the ecclesiastical body, although their work was primarily one of manual labor. St. Jerome calls them clerics.* They were constantly in familiar intercourse with the priests, and were the devoted, laborious and heroic servants of the Christian community. By them were excavated those stupendous underground cemeteries around Rome and other cities generally called catacombs. Their work required strength, patience, zeal and courage. Their life was one of continual danger and self-sacrifice. In the laws of the fourth and fifth centuries they are styled Copiata, from the Greek, meaning, emphatically, laborers. It was not a mercenary service which these men rendered to the Church, but a work of personal devotion which might, and did, sometimes result ‘ in martyrdom. It has been conjectured that they werethe Osiiarii—Door-keepers—of thosetimes, or, at least, formed a part of that body of Minor-ists. Hence we derive another illustration of the dignity of labor when we see the laborer raised by the Church to such a degree! In the ■ beginning bishops and priests often gave the example of manual labor, following in this the apostolic tradition, as the Apostles themselves had fol lowed the Jewish custom. It appears to have been contemplated by earlier councils that the clergy should, in part at least, maintain themselves by the work of their hands. The learned, however, regard all canons bearing on this subject as permissive rather than mandatory. Still they are undoubted proofs that manual labor was thought honorable and meritorious.
Epiphanius has recorded that many, while they might live by the altar which they served, preferred from motives of humility—of religion —to support themselves by the work of their own hands. Interesting examples of a later period are given in Cardinal Moran’s “Irish Saints in Great Britain.” The monastic orders all, originally, enjoined work of the hands; and ' St. Augustine, a Doctor of the Church, wrote a treatise entitled “De Opere Monachorum,” about the year 400, in which he condemns certain monks who occupied themselves solely in reading, prayer and meditation, to the exclusion of manual labor. The forty-eighth chapter of the Rule of St. Benedict, patriarch of the monks of the West, is headed “Of Daily Manual Labor.” We may ruly say that Laborareet orare—“To work and to pray”—was the fundamental maxim of the monastic life. After the ravages and devastation of the
* Epist. ad Innocent.	.
652	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Barbarian inroads, whole districts of Europe were again cleared and cultivated by the labor and intelligence of monks. They were also the architects and mechanics, the bridge-builders and road-makers, the farmers and gardeners of the early Middle Ages. Among the religious orders, dislike of slavery and serfdom, with a corresponding respect for free labor, were traditions carefully handed down during those long periods of conquest, oppression and social disturbances which preceded, accompanied and followed the formation of Christendom. Perhaps the most touching of our dear poet Longfellow’s miscellaneous pieces is “The Norman Baron,” in which he shows us the influence exerted in this direction by monks, the keepers of men’s consciences. These traditions continued down' to the end. While the bishops and prelates of the secular clergy were too often but court favorites, or the younger sons of great families, the list of the Mitred Abbots —who sat as spiritual peers of parliament in England, at the time of the Reformation— shows that the majority of them sprang from the people, and were the sons of those who worked for their living. Their labor received additional dignity from the eminent positions to which their children rose.	.
Nothing, also, is more democratic than the Papacy. Democracy is the friend and natural ally of Labor; and many are the popes who have honored labor by springing from the laboring classes and wearing high above coronets and crowns the Tiara of merit, mind and moral worth.
Do not, however, mistake. The dignity of labor does not stoop to petty jealousy, or descend to the levelling tendencies of European radicals and socialists. Joseph was, indeed, a carpenter: but he was also of the race of King David and kept his genealogy with scrupulous exactitude. There is nothing contradictory between a “long descent” and a genuine respect for labor. The laborer is not a beast of burden. Even the ox that treadeth out the corn was not to be muzzled. The laborer has a right to fixed and limited hours of work, and to stated periods of rest and recreation. This is a principle which the Church laid down in commanding cessation from labor on Sundays and holidays of obligation; for, as said a rigid and censorious Roman:
“Interpohe tuis interdum gaiidia curis:
r Quod caret alterna requie, durabile non est.” *
The example from modern history, showing that contempt for labor brings a nation
* Cato.
to ruin, is that of Poland. At the outset Poland— as every people that conformed to the guidance of the Church which converted them and civilized them—was comparatively democratic. It was the bringing in of prisoners of war who became the personal property of their captors, which cheapened work and gradually made it impossible for free to compete with slave or serf labor. The Polish peasant, freeman as he was and the owner of a bit of land for which he had no over-lord, fell by degrees into a condition in which he had few social and no political rights. Such grew to be the arrogance and unwisdom of the Polish aristocracy that a man lost caste, who, however poor, engaged in mechanical ■ or industrial labor. This-finally brought about the extinction of Polish nationality. In the days preceding this event—a century ago—it was a common saying that Poland .was the paradise of idle nobles and the hell of industrious workers.
It is pleasing to turn from such a state of things to the wise imaginations of Sir Thomas More in his “ Utopia.” There we see portrayed not only a voluntary communism—an accepted division of labor and profit—such as the Church had ever approved in her religious orders and which, in apostolic times, was occasionally practised by families while still living in the world, but we have also depicted, to the enhancement of the love and dignity of labor, a class of men who of their own volition neglected the softer side of life to “live laborious days.” Here follows a description of these.men:
“ Some of them visit the sick, others mend the highways, cleanse out ditches, repair bridges, or dig turf, gravel or stones. Others fell and cleave timber, and bring wood, corn and other necessaries, in carts, into their towns. Nor do these serve the public only, but even ptivate men, and more faithfully than the slaves themselves. If there is any where a rough and disagreeable piece of work to be done from which others are deterred by the labor and disagreeable nature of the task, not to say the despair of accomplishing it, they cheerfully, and of their own accord, undertake it. These men spend their whole life in hard labor; and yet they do not value themselves upon it, nor lessen other people’s credit to raise their own; and by stooping to such servile employment, so far from being despised, they are the more . esteemed by; the whole nation.”*
Every true American will sympathize, one would think, with that generous, enthusiastic and high-spuled band which tried to carry on the Brook Farm community, near Boston, some fifty years ago. Hawthorne belonged to it for awhile, arid has written in “ Blithedale Romance” those noble words:
“We mean to lessen the laboring man’s great burden
* Ch. xi.	-	. .	•
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	653
of toil by performing our due share of it at the cost of our thews and sinews.... And as the basis of our institution, we propose to offer up the earnest toil of our bodies, as a prayer no less than an effort for the advancement of our race.”
It has been said, with more or less truth, that everything in English literature can be referred to the Bible, to Shakspere, or to Bacon’s Essays. One of the longest of the essays is that one “Of the True Greatness, of Kingdoms and Estates,” and shows the change that came over Europe at the period of and, in some manner, as a consequence of the-Protestant Reformation in the setting up 'of absolute monarchies and the keeping of standing armies which are the two worst enemies of honest, self-respecting labor. How different the estimate of Baconfrom that of his Catholic predecessor in the Lord Chancellorship, as to what constitutes we believe the strength and power of a people—the good condition of its laboring classes—is clear from this single sentence: “The principal point of greatness in any State is to have a race of military men.” No well-informed American can agree with this; but he will prefer the maxim of the gentle Fenelon inculcating in “Telemachus” the wise advantages of industry and peace. If it be objected that they alone should speak of labor who know from their own experience what labor is, let us answer in the finest line ever penned by Latin scribe:
“Homo sum: humani nihil a me alienum puto.”
It embodies, a sentiment that every American accepts; for if not everyone of us is obliged to labor with his own hands, yet everyone of us is expected to respect and to encourage him who has to do so. A beautiful anecdote of the great Napoleon tells us that one day at St. Helena he met, unexpectedly, a laborer toiling up the path with a heavy load on his shoulders. The poor , man would have turned aside and ceded the right of way to the emperor, but Napoleon prevented him and turned aside himself, saying to his faithful followers: Hon-neur cm travail—1 Let us honor labor.”
Our Revolution was the dawn of a new era in which the dignity of labor was to be acknowledged in a free citizen enjoying absolute political equality with whomsoever; and by our example and prosperity we now demand a juster recognition of the rights of labor throughout the world. With hardly an exception, the official seals of the states and territories of the Union bear engraved upon them the republican symbols of industry and labor—the plow, the shears, the spade and pick and axe, the grapevines and the bee-hive, the ship-builder’s in- *
struments and the miner’s tools, telling of an origin and a history far other than that which the feudal towers and heraldic anomalies proclaim upon the shields of monarchical Europe.
Labor is the key to American success. The emigrant privations and pioneer struggles of our people in the making of New England, in the making of the Great West and all the rest of our beloved country; the boyhood difficulties of so many of our eminent men from Clay and Webster to Lincoln, Grant and Garfield, have set a halo of romance on the sacred brow of labor. The ring of the woodman’s ax, the cling-clang of hammer and anvil, the thud and sputter of red-hot beaten iron, the buzz of saw, the whizz and whirl of wheels, the shuttle in. the loom, the murmur of imprisoned waters, the hiss of escaping steam, the rumble and roar of machinery in motion—the varied sounds of human skill and labor—is the music of America and the industrial harmony of the universe. In our republican country the people have no crests except those of rude toil. Here there is no aristocracy but that of hand and brain. Here all are equal before God and before the Law. Here all are assured a chance to rise above their original condition. This is the brotherhood of man through Christian equality:
“ Turn, turn, my wheel I The human race, Of every tongue, of every place,
. Caucasian, Coptic, or Malay,	*
All that inhabit this great earth, Whatever be their rank or worth, Are kindred and allied by birth, And made of the same clay.” *
“ The sleep of a laboring man is sweet,” says the Scripture. It is the effect of healthy exercise. His nights are not disturbed by social ambition. The Catholic laborer learns from his mother the Church howto be happy though poor. This is one of the problems of life whose solution has been hidden from the wise and prudent and revealed to little ones: “Yea, Father; for so it hath seemed good in Thy sight.” (Matt, xi, 26.) The Church teaches the lesson of mutual help and sympathy. The Church ignores the so-called barriers between the classes and the masses, holding them to be fic7 titious obstructions and imaginary lines of demarcation which only pride, prejudice and plutocracy can be so. foolish as to prate about. The Church suggests that a divine blessing rests on labor and elevates it, to the nobility of nature:	•	■
“ The honest man, though e’er sae poor,.
Is king o’ men for a’ that.”
The “Fair and Happy Milkmaid” in Over
* Longfellow: Kiramos. 1
654	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
bury’s Characters, the loving couples in the “ Cotter’s Saturday Night,” “Evangeline” at her spinning, “Paul and Virginia” in their island home never knew the misery of wealth which stamps its mysterious mark on the rich and the idle:
"---medio de fonte leporum
Surgit amari aliquid quod in ipsis floribus angit.” *
The contrast between those who ride in carriages and those who go afoot has amused the pencil of the humorist and the thoughts of the philosopher, for both recall the adage: “ God shows His contempt for riches by the sort of people He gives them to.” Labor is at its best when it believes, with the Apostle, that “ Piety with sufficiency is great gain.” Desperate risks, quick returns, the greed for sudden wealth— Auri sacra fames—these degrade labor, demoralize the laborer, and make unwilling workers in the mills of God. Thrice happy they to whom the Encyclical of Pope Leo “On the Condition of Labor ” is familiar! Thrice happy they if the Holy Family be their model, and, in the words of the Pope establishing the Confraternity, “They lift up their eyes to Jesus, Mary and Joseph to find in this domestic group cause for rejoicing rather than for repining at their lot.”
Such as these would be the hope of America:
“ Men whose lives glided on like rivers that water the woodlands,
Darkened by shadows of earth, but reflecting an image of heaven.”
The Answer of the Sphynx.
CLASS POEM, iS92-’93.
BY RAYMOND C. LANGAN, ’93.
I.
Hard at the feet of silence,— -	- At thy cruel feet, O Sphynx!—
-	• Our hands are beating wildly,-
-	As the dawn of boyhood sinks.
.	Wilt thou answer in the noontime?
Wilt-thou answer in the night?
Ah, what shall the future bring us,— -	. Direful grief or long delight? .
I Green with the moss of years, unlike the tale That withers with, the suns of summers warm, Still lives the story of bold CEdipus, The hero brave who solved the riddle old That made the Sphynx in frenzy dash herself Against a rock, because the noble lad • Of Theban blood guessed right her question vague.
. The Sphynx, a myth of legendary lore, With woman’s face and body, like a lion, . And wings as black as any starless night, Gifted with motion, speech and life, sat and
♦ “Lucretius.”.	.
Asked all, both young and old, that passed her way: “ What being walks on fours, on twos, on threes
At last; and on the least by far the best? ” An answer wrong meant death to him that gave It so; No gold could buy her from her work Most foul, nor could the hand of mortal man Foil her deep plan, nor stop the sacrifice Of youths and maids, who in the spring of life Fell like the flowers cut by sharp-edged scythes. No sable sails, like clouds before a storm, Were floating in the air to tell their sad Farewell, as when those exiled to the Cretan King Left their bright homes each year to wander through The labyrinth, gifts to the Minotaur.
But one by one they passed away, until
The Theban lad the riddle solved,—’Twas Man.
11.
The sad sea auswers uo questions, The bright sea answers none, , And the clouds go mutely asking Until the day is done.
.	The spring is silent, and sphynx-like,	'
The summer will answer no Why, And the winter, though winds be howling, Can only say, “I die!”
Among the dew-dipped buds of life’s fair morn The youth lies dreaming of the cherished Past— Oft fraught with pleasures, sometimes tinged with pains,
Until the noonday sun with piercing rays Unfolds the petals of the waiting flower, Or crowns with mellow fruit the autumn tree. Then phantom thoughts of days forever gone Pass from his ripened mind for others fresh. The Past no longer has its charms for him: It fades away before the mystic dawn Of Future’s gleaming days as morning dews Shine in the sunlight to be seen no more.
Who would not know the Future vast and vague That sits a Sphynx with riddle deep to solve More puzzling than the myth of ancient lore, More of a monster dealing death to youths?
Who does not love the hidden and unseen, As ’twere an argosy of richest gold, A wandering treasure drifting in from sea, As haply found by you as any one, Who does not want to know what none can know And tear the veil of Time that hides the view Of Future’s realms mysterious to us?
Time moves unseen, its hurried step ne’er stops; Each fleeting moment speeds on in its course And falls to be replaced by others new, As frosted leaves give way to those of Spring. We call aloud, but still the Future holds The secret of to-morrow’s fate that lies Low hidden at its shrine of covered truth.
Again we call, but from the Vast no sound Returns to us, save faint, sad echoes of The woodland cries we uttered in our grief.
Where shall we find thy answer? Where hast thou hid the word
.	' • That gives us the clew to the longing
• By which our hearts are stirred? .
.	Wilt thou help us in our sorrow
.	’ And drop down a golden rope
That will help us to climb upward?
> Ah, the Sphynx has answered—“Hope.”
------
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC^
Valedictory.
BY ERNEST F. DU BRUL, ’93.
With each recurring June that brings its - flowers and perfumes—the promises of the fruition of later summer—comes also the time that marks the June of a college student’s life. Commencement brings to him the flower of graduation in which is hidden the germ of his future. For several years we have sat in this hall on Commencement Day, listening to the farewells of our predecessors, never thinking of the time when we ourselves would be placed in a like position.’ But life is a succession of events; the hopes of the future become the realities*of the present; the things that are become the things that were. The incidents of our college life came and went, and the closing act of our career at Notre Dame is soon to slip away into the past and take its place among the bygones.
As the moss that lives its lowly life in the else deserted bog dies at the root as fast as it grows at the top, so are the old associations of our college days broken off when our life in the world begins. But just as the dead moss turns to peat for the warmth and comfort of man, so do the sundered bonds leave behind them the memory of their existence to sweeten and fill with fragrance the busy years to come.
Leave-takings are frequent. Friends come and go; gladly we greet them, sadly we part from them, and saddest of all farewells is the one said for the last time. It is such a one that must now be spoken. Many a time ere this have we left Notre Dame, but it was always with an au revoir and not with an adieu. Eagerly did we then await Commencement Day, and cheerfully we welcomed its arrival. Overjoyed at the prospect of again seeing home, friends, parents; grateful for a period of rest after our term’s work; excited by the bustle and confusion incident to the occasion, with a hearty grasp of the hand we said a.few hurried words of parting, sure of meeting again in a few weeks. To-day all is changed. Our work is done, our last Commencement Day is here; we part, perhaps forever. .
What tender emotions arise at the doing of anything for the last time! How painful is the prospect of leaving college on this occasion! Mystic chains seem to bind us fast, and scarcely can we tear ourselves away. A strange charm seems to linger about each well-known spot. Depressed in spirit, we traverse each shady.
655
path. For the last time we view the familiar . scenes of hall and campus, meditating on the years that have flown. For the last time we look into the cool depths of the lake, remembering how placid was our existence here. For • the last time we watch the swift current of the x river, pondering on our own lives, rushing swiftly onward and bearing each its freight of care to the untried ocean that now lies before us.
Hard, indeed, is the parting from our favorite haunts, but harder still the parting from our college friends. Many pleasant hours have.we spent in their company. For years we worked beside them in the class room; for years we' have eaten at the same board; for years have our lives been bound up with theirs by the great tie of student-fellowship, and now that tie must broken. Little we knew of the pain it would give; little we thought how reluctantly we should take the coveted prize that, like the mystical Dead Sea fruit, turns to ashes of sorrow	..
and regret in our hands. Rude the shock, and sad the necessity of this last farewell, and yet it must be spoken.
Rev. Fathers and Members of the Faculty—: To you are we indebted for what little store of knowledge we possess. You have given us a criterion by which to guage our actions. Your precepts have well equipped us for the life upon which we are about to enter. Your kindness and zeal have helped us over many obstacles. Your gentleness and patience have done much to brighten our lives here. Words cannot express the debt of gratitude we owe you. There is but one way for us to show our appreciation of your efforts in our behalf: It is by living up to your teaching and so proving ourselves worthy sons of Notre Dame. With this purpose in our hearts we bid you farewell!
Fellow-Students—We of ’93 have run our . course and won the prize. Looking back over the track and seeing you pushing, forward .in the same direction, we would give you the benefit of what little experience we picked up on the way. The road may be rough in places; but should you ever feel like giving up the struggle, , fix your eyes upon the goal and persevere, to the end. The prize is well worth the labor of earning it. We who are sons of Notre Dame, but little older than yourselves,, are soon to. . leave the place where all have been as brothers. Much of the pleasure given us in years gone . by was due to your companionship, and in years to come the most pleasant memories of our college life will cluster round you, our fellow- „ students,—and now farewell!	...
Classmates—The spirit of loyalty was always.
656
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
strong in us, so let not our allegiance to Alma Mater fail. Let us remember that, as the University has been a loving and true mother to us, we should be faithful and true sons to her.
• Now that we are about to separate, let us not sever the bonds that have united us for so long. Though great distances part us, let us not drop out of one another’s lives, but let each be kept in that of the others, though, perhaps, he be not of it. Time shall not weaken the ties that now bind us; and when we meet again, either in the shadow of the University or out in the world, I know that we will show the regard we have for one another as classmates, as companions, as friends. And now, comrades, as we stand in the doorway of our college home, about to embark on the untried voyage of life, let us hope that, should we never meet again on earth, we may do so in the realms above; so, fare you well!
Notre Dame—Thy mission is from God, and the blessings of Heaven are upon thee. Many are the sons thou hast reared, but may their number be a multitude! Mayst thou be to all, as thou hast been to us, a hallowed spot where none knew care! May the time soon come when students from every land will flock to thee for instruction like to that which thou hast given us! May we who now leave thee live to see thee foremost in rank, highest in honor! Notre Dame, Alma Mater, farewell!
The Genius of Art.*
BY MICHAEL A. QUINLAN, ’93.
“To him who in the love of nature holds Communion with her visible forms she speaks A various language.”
These are the words of a thoughtful man, and when he wrote them he gave expression to a universal truth. There is not a thing in nature which has not some semblance of a language. Somehow, the sympathetic heart can find a meaning in all things. Through sight and through hearing, through all the senses in fact, ideas are conveyed to the mind. A feeling of sympathy courses through our being, and the heart goes forth to suffer with the afflicted. The works of nature and the works of God speak to our inmost souls. The frail, simple arbutus, blooming meekly on the grassy green hillside tells us that the oak-leaf will soon
* Oration delivered at the Forty-Ninth Annual Commencement. :	•	- ‘ '
burst its small silken sheath, that the robin is building its nest, and that the rough winds of winter have left their domain to the soothing breezes of the south. The great rocks of the rugged mountain or the well-worn bowlders of the prairie tell scientists the history of the earth, and skeletons preserved in the underlying strata tell them of the different stages in animal life,—how long the world was manless and forlorn.
So, too, there is in the achievements of men an undying spirit that strikes a sympathetic chord in the heart-harp of the human soul. Whether it be the spirit of beauty, the spirit of patriotism, or the ungodly spirit of ungodly ambition, it speaks to us in its mystical language. Of beauty this is especially true. We are always impressed by the beautiful. We love to gaze upon graceful forms and figures, or ponder upon the charms of a picturesque landscape. Beauty is the soul of nature, the parent of art.
Interest in the arts, and the contemplation of those masterpieces that have been executed, may be looked upon as a great moral force which leads man from the material to the spiritual, from the spiritual to God. The very fact that men labor so assiduously in trying to perfect the arts indicates how divine we are in our origin, and how universal must be that belief. Almost invariably the artist’s ideal contains some marked attribute of the Deity. Something there is in the epic dealing with the supernatural, something God-like is seen in the face of a marble-wrought David, something inexpressible we find in the countenance of a painted Madonna. Yet even these wonders are only the results of partial successes. We know with what fervor the pen of the poet sped over his paper in the moment of inspiration, and how sad he must have felt to think that all could not be written ; we know how often the artist of chisel or brush sat in his studio, lonely with his models, fearful of the future, and sad that each repeated attempt seemed to be a failure, sad that he could not portray the creatures of his imagination. In fact, no true artist has ever represented faithfully what in his mind he has seen. He aims at perfection, but perfection is only a phantom, and his fancied picture or statue is oftentimes only a glorious dream which can never be realized. But art is not in the mind and imagination; it is a thing that exists; we see it; we know what it is. And art, in its present’ stage of development, is great—worthy of the ideals which gave it birth, worthy to be called the handiwork of man.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The mind of man, as it grows in perfection, idealizes Nature in search of Nature’s God. The material and intellectual expression of that ideal constitutes what we call the fine arts. But above all, we look for something lofty, something noble, something that speaks of the spiritual—something sublime. To the artist this is a longed-for end. Yet, though the hidden meaning of the great work seems to represent “the Unknown, the Inevitable, the Divine,” the worker cannot go beyond the sphere of his fellowman; and whatever he does is clothed in the atmosphere in which he lives. In the words of a well-known writer, “No man can quite emancipate himself from his age and country, or produce a model in which education, the religion, the politics, usages and arts of his times shall have no share.” Indeed, the artist is a kind of historian; by the comparative perfection of a nation’s art is a nation’s greatness reckoned. Let the master be a sculptor, a painter, an architect, it is one and the same thing; for through sculpture, through painting and through architecture is represented, in a general way, the highest degree of culture which a nation may have acquired. These three significant arts have a mission among men and live that they may accomplish it. A race may disappear with all its musicians and orators and poets, but there always remains some vestige of those other arts to tell of its material, moral and intellectual greatness. Though the last descendant of a civilized people has passed from the face of the earth, though no one remains to rehearse the traditions of that people, yet you will find that if mankind knows what was their architecture, or possesses a few of their masterpieces in sculpture and painting, that people’s acme of civilization'will not be unknown to posterity. And even though we have the written history of Greece and Rome, for instance, do we not look upon their arts as their greatest triumph? To talk of art is simply to go back to the past. Instinctively we all do it. To talk of the greatest masters is to speak of the Age of Pericles and of Alexander, of Augustus and of Leo X. But to try to tell of all that men have done in the fine arts; to tell of the depth of soul which men must have to execute their designs, would be futile and vain. No need is there to go to the past for everything. We all are poets of nature. We all are artists striving for some great ideal. Some spark of genius is in every soul, and it needs only a proper line of action, a true knowledge and a strong will to bring it 'forth.
To talk of art is to go to the past. But this
657
should not mean that we ought to ignore the present. Art is not dead. We admire the old masters because other men have admired them. ' Perhaps some of us have not seen those wonders which the famed Greeks have wrought in marble, or the nimble-fingered Italians have depicted on canvas, and, like Ralph Waldo Emerson, we may some day start off for Paris, for Milan, for Naples, for Rome, and there see* the masterpieces for ourselves. We may fancy that those pictures or statues will be something’ strange, a striking arrangement of colors and forms, “a foreign wonder, a barbaric pearl.” But no. Emerson came back from Paris, back from Milan, back from Naples, back from Rome, and told others he was a fool. He had seen the statues, but they were only imitations of life. He had seen the paintings, and even they were nothing but plain, familiar scenes, simple and sincere. He was not dazzled; he had seen nothing new; but he learned the lesson that great pictures and statues, like great actions, are simple and sincere; that the world has not yet given birth to her greatest masters; that art is not dead. Art is a living thing. It lives, and will live; and masterpieces will be made so long as men love the beautiful, are inspired by patriotism and honest ambition, and strive to form an idea of the God who is.
Naturally, when speaking of art, one’s attention would be turned at this auspicious hour to the World’s Columbian Exposition; for within the Fair Grounds are now gathered together in galaxy the masterpieces of the civilized nations of the earth. What educated person is there who deems it not a rare privilege to cast his eyes on such a collection of statues and paintings? From the work-shops of the renowned, from the various schools at home and abroad, from the galleries of every land where the arts have flourished; from the Louvre of Paris, from the studios of London, from the galleries of Dresden, from the venerable halls of the Vatican, are gathered into the gorgeous art palace of our Western metropolis those effigies of life that fill with such a sense of awe the souls of men. What lover of the beautiful, as he stands there in that grand edifice and looks about him at the life-like forms modelled-in clay, in granite, in marble, in brass, in bronze, in silver, in gold, or contemplates the sublimity pictured by a Turner, a Corot, a Titian, a Leonardo da Vinci, a Rafaelle, will not feel nobler, more exalted, the king of the earth, and more the brother of the Saviour King who made him? What traveller from'a distant land, as he enters that camping ground of the nations, will not
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

stand back in utter amazement, speechless? for there he will see a specimen of architectural art which men have already declared to be peerless. Should he look at the carved images wrought long and tediously by a Canova or Powers, or study the ideals of a Bouguereau or Millet, he receives from the statue or painting only what he brings in knowledge. He must be educated to appreciate these arts fully. But for him, and for all men, the majesty and magnificence of the huge dome, of the imposing columns, of the flash and splendor of architecture in all its forms, are not a study, but a strong, vivid reality which crushes the imagination with an idea of grandeur that knows no just manner of expression. There the traveller stands awe-struck at the beauty and symmetry and regal grandeur modern architecture has assumed. One might think that the wealthconsuming Imperators, who long ago reigned in the Eternal City, had come again upon the earth, and, amassing all their hoarded riches, built a city of purest marble—so unique are those stately palaces, so great in magnitude, and so artistic in construction is that group of temples consecrated to science, to art, to education, to the spirit of brotherly love, to God,—a fitting monument for all the masterpieces of the world, a masterpiece itself!
Thou parliament of arts that thrill’st the world And wak’st to wonderment the toil-bound years, Why hast thou o’er thy palaces unfurled
The kindred colors of two hemispheres ?
What silent spirit reigns within thy breast?
What lofty purpose guides thy artful hand?
What grace hast thou to win at thy behest The .boastful pageantry of every land?
Each nation strives to make thee what thou art; It lends thee what it has and gives its heart.
Man speaks to man and every soul is stirred;
Renewed in life is labor’s sweet surcease;
One spirit moves the world and lo! are heard The whispered words of universal peace.
Behold the races rear their temples grand
Within whose walls the millions meet and scan The wonders of the earth; there hand clasps hand, And reigns, serene, the brotherhood of man.
The Catholic Exhibit is not in any sense a religious affair. It is intended to represent the influence of Catholic churchmen and the Catholic faith upon the education of their people. It is not. intended as a religious propaganda ; it is simply a material exposition of what the people of one great faith can-do in the way of promoting humanity and the world’s progress.—'Chicago Herald.
The Marvels of Industry.*
BY ALBERT E. DACY,’93.
In the “ Talmud” we read that when King Solomon undertook the construction of the temple, divine word was pronounced that no iron was to be used in the edifice. The king was in despair; for how could rocks and marble be fashioned without the aid of iron? Summoning ' his counsellors, he related his story. To his great delight one sage spoke of a tiny worm called “ Shamir,” which possessed the property of splitting the hardest stones. After weeks of diligent search and inquiry Solomon succeeded in finding this animal. The Shamir cut the stones and the temple was erected. This is an old story of the Rabbi. •
Similarly was man powerless to build temples at the time of his creation; but he soon found himself endowed with sovereignty over the universe. In his hand was placed a “Shamir” by which he might surmount all barriers opposed to his advancement. This divine gift at once made him master over his surroundings, and since the day of the finding of the “Shamir” he has paid homage to no earthly material. From the accumulated knowledge of centuries we see the superiority of his mind over matter —of intellect over the forces of nature. Industrial progress is but the result of his triumphs over the inanimate. The whole trend of civilization shows as he has conquered nature by his inventive genius, he himself has become freed from toil. Emerson puts it: “Now that is the wisdom of man in every instance of his labor, to hitch his wagon to a star and see his chore done by the gods themselves.” On every hand we behold the wonders he has wrought out of his conquered domains. Slumbering creation is ever waiting to be aroused by' combinations of his intellect, when it will give up the keys of new empires of endeavor. The tall oak of .the forest, stretching its top defiantly towards the heavens and apparently mocking the diminutive figure below called man, is felled and its once haughty trunk and branches soon tell the tale of a now forgotten grandeur. The great beds of coal and iron, hidden in the bowels of the earth, challenging humanity to find them, are discovered, raised to the surface and soon utilized. The impetuous mountain torrent roaring, surging,
* Oration delivered at the Commencement exercises,' June 19.	. ..
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
working destruction in its descent and ostensibly ignoring frustration, is turned into sluices and forced to propel its victor’s machinery. The fierce wind wailing throughout the land, causing havoc and annihilation, is compelled to blow against its conqueror’s sails, driving his ships upon all waters. Even the beasts of the forest and desert do not escape this dominating power, as they are caught and trained to do their subjugator’s menial work. When we see these miraculous victories of man over matter, when we view the imposing monuments of his industry, when we contemplate his insignificant stature as compared with the materials he overcomes, how can we doubt the existence of an all-wise and powerful Creator who directs his actions?
By history’s aid we trace out the origin of the seeds which have fructified into our present social organization; we observe man in the various stages of his development; we follow him to the many theatres in which he has acted, and we study the most conspicuous governments which have been instrumental in accelerating or retarding his march through the ages. As astronomy is based on the outgrowth of the old discoveries of astrology, and as chemistry is only the disclosure of the blind conjectures of alchemy, so modern society is simply the application of those principles which were found most conducive to good government in antiquity. Asia is the cradle in which man’s infancy was rocked, where his intellect was dwarfed, where he realized his dependence on a sovereign master, where the thundering legions of despotism blotted out all his ideas of progression. Europe is the school in which his youth was trained, where his time was spent in never-ending wars, where he was ground down under the sway of tyranny, where he grew strong and arrayed himself against his oppressors, where he first recognized his nobility, and where the light of his responsibilities finally dawned. America is the forum where he has grown from adolescence to manhood, where he has applied all the teachings of science, literature and economy, where he has made use of nature’s vast extents and forces; where he has turned upon the power that ground him down, and asserting that “all men are created free and equal”; where he has raised himself to that dignity of station for which Heaven created him, and where his solution of the democratic experiment has established a refuge for the persecuted of all climes.
Industrial progress is one of the natural
659
forces which depend on man’s free-will. It is the factor of prosperity and order and the companion of liberty. Hence the consideration of one necessarily implies that of the other., In -the race for political power the material progress and development of a country’s resources essentially go hand in hand with the growth of popular government. The marvel of American freedom has become a hackneyed theme since the dedication of the Columbian Exposition. The question now suggests itself: - How have theUnited States discharged their duties related to industry in connection with their onward march toward perfection in government? No time is more propitious than the present to answer this question, as the mechanical exhibits * at the World’s Fair indicate a stupendous activity in America.
When Columbus, after furrowing the untried Atlantic, set foot upon the New World what did he behold? A vast wilderness extending as far as the eye could range, august in its expanse, resplendent in its naturalness, majestic in its loneliness! The silence is broken only by the rippling of waters, the howls of animals and the mutterings of sluggish savages. Nature is magnificent in her uncouth garb. Man is to be pitied in his simplicity. Brute force reigns supreme. Gradually the scene changes. Signs of cultivation appear. Each incoming vessel brings with it new incentives to progress. The primeval forest gives way to civilization, and the miracle of American development begins. Ever obeying an irresistible impulse, humanity sweeps onward like a fertilizing river, clearing the mighty forest and transforming the desert wilderness into fruitful farm’s and prosperous cities. To Virginia came Anglicans, to Massachussets Puritans, to Philadelphia Quakers, and to Maryland Catholics. But what brings these crusaders of all denominations? It is the desire of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Finally the Union is formed. The keynote of American advancement is sounded. Opportunity is given to civilized man to shape his future free from the weight of his own past. Chance is offered to a great civilized nation to work out its destiny unhampered and unfettered. And for the first time in history every man realizes that the privileges of primogeniture are blasted, that no obstacles are set to his progress, that no individual can manage his affairs for him, and that the fruits of his industry are absolutely his own to use as may please him. For the first time since creation every man feels that he may rightfully stand erect in any presence except that of his Maker. -
i
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
History shows that the demands of the age are the inspirations of the mind. With the growth of American independence the primitive customs of our forefathers became inadequate. Simultaneously Franklin, through intervals of relaxation from political duties, made his wonderful discovery, and to him the world owes much in electricity, and society is indebted for her betterment. With the expansion of the infant Republic the means of travel became defective. Watt supplied the defficiency by inventing the steam engine; and palace cars soon relegated the stagecoach, and steamboats, supplemented the white wings of commerce. When our Southern planters were in a dilemma as to the disposal of their cotton crop, Whitney constructed his gin, which now feeds the poor of England and clothes the world; when the means of communication were considered too antiquated for American messages, the telegraph and telephone superseded the old post. Devices which have originated in this country might be enumerated without end. But time does not permit. Suffice it to say that on every occasion American genius has equalled all emergencies. Europe may be the fostermother of science, the promoter of research, and the discoverer of new forces; but for their application she has to call on America.
To-day a glance of the eye accompanying the sun from ocean to ocean reveals an extraordinary spectacle. What a contrast to the view seen by Columbus! Immense forces characterized by order and activity are displayed; the marching of a vast population is perceived; the creations of an industrious people stand forth in infinite varieties* of form and gigantic dimensions. . From the thundering of machines in factories our attention is attracted by the stroke of the lumberman’s ax in the woods, by the hum of reapers and threshers in the fields, by the mighty blows of the miner’s pick, by the peals of huge engines of commerce, all united in a common battle against the ferocity of nature, all joined in one harmonious chorus of industry. Everywhere the eye beholds telegraph and telephone wires and railroads uniting all commercial centres forming a complicated network rivalling in texture the nerve system of the human body, stretching forth from coast to coast. We see that a new order of human affairs has been established. The enslaved have , been freed. The sleepers of centuries have been awakened. History has been emblazoned with the conquests of peace, and from this once desert wilderness the blessings of liberty have radiated around the world.
The Columbian Exposition will not only illustrate the miracle of America’s four centuries of progress and civilization, but will likewise exemplify every nation’s advancement. On its stage the world will be the theme and nations the actors. The most superb collection of the evidences of development of different countries in their arts, industries and mechanical work, their greatest wonders of creative and constructive genius will be exhibited. People of all civilized lands have been studying the same problems, and the World’s Fair will set forth all the advantages which have been registered by mankind, and will furnish to acute minds stimulation for further improvement. Beauty, refinement, art, education and religion will receive a new impetus, and this gathering will go down in history as a fitting close to the most prosperous of all centuries. But the most important achievement of the exposition will be the cementing of friendly relations among all peoples, inviting reconciliations, bringing men of all classes into closer contact, fusing all nations into one harmonious system of fraternal relationship, and, more than any other institution, encouraging the practice of the brotherhood of mankind.
Notwithstanding this outgrowth and hundreds of improvements of the so-called “age of invention” the struggle for bread is fiercer than ever before. Our present unequal distribution of capital serves only to feed the flames of discontent. In all large cities one sees the same piteous spectacle presented—overcrowded industrial centres, keen competition, thousands of men out of work, suffering humanity on all sides*. We know that capital is coined out of women and children; that the sordid dollar grinds down honest laborers; that thrifty men . are shot down like dogs; that the poor are used merely as a tool by the rich. We hear cries coming from the oppressed, from the hungry, from the down-trodden, from men who despair, from women who weep, from children who starve. As Mrs. Browning says:
“They look up.with their pale and sunken faces, - And their looks are sad to see,	.
For the man’s hoary anguish draws and presses
- Down the cheeks of infamy.
‘ You old earth,’ they say, ‘is very dreary,.
Our young feet,’ they say, ‘ are very weak!
Few paces have we taken, yet are weary— Our grave rest is very far to seek.”
Such is the doleful picture of our working classes, and such it will continue until a proper equilibrium between capital and labor is estab--lished. If the means of living are not more
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	66i
equally distributed, and if rapacious millionaires, who insidiously threaten the welfare of our country by cultivating a desire for Caesarism, are not subdued, the fate of Rome awaits us. But let us trust, that efficient means may be found to destroy the ability of these men to work public ruin at the expense of others. Let us hope that the hungry wilt be fed, the naked clothed, the ignorant enlightened, the downcast lifted up, and above all that “Shylock” will be crushed. Let us pray for a time when the good of every invention will reach the poorer classes; when the mightiest engines of production can be owned by those who operate them; when higher wages may stimulate those who toil; when a new civilization will decorate America’s industrial standards with golden deeds and philanthropic concessions. Let our manufacturer’s apply as a remedy the practice of justice and charity; and if workingmen will have patience, then the problem will soon be solved. As those situated on mountain tops first discern the morning beams, let us, from the vantage-ground of Christian principles soon behold the rising sun of a new era of one united American brotherhood. As De Maistre says: “This century opened by proclaiming the rights of man let it close by declaring and enforcing the rights of God.”
Soutane and Sword.
THE VERY REV. FATHER CORBY’S ELOQUENT “MEMOIRS OF CHAPLAIN LIFE ” IN THE UNION ARMY.
The book is most fascinating-, and ought to have a wide circulation, especially among the Irish and Catholic population of this country, the valorous deeds of whose compatriots and coreligionists it ably records. At present it is only to be had at the publication office of the Scholastic, Notre Dame University, Indiana, and it's net retail price is $1.50.	.
The “Memoirs” of Father Corby are quietly written, and, on that account, convey a stronger picture of the chivalric courage and heroic constancy of Meagher’s Brigade under fire than any mere studied laudation could convey. The officers and soldiers who composed that Brigade set an example of patriotism and steady, yet fiery, valor to the whole Army of the Potomac, and the testimony to that valor is preserved immortally in the words. of Gen. Sumner, Gen. McClellan, Gen. Hancock, the Count of. Paris—heir of the Houses of Bourbon and Orleans,—the military correspondent of the London Times, and many others, not of Irish birth or lineage, or even of the- Union army, who have left their impressions of the
glorious conduct of the Brigade on the pages of history. We thank Father Corby for having enbalmed those tributes in his invaluable-book.
—Citizen (Chicago).	k
This book embraces the experience of three years spent by Father Corby as Chaplain in the . • .	.
famous Irish Brigade,the “Army of the Potomac,” . during the late unpleasantness. During that time Father Corby served under Generals McClellan,' Burnside, Hooker, Meade'and Grant. His story is ; , told in the simple, straightforward manner, char- ' acteristic of the man. The book is interesting in every one of its forty-eight chapters. There are no long or tedious descriptions, and there is nd attempt made to make it a history ofthe war. It is a book that should find its way into the library of :	J C
every Catholic who loves his country and his .	.
religion. Father Corby is himself so modest that he finds it necessary to offer an excuse for its publication. In our estimation it would have been; no slight loss to Catholic, and necessarily American, literature had it not been printed.—Catholic News:.
In sending us a copy of his new book “ Memoirs of Chaplain Life,” Father Corby, Provincial of the Holy Cross Order, writes: “A hundred times since the late War have I been asked what chaplains (priests) did and what position they held in-the army. This book answers all such questions.” Father Corby was one of six Catholic chaplains' who accompanied the famous Irish-Brigade commanded by Thomas Francis Meagher. His . - . “ Memoirs ” are interwoven with the story of the six . regiments composing that famous brigade. Father Corby’s style is clear and the story he tells is sustained and interesting, besides being an excursion into a new direction of war-memoirs. Some graphic illustrations add to the interest of the book. Upon . the whole, it is a valuable contribution to the library of the great War. We understand that Father Cooney, of Notre Dame, is also soon to publish a history of War chaplains—CatholicCitizen- '
A book with a delightful and interesting personality manifesting itself in every line is the “Memoirs of Chaplain Life,”by the Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C. It is the kind of book that the old soldier will love. It is straightforward, unpre-	.
tentious, genial, sympathetic . and even, jolly- at	L
times. One can understand the reason why Father	1
Corby’s name became so honored and beloved.in. _	<
the army of the Potomac. There is a heart iii . U’ every line; the only rule bf style the ex-chaplain "	.
seems to care for is to be sure that he has some-thing to say, and then to. say it. And he has a great . . . -p. deal to say, and from a point of view, that has not . . ; yet been made apparent in print. . . . “Memoirs” is a unique bot>k, the first of its kind; and, besides giving much instruction and enjoyment, it reveals a personality which has hitherto modestly kept ’. > itself only for those who had learned to esteem’itC^x^^'M The future Macaulay of the Civil War will find picturesque material in. this “Memoir,” which : makes no pretentions to be anything but the simple.and manly record of episodes which uncon-sciously betray the heroism of the author.-^5 : Chicago Post. ..	-	\	\
1
1
662
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
K Wt sewn
Notre Dame, June 24, 1893.
$ubltst)rt rbtrg JSsturtij During farm Etmt at N. B. Snifetraitj.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has completed the Twentysixth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
The Forty-Ninth Annual Commencement.
The scholastic year’92-93 has gone into the past crowned with glory and leaving an impress which will make it memorable in the annals of Notre Dame. Truly, the year just closed has been signally successful and one of the most pleasurable and instructive that could be desired in student life. Naught occurred to mar the general harmony and good spirit everywhere prevailing; while the more than ordinary number of entertainments, intellectual and artistic, supplementing the work of the class-room, imparted a particular zest to the work in which each one was engaged, and infused renewed energy in the pursuit of knowledge.
In keeping with the brilliancy which characterized the inception and progress of the year, the exercises attending its close were of a very high order of merit, varied and instructive, and such as to afford the greatest pleasure to the numerous visitors who graced the halls of Alma Mater by their presence. The weather was all that could be desired, nature seeming to lend her aid to perfect the carrying out of the extensive programme that had been prepared.
The preliminary exercises were held on Saturday evening when the
ELOCUTIONARY CONTEST took place in Washington Hall before a large audience. The programme is given entire in our local columns, and we may say that all who participated reflected credit upon themselves. The honors were carried off by Mr. Hugh O’Donnell, of Brownson Hall, and Master Geo. McCarrick, of Carroll Hall. The judges were the Rt.Rev. Mgr.Seton, of Jersey City, the Rev. Luke Evers, of New York, and the Rev. J. French, C. S. C., of Notre Dame. At this enter- 1 tainment, as well as at those of Monday and I Tuesday, the music by the University Orchestra । was excellently rendered and revealed the skil- | ful training of Prof. Paul.	I
I
ON SUNDAY	I
morning at eight o’clock Solemn High Mass 1 was celebrated in the college church by the Rt.	|
Rev. Mgr. Seton, D. D., assisted by the Rev.	|
L. Evers and J. DeGroot as deacon and sub- 1
I deacon. Immediately after Mass, the students ] and clergy repaired to the centre of the parterre in front of the main building where a magnificent bronze statue of the Sacred Heart had been placed resting on a beautiful granite base. Mgr. Seton, attended by the clergy, solemnly blessed the statue, after which he delivered a short but < impressive discourse, setting forth the deep significance of the ceremony which had taken place. He reminded his hearers that devotion to the Sacred Heart was especially designed to counteract the evil influences of the age, and that in whatever position in life they might occupy, the love of God should be the motive ; guide of their every act. When the Monsignor concluded his address all dispersed.
About half-past ten the grand military dress ! parade took place on the Brownson campus in presence of a large number of distinguished	,
visitors. While the University Band discoursed	1
its grandest martial music the various com- ' panies went through the evolutions and manual ’ of arms with a skill and precision that elicited	:
the admiration and applause of all present.	I
After the parade medals for proficiency in drill j were awarded to F. Curran, Co. A; J. Miller, Co. B; and Frank. Holbrook, Sorin Cadets.
Through a misunderstanding, the Rev. J. F. Nugent, of. Des Moines, Iowa, did not arrive until after the celebration of the collegiate Mass, and in consequence the sermon to the students was postponed until the afternoon, when it was delivered during Vespers in the college church. Dr. Nugeht’s discourse was
N
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
characterized by his well-known eloquence, and caused his hearers to be impressed with an abiding sense of the realities and responsibilities of the life which was opening out before them.
ON MONDAY morning, at eight o’clock, the examinations were formally closed with the distribution of. premiums in the various departments of the preparatory courses. At eleven o’clock students and visitors flocked to the beautiful shores of St. Joseph’s Lake to witness the great event of the day
THE REGATTA.
The anxiously awaited contest of brawn versus brawn opened the Commencement exercises of the 19th. There was not a ripple on the water, and the bright sun and the still brighter faces of fair women and brave men gave inspiration to the contestants. There were three races,—two six-oared, and one four-oared race. The first race on the programme was between the two six-oared boats—Evangeline aftd Minnehaha.
The .crew of the Evangeline -was as follows: T. Ansberry, captain and coxswain; J. Cullen, bow; G. Tinnen, 2; E. Brown, 3; W. Kirby, 4; J. Bower, 5; F. Chute, stroke. The crew of the Minnehaha was as follows: E. Roby, captain and coxswain; J. McVean, 1; V. Magnus, 2; W. Covert, 3; F. Hesse, 4; F. Murphy, 5; C. Roby, stroke. The Evangeline was the first to appear, and the crew was greeted with loud applause, showing that they were favorites.
The Minnehaha too was given a friendly greeting. The crews took to their boats and went to the starting point. The word “go” was given, and then began as pretty a race as anyone could desire to witness. Both crew’s were in good condition, and one as eager to win as the other. The Minnehaha led for a time, but the Evangeline began to pull up, and when the turning point was reached the two boats made the turn together. The homeward course was rowed at a Clipping rate. Each crew feathered and stroked exceedingly well, and both coxswains understood their business and had their respective crews well under control. Gradually the Evangeline began to forge ahead, and a very rapid stroke was set by F. Chute. The Evangeline won by a boat’s length. Time, 3 minutes and 7 seconds. This made the time 10 seconds shorter than last year.
The next race was between the crews of the Montmorency and the Yosemite. The contesting crews were: Yosemite, J. Farrell, coxswain; R. |
Palmer, bow; T. Rogers, 2; R. Corcoran, 3; E. DuBruI, captain and stroke.; The Montmorency crew was as follows: N. Dinkle, coxswain; E. Linehan, bow; J. McCuddy, captain, 2; J. Kennedy, 3; A. Chidester, stroke.
Unfortunately, a misunderstanding arose before the race was begun. The coxswain of the Montmorency interfered with the buoy, which marked the starting point, and he moved it ahead. This was not allowed as fair, and the captain of the Montmorency refused to row. The starter ordered the crew of the Yosemite to row the course, and very properly awarded the prize anchors to that crew. The course was rowed in 3 minutes 15 seconds. The final race of the day was between the Evangeline and the Minnehaha. The crew of the Evangeline ‘was: T. Ansberry, coxswain; F. Rogers, captain and bow; G. Tinnen, 2; P. Wellington, 3; G. Perkins, 4; Bowers, 5; F. Chute, stroke. The crew of the Minnehaha was: F. Hesse, coxswain; N. Dinkel, bow; R. Fortescue, 2; W. Foster 3; T. Quinlan, captain and No. 4; J. Corcoran, 5; C. Roby, stroke. This last race was not so exciting as the first; but nevertheless a creditable showing was made. The Evangeline won easily by a good spurt at the end of the course. Time, five minutes 14 seconds. The honors of the day were carried off by F. Chute, F. Rogers, and J. Bowers, who rowed in the two six-oared races and won every time. Two pretty gold anchors now adorn their manly breasts. Taken all in all, the races were among the best ever witnessed here.
* *
In the afternoon at half-past two oclock exercises were held in St. Edward’s Hall, where an excellent entertainment was given by the young “Princes.” Rt. Rev. Mgr. Seton, Very Rev. Father General, Very Rev. Father Provincial, Rev. President Walsh occupied the places of honor, and bestowed upon the youthful students, in the presence of their delighted parents	:
friends, the rewards of their industry during the year.
At 3 45 an exhibition game of base-ball was opened between Sorin and Brownson Halls; and it proved to be a close and exciting game, evoking great enthusiasm among the large crowd of spectators. It was won by Sorin Hall by a score of 6 to 5; but their hard-earned victory was not assured until the last man was put out. The details of the score are given in our local columns.	..
Students and visitors sat down to supper at six o’clock, after which a delightful open-air
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
664
concert was given bythe University Band until half-past seven, when the
EXERCISES. IN WASHINGTON HALL were begun. The auditorium was filled to its utmost capacity by a distinguished audience assembled from all parts to do honor to the speakers of the evening. The Rt. Rev. J. Rademacher, D. D., Bishop of Nashville, presided, with the Rt. Rev. Mgr. Seton, Very Rev. Provincial Corby, Rev. President Walsh and others of the clergy.
The overture “Phi, Kappa, Psi,” rendered by the University orchestra, marked the beginning of the exercises and was received with great applause. This was followed by a vocal selection rendered by the Orpheus Club, a college organization which displayed a commendable spirit of energy during the scholastic year, and its members have been rewarded by the attainment of a degree of proficiency which assured the success of their efforts and elicited the admiration of their auditors. This and the other vocal numbers, indicated in the programme given in the local columns, showed the skilful training of Prof. Liscombe, the efficient Director of the vocal department of the University.
The orations by the representatives of the graduating class were all marked by a depth of thought, elegance of diction and gracefulness of delivery that reflected the highest credit upon the speakers. Their efforts we are pleased to publish entire, and our readers can judge of their literary excellence. As will be seen, the Columbian Exposition from an educational, artistic and industrial point of view, was made the basis upon which were built admirable compositions setting forth the true spirit and work of education, the wholesome influence of art and the wonderful results of industry. The subjects were timely and appropriate, and, treated as they were in a thoughtful dignified manner, they received the highest encomiums from all present.
The feature of the evening’s exercises was the grand Oration designed especially for the occasion by the Rt. Rev. Mgr. R. Seton, D. D., of Jersey City, who spoke with a force and eloquence that riveted the attention of all upon a topic, “ The Dignity of Labor,” bearing directly upon a burning question of the day. Labor is honorable; it has been designed as such by God, and has been so conceived by right-thinking minds from the beginning.and upon this grand truth rest the stability and perpetuity of our institutions. We are glad to be privileged to publish Mgr. Seton’s Oration entire in the pres-.eht number, and we shall riot mar the reader’s
pleasure by any attempted analysis. The words of the distinguished prelate produced a deep impression upon his audience, and the many striking and timely truths enunciated went home to the minds of everyone, and were greeted with marks of approbation.
With this concluded the exercises, and all retired well pleased with the instructive entertainment afforded them.
ON TUESDAY morning, beginning at half-past eight, the closing exercises were held in Washington Hall. After the beautiful vocal quartette “Home, Sweet Home,” the Class Poem was read by Mr. Raymond C. Langan, and the Valedictory delivered by Mr. Ernest F. DuBrul. Both were meritorious compositions and will repay the perusal of the reader—they are published entire in the first part of this paper.
Then followed the conferring of Degrees, awarding of Honors, etc., Rt. Rev. Bishop Rademacher, Rt. Rev. Mgr. Seton, Very Rev. Administrator Brammer, Very Rev. Provincial Corby, Rev. President Walsh occupying seats on the stage and presiding over the exercises. The names of the recipients are given below.
. ADMITTED TO THE BAR
By authority of the Supreme Court the Hon. Timothy E. Howard admitted to the bar on Tuesday such graduates of the Law Class as desired to become attorneys and counsellors under the laws of Indiana. After graduation they ranged themselves before the Judge, who administered the customary oath and delivered certificates of admission to the bar of the Supreme Court. In former years it was necessary to go to Indianapolis and exhibit diplomas evidencing graduation before receiving such certificates; but this year Judge Howard consid-. erately determined to enable the law graduates to avoid the expense and loss of time incident to going there; and to that end he came personally to Notre Danie, and, for the first time in its history, admitted them in the course of the Commencement exercises.
With this ended the Commencement exercises, and the audience dispersed to the strains of a grand march by the University Band. All in all, the Commencement was one of the most sue-cessful ever witnessed at Notre Dame, and, like each of its predecessors, marked the progress which year after year our Alma Mater is making in the fulfilment of its grand mission. The close of each scholastic year finds new improvements recorded at Notre Dame, additional advantages secured for the students, and its pre-eminence among the institutions of learning in the coun- ,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
try still more firmly established. This is an eloquent and well-deserved tribute to the grand work of the venerable Founder of Notre Dame and to the able administration of its gifted President, the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C. All friends of the institute will wish for both health and length of days to continue their grand work. Alma Mater, prospers procede et regnal
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Rt. Rev. Mgr. R. Seton, Jersey City, N. J.; Hon. Frank Scales, Chicago, Ill.; Hon. Timothy E. Howard, South Bend, Ind.; Hon. Lucius Hubbard, South Bend, Ind.
The Degree of Master, of Laws was conferred on Patrick H. Coady, Pana, Ill.; Peter M. Ragan, Maumee, O.	'
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was . conferred on Timothy T. Ansberry, Defiance, Ohio; Earl W. Brown, Sheldon, Iowa; JohnT. Cullen, Minneapolis, Minn.; Martin P. McFadden, Chicago; Alphonsus A. Heer, Springfield, Mo.; James G. Henley, Kalamazoo, Mich.; John Raney, Chula, Mo.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on Charles P. Neill, Austin, Texas.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on Ernest F. Du Brul, Cincinnati, Ohio; Michael A. Quinlan, Rockford, Ill.; James A. McKee, Versailles, Ky.; John D. O’Shea, Mt. Clemens, Mich.; James J. McAuliffe, Minneapolis, Minn.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on Fred. E. Neef, Springfield, III.; H. Lamar Monarch, Owensboro, Ky.; Raymond C. Langan, Clinton, Iowa; Albert E. Dacy, Woodstock, Ill.; James J. Fitzgerald, Muscatine, Iowa.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on Michael P. Hannin, Toledo, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was conferred on Edward M. Schaack, Chicago, Ill.; Joseph K. Combe, Brownsville, Texas.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on Marcellus L. Joslyn, Woodstock, Ill.; Charles B. Dechant, Franklin, Ohio; Chas. W. Scherrer, Denver, Col.;. Edward J. Maurus, Seneca, Ill.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
R. Emmet Brown, Sheldon Iowa; William J. Brinen, Muskegon, Mich.; Joseph A. Browne, Jr., Melrose, Montana; William H. Covert, Toledo, Ohio; Fred W. Freytag, Chicago; George R. Gilbert, Red Falls, N.Y.; William A. Gerlach, Portsmouth, O.; Edwin L. Harris, Lewiston, Ill.; Julius M. Hack, Vincennes, Ind.; Jacob J: Hoffman, Elkhart, Ind.; William C. Kegler, Bellevue, Iowa; Charles A. Kintzele, Michigan City, Ind.; Frank M. Hoffman Elkhart, Ind.; Michael J. McCullough, Denver, Col.;'Edmund
R. Marckhoff, Elgin, Ill.; Henry E. O’Neill, Du- -buque, Iowa; Aloysius J. Rumley, Laporte, Ind.; John D.Sievers, Denison, Iowa; Lawrence S. Sherman, Somonauk, Ill.; Edme V.Chassaing, St. Louis, Mo.; Philip C. Jacobs, Stevens’ Point, Wis.; Thomas F. McCarty, Kokomo, Ind.
CLASS MEDALS AND PRIZES.
(The Quan Gold Medal, Senior Class, Classical Course, was not awarded.)
’ The Mason Medal for the student in Car- * roll Hall having the best record for the scholastic year was awarded to Hugh C. Mitchell, Victoria, Texas.
The McPhee Medal for excellence in Physics was awarded to Elmer A. Scherrer, Denver,. * Colorado.
The Meehan Medal for English essays was awarded to Frederick E. Neef, Springfield, Ill. ’ The Breen Gold Medal for oratory was awarded to H. Lamar Monarch, Owensboro, . Kentucky.	.	1
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to Samuel A. Walker, Grafton, North Dakota.	-
The Sorin Gold Mjedal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to Hugh C. Mitchell, Victoria, Texas. 4
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Medal Senior Class, Scientific Course, was awarded to Charles B. Dechant, Franklin, Ohio.	.
The Gold Medal in the Commercial Course was awarded to T. Francis McCarty, Kokomo, Indiana.
■	- SPECIAL COURSES.	.	.
The Barry Elocution Medal in Brownson Hall was awarded to Hugh O’Donnell, Bloomington, III.	. .
The Elocution Medal in Carroll Hall was awarded to George P. McCarrick, Norfolk, Va.
Medals for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall were awarded to Arthur V. Corry, . Butte, Montana; William J. Brinen, Muskegon, Michigan.	.
st. edward’s hall.
The Gold Medal of the Sorin Association was awarded to Francis R. Holbrook, Des Moines, Iowa.
The Gold Medal for Elocution was awarded to Edward LaMoure, Pembina, North Dakota.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Garfield J. Scherrer, Denver, Colo.
FIRST HONOR AWARDS.	i
[First Honors are awarded to students of Brownson	-
Hall who have attained an average of at least go per / cent, for scholarship and deportment during the scho-	: .
lastic year. The first honor awarded for the first year . takes the form of a diploma; that awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a gold medal. This medal may .	,
be renewed from year to year.]	. -	‘ ,
BROWNSON HALL.	.	■	;
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to ' Samuel A. Walker, Grafton, North Dakota; k J Arthur V. Corry, Butte, Montana; Daniel P.
Murphy, Lewisburg, Pa.; Martin P. McFadden, ~
666	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Chicago, Ill.; John Kearns, Notre Dame, Ind.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to John B. O’Connor Oelweina, Iowa; John T. Cullen, Minneapolis, Minn.; Joseph Cook, Beardstown, Ill.; Frederick E. Murphy, Hammond, Wis.; Richard P. Corcoran, Ottawa, Ill.; Frank E. Eyanson, Columbia City, Ind.; Adam G. Hermann, Edgerton, Ohio; James G. Henley, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Michael Ryan, Danville, Ill.; Daniel V. Casey, Crawfordsville, Ind.
DEPORTMENT PRIZE MEDALS.
[Gold Medals for deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll Hall and St. Edward’s Hall who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
David D. Hilger, Hugh C. Mitchell, John W. Miller, Charles T. Cullen.	'
st. Edward’s hall.
Walter F. Gavin, Rolette Berthelet, Frederick Higginson, Isaac D. Wilcox, Edward LaMoure, Raymond J. McPhee, John B. Corry, John L. McCarthy, John P. Flynn.
Renewals.—Robert E. A. Ball, Garfield J. Scherrer, Wm. W. Scherrer, Wm. W. Finnerty, Albert E. Loomis.
[Silver Medals for deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll Hall and St. Edward’s Hall who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
CARROLL HALL.
August G. Kegler, Fred J. O’Brien, Bradley O. Weitzel, William C. Kegler, Aloysius J. Rumely, Richard P. Slevin, Nicholas Weitzel, William H. Mills, Edward M. Sparks, Joseph A. Brown.
st. edward’s hall.
Mariano Otero, •Wm. W. Durand, Volney Berthelet, Daniel McAllister, Wm. A’Hearn, Francis Croke, Charles N. Girsch, Frederick F. Emerson, Francis S. Cross.
DEPORTMENT CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls who have followed the courses of the University at least two terms and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
James J. Barrett, Robert E. Brown, William F. Berles, William Clendenin, Arthur Druecker, John V. Ducey, A. J. Danriemiller, Patrick M. Walker, Joseph V. Sullivan, John A. Treber, George E. Welty, Emil Franke, Michael Gonzales, Robert J. Kelliher, John W. Kutina, Jesse W. Lantry, Oscar Lippman, John D. Maguire, Samuel Spalding, Judson N. LaMoure, Frank H. Wagner, Frank Chauvet, Elmer J. Murphy, William P. Monahan, John J. McPhillips, Wm. G. Nolan, Frank M. Roesing, John D. Sievers, William F. Spalding, Horace A. Wilson, John E. Tempel, F. M. Repscher.
. , st. edward’s hall. .
Eugene McCarthy, Alexander Bump, Charles
F. Monahan, Francis S. Campau, Thomas B. Lowrey, Edwin E. Elliott, Louis S. Thompson, Arthur G. Monahan, Bernard W. Roesing, T. Jefferson Higgins, James P. Segenfelter, Louis E. Wagner, Leo J. Rasche, Frederick Lohner, Jeremiah Jonquet, William Maritzen, Frederick Morris, Emmett C. Green, William Bopp.
A Masterpiece of Art.
The studio during Commencement time was the Mecca of numerous pilgrimages by devotees of art because our illustrious mastro, Signor Gregori, had there enshrined his masterpiece, the Nativity. The picture is a wonderful revelation of color and expression and chiar-oscuro effects. To realize the deeply religious intensity of the artist’s conception of the Mystery which he has portrayed, and the admirable tone which he has given to its expression, one must needs see for himself and study the painting. Evidently Gregori has taken thought from the sublime Gospel of St. John the Evangelist: “That was the true Light that enlighteneth every man that cometh into this world.”
All the light in the picture is made to emanate from the Divine Infant as a central sun from which the other figures in the composition receive those artistic effects of light and shade which make the painting the admiration of every beholder. The more so because these effects are the result solely of the artist’s brush, not depending upon an intense display of light but rather best revealing his conceptions in a position semi-obscure. In other words, to use an inartistic expression, the painting speaks for itself even in the midst of darkness. In the slightest details, as in the straw of the manger, the position of the animals, the rudeness of the rocks, the costumes and attitudes of the various figures, in each as in the grand ensemble the genius and skill of the artist is revealed beyond words of expression. Forty years and more the thought of this grand painting moved and influenced the mind of the artist until his recent visit to Florence when he felt the time had come for its realization upon canvas. After its completion many distinguished artists in Italy desired Signor Gregori to exhibit the painting in Florence; but in fulfilment of a promise made, the artist brought the picture to Notre Dame for exhibition.
The painting is eleven by eight feet, and represents the interior of the cave at Bethlehem at the solemn midnight hour when the great
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	667
Mystery of the Incarnation was accomplished before the world, when “Christ the Lord, was born in the city of David.” Our Blessed Mother bends over the Child lying in the manger, and by her stands St. Joseph. Three shepherds, having come in obedience to the call of the angels, bend over the crib, typifying in the expression of their countenances adoration, joy and surprise. A singularly beautiful smile lights up the face of the Child as He looks upon the adoring shepherd. To see the picture would alone repay a visit to Notre Dame. It is without exaggeration a marvel of human handiwork, and deserves to be classed with the masterpieces of the greatest artists of any age.
Famed Notre Dame.
Notre Dame bade welcome this week to the hundreds of guests who came from every State in the Union to enjoy the hospitality of the institution made famous by its venerable founder. It has donned its loveliest attire, nature vieing with man and his handiwork to excel the grandeur of former years. Dignitaries of the Church were present from all the largest cities in the United States, and not only the clergy of the Catholic faith, but distinguished jurists and statesmen as well, were pilgrims to its gates. Monsignor Seton, of New Jersey, delivered the Commencement Oration. His theme was “The Dignity of Labor.” It was a masterly oration.’ It is at Notre Dame that Colonel William Hoynes, the brilliant lawyer, holds a position as a member of the college faculty. In the galaxy of Indiana’s great men will be found the sage of Notre Dame, Hon. William Hoynes.—Laporte Evening Star.
Premiums.
st. Edward’s hall.
Ayers, J.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in ist Grammar ; 2d Premium in ist Orthography ; 4th Premium in ist Geography ; 5th Premium for Piano. ' Ahern, W.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; ist Premium in 3d Orthography ; ist Premium in 3d Geography ; Premium in 4th Reading ; ist Premium for Piano.
Arnold, O. —3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 3d Premium in 3d Geography ; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography : Premium in German ; 4th Premium for Piano.
Abrahams, G.—2d Premium in 4th /Yrithmetic ; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar p3d Premium in 3d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 3d Geography ; Premium in 3d Reading.
Abrahams, L.—ist Premium in 5th Arithmetic; ist Premium in 5th Reading ; ist Premium in 5th Penmanship.	.' .	.	■
Ball, R.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in 2d Grammar; . 3d Premium in ist Geography.
Bump, A.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar : ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; ist Premium in 2d Orthography ; ist Premium in 2d Geography.
Brown, W.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 2d Prer mium in 4th Orthography ; 3d Premium in 4th Re-ding.
Be'rthelet, V.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Orthography ; i-t Premium in 3d Penmanship ; ist Premium in 3d Reading.
Berthelet, R.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Grammar ; 2d Premium in ist Orthography.
Bourgeois, G.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic ;4th Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium for Piano.	’
■Barrett, E.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Grammar ; Piemium for Vocal Music; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Geography.	-	-
Bopp, W.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar ; ist Premium in ist Geography ; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Orthography ; ist Premuim for Piano.
Crandall, W.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; ist Premium in ist Grammar ; ist Premium in 2d Orthography ; ist Premium in 2d Geography.
Curry, J.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 3d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 3d Geography ; Premium for Penmanship. .
Coquillard, J.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic; Premium for Penmanship ; Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Coquillard, A.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Corry, J.—ist Premium in 3d Giammar; ist Premium in 2d Geography ; ist Premium in 2d Orthographv.
Christ, E.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; ist Premium in 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Geography ; Premium in 4th Reading ; ist Premium for Piano.
Croke, F.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 2d
Premium in 3d Reading.	.	’
Cross, F.—2d Premium in 2d Geography ; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading ; ist Pre1-mium in 2d Orthography.
Cressey, C.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; 3d Pre- -mium in 5th Reading ; 4th Premium in 5th Penmanship.
Corcoran, J.—ist Premium in 4th Penmanship ;od Premium 4th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading. !
Campau, D.—3d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Geography ; ist Premium in 2d Grammar.
Campau, F.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in 3d Reading.	•	•
Durand, W.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; ist Premium in 3d Orthography ; istPremium in d Geography ; ist Premium in 4th Reading ; 2d Premium for Piano.
Devine, M.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Geography ; -2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading.
Dugas, E.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography;
3d Premium in 3d Geography ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading ; 3d Premium for Piano.	,
Elliott, E.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography ; 2d . Premium in 3d Geography ; ist Premium in 3d Reading.
Eagle, R.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium . in 3d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 2d
Premium in 3d Reading.	.
Egan, G.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; ist Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Geography ; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography.	'	-
Emerson, F.—ist Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 3d Pre- * mium in 5th Penmanship ; 3d Premium in 4th Reading.
Emerson, W.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Geography ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Geography ; jst Premium, in 2d Penmanship.	.
668
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

Engelhardt, C.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Geography ; Premium in Penmanship.	.
Finnerty, W.—5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar ; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar • 1st Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography.
Feltenstein, M.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium in 2d Geography ; Premium in Penmanship.
Flynn, J.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar ; 1st Premium for Vocal Music.
■ Freeman, N.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 1st Premium in 3d Orthography ; 1st Premium in 3d Geography ; ist Premium in 4th Reading ; 2d Premium for Piano.
Girsch, C.-—ist Premium in ist Grammar ; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Orthography.
Gavin, W.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; Premium in Vocal Music	.
' Green, C.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premuim in 3d Orthography ; 2d Premium in 3d Geography ; Premium in 4th Reading.
Graff, G.—2d Premium in ist Grammar ; 2d Premium in ist Orthography ; Premium in Geography ; ist Premium for Piano.
Giftbrd, J.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar ; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography ; 5th Premium in 2d Geography.
Howard, G.—5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography ; Second Premium in 3d Geography ; Second Premium in 3d Reading.
Higginson, F.—Second Premium in ist Grammar; Third Premium in ist Arithmetic; Second Premium in ist Orthography ; Second Premium in ist Geography.
Higgins, R.—Second Premium in 4th Arithmetic; Second Premium in 3d Orthography; Second Premium in Third Geography' ; ist Premium in 4th Reading ; Premium in Penmanship.
Higgins, R,—Second Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in Third Orthography; Second Premium in Third Geography ; Second Premium in 4th Reading; Premium in Penmanship.
Higgins, J.—ist Premium in Second Grammar ; ist Premium in Third Arithmetic ; ist Premium in Second Orthography ; Second Premium in Second Geography.
Healy J.—4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Geography ; 4st Premium in Orthography.
Healy, W.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d‘Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Holbrook, F.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic ; ist Pre-miurn in ist Grammar ; 2d Premium in ist Geography ; ist Premium in ist Orthography.
Ives, H.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium in 3d Orthgraphy; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Geography ; 2d Premium in 4th Reading.
Jones, H.—2d. Premium in ist Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in jst Grammar ; 4th Premium in ist Geography ; ist Premium.in ist Orthography.
Johntry, H.— ist Premium in ist Arithmetic ; Second Premium in ist Grammar ; ist Premium in ist Oithog-raphy ; Second Premium in ist Geography ; Premium in Vocal music; 4th Premium for Piano	'
Jonquet, J.—Second Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; Sec. Premium in Sec. Orthography ; Sec. Premium in Second Grammar; Second .Premium in Second Geography.
Keeler, S.—4th Premium ist Arithmetic ; S' cond Premium ist Orthography ; 4th Premium ist Grammar.
Kilgallen, Tracy.—2d Premium 4th Arithmetic; 3d
Premium 3d Orthography.	. :
Kinney,.Francis —3d Premium 4th Reading ; 2d Premium 2d Penmanship ;: 2d, Premium Arithmetic ; 3d Premium 2d Grammar.	, :	.
La Moure, Edward.—ist Premium ist, Arithmetic ; ist Premium 2d Grammar ; 4th Premium ist Orthography ; 2d Premium ist Geography.	' .	.	- -
Lawton, Jasper.—2d Premium' Reading ; 2d Premium Arithmetic ; Premium in Penmanship.
Loomis, Albert—2d Premium 2d Orthography ; 4th
Premium ist Arithmetic ; 3d Premium ist Geography. 1 Lowrey, Robert.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography ; 2d	j
Premium 3d Geography ; 2d Premium 4th Grammar.	j
Lohner, Fred.—ist Premium ist Orthography ; 4th j Premium ist Arithmetic ; 3d Premium ist Grammar.	’
Lysle, Newton.—ist Premium 2d Arithmetic ; 2d Pre-	!
mium 2d Geography ; 4th Premium 2d Grammar.	j
Langley, Charles.—ist Premium ist Orthography ; 2d ' Premium ist Grammar ; 2d Premium ist Arithmetic.
Mautzen, Willie.—ist Premium 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium 2d Grammar.	.	.
Minningerode, Charles.—ist Premium 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium 2d Geography ; ist Premium Ger- -man.
Monaghan, Athan.—2d Premium 2d Grammar ; 3d Premium ist Arithmetic ; 2d Premium ist Orthography; ist Premium ist Geography ; ist Premium Piano.
Monaghan, Charles.—2d Premium 2d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium 2d Grammar; _ ist Premium Piano.
Morris, Fred.—ist Premium 3d Reading ; ist Premium 2d Orthography ; ist Premium 3d Arithmetic.
Monaghan, Sam.—ist Premium ist Arithmetic ; 2d . Premium ist Grammar ; ist Premium ist Geography ; Premium Orthography ; Premium Vocal Music.
McAllister, Daniel.—ist Premium ist Arithmetic ; 2d Premium ist Grammar; Premium Penmanship ; 2d Premium ist Piano.	.
McGinley, James.—ist Premium ist Arithmetic ; ist Premium ist Grammar ; ist Premium ist Orthography ; Premium Vocal Music ; ist Premium Piano.
McCorry, Henry.—ist Premium 3d Reading ; 2d Premium 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium 3d Geography ; 2d Premium. 3d Arithmetic.
McGushin, Willie.—2d Premium 4th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium Grammar. •
McCarthy, Eugene.—3d Premium ist Grammar ; 2d Premium ist Orthography ; Premium for Geography.
McCarthy, Gerald.— ist Premium 5th Arithmetic;
Premium for Penmanship ; 3d Premium 5th Reading.
McCarthy, Emmit.—2d Premium 4th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium 4th Reading; 2d Premium 5th Orthography.
McCarthy, Roy.—3d Premium 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium 3d Reading; 2d Premium 3d Orthography.
McPhee, Raymond.—2d Premium 2d Arithmetic ; 2d -Premium 2d Grammar ; Premium Vocal Music ; 2d Premium 2d Orthography. .
McDonald, John.—ist Premium. 4th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium 3d Orthography ; 2d Premium 3d Reading.
Ninneman, Ray.—ist Premium 3d Reading ; 2d PrePremium 3d Geography ; ist Premium 3d Orthography; 2d Premium 3d Arithmetic ; Premium for German.
Otero, Mariano.—3d Premium 2d Arithmetic ; 2d Premium 2d Orthography; 3d Premium 2d Geography.
O’Neill, Harry.— ist Premium in Arithmetic ; 3d Premium Reading ; Premium for Penmanship.
Oatman, Dudley.—ist Premium 4th Arithmetic ; 3d .
Premium 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium 3d Orthography ;
3d Premium 3d Geography ; Premium for 4th Reading.
Pollitz, Harry.—3d Premium 4th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium 3d Orthography; 2d Premium 3d Geography ; Premium for 4th Reading ; Premium for German.
Pollitz, Willie.—5th Premium 5th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium 5th Reading ; 3d Premium 5th Penmanship.
Piesef, Jacob.—3d Premium ist Arithmetic ; 2d Premium ist Orthography ; 4th Premium ist Geography; 2d Premium ist Grammar.	'
Pyle, Joe.—2d Premium 4th Reading ; ist Premium 5th Arithmetic ; ist Premium 5th Penmanship ; 3d Premium for Piano.	"	.
Peck, Francis.—ist Premium 2d Grammar ; ist Premium 2d Orthography ; ist Premium 2d Geography.
Patterson, Arthur.—5th Premium 4th Arithmetic ; 4th .
Premium 3d Reading ; 6th Premium 4th Orthography.
Rasche, Leo.—2d Premium 4th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium 3d Orthography ; 2d Premium in 3d Geography ; Premium for- Penmanship ; Premium 4th Reading..
Rasche, Harry.—2d Premium 2d Grammar.; ist Pre- , mium 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium 2d Geography ; ist Premium 3d Reading ; Jd Premium for Piano.	■
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Roesing, Bernard. — 2d Premium 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium 3d Grammar ; 2d Premium 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium 2d Geography; Premium’ for Penmanship.
Ryer, Wilfrid.—4th Premium 5th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium 5th Penmanship.	.
Rohrback, Harry.—2d Premium 5th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium for Penmanship’; 2d Premium for Reading.
Romero, Alfonso.—2d Premium 2d Arithmetic ; ist Premium 3d Grammar ; ist Premium 3d Orthography ; 2d Premium 3d Geography ; Premium for 3d Reading.
Romero, Vincent.—ist Premium 5th Arithmetic ; ist Premium 5th Penmanship ; ist Premium 5th Reading.
Robb, Willie.—4th Premium 5th Reading.
Roache, Eddie.—2d Premium 4th Arithmetic ; ist Premium 3d Reading ; ist Premium 4th Orthography.
Scherrer, Garfield.—2d Premium ist Grammar; 2d Premium ist Orthography ; 3d Premium ist Geography.
Scherrer, AV.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography ; 2d Premium 2d Geography; ist Premium for Piano.
Swan, Eddie.—ist Premium 4th Arithmetic ; ist Premium 4th Reading ; ist Premium 3d Orthography ; ist Premium 3d Geography ; 3d Premium for Piano.
Stuckart, Fred.—3d Premium 2d Grammar ; 2d Premium 2d Geography ; 3d Premium 2d Orthography ; Premium for Penmanship.	'
Segenfeltcr, James.—ist Premium 4th Arithmetic ; ist Premium 3d Grammar ; i$t Premium 3d Orthography ; ist Premium 3d Geography ; ist Premium 3d Reading.
Schneider, Walter.—3d Premium 4th Arithmetic ; 4th Premium 3d Orthography ; 4th Premium 3d Reading.
Shipp, Eddie.—2d Premium 4th Arithmetic ; 3d Premium 3d Orthography ; 3d Premium for Piano.
- Shillington, Charlie.—2d Premium 4th Arithmetic; Premium for 2d Reading ; Premium for Penmanship.
Trankle, Fedore.—2d Premium ist Arithmetic ; 3d Premium ist Grammar; 3d Premium ist Orthography ; 2d Premium ist Geography ; Premium for Vocal music.
Thompson, Louis.—ist Premium 2d Grammar ; ist Premium 2d Orthography ; 3d Premium 2d Geography.
Thompson, Urban.—2d Premium 5th Arithmetic ; 2d Premium 5th Reading; 3d Premium 5th Penmanship.
Wilcox, Don.—ist Premium ist Arithmetic; ist Premium ist Grammar-; ist Premium ist Orthography ; 4th Premium ist Geography ; Premium for Vocal Music.
Wagner, Louis.—ist Premium in 5th Arithmetic ; ist Premium in 5th Penmanship ; ist Premium in 5th Reading.	■
Wells, Charlie.—2d Premium in 3d Reading ; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography ; ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
CARROLL HALL.
Bacon, D.—2d Premium for Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Grammar.
Barrett, J.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in ist Geometry; 2d Premium in ist Algebra; 3d Premium in Modern History; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Brown, R.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Composition; Mention in Ad. Arith.
Brown, O.—2d Premium in ist Geography; Mention in ist History; 2d Premium in Sth Latin.
Brown, J.—2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Bennett, H.—Mention in ist Grammar; ist Premium in 7th Latin.
Berles, W.—2d Premium in 2d Reading.
Blumenthal, W.—Mention in ist Reading; 5th Prem, in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Premium in Practical Mechanics; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic. .
Bachrach, W.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in istHistory-; 2d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arith. ’
Bixby, G.—2d Premium in ist Geography; 2d Prem.
in Phonography.
Burns, T.—Mention in ist Orthography; Mention ist Geography; Mention in ist History.	.
Brennan, E.—Mention in 7th Latin; 3d Premium Composition.
Blake, J;—Mention in ist Reading; 5th Premium ist Orthography.
in
in
in
Chase, A.—Mention in 2d Geography. .	‘ , I
Covert, G.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium ’ ; in 2d Grammar; Mention in 2d Orthography; Mention ’ in ist History; Mention in 4th German.	,
Cornell, F.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; ist Premium for Piano.
Carter, O.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium for Penmanship.	'	■
Chauvet, F.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; Mention , in ist Grammar; Mention in ist Orthography; ist Pre--mium in 3d French; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Clendennin, W.—ist Premium in 2d-Arithmetic; 2d .
Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium for Piano..
Coolidge, A.—Mention in ist Geometry; Mention in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in Elocution; ist Premium for Vocal Music.	.
Coolidge, E.—Mention in ist Reading; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Premium for Violin.
Cavanagh, T.—Mention In 7th Latin; Mention in Rhetoric; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine. .	,
Cullen, C.—2d Premium for Piano; 2d Premium for Industrial Drawing.	-.. _
Carney, A.—Mention in ist Grammar.
Dorsey, E.—ist Premium in Practical Mechanics.	.
Dion, P.—2d Premium in Practical Mechanics.
Dreucker, A.—ist Premium in Sth Latin; ist Premium in 4th Algebra; ist Premium in Ancient History; ist Premium for Piano; ist Premium in Composition; 4th Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.	..
Ducey, J.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 4th German; 2d Premium for Piano.
Dannemiller, A.—3d Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Reading; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Geography; Mention in 2d German.	•
Dillman, W.—Mention in Composition.
Dempsey, F.—2d Premium, in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Pre- . mium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Practical -Mechanics. -
Dixon, S.—Mention in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist History; 3d Premium in Practical Mechanics.
De Lorimier, i\.—2d Premium in 3d French. '
Dutt, F.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention in 2d History.
Freeman, J.—Mention in ist Grammar.
Flemming, C.—ist Premium for Piano.
Franke, E.—Mention in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in ist German; 3d Premium in Practical Mechanics; 4th' Premium in ist Ariihmetic. „	,
Finnerty, T.—2d Premium in Elocution.
Gilbert, G.—Mention in ist Book-Keeping. .
Gibson^ L.—41 h Premium in 6th Latin.	- ’
Griggs, C.—Mention in 2d Reading.
Gerding, C.—Mention in 2d Grammar; 3d. Premium in 2d Arithmetic. .	; V
Gonzales, M.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; Mention in 2d Orthography.	'	.
Girardin, W.—2d Premium for Violin.
Harding, A.—3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d
Premium in 2d Reading.	. : .
Hill, F.—ist Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.	.
Healy, L.—4th Premium in ist Reading; Mention in ist History.	. ,	'
Hoban, T.—3d Premium in ist Reading; Mention in -ist Geography; Mention in ist History. .	:	“	■
Hilger, A.—Mention in ist Reading; Mention in ist Geography; 1 st Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Htizman, C.- Mention in ist Geography; 2d Premium:-in Freehand Drawing.	. '	:	.
Howell, J.—Mention in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in ... ist Reading; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Practical Mechanics.	- .
Jones, E.—Mention in 7th Latin; Mention in 2d Geom- ; etry; Mention in 1st Grammar. .	-	;	: ;
Janssen, J.—Mention in 2d Reading. .	~ -T
Krollman, C.—ist Premium for Piano.	.	. ’ 'v
Kegler, W.—2d Premium in ist Geography ;; 2d Pre - ; mium in ist History; ist Premium for Piano ;’Mention in ... ist Grammar; ist Premium in Advanced Arithmetic, - f. :
Kutina, J.—Mention in ist Arithmetic; Mention in 7th “ Latin; Mention in 4th Algebra. .	' . . ’	‘ A
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Kegler, A.—3d Premium in Practical Mechanics.
Kuehl, E.—Mention in 2d Reading; 2d Premium for Penmanship.
Kelliher, R.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Pre- • mium in 1st Reading.	:
Kindler, A.—2d Premium in 1st Reading.	.
Kinney, G.—Mention in 2d Orthography; Mention in
Christian Doctrine.	.
Klees, T.—Mention in 1st Reading; Mention in 1st Orthography’; 1st Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1 si His ory.	-
Lanagan,J.—1st Premium in 7th Latin; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in Ancient History; 3d Premium in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Lee, G.—Mention in 1st Grammar.
LaMoure, J.—Mention in Rhetoric. .
LaMoure, W.—Mention in 7th Latin; 4th Premium in 1st Geometry.
Lan try, J.—3d Premium in 7th Latin; 4th Premium in 1st Geometry; 2d Premium in 1st Algebra; Mention in Ancient History; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Lohner, C.—1st Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar.	-
Lawlor, W.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Langevin, E.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Lowrey, G.—Mention in Sth Latin.
Loser, C.—4th Premium in 2d Book Keeping; Mention in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 4th German; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Ludwig, J.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 3d Grammar; Mention in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 3d German; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Lippman, O.—2d Premium in Phonography; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar;
Levy, H.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar, Mention in.ist Reading; Mention in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st History.
Maurer,J.—Mention in 2d Orthography.
Mitchell, H.—1 st Premium in 6th Latin; 1st Premium in Analytical Geometry; 3d Premium in Literature; 3d Premium in Botany; Premium for Surveying.
Maternes, J.—1 st Premium for Piano.
Maguire,J.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d German; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Murphy, E.—3d Premium in 7th Latin; Mention in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in Composition; 5th Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.	. ■
Mey rs, C.—3d Premium in Composition..
Miers, R.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d-Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium for Penmanship.	.	.
McDermett, W.—Mention in 7th Latin; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.	.
McDonald, S.—Mention in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in Ancient History; 4th Premium in Practical M echanics; Mention in 1st Arithmetic. -	• . -
McPhee, C.—2d Premium for Vocal Music; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic.	-
McCarrick,G.—2d Premium in 7th Latin ; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in.Elocution. '
McPhillips, J. J.—2d Premium in ist History; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
McPhillips,J.—Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist History; 2d Premium in 8th Latin; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine. .	.	•	-
McDonald, E.—ist Premium for P.enmanship..
Miller, J.—3d Premium in Rhetoric; ist Premium for Piano; ist Premium for Freehand Drawing. .	.
Miller,L.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Pre-• mium in-2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Reading.
Mengis, L.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic;-2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium ii 4th Gr. mmar.	- ■ -	‘ 1
Marre, J.—Mention in. 4th Algebra; Mention rin ist Arithmetic. .	.	. .
Mills,	—Mention in 6th Latin; Mention in 6th Greek.
Marr,W_—3d Premium in Analy tical Geometry; 4th Pre-
I rrriium in Literature; ist Premium in Industrial Drawing; ^Mention in Surveying; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine. : Miles, H.—Mention in 4-h Algebra.
' Moore, \V.—3d Premium in Practical Mechanics.
Monahan, W.—ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in istHbtory; 4th Piemium in Christian Doctrine.
Marlin, H.—Premium in 4’h Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Practical Mecha ics.
Nolan, W.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in i t Orthography.
Nichols, W.—Mention in Chris ian Doctrine.
O’Mara. J.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium fo,‘ Piano.
O’Brien, F.—Mention in 4th Algebra; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
O’Brien, W.—5th Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in 2d Reading.
O’Nei l, J.—Mention in Rhetoric.
Olliver, B.—Men ion in 6th Latin.
Pim, F.—Mention in 3d Grammar.
Rumley, A.—Mention in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in 4th Algebra; ist Premium in Industrial Drawing; Mention in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
Ruppe, P.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Reps., her, F.—Mention in 3d.Grammar; Mention in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Orthography.
Romero, A.—4 b Piemium in 2d. Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Grammar; istPremium in Chris ian Doctrine; 3d Piemium in 2d Orthography; Mention in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in Practical Meet anics.
Rozynek, J.—3d Premium in 4th Grammar.
Renesch, A.—Mention for Violin.
’ Reber, C.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in 4th German; 3d Preu i >m in Christian Doctrine.
Roesing, F.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in is- Reading; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; Mention in ist Geography; 2d Premium in 1st History.
Sievers, J.—2d Premium in Phonography; 5th Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
Sweet, G.—2d Premium in Practical Mechanics; ist Premium for Violin.
Stearns, H.—Menti >n in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Reading, o
Spalding, W.—3d Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist History; Mention in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra.
Spalding, S.—3d Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist History; Mention in 7th Latin; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Slevin, R.—Mention in 5th Latin; 4th Premium in ist Geometry; ist Premium in Artistic Drawing; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Sullivan, J.—Mention in 6th Latin; Mention in 6th Greek; 2d Pr.mium in 3d Algebra; ist Premium in Chri-tian Doctrine; ist Premium in ist Grammar; 5th Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Stephens, P.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Sparks, E.—3d Premium in Practical Mechanics.
Strauss, J.—ist Premium in Phonography.
Strasriieim, H.—Mention in 3d German; Piemium in Artistic Drawing.
Schroth, L.—Mention in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Orthography; Premium for Piano. ‘
Schillington, H.—Mention in 3d Giammar; Mention in 2d Book-Kerping; 2d Premium in ist Reading; iri Premium in istGeography’; ist Premium in ist Hisbry.
Tong, J.—ist Premium in Phonography; Premium for Piano.
Taylor, H.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Orthography.
Trankle, L.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Grammar.	:
Thome, E.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Artistic Drawing. ’	'	.
Temple, J.—-4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Pre
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
6>ji
mium in 2d Reading; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; Mention in 2d Geography; Mention in 2d History; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Treber, J.—Mention 'in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Christian Do trine; 1st Premium for Piano.
Thornton, D.—2d Premium for Piano.
Wolf, F.—3d Premium in Practical Mechanics; Mention in 1st Grammar.
Wagner, F.—2d Premium in 3d German; ist Premium in Industrial Drawing; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Walde,J.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 1st Pre-’ mium in 2d Orthog aphy; Mention in 4th German.
Wensinger, F.—Mention in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Practical Mechanics.
Welty, G.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d German; 5th Premium in 1 st Arithmetic.
Walker, P.—^d Premium in 4th Algebra,
Wilson, H.—4th Premium in 6th Latin; 1st Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st Premium in 2d German; 1st Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Wilson, R.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; Mention in 2d Orthography.
Whitehead, J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in 1st Reading; Mention in ist History; 3d Premium in Christian Doct.
Washburne, V.—Mention in ist Geography; Mention in ist His'ory; ist Premium for Piano.
Weitzel, N.—3d Premium in 5th Latin; 3d Premium in Rhetoric; 3d Premium in 2d German; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Weitzel, B.—Mention in 6th Latin; Mention in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in Chris’ian Doctrine.
Yeager, J.—ist Premium in Telegraphy; 4th Premium in ist Grammar.
York, M_—Mention in 3d Grammar; Mention in 2d Geography; Mention in 2d History; ist Premium for Piano.
Yglesia, L.—2d Premium in 4fh Arithmetic.
Yglesia, A.—2d Premium in 4,-h Arithmetic; ist Premium for Piano.
Zoehrlaut, G.—2d Premium in Sth Latin.
BROWNSOX HALT..
Barton, F.—Mention in 3d Algebra; 4th Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premium for Violin.
Baldwin, L.—Mention in ist Grammar.
Bauer, J.—}d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 2d Reading.
Burns, W.—3d Premium in English History.
Brady, J.—Mention in 6th Latin; Mention in ist Geometry; 5th Premium in Literature; Mention in Physiology; 2d Prem’um in 2d German; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Brinnen, AV.—Mention in i: t Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in ist Reading; 2d Premium in ist Orthography.
Berggren, C.—ist Premium in 3d Algebra; 3d Premium in Ancient History
Corry, A. —ist Premium in 7th Latin; 2d Premium in Analytical- Geometry; 2d Premium in Literature; 2d Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in Engl’sh History; Mention in Survr ying.
Covert, W.—Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; Mention in ist Geometry; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra; ist Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Chassaing, E.—Mention in Rhetoric; ist Premium for Violin.
Cooke, J.—2d Premium in 7th La'in; 2d Premium in Literature; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Cullen, J—3d Premium in Cl-ri-Tan Doctrine; Mention in.English History.
Corcoran, R.—3d Piemium in 6th Latin; 3d Premium in Literature.
Crilly, E.—Mention in 6th Latin; Mention in 2d Algebra; 5th Premium in English Literature.
Casey, D.—ist Premium in Criticism; Premium in 3d Latin; Mention in 5th Greek; ist Premium in 2d Chemistry.
Davis, F.—2d Premium in 2d Chemistry.
Duffield, F.—3d’ Premium in Sth Latin.
Dempsey, J.—Mention in 3d French; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Douglas, E.—Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Esgen, F.—3d Premium in 2d Algebra.
Eyanson,F.—ist Premium in ist/Algebra; 3d Premium in Physiology; 2d Premium in Zoology;ist Premium .in Industrial Drawing; 2d Premium in Modern H’storv.
^3 ’	■*
Eyke, S.—3d Prenrum in ist History; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; Mention in 2d Reading; Mention in 2d Orthography’.
Fortescue, R.—3d Premium in Phonography-.
Foley, P.—ist Premium for French and Drawing.
Funke, Alfred.—3d Premium in Phorography.
Flynn, A. J.—Mention in ist History-.
Flynn, J. P.—3d Premium in ist Grammar; Mention in 3d /Algebra.
Fox, G.—3d Premium in ist Orthography.
Farrell, J.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; Mention in ist Grammar, 3d Piemium in Sth Latin; istPremium in 4th Algebra; ist Premium for Piano. •
Frevtag, F.—5th Premium in ist Book-Keeping;" 2d Premium for Piano.
Flanedy, F.—ist Premium in 2d Reading; ist Premium in 2d Orthography.
Gerlach, AV.—ist Premium for Piano.
Henneberry, M.—ist Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Hoffman, F.—5th Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
Hermann, A.—ist Premium in 7th Latin; 3d Premium in 4th Algebra; Mention in 2d German; 2d Premium in Composition.
Hennessy,F.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Hoepe, E.—3d Premium in ist Reading; Mention in ist Orthography.
Hartnett, D.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra.
Healy, R.—ist Premium in Phonography.
Hesse, F.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; Mention in 4th Algebra; Mention in Composition.
Harris, E.—4th Premium in ist Book-Keeping.
Hagan, G.—3d Premium in 2d Algebra; Men’ion in Rhetoric; ist Premium for Piano.
Henley, J.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine
Hudson, A.—Mention in 4th Latin; 2d Premium in Trigonometry; 3d Premium in ist Algebra; 2d Premium in Botany; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Isbell, A.—2d Premium for Piano.
Jacobs, P.—Mention in Trigonometry; ist Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Jordan, E.—ist Premium for Piano.
Karter, F.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 3d Grammar.
Kelly, J.—3d Premium in Phonography.
Kerker, J.—2d Premium in 7th Larin; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra.	. , .
Kenny, M.—2d Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium • in ist Orthography; 2d Prem’um in Christian Doctrine.
Kearns, J.—Mention in Logic: 2d Premium in Physiology; 3d Premium in English History; 3d Premium in Elocution.
Kirby, AV.—Mention in ist Arithmetic.
Kintzele, C-—2d Premium in 3d Algebra: ist Premium in ist German; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Composition; 5th Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
Kilkenny-, F.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; Mention in 4th Algebra.
Kennedy, J.—Mention in ist Grammar.
Laux, J.—Mention in 2d Reading.
Linehan, E.—Mention in Rhetoric.
Murphy, D.—ist Premium in 4th Latin; 3d Premium in Analy tical Geometry; 1st Premium in Literature; ist Premium in Botany; ist Premium in Church History-; ist Premium in English History; 1st Premium in Elocution ; ist Premium in 5th Greek.
Meibers, M.—Mention in ist History; Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Monarch, T.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; Mention in ist Arithmetic.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Maynes, P.— ist Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic.	„
Moxley, W.—ist Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Murphy, F.—ist Premium in 3d Algebra; ist Premium in Church History; ist Premium in 2d Geometry.
Marckhoff, A.—Mention in 2d Book-Keeping.
Marckhoff, R.—Mention in ist Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 3d German.
McCuddy, C.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 3d French.
McCullough, M.—3d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in 1st Reading; ist Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist History.
McCarty, T.—Mention in ist Book-Keeping; Mention in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist History; 2d Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
McGarry, M.—4th Premium in Literature.
Ney, M.—4th Premium in ist History; ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Sth Latin.
O’Connor, J.—5th Premium in Literature; Mention in Phvsiology; Mention in Zoology; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Modern History.
O’N.eill, W.—3d Premium in ist Reading; Mention in ist Orthography.
O’Neill, H.—4th Premium in Advanced Arithmetic.
' Pulskamp, G.—4th Premium in 6th Latin; 3d Premium in ist Geometry; 3d Premium in 2d Algebra.
Perkins, G.—5th Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Reading; Mention for Violin.
Pomeroy, W.—2d Premium in Practical Mechanics.
Patier, C.—2d Premium in Phonography.
Quinlan, T.—2d Premium in Church History.
Roby, E.—Mention in Composition.
Roby, C.—2d Premium in Rhetoric; 3d Premium in Phonography.
Ryan, G.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Grammar.	'
Rvan, M.—4th Premium in Physiology; Mention in English History; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
Rogers F.—3d Premium in Practical Mechanics.
.	Ring, J-—Premium for Vocal Music.
Stanton, J.—Mention in 4th German; ist Premium in Phonography.
Sherman, L.—ist Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in Advanced-Arithmetic.
Smith, T.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Spalding, G.—Mention in 2d Orthography.	‘
Stace, A.—Mention in 5th Latin; Mention in 6th Greek;
Mention in ist Geometry; 4th Premium in 2d Algebra; Mention in English Literature; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in Phonography.
Tratt, J.—ist Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; Premium for Piano.	. •
• Vurpillat, A.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Vignos, A.—ist Premium in ist Geometry; 3d Premium in Zoology; ist Premium for Violin; ist Premium in Industrial Drawing.	-
Whitehead, R.—Mention in Literature; 5th Premium in Ancient History.
Walker, S.—ist Premium in Trigonometry; 3d Pre. mium in Literature; ist Premium in Phvsiology; ist
Premium in English History; 2d Premium in 5th Greek; 1st Premium in 2d Chemistry.	.
Welsh, E.—Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Elocution.
SORIN HALL.
Ahlrichs, E.—3d Premium in Logic; Mention in 3d Greek; 3d Premium in Criticism; Mention in Botany; 3d Premium in Elocution; 3d Premium in 2d Latin.
Bolton, F.—Mention in Botany; 2d Premium, in 2d French; Mention in 2d Physics; ist Premium in 2d* Chemistry. **	,
, Carney, F.—3d Premium in Logic; 3d Premium in 2d Physics.	.
Correll, W.—ist Premium in Calculus; 2d Premium in Mineralogy; 2d Premium in Metallurgy; ist Premium in Engineering Drawing. •	. ;	.. .
Cummings, W.—ist Premium in ist German; ist Premium in Church History; Mention in 2d Physics.
Combe, J.—Premium in Bacteriology; Premium in Histology; Premium in Comparative. Embryology.
Crawley, P.—Mention in 2d Greek; ist Premium in Church History; 3d Premium in Elocution; 3d Premium in Modern History.	.
Dacey, A.—ist Premium in' Moral Philosophy; 2d Premium in Belles-Lettres; ist Premium in Elocution; Mention in Astronomy; ist Premium in Geology.
Dechant, C.—2d Premium in Logic; Premium in ist Chemistry; 2d Premium in Zoology; ist Premium in Astronomy; Mention in Analytical Mechanics; 2d Premium in Descriptive Geometry.
DuBrul, E.—ist Premium in ist Latin; ist Premium for Vocal Music. '
Flannery, J.—2d Premium in Calculus; ist Premium in Zoology; Mention in Mineralogy; Mention in Metal- . lurgy; 2d Premium in Engineering Drawing.
Flannigan, J.—Mention in 3d Grammar; Mention in ' 2d Physics.	.
Fitzgerald, C.—ist Premium in Engineering Drawing; ist Premium in Descriptive Geometry; Mention in Geology; 2d Premium in 2d Physics.
Hannin, M.—ist Premium in Engineering Drawing;
Premium in Civil Engineering.	'
Jewett, E.—Mention in 2d French; 2d Premium in Industrial Drawing; ist Premium in 2d Physics.
Joslyn, M.—2d Premium in Logic; Mention in ist Chemistry; 2d Premium in Industrial Drawing; 2d Premium in Astronomy; Mention in Analytical Mechanics; Mention in Descriptive Geometry.
Kearney, J.—Mention in Logic; 2d Premium in 3d German.
Kunert, C.—3d Premium in Calculus; ist Premium in .Industrial Drawing; 2d Premium in 2d Chemistry.
Keough, F.—3d Premium in Calculus; ist Premium in 3d French; Mention in Civil Engineering.
Langan, R.—2d Premium 'in Moral Philosophy; Mention in Belles-Lettres; Mention in Geology.
Maurus, E.—ist Premium in Logic; Premium in ist Chemistry; ist) Premium in Zoology; 2d Premium in Astronomy; Premium in Analytical Mechanics; 2d Premium in-Descriptive Geometry.
Monarch, H.—2d Premium in Moral Philosophy; 2d Premium in Belles-Lettres.
McKee, J.—2d Premium in Moral Philosophy; Mention in Physiology.
Mitchell, S.—Mention in Zoology; ist. Premium in Mineralogy; ist Premium in Metallurgy; 2d Premium in Engineering Drawing; ist Premium in Descriptive Geometry.	•
McCarrick, J.—ist Premium in Practical Mechanics; 2d Premium in Industrial Drawing.
. McAuliff, J.—ist Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in Geology.	•
Neef, F.—Mention in Moral Philosophy; ist Premium in Belles-Lettres; ist Premium in Artistic Drawing.
O’Donnell, H.—2d Premium in Criticism.
- Quinlan, M.—2d Premium in ist Latin.
Scherrer, E.—2d Premium in Calculus; 2d Premium in Mineralogy; Mention in Metallurgy; 2d Premium in Engineering Drawing.	'
Schillo, J.—ist Premium for Vocal Music; 2d Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Schopp, J.—ist Premium in Logic; ist Premium in 2d Latin; Premium in 2d Greek; ist Premium in Criticism.
Thorn, F.—2d Premium in Criticism; ist Premium in 2d French. '
_ * —r:------------------------
FOURTH OF JULY EXCURSIONS VIA VANDALIA LINE AT.
HALF FARE.	'
Tickets will be sold on July 3 and 4, good to return until July 5,1S93, inclusive, between all stations within two .hundred miles of initial point. Tickets will also be sold to stations -on connecting lines on same basis as . above. For full particulars call on nearest Vandalia Line Ticket Agent or. address— .	.
.	: J-. M. Chesbrough,
*	.	■ Ass’t Gen’l Pass. Ag’t, St. Louis, Mo.

NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	673
The Festival of St. William.
A delay in printing these last pages affords us the pleasing opportunity of noting the reception extended to Very Rev. Provincial Corby on the occasion of his patronal festival on the 27th of June. All the members of the community, present at Notre Dame and in South Bend, assembled in the Junior dining-room at twelve o’clock to partake of an elegant repast prepared in honor of the worthy Superior. After the meal the Rev. D. J. Spillard arose and delivered an eloquent speech, congratulating Father Provincial upon the happy anniversary, and expressing the sentiments of love-and devotion which animated the hearts of his spiritual children towards him to whose direction they owe so much, and hoping that he may enjoy many long years of health and usefulness in his good work. Bro. Oswald also made an admirable address of congratulation and good wishes in behalf of the community. Very Rev. Father Provincial responded wijh great feeling.
The day was thus made one of great joy to the community, with whom the numerous friends of Very Rev. Father Corby unite in wishing him health and length of days to witness many another such reunion and be encouraged by the continued success and growth of the community entrusted to his direction. Ad multos annos!
Personals.
—Mr. E. McGonigle, ’92, paid us a visit lately.
—Miss English, of Columbus, Ohio, was a visitor at Notre Dame.
} —Mrs. Rogers and daughters, of New York, were among the visitors.
—Miss O’Donnell, of Bloomington, Ill., is visiting her brother Hugh.	-
—Rev. Father Kelly, of Rock Island, Ill., was here to meet his many friends. :
—We were pleased to meet Mr. and Mrs. Henley, of Kalamazoo, Mich.
’ —Mrs. Cullen, of Indianapolis, Ind., came to see her son Charles of the Carrolls.
—A most welcome visitor on Sunday was the Rev. J. F. Nugent, Des Moines, Iowa.
—Mr. and Miss Farrell, of Cleveland, Ohio, visited their brother of Brownson Hall.
—The Misses Cannon of Chicago spent the Commencement days at the University.
—Mr. Tom Lynch and the Misses Lynch attended the closing exercises Saturday.
—Mrs. Monaghan, of Chicago, spent the last few days visiting her sons of St. Edward’s Hall.
—A very welcome visitor to Notre Dame
recently was Mr. M. Cullen, of Halifax, N. S.:
—Dr. Fernand Dorbesson,of New York City, is visiting relatives and friends at Notre Dame.
—Mr. Marcellus Joslyn was the host of his . mother, Mrs. Joslyn, of Woodstock, Ill., last week.
—Judge and Mrs. Howard with their daugh-: ters have been attending the exercises at Notre Dame.
—Mrs. Maurus, mother of Edward Maurus, of Sorin Hall, was a welcome visitor during Commencement.
—Mr. and Mrs. and Miss McFadden of Chicago, were here to see their son Martin receive his degree of LL. B.	"
. —Mr. and Mrs. Breen, of Fort Wayne, Ind., -old friends who are always welcome, were here for Commencement.	'
— George D. Cartier and wife came down from Luddington, Mich., to attend the Commencement exercises.
—Mr.T. Dacy, C. Dacy and Miss Alice Dacy,. of Woodstock, Ill., came to witness the graduation of Albert E. Dacy.
—Mr. Earl Brown and brother of Carroll Halt received their sister, Miss Brown, of Sheldon,, la., on Saturday evening.
—Mr. James Cooney (Com’l), ’89, is another “old boy” who came to spend the Commencement days at Notre Dame.	'	.
----We were pleased to have a visit from the mother of Mr. Harry L. Ferneding, Mrs. C. J.. Ferneding, of Dayton, Ohio.
—Mr. and Mrs. Ansbery, Defiance, Ohio, were at the University to see their son Tim of the Law class receive his diploma.	-
—Mr. Thomas Coady and the Misses Coady,. of Pana, Ill.; were visiting Mr. Patrick H. Coady,. ’93. They are always welcome.	■
—Mr. and Mrs. Edward Roby, of Roby, Ind.,, were at the College to see their sons Edward’ and Charles of Brownson Hall.
—Mr. Will Morrison, ’90, appeared among the 1 guests on Sunday. Will is now working in his
^father’s office at Ft. Madison, la.
—We were pleased to meet Mr. John and Miss Maggie McNiff, of Providence, R. I., who were visiting relatives and friends.	:
—Mr. and Mrs. Walker, of North, Dakota, . came Saturday evening on a visit to the Institution and their son of the Carrolls. -
—Rev’ Vice-President Morrissey has left for ... Europe on business for the Community. Un bon. .
' voyage and a safe and speedy return.	.
—Rev. Luke Evers, ’78, of New York, was ‘ chaperon to a party from the metropolis to ? attend the Commencement exercises.	'
—Mrs. and Miss Spillard, of Elgin, HI., mother f “ and sister of the Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C.^, were welcome visitors during the week. i
—Mr. Otto A. Rothert, ’92, of Louisville, Ky.,; . appeared upon the scene Sunday on a visit to -
674
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Alma Mater. Otto is working with his father at home.	.
—A cordial greeting met the Rt. Rev. Bishop Rademacher at Commencement. He is ever a most welcome visitor to Notre Dame.
—Rev. E. Hannin, of Toledo, Ohio, was here to witness the graduation of Michael Hannin, of Sorin Hall. Michael’s mother also delighted him by her presence.
—Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., Miss. Ap., celebrated liis patronal festival on the 29th by a grand reunion at the Chaplaincy of St. Joseph’s Farm. Ad multos annos!
—The Rt. Rev. Mgr. Seton, of New Jersey, spent several pleasant days at the College. The amiable and gifted prelate made hosts of friends during his visit.
—The Rev. Denis A.Tighe, ’70, Rector of Holy Angels’ Church, Chicago, attended the Commencement exercises to the great delight of his hosts of friends at Notre Dame.
—The Misses Curran of Chicago were on a visit to their brother who proved himself to be the best-drilled private in Co. A, consequently ^receiving the medal on Sunday.
—The Rev. T. McNamara, of Muskegon, Mich., visited Notre Dame on Commencement Day. The reverend gentleman drew a prize in the raffle for the benefit of the Boat Club.
—Rev. President Walsh is at present sojourning in Waukesha, Wis. All hope that he may soon be restored to perfect health, and continue and perfect the good work which he has accomplished.
—It was a pleasure to note among the visitors Mr. and Mrs. DuBrul of Cincinnati, who came to see their son Ernest who delivered the Valedictory of ’93. They were accompanied by Mrs. A. Dumont of Montreal.
—Mr. Louis P. Chute, ’go-’qa, was a very welcome comer on Friday evening. Lou is looking well, and his last year’s hard work at the University of Minnesota apparently has done him no harm physically.
—Mr. and Mrs. M.'V. Monarch and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Sylvester Monarch, Miss Amelia Payne, Miss Ada O’Brien, and Mr. Joseph Manning, of Owensboro, Ky.» were welcome visitors at Commencement.
—Mrs. J. R. McKee, E. McKee, E. Morency, and Miss Bessie McKee, all of Versailles, Ky., came to see their brothers, James and Frank McKee, of Sorin Hall. James McKee took his degree as Bachelor of Arts this year.
—Rev. Bernard J. Dever, ’83, was ordained to the sacred priesthood on the 27th ult. in the Cathedral at Philadelphia. His numerous friends at Notre Dame extend .to him their heartiest congratulations with best wishes for many happy years of successful labor in the Sacred Ministry.	.
—Signor L. Gregori and his. accomplished daughter Francesca have left Notre Dame to
return to Italy, carrying with them the best wishes of all at Notre Dame. May happiness ever attend them, and time permit them the pleasure of often revisiting their friends this side of the mighty ocean.
—It was with pleasure that the students who were here in ’88 met one of that year’s class among the visitors at the University on Sunday evening—Charles J. Stubbs. “Charlie,” as he was always known, is enjoying the best of health and he is also enjoying the best of success. This was his first visit to Alma Mater since he was graduated, but one glance was enough to tell that “it is the same old Charlie,” for he has not changed at all except for those “burnsides.”
—Notre Dame was honored by the presence of a large and imposing array of clergymen in attendance at the Commencement exercises. > Among these very welcome visitors were Rt.Rev. Joseph Rademacher, D.D.,Bishop of Nashville; Very Rev. Joseph Brammer, Administrator of the Diocese of Ft. Wayne; Rt. Rev. Mgr. R. Seton, D. D., Prot. Ap., Jersey City; Very Rev. Dean Oechtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Very Rev. Dean Hannin, Toledo, Ohio; Very Rev. Dean Gambon, Louisville, Ky.; Revs.T. O’Sullivan,’58, D. A. Tighe,’70, Hugh O’Gara McShane, ’65; E Griffin, J. McLoughlin, J. Scanlan, J. Gilmartin, Chicago; John R. Dinnen, ’66, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Luke Evers, ’79, New York; J. R. Clancy, Woodstock, Ill.; F. Benedict, C. PP. S., Rensselaer, Ind.; John Bleckman, ’67, Michigan City, Ind.; T. A. Geobel, ’89, Columbus Ohio; J. Hogan, ’76, Harvard, III.; J. Solon, ’S6, Rockford, Ill.; J. Byrne, Danville, HL; C. Guendling, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; J. Guendling, Lafayette, Ind.; T. Vagnier, C. S. C., Earl Park, Ind.; F. Faust, Auburn, Ind.; T. McNamara, ’80, Muskegon, Mich.; J. Dalton, Saginaw, Mich.; J. Condon, Janesville, Wis.; J. Brown, Mobile, Ala.; P. Walker, Raphoe, Ireland; F. Graham, St. Joseph, Mo.; Lawrence Meehan, ’78, Morris, Ill.; D. McGlaughlin, Niles, Mich.; J. Crowley, ’57, Laporte, Ind., and many others whose names we regret to not have learned.
Among the students and friends of the University who visited Notre Dame Commencement Day we noticed: Mr. Wagner, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. La Moure, Washington; Mr. and Mrs. Rogers, New York; Mr. and Mrs. McCarthy, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Coady, Pana,.III.; Mrs; Ball, Mrs. Tratt, Chicago; Mr. Lowrey, Nebraska; Mrs. McShane, Chicago; Mr. Cartier, Mich.; Mr. Kelly, Texas; Mr. and Mrs. Capt. Roby, Chicago; Mrs. Wish mire Chicago; Mrs. and Master Mau-rus, Indiana; Mr. and Mrs. Barrett, Chicago; Mr. Hilger, Minn.; Mr. Monaghan, Chicago; Miss Langley, HL; Mr. Ducey, Mrs. Wells, and the Misses Sullivan, Chicago; Miss Freeman, Owensboro, Ky.; Miss Mengis,the Misses Curran, Chicago; Mr. Shillington, the Misses Lynch, Messrs. Eyanson, Chicago; Mr. and Miss Connell, Denver, Col.; J. C, Rogers and wife, New York; Mr. Kearns, Mr. Flynn, Chicago; Mr. Lynch,
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	675
.Mrs. Miller, Mr. and Mrs. Ansberry, Defiance, O.; Mr. Martin, Covington, Ind.; Messrs. Murphy rand Kegler, Bellevue, Iowa; Mr. Finnerty, Denver, •Colo.; Mr. and Mrs. Oliver, Kalamazoo, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Wilson,-Mr. Rosyneck and son; Mr. .and Mrs. Barrett and daughter, Messrs. Chase, Cummings, Lantry, and Miss McCorry, Chicago; D. Hogan, Va.; Messrs. Stackhouse and Coolidge, St. Louis, Mo.; J. O’Brien Dubuque, Iowa; Mr. .and Mrs. Freytag, Chicago; Mr. and Mrs. Funke, Denver, Col.; Mrs. Hiseman, Mr. and Miss Define, Chicago; Messrs. Greaver, Cincinnati, O.; Mr. Gilbert, Chicago; Mr. Otero, Mexico; Mr. .and Mrs. Treber; Mr. and Mr^. Fitzgerald, Mus-katine, Iowa; Mr. and Mrs. Hack,Vincennes, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Gerlach Portsmouth, Ohio; Mr. •Cotton, Mrs. Campau, Detroit; Mrs. Kilgallen, Mrs. and Miss Mulqueen, Mr. and .Mrs. McDermott, J. L. McDermott, Chicago; Mr. Burns, St. Paul, Minn.; Mr. and Mrs. Farrell.
Local Items.
. —Vacation.
—Good-bye!	•
—Are you a P. G. ?
—“Dolce far niente.”	.
—“All’s well that ends well.”
—When shall we meet again?
- —Did you get a silver badge? :
—The classic halls are deserted.
—Who was the lone horn blower?
'—Where is the Man in the Tower?
—The St. Cecilians’ banquet was grand.
—Congratulations were freely tendered.
—The Prefects have begun to hibernate.
—Shorty took the “Denver crowd” home.
—“ Chick ” and “ Chuck” are separated at last.
—Fitz has moved to the main building for the vacation;
—The Burgomaster left his pipe to the Man in the Tower.
—Somebody on Second Flat slept till noon the day after Commencement. -
—The “goaks” that appear in this number will be explained on application.
—The Iroquois club had their pictures taken a few days before Commencement.
—No more are heard those unearthly yells resounding along the corridors of S. H.
—The weather clerk missed it just one day. It didn’t begin raining till half-past one.
—A course of lectures on glass blowing has been introduced in Science Hall for the vacation.
—El Texano Furioso says he would rather be in the Lohe Star State than in any other land.
—“Me” has gone for a sojourn in Iowa; he is greatly missed by many friends in the neighborhood.	.
—The banquet given by the German Literary. Society, June 11, was a pleasant surprise to all the invited guests.
—This is the last number of the present volume. The new volume, we presume, will begin early in August.
—All the University buildings are being carefully looked into in order to determine what improvement or repairs can be made after the wear and tear of a year’s work.
—The student gay to his home has gone In the smoking car you’ll find him. ' ' ’
A cigarette he is puffing on—
His corn-cob left behind him.	*
—The Seminarians are now engaged in a-diligent preparation for the examination in theology. Holy Orders will be conferred in the college church soon after the retreat.
—Owing to the exceptional railroad accommodation providedfor those visiting the World’s Fair, the students were nearly all enabled to leave for home on Commencement morning.
—To swim or not to swim that’s the question;
Whether ’tis better on the bank to suffer , , The slings and arrows of blood-thirsty skeeters, -Or in despair and abbreviated trousers, -To take a dive when the water’s just at forty.	.
—The dome of the College, which has been surrounded by a scaffolding for some time, is now in process of painting. The fact that Bro. Frederic has the work in hand is an assurance that before another school year begins the lower portion of the dome will be a meet counterpart for the gilded top.
—One of the pleasing instances of Commencement week was the presentation of gold medals to Messrs. Lamar Monarch and Edmy Chas-saing who have been members of the Crescent Club Orchestra for the past three years. Both gentlemen well deserve this tribute of appreciation from the members of the Crescent Club.
—The Director of the Historical collections has received from Mr. C. F. Gunther, of Chicago, a large and well-executed copy of his famous original potrait of Columbus painted by Antonio Moro, a Spanish artist, who lived in the 16th century. The etching is artistically framed in oak and gold, and forms a most valuable addition to the Columbus Gallery at Notre Dame. Mr. Gunther’s generosity is appreciated by all our University men. They hope he will soon visit Notre Dame, where he will find much to delight his antiquarian tastes.
—The beautiful new bronze statue of the Sacred Heart, which adorns the University park, is now the central object of attraction. It is not strange that the original statue at the celebrated shrine of Montmartre, of which our . statue is a perfect copy, should attract visitors from every part of la belle France; all who have seen the exquisite figure of Our Lord surmounting the pedestal of Scotch granite were profuse in its praise. It will tend to inspire in all who behold it not only a deep and abiding
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
love of good art, but a more enthusiastic devotion to the Sacred Heart as well.
—Following is the programme of the Elocutionary Contest on Saturday evening.
PART I.
BROWNSON HALL.
Overture—“ Carnival of Venice,”. .University Orchestra
Losca—Desprez.....................E. DuBrul, ’93
Selection from “Ben Hur,”.......H. O’Donnell, ’94
Execution of Montrose.............A. Prichard, ’95
Oration—“The Genius of Art”......M. A. Quinlan, ’93:
Oration of the Day—“ The Dignity of Labor,” Monsignor Robert Seton, D. D.
Tuesday, June 20th, 8.30 A. M.
Quartette—" Home, Sweet Home,” Messrs. Harris, Chute Schillo and Schaack.
Class Poem.......................R. C. Langan, ’93
Valedictory......................E. F. DuBrul, ’93.
Awarding of Honors, Conferring of Degrees, etc.
Retiring March................N.	D. U. Cornet Band
PART II.
CARROLL HALL.
The Bells of Notre Dame...............T. Finnerty
Somebody’s Darling..................G.	McCarrick
The Murderer..........................A. Coolidge
The Natural Bridge.......................F. Jones
The Execution of (Montrose............P. Stephens
The Kentucky Belle.......................L. Healy
Gualberto’s Victory...................F. Cornell
—The following is the score of the exhibition game between Sorin Brownson Hall:
Sorin Hall. Combe, c., Flannigan, s. s. Hannin, p., St. Clair, I. f., Bolton, c. f., McCarrick, 2db., Thorn, 1st b., McKee, 3d b., Dechant, r. f.,
Total.............
Brownson Hall.
Flynn, c. f., Burns, 2d b., Cullen, 1st b., Schmidt, 3d b., Chassaing, s. s., Funke, p., Covert, c., Mavnes, r. f., O'Keill, 1. f.,
A ,B. R. B.K. S.H. P.O. II. It.
5	o	3	o	11	2	o
3200230
5	I	2	O	I	I	I
4020000 5000000
5	I	I	O	2	O	2
4	I	2	O	IO	o	o
4	I	o	O	O	2	I
4000100
.39	6	10' o	27	8	4
A.B. R. B.H. S.H. P.O. II. E. 2	0	0	0	0	0	0
4000312 3000932 3010332 3002460 4 o i o o i o 4000742 4000010
4 I i o I o o
Total.......................31 1 3 2 27 19 S
Summary:—Two-base hit—McCarrick. Three-base hit—Combe. Stolen bases—Hannin, McKee, 1; Flynn, 2; Schmidt, 1; Funke, 1; O’Neill, 1. Double play—Flan-nigan to Thorn. Struck out—\yj Hannin, 12; by Funke, 7; Base on balls—Hannin, 2; Funke, 1; Hit by pitched ball— Flannigan, 2; Cullen, 1; Flynn, Schmidt. Wild pitches— Hannin, 2; Passed balls—Covert, 2. Time of game, 2 hours, 5 minutes. Umpire, Dechant. Scorers, Douglas and Foley.
—The programme of the exercises of the Forty-Ninth Annual Commencement was as follows:
Sunday, June 18.
8 a. m.—Solemn High Mass with sermon by Rev. J. F. Nugent, of Des Moines, Iowa.
9.30 a.m.—Dedication of the Statue of the Sacred Heart, io a. m................  Military	Dress Parade
Monday, June 19.
8 a. m....................Closing	Examinations
10 a. m...............................Regatta
12 m..................................Dinner
2.30 p.m.—Commencement Exercises in St.Edward’sHall 3.30 p.m.—Calisthenic Exercises in St. Edward’s Gym.
and Field sports on Brownson Campus.
6 p. m................................Supper
7.30 p. m..........Exercises	in Washington Hall
programme:
Overture—“ Phi Kappa Psi ”..University Orchestra
Vocal Waltz.....................:......VOgei
Orpheus Club.
Oration—“ The Spirit of Education,” H. L. Monarch, ’93 Trio—“Martha”............Violin, Flute and Piano
Messrs. Barton, Schmidt and Liscombe.
Oration—“The Marvels of Industry,” A. E. Dacy, ’93 Estudiantina..........................Lacome
Orpheus Club.
Bishops’ Memorial Hall.
The Director of the Bishops’ Memorial Hall acknowledges with gratitude the receipt of the following contributions:
Most Rev. Archbishop Riordan, D. D. : Valuable Episcopal Ring presented to Rt. Rev. Dr. Burke, first Bishop of Nova Scotia, by the Duke of Kent, father of Queen Victoria, bequeathed by the Bishop to his relative, the venerable Father Carroll, who lately died in Chicago. Father Carroll presented it to Archbishop Riordan on the occasion of his consecration.
Hon. W. J. Onahan, EE. D. : Souvenirs of Columbian Celebration, Chicago ; Original of the Address delivered in the Auditorium by Archbishop Ireland ; Copy used by Cardinal Gibbons when offering the prayer at the Dedication of the World’s Fair.
Rev. John Dinnen : Souvenirs of the late Civil War; Documents Relating to the History of Notre Dame.
Major - General Rosecrans : Seven large sacks filled with pamphlets, documents, newspapers, and magazines.
Rev. Dr. Quigley: Pamphlets and documents relating to the School Discussion.
Miss Casey: Files of Catholic Telegraph, Cincinnati, from January, ’ 1S72 to 1S92. (Twenty Volumes.)
Rev. Father Bleckman. ._a velvet Burse used by Cardinal McCloskey to carry the Blessed Sacrament to the sick.
Mr. Fred. Eanahan : Earge colored Picture of the Mother-House of the Sisters of Charity, Emmittsburg, Md., made in the early part of the century. Eetter written by Bishop Gartland.
Sisters of Mercy: Gold-embroidered Mitre used by Rt. Rev. Bishop McFarland and Rt. Rev. Bishop Galberry.
Rev. George Rathz : Father Matthew Temperance Medal, Medal of the Golden Jubilee of Archbishop of St. 'Eouis.
Rev. Father Spillard : Gold Vestments used by Rt. Rev. Bishop Young, of Erie, and Bishop Euers, of Fort Wayne.
Rev. A. M. Kirsch : Thirty-four Photographs of Catholic historical personages and places.
Mr. George Gottsberger Peck: A Tour Around the World, by George E. Raum.
Rev. K. Beyer: Gold - embroidered Mitre used by the late Bishop Flasch, of Eacrosse. Eetter written by Bishop Flasch.