^he ^Notre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
=========================================
College Parade
By THOMAS M. HIGGINS

.iitiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiaaiiMHiMimiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiaatniiiaiiiuiaiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiaaaiHaaiaaii
THE STAFF
FRANK GRIMALDI Editor-in-Chief
JOHN DEFANT -	-	-	- Managing Editor
GEORGE COLLINS _	-	- Navy Associate Editor
PAUL WEYRAUCH ----- Sports Editor
COLUM N ISTS
THOMAS M. HIGGINS -	-	- The College Parade
LOUIS ALMASI ----- The Crow's Nest ARTHUR MOSHER, RAY FRANKLIN - - - The Shillelagh JACK STEWART ----- The Green Banner ED CASO, JOE PIEDMONT -	-	- Frosh Froth
CONTRIBUTORS
JAMES GREENE JACK TINKLE BILLY SLAVICK GERARD HEKKER PAUL ABRAHAM JOE RENINGER W. O. MILLER JIM REGAN JAMES BURNS SAMUEL HAZO PAUL RAGAN ROGER CAHANEY JACK HUMMEL RALPH HAYMAN JOE LANG FRANK TYCHSEN DAVE OLSON MICHAEL GREENE
JUSTIN CICCONETTI JOHN C. THOMAS JAMES JOHN BILL PFAFF DAVE WARNER JOHN GUNTHER BILL BRAUN
RUDY SCHREITMUELLER WALTER S. BUNKER RAY CHAMBERLAND PETER PESOLI
BILL LEAVEY
JACK SULLIVAN
JOHN WALKER LAWRENCE METCALF ARNOLD ANDERJASKA CLARENCE ZIMMER FRANK FINN
JAMES FERSTEL -	-	-	- Photography
ARTHUR COUGHLAN -	-	- Circulation Manager
REV. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C. -	- Faculty Advisor
M. E. VARGA -	. -	-	_ Advertising
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City — Chicago — Boston — Los Angeles — San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all correspondence to: Publications Office, Administration Building, Noire Dame, Indiana.
It has been brought to our attention that we let a whole column pass by last week without making a dig about the lovely students of SMC. Let it be here known that high among the multitude of New Year’s Resolutions that we compiled is one that reads, “Forthwith, St. Mary’s can do no wrong.” To remain in character, therefore, we should like to pat the backs of our sister collegians for that sharp affair thrown last Saturday. Although publicized as a Winter Carnival, we have observed more snow at a fourth of July celebration. However, in the future, let’s have more joint N.D.-S.M.C. soirees.
He—Am I the first man you ever kissed?
She—Of course, you are darling. Why do you boys all ask the same silly question?—Utah State Student Life -
Worst joke of the Week Department:—(The Creigh-tonian’s monopoly is broken this week by the Ball State News, which contributes this horror.)
First Roommate—Hey, what’s the big idea wearing my raincoat?
Second Roommate—Well, don’t you see it’s raining? You don’t want me to get your suit wet, do you?
Our female readers (as if we had any!) will bless us for this one:—
Here’s to God’s first thought, Man!
And here’s to God’s second thought, Woman! Second thoughts are always best—
So here’s to Woman!—Daily Kansan
❖ .
Music seems to be holding forth at our colleges this week. The University of Maryland is featuring the Don Cossack Chorus. At Purdue, it is Lauritz Melchior.—Oh well, Notre Dame always has Lundquist, McGuire and Flood!
❖
At Georgia Tech, the studes approach Notre Dame in eagerness. Pipe this from their Technique-
He—Your lipstick is coming off. ’ ,
She—No it isn’t.	•
He—It is.
She—I’m sure it isn’t.
He—Listen, any time I get as close to a girl as this, her lipstick is coming off!
. <❖ . ’ ‘
Poise: The ability to keep a conversation going smoothly while the other guy pays the check.—Butler Collegian
❖
The Daily Trojan quotes one about the Southern Cal halfback who went to see “The Bells of St. Mary’s” because he wanted to see Jimmie Phelan’s kids, Wedemeyer and Cordeiro, play again. Was Bing playing the SMC coach?
❖
Fred:—Say, Bud, what’s the book you’re reading?
Bud:—Its name is What Twenty Million Girls Want.
Fred:—Did they spell my name right?—Annapolis Log.
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorised June 25, 1*1*.
VOL. 86. NO. 9
JANUARY 25, 1946
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY RE-ESTABLISHES FOUR PRIZES FOR STUDENT ESSAY WRITING
The Department of History announces that the history prizes which were not offered during the war will be offered again during the spring semester. In addition to the three prizes previously offered by the Department, the Father Cavanaugh Prize, formerly offered by the English Department, will be under the supervision of the Department of History this year. This last prize of $100 must have for its subject some person connected with the history of Notre Dame. The O’Hagan Prize for a special essay on Irish history, which is offered every three years, will amount to $55.44, the accumulated income from the Foundation. The Charles O’Donnell-Charles Phillips Prize of $50 is offered for an essay on the following topic: “The Catholic Church as the Patron of the Renaissance of the Fifteenth Century.” The Monsignor Francis A. O’Brien Prize, which this year will amount to $100, is offered for an essay on: “A Biographical Study of a Catholic Layman in the United States Prior to 1925.” The awarding of all four prizes is contingent upon the presentation of essays considered suitable for the awards by the judges appointed by the Department of History.
The following are the formal announcements of the prizes:
The Father Cavanaugh Prize—This prize, of $100, donated by an alumnus of the University of Notre Dame, is awarded to the student who, in the judgment of the faculty, appointed for the purpose, has submitted the best biographical sketch of a personage (priest, Brother, Sister, or layman) who has contributed to the upbuilding of the University of Notre Dame. The purpose of the award is to secure for posterity a series of monographs that will suitably memorialize the persons who, in high station' or low, have contributed some notable service to the University. The essay must combine accurate history and literary excellence, and the prize is not awarded when none of the essays submitted meets these standards.
The O’Hagan Prize for Essay on Irish History — the income from a fund of $500 bequeathed to the University by
the late distinguished author Thomas O’Hagan, of Toronto, Canada, is for the student who submits the best essay on . Irish history. A competition for this prize is conducted every three years, and the money awarded to the winner of the contest is the interest on the capital fund for the three-year period. This competition is to be held for the second time in the spring of 1946.
The Father Charles O’Donnell-Charles Phillips Prize—$50, is awarded annually for the best essay on an historical subject in a contest open to all students taking courses in history. The subject for this essay is officially assigned by the head of the Department of History and is announced in the Notre Dame SCHOLASTIC. The topic of the essay for this year is: “The Catholic Church as the Patron of the Renaissance of the Fifteenth Century.”
The Monsignor Francis A. O’Brien Prize — founded in 1917, by a gift of $1000 from Mr. Edwin O. Wood, of Flint, Michigan, in memory of Monsignor Francis A. O’Brien, of Kalamazoo, Michigan, is awarded annually to one student or to more than one, in any college of the University, for special study and distinction in an historical subject designated by the president of the University or by the University Council. The topic for this study this year is: “A Biographical Study of a Catholic Layman in the United States Prior to 1925.”
All essays must be submitted prior to May 25, 1946.
RADIO
America’s First Voice of Aviation, Captain Eddie Rickenbacker, will go on the air Saturday, Feb. 2, inaugurating a weekly half hour coast to coast show from the National Broadcasting Company studios sponsored by Longines watches. With Rickenbacker as narrator, the broadcast will unfold the dramatic story of air progress from the Wright Brothers to rockets. The program may be heard locally over Station WMAG, Chicago, at 10:30 a.m.
Car Permissions
For Soph Cotillion
Automobile permission will be granted to all students attending the Sophomore Cotillion. Permission will extend from noon Friday, Feb. 8, to midnight Sunday, Feb. 10. It is important that all students wishing to avail themselves of car permissions register their cars with the Prefect of Discipline before noon, February 8.

Tea Dance chairman Tom Kerrigan and co-chairman Joe Reninger have announced that the second half of the double feature Cotillion will be held at the Palais Royale on Saturday afternoon, Feb. 9. Jack Davies and his 12-piece orchestra will provide the music at the tea dance from 2 to 6.
The decoration’s committee has promised a complete rejuvenation of the Rockne Memorial for Friday night’s formal dance. The motif of the decorations is still a committee secret, but we can expect something really different from the traditional Notre Dame blanket that has been the background of so many other dances on the campus.
The Oliver Hotel has set aside 40 to 70 rooms for the week-end of February 8. Students wishing to secure rooms for their dates are advised that the Oliver Hotel requires a two week notice to insure room reservations.
A survey conducted by the ticket committee has revealed that if attendance is any criterion, the Sophomore Cotillion of 1946 will- be a huge success.
It was erroneously stated in last week’s Scholastic that uniforms would be permitted at the Cotillion. Since military regulations declare that the uniform may be worn for only 30 days after discharge, who are we to condone the breaking of the law. It’s strictly tuxedos or tails for all civvies attending the Formal Ball Friday night, Feb. 8.
—Bill Leavey
3
CATHOLIC ACTION
On the first floor of the Law Building a meeting takes place once a month that few of us know about. Attending this meeting are students who belong to the Notre Dame Catholie Action Club. These students probably do more good and yet get less publicity than any other campus organization. Why and when were they organized and what have they done?
Six years ago, four graduate students of the Apologetics Department here at Notre Dame formed a Catholic Action Club with a two-fold purpose. Primarily they desired to form lay apostles who would continue their apostolic efforts in secular life, and secondly, to work on the campus for the material, scholastic, moral and spiritual improvement of the students. They chose a few students to help them in their work, then a few more, until in a few years their organization was complete. Today we have the Student Book Exchange to facilitate the sale of used books, the Co-Hop organization to provide student recreation in South Bend, monthly days of recollection to give students an opportunity for the development- of a deeper spiritual life, and the Student-Professor Smokers and Town Meetings to enable the students and professors to become better acquainted on an informal basis. All of these and others are creations of the Catholic Action Club and, in a measure, they fulfill its intentions.
The motive for the drive behind their intentions is charity, the concrete charity that makes every man his “brother’s keeper” and is an answer to Christ’s commandment, “Whatsoever you do unto the least of my brethren, you do unto Me.”
Based on the theory of small groups, called cells, working energetically to discover student problems and find solutions for them, the Catholic Action Club employs a simple but effective method. An observation of the problem is made, a judgment is agreed upon and then a solution is found and applied. In its activities the club has at heart the good of the whole student body rather than the good of the club members. It is an apostolic organization composed of students who work unselfishly for the welfare of their fellow students.
This type of organized apostolate was strongly recommended by the late Pope Pius XI v-hen he stated, "Catholic Action is not only legitimate and necessary but also irreplaceable. In the present hour Catholic Action is almost as indispensable as the sacerdotal ministry.” Ar; far back as 1932, Pope Pius XI called for Catholics to enlist in the Apostolate
of Catholic Action. Since then the need for a collective and whole-hearted Catholic Action movement has been stressed many times, both officially and unofficially.
Catholic Action is not necessary today because of the secularized state of society. In a situation such as the present one, the Church and her officials are separated from the everyday problems of life. Nothing remains for her in the civil order except the support of the Catholic laity, her only hope for influence in the business world. Hence the necessity for an organization of lay apostles who are active within their own occupational spheres. Since Catholic Action is concerned with all human and divine interests, Pope Pius XI insisted in his encyclical Quadragesimo Anno, that there be workers, apostles of workers; employers, apostles of employers; professional men, apostles of professional men; farmers, apostles of farmers; and students, apostles of students. In other words, he asked for lay apostles in every field of endeavor.
Catholic Action Clubs were first begun in Belgium by Father Joseph Car-dyn. They spread to France soon after and then began to crop up in most of the other Catholic countries. When Australian-born Paul McGuire toured the United States in 1939 lecturing on Catholic Action, many inspired units sprang up. But because of the ignorance of.the members concerning the fundamentals of the movement, their influence is not yet as widespread as in other countries.
INTERCULTURAL RELATIONS
Hunter College of the City of New York is offering a series of prizes totalling $12,900 in victory bonds for an essay written on the topic: Intercultural Relations.
College and university students are asked to write on the general topic, “How Can American Colleges or Other Institutes Promote the Appreciation of the Culture of Other Peoples and Cooperation Among Them?" First prize is $1,000.
A competition is also open to teachers in colleges and universities. The essay must not exceed 1,500 words. Contest closes on Mar. 1. Complete details may be obtained by addressing Hunter College Diamond Jubilee Essay Contest, P. O. Box 7, New York 8, N. Y.
In order to hasten the formation of more groups and to encourage the growth of those extant, the Notre Dame unit has started an “Apostolate Library Series.” Among the books in this collection are The Pastoral Letter of Archbishop Charbonneau on Catholic Action, Apostles of the Front Lines by Father Louis J. Putz, C.S.C., who has since been intimately associated with Catholic Action Affairs since 1934, and Training of Lay Leaders by Eugene S. Geissler, first president of Catholic Action students at Notre Dame. Splendid books on the mechanics and application of Catholic Action are constantly being added to the “Series.”
Periodicals also play an important part in the furtherance of the Catholic Action Movement. The Y.C.S. Leader, published here monthly, is sent to many schools and colleges where active units function.
Catholic Action may be defined as “the participation of the laity in the apostolate of the hierarchy.” This “participation of the laity” is Catholic Action only when the workers are definitely commissioned by their bishop as the priest himself is commissioned. Catholic Action is represented in the N.F.C.C.S. (National Federation of Catholic College Students) through its regional commission. The national commission of Catholic Action Study is at Dayton University. Yearly, Notre Dame and St.’Mary’s groups sponsor a study week for the leaders of units from various schools. During this week they plan the program for the following year. In the past it has attracted as many as 200 delegates.
The members of the Catholic Action Movement believe that the Church is the only organization which is truly international and that only international cooperation can materially improve world conditions. They believe .that through Catholic Action, now a very important division of the church militant, they may be able to achieve what the clergy has failed to do—effect a just and a lasting peace, an achievement which in itself would bring many more into the fold.—Mike Greene
Lieut. (jg) Anderson Is New Instructor
Lieut, (jg) K. W. Anderson has reported here to replace Lieut, (jg) W. H. Lemm who was discharged recently. Mr. Anderson received his commission in March, 1944 and attended an indoctrination school at Hollywood, Fla. His next assignment was that of deck officer aboard the destroyer Dahlgren. While aboard the Dahlgren he served 14 months in the Atlantic. Shortly after completing that tour of duty Mr. Anderson reported to Notre Dame.
4
SI Bill Confuses RO'S
Rarely has any piece of legislation been interpreted in so many ways as Public Law 340, commonly referred to as the GI Bill of Rights. Of painful interest to the average ROTC fledgling is the interpretation of chapter four which deals with the education of veterans. This section is so ambiguously construc-ed that it has already given rise to widely contradictory decisions.
In some states administrators of the Bill have decided that a navy man whose only time of service has been spent in the ROTC is not eligible for educational aid stipulated in the Bill. In other states an arbitrary Mason-Dixon line of preferment has been set up. In Pennsylvania, for instance, ROTC constituents of one district are offered a tempting $1200-a-year Government scholarship, while others in less generous districts are told to suck their thumbs.
The RO students point out that the bill eliminates from aid anyone whose only duty has been under “the Navy col-
N. D. Veterans
Contact Congress
At the Veteran’s Club meeting recently penurious ex-G.Ls grew hot undei-their collars over money they weren’t getting from generous good 01 ’Uncle Sam. Evidence was reviewed to the effect that at Notre Dame, as in many other universities of this area, veterans were not receiving their regular allotments. Therefore, on the motion of Don Juster of Alumni Hall, the Club voted to contact the Congress of the United State's in an active effort to rectify the situation.
A plan was formulated whereby a telegram was sent to Senator Capehart of Indiana, stating that no checks have been received since the beginning of the semester. A telegram was also sent to Representative Robert Grant of Indiana. Emphasis was laid on the fact that men are being forced to cash War Bonds and other securities, in order to obtain sufficient funds to continue at Notre Dame. The text was followed by 250 signatures, representing all the men who have not received any money, either under the Serviceman’s Readjustment Act (G. I. Bill), or the Vocational Rehabilitation Act (Public Law 16).
The telegram was sent at 11:30 Saturday morning, Jan. 19. It contained 719 words. The text of one of the telegrams follows:
lege training program, which course was a continuation of his civilian course and was pursued to completion.” But the RO’s argue that since the majority of them were drafted into the Navy directly after leaving high school and subjected to the restricted majors of ROTC courses, the NROTC program cannot be construed as a continuation of their civilian courses.
Amazingly enough, the fact remains that those men *who have failed the academic requirements of the ROTC have been sent to general enlisted duty and thus qualify for benefits, whereas those who sweated through to the bitter end are left like dead atheists—all dressed up and no place to go. That not many such dead will be found around the campus is clear from the fact that 30 hearties have already left the NROTC at their own request for boot training at Great Lakes last Monday and 55 more are awaiting their orders to report there to insure their claim to GI aid.
—Sam Smith
JAN. 19. 1946 HON. ROBERT GRANT
U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES WASHINGTON, D. C.
THE UNPERSIGNED HAVE RECEIVED NO SUBSISTENCE SINCE NOV. 5, 1945. SUCH DELAY CAUSING MEN TO CASH WAR BONDS AND POSSIBLY LEAVING SCHOOL. REQUEST IMMEDIATE ACTION.
NOTRE DAME VETERANS’ CLUB
NAMES OF VETS
Thus, the veterans hoped that literate members of the Congress would be impressed. Incidentally, the subsistence allowance increase under the G.I. Bill which was recently passed by Congress will be effective as of Jan. 1,1946. It will not be retroactive. Anyway, you vets who have been peeking under the door every morning for the last two months may not have long to wait, we hope.
—Clarence Zimmer
RESPONSE
- (The following telegram was received here on January 21).
CHRISTY WALSH JR NOTRE DAME VETERANS CLUB NOTRE DAME IND
REFERENCE TELEGRAM YOU AND YOUR FRIENDS AM PLACING SAME IN HANDS OF GENERAL BRADLEY TODAY AND URGING IMMEDIATE ACTION PLEASE ADVISE YOUR FRIENDS ACTION TAKEN
HOMER E CAPEHART U S SENATE
VOCATIONAL INQUIRY
The Vocational Inquiry Group will hold its first meeting of the year next Monday, January 28, at 7:30 P. M. in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. There will be a talk on the foreign missions followed by an informal discussion.
Anyone interested is invited. The purpose of the club is to discuss various aspects of vocation and to answer any questions on the matter. It is not merely for those who are seriously considering a religious vocation.
Prof. Sheehan Talks
At Economists Meet
On the occasion of the annual meeting of the Catholic Economic Association in Cleveland, Ohio, January 24, Professor John H. Sheehan of the Department of Economics at Notre Dame addressed the afternoon session on “An Economist’s Comment on Philosophic-Economic Relationships.”
Professor Sheehan stressed that there is an intrinsic connection between ethics and economics and further, that the present labor crisis could be more equitably resolved if the principles of social ethics were applied. Prof. Sheehan said in part, “Nearly everyone is talking, listening to and reading about these things in this January of despair, disunity and deceit, 1946. Surely, in this first year of peace, confusion, not Christ, is King. That confusion seems little less in the average Catholic mind than in non-Catholic minds places great responsibility on practically all Catholic educators—in history and logic, language and literature—but particularly those in philosophy and the social sciences.”
Prof. Sheehan then remarked that the responsibility for wages was very definitely stated by Pope Pius XI in his encyclical, “On Reconstructing the Social Order.”
Said Prof. Sheehan in conclusion, “Despite' growling and evasion, positive constructive work — in applying ethical principles to economic problems — is what is needed. Three recent popes have called for it. Too many either have not heard, or not heeded, the call. Like everything else, this work will not get done by ‘letting George do it.’ ”
5
Even "Scholastic" Men Were There
A poet has said that Mary is a grand old name, and St. Mary’s was a grand old place enraptured in the gayety of the annual Winter Carnival, January 19. Recalling previous experiences at recent • tea dances, we didn’t expect much as we wandered across the Dixie Highway into the land of “Let’s pretend it’s coed.” To our surprise and pleasure, we found a wonderful time awaiting us there provided by a chance bit of sophisticated sophomore intuition.
Like most people who were invited rather blindly, we met our equals for the evening in the Pine Ridge Lodge located in the sub basement of the fabulous College Building. To arrive at the Pine Ridge Lodge, we shed our coats in the proper place, for it was cold over there, and battled our way through miles of paper-snow manned corridors, finally barging into the limelight under the watchful eye of the chaperons. As usual, even though we were late ourselves, we had to wait on the misses.
We liked what we saw when our friends arrived and journeyed with them to the swelling lines around the banquet tables. We stood in line, recalling vivid chow hall memories. These memories vanished when we sampled the food. It had a strange taste. We had tasted food like this before, never in the chow hall but perhaps at home. Our appetites were back to normal again.
Since there wasn’t any snow, we hud-
N. D. Alumni Board
Holds Winter Meet
Revival of the world network of Notre Dame alumni clubs, and their coordination with the campus clubs of corresponding geographical areas formed one of the key discussions of the winter meeting of the Alumni Association Board of Directors on January 19 and 20.
The war reduced the membership of all Notre Dame clubs, some of them by more than half the total alumni in the area. In normal times preceding the war there were 94 such organizations, including six clubs in foreign countries.
Also discussed and recommended for local alumni club action were the committees on participation of Notre Dame men in civic and religious affairs; the committee on employment of alumni, particularly the returning veteran; the committee on contact with preparatory schools; and a committee to contact nonalumni friends of the University in the several areas.
Universal Notre Dame Night on April
dled around the bonfire, waiting for the haywagon to return. After a battle of the sexes, we secured a seat for two on the wagon. The moon was shining bright overhead as lovers whispered: “My feet are cold.” Ahead of us in the wagon, another couple were saying: “Do you mind?” “I wish you wouldn’t.” “Should I give up now or keep trying?” “Keep trying!” Much to our dismay, the hayride returned to the bonfire again and our gayety came to an end.
Penny George was vocalizing the Hong Kong Blues when we reentered the Pine Ridge Lodge for the floor show. She ought to have had a talent scout watching her because she was a star among the torch song vocalists. Two clever actors from Notre Dame produced one of their best, “The New Father Act” and the show was put on ice when a St. Mary’s belle sang and played her own songs. Ten o’clock rolled around quickly as we danced away the fleeting hours. Our St. Mary’s adventures were finished as we said farewell regretfully and headed for our own unromantic dorms.
All in all, we had a wonderful evening and long for more. Might we add that as a result of this carnival, one of our fellow bachelors lost his way in snowdrifts where there were none and is now planning how to major in homemaking.
—Jack Hummel
29, and Universal Communion Sunday on December 8, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, will be highlights of 1946.
Thomas F. Byrne, Cleveland, national president, presided. Discussions were held with Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president, and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice - president. Rev. Francis Goodall, C.S.C., student vocational counselor and alumni liaison officer, attended the sessions of the Board, which adjourned Sunday at 2 p.m.
Veterans' Club
Members of the Veterans’ Club willhonor the Notre Dame men killed in World War II at a Communion-breakfast this Sunday. The Vets will receive Communion in a body at the 8:00 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Head Coach Frank Leahy and Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., will be the principal speakers at the breakfast which gets under way at 9:15 in the Dining Hall. Joe Totten and Don Juster are chairmen of the breakfast.
New Requirements
For N.D. Law School
In a recent report to the Academic Council, new entrance requirements have been proposed for the Notre Dame College of Law. Beginning with the 1946 spring semester the new requirements are to be:
1.	A degree from a recognized college or university; or in the case of students enrolled at Notre Dame in one of the combination programs (A.B.-Law, Commerce-Law, Science-Law) applicants may enter the law course at the end of their third year and by combining courses in the fourth and fifth year, may receive the undergraduate degree at the end of the fifth year and law degree at the end of the sixth.
2.	For the semester beginning March 1946, students may be admitted to the Law School who have as much as ninety hours college credit all of which would have applied to a degree in the college, provided a general scholastic average has been maintained equivalent to an 80 average under our grading system. A total of ninety miscellaneous credits will not be accepted, however.
3.	For the March 1946 semester students registered at Notre Dame who have indicated an intention to transfer to the Law School at that time will be accepted if they have acquired sixty hours credit.
4.	As a partial concession to veterans who wish to study law, the following modifications will be made: a veteran who has earned half the required amount of credits for graduation in the required college will be admitted indefinitely.
Of special interest to those men wishing to study law next semester is the fact that the College of Law is still accepting students for law study in the Spring term.
Commerce Forum
On Wednesday evening, January 23, the Commerce Forum held its regular meeting in the Blue Room of the Oliver Hotel. The guest speaker was Mr. Le Clair Eells, professor of finance at Notre Dame, who discussed “Postwar International Financial Problems.”
Mr. Eells dealt with the problem of monetary standards and the part gold will play in future international relationships and trade. He showed the need for monetary management in our complex, modern economic society and also dwelt on the matter of exchange controls. Mr. Eells concluded his address by reviewing the monetary agreements that were reached at Brettqn Woods. A lively discussion followed.
6
Department of Architecture
Notre Dame's Most Distinctive Group of Students and Professors
Can you imagine students attending classes from thirty to thirty-five hours a week and calling it fun? There are fifty-three such students at Notre Dame, studying to be architects, and they take their education seriously, making it a twenty- four - hour - around-the-clock j ob. Yet, even after the toughest and most grueling days, when they come early and stay late, they leave their work laughing and eager to return. The thirty-five hours are official, but seldom a week passes without some of the students putting in close to seventy hours sweating out some phase of their education, which most of the time means work on a new design for a current Beaux Arts Competition.
The reason for such faithful devotion to studies is not hard to understand, for an architect must be a jack of all trades, and the variety and scope of his work leaves little time or room for monotony. Before a degree can be realized he must be a walking authority on all of his subjects as well as a master of his tools. He must be able to model in clay, show adeptability as a sculptor, have superior sketching ability in water color, pencil, pastels, charcoal or pen and ink, he must be a quick and able draftsman, he should have at his fingertips the measurements of everything from a tool shed to the Empire State Building—in short there is not one phase of learning that an architect can afford to overlook.
Probably the most vivid in the memories of all architect students is the Charette periods which occur just before a Beaux Art Problem is completed. Charette in its original derivation meant a cart or carriage, but to an architect it means the time when he had better get on the ball and let fly with everything but the kitchen sink if he wants to finish on time. During a charette anything can happen, and it’s no strange sight to see some innocent observer get a water color shower or a solid bump on the head from a fast passing drawing board being hurried to the sink for a washdown, signifying that someone made a fatal mistake and had to start over.
Yet with all the work that must be completed the architect student always finds a few minutes each day to relax, and that usually means some unfortunate character in the department is made the butt of a finely engineered practical joke. It is not odd at all to arrive at the drafting room some morning, full
of pep and new ideas, and eager to set the T-square and triangle in motion only to find the instrument drawer securely spiked closed, and all the hardware removed. Oi- maybe someone gets the urge to dash off a few water colors, but finds all of his brushes firmly hardened in a weird cast of vegetable glue. Then too there are those select few whom fate visits every day in the form of grotesque cartoons dangling at hideous angles from a nearly completed design plate.
Aside from these pranks that keep the students on their toes at all times, the architect course has its serious side that demands that they engage the mental mark as well. Although great emphasis is given to the graphic portion of the curricula, a deep understanding of construction principles must be had before a design can be made practical. This takes hours of careful study and research in the department’s well stocked library. To guide these studies is an able staff of professors and instructors who constantly stimulate the student and help him to prepare for a successful career in the architectural profession.
At the head of this mechanism which fosters the inventive genius of architecture students is Mr. Francis W. Ker-vick, A.I.A., whose vast knowledge and
Novices freehanding in charcoal.
untiring efforts have kept the department out in front since he took charge in 1913. Mr. Kervick is an authority on church and university architecture and many of the buildings on the Notre Dame campus are expressions of his creative ability.
He is ably assisted by Mr. Frank Montant, A.I.A., Beaux Arts Paris Prize Winner in 1936, and Mr. Vito Girone, A.I.A., winner of the Home Collaborative Prize in 1940. Mr. Girone has just returned from service with the army engineers in Alaska where he. received the Silver Star. Mr. William S. Moore and Mr. William W. Turner, A.I.A., are instructors in the engineering courses of the curriculum. In the Fine Arts Department, Mr. Stanley.S. Sessler and Mr. Kormendy teach sculp-toring, modeling and life drawing classes.
Last year the N. D. Department of Architecture won the Beaux Arts medal for being the outstanding school among the colleges and universities in the U.S. presenting solutions to Beaux Arts problems. Students now in the department who have earned outstanding awards in Beaux Arts competition include Joe Lang, Barney Slater, Oscar Lupi, Ventura Gonzales and Bob Lieberenz.
7
COLLEGE IN THE POSTWAR ERA
That reconversion in the universities will not be an overnight affair was emphasized recently at the annual conference of the Association of American Colleges in Cleveland. Paradoxically, academic fathers were dour-faced over a strange twist in success. A year ago at Atlantic City, with the end of the war only a vague hope, school heads shook sadly over statistics which presaged the closing down of college plants everywhere. Today, due to the new boom in education influenced by the return of the G.I., colleges are beginning to crack at the seams with over-population.
Deeply worried over the problem, the administration group of the Association discovered that part of the fault lay in top-heavy distribution. Partly because of the courses offered, partly because of the prestige involved' veterans invaded en masse the 100 top colleges and ignored the 600 smaller ones as carefully as booby traps.
To remedy this situation, responsible members of the Association decided to contact the Veterans Administration to set up a central clearing house which would list names of colleges and their existing vacancies. It was generally although unofficially agreed that ex-soldiers eager for higher education will have to deploy to smaller schools. Typical of the “off-the-beaten-path” school with facilities wide open for the returning veteran is Central College in Fayette, Mo. Its normal enrollment decimated by 50 percent, one dormitory halfempty, its president, Dr. Harry S. DeVore, was pessimistic whether it could afford to open next semester.
If wide-scale redistribution is effected, it is estimated that the smaller institutions could absorb approximately 250,-000 war veterans. But the problem will be far from solved. Due to the fluid movement of the veterans coming to college, it is impossible to get authoritative statistics. According to the best available figures there are currently 250,000 G.Is in school. By September, it is predicted that this figure will sky-rocket up to 750,000. Even though every college in the country reaches its saturation point in enrollment, there will still be 250,000 veterans'without a classroom to go to, unless an expansion program is briefed at once. Along with other colleges cognizant of this new challenge, Notre Dame has instituted a §10,000,000 building project of which the new §400,-000 dormitory, tentatively identified as Project F, is just the beginning.
At present, at Notre Dame, there are in round numbers about 600 veterans who constitute one-fourth'of the enroll
ment. More than 800 of the returning soldiers applied for the fall term, 1,000 are applying for the spring semester starting in March, and the University expects l,5C0 applications for September. To date Notre Dame has turned away nearly 500 veterans due to lack of housing and teaching facilities. Because of the large potential migration to the school in the fall, the University had instituted a tacit ruling to the effect that special preference is to be given to former Notre Dame students who are returning from service.
That the veteran will continue constituting an impressive bulk of the colleges is to be inferred from a recent survey conducted among 400 veterans enrolled under the GI Bill of Rights at the University of Cincinnati Evening College. The survey shows that the average veteran is convinced that education is imperatively necessary to maintain our accepted standard of living and our position among world powers and furthermore, that higher education should not only be practical, geared for realistic living, but within the reach of all.
Paul Ragan Speaks
At Round Table Meet
Two members were welcomed back to the Economic Round Table at the weekly dinner-meeting held last Thursday at the Ramble Inn. Frederick Funk and Thomas Duffy, who have returned to Notre Dame after serving in the armed forces, were invited by President Paul Ragan to resume their membership in the club.
Plans were made for sending a delegation to the Regional Conference of the International Relations Conference which will be held at the Teachers College in Oshkosh, Wis. The Round Table expects to delegate five men to the meeting.
The speaker at last week’s meeting was Paul Ragan, senior Commerce student from Indianapolis, who talked on the 4.4 billion dollar loan to the United Kingdom. He opened his talk with an explanation of the Sterling bloc* Empire Preference and exchange controls. “Each of these points,” Ragan explained, “will be done away with or greatly modified on passage of the loan by the House of Representatives. In the past they have been great barriers to our foreign trade which will be remedied under certain clauses in the agreement signed by Lord Halifax and Fred Vinson, U.S. Secretary of the Treasury.”
“The incidence of this loan,” he
Debate Teams Clash
Here Next Wednesday
A sure sign that Notre Dame is rapidly returning to its peacetime excellence in all fields was the appearance this semester of the varsity debate team.
Much of the student body is anxiously awaiting a chance to see this stellar foursome in action. This chance will come on Wednesday, Jan. 30, at eight o’clock when the varsity team will meet the Wranglers Club team in a scrimmage session in Washington Hall. The student body and faculty are invited and a very large turnout is expected.
The varsity team is by far the favorite and should have little trouble in handling the inexperienced Wranglers. Great interest is being shown in this contest since it has been rumored that debate medals will be awarded winners. It will also decide who will represent Notre Dame in debates with other schools, and who will hold title as “campus champions.”
• The varsity first team is Samuel Hazo and James Reedy for the affirmative, and James Burns and Frank Finn, negative. The Wranglers team: Ray Betts and Herb Harris, affirmative; James Greene and Charles Maher, negative.
The question as stated formally is: Resolved that the United States should lead in fostering a policy of free trade throughout the nations of the world.
It is indeed an interesting and important question, and it will offer a perfect opportunity for the varsity to demonstrate the great strides they have made under Mr. Leonard Sommers, of the Speech Department, who is the coach.
continued, “will ultimately fall upon tax payers; so it is of vital concern that they be interested in the loan’s passage. Since the interest can be waived during the depression years with the approval of the U.S., the loan can be said to be a ‘gift.’ ”
The speaker displayed a thorough and comprehensive grasp of the framework of the agreements proposed in the loan, as well as the innumerable factors related to it.
Frank Grimaldi was chairman for the evening and conducted the discussion following the talk.
Patrick Nolan, club secretary, announced that all former members of the Economic Round Table should contact him in Walsh Hall. The club would like to welcome back all of its members who have been on leave of absence in the armed forces.
o
8
the
The rows of bygone Domes stacked in the Publications Office prompted this series of articles on the various editions of The Dome.
The First Issue—1906
Physically smaller than the presentday edition, it was bound in blue and gold and consisted of about 100 pages, a number that spoke impressively well for the ambitions and energy of the editors.	.
Starting the book off as in most annuals, was the Faculty in a miscellane-.ous collection of high collars, pince-nez, waxed mustaches, and mutton chops. Among them was a gentleman to become world famous in the field of chemistry, Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. On the heels of the professors was a truly remarkable frontispiece: Fate, smother-ingly gowned, holding the hand of a young graduate with his face to the sky!
The class of 1906 was cosmopolitan to say the least. Besides men as well known at Notre Dame today as the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., and the late John Cushing (for whom the College of Engineering is named), there were three gentlemen from Manila, two from France, two from Mexico, one from Peru, 12 from Chicago, and one displaced innocent from Brooklyn.
Dozens of clubs flourished rampantly. The most interesting was the “Karreni-an Literary Association.” Among the splendorous titles distributed impartially among the B.T.O.’s of that day were: Heavyweight Critic, Agent of the Muses, Light Comedian, Heavy Tragedian, Accent Specialist, Assistant, Chief Amusement, Noise Victim, Metaphysical Interpreter, and Chief Gesticulator.
In the Athletic Section were photos of several rugged looking individuals posed as if rigor mortis had set in prematurely. L. J. Salmon was called “the best player Notre Dame has ever had.” All of the men were so heavily thatched they looked as if they wore helmets. Mention was made of the “glorious season of 1903, in which not a point was scored against Notre Dame on the gridiron.” Wonder what Mr. Salmon will be doing next fall.
Notre’ Dame’s humor was mighty corny even then: “Our beloved Prefect of Discipline was recently in Chicago. In the course of his ramblings along State Street he encountered an excited woman who was evidently bewildered by the glamour and confusion of a large
DOME .
city. ‘I want to go to Marshall Fields,’ she cried in a high pitched voice. From force of habit our friend replied, “Well, you may go this time, but don’t ask me again.”
Even in 1906 students were engaged in a feud with SMC belles: Barteling— “Why don’t you hide in the bread wagon ovei’ there at St. Mary’s and then you could meet the girls?” McGannon—“Not for me, they might take me for a loafer.” Advertisements were as gay as the mortician in “The Life of Riley”:
The Western Casket Company
High Grade Funeral Furnishings Used by Bro. Lawrence of Notre Dame, Ind.
Perhaps the food has improved, after all!
It Sired Annals Since 1906
This is the way they said it in 1906: “A duty of loyalty incumbent on every student and alumnus is to dissipate the curious superstition that our Alma Mater is wealthy enough to develop unassisted. . . .”—Bill Pfaff
COTILLION BULLETIN
Need a date for the Cotillion? If you do, take yourself to Boom 274, Dillon HalL where a date bureau has been set up by Warner Stoll. Through arrangements made with the St. Mary's student council, date-man Stoll is prepared to meet all demands for dancing partners of all heights.
The dance committee announced tins week that all residents of Sorin, Walsh. Alumni, and Badin halls, except freshmen under 20 years of age, are eligible to attend the Cotillion.
9
Knoi^
Your NOTRE DAME
In gentle March the students will begin the initial stages of a mass migration to what was once known as the Gold Coast on the far southwestern frontier of the campus. The privileged estate, the Sophomores, will occupy Lyons Hall of the graceful arch. In September, Howard and Morrissey will welcome civilian scholars again.
Built in 1925, Howard Hall is the oldest of the group. Faced with a rapidly increasing enrollment, the University which formerly shunted its overflow into two temporary halls which stood approximately where Breen-Phillips is now and which were originally built to house the ROTC of World War I, found them inadequate. So in 1924 ground was broken for a new residence hall designed by Messrs. Francis Kervick and Vincent Fagan in a modest adaptation of Gothic. The building was named in honor of Professor Timothy Howard.
Timothy Howard received his degree of Bachelor of Arts and Letters in 1862. Without waiting for the formal commencement, he joined the Union forces, and was wounded on April 6, 1862. He returned to Notre Dame to study law and eventually to become a professor. The State of Indiana made him Chief Justice of its Supreme Court. He was twice honored by Notre Dame: in 1893 he received an honorary Doctor of Laws and in 1898 the much coveted Laetare Medal. He died in 1916.
The housing situation was still perilous and Notre Dame found it imperative to embark upon further expansion. In September 1926, Morrissey Hall was finished and six months later Lyons stood ready and garnished to receive residents. The largest of the group, Morrissey Hall, distinguished for its centrally located lounge and the beautiful chapel with its unusual lancet windows and modified Spanish feeling, was named in honor of the Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s eighth president. Conscious of the crying necessity for an articulate Catholic Press, he expanded the department of Journalism and instituted what was then considered rather daring, the study of economics.
Lyons Hall was finished in 1927. Its completion lessened the housing shortage by some 200 students. Lyons is famous for its arch through which one gets a beautiful glimpse of the lake beyond and its chapel which in structural texture and ornament suggests the austere beauty of the Christian catacombs. It was named for Professor Joseph Lyons, class of ’62. In 1867 he was the guiding force behind the preparation of the history of the University for the silver jubilee. For years the Gold Coast stood as the undisputed fashionable haven for the elite among the students. But then one day in 1931 the earth trembled beneath a spade, and the Platinum Coast of Dillon and Alumni was begun. But of these at their proper time and proper place next week.
—Paul Abraham, Gerard Hekker
The Toledo Club
Officers of the Toledo Club of Notre Dame, newly elected in the new year, held their first meeting this week to decide a program of activities for the coming months. The Club is proud of its membership of thirty and happy in the choice of officers, Thomas Francis, of Alumni Hall, president; Joseph Resting, N.R.O., of Morrissey Hall, vice president; and John Celusta, of Dillon Hall, secretary.
During the Christmas holidays the members of the Toledo Club had the pleasure of meeting with the members of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo at a luncheon sponsored by the Toledo alumni and held at the Elks’ Club of Toledo in Toledo, Wednesday, Decembei- 26.
The Club officers plan activities not only for the months of the school calendar but also for the vacation periods. The Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., will act as moderator for the Toledo Club.
Shilts Attends Meet
Prof. W. L. Shilts represented Notre Dame at the annual convention of the American Society of Civil Engineers in New York City last week.
Fr. Baldwin Delivers
Talk on Atomic Energy
The subject of Atomic Energy was discussed on Friday night, Jan. 18, by Rev. G. J. Baldwin, C.S.C., a member of the Physics Department. He spoke in the auditorium of Tri-State College at Angola, Ind., to several hundred students and townspeople assembled at the invitation of the Enginering Club of the school. Father Baldwin reviewed the history of Nuclear Physics prior to the outbreak of World War II and then explained the phenomenon of Uranium fission. After recalling the pertinent facts in the development and use of the atomic bomb, he discussed the possible future use of atomic energy in industry. The interest of the audience in the subject was shown by the fact that the general discussion which followed the lecture had to be terminated by the president of the club after it had lasted for nearly an hour.
The particular problems connected with both large and small scale use of atomic energy came up for discussion as well as the question of possible sources of energy in the more abundant elements of nature. The probable future trend in Nuclear Physics, as higher energy particles are obtained from the more powerful “atom smashers,” was investigated by the speaker in his concluding remarks.
Band For Navy
Ball Unannounced
At the time The Scholastic went to press, Paul Doyle, general chairman of the forthcoming tenth naval ball, stated that as yet a band for the ball had not been secured. For the past two or more weeks the band committee has been nervously awaiting a definite statement from the Coca-Cola Co., who had intended to furnish a spotlight band for the occasion and a broadcast over a national hook-up. However, trouble reared its head when a “name” band could not be found. Frequent telephone calls were made to New York, but still a “name” band was not to be found with an open date for February 1, the date of the ball. A few days ago the Coca-Cola Co. definitely announced that they would be unable to provide the spotlight band as they had originally planned.
The “band hunt” has started in earnest now, and the question is “Where, Oh Where Can My Little Band Be.” The band committee has written to the Music Corp, of America which acts as an agent for many large bands, and it is hoped that a band may be secured through them.
10
N. D. Students Dirty 67,850 Pieces of Laundry per Week
By JACK FITZGERALD
Of all the men on the campus few have a more difficult job or receive less recognition than the manager of the Notre Dame laundry, Mr. Gerald Hoar. Directing the operation of the laundry services for the nation’s largest boarding school is a task requiring a great deal of energy and responsibility.
According to Mr. Hoar, who has been manager of St. Michael’s laundry since 1936, a laundry department has been in existence at Notre Dame as long as anyone can remember, but the present building was not constructed until 1934. The volume of the laundry’s output increased steadily until a peak was reached in 1943. Then, the large number of military enrollees at the University made a second eight-hour shift necessary to fulfill all needs. Another addition was added to the main plant and is still being used.
At present the laundry serves the 2950 regular students and the religious community as well. Though no actual statistics are available, Mr. Hoar estimates that the average requirements are 23 pieces per person (that totals 67,850 pieces) in addition to sheets and pillow cases. One hundred ten persons working eight hours a day are required to staff the local plant and the dry-cleaning department. We can begin to see why St. Michael’s is the largest institutional laundry in the United States.
Mr. Hoax’ is himself a graduate of Notre Dame. He entered the University in 1917 and, aftex- a brief stint in the army as a second lieutenant stationed at Cincinnati, graduated with the class of ’21. But to Mr. Hoax- the most memorable part of his foux- years is the time in which he served as secretary to the famed and loved football coach of the Irish, Knute Rockne.
He was the first and last secretary the Rock ever had because according to Mr. Hoar, “He was too disgusted ever to hire another.” During the years that they worked together, the two became very close friends, and Mx*. Hoax- can recount scores of incidents surrounding the colorful Rockne and those early days at Notre Dame.
Particularly cleax- in his memory is the attempt of Rockne and his youthful assistant to fostex- bettex- relations between Notre Dame and the residents of South Bend. Working together, the two drew up what they thought was a masterpiece of a circular letter meant to be
sent to 5000 of the city’s prominent families. Then, greatly overestimating the capabilities of his young typist, Rockne set Mr. Hoax- to work early one morning to make 4999 duplicates of the lettex-!
Returning several hours later, Rockne found that his young secretary had finished slightly more than one paragraph of one letter. With a snox-t of angex-about the ‘worst typist he had ever-seen,’ the Rock again depax-ted. Latex-that afternoon at football practice he was astonished to find his assistant working out with the freshman squad.
“Jerry,” questioned Rockne angrily, “What about the letter?”
“Well,” replied Mr. Hoar, “at the rate I was going, I figured that I would have them all typed about the time I was ready to step on the stage of Washington Hall fox- graduation.”
Rockne had the letters mimeographed.
Mr. Hoax- describes the Rock as a superb psychologist who knew thoroughly the people with whom he worked. He was a hard worker, but always big-hearted and completely faix- -with his boys. Mr. Hoar, who earned three track monograms undex- Rockne’s tutelage, recalls days of practicing in driving rains ox- when horses were used to plow the snow off the cindex- paths. A little bad weathex- was no deterrent to the Rock. He had great respect fox- enthusiasm and lived by the creed, “Nothing in this world was evex- accomplished without enthusiasm.”
Othex- stories of the Rockne who crushed his hat down ovex- his ears and madly chewed his cigar- when angry— of the time when a $750 football gate was considered a smashing success, of the famed George Gipp—come easily, to Mr. Hoar’s memory. To speak with him is to relive that much' loved ‘golden age’ of Notre Dame.
Important K. of C.
Meeting on Tuesday
Complete War Memorial Services will be conducted for deceased members by the Knights of Columbus at their next meeting scheduled for Tuesday, Jan. 29, in the council chambers of Walsh Hall. At that time further announcement will be made concerning future initiations fox- candidates to the first degree and fox- the conferring of the second and third degrees. Plans for the K. of C. vaudeville show with prizes of 25, 15, and 10 dollars will also be discussed, and consideration will be given to the program for expanded membership.
This regular meeting will be an additional eulogy in commemoration of the council’s war dead and in accord with the general policy of the order which seeks to give official notice to the parting of fellow brothers.
One word—happiness—was the topic considered by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, vice-president of the University, in his address last Sunday, Jan. 20, to the members of Knights of Columbus on the occasion of their memorial’ Communion breakfast. Presiding at the breakfast was Grand Knight Robert Sullivan. Previous to the breakfast, the Rev. Francis J. Goodall, C.S.C., chaplain of the Notre Dame council, had celebrated a Memorial Mass in Sacred Heart Church. The purpose of this breakfast and of the Mass which preceded it was the commemoration of those fellow knights who gave their all in the war just past.
Forty-four ROTC’s To
Graduate on Feb. 27
Lieut. R. M. Williams from the Officers Distribution Division of the Bureau of Naval Personnel in Washington, D. C., interviewed members of the Febru-ax-y ROTC graduating class Monday. The interviews were for the purpose of assisting the individual trainee in his choice of duty after commissioning. The trainee lists three types of duties he would care to perform in the order of his preference. The type of duty to which he is assigned depends- largely upon the needs of the naval service at the time he is commissioned, coupled with the recommendations of the interviewing officer and his academic standing.
February 27 has been set as the tentative date for the graduation of the 22 ROTC first classmen and 22 V-12 engineering students. Men commissioned at this time will be assigned to active duty.
11
Powerful Kentuckians Meet N.D. Tomorrow;
Michigan State Plays Here Next Thursday*
By DAVE WARNER
For the next eight days the Notre Dame basketball squad will go Frank Buck in trying to tame a couple of ferocious wildcats who seek to sink their claws into the enviable record of the Irish. First of the beasts to be met is the Kentucky Wildcat with whom Ripley’s eagers entangle tomorrow night before a capacity turnout in the Louisrille Armory. Then on February 2 the Northwestern Wildcat will be the opponent in the Chicago Stadium before another sell-out crowd, which will include a vociferous, spirited detachment of the Notre Dame student body. Sandwiched between these two games is an unpredictable Michigan State Spartan who comes to the fieldhouse on January 31.
THE KENTUCKY STORY
The word is around that the Bluegrass Boys from down in the land of mint juleps, thoroughbreds, folk songs, and “Happy” Chandler are out to make trouble for Elmer Ripley and his highly touted basketbailers. And no doubt they have reason to, for in 10 meetings Kentucky has been able to win only twice from the Irish. All but two of the games have been close right down to the wire except in 1935 and 1936 when the Irish won 41-20 and 41-28. Last year in Louisrille the game was pressed into an overtime period before Notre Dame came off a 59-58 victor. This decisive edge over Kentucky is a real tribute to Notre Dame basketball, because in the last 16 years the Wildcats have been ranked as one of the consistently best hardwood aggregations in the nation. Much of the success is due to the adept coaching of jittery, colorful Adolph Rupp, the Baron of Kentucky basketball, who in 1944 became the 10th coach to be elected to the basketball hall of fame. Rupp can always be relied upon to produce hard-driving, sharp-shooting, smartly coached teams. The nucleus of his 1944-45 club, which won 22 and lost 4, are back again this season—Jack Tingle, Jack Parkinson, and. Wilbur Schu. Tingle operating at forward and Parkinson at guard provided the one-two scoring punch for the Wildcats’ successful season last year-Two newcomers in the starting line-up are rangy center Wallace (Wah-Wah) Jones and gum-chewing guard Ralph Beard who can score by the hatful, too. Advance publicity from the University of Kentucky calls Jones the greatest player in the history of American high school basketballby virtue of his 2,398
12
Captain Billy Hassett breaks in for a set-up against Great Lakes
points in four years at Harlan, Ky., high school. Beard a 5 ft. 10 in. “break away” player who specializes in stealing the ball, is the Kentucky counterpart of Johnny Dee. Notre Dame will be giving height away in this one as they have been doing all season. The boys from Lexington average 6 ft. 2 in. as compared with Notre Dame’s 5 ft. 11% in.
Kentucky’s record for the season is 10 wins against one loss; it won seven straight before Temple interrupted the streak in Philadelphia, 53-45.
SPARTANS COMING HERE '
Coach Ben F. Van Alstyen’s Michigan State Spartans resume one of the oldest rivalries in Irish basketball history when they appear here Thursday night for the first of a home - and - home game series. Notre Dame and Michigan State first met way back in 1908 and have since played 55 games, the Irish winning 38 of the total. They last met
in the 1943-44 season when Notre Dame won both encounters. The East Lansing outfit is about as unpredictable a team as there is this season. Of 10 games they have won five. One night they will lose to their arch-rival, Michigan, and two weeks later they will beat the Wolverines decisively. They lose to Great Lakes in an overtime period and turn around and knock off a good Minnesota quintet in an overtime period. Outstanding among their antics is the pinning of a 76-48 shellacking on Syracuse.
Probable starters for the Spartans when they take the floor here will be the “iron man” forward and letterman, Sam Fortino, voted the best college basketball player in the state of Michigan last year. Teaming with Fortino at forward will be “Robbie” Roberts, dependable team player and spark plug. Playing center will be husky, aggressive Matt Mazza from Niagara Falls, N. Y. At the back station are Don Waldron, a first year man, and set shot artist “Ollie” White. Tip-off will be at 8 o’clock.
Trackmen to Make Trip to New York
Coach “Doc” Handy’s Notre Dame tracksters will hold their second indoor intra-squad meet Sunday afternoon at 2:30 in the fieldhouse. In last Sunday’s trials Frosh Bill Fleming copped three firsts, winning the high jump and both hurdle races, for the outstanding individual performance of the day. Jack Painter, high jumper and broad jumper, from Long Beach, Calif., did not compete because of an injury. The California boy is an outstanding prospect in both events, and will participate Sunday.
Coach Handy announced earlier this i week that Billy Leonard, Irish distance i star, and the mile relay team composed ' of foui* of the following five men—Ray !: Sabota, Fred Jones, Don Jost, Bob Shir- ! mer, and Bob Purcell—will go to New York City on Feb. 2 to compete in the Millrose Games. Leonard will run in the notable Wanamaker mile, which brings some of the top-notch milers in the country together and is always one of the highlighting events on the day’s program.
The results of last Sunday’s meet are as follows:	.
Two Mile: Murphy, Kelly '
One Mile: Leonard, Tully, Torrence < 880 yard run: Tully, Sabota, Paradise
and Wagner (tied for third)
440 yard run: Sabota, Jones, Kenny, Jost, Purcell
Sprinters: Thompson, Scarpelli, McCullough, Bergthold, Hampilos	<
Pole Vault: Struble, Pogue, Greenway
Irish Run Victory String to Eleven
N. D. 69, Marquette 67
The Fighting Irish slid through to their 11th successive victory of the season in the fieldhouse, January 22, with an exciting but not spectacular 69-67 decision over a red hot quintet from Marquette. A capacity crowd watched the two teams go through a relatively quiet first half and then explode in the second period to score baskets with whirlwind rapidity. Leo Klier and Vince Boryla led the Irish attack with 22 and 21 points, respectively. Ken Weisnei- and Howard Kallenberger hit 20 and 19 to lead the Hilltoppers.
The game started slowly with Meyers sending Marquette off at 1-0 on a free throw. Bill Hassett drove in for two, Johnny Dee scored on a flip shot, Klier hit a free toss, and Hassett came back with one of his patented long shots to send the Irish ahead, 7-1. Weisner and Dee traded goals and Marquette pulled up at 9-8 on tip ins by Palesse and Kallenberger. After another free throw by Klier, Weisner hit on a short shot to
Interhall Volleyball
A fifth team has entered the volleyball league, it was announced this week, and therefore the schedule will be only two rounds. The fifth combine is from Zahm Hall which gives this hall two squads. The original team is known as Zahm Green while the fifth team to enter is called Zahm Gold.
Breen-Phillips took an early lead in this league with two straight wins, defeating Dillon and Zahm Gold. Walsh won the only game that it had played when this issue went to press and that was against Zahm Green. In the only other game to date Zahm Green defeated Dillon to take over temporary possession of third place.
The schedule for games during the past week was: Wednesday, Dillon vs. Walsh; Zahm Gold vs. Zahm Green; Thursday, Dillon vs. Zahm Gold; Walsh vs. Breen-Phillips.
High Jump: Fleming, Hanifin and Martin (tied for second)
Broad Jump: Duarte, Scarpelli, and Cyganek
Shotput: Simmons, Smith, Scott
Low Hurdles: Fleming, O’Neil, Lott
High Hurdles: Fleming, O’Neil
tie the count. The lead see-sawed back and foi-th until Klier made a sensational one hander to give the Irish a 17-16 lead. Klier and Vince Boryla then displayed some fine teamwork in leading Notre Dame to a 33-26 halftime margin.
Marquette started fast in the second half as Kallenberger tipped in two points and Rosendahl hit on a long one hander. Weisner scored between free throws by George Ratterman and Hassett. Boryla hit on a pivot shot to keep the Irish in front, 37-32. Then came the first of several explosions. Weisner drove in on a short one to counter for Marquette, Klier talied on a long, Weisner came back for two more, and Boryla hit another pivot toss, all within a few seconds. This gave Notre Dame a 41-36 edge. Palesse hit a charity throw, Weisner tipped in a bucket, and Palesse scored on a nice one hander from the circle to tie the score at 41-41. Klier hit a free throw and a one hand overhead shot to regain the lead.
Notre Dame never trailed after regaining that lead but not for a moment were they in a safe status. After Boryla and Klier scored in succession to make it 50-45; Palesse fouled out for Mar
Heroes and Guards of Honor
quette. Hassett scored a free throw'on the foul. Weisner was good for one more basket before he, too, went out via the foul route with the Irish leading 55-50. The loss of these two men hampered the Hilltoppers considerably but still, they hung on to the end.
Hassett hit on two long ones at critical moments to maintain the N.D. lead which remained at five points after Boryla scored a free throw to run the scoreboard to a 68-63 tabulation. Eng-bring raced in with a one hander for Marquette. Boryla hit a free throw as the Hilltoppers rushed desperately to gain possession of the ball in the waning moments of the game. This made it 69-65. Engbring broke loose again to score the final points of the evening. The Irish led 69-67 and stalled until the gun sounded.
Marquette had the hottest night of their current season and it would have been a tough team for anyone to defeat. Once again it was a case of Notre Dame stringing along with their opponents, keeping just one step ahead of them. That’s a good system as long as someone doesn’t trip.
13
Splinters from the Press Box
By PAUL WEYRAUCH
THEY HAVE TO DO IT THE HARD WAY
There is a popular song currently on the market in which the blonde bombshell, Betty Hutton, knocks herself out singing about how she has to “do everything the hard way.” Well, it seems that our currently undefeated Irish bombshell quintet has to do everything the hard way but as “Red” Skelton, another radio and cinema star might say, “they dood it.” The Associated Press has placed Notre Dame at the head of its basketball hit parade as the team has now run its victory string to ten straight prior to the Marquette clash. But despite their clean slate, the Irish have had to extend themselves on more than one occasion, coming from far behind to win ball games. DePaul had all but chased Notre Dame off their own floor in the first half of the game here January 5, only to have Ripley’s upstarts roar back to win the game. St. Louis University took a one point halftime lead in the game January 14 and hung on to the end only to lose by three points. Great Lakes had a 15 point lead during the first half of their encounter with the Irish in the Chicago Stadium January 18 but once again, the lead was short lived.
Can such victories tab a team as being the best or is it all attributable to luck? The non-Irish fans might call it the usual Notre Dame luck but any unbiased judge of the team would hardly be that blind. It seems quite logical that a team that can come from behind and win game after game without a blemish deserves more credit than one that ruthlessly tramples every foe. Too, when a team really has to work for those victories it is not likely to- become infested with the “can’t be beaten” conceit. Those high-flying ball teams that walk away from everyone seem to have a few bad nights along the way after which they usually lose much of their reputation. A Notre Dame defeat would not shock the sport world though it might create a mild uplifting of the brow. The Irish have not established themselves as an' invincible force but rather as a sound, hard-fighting, basketball team—the specie which does not lose often.
HELP, HELP! APOLOGY TO MBS AND BILL BRANDT
Last week the Splinters column went off on a tangent concerning the real All-
American football team of 1945, that named by a sportscaster for the Mutual Broadcasting system. The team consisted of returned war veterans who had taken their place again on the nation’s gridirons. However, credit for the team was given to one Phil Grant. Frankly, there may not even be a Phil Grant in existence, let alone such a person being a sports announcer for MBS. The man who named this real All-American team was Bill Brandt and for this inexcusable error, a sincere apology to MBS and Mr. Brandt.
MR. DUNKEL GOES TO TOWN
The basketball rating man, Dick Dunkel, awoke this past week to see the light of the nation’s college basketball scene. That is, he saw it a little better than in previous weeks. He has moved Notre Dame into the fourth ranking position in the country with Ohio State, Oklahoma Aggies, and Cornell ahead in that order, as of games played through January 14. Five of his top teams are Big Ten members—Illinois, Northwestern, Iowa, Minnesota, and Ohio State— while the Irish and Michigan State are in the select bracket representing the mid-West. Now Mr. Dunkel isn’t conceded to be the man in naming the best basketball teams in the country but he probably keeps closer watch over all teams than any other individual. If the Irish end the season as his number one team, it will have been a tougher uphill grind than the team itself will have made in winning any particular game.
KENTUCKY IS READY
Tomorrow night the Irish cage crew faces a major test in its 1945-46 season when they go to Louisville to meet the University of Kentucky five. The Wildcats tutored by the able Adolph Rupp, are always ready for the coming of the Notre Dame team and they will be primed for an all-out contest in the Louisville armory where a sellout crowd will watch the rivals tangle. Rupp is quite a character himself, judging from previous visits with the basketball-minded southern gentleman. He eats and sleeps basketball and is a smart coach. His boys like him and ol’ Adolph sure likes the boys. He should, for some of his players on the 1946 team have
been around the Lexington campus for some time. Jack Tingle, Wilbur Schu and Jack Parkinson are about as established in Kentucky as the Democratic party. The Wildcats go best under pressure so the game tomorrow night will be just the kind they like.
The Cats have always had good centers. Two years ago it was Brannum, an All-American selection. Incidentally, you may recall the scandal that broke out during a basketball tournament in New York at that time concerning some gamblers bribing a player in one of the final games. Rumors, and nothing but lousy rumors, in Kentucky, had it that Brannum was in on such a deal. In the championship game of that particular tournament he fouled out of the game early and was useless to his team as a scorer after being their top man in other games. However, that is beside the issue at hand. Last year Rupp came up with a prize catch in big Alex Groza but the boy was taken away in mid-season by the Army. Rupp then came through with the most famous high school cage star in Kentucky history when he landed Wallace Jones of Harlan for this year’s club. Jones was the talk of the state during his high school days. He compiled points over the 1,000 mark and led his team to the state championship in 1944. He has proven himself this year as a college player, becoming the regular center on this great Kentucky five.
RO BASKETBALL
The torrid pace, set during the first two weeks of the navy’s inter-company basketball tournament begins to show as companies two and three pull away from the rest of the field.
Company Two defeated a game opponent in Company Seven last week as Seifert’s Salt refused to believe a half-time score of 13 to 1 and held a taller team to 4 points in the second half.
Early that evening Company Three defeated Company Fjve by a score of 23 to 17 to make last Monday’s meeting between two and three the top game of the week. The results of this encounter were not available at press time.
Bob Lindsey and Marve Larson put Company Nine out of the running as they combined to score 18 and 12 points respectively, for Company Four which threatens to be the dark horse in the race. The two “dead eyes” allowed the rest of their team four points as they ran up a half time score of 17 to 1 and then coasted to a 34-20 win.
In the other meetings Company Six thoroughly defeated a team representing the navy band, and Company One managed to clinch last place by a forfeit to Company Eight.—Sam Smith
14
INTERHALL SPORTS
SWIMMING
With the outcome in doubt until the final event, Morrissey and Breen-Phillips battled to a tie in the swimming relay meet held Thursday in the Rockne Memorial pool. Both teams chalked up 44 points to nose out Lyons which finished third with 42 points. Members of both winning teams will be presented with gold medals.
Going into the final event, the 400-yard crawl, it seemed most probable that Lyons Hall would win. In order to win they had to finish at least third. They did finish far enough up in this race to capture the meet but the 400-yard crawl team was disqualified when one of the men failed to make the propel* touch at a turn. Morrissey had entered the last event with 32 points while Breen-Philips had 36. Morrissey won the event to score 12 points while Breen-Phillips came in third to account for eight.	'*
Lyons won the 200-yard crawl and 200-yard backstroke events while Morrissey finished on top in the 200-yard breast stroke and the crawl events. Breen-Phillips lone first was chalked up in the 150-yard medley. Morrissey racked up two seconds to one each for Lyons and B-P but Breen-Phillips accounted for two third places to Lyons one and none for Morrissey. Breen-Phillips scored one fourth. Disqualification in the first event when a man started before he was touched off cost Morrissey the undisputed title. The team finished second in this race but no points were scored since the team had been disqualified.
Scores of the meet: Morrissey 44; Breen-Phillips 44; Lyons 42; Zahm 24; and Cavanaugh 24. 200-yard crawl: Lyons, Breen-Phillips, Zahm, and Cavanaugh. Time: 1:48. 200-yard backstroke, Lyons, Morrissey, Cavanaugh, and Breen-Phillips. Time 2:39. 150-yard medley: Breen-Phillips, Morrissey, Lyons, Zahm, and Cavanaugh. Time 1:33.8 200-yard breast stroke, Morrissey, Lyons and Breen-Phillips. Time: 2:33.5. 400-yard crawl: Morrissey, Zahm, Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh. Time: 4:33.
The members of the winning relay teams were as follows: Lyons, 200 yd. crawl, T. McDonnell, Nichols, J. Schneider, Williams; 200-yd. backstroke: S. Stockwell, G. Schubert, T. McDonnell, J. Schneider. Breen-Phillips, 150-medley, L. Hayne, J. Prendergast, M. Menter;
Morrissey, 200-yd. breast stroke, C. Hall, J. Martin, T. Brownell, J. Bacon; 400yd. crawl, W. Adler, J.Fisher, H. Leflet, J. Martin.
The meet was run under the direction of Gil Burdick of the Physical Education department assisted by other members of the department. Burdick will also direct the open swimming meet which will be held Feb. 12.
OVERFLOW BASKETBALL
Eight teams still remain in the running for the Overflow basketball title. The league, which is being run on a double-elimination basis, has four teams still undefeated as of Tuesday morning and an additional four quintets ■with but one defeat. .
The undefeated teams are Off-Campus, Walsh Blue, Cavanaugh Gold, and St. Ed’s. The four once-beaten fives are Dillon Gold, Zahm, Alumni, and Cavanaugh Blue. Off-Campus was to play Walsh Blue on Tuesday night with Cavanaugh facing St. Ed’s. Two of the teams will then receive their first defeat and drop into the lower bracket. Dillon Gold was to play Zahm, and Alumni to tangle with Cavanaugh Blue on Wednesday. Two of these teams will then drop out since it will be then- second defeat.
A summary of the scores played since the last issue of the Scholastic: Cavanaugh Gold 44, Zahm 17; Walsh Blue 32, Alumni 25; Cavanaugh Blue 40, Walsh Gold 29; St. Ed’s 34, Cavanaugh Blue 32; Zahm 38, Dillon Blue 21; Alumni 41, Breen-Phillips Gold 33; Dillon Gold 48, Breen-Phillips Blue 18; Cavanaugh Gold 29, Walsh Gold 18; Off-Campus 17, Breen-Phillips Gold 16.
HANDBALL
Very few matches have as yet been played in the annual interhall handball tournament. Contestants appear to be delaying then- opening round matches. Results of games played to date: First round, Jim Martin defeated Jim Fitzgerald. Second round, Dick Smullen defeated Paul Porter; Waren Schultz defeated Richard Laux; Frank Parise defeated Jim Suehr; and Joe Yonto’ defeated Larry Raville.
BASKETBALL
Lyons interhall basketball team became the first to enter the playoffs for the Interhall League title when it finished its season undefeated in five starts.
Lyons had two close calls in its last three games but managed to win them all to capture the Western Division.
The outcome of the Eastern Division was in doubt as the Scholastic went to press. St. Edwards undefeated in four games was to play Breen-Phillips in a replay of a protested game. St. Ed’s lost the first game, 25 to 24, but their protest was upheld with the result that the game was ordered replayed. A win for the Saints will give them the Eastern title but a defeat will put them in a tie for the crown with Zahm Hall which has finished its season with five wins against one defeat. The only games unplayed in the league when this article, was written were the games of Wednesday night. Besides the St. Edward’s-Breen-Phillips encounter, the games included Walsh vs. Sorin in a traditional game, and Badin vs. Howard.
Lyons captured the Western title as it eliminated Morrissey, 37 to 35, and ran roughshod over Badin, 53 to 23. In the final game of the schedule Lyons had ’ difficulty in defeating a surprisingly strong Alumni quintet, 26 to 23. The scores of the other games in this division were: Dillon 41, Alumni 30; Morrissey 55, Howard 32; and Dillon 36, Morrissey 29.
St. Edward’s victory over Zahm Hall might be termed an upset but the Saints displayed fine all-around play in defeating Zahm, 44 to 32. The game was keenly contested throughout and it wasn’t until the last two minutes that the winners forged ahead by more than three baskets. Scores of other games in this division were: St. Edward’s 33, Cavanaugh 26; Zahm 29, Breen-Phillips 23; St. Edward’s 38, Sorin 19; Cavanaugh 26, Walsh 24; Cavanaugh 40, Breen- ' Phillips 38.
STANDINGS (as of Wednesday morning) Western Division
W. L. Pct.
Lyons 5	0	1.000
Dillon 3	2	.600
Morrissey 3	2	.600
Badin__________________________2	2	.500
Alumni_________________________1“	4	.200
Howard __________s________I____0	4	.000
Eastern Division
St. Edward's 4	0»	1.000
Zahm 4	1	.800
Sorin__________________________2	2	.500
Cavanaugh______________________2	3	.400
Breen-Phillips I_______________1*	3	.250
Walsh_________________:________0	4	.000
* Game won by Breen-Phillips over St. Edwards. 25 to 24. has been ordered replayed when St. Edward’s protest was upheld.
15
INTRODUCING...
By John Gunther
The brilliant floor play of forward John Dee, Chicago, has been a very important factor in several of Notre Dame’s close wins. John is 22 years of age, stands five feet nine inches, and tips the scales at 160 pounds. What John may lack in inches, he makes up in speed.
John is one of the most outstanding athletes ever to have attended Loyola Academy. While in attendance there he earned seven monograms—two each in football and track, and three in- basketball. This speedy Irishman was"awarded a berth on the all-city five two years in a row. Following his graduation in the spring of 1942, he entered the Coast Guard and remained in that branch of the armed forces for almost two years.
In the summer of 1944 John received a medical discharge, and the following September he enrolled at Notre Dame. He went out for football, and was soon on the varsity. When Notre Dame took the field against Georgia Tech that fall, John Dee experienced his greatest sports thrill. He, as a freshamn, was starting the game at quarterback. He played an excellent game that afternoon as N.D. came back from the Army and Navy defeats to plow under Tech.
At the close of the ’44 football season John turned in his pads and checked out basketball equipment. By the opening of the season he was a regular member of the starting team. He is not only a defensive ace, but often stars as an offensive player. This is only his second year
JOHN DEE
George "Snake" Ratterman, in perfect form, takes ball off Great Lakes backboard.
Tenth in a Row
N.D. 56. Great Lakes 54
The unconquered Notre Dame quintet came roaring into last week as the No. 1 team in the Associated Press nationwide basketball poll and definitely the team to beat, but the Irish had to make a big pile of hay fast in Chicago Stadium Friday night to cop their 10th win and sweep the 1945 series from Great Lakes with a 56-54 triumph.
A capacity crowd of 19,000 was on hand to see Notre Dame fall behind 15 points after 10 minutes of play, go off the court with a 30-23 deficit at halftime, and then come battling back to
of college ball, thus we may look forward to seeing him back on the court next winter.
John has a pair of favorite athletes— Joe DiMaggio and Don Hutson, and the movie stars he enjoys most are Bing Crosby and Bugs Bunny. He likes catsup better than any other food. Even though he is now working for a law degree, he never hopes to practice law. He wants the LL.B, for background, and some day he wants to be a coach. His campus home is on the first floor, of Sorin Hall, and his love life is built around Kappie, his girl back home.
finish with a whirlwind second stanza to put down a late Bluejacket rally and come out two points on top.
This was the first time in Jacket-Irish competition that one team has grabbed both games in a season. Notre Dame now holds a 6-4 margin in the World War II series.
From the start the Sailors were out to gain revenge for the 72-50 drubbing the Irish handed them the week before at Great Lakes, and all but doomed the Elmer Ripley charges to their first licking in the first period.
After Notre Dame evened it up soon after the second half got under way, Billy Hassett, Leo Klier, and Johnny Dee hit from way out to put N.D. in front 36-31, but Pro Mel Riebe’s spot passing and shooting sparked a Jacket rally, and the unabashed Sailors pulled up even at 37-37. Then George Ratterman and Vince Boryla paired to shove them back again, moving out in front, 43-37.
A few minutes latex- Notre Dame moved to a 47-39 lead, but Riebe scored from the floor to give Great Lakes a 5451 advantage after Sammy White, Tony Orlando, Grable and Sullivan had contributed’ six straight field goals and a free throw.
Then Boryla popped in his 11th two-
16
MARTY PETERS
Head Football and Basketball Coach St. Benedict's College. Atchison. Kansas
(Editor’s Note: This is the second in a series of articles devoted to former Notre Dame men ivho have distinguished themselves in collegiate coaching at colleges throughout the country.)
In March of 1937 Marty Peters went to St. Benedict’s College to take up his duties as head football and basketball coach, as well as the position of athletic director of the Benedictine institution in Atchison, Kansas. With the newly appointed sports head went his fellow Notre Dame grad, Don Elser, who was to assist him in the athletic field.
Coach Peters had been a standout performer for Notre Dame football and basketball teams, having played varsity ball in both sports and gaining All-American basketball recognition in his last year. He immediately stressed the value of intramural athletics for its part in the development of the character of those participating in it. Also he believed that it would give the students who were not good enough to make one of the teams a chance to divert his mind and body into useful occupation for the greater good, both morally and physically, of the one concerned.
Marty gained nationwide interest when he was voted by the Athletic Round Table of Spokane, Wash., to be the gloomiest mentor in football. “Moanin’ ” who had come to be labeled as the “Gloomy Sage of Football,” was awarded first prize, a cash sum of $100, which he sank into equipment for his charges. Peters was an easy victor when his letter to the judges diffused such an atmosphere of despair concerning his chances.
The Ravens, nevertheless, managed to win four tilts while losing three and tieing two. The basketball season of 1938 saw the new coach field a squad which took 14 out of 20 games. The following year" these men were victorious in four out of seven gridiron tussles and gained an even split in 18 hardwood engagements.
An important highlight of Peter’s career as S.B.C. coach came in the May
pointer, Hassett reclaimed the lead with a long one, and Boryla rounded out a solid 24 points with a charity toss to end the scoring.
Riebe took second scoring honors with 14, followed by Orlando with 11, and Leo Klier with nine. However, the Sailors’ tactics of covering the sharpshooting Klier with two men proved costly, frequently leaving Boryla free to shoot.
of 1938, when St. Benedict’s was granted admission to the Central Intercollegiate Conference, boosting the membership in that loop to six. Most of the teams had annual clashes with the Raven football and basketball outfits, so that the strength of the Benedictines was appreciated by the conference members and they looked upon St. Benedict’s as a likely addition to their group.
Marty Peters’ proteges copped five of their eight football games in their first season of conference competition and then took 11 out of 19 cage contests. The following gridiron season, that of 1940, saw the Raven aggregate capture their' first conference title, but the basketball campaign met with little success, as the Black and White gained only 7 victories out of 19 chances.
In May, 1941, Peters’ superb work in the Benedictine athletic program was recognized by his reappointment as head football and basketball coach at St. Benedict’s. His 1941 edition of gridsters won five out of eight encounters, and his hardwood patrollers won nine and lost the same number of games. Shortly after he joined the navy, and during his two years of navy duty was a coachplayer for the Olathe Naval Air Station Clippers and a physical education instructor overseas, where he was raised to the post of Lieutenant Commander.
During the five football and basketball seasons in which he directed the Raven squads after his succession to Larry “Moon” Mullins in 1937, he compiled a record of 24-Won; 14-Lost; and 4-Ties in football.
His basketball fives racked up 50 court kills compared to their 44 setbacks. Besides his work in producing winning Raven teams, he was responsible for the development of many Raven stars, including such stellar gridsters as Larry Deutsch, Irv Comp, Don O’Connor, Larry Visnic, and Leo Danaher, all of whom have received All-Conference or Little All-America honors in their playing under “Pete.”
Peters returned to St. Benedict’s this year after the second Raven game, and immediately took over where he left off when he donned navy blue. His squad has dropped six contests, but the green youngsters should develop rapidly under the skillful tutelage of Marty. Intercollegiate football competition will be resumed next fall, and Peters will be seeking his former excellence in producing successful Raven gridiron squads after a three-year layoff.
A FRIENDLY WORD TO GRADUATES ....
Have you considered
LIFE INSURANCE?
The Farmer's Life Insurance Co. of Des Moines, Iowa offers yon a special plan wherein you are given a year or more to pay the first year premium.
For full information address
R. A. Mitchell
P. O. Box 1072 South Bend, Indiana
127 W. Washington St.
‘In the J. M. S. Building” South Bend, Ind.
17
FLOWERS
for Your Valentine
Delivered or wired — to greet your Valentine—the perfect gift.
Feb. 14th is on THURSDAY
Order Early
★
Williams, The Florist
West of Oliver Hotel
Valentine
GREETING CARDS
at the
Bookstore
BADIN HALL
Dick (to his girl): Your teeth are like the stars—they come out at night.
OR—
There was an old man from Blackheath, Who sat on a pair of false teeth,
Said he with a start,
“Oh, Lord bless my heart, For I’ve bitten myself underneath.!”
❖
CAMPUS QUIPS
“I’m sorry I haven’t a dime,” said Al Schrader as he gave the busman a ten dollar bill.
“Don’t worry, Mac,” he- replied, politely, “you’re going to have ninety-nine of them in a couple of seconds.”
❖
Johnny Begley came up with this bit of poetic advice:
To render a lady depressed, Tell her she’s sensibly dressed.
❖
Dick Rosengarten: “At her request you gave up drinking, smoking, c^’ds, dancing and pool?”
Ed McNulty: “Correct.”
D. R.: “Then why don’t you go steady with her?”
E. M.: “After all this reforming, I decided I can do better.”
❖
And here’s Adam Fool—“You were expecting maybe Hughie Devore?”
Dear War Criminals:
Here I am and here I stay for six months. That makes it a long time before I feel some of that ol’ Carolina moonshine (oops, sorry — sunshine) again. In the wonderful 96 hour vacation I would barely get home, take a shot at our feudin’ enemies, the Sy McCarthy clan (how did SMC get into this letter anyway?), and head back. But as they say in Russia—be tres gay.
I was sitting in Diana’s last week when I heard a girl saying, “I don’t smoke, drink or neck.”
Being of a curious nature, I asked her what she did do. Back came the reply, “I „ tell lies.” I took her out last night and boy, she sure had lied.	'
And then we had registration. What an ordeal—last Friday morning, I bring my tent and camp in the hall by the Student Accounts office, and then I move in to fight “The Battle of the Window.” For an hour or more, I am mauled by
fyurtlt, . . .
By ED CASO and JOE PIEDMONT
sophomores-to-be of various and assorted shapes and sizes. Finally I shove my painted head and sloping shoulders into position. “How about a room?” I gasp. “Very well—” came the reply. “How about a nice quadruple? You’ll be hanging from the third nail in the fourth ceiling beam in the basement of Lyons.” “Good enough,” I reply as I stagger out.
It’s awfully uncomfortable up here holding a typewriter, so
'	Goodbye,
ADF
♦
Lines in tribute to Dobbin, who so nobly gave up his life to nourish Notre Dame students:	'
How shall I cut thee? Let me count the way.
I cut thee with the knife and fork and teeth
My mouth can count, when chewing out of reach
For the ends of Digestion and ideal meals
I cut thee to the edge of every day’s Most highest plate, by lunch and dinner time.
I cut thee roughly as we try for best;
I cut thee fiercely; as we turn in rage;
I cut thee ■with the fury put to use
In the old pork chops, and with my youthful force;
I cut thee with a hope that seems to fade
With my lost luck—I cut thee with the knives,
Forks, spoons of all the Halls—and if Ziggy choose,
I shall but cut thee harder in the spring.
—With apologies to E. B. Browning
♦
A young girl was taking a swim in a secluded lake. Suddenly she spotted a boy tying knots in her clothes. Swimming to the bank, she grabbed an old tub as a shield and advanced angrily on the youngster. “Young man,” she snapped, “do you know what I’m thinking?”
“Yup,” said the boy, “you think there’s a bottom in that tub.”
♦
“I Just swatted five flies—two males and three females.”
“How can you tell?”
“I got two on the card table and three on the mirror.”
18
Ik* SkiUekufk . . .
“Nevei- does a man know the force that is in him till some mighty affection or grief has humanized the soul.”
—Frederick Robertson
My Dear Friend,
We have read your letter over and over; and admired the talent displayed in it not a little. It is very spirited and satirical and altogether very clever. We have a small, exceedingly small, vein of satire ourselves. However, there is no need to conjecture whether it would serve to defend us in the present instance—you know well enough we dare not try. It was once reckoned generous, we believe, to “crush the haughty, but spare those who cannot resist,”—however we do not complain. This conflict of sarcasms can hardly gratify or punish any very noble feeling in either- you or us; and so we are content to have our vanity humbled, since you wish it so.
Upon the whole, my friend, this mode of writing to you pleases us yery ill. It also forms a most awkard prologue to the main purpose of our present column. In spite of the ridicule and humor which you cast on us, or rather in part because of it, we decided to share your charming letter with the public. May they gather the full impact of your charm.
My dear Sirs,
Your article on “Aristotle’s concept of woman” caused much comment here. It created quite a sensation and quite upset the girls. In fact, I should dare to say that you are the most well known and least liked man on the St. Mary’s campus.
But I shall have to disagree -with the girls, as I think Aristotle is very right on several things. He is right about woman being on a “lower step in the scale of development.” Time has proved that, with a few exceptions, of course.
Aristotle is also very definitely right when he compares woman to a slave and man to the master. A woman in love delights in feeling inferior to her lover. She glories in being his slave, in obeying his commands, in being brutally and masterfully subjected to his passions and wants. She truly is “passive clay waiting to be formed.” I am not speaking from experience, for I am not yet a woman, and I have never been in love. Perhaps I have too vivid an imagination.
But, on the other hand, a man in love often allows himself to be mastered.
Then, too, if a man is so superior, is such a master, why does he evei- succumb to the charms of woman? They say it happens every day. Also, when a man once falls into a woman’s trap, and marries her, he, too, takes certain vows “to love, honor, and obey.” Surely he must realize what he is doing! Really, you ought to try quoting the Bible aiid Marriage Nuptials instead of Aristotle. The Bible is still the most widely read book in the world, or do you plan to change that in your future atheistic world?
I enjoy your column very much—it's good along with the bad. It certainly affords much food for thought, which is more than youi- trite, rival column does.
When Aristotle said woman was “passive clay waiting to be formed,” he should have added “wanting” also. I’m afraid I’m being too candid for my sex.
Sincerely yours, Another Fan
P.S. An after-thought—Would Schopenhauer approve of my letter?
19
LOVE
fyee*, Ratuteto
By JACK STEWART
OUTDOOR LIFE, OR
The Campfire Girls Go to College
The female commandos across the way did a job on Ed “Dodg’em” Fisher as he tried to hedge-hop a hedge which he didn’t quite hop. He must have been quite excited because we have seen him dodge swinging doors, buses, and pedestrians with the greatest of ease. Pity the two poor horses that had to haul the teeming mob that piled on the insufficient wagon. It was evident that St. Mary’s isn’t accustomed to a full house of N.D. lads with their dearth of receptionists. Not that the fellows minded having to wait an hour or so for the Tarzanas, but after all there should have been better organization. The fellows had a good time though, since it was free.
♦
FOR THE FIRST TIME
Four years at Notre Dame and never once had this determined man of character falter and trudge over to —. Well, finally under duress and threat, he fell. His debut was made, and so was St. Mary’s. Nick Comessa, handcuffed to “Pep” Panelli, made his entrance as the words, “All of a sudden my heart sings,” filled the air. Nick says he likes it. “Why, Nick, why?”
♦
WE HAVE ONE TOO
Broadway and Hollywood may have their Georgie Jessels but Notre Dame has Jim Brisbois. Everyone knows Jim, the fellow with the green trunks who lives in the solarium so he can throw some light on the subject. Latest reports have it that Jim is the constant throb of a potential Hi-Spot member. She’s a freshie across the way.
MY FAVORITE MOVIE
Warren Fronrath’s favorite movie, “The Spirit of Notre Dame,” was screened again last Saturday. Things certainly have changed since then, especially in the dining hall. Fronrath wants to buy a few copies of the film to keep in his old days as mementos of his happy days here.
LOST
Bob Gorski’s appendix, and a Varga girl calendar. Last semester Bob had the same bad stomach as this which occa
20
sioned the removal of that rotten appendix, but was given 14 envelopes of pills, brown, white, pink, lavender, and aquamarine. The Varga girl calendar is another story.
♦
AWARD
Nobel Peace Prize goes to Jack Love.
*
AID TO EXAMS
Wonder if those Syco-Seed gadgets in the Huddle can answer questions in philosophy, physics, chemistry, math, and other snap courses. Anyone knows that regardless of their value, they could answer any question that would come up before the mercenary Commerce students.
At LOWER'S you'll find that SPECIAL Card
for that SPECIAL Person
128 NORTH MICHIGAN STREET
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
There is the Dick Nigashick-Collette Leahy combine, the Jack McCourt-Ann Brooks-Rip de Galan triangle, the Frank Kowolski-Sue Grace-Jack Galloway trio, and the Jerry Wayno-Jerry Wayno mutual admiration society.
INQUIRING STUDENTS
George Kennard may ask, “Have you sent Frank Snyder?” but Bill Jann’s sorrowful query is, “Have you seen Phyllis?” Jim Larrick keeps asking what time it is. Bill Carbine wants to know who has the Chicago Tribune. Jack “Duek” Tenge: “How much money do you have?” Bill Carey wonders what everyone got on the Philosophy of Literature test. Art Mosher tries to find a synonym for any three letter word; Rudy Lopez asks, “What’s your name, Baby Doll?” Rudy has another question that is known from South Bend to Chi-gago, to El Paso, “Why did you slap me?”
Oui: Madame Bovary.
Du Pont Digest
Items of interest in the fields of Chemistry, Engineering, Physics, end Biology
"Easy Does It”
with Explosive Rivets
Riveting becomes a simple matter of touch-and-go when the rivets used on a job are Du Pont Explosive Rivets. They’re so easy to use, in fact, that a single operator can fire them at the rate of 15 to 20 a minute. ,
The secret of the explosive rivet is the small charge within the shank. Once the rivet is in place, an electrically heated riveting iron is applied to the head. This fires the charge. Instantly the entire rivet shank expands to fill the drilled hole, and the large, barrel-shaped head which is formed on the blind end of the rivet locks it there to stay.
Explosive rivets are ideal for highspeed blind riveting, and for riveting in hard-to-get-at places. Since in many instances they permit simplification of design and more economical production, they have many uses in the automotive, refrigeration, and other fields.
Behind the rivet—research
In itself, the explosive rivet appears to be a small and insignificant object. Certainly its size does not reflect the effort and research needed to bring it to its present state of effectiveness.
Yet selection of the proper metals for the rivet required prolonged study by DuPont metallurgists. Determining the types and mixtures of powder was an assignmentforDuPontexplosiveschem-ists. Design of the riveting iron called for the skill of Du Pont electrical engineers. In addition, electronic and mechanical engineers were consulted frequently before the problem was at last solved.
The manufacture and the continuous search for improvement of this rivet are representative of what men of Du Pont, working together, are doing to help American industry to better and faster construction methods.
• • •
Nylon Paintbrush Bristles Synthesized by Du Pont Men
The razor-backed, long-legged swine of the Orient are breathing easier these days, for Du Pont engineers and chem-
ists have developed a paintbrush bristle of tapered nylon that lasts from three to five times longer than the best bristle a pig can offer.
Du Pont men have long known how to spin a level filament of rough, resilient nylon, but a tapered filament was something else. All kinds of ingenious spinning devices were tried and discarded before a taper was achieved by pulling a continuous nylon filament from a special spinneret at a controlled variable speed—thick diameters resulting at slow speeds and thin diameters at fast speeds. >
The painter who uses a brush with tapered nylon bristles may never think of it in terms of research. But the problem of obtaining a highly oriented, accurately dimensioned bristle required years of painstaking investigation by mechanical and chemical engineers.
• • •
Rain- and Stain-proof Clothes
Many modem laundries and dry cleaners are now prepared to make almost any garment shower- and stain-resistant by treating it with "Aridex” water repellent, a chemical developed by Du Pont. Practically any "spillage” except grease can be wiped off the protected fabric with a damp cloth.
Questions College Men Ask About Working With Du Pont
“WHERE WOULD MY JOB Bl?”
Openings for college graduates may exist in any one of the 37 Du Pont research laboratory centers—chemical, biological, metallurgical, engineering, or physical. Men interested in production or sales may find their opportunity in one of the DuPont plants or offices in 29 states. Every effort is made to place men in positions for which they are best suited, in the section of the country which they prefer.
res.u.s.pat.ofe
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMfSTRT
More facts about Du Pont—Listen to “Cavalcade of America,” Mondays, 8 PM EST, on NBC
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS * CO. (Nt) WILMINGTON 99, MUMIM
21
SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY
Last week your reporter decided he needed a rest and journeyed down to the hospital at Great Lakes for a few days. En route, our local “Toonerville Trolley,” the South Shore, didn’t pay the slightest heed to the time element—as a matter of fact, the train was so late getting into Chicago that it arrived a half hour after its shadow. Ah yes, Chicago! A tourist seeing the Windy City for the first time holds his breath when he sees the great metropolis. Then he sees the stockyards and holds his nose.
The remainder of the trip came off without further mishap. While wandering around looking for the psych ward, we overheard a nurse talking to a convalescent marine, “Today you may have some solid food, Casey.” The gyrene ate two spoonsful of arrow root pudding and said, “Gee that’s swell, nurse. Now how about bringing me a postage stamp? I’d like to do a little light reading.”
❖
THE NAVAL BALL ...
More hot dope on the Ball—Pete Gay-dos tells us that he and his committee have been hard at work, and the decorations, which will be strictly out of this world, will employ a Naval theme throughout. The highlight of the decoraitons will be a replica of a carrier superstructure extending the length of the ballroom floor.
Although the plans for the Spotlight Bands program and a name band have not materialized, this should not have much effect on the success of our week end maneuvers. Those familiar with our Naval Balls of past semesters know that a good time will be had by all, regardless of whether Harlan Hogan or T.D. is up on the bandstand come 9 o’clock next Friday evening.
♦
FROM VERSE TO VERSE ...
We don’t know the exact origin of this ditty but it sounds like some of Ogden Nash’s foolishment:
There was a young maiden—a Sioux— As tempting as any home Brioux.
She displayed her cute knees
As she strolled past tepees,
Gtou/l Neti
And the braves all hollered, “Wioux!
Wioux!”
A BEDTIME STORY ...
• “Hey fish face, did you open the window before we hit the sack?” '
“Yeah.”
“I don’t believe it.”
“Well, if you think I’m a liar, get up and open the darned thing yourself!”
PRODIGALITY . . .
Last week-end Bernie Lynch, in a burst of extravagance, went all out and hired a cab. When he saw the driver whiz right by the house where he wanted to get out, Bernie said, “Say, why don’t you stop here? What’s wrong?” The driver said, “I don’t know. My brakes don’t work.” Bernie, thinking of his virtually depleted bank roll, replied, “Well, for gosh sakes, at least stop the meter!”
❖
A CASE OF MISTAKEN IDENTITY
It happened in a history class—
The prof said, “You there, in the back of the class. Who was Sir Halford Mackinder?”
“I dunno.”
“Well, we’ll try another one. What was the date of the signing of the Magna Carta?”
“I dunno.”
“You don’t! I assigned this matter last Wednesday. What were you doing last night?”
“I was out drinking beer with some friends.”
“What! You have the audacity to stand there and tell me that? How do you ever expect to pass this course?”
“I don’t, bub. I just came in to fix the radiator.”	'
♦
ZOLTAN'S THESAURUS . . .
Bubble bath: There’s no place like foam.
Optimist: A husband who comes home, finds the place littered with cigar butts, and says to himself, “Gosh, I’m glad my wife has given up cigarettes.”
Geyser: A Japanese dancing girl.
Kiss: An operation, cunningly devised, fojr the mutual stoppage of speech at a moment when words are superfluous.
Waffle: A pancake with a non-skid tread.
22
WRANGLERS
The Notre Dame Wranglers, oldest and most distinguished forensic society on the campus, will hold membership interviews early in February. Students who are interested should apply by postcard to the Chairman, Wranglers Membership Committee, 413 Badin Hall. The deadline for application is Friday, Feb. 1.
General Typist
MRS. C. W. THOMAS
702 - 36th Street South Bend Phone 2-6790 for appointment
JEWELRY GIFTS
for All Occasions
Purchases Gift Wrapped Free of Charge
Leading Credit Jewelers BLOCK BROS. Corner Michigan and Washington
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-5661
702 J. M.S. BUILDING SOUTH BEND. IND.
•
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-12S4	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
•
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M.D.
TELEPHONE 3-426S
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.s.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S. PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-626 SHERLAND BLDG. . SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING PHONE 3-2574
CHICAGO CLUB
After five years of war-imposed inactivity, the Notre Dame Chicago Club is once more revived. Traditionally the Chicago Club has been one of the most successful and active clubs on the campus.
On Friday, March 1, the Windy City boys will present an informal dance in the Terrace Room of the Morrison Hotel in Chicago, from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m. Reservations for the affair may be had by contacting any of the following students: John Dee of Sorin Hall, Bill Dunne of Alumni Hall, and Ed Crowe and Dick Haggerty of Dillon Hall any time until February 25. Bids are five dollars a couple.
All students from Chicago and vicinity are invited to attend this party which will be the first post-war dance sponsored by the Chicago Club.
Cincinnati Club
The Cincinnati Club of Notre Dame reorganized just prior to the Christmas vacation, and after three meetings boasts 19 members. The purpose of the club is to join Cincinnati and surrounding territory residents in a bond of friendship, to sponsor activities for members while at Notre Dame, and to cooperate with the Alumni Club of Cincinnati in planning social events.
The club has planned a semi-formal dance between semesters on Saturday night, March 2 in the Hall of Mirrors of the Hotel Netherland Plaza.
Officers include Charles Heringer, president; Raymond Buchmens, vicepresident; Edward Mersman, treasurer; and Frank Johnson, secretary.
Other- members are Rohan Kelley, Peter Costello, George Ratterman, Harry Hatec, Harold Wittrick, Carol Hatec, Pat Fehring, George Bressler, Paul O’Connell, Carol Helmers, Jack Hoay, Robert Alfus, and Tom Jackson.
Detroit Club
Initial steps have been taken to reorganize the Detroit City club on the Notre Dame campus. An appeal is. hereby made for all students living in the Detroit area to contact Pat Nolan, Room 110 Walsh Hall, as soon as possible.
Further announcements will appear on bulletin boards.
Philadelphia Club
The Philadelphia City Club will meet in Room 1 of the Law Building at 7:15 o’clock Monday evening, President Ralph W. Hayman announced. Plans for an informal get-together in a down-town restaurant will be discussed at the meeting.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
. 212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Traditionally
The place where
Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt, courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
Campus Centenary Publications
"Notre Dame—100 Years'* *_$44)0
"Collected Poems of Charles
"L. O'Donnell, C.S.C.'*__$2J0
THE SET—$5.00 • PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame. Indiana
23