RASMUSSEN
MEN'S
SHOP
STUDENT TO STUDENT. At Rasmussen’s you always get friendly assistance from student clerks. Here Gerry Turek, Maplewood, New Jersey, gives Bill Donegan, West Belmar, New Jersey, a few tips on a light-weight nylon sweater. Come in today and get acquainted. We have a fine selection of summer slack in cool rayon ($7.95). Look over our sharp, swim suits— Botany’s in fancy patterns at $4.95 and Cooper Jockey’s at $3.95. See our cool, washable Manhattan, Van Heusen, and Manasco sport shirts ($4.95 up). For that Senior Ball, we have light-weight, white summer formal coats with shawl collars ($28.50).
for
“Campus Clothes”
TWO ENTRANCES: MAIN AND WASHINGTON
10 6 -10 8 MAIN
130-132 WASHINGTON
2
The Scholastic
Letters
Missal Mystery
Editor:
I have only arrived at Notre Dame but like everyone else I’ve developed a few gripes. One of them I was happy to see ended when Coach Leahy announced that football practice would be opened to the students. Now we’ll be able to feel that the team is our own, not some commercial department to raise funds for the University.
The only other thing (outside of the food) that has been bothering me is the fact that while we are constantly encouraged to use the missal and they are placed for our convenience in the Church and chapels we have no opportunity to learn the correct way to use them. It is very disconcerting to find yourself reading the Offertory prayers when the priest says the Gospel or vice versa. Since it is certainly important for us to learn the proper use of this book in assisting at the greatest prayer of all, the Mass, couldn’t someone who is familiar with the subject give a short lecture on it some evening? Or some other steps be taken to avail us of the chance to learn.
Paul I. Davis 303 Breen-Phillips
Father Craddick, prefect of religion, invites Reader Davis and anyone else who might have the same problem, to drop in at his room in Dillon Hall at any time for assistance on the proper use of the missal. Father Craddick also said that any priest on the campus would be glad to help in such a situation.—Editor
Letter From a Visitor
Father Craddick recently received the following letter from an admirer of our school:
Dear Notre Dame Students:
Last week-end I visited your campus for the second time. Of course, I was thrilled with the architectural beauty of its buildings, the natural loveliness of its landscape, and especially with the magnanimous feeling that the Blessed Virgin is a willing pioneer ■within your grounds. But first let me tell you of my other visit to Notre Dame.
I was a newly-graduated youth and going to college myself the following fall. I was not interested in your school so much for myself because I had received a scholarship to another. Besides mine was to be a’ convent school in Iowa. However, Notre Dame did
hold some fascination for this girl in the form of its student body. The real thrill for me was the stadium. I stood and marveled at its empty seats and well-groomed field. I loved football with the passion of a youth that was just waking up to realize life was full of heroes. Oh, what a day I had just drinking in the glories of Knute Bockne, the Four Horsemen and the future greats that would march down this very path that I was standing on so heedlessly. Yes, I was uplifted, like so many of your admirers, to the towering deeds that headlined the sports pages year after year.
My second visit filled me with much more admiration for your school, but in such a different way. You see this trip was part of a business trip that my husband had made with the family. Our two sons, aged three and five, were eager to heai' their daddy recount football thrills, but I wanted to shout to every student I saw that Our Lady was here. She was walking beside him. She was present in every corner of each individual building. She was the only Lady privileged to be at their bull-sessions.
As we knelt at the foot of the grotto
I asked Our Lady to let you boys realize now what an honor you have in living with her. I hope you don’t have to wait until you have left school to appreciate what a lull there is when Mary is not near. You can go to Mass every morning and receive the sacraments with no hardship entailed. On one building I noticed a sign reading "Holy Communion every morning until noon.” There in the very building some of you lived in dwelt Our Lord and His Lady. I would get up at the crack of dawn any day of the year if Our Lord were to come to our apartment house. I can’t even go to daily Mass, although St. Lawrence church is no more than a block from me.
You probably are thinking that this old fogey has become a little senile. Maybe I do sound a little like your Mom when she bids you good-by after one of your trips home. I guess all us mothers are alike in our respect for God’s Mother. But don’t take her lightly; enjoy Mary while she is your companion. I wish I had found her as mine when I visited Notre Dame just six years ago.
Mrs. I. E. Murphy
7137 S. Blackstone Ave., Chicago 19, Ill.
May 13, 1949
3
Rad
By BO CONNOR
There are some encouraging signs in the latest news from WND. Bob Nourie, the program director over there, tells us that the station plans to produce a couple of plays before the end of the year. It Ain’t Hay, last year’s popular musical, will be staged, and Dust of the Road, one of the highly successful one-act plays the University Theatre put on this semester, will likewise be aired.
If these two plays go over, we can expect a series of weekly one-act plays next year, Bob says. Everybody gains from such ventures: the listeners, the players, and the station. It looks like WND’s first big step toward independence as a station — one that doesn’t have to rely solely on records.
Bob also announced that two recent additions to the program schedule are helping to heighten this independence. The Tuesday 7:00 Campus News broadcast gives any student activity a chance to be announced campus wide in the least taxing manner to the club president. Secondly, WSBT has been giving
CHEER CONTEST
Want to win some cash? The Student Council aimounces that a cheer contest has been organized to replace some of ND's time-worn cheers. Each interested student is asked to submit three or four new cheers. They can be oddity cheers or the garden variety of fight, hello-team, welcome-strangers class. Please, no "Bolierskyvitch spell-it-out."
Cheers should be submitted to: Cheer Contest, Student Council Office, Notre Dame, Ind. Cash prizes will be awarded for the best cheers. The deadline on entries is Friday, May 20.
WND the latest ball scores and the announcers in the fieldhouse give them to the listeners as fast as they come in.
It looks like Father Cavanaugh’s nightly 10:15 Rosary broadcast will continue through the semester. Father said he would like to see the rest of the campus follow Sorin Hall’s example: the men in that hall have set up a radio in the chapel and respond to his prayers there.
“Requestfully Yours” is rolling along its popular path with the help of a steadily growing record collection. The station now has something like 400 records and 48 albums.
EUROPEAN TOURS
Here's an excellent opportunity for any student who wants to visit Europe this summer:
The National Association of Italian Schools is sponsoring a series of special tours to Italy in July and August. The 31-day tour, which includes round trip by plane, costs only $695 — this is less than it would cost you for regular airline fares. For $695 you get the complete 31-day tour. You can go for shorter or longer periods if you like.
Students desiring further information should contact Rev. Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C., at the Student Welfare office.
Please note: the address of the National Association of Italian Schools that appeared in the May 6 issue of SCHOLASTIC was wrong. Those who replied to this address should contact Father Kehoe for further details.
McGREGOR
R. V. D.
ARROW
LONG SLEEVE SPORT SHIRTS
at a low9 low price • • •
*3.95
McGregor, B.V.D. and Arrow long sleeve sport shirts tailored of cool, comfortable summer-weight washable gabardines, cottons or rayons in a wide choice of collar styles and colors . . . ranging from the popular new deep-tones to bold look pastels. All sizes ... so come in tomorrow and stock up!
THIS WEEK’S BROWSER WINNER: HUGUES J. de la VERGNE, 109 FARLEY HALL
The Scholastic
The Week
By Bob Vierhile
Gate 4, Section 10, Seat 22
I was stretched out rather blissfully on my Beautyrest inner-spring mattress last Sunday morning when I heard the news that this year’s graduation would take place in the stadium. I daresay that the idea of graduating from the football field had never occurred to me. Rather, I do not give a fig where I’m graduated from. It would be rather perturbing, however, if I were to wind up my four-year stint with a pigskin rather than a sheepskin.
Yes, the 105th University of Notre Dame commencement will have all of the flavor of a big football weekend. Rumor has it that Herb Jones is already being barraged with requests for 50-yard-line seats. Whether or not season ticket holders get preference has not been determined as yet.
Of course, there will be many opportunities for nostalgic reminiscences. Whenever one of my fellow seniors keels over from the hot sun, I shall rise in my seat and tender him a soul-shaking “HE’S A MAN!”
Advice to the Lovelorn Dep't.
Dorothy Dix, the syndicated columnist who tries to patch up household quarrels and threadbare hearts, dished out some potent advice to prospective brides last week. Said she:
“Choosing a husband is like buying a new dress. No woman can know in advance how her husband or her dress is going to stand everyday wear and tear, nor how soon she is going to get tired of either. The one and only sure thing about marriage is how big a supply of love you can bring to it. If you have enough of that, you will be blind to your husband’s imperfections and love his faults because they are his.”
Excellent advice, Miss Dix! Gentlemen, we suggest that you take your imperfections and your faults and plant them in Robertson’s basement the next time you’re downtown.
Apologies to Mr. Miller
There has been a great deal of whispering about the fact that the biggest joke in the Scholastic is the Scholastic itself. We shall try to fill the bellylaugh void by supplying what we con
sider the best printable jokes of the year. If you have heard some of them in a commerce college lecture, please bear with us:
A big-time Chicago gambler had just died. The funeral was well-attended by his professional friends. In eulogy, the speaker said, “Alphonse is not dead. He only sleeps.” From the rear came a voice: “I’ve got §100 that says he won’t wake up.”
“Is she a nice girl?”
“Moraless.”
Philip J. Snyder* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because Be Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
NO cock-of-the-walk was poor, sad, seedy Snyder when he found loose dandruff on his comb. Now that he’s a Wildrooter, he has something to crow about and so will you. Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you neat, well-groomed hair all day long without a trace of oil or grease. Makes it easy to keep that favorite chick in your coupe forever! It relieves annoying dryness and removes so much loose, ugly dandruff that you really have to scratch to find it! Peck on down to your favorite drug counter and bring back a hen full of non-alcoholic Wildroot Cream-Oil containing Lanolin. Always ask your barber for a professional application! And set on this thought —Wildroot Cream-Oil is again and again the choice of men who put good grooming first.
sk 350 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Wisdom—knowing what to do next.
Skill—knowing how to do it.
Virtue—not doing it.
Son: “Pop, what is the person called who brings you in contact with the spirit world?”
Pa: “A bartender, son.”
How to give a girl a surprise: Place arms around waist. Draw her strongly toward you and hold her tight. Start to kiss her. When she says “Stop!” release her. Note amazement on face.
PHOTO CREDITS
Photo on page 9 by Harlan: 10, Fitzgerald; 12, Gorman; 13, cartoon by Lenz; 14, Fitzgerald; 15, Harlan; 16, FersteL* 19, Munger; 21, Bumely; 24, Erickson: 26, action by Hipp; 31, cartoon by Lenz.
May 13, 1949
5
Entertainment
MAY 13	•
COLFAX (through May 18)—Knock On Any Door. Willard Motley’s bitter novel of the case history of a juvenile delinquent comes to the screen with Humphrey Bogart and John Derek in the starring roles. Its prejudiced slant against the law ruins whatever chance it might have had as an authentic piece of sociology. Nevertheless, it manages to overcome its intrinsic faults to become a better-than-average thriller.
PALACE (through May 14)—That Wonderful Urge and End of the River. Tyrone Power and Gene Tierney romp through the giddy feature. It’s all about a reporter and an heiress who fight tooth and nail throughout the proceedings, only to live up to the marquee out front in the fade-out, by falling into each other’s arms. Silly, trite, and vapid, but harmless.
GRANADA (through May 14)—Hamlet. Sir Laurence Olivier’s masterpiece which should not be missed.
DRILL HALL—Freshman Spring Tonic. The energetic frosh finally get their chance to shine. Dancing will be to the melodies of Tony Papa’s orchestra from 8:30 to midnight.
MAY 14
STADIUM — Old Timers Game. All signs will point toward the big red stadium for the annual Spring encounter between ND’s grad and undergrad greats. Coach Leahy’s lads of yesteryear and today will clash at 2:30 sharp.
WASHINGTON HALL—Silver River. Errol Flynn and Ann Sheridan chase each other around in a mediocre western.
MAY 15
PALACE (through May 18)—Best Years of Our Lives. One of the best post-war films makes a return visit to town at popular prices. Boasting a star-studded cast (Frederic March, Myrna Loy, Dana Andrews, Teresa Wright, etc.) and under the astute direction of William Wyler, the picture packs a mean wallop. For those who missed it before — see it; for those who did see it — a second visit won’t hurt.
GRANADA (through May 17)—Last Days of Pompeii and She. With a backlog of worthwhile pictures in storage, Hollywood pulls one of its reliably stupid tricks by foisting these two duds on the public. Neither is worth the time or the money.
STATE (through May 18)—Trade Winds and Foreign Correspondent. The former stars Joan Bennett and Frederic March and is an interesting adventure tale. The latter is an Alfred Hitchcock flicker, so it goes almost without saying that it’s tops. It came out in the early days of the war and subtly carried the message “Wake up, America,” besides being an extremely exciting melodrama. Joel McCrea and Laraine Day are the stars.
MAY 19
COLFAX (through May 25) — My Dream Is Yours. Here’s one of those light musicals whose purpose is pure entertainment. Jack Carson and up and coming Doris Day help to make it a tuneful and sometimes extremely witty technicolored frolic.
ORCHESTRA
at the
NAVY DRILL HALL May 20
Special 3:30 a. m. Permissions
Indiana Club May 27
Herb Germann’s Orchestra
BIDS: 09.00 tax inc.
Senior Ball
An Amazing Offer by
HOLIDAY
Pipe Mixture
The pipe that every smoker wants—DANA, the modern pipe, with brightly polished alumi^ num shank and genuine imported briar bowl;:
$m 12 HOLHUY mntrs Get your DANA PIPE
' Send to
KLHUT, Dot.CH, lictamf.Viniiii
Offer Limited to USA—Expires . L June 30.1949
5O<
with inside wrappers from 12 pocket tins of HOLIDAY PIPE MIXTURE
re tn Good Smokinq
6
The Scholastic
SCHOLASTIC
Vol..90 May 13, 1949 No. 26
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Editor ROBERT T. STOCK Associate Editors JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON KENNETH A. THOREN
VICTOR DORR _____________________News
JOSEPH DUKERT _________ Assistant News
W. GREGORY HALPIN _____________Features HARRY MONAHAN _________________Sports
RALPH H. WRIGHT Assistant Sports JOHN WALKER _______________Photography
WILLIAM GORMAN ______________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER Advertising ROBERT J. VIERHILE _________Advertising JOHN T. CLARK_______________Circulation
GEORGE M. KORHUMEL _________Circulation JOHN S. BRENNAN.____________Faculty Moderator
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre. Dame, Indiana.
COVER: One week from tonight 500 seniors and their guests will stroll into an unnautical Navy Drill Hall for their last big college social affair. Maybe, if the weather is
nice and the doors are open, an occasional couple will take an evening’s stroll around the lake. There’s something about moonlight on the dome and lake that can soften even the most cynical senior. For he re
alizes the palmy days of college are just about finished. (Photo by Wally Kunkle and Jim Ferstel.)

When gou doLUM&A
latest, Smartest Idea in Dance Music!
Complete Programs of Hits by the Bands That Made Them Famous—on a single IP Record!
Your all-time favorites—6 to 8 great full-length hits by each band on one LP Record that plays up to 25 minutes! And never such marvelous fidelity of tone on popular records! Only
S2.85 each. (Fed. tax incl.)
its hem! it*
JUST OUTI MORE TO COME—WATCH FOR THEM
HARRY JAMES • GENE KRUPA FRANKIE CARLE • DUKE ELLINGTON XAVIER CUGAT - BENNY GOODMAN LES BROWN • WOODY HERMAN
CLAUDE THORNHILL

Your Doafor has flbuM today!
Trade Marks "Columbia" and ® Reg. U. S. Pat. 09.
May 13, 1949
7
Nolte
SCHOLASTIC
Volume 90 - Number 26 MAY 13, 1949
Determined Voters Split All Tickets
Derby Campaigners Sweep Win and Place but Lose Show
FROM THE BALCONY RAIL
U. Theater Hits With 'Shadow and Substance'
After two pallid tries, the University Theater finally came through with a substantial success Wednesday night with its production of Paul Vincent Carroll’s drama, Shadow and Substance. Its last performance will be tonight at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
The basic plot involves a conflict between an ethereal Irish housemaid, . Brigid, and her worldly canon, Father Skerritt; a conflict between spiritualism and materialism; indeed, a conflict between shadow and substance.
The campus theater group was able to project each facet of the many-sided play with great skill. The many moments of rollicking humor, of heated drama, and of tender pathos were all well within the actors’ grasp.
Stephen Hauser, as the arch, supercilious Canon, and June Anderson, as the fragile Brigid, shared the acting
honors. Their performances were of such high calibre that the supporting cast was put at a definite disadvantage. Every member of the cast, however, contributed a Stirling characterization to the play’s fabric. Among the supporting players who were exceptionally good were Jack Powell, Jean Richard, Bill McShane, and Chuck Perrin.
Francis J. Hanley’s staging was expert throughout, although it did seem that he had overstressed some moments for their comic value. Also, a few of the characters’ idiosyncrasies were disconcerting and periodically jarred the general tone of the play.
But if Shadow and Substance is a harbinger of wrhat the University Theater is planning to present next year, then it leaves no doubts that it will achieve • the success and the wider audience it deserves.—Ken Thoren
Thornton, Kelley Win Top Senior Positions
Notre Dame’s class elections came to a sudden but quiet climax Tuesday afternoon as voters from all four corners of the campus flocked to the Dining HaH polls to name their leaders for the coming year. No straight tickets were elected, as the Premium Party upset That Certain Party’s apple cart, claiming two important posts on the senior slate. John “Sparky” Thornton was hailed as next year’s senior class president when the balloting was over. Verne Kelley, Jack Connor and Tom Farley were elected vice-president, secretary and treasurer respectively.
The juniors came through with a healthy vote and elected Ray Yanics as their class president for 1949-50. His Derby Party came the closest to making a clean sweep of the elections as Vice-President Mike Jacobs and Treasurer Dick McDonald were also voted in. Tom Carroll of the Four-for-You Party rode to a strong victory for the secretary post.
Another near-sweep of the ticket was made by next year’s sophomores. The New Deal Party’s Jim Garvin amassed a huge number of the total frosh vote to be named president without question. Vice-President Dick Clancy and Treasurer Sal Fiorella, also New Dealers, followed in Garvin’s lead. But the Stag Party’s William Dempsey outclassed all challengers for the secretary office.
Council Representatives
Senior class representatives-at-large to the Student Council for next year are Dick Cullen and Russ Shall, who emerged victorious among seven candidates. They will assume their offices next fall only after the present controversial Senate constitution has been approved once and for alL
A “representative” student turnout Tuesday brought more than a third of the campus to the polls to cast their votes.
(Continued on Page 12)
May 13, 1949
9
Engineering Confab Slated Here Saturday
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., will welcome over 300 members of the American Society for Engineering Education, Indiana-Illinois section, to the Notre Dame campus tomorrow for the twelfth annual meeting of the society. R. J. Schubmehl, assistant dean of the College of Engineering, will preside as chairman.
Harold S. Vance, president of the Studebaker corporation, will deliver the principal talk of the morning session on the topic “Industry Looks to College.” Guided tours of the University campus and a luncheon will follow. C. J. Freund, national president of the society, will speak on “Partnership With Industry” and another talk, entitled “Professional Registration of Engineers,” will be given by N. W. Dougherty, Dean of Engineering at the University of Tennessee.
The afternoon session will be devoted to several different topics. Individual groups ■will discuss “Visual Aids,” “Extending the Campus Boundaries,” “Cooperative Research Between Universities and Industry,” “The Humanistic-Social Aspect of Engineering Education,” and “Engineering Libraries.” A special party will visit a home in South Bend to view the installation of a new type heat pump (refrigerating and heating unit combined).
The meeting will end with a tea in the faculty dining hall of the University.
Three ND Authors Write For May Issue of 'Sign'
Three Notre Dame writers have contributed to the current issue of The Sign, national Catholic monthly. Mr. Richard Sullivan, professor of English and novelist, authored a short story for the publication. The two other articles were written by the Rev. John A. O’Brien, and grad student Dale Francis.
Mr. Sullivan’s humorous story, entitled “Birds of Peace,” treats of pigeons, a man and wife, and one “Uncle Steve.” Father O’Brien asks the question “What Convinces Converts?” and approaches the answer from the unusual angle of telling why a number of well-known contemporary converts decided to take the “big step.” Mr. Francis’ article concerns the Notre Dame bacteriology experiments, and tells of some of the achievements of LOBUND.
WORLD TRADE CONFERENCE — The Second Annual Foreign Trade Conference held last week in the College of Commerce brought upwards of 78 business men and educators from all parts of the United States to Notre Dame for a series of meetings and round table discussions concerning important phases of international trade. Here Professor James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, leads a panel talk on foreign marketing. Professor Wesley Bender of the Department of Marketing was chairman for this year's conference. George Quisenberry, vice-president of McGraw-Hill International was the principal speaker for the one-day session.
ND Student Replaces Sheedy in F-N Test
One of the most diabolical tests ever conceived by a hair oil company — the fabulous Wildroot Cream-Oil FingerNail Test — has claimed another victim. J. Paul Sheedy (see Scholastic, March 11), the much publicized, multi-visaged weekly testee has temporarily relinquished his nail tearing job to a fellowcitizen from Buffalo, Notre Dame student Philip J. Snyder of 350 Alumni Hall.
As is evident from the Wildroot advertisement, currently running in college magazines from coast to coast, Mr. Snyder flunked the test in his initial attempt. While another failure is predicted for next week, Philip J. promises to return to the pages of the Scholastic next Friday, where the test result will be listed according to custom.
Actually, Snyder is pinch-hitting for Sheedy for only a two-week period, after which J. Paul will return from a much-deserved vacation.
Phil Snyder’s appearance in the ad is the result of a bit of Alumni Hall joshing. Not too long ago, one of his hallmates jokingly referred to Phil as “bull.” The Snyder saga further un
folded as Phil decided to follow through with the gag and appear as a bull in the Wildroot ad. A long-time friend of the almost legendary Sheedy, Phil induced the many-guised J. Paul to place his name in an ad picturing a particularly menacing bull. Willing to oblige, Sheedy had Snyder’s name inserted in the currently running ad.
But the saga ends on a mournful note. Philip J. appears in this issue as a rooster — there was no bull available in the Wildroot file.—Jack Ward
Student Relief Drive Nets $22,817.20 for Schoolyear
The 1948-49 Student Relief Drive at Notre Dame netted $22,817.20, it was recently announced by Jack Dempsey, ND chairman for the campaign. Leading the list of money-makers, was the car award donation, which totaled $19,051.50 after expenses. The Mardi Gras carnival boosted the amount by $2933.96. And filling out the figure was the dollar-a-man drive, which netted $831.74.
The gross take-in for the drive, as previously announced in the Scholastic, was $31,359.29. The net figure, quoted above, was left after all expenses were paid. It constitutes Notre Dame’s contribution to the drive for the current schoolyear.
10
The Scholastic
Large Crowd Expected for Commencement; Authorities Switch Exercises to Stadium
In order to accommodate all family members and friends of graduating seniors, the 105th ND commencement exercises on June 5 will be held in the stadium.
The decision was reached after it was determined that no auditorium on the campus was large enough to accommodate all the members of the immediate families plus the friends of the more than 800 seniors slated to receive degrees. Both the Baccalaureate Mass and the commencement exercises will take place in the stadium.
In recent years the commencement exercises have been held in the University Drill Hall, and last June two separate commencement exercises were held to accommodate as many family members and friends as possible. It was foreseen this year, however, that even with the two exercises the drill hall facilities are inadequate. Only in case of inclement weather will the exercises be moved indoors to the Drill Hall.
John S. Burke, president of the B. Altman and Company department store in New York City, will deliver the commencement address. The Rev. Paul Bussard, of St. Paul, Minn., editor of the Catholic Digest, will give the baccalaureate sermon, and the Most Rev. John F. Noll, d.d., Bishop of Fort Wayne, will celebrate the Baccalaureate Mass.
Taken as a whole, graduation exercises will begin at 9:30 Saturday morning with the Seniors’ last visit to Sacred Heart Church. Following this, the graduates will go to the Navy Drill Hall for a processional, a class oration, the commissioning of Naval and Air ROTC officers, the awarding of prizes and honors and the valedictory address. This will begin promptly at 10 and will be presided over by Pat Costello, president of the class. Parents and guests of the graduates are invited to this exercise. No tickets are required and seating will necessarily be limited.
Saturday afternoon will bring a faculty “At Home” for seniors, parents and guests, to be held in the various classrooms of the University. In the evening, before dinner, there will be an administration reception for the Class of ’49 and their parents.
Tickets will be distributed to seniors for the graduation exercises proper, which will begin at 2 p.m. Sunday. Foreseeing the possibility of bad weather, plans have been tentatively set up to hold both the graduation exercises and the Baccalaureate Mass in the Drill Hall. In case this is necessary, two
May 13, 1949
of the tickets given to each senior will be honored in the Drill Hall, the rest will not be. This is necessary to insure that each graduate may have his parents or family witness the graduation. The rest of the tickets will be good for a seat in the Gymnasium, which will be wired to broadcast the exercises. Thus, an estimated 3000 people will be accommodated. The tickets good for the Drill Hall will be distinguished from the others by color.
Further entertainment for the weekend will include evening concerts in the Quadrangle by the Notre Dame Band, under the direction of H. Lee Hope. Other musical programs are being arranged with the Glee Club and the University Symphony Orchestra. The ND baseball team will take on Western Michigan in honor of the grads on Friday and Saturday afternoons.
The official Class of ’49 will include not only the June graduates, but also all January and August graduates, bringing the total to well over 1200. It is the 104th class to graduate from the University.
All exercises are scheduled on Central Daylight Time.
Four Get Air ROTC Awards at Inspection
On Tuesday, May 10, the Notre Dame Air ROTC unit underwent its annual inspection. Highlighting the day’s events was the presentation of awards to the outstanding cadets of the program by representatives of the various organizations who sponsored them.
Robert J. Lally received a scroll and medal as the outstanding first year basic ROTC cadet from the American Legion Auxiliary. The outstanding second year basic cadet, Robert L. O’Connell, was awarded an appropriate scroll and medal by the Forty and Eight club of South Bend. William F. Tormey was honored as the outstanding first year advanced ROTC cadet by a scroll and medal contributed by the Air Force Association of Washington, D. C.
The final award was to the outstanding cadet of the entire ROTC program, Thomas S. O’Brien, a senior from Weehawken, N. J. He received a scroll and medal from the Bendix Aviation Posf No. 884. Last year Cadet O’Connell was the recipient of this award.
In selecting the winners, the staff of the Air ROTC at Notre Dame based their decisions on three points: overall
Michigan Girl Named Queen of Frosh Ball
Tomorrow night, under the beams of the Navy Drill Hall and a spring moon, socially inclined freshmen and their dates will take a pleasant dose of “Spring Tonic” in the guise of a class dance from 8:30 to 12:00. Tony Papa and his orchestra promise to provide a good brand of danceable music.
A pretty Western Michigan College freshman, Lola Gordon, will reign over
MISS LOLA GORDON Queen for Freshman Dance
the festivities as queen. Miss Gordon, the date of Dance Chairman Ed Vasta, comes from Benton Harbor, Mich., where she was graduated from high school with Vasta.
Dates have been made available for all through the medium of the date bureau, and any who may still desire a pretty companion have a choice of damsels from St. Mary’s College, St. Mary’s of the Woods, St. Joseph’s Hospital, and local high schools.
Other added enticements include attractive program-favors, 1:00 a.m. permissions, and the fact that corsages are not necessary.
Ticket sales predict a large turnout for the dance. But it takes a huge turnout to fill the spacious Drill Hall, so all freshmen who have not as yet procured their bids may still purchase them through their hall representatives for $2.50.
scholastic average at the University, standing in ROTC academic course, and military attributes displayed as.an of-, ficer candidate.—Tom Kelley
11
Class Elections
(Continued from Page 9)
The seniors pulled the highest number of voters with 526 turning out. Here’s the way their balloting ran: For president, Sparky Thornton, an Arts and Letters student from Van Wert, 0., polled a total of 227 senior votes to win the election. Kevin O’Shea garnered 196; and Bob Lichtenberger got 103. For vice-president, Verne Kelley, journalism major from Oak Park, HL, won 215 votes and the office; Bob Schlosser carded 203 and Dick McGoldrick 105. For secretary, Jack F. Connor, Arts and Letters, Chicago, Ill., got 210 tallies to edge out his opponents, Don Helling-hausen with 153, and Bud Romano with 165. For the treasurer’s post, Tom Farley, commerce junior from Newark, N. J., totaled 221 votes to win over John Whalen, 102, and Bill Shanahan, 195.
The junior elections drew 422 voters. President Ray Yanics of St. Louis, Mo., won 158 votes to beat Bill Kirchner with 142 and Ward McCabe with 122. Mike Jacobs, a science major from Beaver Dam, Wis., was named vice-president with 157 total votes. Bernie Lavins had 140 and Bill Anhut had 132. For secretary, Tom Carroll, Arts and Letters, from Long Beach, Calif., won out with 179 votes to 134 for Bob Kling-enberger and 119 for Joe Shelley. Dick MacDonald, commerce student from Lafayette, Ind., won a total of 209 votes and the treasurer’s office for the juniors. Hank Madden had 144 and Jim Poat had 79.
Toledo, Ohio’s Jim Garvin, a science major, amassed a total of 200 votes to be named the president of next year’s sophomore class. For the same office, Ed Vasta had 96 votes, Joe Straub had 141, Bob Peckels had 90, and Don Carillo had 23. Dick Clancy, of Kankakee, HL, won the vice-presidency of the sophomore class with 242 votes to his credit. John Harrington had 95 and’ Jim Kelleher, 69. Bill Dempsey, of New Ulm, Minn., won the sophs’ secretary post with 225 votes, while Cliff Hoenie had 167. Sal Fiorella of New York City was named treasurer with 170 total votes, while his only opponent, Frank Zappela, had but 95.
Russ Skall, of Appleton, Wis., present president of the junior class, was named to the Student Council with the largest majority of any candidate in the elections. He polled 285 votes. Dick Cullen, of Kearney, Neb., editor of the Dome, won the other Council post with 124 votes. Paul Leamy had 120, Jim Sebold had 118, Jim Heaney had 96, Anthony Alexander had 96 and Art Frer-icks had 82.
SENIORS: Seated. Jack Thornton; standing. Jack Connor, Tom Farley, Verne Kelley
JUNIORS: L to r, Tom Carroll, Dick MacDonald. Mike Jacobs, Ray Yanics
SOPHOMORES: L. to r., Sal Fiorella, Jim Garvin, Dick Clancy, Bill Dempsey
12
The Scholastic
From the . ..
Apocrypha of Nicodemus
Wherein Our Hero Dost Leave Ye University
For those who have never read the Apocrypha of Nicodemus, Scholastic guarantees that they are aboiit to experience a reading event rare in the annals of literature. This is the seventh installment of the doings of Ralph O'Rafferty, the last episode appearing in an early fall issue of 1947.—Editor
And it was then in the year 1949. And behold, Ralph O’Rafferty and his consort, yclept Mabel, and his child, Uriah, didst abide in a closet in the city called South Bend. But anon there wast a great rejoicing, for there didst come unto Ralph a letter, saying: Greetings: Know then that the time for your- graduation draweth near, for behold, upon the sixth day of June you shall be set forever free, and men shall know you as a Bachelor- of Science in Commerce. And when he received this cedle, Ralph didst weep for joy, and didst dance a dance that shook even the very walls of the closet wherein he abode: for alas, his trials had been great, and he bethought him of his many woes and thanked the Lord that anon he would be free in the great world.
And this was in the month of January. But the month of February drew nigh, and there wast among the univer
sity a great tumult, for the Birthday of George, sumamed Washington, a great politician, was at hand. And behold, it* was then the custom in that place to hold a great conclave, to which came all ye graduating seniors, and it was yclept “class day.” And when the date of this conclave drew close, there didst appear upon ye board of announcement a notice, saying, know all seniors: it is commanded upon penalty of being cast into exterior darkness, where there shall be no diplomas, that all ye seniors who are to be graduated herefrom upon the sixth day of June next, (do appear- in Washington Hall in the robes of graduation upon the twenty-second day of February, the same being ye birthday of George Washington, for ye traditional class day exercises.
Festival of George Washington
And when Ralph didst see this notice, he wot not what the meaning thereof wast, but he went forthwith unto Mabel, saying, behold, for we cannot visit thy mother in Elkhart upon George Washington’s Birthday, which is here kept a holiday, for I must repair unto Washington Hall, where they keep that day a great festival. But Mabel wept, and she didst wet the closet floor with
her weeping, saying, Verily, I say to thee, that if you think more of ye birthday and ye festival than of me, thy lawful wedded wife, I shall repair unto mother in Elkhart alone, and bear Uriah with me; and I shall never enter thy closet again, nor thy child Uriah.
And Ralph didst remonstrate with hei-, saying, look you, it is necessary that I do appear in my robes of graduation even on the very day, lest they cast me into exterior darkness, where there shall be no diplomas. But Mabel wept, and would not be comforted, and didst pack her suitcase, making preparation for departure. And Ralph didst relent, and said unto her, So be it. We shall to thy mother’s house, but I do foretell most dire results. And Mabel ceased weeping.
Now upon the day of the great festival, all the seniors didst meet in their robes of graduation and repair unto Washington Hall, which wast an ancient place of conclave, since the memory of man runneth not to the contrary. And there wast lacking a certain number, who had sent excuses saying, Behold, my car aileth and I must repair it; or behold, I suffer with influenza; or behold, I have married a wife but lately, and must attend her. But Ralph sent no excuse, for that Mabel said unto him, fear not: I shall myself go unto them and all will be well.
Anon a Notice Came
But at the great festival there wast an enrollment, and Ralph’s name wast not among the signers. And behold, there didst presently arrive at ye closet a notice, saying, For that you failed to attend the great festival of the birthday of George Washington, thou shalt not be graduated: let ye punishment fit ye crime. But Mabel said unto him, I will write. And she didst forthwith write unto them a letter, saying, Reverend and Learned Sirs, behold: I am the consort of one Ralph, known as O’Rafferty, whom you have cast from grace. But pray, hold him excused, for that very day, my mother lay at point of death in Elkhart, and we didst visit her; for doth not the Scripture enjoin us to visit the sick?
(Continued on Page 32)
May 13, 1949
13
A Miniature Macy’s
From Monogrammed Tablecloths to Ancestral Maps of Ireland, the Book Store Sells Everything . . . except Text Books
By BILL WEIR
Marshall Field’s; but Notre Dame has the Book Store. The Book Store may not be as big as the metropolitan stores, but it wields more influence — around here as least.
You can get anything you want in the Notre Dame Book Store: T-shirts, nail files, ashtrays, salt-shakers, even stuffed animals and ancestral maps of Ireland. You can get anything you want—except books. If, after having entered this vest-pocket department store by mistake, you still prefer- Smithers’ History of Icelandic Economics to an ND letteropener or a figure of Clashmore Mike, you have to go around the corner to the half-hidden annex.
The fact is, the Book Store is not a book store but a busy, rapidly expanding department store and mail-order-house. It has been operating this way so long that nobody notices the incongruity. In fact it is traditional for all college book stores to sell textbooks in some annex. Notre Dame is merely part of the throng following the genius who first realized that college men should know that book store does not mean book store.
MR. BLIGH GOES TO MARKET — For the best buy in ND shoe strings . . .
The first things you notice in the Book Store are the letters ND. There are ND stickers, ND cigarette lighters, ND bill clips and even ND tablecloths with pictures of the campus buildings on them. There are also ND dishes, pillow cases and beer mugs. One incongruous item is the ND compact. Contrary to student belief, the ND on an article does not raise its price — not even on football weekends.
If you look hard, you may find a few items without ND’s: there are some statuettes, some silverware, the stationery and most of the religious items. One of the most unusual of the ND-less articles is an ancestral map of Ireland. Surprisingly, quite a few of these have been sold.
Was in Council Office
Our present plate-glassed, typewriter-sporting, ND-bespattered version of the Book Store has not always been here. The store started by selling books and stationery in what is now the Student Council office. Over 15 years ago the volume of business got too great, and it was moved to Badin hall.
As business grew, it began adding more and more extra items. Last year it was enlarged and the plate-glass counters installed to make room for stock that had been piling up in the back room. With the extra room, still more items were added. Now you can get anything you want (if you look long enough) short of hamburgers and beer.
Obviously, the Book Store has its biggest week at the beginning of each semester. At these times the student employees may work as many as 46 hours a week without excuses from classes. The work is made even more nei*ve-wracking by thoughtless customers who converge from all directions howling for “the green book I need in Mr. Smith’s class.”
This year is not as bad as some, since the students have started to line up. There are always a few, however, who resent such dictatorial regulations. Firmly convinced that all clerks have a photographic memory for faces and orders, they bull past the lines en masse and shout their orders in unison.
And They Moan
Then they moan because they aren’t served immediately.
Actually, the service here is very fast: in some colleges the students regularly stand around for four hours, waiting to put their orders in.
Some of the most interesting customers come during the football weekends. After the game they are always full of high spirits. Usually they spend their time amusing Brother Conan, c.S.c., the manager, and the employees.
The most popular souvenirs football fans buy are the juvenile T-shirts: sometimes one man may buy as many as fifty; when one kid in the neighborhood has one, all the rest want one, too. But Book Store employees remember one- , T-shirt buyer who was just a little too discriminating:
A well dressed woman came in last fall and asked to see some T-shirts. Apparently few of them suited her because she looked at one after another, throw
14
The Scholastic
ing the ones she didn’t want over her shoulder. After she had messed up some fifteen dollars worth of shirts, she found one she liked.
Distance Lends Enchantment
According to Brother Conan, the most rabid buyers of Notre Dame souvenirs come from the East and the far West. Distance must lend enchantment. The greatest fans, also, are men who would have liked to send their sons here but couldn’t.
Summer is another good season for the Book Store. Vacationers from all over the country drop in to buy some souvenirs of Notre Dame. One vacationer' clerks remember is the caretaker of the Columbia University book store who came last year. He explained that he takes a hitch-hiking trip every year and this time he came to Notre Dame. He picked out a number of articles and asked that the Book Store hold them- fbr him, since he didn’t have any money. When he got home, he sent the money and the store sent him what he wanted.
The most enthusiastic customers in the store’s history came last summer. The Catholic Students’ Mission Crusade held a convention here the last week of August. The student crusaders, boys and girls in high school and junior high, completely cleaned out the souvenir counter during the three days they were here. Special favorites of the girls were the stuffed dogs branded with big yellow
MERCHANT-PREFECT BROTHER CONAN AND AIDE ROSE BINK
ND’s. Both boys and girls went wild over the T-shirts and pennants.
Mail Order Trade
Not content with peddling its wares to students and visitors, the Book Store has decided to take some of the mail order trade away from Sears Roebuck and Montgomery Ward. Last December, the store got more than 2,000 orders for ND’ed Christmas presents. During the football season, fans write and ask for autographs of the players or for Frank Leahy’s picture. Quite a few fans have asked for copies of Leahy’s baseball hat. Most of the requests are addressed to the athletic office, but they all end up at the Book Store; everyone seems to think that anything they don’t have, the Book Store does.
The store is always getting letters like this:
Dere Noter Dame Book Stor:
I am a small boy who would like to go to your scool wen i get biger. I hav a callecshon of penents from diferent scools. I wish i could get 1 from Noter Dame. I dont hav any mony but my sister in scool tells us that if we prey we can get anything. Do you think i mite be abel to get one? Thank you.
Yours truly
John J. Jones
For some reason, more of these let
ters come from Philadelphia than any other place. Brother Conan knows that most of the “prospective students” are budding shakedown artists, but he sends them their pennants anyway.
Not everybody is this definite, though. Many people write and ask for “just some souvenir.” To take care of these orders with the minimum of effort, Brother Conan now sends the customers a price list and asks them to pick an item.
New ’Pledge to Flag' Proposed by Dean Manion
Capital lobbyists are busy now trying to gain official support for a new pledge to the flag suggested by Dean Clarence Manion, of the ND College of Law. Based on the Declaration of Independence and aimed at combatting secularism, the pledge was first used by Dean Manion last fall in addresses before several Te Deum Forums. It has already been accepted by the Te Deum group, an organization comprised of more than 250,000 members in 42 cities.
The new salute to the flag proposed is:
“I, (Name), citizen of the United States, hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal and endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That, to secure these rights, my government, represented by that flag, was instituted among men: and to that-government and to that flag of the United States, I pledge my undying allegiance.”
Trustee's Will Leaves $40,000 Gift to University
A gift of $40,000 has been left to the University in the will of the late William J. Corbett, Sr., it was recently announced by the Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president. Mr. Corbett specified in his will that the money be added to an original fund of $34,000, founded in 1934, the income of which is to be used to increase the present Mediaeval Institute Library.
Mr. Corbett was a pioneer shoe merchant and president of the C. W. Marks Shoe Company in Chicago. He was a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees from 1941 until his death in May, 1948.
Mr. Corbett was awarded posthumously an honorary doctorate degree by the University at the June, 1948, commencement.	. -	,	-	.
May 13, 1949
15
University Mourns Tribune Sport Editor Jim Costin, One of Its 'Truest Friends'
Ray Still 'Critical' After Auto Accident
James M. Costin, sports editoi- of the South Bend Tribune, 803 Ashland Avenue, South Bend, died suddenly last Sunday morning from a heart attack. He was 55.
Costin was one of the best friends the University ever had. He championed the ND athletic teams in a manner which few, if any, could have attained. He had long been the friend of many Notre Dame priests, coaches and students.
He spent last Saturday afternoon on Cartier Field, watching both the track meet and the football scrimmage. His column, Jim Costin Says, was one of the most widely read features on the campus.
Funeral services were held last Wednesday morning at Holy Cross Church in South Bend. Pall bearers were John Panelli, Leon Hart, Jim Martin, Bill Fischer, Ernie Zalejski, John Lujack, George Connor and Ziggy Czarobski.
Costin was born in Peru, Indiana, on Sept. 20, 1893. He started his newspaper career in that town on the Peru Journal at the age of 16. He went to Pittsburgh to work on the Pittsburgh Leader in 1915. He served in the U. S. Navy during World War I and then returned to work on the Pittsburgh Observer. During his stay in the steel city he was also editor of the Pittsburgh Catholic. He had been a great supporter of Notre Dame since his school days and achieved one of his greatest desires when he came to South Bend in 1934 to become sports editor- of the now defunct News-Times.
When that paper folded he went in 1939 to work on the Chicago Tribune sports staff. He returned to South Bend in 1942 as sports editor of the Tribune and held that position as well as writing a daily sports column until his death. He also wrote a weekly sports column in the Sunday Visitor.
Among the many tributes to Jim Costin that flowed in from all over the country were the three following which came from Kev. John H. Murphy, Coach Krause, and Coach Leahy:
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vicepresident of Notre Dame, chairman of Faculty Board in Control of Athletics: “Notre Dame men everywhere must inevitably be saddened at the news of Jim Costin’s untimely death last Sunday morning. For those of us who were privileged to know Jim personally, there will be a sense of personal loss. For thousands of others — Notre Dame students, alumni, friends, and followers of our athletic teams — who came to know him through his excellent columns and
articles in the South Bend Tribune and the Sunday Visitor, the sense of loss will be only slightly less acute.
“Jim’s loyalty to Notre Dame and Notre Dame’s traditions, whether athletic or otherwise, was deep-rooted and unalterable. For the many repeated evidences of this loyalty through the years
JIM COSTIN
Makes His Last Deadline
Notre Dame men are profoundly grateful. And in return for Jim Costin’s devotion to Our Lady’s school, the faculty and students and alumni of this school will consider it a pleasant duty incumbent on all of them to pray to her for the repose of his good soul. And in their prayers and protestations of sympathy they will not forget Mrs. Costin, and the son and daughters who remain to mourn Jim’s death.”
Ed Krause, director of athletics: “When we lose someone like Jim Costin, there just isn’t anything to say. It is hard to believe. Somehow, I, like everyone else at Notre Dame, never realized that some day we would be without one of the truest and most helpful friends of the University. Jim will not be forgotten by his many friends at Notre Dame.”
Frank Leahy, football coach: “It is a severe shock to me, both as a football coach and as an individual, to learn of the death of Jim Costin. As a coach I enjoyed the associations I had with Jim, and knew him as a trustworthy and truthful reporter. As an individual, I knew Jim as an ever cheerful and pleasant man who went out of his way to seek some little deed he could do for others. Notre Dame has lost a valued friend.”
Tony Ray was still in “critical” condition Wednesday morning at South Haven, Mich., as a result of injuries received last Saturday when the car in which he and four other Notre Dame students were riding left U. S. Highway 31 north of South Haven and overturned in a ditch. With him in the hospital is Bob Fitzpatrick, who is recovering but suffering painfully from a broken back.
Doctors described Ray’s condition as critical immediately after the accident Saturday night and have kept him in that category ever since. He regained consciousness Monday night, they said, and “was responding to treatment.” Tony, a commerce senior from Gas City, Ind., suffered a fractured skull and internal injuries in the accident.
Fitzpatrick, who also is under treatment at the South Haven hospital, was reported to be recovering, but in a painful condition from a broken vertebrae in his spine. A graduate student in sociology, Bob comes from Brooklyn, N. Y.
Blaine Gallagher, a commerce senior from Parkersburg, W. Va., was the third most seriously injured of the quintet. He suffered internal injuries and multiple cuts and bruises. Though in fail- enough condition to be released from the South Haven hospital, Gallagher is at present recuperating in the Notre Dame infirmary.
The two other students injured in the crash were treated and released. Eugene F. Lutz, an arts and letters senior from Brooklyn, N. Y., suffered a broken shoulder in the smash-up, while his Alumni Hall roommate, Howard Cook, of Ilion, N. Y., escaped the easiest of all. He received only minor cuts and bruises.
According to Michigan state police, the accident occurred when the northbound car driven by Lutz was forced off the highway by a southbound auto whose driver was attempting to pass another car on a curve. There was no collision.
Lutz said he edged the car (a 1949 Ford owned by Tony Ray) toward the side of the road when he saw the other auto approaching to pass.' “The right wheels of the car slipped off the edge of the highway onto the soft shoulders,” he said, “and before we knew it we were skidding sideways.”
The car careened off the road, overturned, and crashed top first into a tree about eighteen inches in diameter. The tree was sheared clean from its base. The car was completely demolished.
16
The Scholastic



The Bulletin Board
Next Week
Pitt Swamps ND
Pittsburgh’s 1936 “Dream Team” will round out the year’s sport movie revivals next Thursday at 2:30 and 3:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Goldberg, Chickernio, Stebbins and Cassiano do pretty much as they please, as the Irish stagger through a 26-0 thumping.
Glee Club Concert
The Glee Clubs of St. Mary’s College and Notre Dame will warble together Monday night at 7:30 in Washington Hall. The program of the joint concert will be the same as last Monday’s performance by the combined choristers at St. Mary’s, including F.* Melius Christiansen’s suite From Grief to Glory, Bach’s Sacred Cantata No. 106 and several other selections.
German Comedy Slated
Slapstick is slapstick, no matter what language it’s in. Even the fact that Emil und die Detektive has no English subtitles shouldn’t detract from its at
tractiveness as the next offering on the Department of Modern Languages’ foreign film program next Friday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission to the German production is by ticket only.
FBI Men Visit Campus
Want to be a G-Man? Representatives of the FBI will be in the auditorium of the Law Building Tuesday afternoon at 2 p.m. to discuss opportunities for ND graduates in the Federal Bureau of Investigation. All students are invited to attend what promises to be a very interesting and informative session.
Co-Hop Dance Tomorrow
Co-Hop girls will crowd into the Holy Cross Auditorium tomorrow night for their Spring Dance, from 8 to 11 p.m. The auditorium is at 1020 N. Wilber Street, one block north of Lincoln Way West. Admission is half a check per person, and the sponsors of the dance have extended a special invitation to ND men.
Student Recitals
Four students of the Department of Music will present recitals next week in Washington Hall. Charles Lienhart will start off the three-night series on Tuesday with a violin and piano recital. The next two nights will feature piano and voice programs. Lawrence Metcalf will be Wednesday night’s pianist; Roy J. O’Neil will be vocalist. On Thursday, Charles Lienhart will accompany singer Richard Blaumeiser.
This Week
Metallurgists Hear Talk
Dr. Oscar J. Horger, a pioneer in engineering and research for 25 years, addressed the ND chapter of the American Society for Metals Wednesday night in the Engineering Auditorium. His topic was “The Relationship of Metallurgy and Design.”
Chemical Engineers Meet
Professor R. E. Rich, head of the Department of Chemical Engineering, visited Tulsa, Oklahoma, this week to represent the University at the regional meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
Political Science Dinner
Students and faculty of the Department of Political Science met socially Wednesday night at the first annual Political Science Banquet. Mr. Harry Hogan, honorary president of the ND Alumni Association, spoke on “The Secularization of Education.” Senior Don
SCHEDULE OF
SEMESTER EXAMINATIONS
The examinations for the spring semester of 1948-49 will be held in all colleges and the graduate school of the University on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of May 26 to June 2, according to the following schedule:
Classes taught at	Will be examined at
8:00 on	Monday...... 8:00	on	Fri., May 27
9:00 on	Monday......10:00	on	Fri., May 27
10:00 on	Monday.......8:00	on	Tues., May 31
11:00 on	Monday .....10:00	on	Tues., May 31
1:15 on	Monday.......8:00	on	Wed., June 1
2:15 on	Monday .....10:00	on	Wed., June 1
3:15 on	Monday.......1:15	on	Wed., June 1
8:00 on	Tuesday .....10:00	on	Mon., May 30
9:00 on	Tuesday..... 1:15	on	Mon., May 30
10:00 on	Tuesday ......8:00	on	Thurs., June 2
11:00 on	Tuesday .....10:00	on	Thurs., June 2
1:15 on	Tuesday......1:15	on	Fri., May 27
2:15 on	Tuesday......3:15	on	Fri., May 27
3:15 on	Tuesday......3:15	on	Tues., May 31
DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINATIONS
Classes	Will be examined at
History 11, 12, 21 and 22., 1:15 on Thurs., May 26 Mathematics 12 and 18.... 8:00 on Sat., May 28 Civil Engineering 34 . 8:00	on Sat., May 28
Engr. Meeh. 26, 33 and 33a.10:00 on Sat., May 28 Chemistry 24L, 26L, 28L.... 1:15 on Sat., May 28 All Physics Classes... 3:15 on Sat., May 28 Engineering Mechanics 31.. 1:15 on Sun., May 29 Spanish, French, German
5, 6, 11 and 12..... 3:15	on Mon., May 30
All Naval and Military
Science............. 1:15	on Tues., May 31
Religion 24 .......... 7:45	on Tues., May 31
Electrical Engineering 38... 3:15 on Wed., June 1 Religion 16 ...........7:45	p.m. Mon., May 30
Lueck acted as MC. Arrangements for the banquet were handled by student chairman Bill Stockman and assistant chairman Jim Clyne and Earl Meisen-bach.
Last Week
Arguments for nationwide compulsory health insurance came in for a drubbing last week, when Professor Robert E. Sullivan, of the College of Law, discussed the topic before the Casapolis Club. Mr. Sullivan emphasized the danger of gradual tendencies toward socialism and inroads on the rights of the individual.
Opportunities
Music Scholarships
Musically-inclined students between 16 and 25 are invited to file applications for 48 scholarships offered by the Music Camp operated by the world-famed singing Trapp family. Full details may be obtained by writing the Trapp Family Singers, Stowe, Vt. Applications must be accompanied by recommendations from the faculty and certificates of good health signed by a competent physician. Writers' Conference
Applications are still being received for the Writers’ Conference to be held here from June 27 until July 2. The fee for an individual workshop is $10.00; the fee for all three (poetry, short fiction and novel) is $25.00. For further particulars, see Professor Thomas Cassidy, in his office on the third floor of the Main Building.
Vet News
More on Summer School
Students who wish to attend summer school under GI Bill benefits are warned to check these details: 1) Make sure that you have enough remaining entitlement to cover the session; 2) Pre-register for courses with the dean of your college; 3) Complete VA Form 1909 at the Navy Drill Hall during Summer Session registration June 20 and 21, or ... 4) If you intend to take courses at some other university, call now at the Students Accounts Office and fill out Form 1905.
May 13, 1949
17
Names Make News
An article by JAMES J. GREEN, assistant archivist at Notre Dame, entitled “American Catholics and the Irish Land League, 1879-1882,” was featured in the April issue of the Catholic Historical Revieiv. Green conducted research for several years in the Catholic social history in the United States at the turn of the century. He is now preparing a study of the reaction of the Henry George movement in New York on the Catholics in the United States.
Last Monday Rev. PHILIP HANLEY, O.P., gave the first in a series of talks on “What Catholics Believe” at the Aquinas Library in South Bend. Father Hanley, professor of theology at Notre Dame, will lecture each Monday. The lectures are primarily for non-Catholics interested in learning about the Catholic faith.
Prof. MATTHEW A. FITZSIMONS, ph.d., associate professor of history at this University, told members of the organized reserve corps last Monday that the British socialist government made a mistake in trusting Russia to be friendly toward British socialism. He was speaking to reserve officers on “Problems of Contemporary British Foreign Policy.”
Friday evening Major ROBERT SULLIVAN, U.S.A.F.B., law professor at Notre Dame, lectured on the “Retirement Plan for Reservists” before the 217th composite squadron at the O.R.C. headquarters in Mishawaka.
Graeme K. Howard, vice-president for foreign operations of the Ford Motor Co., announced recently that C. E. DALTON, Notre Dame commerce grad, has been appointed general manager of the overseas distributors’ branch of the company, located at Jersey City, N. J. This is primarily a sales agency for vehicles shipped from the five Ford manufacturing plants to markets throughout the world which are not regularly served by assembly plants. Dalton specialized in foreign commerce while at Notre Dame.
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, secretary of the ND Alumni Association, is among the contributors to the 1949 Britannica Book of the Year, according to Walter Yust, editor-in-chief of the Britannica publications. Armstrong’s article is entitled “Notre Dame, University of.” The Book of the Year is an annual summary of the major events and discoveries of the preceding year
published by the Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc., as a book of current information and an aid to owners of the Encyclopedia in keeping up to date.
Professor WILLIAM J. ELSEN will represent Notre Dame at the third annual Indiana College Speech Teachers Conference at DePauw University, Greencastle, Ind., today and tomorrow. Professor Eisen is a member of the Speech Department here, and is Director of the University Theater, which is currently presenting Shadoiv and Substance.
PROFESSOR ELSEN Represents Notre Dame
Social Notes
Miss Barbara Ann Donahue and JOSEPH FRANCIS DILLON were married in Sacred Heart Church last Saturday. The bride is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Donahue, of South Bend. Dillon, a graduate of the schools of commerce and law at Notre Dame, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. John A. Dillon, Jr., of Hudson, Mich.
Father JOSEPH BARRY, C.S.C., recently performed the marriage ceremony for Margaret M. Thomas, daughter of Mrs. J. W. Thomas of Raleigh, N. C., and HENRY CHASE BLACK, of Battle Creek, Mich., architecture graduate of Notre Dame. Black is the son of Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Black.
KENNETH R. KEMPF, son of Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Kempf, of Blue. Island, Ill., and Miss Julia Ann Lupresto, of South Bend, were married recently in
St. Joseph’s Catholic Church in South Bend. Kempf is a graduate of Mt. Carmel high school in Chicago and the College of Engineering at Notre Dame.
Chaplain MAURICE E. POWERS, C.S.C., present Senior Chaplain at Fort Leavenworth, Kans., recently received orders to report to Tokyo where he is to become Assistant Theatre Chaplain of the Far East Command. Father Powers served overseas for forty months during and after the war and was Senior Chaplain in Berlin, Germany, at the time of his assignment to Fort Leavenworth. His new assignment embraces the Islands of the Pacific, Korea, Philippines, and Japan, with headquarters in Tokyo.
Father- Powers graduated from Notre Dame in 1933 and continued his studies at Catholic University in Washington, D. C. He taught at Holy Cross college, Brookland, D. C., before entering the army in 1943. He was cited for heroism on three occasions during combat in France and Germany.
RUFUS WILLIAM RAUCH, Professor of English, was a member of a panel which conducted a public Demonstration Seminar Discussion in the Great Books last week in Indianapolis. The book discussed was Mill’s On Liberty. Members of the panel were drawn from colleges and universities of the state-and leaders of adult seminars sponsored by the Great Books Foundation of Chicago. Father THOMAS J. BRENNAN, c.s.c., is a member of the Indiana Committee.
Professor R. E. RICH, head of the Department of Chemical Engineering at Notre Dame, will attend the annual meeting of the American Society for Engineering Education at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, N. Y., June 20 through 24. Prof. Rich is vice-chairman of the Chemical Engineering Division of the Society.
Professor E. J. WILHELM of the Department of Chemical Engineering will represent Notre Dame at the annual convention of the American Electroplaters Society in Milwaukee, Wis. The meeting will be held June 27 to 30.
Doctor MILTON BURTON, professor of chemistry at Notre Dame, told 135 members of the Mishawaka Council of Church Women that “People of good will must unite for peace,” last Friday. Dr. Burton spoke in place of Dr. Harold S. Bender, of Goshen college, Goshen, Ind., who was unable to attend because of the death of his mother. The occasion was the annual Fellowship day luncheon of the group in the First Presbyterian church of Mishawaka. '
18
The Scholastic
Candy, Girls, Sweet Music
As hunger looked on in the form of ogling underclassmen (left), natty juniors promenaded their best girls into a pleasantly fragrant Rockne Memorial. Besides the measured tempo of George Olsen's music. Russ Skall's committee provided real candy for the carnival. Above (right) are Pat Plunkett and cute Sally Nelson of Davenport, Iowa, taking time out for a joint chomp on a free candy bar.
Intermission was a time for all the boys and girls to jam around the band stand (right) and get their pictures taken. If you look sharp you may recognize an occasional ear or eyebrow.
For Promenading Juniors
May 13, 1949
19
"HE'LL BE PROUD OF ITS
SMART STYUX^ says his MOTHER. “He wants an Elgin . . . and this Elgin is the handsomest man’s watch I’ve ever seen.
Lord and Lady Elgins are priced from $67.50 to $5,000. Elgin De Luxe from $47.50 to $67.50. Other Elgins as low as $29.75, including Federal .Tax
21 JEWELS
Son of Mr. and Mrs. Robie L. Mitchell, of Garden City, New York, Bill is majoring in Civil Engineering, is Chairman of the Budget Committee, and Treasurer of the Institute Committee.
The genius of America to wear on your wrist
"HE'S SURE TO APPRECIATE THE VALUE OF THAT MALS-SPRIMG,” says his FATHER. “New, better, the DuraPower Mainspring is exactly the kind of thing that appeals to Bill.
This year it will be an Elgin for thousands of graduates. For these new Elgins are truly style leaders____thrillingly distinctive. And only an Elgin has the DuraPower Mainspring that eliminates 99% ofwatch repairs due to steel mainspring failures.
For a top graduation gift, suggest that you’d like an Elgin ... an Elgin with the DuraPower symbol cl^ on the dial.

•Patent Pending. Made of Elgiloy metal.
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Leahy to Test 1949 Football Machine Tomorrow
CINDERMAN COLLAPSES — Irish dash man Bob Smith falls just short of finish line in 220-yard dash against Pitt. Smith had six-yard lead on the field when he fell. Steve Provost breaks tape to win.
Annual Spring Game Begins at 2:30 p.m.
By RALPH WRIGHT
Notre Dame’s 1949 football team, possibly a seven-game loser according to Coach Frank Leahy,- is not expected to lose tomorrow afternoon when it plays the Old Timers in the annual spring practice finale. At least 15,000 persons should be in the Stadium when the game begins at 2:30 p.m.
The Irish varsity will be favored for three big reasons; they are younger and faster, much stronger in reserves and, of course, better organized. The Old Timers, usually a bit rusty after long layoffs, depend on their individual talent and know-how rather than on team unity.
In the 20 years or so that the game
Missouri, Defending Big Seven Chomp, Will Be Host to Irish at Columbia Tomorrow
By JIM HOWARD
Missouri’s crack track team, featuring outstanding men in all events, and packing a load of supporting material, will play host to Notre Dame runners tomorrow in Columbia, Mo.
The outdoor clash shapes up as the most difficult encounter of the year for the Irish tracksters. Missouri is defending Big Seven track champion, and for three years has reigned as the powerhouse of the mid-west. This year the Tigers carried a 21-meet winning streak into the indoor Big Seven battle, and lost by two points to Nebraska. The Cornhuskers turned the trick again last Saturday when they blasted the squad of Coach Tom Botts 70-60 in a dual encounter.
Notre Dame has fared well this year, meeting defeat only at the hands of the top flight Michigan State team, and the Purdue thinclads. Purdue was defeated once by the Irish in a dual struggle, but took the Illinois Tech title from the local cindermen. However, Coach “Doc” Handy has been forced to shift material constantly, as injuries hit the squad re
May 13, 1949
peatedly. The majority of the best performers are ailing, or are definitely unable to compete. Bill Fleming, ace timber topper, has an injured leg, but will compete. Bob Smith, Irish century and furlong record holder, sustained severe injuries in the Pitt contest last Saturday which may prevent him from active participation. He may be able to take part in one of the sprints.
Jack Murphy, star sophomore from New Jersey, is expected to be in shape for the javelin this week. He has rested the injured right arm for two weeks. Jim Miller, best Notre Dame vaulter, is still limited in his pole vault efforts by a leg injury.
The Missouri track team boasts 17 lettermen, in addition to possessing some promising sophomore performers. Top youngster on the team is Bill Maguire who set new mile records throughout the indoor sason in 4:15.4 and 4:14.8 performances. He also runs the two-mile, but is now recuperating from an injured ankle, which has slowed him down. (Continued on Page 29)
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS		
VARSITY Flynn 		E	OLD TIMERS 	 O'Connor
Hart (co-C.) _	E		 Begley
Martin (co-C.).	_T		Budynkiewicx
ToneH 		_T			 Czarobski
Johnson		„G			 Fischer
Wallner		_G			 Wendell
Grothaus 		„C		_ Strohmeyer
Williams 		Q		or Statute 	 Brown
Gay		H		 Brennan
Sitko		H		Smith
Landry 		_F			 PaneUi
has been played, the Old Timers won only twice. One time was last spring when the varsity found out what it was like to oppose Johnny Lu jack. The Luj passed his squad to a 20-14 win.
No Lujack for the Old-Timers
However, the Old Timers are Lujack-less this year. Chicago Bear owner George Halas doesn’t care to have either Lujack or George Connor in this affair. The loss of Connor hurts the prospective Old Timer line which has none too many linemen. The guard material won’t be weak, though, with Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell displaying their AllAmerican abilities. And Ziggy Czarob-
(Continued on Page 26)
21
Wolverines, Chicago On Diamond Slate
By RAY FITZGERALD
Coach Jake Kline’s spring offensive will be slightly slowed down this week, but not by enemy batters. The schedule shows only two home games, return matches against Chicago tomorrow and Michigan on Wednesday.
Notre Dame took Chicago and its fast lefty, Gene Borowitz, with ease last Saturday, and the Maroon ace will be looking for revenge.
Next Wednesday, Michigan comes to town for a single game at Cartier field. The Wolverines, mystery team of the Big Nine, slugged out a 9-8 10-inning win over the Irish a couple of weeks ago. Their pitching hasn’t been much, but they have a few boys who can really hit. Ted Kobrin, rated one of the best third basemen ever to play for Michigan, Hal Raymond and Jack MacDonald have been pacing the Wolverine offensive. The tremendous rivalry between Michigan and Notre Dame in general, .and Coaches Kline and Fisher in particular, has been all Michigan in the past few years. Coach Kline would like to be smiling Wednesday night, and an Irish victory would do the trick.
Besides occasional pitching lapses, the ■outfield has been the number one worry for the Notre Dame head man. Coach Kline experimented with an all-sophomore outfield early in the year, but the ■expected hitting power didn’t come. Jean Ferryman, a spring practice sensation, hasn’t had much of a chance to show anything during the season, and Jim Gillis got off to an extremely slow start. There have been about eight different ball players in the outfield at different times. Lately Don Brieve, Ray Petrzel-ka and Emil Garafalo have been out there, with Tommy Martin, Tom McHale, Bob Machado and Gillis seeing occasional duty. It’s anybody’s guess as to who will be out there this Saturday against Chicago.
BASEBALL STATISTICS May 9, 1949 BATTING
Player	AB	Ji	Pct.	Koblosh		59	12	.204
Smullen 		8	3	.375	Boland ..		25	5	.200
Maher 		27	9	.333	Lipton -		 10	2	.200
Martin 		26	8	.308	Nemes ..		 10	2	.200
Giedlin		67	20	.299	Garofalo		 17	3	.176
Kozlik 		49	14	.286	Gillis 			 51	9	.176
Lavery		64	16	.250	Presley ..		 7	1	.143
Mahannah		16	4	.250	Wolfe -		 1	0	.000
Petrzelka		62	15	.242	Sjoberg		 3	0	.000
Machado		17	4	.235	Kreis ....		 3	0	.000
Grieve		9	2	.222	Judge ....		 4	0	.000
McHale		14	3	.214		■		. - —
Campbell		14	3	.214	Totals	563	135 .240	
PITCHING
Player	IF	L	Pct.	Mahannah	_ 2	2	.500
"Nemes		. 3	0	1.000	Campbell „	2	3	.400
Smullen		- 1	0	1.000				__	-
Lipton		. 2	1	.667	Totals	10	6	.625
Track Team Wins 13 of 15 In Pitt Rout; Fleming Stars
Notre Dame’s track team won 13 of 15 events, broke five meet records and set a new school mark to rout Pittsburgh’s Panthers, 86 2^3 to 44 1^3, in the only home outdoor meet of the season last Saturday afternoon at Cartier field. Bill Fleming won his usual hurdle events and copped the high jump too for 15 points.
Johnny and Joe Helwig completely dominated the weights events. Johnny notched a new Cartier shot put standard with a 52-foot, one-inch heave, then won
PAUL SCHWETSCHENAU Steady Quarter-Miler
the discus with a toss of 143 feet, 10% inches. Despite his bad foot, brother Joe took a second place in the shot put.
South Bender Bob Smith, with six yards on his closest competitor, was only five yards from a triumph in the 220-yard dash when he crumpled with a leg injury; Steve Provost roared past to win the event and Frank Boiler, competing in his first meet, came in third. Earlier in the day, Smith romped the century in 9.9 seconds with Provost second.
Tony Dadamio looked like Ponder in the Derby when he unleashed a kick that sent him past Pat Kenny for first place in the 880-yard run. Frank Boiler followed the two across the finish line. Dadamio figured in another surprise when Jim Kittell and he finished one-two in the mile (Kittell’s time was 4:19).
Junior Bob Charters took first in the javelin and John Worthington did the same in the broad jump to give Notre Dame wns in all but one field event, the pole vault.
Two-miler Jim Murphy got back on
the winning trail with a 9:41 triumph.
The mile relay team — Bob Boyne, Vai Muscato, Paul Schwetschenau and Ray Sobota — completed the victory parade with a 3:25.2 clocking.
Vets Rout Varsity, 51-44; Hoop Preview Stars Foley
Basketball fans at Notre Dame got a special preview of what the fortunes will hold in store for the 1949-50 varsity club last Monday afternoon. In a fieldhouse feature, the old-timers, coached by John Brennan, met the next year’s varsity under Coach Ed Krause. Barnhorst, O’Halloran and Gordon had too much experience and poise for the regulars and ended up on the long end of a 51-44 score.
There were a lot of new faces in Krause’s line-up, but the brightest spot was at center with Long John Foley playing calm ball and pouring in 16 points to take high scoring honors. Three freshmen played for the varsity, Strasser, Neumayr and Wray. Strasser was number two man in the scoring column for the varsity.
Big Dan Bagley was the chief playmaker before earning a seat on the bench early in the second half for five fouls; sophomore Neal Fichtel also looked good. Holding down the spot of Kevin O’Shea, little Marty O’Connor provided some fancy footwork.
O’Shea could have made the difference in the score, and would have certainly stabilized the boys and kept them from tightening up in the rough spots. If Monday afternoon was a true preview, it looks like he’ll be needed just as badly when the opener rolls around next December.—Bill Riley
LEON HART To Lead . . .
22
The Scholastic
NeHers Face MSC After Early Success
Overcoming almost impossible odds, the Irish netmen edged out a 5-4 victory over Western Michigan on May 5, and went on to take an easy 7-2 triumph from Detroit last Saturday. In taking on Michigan this past Wednesday, and battling Michigan State tomorrow, the Irish face a much harder task in attempting to gain a 5-1 season record.
The Spartans will bring a whole host of returning lettermen to the Irish courts, and hold an all-time record of 14 wins out of 21 matches with Notre Dame.
But against Western Michigan the Irish certainly showed that they were long on spirit and that they have plenty of courage and ability to come through when the pressure is on. After winning the opening set of all six singles matches, the Irish faltered under a sweltering 87 degrees and went on to drop four of the six singles. The Northerners, fresh from a southern tour, were all set to hand the Irish a crushing defeat by taking the doubles matches; but that’s when their eyes proceeded to pop as David, Witucki, Rodgers and company, an apparently badly beaten bunch, turned on the Irish luck and, forgetting the heat, and a 4-2 deficit, swept all three doubles.
Jim Rodgers, who won his singles match before wilting in the heat and taking sick, sparked the squad as he came back, paired with Bart O’Brien, to whip the Northerners in the No. 3 doubles, 6-3, 4-6, 7-5.—Rudy Unger
JIM MARTIN . . . Youngsters
SPLINTERS
From the Press Box by Barry Monahan
A Vacancy in the Press Box
Notre Dame lost a good friend this week with the death of Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune. The friendly figure of the foremost expert on Notre Dame athletics will be missed wherever the press box gang gathers. One did not have to agree with Jim to like him. We think we can speak for both the Scholastic sports staff and the press box fraternity in expressing our sincere condolence to the Costin family and Jim’s many friends in their loss.
Have Leahy's Lads a Chance Tomorrow?
Coach Frank Leahy says the varsity he will field tomorrow will be the poorest Notre Dame team in many years. We wonder if a perusal of the starting line-up would uphold the coach’s pessimistic prediction.
ENDS: Just take out your All-American ballots and mark down the name of Leon Hart right .now; no one is going to stop lumbering Lee next fall. Ask the boys who have been cut down by a Bill Flynn block and you’ll find out why the Irish left flank is safe. If Hart does not play tomorrow Doug Way-bright should get the starting call at right end, but he is going to be pressed by several capable, spirited frosh candidates.
TACKLES: The change has done Jim Martin a lot of good and the big exMarine looks even more capable in his new duties — the A-A boys will have to watch Frank Leahy’s converted lineman. The A-A boys should also take a good look at frosh Bob Toneff. For a big man Toneff really covers ground. Dragging down fleet halfbacks from behind is his favorite gridiron activity. Gus Cifelli, Ralph McGehee and frosh John Zancha will not match a Connor-Czarob-ski combination, but who on our schedule has anything to equal the Moose and Ziggy?
GUARDS: He was tough behind the line last fall and he’ll be tough in the line this fall. Moving Fred Wallner to guard will prove to be another successful Leahy conversion job. Take your choice of Bob Lally, Rodney Johnson and
a couple frosh candidates to team with Fred and you still won’t be able to stop Wendell and Fischer. Here is a spot the Old Timers may work on as their experience and weight will give them a big advantage.
CENTERS: Jerry Groom and Walt Grothaus will both find Bill Walsh’s shoes a pretty fair fit. A season of experience and Jim Hamby will provide Coach Leahy with another tough linebacker to protect his string of victories.
QUARTERBACKS: Or should that be singular? Bob Williams is it. The double quarterback must go into mothballs until John Mazur has enough experience to hold up his side of the double-T. Williams’ passes have never been more accurate and his ball-handling matches Trip’s for smoothness. If he could only break his habit of waiting too long before tossing. He hasn’t got the line that the Luj or Trip had. (Thought we had gone soft, eh, Bob?)
HALFBACKS: If you have nothing to do for the next half hour we’ll talk about halfbacks. The Irish are loaded for fair. Emil Sitko, Bill Gay, Frank Spaniel, Leo McKillip, Larry Coutre start the parade and Bill Barrett, Dave Flood, and John Petitbon reinforce the troops from last year’s frosh squad. Leahy has a better stable than the Calumet farms.
FULLBACKS: Mike Swistowicz hasn’t been out for spring drill so the Old Timers are saved that ramrod threat. But converted halfbacks Ernie Zalejski, Jack Landry and frosh Jack Bush and Del Gander are giving the Irish fullback spot the new look—speed, speed and more speed.
Against All-Americans what can they do? Tomororw Coach Leahy and several thousand spectators will get the answer. With typical press box confidence we are calling it:
Varsity 28, Old Timers 21.
Musings at Halftime
Everyone got their bicycles oiled up? Covering the sports scene tomorrow is going to be a problem for anyone whose time for the century is over :09.9.
May 13, 1949
2?
Gteesome Threesome
marked, “Playing in the Southern California game, by all means.”
Sophomore Star Trio Shares Suite In Lyons
By KEN THOREN
Some Hollywood scriptwriter would probably give a month’s royalties to get the story of 317 Lyons Hall. For in that two-room suite, with a private bath, live the three most promising sophomore athletes attending Notre Dame. They are Vai Muscato, Marty O’Connor and Bob • Williams — stars in track, basketball and football, respectively.
They are as unlike one another as their athletic fortes. Freshman room assignment mechanism cast the trio as roommates last year. Bob and Marty say they will never forget the first time they saw Vai. They had arrived at the Breen-Phillips room first, had met and were talking when in plodded the fleet trackster. He dropped his trunk on the floor and then stammered out, “My name is Valentine Peter Muscato, but my, my friends call me Muzzy!” And Muzzy it has been ever since.
High School Records Fall
Muzzy provides the most laughs in the room. As one close friend of the trio said, “Muzzy’s so funny, he doesn’t even know it.” He came to ND from Concord, Mass., but forgot to leave his New England accent at home. In high school he broke and still holds the state and national record for the 600-yard dash. He did it in 1:14.6. He broke many other records, and in 1947 won the 440 national high school championship at the national AAU indoor meet in a creditable 51.8 seconds. When asked to list the records he has broken at ND, Marty and Bob broke out laughing.
“He hasn’t broken the tape yet,” Bob said jokingly.
“He’s broken my lamp, the radio ... added Marty.
Marty O’Connor is a product of Kewanee, Ill., and earned 12 high school letters — three each in basketball, football and golf, with a pair in track and one in baseball. If the trio decided to paper the wall with their high school letters, they would probably have enough left over to decorate their rector’s room. Marty made the all-state squads in football and basketball and also won a trophy for scholarship and athletics while attending Kewanee High.
This year’s injuries allowed Marty to show his mettle. Sports writers throughout the country have already noticed his playing and are expecting great things of him. Marty considers that last-second basket in the Butler game his biggest thrill. Many who watched the Kewanee Kid sink the winning two-pointer that night will agree with him.
“Pardon My Southern Accent"
Big Bob Williams hails from Baltimore, Md., and has the slightest trace of vice-president of the sophomore “Excuse me,” which is quite often, one can detect that Mason-Dixon tinge. He lassoed ten letters while in high school — four in basketball and three each in football and baseball. He captained all three squads in his senior year.
At present he is holding down the job of vice-president for the sophomore class. When asked what his biggest thrill was he said first, “I don’t know her name,” but then revised it and re-
BOB WILLIAMS, MARTY O'CONNOR AND VAL MUSCATO Lyons Hall Sophomores Sparkle on Gridiron, Court and Track
Muzzy, Marty and Bob sport crew cuts, although Muzzy spoils the trio resemblance by keeping a shock of blond hair in the front. Marty seems partial to corduroy in shirts and slacks and wears his stick glasses high above his ears. Bob often wears just a sweat shirt and slacks and seems nailed into a pair of favorite black and white shoes. Wearing each other’s jackets has become a minor vice of all three.
Leading Food-Scroungers
That mutual friend of theirs says, “It’s not safe to have any food around with those guys; they’ll eat everything and anything.” Although they don’t buy a single magazine, the trio manages to read every one that is published, through the kindness of their- neighbors’ hearts.
Muzzy, who was a life guard before he came to ND, even though he didn’t know how to swim, is a phy ed major. Bob is planning to enter journalism next year, while Marty is getting set for a speech major.
On second thought, that Hollywood slave might not jump at the story in 317 Lyons. For Muzzy, Marty and Bob are just ordinary guys with, however, extraordinary prowess in track, basketball and football.
24
The Scholastic ;
Interhal! Batters Continue Hot Campus Race
At the end of a week’s play, Cavanaugh and Sorin led the Interhall Baseball League’s Eastern Division with two wins and no losses. In the Western Division, it’s Alumni with the same 2-0 standing.
In last week’s play, Cavanaugh heat .Zahm, 5-2, while Sorin pounded Walsh to the tune of 7-4. In the Western Division, it was Alumni over Dillon, 6-4, and Howard over Morrissey, 4-1.
The play-offs to determine the championship baseball team will probably begin May 12. The two top teams in •each division will play each other in a seven-game series to determine the 1949 Campus Championship.
Team standings as of May 3 are:
lurgists, 14-4. In another “B” division game, the New Jersey team shut out the Chemical Engineers, 12-0, then bowed
Standings:
“A” League
W L
Rochester__________3	1
Detroit  2	1
Syrian-Leb. _______2	1
Toledo ___________ 1	2
Buffalo ___________1	2
Erie _____________ 1	3
“B” League W L
K. of C.__________3	0
New Jersey _______2	1
W. Mich 2	1
Minnesota 1	1
Kentucky 0	1
Chem. Eng.0	1
Metallurgy_________0	3
to Western Michigan, 8-6. The Western Michigan boys went right on to defeat Kentucky, 9-8, and the Minnesota Club made it one and one by defeating the Metallurgists, 12-3.
The championship team in the hall league will be picked by a play-off of
the top four teams. In the club league, the winner of the “A” division will meet the “B” division winner.—Jack Varley
THIS WEEK'S SCHEDULE
May 14—TRACK at Missouri BASEBALL, Chicago here GOLF, St Ambrose here TENNIS, Mich. State here FOOTBALL, Old Timers 16—GOLF, Mich. State here 18—BASEBALL, Michigan here TENNIS at Wisconsin GOLF, Indiana Intercollegiate Tourney at Purdue 21—TRACK at Penn State BASEBALL, Pensacola here TENNIS, Marquette here
Vetville Tops Hall Softball
In the Hall Softball League, the Vetville crew is holding first place with five wins and no defeats. Paced by the pitching of Father Bailey, Vetville chaplain, the ex-GI’s pushed their two-win streak to five in the last week by setting down Walsh, 8-3, easing out a 6-5 win over Badin and outslugging the Morrissey Golds, 14-1.
Paced by the pitching of Jim Rodgers and Leo Barnhorst, Dillon, with a 4-0 record, is in second place. The Dillon-ites walloped Morrissey Blues, 21-6, Sorin Blues, 17-4, and Walsh, 23-5, to increase their lead over third-place Alumni. Alumni outslugged a determined Morrissey Gold club, 11-10, and swamped the Morrissey Blues, 16-2. The Morrissey Blues broke into the win column for the first time with a shutout
Eastern Division	Western Division
W L	W L
Cavanaugh ....... 2	0	Alumni .........  2	0
Sorin ..........  2	0	Howard __________ 1	0
Walsh ___________ 0	2	Dillon __________ 0	1
Zahm ____________ 0	2	Morrissey _______ 0	2
victory over Sorin Blues.
LEAGUE STANDING
W L	W L
Vetville --------5	0	Walsh ___________ 1	2
Dillon ----------4	0	Morrissey B______1	3
Alumni --------- 3	1	Sorin B  0	3
Morrissey G_____1	2	Badin  0	3
Improve your game in *49 with these new Spalding Golf Clubs. Precision weighted for power with a choice of
Rochester, KC's Win Three
In the Club Softball League, in the “A” division, Rochester set themselves in first place by defeating Detroit, 12-5, and Erie, 23-15, to make their record three wins and one loss. The Syrian-Lebanese Club made it a two-way tie with Detroit for second place by their 14-4 victory over Buffalo after suffering an 18-12 setback at the hands of the Detroiters. The Erie Club edged out a 10-9 victory over Buffalo only to go down before a hard-hitting Toledo team, 25-4.
Led by the pitching of Dick Soisson, the K of C team, which has maintained a clean 3-0 record, swamped the Metal-
lighter, stronger shafts.
Spalding golf balls offer a selection for every type of player.
SPALDING
May 13, 1949
25
Football
(Continued From Page 21) ski has said it would “behoove me greatly” to perform at one of the tackles. Zeke O’Connor, the big Buffalo Bill end, did well for the oldsters last spring and should do well again.
A possible starting backfield might have George Terlep at quarterback, Terry Brennan and Buffalo Bill Gompers at
JOHN PANELU Old Men . . .
the halfbacks and Jarrin’ John Panelli of the Detroit Lions at fullback. Johnny Agnone, surprise star in the 1948 contest, is available also. Such a backfield would have plenty of ball-toting strength and Terlep is a T-man with pro experience.
One thing in the Old Timers’ favor is that they are likely to pick up some unexpected help the day of the game. Every year, some of the gifted alumni show up ready for action a few hours before the game. The appearance of such people as Elmer Angsman, John Yonakor, George Ratterman, Lou Rym-kus and Bob Livingstone could change the outlook completely. Coach Bill Earley, in charge of the Old Timers, can draw from varsity subs for his reserve strength.
Swistowicz and Wightkin Out
Meanwhile, the starting line-up for the varsity looks about set. A few established stars, like Mike Swistowicz and Bill Wightkin, won’t be able to play tomorrow, but there are plenty of newcomers ready to help out where needed.
Bill Flynn will hold down the left end position he has handled so well this spring and Leon Hart should be at right end though both he and Doug Waybright
have been slowed down with injuries. Watch for considerable action from the freshmen ends — Bob Dolmetsch, Chet Ostrowski, Jim Mutscheller and Bob Kapish.
At the tackles most of the time, both offensively and defensively, will be Jim Martin and the lone freshman starter, Bob Toneff. Ralph McGehee, a starter in 1948, big Gus Cifelli and John Zan-cha, another- frosh, make the Irish look stronger at the tackles than last season.
Fred Wallner, “Rod” Johnson, Bob Lally and Paul Burns have been alternating at the guards all spring, but the latter two were sidelined last week. Johnson and Wallner will start. Behind them, Leahy has placekicker Steve Oracko, Jim Dailer and line-backer Dan Modak.
Center looks like Walt Grothaus’ job on offense and Jerry Groom’s spot on defense. Young Jim Hamby also fits in somewhere as a linebacker.
Williams to Direct Varsity
Most of the quarterbacking will fall to Bob Williams and John Mazur, the
BILL FISCHER . . . But Tough
freshman protege. Williams — passer, punter and now a runner — will start. The head coach will undoubtedly want to see Tom O’Connell, another new signal-caller, before the afternoon is over.
There’s speed and experience at left half with Frank Spaniel, Bill Gay and Leo McKillip around. One of the former two will start and inherit the puntreturning task. The two chunky redheads, All-American. Emil Sitko and “Scooter” Coutre have right halfback taken care of. Jack Landry and Ernie Zalejski, converted halfbacks, lead the offensive fullbacks.
Of the much-talked-about freshmen
backfielders, Billy Barrett, the Fenwick jitterbug, may do most of the running. John Petitbon appears to be the number one safety man and both he and Dave Flood null surely be in on defense a majority of the time. Del Gander and Jack Bush are rapid transit fullbacks who will get their chance. Another fullback, Sam Abbott, will probably share the punting with Williams and do some linebacking.
Spartans Down ND With Circuit Clout
A three-run homer in the seventh inning provided the winning margin for-Michigan State as the Spartans downed the Irish, 7-5, May 4 at East Lansing. It was a battle of southpaws with Wally Beggs toeing the rubber for the enemy and Jack Campbell doing the flinging for our side.
Two of Notre Dame’s eight hits were round trippers — Dick Giedlin clouting one in the fourth with the bases empty and pinch-hitter Tom Boland connecting for the other circuit smash in the ninth with a mate aboard.
Pitcher Gene Borowitz of no-hit fame was just another chucker to the Irish as they combed him and two other University of Chicago hurlers for 11 hits in the 8-2 Notre Dame triumph over- the Maroons. The Klinemen broke into the scoring column with a single marker in the second and led the rest of the way. Two more runs were added in the fifth and Borowitz was chased for the first time in seven starts this year in the seventh under another two-run barrage. Bob Nemes kept ten Chicago hits well scattered.	—Jack Meaney
KB&QTI HITS SITKO Prepping for Tomorrow

26
The Scholastic ft
di-pojvt^jDiaett I
For Students of Science and C Engineering ;
TEN UNIVERSITIES TO BENEFIT BY GRANTS FOR UNRESTRICTED FUNDAMENTAL RESEARCH
With a view to stock-piling basic knowledge, the Du Pont Company has announced a program of grants-in-aid for the college year 1949-50 to 10 universities for unrestricted use in the field of fundamental research in chemistry.
The grants-in-aid of $10,600 each are to be used for research that has no immediate commercial goal. The universities themselves are to select the projects in which the grants will be employed, and results of the research are to be freely available for pubheation.
HOW FUNDS WILL BE USED
Du Pont’s purpose in offering the grants is to help insure the flow of
Four of Many Outstanding Du Pont Fellowship Winners
Dr. Wendell M. Stanley, at University of California, is Chairman of the Department ol Biochemistry in Berkeley and in the Medical School at San Francisco; Director of the Virus Laboratory. Bachelor’s degree at Earlham College. 1926; M.S. at Illinois, 1927 and Ph.D. inOrganic Chemistry. 1929. Honorary Doctor’s degrees from five prominent American universities and the University of Paris. Has received more than 10 medals and awards for distinguished work in chemistry and biochemistry; corecipient of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1946. Du Pont fellow at Illinois in 1928-29.
Dr. Carl S. Marvel, Professor of Organic Chemistry at the University of Illinois since 1930, received his A.B. at Illinois Wesleyan University in 1915; A.M. at Illinois, 1916 and Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry, 1920; Sc.D. (honorary) at Illinois Wesleyan, 1946. President American Chemical Society, 1945: Director 1944-46. Has received numerous honors
fundamental knowledge in science upon which the future industrial development of our country is so dependent. It is intended that the funds be utilized for such expenses as employing additional research personnel or lightening the teaching load of a professor who is eminently capable of research of a high order. They may also be expended for the purpose of obtaining supplies, apparatus or equipment.
GRANTS ARE EXPERIMENTAL
This program of grants-in-aid is largely experimental. However, it is Du Pont’s hope, should the program work out satisfactorily, to continue each grant for a period of five years.
such as the Nichols Medal and memorial lectureships at outstanding universities. Du Pont fellow at Illinois in 1919-20. Consultant on Organic Chemistry to the Du Pont Company at present.
J. Frederic Walker is a Research Supervisor on formaldehyde products in the Electrochemicals Department. Trained at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Awarded Bachelor’s degree in Chemistry, 1925; Master’s degree 1928, Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry, 1929. Author: "Formaldehyde Chemistry,” "Organic Chemistry of Sodium,” "History of Chemistry.” Du Pont fellow in 1926-27.
Frank S. Fawcett is now doing synthetic organic research with Du Pont’s Chemical Department, Received Bachelor’s degree in Chemistry, Furman University, 1940; Master’s degree, Pennsylvania, 1944; Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1948. Du Pont fellow at M.I.T. in academic year 1947-48.
77 DU PONT FELLOWSHIPS* MADE AVAILABLE
TO GRADUATE STUDENTS
Again in the academic year. 1949-50, the Du Pont Company is awarding post-graduate and post-doctorate fellowships to universities throughout the country.
This is a continuation of the company’s 30-year-old plan to encourage advanced studies in the fields of chemistry, physics, metallurgy, and engineering.
It is hoped that the plan will continue to help maintain the flow of technically trained men and women who will go into teaching and research work at the universities and into technical positions in industry. Some of
What Fellowships Provide
Each post-graduate fellowship provides $1,200 for a single person or $1,800 for a married person, together with an award of $1,000 to the university towards tuition and fees. Each post-doctoral fellowship provides $3,000 for the recipient and $1,500 to the university.
them, as in past years, may come to work for Du Pont when they finish their studies, but there is no obligation to do so; fellowship holders are free to enter any field of activity they choose.
The students and their research subjects will be selected by authorities of the 47 universities participating. In this year’s program, 45 of the postgraduate fellowships are in chemistry, 4 in physics, 15 in chemical engineering, 5 in mechanical engineering and 2 in metallurgy. There will be 6 postdoctoral fellowships as an incentive to those who would prefer to remain in academic work in order to obtain additional advanced training in chemistry.
*The University of Notre Dame participates in the Du Pont Fellowship Plan.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVINQ
, . . THKOUGH CHEMISTRY
Entertaining, informative—Listen to "Cavalcade of America” Monday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
May 13, 1949
27
It serves her right!
MARY jane gives the telephone in her house a real work-out.
But we’re not worried a bit. We know Mary Jane’s telephone is going to keep right on delivering good service year after year. Because the Bell System puts a lot of time, thought, and testing into making telephone equipment as rugged and trouble-free as possible.
Tests are constantly under way at the Bell Telephone Laboratories. There, for example, new types of telephone instruments are put through a school of hard knocks. Dials and other parts are given strength and wear tests. Even the bottom of the telephone set has been designed and checked to make sure that it will not scratch or stain furniture.
Such tests—on little things as well as on big things—help give you the world’s best telephone service at the lowest possible cost.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

28
The Scholastic
Keglers Plan Banquet; Final Matches Sunday
The Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame wind up another successful year of bowling Sunday afternoon at the Bowl-Mor and finish the season officially with a banquet at the Mayfair Hotel in Mishawaka next Tuesday.
Sunday’s session features the championship match between the Buffalo Club, Blue League titlists, and the Italian Club, winners in the Gold League. The big match starts at 1 p.m. Ernie Huffman’s latest innovation, an amazingly successful doubles tourney, will be concluded with the last series of games scheduled to begin around 4 p.m. Ray Zasada and Tony Carmola have built up a 35-pin lead in the earlier games.
There should be at least 150 of the loop’s bowlers at Tuesday’s big banquet.
Just as they did last year, the Keglers will present many team and individual awards at the banquet. All awards have been donated, and Tom Gallagher, vice-president of the Chicago Club expressed the general feeling of the donors. He said, “We believe that this is a fine student activity and we are glad to contribute.” The prosperous Chicagoans are giving plaques to all members of the Kampus Kegler team in the Midwest Bowling Conference.
Other contributors are Parker-Win-terrowd, Inc., Hickey Bros., McGann Securities, National Milk Company, Sol-litt Construction Company, Indiana Engraving Company, Service Printers Company, Rasmussen Men’s Shop, Lowers and the Bowl-Mor.
Tomorrow afternoon, after the Old Timers-Varsity football game, the Kampus Keglers will roll their return match
with the University	of Illinois at the		
Bowl-Mor. The Illini	won	the first	one
at Champaign, 5-0. Final league standings:			
Gold League	Won	Lost	Pts.
Italian 			36	15	50
Chemist 		35	16	48
Off-Campus 			34	17	46
Pittsburgh 		32	19	44
Philadelphia 		31	20	43
Syrian-Leb			32	19	42
Texas 		29	22	40
Met 	:		30	21	39
A.S.M.E			27	24	35
Rockford 		25	26	34
Detroit 		26	25	33
Int. American 		24	27	32
Aero Eng. 		22	22	29
Columbus 		20	31	25
Cleveland 		18	33	24
Architect 		18	33	24
Fox River Valley		17	34	21
Prop & Wing		3	48	3
Blue League	Won	Lost	Pts.
Buffalo 		40	11	53
Metallurgy 		37	14	50
Rochester 		36	15	49
Kansas City 		31	20	44
Central N. Y. 		32	19	43
K. of C. 		29	22	39
St. Louis 		29	22	38
Vetville 		29	22	38
New England* 		29	19	37
Youngstown 		23	28	31
A.I. Ch. E.  22	29	30
New Jersey  22	29	30
Toledo*  21	27	29
Generation  22	29	28
Utica ------------------------ 17	34	22
Indianapolis ----------------- 14	37	18
Minnesota  12	39	15
Kentucky  11	40	15
*Lost points because of forfeit
Total pins will determine position in ties.
Final Individual and Team Records for 1949 Individual Average	Games Average
Tom Simon  33	179.39
Bill Gorman 50	172,32
John Rini-------------------------- 42	169.67
Jack Vituske----------------------- 51	168.47
Paul Pukish------------------------ 50	167.66
High Individual Single Game—Lee Sheridan, 236 High Individual Three Games—Tom Simon, 611 High Team Single Game—Met Club, 1020 (new Kegler record)
High Team Three Games (Handicap)—A. I. Chern.
Eng., 2856
Sailors Gain Finals In M.C.C. Title Race
The Notre Dame sailing team cruised into the Midwest Collegiate championship regatta by virtue of a strong second-place showing in the Northwestern regional eliminations held last week-end at the Chicago Yacht club. Northwestern, the host, copped the meet with 98 points. Notre Dame tallied 93 points, while Chicago amassed 85 % for third. Illinois Tech, Minnesota and Wisconsin trailed in that order.
Seventeen races were held. Charlie Burke skippered the nine heats in the “A” division and Jim Crowe directed the eight heats in the “B” division. Burke garnered 51 points with two firsts, five seconds and one third; Crowe scored 42 points with five seconds and a third.
Serving as crew to the skippers were Dick Brotherson, who handled the sails in Burke’s two first-place wins, Joe Caldwell, Joe Schrank, Dan Dutton, Joe Gar-gan and Fred Joyce.
The sailors will be inactive this weekend while resting in preparation for the M.C.C. finals on May 21-22 at Ann Arbor. The Irish will be among the eight teams who will try to dethrone the defending champs and hosts from Michigan. The three top teams in the M.C.C. finals will participate in the National Intercollegiate Championship regatta to be held at Michigan on June 21-23.
—Jack Economou
Track
(Continued from Page 21)
Top man on the Tiger cinder group is Dick Ault, who won fourth place in the Olympic 400-meter hurdles last summer. He is three-time Big Seven outdoor low hurdle champ with a best mark of :23.3 for the 220-yard distance. The senior from St. Louis is also conference quarter-mile champion, and serves on the mile relay quartet.
Another 440 man with a brilliant record is Elmer Klein, who has toured the oval in :48.7. He also runs the dashes,
and is on the Missouri mile relay team which bested Notre Dame when the Irish were turning in their best time in two years. In the 880, giving competition to Tony DaDamio and Pat Kenny will be Bob Bosworth who has a top time of 1:56.
In the field events, the Missouri team has some of the best men in the country. Dick Oder and Jim Howard are both capable of better than six feet, two inches in the high jump. Phil Brusca and Kelly Pelts are average shot putters, who are not capable of matching John Helwig, the Notre Dame record holder. Laddie Stovall in the broad
jump and javelin, and Clifford VanDyne in the pole vault fill out the impressive array of Tiger field event strength.
Rounding out the Missouri running power are Gil Phillips, a dashman, Bob Schuster, a quarter-miler, Milton Vanet,
MILTON VANET Missouri Spinster
a sprinter, and Dick Schmidt, a middle distance runner.
Notre Dame is fortunate in having Steve Provost to fill in as a sprinter, if Bob Smith is unable to take part. Provost has improved considerably this year in these events, and last week won the •220 and was second in the 100 against Pittsburgh.
The Irish will be forced to rely on depth in the distances, and brilliant performances in some of the field and hurdle events to carry them to a victory in the dual contest. Coach Handy believes the two squads to be quite evenly matched and the Irish are seeking to avenge the whipping they took from the Tigers in the 1948 indoor season.
Notre Dame will have another rough intersectional battle next week, when they travel east io battle the Penn State track team.
May 13, 1949
29
East wind, west wind, no wind at all, it’s always fair and cooler in Van Heusen "Air JVeave." By actual test, these open-window fabrics let in twice the air that ordinary shirtings do! You’ll find "Air Weave" tailored with custom-airy Van Heusen magic in regular shirts and sport shirts in styles acclaimed on campus, and olf. Tested fabrics—a neiv shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out ofsize! Breeze into your dealer’s, -53.65, §3,95.
Other Van Heusen shirts §2.95 and up.
summer breeze
catchers
made from fabrics with wide open windows
0 Van Heusen
shirts
the world’s smartest
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
^/l/WWWVWWWVl
Look to
The Road to Damascus, Edited by John A. O’Brien, Doubleday and Company, Garden City, New York, 1949. $2.50.
In his preface to this book its editor, Notre Dame’s Father O’Brien, gives this reason for its existence and its title: “. . . the road to Damascus has become the symbol and the synonym of the road traveled by the long army of pilgrims from the dark domain of doubt into the white light of countless hosts of converts to Christ and to His Church. That is the road traveled by the fifteen men and women who tell the story of their journey in this book.”
The Road to Damascus is then a collection of personal experiences, an anthology of conversions. As such it is a highly significant and highly readable work. For, first of all, those fifteen men and women are a distinguished group. They include such outstanding figures as Evelyn Waugh, Senator Wagner, Frances Parkinson Keyes, Fulton Oursler and Clare Booth Luce and Notre Dame professor Willis D. Nutting.
Each of them tells his story in his own way. There is no attempt to be impressive. The plot of each story is too big, too important for that. And because there is such a wide variance of authors, so too there is a wide variance of experience.
There is the careful, philosophical approach to the Church exhibited by a Father M. Raphael Simon, o.c.s.o., a former Jewish psychiatrist whose faith has brought him into the Trappist order. Or the strong emotional and mystic approach of writer, editor Fulton Oursler. There is the sharp, colorful account of an Evelyn Waugh or the warm, fascinating story of Willis Nutting’s discovery of the Church.
^GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
HERE — You are always a Guest before you are a Customer.
And, taken as a whole, there is in this book the calm assurance of people who have found truth and with it a peace and contentment that a modern world cannot give. There is a message of power- in each and every story. A message for every Catholic. A message bringing with it a keen sense of the preciousness of a true faith.
Father O’Brien, whose literary activities made him ideal for the role of editor, does a highly effective job. Outside of a preface, a concluding chapter and short biographical sketches, Father has let his writers speak for themselves. In doing so he has presented a chorus of fifteen voices which sings a hymn to
30
The Scholastic
God and His Church which, if you listen closely, sounds something like “Holy God, We Praise Thy Name.”
—Greg Halpin
Not Flying Saucers — Just Yo-Yo Time at ND
Have you noticed that the yo-yo kids are with us again? Every spring it happens. We who have outgrown the coterie of the kite and the marble have not been as successful in eradicating the surreptitious yo-yo. The place is whizzing with them.
But in defense of his chosen pastime, says yo-yo champ (Springfield, III.), Tom Fitzgerald:
“You have no idea what delightful kinesthotic sensations you are neglecting if you do not own and use a yo-yo. No man has truly savored the full piq-uance of life until he has successfully executed a down-drop sleeper* with a walk and jerk. There is an intangible, impalpable, psychic something in a whirling wooden sphere under reticent but taut control that is the very quintessence of titillating ecstasy. Why when I was undergoing conditioning for the west side finals ...”
Anyhow, there is apparently no end to what you can do with the silly things. But there is one heavy sin. Says Tom, “The dilletante breed of yo-yo operator can be readily detected if you will only pause to note the position of the hand before an exercise is begun. Palm up indicates the probability of at least a basic competence. Palm down is the revelation of total stupidity.”
The straight drop and snatch is usually the only thing that most yo-yo’ers
learn to do. It is childishly simple. All you have to do is yo down and yo back. No real kicks to speak of. But more advanced yo-yoing is a mean proposition. As Tom says, “It sorely taxes ones digital dexterity.”
Still, there is nothing quite like advanced yo-yoing. You get out of it just what you put in. You put in a simple flip and you get simple. You put in a round the world with a sleeper and a walking retrieve — and you can imagine what you get.
“Then,” says Tom, “there is the singing yo-yo. The singing yo-yo ...”
Oh well, you get the idea.
—A. J. Scriba
Math Department Offers General Statistics Course
Following an experimental lead by the University of Chicago and Princeton University, the Department of Mathematics at Notre Dame has announced the inauguration of a new course in elementary statistics. The course, somewhat different from other statistics classes already being taught, will be offered this fall.
All students on the sophomore level or above with a year of mathematics and a better-than-average knowledge of general math will be eligible to attend the class sessions. There will be two sections operating in September for three hours a week with the usual three credits given.
WANT TO EAEN $9000 A YEAN?
Then here’s your chance to enter a business offering an opportunity for unlimited earnings .. . plus the satisfaction of rendering a worthwhile community service. Many of our representatives earn $4,000 to $9,000 a year, and more! ~
To find out more about the opportunities offered to you in a life insurance selling career, send for our free booklet, “The Career For Me?” which includes a preliminary test to help determine your aptitude. If your score is favorable, our Manager in or near your community will explain our excellent on-the-job training course and the famous Mutual Lifetime Compensation Plan, which provides liberal commissions, service fees and a substantial retirement income at 65.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY af NEW YORK
According to Dr. Arnold E. Ross, head of the Department of Mathematics, “The course will not emphasize special applications of statistics but a description of the fundamentals important to everyone.”
The new class, numbered 160, will be taught by Assistant Professor Paul M. Nastucoff.
3< Nassau Street
FIRST IN
NawYo*k5.N.Y.
AMERICA
FOR FREE BOOKLET—“THE CAREER FCS SIE?”—ADDRESS DEFT. 7	
NAME.		
ADDRESS—— -	
- -- -	
1
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
501 NORTH NILES
May 13, 1949
31
From Hie Apocrypha of Nicodemus
(Continued from Page 13)
But there wast not reply, and Ralph didst grow lean with worry, and he didst rebuke Mabel, for what she had brought about: but she said unto him, Milquetoast.
But at length after many days there didst come another cedle, saying, You are summoned to attend our presence on Thursday next, at three o’clock of the morn; so that you may be tried for crimes and misdemeanors against ourselves. And Ralph didst tremble, but Mabel said, be of good cheer: for I go with thee.
And at three o’clock of the morn of Thursday next, Ralph and his consort didst appear before ye triers. And ye triers said unto him, Verily, thou hast transgressed: for thou kept not the Birthday of George Washington as we have-ordained that ye shall keep it, according to tradition. But Ralph wast silent, for he didst tremble so mightily that he couldst not say anything. And Mabel said unto the triers, Behold, O learned sirs, it is even as I have written, my mother lay in extremis in Elkhart, and we were summoned there of a sudden, for they said that she didst expire.
But they said unto her, Why went thy husband with thee? And she said, because of the love he bears me. And then the triers wept: for they were sorely touched by Ralph’s devotion, and they said to him, Go: thou art excused, But take care that thou walkest in the way we have ordained hereafter. And when they were outside, Mabel spoke unto Ralph, Thou hast no courage. And Ralph wast ashamed.
Graduation Didst Come
But at length the time for graduation didst come, and Ralph didst make preparation for the ceremony, saying unto Mabel, I must anon write unto my progenitors, that they may attend upon my graduation, and I must eke write unto mine uncles, and mine aunts, and my cousins once removed, that they may send their tokens of their high esteem of me. But Mabel said, behold: The inns are filled, and thy parents must from many leagues come unto us, but my mother, my father, and my two brothers come but from Elkhart: seek not for inns, but invite my family. And Ralph said to her, nay—but immediately she commenced weeping, and didst begin to pack her suitcase. And Ralph sighed and bethought him of bachelors, but he said to her, so be it. But he sent unto his uncles, his aunts, and his cousins once removed that they might send unto him tokens of regard.
And upon the day of graduation, the relatives of Mabel didst appear, but alas, they brought no gifts. And the brother of Mabel, one yclept Herman, besought Ralph in his robes, saying, It goeth ill with me. My creditors are upon my doorstep, and thou must needs lend me money: for I know that the cousin once removed hath sent thee much. And Mabel said: Let it be so. And Ralph bethought him of murder, but he didst give Herman fifty dollars. But Herman said, Cheapskate.
And there wast that day great confusion, for all the graduating seniors and their heirs and assigns did flock the campus, so that there wast mickle roistering. And at length they repaired them unto ye stadium, whereat the final ceremony wast to be. And there wast there a man called Harangue N. Bilgewater, a famous orator, who wast to address them. And behold, he didst address them in this wise, saying, Go ye forth and do as I have done, succeed as I have succeeded, and ye shall be as great even as I, for know ye that I am great among men, for all do celebrate the name of Bilgewater. And he ceased not, but spake even for two hours. And Ralph didst sleep, but anon there came, the voice of Bilgewater, saying, sleep not: For I say wisdom, and wisdom may cry out in the streets, but no man heeds it. And Ralph waked, and list unto Bilgewater.
Ye Time Grew Near
And anon ye time grew near when Ralph wouldst approach ye platform and receive ye degree from ye President. And when he drew nigh ye President, the holy man regarded him ,saying, it is not possibly, and he read the name on the diploma. And he rent his garments, saying, I resign. But Ralph took ye diploma and went into ye audience, and when the ceremony wast done, he besought Mabel, and said unto her, congratulate me: for I am a bachelor. But Mabel said: nay, thou art otherwise: Lend Herman another fifty.
And so closeth ye Apocrypha of Nicodemus, which hath related the history of Ralph O’Rafferty in seven staves: for behold, he is with us no more, but hath gone forth, with his wife Mabel and his child Uriah.
. Dr. Ralph A. Berman
DENTIST
Mon. 9-12: Thun. 9-12, 1:30-5 Fri. i:30-5; Sat. 9-12
406 Platt Bldg.	Fh. 6-3627
105 W. Wayne St., South Bend
ORDER CAPS AND GOWNS NOW
The Department of Student Welfare has announced that all undergraduates, graduate students, and professors must have their orders for caps and gowns in by May 21. Undergraduates are to make necessary arrangements through the Student Welfare office; graduate students in the Graduate School office; and professors in the Director of Studies office.
NFCCS to Continue Student Relief Drive
Delegates from 168 Catholic colleges and universities attending the sixth annual congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students in Chicago last week voted to continue the Foreign Student Relief Campaign next year.
Accepting the recommendation of Notre Dame’s Lou Burns, national chairman of the campaign this year, the congress okayed a campaign similar to this year’s but on a smaller scale. The drive as planned will put equal stress on material aid, such as food and clothing, and intellectual aid—.scholarships and textbooks to help train young Catholic leaders for Europe.
Notre Dame’s delegates to the congress were Bill Kirchner, Student Councilman, and Bob Stock, editor of the Scholastic. Dave Matthews, off-campus representative to the Council, was an alternate.
In another resolution the congress called for federal aid for private as well as public schools.
Racial discrimination in colleges and fraternities was scored by the congress. Its resolution called upon those Catholic institutions and organizations which discriminate against even Catholic Negroes to abandon their policy in favor of one “manifesting the Church’s supra-racial unity and charity without compromise or ambiguity.” Discrimination by Catholics, the resolution said, gives “a false and scandalous impression as to what Catholicism means in practice.”
To satisfy what was felt to be a longstanding need, the NFCCS congress also set up a committee to lay the groundwork for a national Catholic intercollegiate placement buerau. Purpose of the bureau would be to inform students of particular jobs and vocational fields where their Catholic training would be most useful.
32
The Scholastic
100 Senior Ball Bids Go on Block Monday
The biggest Senior Ball in Notre Dame history will get underway one week from today in the Navy drill hall. Plans called for the limitation of bids at 500 couples, but, because of the exceptionally large demand from the 1,400 eligible June, August, and January graduates, one hundred additional tickets will go on sale Monday.
Pat Costello, senior class president and general chairman of the dance, advises all prospective ball-goers who haven’t purchased their tickets yet to get them by Tuesday night. Inasmuch as there were a limited number of favors purchased for the ball, some of the after-Tuesday bid purchasers might go favor-less May 20th.
Committees for this year’s Senior Ball include: Ed Farrell, dance manager; John St. Germaine, Lou Scibelli, and Bob Molnar, decorations; Bill Powers, Jim McMahon, C. Ushula, Bernie Powers, Bob Welch, Bill Bradley, and Carl Sposato, tickets; Jim Clifford and Jim Rodgers, band; Jack Dempsey, refreshments; Bob Vierhile, publicity; Bill Halligan, room reservations; Larry Gallo, Bob Campbell, and George Korhumel, miscellany.
MVWWWAWA
Attention I Sun
ARROW BASQUE ■: SHIRTS H.50 UP !:
Look to
Gilbert’s
for
ARROW
Worshippers!
break this summer. JI with a few Arrow • J» basque shirts.	■*
Perfect for golf, tennis, or basquing • ■ in the sun.	!•
See your Arrow dealer today!
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIE^
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
AWVWVW
'•GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan Street
ARROW
SHIRTS and TIES
Rvsc 5 K^tz
1 V FOX? MEN AND 1 V/OLWG MEN
MAIN AT CO L FAX
May 13, 1949
33
7:30 a. m.	7:30 p. m.
FOR RENT
White Formal Coats Forma Is Tuxedos
•
ALL Types of Costumes
WIGS, BEARDS, MUSTACHES and ACCESSORIES
Burns Costume Shop
608 Liberty Drive MISHAWAKA Phone 5-5237
WILDERNESS
in Superior Wilderness Quetico Lake Region Complete outfitting service S3.50 a day with Grom-J?®0 aluminum canoes. Food, vour choice—extra.
Basswood Lake Lodge on Minn. - Canadian Border. Main Lo and 20 log cabins.
Modem bath room facilities, American Plan rates S8.00 and np. 4
HVLDFRNE5S Otff ITI^^ MMB aY. MINNESOTA WM
Fine Repairing •
Nationally Advertised WATCHES, DIAMONDS, JEWELRY
126 N. Michigan Street South Bend 9, Ind.
RROWSER’S Column
by Max A. Browser
Homestretch
As the last issues of this magazine flop themselves on campus doorsteps, it behooves us to gather together loose ends and tie them into a column. Thus we proceed:
There comes first to mind, at this time, the current elections. They have been, to this column, something of a disappointment. There has been but one party really actively campaigning with the rest of the field content to plaster walls with bright and brilliant posters and let it go at that. The campaign promises are the same old things, the campaigners themselves are a fair, though not outstanding, collection of campus talent, and generally things are going along a peaceful, dull, unfruitful way.
The elections this year are, of course, a vast improvement over- those of say ’45, ’46. There is some effort being made. They are below the blatant standards set last year. What seems to us most important is: how will they be next season?
Whatever the cause, up until last year, election time at Notre Dame has always resembled Republican Campaign headquarters, Nov. 2. Last year there were signs of life; there was hope. Certainly the signs (and sounds) themselves were somewhat obnoxious. It takes a hardened ear to listen to the same, scratchy record blasting forth day in and day out as one treads his way dangerously to the Dining Hall. But these were rather natural growing pains of something really vital; and all growing pains are sudden, awkward things. They could be endured for the end just in sight.
This year’s campaign has let down on the promise given by its predecessor. The torch, once lighted, has been allowed to flare out, until it now but sputters. Campus politics return to the dark ages and no one seems very much to care.
Here and There
The verdict on the Junior Prom seems
to have been a unanimously favorable one ... we can only hope that the Seniors will turn in a like performance....
Stadium graduation exercises seem, to this observer, a logic and forward move. If the weatherman cooperates many more people will be able to observe the ceremonies.
Modern Metal Chairs Tested in Classroom
As the silent, weary students of Religion 24 dragged themselves slowly into Room 254 of the Main Building one day last week, they stopped in amazement. One by one, they rubbed sleep-fogged eyes and stared dully at the neat rows of ultra-modern looking metal tube chairs.
According to Mr. J. J. Sechowski, Assistant Purchasing Agent of Notre Dame, Room 254 is now the University’s official testing ground for the sturdy, functional student seats which may eventually replace rickety’ chairs and benches now in use. Whether or not they will be adopted for general use depends on how well they stand up against the effects of age, climatic conditions and bored students.
Right now, Mr. Sechowski is enthusiastic about theii* possibilities. Unlike the long, cramped benches common in MB classrooms, the new furniture provides “squirming room.” No longer will “robust” students have to resort to Ry-Krisp in order to ease embarrassing girths into the allotted eigh teen-in oh spaces.
“They should be easier* to keep clean,” Mr. Sechowski points out, “and stronger, too, because of the welded tubular construction. Besides, they make for a neater, brighter looking room.”
But there’s another advantage, less on the idealistic side. The new chairs present a partial solution to the problem of the omnipresent, student-wielded keys and pen-knives. “You see, they’re lightcolored and won’t show scratches so much,” Mr. Sechowski added, with a perfectly straight face.
34
The Scholastic
QUALIFY FOR A CAREER
fa Aviation
U. s. AIR FORCE AVIATION
CADET INTERVIEWING
TEAM WILL
BE HERE
May 16-20
Dining Hall (Basement) 9 a. m. to 4 p. m.
DATE:
PLACE:
TIME:
Regular commissions immediately. All others have excellent opportunity while on active duty , to earn Regular
Want a Non-Flying Career?
U. S. AIR FORCE OFFICER CANDIDATE SCHOOL If you can meet the high standards required of candidates for officer training, there’s a real future for you in the U. S. Air Force. Capable young executives are needed for positions of responsibility in non-flying assignments ... management, communications, engineering, research and other fields. That is why the Air Force is seeking ambitious men and women with college training, to prepare them for leadership. Six months’ course begins July 7. Get full details from the interviewing team.
Here’s the opportunity you’ve been waiting for—the opportunity to get in on the ground floor of aviation... with the world’s most progressive aviation organization—the United States Air Force!
For qualified college men who are selected, it’s the chance to get $35,000 worth of the finest flying and executive training
—with pay! When you complete one year of thorough training, you win your wings ... a Reserve commission in the U. S. Air Force.. .an important assignment as an Air Force officer and pilot. Outstanding graduates receive
WIN YOUR WINGS
nation.
V. 5. AIR FORCf
Aviation Cade1 Classes begin Every Six Weeks
MO SkaaNng Stat
Are You Eligible? You must be between 20 and 26^ years old, physically sound and have at least two years of college or the ability to pass an equivalent examination given by the interviewing team. Both single and married men now are eligible.
COLLEGE SENIORS: Learn how, if you are accepted, you can enter an Aviation Cadet
May 13, 1949
35