Knute Kenneth Rockne (1888-1931)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COLLEGE PARADE
— RAYMOND J. KELLY	~
Anti-Climax . . .
According to the sports editor of the St. Mary’s Collegian, a weekly published by the students of the California namesake of our own Glamor-on-the-Wane, the Gaels will be quite a team this year for, as he says it—“The coach is green. His assistants are green. The line is green. The trainer is green. The publicity director is green, the equipment manager is green.” And, in addition, the uniforms are red, white, and blue.
❖
Futility....
Dr. Harold Zink, of the DePauw University political science department, spent eight years working on a textbook, dealing with modern governments throughout the world. Hardly had the work been completed and prepared for the press than Adolf the Kleptomaniac began operating and before a single copy had come from the press, the book was out of date. At last reports, the doctor was still frantically working to get ahead of Adolf again.
How It Began . . .
The Daily Californian tells that its Frosh-Soph brawl began back in the 1880’s when custom decreed that juniors should wear plug hats and seniors should wear black plugs, and sophomores wore mortar-boards, and freshmen went bareheaded. So the first-year men stole sophomore headgear and, at the annual class rush, would defend their booty. The huskiest frosh would hide a mortar board under his shirt. At a signal, sophomores would rush the freshmen in a rough and tumble scramble to get back the headpiece. Plugs, mortar-boards have all vanished and -with them the original purpose of the riot but still that fighting spirit, modified by council rule and faculty edict, lives on one day each year at the Berkeley campus.
How to Break Up a Romance . ..
Convince her that you don’t want to stand in the way of her career.
Mention the fact that there is hereditary insanity in your family.
Start eating garlic and onions.
Tell her that the car you have been using really belongs to a friend.
Tell her that the seats in the loges are for rich men and politicians only.
Tell her your real age.
Insist on Dutch treats.
—Exchange
EDITOR’S NOTE: This column came flying out of the East, late as usual. Our Mr. Kelly has taken a vacation for himself and is in Boston, observing the American Legion Convention. In a note attached to his copy he comments on the sights. “I saw ‘Hellzapoppiri the other evening in New York and was one of the unfortunates singled out to learn the ‘Boomps-A-Daisy I’ I was embarrassed.”
Still on the War Side ...
An interesting pamphlet fell into these columnistic hands the other day. It was entitled “Some Arguments Favoring the Entry of the United States into the War in Europe,” and was dedicated to all those who wTere killed or disabled in the World War. Except for the printed title page and the dedication on the third page, the booklet was blank paper, an effective answer to the war-mongers.
Snaps...
At Gonzaga University, like many another school, freshmen are required to wear “pots.” However, seeking to help the new-comers to become acquainted with the “shots” of the campus the first-year men are required to obtain the autographs of twenty-five seniors, including those of the president of the student body and the captain of the football team, before they are permitted to buy one of the little green caps. . . . Republicans and anti-third term Democrats at St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minnesota, have organized their own Willkie-for-President Club. . . . S.M.U. publicity chiefs describe pre-season -workouts of the Mustang squad: “rough as a peanut patty with peanuts on both sides.”
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
OPINION
THE WEEK
FRANK WEMHOFF=
The Week
. . . For years The Man About Campus has flung bouquets and scented rice in the direction of those chosen ones generally conceded to be the super-ultra favorites, the two-dip specials, the very flowers of our school. Noiv The Week would like to roast “The Unknown Student,” that unsung fellow whose exploits are not always formally recognized . . . which may be a blessing. . . .
Biography
. . . Birth came to Joe Blow as it does to so many men, and almost immediately he developed a critical disdain for water as anything but a general solvent. Joe matured his reputation as such at dear old Skiatook High where he majored in dipsomania and minored in silence. Joe was indeed a glowing example. So Joe went to Notre Dame to finish his education and organized a club on “How To Reach Twenty-one In Short.” Because of his pioneering sorties in South Bend, Joe quickly became known as “Test Case.” Next to the football field Joe betook his ninety-proof self where he tried out for fullback on the “Q” squad. Joe was nearly always at capacity when he played so he became truly known as the “full back.” . . . Joe’s is a dangerous life. And yours would be too if you had to hold your breath every time a cigarette was lighted near you.
He Held That Line . . .
There have been a number of stories told about Joe and they are on sworn records which anyone may examine. They tell one on our good dear lil ole pal Joe at football practice. It seems that Joe had an assignment to block an end that came charging in and smearing every play before it got started. Joe couldn’t take out the end and smarted under the stinging Layden taunts. Finally the play was called again and the desperate Joe threw himself recklessly at the onrushing end but missed him again. Elmer called out in his raspy voice, “That’s it. Joe. That’s the way to sneer at that end.”
Joe’s hearing is a little on the fritz, too. Last week a member of the newly-organized Skiatook Club asked him, “Do you have the Charter?” And Joe said. “What? Me? Oh yeah, right between the eyes. Good horse, too.”
Of course, all people have troubles and Joe is no exception. Last night he almost
kayoed some fellow who told him that he ought to weal’ an atomizer. And then there was the time that Joe bought his dinner in the “caf” and took it into the dining hall to eat it. That was a sad chapter in Joe’s life.
Brother Noel
When Joe was a freshman he had a brother, Noel, who lived in Howard. One day early in the year he went over to visit Noel Blow. And it was on this day that Joe evinced his universal genius by standing in front of the sign in Howard Hall: “Use the buzzer and save steps” and waiting twenty minutes for the elevator. It took him that long to notice it wasn’t running that day.
Joe has had a lot of major episodes with the disciplinary authorities, as they are sometimes called. There was the time that Joe was fined for using six squirts of soap in the Memorial shower. I can hear that menacing voice yet: “This will go hard on you, sonny.” And then Joe’s tearful voice: “No, no, not that. I’m too .young to die!”
Well, we all remember how Joe beat that rap. But, alas, we also remember that he did not fare as well when he was subpoenaed for picking raisins out of the breakfast rolls.
Still, Joe isn’t all bad. I’ve read somewhere that every little tyke has a hint of manhood smouldering in his heart. And Joe has an open mind . . . definitely. Yet, when you see him on the campus greet him with a big “Hyaboy! How they goin’?” Don’t forget fellows, he’s one of us . . . sobs . . . Nota Bene: This is not an autobiography.
❖
. . . Desperation
. . . Metaphysics professors have a knack of hurling transcendentals and their more elaborate counterparts around with a minimum of clarity. One professor was sparkling with literary invective this week as he belabored his class with “You must know this” and “You must know that.” One poor lad in the back of the room could hold in no longer and whispered hoarsely, “That just leaves the draft as the only thing for me.”
❖
Bottom of the Week
Wanted—Readers, readers, readers, — Patience is the only requirement, experience not necessary. Kindly apply to College Parade only one page back.
Since the coming week is to be dedicated to the memory of Knute Rockne, we have asked various students about the campus the following question for this issue: What significance or what inspiration does Rockne hold for you as a Notre Dame student?
George Sullivan, Breen-Phillips Hall, says: “Rockne means a great deal to me. My admiration for him made me want to come to Notre Dame away back, to play football here. It kept me working for three years after I got out of high school sc I could finally come — and play, I hope.”
Bob Murphy, Badin Hall, answers: “I remember Rockne as a man who always gave everyone a square deal. The things he stood for—hard work and taking things like a man, win or lose—are in my estimation things really worth standing for.”
Walter Bauchman, Cavanaugh Hall, says: “There must have been something special about Rockne to make his players work so hard for him. Even in the Mormon community where I come from, he is thought of with as much respect and devotion as anywhere else in the United States.”
Jim Doyle, Dillon Hall, answers: “Rockne was the champion of good sportsmanship. He’s a lasting memory around here not only as a coach but as a chemistry teacher ■who was friendly with all students.”
Clarence Ward, Zahm Hall, says: “I admire Rockne because he made his teams fight. He had a great deal of that spirit in himself, too, for one time at Soldiers’ Field he coached his men from a wheel chair even though he was ill.”
Fred Fowler, Walsh Hall, answers: “Probably Knute Rockne was the best coach that ever lived. The way he sparked his teams to victory made a name for Notre Dame.”
Jack Dinges, St. Edward’s Hall, Recalls as one of his outstanding memories of Rockniana hearing a recording of the great coach’s voice in pep-talks between halves of a football game where the rising tempo and tone of his voice sent his players out with renewed spirit in mind and sent chills up the spines of those who merely heard the recording.
Bill Scanlan, Howard Hall, feels that “Rockne will live forever as the man who has perhaps done more for athletics than any other person in the nation. He imbued his men with the spirit of teamwork rather than individual glory.
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
■Volume 74
SEPTEMBER 27, 1940
Number 2
ROCKNE MEMORIAL DEDICATION LAST YEAR
Campus Premiere of "Knute Rockne—
All American," Will be Held Oct. 4
Four Showings Planned for Faculty, Students
Minus even the usual screen test, over 500 Notre Dame men made their movie debut last May in campus scenes of the Warner Brothers’ film, “Knute Rockne— All American.” That was a thrill!—but next Friday comes a bigger thrill, the campus premiere of the finished picture! People fortunate enough to get to the downtown premiere will see on the stage the stars who played in the picture, but students attending the Washington Hall premiere may be privileged to sit next to a fellow who sat in the third seat from the aisle in the seventh row from the front in the funeral scene.
The chronological data on the campus premiere, as announced by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., is as follows: first showing at
1:30 p.m. for Community members, lay faculty members and their wives only; . students will be admitted after 1:15 p.m., only if there are extra seats: the next three showings are for the students, at 3:30, 7:00 and 9:00 p.m. Supper will be at 5:30 p.m. with the pep meeting at six o’clock.
Athletic books must be presented for admission to the show. A special request is made that no one student attend more than one show in fairness to the others. There will be later campus showings of the picture.
In South Bend the main action of an event-crammed week starts next Thursday afternoon with an unprecedented welcome demonstration for the galaxy of stars coming to take part in the doings for the next three days. Pat O’Brien, Gale Page, Donald Crisp, Jane Wyman, Anita Louise, Bob Hope, and others will be present. Thursday night
there will be a formal banquet at the Notre Dame dining hall where Bob Hope will preside as master of ceremonies. The banquet program will be broadcast.
On Friday morning members of the party will place a wreath on Rockne’s grave. That night the stars will make appearances at the Colfax, Palace, Granada, and State theatres in succession during the premiere showing. Sandwiched between these will be their participation in Kate Smith’s radio program, emanating from the John Adams high school at 7:00 and 10:00 p.m. The Grand Ball at the Palais Royale will start at 11:00 p.m. with the stars and members of the civic committee leading the grand march.
An easily understandable lack of time may prevent Pat O’Bi-ien from appearing at the Notre Dame pep meeting. On Saturday, however, the Hollywood representatives will attend the Notre Dame-College of the Pacific game and will be introduced at the half. The game will be broadcast by Mutual.
Stage Social Events
The social events are merely part of this gala week. The police department will face the task of controlling and untangling one of the biggest traffic jams in the history of South Bend. The stream of outsiders is expected to more than double the population. Merchants have already been affected, having sold out again and again, their stock of formal gowns and women’s finery.
Hotels and restaurants will have their troubles in attempting to accommodate the maximum number of people. Whether or not the first game attendance record at the Notre Dame stadium will be broken is yet uncertain, but it is very probable.—Robert D. LeMense
Actors! Announcers!
Are you interested in doing radio work? Did you miss the general call by the Radio club for auditions today? If so, be you freshman, sophomore, junior or senior, come up to the campus studio to make your arrangements. Location: third floor of the Engineering building. Time: Monday, Sept. 30, or Tuesday, Oct. 1, between 3:30 and 5:30 p.m.
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Father Lord Commends
Spirit of Notre Dame
“One of the really beautiful campuses of the country . . . and probably the country’s most remarkable development in the last ten years . . . the college that defied the depression. . .
These were the words of the Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., when asked his opinion of Notre Dame’s campus. Father Lord showed great admiration for the University and highly commended both students and faculty. He praised the close relationship of the students and the faculty and the friendly feeling that prevails on the campus, emphasizing the fact that this relationship is what a university spirit should be.
When the question of the draft bill came up, Father Lord expressed the opinion that the government may, and he believes, should see fit to use the colleges as a special training group for officers as was done in the last war. He feels that college men are too good as officer material to be placed in the ranks.
Comments on Draft
In the discussion of the student outlook on the draft Father Lord said: “The student feeling as I seem to sense it is: ‘Sorry, we’d rather not see a draft, but since that is the only thing to do, let’s do it and get it over with.’ ” He believes that the campuses have passed from a stage of supine pacifism to a state of patient militarism — that the students don’t want to be soldiers but since they must they will do their job.
When questioned concerning his work Father Lord found it difficult to say which branch he enjoyed most, but when pinned down he admitted that he enjoyed his work as a retreat-master, but stated that he gives retreats only for men. He believes, however, that the work done in Catholic Action does the most immediate good.
Continues Youth Column
Concerning his column in the Youth Section of the Sunday Visitor, Father Lord said it would be continued this year under the title “Hi, Gang!” and will as before consider the problems that young people are faced with. This year the column will concentrate on, as he terms them, “Gangs of High School Days” and will continue next year with “Gangs of College.”
Father Lord, after concluding the retreat here, will go to the Catholic Rural Life Conference in St. Cloud, Minn., for a meeting of rural young people. From there he plans to go to St. Louis and spend a few days writing before attending the Catholic Scholastic Conference at Marquette.—Joe Stephen
The Ave Maria Building
____built in Civil War days
Expect Ave Maria Plant
Completed by Christmas
Ground was broken during the summer for foundations of a new Ave Maria printing plant operated by the priests and brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross on the University campus. It is expected to be completed by Christmas.
The first shovel used on the excavation was wielded by the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., who has been editor of the Ave Maria since 1934. In the background were Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C.; Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C.; Thomas J. Hickey, building contractor; Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C.; Rev. Eugene J. Burke, C.S.C., former editor of The Ave Maria; Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University; Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C.; Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross; Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C.; Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C., supervisor of construction; Brother Casimir, C.S.C., business manager of the printing plant; and Brother Mark, C.S.C., foreman.
Now under construction, the one-story building when completed will be 170 feet long and 140 feet wide and will located immediately north of the present university heating plant. It will be equipped with modern presses and laid out in a manner which will permit a streamlining of most printing operations.	•
The modern daylighted structure will replace the 75-year-old building erected by the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., in 1865 with bricks made by brothers of the community.
During the intervening three quarters of a century The Ave Maria magazine has been a favorite source of information for Catholic families, and in addition has promoted the cause of religion by special devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary.—Frank L. Kunkel
Blind Freshman Finds
. Friendly Spirit at N. D.
Although totally blind, John Morrison, a Carroll Hall freshman from Brockton, Mass., not only keeps well along in his studies but is described as one of the most cheerful men in his hall.
Handicapped by an unfortunate eye operation performed when he was only seven, he has not only graduated from high school but has become a professional masseur as well, and hopes to work with ‘Scrap’ Young, the local athletic trainer.
Morrison attended Terkins Institute for the Blind in Watertown, Mass., where he mastered Braille, typing, and wood-working along with his regular high school course. The Catholic Guild for the Blind in Boston, through its assistant head, Father Thomas Carroll, arranged for his coming to Notre Dame.
He takes his class notes in Braille, and has his text book work read to him. Now in an A.B. course, he hopes to go into osteopathy after graduation, a profession especially suited to the blind because of the great use of the hands.
Since being at Notre Dame he has trained himself so that he is able to walk alone from his hall to church or the dining hall, but this is seldom necessary with the many friends he has made. He tells time by opening the front of. his watch and feeling the hands.
He likes to sing and hopes to make the glee club next year. For seven years he sang with a chorus in Boston.
When asked for his impression of Notre Dame, he smiled and answered, “What impresses me most is the friendly spirit which exists among the students regardless of class or social level. I have never been anywhere where there is such a strong, loyal spirit for a school as there is here. The size of the campus and buildings is also a wonderment to me.”
John says he can tell some of the buildings are very old by the hollow echoes passing students make on the floors.—James V. Cunningham
Thomas Mills to Speak At Villagers' Meeting
Thomas E. Mills will speak at the Rockne Week meeting of the Villagers’ club Monday evening in the Morningside hotel. The dinner is scheduled to get under way at 6:30 p.m. Warren A. Deahl, president of the off campus club, will preside. He announced that the meeting Monday will replace the regular one scheduled for October 7, and it will be the first of the school year.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
Change Undergraduate Studies in Religion
A program of spiritual defense that will involve the reorganization of undergraduate religious studies has been launched at the Uni
versity of Notre Dame under* the direction of University authorities and the Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., head of the department of religion.
A syllabus prepared last year by the Rev. Charles C.
Father Irving Miltner, C.S.C., re-c e n 11 y appointed president of Portland University, Portland, Oregon, will be used as a basis for modernizing religious instruction and a religion faculty of 30 priest professors is now working out final details of a completely integrated course of study.
To Defend Religion
When asked about the plans of the department for the future, Father Irving disclosed that it would continue to function along the broad outline established for it by Father Miltner. The Religion Department,, according to Father Irving, is fighting to defend religion against the more or less patent attacks of a puerile intellectualism which dismisses the ethical attitude as a stroke of expediency. Especially did he stress the importance of practical religion in contrast to the rapidly spreading spiritual dilettantism which currently is devitalizing the traditional Christian perspective.
University heads believe that in the present world more than ever an accurate knowledge of religion is needed. Experience in other countries has shown that men who have insufficient knowledge of their religion will not practice it after successive open attacks. The new program of religious instruction is termed “a building of defenses on the spiritual side.”
Two-Fold Program
The twofold program will be divided into intensive class instruction devoted to facts and philosophy of religion, and periodic lectures by the leading Catholic apologists of America. These latter will include among many others the Rev. Daniel Lord, S.J., who is currently preaching a student mission on the campus ; Msgr. Fulton Sheen of Catholic University, Washington, D. C.; and the Rev. John A. O’Brien, founder of the Newman Foundation at.the University of Illinois, and now on the Notre Dame faculty.
Students who display aptitude and
Army Game Will Again be Student Trip
The ideal of the expression of student will in campus life was exemplified this week when the Notre Dame Student Council, student representative body, moved unanimously to choose the weekend of the Army-Notre Dame football game in New York City, Nov. 2, as the date for their annual Student-Trip.
More satisfactory arrangements for disposing of the year’s most successful migration are in order, according to General Chairman Raymond C. Bowers, of Brook, Ind.
First of all, transportation this year comes in the form of a 15-car Pennsylvania Railroad streamliner, which includes two locomotives, ten coaches, one pullman, and two diners, replete with the latest accessories and equipment, including porters, special type reversible seats, lap boards, etc.
Students making the trip will incur no “cuts” in their absence from Univer
ability will be encouraged to continue study and become leaders in the work of Catholic apologetics. Regular meetings of freshmen and sophomore religion professors will commence soon to discuss additional ideas and plans for the new program.
Already several newly ordained priests have returned to Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C., for advanced apologetics instruction. This is part of the plan to have a highly specialized faculty in the religion department.
NEW YORK — HERE WE COME!
sity classes for the very simple reason that there will be no classes taught on Friday and Saturday. The caravan will leave South Bend at 5:15 p.m., Thursday, Oct. 31. Special buses will transport students and their luggage from the campus to the local Pennsylvania station. The special train will arrive in Pennsylvania station, Manhattan, at 10:30 a.m., Friday, Nov. 1, All Saints Day. Because of the Holy Day, arrangements for an 11:00 o’clock Mass at St. Francis of Assisi church have been made. Special buses will provide for transportation of students and baggage to the church and to the McAlpin Hotel. The University Band will accompany the caravan.
The student-train will leave Pennsylvania station, Sunday, Nov. 3, at 3:35 p.m., and will arrive in South Bend at 6:30 a.m. on Monday morning.
Because plans are tentative, no aggregate cost has as yet been set for transportation, lodging, and athletic tickets, but present indications promise the students rates possibly lower than those offered in past years. Arrangements for room at the Hotel McAlpin, and for a block of football tickets for the game in Yankee Stadium, have already been made.
Arrangements for the trek may be made by students in the basement of the University Dining Hall at specified periods, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, Oct. 28, 29 and 30.—Torn. Powers
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Can America Stay Out of War? Asks Fr. John O'Brien In 'Sunday Visitor'
The Rev. John O’Brien, Ph.D., LL.D., member of Notre Dame apologetics department, asks a pertinent- question in the issue of Our Sunday Visitor, current September 22, through his article, “Can America Stay Out?” The theme of the article is a warning against the forces of foreign propaganda working to involve the United States in just such foreign entanglement as the country has succeeded in avoiding since its inception under George Washington. Father O’Brien, who has spent the past year in Europe, nine months of it ar Oxford, is organizing and teaching a course at Notre Dame in Catholic Action for majors in Apologetics working towards their doctor’s degree.
The present situation and question are succinctly put when Father O’Brien says, “An America at first merely benevolently neutral, later an active participant, is the prize for which propagandists of Europe and their agents in this country are working overtime. Can we resist their wiles? This is the supreme question facing the people of America today.” He reminds his reader of the day of prayer declared by President Roosevelt in the hope that the God of Peace will help us
Construct Landing Field Near Football Stadium For Hying Courses of CAB
Unpredictable Indiana skies will be filled with additional uncertainties next week when 70 Notre Dame students begin a course of flying instructions sponsored by the Civil Aeronautics Board. A new flying field to facilitate instructions is being leveled east of the football stadium.
The Notre Dame phase of this link in the national defense program will be in the hands of Max Conrad, flying instructor from Winona, Minn.
Mr. Conrad will teach 50 primary students enough to get them in the air with private pilot’s certificates and new log books. To 20 secondary students he will teach advance maneuvers. With this total class of 70—primary and secondary students combined—he hopes to add strength to the United States flying forces.
The office of the Prefect of Discipline
return an affirmative answer, especially in the light and memory of the last war; the lives and heartaches that went with its passing.
In the latter half of his article Father O’Brien says that faith without good works means nothing. We may expect the worst if we insist in meddling in European affairs. He quotes Washington, Jefferson and His Holiness, Pius XII, as saying that war can settle nothing, for the United States in particular, and the rest of the world in general. In closing he states the most logical position for this country in this most illogical and world-wide situation: “The traditional policy of non-intervention in the quarrels of Europe does not mean that America is without sympathy for the victims of unjust aggression or unwilling to succour them. It means simply that in the present state of international anarchy, America will help them most effectively, not by spreading the flames of war to our continent, but by using her good offices ceaselessly and untiringly to bring peace and to give generously of her means to all the victims of the madness of war. . . . Can America stay out of war? Yes, we answer. America not only can but must.”—Bill Keenan
was the scene last week of a harried secretary and students anxious to enroll. Optimistic aspirants, who had appeared with well-inked fountain pens ready to sign on the dotted line, learned they must first obtain permission from the deans of their colleges, and receive permission from home.	_
They also learned they must be sophomores or above, citizens of the United States, 19 years of age and not over 26 years of age. In addition they must possess the necessary physical requirements.
The course will involve about two hours work a week. Classes in meteorology and navigation will be conducted on the campus. Field instructions will be given at the Conrad Flying school, the Stockert Flying Service, Inc., and at the field being constructed east of the football stadium.—Don Heltzel
Typing and Shorthand Classes at University
A course in typing and shorthand has been arranged by the University, in cooperation with student leaders interested in having a class of this nature available to any Notre Dame student. The class, as tentatively arranged, would be a non-credit course taught for 13 weeks by instructors of the South Bend College of Commerce. Classes are to be held one night a week, cost to the student would be ten dollars.
On Thursday afternoon of last week, about 50 juniors and seniors met in the Commerce Building to hear M. D. Puter-baugh and Mr. Van Houten, representing the South Bend College of Commerce, explain the course. Since that meeting it has been decided to include freshmen and sophomores as enrollees. About 40 men have already signified their intentions to enroll, and it is expected that the number will go over that figure once the class is completely organized. Another meeting was held Wednesday evening, this week, to make final arrangements for the first semester work, John O’Dea announced.
Classes will be held downtown South Bend, on either Monday, Wednesday or Thursday evenings, according to the number enrolled in the course. The student will have his choice of taking either two hours a week of typing, two hours of shorthand or one hour per week of each. There will be two semesters of 13 weeks each. Any student of the University, regardless of class rating or college in which he is enrolled, is privileged to join the class at the ten dollar rate.
Doctor Begins Work on
Freshmen Innoculations
With football and freshman physical examinations taken care of, basketball and freshman immunity tests began Monday. Freshmen are being immunized against smallpox and typhoid; and are being tested for immunity to scarlet fever, diphtheria, and tuberculosis. This immunity information will make it possible to watch more closely those who are vulnerable to these diseases in case of an epidemic.
Dr. James McMeel requests that all who suffer from any stomach disorder or diarrhea report their affliction to the infirmary so that the source of the trouble can be traced and remedied. He also offers the health hint that those who from time to time suffer from a sore throat could help themselves materially by giving up smoking for a week or more.—Mark, J. Lies
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
9
THE
Fr. Wm. Bolger Conducts Lay-Faculty Mission
The Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C., professor of economics, conducted the third annual mission for lay-faculty during the past week. Father Bolger, for many years head of the department of economics at Notre Dame, has been attached to the mission band and returned this fall to teach classes at the University.
All of the exercises were held in Dillon Hall. The mission opened with a conference on Monday evening at 7 o’clock. Mass was held at 6:30 each morning.
Aftei* attending Michigan State Normal College, Father Bolger received his Ph.D. degree at Notre Dame in 1907. He did special work at Catholic University of America and George Washington University. After three years as an instructor of economics at Notre Dame, Father Bolger was named head of the department of economics and politics in 1914. In 1928 he was appointed vice-president and treasurer of the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn.
Upon his return to Notre Dame, Father Bolger was assigned to mission work. The lay retreats, which were noted for their emphasis on functional Catholicism, are remembered by scores of retreatants who had the good fortune to attend them.
A great authority on the papal encyclicals dealing with labor questions, Father Bolgei' was instrumental in forming the Catholic Action Club at Notre Dame in 1934. Outstanding in the movement to establish world peace, he is an active member of several vital and significant peace bodies.
Fr. Mathis Continues
To have Notre Dame, students become acquainted with and interested in the beauty of Catholic liturgy is the aim of the Rev. M. A. Mathis, C.S.C. Every weekday morning Father Mathis says a special Mass in the chapel of Our Lady of Czestochowa, which is to the left as one faces the main altar in the church.
Perhaps the most striking feature of this Mass is at the Offertory when all who are to receive Holy Communion come forward and place an unconsecrated host upon the paten, where it is consecrated and distributed by Father Mathis with the other hosts at Communion time.
Everyone present answers the mass prayers, and says part of the Mass with Father Mathis. Among these parts not ordinarily said by the mass server are the Credo, the Sanctus, and the Last Gospel of St. John.
On Sunday morning the Mass is often said in the chapel of St. Thomas Aquinas in the Main Building.—Ed Drinkard
By William K. Mulvey
You have probably seen Brooklyn’s
Beau Brummell about campus looking ex
tremely noble in his conservative suits,
John O’Dea
his tab collars and his grey fedora set at perfect plumb on his head. Possibly you remember his walk. A peculiar habit of bending slightly forward gives him the appearance of being a bit ahead of himself, and trying—with all possible dignity—to catch up. Or perhaps the Harvard accent and meticu
lous diction first pricked your interest.
All these externals of personality are immediately apparent and quite unforgettable, but the real character is difficult to ferret out and define. Such words
as savoir faire, urbane, dilletante and suave may be applied in their strictest sense to this gentleman. So striking is his air of urbanity that on first being introduced, I immediately pigeon-holed him as a typical teen-age sophisticate from New York City. But it was only a short time before I realized that this
creature was typical of nothing but himself.
He is a paradox: at once bristling with austerity and bubbling with friendliness; at once disgustingly phlegmatic and shockingly active. His friendship has an unpleasant coldness because it is totally devoid of any obvious show of affection; his activity revolves only about those things which interest him. For instance, the week preceding examinations in his sophomore year he began a one man putsch to restore community singing to its proper place in the hierarchical order. He spent hours collecting and copying ancient drinking songs, college songs, barbershop and bar-room dittys. But when approached on the question of study, he merely punched his pillow into a softer state and began expounding magniloquently on the glory of sleep.
Again last spring, he found the weeks before exams impossibly dull; so he began a movement to have typing and short hand offered to the Notre Dame students. The idea was excellent; his enthusiasm contagious. By graduation week he had the plan rooted in the minds of everyone from Dean McCarthy to the
president of the South Bend Business College. Unhappily, when the idea materialized this fall, it was not exactly as he had visioned it, but it was a reasonable facsimile.
Aside from these short detours, he has devoted himself almost entirely to a rather sensational career in the Wranglers society. Starting in his freshman year as the only one chosen from his class, he moved along smoothly making a good impression with his impregnable aplomb and his loquacious extemporaneous speeches. After a year of apprenticeship, he was elected secretary of the organization. Finally in his last year at Notre Dame, his efforts were rewarded by his election to the presidency of that most respected society.
This year, among other things, he has a job at the library—which makes everything most convenient. Rumor has it that last year too he had a job at the library —a very attractive job. But it was a non-paying proposition.
This gentleman likes good clothes, and knows how to wear them. He likes good food and delights in ordering it. He likes good books and knows how to use them. He is religious in the observance of all the affectations of society. He abhors all forms of sentimentalism.
This fellow’s knowledge covers many and diverse subjects. So, if you are interested in the condition of the migratory workers in California, the number of Jews in New York City, the proper ingredients of a Manhattan or Emily Post’s latest method of getting an errant turkey from the floor back to the platter, you should meet John. But, excuse me. I have not introduced you. I should like you to meet this man about campus and president of the Wranglers Society. Notre Dame’s good servant, but Brooklyn’s first.... John Francis O’Dea.
Mediaeval Academy
It has been announced by Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, that at its April meeting in Bos- . ton, Mass., last spring the Mediaeval Academy of America elected to its council Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., associate professor of mediaeval studies here. The Academy is a learned society founded in 1926 by scholars from the leading universities of the country, especially Harvard and Chicago, for the-promotion of the study of the Middle Ages, and the council is the governing body of the society. This election of Father Moore, the only representative of a Catholic institution on the council, has come in recognition of the work he is doing as editor of Publications in Mediaeval Studies, an account of which is given elsewhere in this issue.—Carl Rohrer
10
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FRESHMAN HALL — ONLY A MEMORY NOW
The Passing of a Friend
Upperclassmen returning to the campus this fall found an old friend missing —the “Cardboard Castle” no longer stands. Many have held a pang of sorrow at seeing this building, practically a campus tradition, gone.
Freshman Hall, originally known as Sophomore Hall, was built in 1923 to accommodate the increase of students returning to college after the First World War. It was not until 1931 that the name Freshman Hall came into use. This came about when the Sophomores were moved into newer halls and Sophomore Hall, as it was then known, was turned into Freshman quarters.
Rev. F. M. Gassensmith, C.S.C., was
Show Pictures as Rockne Week Feature
As an added feature of National Knute Rockne Week, Paul Byrne, librarian, is displaying in the main foyer of the University library, a series of rotogravure pictures showing some of Rockne’s greatest stars and teams in action.
Featuring the display are photos of the “famous battle in mud”—the 1930 Army-Notre Dame game in Soldier’s Field,’Chicago, and the 1929 Northwest-ern-Notre Dame, and Notre Dame-Southern California games, all of which were won by the Fighting Irish. Such stars as Jack Elder, Savoldi, Brill, Carideo, and Schwartz are shown in action.
Also in display, which will be shown through next week, is an aerial photograph of the campus taken in 1929 and
the first rector of the hall and remained there for one year. He was followed by Fathers Gallagan, Fogarty, O’Connell, and Dupuis, who was the last rector to be placed before the hall was razed.
The “Pasteboard Palace” may not have been the-best hall on the campus from the standpoint of spaciousness but it certainly was second to none in the embodiment of school spirit. From the time when Joe Boland, Joe Quinlan, “Red” Edwards, Clem Crowe, Buckley and their cohorts held forth until last year when the hall was used to house the overflow from all classes Freshman Hall was active, in some cases even leading, in the activities and the spirit that makes Notre Dame what it is.—Joe Stephen
a picture of a section of the crowd which welcomed the team on its return from the 1930 Southern Cal. game which closed two seasons of successive victories.
—John Aselage
Textbook Published
The Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has just had a new textbook of political science, Catholic Principles of Politics, published in conjunction with Monsignor John A. Ryan. Monsignor Ryan is head of the Social Action Department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference. The book was written during the past summer at Catholic University in Washington, D. C.
Prominent Metallurgists
Guest Speakers at ASM
Eight outstanding men in the field of metallurgy have been invited as guest speakers at the monthly meetings of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals, it was announced this week by F. T. McGuire, teaching fellow at the University.
Current officers of the Notre Dame chapter A.S.M., are W. J. Manis, of the Studebaker corporation, chairman; A. R. Troiano, professor of metallurgy at Notre Dame, vice-chairman; and W.E. Bruse, of Bendix Aviation corporation, treasurer.
Monthly Meetings
Monthly meetings in the auditorium of the Cushing hall of engineering at Notre Dame are open to the public. R. S. Archer, Chicago, Ill., chief metallurgist of the Chicago division of the Republic Steel corporation, will speak at the first technical session on Oct. 9. His subject will be “Some Aspects of Steel Mill Metallurgy.”
The remainder of the program follows:
Nov. 13, speaker, A. A. Bates, East Pittsburgh, Pa., manager of the chemical and metallurgical department research laboratories of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing company; subject. “Metals versus Non-Metals in Industry.”
Dec. 11, speaker, F. B. Doane, Chicago, vice-president, Magnaflux corporation; subject, “Magnaflux Inspection.” Jan. 8, 1941, national officer’s program; speaker, 0. E. Harder, Columbus, Ohio, assistant director Battelle Memorial institute and president of the A.S.M.; subject, ‘The Physical Metallurgy of Bearing Metals.”
Feb. 12, 1941, joint meeting with Michiana chapter of American Foundrymen’s division of the Association of Commerce of South Bend; speaker, J. H. Van Deventer, New York City, presi-den and editor of the Iron Age; subject, “Today’s Challenge to the Engineering Profession.”
Eastern Speakers
March 12, 1941, speaker, M. F. Judkins, McKeesport, Pa., chief engineer Firthite division of Firth-Sterling Steel company; subject, “Powder Metallurgy.” April 9, 1941, speaker, H. H. Lester, Watertown, Mass., senior physicist at Watertown, Mass'., arsenal; subject, “Radiography—Its Place in Industry.”
May 14, 1941, annual business meeting; speaker, L. R. Van Wert, Philadelphia, Pa., chief of the metallurgical division research department, Leeds & Northrup company; subject, “Thermocouple Alloys.”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
11
Sophomore Class Schedules Cotillion For Weekend of Iowa Game, November 15
OUR DAILY BREAD
Feminine voices will blend with the masculine tone of the Notre Dame cheering section at the N. D.-Iowa game, the weekend of this game having been chosen for the annual Sophomore Cotillion. The Dance will be held on Nov. 15 at the Palais Royale. Sophomores, juniors and seniors in good standing will be eligible to attend the dance.
A special section will be reserved at the game for Cotillion guests and their escorts. A Victory dance on Saturday night will terminate the week-end. Two a.m. permissions will be given those attending the Cotillion.
Tickets, following the usual plan, will be “combination.” Only major detail as yet incomplete is the matter of the orchestra. Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., accompanied by general chairman of the
Father O'Donnell, Coach Layden Speak On Founder's Day Radio Program
The first broadcast emanating from
the Notre Dame campus this year, will be held in the radio studio of the Engi
Jack White
neering Building, on Sunday, Oct. 13, Founder’s Day. The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University will be the guest of honor. Among others appearing on the program are the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., Elmer Layden, the University Glee club and the Radio Stage Players in a short historical
sketch. The time is as yet unannounced.
Dramatic and announcing auditions for places on the campus broadcasts for
Bookmen Club to Accept
Membership Applications
All those interested in joining the Bookmen club may submit their names, general average, course, and major subject to Robert Coleman, chairman of the membership committee, in 333 Howard Hall. All applications must be in by Friday, Oct. 4. At this date, only seniors, juniors and sophomores are eligible for membership in the Bookmen, club officials have announced.
Cotillion, Hans 0. Helland, and chairman of the music committee, Charles Miller, are scheduled to go to Chicago today to make orchestra arrangements.
The decoration committee is weighing several suggestions carefully, and expects to present something novel in the way of atmosphere for the dance. Chaperons for the dance will be the fathers and mothers of the chairmen of the various committees, and the class officers.
General Chairman Helland will be assisted by Ambrose F. Dudley, Jr., sophomore class president, and the following committees and chairmen; Music, Chas. Miller; decorations, John Finnegan; arrangement, William Steward; tickets, William Sullivan; publicity, Walter McNamara; patrons, Blair McGowan; program, Ralph Carribassy.—Bill Welch
the coming year will begin next week. They will be held every afternoon from 4:15 until 5 o’clock in the radio studios located in the Engineering building.
Jack White, head announcer of the Radio Club, portrayed the role of Feste, the clown, in the University production of “Twelfth Night” and was superb. So much so that his performance came to the attention of Margaret Webster, the foremost directress of Shakespearean drama in America today, who has been directing the Theatre Guild-Helen Hayes production of “Twelfth Night” on Broadway.
The role of Feste had been inadequately filled by various professional Shakespearean actors. Robert Speaight, late of the University Theatre, recommended an audition for White who left last Saturday for New York for a tryout.
—John M. Coppinger
Weekly Colloquium to Hear Purdue Physicist
Hubert M. James, a winner of the Guggenheim fellowship who returned from Norway shortly after it was invaded last spring, will be the speaker at the weekly physics colloquium in Science Hall at the University on Friday at 4:00 p.m. His subject will be ‘Intensities in Spectra of the Diatomic Molecules.” Mr. James, associate professor of physics at Purdue university, spent the summer teaching at Harvard university, Cambridge, Mass.
LITURGY
The obligation of hearing mass on Sunday is uppermost in the mind of the faithful rather than the thought of active participation in the holy Action. . . . They fulfill the minimum requirement cf the law of the Church for the sanctification of the Sunday. . . . No law of the Church, however, expresses the whole mind of the Church. ... St. Thomas More cheerfully laid his head on the block for a principle, the supremacy of the Church over Henry VIII. ... So much fortitude could not have come from a mere minimum observance.
Active participation in the sacred mystery means more than physical presence and some vague attention to what is going on. ... A person who is invited or commanded to a dinner profits little for himself nor contributes much to the occasion by merely sitting it out. . . . Rather is he an embarrassment to his host and the other guests. . . . He brings nothing to feast and takes nothing away from it. . . .
The Church from necessity legislated on the minimum for membership in her body. . . . She is the mouthpiece of Christ and the mind of Christ is this: “Be you perfect, as also your heavenly Father is perfect” (Matthew 5, 48). This is the ideal we are to strive for within the limits of our feebleness, poverty of spirit and the contradictions under which we live. . .. Some scale the heights, some step haltingly in the valleys but each one attains to a perfection proportionate to his being.
The first step in a more perfect attendance at mass is the realization that it is not just an official function at which we are commanded to be present. ... It is not just the priest alone who is to be active. We are really participants when we offer it together with him, follow its parts with attention to what they mean, partake of Holy Communion as he does, in a word have the intention of doing what the Church does.
It should not be difficult for anyone in earnest about it to discover the method best suited to himself for realizing this end. . . . One may find it in reading a missal, another by reading appropriate prayers from a prayer book, another by contemplating the various episodes of Our Lord’s life as suggested by the action of the Mass.
(Mass Calendar on page 20)
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
12	THE
Absentee Voting Method, Requirements Explained
How does the Notre Dame student whose family residence is in another state vote? Professor Paul C. Bartholomew, of the department of politics at the University, has outlined several possible methods to aid students wishing to vote in the coming election.
Under the Constitution, the States determine the qualifications of voters; thus there are 48 different State laws on the subject of voting. Six States—Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New Jersey, New Mexico and Pennsylvania—make no provision for absentee voting. A few States permit both absentee registering and voting.
A student in doubt as to provision in his state and wishing to vote on local as well as on the national issues should write to his county clerk for full particulars regarding both registering and voting by absentee methods in the home state. For wider training in democratic methods Mr. Martholomew recommends the absentee ballot where possible as it will heighten the student’s interest in local as well as national politics.
Where absentee voting is not possible the student voter may make provisions to vote in South Bend. He should first apply for a registration card at the County Registration office in the basement of the County Building in South Bend (the building with the cannons in front of it, across from the Oliver hotel) before October 5. A residence of six months is required of voters. Attendance during the 1939-40 school year will suffice although the election board prefers permanent residence rather than relatively transitory residence of students. In any event, there will be small excuse for any eligible student not voting.
—Jack Dinges
Jose Villo Panganiban
Wins Annual Reid Prize
Jose Villo Panganiban of Batangas, Philippine Islands, has been awarded the annual Richard Reid prize to the University of Notre Dame student writing the best letter of commendation, correction, or amplification to editors of secular newspapers or magazines.
The Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C., head of the committee on scholarships and prizes also announced John W. Patterson, Pittsburgh, Pa., as second prize winner, and William C. McGowan, Oakville, Conn., editor-in-chief of The Scholastic, weekly campus publication, was awarded third prize.
Panganiban’s letter, addressed to the editor of Life magazine, took issue with an article in that publication which rep
resented the Filipinos as clamoring for independence. He pointed out that the Philippine Island’s very existence would be endangered should American protection lapse.
Mr. Reid, editor of the New York Catholic Nezus and former recipient of the Laetare medal, Notre Dame’s yearly award to the nation’s foremost Catholic layman, judged all the entries. Charles B. McCanna, Burlington, Wis., and Robert J. Fitzpatrick, Dannemora, N. Y., received honorable mention.
Richard Reid
Catholic Youth Topic of Final Mission Talk
Tonight in Sacred Heart Church, the Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., will preach the concluding sermon of the 1940 Mission. The second mission, attended by juniors, seniors, and sophomores of Badin Hall, will conclude with Mass and the usual instruction Saturday morning at 6:30.
For the topic of his final sermon Father Lord will speak on “The Educated Catholic Young Man of Today and his Attitude toward his Church.” He is particularly fitted to speak on such a subject by his long association with Catholic youth of the country as editor of the Queen’s Work, and as leader of the Sodality of Our Lady. The topic is in line with Father Lord’s earlier sermons in which he stressed the positive side of Catholic life.
The first mission, for the freshmen and sophomores, was given last week by the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C. During both missions Masses were said for Notre Dame’s latest dead among the clergy and faculty, the Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., and John P. Nicholson, the late track coach, and among the student body, Art Tracy and Bill Madel.
—Jim O’Donohoe
Make Available Texts
of Mediaeval Studies
In 1936 the University of Notre Dame began a set of works entitled Publications in Mediaeval Studies under the editorship of Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., associate professor of Mediaeval Studies here. The principal aim of the editor is to make available to students of the Middle Ages the more valuable texts which have thus far not been obtainable in print. The series, however, is not to be limited to critical editions of texts but is also to include studies of mediaeval writers and their works, as well as doctrinal, historical, and literary studies.
Three volumes in the series have already appeared, and a fourth, Lucula Noctis, edited by Brother Edmund Hunt, C.S.C., instructor in the classics here at the University, will be out very soon. Brother Edmund edited this latest volume while working to obtain the degree of doctor of philosophy in classics at the University of Chicago. Its text was written in the Fifteenth century by Joannes Dominici and presents all arguments for and against the Renaissance movement in literature.
The other three volumes are The Works of Peter of Poitiers, a critical study by Father Moore of the works of an important late Twelfth century theologian who was chancellor of the University of Paris from 1193 to 1205; a Twelfth century commentary on the Epistles of St. Paul edited by Father Artur Landgraf of Bamberg, Germany; and a Twelfth century text of biblical interpretation, edited by Father Moore and Mr. James A. Corbett of the department of history. Brother Edmund’s work is really the fifth issue of the series as two parts of the commentary by Father Landgraf have already appeared.
The main work in the editing of each volume has lain in the discovery of the original version of the texts from the several manuscript copies still extant. Such is complicated by the fact that many of the manuscripts are too valuable or fragile to be obtained for study; it has been possible, however, to carry on the work from photostats and microfilms of the originals.
Those engaged in the series at Notre Dame are Father Moore; Father Joseph N. Garvin, who has just returned to the University after two years of advanced study at the Catholic University in Washington, D.C.; Brother Edmund; and Mr. Corbett. A European representative, Marthe Dulong, presently residing at Oxford University, is also constantly
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
employed, while contributions from such outside scholars as Father Landgraf shall appear from time to time in the series. The European war, however, has made it exceedingly difficult for those across the Atlantic who are engaged in the work to carry on, and great care must be taken with all manuscripts and photostats to insure their safe transportation across the Ocean.
Because of the amount of work involved in the editing of a text, it is necessary that the volumes be planned far in advance. Hence there are now in preparation two more parts of Father Landgraf’s Commentary on the Epistles of St. Paul, two Theological Summas by Peter of Poitiers and Prepositinus of Crimona, and a Summa Contra Hereticos by the same Prepositinus.—Carl Rohrer
Sorin Porch Aquires
New Modern Furniture
New furniture will make its appearance on Sorin porch this week. A committee, composed of Henry Schrenker, Bob Osterman, Walt O’Meara, and Chuck Schmid, in cooperation with the Rev. F. M. Gassensmith, C.S.C., and Raymond Bowers, of the Student Council, canvassed the hall and collected approximately §22 which will go toward the purchase of six steel chairs and a glider.—Joe Stephen
75 Students Out for
First Glee Club Meet
Seventy-five students reported for the tryouts for the Glee Club last week, while 40 members of last year’s organization reported for practice. Out of this group Mr. Pedtke will make a selection of 75 men, according to their vocal talents and the keeping of a well-balanced group.
The members of last year’s club will take part in the program during “Rockne Week.” They will appear at the banquet on Thursday, Oct. 3, and Friday, Oct. 4, will, find them on a coast-to-coast hookup with Kate Smith and a galaxy of Hollywood favorites.
Several other engagements are in view for the coming year, the two outstanding ones being a tour of Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan between semesters, and an eastern trip during the Easter holidays.
Officers of the Glee Club are: Donald Tiedemann, Westfield, N. Y., president; John MacCauley, New York City, vice-president; Felix Pogliano, Denver, Colo., business manager; Paul DeLay, Omaha, Nebr., librarian.—C. S. Coco
CAMPUS CHATTER
BY GEORGE MILES
With each passing day we become more and more conscious of the effect of the times on the life and the institutions at the University. There has been an abandonment of old principles, old customs, and old characteristics. Only the other day, we were shocked to see “Mike,” that imperishable old performer, with a jolly little bell round his throat slinking into a made-to-order 'doghouse. We immediately lost all faith in primitivism. Then while we were still mourning the downfall of ‘Mike” we happened on a scene that made us even more certain that chaos is not far away. We saw the Assistant Dean of the School of Arts and Letters twisting himself into various ungainly and uncomfortable positions as he hurled, caught and fumbled, of all things, a football. Come, come, fellows, settle down.
Official Knute Rockne Week is bearing down upon us, and yet we cannot, for the life of us, become excited. In fact, we were about ready to call the celebration a mistake when our attention was called to one of the special events on the program. There is to be, as one of the attractions during the hilarious week of fun and frolic, dancing in the street. And if there’s anything we are crazy about it’s dancing in the street.
* * *
We see where an alumnus of the University (his name escapes us for the moment) has made the pages of that weekly package of inspiration and information, The Saturday Evening Post, with his annual football predictions. Without the aid of mirrors or trick compartments this fellow declares that the University’s football team will go through the season undefeated — and that this same team will be the best team in the land. We are a little disappointed. He forgot to mention the scores of each game.
There is a sign in the window of Ellsworth Department Store that has us worried. It goes something like this: Zuve to Ellsworth Anniversary Sale. We don’t know exactly how one zuves, but it sounds indecent to us.
While walking past the Main Building one day last week we overheard two fellows talking about things scholastic. One of the two remarked very seriously that he had to obtain a copy of Phaedo’s Plato. Probably some ancient ghostwriter.
After seeing Errol Flynn slash his way to victory once again in “The Sea
Hawk” we are convinced that those duels are fakes. It was all right when Flynn defeated two men; it was plausible when he pierced three and four; but when he overcame five at once, and at the same time sliced candles in half we decided to object. We do envy him though, the devil! We would give a hundred dollars if we could , grit our teeth the way he does.
* * *
The other day we received a letter from Mr. M. D. Puterbaugh. Mr. Puter-baugh is the president of the South Bend College of Commerce, and he is interested in teaching the young men of the University how to type and how to write in shorthand. In times like these we feel that his gesture is especially laudable, and we suggest a “He’s a man” for Puterbaugh. However, we recommend that the South Bend College of Commerce inaugurate a course in spelling, and force its employee, H. P., to take that course. Where is this place “Notre Dame, -Indina,” H. P.?
We are confident that a functional society is here at last. A friend of purs was talking to one of the University window-washers not long ago, and they finally got down to ambitions and life work. The worker said that all he wished to be was a good window-washer. We’re determined to scare up some stiff jobs for that young man. Anyone who has ideas for dirtying windows will please notify this space.
Two years ago we found a Sheaffer fountain pen, a Junior, outside the Dining Hall. The pen, mottled gray in design, had no top, and when we found it, a puddle had almost obscured it. Since that time Junior, as we now affectionately call the pen, has made several trips to and from the Empire State, and .has lain in many a strange place as we forgot to announce its discovery to the world. Now, very conscious of our nasty selves, we are advertising for the owner. And we shall be very, very glad to return the thing to the parent if he (or she) will call at 367 Alumni Hall. After all the pen has no top.
In the past when anyone asked us to identify Brother Canute we merely told the person to look for a member of the Congregation who wore morning trousers. Now it will be possible to spot that fine campus figure more easily. For unless our eyes were deceiving us, we saw a bow tie on Brother last week.
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WILLIAM C. McGOWAN, Editor-in-Chief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr., Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN. News Editor
JOHN DINGES.
Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
BERNARD LONGO,
Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
The Memory of Rockne
Nearly ten years have passed since Knute Rockne died, yet his name and his achievements still live in the memories of men at Notre Dame and in distant places. Each year since his death some tribute has been paid to his memory, and next week the latest and probably the most lavish tribute of all will be paid to him. For, beginning Sunday and ending Saturday, October 5, National Knute Rockne Week will be observed. During that time the premiere of the film, “Knute Rockne—All American,” will be shown simultaneously in four theatres in South Bend and on the campus at Notre Dame, where Rockne became famous. A dozen or more Hollywood stars will be present for this occasion. There are good reasons why this series of tributes is so unending.
* * *
Knute Rockne had special great gifts that will not be forgotten quickly. He was competent in all that he attempted, whether teaching chemistry in a classroom, or teaching intricate plays on a football field. He was an innovator with a quick eye for the adaptability of things. Throwing a football thirty yards is easier than carrying it that far; the Dorais-Rockne passing exhibition marked the first of the four milestones in Rockne’s leadership in football, the Notre Dame victory over Army in 1913. The other milestones were the two undefeated seasons, 1919 and 1920, when Rockne became a national figure; the brilliant carrying out of his ideas by the “Four Horsemen” in 1924; and the “Rockne Raiders” of 1929 and 1930 who were
marvelous and unbeaten national champions.
Then a dance routine suggested the rhythms of the shift and its power to confuse an opposing team. But Knute Rockne’s leadership in football was due primarily not to the magnificently clever tricks he invented, but to his power as a teacher. He had the gift of implanting perfectly in young men’s minds the vast intricacies of his football plays. Each man knew his place in the midst of split-second changes, and occasionally Rockne discovered a quarterback who knew his own and his whole team’s proper positions during every step of a fast-moving play. Such a system baffled opponents and made antique the pure-power concept of football prevalent up to that time.
* * *
Those are the more tangible factors in Knute Rockne’s success, but they were not all. He used his cleverness and his great abilities as a teacher to the limit, but he perfected his method by dramatizing his use of them. An interviewer would always find Rockne sunk in dejection before a game, utterly hopeless as to Notre Dame’s chance for victory. Weren’t his best backs always crippled and his guards on crutches! Even the waterboy didn’t feel well and had asked for a substitute. But Rockne usually forgot to mention the magic elixir he always fed to his ailing crew just prior to game time. No one ever found out what it was, for the coach was a chemist and a magician at the same time and his remedy was too complex to analyze. But the results were wonderful and highly visible. The crippled backs crashed about with amazing agility; the guards recovered
miraculously in twenty-four hours; and even the waterboy fairly danced across the field.
* * *
There are hundreds of such examples. Marty Brill’s situation was Rockne’s pet kind. Brill had failed to make the grade as a football player at Pennsylvania University, so he transferred to Notre Dame where he developed into a star blocking-back. The Philadelphia papers on the morning of the game carried the story of Brill, of his former lack of recognition at Pennsylvania U., and his later success at Notre Dame. Brill proved himself that afternoon. Rockne made him running-back for that game and had the ball fed to him as often as possible. Brill made three touchdowns, providing enough drama to make the entire game a tragedy for Pennsylvania.
Even the story of the Southern California game in 1930 is typical. Notre Dame was unbeaten that season; Southern California had lost one early game, 7 to 6. But the latter had been touted as a gigantic team in physical strength, irresistible in its power and even faster than a light team. Nothing could stop them. Rockne accepted the invitation to play in low spirits. He realized how outclassed Notre Dame was, how much smaller and weaker his men were than those giant redwoods of Southern California ! But — of course! — his position made an acceptance the honorable thing. He would rather suffer ignominious defeat than do a dishonorable thing! All the same he came back from the West a national hero. He had beaten his opponents to the ground, dazzled and amazed them with his bag of tricks, and he brought home a 27 to 0 victory close to his heart. Those Californians were big, but they couldn’t hit what wasn’t there!
* * *
For all his genius Knute Rockne was never cold or inhuman. Rather was he vigorous, warm, deeply likeable—and he could be extremely disappointed by defeat. His players loved him. At his funeral the men on the team who acted as pallbearers wept publicly and unashamed as they carried his coffin. Tom Lieb, his quarterback in 1929, summed it up well when he said, “He was more than a teacher of football, he was a father to all of us at Notre Dame.”
Father Charles O’Donnell, who was President of Notre Dame at that time, said in his eulogy that “. . . Everybody was proud of Rockne. Everybody admired him. But far more than that, we loved him. Apart from the unique and deserved success which he achieved as director of athletics and football coach, he was a great' personality with the attributes of genius.”
Knute Rockne was a universal man.
—William C. McGowan
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
Grandfather Is Eighty-Three
By William Thornley
Grandfather always believed in progress. He fought in town council for gas lamps in the Hook district and threatened to thrash the man who said they were not needed. He always said that A. T. & T. was the stock to buy, although he nevei* bought it. He had looked skeptically at automobiles at first but soon was sputtering around town in a shiny black Ford, shortly after the death of his horse, Tom, a big dapple grey that had slid on the ice. He dusted and polished the Ford each Saturday afternoon and proudly drove the family to church each Sunday morning. The old car was junked a year ago and, for all I know, may be part of a scrap heap on the way to Japan; but Grandfather’s eyes brightened the other day when I mentioned his career as the town’s public menace.
Please don’t misunderstand me. Grandfather is considered a law abiding citizen by everyone in town. He pays his taxes, supports his pastor, and almost always votes the straight Democratic ticket. It was only traffic regulation that made him flush a violent pink to his crinkly white hair; and it was this regulation that gave him his ominous title. I spent many days with him two years ago, before the Ford was junked, and I was with him when he began his career as a public nuisance.
With the passing years the Model T had become a wreck, then a relic, finally a tradition. The new cars, sleek in color and chromium, slid up along side the gasping Ford in traffic and then shot by. Grandfather snorted about “. . . damn fool circus wagons” and glared straight ahead.
One afternoon we rattled down the drive and headed for the county park. Grandfather drove regally along the boulevard waving to his friends, first with the right hand, then the left. He rocked with the motion of the car and whistled “The Irish Washerwoman,” a tune particularly adapted to the bucking Ford. We were stopped, momentarily, by
a light against us; but Grandfather growled and turned down a side street to outwit the signal. We turned into Avenue C and drummed along the uneven cobble stones, the car slipping now and then on the slick trolley tracks. Grandfather whistled. Suddenly the car pitched forward, spun around dizzily, and tilted at a crazy angle. The front right wheel rolled down the avenue ahead of us, smashed into the back of a truck and caromed neatly into a heavy shrub at the park entrance. We clambered out and looked at the damage. The axle had bitten deep in the soft tar between the stones.
A Song—To Mary Anne
Oh the stars are in their places, Mary Anne, Mary Anne,
Oh the sta/rs are in their places in the skies.
Oh the stars so set on dancing
With their rhythms leaping, lancing,
Oh the stars are in their places in your eyes,
Mary Anne,
In the bright and baby blueness of your eyes,
Busy eyes,
In the bright and baby blueness of your eyes.
The angels rest their wings,
Mary Anne, Mary Anne,
The angels rest their wings in the blue.
The angels breathe on tiptoe, Velvet-slippered, soft and slow, The angels rest their wings next to you, Mary Anne,
In the gentle, dream-filled stillness next to you,	-
Watching you,
In the gentle, dream-filled stillness next to you.
—Felix Pogliano
.We took the bus home and never said a word to Grandmother. The repair man chugged up to the house the next day, a strange figure in the familiar Ford, and left one of those highly colored pamphlets advertising a new car (whose merits were hidden in a colored photograph beneath a plaque of girls in bathing suits), tied to the wheel. Grandfather ripped off the pamphlet, rolled it in a tight ball and threw it at the back of the retreating repair man. We got in the car and drove off to the park.
The following week Grandfather bundled Rosy, the housekeeper, into the Ford to take her to visit some friends.. Rosy is a big woman who waddles-.to church each morning and who calls ' down the entire hierarchy of Heaven to witness every word she says. Her black hair, streaked with gray, is screwed in • a great knot that perches on her head. They drove off down Broadway, Rosy chatting, Grandfather whistling. Beyond the National Bank that squats on the corner of Eighth Street huge mounds of earth were tossed up on the street by a gang of Italian laborers repairing a broken sewer. Grandfather eased his foot on the accelerator and watched the work. The Ford edged toward Hie mounds, then waggled back to the center of the street. Grandfather grasped the quivering steering wheel. It spinned uselessly in his hand. The car slithered in the loose sand and climbed the embankment. Rosy screamed and covered her eyes. The Ford poised at the top of the bank, the still-rolling wheels hanging over the heads of the cursing workmen. Rose opened the door and tumbled out. The Ford, relieved of its ballast, rocked drunkenly, then tilted back and rolled into the street. Grandfather bought all the workmen a beer and went on his way, whistling.
Shortly after that Grandmother asked Grandfather to give up the Ford before something serious happened. “It’s damn foolishness,” said Grandfather. “She’s just as good as the day I bought her and I can still handle her like she was old Tom.” The wreck needed new parts constantly: a battery, wheels, new tires.. But Grandfather still drove the Ford and made flurries of feathers out of chickens in the road.
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
COACH LAYDEN CALLS THE PLAY!
Varsity Meets Freshmen In Annual
Grid Clash at Stadium Tomorrow
Chuck Sweeney, Mike Layden to Officiate
The lid is off the 1940 gridiron season and the “Fighting Irish,” sensing the call to battle, are off down the trail which they hope ■will lead them to their first National Championship since 1930.
Nine tough opponents are lurking along the line, eagerly awaiting the chance to take a crack at the Layden-men, hut in strict accordance with the Layden policy of taking each game as it comes, the ‘Thin Man’s” first worry will be his time-honored rivals, the Notre Dame Freshmen.
The annual Varsity-Frosh contest, which is generally conceded to be a final check-up for the Irish before they swing into the regular season, promises to be a real show this year with both teams giving their all for Alma Mater.
The Irish will go to the post tomorrow with virtually the same team that Elmer says “was lucky in holding the second team to 14 points in last Saturday’s scrimmage” — namely Bob Dove or George Rassas, and Johnny O’Brien or George Murphy at the flanks; Tom Gallagher and Paul Lillis at the tackles; Pete Kelly and John Gubanich at the guards; Marty O’Reilly or Bob Osterman at center; Bob Hargrave at quarter; Bob Saggau at left-half; Steve Bagarus or Steve Juzwik at right-half; and Captain Milt Piepul at fullback. However,
before the final whistle blows the whole squad will have seen action, so that Coach Layden will have a fair idea as to who will get the starting nod when College of the Pacific invades Notre Dame for the season’s inaugural on October 5.
Special attention will be paid to the performances of second year men who promise to fill an important place in Coach Layden’s reserve strength this year. Such men as Tony Girolami at quarter; Owen “Dippy” Evans, Jack Warner, Dick Creevy, and Bill Early at the halves; Harry Wright at fullback; and Lou Rymkus, Wally Ziemba, Bob - Neff, Larry Sullivan, Jim Walsh, Bob Webb, Tom Brock, John McHale, and the aforementioned Dove and Murphy, have all shown to advantage in early season practice sessions. Adhering to the old adage, “a team is only as strong as its substitutes,” will cause Elmer and his aides to keep a sharp eye on these lads.
Over in the rival camp, Frosh Coach “Jake” Kline waxed optimistic over his boys’ chances to win their share of glory in this family feud. Said Jake, “What we lack in weight and number, we’ll make up for in fighting spirit. If we can master the Georgia Tech offense well enough, we should keep the Varsity guessing for a while. We may surprise them at that.”
Although woefully weak in reserve strength, Coach Kline will offer a first team that would please the eye of any
college coach, namely: Tom Smythe and Matt Bolger at the ends; Ed Schmid and Pat Hinkson at the tackles; Norb Ellrott and Pat Folley of South Bend, at the guards; Paul Cunningham at center; Russ Ashbaugh at quarter; Creighton Miller, son of the immortal “Red” Miller of ’09 fame, at left-half; Irving Wroblewski at right-half; and Neil Williams at fullback.
After looking over the battle fronts of both teams, one tiling is self-evident, and that is, no matter which team wins, Notre Dame can’t lose!
The game will begin at 2:00 p.m. Student admission to the stadium will be by Athletic Books plus 10 cents; general admission, 25 cents.
The probable starting line-ups:
Varsity	Freshmen
Rassas ..........L.E........ Smythe
Gallagher .......L.T.......  Schmid
P. Kelly _______-L-G........Ellrott
O’Reilly.........C-...... Cunningham
Gubanich .......R.G......... Folley
Lillis ..........R.T_______ Hinkson
O’Brien ........R.E......... Bolger
Hargrave _______Q.B....... Ashbaugh
Saggau .........L.H.........C. Miller
Juzwik __________R.H.... Wroblewski
Piepul ..........F.B...... Williams
Officials: Ike Voedisch, head linesman; Chuck Sweeney, umpire; Mike Layden, field judge; Frank Helvey, referee.
—Jim Clemens
Fehlig Beats Neild to Win N. D. Golf Title
Gene Fehlig became the third freshman in Notre Dame history to capture the University golf title when he overcame a lead built up by Captain Sammy Neild and went on to win with a 72-hole total of 294 last week. Neild entered the final round one up on his younger opponent but numerous putting failures spelled his doom, while the steadier Fehlig shot a one-over-par 72 to come home five strokes to the good.
Bill Schaller made a great try for second honors with a 72 on the last round but Neild’s fine total for the first 54 holes proved too much for the Milwaukee senior who finished up with 302 to take third place. Schaller, too, had trouble finding his putting eye, losing many opportunities to overtake Neild when his best efforts would fall inches short of the pin.
Fehlig, who will be eligible for team play next spring, is the brother of Vince and Lou who captained Irish teams in 1934 and 1937, respectively. In addition to Fehlig, Father Holderith is counting . heavily on Freshmen Jim Wolff and Mel Wilke to be the nucleus of his team in
(Continued on page 19)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
Seeded Players Shine
In Campus Tennis Meets
The search for champions in two annual fall tennis tourneys—one for freshmen and one for upperclassmen—continues this week, as play moves into the third round. Approximately 45 title aspirants in each tourney answered Coach Langford’s call last week and pairings were posted on the bulletin board in the Gym. Weather permitting, it is hoped that the final rounds will be played today and tomorrow.
On the basis of previous play eight players were seeded in the upperclassmen tourney. Topping the list was Dan Canale, star of last year’s varsity net-
Captain Jack Joyce
men. Canale defeated Ed Hanley, Alumni Hall, 6-0, 6-1, in the first round of play. Jack Joyce, captain of this year’s varsity squad and seeded second, routed Frank Platt, St. Edward’s Hall, 6-2, 6-2, while Olen Parks, ranked third, was beating Herb Decker, Lyons Hall, 6-0, 6-0. Jack Walsh, seeded fifth, showed great promise in blanking John Delker, Off-Campus, 6-0, 6-0. Other seeded players none of whom have completed their first matches, are Bud Ford, ranked fourth; Norm Heckler, sixth; George Bittner, seventh; and Joe Garvey, eighth.
Although there has been no actual seeding of the Freshman tourney, Bob Faught, Breen-Phillips, is rated a heavy favorite to cop the title. Faught, who hails from Cleveland, ranks high in this region, and it will take some heads-up play to oust him from the tourney. In his first round match Faught lived up to advance notices by defeating Colligan, Breen-Phillips, 6-2, 6-0.—Ray Donovan
Splinters From the Press Box - JAMES NEWLAND—
OUT OF THE PAST
’Twas the 19th of October in ’25, hundreds of men are now alive who will remember reading a memorable paragraph written by Grantland Rice in New York’s Polo Grounds. On that day the dean of American sports writers punched his typewriter to the following tune: “Outlined against a blue, gray October sky the four horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destruction and death. These are only aliases. Their real names are Stuhldreher, Crowley, Miller and Layden.”
Many years have passed since those four men functioned together like a piece of well-oiled machinery, and we would hesitate to try and compare any backfield of the last decade with Rockne’s greatest combination. We ponder the possibility and plausibility, however, of seeing in the future a backfield that might equal the brilliance of that wonder foursome whose teamwork and individual brilliance was superb. There wasn’t a department of backfield play at which they did not excel and they worked behind a line which knew its business.
Under a cover of dust on book shelves high in “The Scholastic” office are issues of this paper with stories about the horsemen that even now are of historical football significance. Paragraphs such as the following were plentiful during those two years when the four horsemen rode indiscriminately overy everything that tried to stand in their way. “There is snap, a precision to the play of the Notre Dame team which few teams attain. Especially is this true of the work of the Irish backfield consisting of Layden, Crowley, Stuhldreher and Miller. Never have four backs worked together more smoothly. They are four evenly matched stars in size and speed, each a wizard in a broken field, but also each is willing to run interference, and probably therein lies one of the most important reasons for the wonderful success of the Notre Dame eleven.”
A graduate with the class of 1932 told the writer a few days ago, “The Notre Dame team of today doesn’t have what it takes to equal the brilliance of Savol-di, Brill and the rest of the great team of 1930, much less the four horsemen.” This gentleman was wrong. He should have said the Irish of 1940, whom he had watched practice, hadn’t shown in
scrimmage the brilliance of Savoldi, Brill and company. Any team has potentialities until it has displayed definite proof otherwise.
INTERHALL FOOTBALL
Within a few days, “The Scholastic,” with valuable aid from Director of Athletics Elmer F. Layden, will sponsor the annual interhall football tournaments. Unlike last year, during which there was a noticeable decline in interhall athletics, arrangements have been made for separate tournaments to be played—one for lightweight men and another for heavyweights. Necessary equipment has been ordered, schedules will be drawn up, and coaches will be appointed. Tentative plans have been discussed for the holding of practice sessions on Cartier field each afternoon during hours when the varsity squad is sent through its paces.
By means of the interhall system every student is given an opportunity to take part in competitive athletics. It has been found in the past that the system has given many men, who fall only a little short of varsity football requirements, an opportunity to train themselves and often eliminate the defects which keep them from the first string. If students who doubt this statement would consult the list of Notre Dame athletes whose early training was gained from the interhall teams, it is probable they would change their minds.
As-is true in varsity sports, football heads the list in interhall athletics. Needless to say, if interest in this sport lags, it necessarily follows that interest in other interhall activities will probably fall. Students in the various halls are urged to get behind their respective teams, thereby helping to uphold a standard of intramural athletics that once was famous at Notre Dame.
CHEAP CHATTER
A few weeks ago plans- were discussed to have the movie stars—here for the Knute Rockne premiere—autograph a football to be used for the opening kickoff in the Notre Dame-College of the Pacific game. Immediately thereafter the ball would be taken out of play, the winning team to receive it at the dose of the game. A gentleman from the Pacific coast upon hearing the idea wrote: “Why not have the stars autograph two footballs, one to be used at the opening of the game, the other at the start of the second half? Give one to the winning team and the other to the losers.”
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
ALBERT DEL ZOPPO —
Two years ago 56,000 fans in the local stadium watched a Notre Dame back pick himself up from the turf after being viciously spilled by a Minnesota tackler. Their eyes followed this halfback as he straightened up, hitched his pants, and started to run into the huddle. But suddenly they saw him stop, make a half spin, and plunge toward the spot where he had been tackled. Fifty thousand people made 50,000 guesses as to
why this Notre Dame
back was crawling on the ground running his fingers through the grass. “He’s looking for a soft place to lie down,” said some. “No, he’s trying to pull a sleeper,” whispered others. But not one guessed correctly. It was only when Bob Saggau gave his teammates on the bench a toothless grin and threw them the object he had picked up from the grass that some of us in the crowd realized that Bob had held up the game to search for his false front teeth.
Bob hasn’t lost his teeth since that 1938 Minnesota game. Due mostly, perhaps, to Bob’s not having seen much action since that time. It isn’t because of Robert Saggau’s lack of ability that he played in only a few of last year’s games, but chiefly be
cause of his lack of that something
which every ball-player needs—luck.
From the start of the season last year Bob was beset with minor injuries. But the injury jinx really caught up with the Iowa boy early in the schedule when it forced him out of the lineup with a sprained ankle. It took Bob several weeks to recuperate from that mishap and he was all set to go when N.D. faced the Army. But Coach Layden, afraid of aggravating Saggau’s injury, and looking ahead perhaps to the Iowa game on the following Saturday in which Bob would have a chance to perform before the home folks, held him from play till the last several minutes of the game. But those several minutes were all that the jinx needed. Bob lasted two plays, and was removed with a badly pulled shoulder muscle.
Bob Saggau has never whimpered about his bad luck. He’s used to tough breaks. (In high school Bob suffered a broken ankle, an appendectomy, and an auto accident all within his senior year.) Nor did the man, touted as potential All-American timber at the start of the year, become discouraged. For it doesn’t seem to be a part of his nature to throw in the towel when the going gets tough. Today the Denison speedster is more
certain than ever that he can outlast his
jinx. And we can’t help but feel as he does. For Saggau showed us enough fine football in the final game against S. California last year to convince us that this will be his year to shine.
Bob plays left-half on the Notre Dame squad, a position which requires a man with running, punting, and passing abilities. And he has all of these to spare. Saggau can run faster than any man on the squad; he can boot the ball consistently for an average of about 50 yards; and he can pass well enough to be classed as a real triple-threat man. Strangely enough Bob throws passes with his right arm but does his kicking from the port side. Bob’s explanation for this bit of unorthodoxy is very simple: “I just didn’t bother to kick with my right foot when I first learned to play football.”
'40-'4l Track Team Aglow With Sophomore Stars
In the great autumnal drama at Notre Dame, track must necessarily play a subservient role to king football. However, a glance at the fall activities and potentialities of the spiked shoe brigade is not amiss.
Coach Bill Mahoney’s first comment was a good-natured complaint against the lack of experienced men on his squad.
“There is an abundance of first-class material available,” he said, “but unfortunately much of it is untried in collegiate competition. After all the team is composed chiefly of sophomores.”
Second year men expected to play a big part in the team’s future success are: sprinters, Gibson and Woods; hurdlers, Dillon and Nicholson; distance men, Comforti, Hunter, Maloney, Riordan and Tupta; and in the field events, shot putters, Delaney and Ziemba; high jumpers, O’Rourke and Nicholson; pole vaulters, Witeoff and Smith; and broad jumper, Garvey, lighten Coach Mahoney’s heart.
Mahoney further disclosed that fall practice will be devoted chiefly to conditioning. This will doubtlessly include a cross-country meet, although no plans have yet been formulated for it. Practice will be climaxed by a handicap meet about the third week in October.
—Frank L. Kunkel
Two Division Interhall
Football Season Starts
Although still in its adolescent stage as far as coaches, schedules and players are concerned, the intramural football program is slated to be called into active service in the very near future.
Athletic Director Elmer Layden last week gave his whole hearted support to the venture and promised the help of the entire athletic department.
An added feature, this year, will be the heavyweight class for those with too much brawn for lightweights. New equipment has been ordered to take care of the expected aspirants.
Tentative plans call for the opening game on or about October 6, and St. Ed’s A.C., defending champions under Coach Joseph Ragolia, have already set their hearts on providing a tough battle for all challengers.
The Student Council, under the direction of President Rube Marquardt, will contact men acting as managers in the halls wishing to put teams on the field. Announcements of progress and details of intra-mural football activity will be found on bulletin boards and in The Scholastic as events develop.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
(Continued from page 16)
a year or two. Wolff finished with 309 while Wilke carded a 315 to finish eleventh. With only three lettermen returning next season, Fehlig will be a welcomed addition, indeed. Both Fehlig and runner-up Neild will receive trophies. Here are the final standings:
Name	18	18	18	18	72
Gene Fehlig 		... 77	71	74	72	294
Sam Neild 			... 67	77	77	78	209
Bill Schaller 			78	77	72	302
Mike Fisch 		.. 74	80	78	74	306
Bill Fisher 			... 78	72	82	75	307
Jim Wolff 				... 84	78	73	74	309
Lou Brozo		.. 79	79	79	83	311
Bill Wilson 		... 73	82	79	78	312
George Schrieber ....	... 82	79	78	74	313
Bill McCarty 		... 77	82	77	77	313
Mel Wilke 		... 82	80	76	77	315
John Harrigan 			.. 78	79	84	76	317
Bill Morehead 		.. 84	76	84	73	317
John Klees 		... 81	82	79	76	318
Dick D’Alton 		... 78	81	78	81	318
Tom Walsh		... 81	81	76	84	322
Jim Bakeman ......		... 82	80	82	79	323
Tom Nash 				.. 79	83	82	81	325
Jim Allen 				... 79	80	83	85	327
Joe Connaughton 		.. 86	83	76	84	329
George O’Connor 		... 87	79	83	80	329
Larry Auhrie 		.. 81	81	85	83	330
Phil McCanna 		... 91	82	80	84	337
Bob Rogers 		... 85	86	83	91	345
—Al Clark
"B" Squad Busy With Schedule Plus Varsity
While the varsity considers their scrimmages with the “B” squad adequate preparation for their schedule, the “B” team in turn thinks that the scrimmages are pretty good practice for their games too. At present all their practice is pointing for the trip to Kansas, where they’ll meet St. Benedict’s varsity on Oct. 12. If plans work out they’ll tangle with either the Purdue, Ill., or Northwestern “Bees,” or both, according to the response to their challenges. Between games they’ll tackle the varsity three times every other week; maybe these week-end extras are planned as breathers.
As part of their duty in giving the varsity a work-out, they must learn the plays of every other opponent, so that when they get into a game of their own some will join the “A’s” before the secstyles of attack with which to befuddle their opponents.
Coach Bill Cerney’s Iron Men are out for the fun in football or the valuable experience they can gain, always with the chance of moving up to the varsity. When the season opens against College of the Pacific there’ll be a good number of last year’s “B” players present; and some that play for Coach Cerney this fall will be Elmer’s boys next year.
Things change on the “Bees” just like on the varsity, some will slip down, and
some will join the “A’s” before the second game, however, at present the first team of the “B” squad lines up something like this:
Hart, L.E.; Raff, L.T.; Stelmaszek or Comissa, L.G.; Grolicker or McNamara, C; Kopshever or Riordan, R.G.; Hines, R.T.; J. Kelley, R.E.; Lukowski, Q.B.; Pepelnjak of Morcucci, L.H.; Marquardt or Thompson, R.H.; Sposato, F.B.
John Quinn
NOTICE
Change of Schedule Effective Sunday, September 29th
Effective Sunday, September 29th, 1940, the South Shore schedule changes from Daylight Saving Time to Central Standard Time. All trains will continue to operate as before with two exceptions: the last two evening trains will leave South Bend at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. This later service allows you to remain on the campus longer without missing your train.
New Time Table
Get a new time table at Ticket Office, Michigan corner of LaSalle. For detailed information on South Shore service, phone 3-3111.
C. W. VEACH
City Passenger Agent
Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad
5OU[hnshor[
BOSTON S
124 SO. MICHIGAN STREET
Your line of Style and Quality at a new low price I *
WING TIPS! CAP TOES! MOCCASINS! SADDLES!
Fashion Footwear Properly Fitted
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

Aour
vilh a »eW
LEtAValer
The LEE TEL $5.00
Willnotonlyimprove your Hat-i-tude but your appearance as well. It’s not the same old hat. The mirror tells the story.
Makers of the Aetna Insured Hat..; $3.50.
81 impr®,c
.Bloc* Hal
LEE HATS
358 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. t*REG. U. S. PATENT OFFICE 
Other Aflfoafor Raincoah $5.75 to $26.50 AT BETTER DEALERS EVERYWHERE
THE ALLIGATOR CO., St. Louis, Los Angeles, New York
: ALLIGATOR
BUY IT NOW . . . You’ll Need it Later! Be in Style ... With ALLIGATOR!
CORSAGES
25c and up
The
"UNIVERSITY COACHER"
America’s Waterproof Style Leader!
Here’s why YOU should own an Alligator University Coacher: 1. Guaranteed waterproof. Won’t crack, fade or deteriorate. 2. Highly styled with 85" sweep, fly front, brass buttons, huge pockets, etc. 3. Because you’ll look so smart—and it will keep you so dry and comfortable!
because . . . IT'S SURE TO RAIN!
Mass Calendar: Sept. 29 - Oct. 5
Sunday, 29—Twentieth after Pentecost. St. Michael the Archangel. 2d prayer and last Gospel of the Sunday.
Monday, 30—St. Jerome, Priest, Confessor, Doctor. Mass: In medio (Common of Doctors), prayer proper, 2d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Tuesday, Oct. 1—St. Remigius, Bishop, Confessor. Mass: Statuit (in Common). 2d prayer, the Sunday preceding, 3d, the Saints (A cunctis), 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Or mass of the Sunday, 2d prayer, St. Remigius, 3d and 4th as given.
Wednesday, 2 — The Holy Guardian Angels. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Credo.
Thursday, 3—St. Teresa of the Child Jesus, Virgin. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday, 4—St. Francis of Assisi, Confessor. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Saturday, 5—Our Lady on Saturday. Mass: Salve (the Common from Pentecost to Advent), 2d prayer, St. Placid and Companions, Martyrs, 3d, the Holy Ghost, 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Minegar Flower Shop 124 W. Colfax Ave. Flowers for All Occasions
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
Volleyball, Handball Tourneys Scheduled
“Come one, come all” is the invitation issued from the Rockne Memorial to interhall contestants to participate in the first big volleyball tourney which is scheduled to start next Friday. The call is, issued particularly to non-basketball players. Ignorance of the game is no excuse for not taking part because it can be learned easily while being played.
Mr. Thomas Mills, director of the Rockne Memorial, recommends volleyball as a very worthwhile sport. It is a game for all, yet it can be made as strenuous as the individual participants desire. The tournament will carry through the entire
first semester and might even carry into the next, including 72 matches in all. Medals will be given to the winners, and the second and third places.
Streamlined Cots
Modern, streamlined cots are a feature of the sun lamp room of the Memorial. Accommodations for 25 people are -provided by the new arrangements by which cots are set at an angle designed to insure bathers a maximum of exposure in a minimum of time. The sun lamp is available for use now.
The freshman swimming meet will be held soon after the opening of the pool, which is scheduled for this week.
A special plea is made to squash and handball players to get in shape as
PARKER-WINTERROWD ll51/2-ll71/2 N. Main Street
ROP/RS FOR RRiOF
First Showing!
New 1941 RCA Victor Presidential Model
SORRY—We Ran Out Saturday But We Have More Now
SAVE $5.00
$9.95 RCA Victor Record Player
Adler-Rochester clothes — under this mark of distinctive quality — are always a smart buy.
An important part of every college man's education is his wardrobe. When you wear Adler-Rochester clothes you are sure of the correctness of cut, cloth and color.
Double your radio enjoyment. This RCA Victor Record-Player records through your radio. Formerly $9.95. While our limited stock lasts, you save $5.
John Sievert 234 Alumni
Capt. Milt "Moose" Piepul
107 Alumni
John Ryan 337 Walsh
CHARLES DILLON
121 Walsh Hall
JOE CALLAHAN
117 Walsh Hall
Records and Albums
OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES
They are in our store every Saturday or can bring you down at your convenience. Let them show you the newest styles for University Men.
M*X ADLER
"ON THE CORNER" . . . Michigan at Washington
REDUCED
AS MUCH AS
ONE-HALF
All 12-inch $2 and $2.50 Red Seal, NOW $1 All 10-inch $1.50 and $1 Records, NOW 75c 12-inch Black Label Records NOW 75c All 10-inch Black Label,
(except foreign) -NOW 50c
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas Well-Informed Clerks
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
RODIRS
'it	.
22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
soon as possible. Novice tournaments in these sports will start in about a month.
Detailed information on any of the coming events is posted in the Memorial Building at all times. Students are asked to look over the bulletin board whenever they are in the building.
—Robert LeMense
Knights of Columbus to Aid Alien Registration
Eli Abraham, financial secretary of Notre Dame Council 1477, Knights of Columbus, announced early this week that the council will assist in the program of alien registration currently in progress throughout the country.
Abraham said that the local council, in co-operation with the National Council of Catholic Men, will attempt to aid in any routine or special problems concerning the registration of Notre Dame’s foreign students.
Alien registration must he completed before December 26. This includes all who are not full United States citizens, including those who have filed their first papers and those who have filed their second papers but have not yet been naturalized.—Don Heltzel
A 15-34 that is 15-34 forever!
When you buy an Arrow shirt you can be positive that it will stay your size forever. Every Arrow is Sanforized-Shrunk —die cloth won’t even shrink 1%! We’ll give you a new shirt free if one ever shrinks out of fit. Try Arrow HITT with the comfortable nonwilt collar.
■ r^At Max Adler's
It's Adler's for Arrows
. . . There’s where you’ll find South Bend’s largest, most complete selection of these Famous Shirts. For new collar styles . . new colors . . new patterns . . try Adler’s—there’s where you’ll find them . . . Arrow Ties, too!
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER"... Michigan at Washington
$2


College men—ho! . . . you asked for it . . . here it is! A two-way campus-sports shirt that looks just as well buttoned up with a tie as it does open at the neck without one.
Arrow designed it with classic simplicity. It has a long pointed, low band Arrow collar with just the correct flare, 2 button-down flap pockets, and french front seam.
Fabric is oxford or twill flannel . . . both durable and Sanforized (fabric shrinkage less than 1%.) Practically two shirts (both comfortable and smart) for the price of one. In white and solid colors, S2 and $2.50.
Buy this utilitarian value today.
ARROW SHIRTS
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST ' FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4OBO
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X-RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND, IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
•	825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON,
M. D.	M. D.
DRS. ROSE AND ROSE
DENTISTS
430 SHERLAND BLDG.	TELEPHONE 3-4269
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
Aaron Copeland's Music
for "Our Town" Praised
A striking example of the achievements taking place in the field of American music today can be found in Aaron Copeland’s score for “Our Town,” the movie based on Thornton Wilder’s play. When Mr. Copeland signed his contract there were serious apprehensions among many of Hollywood’s music specialists.
It is perhaps not possible to judge accurately the shock of disappointment Mr. Copeland gave to the Hollywood masters; he wrote a score as conservative and demure as could be demanded of any musician. For some reason or other, his music for “Our Town” has not the slightest touch of the acrid, mathematical quality we have come to expect from him. Very likely, he judiciously realized that a motion picture score ought to do no more than lend a certain color and warmth to the story. Consequently, he did not attempt to pursue the relentless logic of musical form, but he tried only to intensify the dramatic element of particular scenes and to make his music serve as a kind of unifying force for the action.
Mr. Copeland could easily have made use of the obvious and conventional approach — that of resurrecting all the songs of the period of “Our Town.” Fortunately, he successfully avoided such literalness by creating a score out of his own knowledge of the script and, more than that, of American small-town life. His music did sometimes take the too suggestive form of hymn-like melodies. At one point, a refreshing note of modernism crept in when the theme of the Protestant hymn “Blest Be the Tie That Binds” was freakishly distorted for the scene in which the drunken choirmaster rolls suddenly down the village street. The cleverly discordant music makes the scene a memorable one.
American music will assume greater significance if Hollywood is willing to continue providing opportunity for composers like Aaron Copeland and if it is willing to seek genuine expression for worthwhile films.—John W. Larson
Old Dominion Meeting
Professor T. Bowyer Campbell has announced that all students from Virginia will be welcome at a meeting next Monday evening at 8 o’clock, in Boom 222 of the Main Building. Plans will be made for a re-organization of the Old Dominion Club.
Greetings Notre Dame Men
Come in to the
HUDDLE
Look over our pipes — large selection at all prices.
24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THEATRE
By Vern Witkowski
Some time ago a friend told me how disappointed he was with Raymond Massey’s showing in “Abe Lincoln in Illinois.” At the time I had seen neither the stage nor the screen version; I had only read the play, and so I was not qualified to argue. He claimed that Massey roamed about in front of the cameras without any definiteness or purpose. The English actor, he said, was not entering into the spirit of the story, or more especially, entering into the spirit of Lincoln. To him Massey seemed aloof, over and away from the drama; all Lincoln’s reactions he handled in a poker-face style. My friend referred to faulty exits and entrances which the actor failed to “point up,” with even a minimum of dramatic polish.
Recently on campus I saw the movie version of the Sherwood play. I’d like now to tell my observing friend how much I enjoyed the work of Mr. Massey in the role of Lincoln. I’d like to point out to him that his criticism was erratic, and what is more, that it was subjective.
If his biographers are to be believed, and Mr. Sherwood applied himself intently to the job of research, Lincoln was one of the unhappiest men ever to become president. He was a simple, humble person, wanting only to be left alone. He was self-conscious of his personal appearance and rather ashamed of his awkward, gangling frame. Not destined to be left alone, he was egged on by his wife and acquaintances, aware of his innate greatness, to positions more and more in the public eye. That was the tragedy of Abraham Lincoln.
It was this character that Mr. Raymond Massey portrayed in “Abe Lincoln in Illinois,” and it was to this character that he devoted all his skill and dramatic intuition. Looking again at my friend’s objections to the performance, we can see how they sustain beautifully our argument for the excellence of Massey’s performance. The “roaming about with a lack of definiteness,” the “aloofness,” the “faulty exits and entrances,” the “poker-face style,” the failure of Massey to enter into “the spirit of the story,” — all these instead of blasting his performance, merely support its worth. For Lincoln was a social misfit. He had the proper mind, but the wrong body, and so it was that Mr. Massey portrayed him with all the feeling and sincerity of an intelligent, careful’approach. This is the test of all true acting.
My friend, aware only of acting technique, looking with an undoubtedly keen eye for stage tricks, missed completely a grand portrayal of a well-written and completely integrated character. An eye for technique and acting prowess in itself is a good thing, but when that perception is divorced from the enjoyment of the creation, the self-appointed critic is only partially present in the theatre.
j For More Fun Out of Life | Chew Delicious 8 DOUBLEMINT GUM Daily f $ J	y
Highspot your days and evenings—enjoy the I Wi fun of chewing refreshing DOUBLEMINT GUM. :
The velvety smoothness of DOUBLEMINT GUM ssfe; adds to the natural fun of chewing. Delicious, cooling, real-mint flavor helps make your mouth mv? feel refreshed... adds fun to everything you do.
Chewing this healthful, inexpensive treat helps sweeten your breath . . . aids your diges-tion . . . helps keep your teeth attractive.
Treat yourself daily to healthful, delicious
j DOUBLEMINT GUM.
I Buyseveral packages o'
17,452 Jobs Defined
There are 17,452 different kinds of jobs listed in the new Occupational Dictionary published by the Federal Bureau of Employment Security. The dictionary was developed to help the Employment Service offices .in Indiana and other states perform their work of “matching workers and jobs.”

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
Fr. McCarragher Named New Vincentian Director
For the first time since the founding of the campus conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society in 1933, the Notre Dame Vincentians get under way without the direct guidance of the founder and past leader, the Rev. John Kelley, C.S.C. However the new spiritual director, the Rev. Charles McCarragher. C.S.C., has already issued a standing invitation for Father Kelley to join in the activities of the conference. A slight realization of the fine leadership of Father Kelley may be gained through an inspection of the annual reports of the work accomplished.
Father McCarragher, the new director, came to the campus last year as a member of the Sociology department. During the summer months he worked on the problems confronting the society for the coming year so that he has already met and discussed with the executive committee, preparing the foundation for the year’s work. Confronted with the loss of the South Bend conference, with which the campus conference worked and the loss of their downtown clothes station, the Vincentians must find some working solutions before the more individual case work can be begun.
President Bob Marback has called the first general meeting of the year, Sunday after the 10 o’clock Mass, in the Knights of Columbus lounge in Walsh hall. All of the old members are expected and all other students interested are invited to attend. In the near future a more direct introduction of the society to the freshmen will be made. However, any immediate information can be gotten by visiting the conference office in 26 Lyons hall.
Among the plans this year for income sources are the usual travel bureau, the annual Victory Dance, besides a tentative proposal of selling subscriptions to the Chicago Daily News, all commissions going to the Conference work fund. Sample copies will be distributed before canvassing.
Notre Dame Symphony Reorganizes for Year
Reorganization of the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra finds a well balanced wind section but an urgent need for more string instruments, Professor Daniel Pedtke announced.
Rehearsals are held twice a week: Monday afternoons at 4:15 and Thursday evenings at 6:30.
Four programs are already on the schedule for this year: two each semes-
IT’S HUMOROUS
ter. These programs will consist mainly of light classics and symphonic compositions. Piano and instrumental solos, however, will be featured.
The officers are: Art Starr, Concordia,
Kans., president; Francis Link, Springfield, Ohio, vice-president; Wilson Crandell, Ladysmith, Wis., secretary and treasurer.
The complete personnel is as follows:
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
■------------------ Badin Hall------------------
Get your copy of “How to Choose a Slide Rule,” by Don Herold, absolutely free while they last.
Table Lamps, indirect lighting...98c,	$1.98 and $2.98
N. D. Loose Leaf Notebooks.............    .50c
Parker, Sheaffer, Sanford Pen Sets and Inks Stationery and Supplies
BEFORE YOU TAKE THE PLUNGE ... READ
"How to Choose
a Slide Rule”
by BOX BEROUI
Choosing a Slide Rule is a lot like getting married, because you are going to have it for a long, long time. That’s why you just must read this masterful book by that old slide rule slider, Don Herold. It is written in simple, salty language and profusely illustrated by the master himself. It takes the mystery out of slide rules for all time.
"How to Choose a Slide Rule” is free—if you get yours before the first edition runs out. See . a your campus K & E dealer at once.
IT’S HELPFUL..
IT’S FREE
EST. 1U7
KEUFFEL a ESSER CO.
NEW YORK—HOBOKEN, N. J.
CHICAGO ’ ST. LOUIS SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANGELES • DETROIT - MONTREAL
Ad No. 40-52
o
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
26	THE
violins: F. Abaldo, J. Bennet, Brother Alfred, C.S.C., B. Cappello, L. Demer, R. Johnson, W. Wabel; cello: F. Link; oboe: R. Bauchmann, P. Holzberger, M. Ziegler; flute: E. Johnson; clarinet: J. Behr, J. Francis, C. Miller, B. Ramsour; trumpet: J. Hurley, A. Starr; cornet: J. Stack, J. Sheedy; bass: J. Crowley; • horn: J. Steidl; piano: W. Crandell; baritone: Brother Leonard, C.S.C.
—C. S. Coco
Coyne and Craig Offer
Advanced Banking Course
Professor William Coyne, of the University staff, has been selected to serve with C. 0. Craig, vice-president of the City National Bank & Trust company, of South Bend, as instructor in the advanced banking courses which are being offered on the campus.
These courses are conducted under the auspices of the American Institute of Banking, which is sponsored by the American Bankers’ association. The American Institute of Banking provides professional training for bank employees throughout the United States. One hundred and twenty-five from this area have enrolled for classes in commercial law, money and banking, bank organization and accounting.—Ed Drake
Be could have been
“The Man Most LikelY to Succeed"
but indifference, like using a faulty pen, kept him behind the 8-Ball

Harry had everything, except a sense of discrimination. Perhaps he leaned too heavily on his natural gifts. Anyway he never added to them in college, but laughed things off—like the times his old-fashioned pen ran dry in classes and exams. Our bright alumnus is out in the world today—a man who could have given orders, he is taking them.	-
Sure, it seems far-fetched, but you’ll be surprised what a great big difference it makes in your grades to carry a sure-fire pen like the Parker Sacless Vacumatic.
It’s this revolutionary streamlined Beauty that never runs dry unless you let it. For its sacless Television barrel holds nearly twice as much ink as our old type, and it lets you SEE days ahead if it’s running low.
It’s the only Style that looks like circlets of shimmering velvet— ring upon ring of luminous Pearl and Jet. The One-Hand sacless filler with the "lubricated” Point of extra fine-grained 14 K Gold, extra resilient-tipped with Osmiridium that writes "as smooth as oik”
It’s the college favorite by nearly 3 to 1—so it rates one "in the Know” to carry the genuine.	____
Be sure to look for Parker’s Blue Diamond —it means Guaranteed for Life. Avoid all substitutes—then you’ll have no regrets.
The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis.
GUARANTEED * FOR LIFE by Parker's Blue Diamond
FULL TELEVISION
Pens marked with the Blue Diamond are guaranteed for the life of the owner against everything except loss or intentional damage, subject only to a charge of 35f for postage, insurance, and handling, provided complete pen is returned for service.
rmrr
DO a
AS
IT WRITES, 150 AND 250
Laminated Pearl Pens, $5 to $13.75
Writefine Pencils to match, $3.50 to $6
TRY PARKER QUINK, THE MIRACLE INK THAT CLEANS A PEN
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
New Biography, Fiction
Available in Library
Among the new books recently added to the University library and recommended to the student body by Paul Byrne, the librarian, are:
The Life of Bishop McDevitt, by Ella Marie Flick, which is a biography of a man who was both a school-teacher and bishop. The Shadow of Atlantis, by Col. Alexandre Braghine will prove interesting to the adventure seeker as it deals with the fascinations of the legend of the “lost continent.”
The Dictionary of the American Hierarchy, by the Rev. Joseph B. Code, is an unusual book. It is a series of biographies of American Bishops and tells of the many problems which faced the early hierarchy in this country many of whom were not natives, but who worked to conquer this country for Christ.
Also among the new books in the library are the books of the American
FREDA.
ft KHAORE'Umversity of Georgia Graduate WAS NEARLY EATEN AU VE BY ATIGER ASHE LAY ALONE ANPEXHAUSHDinIHEWILDSofBURMA. SUDDENLY THAT MAN-EATING TIGER DELL DEAD BESIDEHIM/ FRED UOTDTELLWNY IN HIS exciting new book, “aroundthe world on
A BICYCLE ." BUTMlir-
River Series which features such works as The Hudson, by Carl Carmer; The Arkansas, by Clyde B. Davis; The Wabash, by William E. Wilson, and The Sacramento—River of Gold, by Julian Dana.
—John Aselage
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY, O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
SOON THEREAFTER.WIS WRING YOUNG CVCU5T WAS BARELY SAVED FROM DROWNING WHEN HIS BAMBOO RAFTCAPSIZED IN A5WIFT SWOLLEN JUNGLE STREAM INA WILD ANIMIST TRIBAL COUNTRY. .
“MY CAMERA. FILMS ANDALL OTHER EQUIPMENT WERE RUINED, "HE WROTETHE PARKER PEN COMPANY. “BOTHY MOST WUMB1EASSET WAS UNHARMED.' THIS WAS HUNDREDS cfPAGESofNOTESonMY RAREADVENTORESWRITOIWIIHPAWERPERMANENT QurnXTHATI BOUGHTINATHENS.GA. WHEN I 5TARTED0UT.
“ASSOON ASI REACHEDANATIVE HWANDDRIED IWWATERSOAXEPnAGESiroWDiiaRCOHDmON PERFECT-MOTASMEARONASINGLERAGE. my PARKER PEN HAD NEVER ONCE FAILED ME. AND NOW PARKER PERMANENT OuiBk lN A CRISIS THATI DIDN'T THINK ANY INK COULD STAND" CAMETHRWGH /OO*T
Parker
Ouz/zA
does what NO OTHER INK CAN 00/ IT DRIES 34% QUICKER THAN AVERAGE ONWSR-YETDOESNOTDRYIN
I5C
ANO 254
YOUR PEN. IT CLEANSES YOUR PEN AS IT WRITES.
A PARKERORANVOIHER PEN-DIGESTS andDISSOLVES DEPOSITS LEFT By PEN-CLOGGING INKS.
TWO KINDS-PERMANENTandWASHABLE-
BOTH IN RICH. BRILLIANTCOLORS-NEVER WATERY ANDNEVERGUMMY. GET PARKERQumA FROM ANY STORE SELLING INK-|5<.MD25<t-ANDV0UR PEN WILL WORK LIKE A CHARM, * Reg. U. s. ftt. off.
Selieve It or Abt/ ^obeilL Smp" ■-
new Columbia
m a s t c r to o r k s
REDUCED as much as ONE-HALF
Columbia at 50c
“I Know Somebody Who Loves You” (vocal chorus by Bonnie Baker) and “Take Care” (vocal chorus by Orrin Tucker).
“Some of These Days” and “Humming Blues” by Alex Templeton.
“A Million Dreams Ago” and “In a Moonboat” (vocal by Nan Wynn)—Raymond Scott and his new orchestra.
“Pavanne” and “Minnie the Mooocher Is Dead” (vocal by Dandridge Sisters)'— Jimmie Lunceford and his orchestra.
Be Sure To Hear:
“Anchors Aweigh” and “Stein Song” by Columbia Military Band.
“Our Director” and “Boola-Boola” by Columbia Military Band.
“Victory March” and “Fight On” by Columbia Military Band.
“On Wisconsin I” and “Georgia Tech. Medley" by Columbia Military Band. •
Okeh Records, 35c
“Our Love Affair” and “So Deep Is the Night” (vocal by Harry Cool)—Dick Jurgens and his orchestra.
“I’m Waiting For Ships That Never Come In” and “The World Is In My Arms” (vocal by Howard Du Lany)— ' Gene Krupa and his orchestra.
“The One I Love Belongs To Somebody Else” (vocal by Mickey Dowd) and “Black Eyed Susan Brown” (vocal by Gil Rutzen) —Bill Carlsen and his orchestra.
“The Bells of St. Mary’s” and “Darkness” (vocal by Bert Ennis and Glee Club —The McFarland Twins and their orchestra.
“Looking For Yesterday” and “Maybe” —Chick Bullock accompanied by his orchestra.
BODHIS
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings

smoke the
BETTER MADE FOR BETTER SMOKING Here as seen in the new film "TOBACCO • LAND, U. S. A." is Chesterfield's electric detector. Twenty mechanical fingers ex amine each cigarette in a pack and if there is the slightest imperfection a light flashes and the entire pack is automati caliy ejected.
WIT
<-y.
Copyright 1940, Liccett 4 Myeks Tobacco Co,
FRED Mac MURRAY starring in Paramount's picture "RANGERS OF FORTUNE"
For a Top Performance in smoking pleasure _ Make your next pack (chesterfield THEY’RE COOLER, MILDER, BETTER-TASTING
Aii over the country, more smokers are buying Chesterfields today than ever before because these Cooler, Better-Tasting and Definitely Milder cigarettes give them what they want. That’s why smokers call Chesterfield the Smoker’s Cigarette.
Smokers like yourself know they can depend on Chesterfield’s Right Combination of Turkish and Domestic tobaccos for the best things of smoking. Chesterfield smokers get the benefits of every modem improvement in cigarette making.