Vol. XXIII.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, November 9, 1889.	No. 10.
What is Good.
BY JOHN BOYLE O’REILLY.
"What is the real good?”
I asked in musing mood.
Order, said the law court;
Knowledge, said the school;
Truth, said the wise man;
Pleasure, said the fool;
Love, said the maiden;
Beauty, said the page;
Freedom, said the dreamer;
Home, said the sage;
Fame, said the soldier;
Equity, the seer;—
Spake my heart full sadly:
“ The answer is not here.”
Then within my bosom
Softly this I heard:
“ Each heart holds the secret— Kindness is the word.”
—Georgetown College Journal.
A Great Novelist.
Among the countless millions of human beings who have lived, loved, suffered, rejoiced, and finally “shared the destiny of all that breathes,” how few there are whose memory has survived their death! So among the hundred and one writers of the modern school of fiction, how few have lived after their death! But to the truly great novelist, the man of genius, the writer who holds up the mirror to nature, reflecting in many-colored expressive symbols the passions, the hopes, the sorrows and the joys of humanity, for him immortality waits, sure, lasting, undying as the heavens.
It has been said, with much truth, that he who gives to the world a good novel performs
a great service for mankind. This being the case, for one child of bonny Scotland may the title of benefactor of men be justly claimed. Well may Caledonia look with pride upon her famous son, for throughout the whole civilized world the name of Walter Scott is called great.
Among the noted writers of fiction Sir Walter Scott is the greatest master of the picturesque. The rugged mountains, the lovely valleys, the clear, smiling lakes, the beautiful silvery streams of his native land, in all their calm serenity, he paints in colors that will never grow dim. The cot of the peasant, the castle of the noble - are portrayed with true fidelity to nature.
Graphic and true are his pictures of the manners and customs of Scotia. His characters are idealized just enough to make them appear natural. They live before us, not as phantoms of the imagination, but as real and substantial beings. The genius of the great novelist shines alike on peasant and noble. He delights in setting forth the good qualities of men; he points out not their wickedness, but their hobbies; holding up to view not that:which is repulsive and hateful, but what is ridiculous. He did not believe in the utter depravity of man. All his great rascals have some redeeming traits.
To Scott must be assigned first place as a historical novelist. All his novels of this class are a reflex of the age they describe. As a writer of romance, he stands near, if not quite in the first place. His fertility is marvellous; and in: all his works humor and pathos , are very happily blended.	-
The great novelist produces his effect rather by a rare combination of qualities than by the prominence of any. His plots are carelessly -constructed; he seems to rely chiefly on his powers of description for success. He may, as a celebrated English critic has said, have written.
146	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
badly at times; he may sometimes be terribly long and diffuse; but, as the same critic remarks, the great novelist has given to Scotland a citizenship of literature: scenery, monuments, cottages, houses, characters of every age and condition, from the baron to the fisherman, from advocate to beggar, from lady to fishwife. “ Waverley,” “ Kenilworth,” Ivanhoe,” “ Man-nering,” may cease to be popular with the masses, but they will always be found on the shelves of learning.	•
Year by year, 0 great soul! will new lustre be added to your name, and .Scotland shall long be preserved from oblivion by the memory of Sir Walter Scott.
I	H. A. Holden, ’91.
Vocations.
If God has assigned to the stars a course in the broad expanse of the heavens, it must be inferred that He designs for man, also, a career which he should follow in order to please Him, and thus secure eternal happiness.
God can neither, remain indifferent in the government of souls nor be a stranger in the choice of a state of life. If there exists in the world a creature capable either of disturbing or supporting’ the plans of Divine Providence, undoubtedly it is man who, gifted with reason, armed with free-will, placed between truth and falsehood, good and evil, can either obey or resist God’s behests, and, according’to his fidelity or resistance, become either a subject of edification or a stumbling block and disgrace.
Experience daily proves that the good or bad conduct of a man nearly always depends upon the state which he has embraced. If that state be the one assigned him by Providence as the most’ appropriate to his character, his strength, and even his weakness, it will be seen that in general* he behaves well. On the contrary, if through allurement, passion, or want of thought, he embraces a life to which he has not been called, it will be seen that, his conduct will be reprehensible and wicked. Nowadays, people rush into a state without thought or reflection, and thus ruin, themselves for time and eternity.
Therefore, it should be well remembered that the choice of a state .in life is not a trifling matter. It is very important to proceed in this, affair'with much reflection, with a full knowledge of the case, and, above all, with a sentiment of perfect submission to. the holy" will of God. If He destines the greater part of man-Jdhd for the common walks of life; he in partic
ular reserves to Himself the choice of the chiefs of His people, and of the persons whom he wishes to employ in the world as the instruments either of His justice or mercy.
In making this important choice, the great difficulty generally proceeds from the inexperience of those who deliberate upon it, and from the mobility of their affections; for when young persons begin to look seriously into the future, a thousand different considerations, oftentimes contradictions, successively possess their minds, and throw them into the greatest perplexity. Sometimes the future appears radiant, clear and brilliant, while at other times it seems dark and threatening.
Take, for example, a young man whom- God has called to the priesthood, and observe his perplexities: On the one side the world displays its riches, grandeurs and pleasures; on the other, Christ, armed with His cross and Gospel, presents Himself, and seems to say: “ If you wish to be happy, come and follow Me!”
On the other hand, vice shows itself surrounded with its seductions and enchantments; while virtue appears with its ravishing simplicity, . its celestial sweetness and its immortal rewards. The terrestrial affections come in collision with the divine attractions in the bottom of the heart, and these different motions seem to lead but to doubt and uncertainty. Such a position is very painful, and would seem insupportable were it to last for a long time. But the young man comes out of these difficulties as soon as he turns his thoughts • and hands towards heaven' in order to invoke the Father of lights; as soon as he asks the advice of his holy mother the Church, and abandons himself to the decrees of Divine Providence. God then provides for him, as He formerly did for- the Apostle of the Romans, St. Paul, an Ananias who will enlighten, guide and lead him through the difficult ways to' a final determination, whence proceed that calm and happiness and conviction which afterwards cause his happiness. .
But to reach the port which he seeks to enter, he must spread the sails, direct the helm, and consult the compass: that is, he must treat of the affair with great sentiments of faith, humility, and fervor; and as Divine Providence has selected the position which every man is to hold in this world,; it behooves His infinite goodness to make it known by certain signs which surely exist, amongWhich the following are the principal ones:; \	~
Your having, or- being , able to acquire, the necessary qualifications to discharge worthily the obligations if imposes is the first m ark by
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
which you may know that you are called to a particular state. A second mark is when you feel for it an attraction that does not vary with the moment; that does not throw the soul into agitation and disquietude, but calms and soothes it; that places the conscience in such an agreeable and happy state that your ideal of human felicity is realized, and you are convinced that you would not be happier elsewhere.’ And, finally, when deliberating upon a state you are not led to embrace it from the consideration that *by so doing you will comply with the wishes of your parents, or gratify their feelings; when you are not incited thereto by desires of honor, glory, , wealth or pleasure, but by a sincere desire to accomplish the holy and manifest will of God.
As we all know there are many and various states in life to which there are many and various obligations attached, the writer deems it proper to say that the clerical state possesses the greatest obligations, and that accordingly the priesthood may by called the most holy and most exalted of all states; forare not those whom God calls to it empowered to consecrate the Body and Blood of Christ, to administer the sacraments and to dispense His divine word? Sublime functions with, which the angels themselves are not invested! St. Paul, speaking of the nature of the priesthood,says: “For asmuch as no act can be more excellent than the consecration of the Body of Christ, there can be no order higher than the priesthood.” No act is greater than the consecration of the Body of Christ. The dignity of the priest is estimated from the power that he has over the real and mystic Body of Christ.	• -
With regard'to the power of priests over the real Body of Jesus Christ,'it is of faith that when they pronounce the words of consecration the Incarnate Word has obliged Himself to . obey, and to come into their hands under the sacramental species.
We are struck with wonder when we hear that God obeyed the voice of Josue, and made the sun stand when he said: “ Move not, O sun, towards Gabaon,” and the sun stood still. But our won’ der should be far greater when we find that in obedience to the words of His priests God Himself descends on the altar; that He comes wherever they call Him, and as often as they call Him, and places Himself in their hands, even though they should be His enemies: “Oh! how > very great is their power,” says St. Lawrence Justinian, speaking of priests. “A word falls from their lips, and the Body of Christ is there substantially formed from the matter of bread, and the Incarnate Word descended from heaven
*47
is found really present on the table of the altar!” Never did divine Goodness give such power to angels. The angels abide by the power or rather by the order of God; but the priests take Him in their hands, distribute Him to the faithful, and partake of Him as food for themselves.
With regard to the mystic Body of Christ, that is all the faithful, the priest has the power of the keys, or the power of delivering sinners from hell, of making them worthy of paradise, and of changing them from the slaves of Satan into the children of God. -
Another great reason why we should love and respect so exalted a dignity is because Christ Jesus has died to institute the priesthood. It was not necessary that our Lord should die in order to save the world; a drop of His Blood, a single tear or prayer, was sufficient to procure salvation for all; for the prayer of a God being of infinite value was sufficient to save not only one but one thousand worlds. But to institute the priesthood the death of Jesus was necessary. Had He not died, where should we find the victim that the priests of the New Law now offer?—' a victim altogether holy and immaculate, cap- . able of giving to God an honor worthy of God, for all the lives of men and angels are not capable of giving to God an infinite honor like that which a priest offers to Him by a single Mass. “The power of the priest,” says St. Bernardine of Sienna, “is the power of the Divine Person; for the transubstantiation of the bread requires as much power as the creation of the world.” And -St. Augustine has written: “O venerable sanctity of the hands! O happy function of the priest! He that created (if I may say so) gave me the power to create Him; and He that created me without me is Himself created by me!” .	'
As the word of God created heaven and earth, so, says St. Jerome, the words of the priest create Jesus Christ. The priest holds the place of God Himself when, by saying, “I absolve you,” he absolves from sin. “Jesus,” says Tertullian, “in- . vests the priests with His own powers.’.’ Hence, when they heard that Jesus Christ pardoned the ’5 sins of the paralytic, the Jews said: “Who can. forgive, sins but God alone?” But what only God can do by his omnipotence, the priest can also do by saying “I absolve you from your sins;” for the forms of the sacraments, or the words of the forms produce what they signify. Cardinal.. Hugo beautifully represents the Lord addressing the following words to a priest who absolves a sinner: “I have created heaven and earth, but I leave to you a better and nobler creation: make out of- this soul that is in sin a new soul; that is,-make out of this soul,, a slave of Satan,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
148
a child of God. I have made the earth bring forth all kinds of fruit, but to thee I confide a more beautiful creation, namely, that the soul should bring forth fruits of salvation.” The soul without grace is a withered tree that can no o *
longer produce fruit; but receiving the divine grace, through the ministry of a priest, it brings forth fruits worthy of eternal life.
The end of man is the glory of God; the end of a Christian is the greater glory of God; the end of a priest is the greatest glory of God, provided he has served His God faithfully in that exalted position. The greatest work of God in the six days of Creation was man. The works of God arose in an ascending scale from the creation of light to that of inorganic and inanimate creatures, and from these to the organic and animate, and from these again to the rational animal. There was nothing higher than man under God, except the holy angels, pure, spiritual intelligences, simple and immortal, sinless and resplendent, sanctified and illuminated by the Holy Ghost.
Man, however, was made a little lower than the angels, because his spiritual nature was clothed in a body taken from the slime and dust of the earth, and subject, therefore, to the sinless imperfections of an earthly nature. Nevertheless, he is the image of God. His memory, intelligence and will are an image of. the three co-equal, indivisible Persons of the Blessed Trinity. He was therefore the glory of God in a sense beyond all other creatures. And man, when created, was crowned with glory and honor; his nature was itself his glory, for it reflected the perfection of God. The light of his reason was his crown, radiant with the knowledge of God and of himself. And God set him over all the works of His hands. He gave him sovereignty and lordship,—a dominion of use and of enjoyment held by Divine grant, and limited by the law of the divine perfections. This warrants no excess beyond the intentions and.conditions of the dominion which God delegated to man.
• '	Thomas Henry Corbett, ’91.
Julius Caesar.
Among all the. names of ancient Rome that of Julius Caesar stands pre-eminent with all the brilliancy of the; evening star. Few-men, if any, have combined the talents of general, statesman, orator and writer as they were found asso1 ciated in Caesar. As general, none have obtained the love of their troops as he did; none had been
able to gain such quick, decisive and brilliant victories as those against the powerful and warlike tribes of Gaul. As statesman he ranked first among such men as Cicero and Cato. As an architect, if he had not been murdered when his plans were about to be carried out, Rome would have seen buildings the grandeur of which would have surpassed anything in the known world.
The condition of affairs at Rome at the time of Caesar’s birth was rather unsettled. It seems that the Republic had reached its term of use- -fulness and was inadequate to satisfy the wants of the people. Rome needed a man who by studying the experiences of former great men, unitingin himself their good and essential qualities, and avoiding their errors, might establish order throughout the empire, and.an order that should endure. The man who seemed destined for this great, dangerous task—one that would bring a complete change in the affairs of Rome— was Caius Julius Caesar. This man, who was to conquer Gaul and the Germans, thus saving the empire from the destruction with which it was threatened, to be the champion of the people’s rights, and whose name has been handed down as the emblem of power, and which will live until time shall be no more, was born at Rome in the year B. C. 100. He was the son of C. Julius Caesar, a praetor, and of Aurelia descended from an illustrious plebeian. He claimed to be descended from the kings by his father and from the gods by his mother. He sprang from that branch of the aristocracy which had produced so many illustrious names in Roman history. Aurelia, a woman of high ambition and- good morals, gave him a wise and good education, and prepared him for the part destiny had appointed for him.
Though eager for pleasure, he never neglected anything by which he might acquire knowledge which would lead him to the highest honors. He wrote several books while a young man, which gained for him the name of an able writer. He was a perfect athlete, though in his youth he had been delicate—a defect which he ‘had overcome by judicious training.	’
At the age of eighteen, when Sylla seized the dictatorship, he married the daughter of Cinna, a.colleague of Marius. A short time afterwards Sylla, who foresaw tlie downfall of the Republic and Caesar at the head of government, began to persecute him, and he was compelled to go into exile; but he soon returned, owing to the intercession of powerful friends. Caesar left for Asia shortly afterwards where he took part in his first campaign.	.
That he possessed strength of character is seen
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
by his bold attacks upon high and influential personages, and at the same time Sylla’s friends. It was at this time that he gained for himself the reputation of a great orator. Caesar soon after went to Rhodes, the centre of intellectual accomplishments, to study, but was captured by pirates whom, upon his gaining his liberty, he put to death.
Caesar’s friends were not idle in his absence; they had nominated him Pontiff, which obliged his return to Rome. Upon his arrival he was elected Military Tribune. Spain and Asia were at this time in a continual state of warfare; but Caesar took no part in these.wars. His inactivity was due to his hatred of Sylla, whose friends were in command of the different armies, or his dislike of the cause.
Rome was now the seat of disorder. Sylla imagined that he had re-established order throughout the Republic, but had, in reality, thrown everything into confusion. The people no longer received justice: the wheat distributions were stopped, and above all, the life and property of every citizen were at the mercy of the stranger. Pompey and Crassus were elected consuls. Pompey was the most famous man in Rome, and Crassus was a man of enormous wealth.
Caesar was now elected questor, and therefore was entitled to a seat in the Senate. He lost his wife Cornelia and his aunt Julia soon after his election and delivered the funeral oration oyer both; these speeches were mere political addresses. He accompanied.the praetor into Spain in his office as questor. He presided over assemblies, and received great praise in the administration of justice. His ambition began to manifest itself about this time. Having gone on a visit to the temple of Gades, upon sight of the statue of Alexander he was heard to remark that he had done nothing at the age when this great man had conquered the world.
Caesar obtained the command of the armies in Gaul, and was sent to that country rather unexpectedly, owing to the revolt of one of the numerous tribes. This immense horde of barbarians were seeking new homes, and were moving south. He beat them backhand at the same time compelled the Suevi to lay down their arms. Other tribes in the north, becoming alarmed at his designs, raised a countless multitude to oppose him. After a short campaign he forced all the tribes to submit. In his next campaign he overthrew all the Western tribes, and forced them into submission after the short space of three years. Caesar now turned his course towards Qermany and Britain. He crossed the Rhine,
and, remaining about two weeks in Germany, burning all the villages along the river, he returned to Gaul where he. made preparations for his descent upon Britain. He landed with a powerful army, and after defeating the natives and imposing a tribute upon them, which was never paid, he returned a second time to Gaul.
During the next two years Caesar was kept busy putting down the revolts that occurred throughout the central and northern parts of Gaul. After a series of engagements, in most of which he was victorious, he succeeded in subduing them and imposing a tribute. He now turned his attention towards Rome which was in a very critical condition; bribery and violence being the only means of obtaining an office.
Pompey was beginning to grow jealous of Caesar’s power, and easily took advantage of the murder of Claudius to throw off. the mask and proclaim himself sole Consul. Every new addition-to the power of Pompey rendered Caesar’s position more dangerous.. His enemies were untiring in their efforts to bring him under their power, but every measure was defeated. He now received orders from the Senate to disband his armies or become an outlaw. He realized his position, and knew that his life would be sacrificed were he to give up his command. He addressed his legions who proved to be willins’ to follow him, and crossed the Rubicon, a declaration of war in itself. Pompey retired before Caesar, who meanwhile advanced as rapidly as possible, the cities opening their gates as he appeared at the head of his soldiers. Caesar finally reached Rome which he entered unattended, and thus became master of Italy in less . than three months. He left Rome shortly, after- * wards arid returned to Spain. During his absence he was appointed Dictator, an office which he held only a short time. He established a regular government, and passed some wise measures.
He now went in pursuit of Pompey, met him, and was repulsed in his first attack, but was victorious in the battle of Pharsalia. Pompey fled to Egypt where he ’was murdered by the king’s order. Caesar followed him, but arrived a short time after his murder, when he defeated the king’s forces, and placed Cleopatra upon , the throne. After defeating the son of Mithridates and the Pompeian forces in Africa, he returned to Rome where great honors were conferred upon him. He corrected a great many abuses and changed the calendar to the. Julian calendar. He presented to the people a great many shows which were the delight of the Roman people.
Caesar next completely overthrew th? gons of
T5O
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Pompey in Spain. He now became supreme, having the title of perpetual dictator conferred always anxious for the welfare of his people; upon him. He did not become a tyrant,'but was careful not to take any objectionable title, or to use any signs of royalty. He-had formed gigantic plans which would have cast greater lustre upon his name had he not been the subject of a conspiracy. He was assassinated in the Senate Chamber by a few fanatic senators who" imagined that they were ridding the country of a tyrant. And thus perished one of the most remarkable men’of ancient or modern times.
A. E. Leonard.
Science, Literature and Art.
—Fortunes have been made by the invention of “small things,” as they are unwisely called. Westinghouse has made $20,000,000 out of his airbrake. The lead-pencil rubber tip has cleared its inventor $100,000; the roller skate cleared Si,000,000 before the craze died out, and the “Pigs in Clover” puzzle has, within one year, made its inventor a fortune.
—Karl Fathensteinis thenamejof the inventor of smokeless powder. Three years ago he was an unknown chemist in Vienna. He offered his invention to the Austrian War Office, but no investigation of his device was made. Discouraged by this refusal, he went to Berlin and had an interview with the Emperor and Count Walderse. His invention was thoroughly tested by experts, and the smokeless powder was pronounced a success. He sold his rights to the German Government for a large sum, and is now living in ease.
—Lieutenant Schwatka, in his explorations t of parts of Mexico, discovered in southern Chihuahua, living cliff and cave dwellers. The abodes in which they live are exactly similar to the old, abandoned cliff dwellings of Arizona and New Mexico, about which there has been . much speculation. Upon the approach of the white men they fled to their caves, climbing cliffs where the slightest crevices served as means of ascension. They are all tall, lean and well formed, and their skin is of a blackish red color.. Schwatka estimates their number at about 6000.
—A hitherto unknown painting by Leonarda da Vinci has just been placed in the gallery of the Pinakothek in Munich, which, if genuine, is of inestimable value. The picture was bought not long ago for twenty-two marks at an auction in a small town in South Germany; and the buyer sold it at a good profit to the Pina-kothek, which has had it well restored. It represents Mary with the Infant Jesus in a room through the window of which one sees a hilly landscape. The Madonna, somewhat under life
size, is visible down to the knees. On one side stands a glass with flowers. The picture is believed to be one of the earliest works of . the great master.
—A German periodical gives statistics concerning the frequency of thunder-storms in va- * rious regions of the world. Java has thunderstorms on the average 97 days in the year; Sumatra, 86; Hindostan, 56; Borneo, 54; the Gold Coast, 52; Rio de Janeiro, 51; Italy, 38; West Indies, 36; South Guinea, 32; Buenos Ayres, Canada and Austria, 23; Baden, Wiir-temburg, and Hungary, 22; Silesia, Bavaria, and Belgium, 21; Holland, 18; Saxony and Brandenburg, 17; France, Austria and South Russia, 16; Spain and Portugal, 15; Sweden and Finland, 8; England and the high Swiss mountains, 7; Norway, 4; Cairo, 3. In east Turkestan, as well as in the extreme north, there are almost no thunder-storms. The northern limits of the thunder-storms are Cape Ogle, northern part of North America, Iceland, Novaja Semelja, and the coast of the Siberian ice sea.
CARE OF THE VOICE.
The speaker should take the greatest care of his voice, which is the instrument both of his usefulness and of his fame; but of course it is not always easy for him to do so. Still, he should, if possible, make it a rule not to speak ' when his voice is hoarse or fatigued, and when he has a great oratorical effort to make he should reserve himself for it. Tobacco, alcohol, and fiery condiments of all kinds arebest avoided by those who have to speak much, or at least they should be used in strict moderation. I feel bound to warn speakers addicted to the “herb nicotian” against cigarettes. Like tippling, the ' effect of cigarette-smoking is cumulative, and the slight but constant absorption of tobacco juice and smoke makes the practice far more noxious in the long run than any other form of smoking. Our forefathers, who used regularly to end their evenings under the table, seemed to have suffered little of the well-known effects of alcohol on the nerves, while the modern tippler, who is never intoxicated, is a being whose whole nervous system may be said to be in a state of chronic inflammation. In like manner cigarette-smokers (those at least who inhale the smoke, and do not merely puff it “from the lips outward,” as Carlyle would say) are often in a state of chronic narcotic poisoning. The old jest about.the slowness of the poison may seem applicable here, but, though the process may be slow, there can be little doubt that it is sure. Even if it does not kill the body, it too often kills or greatly impairs the victims working efficiency and usefulness in life. The local effects of cigarettes in the mouth must also be taken into account by those whose work lies in the direction of public speech.. The white spots on the tongue and inside of the cheeks, known as “smoker’s patches,” are believed by somq
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
151
doctors with special experience to be more common in devotees of the cigarette than in other smokers; this unhealthy condition of the mouth may not only make speaking troublesome, or even painful, but.it is now proved to be a predisposing cause of cancer. All fiery or pungent foods, condiments, or drinks tend to cause congestion of the throat, and if this condition becomes chronic it may lead to impairment, if not complete loss, of voice. The supposed miraculous virtues of the mysterious possets and draughts on which some orators pin their faith exist mainly in the imagination of those who use them; at best they do nothing more than lubricate the joints of the vocal machine so as to make it work more smoothly. This is just as well done by means of a glass of plain water. In France water sweetened with sugar is the grand vocal elixir of political orators. As Madame de Girardin said, somewhat unkindly: “Many things can be dispensed with in the Tribune. Talent, wit, conviction, ideas, even memory, can be dispensed with, but not eau sucree.” Stimulants may give a sort of “Dutch courage” to the orator, and may carry him successfully through a vocal effort in which indisposition or nervousness might otherwise have caused him to fail, but the immediate emod
J	o
which they do is dearly purchased by the thickening and roughening of the mucous surface of o	00
the throat to which they give rise.—Popular Science Monthly for November.
College Gossip.
—Yale has won the tennis championship.
—Wesleyan expects to have a new gymnasium soon.
—In 1876 Yale and Harvard played the first game of football in this country.
—The new Catholic University in Washington will have, every afternoon during the year at 4.30 o’clock, a lecture on a popular topic, to which admission will be free to everybody by invitation tickets, which can be obtained without difficulty from the vice-rector.
—The formation of Catholic societies by Catholic students attending non-Catholic colleges ' is a new and healthy movement. There is a Bishop Foley Guild out at the Ann Arbor University, and-a Catholic organization at Yale is talked about. There ought to be little difficulty in starting a similar society at Harvard and elsewhere.—Ex. .
—The Junior class of Dartmouth College has been on strike, but has gone back to work. It doesn’t appear that the striking Juniors have insisted upon the removal of the President and faculty of the college. This was gross mismanagement. These gentlemen are, in fact, permitted to retain control of .the college; What are the Juniors for?—Sun.
—Many of the colleges are bewailing the fact that they have no athletic, associations. The value of such an institution can be understood only by experience. Organization is absolutely necessary in athletics as well as in anything else. Everyone is benefited by it, and the college sports are placed on a firmer basis financially and otherwise. To those who need such a society we would say that the sooner they take the necessary means the better it will be. Gymnasiums and campuses are of secondary importance when there is no association.
On the Football Field.
November is always the great month for football, al-’ though this vigorous, cool-weather sport commonly starts, by mid-October, crowding in upon the last days of baseball. Until after its climax on Thanksgiving Day it will be at the top among athletic contests. And never did a football season begin more promisingly here. The latest modifications of the rules will further restrict, though they cannot wholly prevent, rough play and slugging, and will proportionately favor scientific work. During the last seven years the tendency has been pretty constantly in this direction. The great experts at football in America have always been the collegians, by whom, in its form of the Rugby game amended, it has been used for intercollegiate contests about thirteen years. Their abolition, in 1882, of the “block game,” which had consisted in massing a whole team to keep the ball and force it as far ahead as possible before going down with it, redeemed the sport from being a mere display of crowding ability. The direct reason for adopting the “ five-yard rule,” which required a team to give up the ball to its opponents if it went down three consecutive times without advancing five yards or losing ten, was to break up the slowness, and monotony of the contest under the “ block game.” But a collateral effect was to put less reliance on fighting. Then came the great step of allowing the referee to order a player off the field for a single act of slugging without the three warnings . previously required. Next followed the appointment of an umpire to watch the men and their manner of playing, as well as a referee to fix his attention on the ball; finally, certain improvements in the rules as to holding an adversary.
This year’s changes have pursued ths same wise policy. To prevent disappointments like those in the great games of 1886, 1887 and 1888, the referee must use a stop watch for timing, and both the umpire and the referee must stop play on fouls and downs by whistles instead of the voice. Again, a try at goal may now be made from a touch-down, even if the time expires before the goal is kicked. This removes the temptation to delay by disputing the place of the touch-down. But most noticeable is the change which substitutes for the removal of an unfair player the following penalty: “For the offenses of throttling, tripping, or intentional tackling below the knees the opponents shall receive twenty-five yards or a free kick at their option. In case, however, the twenty-five yards would carry the ball across the goal line, they can have half the distance from the spot of the offense to the goal line and shall not be allowed a free kick.” This change in the penalty will, it is thought, restrain players, through the injury suffered to the prospects of the team, when they would personally care little for being disqualified, being able to pose as heroes and martyrs to injustice.
Another good omen for the season is that more colleges than ever have fine teams in the field, while the three great football universities, Princeton, Yale and Harvard, are thought to be better matched this year than for a long time. The leading-non-collegiate league, which has more graduates than ever among its members, is also playing the game -with spirit.—/V. Y. Sun.
i52	. THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
m w sBumm
^ubliss^tl t&crj ^aturhag burtng Eton ®tme at K. 3. Snibcrsttg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, November 9, 1889
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the twenty-third year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Lit erary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Atrium. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff.
J. W. Cavanaugh, ’90,	H. P. Brelsford, 91,
H. A. Holden, ’91,
Wm. C. Larkin, ’90,	W. P. McPhee, ’90,
J. B. Sullivan, ’91,
C. T. Cavanagh, ’91,	Joseph E. Berry, ’91.
—Professor Egan’s lecture on Tuesday.in the Criticism Class on the sufferings and rewards of the literary life must have somewhat cooled the ardor of some clever beginners. He advised them to find a business or profession first that would afford a fixed income, and then to use literature as a staff. “It is a good staff,” he said, “for a man who has served his apprenticeship;” and he quoted the sum total of Anthony Trollope’s earnings as five hundred thousand dollars. The young man who can work hard all day and give an hour or so of his leisure to writing will probably succeed—if his fortitude is equal to his talent.
—By an act of Congress, passed at a recent session, every Indian over twenty one years of age, who receives land in severalty becomes a voter with all the attributes of citizenship. The Sioux negotiations, if they prove successful, will add five thousand to the voting population of Dakota. This is a wise move. The bulk of our Indian population is certainly as well prepared to cast an honest and an intelligent suffrage as many of our white voters.
By a systematic policy of oppression and extermination the Indian population has decreased from several millions to a wretched three hundred thousand. The red man has received little enough for his land. The boon of citizenship should not be denied him.
—The Colored Harvests the title of a Catholic paper published in the Epiphany Apostolic College, Baltimore, Md. This institution has been established during the current year for the preparatory education of young men who feel themselves called to the priesthood and the exercise of the sacred ministry among the negroes; after their collegiate course their theological studies are pursued in St. Joseph’s Seminary in the same city, inaugurated, through the zeal of Cardinal Gibbons in behalf of the colored race, and opened in September, 1888, under the direction of the Rev. J. R. Slattery who has devoted his life and labor to the furtherance of this apostolic work. Both these institutions depend for their support upon the Colored Harvest. It need not be said, then, how forcibly this publication commends itself to the patronage of Christians everywhere. • The subscription price—25 cents a year—is trifling; but the amount of good which may be effected for religion and humanity is incalculable.
A Practical Hint.
No young man in our time can be said to be thoroughly equipped for success in life until he has acquired at least one modern language. It is an axiom in diplomatic circles abroad that the American foreign minister is deaf and dumb; he speaks and understands no language but his own. The German, the Russian—notably the Russian—the Italian, the Spaniard is a master of many languages; and even the Frenchman, who is very conservative in respect to his language, learns other tongues as a matter of equipment. One of the most exhaustive “ studies” in English literature is that written by a . Frenchman, Henri Taine. Leaving aside his philosophy, which is by no' means orthodox, this work is a monument of erudition and industry. What American, now that Longfellow is gone, could even begin to attempt such a task in the literature of any other language?
French, German, Spanish—the last, the most important language for Americans—each offers a fascinating and practical field for the student, who gains a new world of expression and thought with every language he studies.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	153
Essay - Writing-.
If anyone wishes to excel in literary composition laborious efforts must be made and persevered in. It will not do to give up at the first difficulties encountered; in this, as in other things, difficulties, and sometimes great difficul-ties, will be met; but these should not cause discouragement. If Washington at the sight of the miserable condition to which his army was reduced at Valley Forge—poorly provisioned, poorly armed, half-clad, the frozen ground purpled with blood from the shoeless feet of his soldiers, while the enemy, with more than double his numbers, were well-disciplined and had their every want supplied—if Washington at the sight of such disparity of numbers and means were to have given up in despair, the United States of to-day might still be but an over-taxed colony of England. If the stammering Athenian lad, Demosthenes, had less energy and* perseverance, the successful rival of the eloquent ^Eschines would to-day be unknown; if the poor and humble toiler, William Herschel, had not sacrificed hours of well-earned repose from his labors—nay, had not even denied himself the time for his meals— the name of the great optician and astronomer would not have been handed down to posterity. And so with all others of eminence in art and science. The fame which they have earned is the result of persevering exertions—humble at first in their results, but gradually extending until crowned with a success of which the toilers themselves had never dared to dream.
Many a student, although perhaps longing to obtain renown as a scholar and writer, still -cannot make up his mind to undergo the patient toil by which the hill of fame is reached. They possess the talent, and models are not wanting for imitation; but they desire to attain their object without labor. As a writer in the Scholastic once remarked: “Few possess genius as defined by a celebrated English essayist—‘A transcendent capacity for taking trouble.’ We overlook one important fact—that the life of every truly great man has been a life of continual labor. We are satisfied with viewing the great, the exalted position on which they stand, never taking into consideration the bitter disappointments and discouragements they encountered and. overcame before they gained their object. We are all willing to be employed in something great—something that will attract the attention of the world,—but we have no desire to attend to the numerous small affairs, to
remove the obstacles that check our .way. What a delusion! It is small things that make up the sum of life. They are the stepping-stones by which we attain the summit of success. They are the foundations on which the illustrious men of all ages have erected the structures on which rests their fame.”
Therefore we say to those who wish to acquire a good style of writing: Attend to small things; select your models carefully, both for matter and manner, and lose no time in trifling. Write often, but not too hurriedly—drying rather to do well what you do than to do a great deal in a slovenly manner. When you have chosen a subject, do not immediately sit down to your paper, but con well the matter, turning it over and over in your mind, seeing how it will appear best; then bring together your facts and embellishments, and after arranging these mentally, in a crude way, you can sit down to your essay with some hope of succeeding. It is not enough to scratch off some crude thoughts, or put together some loose facts. Many thoughts that are new to the essayist are old to others, and when these are presented in a slovenly.or shabby dress the effect is anything-but pleasing. Great care should therefore be taken in writing an essay. It is stated that one of the most brilliant writers of his day wrote his essays, or whatever else he intended to publish, on widely lined paper. He first wrote without any great regard to the wording of the phrases and the sentences, and then going over his pages a second and third time, perhaps oftener, he moulded and remoulded each sentence and phrase until he gave it that polish and brilliancy which characterize his writings. After bestowing so much pains on his manuscript it may easily be imagined that the pages must have been a mass of erasures, and it would have been next to. impossible for anyone but himself, who had the clue to get through the inky labyrinth of words erased and restored, and again blotted out to give place to others.
Now if an historian and essayist of world-wide renown took such pains with his writing, and went over an essay three or four times, or oftener, we think our young tyros at college should not think it amiss, or time lost, to rewrite an essay five or six times—or even twice as often, if they see that they can further improve or polish it. An essay, like a mosaic, is a painstaking affair, if properly done, and its excellence will depend in a great measure, on the time and pains taken with it. Ideas, language, everything that goes to form or embellish it, should be carefully chosen, and placed to the best advantage. In
154	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
this way it was that the great masters of English composition wrote; in this painstaking way it was that they made for themselves a name and fame; and without so much painstaking their writings would not to-day command our admiration and be held up as masterpieces and models. Natural genius, it is true, had no doubt much to do with the excellence of their works; but without careful development of their inborn talents they would never have attained the excellence that places them in the first rank of literature.
But it may be said, or rather thought, that if such painstaking and unremitting labor is necessary to excellence in literary composition, they will not attempt it; they will take their ease, and will be satisfied with mediocrity—nay, will forego writing altogether, for that matter; it requires too much effort. Well, if you will have it so, abide by the consequences. The little acorn maybe crushed beneath the foot,.and that is the last of it; but if planted in the earth, it forms the embryo of the giant oak which for centuries will cast its shade over man and] beast; the grains of wheat, if sent to the mill, give something less than their weight in flour; but if sown in carefully prepared earth, and cultivated and tended, they give their weight a hundred times told. So it is with the time spent in youth. Every year at college, after time only for an ordinary development of the mental faculties has been given, is considered as time lost, and the youth is withdrawn just when real mental culture has only begun; he has what is barely requisite, scarcely that; but nothing of that vigor which continued culture gives; for the mental faculties, like the oak, require time to develop and give them strength. Therefore, before you decide, think of the utility, among other things, of an elegant, forcible style of writing, even when used only as an adjunct in the profession of your choice, law, for instance, or journalism; nay, even in business and friendly intercourse. In fact, a person cannot be said to have an ordinary English education without it. And young men who held humble and obscure positions in . life have often attracted attention, and risen into the confidence of their fellow-men by the good taste and general excellence displayed in a letter; so also with many journalists and writers of| note. ■
But persevering, effort is not confined to literature; as before remarked, it is necessary to eminence in any of the arts or professions. Take music, painting, sculpture, termed the fine arts by excellence, how long must not the tyro in music thrum and thrum, and scrape and toot,
before he can evoke from the passive instrument the entrancing strains that hold the hearer spellbound; hours, days, weeks, months, and years elapse, and we find him still at his practice; so also with the painter and sculptor. The insen- B sate canvas and stone give forth life and beauty g only after long years of toil and practice with jf: the brush and chisel. And writing is no less a J; fine art. Who has not felt its influence? It has || created saints, and warriors, and statesmen; it has fired with animation the idle, stupid boy.or youth, and given him no rest until he reached the pinnacle of fame; the callous, the hardhearted and worldly-minded are often touched p with the tale of woe as it comes from the in- |S spired pen,—their heart again warms with the fire of charity and their purse-strings open to the wants of the poor; the youth lost to virtue g scans, as if by chance, the inspired page from U some saintly hand, and the libertine thencefor- ft ward becomes a saint. Writing is, in truth, a M fine art, and most powerful for good or evil. g|
Young men, do not decide hastily. Give not |g way to selfish indulgence, to inglorious ease, at S the time of life in which your mental faculties— K those God-given faculties—which may be devel- g oped to such grand proportions, and with such || gratifying results—are still pliant and capable ft of education. If the press is to-day the lever ® that moves the world, it may be assumed that fh assiduity, determination, persevering industry, W in a word, is the fulcrum. Therefore, cultivate s the faculty of writing. It may be of immense ® service to you hereafter.	F. IP
Exchanges.
—The Fordham Monthly has lately graced our W parlors. We think it the most artistic and tasteful upon our table. It is a novelty in binding, fife and its literary columns are laden with well- W written contributions" in prose and verse.
—For the first time during the scholastic year we welcome to our table the Columbia Spectator, Oi That journal plumes itself upon having been accorded a place in the exhibit of American 111 magazines at the Paris exposition. We wonder if it was not largely a matter of “inflooence.” -IBM
—The October number of Acta Victoriana has just reached us. It is impossible to speak too UMI highly of the good taste and literary culture »|| exercised in the make-up of this bright publication. With the number before us it begins its ninth year, and certainly none of our exchanges^® has more to show in the direction of progressive college journalism.	i|g|
—The Georgetown College Journal has at last||||| made its appearance, and it requires but a glance IBS at its pages to assure us that it is still, as of yorej®|
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
155
active, spicy and entertaining. No one, however, will let it pass with a mere glance, and certainly this issue of the Journal will prove the best answer to the query lately advanced by some of our exchanges respecting its late appearance.
—The Dickinson Liberal for October contains a clever little tale entitled “ Kismet.” The narrative, though a trifle angular in some parts, is yet interesting, and the author evinces considerable narrative ability. Heretofore college papers have paid but little attention to the production and publication of short or serial stories, and we are pleased to notice this somewhat new departure in the Liberal as well as in some others of our exchanges.
—We are glad to note the reception of the October issue of the College Echo, a neat quarterly, published in the interests of the pupils of St. Edward’s College, Austin, Texas. This number, which begins the second volume of the Echo, furnishes a complete account of the dedication exercises of the new college building, and reports the orations of the day in full. The extensive circulation enjoyed by this publication attests its own growing power, as well as the aptitude of Southerners to appreciate good, solid literature.
—The University is the title of a magazine published in New York City, and devoted to the interests of American colleges generally. It is unique in purpose and well edited. It must be said, however, that such a wilful display of bigotry, prejudice or ignorance as is made in a statement regarding the new Catholic Universify in the present number is entirely out of keeping with the general excellence of the journal. We hope that future contributors who have occasion to refer to the aims and purposes of Catholic institutions will show a better knowledge of the subject with which they deal and find more courteous expression.
Books and Periodicals.
—The Art Amateur for Novembei- gives for one of its colored plate supplements a sumptuous and most artistic study of pink roses in an old-fashioned blue bowl; and for another, a set of fish-plate designs for china painting. In black and white, there is a profusion of designs for art-needlework, wood carving, china painting and tapestry painting, and the number abounds in practical articles on all these subjects, with others on “ Pen Drawing for Photo-Engraving,” splendidly illustrated; Amateur Photography, and the recent Industrial Art Exhibition in Philadelphia. A full list is given of all the Americans who won honors at the Paris Centennial Exposition.
—Donahoe's Monthly Magazine for November is particularly interesting. The leading article answers a question often asked by Protestants $nd others—“What do the Catholics Want?”
The paper “Canada and Her Neighbor” is continued; L. W.- Reilly tells the reason why. men don’t read our Catholic papers; James Riley gives a second letter telling about what he saw and heard in the old land; Agnes Hampton tells of the Divinity School of the Catholic University; William Collins has a story in verse; “The Green Braes of Tyrone;” The Hundredth Anniversary of Archbishop Carroll; The late Pastoral of4 Cardinal Gibbons is also given, together with twenty-nine articles_on as many different subjects.
—The November St. Nicholas appears in a larger and plainer type, and with more than enough extra pages to accommodate the increase of size without loss of material. In “Intercol. legiate Foot-ball in America,” Walter Camp, certainly the best authority on these matters, gives such explanation of the actual plays upon the field as will not only assist players, but will enable spectators to know just why the young wearers of the Blue, Crimson, or Orange and Black become wild with enthusiasm over the mysterious doings of their partisans within the ropes. This article is only introductory to an account of famous plays that have been made by well-known experts of Yale, Harvard, Princeton, the University of Pennsylvania, and other universities and colleges. Two contributions present in instructive juxtaposition, the savage and the civilized methods of hunting the jackrabbit of the West. “ Coursing with Greyhounds ' in Southern California,” by C. F. Holder, gives the civilized view of the sport, and in “A Pueblo Rabbit-Hunt,” by C. F. Lummis, we see the primitive method. The latter is to surround a section of country, contract the lines, and slay the unfortunate rabbit with a sort of boomerang. Both articles are written with the enthusiasm of true sportsmen.
—With theNovembernumber the Century	■
azine begins its twentieth volume. The opening pages are devoted to an instalment of the long-expected autobiography of Joseph Jefferson. Jefferson begins the account of his. life by a description of his “{playhouse”; namely, “behind the scenes” of.a theatre. “And what a playhouse it was,” says the author, “full of all sorts of material for the exercise of my youthful imagination!” He presents the most frank and numerous recollections of his childhood; he describes Chicago and the West in 1838 and 1839; a significant adventure at the home of Lincoln, Springfield, Ill.; and the voyage of his family in a flat-boat. He also gives his recollections of James Wallack, Sr., the elder Booth and Macready. The illustrations are numerous and include portraits of Jefferson himself, his parents and grandfather. Tyrone Power, James Wallack, Macready and Junius Brutus Booth. Mark Twain’s contribution to this number, “A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court,” • is one of the most daring of the inventions of this most famous of American humorists. It is illustrated in a lively manner, by Dan Beard. -
i$6	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The wandering Yankee is the hero of Mark Twain’s forthcoming book which will have the same title borne by the magazine article. Judge Ernest S. Crosby, now of Egypt, formerly of the New York Legislature, appears in this number of The Century as a story writer. He describes the remarkable “Case of John'Van Arsdale.” Mrs. Carter’s description of "Street Life in Madrid ” is the occasion of a frontispiece after Velasquez, and several striking Spanish studies by the American artists, Chase and Blum. George Kennan has a chapter of “Adventures in Eastern Siberia.” The history, purposes, and methods of the new' “Grolier Club,” of New York, are fully described by Brander Matthews and illustrated with drawings of rare Grolier book-covers, etc.
Personal.
—Among the welcome visitors during the week were the Rev. J. Scanlan, of the Cathedral, and the Rev. Father Conway, of Evanston, Ill.
:—Rev. F. Molloy, C. S. C., left Notre Dame on Wednesday last for St. Joseph’s College, Cincinnati. He will replace Rev. J. Moran of that institution who, we are sorry to say, has been obliged to resign his position in the Faculty on account of ill health.
—Mr. Lawrence Kehoe, of the Catholic Publication Society Co., New York,’passed a few days at the College during the week visiting his sons in the Junior department and many friends at the institution. He was accompanied by Mr. Joseph D. Hennessy, a representative of the great publishing firm of Burns & Oates, London.
—Among the visitors during the week were: Mrs. P. Schillo and Miss Schillo, of Chicago, Ill.; Mrs. George Philips, Nutwood, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Warner, Bloomington, Ill.; Miss Clara Plunkard, Canton, Ohio; G. W. Horton, Danville, Ill.; C. E. Funk, Farmer City,Ill.; Miss M. Powderly, Hillsdale, Mich.; Mrs. J. Hill, Cincinnati, Ohio.
—Very Rev. John Prendergast, Vicar-General of the Archdiocese of San Francisco, was a very welcome visitor to the College on last Saturday and Sunday, leaving on Monday noon for the. East. He expressed himself highly pleased with his visit, and agreeably surprised at the great extent and the many advantages of this home of religion and education. We hope he will find time for a second visit.	r
—We have been pained to learn, through the daily papers, the sad intelligence of the death of .Mr. Charles J. Dodge, of Burlington, Iowa, who departed this life on the 5th inst. Mr. Dodge passed through a five years’ course in the University, graduating with high honors in the Class of ’74, and during his college life he 'was a general favorite with his professors and fellow students. In after life he met with great
and deserved success in the practice of his chosen profession—the law—and became prominent in political circles. His early demise has been learned with deep regret by the many friends of the deceased at Notre Dame, all of whom extend their heartfelt sympathy to the afflicted relatives.
—The Rt. Rev. A. J. Glorieux, D. D., Vicar Apostolic of Idaho, passed a few days at Notre Dame during the week to the great joy and pleasure of all. The distinguished prelate was en route to Baltimore to attend the exercises of the Centennial, but stopped off to visit the “Pride of the West,” which, he was pleased to say, was a most agreeable surprise to him with its splendid array of buildings, large attendance and the manifold opportunities for imparting and acquiring a thorough education. He related many entertaining and instructive reminiscences in regard to missionary life among the Indians and the great improvement wrought in their condition through the influence of Christianity. We hope the good Bishop, whose great gifts of mind and noble qualities of heart and soul have already been so effective in the diffusion of Christian teaching and civilization, will long be spared in the highest work of the Christian priesthood in which he is now engaged. He will always be a most welcome visitor to Notre Dame.
Local Items.
—Football.
—Hail to thee!
—We are the people.
—Sure, we can’t all go away.
—“Taken from a county jail.”
—The latest edition beats everything.
—Football to-day—Evanston szy.Notre Dame.
—The song of the coxswain is ’eard on the ’ill.
—There is talk of a public debate in a short, time.
—No more water “fouls”—navigation is closed.
—The Scholastic will furnish interesting reading these cold winter days.
—Where have the genial cyclists betaken themselves to “wheel” away the time?
—The Philopatrians are still among the unknown! Where, oh! where can they be?"
—We are happy once again, “lemo”—2 for.5. Subscribe now while you’re in good spirits.
—The cupola on the new Seminary building is very ornamental even in its unfinished state.
—It is time for the special Lecture Course to be inaugurated. Where is that committee?
—Many pleasing improvements have been lately made in the buildings and on the premises of Mt. St. Vincent.
—The “bard” has not been affected with a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	15*
pain for several days. We hope he will not have a relapse as his friend “Shorty” fears.
—The time for handing in essays is fast approaching. So hurry up, boys; do not lag and wait until the last minute to write your essay.
—Our genial Vice-President, Rev. Father Zahm, who has been ill for some days, is, we are glad to say, rapidly convalescing and around with us once more.
—Among the recent improvements in the Cuisine is the addition of a fine large steam coffeegrinder. It performs the heavy work demanded of it with neatness and dispatch.
—Notice.—The Librarian of the University requests that all numbers of the Dublin Review which have been borrowed be returned as soon as possible, as the “sets” are needed for binding.
—The many trips which the great oil tank makes to Notre Dame Station on the M. C. RR. show the great demand of the numerous boilers in the steam-house. Oil, as fuel, is giving the greatest satisfaction, and proves superior to coal in cleanliness and for heating purposes.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin, Very Rev. Father Provincial Corby and Rev. President Walsh left Notre Dame on Thursday enroute to Baltimore, where they will attend the exercises of the centennial commemoration of the American Episcopate and the inauguration of the new Catholic University of Washington.
—A telegram was received from Prof. James F. Edwards on Thursday morning announcing his safe arrival in New York, and that he is the bearer of a letter of congratulation from Cardinal Manning and the Hierarchy of England to Cardinal Gibbons and the American Episcopate on the occasion of the centennial celebration at Baltimore. Prof. Edwards will represent Notre Dame at the Lay Congress to be held in connection with the centennial exercises. His many friends here rejoice at the happy termination of his vacation tour, and hope soon to have the pleasure of seeing him in their midst at old Notre Dame.
—Rt. Rev. Bishop Glorieux, Vicar-Apostolic of Idaho, honored the Minims by a visit on Tuesday. As he entered the study-hall he expressed his surprise and delight at seeing so many nice boys together. He told them some incidents of his life among the Indians, and sang an Indian song. Such an amiable act but shows how devoted the Rt. Rev. Bishop is to children. On Thursday morning he said Mass for the Minims in their beautiful little Chapel of St. John the Evangelist, and promised to see them again if he could find time to revisit Notre Dame on his return from Baltimore.
—We are glad to state that the prospects for the speedy reorganization of the College Band are very bright and promising. Rev. J. Mohun has taken charge of the good work, and with his well-known musical ability and skill will not fail to make it a success. It is expected,
of course, that good material and aptitude will be readily found, together with good-will and the desire for mutual pleasure and benefit. On Thursday last Father Mohun visited the celebrated manufactory of C. G. Conn, at Elkhart, and made arrangements for the purchasing of new and improved instruments. No doubt before many weeks the halls and grounds of Notre Dame will resound with “ye trumpet notes as in the halcyon days of yore.” .
—Law.—Parker vs. Michigan Air Line Ry. was the case called by Clerk Burns last Saturday, Hon. Judge Hoynes presiding. E. J. Blessington appeared for the plaintiff and F. E. Lane for the defendant. In this action Parker sues the defendant for $15,000 damages for injuries sustained while in their employment. The defense will introduce their evidence to-night, and the case will most likely be given to the jury— Messrs. Dennis, Galen, Blake, O’Neill, Tivnen and Hoblitzell.—The subject for the morning lecture is Domestic Relations; the afternoon class is dealing with Contracts. These notes have been lately compiled with great skill and care by Prof. Hoynes, and embrace the latest decisions of the courts. The Quiz class are studying the evidence in the celebrated Cronin trial, the readers last week being Messrs. McKeon, Hummer, Herman, Hepburn, Dickerson, McWilliams and Burns.—The Law class extends a cordial invitation to all visiting attorneys while at Notre Dame to visit their department.
—Amass meeting of the local democracy was held last Thursday evening. The future voters of ’92 seemed to imbibe some of the happiness of their older brethren in the democracy, and maintained that their late national defeat was only to show the weakness of republican rule. Cheers loud and long engaged the whole vocal systems of the enthusiastic assembly.
At length the meeting was called to order, and Mr. S. Hummer, ’91, an honest democrat from O-hi-o, stepped upon the platform and in a few words opened the speechmaking. His call for cheers for “Grover” and “Campbell” was heartily responded to. Telegrams of congratulation were ordered to be sent to Go ver-nors-elect Campbell of Ohio and Boies of Iowa.
Mr. J. B. Sullivan, ’91, then took the stand, and in a lengthy and well-delivered speech expressed how glad he felt “that his glorious State of .Iowa had at last arisen from the mire of republican influences, and breathed and grew strong in the healthful atmosphere of democratic principles.” He was cheered again and again.
Mr. H. Brelsford, ’91, whose reputation as an orator is widely known, next took the stand and in a finely delivered speech, which was often interrupted by applause, expressed, in a happy manner, his views upon the “landslide.”
He was followed by Mr. Hugh O’Neill, a true . Irish-American, who treated his hearers with a simple, yet sincere speech which came from a noble, manly heart. Mr. O’Neill declared his
iS8	The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
love for his adopted country and his solicitation for her welfare, and maintained that nowhere can she obtain the pilot to guide the ship of state into the port of prosperity but in the democratic ranks. Mr. O’Neill closed his remarks amid the cheers of his enchanted hearers.
Mr. Cassin, of California, expressed his views on the question of the inseparable “ One Lung” and “Rats,” and said that the “cues must go,” and the Democrats will start them on their return trip. Speeches were also made by the Messrs. Burns of Iowa, after which one of the most enjoyable meetings of the year adjourned sine die.
Vorhang, Vandercook, Washburne, Wilcox, Wever, Wit-kowsky, Walsh, Weber, Holbrook, G. Zoehrlaut, Zeigler, C. Zoehrlaut.
Class Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. Parker, F. Flynn, C. Flynn, Houlihan, Powers, J. Cassidy, Mock, Otero, Dorsey, Pyplatcz, Shaack, Dyer, Johnson, Olds, Lynch, Giblin, Leahy, Gibbons, S. Curtis, Kohlman, Gerlach, Hull, A. Leonard, Rarig, Sloan, Benz, Hasenfuss, Kearney, E. Bates, Lee, Hack, Towne, R. Leonard, Evers, Sokup, Seery, Hahn, Blumenthal, Merz, J. Snyder, Pomeroy, B. Bates, Hagus, Weise, Gnewuch, E. Dorsey, Elder, Seibert, Young, Anson, Wolff, Youngerman, Sweet, Collman, Hoerr.
Boll of Honor.
List of Excellence.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Ahlrichs, Anderson, Blackman, Brookfield, Blodgett, R. Bronson, H. Bronson, Burns, H. Brannick, H. Beckham, Benz, Brelsford, Combe, Cassin, Carroll, Cassidy, S. Campbell, G. Cooke, Cavanagh, L. Chute, F. Chute, Clayton, E. Coady, T. Coady, P. Coady, Curtis, S. Dela Pena, Dorsey, Delany, Davis, Dyer, Dougherty, Daniels, C. Flynn, F. Flynn, P. Fleming, Ford, Fisk, Fehr, Goben, Garfias, Giblin, Galen, Hepburn, Houlihan, Herman, Healy, Heard, Hackett, E. Hughes, Hummer, Hempier, Hoover, Hayes, Hoblitzell, J. S. Johnson, J. A. • Johnson, Walsh, Knoblauch, Karasynski, Kearns, King, Krembs, F. Kelly, Kelly, Louisell, Lesner, Langan, Lair, Lancaster, G. Long, White, W. Larkin, Lane, F. Long, Leonard, Mulroney* McGinn, McWilliams, McKeon, McAuliff, McKee, McAlister, McDonnell, Tivnen, McConlogue, Mithen, Mackey, Morrison, McGrath, Meehan, O’Neill, O'Brien, O’Shea, Prudhomme, Parker, Powers, Pyplacz, Portilia, H. Prichard, F. Prichard, F. Vurpillat, Paquette, Quigley, Rebillot, Rose, C. Roberts, Seeberger, Roberts, Scherrer, Schwarz, L: Sanford, Steiger, Soden, Schaack, Toner, V. Vurpillat, Youngerman.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Aarons, Anson, Brubaker, B. Backrach, E. Bates, B. Bates, J. Brady, T. T. Brady, T. Brady, W. Brady, Burns, Bruel, Bradley, Baltes, Crandall, Cunningham, Cosgrove, Case, Crotty, Coll, Clendenin, Coilman, E. De Brul,' Davis, Delany, Doig, Des Garennes, De Lor-mier, Drumm, Elder, J. H. Flannigan, C. Fitzgerald, J. Fitzgerald, Field, A. W. Funke, Gale, Garrison, Gnewuch, Galen, Hull, Howard, Hambaugh, Hack, Hesse, Hagus, Hannin, Hoerr, Hague, Jacobs, Kearney, Keough, L. Kehoe, V. Kehoe, J. Leonard, Lenard, Lee, Mackey, Murphy, Maurus, D. Monarch, L. Monarch, Merz, Mitchell, Merkle, Mier, J. McCartney, E. McCartney, Jos. McPhil-lips, W. McDonnell, McIvers, E. McKee, F. McKee, McConnell, F. Neef, A. Neef, Neenan, O’Mara, O’Neill, Putnam, Pendleton, Prichard, Pomeroy, Quinlan, Robinson, Rarig, Rice, Root, Roper, Regan, Roth, Rowsey, W. E. Stanton, Spurgeon, F. Schillo, Sloan, Seymore, Seerey, Sokup, Sutter, Spalding, Stapleton, Talbot, Thorn, Tet-ard, Turner, Weston, Weitzel, Wright, Weise, Ward, White, Wertheimer, Zinn.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Ayers, Ball, O. Brown, F. Brown, Blake, T. Burns, Barbour, Crandall, W. Connor, C. Connor, Covert, W- Crawford, A. Crawford, Coquillard, Croke, Clarke, Crane, Durand, Dench, Elkin, Eckler, T. Finnerty, W. Finnerty, Frankel, Falvey, Fuller, E. Furthman, W. Furthman, Girardin, Gilbert, D. Gilkison, Grant, Hoffman, Hamilton, Hendry, Jonquet, Krollman, Keeler, Kern, Lonergan, Londoner, Lonnsberry, H. Lamberton, C. Lamberton, Levi, Loomis, Montague, Maternes, Marr, Mattas, H. Mestling, E. Mestling, Myers, McGuire, McPhee, McPhillips, Mayer, Marre, C. Nichols, W. Nichols, O’Neill, Powell, L. Paul, C. Paul, Pellenz, C. Packard, J. Packard, Roberts, Ronning, Ryan, Stone, G. Scherrer, Seidensticker, W. Scherrer, Stephens, Thornton, Trujillo,
* Omitted by mistake last week.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Latin—Messrs. Ahlrichs, King, F. Vurpillat; Greek— Messrs. Hennessy, Hempier, B._ Bachrach; Arithmetic Messrs. Gibbons, Anson, B. Bates, Hahn, V. Kehoe, H. Bachrach; Algebra—Messrs. G. Cooke, F. Vurpillat, T. Hennessy, Hummer, Maurus; Grammar—Messrs. Dillon, Merz, A. Neef, W. Stanton, Bos, Lewis, Sloan, Weston, Young; Reading— Messrs. C. Flynn, Olds, Lehman, Franciscus, Curtis, Zinn, Hack, De Lormier, Dorsey, A. Leonard, F. McDonnell, Zimmerman, Parker, F. Flynn; Orthography—Messrs. C. Flynn, Parker, Weise, Des Garrennes, W.Stanton, Jacobs; Type-Writing—Messrs. W. McDonnell, Tetard; Telegraphy—B. Bradley; Geography—O. Hasenfuss; United States History—F. Evers; Architectural Drawing—Messrs. C. Paquette, F. Prichard, Wolff, Wade; Linear Drawing— Messrs. H. Bronson, Weitzel, F. Schillo, Rothert, F. Flynn; Free Hand Drawing—Messrs. F. Neef, J. Brady, F. Hughes, Roth; Figure Drawing—Messrs. W. Morrison, Paradis, Messick; Mechanical Drawing—J. Delaney.
St. Mary’s Academy, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Rt. Rev. Maurice F. Burke, D. D., Bishop of Cheyenne, Wyoming,—a student of the University in ’66—recently visited the above-named institution. He was accompanied by the Rev. D. Kiely, Vicar-General of Utah and a number of other clergymen. An entertainment was given by the pupils in honor of his visit, of which the Salt Lake papers say:
"The programme was well selected, and in its variety gave some of the young ladies fair and full scope for display of their talent and remarkable acquirements in the many branches of music and elocution, The piano solo of Miss Mary Burke, a niece of the distinguished visitor, must have impressed the Rt. Rev. Bishop with the care she is evidently receiving, for the expression, the clear and powerful touch, deserve praise and encouragement. Bishop Burke expressed himself as greatly pleased. He was quite surprised to find the spacious halls of the academy crowded to their capacity with young and lovely faces, all bespeaking the minute care and attention they are ’•eceiving, and beaming with good health and happiness. After the concert a more familiar reception was given in one of the parlors, by the pupils from the vast diocese of the Rt. Rev. guest. They were quite a little crowd, indeed, hailing from many parts'of the greati Territory of Wyoming. Their number was an unexpected and agreeable surprise to the Right Rev. gentleman, who expressed his delight and satisfaction at seeing so many of his diocesans avail themselves of the excellent education provided them at St. Mary’s Academy.”	*
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Si Mail’s Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Warm thanks are returned to Mr. A. Kaspar for favors shown the Junior department.
—The Misses Wickersheim, Green and Rent-frow received 100 in lessons for the week closing Nov. 2.
—The members of the French classes show a commendable zeal in mastering the difficulties, of French conversation; and, as a consequence, are improving rapidly.
—St. Mary’s was honored on Adoration Sunday, Nov. 3, by a visit from the Very Rev. J. F. Prendergast, Vicar-General of the diocese of San Francisco, who was celebrant of the High Mass on that day.
—Mr. J. McNellis, an old-time friend and benefactor of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, departed this life in Morris, Ill., on the feast of St. Raphael, fortified by the sacraments of the Church. Sincere sympathy is extended • his bereaved family.
—The large hall back of the Seniors’ studyhall, known to the old pupils as the Communityroom, has been nicely fitted up, and is now used as the pupil’s refectory. It is a bright, sunny room, and is a great improvement in every way over the old refectory.
—Halloween was celebrated with old-time amusements by the Juniors; catching at apples, oranges, etc., was the favorite pastime. A kind friend offered several prizes for those most proficient in the art of angling without hook or line. The winners were the Misses Thirds, Robbins, Smyth and Reeves.
—A visit from Right Rev. Bishop Glorieux was the event of the week. After celebrating the holy sacrifice of the Mass on Wednesday morning, he was tendered a reception by the pupils, the principal features of which were a chorus by the vocal class, a quartette sung by the Misses Leahy, Kassar, Horner and Dempsey, and an address of welcome gracefully read by Miss E. Flannery. The Right Rev. Bishop expressed his thanks to the young ladies, and made a few interesting remarks about his diocese of Idaho.
—Sunday evening Very Rev. Father General presided the regular academic meeting, at which the class and conduct notes were read. As is customary at St. Mary’s on All Saints’ Day, or the Sunday within the octave, cards on which the “Beatitudes” are printed, were distributed, after a few words by Father General, and an explanation of Christ’s consoling promises and the conditions necessary to their fulfilment,by the Misses Hammond, Horner, Davis and O’Brien. The subject of a printed paper instead of those in manuscript was touched upon, and after a few words by Rev. Father Maher, the meeting closed.
—The regular literary meetings of Tuesday
last were set aside for a lecture by Professor M. F. Egan; he continued the subject of his last instruction—“A Bird’s-Eye View of English Literature,” in which be carried his listeners from Dryden up to the writers of the present day. Mr. Egan’s suggestions are carefully noted by all, and it is hoped that the advantage enjoyed in having as a teacher so able an exponent of all that is worthy in the world of letters may produce effects life-long in their influence on those who hear these lectures, and on the circle in which St. Mary’s pupils will move in after years.
—One of the branches to which particular attention is given at St. Mary’s is penmanship. Each pupil on entering is provided with a book in which she writes a specimen of her penmanship; each month a new specimen is written and the improvement noted. In order to excite emulation, a prize was offered for the one in each department who made most improvement in October. The efforts of the Misses Rinehart, Piper, Hurff, Studebaker, Lewis, Spurgeon, Bero, Smith, Hepburn, Wickersheim, Schaefer, Collbran, Skancke and Haight of the Senior department, and the Misses Tormey, E. Wagner, Pellinz, Farwell, Patrick, Clifford and Palmer of the Juniors, are deserving of special mention, but the prizes fell to the Misses K. Hurley and E. Evoy.
--------—----------
Act Well Your Part.
The audience is waiting; the low hum of conversation is audible throughout the great theatre; the blaze of electric light throws its radiance over silks and broadcloths, flowers and diamonds; the ushers are everywhere running up and down the padded aisles, attending with utmost deference to the comfort of the waiting crowd. Softly the strains of the orchestra break forth, conversation ceases, and all await the wringing up of the curtain which is to herald the rendition of a Shakspearian masterpiece. The hush of expectancy is over; the curtain rises, and the play begins. The opera glasses of pit and gallery are turned upon the stage and criticism is freely exchanged upon the scenes represented, while the entrance-of the star is anxiously looked for. Amid plaudits he makes his appearance, and gives a faultless rendition of the difficult part in which he is cast. The audience hangs upon his every word; and as the plot is unfolded and the grand denouement takes place, the most rapturous applause greets the players, and the . star, having covered himself with glory, makes his exit.
“All the world’s a stage, and all the men and women merely players.
They have their exits and their entrances, and each one in his time plays many parts.”
i6o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.

In the ever-changing drama of life is found, as upon the boards, a great variety of caste and character, for it is not in accordance with the divine plan that all be assigned the star parts in life’s play; but as the success of a tragedy depends upon the perfect rendition of all the parts, so the well-being of society hinges on the conscientious performance of its less important duties. The talents necessary for the perfect fulfilment of our duties are given us by Almighty God; and, coming thus from a divine hand,they must be adequate for all our needs so long as we confine our ambition to the sphere allotted us.
Considering, then, the matchless harmony which should exist in the grand drama of life, the question presents itself: “Why so many failures?” We answer, they arise either from the stunted development of talents, or from the wrong application of them to life. These talents are but germs implanted in the soul by God, and require our fostering care and constant cultivation to become the strong and hardy plants which will serve our needs in life; often neglecting these inborn gifts and losing sight of the responsibility of our calling in the desire for praise and for the admiration of those less favored than ourselves, we strain every nerve to win vain and empty plaudits, forgetful of the obligations imposed by our role in life. Again we find those characters in life’s drama that make complete failures of their parts through an over-mastering desire to attain an elevated position for which they are not adapted, and, attempting a role above their powers, they make a signal failure.
A fine actor is never self-conscious. When he, perhaps through praise, becomes what is termed conceited, when he possesses an exalted opinion of his own perfections, then it is that he fails to acquit himself with honor. So it is in life: overestimating our abilities, we seek a position which God has not intended we should fill, and thus through our own vanity, rebelling against God’s providence, we fall even lower in the rank of life’s players than we have been placed by the Divine hand—
“ For aspiring to be gods, angels fell.”
Let us then never forget the importance of rendering well owcrble in life’s drama. Prompted • by the purest motives and guided by the principles of faith, we cannot fail to act well our part; nor need we fear the wringing down of life’s curtain, for what though the laurel wreath of earthly eulogy be denied us, we will have earned and won the Divine approval.
Jennie Currier
{First Senior Class').
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses E. Adelsperger, Ash, Anson, Ansbach, Bates, Bogner, Bero, Bovett, Byrnes, Beck, Coll, Cunningham, Cooper, Currier, Crane, Curtis, C. Dempsey, D. Deutsch, E. Dennison, S. Dempsey, D. Davis, C. Dorsey, M. De Montcourt, Donahue, Flannery,Fitzpatrick, Frost, Green, -Ganong, Gordon, Hammond, Healey, Horner, K. Hurley, C. Hurley, H. Hanson, Holt, Hess, Hagus, Hale, Harmes, A. Hanson, Hutchinson, Hamilton, j. Hughes, Haight, L. Hughes, Hepburn, Kasser, Krimbill, Kimmell, Kelso, Koopman, Leahey, Lynch, Lauth, Lewis, Leavic, McFarland, McLoud, Maher, Mills, M. McPhee, McCarthy, M. McHugh, Murison, McCune, S. McPhee, Marley, Milless, Nickel, Norris,H. Nester, L. Nester, Piper, Pyle, Pendleton, A. Ryan, K. Ryan, Roberts, Rose, Rinn, Robinson, Stapleton, Spurgeon, Studebaker, Schiltz, Skancke, M. Schermerhorn, Smith, Shrock, Saviers, N. Schermerhorn, Tormey, Violette, Woolner, Wickersheim, Wurzburg, Clark.	'
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses Barry, Burdick, E, Burns, Black, M. Burns, M. Clifford, Cooke, E. Cooper, M. Cooper, Daly, M. Davis, Dreyer, B. Davis, L. Ernest,"Evoy, Farwell, Fosdick, M. Hickey, Holmes, C. Kasper, Levy, Mabbs, McCormack, McGuire, Meskill, Mestling, M. Northam, A. O’Brien, O’Mara, Palmer, Patier, Patrick, Pellinz, Philion, Quealy, E. Regan, Robbins, Ruger, M. Scherrer, M. Smyth, J. Smyth, Soper, Sweeney, A. Tormey, E. Wagner, Waldron, M. Wagner, Wood, N. Wurzburg, Wright, Young.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Misses L. Adelsperger, Ayer, Crandall, M. Egan, N. Finnerty, Goodwin, K. Hamilton, M. Hamilton, L. McHugh, M. McHugh, C. Porteous, S. Scherrer, N. Smyth, L. Scherrer, S. Smvth.
SCHOOL OF ART AND DESIGN.
HONORABLY MENTIONED. ’
Graduating Class—Miss M. Schiltz.
ELEMENTARY PERSPECTIVE.
2D Class—Misses N. Hurff, K. Hurley, A. Hammond, M. Fitzpatrick, M. Hull, N. Davis, M. Collbran, S. Crane.
3D Class—Misses E. Dempsey, J. Cunningham, M. Otis, S. Hamilton, L. Woolner, A. Penburthy, H. Hanson, N. Smith, M. X^iolette, E. Dennison, M. Tormey, C. Dorsey, E. Hughes, M. Frost, E. Shaefer, C. Ruger, A. Hanson, K. McCarthy, E. Pyle, M. Burns, K. Ryan, L. Ernest, M. Hess, J. Hughes, I. De Montcourt, A.Mullaney, M. Seherrer, I. Cooke, L. Kasper, M. Clifford.
WORKING IN CRAYON.
Misses M. Piper, I. Horner, I. Stapleton, A. Wurzburg. PAINTING IN WATER COLORS.
Misses L. Curtis, N. Norse, E. Saviers.
OIL PAINTING.
Misses J. Robinson, A. Regan, J. Holt, B. Hellmann.
•	General Drawing. ’
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Misses S. Dempsey, Rinn, M. Hess, L. Woolner, M. Schermerhorn, E. Dennison, E. Adelsperger, S. Hamilton, E. Schaefer, H. Hanson, L. Bernhart, F. Murison, M. Collbran, H. Pugsley, N. Smyth, A. Wurzburg, G. Lauth, N. Schermerhorn, K. Maher. E. Pyle, K. Mills, K. McCarthy, K. Kimmell, F. Jungblut, E. Beck, M. Ash, M. Rose, E. Pendleton, A. Hanson, S. McPhee, I. McLoud, M. Byrnes, R. Bero, K. Ryan, A. Lynch, H. Nacy, C. Haight, A. Koopmann, A. Schrock, A. Mullaney, A. Ryan.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	.
Misses A. Thirds, E. Regan, M. Clifford, M. Patier, E. Quealy, F. Soper, C. Daly, N. McGuire, I. Mabbs, L. Black, C. Robbins, F. Palmer, B. Davis, M. Fosdick, E. Philion, S. Levy, E. Cooper, M. Davis, E. Wagner, M. McCormack, L. Young, E. Evoy, M. Cooper, C. Shirey, M. Wagner, C. Ruger, C. Kasper, M. Culp, D. Pellinz, A. Tormey, S. Meskill, M. Smyth, B. Wright, L. Holmes, J. Patrick, K. Sweeney, L. Mestling, A. O’Mara, L. Kasper, A. O’Brien, E. Burns.