

September 30,1949
HOME OF TIMELY CLOTHES
the shirt with the soft collar that
won’t wrinkle... ever
Van Heusen
® REG. T. M.
Tremendous news! ... a shirt with a collar as soft and comfortable as fine linen—that stays fresh, wrinkle-free all day long—without starch or stays!
It’s the new Van Hensen Century! The collar is a single woven piece of fabric with no fused or stitched layers to work apart or fray. The collar points can’t curl up. Perspiration won’t wilt it . . . work won’t wrinkle it . . . laundering won’t hurt it! Come in for more comfort . . . more wear . . . for the new'Van Heusen Century!
$3.95 and $4.95
RASMUSSEN
MEN'S SHOP
106-108 So. Main St.
130-32 W. Washington
2
The Scholast.
Letters
&


Editor, Every year songs comes to one. It’s a sad dent body of
the mattex- of school the attention of every-situation when the stu-Notre Dame, known country fox- its spirit
throughout the
and enthusiasm, doesn’t know its own

school songs. The Victory March can be sung by all, but few seem to know the words to the introduction while even fewer- know any of the words to the x-ousing As the Irish Backs Go Marching By. I feel that a campaign should be conducted with the purpose of familiarizing every Notre Dame man with the complete words to these songs. < Couldn’t the Scholastic help in some
way in the effort?

Widespread
Tom Wolff
250 Alumni
We highly concur with reader Wolff’s suggestion. At the freshman mixer the
Blue sive and glad
Circle distributed small, inexpen-booklets containing all ND songs cheers. We would be more than to print the collection but feel
few would bother to cut it out and keep it long enough to learn them. A booklet of the aforementioned type, how-ever, passed out at the next pep rally might do the trick. If the Blue Circle, Student Council, or some other civic minded organization, doesn’t come to the fore in this matter then the Scho-
lastic will take it upon itself to the need.—Editor.
meet
ARROW’S
Been out
Robbing Rainbows FOR YOU!
Yes—now you can choose from 25 different colors in our new line of solid color shirts— light, medium, and deep tones.
Sutton-Down
Dear Editor,
I heard last week that the
next
Dome, the one fox- 1949-50 will come ™/out before we leave school, instead of the usual publication date during the Summer.
Perhaps this decision was reached because the Dome was a little late in appearing this year. But whatever- the reason, I don’t think too much of the new idea.
The Dome has no present news value at all. It doesn’t make much real difference whether it comes out in June a or September. However, it does make a “ difference, especially to the Seniors, as to what’s in the book.
If the moving up of the Dome appearance date means that part of the year’s activities has to be left out, it doesn’t seem fair to the Seniors. The Senior Ball, baseball season, spring shows and other events will be slighted.
Is this fair to the men who work for and organize these activities?
Name Withheld
Medium Points
Regular
You can also choose from many, many smart Arrow collar styles in broadcloth or oxford.
Long Point:.
See your Arrow dealer today for "Arotints" and "Aratones.
$J.65. $J,95. $5.00
Low-Slope
ARROW SHIRTS
5 \ W. WAV.WAWA\ W/MVAV.
TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
SANFORIZED • MITOGA • ANCHORED BUTTONS

Ifs IDLER'S for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
9 Sept. 30, 1949
3
British Chemist to Deliver Annual Nieuwland Lectures
The Department of Chemistry has announced the selection of Professor Eric K. Rideal, prominent British chemist, to deliver the annual Nieuwland Memorial Lectures during the week of Oct. 10.
Dr. Rideal, director of the Davy Faraday Research Laboratory at the Royal Institution, London, will give four lectures during his stay here. “Liquid Monolayers” is the subject for talks on Oct. 11 at 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. On Oct. 3, Dr. Rideal will treat the topic “Solids” in two more lectures at 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. The place of the talks will be announced.
The Nieuwland Lectures were established by the University in 1946 honoring the memory of Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, c.s.c., Notre Dame scientist who discovered the basic components of synthetic rubber here.
The Peter C. Reilly Lectures in Chemistry will begin the week of Oct. 31 with Professor Richard A. Ogg, Jr., of Stanford University, as lecturer. Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, from the National Bureau of Standards, will deliver six lectures the week of Nov. 28 and Professor V. Prelog, of the Eidg. Technische Hoehschule, Zurich, will spend seven weeks at Notre Dame in February and March.
CAVANAUGH CONCERTS
The Cavanaugh Hall noon-day concerts will begin Monday in the Reading Room of the hall. The time is 12:30 to 1:30. The program for next week:
MONDAY
Symphony No. 4.........Brahms
Two Selections from Boris Gou-
dounov .........Moussoursky
Aria: Casta Diva from Norma
................... Bellini
TUESDAY
Paris Album sung by Lily Pons Les Syphlides .........Chopin
Mad Scene from Lucia di Lam-
mermoor ..........Donizetti
WEDNESDAY
Heart of La Boheme....Puccini
Gaite Parisienne .....Offenbach
THURSDAY
Rhapsody in Blue...Gershwin Nutcracker Suite ..Tchaikovsky
FRIDAY
Swan Lake Ballet Suite......
............... Tchaikovsky
Piano Concerto in A Minor....Grieg
Pennsylvanians Plan New Club
All students from Eastern Pennsylvania interested in the organization of a new campus club are invited to meet in Room 1 of the Law Building at 7:30 p.m. on October 3.
Men from the counties of Berks, Carbon, Dauphin, Lancaster, Lebanon, Lehigh, Montgomery, and Schuykill are asked especially to attend the meeting. Bob Duddy and Steve Oracko are the " driving forces behind the new club.
Affairs Club Drive
The International Affairs club is now running a membership drive. Students interested in world affairs should mail applications for membership to Ken Bayly, 339 Walsh hall, before Sunday night.
La Raza Elect Officers
Last Sunday saw the election of officers for the La Raza Club during their first meeting of the year. Thirty-four Spanish speaking students, of which 18 are new members, chose Rogelio Castillo, of Guadalajara, Mexico, president.
In observance of Columbus Day the La Razas plan to hold a banquet Oct. 9 in South Bend. Spanish speaking students from St. Mary’s College and Academy will be invited guests of the club.
Van Heusen 's medium-point collar
NYLON DRESS SHIRTS
* Washes in 3-minutes!
* Dries in a jiffy!
e Needs no ironing!
8.95
It’s the shirt of a lifetime . . . Van Nylon! No scrubbing ... no ironing—wash it with any soap in bathroom basin. Drape it on a hanger—it’s dry, ready for wearing in an hour . . . the smoothest, most luxurious shirt ever. Lets you travel lighter . . . and always neat. Everything’s 100 percent DuPont nylon but the tug-proof pearl buttons and stays. Smart broadcloth open weave . . . plus Van Heusen “Comfort Contour” collar styling and magic sewmanship. Van Nylon belongs in every wardrobe! Collar sizes 14 to 17 . . . 32 to 35 sleeve lengths.
Michigan at Washington
The Scholastic
’the week
by fack McGoldrick
statisticians tells us that fourteen paragraphs in the last four pages end in the familiar words, “under penalty of semester suspension.” And remember: students piloting planes must have permission of the prefect of discipline.
Bottom of the Week
Top of the Week
G. Washington crossed the Delaware, but U. Washington may not even cross the 50-yard line.
Tomorrow Afternoon
As Frank Leahy’s warriors tackle the Huskies out on the coast, most ND students will have their ears glued to their radios (except John Convery of Sorin Hall, whose ears are glued to his head). Other students will be awaiting ® the outcome of the pennant races. Some of the lads will be sleeping. But Egbert Bflskt, class of ’53, will be trotting over to the post office to mail a letter to his brother, Joe, who graduated last year. Egbert, who has now completed two weeks as a student here, gave us a carbon copy of his letter, which ran like this:
Dear Joe:
Things sure have been tough around here. (Things, in this case refer to the Swiss steak and veal cutlet in the dining hall). So far I’ve spent most of my two weeks standing in lines, and the Indiana weather has been just as varied as you said it would be: It’s like walking in and out of an air-conditioned movie.
I went to the Victory dance in the drill hall last week. It was one of the nicest dances I’ve ever been locked into. My date thought it was a cute idea to W>hold the dance in a warehouse, too. I made the mistake of mixing my drinks at the dance (they had warm cokes and cold cokes), and I got lost on the way back to school. I was five minutes late, and now I’m campussed for the rest of the semester. Oh yes, I need some money for books and stuff. Please answer soon.
Your brother,
Egbert w
a, (Next week, with Egbert’s permis-”sion, we will print Joe’s answer.)
Cheer, Cheer . . .
This is the season when the Notre Dame Victory March takes its annual beating as Number One on the Hoosier Hit Parade. Not only .does WND use it as a station break, but it is on every juke box in all of South Bend’s greasy spoons.
9 Sept. 30, 1949
Radio station WHOT used old faithful on the Kiddie’s Hour last week, and WJVA keeps a record of it on hand in case they break the polka record that comprises the other half of their disc library. One of the local jewelry stores in town is offering Victory March music boxes at $3.95 per. We even picked it up on WTMJ during the half of the Packers-Bears game.
But the big winner in this week’s run-the-Victory-March-into-the - ground contest is the South Bend German club. They feature Polish-American dancing every Saturday night, and we hear that the big favorite with the stamp-your-feet-and-yell-‘hey’-crowd is—you guessed it—the Victory March.
Laff of the Week
This week’s laugh was furnished by Sports Editor Paul Neville, of the South Bend Tribune. Said Paul, the day before the St. Louis-Brooklyn series : “ . . . the two pennant races are not really very close.” How close can two pennant races get?
Rules and Regulations
The 1949 Student Manual is out—all dressed up in a new blue cover. The WEEK’S legal staff combed this booklet from end to end, and their report can be summed up in one sentence: “Nothing can be done about it.” One of our
GET SET FOR
DANCING FUN
THIS YEAR
Learn Now . . . The Exclusive
George Davis Way
Don't miss out on all the dances and fun this semester. Learn a smooth Fox Trot, Waltz, Jitterbug, or any other dance in just a few hours with a talented George Davis expert. Free trial lesson.
NORTHERN INDIANA'S LARGEST STUDIO
106 W. Monroe, Comer Michigan Phone 38229
The long lines in the Dining Hall at noon.
THEATRE TRYOUTS
Tryouts for "Whistling in the Dark" will be held Monday, Oct. 3, at 2:30 pan. in room 241 of the Main Building.
COURTESY BARBER SHOP
112 E. Washington Under Max Adler Co.
"3 BARBERS TO SERVE YOU"
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
ALICE and GEORGE DAVIS
Entertainment
SEPTEMBER 30
COLFAX (through Oct. 5)—Rope of Sand (Legion of Decency Rating B). An exciting tale of South Africa’s diamond industry with a kaboodle of conniving, doublecrossing, back-knifing characters that are of more interest than the plot. Burt Lancaster, Claude Rains, Paul Henreid and Peter Lorre head the cast while French-import Corinne Calvert makes an impressive debut as a smouldering siren.
PALACE (through Oct. 1)—Hellfire (A-2) and Brimstone (A-l). Both flickers are in color and are of the rootin’-tootin’ type. Bill Elliott and Marie Windsor share honors in the former pic while Rod Cameron and Adrian Booth emote together in the latter.
STATE (through Oct. 1)—Only Angels Have Wings and Good Girls Go to Paris. (Reissues) And where do bad girls go?
GRANADA (through Oct. 1)—Take One False Step (A-2) and Ride, Ryder, Ride (A-l). William Powell and Shelley Winters help to make the feature a highly diverting mystery.
OCTOBER 1
FRESHMAN PICNIC—Contrary to the erroneous report in last week’s column, the outdoor shindig will be held this afternoon. Girls, games, refreshments and a zoo laden with yawning animals should add up to a barrel of fun.
WASHINGTON HALL—Mother Was a Freshman. A silly piece of technicolor froth about college life starring Loretta Young and Van Johnson. The story is precocious and the acting is the same.
OCTOBER 2
PALACE (through Oct. 5)—Abbott and Costello Meet the Killer, Boris Karloff (A-l) and Post Office Investigator. Slapstick fans should really go for this bill.
GRANADA (through Oct. 5)—Outpost in Morocco (B) and Alimony (B). George Raft of greasy hair fame finally gets around to the French Foreign Legion. After this picture he ought to enlist for life.
STATE (through Oct. 5)—Szm Never Sets and Fury at Sea. (Reissues)
OCTOBER 6
PALACE (one-day stage show)—Woody Herman and One Last Fling. Clarinet-tootin’ Woody hits South Bend after a successful stand in Chicago’s Blue Note. He’s supposed to have recaptured some of his old-time fervor and class. Should be an entertaining program. The picture that fills in the break between shows stars Alexis Smith and Zachary Scott and runs true to the form of pics that always accompany these vaudeville bills. It’s awful.
COLFAX (through Oct. 12)—Father Was a Fullback (A-2). Although the titles are similar this is not a sequel to the aforementioned Mothez- film. Fred MacMurray and Maureen O’Hara co-star in this topical college comedy in color. It’s plastered with laughs.
OCTOBER 7
PALACE (through Oct. 13)—Home of the Brave (A-l) and Coziziterpunch. The feature is the first in a trend of films based on Negro bigotry. It was originally presented as an anti-Semitic drama on Broadway but was switched in its transition to the screen by the trio who were responsible for the powerful Champion. It’s heavy film-fare without benefit of box office stars but one of the best you’ll see this year.
Get Your
Notre Dame
School Album in Blue and Gold $3.25
AULT CAMERA SHOP (Inc.)
122 S. Main	Phone 3-5041
FISH.
STEAKS.
CHOPS, and Chicken *
At Prices You Will Appreciate
LET US CONTINUE TO SERVE YOU THE BEST IN FOOD
Now Open On Sundays
JOE NABICHT'S
Chicken in fhe Rough 213 No. Main St.
Phone 3-1215 £
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
From the Editor’s Desk..
Vol. 91 September 30. 1949 No. 2
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN VICTOR O'G. DORR
WALTON R. COLLINS_________________News
JOHN H. JANOWSKI.________Assistant News A. J. SCRIBA____________Features
RALPH H. WRIGHT.________________Sports
WILLIAM RILEY___________Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN.___Photography
LEON GARDNER________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER.__________Advertising
®	LOUIS P. LOURO Advertising
*	EDWARD FOLEY._____________Circulation
WILLIAM KLEE______________Circulation
DALE FRANCIS_________Faculty Moderator
The Binding Chain
As fine as the Freshman Orientation Program was it has come to our attention that no mention was made of Notre Dame’s external forms of tradition. Much was said of the enigmatic and highly touted spirit that exists here but not a word concerning such things as the main steps and the main quad paths. It’s impossible for an institution, such as Notre Dame, to exist for 107 years without garnering some formal signs of tradition. The war years erased many of these but two are still in practice that not only freshmen but all others should know of and adhere to.
The first one is the matter of walking up or down the front steps of the administration building. There is an unwritten law that no underclassman should traverse these hallowed stairs before Senior Class Day. The other semi-forgotten tradition regards smoking on the paths running from Father Sorin’s statue to the aforementioned steps. The origin of this goes back to the days when the Dining Hall was in the basement of the Main Building. The students lined up, even then, on these paths, probably waiting anxiously for their mashed potatoes with gravy. A law forbade them to smoke. When the new Dining Hall was completed this old edict became tradition.
Some students scoff at tradition. They claim it’s sentimental and unnecessary. Much to the contrary, it is one of the most important facets of college life. It serves as a chain, linking the past with the present and the future. Of such stuff are memories made.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
t -------------------------------------------
COVER: After spending an evening (by either going to a movie or a show) in the entertainment packed metropolis called South Bend, a Notre Dame regular invariably winds up his “wild” night at Walgreen’s. Although no Whiffen-poof Song has glorified it, it is without a doubt the Irish equivalent of hallowed Mauri’s.
The sextet on this week’s cover seem to be in a quandary. Shall we make a V break for Niles; or would Indianapolis be better? After much debate they will undoubtedly file across the street and wait for the last bus.
One of the best things about Walgreen’s (see page 18) is the show which it presents nightly, both inside and out. The nation’s other universities can have their student unions: we’ll take Walgreen’s. In fact, we’ve got it. Are there any bidders?—Photo by Gordon Brickson.
“ Sept. 30, 1949
The Council Meets Again
News about the Student Council has been pretty sparse so far this semester, since the first meeting was only partially attended and the second was taken up by the election of officers (story on page 9). The way we understand it, the Council is operating under a new Constitution — not the one drawn up last Spring but a revised issue of it. Although this new constitution hasn’t been officially accepted by the Administration as yet, we will try to publish it as soon as practicable.
We haven’t read it, but we’ve heard of a couple of changes which should make for better functioning of the Council. There won’t be any hall representatives from now on — a step which should cut down on excess debate during the meetings. Another change is the provision which called for a Senior to be President of the Council.
Until a few more meetings have passed, not much can be said regarding the Council. The members will need that time to get used to their new jobs. We would; however, like to offer a couple of suggestions. The first is work with the Administration. A lot of tune was lost last year, especially during the framing of the Spring constitution, because the Council went forward with ideas contrary to those of the Administration. The result was lost time and lost confidence. Secondly, keep the students informed of what the council is doing.
If both the students and the Administration have a confidence in the Council based on that body’s well-founded actions, a measure of self-government greater than that already known may be possible.
7
f^epare^!t

Learn the Latest
Dance Steps and Variations
IN TIME FOR THE COMING DANCES
IT'S AMAZING! IT’S SENSATIONAL!
IT’S EXCLUSIVE/
“The New ARTHUR
MURRAY Way
MAKES LEARNING TO DANCE EASIER THAN EVER
Even if you never danced before you can become a popular partner in a fraction of the usual time "The New Arthur Murray Way"
Take Arthur Murray’s short-cut to good times. Find the self-confidence and popularity you’ve always wanted.
Only a few hours at any Arthur Murray Studio will transform you into an expert dancer. His unique methods make learning easy and fast! The key to all new dances is Arthur Murray’s basic discover}’—**The First Step to Popularity.” Like magic you find yourself leading or following a smart new Fox Trot. Rumba. Samba. You can actually go out dancing after one hour even if you’ve never danced before.
Only at an Arthur Murray Studio can you gel that wonder-working combina-
tion of his new. improved exclusive methods and the trained skill of his teachers. You’ll be a joy to dance with, a pleasure to watch. Get a dance analysis free at any Arthur Murray Studio. Come in or phone now.
PROOF I ou can dance after 7 lesson! See how quickly you can learn to dance “The Arthur
Murray Way Go-Round’’
Send for the "Murray
today! It contains
structions on the Fox T'rot. Waltz all dances.
MAIL THE COUPON BELOW
m-and
TO
YOUR LOCAL ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO.
Corp. 1948—Arthur Murrxy Inc.
Dial
2-3339
or 2-3330 for Information
ONLY 25c 44-PAGE DANCE MAGAZINE
; Arthur Murray Studios, 120 E. Wayne, St. j ARTHUR MURRAY STUDIO: Please ; send me your magazine, “Murray-Go! Round,” 44 pages of pictures and instruc-I tions on the latest ballroom dances: Fox • Trot, Waltz, Rhumba, Samba, etc. I enclose ; 25 cents.
; NAME ........................
j ADDRESS .....................
! CITY...... ZONE____STATE.....
7 sa,
8:00 K M f
Enroll NOW for a Special
course arranged only for
Notre Dame Students
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
8
The Scholastic
fl
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
B VOLUME 91, NUMBER 2
SEPTEMBER 30, 1949
Bill Kirschner Named To Top Council Post
Bill Kirschner was elected president of the Student Council last Monday night at the second Council meeting ss. of the semester. Kirschner, who acted as interim president during the summer, defeated Dave Mathews, the only other nominee for the office.
The other officers elected to the new Council were Dave Mathews as vicepresident, Bill Anhut as Secretary, and Russ Skall in the Treasury slot. Norm Kopec was then elected to serve as a fifth man on the executive committee.
Although the elections were the high spot of the evening, the meeting, which s.....................................
STUDENT TRIP
In a special announcement from the ' Student Council yesterday, it was learned that tickets for the Student Trip to New York for the North Carolina Game will go on sale immediaetly after October 1, instead of November 1. The minimum charge for the trip will be $40 for train fare, football ticket hotel space and meals... The two latter items are optional, however, and without them the approximate cost will be $35.
Council President Bill Kirschner emphasized the fact that no arrangements will be made on credit, as was the case in the past, and all students are urged to get their money as soon as possible.
was presided over by the Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., and Bill Kirschner, as interim and later full president, took up a number of other issues.
In connection with the various committee reports, Father Kehoe explained that there would be no student flower concession this year. Instead, flowers will be obtained from a South Bend florist through one student representative who has not yet been named.
The committee in charge of dances reported that the regulations have not (Continued on Page 20)
Sept. 30, 1949
Soviet Atomic Explosion No Cause for Alarm; U. S. Technology Best, Dr. Gurion Believes
By JACK POWERS
“I do not think that there is cause for increased alarm because the Soviet Union has now succeeded in bringing about an atomic explosion,” said Dr. Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science. The eminent expert on Soviet Russia added that the technological advantages are still on the side of the United States.
Dr. Gurian also pointed out that atomic scientists claim that Russia does not have a stockpile of bombs and that to produce one would take time. A member of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame and editor of The Review of Politics, Dr. Gurian is a scholar and political scientist of international note. He spent the recent summer lecturing at European universities which included those of Cologne, Mainz, and Bonn.
“We can only express the hope that the deadlock concerning atomic disarma
Waldemar Gurian lectures in a crowded German classroom. Dr. Gurian, who edits the 'Review of Politics,' spent the Summer teaching in various universities in Germany.
ment will now be overcome,” stated Dr. Gurian. He called attention to the fact that the official organ of the Vatican, Osservatore Romano, had demanded the international outlawing of atomic weapons. This could not be done on Soviet terms, however, since according to Dr. Guinan these terms would not guarantee sufficient control and inspection.
Professor Gurian also called attention to the fact that Russian production of at least one atomic bomb is not surprising. “No expert,” asserted Dr. Gurian, “believed that the United States would maintain for a long time the monopoly of atomic production.” He declared that it would be difficult to foresee any immediate changes in Soviet policy until they actually occurred.
“As long as a visible change in Soviet policies does not take place,” Dr. Gurian maintained, “a continuation of the (Continued on Page 33)
Ice Cream Lover Baffled As Vendor Spits Spoons
Bill Santoro wants his dime back. It seems he put the customary two nickels into the Farley Hall- ice-cream vending machine, but received no “Dixie” in return.
Nevertheless, he did get a good ten cents’ worth of merchandise out of the investment. The device huffed and puffed and roared, and then proceeded to emit not ice-cream, but spoons — dozens of ’em.
A hurried call to the repairman resulted in an end to the parade of spoons, but Santoro isn’t too disappointed. He now has enough kindling to heat his room during those c-c-cold winter nights.
New Identification Card Distribution Next Week
The new student identification cards should be ready for distribution to the student body sometime during the latter part of next week, according to the office . of Student Affairs.
These cards will be used by all students for admission to home football and basketball games and other athletic events at the University. They will also be the basis of admission to features of the Concert and Lecture Series such as the forthcoming appearance of Christopher Lynch on October 12.
Last year the original pictures of the incoming freshman class of ’52 were unsatisfactory as were a number of the second batch of pictures taken of this class later on. Because of this, it was decided to collect photos of all ND students during registration this semester. There will be three copies of each student’s picture.
Most important to the student is the picture on the ID card which is his proof of attendance at the University. A second copy will be kept in a large file according to the number showing on the ID card while the third will be placed in an album of all those presently attending Notre Dame.
The new card will differ Jn form only slightly from those' of previous years. ■The picture and age of the student will occupy approximately one third of the 2% inches x 3% inches, dull finish card. The remainder of the card will contain the signature of the student, title of the card, notice of the replacement charge, and the date of issuance of the card.
10
Vet Activities Begin With Victory Dance
Starting the new semester off with the same spirit of community cooperation which marked their activities last year, the citizens of Vetville held their own Victory Dance last Saturday in the Vets’ Recreation Hall. The affair was run by the village council and included dancing, entertainment, and refreshments.
Acting Mayor Leo Zuckowsky pointed out that it gave the busy married students a chance to get together which they might not otherwise have. “We owe a lot to the boys who come here to baby-sit,” Leo added, “they really make our dances possible.” The population of Vetville is now about 450 and getting all the adults together is often a problem.
In the near future, the council plans to hold another’ mixer, this time a square dance. Elections for mayor will take place in three weeks and the candidates will be presented at this dance. Besides Leo Zuckowsky, the council includes Dick Gorman, Bill Broderick, John Bellis, Paul Gustafson and Bruce Bishop. Their Moderator is Rev. Paul Bailey, C.S.C. The council plans and administers all activities in the community and also raises and administers funds.
Paper drives are a source of much of the Vetville funds and one is planned for the near future. The vets publish their own weekly newspaper, the “Vet Gazette,” edited by Merle McDougall. Their wives also have their own Bridge club, and serve on most of the activity committees.
Father Bailey says a special Mass every Sunday at 9 A. M., in Farley Hall Chapel for the convenience of the married students and their families. The dances, mixers and other affairs in Vetville are open to the married students and their wives who live in South Bend.
—Jack Powers.
'Juggler' Plans Price Cut In Drive to Boost Sales
The Juggler, University literary magazine, has announced a campaign to triple its circulation this year. Robert Lowry, its editor, said that the campaign will be based on a continuation of the high quality of its work and on a drive to make the magazine better known to the students.
Spearheading the efforts to present the best of student literature will be Fallon Evans’ Mitchell Memorial Award play of 1949. Other writers who are expected to contribute to the Juggler this year are Walt Clements, Dave
Yerex, Frank Haendler, Frank Brophy, and Hugh Kennedy.
Bob Casurella, circulation manager, and Garry Bolger, exchange editor, are vital cogs in Lowry’s drive to put the Juggler into the hands of every student.
The first issue of the 1949 JUGGLER will hit the stands some time in the latter part of November and will go for the bargain price of 25 cents. Last year the magazine sold for 50 cents. * Another new feature is the fact that this year only three issues will be printed, thus assuring better selection of material.
AEC Provides Big Generator For ND Radiation Project
Under the terms of an agreement reached between Notre Dame and the Atomic Energy Commission, the AEC will provide a 2,000,000-volt Van de Graff electrostatic generator for use by the Notre Dame Radiation Chemistry Project, it was announced by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University.
The project will be jointly sponsored by Notre Dame and the AEC. The new “atom smasher,” which will produce both high velocity electrons and X-rays, will be housed in a concrete structure _ to be built by the University. Construe- W tion on the project is expected to start this fall and the generator is expected to be ready for use next Spring.
Another important source of radiation ' to be housed in the same concrete structure will be a radioactive cobalt source of gamma radiation. Such a source generates approximately 1,000.000 volt gamma radiation.
Among the various features of the new structure will be the fact that the ™ two radiation sources can be used independently. There will be remote control and remote operation facilities installed in the project. Safety precautions to guard research personnel from accidental exposure also will be included in the same structure. ’
Economic Group Hears Kent
Members of the Economic Round Table heard a talk by Dr. Raymond P. Kent of the College of Commerce at their initial meeting of the Fall semester. The meeting was held at Clark’s restaurant in South Bend.
Round Table president, Jerry Heber-lein will speak on the Steel Industry at the next meeting, Thursday, Oct. 6.
Students interested in joining the Round Table group are asked to contact Roy Porter, 242 Dillon hall.
The Scholastic
Dr. Campbell Given Cancer Study Grant
Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, professor of Organic Chemistry at Notre Dame, recently was awarded a $7,200 grant by the National Cancer Institute to continue his research in cancer. He was also recently named chairman of the American Chemical Society’s medicinal chemistry division.
Dr. Campbell, in his cancer study, is using the alkaloid, colchicine, a poisonous compound obtained from the meadow saffron plant, as a model in serving for a cancer-killing compound. Colchicine is known to kill cancer cells, but it is also toxic to animal cells, causing the death of animals and humans.
A certain amount of success has been accomplished to date in the experiments which have produced compounds of decreased toxic power. No satisfactory drug, however, has yet been developed that will assure the death of cancer cells without damaging healthy cells.
The National Cancer Institute grant is divided into fellowships, equipment and chemicals. The money is allocated in fellowships depending upon the number of students available to work on the cancer-killing project. He has been operating under National Cancer Institute fellowships for two years.
Dr. Campbell, who has been a member
Students Find Victory Sweet
Notre Dame men and their guests celebrate last week's 49 to 6 win over Indiana in the Drill Hall by dancing to the music of Sophomore Gene Hull and his orchestra.
9 Sept. 30, 1949
of the Notre Dame faculty since 1936, previously conducted research on anti-malarial drugs for the United States government. He successfully developed compounds related to the widely publicized SN-7618, which proved superior to both quinine and atabrine in fighting malaria.
The Notre Dame scientist is assisted in his research by his wife, Dr. Barbara K. Campbell, who also is a chemist. The two have pooled their knowledge and talents in the cancer work and in other" medicinal research which they have conducted.
University Summer Plan Offers Liturgy Instruction
Noting the general lack of knowledge on the paid of Catholics in matters liturgical, the University has undertaken in the summer session to remedy the deficiency. In the only school of its type in America, clergy and laity gather to study the history of the ceremonies of the Church.
Courses exploring the ritualistic ceremonies of the Church were offered by Rev. William McAuliff, C.S.C., Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., and Rev. Edmund Kestel, o.s.B.
The highlight of the program was the daily singing of the Mass and the chanting of the office several times during the day.
Tunnel Rocket Work Tops Aero Activities
Construction of a wind tunnel and a rccket motor are but two of the interesting projects now under development in the Department of Aeronautical Engineering. Professor Frank N. M.. Brown, dean of the department, stated that there are approximately ICO undergraduate and eight graduate students registered this semester.
Last Spring Professor Brown began work on a model wind tunnel. It is now completed and in working condition. The object of the tunnel is to test the flow of air around simple figures. He is still making models for testing the tunnel and will work on more complicated ones in the future. Photographs of the tunnel will be taken later this year.
The rocket motor is a project of Robert DeFress, a graduate student working on his thesis. DeFress, who graduated from Notre Dame in June, has been working on the thesis since early spring. The thesis will concern how he constructed and tested a rocket motor.
He constructed the motor from scratch and an alloted amount of money. He has adapted parts from other equipment and has utilized material lying around the shop. The motor is but an inch in diameter and 15 inches long. The motor rests on a metal stand, but the panel which operates the rocket is about 20 feet in back of the stand. On this panel are many dials, gages, wires and gas tanks.	■ '
Sand bags will completely surround the experiment when it is tested in a field. The idea is not to launch the rocket but to prove that the motor works. DeFress has compiled a total of 550 hours of work on the rocket, much of which was spent on drawing the plans. It is planned to be tested by the first of next month.
Wisconsin Firm Donates New Economics Fellowship
The University has received a SI,500 Fellowship in Economics to add to its growing list of aids to students, the Notre Dame Foundation announced this week. This Fellowship comes to Notre Dame as the gift of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation of Neenah, Wisconsin.
Mr. H. A. Rothschild, technical director of Kimberly-Clark, in presenting the Fellowship, asked that it be awarded to a deserving graduate student in Economics to aid him in research during the schoolyear 1949-50. Selection of the recipient will be made by the University in the near future.
11
This article first appeared in Notre Dame last fall. We thank that magazine for the privilege of reprinting the still timely story on the “T.”
the.
It’s here! “It” being that certain time of the year when halfbacks run wild, tackles commit mayhem, and thousands of spectators try to figure out who has the football and why. Monday morning quarterbacks are more numerous than bargains in Woolworth’s basement, and the major topic of discussion usually centers around “the system”—whether it be a streamlined T-formation, single wing, Notre Dame box, or merely Pipestone Hi’s latest innovations.
Notre Dame will again use the T-formation for the eighth consecutive year.
The “T” actually is supposed-to have begun some 40-odd seasons ago, but it wasn’t fully recognized until Clark Shaughnessy and a few other notables introduced its intricacies to' touchdown-hungry fans in the late 1930’s.
Frank Leahy, head coach at Notre Dame, installed the “T” for the Fighting Irish in ’42, after holding to the old Notre Dame shift in 1941—his first year as mentor here. As far as the alumni were concerned—and alumni are ordinarily concerned—the change from the Notre Dame Box to a flash-in-the-pan fancy “T” was nothing less than outright heresy. However, as scores were racked up opinion was altered somewhat, and soon even the most skeptical were forced to admit that the “T” did have possibilities.
There are three excellent reasons why Notre Dame uses the T-formation — namely, National Championships were awarded to the Irish in 1943, 1946 and 1947.
Let’s analyze the advantages of the “T” and also learn how it’s different from other styles of play. For instance, the quarterback handles the ball on every run and pass, besides being a field general—in other words he’s what you might call a “key man.” The offensive center has his head up, in the “T,” and is classed as a “main blocker” —in the Notre Dame box he was considered a “half blocker.” It’s obvious that he can move faster and more surely when he can see which direction he’s going in.
Formerly, in the box, guards would give the tipoff on plays by leading interference to the right or left, whichever the case might be; in the “T,” guards seldom are called upon to pull out of the line to clear a path for the ball carrier. Backs are much closer to the line of scrimmage, since the halfbacks are not more than 3% yards from the line in comparison to 5 or 6 yards in the Notre Dame system. This factor is also pertinent as far as tip-offs are concerned, and enables plays to strike more swiftly.
One of the greatest advantages of the T-formation is its display of legerdemain—or to be slightly explicit, its powerhouse deception. The quarterback hides the ball behind one or more linemen, and causes defensive players to say words that shouldn’t be said—even by football players. There is a maximum number of formations possible with the “T.” Backs may be in motion, or go out as a flanker—or maybe both. The Chicago Bears usually mystify 40 million people every Tall by announcing that they will employ 200 plays during the season. In all probability they have about 20 basic plays with 10 or so variations from each.
When using the “T,” backfield men stay close to the line; and therefore tackles and guards don’t have to keep holes open more than a split second or two. The fake is highly important in the T-formation; often the quarterback will supposedly hand the ball to one halfback, but in reality the other half will actually get the pigskin after these phony moves have confused the defense and drawn them out of position.
Since the backs pass the line of scrimmage frequently, there are more long runs in the modified “T” than in either the single wing or box. Strangely enough the “T” could even be called democratic—all backs ordinarily get a chance to carry the ball.
As long as the T-formation continues to help Notre Dame win National Championships, Irish fans will no doubt be seeing a lot of these deceptive maneuvers.
By BERNARD A. CRIMMINS
The plays shown are diagrammed to give you a more clearly defined idea of basic ”T" plays.
(1)	is a quick opening play. The quarterback feeds the ball to the right half, then fakes a lateral to the left half. Livingstone scored against U.S.C. on this play in 1947.*
(2)	features the fullback on an off-tackle smash. The quarterback feeds the ball to the fullback, who goes off the defensive tackle. The left half is in mo-tion. Right half blocks the defensive left end. In 1947, Panelli scored from the six-yard line in the U.S.C. game.
—(3) is a pass play. Lujack threw to Terry Brennan for touchdowns in the Iowa game of 1946, and the Purdue and Navy games of '47.
(4)	shows the halfback going off tackle; The quarterback hands the ball to the left half, who rims off tackle.’ Brennan and Livingstone both scored against Army on this play in-’47.
(5)	is an end run. The quarterback fakes to the right half—takes two steps after the fake and laterals to the left halfback, who runs his right end. The fullback blocks the defensive left end. This play enabled Coy McGee to score against U.S.C. in 1946, Emil Sitko to tally in the '46 Illinois game, and Bill Gompers^x to register in the Iowa game of '46.*
* (1) and (5) are used in a series.
12
The ScholasticO
Theater Opens Year Irv Mystery-Comedy
is infested with gangsters. The play moves along in swift, comic fashion, complete with intricate tangles, many tricky lines and a murder plot to boot.
Foreign Film Dates Set for Semester
Racing with time to bring Notre Dame’s first play of the year to a Fall opening, William J. Eisen, director of the University Theater, said yesterday that Whistling in the Dark would play three nights to Washington Hall crowds during the week of October 31.
The play, a three-act comedy-melodrama, written by Laurence Grass and Edward Childs Carpenter, calls for a cast of twelve characters — ten men and two women. It will be directed by Frank J. Hanley, professor of fine arts, who piloted Shadow and Substance and three one-act plays to successful campus stands last semester.
Tryout notices are to be posted as soon as scripts arrive from the publisher, Professor Eisen said, and all students interested in dramatics are invited to audition for roles in the production. The Theater is especially anxious, he said, to fill the two feminine parts from local talent — either from Vetville wives or girls employed in offices of the Administration.
The comedy itself, bordering on the fringes of mystery and melodrama, was one of the outstanding successes of 1923-33. It revolves around the househunting antics of an engaged couple, who discover that the house they want
Hope«men Hop in 'Hoosier Heritage1
University bandsmen, adorned with feathers and other regalia dance during Saturday's half-time show, the first part of a season-long "Hoosier Heritage" series.
According to Mr. Eisen, “Whistling in the Dark shapes as a fine production for the right cast, a production that should meet with the student body’s favor.”
In line with the University Theater’s regular policy, no admission will be charged for Whistling in the Dark. But all seats will be reserved, and tickets must be obtained prior to the performances. Notices on ticket distribution will be posted soon after the play goes into rehearsal.
Journalism Class to Hear Metcalfe, 'Portraits' Author
James J. Metcalfe, noted newspaper man and writer of “Portraits,” a syndicated column of verse, will speak to journalism students here next Tuesday. He is to be in South Bend during the first half of next week under the auspices of the South Bend Tribune.
Mr. Metcalfe is best known as the author of “Portraits”. He worked with the Federal Bureau of Investigation early in the war and achieved renown by a reportorial expose of German bunds.
The department of Foreign Languages will present a series of eight foreign-made films this fall. The series is being given to help language students with additional aural training and with valuable information about foreign life and cus- • toms.
Each of the films presented will have the sound track in a foreign language,' with superimposed subtitles in English. All showings will be in the Engineering Auditorium, starting each time at 7:30 p.m. Due to the limited capacity of the Engineering Auditorium, it will be necessary to restrict the admission almost exclusively to modern language students, x Tickets good for the entire series will be sold at fifty cents each. The program of films is as follows:
Oct. 5—Stone Floiver (Color, with sound in Russian)
Based on the folk legend about a young artist struggling to find the relationship between ideals in art and realities in life, this film is exceptionally attractive both in the appeal of its story and in the unusual color technique.
Oct. 19—Dios Se Lo Pague (Sound in Spanish)
This intriguing story features the well-known Arturo de Cordova as a beggar by night and a rich man by day.
Nov. 2—Voyage Surprise (Sound in French)
A rather hilarious film about an amusing old fellow who starts a “surprise” tour, without knowing where he is going, in direct competition with a big time tourist bureau.
Nov. 16—Orphan Boy of Vienna (Sound in German)
A homeless waif is befriended by a happy-go-lucky street singer who contrives to have the boy admitted to the famous Sangerknaben Choir. The musical score includes excerpts from Brahms, Schubert, Mozart, and Handel.
Nov. 30—La Marseillaise (Sound in French)
An unusual dramatization of the French Revolu. tion, this film was completely financed by advance subscriptions from the people of France. It stars Louis Jouvet, Pierre Renoir, and Lise Delamare.
Dec. 15—The Virgin of Guadalupe (Sound in Spanish)
This film portrays the appearances of the Blessed Virgin in Mexico under the guise of Our Lady of Guadalupe and shows the powerful nature of her influence in Mexican life ever since the 16th W century.
Jan. 4—Die Fledermaus (Color, with sound in German)
A beautiful production based on the famous operetta by Johann Strauss and studded with the familiar Strauss waltzes.
Jan. 18—Night of the Mayas (Sound in Spanish)
A prize-winning Mexican film based on an ancient Mayan legend. Arturo de Cordova heads the cast and the music is by the well-known composer Slyvestre Revueltas.
14
The Scholastic
Enthusiastic Response To Missions Extolled
“The response to the missions has never been quite so enthusiastic before,” the Eev. Edmund J. Murray, C.S.C., said late last week. The Junior-Senior-Grad Mission was the most successful. । The Freshmen responded nearly as well, * while the Sophomore turnout was good but only third best.
The Freshman Mission, held Sept. 15, 16 and 17, was preached in the evening by the Eev. Eegis O’Neil, C.S.C., a former- member of the Department of Ee-ligion and currently of the Holy Cross mission band. Father O’Neil spoke on the fundamental truths of Christianity, namely: the soul, obstacles to salvation, p death and hell. The morning meetings L' were taught by Father Murray, who told of the importance, need, and value of the sacrament of Penance.
Lectures for the Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors, whose instructions were also held last week, were given by the Eev. William Eobinson, C.S.C., former Professor of Dogmatic Theology at Holy Cross College in Washington, D. C. He discussed the supernatural life of Sanctifying Grace. Father Eobinson pointed out that the greatest success in the eyes | of man may well be the greatest failure in the eyes of God.
October Dance High In Senior Class Plans
Undei- the leadership of Pres. John “Spark” Thornton, the senior class has begun to map out its activities for the year. Although the program is still largely in the planning stage, work is moving along rapidly on the affairs of their last year at Notre Dame.
The night of Oct. 22 will see the Drill Hall strewn with hayseed and corn husks as the seniors sponsor a hoe-down for the entire student body. It is hoped that a party may be arranged in December foi- the football squad’s seniors.
January grads are to be feted also, according to the tentative schedule, with a party and a formal dance the Friday before their commencement exercises.
Following Easter, the schedule calls for a retreat for June grads. May 12 is the tentative date for the Senior Ball in the Drill Hall. Although no word has been received from Ziggy Czarobski, the annual Old Timers’ Game is slated for May 13.
In addition, it is hoped to have a class meeting in the near future to discuss all aspects of the coming year.
^Sept. 30, 1949
SPORTS-MINDED WND
WND will undoubtedly please sports addicts with their announcement that four sports programs will be broadcast in the near future. Skip Rosser and baseball star Jim Gillis will share the shows. Gillis will handle a five-minute program on Monday and Thursday nights at 7:30 while Rosser will take over at the same time on Tuesday and Wednesday nights. The Wednesday night program will be lengthened weekly to a 15-minute interviewing spot.
Ex-Consul to Africa Relates Experiences
The hardest part about being a diplomat in Africa is getting used to the isolation, according to Eobert Eiordan, a former vice-consul to Angola, Portuguese West Africa, and now a faculty member here in the College of Commerce.
Upon graduating from Notre Dame in 1945 with a degree in marketing, Mr. Eiordan joined the staff of the U. S. State Department, and from 1946 to 1948 served in Angola. The first part of 1949 he served as vice-consul to New Zealand.
“There were only five Americans and fifteen British in Loanda, the capital of Angola,” Mr. Eiordan said in a Scholastic interview this week. “Nobody else could speak English, so we had to learn to speak Portuguese. Before I left Angola I was able to take flying lessons from a Portuguese speaking instructor. And the mail service was rather poor. It took six weeks to get an answer to a letter to the United States.”
In New Zealand Mr. Eiordan was able to see the effects of a socialistic government. “The health and medicine program of New Zealand is almost entirely socialized,” he said, “as well as a large part of industry. It raises taxes and stifles ambition to such a point that many people want to leave the country and go where they have a better chance to get ahead.”
The American people are well-liked in both Angola and New Zealand, Mr. Eiordan said. “There weren’t many Americans in Angola during the war,” he noted, “but the Marines stationed in New Zealand were good-will ambassadors who left a lasting impression.”
The most striking difference Mr. Eiordan noticed between the Notre Dame he left in 1945 and the Notre Dame of today is the absence of service uniforms. “In 1945 the Navy and Marines were
Cotillion Committee Plans Big Weekend
Three packed days for the Sophs — that’s what’s waiting for them on the weekend of the Iowa game. The Sophomore Cotillion will start off the whirl.
Students and their lovelies will take over the Palais Eoyale Friday night, November 18. Bids will go on sale soon, and so will 800 tickets for the Notre Dame-Iowa game. Oliver Golden and his committee expect to announce the name of the orchestra soon..
Saturday will leave little time for recuperating. No sooner will the weary gallant arise, than he’ll have to hurry downtown to take his weekend date to the game. On Saturday night the Victory Dance will be held in the Drill Hall.
Activities will probably wind up with a Communion Breakfast on Sunday. Then will come .the inevitable — a tour of the campus for the girl from home. All in all it should be a busy weekend and there will be quite a few tired Sophs crawling tamely to that 8:03 Monday class.
Committees have been formed by the •class officers to settle details. Co-chairmen of the affair will be Jim Garvin and Ed Noonan. George Sweet and his decoration committee will try to beautify the Palais Eoyale. Finance will be handled by Ed Vasta. A hotel committee under Hank McCormick and Jack Moran is trying to land cut-rate hotel reservations in South Bend. Jim Kelleher is in charge of publicity. All special arrangements will be handled by Bill Dempsey, Dick Clancy, and Sal Fiorella, sophomore officers.
—Frank Haendler
Slavonic Club Meets
The Slavonic Club held its first meeting last week in the Law building. The guest speaker, Eev. Ernest Ziska, O.S.B., of St. Procopius Abbey, Lisle, Ill., was introduced by Eev. Cornelius Laskowski, c.s.c., professor of Slavonic languages at Notre Dame. Father Ziska’s talk was titled: “The Contemporary Interpretation of Slavonic Culture and Traditions.”
everywhere. Now it looks like the civilians have taken over. But I really am happy to be back,” he added, “no matter what the students are wearing.”
For anyone aspiring to the diplomatic foreign service, Mr. Eiordan says that, despite the obvious drawbacks, “it is a great opportunity for travel, for meeting interesting people, and for really getting to know a foreign country.”
15
Father Leahy Named To Revived PD Post
The title Prefect of Discipline, which has caused many a shudder in campus law breakers in years past, and which was put aside last year for the milder title, Director of Student Welfare, has been revived this year. The bearer of this title is the Rev. James J. Leahy, C.s.c.
Father Leahy has another title. He is Assistant to the Vice-President in charge of Student Affairs. But don’t let that fool you. He is Prefect of Discipline — officially.
Father Leahy
In July of 1943, Father Leahy came to Notre Dame from Austin, Texas, where he was principal of St. Edward’s Academy. In 1944 he took over the post of Administrative Assistant to the President of the University, at that time the late Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, c.s.C. He held this post until 1947, when he became Rector of Cavanaugh Hall. During the war years, Father Leahy was representative of armed forces on campus. He has been teaching in the Department of Philosophy during the whole time.
Father Leahy has announced the appointment of Mr. Paul Schrantz as Assistant Prefect of Discipline, to take care of off-campus disciplinary work. Mr. Schrantz has full authority under Father Leahy.
Mr. Schrantz was a business man in Fort Wayne, Ind., for a .number- of years, during which time he participated in CYO organization work, and was active in the Fort Wayne chapter of the Knights of Columbus. His new position as assistant to Father Leahy gives him authority in the discipline department second only to the Prefect.
16
Freshman Tourney to Yield Purdue Debate Tilt Squad
Eight new men will be chosen from the entrants in the freshman debate tournament to compete in the T.K.A. regional tourney at Purdue on October 27 and 28, Mr. Leonard Sommer, debate coach, announced last week.
The eight debaters will be selected by Mr. Sommer on the basis of speaking ability, knowledge of subject, and the delivery they display in the freshman tourney. The topic for the contest and for the year is: “Resolved, that the Unied States should nationalize the basic non-agricultural industries.”
The freshman debates took place during this last week in Room 327, Main Building. The final selection of winners is to be announced as soon as possible.
The Purdue tourney starts the debate season, which will include a number of nation-wide contests. Mr. Sommer plans to take only new men to this tournament in order to test their ability in formal competition.
Phone Numbers Listed
For Residence Halls
In answer to many requests the Scholastic hereby prints the hall phone numbers as a service to its readers. Save these numbers for future reference.
ALUMNI HALL 1st Floor........ 375	3rd	Floor....... 436
2nd Floor........ 435
BADIN HALL 2nd Floor........ 370	3rd	Floor....... 450
BREEN - PHILLIPS HALL 1st Floor........ 281	3rd	Floor....... 453
2nd Floor........ 452	4th	Floor....... 454
CAVANAUGH HALL 1st Floor........ 284	3rd	Floor....... 446
2nd Floor........ 445	4th	Floor....... 447
DILLON HALL 1st Floor........ 374	3rd	Floor....... 438
2nd Floor........ 437
FARLEY HALL 1st Floor........ 448	3rd	Floor....... 440
2nd Floor........ 449	4th	Floor....... 451
HOWARD HALL 1st Floor........ 439	3rd	Floor....... 441
2nd Floor........ 430	4th	Floor.______ 369
LYONS HALL 1st Floor........ 371	3rd	Floor....... 457
2nd Floor._______ 456	4th	Floor....... 458
MORRISSEY HALL 1st Floor________ 288	3rd	Floor_______ 443
2nd Floor........ 442	4th	Floor.______ 444
SORIN HALL 1st Floor._______ 282	3rd	Floor._______ 455
ST. EDWARD’S HALL 1st Floor,....... 280	3rd	Floor....... 431
WALSH HALL 1st Floor._______ 373	3rd	Floor.______ 459
ZAHM HALL 1st Floor........ 285	3rd	Floor.______ 433
2nd Floor........  432	4th	Floor.______ 434
I
*»
Scholastic Fiction
For the first time since the war, THE SCHOLASTIC is carrying fiction. An es-tablished favorite in earlier years, fiction stories weren’t published regularly during the past three years.
Believing creative literature to be an important part of any magazine, the Editors plan to present fiction and essays regularly.
Anyone who has a story SCHOLASTIC readers would like are invited to submit their manuscripts. They should be from 600 to 1200 words long.	N
October Devotions Start With Adoration Monday
Perpetual devotion to the Blessed Sacrament during the month of October will begin Monday, October 3. The Blessed Sacrament will be exposed in the Adoration Chapel of Sacred Heart Church from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.	_
The Liturgy Club, under the direc-tion of Rev. William McAuliffe, c.s.c., chaplain, has volunteered to solicit students in the residence halls to donate a part of their spare time in adoration, for periods of one-half hour each.	i
At 5 p.m. each day there will be Benediction, followed by the recitation of the Rosary.
October 3 is also the final day of the Novena to the Little Flower. This de-^. . votion to Saint Therese is being offered,	|
in the form of prayers and Holy Com-	:
munion, for the intention of the sick.
A special effort by the Department of Religion for more frequent devotion to the Holy Rosary is becoming evident in many ways. The Rosary will be recited during October each afternoon after Benediction in the Adoration ' Chapel. The football team will dedicate each game to the Queen of the Most Holy Rosary.
Anyone who would like to obtain a%* rosary may do so, without charge, by seeing Rev. Richard Grimm, c.s.c., prefect of religion, at 117 Dillon Hall, or Rev. Edmund Murray, c.s.c., assistant prefect, at 107 Cavanaugh Hall.
Responsibility for those witty, informative, and almost daily “Religious Bulletins” is traceable to the Prefects of Religion, Fathers Grimm and Murray. However, neither would reveal which one dreams up those sharp quips.
A?
The Scholastic^
It was such a nice party. It had become a custom that every year, on the Sunday before Christmas, Alice and Bill Jensen gave a cocktail party. The gp guest list has also grown into a custom. r The same ones were here this afternoon. Some new faces had turned up, but for the most part they were all the old standbys.
I was having a wonderful time. I moved from one little clique of talkers to the next like a professional table hopper. It was like turning a radio ■ dial; I got a jumbo-garbled bit of each conversation but nothing complete.
The invitations had been for the ® hours from four to six, but here it was already seven-thirty and no one had the least inclination to sort out their wraps and leave.
A small cluster of men, including Bill, the host, Sam Lentter, Harry Adams and Gene Shattuck were buzzing near the beautifully decorated Christmas tree. I ambled over. Bill, who was in his early thirties, had the floor.
“Honest Sam, you can’t imagine how much fun it is.”
Sam was a bit skeptical. “Well, I don’t know Bill. Truthfully, I think it’s assinine to go eighteen holes in the snow . . . and using a red ball! Why, Mabel would kid the pants off me.”
“Ah, cummon, whadya’ say? The heck with Mabel.” Sam was weakening. “On New Year’s Day then; is it a date? Harry and Gene are cummin’, w aren’t ya’ fellows?” They nodded affirmatively. “We’ll make it a foursome. Well?”
Sam still delayed an answer but then boldly said, “Awright, it’s a date, but only on one condition: you mustn’t let Mabel know anything about it. Okay?” The others all said sure, and I passed along to the sofa where Helen Shattuck and Lydia Adams were in deep conversation. Lydia never could hold her
♦ Sept. 30, 1949
SABBATH in the SUBURB
By KEN THOREN
liquor as well as the rest of the crowd and was talking just a mite too loud. I gave her a slight look of reproach, but it did no good.
Lydia, in her rather brusque and strident voice, asked Helen, “Av you read anything lately that’s worth mentioning?”
“Not a darn thing, Lyd. Nothing but tripe and trash . . . how about you?”
“Nothing. Honest, the way books are lately you’d thing Freud was the master of all. I’m sick and tired of reading of everyone’s sins. It’s all so vulgar and cheap. Oh, but say, av’ you read Lay-ton Timson’s new one. I think it’s Early Spring or something.”
“No, I haven’t seen it yet. Is it good?”
Lydia shrugged her shoulder and after superciliously raising her eyebrows said, “Oh, I don’t know if I’d go . . . oo, pardon me ... go so far as to say it was the year’s best, but . . . well, honest Helen, there are two
"We'll play on New year's"
or three passages in it that are simply terrific. Can he write! I av the book home.” She took a sip of her already drained glass, then continued. “Are you going to Carry's New Year’s Day. They’re having open house again this year.”
“Gene hasn’t said anything about it, but I imagine we’ll end up there.”
“Fine. Then I’ll bring the book over and you can get it there. Honest, you’ll go mad over some of the parts in it. Sheer poetry.” She giggled rather loudly “Isn’t it a shame, though, so many novels have to be such trash. But what can you expect when there are so many that go after that sort of junk . . . oo, pardon me, that last one sure had a nip to it.”
I walked over to the side table that was covered with hors d’oeuvres and canapes. No one was there but I could hear Gladys Lentter’s voice out on the hall telephone. I didn’t want to listen but I did.
“Is that you, Jim? Why didn’t you call me last night? No, Sam was out. What? Oh, but I can’t. No, that’s not the reason. Well, look: I just heard someone say Sam and those three other oxen he went through State with are planning to play golf on New Year’s Day. No, I’m not crazy. Yes, aren’t they. Well, if I don’t say anything to him about it maybe he’ll go. Yes, yes, you can meet me at Carry’s. But Jim, why bring that up now? Awright. I’ll be there. Yes, all right, goodbye.”
When she came back into the living room she saw me and knew I had been listening. She walked past me without saying a word. The buzz of the party was increasing. It was such a nice party. And such lovely people. Really grand.
I was stirred from my reflections when Alice Jensen, our hostess, came over to me. Calmly she said, “Loddy, go into the pantry and get that bottle that Bill has hid behind Hie vegetable bin. And I think you’d better squeeze a dozen or so more lemons, and Loddy, for heaven’s sake, straighten year apron!”
I said yes in triplicate and went into my kitchen.
17
Anonymous and fair friend heading for a seat and a slurp of fragrant steam.
Walgreen’s
By JIM KINGSLEY
You new guys — you’ve been here three weeks now. You must be about broke. If you don’t know about Wal-green’s, it’s time you learned.
Walgreen’s is a part of Notre Dame, just like the Caf, the Huddle, and Rosie’s. Fourteen years it’s been that way, a good place to hang out.
You might even say Notre Dame is a part of Walgreen’s; they appreciate us,
too. They ought to. About every fourth customer is one like yourself — a young Irishman who wants a cup of joe and a dish of atmosphere, but who’d settle for the atmosphere.
In fact, the place trades on it. Not atmosphere like smoky night spots with murals or dim cabarets with candles; you pay for that. Just plain Walgreen atmosphere, which is cheap.
A lot of guys don’t even pay for it. They just stand outside, watching the passing parade. If they’re not just watching, they’re waiting. Waiting on the guy across the hall, so they can go to the Colfax. Waiting on their roommate to go bowling. Waiting on their date from St. Mary’s to arrive (this group wears coat and tie).
But the most atmospheric atmosphere —undiluted by South Bend air — is on the inside. Walk in tomorrow night about nine and see for yourself. The booths across from the fountain are most atmospheric. Grab one in the middle and sit facing the door. Grin at the waitress. She’ll go for that. Order something: say a lime coke.
Service is pretty slow Saturday nights, it’s so crowded. You won’t mind; that gives you more time to sit back and observe.
The 'Tea Dance' Line
First you notice the four guys in the next booth, across the partition. They’re making a lot of noise, but they clam up quick when two nice girls take the booth in front of them. There’s a little whispering. Then one guy sort of halfstands and eyes the blonder of the pair.
“Uh — hi, Jean!”
She looks up. You can see she’s trying to place him.
“How’re the tea dances goin’? Remember— last Sunday?”
She says quickly: “Oh! Oh, yes. They’re fine, thanks.”
“Heh, heh. Just wondered if you remembered me.”
She smiles and looks back at her menu, he sits back down, and there’s more whispering. “See there, I told ya . . . holler ‘Jean’ at a crowd of women and one of ’em’s bound to answer...”
The next thing this guy is leaning on the girls’ table talking fast. Pretty soon he motions the others over and they all pack in. The waitress looks pretty grim taking their order.
Look around some more. Grin at the waitress again. Talk to her nice. Say you’ve been waiting half an hour for a coke. That’s part of the game.
Joy Boys Glum
The Colfax - Palace - Granada mob should be coming in about now. It
does. Above the din the cash register starts singing. You wish you could crawl in with the nickels. Don’t, fella; the place is loaded with atmosphere now — you want to miss it?
For instance, look at those three guys coming in the door. They’re seniors. They’re the same ones you saw celebrating the team’s victory over Indiana last Saturday night.
The magazine rack ... if I can get there before she can . . . and the guy back by the last table doesn't see her.
IS
Peanuts, popcorn, candy, last year's fruit cakes and a card of corn cob pipes. How's for a little London Dock?
The Scholastic
assing
Parade

Want Atmosphere? It Only Costs a Nickel
They sit at the fountain. The first guy says, “Milk shake.”
“Same,” says the second.
“Double,” says the third.
The fountain man squints. “You mean a large shake, right?”
“Yeah.”
Eight away you figure these guys are end-of-the-monthers. They started September (or any month for that matter) T with plenty of cash. They went out for steak dinners, late beer dates with their roommates, and the previously-mentioned victory celebration. Now, the - 30th of the month, they drink milk shakes.
Why Walgreen's?
You ought to be enjoying Walgreen . atmosphere by now. The main thing, it’s a place where you can sit. You can sit and laugh at people, not out HI loud, but to yourself. It’s funnier than a Danny Kaye movie. Of course, you’ve got to have a knack for people. For watching them, figuring out what they are, where they’re from, what kind of work they do. You feel like a G-man after a while.
But a lot of guys don’t have this “knack.” They hang out at Walgreen’s anyway. How come?
and a bowling alley don’t hurt the business any. Another is price. You can buy stuff with yesterday’s meal tickets, almost.
But the real answer is the smell of food. Or at least, whether you smell it or not, you know it’s there. People love to be near food. Why do you think Beowulf and his crew loved their mead hall so much? Why did English poets sit in coffee houses? Why do Notre Dame men gather at Walgreen’s? It’s all the same thing — presence of food or drink.
You grin at the waitress again; this time she grins back and walks over. She says: “No coke.”
You see a couple guys at the counter drinking coffee, so you order coffee. It comes right away. You double-take the guys at the counter. They’re not drinking coffee at all. They’re just looking at it.
Mirrors Aid Vision
The lifeblood of Walgreen’s, those java-nursers. One guy is looking into space. Three girls go by behind him. He leans to look around the fountain man at something on the wall. Then you get his angle.	•
He’s got the knack, too. Only he can
don’t see him. That mirror on the wall runs the length of the counter. Walgreen must’ve been thinking of guys, like him when he put it there.
Yes, the fountain’s got atmosphere, too. Look at the second java-nurser. He’s eyeing his cup. Looks like he’s cussing it out. You wonder why; it’s lasted through four cigarettes already. Watch his lips move — you can make out what he’s muttering.
Dumb ol’ prof.
Show him — tear him apart.
Wish I’d . . . dark alley.
With that happy thought he grabs his check, pays it, and leaves with a big smile. Why not? He told that guy off-. Those java-nursers think big thoughts, don’t kid yourself.
Hey — you're nursing yours, too, and. it’s eleven o’clock. Drain the cup and. pay off, but notice one more type as you go out: the bookworm. He’s been, standing at the magazine rack for an. hour. Maybe you recognize him, the^ guy across the hall who swipes your-Trib. He’s reading Atlantic. The ladynext to him leaves. He drops Atlantic,. picks up See. Yep. Same guy.
Leave now; don’t overdo this the first, night. But come clean — did you ever
Typical group of prime young esthetes boning up on state of world, nation — and the girls standing behind you.
9 Sept. 30, 1949
Rom the tables down at Rosie's to the booths we love so . well. We have to move fast: Thou must be in at twelve.
19
Engineers to Publish ND 'Technical Review'
By JOHN H. JANOWSKI
ND students in the various departments of the Engineering school have started work on a new publication entitled The Notre Dame Technical Re-view. The first issue is expected to be published the latter part of November.
The Technical Review will contain articles, news, and features of interest to men in the engineering field. Each issue will have 36 pages and measure .8% inches by 11% inches. Editor for the Review, Bill Ruoff, Architecture major, has also lined up national advertising, engravings and a two-color cover for the magazine.
Prior to this year, each department in the engineering school has published separate mimeographed papers, the “Burble,” of Aero Engineering, and the ■“Electric Line,” of Electrical Engineering, being notable examples. It was decided last January to combine these various department papers into the present Technical Review. John Wickman and Ernie Okleshin began work on the project with Dean Carl E. Schoenherr of the Engineering school.
Bill Ruoff and Joe Harkins
Upon their graduation, Bill Ruoff was appointed chairman of a committee to continue work on the publication.
Working with Editor Ruoff will be Joe Harkins, Chem. Eng., Business Mgr.; Ed Denning, Architecture, Managing Editor; George Conwine, Chem. Eng., Asst. Business Mgr.; John Courtney, Metallurgy, Circulation Mgr.; and John Joyce, Civil Eng., Club News
Editor. Dean Schoenherr will be faculty moderator. The news staff will be manned by juniors, sophomores, and freshman engineers.
The Technical Review will be published in November, January, March, and May. Anyone may submit articles for the Revieiv, the editors clearly stated. They also would like to have undergraduate engineers help out in the publication of the magazine. Any cartoonists, typists, proofreaders, writers, copyreaders, advertising or circulation men are especially needed. .
Council
(Continued from Page 9) yet been completed, but will be in the near future.
The organization of residence hall committees was then discussed by various members of the council. A committee, headed by Jim Garvin, was appointed to handle the hall committees. It was presupposed that these committees would handle such things as student grievances and homecoming decorations.
After a lengthy discussion on the merits of the NFCCS, it was decided that President Kirschner would select two delegates to represent Notre Dame at the meetings in Chicago.—Jim Clark
OUTSTANDING IN QUALITY, STYLE AND VALUE
Clothes of Refinement
SUITS and COATS — $50 upwards
Either ready made or tailor made Parker-Winterrowd Clothes of Refinement “Suits” are masterpieces of the tailoring craft because of the superlative quality of fabrics, the deft handling of cover and pattern, and the exacting fit as well as flattering fashion. Select from our abundant array of popular models and hundreds of patterns—flannels, tweeds, sharkskins, camel’s hair, cassimeres, etc.
PARKER - WINTERROWD, INC.
1151/2 - 1171/2 NORTH MAIN ST.
SECOND FLOOR—UPSTAIRS
“SOUTH BEND’S OLDEST CUSTOM-TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS”
Consult Our Campus Representatives and Many Friends
TOM ROONEY—Sorin	WALT GROTHAUS—Morrissey	VERNE KELLEY—Walsh
JIM GROVES—Walsh	JACK SCHUMACHER—Morrissey	ED CAPARO—Off-Campus
JACK THORNTON—Howard	PAUL LEAMY—Walsh
RUSS SKALL—Howard LOU LOUDO—Dillon WALT MURPHY—Dillon
20
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Gay Snares Touchdown Pass
Three Injuries Make Coast Tilt ’Crucial'
Though Notre Dame is heavily favored to defeat Washington tomorrow afternoon in Seattle, the game with the Huskies could still be quite “crucial” for the Irish. Three ND first-stringers got banged up in the Indiana game last Saturday, and their good health has much to do with Notre Dame’s football future.
The three injured men—all listed as doubtful starters by Trainer Hughie Burns earlier this week—are Co-Cap-tain and end Leon Hart, end Bill Wightkin and center Jerry Groom. Hart and Groom are hobbling about on wrenched knees whereas Wightkin has a bruised foot. The men practiced with the team Monday and Tuesday, but weren’t ready for contact work.
Another player still on the doubtful list is Frank (Rodney) Johnson, who sat out the entire Hoosier game. Rod tore the ligaments in his knee a few weeks ago; he’s much better now and may be ready tomorrow.
Coach Frank Leahy will probably be happy if he can use his injured sparingly or not at all. Fortunately, center and end are not without capable fill-ins. Walt Grothaus has been the number one pivot man on offense right along, and linebackers (to fill in for Groom) are (Continued on Page 25)
Sept. 30, 1949
ND Expected to Stretch Unbeaten String To 30 Games in First Northwest Trip
By JACK MEANEY
When the green-jerseyed Irish trot out onto the University of Washington gridiron tomorrow, it will mark the first time in history that a Notre Dame eleven has performed before a Pacific Northwest audience. Playing as host, and possibly as guinea pigs for further Leahy experiments, will be Coach Home
PROBABLE STARTING LINE-UPS
NOTRE DAME		WASHINGTON
Wightkin 		_.E_._		 Olson
Martin 		T		 Vickery
Bums 		G_		Burnett
Grothaus 		C		 Michael
Lally 		G__		 Gasson
ToneH 			„T_		 Smith
Hart 				..E...	__	 Cloidt
Williams 		Q_...		 Heinrich
Gay 		—	..H_...		 Kirby
Coutre 		..H.._.		 Seth
Sitko 					..F„		 McElhenny
Game time: 2 p.m. P.C.T. (4 p.m. South Bend time)
O’Dell’s University of Washington Huskies. The game has been sold out since early June and a capacity crowd of some 40,000 is expected to be on hand for the opening whistle at 4 p.m. C.S.T.
Mike Swistowicz scores the sixth Irish touchdown against Indiana. Other men in picture include Paul Burns (64), Bill Barrett (37) and Jim MutscheHer, on ground.
Although rated by the experts as being a year away from the big time, the Huskies this year have undertaken an ambitious schedule, one worthy of better teams. With two games already tucked away in the record books, the Huskies are even up in the won and lost column, taking a 14-7 decision from Utah in the season’s opener and last week absorbing a 48-20 lacing from mighty Minnesota, picked by many to be the Big Nine’s representative in the Rose Bowl next New Year’s Day. After Notre Dame, the O’Dellmen face seven P.C.C. foes, among them such ’49 powerhouses as Southern Cal, California, Oregon and rejuvenated Stanford.
O'Dell at Huskie Helm
Coach O’Dell, back at the helm after illness forced him to miss the entire season last year, combines the power of the single wing with the quickhitting “T” in his “Winged-T” offense. In O’Dell’s “Winged-T," the fullback becomes the tailback, the team’s principal running threat, and in soph Hugh McElhenny they have one of the best backs in the land, so states no less an authority than our own coach, Frank Leahy. In the two games already played, the fleet-footed transfer from Compton Junior College has displayed the form which netted him an average
21
1
of 10 yards per carry last year at the California school. Last week against Minnesota, McElhenny returned the opening kickoff 96 yards for a touchdown, the only time Husky rooters had anything to cheer about.
O’Dell’s eleven will do a lot of passing, too, with Don Heinrich under the center. An excellent ballhandler, he also is a sophomore and a native Washingtonian. A shade behind Heinrich stands Don O’Leary, who first played against the Irish varsity while a member of the 1947 Notre Dame frosh eleven. Favorite target of these passers is another soph, six-foot, five-inch Fritz Apking, whom O’Dell describes as “the best pass catcher I’ve ever had my hands on.” In the opener against Utah, the combination of O’Leary to Apking was good for gains of 64 and 36 yards. Other men who may cause the Irish trouble are hard running halfbacks Jack Seth and Roland Kirkby and Mc-Elhenny’s capable substitute, Henry Tiedemann, whose last minute punt return of 80 yards won the Utah game.
First Half Fight
Taking up where the undefeated teams of the past three years left off, the 1949 edition of the Fighting Irish overcame first game sluggishness to humble a good Indiana eleven, 49-6, and extend the string of games without defeat to 29. For the first half, the Hoosiers made a game of it, unveiling hard running backs and a swift, short passing attack which gave them a touchdown.
But after the intermission, it was all Notre Dame. The play of the Irish during the second half, both on offense and defense, was as brilliant as the September sun which shone down upon the spectacle. Led by a low charging
Don Heinrich
Hugh McElhenny
line, always the mark of great Irish teams, Leahy’s lads quickly put the game beyond the reach of the tiring Hoosiers by tallying three times in the third period and adding two more markers in the final stanza. Emil Sitko led the scoring parade with three touchdowns while Coutre, Swistowicz, Wightkin, and Gay each had one apiece.
Defensively, Bob Toneff, who blocked a kick in the second period which resulted in a safety, along with Jim Martin, Bill Flynn and Ray Espenan, broke through several times to drop would-be passers for huge losses. John Helwig and Jerry Groom backed up the line in stellar fashion while John Petitbon proved to be a worthy successor to Lank Smith as safety man with his all-over-the-field tackling.
Redhaired Duo Takes Top Rushing Honors
Two chunky redheads, Emil Sitko and Larry Coutre, took ground - gaining honors in Notre Dame’s opening game against Indiana.
Sitko, top Irish rusher the past few years, got off to a good start again with 60 yards on eight carries for a 7.5 average per try. Coutre had 5.6 yards in 10 attempts. His 5.6 average for the Indiana game is the same mark he had for the whole 1948 season.
Bill Gay picked up only 10 yards from scrimmage, but he hauled in three passes for 40 yards to lead in that department. Coutre was second in pass-receiving too; he caught one for 27. Gay came out ahead in running back punts, scurrying 58 yards with two.
Team statistics showed Irish ball-
toters moving the pigskin 231 yards in 48 tries. That’s an average of 4.7 yards each time.
Doing most of the passing and all of the punting, Quarterback Bob Williams dominated the statistics in both. He completed five of 11 passes, a .455 average, for 70 yards. Those four long, spiraling punts totaled 173 yards, about 43.3 per kick.
Sitko was the only ND man to return a kickoff, and he ran it back 23 yards. John Petitbon became the first and only Leahyman to spear an enemy pass; he went seven yards with it.
Three touchdowns gave Sitko an early scoring lead. Coutre, Bill Wightkin, Gay, and Mike Swistowicz had the others. Steve Oracko was right behind the rest in scoring with five points after touchdown.
Tuite, Overholser Advance In Interhall Tennis Tourney
Top-seeded Matt Tuite and Tom Overholser, seeded number four, moved into the semi-finals of their respective brackets last week in the fall interhall tennis tournament. .
In his fourth-round match, Tuite defeated Jean Massicotte, a French-Canadian boy with a lot of spirit, 6-4, 7-5. It was Tuite’s toughest match to date. He advanced to the semis by routing seventh-seeded Alex Ibanez, 6-0, 6-0.
Overholser reached the semi-finals in his bracket by polishing off Bill O’Connor, 6-0, 6-1. Ray Smith and Terry Kiely, two Illinois boys, look like they might give the two pace-setters a tough time in matches that will determine the finalists.
Ritz Apking
The Scholastic
22
Future ND Foes Win But Four, Lose Five
While Notre Dame was methodically pulverizing Indiana last Saturday, fu-‘ - ture Irish foes had rather rough going. In fact, five of ND’s future opponents ' took it on the chin; all told, they re-®linquished a grand total of 205 points while scoring only 183 themselves.
The four who survived the opening week are the same four who expect to come out on top in most of then-autumn outings. Tulane (the next home opponent), North Carolina, Southern California and Southern Methodist, favorites in their respective conferences, all won. And, with the exception of S.M.U., they won without undue strain.
Price Paces Tulane
< USC, playing Navy — another ND foe, scored early on Jay Roundy’s 67-yard scoot with a punt and they won going away, 42-20. Tulane’s big two, Eddie Price and Bill Svoboda, paced a group attack that buried Alabama, 28-14. Down in Durham, Choo-Choo ? Justice had trouble getting up steam, -v but he was like a Diesel engine in the last quarter. Consequently, North Ca-3 rolina took North Carolina State, 26-6.
Wake Forest’s rugged Deacons scared the daylights out of Southern Methodist before Doak and the boys won, 13-7.
Even though defeated, Michigan State was as impressive as any of Notre Dame’s opponents-to-be. They held mighty Michigan to one touchdown, but they failed to cross the goal themselves; Michigan won, 7-3.
Our Opponents to Come
Washington, of course, couldn’t match Minnesota’s muscles and lost, 48-20. The Gophers were sweating a little anyway, especially after Hugh McElhenny galloped 96 yards with the opening kickoff. Purdue got all the bad breaks in a 20-6 loss to Northwestern, and Iowa was outscored by U.C.L.A., 41-25. The Hawkeyes rolled up 27 first downs, but the West Coast pass-pitchers were too deadly too often.
Here’s what the ND opponents do £ this week: Indiana goes to Ohio State, Purdue and Iowa get together at West Lafayette, Tulane entertains tough Georgia Tech, Navy hopes for and expects its first victory in two years at Princeton, Michigan State relaxes against Marquette, North Carolina meets strong Georgia at Durham, Southern California plays host to Washington State and Southern Methodist will turn on the lights for its game with Missouri in Dallas.
® Sept. 30, 1949
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box by Kalph Wright ■mmm—■■
New Look for Interhall
Notre Dame’s intramural athletic program, which takes a back seat to none, is still progressing. There are at least two major improvements this fall as far as interhall football is concerned.
Instead of using old varsity uniforms, the gridders will be wearing brand new equipment; this should make the teams not only look better, but it should enable them to play better. Another improvement is in the playing fields. There are
John Helwig
still barren spots on the fields south of the tennis courts, but the spring grassplanting has helped.
As far as we know, Notre Dame is the only college that provides regulation football as a major intramural sport. Students can show their appreciation of the fine work by interhall officials by taking good care of the new equipment.
Monday Morning Stuff
Looking back on last week’s ball game, we see that several Irish gridders figured in the plans much more than most people thought they would.
Among them was Johnny Helwig, a man practically ignored in previews of the 1949 team. The shot-putting linebacker from Los Angeles made himself quite conspicuous by knocking down Hoosier ballcarriers. Jim Barrett, a sophomore center who also failed to get
much press attention, did a lot of linebacking, too.
And did anyone ever think that Steve Oracko was strictly a placekicking specialist? Steve spent most of Saturday afternoon in the middle of ND’s defensive line and did a great job. Of course, he proved he’s still quite a kicker, too.
Displaced Persons
We’re not even suggesting that anyone would steal Notre Dame football players, but it’s interesting to note how many former ND students are playing on other campuses.
Michigan’s high-flying Wolverines have three ex-Irish in Don Dufek, Ossie Clark and Bob Van Summern. The first two earned their letters last fall and Van Summern should make his easily this fall.
Then at Northwestern, there’s Johnny Miller, the speedy varsity left half. Miller enrolled at Notre Dame in the fall of 1947, but didn’t stay with us long. Now we hear that Dick Kuh and Deane Thomas, who dropped out last year, both wound up on the Michigan State premises.
Several men from the ’48 frosh appeared elsewhere this fall. Tom O’Connell, rated behind John Mazur among freshmen quarterbacks here, recently starred in the varsity-freshmen contest at Illinois.
Odds 'n Ends
In one of his frequent banquet speeches, Coach Frank Leahy referred to Washington’s Hugh McElhenny as the best running back in America. To date, the rapid fullback’s performance hasn’t proved Coach Leahy to be wrong. . . . Rumor has it that Kevin O’Shea and Bob Smith were elected captains of the basketball and track teams respectively. No official word though.
Predictions of the Week
Washington must have some offensive power to cross Minnesota’s goal three times. But they also must have some defensive weaknesses when a bulky Gopher eleven can roll up 48 points. Playing as they did in the second half against Indiana, ND could romp. Notre Dame, 42; Washington, 7.
23
Frosh Gridders Take Knocks, Learn Ropes During Rugged Sessions on Cartier Field
By BILL RILEY
In these days of win-or-else college football, few are the coaches who can be true to the old adage: “It isn’t whether you win oi* lose, it’s how you play the game.”
However, here at Notre Dame there is a coach whose job is to follow the saying as closely as possible. With some of the finest players in the country, he cannot plan to have one victory for sure all season. With four years of collegiate eligibility left, his charges are meeting opposition every night that is tougher than any they will meet on Saturday afternoons in the future. The coach, of course, is Benny Sheridan, an erstwhile Irish seatback; his charges are the current crop of frosh footballers. It is their job to furnish tough opposition for the varsity, to serve as guinea pigs to test Irish power on offense and Irish vulnerability on defense.
As usual, this year’s freshman team is composed of some of last year’s outstanding high school stars. And, as usual, among the squad is a far-above-average group of ends. Heading the wingmen are Walter Czaja, Bob Benson, Bill French, Charlie Murphy and Al Ka-honswich. Using a two-platoon system for the present, Coach Sheridan has Czaja and Benson on offense.
At the tackles are Joe Racicot — a
205-pounder who can do the hundred in 10.6 — and Tom Murphy, a big Chicago boy who weighs in at 235. Behind these men are a couple of stalwarts named Kane and Weithman.
The guard spots are not quite as deep as in former years, but Virgil Bardash, an all-district high school choice from Gary, and a lad named Seaman are doing a more than adequate job holding varsity gains through the middle to a minimum.
Currently leading the centers in a race for first string slots is Dan Carter, all-Catholic choice from Chicago, and Dave Flynn from Gary, brother of varsity end Bill.
Again this year there are more backs than you can blow a whistle at. For the key spot at quarterback, Bill Gau-dreau is the best bet for continuing the Notre Dame tradition of fine signalcallers.
For the other positions in the backfield, it’s a toss-up between six or seven outstanding men. George Paulik and Bob Kelly looked good against the varsity line on Sept. 17 in the Stadium. A lad named Paolone from New Castle, Pa., shows up well. Falkenstein, O’Callahan, Buczwiecz and Johnson round out the probables for Coach Leahy to look at next spring.
Three Irish Gridders
Will Aid Frosh Coach
Making college football players out of high school stars is a tough task, but Notre Dame’s freshman coach, Benny Sheridan, has a lot of help. Working with Sheridan this fall are three former Irish gridders, Lancaster Smith, Phil Cantwell and Joe Gasperella.
Smith, a native of Lebanon, Ky., wound up his playing days last year by putting on a beautiful exhibition of pass receiving and pass defense for the Old Timers in the spring game. Lank was drafted by the Cleveland Browns of the All-American Conference, but arrived at training camp too late to master the Paul Brown style of play; he was released. Now he’s back studying law and will get his degree in January.
Cantwell is a senior from Los Angeles. He was a member of the varsity last fall, but head injuries forced him to quit. An end, he’s now coaching the frosh linemen.
A highly publicized high school star, Gasperella played both quarterback and fullback at ND. Though touted mostly as a great passer, Joe also did some hard running from full. The Vandergrift, Pa., _ lad went into pro ball with the Pittsburgh Steelers, but has returned to get his degree. He coaches the quarterbacks with Smith taking care of the rest of the backfield men.—Rudy Unger.
Rudy Unger.
Signal-caller Bill Gaudreau calls a play for the Notre Dame	Czaja. In front row are Weithman, Seaman Carter Bardash
frosh. The back row has Benson, Whaley. Kelly, Paolone and	and Kane. On the right, Coach Ben Sheridan watches his boys.
The Scholastic
Preview of Harrier Force Shows Soph Strength
Head track coach Elvin R. “Doc” Handy got a preview on what to expect from his harriers this year on Sunday, Sept. 25, as Soph Benny Almagauer led the way from two-and-a-half miles out. In the second spot was junior g Jim Kittell, one hundred and fifty yards •’ behind the soph speedster- who turned in a fine time of 21:52.
It was the sophomores who gave Coach Handy a cheering look into the future. There were seven of them in the first eight finishers. In the order-mentioned, Con Tetrault, Dick Lee, George Gross, Bob Feiler, and John Mohar held down the third to seventh spots.
Seniors Jim Kelly and Jerry Johnson, B junior Ted Prahinski, and another sophomore Bernie Endres, finished in that order.
A recurrence of an old heel injury forced junior Tony Da Damio into a spectator role.
Little information is available on Quantico, harrier opponents tomorrow. However, Wheaton, the other competing squad, was coached by Gil Dodds, the “flying parson,” last year and is expected to produce strong competition | for the Irish stalwarts. Quantico, usually loaded with Marine Corps stars, may also spring a few surprises.— Ted Prahinski
Coast Tilt
(Continued from Page 21) plentiful. Mike Swistowicz, John Helwig, Fred Wallner and Jim Bartlett all did excellent line backing against the Hoosiers. As for left end, Bill Flynn has been on a par with Wightkin, so the performance there won’t drop. Doug Waybright, Ray Espenan, Jim Mutsch-eller and Chet Ostrowski are other ends who can help out.
Just as in last week’s game, Paul Burns will start tomorrow if Johnson isn’t ready.
The physical shape of the team after the Washington game is especially important since ND then plays Purdue and Tulane on successive Saturdays; the Irish will need all their reserve strength. Of those two, Purdue came out of the Northwestern fracas in great shape and its offensive power should be much greater with Harry Szulborski ready again.
Notre Dame’s traveling squad left the circle at noon Wednesday and was slated for its final drill this afternoon in Seattle. The Irish leave by train shortly after the game.
Sophomore Benny Almagauer crosses the finish line first in the University Goss-Country Meet last Sunday morning. Jim Kittell finished second, ISO yards behind.
Thirteen ND Grads Aim for Big Leagues: Dick Smullen Refuses $40,000 PhiUie Bonus
By RAY FITZGERALD
Grinning from the sports pages of a couple hundred papers one day this summer was the picture of a lanky gentleman in a Notre Dame baseball uniform. The name — Richard Smullen, Jr. Dick, said the attached caption, had just turned up his nose at $40,000 to “start at the bottom of the baseball ladder.”
True or not, Dick Smullen and his snubbed bonus made news. The lefthander didn’t exactly start at the bottom; Wilmington, Del., of the Class B Interstate league being somewhere in the middle. Dick joined the club in July, and racked up a respectable 4-3 record for the fourth-place team. He also dropped a well-pitched five-hitter to Trenton in the league playoffs. Next year Dick, property of the Phillies, has a good chance of moving up, as the Phils have only Utica and Toronto as affiliations between Wilmington and the top.
Dick Smullen made a big splash on the sports pages, but other ND baseballers got their share of headlines. Three of last year’s infield combo signed with pro teams. Gene Lavery, regular third sacker, inked a Pirate contract and was sent to Waco, Tex., in the Class B Big State League. Gene, one of two rookies in the entire league, hit
.270. Most of the ballplayers down there were experienced men, such as Pete Appleton and Johnny Whitehead, men who had been in the big time and really knew their baseball. Next year Gene, who was switched to second base at Waco, will head for spring training with New Orleans of the Southern Association.
Duo With Decatur
Pete Koblosh and Co-captain Benny Kozlik, the double play duo at ND for three years, said so long to each other following the NCAA playoffs here this summer. A month later Pete Koblosh and Benny Kozlik said hello again. Both had signed Chicago Cub contracts and had been sent to Decatur. Pete had a lot of second guessers in the ND stands this past spring when he was hobbling around short on an injured ankle and not looking too sharp afield or at bat. But the ankle’s much better and so is Pete, as his .286 average in theThree-I league, one of the best B leagues in the country, testifies.
Benny batted .275 for sixth place Decatur, thanks to a sensational last week hitting spree that saw him get 13 for 16. Both boys hope for advancement in the Cub chain next year, possibly to Des Moines. Benny, incidentally, played at
25
Sept. 30, 1949
Des Moines for a week this year, and the Sporting News found it worthwhile to mention the fact that he made three errors in one inning, tying some sort of disreputable record. Benny’s not that kind of a second baseman, though, and should stick in the Iowa city next year.
ND’s other 1949 Co-captain, Ray Petrzelka, put his name on an Oklahoma City contract and was sent to Green Bay of the Wisconsin State League for seasoning. Ray had trouble hitting the long ball that was expected of him, so Oklahoma City plans to make the likeable Iowan into a pitcher. Learning how to pitch at Ray’s stage of the game isn’t easy, but it can be done by a man who will practice and practice and then practice some more. Ray’s that kind of a man.
Three Pitchers
Three former ND pitchers will get paid for throwing strikes next year. Sad news to Notre Dame but future pennant insurance to Fenway folk was the signing of John “Soup” Campbell by the Red Sox for 1950. “Soup,” who played semi-pro ball in Canada this year, will go to spring training with the Louisville Colonels of the American Association. The fast balling lefthander has lots of stuff, and should go a long way. Campbell’s roommate and baseball sidekick, Walter (You-know-me-Al) Mahannah is about ready to put his cocky signature on a Detroit contract. Walt led his club to the Tennessee state semi-pro championship this summer with a 17-4 record. The husky righthander was the number one man on Jake Kline’s varsity for the past three years. That even huskier righthander, Bill “Tank” Sherman, a January, ’49 graduate, did his pitching this year for Knoxville in the Class B TriState league. Bill had an 8-12 record for the last place Knoxville, a Giant farm.
Three of ND’s best ball players in recent years didn’t fare so well in pro competition this year. Jack Mayo, Co-captain of the ’47 Irish team, started out the season with the Philadelphia Phils. He hit not at all, but was strong out in right field, and the Phils often used him in the late stages of a close ball game as a defensive measure? But one day Mayo broke his ankle in a slide and has never fully recovered. The Phils eventually sent him to Toronto, and the Canadian city recently released him. Third baseman Bob Klein and catcher Tom Sheehan, Mayo’s 1947 side'-kicks, had rough sledding, too. Bob hit in the low .200’s for Vicksburg in the Southeastern, and is considering quitting the game. Sheehan started out the season with Albany, but was optioned
to York in the Interstate league. He had some tough breaks there, and wound up as second-string receiver.
One-Hitter Against A's
A couple of boys who never did any playing for the Notre Dame varsity also did all right for themselves in Class B. Art Wood created something of a sensation in the East when he threw a one-hitter at the Philadelphia A’s in an exhibition game. The lefty from Cleveland had a 5-5 record with Harrisburg of the Interstate league. Eddie McDade, the other non-varsity man now playing pro ball, put in a full season with the Springfield Cubs of the New England league. “The Hopper,” as Springfield fans called him, batted .265 while playing a very smooth and sometimes spectacular game at second base for the Chicago farm club. Eddie, a switch hitter, was one of the most popu-lar men on the Springfield team.
That’s the list, probably a very incomplete one, of Notre Darners who are having their fling at professional baseball. The Wizard of Odds, one of the South Bend Tribune’s more interesting syndicated features, says that only one out of 13 minor leaguers ever gets to play big league baseball. These 13 ballplayers from Notre Dame have the ability to make those statistics look away out of line.
Institute Adds 35 Volumes
Thirty-five volumes have been added to the library of the Medieval Institute according to Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, library director.
The books, valued at several hundred dollars, were given to the Institute by the Hungarian Libraries board, of Hungary, and are to be used for research on medieval culture.
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE, OR RECORD CABINET?
BUY IT UNPAINTED —	SAVE	MORE	THAN i/2
CHEST OF DRAWERS	....	$9.95	up
RECORD CABINETS........$6.95
BOOK CASES..............$4.95	up
This is all assembled, smoothly sanded, and beautifully grained furniture
ONE BLOCK NORTH OF GILBERT'S
WILLIAMS PAINT CO.
755 So. Michigan PHONE 6-7346	FREE DELIVERY
Biography of Father Moreau Written by Holy Cross Nun
A new illustrated biography of Rev. Basil Anthony Moreau, C.S.C., founder of the Congregation of the Holy Cross and its first superior general has been published recently. Written by Sister Mary Immaculate, C.S.C., the book, The Cross Against the Sky, is aimed to in-terest children in the nine to twelve age group. Illustrations were done by Sister M. Rose Ellen, C.S.C., with the assistance of Dorothy Young of South Bend.
Sister Mary Immaculate, holder of a Ph.D. from Yale, has contributed to many eminent publications, including Commonweal, Spirit, and .4 Golden Treasury of Catholic Verse.
The Cross Against the Sky is published by Fides Publishers of South Bend and Montreal.
FLOWERS for ALL OCCASIONS
Flowers wired to every city and town in the world.
South Bend Floral
114 S. Michigan Phone 3-8227
26
The Scholastic
«
Names Make News
aeval Institute. Two of the. fellowships are held by JAMES JOHN and BERNARD GENRARU and the fourth has not yet been awarded. . .
It was recently announced that GEORGE S. STRATIGOS has been appointed to the post of United States commissioner of the Indiana, northern district. Stratigos, a graduate of the Notre Dame Law school, was appointed to fill a vacancy created when the former commissioner resigned. . .
A description of the University’s attitude toward training was given by HUGH BURNS, Notre Dame trainer, in a talk before the Mishawaka Kiwan-• is club. Burns said that his department, besides its well-known physical angle, must also prepare the players mentally for the sports seasons. . .
The Department of Chemistry was short of teachers last week as eight Phd’s left to attend the American Chemical Society’s annual meeting in Atlantic City, New Jersey. The Doctors were led by Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Department, who was also the chairman of his particular section. . .
The greatest guarantee for security is a dynamic and expanding economy, Rev. EDWARD R. KELLER, C.S.C., professor of economic research at Notre Dame, said recently. Father Keller asserted that a wage hike at this time might price workers out of the market. He spoke before about 225 men at a meeting of the South Bend Rotary club ^in the Oliver Hotel. . .
Another Notre Dame speaker was Professor CLARENCE E. MANION, dean of the College of Law at Notre Dame, who spoke before the South Bend Kiwanis club on “The Constitution of the United States” as part of a program commemorating Constitution week. . .
A PETER F. NEMETH, ’44 has re-^signed as supervisor of area Number
I of the division of vocational rehabilitation of the Indiana department of education. Nemeth, who had held the job since 1945 said that the move was made so that he could devote his full time to the practice of Law. . .
One of Notre Dame’s early football and baseball players died in Chicago last week. He was WILLIAM T. FLYNN, ^Sept. 39, 1949
’93, a prominent northwest Chicago realtor and investment broker. . .
HUGH P. O’BRIEN, professor of criminology, represented the University of Notre Dame at the annual convention of the American Prison association in Milwaukee this week. The group, made up of wardens, prison superintendents,
Professor Eisen
chaplains, and prominent sociologists, met in conjunction with the National Probation and Parole association, of which Mr. O’Brien also is a member. . .
The head of the Notre Dame Department of Speech, Mr. WILLIAM J. EL-SEN, has been serving in another capacity in South Bend. He has been acting as speech consultant for the speakers’ bureau of the Community Chest organization, and has been training speakers for the forthcoming Red Feather drive. Besides this activity, Mr. Eisen has spoken before the Bendix Corporation workers, the Optimist club, the Rotary club, and the Kiwanis club. In addition he has accepted an invitation to be the principal speaker at the kickoff dinner for the La Porte Community Chest drive. . .
A one year fellowship worth $1,000 has been awarded to THOMAS S. KLISE, a graduate of St. Ambrose College, Davenport, Iowa, to enable him to do research in Mediaeval philosophy. The scholarship is one of four in the Medi-
The athletic directorship of Kings College, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania has been awarded to RICHARD RILEY, ’49, it was announced last- week. Riley majored in physical education at Notre Dame and served as head coach of Central Catholic High School in South Bend before his graduation. . .
Rev. ASZTRIK L. GABRIEL, O.Praem., professor of Old French and the history of mediaeval education in the Mediaeval Institute, spent several weeks during the summer at the Pierpont Morgan library in New York City, the Weidener library at Harvard, and the library of the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies at Toronto. Father Gabriel gathered material for a book which will be published soon. The sub- . ject of the volume will be the history of the 13th century Ave Maria College in Palis. . .
DR. MILTON BURTON, director of the Radiation Chemistry Project at Notre Dame, was named chairman-elect of the Division of Physical and Inorganic Chemistry of the Society. He also was elected Secretary of the Division Officers Group of the American Chemi-
Trainer Burns
cal Society and was named to the Society Council. As chairman-elect of the Division, Dr. Burton will organize and serve as chairman of the symposium to be held next summer at the University of Minnesota.
27
4
Former ND Student Shoots Germ-Free Lobs For Seven-Page 'Life' Feature on LOBUND
By JACK BRADSHAW
Notre Dame’s Laboratory of Bacteriology, the much-discussed LOBUND i plant, was in the news again last week, " as Life magazine came up with a full seven-page picture story about the new germ-free animal colonies.
It all began last July 1 when Life photographer and former Notre Dame student W. Eugene Smith, who was noted for his brilliant front-line coverage of the South Pacific theater during the war, moved his wife and family I from New York to South Bend to begin ' ^..“shooting” LOBUND for a picture story and a cover shot.
/ Smith failed to get his cover shot, £ but during his seven-week stay he took |	a great number of shots of the animal
J	colony and the germicidal tank from
i every conceivable angle, plus many pictures of the new-born mammals being I	foster-mothered in the gloved-hands of
LOBUND’s skilled technicians.
!	Complex Lighting Problems
Several complex problems of lighting Wand manipulation had to be ironed out, tending to slow down the shooting considerably. The full-page picture on i page 109 showing an attendant clad in ) a plastic suit taking a detergent shower J before entering the germicide tank was '! actually a fearfully posed fake, for it will be some time yet, LOBUND officials stated, before that part of the I Lab will be ready for full-scale opera
W. Eugene Smith and Rolleiflex Shoot Some Germ-Free Animals ^Sept. 30, 1949
sneak preview, complete to the last detail, of how it will look when ready.
The story and picture captions for the seven-page feature were written by Life’s research writer, Miss Nancy Genet, who spent a week on campus going through the LOBUND files and talking with Doctors Reyniers, Ervin and Trexler, the brain trust of the lab.
LOBUND’s greatness, said Life, lies in the fact that it is “raising the first self-perpetuating colonies of germ-free animals . . . which are born, mature, breed, and die in uttei’ germlessness,” thus refuting forever a long-held biological concept that bacteria are essential to digestion and other physical functions. But the prime purpose of LOBUND is not merely to satisfy scientific curiosities but to further research into “the causes of disease, the chemistry of animal tissues, and the mechanics of nutrition.”
Frustrating Problem Solved
Research along these lines is not new, however, for Pasteur and other early bacteriologists had experimented with it. But few definite conclusions could be drawn due to the constant presence of an infinite number of unknown and invisible germs. What Life calls the “oldest and most frustrating problem in bacteriology” has been solved by LOBUND’s ability to use animals whose bodies contain no germs at all.
child of Dr. J. Arthur Reyniers, who, shortly after graduating from Notre Dame in 1930, began his experiments with a few germless animals which he raised in sterilized jars. As the experiments continued, the early equipment soon became inadequate for prolonged endeavor, and bit by bit Reyniers’ lah grew until it now has a large, steam-sterilized animal colony, many smaller units with sealed-in rubber gloves for more delicate experiments, and the ability to maintain complete control over environmental conditions, thus enabling scientists to keep their animals germ-free indefinitely.
“The germ-free animals represent the greatest advance in bacteriology since scientists learned how to isolate and grow germs in pure cultures,” Life concluded, “and Notre Dame, now only at the beginning of its job, will become the center of work in this new germless world.”
It's Girls and Food Galore At Frosh Picnic Tomorrow
Tomorrow afternoon and evening, Oct. 1, the freshmen will have a chance to enjoy another feature of the Blue Circle orientation program, the Freshmen Picnic. Buses will leave Farley for Potawatamie Park at 1:15. Approximately 500 freshmen are expected out of an estimated crowd of 800. The difference is to be supplied by senior girls from St. Mary’s Academy and St. Joseph Academy, the nurses’ home, and the freshmen from St. Mary’s College.
For the 75-cent ticket, there will be games, community singing, dancing on the patio of the shelterhouse at the park, and, of course, food. John -Thorton, general chairman of the picnic, has invited several guests, including the rectors of the freshmen halls, to the two to nine o’clock affair.
Co-Hop to Hold Barn Dance In Mishawaka Hall Oct. 13
Local hillbilly fans should be glad to hear the news that the South Bend Co-Hop girls are to hold a barn dance on Oct. 13. It will be held in Hillside Barn at the corner of Dragoon Trail and Capital Avenue in Mishawaka.
The barn has recently been remodeled with new hardwood floor, rest rooms, refreshments, parking lot and plenty of room. There will be a band and a caller and special mixer dances. Tickets are selling at 75 cents. Directions for getting to the Hillside Bam will be posted on the Main Building bulletin board.
29
Books
The Fires of Spring, James A. Michener; Random House, New York. §3.50.
In 1947 a charming little collection of hastily unified short stories, some of which had been reclaimed from the glossy pages of The Saturday Evening Post, appeared upon the literate American scene. Before you could say “graft and corruption” it had walked off with the Pulitzer Prize for- the novel. There was some rather competent writing in this book and it has since made piles of money for the man who wrote it. The book was called Tales of the South Pacific and it was written by James Michener.
This time he has written what passes for a real novel. It is called The Fires of Spring. No one should fear for the safety of the Nobel Prize on its account. Fires of Spring opens in a Pennsylvania poor house, circa 1920, where the hero, David Harper, is presented as an underprivileged child reading Oliver Twist. Once this illuminat
Okay Now! Beat the Parlays —BEAT THE PARLAYS! 30
ing parallel has been duly impressed upon the reader, we follow David through high school, college, and beyond. During this time he manages to combine Wheaties-type athleticism, an Oxford scholarship, and impassioned aestheticism along with being an expert amusement park shortchanger, a Chautauqua actor, and eventually a twenty-four-dollar-a-week editor for a string of penny dreadfuls.
The climax of the novel occurs in, of all places, Greenwich Village where, after having spent the better part of his youth in a not too frantic search for something David hovers on the brink of joining the familiar ‘0 lost’ chorus. He saves himself from the Wolfian abyss by contracting a marriage with the little Quaker girl who was so very kind to him when he was naught but a poor house brat. This girl, after the string of saintly, Dos-toyeveskian prostitutes, brittle actresses, and suave fashion magazine hirelings with which David had consorted, is something extra special. She appears to be a blend of Minerva and Florence Nightingale. But Michener spares no pains in intimating that Marcia Paxson is, after all, a red-blooded American
girl. In any event, Marcia Paxson is \ just the woman to convince David that he should shake those old Depression blues and hasten off to write (you’ll : never guess) the Great American Novel.
In several words, The Fires of Spring is a sloppy, improbable piece of roman- I tic rant which is far from distinguished i and is rendered even more puerile by its f presentation of the biggest collection of ■ stock characters since Frank Merrhvell • . at Yale. Michener has brought forth for the edification of the hopelessly naive such subtle types as a mad Russian professor of mathematics, an aging matinee idol, the tough but tender chatelaine of a Greenwich Village boarding house, a kept poet, an obese amateur detective afflicted by epilepsy, and countless sterile others. Michener has taken 495 pages to tell us that life is real and life is earnest but that there is safety and beauty in young 9 love. Now that I have been informed of this I would appreciate it if no one ever mentioned the Pulitzer Prize in my presence again.—George Douglas
Special:
NOTRE
DAME
BLANKETS
With ND Monogram
All Wool $7.95
ORDER YOURS NOW
FROM OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE:
JIM SHAPIRO 456 Morrissey
ROSE & KATZ
The Scholastic
By DAN MINAHAN
Frankie Laine, whose star always appears to be fading when suddenly he bounds back into the public spotlight, has amazed the experts again with his “Lucky Old Sun” which is surely the finest waxing of his career and just about ices the Laine reputation. There are still many people in the music business who are, and always have been, skeptical concerning Frankie’s ability to stay on top due to his lack of vocal talent. But what he lacks in ability Laine makes up for, and more, in his technique and “Lucky Old Sun” with a soft choral background and a great set of lyrics neatly compliments the Laine style.
| A couple of “oldies” jumped back on the popular bandwagon this summer and both seemed destined for a long second childhood, one because of the song itself and the other because of the treatment accorded it by the singer. The first, Vaughn Monroe’s “Someday”, is a western-type torch song which Monroe grinds out in his usual overdone way, having no musical introduction but simply jb jumping off where the lyric begins. But jg if you like Monroe, and there appears to ! f be thousands who do, he and his quartet f background make the arrangement fair-r ly effective. However, it’s the song itself that will make this disc a hit.
The other oldtimer is Doris Day’s “If I Could Be With You”. The melody is fair, the lyrics good and the vocal ex-cellent—at least for the Doris of today. vO Her treatment is of the half sung, half g sighed variety which made such a hit in a	her recent recording of “Magic”. But
□	this isn’t the same Doris Day who made
all New York stand up and take notice in the winter of 1947, and compared with some of her waxings with Les Brown such as “Sentimental Journey” and “You Won’t Be Satisfied”, “If I Could Be With You” looks pretty sad. Once again, a singei* reaches his or her peak—and passes it—before the great majority of the public take any notice. Why this situation should e^ist has been the burn-T1 ing question in the music world for many / years.
J Another bit of news that caused a stir of late was the announcement that Stan Kenton was reorganizing his orchestra.
i But, and really to the surprise of no one, ' Kenton says he won’t be quite as progressive in his arrangements this trip. Stan wasn’t exactly well received in all [ circles with his last band.
D Sept. 30, 1949
Papandrea Spaghetti House
(FORMERLY THE CAPITOL)
Italian and American Foods
South Bend’s Finest Eating Place
415 North Michigan Street
Phone 3-0903	South Bend, Indiana
2

tt-

I
“Take cigarettes, for instance. It has been recognized by eminent nose and throat specialists that there is a difference among cigarettes. There’s NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER when you smoke Philip Morris because they have been proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder than any other leading brand. Now, to define NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER in the fullest sense of the term...”	’

I n short, Phiup Morris is America’s Finest Cigarette. Try ’em . . . find out for yourself.
^phiup morris
NOTRE DAME PUBLICATIONS
SCHOLASTIC SPECIALS..........................Three Giant Issues for Just $1
,	Three big special issues are planned for 1949-50. In December comes the annual
Notre Dame Football Issue, bigger and better than ever. In the Spring we publish the Notre Dame Basketball Issue. At the end of the school year comes the Notre Dame Review, a summary of all events, scholastic and athletic. Single copies are 50 cents but if you order all three now you can get them for only one dollar. Orders must be in as soon as possible. Order this special three issue bargain for your family and friends, tell the folks back home to order too.
NOTRE DAME, 100 YEARS.............................$4
Father Hope’s giant volume is the one definitive story of the real Notre Dame. Handsomely bound, the book belongs on every Notre Dame man’s shelf and it makes an ideal Christmas present for any friend of Notre Dame.
THE JUGGLER
. Now Just 75 cents a year
Here’s Notre Dame’s literary magazine at a price everyone can afford. Last year it sold for $2 a year. This year we’ve cut the price to just 75 cents a year although the magazine will be just as big as ever. You get the fall, winter, and spring issues for this bargain price. Get your order in immediately.
THE REVIEW OF POLITICS................................$3	a year
Here’s the class publication of the University of Notre Dame. Walter Lippman, the internationally famous columnist, says it has no superiors in its field. “Time Magazine” says it is one of the best known university publications in the country. Serious students should subscribe to this quarterly and it makes an ideal gift for the folks back home.
Send Your Orders Today to:
PUBLICATIONS, University of Notre Dome, Notre Dame, Ind.
32
The Scholastic
Begorrah! It’s Rough
Mhyor of Cork, Ireland, watches first football game as ND wallops Hoosiers.
List of Masses for Week Provided for Missal Users
As Mrs. Claire Booth Luce pointed out last semester in a speech in the Drill Hall, the user of a daily Missal is often somewhat confused by a number of ribbons, Liturgical terms, and other puzzling aspects of the day’s Mass. The Scholastic undertakes to help clear up this confusion with the following list of Feasts for the coming week:
Mass of the Most Holy Rosary was said on the preceding Sunday, the Mass for today is: 17th Sunday after Pentecost)— Green—2nd Coll. St. Placid and Comp., 3rd “Defend Us,” Common Preface or
Mass of St. Francis of Assisi—White— Gloria, 2nd Coll, of the Sunday, 3rd “Defend Us,” Com. Pref.
Thursday, Oct. 6—Double—White. St. Bruno, Confessor, Gloria, Com. Pref.
Friday, Oct. 7—Double of II Class— White. Most Holy Rosary of Blessed Virgin Mary. Gloria, 2nd Coll. St. Mark, Pope and Confessor, 3rd St. Sergius and Companions, Martyrs, (2nd and 3rd Coll, in low masses only), Creed, Preface of Blessed Virgin. (Votive Mass in honor of Sacred Heart permitted.)
PHOTO CREDITS
Page 12. Brickson; 14. McLaughlin; 16, Dome; 18 and 19, Brickson; 21, Brickson and McLaughlin; 24 and 33, McLaughlin.
LOST AND FOUND
One pair of large binoculars in a brown leather carrying case was found Saturday after the football game, draped over the doorknob of the Publications Office. Anyone owning same, or having knowledge of them, is requested to contact Miss Alexander in the Publications office.
Attention All ND Bowlers: Kampus Keglers Meet Soon
Good news for local bowlers is the announcement that the Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame once again plan to have an intramural club league and a varsity bowling team for the 1948-49 season.
Jim Jennewein, who is currently running the Kegler organization, will hold an organization meeting in the near future. All prospective bowlers should watch the bulletin boards and the Scholastic for bowling information.
Dr. Gurion
(Continued from Page 9) political and economic pressure against the Soviet Union is absolutely necessary.” Military strength was even more important now than ever, he felt, and developing military power in Europe is: a vital factor.
He affirmed that it is “absolutely necessary to strengthen all our means of defense, including the building of military power in Europe.” He further affirmed his belief that Soviet Russia must be made cognizant of the strength which would be arrayed against them in case of any military aggression on their part.
Dr. Gurian feels certain that we can. best deter Russian aggression by impressing the Russian leaders with this-fact: “We must . . . make them realize that any attempt to use force would be countered by superior forces.”
Saturday, Oct. 1 — Simple — White. Mass of Blessed Virgin for Saturday. Gloria, 2nd Coll. St. Remigius, Bishop and Confessor, 3rd Holy Spirit, Preface of Blessed Virgin.
F Sunday, Oct. 2—Semidouble—Green. ’ 17th Sunday after Pentecost. Gloria, 2nd Coll. Holy Guardian Angels, Creed, Pref, of Trinity. Last Gospel of the Guardian Angels
or
Mass of Most Holy Rosary of Blessed Virgin Mary. Gloria, 2nd Coll. 17th Sunday after Pentecost, 3rd (low masses) Holy Guardian Angels, Creed, Pref. Blessed Virgin, Last Gospel of itt1 the Sunday.
J Monday, Oct. 3—Double—White. St. ' Therese of the Child Jesus, Virgin.
Gloria, Common Preface.
Tuesday, Oct. 4—Greater Double — White. St. Francis of Assisi, Confessor. Gloria, Common Preface.
Wednesday, Oct. 5—Simple—Red. St. Placid and Companions, Martyrs. Gloria, 2nd Coll. “Defend Us,” 3rd Choice of Priest, Common Preface. (If the
® Sept. 30, 1949
’.525252525252525252525252525352525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525251
John Adams Auditorium
SAT., OCT. 15
sr
in person
2 SHOWS
Presented by SERVICE GUILD
COPP MUSIC SHOP
South Bend 4, Indiana
124 E. Wayne
7 P.M.
9:30 P.M.
TICKETS $3.00 — $2.40 $1.80 — $1.20 Tax included
Enclose stamped self-addressed envelope
Sorry, no phone orders
MAIL ORDERS NOW
Box office opens Monday
Red Ingle The Starlighters Paul West on3 s Orchestra
33
Roughly Speaking by Kcm Zhorcn
Choo-Choo Papoose
We see by the papers that an Indian child was born at Chicago’s Railroad Fair. Some railroad publicists named the little girl Seeva (Hopi for railroad) Fair Lucas. The tub-thumpers were particularly proud of themselves in so far as the initials stood for Santa Fe. It’s a lucky break for the kid that the New York, New Haven and Hartford people didn’t get there first.
Happy Cop
You won’t find him listed in any sightseeing guide book for South Bend, but nonetheless he’s one of the best claims to fame the town has. He’s a cop and directs traffic at the corner of Jefferson and Michigan. They call him Smiley and is without a doubt the most congenial protector of the law in these parts. People stand and watch him just for the lift. He’s so friendly that young girls look as if they think he’s flirting with them. He’s not, though. He’s just one of those too few people who like the world.
Some Suggestions
Since the band has decided to play some of the other school songs besides The Victory March after touchdowns at the games, wouldn’t it be a good idea to raise a placard with the titles on it before they do? The acoustics are so bad in the stands that you can generally hear nothing but the drums. This fact was quite apparent at last Saturday’s game when the band played As the Irish Backs Go Marching By while the student section bellowed The Victory March.
The second suggestion is in regard ■to the jam in the Main Church at the communion rail. Couldn’t the K. of C. ushers walk up the aisles at this time, releasing the rows one at a time instead of letting the huge mass form as it now does? The present situation is a detriment to the spirituality of the moment and needs to be remedied.
Quite a number of students are going to the Michigan State game. Transportation is their problem, so hear-ye Bus Entrepreneur Tom Murray: how about getting a bus chartered to go?
Pogo Sticking
We dropped in on WND the other night. They certainly have a good time up there, all while doing a terrific service to the campus. The night we were there Jack Dunlevy, the new boss, Joe Shelly and Jack Wilkinson were cracking wise back and forth like a bunch of comedians. It was too bad that some of the repartee wasn’t piped into the air lanes. Anyone interested in this kind of work should go up and help out. It’s a task that’s heavily watered down with fun.
We also hiked up to the lofty Art Department the other day. Here’s one of the least publicized parts of the University. We don’t claim to be any art critic but we know; as •well as the next person, what we like and dislike. There was plenty of work up there that pleased our senses. The oils of Paul McCaslin and some of Bill Degnen’s crayon work were especially fine. The department’s art exhibit is almost over but some -works are up all year round and are more than worth the trek upward.
Bows and Boos
A hand to Jim Martin for his words at last Friday’s pep rally . . . there were shades of immortal Ziggy in his banter ... to the YCS’s BX -we extend a thank you for the job they did this fall . . . they had a record turnover of books and although there were lines there too, they saved many a dollar for students while pouring even more back in refunds to empty wallets . . . congrats to Dick Cullen and last year’s Dome staff for an excellent book . . . this year’s Juniors -will have to go some to beat it.
Campus Sights ■
Bandleader Gene Hull wearing a variegated beret that would make an MGM musical blush with shame . . . the Science Hall stairs that get thinner and thinner and thinner ... a fad that has swept one hall in particular, whereby dissatisfied students are painting their rooms.
New Faces Fill Gaps In Library Personnel
In keeping with the many changes in the staff and administrative structure of the University this summer, a number of new faces have appeared in the Library. Marriage, ill health, studies and other jobs are responsible for the 9 replacement of a number of former \ staff members. The vacancies, which ’ were quickly filled by waiting applicants, reached into all departments of the library even up to the office of assistant librarian when Mr. William A. Kozumplik resigned in June to accept a similar position at Oregon State College Library in Corvallis, Ore.
Other changes include Mr. Charles Mermey, Jr., of the acquisitions department, and Miss Louise Brexton, of the catalogue department. Miss Brexton, who resigned because of ill health, was succeeded by Miss Jean Marie Hebei, a 1949 graduate of the Library School of Rosary College, River Forest, Ill. Also in the acquisitions department Mrs. Billie Dillon was succeeded by Miss Charlotte O’Connor and Mr. Louis A. Kenny was granted a leave of absence for a year’s advanced study in history at the University of Zurich in Switzerland.
Mrs. Sarah Ann Hoke, a bookkeeper, resigned and was replaced by Miss Dorothy Stalder; Miss Betty Stark succeeds Miss Bonnie Bunch in the bindery department; and Miss Maxine White takes the place of Miss Yvonne Rauch at the reserve desk. Marriage claimed the services of Miss Betty Ucker of circulation department, who became the wife of Vincent Anthony, a senior. Miss -Charlotte Trudelle married Edward Sadowski, a senior from South Bend. And Miss Ann Toth replaces Miss Frances Kuzbay who was married in June.
During the summer the library sponsored an interesting and valuable exhibit of early Japanese woodcuts from the private collection of Professor Boleslaw Szezesniak of the department of history. The collection consists of approximately 1000 very fine woodcuts ‘ dating from the early days of the art to the present time. Many are signed copies. A collection of covers from L’eclipse, a well known Paris weekly journal, also the property of Professor Szezesniak, is presently on exhibit. These are hand colored prints which take pot shots at the politics of the various parties during the Commune period of 1871.—Bill Otott
34
The Scholastic^^
r
Van Hensen shirf
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y
ever!
New! Van Heusen Century
meet the soft collar that won’t wrinkle...
§
You can sleep in the Van Heusen Century .. . study in it, and yet, the soft collar stays smooth and smart from dawn to dark . . . and longer— without starch. Perhaps your profs can’t tell you why, but your Van Heusen dealer can. In regular collar or wide-spread. $3.95 and $4.95
It’s Adlers for
Van Heusen
ON THE COMUK... MKM6AM f MSNM61DN
ROSE & KATZ
for
Van Hensen

SLIDE RULES
o
DESK LAMPS
$1.79 UP
SCHOOL SUPPLIES BUSINESS SYSTEMS 126 S. MAIN
Where You Got The Pencil
Sept. 30, 1949
35
Copyright 1949, Liggett & Myels Tobacco Co.