September, 1982 



ACE 
ACE IS THE PLACE WITH THE HELPFUL HARDWARE MAN 
HOURS­
7,30 AM To 5,30 P.M. Closed Sunday
272-7535 
• PAINTS 

• TOOLS 
• PLUMBING & ELECTRICAL 
FREE PARKING 
SUPPLIES 
FRONT & REAR • GARDEN SUPPLIES 
• HOUSEWARES219 DIXIE WAY 
• HARDWARE 
NO. IN ROSELAND • SPORTING GOODS 
Adding aNew. .. dimension to downtown dining 

Greek American Food 
taste tempters ... ustomers' favoritJ 
GYROS ..

C
AT IN, Ol! CARRY-OU Flaming Cheese Souvlaki Mousaka Pastitsio always tasty ..•

PARK FREE 
sandwiches, fish,

.after 5,30 p.m. f,,,.J, h 
Su;a11S, c ops, soups 

Open Sun. 8to 2/Mon.-Thurs. 6to 8; Fri. &Sat. 6to 9-232-4997 · 
127N. Main St., So. Bend 
Free Parxing after 5:30 p.m., 
Show Your Student I. D. Card and Receive a 10 % Discount thru 10/ 31 / 82. 

--~ 
~~ 





VILLAGE GREENHOUSE 

$9.95/ dozen 
Sing/e/$1.00 each 
Checle ouft pfticeg on coftgageg and boutonniefteg. 
Single 45¢/each 

NORTH VILLAGE 
! 
I 

MALL 
I 
I


272-5335 I 
Delivery Service Available 
I~ 
l.:=-:=:--....:::---...:­



SCHOLASTIC 
Vol. 124, No. 1, September 1982 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
FEATURES 
4 Summer on a Western Island 
A Student's experiences in West Berlin ... Larry Klink 
20 Kickball, Faith, and "Busy Work" 
Summer Service Project in Washington, D.C. ... Dan Keusal 
6 The Cushwa-Leighton Library 
New addition to the SMC campus ... Bridget Bradley 
8 Lebanon: "A Strong Will to Survive" 
Thoughts on war ... Frank Bright 16 Football '82-Discipline & Desire 
A preview ... Daphne Baille & Brian Couch 
18 Senior Bar-New Building, New Ideas 
Eat, drink and be merry ... Teri Schindler 
REGULARS 3 News Briefs Dan McGrath, News Editor 
10 Poetry 
11 Culture Update 
12 Fiction/Hot Dogs and Chevrolet Ron Hyde 14 Gallery Juan Carrasco 
24 The Last Word Beth Healy 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors of Scholastic and do not n~cessarily represent the opinions of the entire staff and editorial board of Scholastic or the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty, or the student body. 
The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services and CASS Student Advertising, Inc. Published monthly during the school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $7.00 a year and back issues are available from Scholastic. Please address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All, unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. copyright © 1982 Scholastic / all rights reserved I none of the contents may be repro­duced without permission. 

page 8 

SEPTEMBER, 1982 
Jn fltmnriam 
The Angel of the Lord encamps around those who


T +I
revere Him and rescues them. 0 taste and see that the Lord is good; blessed is the man who trusts in Him. The eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous, and His ears open to their cry. Many are the afflictions of the righteous; but out of them all the Lord delivers him. He protects his every bone; not one of them is broken. The Lord redeems the soul of His servants; all those tT taking refuge in Him shall go free. 
t 
Psalm 34 

t In prayerful memory of those members of our community who died this past summer. 


t t 

EDITORIAL BOARD 1982-1983 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Beth Healy 
GENERAL MANAGER Pat Pitz 
Culture/Fiction Editor Sheila Beatty 
News/Sports Editor Dan McGrath 
Photo Editor Mike Delany 
St. Mary's Editor Tara Jones 
Copy Editors Tom Wrobel Julie Wodarcyk 
Advertising Manager Brian Graham 
Distribution Manager 
Michael Meeks 
Business Manager Jim Dever 
Layout Editor 
Charies van Ravenswaay 
Art Editor Tamera Mams 
Advisor: 
Fr. Mario Pedi, O.S.B. 
CREDITS 
. Cover: Jeff Ripple 
Illustrations: 
Delia Thomas 
Photographs: 
Mike Delany; Pat Pitz; John Costello; Sandy Eital; Information Services; Notre Dame Sports Information 
Scholastic News Briefs 


by Larry Klink 


I spent this past summer in West Berlin, Germany, the "western is­land" in an eastern country. It was an excellent experience; a time for learning, growing, and drinking Ger­man beer. For two months I lived and worked in Berlin. To be quite frank, it was not a typical summer. 
The opportunity originated at Notre Dame with the AIESEC Or­ganization. AIESEC is the French acronym for !'Association Interna­tionale des Etudiants en Science Economiques et Commerciale. 'fhis international organization operates a reciprocal exchange program which offers top students the chance to gain firsthand practic~l business experi­ence by living and working in foreign 
A view of the Brandenburg Gate 
apartment (which they had ar­ranged), and gave me the necessary forms to fill out. Although my Ger­man was rusty, having studied three years, one spent in Innsbruck, Aus­tria, with the Notre Dame Foreign Studies Program, it didn't take long until I could properly converse with my five German housemates. We were all compatible even if they were strongly opinionated on American foreign politics, as most European students are. 
I soon met the other 30 to 40 train­ees also working in Berlin. The train­ees came from all over the world: Turkey, Sweden, France, Israel, Czechoslovakia, and Thailand, "to name a few. They proved to be my 
countries. AIESEC is totally student-· best friends during my stay in Ber­operated, nonprofit, and nonpoliti-· lin. Most of us could speak German cal. Its goals are .to promote inter-but if not, English would certainly national awareness and cooperation. get us by. Communication was just At Notre Dame the students in part of the challenge and fun, mak­AIESEC work, organize, develop, ing the experience worthwhile and and socialize with pride. (There is al-unforgettable. For example, imagine ways plenty of room for new mem-trying to explain the rules of ulti­bers.) mate Frisbee to someone who doesn't 
Upon my arrival in Berlin, the speak your language and has never AIESEC-Berlin committee met me at seen a Frisbee before. We managed the train station, took me to my new .with feet, hands, and .mouth. 
Our "international group'' got along amazingly well and shared one common denominator: a Swedish "toast song" which most members of AIESEC know. Often, although not always, we put our political differ­ences aside and went out to discover Berlin. During these unforgettable· times, we wandered through the theatres, museu:ins, arid exhibitions that proliferate in the city and en­joyed the numerous bars which range from outdoor cafes to beer gardens. 
A characteristic attributed only to West Berlin is the wall which sur­rounds the city, setting iPapart as a "western island'' in an eastern coun­try. The wall is a popular tourist at­traction for westerners; however, the implications are far more important to both East and West Germans. The Berlin Wall was constructed on Au­gust 13, 1961, by the East Germans in order to minimize the "threat of western invasion." The cement wall stands approximately 4.2 meters high and is reinforced with watch­towers, mine fields, self-shooting machine guns, barbed-wire fences, guard dogs, and armed soldiers. 
Gawking from the observation stand, it all appears frighteningly forbid­ding. As recently as March 29 and June 4 of this year, two people were shot as they attempted to escape to the West. A museum, "House of Check-Point Charlie," memorializes these and the many others who have made such an attempt. 
On the other side of the Wall is East Berlin, capital of the German Democratic Republic, and a popular tourist town though travel is some­what limited. Unlike the rest of East Germany, one can easily purchase a day-visa to East Berlin. 
In East Germany the basic needs are extremely inexpensive while lux­uries are extravagantly high and difficult to obtain. For example, one must order a car, not a Firebird or Camaro but a basic subcompact car, ten years in advance. Moreover, a sharp contrast between old and new is clearly illustrated. Next to a 13th­century Gothic church looms a mon­strous 20th-century television and radio tower. 
As I walked around in East Berlin, I stepped into a bar/restaurant out­side the mainstream of the tourist 
I 

SEPTEMBER, 1982 
from East Germany. Our conversa­tion started out very awkwardly and mistrusting but as our inhibitions wore down and I revealed my iden­tity as a German-speaking American, the beer and conversation flowed freely. 
The man was very open, sharing several interesting insights to the ideals and values of one East Ger­man, and even paying our large bill at the end of the night. I also learned the intricacies of eel fishing, which he was exceedingly proud to explain. 
But life is not all fun and games. Through AIESEC, I worked with the large Berliner Bank in their trainee program, exploring several departments that emphasize interna­tional banking. I learned and de­veloped my skills, met many inter­esting people, and saw many differ­ent facets of the banking industry. Also, the job paid my rent and other basic expenses. 
Here I sit, trying to sort, analyze, and diffuse all that I have gone through and accomplished. With so many different values, ideas, and cultures, there is no wonder that we have such misunderstandings and misconceptions. Yet I do realize that 
,y __ _ 
•:'(·<·. ·. 

t ' 
i: .' ·,
•:,t. : 
The Berlin Waif: A people divided 
people can be so different, yet so alike. With the development of mod­ern technology, our earth is becom­ing smaller and smaller. 
Are we willing to take the time to communicate and understand one an­other? Perhaps my greatest lesson is that we have an essential need for awareness and cooperation between people if we are to survive. D 
I Larry Klink i,s a senior Finance ma­jor from Hohokus, New Jersey. Thi,s i,s his first contribution to Scholastic. 

T 
5 

I,, 
fi 

ID4.e Qtus1twa-1Jl.ei91Jtnn 1Jlibrary: WlJt 11lt9innin9 nf an @lb Wrahitinn 
How many of you can honestly say that you enjoyed your job this sum­mer? It may seem that packing and unpacking thousands of books is a boring job but I can tell you that it proved to be an exciting experience. 
This summer I had the privilege of working at the Cushwa-Leighton Library. Although there was a lot of work, especially during the move, it was enjoyable because everyone worked together to accomplish the feat. 
The plans to build a new Saint Mary's library had been in develop­ment for seven years. The first offi­cially recognized Saint Mary's library was built in Holy Cross Hall in 1903 by Mother Pauline. She also had the second library built in LeMans Hall in 1925. By 1939 the library in LeMans had again overgrown its bounds and the sisters sent out a plea to the College Alumnae to support the plans for building a new library. Five y~ars later the Alumnae Cen­tennial Library was completed. Its name signified the centennial anni­versary of the founding of the Sisters of Holy Cross in LeMans, France. 
The old Alumnae Centennial Li­brary is familiar to most of the stu­dents at Saint Mary's today. The 
building itself is a wonderful struc­ture reflecting the architecture and styles of the Saint Mary's tradition. The library served the needs of the college very well. In 1963 it was rated in the top 5 percent of all college and university libraries in the country. As college enrollment went up the library was less able to facili­tate the demands of the growing campus. By 1975 the problem of building a new library had to be faced once again. 
For seven years the College has been involved in planning and rais­ing funds for the new Cushwa-Leigh­ton Library. Two major patrons of the Library are Margaret Cushwa, a 1930 alumna of Saint Mary's, and 
Mary Lou Morris Leighton, a mem­ber of the Saint Mary's Board of Regents and chairman of its develop­ment committee. 
These efforts of planning and study were accomplished and books were moved from the old to the new library this summer. The move was a much bigger job than I had ever expected. We not only moved books 
from the old library but also from the Science Hall and Regina Hall Storage as well. 
The new library is a very exciting building. Points of major interest are the attractive windows and skylights, the group study rooms, an after hours study lounge and a Rare Book Room featuring an outstanding Dante collection anonymously do­nated in 1944. 
The Cushwa-Leighton Library is something in which we of the Saint Mary's Community ought to take pride. I urge 'you all to enjoy its beautiful rooms and surroundings and make use of its various conve­nient services. D 
Bridget Bradley is a sophomore at St. Mary's. This is her first contribu­tion to Scholastic. 



SEPTEMBER, 1982  7  
'  ~­-------­ - -- -­ - - 

LEBANON: ''A Strong Will to Survive'' 
Editor's Note: This past summer the world looked to Lebanon, a small country caught in the struggle be­tween Israeli and Palestinian forces. Francois Boueri, a senior Engineer­ing major from Jounieh, Lebanon, returned home for the summer. Prof. Khalil Matta, a graduate student in Aero-Space/Mechanical Engineering, also visited his home in Bhamdoun, Lebanon, last July. What follows are their accounts of the summer siege and their sentiments about a war which has destroyed their country for the past eight years. 
"We have a saying in Lebanese," says Prof. Matta, " 'It is different for the one who is counting the number of times he is beaten by the sticks, than for the one doing the beating.' " Matta uses the saying to illustrate the outsiders' viewpoint of the sum­mer siege in Lebanon. "To the media the 17,000 Lebanese killed during th; past three months were merely num­bers. But for the Lebanese, they were people we knew, loved, people who were close to us." 
For eight years Lebanon and its people have been at the mercy of foreign forces that turned Beirut into a battlefield this summer. Says Francois, "Israel invaded Lebanon but the Lebanese are used to it. We've been at war for eight years and only now does the world look at Lebanon." Francois recalls how early in the summer the Lebanese thought the Israeli invasion was reminiscent of 1978, when Israeli forces invaded ten miles and then pulled back. How­ever, after three days of northward advancement, they realized that the Israelis were trying to "liquidate the PLO.'' 
Matta notes that "when the Is­raelis entered Lebanon, it wasn't to free the Lebanese. They wanted to settle their own problem with the PLO.'' He adds that their attempt to look good by saying they were doing Lebanon a favor is "hypocrisy.'' Even so, Francois comments that many Lebanese welcomed the Israeli sol­diers because they wanted the PLO out of Lebanon. 
As the Israeli forces surrounded the city, Beirut split in half. The western quarter became the PLO's battleground while most civilians moved to the city's east side. Al­though civilians were permitted to leave, many did not, knowing that the Palestinians would take over their homes. Francois describes their refusal to yield what has been their own as a "spirit of resistance.'' "Af­ter eight years of war, bombing is nothing new to us," he says. "We have toughened over the years. Buildings are no problem; they de­stroy, we rebuild.'' 
Both Matta and Francois note that both sides bombed ind_iscriminately.. 
by Frank Bright 

Francois remembers rising at 5 a.m. to take shelter in the cellar during a shelling. After waiting three hours for the bombs to stop, they came out again only to be greeted by a new barrage that sent them back to cover. "It was a psychological battle," he says. "The PLO was bombing out of frustration.'' · 
Matta believes that although the Israelis did not enter Beirut in order to "prevent destruction," the bomb­ing they did from outside the city took its toll on Beirut. "Israel is not going to rebuild Beirut," he adds. 
"We wanted the PLO out," says Francois. "It cost us.'' Matta feels the price was too high due to the lives lost. 
"In two months more than 17,000 civilians were killed in a country with 2.5 million people," he explains. "During Vietnam, 55,000 Americans were killed over 12 years in a country of 225 million. What hap­pened will haunt the Lebanese for decades.'' 
Matta feels that other alternatives would have achieved the same result without the catastrophe and devasta-



tion. One way: "If Israel was not so 
stubborn about giving the Palestin­
ians some sort of state on land that 
they occupy but have not annexed 
(West Bank)." .. Another alternative 
he sees is thaf the Arab countries 
needed a clear policy about the Pales­
tinian issue and should have taken a 
proportionate responsibility for the 
problem. 
The Palestinian problem stems, in 
part, from a people without a home­
land, according to Matta and Fran­
cois. "Everyone condemns terrorism, 
especially when directed at civil­
ians," says Matta. "But we should 
not forget that if we were in their 
shoes-kicked out of our homes, our 
land, we would become desperate 
and resolve to act as we normally 
wouldn't. In not understanding their 
problem, the international commu­
nity has driven them to this course of 
action." Francois points out that the_ 
Lebanese, especially, have suffered 
from the PLO. 
"So many Lebanese have died from 
Palestinian attacks that every family 
has lost a friend, or relative, or ac­
quaintance to the war." He sees 
small consolation in his satisfaction 
at watching the PLO leave the 
country. 
SEPTEMBER, 1982 
Francois feels that the American media failed to present the Leba­nese who, caught in the middle of the struggle, left their fate in the hands of foreigners. He notes Yasser Ara­fat's statement that he would make "Beirut another Stalingrad" as an example of the indifference many foreign political leaders showed to­wards Lebanon and her people. Matta adds, "Arafat's statement sounded as if they (the PLO) had been involved· in building Beirut and as if the people dying were their people." He believes that the forces would -not have fought as fiercely and indiscriminately if they had been fighting on their land and losing their people. 
Like most Lebanese, Matta and Francois are optimistic about the fu­ture. They are encouraged by Bachir Gemayel, the country's new presi­dent, and see him as a strong and competent leader. "He is a tough man,'' says Francois. "He won't yield to subversive action from either side. The country is his first concern. In the Arab/Israeli conflict, he will do whatever is best for Lebanon." 
Matta also sees a strength in the Lebanese that will help them rebuild. "We have shown during the past 
eight years that we can rise above 
the destruction, catastrophe, . and 
death and show a strong will to sur­
vive, to rebuild, to live as free and 
proud people." 
"Both Christians and Muslims love 
Lebanon very much,'' says Francois. 
"Both are convinced we have to live 
together. Now it's in our hands. If 
we can't pull it together now, we 
don't deserve to be a country." 
Matta notes certain military, eco­nomic, and political problems that must be resolved. There are still three armies in Lebanon: the Is­raelis, Syrians, and Palestinians. "Each army alone is stronger than the whole Lebanese army. I don't see them leaving under their own free will, without pressure from the international community." The cap­ital, the center of economic growth, must be rebuilt. Also, the Lebanese need freedom from outside influences to rebuild their land. 
"We are tired of death, destruction of wars, and it's about time we are left alone to live in peace and harmony," claims Matta. He says that the major fault of the Lebanese in the past was that they were more occupied with achieving a high standard of living than with the wars nearby. The Lebanese thought that if they didn't interfere, they would be left in peace. "As it turns out, unless you are a wolf, you are eaten by the wolves." 
"Death has become a common thing in Lebanon," adds Francois. "I~ it's not them, it's us. Someone has to receive the bombs. Today it was their turn; yesterday was ours." And tomorrow? "Peace, I hope. Vve can't miss our big chance now." D 
\ _\ 
. _,\ 

Frank Bright is a senior French ma­
. jar from Northbrook, Illinois. This is his first contribution tn Scholastic. Beth Healy provided ·editorial assis­tance, 
Poetry 

by Prof. John Lyon · 
The rain falls gentle now, and soft. Below, 
The River's wrapped in evening. All its hills, 
And such desire as they are said to know 
From everlasting, time decocts, distills. 
You brought me through here young, my innocence 
Irresolute, to help me justly try 
Pathetic nature's iron elements 
Against the aches and urgings they defy. 
Now I am old, and you get older. 
Have brought eight sons and daughters each this way 

To try their tempers, lest they truth belie 
And iron, ache, and urge all one assay. 
When rains come, Father, in these later years, 
Soft, gentle may they fall, as evening nears. 
June 23, 1982 
(sent to father, 6-24-82) 
by Kathy McGarvey 
It aches in Autumn. The trees dance again, In swirling sighs To catch the lingering air. To remember in September Is to cry with the Fall. Shed a leaf, a tear, And die to the pain. It never stops; To heal is to cease To feel ... with you. Instead I live; In spite of, because of the hurt. Suffering lends the strength As it whispers the reason. We all need reasons; To breathe the Autumn air. It tastes like truth; As if it understands Why the world must turn Auburn for a while; Iri the pain of a memory. 
COespaill 
by Mary Powel Jabaley 
Vast and royal purple fading,. Bleeding lilacs fall off the cliffs. Soft and flowing, realms and realms of violet lilacs ­Violet vying violet, seamless sea of lilac Heedless fading violence dries the eyes of violet tears. Cliffs are crumbling, crashing, grieving, grasping, Groaning, growing, going, gone. 
Across the crowded common fields The white and lilac call is heard To come and die and fade away And care no more for sorrow gone. 
Across the fields of violet traces, Fading, falling, dying lilacs Groaning, rolling, roll away Erase the cliff in lilac violence Calling, fading, rolling, gone. 
SCHOLASTIC 


by Mary Mcinerney 

When I've been wandering 
from this huffing house, 
my comfort returns 
with that radiator "ping" with that unlit pilot light with that moody shower spray with that winter-mice attic with that dishwasher monsoon with that opossum garbage-play with that use-loose window lock 
with all your faces, so 
mellow in table glow. 
~---------------------------­
Culture Update 
ART 

at the Snite Museum of Art 
Through Sept. 26 -Women Artists: the lndi­ona-New York Connection, O'Shoughnessy Golleries 
Through Oct. l O-Annuol Foculty Exhibition, O'Shoughnessy Golleries 
Through Oct. l O-Sculptor's Drowings ­Prints, Drewing, ond Pho­togrophy Gollery 
LECTURES 
Sept. 14 -"Hellenic Sculplur!': Myth ond Enigma," Robert l.;oder, Prof. of Art, University of Notre Dome, 
12:l O p.m., Annen berg Auditorium 

Snite Gollery Hours: T-F, l O o.m.-4 p.m.; S-S, 1-4 p.m.; Closed M 
... at Saint Mary's College 
Sept. 17-Oct. 15 -lndiono Women's Coucus for Art, Moreou Gollery 
~ Sept. 17-Oct. 15 -Jim Porodis, Recent Work, Hemmes ond little Theotre Golleries 
MUSIC 

... at Notre Dame 
Sept. 12 -Michoel Devis, Violinist -4 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium 
(Anyone interested in odvertising events in the Culture Updote, pleose send informotion to Art Editor, Scholastic, Lofortune Student Center.) ,
L---------------------------­

Scholastic needs intelligent, creative, ambitious 

people to join our staff. 
That means YOU. 
Writers, Layout, 

Artists, and Photographers 
are invited to Scholastic's 
first organizational meeting 
on Sunday, Sept. 19, at 1,00 p.m. 
at the Scholastic Office, Third floor, 
LaFortune. 

We look forward to working with you 
Questions?? Call 239-7~19 or 239-4236. 

HOT DOGS AND CHEVROLET 
I loathed the Oakland A's. I started despising that raucous, flawlessly competent bunch in 1971, the year they first won the American League West title. It was nothing personal­just that my brother Pete im­mediately started rooting for them when we moved to Belmont, a suburb 22 miles outside of San Francisco. I had to oppose Pete, of course, and besides, I had unwisely chosen to back the team across the-bay, the San Francisco Giants. The Giants were pretty hot stuff back in 1971­they won the National League West -but like our family, they began to slide downhill. 
We had lived in Brooklyn until I was nine, until my father announced one day that he'd had enough of the East Coast -and snow. We would love the beaches of California, he said, and we'd get to meet my mom's brother, my Uncle Bob. It wasn't until much later that I understood the real reason for our journey. 
I remember peering down from the airplane window, and seeing the-bay -blue glass under a golden June sun It was beautiful. I polished my eyeglass lenses, and stared down, mesmerized. 
My Uncle Bob was waiting for us at the airport. He lifted Petey high into the air, and swept my mother off her feet in a great hug. "A.nd this. must be Alex. You're a big, strong one. I hear you can really buzz that fastball, eh?" He tousled my hair, said something to my father, and shook his hand. 
I thought we were going to take 101, and go straight to Belmont-I had a map spread on my knee show­ing the road to San Jose-but Uncle Bob turned right at the fork, and said something about my Aunt Sally expecting us to stay for a few days. I was disappointed. I couldn't wait to see our new home, but if we were going to be in San Francisco, maybe Dad would take us to a baseball game. 
San Francisco was ugly, I quickly decided. The entrance to the city was all industry and smog-there wasn't a beach to be seen. I mentioned this to nobody in particular. Mom turned in the front seat. "Don't be so quick to form an opinion, Alex," she said sharply. "Things aren't always what they seem." She appeared ready to add something, but closed her mouth abruptly. Uncle Bob spoke up lightly. "Your mom's right, Alex. Remember, no matter what, we've got the Giants; we've got Juan Marichal, Willie Mays, Gaylord Perry, and some great young play­ers." He proceeded to list all the great young players the Giants and San Francisco were so blessed with­Bobby Bonds, Garry Maddox, Gary Matthews, but I didn't have them, not yet, and suddenly I was homesick for my Mets and Pete's Yanke-es. 
It struck me, painfully, that I was in possession of a prodigious body of useless Met statistics, and that I would eventually transfer allegiance from Tom Seaver and Jerry Koosman. Pete would prob­ably be eager to relinquish rights to the Yankees. Their darkest days seemed to have begun with the birth of my little brother, a year and a half after the Met's birth, and mine, for that matter. 
Petey and I didn't always get along; for some reason, whenever I tried to toughen him up with some­wrestling he'd wind up sniffling and my father would march into our room and remind me that I was much bigger than Peter, that I was disturbing my mother, that I had to develop more regard for my mother. It seemed that I was always the 
. guilty party. 
This was actually the case, though I never saw it. But there was one thing Pete and I had in common. Baseball. It was the biggest thing in our lives. Baseball was the one thing that assuaged my worry that I was not doing enough to make sure Petey grew up a he-man. While it grad­ually dawned on me that Pete's masculinity was secure, baseball made us uneasy allies. 
by Ron Hyde .\ 
We were supposed to. be in bed at eight-thirty every school night, but when the Yankees or Mets were play­ing on the West Coast, at least one of us would have to wake up to catch the late scores. It was our secret­one area where we collaborated totally. Of course, there was one time when the Yankees got clobbered and I needled Pete so much that he secretly unplugged-the radio and changed the station. When I struggled into wakefulness that night I couldn't figure out what the heck had happened. I fixed the plug and kept waiting drowsily for the Chevy jingle: "We love baseball, hot dogs, apple pie, and Chevrolet'' that intro­duced the late scoreboard. Next morning when I found out the Mets had been shut out by Don Sutton, I could have strangled the brat. Somehow, I felt he had contributed to our defeat. 
Another time--well, we had an agreement: one wall of the room was his, to paste his Yankee pictures, the other wall was mine, for my Mets. The two neutral walls were for athletes we both agreed belonged in our Hall of Fame. One thing we were not supposed to do was cut out magazine pictures with somebody's player on the other side. So Pete deliberately cut out a picture of Bobby Murcer and pasted it on the wall-because he knew the page had a picture of Tom Seaver on the back. Afterwards I think Pete:;was sorry he did that-he could see that it cut me deeply. 
And now we were changing cities. It seemed so strange. I wondered what Mom thought about the move . Wasn't Dad happy with his job? I couldn't imagine a better job than engineer in a toy company.. 
Suddenly it was on our right. The harsh industries had given way to Candlestick Park, home of the Giants. Uncle Bob reached forward and the radio sprang to life with the full sparkling sound of a lively base­ball crowd. The announcer's voice crackled into the car: "We'll be back 
for the start of today's game right­
after-this." A moment of silence, 
then the familiar jingle rushed in to 
my heart. "We love baseball ... 
baseball and hot dogs, apple pie and 
Chevrolet." By the time Bobby Bonds 
finished circling the bases with his 
leadoff homerun, I was a Giant fan. 
All right. I was too quick to form opinions. Boy, the Giants were a bunch of heartbreakers. 1971 was a year for Giant dreams, but Pete's Oakland A's went on to become one of the most famous teams in baseball history. They all wore gaudy uniforms and bushy beards, and that surely had something to do with their magic, but it didn't hurt to have Reggie Jackson, Catfish Hunter, 
.Rollie Fingers, and Vida Blue. The 
first year I kept waiting for Blue to 
fizzle, but he won the Cy Young 
Award for Best Pitcher, and the 
MVP. 
It got worse in 1972. Reggie Jack­
son missed the World Series after 
he hurt his leg stealing home in the 
last playoff game, but the A's 
stunned the Cincinnati Reds in seven 
games, all the same. 
The next year was even more pain­
ful. The Mets somehow staggered 
into the Series and led 3-2 in games, 
but Jackson smashed two doubles 
and a long home run in the last two 
games to steal it for that hairy 
bunch. 
The 197 4 Series is one I remember 
really well because Dad had prom­
ised he'd take us to one of the games, 
but something came up and he 
couldn't make it. 'Pete was standing 
at the window, mumbling something 
about Dad being late and Mom 
collared him and made a speech 
about our dad working hard. Then 
she rushed away to their room. 
Missing the game didn't bother me 
too much. The A's didn't drag it out 
in 1974. Rollie Fingers and Blue 
Moon Odom warmed up by bashing 
heads in the clubhouse--then they 
teamed up to help Oakland thrash 
the Dodgers in five games. 
Still, life in Belmont was a dream. 
I started Carlmont High the year of 
the Dodger Series, and pretty soon I 
was leading the team in strikeouts. 
Pete's arm had strengthened, and he 
was developing into a fine shortstop. 
We practiced every evening before 
supper. Sometimes, when Dad. 
wasn't working late, he'd hit ground­
ers to Pete or lJ.elp me with my 
curve ball. 
The way things were going, I 
figured it wouldn't be long before I 
was on the mound for the Giants. 
While Oakland was busy winning 
awards and world championships, 
SEPTEMBER, 1982 
the Giants were busy trading away their great players. Gaylord Perry won the Cy Young Award-for Cleveland in 1972. We traded Bobby Bonds to the hated Yankees. Garry Maddox won Gold Gloves patrolling center field for the Phillies. It was horrible. 
But they were my team. And, like any good fan, I blinded myself to the truth, and clung to hopes that we'd return to the glory of 1971. I ignored the cracks that widened into gaping chasms as the Giants crumbled. Oh, they kept the pretense of being a major league ballclub. Every time they'd win three or four games in a row my heart would soar, but then they'd slump. Again. 
The torture got easier to bear in 1976 when Pete's A's started having their own troubles. They lost Catfish Hunter after he won the Cy Young Award in 1974. That was the be­ginning of the free agent system, with players free to dissolve ties and make better deals with other teams. At that time it reminded me of kids growing up and leaving home. By 1976, having traded Jackson, the A's were limping, and misery had company. They managed to make a run for the division title--they had guts all right, fighting to save the final year. After that it was all over. The team was ripped apart. Yeah, free agency-that's how we lost Gary Matthews, but I was getting used to that sort of thing, I thought. 
Pete had a hard time, though. The A's collapsed in 1977, with only Vida Blue left to suffer through the dark days of the dynasty's end. They kept finding new ways to lose games for Blue, and Petey would get so mad he'd go into the living room and throw tennis balls against the wall. Invariably, Mom would come flying out of the kitchen, but he'd do it 
cont'd on page 21 


Gallery 


Art: A Game or a Tool? 
Art, in whatever ancient or modern culture, is an embodiment of universal human ideas and feelings in concrete symbols. Sometimes an artist can stress his concern with the formal arrangements of symbols, and sometimes he can stress his concern with the ideas. However, art can be led to dissolution through both extremes if that stress in form or content becomes completely dominant. For this reason, it has been amazing for me to find so widely spread among art students the idea that art is nothing but the produc­tion of a pleasant visual experience and that "having fun" making art justifies this activity. 
Almost every time that someone expresses an opinion about a work of art, the words "neat," "nice," or "cute" are consistently heard. No more. I always ·remain with a strong feeling of unfulfillment when I hear these opinions. I do not believe that art is just a visual game. I believe it is a social act, a catalytic action towards human liberation. So, for me, to speak about art means 
to speak about mankind, about life, about human experience. 
Art goes further than any economic or political in­terest. Standing aside from the contingent struggles of its time, it leads us to recognize ourselves in our fellow men. It reminds us that the conflicts of humanity are our own conflicts and that each man is our brother. The sorrows of war are the same in the Middle East or in Latin America, starvation is the same in Africa or Asia, death is the same here or there, and love is the same all over the world. 
With my work I want to build links which spiritually gather men who suffer the same in:justices, who feel the same joys and sadness, who have the same longings and hopes. I want to make of my work a communion of awareness and solidarity. I wish it to be good enough someday to fulfill that role. O 
Juan Carrasco 








i 
! ' 
i 
Pen and Ink with Tempera, · · 1982
. 14½ in. x 10 m., 

15 

Having survived a disheartening 5-6 season, head football coach Gerry Faust views the 1982 season with guarded optimism. His players are essentially the same as last year's (19 of 22 starters return), but changes in positions, coaching staff, and training program have given the Irish a new look this fall. 
The '82 squad is faster than before, thanks to position changes that take advantage of certain players' speed. Dave Duerson has moved from strong safety to free safety, Mark Zavagnin occupies Bob Crable's va­cated middle linebacker slot, and Tim Marshall moves to middle guard from defensive end, all making for a more mobile defense. On the offen­sive line, a flip-flop blocking scheme should make the front line quicker and more consistent. In addition, speedy freshman backs have im­proved the team's quickness. 
The aerial attack again features 
quarterback Blair Kiel. Kiel's passes 
have prime targets in tight end Tony 
Hunter and flanker Joe Howard. The 
Irish display a much-improved pass­
ing game with the addition of Ron 
Hudson from UCLA as quarterback 
and receiver coach. Other newcomers 
to the coaching staff include head 
offensive line coach Carl Selmer from 
Miami of Florida and defensive line 
coach Jay Robertson from Wiscon­
sin. 
The football team is also bigger 
and stronger this year due to the im­
plementation of a mandatory weight­
lifting program for the players last 
spring. The added strength should 
alleviate some of the problems the 
Irish had in the trenches last year. 
While these changes should pro­
duce an improved football team, an 
improved team does not guarantee 
an improved record. Notre Dame 
faces another formidable schedule 
that includes five teams who finished 
in the Associated Press top 15 last 
year: Bluebonnet Bowl victor Mich­
igan, Sugar Bowl champion Pitts­
burgh, Fiesta Bowl winner Penn 
State, traditional menace Southern 
Cal, and explosive Miami of Florida. 
Faust admits he learned a great 
deal in his first year of coaching at 
the college level. "The toughest part 
is being in a new situation," laments 
the ex-Moeller High School coach. 
"It was a transition period ... get­
ting used to the way things are done 
here, getting to know the players, 
and them getting to know me." 
Half of the squad was recruited by 
Dan Devine and has had to adjust to 
a new coach. Faust feels the players 
are now adapting to his philosophy 
~' 

t, }, 
;t-·. . 
·'.\.: 
,~_....."""".._._..:.:...L.~·· ·: 


FOOTBALL '82 Discipline & Desire 
by Daphne Baille and Brian Couch 
and approach to football. "The se­niors are now taking up the feeling of what we're trying to do philo­sophically. We're grouping closer to­
'gether. Last year they were used to a different person and different philosophy. It's not a question of which approach is right and which is wrong -we're just different. Coach Devine was a very successful person. I hope someday that we can match what he's done. But I have to be myself -I am different." 
Faust is a firm believer in what a philosophy can do for athletes. "We want to make a great football team, but we also want to make great people out of these young men," he emphasizes. "Last year was a dismal year and it upsets me because we let a lot of people down. However, we got through to the kids as far as telling them what's really important in life." 
The pressure at Notre Dame has often shortened coaches' careers, but Faust has yet to experience that threatening feeling. "Everybody has been just great," praises Faust. "This has been the greatest yectr and a half of my life. Last season \vas the first major adversity I'd faced in my life, and I still love it here. That says a lot about Notre Dame." 
Faust is obviously pleased with the environment at Notre Dame. He emphasizes that fans at the games add tremendously to the Notre Dame mystique. "Last year I'd look up into the stands and students would be going crazy, but the rest of the fans more or less just sat and clapped. We've got to have that enthusiasm throughout the stadium, not just in the student sections. That inspires the football team. Being treated first-
SCHOLASTIC 

class out there psyches them up." 
The emotional factor definitely contributes to a team's success. This year the Irish meet several oppo­nents who defeated them last year. "If there isn't incentive from that," assures Faust, "then we may as well hang it up. Except for last year I've never been on a losing team as a starter or as a coach, and I've found out that it's a lot more fun winning than losing!" 
In the world of optimists, Faust leads the pack. Last year people may has misinterpreted his optimism to be a 12-0 season, but this year he explains that the goal is to take one game at a time. "We have a very tough schedule," reminds the head mentor. "We have to go out and try to win each game as it comes. I told the players that this is their foot­ball team, that they've got to go out and win it for themselves. It's a lot more intense out in practice now." 
Senior tri-captain Phil Carter agrees. "I think the players realize now that we have to go out there and 
r-------------------------,
! 1982 
I 

: NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
I 

l l 
I  
:Date  Opponent  Time  
:sept.  18  MICHIGAN  8:00  EST  
:sept.  25  PURDUE  1:30  EST  
:oct.  2  Michigan State  1:00  EDT  
:Oct.  9  MIAMI  1:30  EST  
I•Oct.  16  ARIZONA  1:30  EST  
I  
:oct.  23  Oregon  1:00  PDT  
:oct.  30  Navy  1:30  EDT  
lNov.  6  Pittsburgh  1:30  EST  
:Nov.  13  PENN STATE  1:30  EST  
lNov.  20  Air Force  1:00  MST  
I1Nov.  27  USC  12:50  PST 1  
I  I  
I  I  

Home games in boldface type. 
I I I I 
: All times subject to change. : 
L-------------------------~ 
win the games through our own work. Last year we relied on Coach Faust's reputation. The coaches gave us the game plan but we didn't ex­ecute it to our best potential." The 5'10" tailback sees more team spirit on the field as well. "We're a lot more unified. We believe that as a team we have to go out there and perform together," explains Carter. 
Coach Faust is insuring his team will have the discipline and intensity needed to compete. He has been much tougher on the gridders this year, which is more akin to the way he coached at Cincinnati Moeller. After coaching successfully at the high school level for 18 years, Faust may not have known what to expect at the university level. "I probably expected too much from the players," reflects Faust. "They're a couple of years older but the same things still work. I was pretty doggone tough on them at Moeller. When I want something done I want it done. I don't expect questions because I 
(cont. on page 22) 


SEPTEMBER, 1982 

And finally, the beer is flowing. Much to the relief of Kevin Woods, the newest Senior Bar manager. "I've been coming back to campus all summer to check the progress of the new building, knowing that when everyone came back the first thing they would say to me would be, 'When is the bar opening?' I wanted to have it open when everyone came back . . . if just to squelch all the 
rumors." · 
And certainly rumors were flying, mostly because first reactions to~ wards the campus' latest renovation were mixed. Students missed the 
1-charm of the older building, the bar 
1 that had been a senior hangout for fifteen years. They described the newI one as looking like anything from a Zayre's department store to the credit union, a warehouse, a library, or even a firehouse. Still, everyone wanted to get inside. Maybe it had something to do with the feelings one senior expressed, "Yeh, it looks like a firehouse. But I'll be there opening night-every firehouse I know of always has a beer on tap!" But for a lot of domers the _sus­pense was more than that. They were curious mainly because not only did the new bar look a lot different from the decrepit, but dearly •loved, old bar, but it was' rumored to really be different. 
And it is. After unexpected and frustrating delays with the installa­tion of a cooler, the 650,000-dollar building is finally open for inspec­tion. It features three lounges of varying sizes and an outdoor beer garden, the combined social space of which is three times bigger than that of the old bar. 
Everywhere there is the mark of student input. "Surprisingly we had a lot of influence," says Kevin. "The administration really listened; they literally moved walls for me. The whole building is a lot of student ideas -they welcomed our input." 
And the result? What Kevin calls "a normal bar atmosphere where you can sit down and enjoy people rather than rubbing elbows. You can't sit down and relax like this at any other bar in this area." 
The new elements are apparent. Two dance floors, as-well as stages and a disc jockey booth, give seniors the opportunity to do more than just sweat. There is also a separate game room with its video attractions and pool tables and a new conversation pit. Future plans include a big-screen television. 
by Teri Schindler 

The interior of the bar is divided into three sections labeled the red bar, the oak bar, and the blue bar until a Senior Bar-sponsored contest can come up with more imaginative names. The red and blue areas fea­ture dance floors and stages, but everywhere there are places to sit­especially in the oak section where 
rustic wooden booths line the walls. Food-sales-type munchies are on sale to complement the beverages. 
And yet, for as much as it does not look il.ike its infamous predecessor, the new bar has recycled a lot of ma­terials from the original bar. The old,· much-jumped-over fence now lines the ground of the beer _garden like a boardwalk. Refinished old bar tables and stools are ah over the interior. The staff is also currently searching for the stolen old bar sign. And, as an extra historical bonus, several of the seats, both inside and out, were taken from the rows of bleachers in •the old field house. So, for as "new" as it looks, the tradi­tions continue. 
Seniors were a part of making the bar what it is from the beginning. The bar staff came back to school ten days early in August to help where. they could. They did all of the land­scaping, even deciding to move the 
18 
beer garden in order to encompass more trees; they refinished the field house chairs, lugged old bar ma­terials around, and built the outdoor benches. Jeff Kolb us, one of the bar­tenders, noted, "Before, when we first got here, it was just a building. But we've worked so hard landscap­ing and moving things around that now it's our bar." 
It almost wasn't. The administra­tion had been considering turning the bar over to a professional manager, questioning the ability of the seniors to restrict the bar's patronage to people over 21. They compromised with the students, agreeing to allow the role of a student _manager, but insisting upon having security in the building during operating hours. Kevin feels they made the right de­cision. "It would take on a whole different character with a profes­sional manager. The kids wouldn't feel it was theirs, and every year the bar takes on a different character be­cause it's a different group of seniors running it. A professional manager would change all that." Still he feels a lot of pressure to make it a success­ful year. "I'm really excited and yet scared. It's a huge and new responsi­bility. They're giving me a ¾ of a million dollar building to run. There's a lot of pressure on us to do a really good job or they'll probably get a professional manager next year. · We're setting a precedent for all of the future classes." 
The administration's hesitation about a student manager is obvious. Aside from the security guards, they have now implemented a hundred­dollar fine for "hopping the fence" or letting a friend in the back door. "We have to respect the law," observed Dean Roemer. "We don't want to lose our license because that would be a terrible loss for next year's class. We'll be real tight this year and en­dorse a tough policy, but it's just to protect the students." 

Still, Roemer agrees with· the senior who says, "It's much more than a drinking place." Roemer con­siders it "A positive way of looking at alcohol. I want to emphasize the guy-girl thing. In the past Senior Bar has been a great place for them to meet-no question it's been the best place on campus. The new bar makes that place even better." 
There is another area of pressure for the senior staff this year, and it involves reaping the profits. The ad­ministration is leasing the building to the Senior Bar-Alumni Club as­sociation for $53,000. Last year's record-breaking revenue was still only $41,000. But staff members hope the difference won't be hard to make up with all of the new attrac­tions. 
Both the administration and the new staff are excited about the new Sunday night activities which involve opening the building to the under­classmen for food, non-alcoholic bev­

erages, and dancing from seven to ten. It is a Hesburgh suggestion, one attempt to improve the social situa­tion on campus by enabling the stu­dents to mingle in a decent social at­mosphere. Kevin is happy that Sun­day nights at Senior Bar are dedi­cated to the underclassmen. "It's unfair to limit the facility to one class. I'm glad to be able to open it up to everyone." And underclassmen seem excited. One junior noted, "It's excellent. A great opportunity to ex­perience Senior Bar -and it gives us something to look forward to." 
As it stands, Monday and Tuesday nights at the new bar are club nights, and the facility can be reserved by campus groups for social functions. Wednesday through Saturday the bar caters to the class for which it has been named -the seniors, and Sun­day nights, when Indiana law pro­hibits the sale of alcohol, the bar 
(cont. on page 22) 

SEPTEMBER, 1982 

Kickballs; Faith; and ''Busy Work'' 
When I read that I was supposed even got the chance to say hello, let to jot . down in my journal the ex-alone give any demonstrations about pectations and goals I had for my the joy of the gospel. I began to m.iss Summer Service Project, I was some-the friendly confines of the N.D. what at a loss. I didn't have any. I campus. "It's not like N.D. where sought only to learn while trying to even. the grumpy 8:00 calculus stu­brighten the days of those around dent will say hello on his way to me. My two assets, as I saw them, class," I wrote one of my friends. were poise and faith; I decided I "I was just beginning to find some wouldn't be afraid to talk to· the consolation in the message -that raw, people I passed on the street -the scriptural Christianity was giving "bag ladies" and the bums that are me. Now I'm in a place, separated usually ignored. I thought I would from my worshipping community, be their friend even if I couldn't give apart from my friends . . . and sud­them money or a place to stay. And I denly God's presence seems not so was sure that somewhere along the close." line I would show these people the I soon found• that the sense of se­power of the gospel to change lives, curity that my faith seemed to have i£ only by showing them how much given me only weeks ago wasn't strength and peace and joy it there. Often people would approach brought me. me on the street and beg for a quar-
These thoughts came at a time ter for a cup of coffee. Instead of when God's presence seemed very buying them a cup and sitting down real to me. In the last weeks of the and talking about how God could school year and the few weeks at change their lives, I began to stare home before I began my SSP, I took at the ~idewalk and pass by quickly, time out nearly every day for Bible pretendmg not to hear them. One study. I found dorm liturgies a true day a prostitute approached me and experience of community, a source of said, "Hey there, wanna talk?" In­support. Aod I had recently decided stead of surprising her and talking to change my major to theology, to about things other than what she had make lay ministry my career. The in mind, I passed by quickly, flustered SSP seemed like the perfect oppor-and uncomfortable. "What happened tunity -to "get my feet wet," to see to the poise and the faith I was going what it was really like to work full to show?'' I thought to myself. time in some sort of "social con-I also had a hard time finding any cerns" position. I thought I was in sense of "ministry" in my project. r an ideal position to integrate all the spent the first week stuffing, em­things I was reading and feeling bossing, addressing, sealing and about being a Christian. stamping four thousand invitations 
I soon discovered that even my to a fund-raising cocktail party ­modest aims had been somewhat boring, tedious work tempered only idealistic. The first morning of my by the novelty of working with new project, I left the house where I was (and I might add, nice) people. The staying and walked toward the bus main part of my project was being a stop, ready to greet all those I passed teacher's aid for a tutoring program with a friendly smile and warm hello. for fifth-and sixth-graders. I didn't I discovered that people were focused do much more than correct home­too much inward to accept even that. work papers and help kids with in­No one even looked up; they all dividual problems from their work­stared at the ~idewalk when passing sheets. When the school day rolled me, when passmg each other. I never around to recreation time, my posi­
tion as kickball referee earned me 
only cries of "cheater -you're try­
ing for THEM...." 
by Dan Keusal 

"This isn't what an SSP is sup­posed to be like," I kept writing in my journal. "There's no talk of Jesus or social justice, no changing of lives. I'm not even feeding hungry people or giving shelter to the homeless or some other such stereotypical helping function." 
I kept up with the Bible study and wrote lots of letters, but I couldn't keap from getting discourage('!. A friend summed up l!!Y feelings well when he wrote me: "At the moment, you may be wondering why the hell you are piling desks and doing what I would call 'busy work' wheri you were really · supposed to be dynam­ically involved in ministry in the heart of the nation's capital." 
I did have one experience that ap­proached "dynamic ministry," the kind of experience that journal en­tries are made of. A mute, old black man with a bandaged head sat down at my table in a McDonald's one night to try and communicate to me that he needed someone to help him order. I did figure out what he wanted and I did go up to the counter 
(cont. on page 22) 
... "• · 

Dan Keusal is a senior Theology m.a­jor from Gaithersburg, Maryland. 
Hot Dogs ... 
(cont'd, from page 13) 
anyway. I remember one time when Blue was about to be shut out again -that happened frequently that year -and Pete was doing his tennis ball act. He must have been practicing to throw from the shortstop hole or something. Mom was there almost before the crash. When I reached the door she was kneeling, and picking up theshattered glass quietly. The charcoal drawings she had done of Pete and me lay scattered on the floor, and I remember noticing that Mom had cut her hand and it was bleeding. 
There was much I didn't under­stand about my mom. She was the only one who seemed even vaguely discontented in Belmont. I assumed it was because she missed New York -our Saturday visits to the museum when she seemed transformed-I didn't know then that the change was to her real self, or that she had been an art student. before she met my father, or that housewife was just a role she played with con­summate skill. 
I didn't understand anything, not even after that Thursday afternoon in 1977. Pete and I heard the tele­phone; ringing harshly inside the house, and then her voice, tight with anger, calling from the garage. We protested that we couldn't go any­where because we had to practice-­that Dad would be home soon-but she pushed us into the car and gunned the motor. 
"Art is just as important as base­ball," she said vaguely. We drove all the way to The City, to the DeYoung Museum. I couldn't figure it out. We had never gone to a museum in the middle of the week. It was closed. We sat there for a while, Mom's forehead resting on the steering wheel. I could see that her cheeks were moist. 
We drove to Uncle Bob's. I sent Petey outside and tried to listen to the conversation in the other room. Mom's voice. Calm. She had to stop using art, the past, as a crutch. It was over. They were speaking in muted tones, but every now and then a word or phrase would filter through the fearful drone. Growing up. Cheated. Get away. The Boys. Uncle Bob was saying something about a job. I was scared, but I wanted to rush in and tell Mom that 
we wouldn't mind if she got a job, 
that we'd be neater, wash dishes. 
We spent the night at Uncle Bob's and drove home the next afternoon. I was glad to miss the day of school. Summer vacations were only a couple of weeks away, but there was always something deliciously guilty about missing school when you were supposed to be in classes. Real vaca­tions just weren't the same. 
Pete and I spent the end of that summer at camp. Dad drove us to the station in San Francisco, and we took the bus up to Yosemite. It was wonderful-our 'last great summer. Petey was put in a different group, but everyone was talking about what a great shortstop my little brother was. We both won baseball awards. Dad would be proud. 
And then we were back home, all set for the final days of the baseball season-determined to root, as if sheer force of belief could salvage the season, could conjure up the past. 
There were no signs to prepare us for the divorce. It came in the spring of 1978 as a bolt from the blue; a sudden irrevocable diagnosis. Pete and I woke up to hear the end. 
"I can't take it any more." "Honey, she doesn't mean any­thing-I swear it-" 
"I'm sorry." There was a duH ache in Mom's voice. "I can't live with it any more, George. No more. I tried -I thought I could-but you­coming here-you haven't changed." She choked. 
"Don't cry, please." 
_"I'll cry, Goddamn you." 
"Please. For the sake of the boys. 
I swear it won't happen again." 
She laughed. A harsh, ghastly sound. ·"Swear! That's what you said when we left New York. I believed you. For the boys, you said. Goddamn you, George. I gave up everything for you. I didn't mind. I enjoyed being afhome for the boys, but the least you-oh God!" 
"Honey, I swear-I'll break it off. I won't see her again. You and the boys are everything to me." 
"George, stop! She isn't the first. I've known about the others, too. Yes, I've known-but there was no other place left for us to go. It's over, George, over." · "What about the boys? Think 
about them-" 
"I do, George. It's all I've thought 
about. I've done my best to save their 
childhood, to spare them-oh God. 
You can think of a good explanation, 
George. You're good at that. Just 
don't mention beaches or snow. You 
used that in New York." 
I lay frozen. The sound of Petey sobbing into his pillow came from far, far away. In that moment I hated them both. I hated my father for hurting my mother and Pete. And I hated my mother for not giv­ing Dad one last chance. 
It seemed a long time later when I realized that they were quiet. For some reason it occurred to me that if I turned the radio on I could 
hear the spring training scores on the late edition of Sports Page. That night, a week before the season started, when our lives collapsed without warning, Pete and I found out that his Vida Blue had been traded to my San Francisco Giants. 
They started to play the Chevy jingle then, but I moved the dial away from KFSO, and turned the radio off. Afterwards, in trying to explain things to Pete, I came to my own understanding of the hurt my mother felt; I came to see her sense of injustice. I told Pete it was like the Giants having to tolerate a cast­off left-hander like Vida Blue-who couldn't even get the ball over the plate. And I was happy to see that bas~ball could still get him excited.[l 
Ron Hyde of Belize City, Belize, ­graduated from Notre Dame last May with a BA in American Studies. 
~ 
SEPTEMBER, 1982 
Football '82­
Senior Ear ...
Kickball ... 
cont'd from page 17(cont'd from page 19)(cont'd from page 20) 
opens its doors to the other ¾ of the 
wouldn't have asked them to do McNuggets. I'll never forget the feel­
with him and order his Chicken 
Notre Dame student population. The 
something if I hadn't thought it out ing of gratitude he conveyed with 
future may include lunchtime open­
in the first place." his smile and handshake. 
ings as well. And football weekends? 
"It wasn't easy going at all last Well, they feature alumni. 
year," emphasizes Faust, "butBut I still finished my SSP feeling 
Yes, even those who have left the 
through my optimism the playerslike I had missed something, like I may have felt they could just go
shadow of the dome are excited.
hadn't "served" and "experienced" 
But, older, and more mature, they 
through the motions. Now I'm lay­all I expected to . . . which is odd 
bring a measure of wisdom to all the 
ing it right on the line. I love thesewhen you recall that I had no ex­
hype. One recent graduate remarked 
kids but I expect them to meet mepectations. Compassion, a new book 
he was looking forward to seeing the 
half way. And they will -it justby Henri Nouwen, Doug Morrisson, 
new bar Michigan weekend: "I think 
takes time."
and Notre Dame's Don McNeill has a 
it will be a different atmosphere. 
"It's a whole different atmospherechapter entitled "Displac~ment" 

But in the end, you come to Senior 
now. We'll be a better football team,which discusses Jesus' call to "Leave 
Bar for the people and not the place;" 
although that doesn't necessarily
your father and mother ... let the 
mean we'll have a better record be­dead bury the dead . . . keep your 
. 

cause of our tough schedule," con­
Teri Schindler is a senior English ma­
hand to the plow and do not look cludes Faust. "We want to have a
jor from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
back ... sell what you own, give the great year for ourselves and for the money to the poor, and come follow students here because they deserveme." In that chapter it says that it. They've been great to our play­displacement does not necessarily ers, my family and the coaches."
involve moving from one place to Carter agrees that the emotional
..;-..C-­
,, ,,, . 
{ ~

another; it is rather something to be desire to recapture the glory of oldrecognized in the midst of the lives is ·one of tne biggest driving forces. 
we are living: "We may be dreaming "We want to regain our respect," heof great acts of displacement while insists. "We want to bring back thatfailing to notice in the displacements Notre Dame fever and tradition thatof our own lives the first indications we lost last year." D
. -~ ,;.

of God's presence." 
£ "( :. 
. ,.. ;;JU .

I'm still wondering if I missed 
Daphne Baille is a senior American 
God's presence this summer because 
Studies major from Grand Blanc, 
I was doing such "dreaming" or if I 
Michigan.
just happened to stumble on a situa­
~~tfljo@ts 

Brian Couch is a sophomore Engi­neering major from Chico, Califor­
tion that didn't have much to offer 
me. D 
f~)~~ 

nia. This is his first contribution to
~,,J.... LJ..;.i 

Scholastic. 
Ever wonder what's happening back home? Well believe it or not, there are people back home wh~ would like to know how life is treating you. Let them in on the ideas, events, and people that are Notre Dame. Give them a subscription to Scholastic and they can see for themselves what is at the heart of Notre Dame life. 
1 , 
I Scholastic II LaFortune Student Center I I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 I 
I I
I Please send ............ years of Scholas.tic I I at $7.00 per year to: I
I I I I I Name I
I ························································ I I I I Address .................................................... I 
I I 
I City ............................................................ I 
I I 
j State .................................. Zip................ I 
~--------------------------~ 
SCHOLASTIC 
I• 
Center for Social Concerns 
trormerly the WNDU building). 

COME AND SEE WHAT WE HA VE TO OFFER 
I. Service/Learning 

A. On-Compus1Big Brothers/Bill Sisters, Council for the Retarded Neighborhood Study Help Pro!lrom, Hotline 
Alph11 Phi Omega, Circle K Amnesty Intcrnotional, CILA, Hun!lcr Coalition 
B. Off-Compus1Appolochion Seminar, Summer Service Projects Holy Cross Associates 
II. Social Awareness 

A. On-Campus: Socio! Concerns Film Series University Committee on Education for Justice 
B. Off-Campus: Urban Plun!lc, Socio! Concerns Seminar Program in ·Global Community Univcrsidod Ibcroomcricono 
=--------------------------------------­
¦ Play the Kick-Off Quiz. Prizes awarded each night. 
11 Pep Rally daily (11:30-7 p.m.). Special fun in the Pub. 
Cheer your favorite teams to victory in the week's top TV football games. 
Across From North Village Mall 52554 U.S. 31 North 
r I I l Your Complete 
HOME IMPROVEMENT CENTER 
• 
P::i.nclin~ • Paint 

• Tuols


• 
I.umber 

• 
W::1llpapcr • She-kin~ 



• Hardw;irc 
• EIC'nrica.1 Pruducls

• S1ai11 Over 5000 Items in Stock Delivery Ser.ice Av.1ilable 

BIGCLUMBER 
115 DIXIEWA Y 1'o'ORTII-ROSF.LAND (ButlMU 31 Nonh) Just nonh ol lh• c•111pus PIIOSE 172-6500 

SEPTEMBER, 1982 
... 
-The Last Word------­
bv Beth Healy 

Poor September. Every year I oscillate between love and hate for these thirty days. Such sentiments date to the first days when I pain­fully squeezed brown, bare feet into new school shoes. I, like Huck Finn, could never appreciate the exchange of our elaborate summer forts and wild blackberries -huckleberries now being extinct -for chalkboards and spelling books. Perhaps this ex­plains, in part, why I am such a hor­rid speller. 
Still, each September always · brought with it a surge of excite­ment: new friends, new teachers, new endeavors, new escapades. After all, managing a lemonade stand for an afternoon did become rather dull. Following lazy, summer days, I've always enjoyed the anxious anticipa­tion of the new school year. 
As a senior, September 1982 marks the end of ·an era, and probably the widest ·swing of my love/hate pen­dulum to date. Never again will I be a schoolgirl in September. Sigh. But now is not time for nostalgia. 
While I will miss the peace of this campus in the summer, I readily ad­mit that the high energy of the re­turning masses electrifies this place. After being scattered all across the globe (Berlin, Lebanon, California, Oregon, and, for us lucky ones, South Bend, Indiana), we return to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's refreshed and ready to wrap on our common cloak of "student." Yet, as evidenced by the 
..,
ortot 
• 
Fettuccini • Lasagna

• 
Veal Parmigiana 


• Pizza • Pastas 
LUNCH • DINNER • CARRY OUT 
Wines & Cocktails 
18455 South Bend Avenue 
1mile east of Notre Dame 
277-0578 Closed SuJ'!.•Mon. 

1R.e.a.eruati.on.a 
J\..c.c.e .t.eb 

24 

articles in this issue, our individual personalities, special experiences, and backgrounds enable us to add depth and dimension to our lives and this community. So I gladly trade my waitress pad for the Complete Works of Shakespeare, and kite flying for soaring thought. The time has come to "get on with it." 
Scholastic 1982-'83 has arrived in all its splendor, glory, and occasional blunder. (Sound the trumpet, clang the cymbal, crank up the stereo!) 
tional hour alone in this office, I re­joice at the enthusiastic return of the Editorial Board. As with any new reign, we have made some exciting changes. 
We will publish Scholastic twelve times this year instead of eight. it is our attempt to keep up reader awareness and interest. Also, I want to extend a grateful welcome to the 250 Notre Dame parents who sup­ported our first subscription drive. We are using a new layout pro­cedure designed to give the staff more creative freedom with maga­zine pages. Most importaritiy, the Scholastic editors have devised an innovative and thought-provoking list of articles and issues for publi­cation. We welcome and encourage all interested students to join our staff. 
It will be a good year. I am sin­cerely grateful for the energy, talent, and support of the editors and staff for helping me pull off this first is­sue. And who says miracles don't exist? 
Well looking back on the past few paragraphs, I guess September isn't that bad after all. Besides, in a few months summer forts lie buried in snow anyway. D 
After passing many an organiza-,------------------. 
Coming Next Issue ... 
-i 
r
"" 
Cl en "'~
"1-i
Z> :z: 00 -i z 


. "' "' 

z:u N Scholastic will take a look at 
. 0 ... 

I>,> \" financing a college educa­
0) 0 
a, N "' 

~ ca "'., tion, graduate school, and . "'I I the job market facing this ·---------·-------~ year's graduates. 


_Now With
Sir R· 
,,, 1chan''s 
ron, left t . U 
o right) 
SoeA1 
Loura ;tthews
Soe p osore Poot orPort 

formerly ofC.a Jones (tvhich • o111111andPerti is out of bu • or111anceTh siness)
• R.i h ey Joi11 
• c Codc1,
Soe o· ens &

277-0734 •ckerson 
, 
~ir 1Richar s 
NEW HOURS• PERSONAL/ZED HAIR DESIGNS Monda th F . • for men and women 
Y ru riday 9-8 Visit Our Location at 417 Dixieway North Saturday 8-3 in Roseland across from Wendy's 

----------------------------------------, 

~ 
/ 8E)r)~' 
&~& a(S~ 
Fresh and Salt Water Fish Live Aquarium Plants Aquariums and Supplies Hamsters Many Birds to Guinea Pigs Choose From 
415 Dixieway North Hours: 11 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Across from Wendy's) Mon.-Sat. 277-4862 
-----------------------------------------J 


'iS! 
··~ 
il i 

L "ON J!WJ9d 'BU'B! PU) •aw-ea 9JJON 
0 IV d 30\f.lSOd ·s·n "080 .ll:lOl:ld-NON 

I! 
___ : 

