The Notre Dame
4featu Rut IMaect
to
1
(jV-
i-Sif $$ &
*	'xj' "	■' 'f \ ■y’"" Hedy Lamarr in her famous role as Delilah
A	s	'' ' '' ;	from Cecil B. DeMille’sTechnicolor masterpiece,
......... .X.v.	A	__' >> “Samson and Delilah”—a Paramount picture.
COPR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
Lucky Strike...so round, so firm, so fully packed-------------------------------------so free and easy on the draw


tetqoM, awnTASTTand THROAT he the Judge/
There’s never a rough puff in a Lucky

HEDY LAMARR says:
good cigarette is like a good movie—always enjoyable. That’s why it’s Luckies for me”
You’re right, Hedy... you can always count on Luckies to give you the real smoothness and deep-down smoking enjoyment you want.
And, smokers, you can depend on Luckies because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco—ripe, light, naturally mild tobacco that’s always smooth. Yes, let your own taste and throat be the judge. Find out for yourself—get a carton of Luckies today!
2
The Scholastic
Correction, Please
Editor:
I have read your interesting article concerning the Ladies of Notre Dame. Few people know the origin of this organization. It did not simply grow G out of a tradition. It was definitely promoted and organized by Mrs. Rol-lison and Mrs. Rufus Rausch.
I am giving you this information simply for the purpose of keeping the record straight, so to speak.
W. D. Rollison
WND Still Independent
Editor:
In the Feb. 24 issue of the Journalist, G the following bit of news appeared:
“ . . . The Radio Workshop has taken over direction of WND.”
Although the Journalist circulation is limited largely to the faculty, this item has caused widespread comment, inquiry, discussion, etc. around the campus. We would like to take this opportunity to point out that the Radio Workshop has not taken over the direction of WND.
What actually happened was that Mr. Jerome Fallon of the Department of Speech and head of the Radio Workshop, was named faculty moderator of WND, and it is understood that the Radio Workshop will use the facilities of the station in their work, and that their shows will be added to WND’s program schedule.
John McGoldrick Publicity Director Radio Station WND
Foe, Friend and Kelleghan
Editor:
I wish to congratulate you for publishing Tom Kelleghan’s “What’s Happened to the Scholastic?”
I was delighted to find such thoughts and sentiments of indignation rising from the mind and heart of a student. The Scholastic, at least till the close of Rev. John W. Cavanaugh’s administration, expressed the literary tradition of Notre Dame. Father Hudson, Maurice F. Egan, C. W. Stoddard, Austin O’Malley, and Father Cavanaugh himself were outstanding literary men. In their days the Scholastic printed the best poems, essays, and stories written by the students of Notre Dame. It reflected the highest life of the school — Notre Dame intellectual life at its best. When a student received back from his professor a poem, essay or story with Scholastic written on' it in
red ink, he felt he had been admitted into the society of the elite. The degradation to which the journalists have subjected the Scholastic by smart criticism of worthy objects and attempts to glorify the modern, cheap, and ephemeral must sadden all who knew the Scholastic in its better days.
Mr. Kelleghan has rendered a great service. It is good to behold an indignant heart breaking over- something worthwhile. He calls attention to a fundamental law of culture: thinking is determined by its object. If journalists write of nothing but trifles, they are triflers, no matter how clever they think they are.
The function of the Scholastic is not to serve the Department of Journalism. It is, or should be, a synthesizing agent. Now more than ever we need such an influence because everything has become departmentalized at Notre Dame. The Scholastic should be a catalyzer for all departments and colleges, exhibiting what is best and most inspirational from all sources.
The Juggler is no substitute for a literary Scholastic: it is essentially the organ of a department. The Scholastic should rise above departments with a philosophic interest in the whole school, insofar as the school is capable of expressing itself . . .
Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, c.s.c.
4VAYS EUROPE
' z . z • z ■ • . - 3
MEXICO
ALASKA IQ lit	la.-nr-jr? V2?
THE WEST '4^' ca	o- y
I SITA, 141 W. Jackson, Chicago, UI.
• t . STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL ASSOCIATION
-SITA) • Santa Barbaro. California ■ Boo«le* . TO
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised ■
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
Editor:
Despite several inviting, if not provoking, items in the Scholastic this year I have thus far held my peace, aside from a brief colloquy with the circulation manager concerning the tardiness of my subscription. However, the publication of “What’s Happened to the Scholastic,” by one Kelleghan, has impelled me to set down the causes wherefore I separate from him . . .
It is set forth in this thesis that the Scholastic should gaze upon its for-
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID
Study and Travel
A rare opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to Spanish Student Tours 500 Filth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 NORTH NILES
March 3, 1950
bears,' and the implication is that the forbears should be emulated. I had occasion, during my tenure with the Scholastic, to do a little gazing in that direction. The Victorian Scholastic was didactic, dry, full of meaningless exhortations to exemplary behavior, albeit somewhat more urbane than the 1950 edition. The urbanity was, I think, studied; I detect something of the same characteristic in Mr. Kelleghan’s piece. The modern Scholastic is journalistically well-got-up, well-edited, and occasionally not as well-written as it might be. I have been impressed with the few, but excellent, symposia on things of the day which appear occasionally; what I have missed is a column or two of comment which rises above comment upon the deplorable condition of Badin Bog. Thus far, I may be understood to agree with Mr. K. However, it should be mentioned that I, myself, conducted such a column, with a consequent reaping of libel, slander, and assault upon my head. Perhaps Mr. Kelleghan would care to essay the writing of the same himself . . .
To the charge that the temper of Scholastic is informative, rather than educative, it may be queried only: what is the purpose of a weekly news magazine if not to inform? The University
needs a newspaper. The fact that the Scholastic succeeds in being something more than a mere newspaper, a weekly news magazine, is all to the Scholastic’s credit. While there should perhaps be a better balance in the feature material, it remains true that the basic purpose of the Scholastic is to inform. That is the purpose of any news maga-rine.
The critic of Mr. Kelleghan’s type we always have with us. The staff on which I worked was continually assailed by members of the higher intelligentsia, whose function of criticism could not possibly be debased to a function of contributing as a part of the staff. This is not to say that he who criticizes must write; it is merely to say that the critics who threw stones at my brethren and me never did so . . .
In closing, I wish to point out the type of writing to which the Scholastic would descend if the Kelleghan faction took over: “It must strive to create a student culture; i.e., integrate the many interests of the students so that all may understand and evaluate each other’s knowledge and problems.” Better than this gobbledegook, I have yet to behold—.even in gobbledegooking governmental agency regulations and reports. I gather that it means that the
Scholastic should become an intellectual clearing house.
Addendum: “To argue that other student magazines are also controlled by specialist groups, and only publish material that deals with their particular field” is not a sentence. If Mr. K. thinks it is, he should integrate his many interests and concentrate the compendum upon the facets of English grammar.
Joe Wilcox, ’49
Editor:
Your editorial on the arguments raised in “What’s Happened to the Scholastic?” reveals the very brand of shoddy thinking that was attacked. It was quite ironic (and totally unexpected) that your abortive reply should support my thesis more than contradict it.
You granted the magazine’s informative character, ignored the arguments opposing this journalistic concept as irreconcilable with the idea of a university, and proceeded to justify your position on three flimsy premises:
1.	The student body is so large it requires a news organ;
2.	To include anything more than (Continued on Page 27)
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY
Joe the Jeweler
Ellsmnrtlj’a
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
The Smartest Men on campus wear
ARROW
Solid Color Shirts
3.65
Get Your
School Album 4*^ gr
in Blue and Gold
AULT CAMERA SHOP
(Inc.)
122 S. Main Phone .3-5041
Be sure you have plenty of these new Arrow solid color shirts on hand! Good looking and practical addition to your wardrobe. These Arrows are Sanforized-labeled, of course.
Men’s Shop . . . Main Floor
The Scholastic
I Surrender, Dear
THE WEEK
by $ack McfyMrick
Top of the Week
The guy who won the Chesterfield contest last week . . .
Life at Notre Danie
Two issues ago, somebody’s term paper got mixed up with the Scholastic’s copy, and was printed under the heading “What’s Happened to the Scholastic?” (page 28, Feb. 17)
The author, who calls himself Thomas Kelleghan, thought that was a good question and, after quoting the Baylor U. Lariat, and the Vassar College Miscellany, used up 1500 words to accuse the Scholastic of being a calendar instead of an almanac.
Undaunted, our editor, who calls himself Joe Herrington, courageously answered these charges last week in an editorial, which stated that (a) the . Scholastic is a newsmagazine, and (b) you can’t get cigarettes at Wal-green’s for less than nineteen cents a pack, (page 7, Feb. 24)
Now that this grave journalistic problem has been so unmistakably cleared up, we’re waiting for someone to submit a manuscript titled “What’s Wrong With the WEEK?” Just in case somebody does, the answer is “nothing.” That is, there’s nothing left to write about, and there are ten more issues of the Scholastic before graduation. That means that approximately seven thousand words about nothing are forthcoming.
The WEEK will try to struggle on till June, but some day soon, if you open your Scholastic to page five, and find a large blank space, don’t say you weren’t warned.
Orchid of the Week
That last week’s Mardi Gras dance, carnival, et al was a success, has been unanimously agreed upon by all. Chairmen of various committees have been shaking each other’s hands for days, and everybody is happy.
Of course, the most important result of the whole drive is the fact that Foreign Student Relief benefited materially; but more than that, the affair was somewhat of an experiment: the school _ authorities gave the Student Council
* March 3, 1950

and the Student Relief committee a chance to prove that student-managed affairs can be successful. For this, the administration, as well as the students who did the job, should be congratulated.
Star on Wax
It isn’t every day that a movie star visits the campus, and when Miss Ann Blyth appeared at the carnival last week, WND engineers were on hand with their brand new tape recorder. The machine was apparently in good shape that night, because Miss Blyth’s interview by Ed Farrell, as well as hei-rendition of “Toora Loora” and “When 1 Irish Eyes Are Smiling” were flawlessly recorded for posterity. The station is considering transferring the tape onto records, if enough souvenir hunters and/or Ann Blyth fans on the campus would want to acquire same. If you’re interested, contact Program Director, WND, Box 204.
COMMERCE TALKS
All Commerce Sophomores are cordially invited to meet with the department heads of the College of Commerce next Thursday evening at 7:30 p. m. in the Law Auditorium.
The department heads will offer counseling services to sophomores at this time regarding the selection of major sequence of study in the college.
We are now carrying a complete line of
COSTELLO
FENCING EQUIPMENT
SONNEBORN’S
SPORT SHOP 121 W. Colfax Ave. South Bend Phone 3-3702
Jack (Bastogne) Williams,. of Pittsburgh and Sorin Hall, spent^part of the war as a German prisone^, after his outfit was captured during the Bulge. The other day, he went down to the Avon to see Battleground. On the way back from the show, Jack was explaining how he had been captured, whileVan Johnson, John Hodiak, and the rest of the film cast fought on in the cold. “It wasn’t my fault,” said J., “when General McAuliffe said, ‘nuts’ to the Nazis, my C.O. said ‘aw heck men, let’s give up’.”
Bottom of the Week
. . . and then quit smoking for Lent.
DANCE
U» ()eO7Uf6 Sbadhid, wy
Alice and George Davis
2 for 1 rates
Now two can learn to dance for the price of one and save 50%. Call 3-8229. Come in for a Free
Lesson.	. '
Northern Indiana's Largest Dance Studio
106 W. Monroe of Michigan South Bend
Four English Profs Named To Writers' Group Faculty
Four prominent writers and critics, members of the faculty in the Department of English at Notre Dame, have been announced as members of the faculty for the second annual Writers' Conference, to be held June 26 through July 1 at the University of Notre Dame. The foui- men will be part of a faculty of leading writers for the week-long conference which will provide workshop enrolees an opportunity to study closely techniques in the novel, short fiction, and poetry.
Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., head of
the Department of English and author . of several textbooks in the writing field, will head the conference faculty. Professor Richard Sullivan, author of the recent novel, First Citizen, and other published works, will head the workshop on the novel.
The short fiction workshop will be under the direction of Professor John T. Frederick, novelist and short story writer noted for his discoveries of new literary talent. Professor John Frederick Nims, whose second volume of verse, Fountain in Kentucky, has just been published, will direct the workshop in poetry. Othei’ leaders in the field of creative writing who will be among the faculty are Miss Caroline
Gordon, short story writer, novelist and critic, and J. F. Powers, short story writer, essayist and critic. Mr. Powers is the author of The Prince of Darkness.
The conference will be conducted in three separate sessions, based on the three workshops treating the novel, short fiction, and poetry. Tuition for the entire schedule of three workshops will be $25 and any single workshop may be attended for a fee of $10. Professor Thomas Cassidy, of the Department of English, is the director of the Writers’ Confernce.
Heat (?) Foils Ice Rink; 'Wait Till Next Year!'
'Well, the Calendar Says It's Spring'
Notre Dame student Bert Daday sits atop his desk and warms his cold feet on the steaming radiator and wonders who decided the first day of Spring should fall next Tuesday. In northern. Indiana, as every student has found out, the weather has no respect for dates or seasons. The blanket Daday is wrapped in has been recommended by the Indiana Spring Fashion Society as 'best* look in campus room wear.
Within the next few weeks, the job of dismantling the large, stockade-like enclosure presently occupying the field in front of the Biology Building will have begun, and Notre Dame’s hopes for an artificial skating rink will have to wait until next year. For, as soon as weather permits, Father Bernard Furstoss’ maintenance crew will tackle the job of taking the big wooden structure apart, and storing the 40-odd, carefully labeled sections out of the way until next autumn, probably behind the boathouse on St. Joseph’s lake.
Father Joseph Kehoe, as director of student affairs, was the originator of the idea of an artificial rink, and it was he who procured the lumber and chose the site. The idea was to wait until the ground froze solid, then flood the enclosure with a fire hose and let Old Man Winter finish the job. Very few things, however, are as unpredictable as Northern Indiana weather. Three times the flooding operation was attempted, and three times it proved unsuccessful, for always the sub-freezing temperature would rise just long enough to thaw the ground, and let the water seep away. Actually, the only time the weather ever stayed cold long enough to make the project workable was during the Christmas vacation, when only a handful of students would have been on hand to do any skating.
As far as plans for next year are concerned, all that can be done is to set the rink up again in just the same fashion and hope for more consistent weather. Then, perhaps, the student ice-addicts will be able to cut their “figure-eights” in comparative safety, or at least without having to worry about the prospect of a sudden dip in the icy lake water. The rink will also provide an excellent place for the more rugged skaters to enjoy a sociable game of ice-hockey within easy limping distance of the Infirmary.
•	—Justin Bolger
The Scholastic

§
14
New Look in Old St. Ed’s
Night Watchman Lawrence Slaughterback Carves Tabernacle for New Hall Chapel in St. Edward’s
By JAY CONLON
Two years ago Father John Burke, C.S.C., came to St. Edward’s to be rector. He took a tour of his new charge, wandered through bemuraled hallways, put his hands in the cracks, delved through the musty rooms, and took mental count of the needs of St. Ed’s. There was no lounge where students could study or sink into downy chairs to read; the bells on the third and fourth floors had different conceptions of time; he walked into the chapel on the second floor and saw the old enameled altars, the spotted carpet, the need of a good coat of paint, and all thoughts of lounges and student comforts left him, for the home of God was shabby.
Then and there the ambition to change the chapel was born and today that dream is realized, for St. Ed’s 9 chapel is a beautiful monument of prayer, student help and, most of all, the long months of labor by a night watchman.
Lawrence Slaughterback, born in Crawford County, Indiana, in 1886, came to Notre Dame two years ago. He was given the job of night watchman in St. Ed’s, and quickly made himself at home in the family circle which is a characteristic of that hall. He ) was dubbed “Sam Spade” by some while
. the more discerning Freshmen called him “Mr. Belvedere,” the aptness of which is apparent. For at 16 he threw a knapsack over his shoulder, and left home, and until a few years ago never lingered in one place more than a few years at a time.
Furnace Stops Ramblings
Finally, he went into the heating and ventilating business in South Bend and in his spare time invented and patented a pair of self-adjusting pliers which he has never marketed. It took a cast iron furnace to finally stop the ramblings of “Sam Spade.” A few years ago he was wheeling one of these jobs when it tipped forward twisting him twenty feet in the air. When he finally landed it was with torn ligaments and a multitude of slipped joints. Then after resting a year, and still a little sore, he came to St. Edward’s Hall.
Father Burke’s dream for a new chapel received its first material impetus at Christmas time a year ago. He and Father Joseph Haley, C.S.C., received a $150 Christmas present from the students of St. Ed’s. Thus began the building fund. It grew slowly. Magazines were collected by the students for sale; Father Burke gathered up the desk pads left by homeward bound students in June and sold them for ten cents apiece, but good tabernacles cost a lot of money, and Father Burke wanted a good tabernacle.
He put a notice on St. Ed’s cluttered bulletin board asking the students’help and prayer for the undertaking. One day Lawrence, the watchman, walked into Father Burke’s office. He shifted a little uneasily, waiting for nightly algebra class to leave. Then he offered to build Father Burke his tabernacle. “I don’t know why I did it,” says Lawrence, “something just told me I should help out Father Burke.” He wanted to carve the tabernacle out of wood. Father Burke was dubious. To build a tabernacle was a tremendous undertaking, but to carve one! He tried to dissuade him, but Lawrence, who is not a Catholic himself, had made up his mind, and as soon as summer school had set in, he began working on the tabernacle.
First Carved at Eight
Lawrence fix'st started carving when he was eight years old; he has made about seven violins, and sold two of them for five hundred dollars apiece. One of his violins was unknowingly displayed as an original Guarnerius model made supposedly about 1694.
He worked on the tabernacle all summer in his garage on Darden St., while also serving as day watchman for the Sisters taking summer school courses at ND. On the last day of the summer session, he brought the finished tabernacle to Notre Dame. Made of black walnut, it was over two feet high. Carved into the door was a beautiful long-stemmed chalice surrounded by a thin vine, one leaf of which took five hours of delicate chiseling. At the foot of the chalice lay a cluster of minutely carved grapes and a vine that tangled around its base. He placed it in the . Morrissey hallway and nuns in twos and threes grouped around it; more of them came to see his work.
Lawrence didn’t sleep much that night. He could still hear the words of the nuns; their praises and excited “ohs” and “ahs” lingered long in his mind; it was then that he realized fully what he had been doing. He was no (Continued on Page 27)
St. Edward's New Altar
March 17, 1950
15
PROVE
TO YOURSELF
NOWiAR ETTE HANGOVER when you smoke Philip Morris! A. A -

HERE’S ALL YOU DO!
t In fust a few seconds you can prove
PHILIP MORRIS
IS DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING
than the brand you’re now smoking!

$



■*?4J

I


t
I.	• • light up a PHILIP MORRIS THEN, just take a puff—DON'T INHALE — and s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come
2.	..light up your present brand
Do exactly the same thing —DON'T INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
W»ss • - —	.
through your nose. And NOW . . .
NOW YOU KNOW WHY YOU SHOULD BE SMOKING PHILIP MORRIS!
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure.
And Philip Morris is the ONE cigarette proved definitely less irritating, definitely milder, than any other leading brand. NO OTHER CIGARETTE CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.
4s

la PHILIP MORRIS
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 17
NFCCS Drive Income Grosses Over $22,000
Although final figures will not be complete until next week, the gross income from the Student Council-NFCCS charity drive amounted to approximately $22,500, of which the Mardi Gras Carnival grossed $4500. The remainder represents the result of the car awards.
As soon as expenses are deducted, the net amount will be divided between Foreign Student Relief and the new Notre Dame Charity Fund. The former will receive $10,000. This may leave as much as $5,000 for the campus fund.
For its timely satire on the recent Brinks robbery, the New England Club can add $50 to its treasury. The carnival booths were judged, mainly on their originality, by Miss Almarie Sack-ley, Dean of Women at St. Mary’s College.
If the profits from their efforts at the carnival can be considered as a criterion, Notre Dame’s future lawyers and businessmen are certain to prosper. By producing the highest return of all the booths from its chuckaluck “Casino,” the Law Club earned a $50 award. The Commerce Forum won $25 by placing second in earnings.
A' The winner of the Chevrolet, John D. Brady, Commerce freshman from Mobile, Ala., chose the convertible rather than its monetary equivalent.
MARRIAGE FORUM
The fifth session of the Institute on Christian Marriage will be held next Thursday evening at 7:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
The topic of the session is “And Building Them in Virtue . . .” Rev. James P. Smyth will speak on this subject from the viewpoint “From Birth to Maturity.” Mr. John J. Kane of the Department of Sociology will discuss “In the Family, Basis of Social Living” . as his aspect of the topic.	. .. -
Mrs. William R. Dooley, wife of Notre Danie’s Placement Director, will serve as panel member for the discussions.
Sound of Tops Calms Rifle Volley Echoes As ND Men Say Farewell to Ray Espenan
By HARRY MONAHAN
As the muted notes of taps calmed the crashing echo of three rifle volleys, 2,000 members of the Notre Dame family stood in the soft, swirling snow outside Sacred Heart Church last Friday morning to say farewell to Ray Espenan.
Notre Dame has lost another one of her sons, but in his passing Notre Dame men have found in their own ranks an unparalleled example of courage and acquiescence to the will of God. From the moment the accident occurred until he lapsed into a coma a short time before death came at 4:50 p.m. Thursday, Ray knew he was in the toughest scrimmage of his career.
In the hospital no one tried to persuade Ray that his hurts were not serious, but never did he show the slightest sign of discouragement or despair. The doctors were amazed at the tenacity ■with which he held the slim thread of life and even the priests at his bedside found all the Sunday sermons they had ever heard overshadowed by the unruffled manner in which this young athlete resigned himself to ac-, cept the outcome of his plight.
At the funeral Mass in Sacred Heart church last Friday morning, the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., who had been at Ray’s bedside many times during those last three days, told the story completely and powerfully in these words: “He had hopes and dreams like all of us, yet he died with calm resignation. I wish you could have seen the living sermon enacted in that hospital room as the end drew near.”
The 23-year-old senior from New Orleans was an end ,on the -Notre Dame eleven throughout the current 38-game winning streak, and won monbgrams in 1947, 1948 and 1949.^8 a broad jumper on Coach “Doc”' Handy’s track team he earned monograms in 1948 and 1949. In prep school he won six letters in football and track at Holy Cross high school, New Orleans. '
Prior to entering Notre Dame, Es-
MARCH 3, 1950
penan had served 23 months in the Navy and saw service in the Philippines. The NROTC color and honor guards which flanked the flag-draped biei- as- the body lay in state in Sacred Heart church before the funeral Mass
Ray Espenan
was the final tribute of the embryo-naval officers to a comrade. The Navy group fired the traditional three volleys and sounded taps-, in brief ceremonies outside church following Mas's. .
Espenan was a physical education'ma-jor and was doing practice teaching, at Central High school, South- Bend,, as one of the requirements of hi$ course. The accident, however,, occurred during a five-minute break between classes as Ray was working on the high school trampoline for his own practice. The accident was one of those unimaginable things where a misplaced second in timing changed a routine act into a tragedy.
Ray was an expert on the trampoline, having had several years experience with the apparatus in the Navy and at (Continued on Page 24)
B March 3, 1950
9
Debate Squad Faces Mundelein Tonight
The Notre Dame debate team continued to improve its early season record with a victory over Our Lady of Cincinnati College in Washington Hall last Friday evening. Representing Notre Dame against the girls from Cincinnati were brothers Pete and Tom Ninneman, who took the negative side on the topic of “Socialism of Basic Industry.” Judging the match was Professor Maple of South Bend Central, who awarded an easy decision to the brother team from Toma, Wisconsin.
The squad resumes activity with today’s afternoon-evening meet with Mundelein College of Chicago. Notre Dame’s top speaking team of Bill Dempsey and Captain Bill Carey will endeavor to continue their winning ways in the afternoon match, which will be held at 3:15 in Room 377, Main Building. In the evening event, Joe Bellon and Dave Hogan will take up the attack from the stage of Washington Hall at 7:30.
Two exhibition debates, one last Wednesday before the Business and Professional Women of Mishawaka, and one last night at the Circle of Mercy on “Socialized Medicine,” completed the week’s activities so far. The schedule for the remainder of the month of March is:
March 3 — Mundelein College for
Women will debate here this afternoon and evening.
March 6—The University of Vermont will debate here at 1:15 in Room 327, Main Building.
March 7—Exhibition debate at 8:30 p.m. at McKinley School Parent-Teachers’ Association.
March 9, 10, 11—The Notre Dame debaters will journey to Lexington, Ky., for the National Tau Kappa Alpha Debate and Discussion Tournament. They have already won this tournament twice.
March 24—The Irish disputers travel to Washington, D. C., for a tournament to be held at Georgetown University.
Pre-Regis+ra+ion Set For Middle of March
Pre-registration for the September, 1950, semester will begin on Wednesday, March 15, at the Office of Students’ Accounts and will continue for the next ten days. All undergraduate students must pre-register if they wish to continue their studies here in September.
Students will be called in the order of class rating and scholastic averages and will select rooms in that order. (The allocation of residence halls to the four classes and the requirements for campus and off-campus residence
will be explained further in a bulletin W to be released by the Prefect of Discipline.)
As evidence of good faith in the reservation of a place in the University, each student must pay the usual §50.00 deposit at the time of pre-registration. Should a student later decide not to enroll in September, $40.00 of the deposit will be refunded to him, provided the Director of Students’ Accounts has received by July 31 a written request to " cancel the pre-registration.
Each student will be notified of the time he is to pre-register and must report at the time assigned. Should a student have a class at this time, excuse of his absence and permission to make up the work will be sent to the teacher by the Committee on Absences. An extra fee of $10.00 will apply to a student who pre-registers at _ a time other than that assigned him.
In order to simplify the pre-registering procedure, each student should visit the halls for which he is eligible (as indicated in the bulletin to be released) and should be able to indicate a preference of hall and location of room.
Mr. Edward J. Murray, Director of Students’ Accounts, states that insofar as possible, those who wish to be roommates will be able to obtain the same room. Thus, although roommates may register at different times, they will „ both be permitted to occupy the room that the “brainier” of the two indicated when he first pre-registered.
Notre Dame debater drives home point on negative side of industry socialization question as representatives of Our Lady of Cincinnati College prepare questions.
Dome Reveals Committee For 1950 'Dome Awards'
The 1950 Dome has announced the names of the committee to select the men to receive the Dome Award for this year. This award is presented each year by the editors of the Dome to several outstanding graduating seniors.
The men named to the Dome Award Committee are William L. Kirchner, president of the Student Council; William B. Rich, president of YCS; Robert A. Williams, varsity member of the football team; Thomas W. Carroll, secretary of the Junior- class; Walter C. Clements, Managing Editor of the Dome; Dennis J. O’Neill, Jr., Editor __ of the Dome; Ray Yanics, president of 0 the Junior Class; and Kenneth A. Thoren, Associate Editor of the Scholastic.
Each member of this committee will submit a list by March 7, of six seniors whom they believe to be eligible for the award. After these candidates have been checked against University records, they will be put to the Committee for discussion and reasons, whence the six awardees will be chosen.
The Scholastic W
10
Library to Exhibit Rare Art Collection
Financial Assistance in 1949 Is ND Record; Total Donations Exceed Two Million Dollars
This month the University Library will exhibit a collection of rare art objects in the catalog room showcases. The varied antiques are several centuries old.
The March exhibit will be a collection of Byzantine and Muscovite Russian icons and other works of art of the 15th and 16th centuries. The exhibit, now in preparation by Mr. Elie Denissoff, professor in the Department of Philosophy, contains two very valuable icons showing remarkable detail. One was made by the monks of Muscovite Russia and is very similar to the one made by the Byzantine monks be-_ cause the Russian Church at that time W was predominantly Greek. Both show an Italian influence.
Also included in the collection are examples of fine embroidery, ladies hats made of the same material, inkstands, a large collection of bronze crosses and both large and small bronze icons.
In the display Mr. Denissoff has an iron inkstand made to wear around the waist and some very ornate bronze crosses. One of the crosses depicts God the Father over it, the Holy Ghost, W then Christ crucified. At the ends of Christ’s outstretched arms are the walls of Jerusalem, the sun and moon, and a prayer. At the foot of the cross is the head of Adam because, according to legend, Adam was supposed to have died at Golgotha, where Christ died. This display is due to go on exhibit the first or second week in March.
—Bryan Coughlin
O Cummins Here for Seminar On Biological Subjects
Dr. George B. Cummins, professor of agricultural botany at Purdue University, addressed a meeting of the biology seminar on campus recently.
Dr. Cummins discussed the life histories of those plant rusts which take such a tremendous toll of valuable plant products each year. The cereal grains are among the most seriously attacked by rust diseases. He pointed out in particular that although plant breeders have been able to produce crosses of crop plants which are resistant to rusts, the rusts in turn hybridize and produce new strains to which the crops are susceptible.
He also pointed out the role the wind plays in spreading plant rust diseases. Each spring clouds of rust spores are blown northward from Texas and Mexico to harry the lush wheat fields of the central plain.
March 3, 1950
A grand total of 8,675 Alumni and friends of the University of Notre Dame gave financial assistance to the school in 1949. The total of their gifts, the largest ever raised within a period of one year, exceeds 2.33 million dollars.
Final tabulations of 1949 contributions to the University, recently compiled by the Notre Dame Foundation, reveal that $2,331,847 was donated in that period. This is nearly four times the amount donated in 1948.
The $2,331,847 total is broken down into three classifications. Gifts specified for the University’s Building Program total $1,238,638. The “Special Funds and Restricted Gifts” category shows a total of $685,902. The sum of $407,305 was given for Research Fellowshipsand Grants, the third category. Not included in the total of these three categories are gifts of equipment, which amount to $84,800.
Significant of the efforts expended by the Notre Dame Foundation and the Alumni Association is the increase in the number of donors in 1949 — 8675 compared with 7664 in 1948.
The highlight of the year’s total is the $1,000,000 gift made by Mrs. Fred
Senior Class Presents Flag
Father Hesburgh receives Senior Class flag from class president, John Thornton, at Washington Day exercises. Rodney Forbes (I.) and Thomas Sherer (r.) were speakers.
J. Fisher of Detroit. Here is a partial list of some of the larger gifts: The Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial Residence Hall, $750,000; the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Educational Fund, $250,000; New Science Building Fund (includes three gifts of $25,000 each), $484,365; the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Fine Arts Foundation, $100,000; Rockefeller Foundation, $69,000; Atomic Energy Commission (2,000,000-volt atom smasher), $59,800; Scholarship Funds (Endowment and Awards), $42,320; William J. Corbett Estate, $40,000; Michael P. Grace Trust $31,000; Kresge Foundation, $25,000; Damon Runyon Cancer Fund, $25,000.	.
A comparison of gifts received from Alumni and friends (all non-alumni contributors) in 1948 and 1949 is given in this chart:
I
I
1
J s
Donors .............. 7517	6973
Amount .......... $506,231	$451,898
FRIENDS Donors .............. 1158	691
Amount .........$1,825,616	$163,041
TOTAL Donors .............. 8675	7664
Amount .........$2,331,847	$614,939
11
V. Monroe +o Bring ’Caravan' Show Here
Vaughn Monroe will bring his Camel Caravan show to the Notre Dame campus on Saturday evening March 18. The show, which will be broadcast from Washington Hall over a nationwide radio network, is the familiar Saturday Camel Caravan show which travels from campus to campus- the country over during the year.
Vaughn Monroe is a popular dance band leader. His wine-barrel voice and well-known theme, "Racing With the Moon," are much sought after for dances and public appearances.
The Washington Hall show will be open to students only. A limited number of tickets will be available for distribution.
Competition Begins Soon For Breen Speech Medal
Professor Leonard Sommer, director of forensics, has publicly announced the following three annual contests: the Breen Oratorical Contest, the Freshman Oratorical Contest, and the Goodrich-Cavanaugh Oratorical Prize.
The preliminaries of the Breen contest will be held on March 13 at 4:15 p.m. in Room 327, Main Library. Entrants must register with Professor J. A. Fallon in the office within Room 241, Main Building, by March 10. The oration will consist of approximately 1000 words—seven to nine minutes speaking time. The subject matter is to be selected by the individual contestants. The final contest is scheduled for the evening of March 22 in the Law Auditorium.
"The Breen Medal for Oratory” was founded by the Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the Class of 1877, and is awarded annually to the student who excels in oratory. The competition for this award is conducted by the Department of Speech, and the winner in this contest represents the University of Notre Dame in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest. No student may win the Breen Medal more than once, but the winner of the medal may compete several times for the honor of representing the University in the state contest.
The finals of the Freshman contest will be held on April 26 in the Law Auditorium. Entrants must register with Professor Frederick Govern, Room 241, Main Building. The finals for the Goodrich-Cavanaugh Oratorical Prize will be held on May 10 in the Law Auditorium. Entries must register with Professor Frank Kelly, Room 319, Main Building.
12
Cavanaugh Concerts
Time 12:30 p.m.
Program for Week of March 6
Monday
Scenes from Tristan und Isolde and Die G otterdamerung __ __________________________Wagner
Roumanian Rhapsodies .....Enesco
Tuesday
Heart of La Boheme________Puccini
Romeo and Juliet Overture.....
...............  Tchaikovsky
Wednesday
Symphony No. 5 ..........Brahms
Arias from Norma, La Forza del..
Destino, Gia conda, and Caval-leria Rusticana sung by Zinka Milenov.
Thursday
Symphony No. 5 ............Beethoven
F riday Symphony No. 1 ................Brahms '
Gaite Parisienne  ...........Offenbach
Saturday
The Reading Room will be open for the broadcast of the Metropolitan Opera broadcast of Verdi’s Rigo-letto starring Patrice Munsel as Gilda and Jan Peerce as the Duke. Time: 1:00 p.m.
Dillon Hall Rec Room Set To Open St. Pat’s Day
The Irish of Dillon Hall will have a great day on their patron's feast on March 17. That is the tentative date for the opening of the Dillon Hall Recreation Room which has been under construction for the last several months. The christening of the Rec Room will be complete with entertainment and refreshments.
The students of the hall have raised the major portion of the funds necessary to furnish and decorate the room. Their well-attended Carnival held near the end of last semester netted over $800. Several other projects within the hall have brought the total of funds raised to $1500.
The furniture for the room is on order and is due to arrive this week. Until then the room is furnished with temporary furniture and is being used as a study lounge.
Rev. Lawrence G. Broestl, C.S.C., Rector of Dillon, commended the students of the hall for the efforts they have expended in doing the necessary carpentry work to make the new Rec Room “one of the best on the campus.”
Chorus, Soprano Sing To Large ND Audiences
The University Concert and Lecture series was operating at full steam this week. Two concerts, on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, on the stage of Washington Hall were presented to large audiences.
On Tuesday night, “The Studebaker Hannonettes” of South Bend, Ind., a s 32-voice girls chorus under the direction of Ethel Stuart Gaumer, gave a varied program of light classics and popular show tunes.
The Studebaker group also featured Trevona Bartlett, soloist and accompanist; Fred McFaul, Dick Schall and Alfred Emery who were male soloists with the chorus.
On Thursday night Miss Catherine Russell, dramatic soprano, presented a recital of concert, opera, and oratorio favorites that included Schubert’s Ave Maria, Respighi’s In Alto Mare and Ouvre ton Coeur by Bizet.
Miss Russell is a cousin of Rev. Edmund J. Murray, c.s.c., Assistant Prefect of Religion at the University.
Senator Quotes Article Written by Prof. Sheehan
Professor John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, was quoted recently on the floor of the U.S. Senate by Senator Murray.
Senator Murray referred in a speech at the Capitol to an article entitled “Government and Business” which was written by Professor Sheehan and printed in the Feb. 11 issue of America.
Senator Murray quoted the article on the Senate floor and the article was reprinted in the Congressional Record last week.
Professor Nims Publishes New Collection of Poems
Professor John Frederick Nims of the Department of English has just had published a new book of poems, A Fountain in Kentucky. Most of the poems in the book have previously appeared in Harper's, the Kenyon Review, the Saturday Revierv of Literature, Accent and other magazines. A 1937 graduate of Notre Dame and a member of the faculty here since 1939, Professor Nims has received numerous awards for his poetry and is a poetry critic for the Saturday Review of Literature and the Book Review Section of the Chicago Tribune.
Professor Nims has also authored “The Iron Pastoral,” a volume of poems, in 1947. His works also were included in “Five Young American Poets,” published in 1944.
The Scholastic

Carnival Nets $5,000
The two-night Mardi Gras Carnival was a mad scene of gaiety and expectation last week as the various campus clubs and organizations put on a hectic but enjoyable show in the mobbed Drill Hall.
The upper right-hand picture shows two of the men who helped make a success of the carnival counting their take after- the final evening. Continuing clockwise, Miss Ann Blyth addresses eager and admiring students. The New Jersey Club features gruffvoiced barkers.
In the lower left-hand corner, Bill Hardy leads the field in the Chicago Club handicap. The Cleveland Club passed out hoops and dodged the SPCA. Upper left, Actress Blyth and Rev. James McDonald discuss the evening’s festivities.
March 3, 1950
IS
Zahm's John Brady Finds Life of Auto-Winner Full of Congratulations and Envious Comments
By CHARLEY DULLEA
A new topic of conversation has hit Notre Dame. No longer does Judge Crater's whereabouts cause caf-dwell-ers to beat their breasts and tear their hair. No longer do savants spend weary hours in the Strat speculating on the fate of the Marie Celeste. One question fills every man’s mind — who is John D. Brady?
Just a week and a half ago this name echoed through the Drill Hall as one of the cinema’s lovelies plucked it from among thousands of tickets. Today, however, that name was shrouded in mystery.
Scholastic decided to probe the mystery. Accordingly, we approached the room where this enigma was supposed to be staying, knocked timidly, and entered.
“Hi!” said the lean gent seated inside. “Have some oats,” he continued, pointing to the large sack by his side
Second Lenten Retreat Begins Tomorrow Evening
Alumni, Sorin, and Walsh Halls will participate tomorrow and Sunday in the second retreat of the Lenten season. Four conferences, Sunday Mass, and a holy hour will be conducted in the Alumni Chapel.
Under the direction of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, the retreat will begin at 8 p.m. Saturday and will follow the same schedule as the one last week for graduate students. Among the ceremonies will be the Way of
Father Hesburgh
and scooping half a peck into his mouth. We said thanks but we were driving and proceeded to make with the introduction.
It developed that the gentleman with the partiality to cereals was the same John D. Brady, of Mobile, Ala. The same John D. Brady whose family collectively acquired a Buick and a Chevrolet when Ann Blyth pulled a piece of paper from a wire basket. Since both chariots will be kept by the Brady family, the Buick will serve the entire brood and the Chevrolet will be used by Brady Sr. for business and other little tasks, such as taking out the ashes, the man of mystery revealed.
Although Ann Blyth was the first celebrity with whom he had ever come in contact (sic) and this was the only contest he had ever won, the pride of Mobile remained calm throughout. When asked as to any conversation
the Cross and recitation of the Rosary, both outdoors. These were the most popular features of retreats in past years.
Concluding the retreat on Sunday afternoon, Father Hesburgh will bestow the apostolic blessing on the group.
Rev. William Robinson, C.S.C., conducted last week’s retreat. Father Robinson is a teacher of theology and has had much experience in mission and retreat work. This first retreat was held for graduate students.
Father Robinson
passing between him and the starlet, the man gave no sign of emotion other than turning six different shades of cerise and croaking, “she didn’t have to say anything.”
With regard to osculation, this true commerce man replied that “it would have been wonderful, but most likely would have added considerably to my overheated state.” At this point, he lapsed into a daze, muttering “prettiest eyes of any girl I ever saw.”
Thanks to a fifth of spirits of ammonia, we were able to bring our host back to normal and re-establish his train of thought. “Y’know,” said Brady, his cunning once more coming to the fore, “she was a very beautiful girl — almost as beautiful as the girls back in the South.” His eyes becafie filled with dissimulation as he settled back in his morris chair, a mellow cheroot in one hand and an oat hull in the other.
“Ever since that drawing,” continued Brady, “I’ve had boys congratulatin’ me and cussin’ me out. O’course, it’s all in fun.” We chuckled. Just then a mean-looking arrow hurtled through the window and lodged in the chair.
“Hmm, curare,” Brady muttered, examining the crude arrow tip. We were out the door in record time. From the room came the low chuckle of John D. Brady, man of mystery.
Vetville Continues Bridge And Discussions in Lent
Activity in Notre Dame’s Vetville is quiet during the Lenten season, but the regular Friday night discussion groups and bridge parties are going to be continued, according to Mayor Art Goulet. A choir' is also being organized.	w
Veterans’ wives who live in South Bend are urged to attend the bridge sessions. The get-togethers are held every other Friday night in the Veterans’ recreation hall. Refreshments are served, and each week a different woman from one of the six Vetville wards acts as hostess. Prizes are also awarded for the highest and lowest scores.
The discussion periods, which are held on the alternate Friday nights, are under the leadership of Reverend Paul Bailey, chaplain of Vetville. The topic under discussion is the Life of Christ. Incidents in our Lord’s life are selected, talked about, and then applied to the marriage vocation.
Another religious activity, the formation of a new choir, is under the management of Marg and Bob White.
The purpose of the choir is to sing the mass in the Vetville chapel each Sunday.
14
The Scholastic
Houses for Sale
Pat Tonti, Badin Hall Commerceman, Engineers Erection and Sale of 4-Room South Bend Home
By JACK BRADSHAW
Down on East Napoleon street in one of South Bend’s quiet, modest residential districts stands a neat and tidy little four-room white bungalow which to all outward appearances offers nothing spectacular in either architectural design or new-fangled solutions to the housing problem. Yet this cozy little cottage truly stands as a monument to what young enterprise can do, for it is the complete brain child of a 20-year-old Commerce Junior from Columbus, Ohio, and Badin Hall, Alfred P. Tonti.
Smiling, affable, broad-shouldered Al, or Pat, as his friends call him, with his brown crew-cut hair and his long legs propped up on one of Badin’s hallowed fourth floor desks, looks no more like a combination budding capitalist and practical Economist than do you or I. A graduate of Columbus’ Aquinas High School, he is majoring in Business Administration, and is also said to wield a mean backhand on the Notre Dame tennis team. A very modest guy no less, he calmly insists that the “Project” as he calls it was “nothing that any fool couldn’t do.”
“It all began,” says Pat, “back when I was in grade school. My father was in the construction business, so I nat
urally got started doing odd jobs for him. I kept at it all through high school, and by the time I graduated I had hammered enough nails, carried ‘ enough bricks, and shoveled enough dirt to have a pretty fair idea about most of the processes in house construction. Of course, I don’t think I could do a job with my own two hands but I had a good notion of what the different materials and labor charges were worth. So last semester when I found myself with all morning classes and a little capital stored away (about $2500) I decided to build myself a house.”
But so that you fellas with a few gold nuggets down in your sock and straight eight through elevens won’t grab a shovel and head for the nearest vacant lot, Pat adds that it was his extensive background of building experience that really gave him the green light. “Without that,” he says, “I would have had to hire a contractor to do the job for me, and take a chance on being able to sell the house high enough to pay him off and still make a little myself.”
It took Pat about eight weeks to get his paper work and red tape ironed out — longer than it took to really
build the house. After he bought the land, a 54’ by 120’ lot, his biggest job was to secure an FHA loan. This New-Deal prodigy stands ready to approve the payment of a building loan up to 55 per cent of the appraised sale value of the proposed house, and is based on the specifications and blueprints.
Once ’ the loan was approved it was transferred to a local lending agency ■which took over from there, with the stipulation that it would not be administered all at once but in thirds: one-third after- the walls and roofs were up; and the final one-third when the whole job was done. This meant that Pat had to work temporarily from his.own capital, because wages had to be paid and materials had to be purchased long before any loan funds ever came through.
Labor and materials proved to be another headache that had to be taken care of before construction could begin. Days and weeks were spent pounding the pavements getting bids from the various building material companies and labor crews. Costs and procurement services had to be considered for lumber, cement blocks, hardware, landscaping and sodding, etc., as well as the estimated costs for steam shovel
Badin Hall's Pat Tonti, student entrepreneur, ponders plans for further construction after completion of first bungalow.
Tonti surveys snow-landscaped work with student helpers, l-r, Kully Goethal and Joe Lauber. FHA loans financed the project.
March 3, 1950
15
service, block layers, carpenters, electricians, plumbers, plasterers, etc. In doing this Pat didn’t necessarily pick the cheapest offers. He says that time and skill elements are just as important, if not more so, in hiring labor crews.
Finally the ground-breaking began on Oct. 15. From then on in, Pat was up early every morning, down for a quick look-see before his eight o’clock classes, down again in the afternoon, back for chow, studying and the sack. Despite this “absentee-landlordism” the project moved briskly along. Before receiving each part of his FHA approved loan, the house had to undergo the customary inspection by the authorities, but all came off smoothly. During the final stages Pat hired a couple of his fellow Badin-ites, Juniors Joe Lauber and Kully Goethal, and the three of them did the interior and exterior painting.
Project Takes Seven Weeks
Seven weeks after it began the project was finished, freshly painted, landscaped and ready for an occupant. WithS the current housing shortage Pat anticipated no problem along that line. He ran advertisements in the South Bend papers and after a hectic two weeks of sitting up nights in Badin Hall, answering inquisitive phone calls, and showing people through the house, Pat made the sale and made ready to add up the totals.
“I didn’t exactly make a fortune,” smiled our budding entrepreneur, “but at- the same time I more than broke even. Whatever I didn’t make by way of bigger profits I charged up to experience. While I was trying to sell my house I was told that if I had 25 more like it I could sell them in a week. Right now I have the blueprints for five more bungalows just like this one and we’re going to start work on them as soon as the weather gets warmer. I figure that this way I may be able to clear a little more on the whole thing simply because my bargaining power in contracting for labor and materials will be five times as great.”
Sellers’ Market Exists
“At the present time there exists what is called a sellers’ market or, in other words, a housing shortage. There is a big need and demand for lowcost housing. My object is to build good, strong, sturdy but cheap houses. The only way I can compete with the big companies which in South Bend sometimes have as many as 300 houses all going at the same time, is to build really GOOD houses, sell them cheaper, but sell them QUICK. It’s a great feeling to be making something, to see it grow and develop in your own hands. And, like I say, it’s nothing that any fool couldn’t do.”
Psychologist to Talk On Child Problems
Reverend James P. Smyth, noted child psychologist and a member of the Department of Religion at Notre Dame, will give a series of lectures on child psychology in the South Bend area during the month of March. Father Smyth will speak on a variety of subjects dealing with the problems of childhood and the role the parents must play in developing the young child spiritually, intellectually and physically.
Next Monday night at eight o’clock, • Father Smyth will give a lecture entitled “The Problems of Youth,” before the Daughters of Isabella. Following that, he will appear before the Parent-
ANSWERS WILL APPEAR IN THE NEXT ISSUE OF YOUR MAGAZINE
RULES FOR CHESTERFIELD HUMOR MAGAZINE CONTEST
1. Identify the 3 subjects in back cover ad. All clues are in ad.
2. Submit answers on Chesterfield wrapper or reasonable facsimile to this publication office.
3. First ten correct answers from different students win a carton of Chesterfield Cigarettes each.
4. Enterasmanyasyoulike, butene Chesterfield wrapper orfacsimilemust accompany each entry.
5. Contest closes midnight, one week after this issue's publication date. New contest next issue.
6. Answers and names of winners will appear in the next issue.
7. All answers become the property of Chesterfield.
8. Decision of judges will be final.
QUESTIONS
A If you locate me, you’ll see this modern age, Add a furry friend who lurks upon the back page.
JO Where the dogwood grows you’ll find me too, Believe me, solver, I’m pale in hue.
What’s the smoke that satisfies ? Simple as A B C, Look at the frame’s initial lines; its slogan is in 1, 8, 3.
LAST MONTH’S ANSWERS & WINNERS
A BARBARA HALE. An arrow is a “barb”; a constellation is “Ara”; hearty is “hale.”
P THE FIGURE 4, is made by the manner in which the Stork’s legs are crossed.
Q MULLINS. To heat and spice is “mull.” Add taverns (inns) and the whole answer becomes Mullins.
WINNERS...
JIM FLAHERTY, 123 Farley Hall HANK McGANN, 123 Farley Hall DICK KIRK, 115 Dillon Hall PAUL CURTIN, 221 Breen-Phillips BOB VIGNOS, 228 Zahm Hall
Teacher Association at John Adams High School on March 8 at 9 p.m. He will answer the question, “What Kind of Success for Our Children?”
The next night, Father Smyth will appear on the program of the Marriage Institute and speak about children “from birth to maturity.”
The succeeding week, March 15, Father Smyth will talk about the “Problem of Adolescence” at Riley High School. He will end his lectures for the month on March 22 when he will give an address on the “Pre-School Child.”
Last week Father Smyth stepped out of the psychology field. From February 26 to March 2, he directed “Hay Fever,” a play written by Noel Coward. This play was produced by the Catholic Theatre Group at St. Patrick’s Hall.
ROGER BROW, 437 Howard Hall
DICK SCHREITMUELLER, 153 Farley Hall
LEO SMITHSON, 418 Lyons Hall
HARRY SIEMONSMA, 233 Dillon Hall
JACK GOOSSENS, 119 Sorin Hall
16
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Cage Season Ends Tomorrow With Marquette
• .......... .......................
Handymen Face Hard Battle in CCC Meet
With their dual season successfully completed, the Notre Dame trackmen turn to the rough open competition tomorrow at the Central Collegiate Conference meet in the Fieldhouse.
Despite their fine dual meet record, the Irish rate only runner-up consideration to Michigan State. The Spartans successfully defended their IC4A Championship last Saturday in New York. This meet is regarded by Easterners as the Intercollegiate championship meet, although few schools west of the Alleghenies compete.
Just about every school in the MidWest, outside of the Big Ten schools who will be having their own title contest tomorrow, will be represented in the Central Collegiates. Quite a few of these schools have good individuals but outside of Notre Dame and Michigan State, and possibly Loyola or Michigan Normal, none are a team threat.
For many years, Michigan State and
Notre Dame have been the only strong teams in the CCC and since the Spartans are leaving the conference next year, it looks like it will be dominated solely by the Irish in the future. In both 1948 and ’49, the Spartans were champs with Notre Dame coming in second in ’48 and third last year.
The Spartans have the manpower to make their conference finale a memorable one. Nine of their fourteen scorers of last year are back and all have turned in fine performances this year.
Bill Fleming is the best of the Irish and will be a favorite in the high and low hurdles. Michigan State’s Horace Smith and Jesse Thomas are high hurdle stars and their Fred Johnson has beaten Fleming many times in the lows. Innis of DePaul and Norm Bador of Michigan Normal are also outstanding performers.
(Continued on Page 20)
St. Louis and Navy Vanquished by Irish
By JIM BRISLIN
The Irish eagers ring down the curtain on another season tomorrow night when they travel to Milwaukee to tangle with an oft-beaten Marquette quintet. The Hilltoppers will be out to avenge a 79-61 shellacking they absorbed here earlier in the season, but the Irish are heavy favorites and should finish the season on a victorious note. -
The boys from Marquette have been playing their regular brand of basketball this season — which, of course, means slightly worse than mediocre. They staggered through one two-month stretch without posting a victory, and then just managed to eke out a 59-54 decision over Wayne.
Two boys named Peterson, Guard Mel and Forward Dick, are leading in the race for scoring honors with 163 and
Strasser (9) and Fichtel join rebound melee with two Billilcens O'Shea does an eyes-c'osed juggling act as teammates watch
March 3, 1950	17
151 points, respectively. Both are seniors, but are not related in any way. Little Sammy Sauceda, the 5’10” Mexican who is playing his fourth season of varsity ball at Marquette, is the team’s play-maker and has looked very good at times during the season.
Coach Bill Chandler’s biggest headache this season has been trying to find a replacement for Frank McCabe, 6’8” high scoring center of last season. After- experimenting unsuccessfully with various sophomore hopefuls, Chandler has given the job to Joe Faupl, a 6’2” lad who played two years at forward before the switch.
But there will be more at stake at Milwaukee Auditorium than just another basketball game. At the time of this writing, Capt. Kevin O’Shea has accounted for 323 points, just 32 behind the all-time Notre Dame seasonal scoring record of 355 set by Leo Klier during the 1945-46 campaign. (Up to, and including, the Navy game). O’Shea is usually at his best in the Garden, and if he should play true to form against the Violets of NYU he should be within striking distance of the record when the Irish take the floor against Marquette.
Fulfilling a promise made to Ray Espenan, the Notre Dame basketball team squeezed out a hard-fought victory over the St. Louis University Billikins in their last home appearance by a 55-52 count. The Irish had to overcome a 29-27 St. Louis half-time lead in order to post their thirteenth win in 21 starts, and the outcome was in doubt down to the closing minute.
Leroy Leslie accounted for fifteen points while playing his best game of the season and Dan Bagley pumped in six deuces and a pair of fouls, but it was O’Shea who sank two foul shots to give the Irish a 53-52 lead with less than two minutes remaining and whose calm leadership kept them from throwing the game away on numerous occasions.
Ossola and Lehman together netted twenty-four of the Billiken points, but the real St. Lou standout was a blondhaired reserve named Scott who tossed in five field goals and whose all-around play gave the Irish much trouble.
The Notre Dame win gave them a seven-five edge in the series which began in 1938.	-
Last Saturday afternoon the Irish racked up their fourteenth victory of the season by beating a game Navy team, 65-59, at Dahlgren hall in Annapolis. The Middies, as always, died hard and the lead changed hands nine times before the Irish began to pull away midway through the second half.
John Foley, held scoreless throughout
18
most of the game, let fly with a vengeance in the final ten minutes, sinking five baskets on eight attempts and virtually sewing up the game for the Irish.
Dan Bagley led the Notre Dame attack with nineteen points, and Leslie and Strasser together accounted for twenty-three.
Fitzpatrick and Bill Wilson were the kingpins in the Navy offense, gathering seventeen and fifteen points respectively.
Chopp, O'Brien Seek Bengal Titles Again
During the last week of March, contenders in the 137-pound and 147-pound divisions of the 19th Annual Bengal Bouts will find their path to title honors blocked by two veterans of previous Bengal tilts. Scrappy little George Chopp of Chicago will not make Joe Sterrett’s attempt to win his second 137-pound crown an easy one. At the same time, Johnny O’Brien, 1948 finalist in the 147-pound class, will give that division much more action than it had last year.
Chopp’s fast, aggressive bout with Leo Hickey last year rated as one of the best in the five nights of fighting. The two lightweights threw more stinging blows in one round than the heftier sluggers did in three. George took the decision on spirit and tenacity alone as the two were evenly matched on punching power.
Johnny O'Brien jabs left to solar plexus of George Chopp in Bengal Bout workout.
The Chicago whirlwind started his Bengal Bout competition with a unanimous decision over Bill Skelly on the second night of fighting. This tilt tuned him up for the scrap with Hickey the next night. “Schedule difficulties,” due to a heavy list of 137-pound contestants, forced Chopp to fight again in the semi-finals.
Three consecutive nights of boxing were handicap enough, but George drew 1948 champion Jack Griffin as his semifinals opponent also. A fast moving first round was hard to score, but a second round blow to the solar plexus dropped Chopp to the canvas. He was on his feet, full of fight, before the count ran out, but the referee decided that his discretion would have to overrule George’s valor and Griffin was awarded a TKO.
Chopp is determined to make the 1950 record read differently. Sterrett and Hickey have also indicated they intend to compete this year. The heavyweights may get more attention, but this trio guarantees that the lighties will not fail to give the fans some of the best fighting of the tourney.
Vic Roblez and Joe Brown will find the 147-pound division more vigorous than last year. In 1949 Vic and Joe had to appear only on the night of the finals. But Johnny O’Brien, a polished fighter from Green Bay, Wis., will lead the challengers in the enlarged 147-pound class.
As a freshman in 1947, O’Brien tangled with Jim Klockenkemper for the
The Scholastic
emu. Klockenkemper’s previous Bengal Bout experience gave him the edge, but not until the Green Bay lad had established himself as one of 1947’s smoothest contenders.
Self-Styled Tarzans
Revive ND Tumbling
Ever since Tarzan threw his limbs at another limb, man has toyed with and, in many cases, mastered this art of limb-throwing. Modern day man,
devoid of a jungle, has rationalized the sport to where today the flying ring, trampoline, side horse, parallel bar, horizontal bar, and tumbling events constitute the present day version of this unique sport, currently being revived at Notre Dame.
This sport was part of the athletic curriculum at Notre Dame prior to the " war. During the war it was given added impetus in conditioning programs and now is experiencing a collegiate revival.
Although the Notre Dame aggregation is in the exhibition stage, it is believed that by next year the Irish tumblers could favorably compete on the collegiate level should they receive the green light from the Athletic department.
r Forming the bulk of the squad are 0 Jack Wenning, Tom King, Mike McBee, Pat Buell, Bill Santini, John T. O’Brien, John J. O’Brien, Don Marsalek, Mike Dolan, Mal Wakin and George Mc-Clancy. Tutoring these aspirants is the affable Ray Runkle who is no slouch himself at the sport, having captained Penn State (the current collegiate champ) in 1939. Anyone interested in joining the tumblers is requested to see Mr. Runkle any day between 3:30 and 6 in the heavy ap room.—Jack Keane
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box C /
by ‘Jack Meaney
Where Will They Be Going Next?
During the ’20’s and ’30’s, the perennially powerful Notre Dame elevens of Rockne and his successors were forced to travel long distances to find opponents who would take them on. This was rather the exception than the rule in those days; few teams traveled more than a couple of hundred miles to play. Sportswriters of the time hung the tag “Ramblers” on the Irish, a name which didn’t fit too well with University authorities. But the Irish had started something. Other colleges followed suit. Nowadays, trips of over a thousand miles are commonplace.
No longer are Notre Dame football teams referred to as “the Ramblers” but they still are the undisputed traveling champions. If a much talked-about agreement with the University of Miami for a two-game series goes through, both contests to be played in the Southern city, Irish football teams will have played in the four corners of the country. Last fall, the Irish went to Seattle for the first time in history.
However, the Athletic Department informs us that a home and home series with the University of Alaska is not being contemplated.
Mystery of the Week
Sport Item: Coach Tom Haggerty resigned his position as head basketball coach at Loyola University to accept a like position at an undisclosed school. Haggerty, whose contract as head man of the Ramblers had two more years to run, declined to name his new employer, but stated that the announcement would be made by the school authorities “at the appropriate time.” Last year, Haggerty piloted his Ramblers into the finals of the National Invitation tourney, losing the title by one point to the University of San Francisco Dons.
Now where would he be going?
Mail Bag
There have been quite a few theories advanced as to how Notre Dame athletic teams came to be known as the Fighting Irish. Here’s one we hadn’t
heard before, reported by Sports Editor Bob Murphy of the Detroit Times. And it doesn’t concern athletics either.
Mr. Murphy’s informant did considerable research on the subject and came up with the following explanation:
During the Civil War, with the Union periled, the good Fathers decided to close the school so that the students might enlist in the great cause. Almost to a man, the student body joined up and fought side by side throughout the war. “It was the record made by that valiant group of Notre Dame students that later resulted in the name Fighting Irish being given to the school’s athletic teams.”
As Mel Allen would say, “How about that!”
NCAA Doings
With the reinstatement of Boston College by the sacrosanct NCAA council, the issue of the Sanity Code and what to do about it crops up again. Had the Eagles not been given a clean bill of health, they would not have been allowed to defend their ice hockey championship or their District I championship in baseball since the Sanity Code specifies that schools not in good standing on Jan. 1 are not eligible to participate in NCAA meets and tournaments. By waiving the Jan. 1 rule, the council recognized the fact that the Sanity code, as it stands at present, is in need of an overhauling. Because of the different types of schools and of varying conditions and problems in different sections of the country, strict interpretation of the code is impossible. A more flexible policy must be followed if the code is to be accepted in all quarters.
Another problem plaguing intercollegiate sports is the 'wide divergences in basketball officiating. It seems every region has its own special interpretation of the rules. What is a foul in one section of the country is o.k. in another. The pros settled the difficulty by adopting one standard and instructing its referees to follow it to the letter. Everyone was made happy and it cut down on a lot of griping by coaches and players. It could do the same for the colleges.
> March 3, 1950
19
Handymen Harass Hoosiers
John Helwig (left) heaves shot 52 feet 10 1/2 inches to set new ND-lndiana meet record in last week's meet. Hoosier shot putters took second and third places. Joe Crist (above) clears the high bar to tie for third with his teammate, Tom Devine.
Trackmen Humble Indiana for 63-51 Win; Three Meet Records Fall in Last Indoor Tilt
Coach Doc Handy’s trackmen knocked off their third straight opponent, a 63-51 job on Indiana, last Saturday, to give themselves an undefeated dual season. The Irish can now claim the mythical state indoor title since they previously knocked off Purdue, the other ranking track power in Hoosierland.
Notre Dame started off slowly last week and were trailing, 25-11, at the completion of the first four events. They then started chipping away at the Indiana lead and, with four events to go, Vai Muscato and John Mohar took first and second in the 880 to put the Irish into a lead they held the rest of the way.
It was Irish superiority in the middle distance events that told the real story. Notre Dame picked up 26 points to Indiana’s seven in the 440, the 880 and the mile relay. Captain Bob Smith, after taking third in the 60, ran a dead heat for first with rapidly improving Bob Boyne in the quarter mile. The mile relay team completed the day’s festivities when they beat the Hoosiers by 50 yards. Joe Riley, Bob Boyne, Jim Bollas, nad Paul Schwetschenau were the boys who did the trick in this race.
The usual quota of meet records went into the books and the lads to do it were Fleming in both hurdle races, Miller in the pole vault, Worthington in
20
the broad jump and Helwig in the shot.
All three of the shot put placers were way over the old meet record of 49’7%” set by Irishman John Yonakor, now a pro football end with the Cleveland Browns, way back in 1943. Helwig had to toss 52’10%” to edge out Indiana’s Cliff Anderson and Jim Roberson.
John Worthington sailed out to 23’2%” to get his broad jump mark. Soph Bucky Ewing hit the scoring lineup for the first time with a third in the event.
Indiana’s Ed Brown and Notre Dame’s Jim Miller put on a real show for the crowd as they cleared height after height together in the pole vault and finally tied for first with a mark of 13’3” to set a new meet record.
The master hurdler, Bill Fleming, really showed his class as he broke meet records in the high and low hurdles despite a bad leg. Leo McKillip took third in both timber races.
Indiana’s Frank Owens did the ex-pected to take the mile in 4.21:7. Irish sophomore Con Tetrault surprised everyone by sticking with Owens for seven of the eight laps and taking second with a 4:55 effort, four seconds faster than he had ever run it before in his life. Ben Almaguer, another soph, ran his fastest two-mile in taking second to Indiana’s Bob Dellinger.
—Ted Prahinski
CCC Meet
(Continued from Page 17)
Johnson of the Spartans is also the broad jump favorite. Our John Worthington and Loyola’s Winningham are lesser lights.
In the mile and two-mile, Michigan State’s Bill Mack and Warren Druetzler could hardly be blamed for overconfidence since Mack did the mile in 4:09.6 and teammate Druetzler did the two in 9:11.7 just two weeks ago. They have no real competition but Notre Dame’s Ben Almaguer could take second from Loyola’s Kelly or Michigan State’s Atchison.
Irish Captain Bob Smith is the defending champion in the 300-yard run and might repeat. Johnny Helwig looks like the best of the shot putters.
Another Irish strong point is the mile relay but Loyola, DePaul, and Michigan State can all put good teams together.
The championship will probably be decided in the 440 and 880-yard runs. Michigan State Coach Karl Schlademon has the pick of Don Makeileski and Dave Peppard, 1:54 half milers, or Jack Dianetti in these events. Notre Dame’s Bob Boyne, Paul Schwetschenau, Vai Muscato, John Mohar or Jerry Johnson might upset the dope. Loyola’s Conrody looks like the dark horse in these events.
Originally scheduled to be held at Michigan State, the meet was transferred here because of a coal shortage in East Lansing.
The Scholastic
Jim Miller, ND's Pole Vaulter Par Excellence, Started Career With Leap Across Stream
By RUDY UNGER
Whenever and wherever Notre Dame’s track team puts in an appear-_ ance, the fans will see streaking down the turf a little mite of a guy, tenaciously gripping a big long pole and then vaulting off into space and jackknifing, with lithe grace, over a high bar.
The little fellow goes by the monicker of Jim Miller, and happens to be the finest pole vaulter that has ever graced the Notre Dame track team. He’s holder of the all-time Notre Dame pole vault record, 13’9”. Besides vaulting, " Jim also hurls the javelin during the ™ outdoor season and has the added ability of being able to clear the high jump bar in the vicinity of six feet.
When Jim was a youngster back in his home town, Schenectady, New York, the kids used to hop around on bean poles, trying to see who could vault for the longest distance. As they progressed, they struck upon the idea of vaulting a nearby creek; Jim was one of those who succeeded and, elated over his success, he decided to join his high school track team as a pole vaulter.
Under Mount Pleasant High’s capable coach, Norman Kitching, who turned out another Notre Dame track star, Jim Schmuakosky, running mate of the fabulous Greg Rice, Jim mastered the art of pole vaulting, developing a pendulum swing, and mastering the hand stand at end of the jack knife over the bar.
Jim proved an apt pupil by setting New York state’s pole vault record at 12’7%”. As a sidelight he high jumped to a new Schenectady mark of 5’11%”.
Perhaps Jim’s most cherished memory of his high school career is when he represented the United States in a meet against Canadian track stars in Montreal in 1946 and tied for the pole vault championship.
Since coming to Notre Dame, Jim, under the capable direction of track coach “Doc” Handy and his assistant, — Hughie Burns, has developed into a top 9 rate vaulter. Jim feels that he’s still progressing toward his peak and has the remainder of the indoor season and the coming outdoor season in which to up his record 13’9” vault.
Jim vaulted to that record height in the Central Collegiates at Michigan State in 1949. He wasn’t aware of the fact that he had set the record until the meet’s recorder announced the height over the P.A. system
He and hurdler Bill Fleming had • March 3, 1950
been chatting nonchalantly just before Fleming began high jumping; Miller was paged for the vault and so he picked up his bamboo and hurtled to the record height, absolutely unaware that the bar was hanging at 13’9”! Jim attributes his record to the fact that he was completely relaxed and at ease at the time of the vault.
Jim believes that a good vault can be made only if a vaulter’s run and take off are executed at a moderately fast, steady pace. He remarked that too many vaulters failed to place emphasis on their run: “They either run
Jim Miller
too fast, at an uneven pace or without the proper balancing of the pole.”
He believes that the new hard steel poles imported from Sweden aids a good vaulter in raising his vault mark anywhere from six to nine inches, and that the new pole will aid some of the coming collegiate vaulters in breaking Warmerdam’s monopoly on the 15-foot height.
Last year, Jim proved his finesse in the javelin throwing department by pinning down second place in the Indiana State meet with a heave of 184’6”.
Jim, a Physical Ed major, has his eyes set on a coaching job after graduation in June and, if he succeeds in improving his vault marks, he intends to go on vaulting in big track meets throughout the nation after graduation as member of some amateur athletic organization.
Irish Bridge Champs Vie in Intercollegiates
After battling their way through preliminary toui-neys on the campus, Notre Dame’s eight top bridge addicts competed in the annual Intercollegiate Bridge tournament last Saturday afternoon.
Under the supervision of Mr. John Turley, tournament director at Notre Dame, the four pairs of surviving “card sharks” played the set of prepared hands sent out by the tournament committee.
In the preliminary tourney, held on February 22, the four top pairs won by very close margins. Bob Marget and Dick Birmingham nosed out Don Lansing and Dan Russel by a match point score of 119.5 to 118.5. Maurice Murphy and Roy Munsell held third place with a comfortable 113.5. Fourth place winners John Schafer and Chuck Stimming barely ran up enough points to beat John Amrhein and Frank Beiter by a score of 110 to 109.5.
The scores of last Saturday’s hands were entered in the competition with other colleges and universities throughout the country. On or about March 15 the sixteen highest ranking pairs will be announced. These men will then play in the finals for the national championships in Chicago on April 21 and 22.
Scalera, Parisi Pace Win Over Louisville and Ky. U.
Scoring decisive wins in every event the undefeated swordsmen returned from Louisville with very convincing wins over Louisville, 22%-4% and Kentucky 25-2.	■
Led by Nick Scalera and Don Parisi with six wins and no losses each, the foil men won 17 of their 18 matches while Ernie Franzgate paced the epee men to 15% out of 18 points with four straight wins. Capt. Bob Schlosser and Bob Bosler sparked the sabres to 15 wins in 18 matches with five wins in six bouts. •
Herb Melton’s lads have now won six straight and are headed for an undefeated season if they continue to duel the way they have been.
Regional NFCCS Meets
The Chicago Region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students will meet Sunday to discuss its participation in ’ the national convention in April at Pittsburgh. Lewis Towers, Loyola University’s branch in downtown Chicago, will be the scene of the regional meeting.
21
Names Make News
Fifty Members Form Student Choir Here
Among the guest speakers at the annual Catholic men’s night sponsored by the Mishawaka Council of the Knights of Columbus on March 6, will be JIM MARTIN, co-captain of the 1949 Irish football squad, and BILL WIGHTKIN, a teammate . . ’.
Professor HUGH P. O’BRIEN of the Department of Sociology spoke at a meeting of the Southwest Civic Club of Mishawaka recently.
The engagement of Miss Kathleen Breed to JAMES 0. KNOBLOCH has been announced. Miss Breed is a graduate of St. Mary’s College and a resident of South Bend. Knobloch is a native of Thibodaux, La., and received his master’s and doctor’s degrees in chemistry at Notre Dame . . .
A report on chemical research conducted recently by Dr. MURLIN T. HOWERTON, of the Department of Chemical Engineering, will be presented this week in Houston, Texas, at a meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. The paper, written by Dr. Howerton in conjunction with P. G. Murdoch, of Texas A. & M., concerns “Reaction Rates in the System Butene-Isobutane.Concentrated Sulfuric Acid” . . .
JOHN T. KELLY, of Chicago, a graduate of Notre Dame, has been awarded first place in a playwriting contest conducted by the University of Nebraska. The play, “The Candlestick Maker,” was presented last year at the Belfry theater in Williams Bay, Wis. . . .
JOHN MASTRANGELO, former Notre Dame football star and pro football player, announced that he is through with the play-for-pay game. In addition he announced that he plans to marry his high school sweetheart, Gloria Beir, on April 22. Mastrangelo • has accepted a position as a salesman for a flour firm . . .
WILLIAM A. A. CASTELLINI, ’22, of Cincinnati, O., died suddenly last week in Columbus, O. Mr. Castellini was active in Notre Dame Alumni affairs. He was public relations advisor for ALVIN GOULD, sponsor of the 1948 and 1949 natural law institutes at Notre Dame . . .
22
The woodwind ensemble of the Notre Dame band presented a program in the Women’s Club of Mishawaka this afternoon under the direction of H. LEE HOPE, band director. Members of the ensemble are THOMAS CLINCH, HUGH BAKER, CARL KOHLS, ARTHUR FAIRLIE, and THOMAS GOODPASTOR. WILLIAM MACMILLAN gave a group of marimba solos . . .
The St. Joseph Valley chapter of the American Guild of Organists and its subscriber members were entertained by Prof, and Mrs. DANIEL H. PEDTKE, in their home last Sunday. Prof. Pedtke, a fellow of the guild, discussed guild examinations . . .
ROGER BROWN, a Commerce Senior from Chicago, announced his engagement to Rita Eileen Kelly at a party at her home in Chicago Sunday. No date was set for the wedding.
RALPH A. GUERRA, of Brooklyn, N. Y., who graduated from the College of Commerce in 1941, has become associated with the firm of Cravath, Swaine and Moore of New York City, one of the leading corporation law firms in the United States.
Icy Blasts Split Antenna For Zahm's Television Set
Zahm Hall is having television troubles these days. Reception has been “rather poor” since a recent gale cracked in two the tall, top-heavy TV antenna atop the freshman hall roof.
Other radio and television aerials, including those of Corby Hall, the Science Building, and Breen-Phillips Hall, are still intact. But the windy weather isn’t over yet — look out below!
Economic Group Meets
At a recent meeting of the Economic Round Table it was decided that applications for membership would be accepted in order to fill vacancies created by January graduation. The club is interested in securing members from the sophomore and junior classes. Besides interest in economic affairs, the applicant must have an academic average of 85%. Applications should be sent to Richard Birmingham at 107 Alumni, or to Leroy Porter at 242 Dillon.
What many have long considered a serious defect in the religion life at Notre Dame has at least been filled by the organization of a student choir. Under the direction of the Rev. William J. McAuliffe, c.s.c., a group of about fifty students, graduate and undergraduate, have been rehearsing and preparing to sing at various religious functions on campus.
Much of the success achieved so far by the choir is due to the cooperation and support of Rev. Richard Grimm, c.s.c., Prefect of Religion, whose approval of Father McAuliffe’s plans has made the whole project possible. Father Grimm has designated the 11:10 Mass on the last Sunday of each month as the choir’s mass. The choir has already sung at two of these masses.
Nucleus for Congregational Singing
Starting this Sunday, Father McAuliffe plans to employ the choir as a nucleus for congregational singing at the 9:00 Mass. The practicability of this idea was demonstrated at the Forty Hours Devotion, where the choir was placed in a body with the rest of the students to lead the singing. The results of this leadership were very 9 satisfactory, bringing a fine response from the students present. Similar results were achieved at the 6:30 adoration period on Sunday evenings by a group from the choir, who deserve credit for their help in promoting the successful recitation of the Compline.
The organization of the student choir is intended as an answer to the plea of recent popes that the laity take a greater part in the sacrifice of the A Mass. There are those who have long felt that it is not altogether proper that, while there are numerous groups to represent Notre Dame on the athletic field and in the concert hall, there has been no such group to represent her before the altar of God.
Not Primarily for Perfectionists
Father McAuliffe has pointed out that the student choir is not primarily a perfectionist organization. Rather it _ is intended to give the students who V desire it a chance to worship God in song. Its success, therefore, depends on the support it receives from the students. Any student interested in joining the choir may contact Father McAuliffe in Room 439, Zahm Hall.
If the response of the students is favorable, the Choir hopes to expand its activities to other religious services, such as Benediction, and perhaps singing at the 11:10 Mass every Sunday.
The Scholastic -
By JIM BRETT
Though the wintry weather of old Northern Indiana and the rest of Yan-keeland may have forced us into ski -i, boots and galoshes there’s a spot down W in southern Tennessee only a couple of miles from the Georgia state line where things are really hot. The ole thermometer is boiling but it isn’t the sun —no sir. It’s all caused by a snappy musical hit that’s playing all the better-known shoe shops down there. And in case you haven’t guessed the place — it’s Chattanooga; and the number is the Chattanoogie Shoe Shine Boy written by Harry Stone and Jack Stapp of Nashville. Currently featured by Red Foley on Decca record 46205. Chattanooga’s great big bundle of joy has become the country’s number one seller, with the Sugarfoot Rag on the flipover you can’t miss. Another fellow by the name of Crosby also tosses a neat rag, and on the reverse of Decca 24863 Bing gives out with the magic phrase Bibb idi-Bo b b idi-Boo.
And so we tearfully bid fond fare-__ well to sunny Tennessee, but don’t let sorrow cross your path. Just tag along after Frankie Laine on Mercury record 5363 as he follows The Cry of the Wild Goose and if you stay with him long enough you’ll find that on the other side he comes up with a little selection mysteriously entitled Black Lace. Of course no trip through music land would be complete without mentioning the Ames Brothers and their rendition of Rag Mop on Coral 60140. For an encore the Brothers team up on one called Sentimental Me. And speaking of sentiment, our old friend Tony Martin has scored a bull’s-eye with a disking on Victor record 20 3582 known as There’s No Tomorrow. As a companion piece he gives out a solo amidst .4 Thousand Violins. The Swing and Sway King, Sammy Kaye, and his orchestra is making his bid for the spotlight with a new arrangement called It Isn’t Fair. On the flipover Sammy’s _ arrangement turns floral with a bud-0 ding bit called My Lily and My Rose. For all juke box fans who would spend their nickels wisely Tes Brewer’s version of Music! Music! Music! on London record number 604 is right there for the asking.
As a final item that ought to interest all of us who lived through the days of droopy bow ties and squealing girls, I offer you Frank Sinatra. This crooner who was once pressing Crosby in
the opening rounds has of late been making the motions of a second rater. The bobby socks crowd has left him and has sought new blood, but with Frank’s new waxing of Chattanoogie Shoe Shine Boy and God’s Country the trend has halted. Both of these present Sinatra at his best, and although he is a bit behind Red Foley this time, he is finally beginning to hit his former stride.
Campus Publications Open Farley Offices
A plan for unifying all publications on campus which began early last semester has finally culminated in the establishment of a central publications office in Farley Hall. This new 10-room set-up is located in the northeast wing of the building and is the main office for both the Scholastic and Dome. These student publications which were once widely scattered have now been brought together in close contact with the faculty advisor and with ready access to the new engraving and photographic morgue.
Also included in this new location are the office of the director of publications, Mr. Dale Francis, a central publications office, and a mailing room from which
SPAGHETTI HOUSE
Lest You Forget . . .
T-BONE STEAK DINNER FOR ONLY $1.00 Every Thursday Night. COME IN HAPPY —LEAVE HAPPIER.
415 North Michigan	Phone 3-0903
all books ordered from the University Press will be mailed. Adjoining this room are four large storerooms which provide ample space for the storage of books.
Besides Mr. Francis, the central publications office has two other employees, Miss M. A. Alexander who will handle all the secretarial duties of the department and Donald Doland who will work in the storerooms and handle all mailing.
Notre Dame Students
Come in and see the hundreds of outstanding titles on our shelves. Hundreds of pamphlets, religious greeting cards, outstanding . religious art. Make Aquinas your shopping center in South Bend. We package and mail gift books.
AQUINAS Book Store
110 LaSalle Ave.
March 3, 1950
23
Ray Espenan
(Continued from Page 9)
Notre Dame. The backflip is not the easiest maneuver in the gymnast’s routine and requires great proficiency before instructors will permit any student to attempt it. But Ray had performed it many times with ease.
No one knows what went wrong this time. He did land on the canvas, however, and did not strike his head, neck or back against any bars supporting the equipment. He was on his back, conscious, but paralyzed from the shoulders down, when aid reached him.
He was in good spirits until the end and talked with his visitors until the last day. Even then it was apparent that he was able to recognize the people at his bedside and comprehend the actions going on around him. The neck fracture was complicated by double pneumonia on Thursday and his fighting heart finally succumbed under this added burden.
Ray is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Espenan, two brothers, Pierre, a pre-medical student at Notre Dame, and Edward, Jr., and two sisters, Mrs. R. C. Cazier, Baton Rouge, La., and Mrs. Calvin P. Hoist, El Monte, Calif. Pallbearers included two friends, Gerald Ramsberger and Ronald Sanford, two teammates, Bill Wightkin and Lancaster Smith, and two- of his
Arthur Murray Expert Knows All the Latest Steps
Whether a smooth Rumba, a tricky Fox Trot or a sophisticated Samba . . . smart Arthur Murray instructor Frances Cochran knows them all. And, she can teach them to you quick and easy thanks to “The New Arthur Murray Way.”
Arthur Murray of South Bend
120 E. Wayne. 2-3339
coaches, John Druze and Bob McBride.
Father Hesburgh, chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, celebrated the Solemn Requiem Mass with the Rev. Philip Schaerf, c.s.c., as deacon and the Rev. Joseph Muckenthaler, C.S.C., as sub-deacon. Burial was in New Orleans on Monday.
Ray’s football teammates, who remember him as the spontaneous humorist who made their trips enjoyable by his extemporaneous comic poetry, and other members of the Notre Dame Monogram Club attended Mass in Alumni hall chapel early Friday morning before attending the funeral services in a body. Notre Dame council, Knights of Columbus, attended Mass Saturday morning for their brother Knight.
Early last Thursday afternoon Ray received a wire from “Biggie” Munn, Michigan State football coach, telling him everyone on the Spartan campus was pulling for him. He also received another wire which read: “Keep fighting. We are dedicating our basketball game tonight with St. Louis to you. Signed: Ed Krause, Kevin O’Shea and the basketball team.”
The Irish eagers kept their word to Ray and w<5n, but by game time the campus family was already making arrangements for Ray’s funeral Friday morning. In the overwhelming minute of silent prayer during the halftime intermission of the basketball game, Notre Dame suddenly realized the extent of her loss.
In this loss, however, Notre Dame can profit from Ray’s courage in his suffering and his acceptance and preparation for death. We can only express our deepest sympathies to Ray’s family and friends in a loss that is even more poignant than ours. But we may hope they gain consolation from what we at Notre Dame have gleaned from Ray’s example. And we know he has not made this last trip alone.
Discussion Group Considers Relation of Business-History
Professor John Sheehan, Head of the Department of Economics, was chairman of the February History Discussion which took place last Tuesday in the Law Building.
Professor Wesley Bender of the College of Commerce, opened the meeting with a paper entitled “Business Disowns Clio.’” Professor William Shanahan of the Department of History followed with a paper on “History and the Self-Confidence of Businessmen.”
Next Wednesday, Professor James Dincolo, Head of the Department of Accounting, will address a dinner meeting of the City Club in South Bend on “Current Taxation Problems.”
Job Experts to Speak To Seniors Thursday
Methods of analyzing one’s own abilities and job interests and information about vocational fields will be outlined for seniors next Thursday afternoon by two experts from the Indiana State Employment Service. They will appear in the Law Auditorium at 4:30 p.m. in the second of a series of group conferences sponsored by the Notre Dame Placement Bureau.
The experts from the Indiana State Employment Service are Emmet Talley, supervisor’ of counseling and George A. Mead, supervisor of employment and community relations. Both are from Indianapolis. There will be ample opportunity for questions and discussions and for individual conferences following the general meeting, according to the an- W nouncement of William R. Dooley, placement director.
In this semester, as in past semesters, ND men needing employment aid are invited to register with the South Bend office of the Indiana State Employment Service, Mr. Dooley said. Such registrations can be sent by the local office to a state employment office in any part of the country. All fields of work are covered. Registrations from prospective teachers are especially invited.
The talks by Mr. Talley and Mr. W Mead on Thursday will be followed on March 16 by a talk by Edward R. Quinn, head of the Department of Testing and Guidance at Notre Dame. Mr. Dooley talked on Feb. 17. Later talks will be announced.
State Department Will Hold Exams for Foreign Service
The Department of State has an- £ nounced a competitive written examination for appointment as Foreign Service officer, Class 6, to be held Sept. 5-8, inclusive, in several cities in the United States and its possessions and at American diplomatic and consular posts abroad. This examination is open to men and women at least 21 years of age and under 31 years of age, who are American citizens and will have been such for ten years prior to July 1, 1950, and who are not married to aliens.
Candidates who pass the written " examination will be given an oral and a physical examination in the early part of next year. Those who are successful in all of these examinations will be certified as eligible for appointment.
A circular describing the examination and a copy of a pamphlet entitled Preparing for a Career in the Foreign Service of the United States may be examined in the Placement Office, Main Building.
The Scholastic
24
Your Future
10: Television and Radio
By JAMES KINGSLEY
• Joe Boland, Notre Dame graduate and WSBT sportscaster, sat down and wrapped up the entire TV-radio field in ten minutes of brisk conversation:
“Television is the biggest thing that has ever happened in the communications field. Sight added to sound — that’s nothing less than a revolution, and I haven’t yet seen it adequately described or evaluated.
“At least 350 stations have already applied to the Federal Communications Commission foi' TV broadcasting licenses. When these become authorized, and are added to the 50 or 60 stations already operating, they’ll need as many men as the colleges can supply. For a satisfying and useful career in a wide-open field, television will be hard to beat.
“I have just finished a sports broadcast. I took the stuff off the wires, jn.it it together myself, and got it on the air with just an engineer at the control-board. Two people, that’s all. Sup-g) pose that program were televised. How many men do you think it would take?
“Eight oi' nine, at least. Now apply that ratio to the whole industry — then you’ll get an idea of its potential size. Besides performers and broadcasters, they’ll need a mass of technicians, engineers, producers, photographers, and script writers. They’ll need businessmen, too. Salesmen and accountants, and people to publicize television as a medium of communication.
“Radio, which is pretty well filled, will supply part of the manpower that TV will demand. But only a small part. Foi- performers, an appealing voice isn’t enough; you’ve got to be young and good-looking. Television wants young men with ideas. A fellow with new ideas can go anywhere — in both radio and television.
“If you plan to be a performer or broadcaster, I’d suggest a major in
. English. That’ll be your medium: the English language. For a writer, I’d say English or Journalism. And don’t, whatever you do, ignore those campus activities that can give you experience in these fields. I mean dramatics and debating, and best of all,-working with WND. Don’t hesitate to start on a small scale. As long as you’re developing your radio personality and learning how to communicate with people, you’re getting the best experience there is.
“Catholic college graduates ought to be especially interested in commercial communications. They know what’s good and what’s bad; their judgment should be true. In television or radio they can affect other people and influence the standards of American culture through entertainment, a field that needs missionaries.”
Audio-Visual Lists Next Week's Films
The schedule of next week’s student showings of informational short subjects has been released by Orville S. Foster, Director' of the Audio Visual Center.
On Tuesday, March 7, the program will include three scenic movies in color. The titles are: Southern California, Southwestern Indian Dances and Winter in the Desert.
One picture will be shown Wednesday, March 8. It is a 40-minute movie entitled First Principles in Grinding.
The Thursday showing will include Just Imagine (10 minutes) and Gymnasium Baseball (20 minutes).
The Tuesday and Thursday showings will begin at 12:30, while the longer
movie on Wednesday will begin at 12:20. -AU of the showings will be in the Audio Vision Center on the second floor of the Main Building.
Notre Dome Fuel Situation Fair Despite Coal Strike
While the icy blasts of the recent cold wave have been choking the waning coal supplies of other midwestern colleges and universities, Notre Dame’s fuel situation is in fair shape. Although students have been asked to conserve on heat, there is at the present time approximately a 20-day supply of coal remaining at the central heating plant according to Brother Borromeo, chief engineer.
“The students might be a little uncomfortable at times,” regrets Brother Borromeo. “Nevertheless, I’m very much afraid that there won’t be an earlier Easter vacation.”
Irishers Hold Feast Feed
The Irish Club of Notre Dame will hold its second annual Saint Patrick’s Day banquet on Friday, March- 17, in the Rotai-y Room of the Oliver Hotel.
Thomas O’Shaughnessy, noted artist and illustrator from Chicago, will be the speaker of the evening. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.C., president of the University, and the five vice-presidents of the University will be among the guests of honor.
Tickets are available to the general public and may be obtained from any member of the Irish Club. They will also be on sale in the lobby of the dining hall, at §2, including tax.
D March 3, 1950
25
Next time you know you’re going to have to stay up late studying, pick up a jar of Nescafe*.
Nothing helps you through long sessions like coffee. And no coffee is easier to make than Nescafe. It's instant. Simply put one teaspoonful of Nescafe in a cup, add hot water (preferably boiling) and stir.
Good? It's delicious! Nescafe just naturally makes a better cup of coffee, because it always keeps its roaster-fresh flavor until you release it in the cup.
Yes, coffee the Nescafe way gives you all the flavor and “lift” of pure, freshly roasted, freshly brewed coffee, without the fuss and muss of brewing.
Nescafe is the instant way to pure coffee enjoyment If you like good coffee—you’ll love Nescafe. Get a jar next time you shop —keep it on hand for all occasions.
Moe peopfe drink Nescafe' than all other instant coffees I
•Nescafe (pronounced nes-cafay) is the exclusive registered trade-mark of The Nestle Company, Inc. to designate its soluble coffee product which is composed ol equal parts of pure soluble coffee and added pure carbohydrates (dextrins, maltose and dextrose) added solely to protect the flavor
Roughly Speaking by Ken Xkoren mbmiimbimmbwi
Ths Millenium
Certain gripes are aired year after year at Notre Dame. Some problems are moaned-about with annual regularity. This magazine’s working quarters was one of them. For years, Sch'olastic staffs have pleaded for more elbow room. The publication’s cubby-hole in Cavanaugh Hall was about as big as a filing cabinet. At last our moans can cease.
A week ago we packed up lock, stock and typewriter, and moved en masse to the northeast basement wing of Farley Hall. We have been granted more than twice as much space as we had formerly and are now as contented as a herd of overstuffed cows.
On behalf of the entire staff, we would like to thank whoever it was who heard our pleading wails of discontent. They have done mighty well for us. We can push back our typewriter carriages now without fear of killing our neighboring rewrite man. We are completely satisfied.
In five years or so, however, some Scholastic staffers who never knew how it was before our eastward hegira, will probably start griping all over again — pleading to be moved back on campus. The present plans for the Student Union call for Scholastic offices. So, if they only have a little patience, like their forerunners had, they might be contented, too. Here’s hoping our grand-kids can work in the luxurious Student Union quarters. We’re a bunch of realists over here now, so don’t even entertain the slightest notion concerning that next move.
Th? Rock
Although lack of time prevents our going to the Rock very often, we have some friends who practically live down there. Several of them came to us the other day, seeking our questionable help. They wanted to know if something couldn’t be done about the crowd situation on the basketball courts at the Rock. Things are particularly bad, they claim, on weekends.
The courts can handle a comparative few, whereas over a hundred sometimes wait for the chance to play. Once you are lucky enough to get into a pick-up game, you generally play for quite a spell. Now, my buddies’ question is, why can’t some fair and practical system be worked out whereby everyone
has an equal opportunity to get on the floor?	•
This seems to us to be a legitimate • gripe, and should deserve an immediate answer. While you’re on the floor, playing, you don’t give a hoot for the poor guy who wants to play, but who is forced to wait as long as three hours. When you’re waiting, the story is completely reversed. Some say as soon as the new fieldhouse is built there’ll be ample room for all. But the problem exists now, and should be cleared up now.
It all boils down to the fact that everyone wants to play, but the size of the Rock prohibits it. A fairer system of alloting courts and time in which to play a game, so everyone waiting will be satisfied, is definitely needed. Who can, and who will solve this problem?
Across the Dixie
Recently we have been showering the Student Council with what we consider well-deserved words of praise. This week we would like to do the unheard of: toss a laurel in the direction of St. Mary’s.
Through the efforts of their Student Council, a Saturday night innovation went into effect last week. From here on in, the doors of St. Mary’s Rectangle will be open to all Notre Dame men with dates on every Saturday night. The same permissions as always will be continued. Freshmen and Sophomores will leave at 10 o’clock, Juniors 4P and Seniors at 10:30.	’
Even though that might be irritating to some, the gals across the Highway deserve much credit for this new idea. Everyone knows the shortcomings of South Bend as a social town. Like that well-worn saying, if you don’t want to go to a movie, you can always go to a show. And that gets pretty boring after a while.
Now, you can have an informal time in the Rec, playing cards (high-ante poker excluded), or dancing to the juke box. When the St. Mary’s girls devised this idea, they were not only thinking of the many who gave up movies for Lent, but also had their altruistic eyes on ND wallets. Although we have yet to partake of one of these Saturday night informal get-togethers, we think it’s a great idea. So, we salute you, St. Mary’s, for a fine and constructive innovation.
Scholastic
26
Letters
(Continued from Page 4) news is impossible because the magazine is a weekly;
3. The student magazine should present only campus news and news directly influencing the students.
Oddly enough, the two latter- argu-ments reduce to the first, which must be granted if the other two are to be valid, though all three can be challenged on their individual merits.
As for the first point, to argue that the student body is so large that it needs a news organ, is not to answer the question that was asked — why has the Scholastic become a news organ? If a news organ is needed, it is certainly secondary to the need for a general cultural organ, and there is no justifi-® cation for eliminating the cultural and supplanting it with a news sheet. Moreover, it can well be argued the othei-way — the student body is so large it needs a biggei- and better cultural magazine. (Incidentally, the Juggler, Technical Review, et al, are partial answers to this demand, serving their own particular purposes well. However, the total accomplishment of the official student paper is not within their scope, nor is it meant to be.) Thus the whole reply, based on this one point, commits a logical fallacy — it begs the question.
The second point might be granted if the first were, but as that is not so, it is irrelevant. However, if by the second point is meant that the news and cultural functions cannot be combined for want of space, it must be pointed out that the value of news per se has been exaggerated by college student editors to an astounding degree. It is fortunate that you have unveiled this state of affairs.
The third point, of course, collapses without the first, but considered on its own worth, it discloses some startling assumptions on your part. They are:
1.	That the student magazine should present only news. This is an arbitrary, unwarranted policy totally out of harmony with university education.
2.	That the student body desires only news. My position is representative of 0 a large segment of the student body which feels the need of a general cultural organ, such as the Scholastic was once and should be now. And need it be repeated that the campus press is influential and should fill its place in the scheme of university education, correcting if necessary erroneous beliefs in the student body, should a majority of it desire only news?
3.	That the student body should desire only news. This is due no doubt to
March 3, 1950
allowing the organ to fall into the hands of embryo journalists who have not stopped during their college career to consider just why they are in college.
4. That the editors of the Scholastic are free to use the unqualified support of the university administration in any way-they see fit — even to the extent of combatting the very aims for which our educators are working.
Perhaps I should rephrase my original question to read, “What has happened to the editors of the Scholastic?”
Thomas Kelleghan
We don’t believe zve begged any questions. We simply stated that the Scholastic has changed in 83 years, thus ansivering the basic question of “What’s Happened to the Scholastic?” Of the “flimsy” premises, only tzuo are ours. The other is of Mr. Kelleghan’s imagination. We never said that it is impossible to carry anything besides nezvs in a weekly. We said that it zvas impossible to carry more than a MINIMUM of features. As for the first premise, zve believe it’s still standing: Notre Dame does need a nezvs organ. The second point suffers from the al-ready-znezitioned fact that it isn’t ouz' premise.
On the third premise, the assumptions stated certainly aren’t there on ouz' part. We ziot only deziy each of thezn, but also deziy that they could be implied from ouz' editorial. Hozvever, zve might ask in passing zvhere is the large seg-znent of the student body which Mr. Kelleghan represents? Are zve presuznp-tuous in thinking that large really means large — say 25 oz- 30 pez' cent? —Editor.
Junior Class Thanks
Editor:
On behalf of the Junior Class, we would like to take this opportunity to thank all of those who worked long and hard to make this year’s Mardi Gras Dance the success we all felt it was.
In particular, we wish to thank Jim Hennessey and Frank Crovo, the co-chairmen, who did a splendid job in organizing and completing arrangements for the dance. To those who labored up to the last few moments before the dance, completing the decorations, a special commendation is deserving.
We realize that the success of the dance was due mainly to the fine sup--port of the student body who joined in the festivity with the spirit of charity. Our only hope is that the Mardi Gras Dance will remain a traditional affair at Notre Dame.
Junior Class Officers Ray Yanics, President
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, March 4—Semi double —White—St. Casimir, confessor; 2nd Coll, of the feria, 3rd Comm. St. Lucius I, pope, 4th Against Pers.; last Gospel from the feria or
Ferial Mass—Violet; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. St. Casimir, 3rd St. Lucius, 4th Against Pers.
Sunday, March -5—Semi-double —Priv. I class—Violet; SECOND SUNDAY OF LENT; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us, 3rd For the Living and the Dead; Credo; Pref, for Lent.
Monday, March 6—double—Red —SS. Perpetua and Felicitas, Martyrs; 2nd Coll, from the feria, 3rd Against Pers. Tract; last Gospel from the feria or
Ferial Mass—Violet—no Gloria; 2nd Coll, feast of SS. Perpetua and. Felicitas, 3rd Against Pers.
Tuesday, March 7 — Double — White—St. Thomas Aquinas, Confessor and Doctor; 2nd Coll, from the feria, 3rd Against the Pers.; Tract; Credo; last Gospel from the feria or
Mass of the feria —Violet — no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Comm. St. Thomas, 3rd Against Pers.-
Wednesday, March 8—double— White—St. John of God, Confessor; 2nd Coll, from the feria, 3rd Against Pers.; Tract; last Gospel from the feria or
Mass of the feria; Violet—no Gloria; 2nd Coll, from the feast of St. John, 3rd Against Pers.
Thursday, March 9 — double — white — St. Frances of Rome, Widow; 2nd Coll, from the feria, 3rd Against Pers.; Tract; last Gospel from the feria or
Mass of the feria—Violet — no Gloria; 2nd Coll, from the feast of St. Frances, 3rd Against the Pers.
Friday, March 10—semi-double —Red—The Forty Holy Martyrs; 2nd Coll, from the feria, 3rd Defend us, 4th Against the Pers.; Tract; last Gospel from the feria or
Mass of the feria—Violet—no Gloria; 2nd Coll, from the feast of the Forty Holy Martyrs,. 3rd Against the Pers. Defend us, 4th Against the Pers.
27