
Dotre Dame Scholastic
■	■	'	.	-T--	*	1
Disce-?vAsi-semp^	• vive «9vasi- crasmoriturvs-
Vol. XXXVIII. NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, February 18, 1905. .... .No. 19? ‘ .
Fruitful Hours.
(Zn memory of the late Iter. J. if. Toohey. C. fl. C., for
•many years a contributor to "The .Ive ifaria." )
LIE loved our Mother; and, his love to show, Throughout the years full many a time and oft
Forewent the glamour of indulgence soft -
In dreams, to spend his leisure’s overflow
On tasks that helped her clients’ numbers grow;
In her behalf he tilled his mental croft, And wrote what sped dull, lagging souls aloft
To heights whereon her grace and merer glow.
When came Death’s summons, and the record long Of life flashed swift before his dimming sight,
No hours amongst .the whole unnumbered throng Shoiie half so brilliant, or, in Death’s'despite,
So robbed of terror all that final scene
As those he gave Our Ladv’s magazine.
'	A. B.
Hamilton the Builder.
GEORGE J. MCFADDEN, ’06.
HE history of nations is largely a story of individuals; of then of great moral and intellectual habits. Such men are often ill-received in their own day, they often suffer calumny and perse
cution; but if within them is a‘ divine something, a devotion to ahv vital truth or principle, their memory is safe; the clouds will break away, and the light which guided them shall shine for thousands. Fdremost among this class of manhood in our.own land is the soldier who helped' to - fight the battles of - the American Revolution;' - the statesman, who, though by prejudice a friend of England; was yet by principle,- a - true . American;the builder, who, after the din of conflict died away, constructed 'upon
the wrecked - confederacy a 'strong/national union—the man of - characterc andu.genius^l Alexander Hamilton.	.
It is a truism and yet a truth, thate-grenfe crises make great men. Hamiltons lived^in? a time of change. The world was emerging; from the- darkness of oppression- and wrong.. Rights refused to the disregarded^ millions; for centuries were beginning to be demanded.; Ireland, under the leadership of Gratfanf;wn^ claiming social and religious liberty.;f- Eranee, was on the verge of a bloody; revolution? England, through the genius of Pittp^was trying to' conciliate her outraged.colonies; ;-
Hamilton, the boy, on his . island, home caught the spirit of the times. -Left;- an orphan at an early age he had to make- his way in the world single-handed and alone. At fifteen, an age at which most hoys are still playing childish games, he was in New York a stranger, homeless and without friends, to seek his fortune. His only recommendations, honesty and industry; his only resource, a keen intellect; his only guide, a lofty ambition and a holy hope, he. yet achieved success, and was soon a student at Columbia College.	.
One summer night there was a political meeting in New York. 'Its object was to determine' whether New York should join the other states Th demanding a congress for action and for consultation. New York was the stronghold of the Tories. Professors and statesmen had spoken,, but they voiced the' conservatism of ages; their-ears were open to catch only the murmur of the-multitude. It is easy to float on the wave of public sentiment,’ blit it takes • strength: arid manhood to-stem its-tide. Then, Hamiltbri the sfudent, stood before them,..small,- darkened - and nervous, - a passionate fervor, .ip his heart? arid’ an unspokem truth upon his .
W2	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lips. There he spoke unanswerable claims for liberty’' and the divine right of man to be free. This mere boy carried his audience into higher regions where dwelt the light of freedom’s aims and freedom’s ends.
A man of deeds as well as of theories in the struggle of the revolution, Hamilton the soldier was ever in the thick of the fight. He fought at Long Island; he was conspicuous for bravery at Harlem Plains;
. he led the advance up the Heights of Yorktown. The Americans entered into the .conflict of the revolution with the strong breast-plate of a “heart untainted” and a “quarrel just.” Their patriotism sustained them through eight years of privation and trial. But from out of the gloom of Valley Forge and the night of conflict, they emerged covered with wounds and blood, staggering * in their weakness, but victorious, with the risen sun of freedom beaming upon them, and freedom’s flag, stars of glory and stripes of morning light, waving over them. But though living under the folds of that sacred banner, it was possible for them to relapse into a darker bondage than that from which they rescued themselves. The tyranny of many, guided by selfish passions and ■ . reckless of wrong, breeds greater evils than the tyranny of a few. The days following the American Revolution were the darkest days of American life.. There was no settled national policy, no fixed plan of finance, no
. constitution.	K
Two great parties sprang up and labored to have their ideas implanted in this virgin rt political .soil. Jefferson, the leader of one •	ft... party, formulated certain principles of polity
which many believed, if preserved, would keep the country in the true state of national progress. But Jefferson’s system merely amounted to a profession of confidence in the people. He had been in France, and was: imbued with the spirit of the French Revolution. He sought liberty and equality for the individual and the rights of the state as opposed to the rights of the nation. Hamilton, the leader of the other party, believed such a policy, would bring only confusion and ruin. He was a believer in a* strong national government, ah exponent
." of- centralization. It is said that he was •.	favorable, tora monarchical , form of govem-
ment, but the surest road to monarchy is
through anarchy, and in the constitutional convention of seventeen eighty-seven he labored for the constitution. There he came in conflict with tlie greatest minds of the time. They gloried in their newly-found liberty. They had just broken away from one strong government and were determined never to be restrained by another. Hamilton’s speech in favor of the constitution, in point of forceful logic and concise style, is one of the masterpieces of American literature. Hamilton triumphed, and the constitution was adopted. His voice was the most persuasive of its adoption; his mind the greatest source of its strength. But after it was accepted, his own state of New York would not ratify it. Day by day he argued and pleaded till at last 'the hard-headed old statesmen acknowledged themselves conquered, and ratified the constitution. And after all this, to use Hamilton’s own words, his only reward was “the murmurs of its friends and the curses of its foes.”
Hamilton’s work was not fully appreciated then. But the' spirit infused into the constitution echoed down through the century. It was voiced by Andrew Jackson, when he quelled the secession of South Carolina with those memorable words, “The federal union—it must be preserved!” It was re-echoed by Webster in that most glorious of sentiments, “Liberty and union, now and forever, one and inseparable.” And when the smoke cleared awav from the battlefields of the rebellion, it had received its final vindication.
Hamilton gave, the written constitution a living significance. But his triumphal arch was in the building; he had yet to place the keystone, upon which was to rest the burden of his fame. When Washington became President he turned to Hamilton as the one man who could successfully take charge of the finances of the nation. It was an enormous task; to assign to any man. There was no system, no money, no credit. Hamilton, created* them all. It was his work to, substitute r order for disorder, hope for fear, confidence find security for dread and distrust. The. countries of Europe were gloating over the apparently insurmountable difficulties: of the new nation. Hamilton collected taxes, created a national bank,
NO TRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
and formed a revenue system. He took this government, which was a mock-word in every mercantile community on earth, and launched it on the sea of industrial security. His financial ideas have not been-improved upon through a century of economical studv. Where did Hamilton get his genius? Like all great and good men it came to him in the inspiration of serving humanity. The same power that impelled Shakspere to give to the world the treasures of his inner life; the same power that sustained Savonarola in braving the hisses of the sin-stricken multitudes of Florence; the same power that guided the hand of Angelo in carving o	o	o
a divinity from the rough marble slab, guided Hamilton in the less dramatic task of carving a sound financial system out of debts and deficit. .
Great work breeds jealousy. Hamilton was slandered by Giles, opposed by Madison, attacked by Jefferson. But strong in his integritv and dignified in his honor, he met every charge. He feared no foe, shrank from no obloquy, turned aside from no danger. He abhorred pretense, hypocrisy and lies. In the politics of the time he saw through Burr’s designs, fathomed his ambitions, and thwarted his plans. Burr, unscrupulous and vindictive, challenged him to a duel. Hamilton branded duelling as murder, yet he unshrinkingly offered himself a martyr to the code of honor- of the day. But while the name of Burr goes down to oblivion in ignominy and' disgrace, the name of Hamilton is ever held in. < respect and admiration. The name of this man, who gave our constitution life, who created a treasury, and formed the basis for the nation’s wealth, who preached the leadership of the United States as a nation, - still lives.
When novices seek to introduce new and unsafe schemes of currency, it seems the voice of Hamilton can be heard in the silences: “Sound finance, without it your nation is undone.” When anarchists speak their false ideals of freedom and their enmity to law, the voice of Hamilton calls as light but of the shadows: “Freedom is the fruit of law and can not be where law is not.” When socialists speak in their radical way against existing conditions; when they try to uproot the landmarks of centuries; when they murmur against Christianity itself, we
3°3
study the principles of Hamilton -the states^ man: “Liberty is ruinous; -.governments futile; laws of no avail, unless behind them all we have the moderating-power and sustaining influence of the-Christian religion i” Hamilton’s life and works speak to :us through the century, ever exhorting us to ideals that are sound, true, and eternal; ‘
Jefferson served his country well. Lincoln lived in a time when the world needed his. breadth of mind and his magnanimity; Washington stands alone in his glorv—the father of his country. But tumult is not the final judge. When the shouts of rivalry and the clamor of the multitudes die awav, silence gives her final decree. Hamilton, criticised in one age is acclaimed a-hero in the next. He stands the test-of silence. He is honored, not as a martyr, not as a conqueror, but as a true American.
The Ancient Roman Family.
BYRNE AL DALY.
To understand clearly the manners and customs of the ancient familv two; things must be taken into- consideration;—the religion, which was the governing power,-and the father, who, as chief priest, held the highest rank.	.
If in imagination we hark back to-those ancient times we .find in the centre of-the house an altar upon which a fire was kept constantly burning. We see the family assembled around this fire offering sacrifices to it; for this fire was a god and was worshipped under the name of Vesta,.or. the Hearth-fire. Each family had its separate Vesta, and none but. the members-of- the household were allowed to approach it. A unity of worship was necessary,, therefore,-in order to be a member of a familv. The daughters at their marriage renounced the. paternal fire and worshipped at the hearths of their husbands. In consequence,.from.the: day of their marriage. they could no longer-claim relationship to: the 'paternak-family.; The children., of this marriage .weregofdno; kin to the. family of 5 their inother;i;sincie> descent, was_ reckoried - through -; thet malet line.- They, could hot: inherit;.for morne; could:
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
inherit who were not qualified to continue the worship. The daughters, also, came -under this ban, for we have seen that thev were members of the family onl\r as long as they remained unmarried. By custom, although by no law, however, dowries were provided for the daughters by their brothers.
Although buried in the tomb of the family, the daughters were not accorded a place in the ancestral worship. This worship ranked second to that of Vesta. A short distance from the house stood the familv burial ground. It was one of the duties of -the father, as chief priest, to offer food and - drink once a year to these ancestors, since . thev were regarded as the gods of the family and. worshipped under- the name of Manes. History cites us many instances which show the importance of this worship. When the Gauls -were encamped around the citv of Rome, one of the Fabii, dressed in religious garments, passed through their camp and ascended the Quirinal to offer sacrifices at the tomb of his ancestors. For if these sacrifices were neglected, the ancestors would' become the evil spirits of the familv.
This ancestral worship also furnishes us with a means of determining who belonged to the family. In order to be a member of a family it was necessary to worship the same Vesta and also the same ancestors. The ancestors were three in number; and correspond to the. father, grandfather and great grandfather. Through these ancestors the line of relationship extended as far as the sixth degree; but as the sons of the father, who continued to worship, assisted him in the sacrifice two more degrees were added, making in all eight degrees of kindred. Beyond this, relationship could rnot be established. as a common ancestor.
z Passing; from the worship of Vesta‘and , the ancestors, - we take u p the last of. the central figures of the ancient family—the. father . or pater.: He was the nearest of kin .to the latest ancestor, arid, was recognized by religion as the only one qualified to continue -the worship. AIL the power as chief priest of ;the sacrifice was centralized in him. He could dispose of all the property; of the ; family^As the . labor of the sons was a source of. income, they , tyere - rega
/familyproperty. yThfe <fathety could; there
fore, sell his son, although the son was still considered as belonging to the family and under the dominion of the father. His labor only was sold.
Under the ancient religion the son never reached his maturity until the death of his father. He could acquire no property. Anything left to him by legacy became the property of the father. Accordingly, there could be no contracts between son -and father.
The wife was in much the same condition as the son'. She could acquire nothing; even her dowry became the property of her husband. She could never have a hearth of her own; she could never be the chief of a worship, and therefore possessed nothing which gave her authoritv in the familv. As a girl she was under the control of her father; at his death she was governed by her brothers. When married she was under the guardianship of her husband, and when he died she did not return to her own family—as at her marriage she had renounced the paternal, fire—but remained subject to her .sons. In case she had no sons the heir of her husband became her guardian. The husband, at his death, had the right to choose this guardian or even to select another husband for her.
Such, then, was the ancient family. It differed in but ; few respects from the families in Greece or in other lands existing at that time. Owing to the domestic religion it was a small organized body; a little society which had its own chief and its own government. In later times, possibly for protection, the families having a common ancestor united.and formed the Gens which are so prominent in the early history of Rome, and which existed in the British Isles under the name of; the Gian.. But even in our own day. we find many of the ancient customs, especially the religion, still existing. The worship of ancestors-is practised at the present time in China, - and the worship of the sacred fire is still continued among many of the. barbarous tribes, principally among the - Hindoos in India. But as civilization continues to spread over the earth/ and with it; Christianity, it can be safely said that the day is not far distant when these pagan customs will be but a memoryofthe past. tyy.ty-ty	..
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Rondeau.
EDWARD L. ROUSSEAU, ’08.
'J'HE Gold and Blue let’s wave on high And lift its glories to the sky,
Its heroes bold in speech and song
Let’s praise, and pray that just as long
As banners wave it too shall fly.
When far away and years pass by
I’ll think of thee, ’twill make me try
To do what’s right, to shun the wrong, Oh Gold and Blue.
Oh Notre Dame, when death draws nigh
And I aloft your colors spy,
With joyful heart I’ll join the throng,
Aly doubts dispelled, my faith made strong.
A blessing on thee then I’ll cry, Oh Gold and Blue.
The Principalship at Lincoln.
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07.
Lincoln is a typical village of the Northwest. Its citizens represent that high average of intelligence and virtue which makes the country districts a conservative check upon the large, heterogeneous, floating vote of the cities. Lincoln High School is the pride of each individual citizen, and the books of its ample library are to be found in every home. Men and women alike turn out in full force to elect school .officers. To be a member of the school board is an honor to which no one may aspire who has not the approval of. the wives and mothers of the town. The school board is thus composed of the very best citizens of the village.
In such a town the election of a High School principal is naturally an event of prime importance. Early in May, Principal Harrison had secured a more desirable position, and by the middle of June applica-tions to the number of fifteen had been received to1 fill the vacancy. The applicants differed widely in experience and attainment s/Lbut : most ■ of them were ' young
college men recently graduated. These candidates were- looked upon with special favor because for some vears back thev-had been uniformly successful.
The choice of the board lay between two young men, Frank Emerson and , John Longworth. They had been classmates during their whole college course, had competed against each other both in the class-room and on the campus, and now-each unknown to the other had applied for the school at Lincoln. Their chances of success appeared equally good. Both were highly recommended by the college authorities; neither had influential friends in the town, and as it happened each had had a year’s experience in rural school-teaching before going to college. The board felt satisfied that either’ ought to make a good principal, and found it somewhat difficult to choose between them.
This very fact made the contest the more interesting for Emerson and Longworth. They came to Lincoln the same day to see personally the members of the board, each to plead his cause as best he could. Their contest became one in which personality was the all-important element. Mr. James, the director of the board, invited them both to dinner at his home. James was the village banker and well known as a shrewd business man. It was his rule to invite the most promising candidates to take dinner at his home. During the meal he made what was to him a completely satisfactory estimate not only of the. candidate’s character but also of his intellectual and social powers.
Both young men passed this test well, but Frank Emerson made the better impression. Mr. James considered Longworth the deeper student, but preferred Emerson as an all-- around man. The ladies of the household had in their own-intuitive way formed a veiw decided opinion regarding the character and general fitness of each. .Mrs. James was out and out for Emerson. Miss Clara, who would be a member of the next graduating class, also favored Emerson and thought Longworth a “little, too stiff/’ as she expressed it. The two boys were enthusiastic for Emerson, who won their allegiance by showing a hearty interest in their prospect of having the best baseball team in the
nO6 .	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
KJ
comity the coming summer. Emerson had evidentlj’ won this family.
; It is but fair to say of Longworth, however, that he had been the more successful so far as the mastery of books'goes. During his college career he was marked by a certain dignified aloofness, which kept others from sympathizing with him. Yet, he had a kind heart, and enjoyed the sincere respect of . that small circle of friends who knew him best. Perhaps his application of that homely maxim, “Do what is right, don’t mind what people say,” was carried a little too far. He was now to learn that in bis chosen field of work it matters much, what people think. A schoolgirl thought him too stiff, and two schoolboys thought him too slow. Mr. James, it is true, would not have been willing' to acknowledge that he was influenced in this business affair by the opinions . of his' wife and children. But the fact is he was' influenced all the same.
Frank Emerson, neither brighter nor better than his opponent, possessed fine tact, the essence of those hundred little unnamable social’graces which win people’s hearts. He knew well that a sensible man must do manjr things not’ because they are of any intrinsic worth, but merely because other people do them. He realized also that to get a place to teach and keep it is a very important part •of a; schoolmaster’s business.
- By request both young men attended the High School commencement exercises and there met many- of the prominent citizens : o'f :the town. On this occasion also Mr. . Emerson made a more favorable impression upon the people. But Air. Longworth was hot-idle. Two members of the board were strongly inclined to favor him precisely because of- his cool severity of manner, believing that , on this account he would be -a stronger- disciplinarian. . .
Saturday evening both left Lincoln ’ after Being in the town two days. Longworth, confident that two: members of the board were lor him and hoping to secure the third yote: necessary ;for election, went home in ■ 'h'chieefful-mood. - Emerson being assured by Mr? James'- that his election was well-nigh _.r ^certain’ went over to a neighboring town to -spend the ^Stmday with an old college friend there fJawait' the actibm of the board meet ^Monday morning. .
. He awaited veiy contentedly Mr. James, message which he expected to read something like this: “You have been elected. Come over and sign your contract.” A full hour before the time expected, the message came, but it read verv differentlv: “The board has elected Mr. Longworth. Have returned vou vour letters of recommendation.” Emerson was entirely at a loss how to account for this sudden change of opinion. The cause was simple. Political feeling was acute in - Lincoln, and when it was learned by the merest accident that Emerson was a democrat and Longworth a republican, one member of the board, for reasons all his own, changed his vote.
Edmund Kean.
ROBERT F. STACY.
Nowadays, in his study of the merit of the literary plays, the student of Shakspere is too often disposed to overlook one of the most fruitful sources of the information which he seeks. The source referred to is that of the stage and the actor. Further observation will convince us that not only has the stage done great service as a commentator, but has also been one of the greatest forces in the preservation and dissemination of the works of Shakspere. Hitherto the question has been considered in the abstract, the stage in general; let us now take up the most potent factor in this great work, the Shaksperean actor. And clearly standing forth on the list of the histrionic stars, from the seventeenth-century Burbage down to our own Mansfield, we find the name of that disordered but surpassing genius, Edmund Kean, for nineteen years the glory of the English stage.
Edmund Kean -was bom in London, March 17, 1787. His father was supposedly 'Edmund Kean, a person at one time employed by the builder of the Royalty Theatre; -and his mother was Ann Carey, a descendant of Henry Carey, the poet, and by = profession an actress. At an early age he accompanied his mother, who peddled perfumes: along the ; English countryside; and in one of these , tours young .Kean
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
3°7
fortunatelv came to the notice of a Mrs. Clarke, who was so favorably impressed by his graceful manners and his recitations from Shakspere—for he had often taken juvenile parts on the stage—that she kept him for two vears, during which time he received instructions in dancing, fencing, O'	O’
and various other accomplishments. When about twelve years ’ of age he joined Richardson’s troop of strolling players, where he again met his mother who was a member of the company. From this time until his first appearance in London, in 1814, he acted a variety of parts, appearing in the provincial theatres of England and Ireland, while gradually making his talents felt.
In 1808 he married, and during several years experienced some startling changes of fortune; his familv at times being on the 7	-	o
verge of starvation. Through Dr. Drurv, the master of Harrow school, who saw him at Teignmouth and had been greatlv impressed by his abilities, he procured, in 1813, an engagement at the Drurv Lane Theatre for three years at a salary of £8, £9, and £10 a week for each successive year. From his birth he had known naught but hardship and sorrow; he had been starved and beaten in his vouth, and this engagement ^7	O O a
promised a welcome means of escape from the distress which threatened him in his manhood. .
The long-hoped-for evening, Feb. 26, 1814, at length arrived, and Kean, as he bound up his few properties preparatory to his departure, muttered: “I wish that I were goins to be shot; ” but a nobler fate awaited him. On entering the dressing-room of the theatre but two members of the Drury Lane forces spoke a kind word to the young actor as he threw off his wet garments and donned the robes of the Jew of Venice, which character he was to portray.
The audience that had assembled in the great theatre that night filled only about one-sixth of the house, and those present were rather sceptical as to the ability of this young provincial player. All doubt vanished when he first appeared bn the stage, for there was a courtly grace in. his every action, and from the moment of his . bow to the audience until the curtain was rung down on the last act he held the
minds of his audience. Each successive act' added to his triumph; and the old theatre rang with applause such as had not been heard in Drurv Lane in manv a rear. His
•J	_
performance was, in the words of Hazlitt, “The first gleam of genius breaking athwart the gloom of the stage.” With the memory of David Garrick still before them the audience succumbed to the fascination of the beauties which Kean read into the role of Shylock. Of his acting that night Dr. Doran says: “But the absolute triumph was not won until, the scene—which was marvelous in his hands—in the third act, between Shvlock, Salanio and Salarino, ending with the dialogue between the first and Tubal. Shylock’s anguish at his daughter’s flight, ‘ his wrath at the two Christians who make sport of his anguish, his hatred of all Christians generally and of Antonio in particular, and then his alternations of rage and grief, as Tubal relates the losses incurred in the search of the naughty Jessica, her extravagances, and then the ill luck that had fallen upon Antonio—in all this there was such originality, such terrible force, such assurance of a new and mighty master, that the house burst forth into a . very whirlwind of approbation. He demonstrated that night, as he did on many more, the truth of what Coleridge afterward remarked: “To see Kean acting was like reading Shakspere by flashes of lightning.” Hurrying home after the performance he cried triumphantly to his wife: “Mary, you shall ride in your carriage yet, and Charles shall go to Eton.”
Kean’s fortune was now assured, and after his third performance as Shylock, the receipts of which reached an almost unprecedented sum, his old engagement was cancelled and a new one at a far higher salary was drawn up. Wealth and honors were showered upon him. He became the idol of London; he was feted and banqueted. And here the old nature asserted itself, for often did Kean retire at an early hour from the gayeties organized in his honor to preside over a gathering of prize fighters and jockeys held in some disreputable wine room. But: in spite of his dissipation and his fondness for low company he steadily rose in his profession. Triumph after triumph yyas scored. He essayed the most diflicult .ro
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of English tragedy: Richard III., Hamlet, Othello, Iago, Macbeth, Romeo, Richard II., .. Sir Giles Overreach, Lear, Timon, Virginias, - Young Norval, Hing John, were all personated by him with the sublimest feeling and power.	*
When for the first time he assumed the ■ character of Lear, he had muttered fiercely: “I shall make the audience as mad as I shall - be:” and he did. .Again, in the role of Sir Giles Overreach, his methods were so impas-.. sioned that one of the veteran actresses of . the. London stage fainted with terror when ■. she. played a scene in the fifth act for the first time with him. In that firantic intensity, that vividness. and poignancy of action lay the seeds of madness as well as the germs of success. Although he continued to act his usual round of parts in the theatres of England, and had even made tours of the . United States, once in 1820 and again in 1825, his excessive drinking had undermined his constitution, and it was onlv bv the continual use of stimulants that he was still.able to act his old parts, while unable, -to. master a new one. In this maudlin . fashion, he lived; but his time was short, for on the night of March 25, 1S33, on which ■ he. was announced to appear in Othello . along with .his son Charles, with whom, after an .estrangement of several years, • due. to the. father’s misconduct, he had.just become reconciled, his mind failed him. With . difficulty he had succeeded in getting through two acts of the play, but he lacked his former power. He reached the middle of the third act, the line—“.Farewell! Othello’s - occupation’s gone,” which he spoke with all. his old- time sweetness. He strove to - enunciate the . next line, but his memory was gone, and he fell heart-broken and exhausted . into - the. arms of his son, who played Iago, and whispered : “j am dying, speak to them - for me.” ..;	.	.
.. Death did not come to him immediately. - He. lingered about two months, during- which.time*he wrote.to his wife.from whom he ?had been separated for seven, years: “ Come home: forget and forgive; ” and then : /on the 15th of May, with-his long-suffering wife., by-his bedside tenderly holding his . hand, feverishly ..muttering a . speech,; from / a:?playP he. died.; . ./	'/
>- His memory is ’.not forgotten.! His fame
is secure; for the literary lions of his day,	t
Keats, Coleridge, Bvron, and Hazlitt have	I
immortalized him in gratitude for the delight	1
his performances gave them. And it is a	g
curious thing, tlie view Kean took of those	S
who commented on his work. He held in	J
utter contempt any verdict of the people	i
of fashion or rank; - and on the other hand	1
declared that the onlv good critics were	1
lawyers, doctors painters, and literary	|
'men; and these in their turn defended him	|
from attack. It was in reference to one of	|
Kean’s early successes that Moore wrote	।
that most scathing rebuke of professional	j
theatrical criticism: “Poor Mr. Kean,”	]
said he, “is in the honeymoon of criticism.
Next to the pleasure of crying a man down, your critics enjoy the vanity of writing him up; but when once up and fixed | there he is a mark for their arrows ever after.”	1
Notwithstanding the kind treatment of i critics and students of the annals of the stage, Kean’s reputation will ever remain tarnished bjr the vices to which he was so addicted and over which he exercised little | or no restraint. He was physically and g intellectually brave, but he had no moral . i courage. Against fearful odds he had fought 1 his' way up in his calling till he assumed S the mantle of Garrick and the Kembles, £ only to lose the victory by his lack of self- g
•	TOT
control. No actor since Shakspere himself	S
ever displayed greater amplitude- of power	S
in rendering the wonderful lines of the Swan . I of Avon; . and yet none ever possessed in | such a degree the faults of that profession.
He was vain, whimsical, and irresponsible; he was prodigal and yet not generous. He gave to his art a mighty impetus, and to his profession a stigma of :shame. Whether the entirety. of blame is. to be fixed upon him no one ventures to say. Perhaps the . view which; Edwin . Booth took of the matter * was. the correct one;. but at all events no one ever paid a bitterer penalty	|
for his misdeeds than did Edmund Kean.	1
There - is one - thing:. in this unfortunate ■ man,.something which,rises above the inass £
, * ’. I am . convincedthat Kean’s aberrations' were ’
'constitution'aT/and-.beyond, .his control.. The blots on 9 .the" scutcheonof genius,’ like spots on the sun, are to us, 8 •.dim-eyed ? gropers jn the vast 'mystery, incomprehensible,	. aR
inscrutable.. .	. ' . '	“	8
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
of contradictions in which he lived and moved, it is that impulsive genius, that wonderful energy in the study and acting of his characters, which, commands our admiration; and with that passionate energy was joined the absolute fearlessness with which he threw traditions- to the winds and advanced his own original conceptions, to stand or fall bv them. Let us, then, not forget the work he has done for the stage, and especially- the lasting benefits • he has conferred upon mankind in the way of reading new meanings and new beauties into the characters and lines of Shakspere. But let us, on the contrary, strive to forget his faults, his excesses and his eccentricities; and while contemplating his genius as an actor overlook his errors as a man.
The Sanctuary Lamp.
AV. d. j. ’05.
0 jewel in the starlit sky One half your beauty shows, No ruby in the monarch’s crown
Emits so warm a rose.
0 luminous clot of deep-red blood,,’ That tells of lasting life,	"
You point me to His sacred shrine, When wiles of men are rife.
Dear lamp of God, when darkness comes And all the lights are low,
You fill my longing soul with awe, As I watch your sacred glow.
A holy vigil you must keep When other lights are dead, To guide the angels to His shrine
Whence mortals all have fled. - ,
The impious man would willingly believe there is no God; his passions, the corruption of his heart, would fain persuade him there is not; the stings of conscience proclaim the emptiness of the delusion; the Leavens •proclaim the. existence of God, and unperverted reason; teaches that He must love virtue and hate vice, and reward the one and . punish the other.—Charles Carroll of Carrolton.	•
.	- My Treasure. , .	-
While rummaging arotmd in the garret-one day last week I came upon the old trunk I used while at college. . You know that when my “days had been numbered,” at the University I went away suddenly. T was not exactly “canned,”.as the boys .say, but I felt it in the air that my presence was needed “ at the front to fight the foe”—so I quietly put my belongings in the old trunk ' and “hurried to meet the enemy.” Since. that time my old trunk has never been touched except when I needed something? out of if,—which was but seldom. Last week, however, through curiositv to see its contents I took everything out of it. Among the manv long-forgotten things, there was one that brought me nearer the olden days than did all the rest. It was not anold faded flower, nor letter breathing of tender devotion, nor my Varsity monogram, nor , my Latin Grammar,—although I have a deep-seated regard for them all, especially the Latin Grammar—it was just my old corn-cob pipe. To make you /feel and know what a treasure the old thing is would be impossible, unless you are a smoker and could: appreciate a good pipe. And it is riot everyone I would have smoke it. It is .as sweet as the most fragrant fumes of the Arab’s sandal-wood. Everv cate can be driven from your brow by smoking this - treasure. You can even be lulled to that land of dreams where no ‘sorrow enters. More .than this can my pipe do for me. When I am home from work at night and in my big chair before the open fire, it can bring me . back over that long expanse of years to . the evenings spent in my room at the college,—evenings . when I smoked, holding: my calculus on my lap upside down, and dreamed of far fairer things than “integrals arid differentials.”	...	.	-	.
.There is not much danger of my treasure being stolen. No thief .would recognize its. . value. Even the house-keeper declares she will put it in the. fire. But how ..is she to know? She would also put an uncut diamond in; the stove —not kriowing. its value, thinking it to be coal because it was, .. black. The only thief I-fear is “Bather Time,’’.and he will take;me .from it rather than it from me. '	' J. T. L.j ’06.
3IO
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame Scholastic
Published every Saturday during Term Time at the University of Notre Dame.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Terms: $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address: THE EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame, Indiana, February 13,4905.
Board of Editors.
STEPHEX F. RIORDAN, '04
MICHAEL J. SHEA, ’04 JOHN M. QUINLAN, ’04
HENRY M. KEMPER, ’05 CHAS. L. O’DONNELL, ’06 WILLIAM D. JAMIESON, ’05
JOHN F. SHEA, '06	EUGENE P. BURKE, ’06
BERNARD S. FAHY, ’05	WILLIAM A. BOLGER, ’07
—The announcement that the bi-monthlv examinations will take place next week recalls to mind the oft-debated question of their utility and benefit. Much can be said in favor of them. The careful preparation which they require is the greatest element in the good results produced. From time to time through individual study and recitation we gain separate and disjointed bits of knowledge; to make them serve the end intended we must conjoin and associate these bits into one cohesive whole, a task which can be done only through the tedious work of reviewing. Moreover, though our natural cynicism leads usto declare that examinations were invented for the purpose of finding’ out what we don’t know, we are forced to admit that they obligingly reveal what we do know. But again, there is the pessimistic view entertained by so many of our students. As the fantastic horror looms into nearness and certainty many a groan of despair escapes them as they think of the wearying moments of toil, the unremitting toil, thankless toil, which is sb often rewarded with the dreaded “flunk” notice. The very thought of the - approaching; ordeal lengthens their days ■ and - shortens their nights. Furthermore, rational living is-• abandoned. A proper regard - for^mealsj-sleep aiid exercise’ is considered inconsistent1 with a! thorough
preparation. Cramming is not the proper way to meet the crucial test. If we study for the sole purpose of passing, we are flat failures as students. The only way to avoid this is by conscientious work during each Semester, then when the time comes we will not be forced to memorize for the moment what we should have learned* months before, but instead we will have only to combine and correlate our itemized knowledge to grasp our subject as a whole.
—The question of examinations necessarily brings before us the subject of cheating,— cheating in class and cheating in examinations; but more especially the latter. The underlying cause is the lack of a proper appreciation of the harmfulness of this practice. “Honesty is the best policy,” and, we would add, dishonesty the worst. It mayA take a clever manto cheat successfully, but such cleverness is nothing if not harmful. A degree and its companion testimonial, the sheepskin, stand for something; 'and that something is a liberal education. But, if you do not possess that which the parchment symbolizes, your degree is a burden to yourself and a hindrance to vour advancement. Your deficiencies will unmask you and proclaim you to the world what you were in college, a cheat. Try honesty for a while. It is never too soon to lav aside vices and never too late to cultivate virtues.

—General Lewis Wallace is dead. This was the sad news that was announced on last Thursday morning to the millions of admirers of that author, who has won a permanent place among the great American litterateurs; of that soldier, whose gallantry’ and bravery. in two wars brought him undying glory; of that statesman who served his country so ably and so well; and of that gentleman whose every act endeared him more and more to his friends. His name is inseparably connected with “Ben Hur,” a work which has met with a success far surpassing that attributed to any similar work. And if he had accomplished nothing, more than the writing of that book, his?.place on the roll of the immortals would 'have been assured. He succeeded in doing" that which several others
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
had, without success, attempted; he produced a religious novel which has for two of its great characteristics, truth and sincerity. Unlike many other masterpieces, this one may be read and appreciated, not only by the educated, but by the universal man.
‘Although “Ben Hur” was published twenty-five years ago, it has lost none of its popularity. On the contrary, it has been constantlv growing in the favor of the reading public. Only a few years ago it was dramatized, and its presentation on the stage has alwavs received well-merited praise and applause.
Gen. “Lew” Wallace is best known as an author, but he has also acted in official capacities. He was governor of New Mexico, 187S-1S81; and while in this office he laid the basis for “ The Fair God.” At the expiration of his term of office he was appointed minister to Turkey. While there he gathered material for the construction of another novel the worth of which was widelv attested by the reading public.
He was a native of the State of Indiana, having been born at Brookville in 1827. He died in his seventy-eighth year at Crawfordsville, Ind. By his death his country has lost one of her ablest citizens, and his state one of her noblest sons.
—Walter Page, in his article on short stories in Collier’s Monthly, says that while the real West is dead it still lives in our fiction. It is often a matter of speculation just what the West is. It may be said that the country west of the centre of population may be so considered, but logically speaking this is not correct. The West has no definite geographical boundary. It is the place where a man stands on his merits; where there is no aristocracy of wealth or of blood; where it matters not whether a man can
trace his lineage back to the Mayflower, if he be a man of originality and work.
In our Western colleges we find few men who are there merely for pleasure and to help to spend the wealth of their fathers. They are imbued rather , by the spirit that .inspired Lincoln to walk several miles after ' a book that he might study it by the light .of the fireplace. The people of the West while serious are still optimistic. They are'
311
accustomed to doing great things. People seeking adventure may try to-find the old-fashioned cow-boy and the wild life of the frontier, but they are gone. The open prairies have been transformed into beautiful farms and little cities where the spirit of industry is rampant. The West is the country of hope and plainness and patience. What the Western people have done warrants the forecast that still greater things are vet to come.
— Of all athletic contests football is undoubtedly the most discussed in and out of season. In some of the minor colleges and universities the playing of this distinctive college game has been prohibited; whereas in others, among which are some of our most prominent universities, this sport is continually under fire. Do those opposing this so-called brutal game realize that they are seeking to curtail one of the greatest pleasures of the student body? The participants themselves know what bruises and injuries may be expected, still they delight in the game. It must be admitted that in past years the game was dangerous; but each year the committee bn rules has sought to eliminate as far as possible these dangers. That their efforts along’ this line have met with approval is attested to by the increasing popularity of the sport. Football is not an evil ; and when it ceases to be interesting, or begins to be barbaric, public sentiment will be sufficient to cause its downfall in the college world.
—An interesting and unusual investigation has been recently carried out by W. G. Anderson, director of the Yale gymnasium. Professor Anderson has compiled statistics which show that, while as a general rule they are taller and weigh more, yet the classical students are not so strong physically as their comrades of the sciences. The deduction he draws from this is that the students who are stronger constitutionally prefer
the scientific training. But from these figures we would hardly be justified in drawing .the conclusion that the classical student .is more afraid of and less fitted: for hard work than a scientific graduate, and facts/prove that he is not.
a
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Death of Father Toohey.
On Mondav last, Feb. 13, the Congregation of Holy Cross suffered a painful loss in the person of the Rev. John AI. Toohey, who died at the hospital in Austin, Texas, in the 64-th year of his age. Borii in Ireland, but educated in New Orleans, where he joined the Congregation of Holy Cross and' was ordained priest, he-was called to Notre Dame bv Father Edward Sorin in the vear 1872. Since that time he was continually engaged all over the country as teacher, parish priest and missionary. He successively held within the community many important offices of trust and honor, such as director, superior, and .even assistant - provincial, showing himself everywhere very conscientious in the discharge of his various duties. His motto was “Refuse nothing and never ■	-	- -	- -	-	o - ,	.
ask for anything.”	J	The Jriter-Hall track meet held in the gym-
Rather simple and unassuming in his ways nasium last Saturday afternoon was one of he preferred to work rather than to shine; the most successful of its kind ever held at hisi ... good will being surpassed only by his Notre -Dame. .'The events, were run off modesty. A kind of versatile genius, while smoothly and quickly, thus avoiding the fulfilling all. his professional; obligations J as long waits and delays which have yendered a priest ,or an educator he always found former meetsTsp -monotonous. By three time to write for the religious press mhny o’clock . the gallery was packed with an article that often attracted the attention, enthusiastic j rooters . from the different of.-the publicat large. Giftedwithan exact, halls/ who loudly . cheered their respective almost too exacting mind, he gradually won teams . and . the members of them. Sorin the; reputation of an eminent : philologist, . easily led in this respect, arid it must be arid; even minute orthoepist ■ in .the English acknowledged- that their , excellent cheering
language. A remarkable linguist he mastered the French, German, Italian, and, later on, the Spanish and Bohemian tongues, which he rendered into the vernacular with- a perhaps too literal fidelity. His translation of “ The Story of Joseph Haydn,” the Austrian composer, is so interesting as to read like a romance, and so well written as to stand a model of elegant and graceful style. As a preacher his diction, clear, correct and concise, shows that in the pulpit he aimed more to instruct his audience than to stir up their emotions. He always meant what he said; and if at times he felt too great an aversion for anv rhetoric whatever he never failed to be honest in intention, sincere in conviction, and -simple in expression. During the six years he spent in the University of Notre Dame - as Professor, Prefect of Discipline and Vice-President, he made a deep impression on a.11 students by his spirit of kind firmness, democratic condescension and Christian charitv. After leaving Notre Dame, in the South as well as in the North, like the soldier spoken of in the Gospel, he instantly went wherever he was sent by his superiors, and the last act of his life, though scarcely able to move or breathe, was an act of heroic obedience performed by an exemplary religious.	S. F.
-	. -	. *	* * V	•	' .
Last Friday morning the students were present at a Solemn High Mass celebrated in memory of Father Toohey. Rev:. President Morrissey was celebrant; Father Corbett deacon, and Father Sammon subdeacon.
. . Athletic Notes.
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
was one of the factors that helped Captain Quigley and his men to win the banner. The most inspiring of Sorin’s songs was the following which is sung to the tune of that glorious war song — the “Battle cry of Freedom.”
Hurrah for Sorin !* Hurrah for her team! Hurrah for Quigley, ain’t he a dream ? We’re going to win the meet, boys, For “Quig”; is here to-day,	.
Shouting the battle cry of Sor ... in.
Many members of the faculty were present, including Rev. President Morrissey and Fathers French, Crumley, O’Neill, .and Schumacher. The first event was the fortyyard dash,, and Corby made an auspicious beginning by taking the three places, giving her a total of nine points. Things looked gloomy for Sorin, but in that desperate moment her devoted, adherents in the gallery broke into the glorious chant:
Sorin, Sorin, dig, dig;
Hit up, old “Quig.”	*
The effect was at once apparent, for Bracken restored the prestige of Sorin by taking first place in both the high and low . hurdles. After the hurdles came the 880-yard run, an event in which the greatest interest was shown. Sorin expected Quigley to win this race; and when he got a poor start a groan of despair came from their section. “Quig” made a manful effort to catch the bunch, and by a game .sprint came up with them only to fun into a pocket from which he could not escape. In spite of this misfortune first place went to Sorin, for Tommy Welch in a beautiful, sprint ran away from Murray and crossed the line a winner, while the gallery shrieked “Sizzle drizzle doodle dum 1 ” On the last lap Quigley •escaped from confinement, and by one of the grittiest finishes ever seen on the local track took .third place and a point for Sorin. The other feature of. the meet was the 440-yard . dash in which Quiglej’ and Kasper ran . for Sorin, while O’Connell and Hudson repre-
3X3
were the fine all-around work of Bracken, who was the largest individual point winner, and the excellent work of Rennacker, Coad and Guthrie. The final score was: Sorin, 43; Corby, 39; Brownson, 10; St.’ Joseph,. 7.
summaries:- ..	;
40-yard dash—1st, Thompson; 2d, Holliday; 3d, O’Connell. Time, 4 4-5;
40-yard high hurdles—1st, Bracken; 2d, Evans; 3d, O’Shea. Time, 5 4-5.
40-yard low hurdles—1st, Bracken; 2d, Dwan; 3d, Coad. Time, 5 3-5.
880-yard run—1st, Welch; 2d, Murray; 3d, Quigley. Time, 2:20.
440-yard dash—1st, Kasper; 2d, Hudson.
Time, 1-minute.
1-mile. run—1st, Powers ; 2d, Milner, 3d, Rush. Time, 5 minutes 30 seconds.
220-yard dash—1st, Coad; ,2d, Lally and Dwan tied. Time, 25 seconds.
.High jump—1st, Winter; 2d, Pryor;-3d, Strauss; 4 feet 11 inches.	’
Broad jump—1st, Guthrie; 2d, Bracken; 3cl, Holliday. Distance, 20 feet 5 inches.
Pole.vault—1st, Rennacker;. 2d, Pryor; 3d, Guthrie. Height, 10 feet;
. 15tb shot put—1st, Sheehan; 2d, Guthrie; 3d, Funk. Distance, 38 feet 614 inches.
Refereee—Dr. J. A. Stoeckley. Judges at finish—Professors Maufus and Mahoney. Field judges—Professors Sweeney, Powers and Reno. Starter—W. A. Draper. Timekeeper—D. O’Connor.
Quigley’s fall in the 440 did not result as seriously as it was at first suspected. He received several painful bruises and was spiked but not very severely. He was laid •up onfr a few days. .	.
The absence of Hill from the meet weakened Sorin, and made the contest much closer than.-it otherwise would have . been. The loss of the -pole vault would haye enabled ■ Corby to win out, but Rennacker. was there at the crucial -moment. and made sure of the banner for Sorin.' ;	;	-
. \ , ' . - ■
A. meeting of the Minim Athletic Associa-. tion: was held at.' St- Edward’s7 Hall under
sented Corby. At the first turn, Captain Quigley was violently thrown, and for some moments lay in a stupor. ‘This left only Kasper, to run for Sorin, and' he came in the direction .of.' President Reno. At the second: to O’Connell who ran the event in meeting it was decided td' organize a basket-excellent form. O’Connell, however, was ball league to be? composed four teams, disqualified for-fouling, and first place, was The secretary was requested , to draw up a given to Kasper. .The features of the meet schedule of games, the.first of which will be
'	j
- . 1
-	■	1
'	■	• I
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .
held next Sundav afternoon. The folio win"-o men will captain the teams: Woods, Herk-stein, Roe and Langendorf. A banner or some suitable trophy will be presented to the winner. After the details of the basket’ ball league were disposed of, the association turned to track affairs and elected as captain of the two first teams Roe and Yrisarri. Around the middle of March a bis; meet will be held at the gym in which the question of the track championship will, be settled.
•Jr	-	.
The injury which Draper received in the De Pauw football game prevented him from doing any work with the shot up to last week. However, he seems to have lost none of his old form in this event, for during the practice last Saturday afternoon he succeeded in putting the 161b shot over 46 feet. This ought to win the event in the state meet.
- ■	y *
During the past , week Arndt has devoted much of the baseball practice to coaching the men in the art of hitting. Arndt is an exponent of the short choppy style which has been so successfully used by Keeler and many other great hitters. The gymnasium makes an ideal place for indoor practice, but during the past week the heavy and continuous snowfalls have covered the skv-lights and made the interior rather dark. ■' # ' ■
O’Connor has a slow ball that is a wpnderl He worked it with terrific effect in'several . doubles much to the regret of the unsuspecting. Shea and O’Neil have the same slow one at their finger tips.
• ■ •■ ■'**/’ ' ' 1 ‘
The honor of breaking the first bat of the season belongs to Tobin who had the great happiness last Thursday. He held the trade mark up too. Joe Buckley will have the bat repaired	.
■ , .	* V '	\	_	-
: There has been , much agitation in .Corby
for a dual meet with Sorin, for down in their hearts they think that in a dual meet-Corby could defeat, the Inter - Hall champions.
* While Sorin is not seeking such a meet never-, tlieless we..have been authorized to sayin these, columns that .Sorin is always; readys to; meet’ Corby in any athletic contest that
they may propose, and that if Corby desires a dual meet with Sorin, the latter will be ready at any time to accommodate them. Manager McGlew is willing to run. off such a meet if the two halls desire it. If Corby wishes to enter into a dual meet • a committee should be sent to him in order that arrangements mav be made.
McCarty seems wedded to ill luck in baseball this wear. He had just recovered from a black eye received while batting when he was hit. by a slow ball in the lip which caused ? an inconvenient but not serious swelling of the member. . T. F. S.
Cards of Sympathy.
Whereas, It has pleased the infinite goodness and wisdom of God to remove from this life the mother of our esteemed associate, Professor F. X. Ackerman, be it
Resolved, That, we in behalf of the Faculty, extend to him our heartfelt sympathy in his bereavement.	.
..	■	Professor M. J. McCue.
: .	\ Professor William H'oynes
Professor John G. Ewing.
-	w
We, the undersigned, in behalf of his classes hereby take the opportunity to extend our sincerest sympathy to Professor Francis X. Ackerman in the great bereavement ’ caused him by the death of his beloved mother.
Harry J. Roberts .
William’ P. Donovan
: William A. Waldorf
• '? ; Jolin J. Scales—-Committee.
Personals.
"—The Rev. A. G. Hermann, Pastor of SS. Peter and Paul’s, Doylestown, Ohio, visited here last:week.-
—Mr. Charles Ade, of Kokomo, paid a short visit during the week to his son Glenn in Carroll Hall.	.	.
—Arthur M. Steiner is another member of last year’s Civil Engineering class that is ’employed by and doing well with the Pennsylvania Railroad Company at Logansport, Ind. This is but another instance of the fact that Civil Engineering graduates of Notre Dame are always capable of performing the duties expected of them.	;
—Mr? Anton C; Stephan (C. E?’04) was a welcome visitor during the week <and ’was greeted with many a hand-shake from his
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
t old friends. Steph, who was for .the last two I years captain and first baseman of the I Varsity team, is now well located with the | engineering corps of . the Pennsylvania । Railroad Company, with headquarters in H Logansport, Indiana. ‘
J	—We are pleased to note the progress of
John W. Dubbs of Mendota, Illinois, who
J	graduated in law in 1903. He is building
J	up a large practice in his home town, where
a	he is affiliated with one of the best lawyers
|	in the state. Lately he has been appointed
|	assistant state attorney of La Salle County,
|	a position of high honor for so young a
|	man-. The record he left behind him at
i , Notre Dame is sufficient guarantee that he ■ will make a brilliant record.	•
;	—Visitors’ registry:—Miss Minnie' M.
Grath, Captain P. McIntyre, Pt. Duhomie, .	• Canada; Mrs. W. E. Konzen, E. A. Fliten,
’ Mishawaka, Ind.; Thomas L. K. Donnellv, i Miss Magdalene Whitstone, Niles, Michigan; , Andrew Gering, John R. Harrington, Albert ■ C. Richmond, Chicago, Ill.; J. S. Corbett, Marion, Ind.; Nicholas Emanuel, North ;	Bend, Neb.; Mrs. Frank Sarnt, Buchanan,
;	Mich.; Airs. W. and R. Schrodes, Charles
,	Pulchrone, Battle Creek, Mich.;- J. W. Ken-
«	nington, Eber A. Fox, Michigan City, Ind.,
!	Anna Corbett, Marion, Ind.; Miss Bessie
i Richmond, New Orleans, La.
Local Items.
|	—Dr. J. A. Stoecldey, donor of the Stoeckley
{ Gold Medal, officiated as referee of. the :	Inter-Hall track meet.
j	—Advertisement.—Wanted:) A hat that will
• induce the Corby Hall art devotee to cover ; his curlv locks. .
|	■ —The cold weather has claimed many a
I victim in the past week. The infirmary is |	becoming more populous and popular each
|	successive day. -
|	—The opening of the preliminaries for the
|	debating team has been postponed ten days
to give the candidates everj* opportunity to prove their worth.
—The Very Reverend President recently spent a few days examining the little, men of . St. Edward’s Hall. The visit is but a slight indication of the great interest he takes in their welfare. He expressed himself . as well pleased with the work that they are doing.	.	. .
—The storms and heavy snows to -the westward of the University have put some of the students to a slight inconvenience and curtailed a luxury for the past few moftiings, as.ilie Chicago papers have not been arriving on anything like schedule time. .	.
3J5
—Professor Edwards and his assistants in the library have been greatly inconvenienced for the past few days on account of the chill atmosphere in their domain. The projected improvements have bden temporarily abandoned but will be continued the moment the weather permits. -	. '
—Remember! .The examinations are scheduled for February 24 and 25. It is not too late yet to scrape the rust off one’s brains. But if one has allowed it to accumulate he can not expect to have the bright and well-polished brains that he would have if he attended to them daily. Is it not so?
—Owing to the departure of Mr. W. G. Emerson, Commander of the Sorin: Cadets, no selection of officers has been made. Mr. Emerson was called home on account of the illness of his father. He has the best wishes of the Cadets and his friends, who hope for the speedy recovery of his father and for his own return to the University in the near future.	’	...
—Everv Wednesdav and Saturdav night the Sorin Hall choir practises in the chapel of that building. The first night that -the wily shouters congregated, they furnished a surprise for their-fellow tenants, but now that the first impression has. gradually worn off, these, in turn, are prepared to endure, in long-suffering patience and meek .humility,, the torture with the hope of brighter days in view.	.	.. f .
—On account of the many volumes which have been missed from the library since the opening of .the new year, and; the .consequent annoyance therefrom, Professor Edwards, who has full charge of the library department, after having* taken the matter under advisement, has decided to take; effective measures to prevent any repetition5 of like offenses. With the assistance of his coadjutdrs he plans to erect a guards rail in front of the bookshelves, thus making out of the centre portion of the library a reading room, and preventing the students from using the books without their first passing through the hands of the librarian in charge. The railing will be erected during the coming week and in the meantime the students who avail themselves of library privileges will be obliged to conform to the proposed rules.	'	‘;
—Will the Seniors give an Easter ball this year ? is the query that has been persistently repeated am ong the upper class - mefn. since Christmas time, though never more so than the present. In view, of the. success of this event, which was first' undertaken by. the. class of 1904, there is every reason to hope and . little cause to doubt that there will bb a repetition of the .affair. We feel: assured that the Seniors of l905 have as much .class.
-i6	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
w	-
spirit and as much college spirit as any of their predecessors.
—The St. Joseph Literary and Debating Society held their regular meeting last Wednesday evening and a delightful program was rendered. The hall as usual was crowded and great interest was shown bv the applause given to each member who participated on the program. The debate: Resolved, “That Pauperism is more detrimental to societv than Illiteracv,” in which the house acted as the judge was decided in favor of the affirmative. Messrs. O’Flynn and J. Cunningham upheld the affirmative, while the negative was well argued by Messrs. Lechleitner and Collier. Mr. John J. Cunningham gave an oration that proclaims him a coming speaker. Mr. Galligan rendered a declamation which showed good training and skill. The impromptu speech of Mr. Duffv was the “hit” of the evening. At 9:45 the meeting adjourned.
— “Din, din, din,” is no name for the execrable oratorical explosions which rock Sorin Hall to its very foundation, at least five times a day. From north, from south, from east and west, come the tirades.' Undoubtedlv the countrv is in grave danger, else there would not be so great an interest shown in her welfare. But then when we reflect that the preliminary debates are only a few days off, we should certainly strive to have charity in our hearts while listening to the strenuous efforts of the gentlemen who are striving, from all sides, so earnestly’- to convince us that they and they alone are on’ the right side. We desire, not at all in jest, to call the attention of all such to the fact that along with compulsory . arbitration being a curtailment of life, libertv and the pursuit of happiness, their speeches must be reckoned with in the same connection..
—Last Wednesday afternoon in the Junior .Parliamentary Law class the members took part in a very spirited debate. The question as proposed and adopted at a previous meeting was: “Resolved, That our Philippine policy is not in harmony with our national ideals.” The affirmative side was ably expounded by Messrs. Zink and Keefe, while the negative relied upon Mr. Kenny and his “ assistant,” Mr. Malloy, as.their mainstays. The speeches were carefully prepared, and the argumentation was . keen and to the point. Mr. Kenny’s, oration especially-merited the plaudits of his auditors; and even one of his honorable opponents-paid him the compliment of characterizing his effort as a “flowery: carnival of speech.” On a vote of the entire class the- decision was . awarded to the negative side, Messrs. Kenny and Malloy; :	.
' —The Sorin; Halt Glee Club held its semiweekly session on the second- floor last
Thursday morning. The services were impressively opened by a cheerless rendition of “Down on the Brandywine.” The high-chief executioner (Do you know him, boys ?) furnished the music as well as led the band in their savage attacks on harmonv. The high-tenor was a little wobbly in his execution, for he was evidentlv down in the mouth. The rasping baritone from the jungles of the first floor has but one impediment to a successful career as a singer and that is voice; if he could rid himself of that his prospects would become brighter. The basso-profundo (Are you listening, boys ?) who hails from the copper country, yet lacks naught in brazen impudence, fully merits the praiseworthy'language indulged in bv well-meaning neighbors. But above all, the star member of the organization is the general utility man, who sings a little tenor, a little bass, and a little worse than the rest. To judge from his vocalization he must be suffering from the hay fever; but then, that is a prevalent affectation among farmers west of the Mississippi. The next regular meeting of this murderous aggregation is scheduled for to-morrow, Sundav, morning. All music lovers had better make themselves conspicuously absent, for there is no telling what deadlv effects some of the stray notes are capable of producing.
—“The Old Oaken Bucket” has been resurrected, and from all appearance it has been well preserved—considering the time it has been dead. Still the handlers of this, ancient article are beyond the pale of the redeemable, for the aforementioned was found without investigation to be a veritable bucket-shop. Enclosed and hanging on the edges of this antique and to-be-forgotten element of disturbance were the remains of a “Hot Time,” “Hiawatha” and “In the Sweet By and By.” Undoubtedly the “Hot Time ” will continue to stay with the excavator, who is no other than the distinguished and irrepressible son of U. U. Dee Jamie. To the same gentleman belongs all the praise and credit—if there be any—for the speedy and sudden convalescence of the noble “Hiawatha.” This was clearly and easily the hit of the evening on which these masterpieces were displayed. Those refusing to believe this marvelous statement will kindly correspond with the gentleman mentioned above, and if he has recovered from his hits he Xvill make another with you. His rendition of the “Sweet: By and By” was superb, and al! present were Unanimous on the -point that they hope and pray that he shall soon,.very soon, be “on that beau-.tifuk shore;” No inferences, are to be drawn from this last sentence.; The; ease, facility and nonchalance with which he executed these pieces have won hymn admirers.