• The Notre Dame Scholastic
r Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing"! at special rate of postage. Section 1103. Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.J
Volume LX.VIII
March 22, 1935
No. 21
BASKETBALL TEAM IS FETED BY VILLAGERS
JOE SULU VAN DIES IN NEW YORK AFTER ILLNESS OF TWO MONTHS
“This year’s team need feel no shame over their record for the season,” was the key-note of the speeches tendered the 1934-1935 basketball team and its coach, Dr. George Keo-gan, at the annual banquet given by the Villagers Club in conjunction with the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, in the University dining hall Tuesday evening.
One of the features of the evening was the election of co-captains for next year to succeed Captain Johnny-Jordan, the honors going to Marty-Peters, this year’s stellar center, and John Ford, flashy forward.
The speaking program, ably handled by Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C., toastmaster, presented a galaxy of coaches, sports writers, officials, and distinguished alumni.
Dr. Cliff Carlson, of Pittsburgh, dubbed the “Mystery Coach of a Mystery Team,” led off the program, commending the basketeers for their work during the season. The famous long-count at the last Pittsburgh game came in for its share of attention but Dr. Carlson expresed the hope that Notre Dame-Pitt relations would always be of the same high quality in the future as they have been in the past.
Rev. Hugh O’Donell, C.S.C., vice-president of- the University, and member of the University Board of Athletic Control, extended the official congratulations of the Board to the players.
“The University has been well pleased with their showing,” Father O’Donnell said. “That you lost a few games is not important, that you fought hard and well, and were true representatives of Notre Dame and her* traditions is what will be remembered.”
Among the other speakers of the evening were: Rev. Vincent Mooney7, C.S.C., Director of the C.Y.O. movement; Edward Krause, former All-American center, and present head coach at St. Mary’s College, Winona, Minn.; Nick Kearns, of Chicago, official at many Notre Dame games; Tony Hinkle, basketball coach at Butler University; Pat Flanagan, sports announcer.
Joseph G. Sullivan R. I. P.
FATHER J. H. O’DONNELL ISSUES OFFICIAL STATEMENT
The following statement was issued from the office of the Vice-President by7 the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Wednesday afternoon following the death of Captain-elect Joe Sullivan:—
“Notre Dame has lost one of her valiant sons in the death of Joseph Sullivan. Inspired leader, excellent student, and true Christian gentleman, he will be missed greatly by both faculty and students. In his brief, youthful life, he had caught quickly the inspired traditions of the campus, and was forming his char-■ acter in accordance with these ideals. He was all that one could wish for in the characterization of a true Notre Dame man. In death, as in life, we commend his soul to ‘Notre Dame,’ whose loyal son he was. Our deep sympathy goes to his parents and family.”
—Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C. Vice-President, University of Notre Dame.
PASSED AWAY WEDNESDAY
Joe Sullivan, captain-elect of 1935 Notre Dame football team, died Wednesday; moaning. Death came at two-twenty in the morning at the New-York Medical Center.
The word came from New York. There was no doubting it now. The papers carried'it on their front pages. The religious bulletin confirmed it. Joe Sullivan was dead.
It was hard to believe for a while. Death for Joe Sullivan seemed inevitable foi- days before it came, but when it did come, somehow it seemed unreal. For weeks the reports had been coming in, first from the hospital downtown, and then from New York. Each report was more serious than the preceding one, and except for an occasional rally, it was apparent that Sullivan was sinking lower all the time.
Never Quit Fighting
New complications arose as the weeks wore on. But from out of the sickroom came word that Joe was holding his own. With his terrific physical energy he was battling every inch of the way. He was in a fight, and he wasn’t letting down. Perhaps it was a reflection of his attitude on the football field, but more likely it was a re-assertal of his life’s attitude. Never, to our knowledge, did he quit a job that he undertook. Never did he give up hope. He. didn’t have to. He had only to do his best and that was generally enough. So what were things like sicknesses— pneumonia, mastoids, abscesses, tumors? Things to worry about perhaps, but things to fight, and conquer But sometimes there are things we cannot conquer.
Joe Sullivan lost out on his fight and now he’s dead. It doesn’t seem right, somehow, but. then it didn’t seem right with Gipp, and Rockne, and Young. All of them—to be just (Continued on Page -I)
Search 22, 1935
O.n e
Doctor James J. Walsh to Lecture In Washington Hall On April 1
NONSIGNOR GUILDAY SPEAKS TO STUDENTS
1916 LAETARE MEDALIST
Dr. James J. Walsh, head of the Fordham University Medical School,, noted speaker and author, will give a lecture on “South America and Mexico” on April 1, in Washington Hall.
Dr. Walsh attended the last South American Eucharistic Congress and will discuss much of what went on at that great religious meeting.
In 1916 Doctor Walsh was awarded the Laetare Medal by the University in recognition of his work as a Catholic layman.
After having received his A.B., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from Fordham in 1884, 1885, and 1892 respectively, Dr. Walsh attended the University of Pennsylvania until 1895 when he received his M.D. He then returned to Fordham, and in 1901 was given a Doctor of Law degree. Previous to his return to Fordham he had studied in the universities of Paris, Berlin, and Vienna for three years, returning to the United States in 1898. A Litt.D., was bestowed upon him at Georgetown University in 1909. The following year brought with it a D.Sc., from Notre Dame.
Among other positions of importance Dr. Walsh is Trustee of the Catholic Summer Schools of America, and President of the American Catholic History Society.
Dr. Walsh is a constant contributor to the Catholic Encyclopedia.
Sociology Department Posts Major Information in Library
In order to assist sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters to decide upon a major subject prior to preregistration for next year’s classes —only a few weeks off—the Department of Sociology has posted some information concerning the sociology major on the reference room bulletin board at the University library.
While it is advantageous for those sophomores who elect sociology as a major subject to have had a college course in this field according to the present curriculum, the student may, however, acquire a fair knowledge of the topics treated and the values derived from its study by following the suggestions on the bulletin board.
Besides the general sociology major,. a professional program has been arranged for those intending to study law or social work later.
The professional courses in probation work will be open, hereafter, only to graduate students. Those who expect to take up this work later must possess a background in sociology.
Paulist Choir Will Give Concert in Washington
Hall on April 8th
On April 8, the Paulist Choir of Chicago, under the direction of the Rev. Eugene O’Malley, C.S.P., will give a concert in Washington Hall.
The choir, which consists of seventy-five men and boys has always been a favorite of music lovers at Notre Dame. Last year the concert was one of the outstanding attractions at Washington Hall.
The choir presents a program of both ecclesiastical and secular selections, the ecclesiastical slightly predominating.
An exceptionally fine piece sung last year and received with much applause was Palestrina’s “Sanctus.” Of this composition Father O’Malley said, “Palestrina ranks as one of the greatest composers because his music, expressing the doctrine of the Divine Presence, lacking the human sensuous appeal characteristic of modern music, is mystical, ethereal, and spiritual.”
Commerce Forum Initiates
Forty-three New Members
Informality was the keynote of the regular meeting of the Commerce Forum held Thursday evening, March 14, in Brownson “Rec.” Through the courtesy and cooperation of the Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C., all the facilities of the hall were placed at the disposal of the Forum. Some 43 new members were welcomed and made acquainted.
The results of the questionnaire survey which the Forum recently conducted formed the chief topic for discussion and the undertaking was considered to be entirely successful. Frank Shay, Forum president, wishes to remind the members that they may obtain a copy of the detailed report of classification from any of the officers.
The calendar of the club is replete with important forthcoming events. The annual election of officers will take place sometime before Easter. Besides the regular officers the Forum elects a board of directors which is active in making and carrying out the plans of the club. In accordance with its policy of presenting a guest speaker whenever possible the present board has invited Mr. Frank E. Hering of South Bend, a member of the board of trustees of the University, to address the members within the next two weeks. Although the date has not been selected the club also plans to make a tour of inspection of the Studebaker plant.
“The biographical approach is the most attractive form of presenting unrecognized historical facts,” said the Right Rev. Peter Guilday of Catholic University in prefacing his lecture last Friday night in Washington Hall on the life of the Most Rev. John Carroll, first Catholic Bishop in America.
After briefly stressing the importance of Catholic Church history, the speaker, who was made a Monsignor two weeks ago, began his sketch of the life of Bishop Carroll.
John Carroll, whose bicentennial celebration is now in progress, was born in 1735, a time when there was no religious or political freedom for Catholics. He attended an undergraduate school on the Eastern Shore of Maryland for a year and then went to Europe to continue his education at the College of Saint-Omer’s in Belgium. After being ordained a priest in the Society of Jesus, John Carroll made a trip through France with the son of Lord Stourton. When the Society of Jesus was suppressed in 1773, the future bishop returned to Maryland to start the work which was to make him the Father of the Catholic Church in America. From Forest Glen, which was his headquarters from 1774-1784, he journeyed through the surrounding territory of Maryland and Virginia, a trip which took two months, attending to the wants of the Catholics.
In 1789 he was appointed Bishop of Baltimore. Not wishing to be consecrated by the Bishop of Montreal or the Bishop of Havana, Father Carroll made the journey to England. He was elevated to his new rank at Ludworth Castle on August 15, 1790.
It was not long after his consecration that the Church showed signs of life: Georgetown was founded at Washington; the Sulpicians were established in Baltimore; a synod was held there in 1791; and the first meeting of the hierarchy of the Catholic Church took place in that city in 1810.
“Besides his official duties,” said Monsignor Guilday, “Bishop Carroll found time to issue admonitions to his flock against the immorality of the theatre, dress, books, dancing, the consequences of mixed-marriages, and the lack of training of the children in the home.”
In summing up the character of Bishop Carroll, Monsignor Guilday said that the Founder of the Church in America was a man of prayer, unaffectionate, firm, good, and—first and foremost — American.
The Scholaftic
T wo
• Sixteen Bengal Boxers Await Finals
MEN IN GRUDGE FIGHTS THREATEN DESTRUCTION
Prominent List of Officials Mark Time For Boxing Bouts
Tonight’s the night! In excited anticipation, the crowned heads of Europe, the sleek pompadours of South America, the pigtails of Asia, and the toupees of North America await the bell which will start the second, and greatest, World War — the Tancredi - Conner wrestling spectacle. President Roosevelt has dismissed Congress for the week-end, the New York Stock Exchange has closed its doors for lack of customers, and Chicago is practically a city without a population. Even Vice-President Garner has emerged from hiding somewhere in the wilds of the southwest, and has reserved one entire section for himself and the Republican National Committee.
And what of the two principals— “Nick” Tancredi, self-styled “Son of Kong,” and “Cy” Conner, “The Barefoot Wonder”? The former, modestly enough, had little to state regarding his chances against the pride of Badin’s south wing. Invited to say ‘hello’ to his tremendous following over the N.B.C. network Thursday evening, he talked on for two hours and forty-five minutes telling listening America what he had in store for his opponent. Radio officials finally had to set fire to the studio in order’ to get him away from the “mike.” The Mechanicsville Terror wound up his training campaign today with a brisk half-hour of hop-scotch, and a furious two hours of taffy pulling. “Conner’s days are numbered,” declared “The Son of Kong,” “he’ll never die in bed.”
When told of his opponent’s threats, the barefooted one retorted with his usual snappy comeback, “I wonder.” “I’ll do my training in the ring,” Conner said. “After all, I only trained for three days when I beat Strangler Lewis, so why should I even get in shape for this punk? I’d get more opposition if I took on Baby Leroy.”
The strong one pointed to the thousands of letters piled outside in the corridors. “I can’t lose,” said he, “The Elks, the F.E.R.A., Dan Dunn’s Deputies, the N.R.A., the T.V.A., the Ladies Temperance Club of Whiskey River, Ka., the United Socialists of America, the Campfire Girls of Roaring Fire, Okla.; three of the Mills Brothers, Shirley Temple, and Rex, the Wonder Horse have got their money on me.”
And so the matter rests — till this (Continued on Page 9)
March 22, 1935
Elmer F. Layden
Enthused over shoiv.
THE CARD
Bantamweight
Roces vs. O’Neill
Featherweigh t
Fox vs. H. Gooden
Lightweight
Marcy vs. Durkin
Junior Welterweight
Whitman * vs. Hal Gooden
Welterweight
Lou Purcell * vs. Gillespie
Middleweight
McKernan * vs. Borzilleri
Light Heavyweight
Marshall vs. Phil Purcell
Heavyzveight
Marek vs. Broscoe
* Denotes defending champion.
BOUTS BEGIN AT 8 P. M.
The grand finale of the winter sports season on the campus, the The Scholastic’s Bengal Boxing Show, will become a reality tonight in the Notre Dame fieldhouse at 8:00 p.m. The mightiest of the mighty will be pitted against each other to decide who shall reign supreme over the campus pugilists for another twelve-month.
After the last bell has clanged eight men will have been acclaimed as the 1935 boxing champions of the University. Cy Conner, “The Barefoot Wonder,” and Nick Tancredi, “The Son of Kong,” will have each other in human knots, and those arch enemies of the campus McGrath and Sheedy, will have committed various types of assault on each other, probably both ending in the psychopathic ward of a downtown hospital.
The possibilities of the finest matches ever witnessed in the history of the Bengal Bouts are great as every boxer competing has defeated fighters of more than average skill in the elimination matches held earlier this week. These preliminary matches gave those interested an advance view of the fighters battling tonight.
The referee will be “Packy” McFarlane, the judges are William F. Skeehan and' Eugene “Scrap” Young, both of whom are registered official A.A.U. judges. Tom Conley and Chet Grant will act as official timers, and Bill Cerney will announce the show. Elmer Layden and Robert Proctor, ’04, of Elkhart, are honorary judges. The sale of tickets has been large assuring a large turnout. For those who neglected to purchase tickets beforehand, the ducats will be on sale at the box office in the fieldhouse.
Max Marek, Hal Gooden and Bud Marcy, present champions, were interviewed over WSBT on Jack Led-den’s sports program last night at 6:30.
Three
LAETARE MEDAL WILL BE GIVEN THIS MONTH
Notre Dame has no Distinguished Service Medal, with which to reward unusual acts of heroism, but it has its own special award, the Laetare Medal, which will be conferred within the next two weeks on some outstanding Catholic layman.
1 In 1882 Professor James F. Edwards of the University, proposed to the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., the •venerable founder of Notre Dame, and to the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., it’s broad-visioned president, the idea of annually bestowing upon a member of the American Catholic laity an appropriate testimonial in recognition of that individual’s past accomplishments and as an incentive to further and greater service. It was to fulfill this purpose that the Laetare Medal of Notre Dame was created.
The Laetare Medal derives its name from the fact that the public announcement of its recipient is made on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of the Lenten season. The inspiration for this action can be traced back to the ancient custom of the popes who each year awarded the Golden Rose to some member of Catholic royalty in ■ recognition of some signal achievement. It differs, however, in the sense that it has no restriction on social position, nor has it, since its origination, failed to be conferred every year.
While the intrinsic value of the medal is readily apparent its extrinsic qualities are also deserving of mention. The medal in every respect is an excellent example of skilled craftsmanship. The body of the emblem is a golden disk somewhat larger than a dollar and is suspended from a bar of the same metal. Impressed upon the center of the disk are the words: “Magna est veritas et prae-valebit,” “Truth is mighty and shall prevail.” On the other side we find the name of the University. Then also on that side is symbolized the profession of the medalist; in that of the reverse is engraved the name of the recipient.
The Laetare Medal has been awarded to men and women of varied professions. The fields of Law, Medicine, Drama, Journalism, History, Philanthropy, Literature, and Statesmanship have all had their champions acknowledged and honored by the University. This list of Laetare Medalists covering a span of over half a century includes such notable names as John Gilmary Shea, Edward Douglas White, Albert Francis Zahm, and, of later years. Alfred E. Smith, John
(Continued on Base 19)
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS WILL OBSERVE THEIR GERMAN NIGHT
German Night will be held by the Knights of Columbus next Monday night in keeping with the series of national nights which was started two weeks ago with the highly successful Irish night. Rev. Charles C. Milt-ner, C.S.C., will be the speaker of the evening. Rev. Julian P. Sigmar will
Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C. Organizes study club.
add his sparkling bit to the program. Father Sigmar’s style is well known and enjoyed in K. of C. meetings. Skits will be presented by German . members of the council. .
_ The last meeting, held last Mon. day, was in the form of a district meeting. Present were representa-’ tives from LaPorte and Elkhart councils. District Deputy Ernest Ribordy of LaPorte presided. The Lecturer’s Hour was postponed, and the meeting assumed the form of ‘Open House.’ ■
Organization of the Study Club was discussed. Tins will comprise a volunteer group, from which certain members will be selected to conduct thorough studies into various fields of endeavor. Valuable reports will be prepared by the members of this Study Club. The club is being organized by faculty members of the K. of C., including the Rev. John V. Reynolds, C.S.C., Father Miltner, Professors Frank Flynn, Francis E. McMahon, Louis F. Buckley, and Stephen C. Bocskei.
The next Communion Breakfast will be held Sunday, April 7, immediately after the eight o’clock Mass. On the same date, the exemplifications of the major degrees to new candidates will be held. This group of incumbents will comprise the second class to be initiated into the local council during the current school year.
The resolution prepared by Richard Balliet and Thomas Flynn condemning the type of vaudeville which has been staged by the Palace Theater in recent months -was read and adopted at the last meeting. It will be sent to the managers of the Palace Theater.
Plans for a K. of C. league of softball to be conducted throughout the remainder of the school year were adopted.
GRID CAPTAIN DIES IN NEW YORK CITY
(Continued from Page 1)
on the verge of their best years— and then to be snatched away from everything and everyone.
But there is no explanation for such happenings. Joe, himself, would have given you his own view of the matter. A shrug of those broad shoulders and a “Well, if that’s what is going to happen, it’s tough luck, that’s all.” He wouldn’t be afraid of dying. He would fight it, but he wouldn’t cringe before it. And if it took him, he would go out, not in defeat, but with a shrug of the shoulders, the supreme gesture of Irish acquiescence to the inevitable.
You all knew Joe around the campus. If you didn’t know him personally, you knew him by sight. And if you didn’t have the opportunity of playing against him on the scrubs, or with him on the varsity, you had the pleasure of watching him from the stands. And he played a tough game, too. The eighty thousand who saw him play against the Army last fall will bear witness to that. And the Army team, and the other teams who played against him, will tell you that, too. He played tough, and he played clean.
In his high school days, he was the same kind of a fellow. That’s why they made him captain of the • football team for two years, and captain of the track team. That’s why he became national shot-put champion. That’s why he was voted the greatest prep school athlete in New York City, and was given a free trip to the Los Angeles Olympics.
Quiet, unassuming, likable — a good-naured Irishman, that was Joe Sullivan. Through high school, and . in college, he remained just that. With fellows and girls alike. There was absolutely no show or pretense about him. He was remarkably virile and common sense. None of this is exaggeration. He was an almost perfect combination of mental and physical qualities.
And he had a sense of humor. It was evident in his slow, loping walk, and his easy and pleasant voice, and ready smile. These were the things that you couldn’t help noticing. - And that that vague shrug of the shoulders, and the “Well, if that’s what is going to happen, it’s tough luck, that’s all.”
Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, Joe Boland, assistant football coach, and Dominic Vairo, ’34, grid captain left for New York on Wednesday to represent the University at the funeral.
Four
The Scholastic
DR. DANIEL O’GRADY LECTURES OVER RADIO
“We laugh at things out of proportion, at situations that have the element of incongruity — provided the disorder involves no occasion of danger or tragedy. This is the most satisfactory explanation of the phenomenon of laughter,” declared Professor Daniel C. O’Grady of the department of philosophy in a radio address entitled “Why We Laugh” broadcast from the campus studio at 4:30 Monday afternoon. This was the sixth of a series of afternoon programs to be broadcast from the Engineering building in cooperation with station WSBT.	.
After having given the various theories advanced by noted philosophers to explain the fact that man alone among the animals has the ability to laugh, Professor O’Grady gave his own opinion on the subject. “A sense of humor implies a sense of proportion and an awareness of the proper relation between things. The explanation of laughter has intrigued philosophers since the time of Aristotle. Some of them have evolved explanations for a few of the aspects of the humorous, but none have accounted for the fact that so many diverse situations give rise to that same peculiar reaction that we call laughter.”
Mr. O’Grady then discussed the various philosophical answers to the question. He pointed out that none of these explanations is fully adequate to explain all the various types of humor. He proved his point by telling several humorous stories and pointing out by example the weaknesses of each theory. “The: disproportion or miniature tragedy theory seems to me to be the most adequate explanation but I must admit that the question can be only partially answered by present day science,” Mr. O’Grady concluded.
A group of talented young ladies from St. Mary’s College presented Wednesday night’s broadcast. Their offerings included vocal and instrumental selections and a reading. Those taking part included Louise Bittorf, Mary Patricia Walsh, Betty Ann Hudson, Mary Hawley, Jean Weir, Rita Bittorf, Mary Virginia McCaughey, Marjorie Downey and Nancy Mark.
This afternoon at 4:30, Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., University archivist, speaking from the campus studio of Station WSBT, discussed the literary treasures of the Notre Dame archives.
On Monday afternoon at 4:30 Professor Davis, of the Department of Commerce, will speak from the local studios of WSBT. His topic will be “Economic Adjustment.”
THIRD ISSUE OF “SCRIP” APPEARS NEXT FRIDAY
Featuring an essay by Shane Leslie, Scrip, the literary quarterly of the university will make its third appearance of the year next Friday afternoon, March 29.
Professor Leslie deserts his favorite field of research, the life and
O’Meara and Skeehan They tvork for Editor La/wton.
works of Jonathan Swift, to produce a short commentary on that very colorful figure in English literature, Lewis Carroll, writer of such whimsical works as Alice in Wonderland and Through a Looking Glass.
“Late Bus,” a short story by William A. Kennedy is the leading undergraduate prose contribution to the issue. The successor to “The Cat on the Tanker” is a longer story and shows finer technique than its predecessor.
Editor G. Albert Lawton is represented by a short, familiar essay called “Orts.” Lawton’s pointed style and sharp grasp of detail are once more in evidence and give the work a distinct tone.
The third section of “Esthetics of Poetry,” the work of M. A. Hendele, carries on the interpretive tones of the earlier installments. Campus literary critics have pronounced the series an excellent piece of student work.
Thomas Proctor, senior class president, and campus actor, turns author for his first appearance in Scrip, contributing a short story and a bit of verse.
Robert Staapp rounds out the prose works of the issue with a satirical essay called “Ejection: A Lament.” Brother Charles, C.S.C., contributes a monologue drama on the Greek theatre.
The leading verse of the third quarter’s edition is contributed by Vincent Hartnett whose poetry has appeared in the first two numbers and received favorable campus comment. “I believe Hartnett the best undergraduate poet on the campus.” Editor Lawton said this week.
In addition to Hartnett’s verse, E. J. Kilmurry is the author of “Vengeance Tree,” which will round but the poetry for the issue.
Editor Lawton announced this
CONCERT PRESENTED BY SYMPHONY ORCH.
Presenting the second concert of the year the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel, was well received by an appreciative audience last evening.
- The program was opened with- a “Bach Suite” in honor of the “Father of Modern' Music” who was born two hundred and fifty years ago yesterday. The suite, which consisted of six short numbers, was well interpreted.
The second part of the program was opened with the familiar “Raymond Overture” or “The Queen’s Secret” by Ambrose Thomas. This overture had been played by the orchestra before and was repeated by popular request.
For the first time in the history of the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra a vocal soloist was presented. Francis X. Schaefer, baritone, sang “Trade Winds” by Keel and “I Love Life” by Mana-Zucca. Schaefer, who . sings with the Glee Club, also plays first trombone with the Symphony.
The program was concluded with selections from “Countess Maritza” and a waltz ‘Artist Life” by Johann Strauss.
Philosophy Comprehensive
Seniors in the College of Arts and Letters, with Philosophy as the major subject, are hereby notified that the comprehensive examination in Philosophy will be given during the first week in May. This examination will not be of the oral, but of the written type. It will embrace questions on all prescribed subjects in Philosophy, as well as in all subjects of the major sequence. The passing grade in this examination is a necessary condition to admission to graduation. The day and hour will be announced later.
Radio Meeting
Pat Flannigan, well known Middle West announcer, will speak on radio announcing, “mike” technique, and script writing at a special meeting to be held in the radio studio next Monday evening at 8:00 p.m. Mr. Flannigan has handled the broadcasts of several Notre Dame contests this past season.
week that James P. O’Meara, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters will be added to the Scrip staff in an advisor capacity. He has been assisting with problems of make-up and mechanical technique throughout the year. .
An attractive cover for the third quarterly edition is being planned by Art Editor Edward J. Skeehan.
March 22, 1935
Five
BAND TO PRESENT CONCERT NEXT MONTH
Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the University Department of Music, ' has promised music lovers a rare treat in the nature of a band concert composed of numbers written especially for band groups. It will be given in Washington Hall on the evening of April 7.
This is the first band concert in three years to be held in Washington Hall. It has been planned by Prof. Casasanta to favor the student body, and to encourage the appreciation of fine music.
One of the features of this concert will be the playing of a symphonic poem — “The Universal Judgment” — which was awarded first prize in a national band contest held in Naples in 1878. Its composer was Camille De Nardis, director of the Conservatory in Naples.
’ Will Feature Prize Number
An unusual highlight of the concert will be a. sousaphone solo by Robert Holtz, ’38, who will be accompanied by the band in his number, “Solo Pomposo.”
A program of variegated musical selections has been arranged to meet the aim of the concert. The overture. “Youth Triumphant,” the selection “11 Trovatore” and the motet “Ave Maria, will make up the more classical side of the program. Prof. Casasanta has chosen some of the more beautiful numbers from Victor Herbert’s “Student Prince” and “The Chocolate Soldier” to round out the semiclassical part of the concert.
These numbers, together with the outstanding “Universal Judgment,” will be supplemented by other selections to be announced at a later date.
Said Professor Casasanta of the prize number which he will feature, “This is a particularly effective piece for a large band. Although written in the nineteenth century its fame has lasted, with the result that a recent arrangement of it has been prepared, from the original, for the Goldman band.”
The work is extended in form and made up a number of well-contrasted melodious movements. The first of these is an “Allegro con fuoco,” in well-developed fugal form; this is followed bj7 a “Moderate assai,” descriptive of the heavenly hosts; and in turn by a recurrence of the first movement in altered form leading to an inspired “Maestoso” and “Choral.” A spirited “Allegro” brings the composition to a close.
S tx
about tha camPus
They like to be referred to as the “Corrie Twins.” Surely you know John and Jim Corrigan, of Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, who have been together since that day in June 1913 when the doctor announced to “Big Ed” that there were two. Possibly you are aware of the fact that some twins are identical and that some are just twins — our Corrigan boys are
the latter. John is dark, with very blue eyes, and a beard; Jim is fair, with blue eyes, curly brown hair, and a beard like Kaley’s head.
Soon they were commuting to Milwaukee to Marquette High where “Uncle” Jim performed on the track in the middle distances, and John began his career breaking hearts without ever a sigh of regret.
Then came September, 1931, and the Corrigans climbed the double deckers of old Sophomore Hall. Here Jim ran through the rain to win his cross country numerals while John was sitting in a cramped position learning the fundamentals of contract. Jim also stood in line with the first tenors wherever the Glee Club paused long enough to sing.
They were promoted to St. Ed’s where John, who loves the wind, assisted Jim to reach his breakfast from that outpost. Progress sent them to the third floor of Alumni, John with the boks of an Economics Major and Jim the tools of a journalist. Now they had become Patricians, John an even better contract player and Jim a better tenor.
Uncle Jim and Brother John returned in September 1934, not knowing the new privilege that was to be theirs. True they knew they were to live in Walsh, but not that they would become treasured “Gentlemen of Walsh.” John the President of the Economics Seminar and Jim VicePresident of his beloved Foreign Re-
JOHN LOCHER TALKS TO WRANGLERS ON WAR
Resuming their regular weekly meetings with their six newly inducted members Tuesday evening, the Wranglers, honorary forensic society, were addressed by John Locher, junior in the College of Law, on “Compulsory Military Service.”
Before the main speech of the evening was begun, Arthur Korzeneski, president of the society, read the Wranglers Constitution to the members in order to acquaint the new men with the purpose and procedure of the organization.
Views American Policies
Locher, in beginning his highly controversial subject, explained the background of war, the policies of the principal nations, and the necessity of national protection. “Compulsory military education for every man from 21 to 26 for one year at least,” the speaker emphasized, “is, I believe, the most appropriate method of assuring protection.”
The speaker, by thorough analysis of the problem, viewed the present political situation of America in relation to probable foreign aggressors to show the need for greater military protection by means of more skilled technicians of war, seasoned by the proposed military training. “Japan has cleared Russia and China from the Pacific, and we only remain,” Locher warned.
Although the costs for such a program would be great, the returns to the public by shorter wars and less military waste would overshadow the expenditures. The secondary benefits: moral improvement through discipline, physical development, and the sociological good arising by the relief given to the overcrowded labor market, all would tend to repay the citizenry.
In the discussion that followed the members disclosed numerous difficulties and objections to the plan, to which the speaker admitted, adding that it was the principle of the program which he favored.
lations Club and Secretary of the Press Club.
John Burke, their funny friend, projected them upon their course across the way. Things used to be rosy at St. Mary’s for Uncle Jim but now they look green, Brother John’s way has always been stormy.
John Thomas and James Bernard, neither overshadows the other, each a personality, each the pleasing faculty of being himself.
The Scholastic
• “TURN TO THE RIGHT’ SHOWN AT WASH. HALL
College Parade With Vincent Gonnan
S.A.C. PLANS AWARDS TO LEADING FRESHHEN
By John A. Gillespie
The evils of drinking, gambling, and stealing were touchingly illustrated in “Turn To The Right,” a three act comedy, unfolded on Sunday and Monday evenings, March 17 and 18,
Professor Albert Doyle
His direction was excellent.
in Washington Hall. It was the first dramatic effort of the year by the University Theatre group.
The plot presented Tom Proctor in the role of Joe Bascom, who left sin behind the walls of Sing Sing prison in an earnest effort to reform. The part was a curious mixture of the Horatio Alger and Tom Playfair type. Joe looked up his former cell mates, Muggs and Gilly (Abe Zoss and Joe Mansfield) to tell them of his righteous intentions. No so desirous of conversion they attempted to lead our hero astray. Joe hesitated, but finally, with a magnificent demonstration of will-power, refused to become a party to their crime.
Joe returned to his family, but the joyful reunion was marred by the inevitable mortgage on Mrs. Bascom’s farm, held by the local Shylock. Muggs and Gilly reappear, weaken at Mrs. Bascom’s charming benevolence and by a bit of high class appropriation succeeded in outwitting the scheming villain.
After a multitude of farcical situations, virtue triumphs, as, we are told, it always does. Romances between everybody but the stage hands bud and bloom; the villain is thwarted; Muggs and Gilly see the error of their ways; and the modest little farm is saved.
An atmosphere of “Strange Interlude” was injected into the entertainment, because of the seemingly interminable delays between acts. These long breathing spells did not detract from the alertness of the audience, for every one detected an anachonism in the use of a loaf of sliced bread at the turn of the past century.
Producer Frank Kelly deserves much credit for his casting. From the angelic mother (Catherine Basler) to blustering, well meaning Detective
(Continued on Page 8)
RESOLVED—
That Miss Irene McHugh of New Rochelle’s Tatler did not aim her col-umnial shafts at us in that commentary on our compliment paid the fine Tatler Armistice Day editorial. That, since she referred to her brawnloving sisters who condemned the editor’s lack of patriotism, we recant our charge that it indicated the “usual cynical air.” That those unfair critics of the editorial in question might— since they never have to worry about going to war themselves—put themselves in the place of some mother whose son returned from the last war, a living corpse!
To Miss McHugh we are also indebted for this correction: It was two years ago that N. D. rated the palm by the Rochellian seniors. Last year —as this—Fordham was put on the spot.
REFUTATION
When the Julius Rosenwald Foundation ranked American universities on their educational values the Stanford Daily scratched heads, inspected the list, then fumed with indignation. Nowhere could they find themselves. So back they struck at the president of the foundation with a blistering questionnaire, requesting the criteria he employed in his rating sheets. Here’s how they ended it: “Mr Embree your rating is just a large chunk of limberg er.” Tch! Teh! with such language how can they expect to rate?
If you’re anxious about the rating —Harvard, Columbia, Chicago, Yale, California, Minnesota, Cornell, Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Princeton and Johns Hopkins—imagine the 12 best!
ooOoo
A U. of Cal. survey of 10,000 students revealed that the average American college man is 689s inches tall and weighs 142.
PRAISE
Has been merited by Niagara U. Index for the sensible editorial on Catholic Press Month. Each argument raised against the reading of Catholic literature fell like a cardboard nine-pin, before the editor’s responses. Part of the conversation we record:
“They must be terribly priggish if they don’t dare read any hostile literature.” (And so the man, gulping down the strychnine, cried, ‘I’ll show them I’m not priggish.’)
“How can they ever expect to become broadminded if they don’t hear both sides of the question?” (What she meant was you can’t appreciate the spotlessness of truth unless you have wallowed in the mire of error.)
Winners of the S.A.C. awards to last year’s freshmen with the highest scholastic rating in each of the four colleges of the University were announced by Frank J. Holahan, of the S.A.C., to The Scholastic yesterday.
Thomas K. LaLonde He encourages Freshmen.
Richard Henry Meier, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters, from Faulkston, South Dakota, with a scholastic rating of 97.33; Joseph Fendall Froning, a sophomore in the College of Engineering, from South Bend, Indiana, with a scholastic rating of 95.62; Robert Leo Bush, a sophomore in the College of Science, from Brownsville, Pennsylvania, with a scholastic rating of 95.30; and Carl Grant King, Jr., a sophomore in the College of Commerce, from South Bend, with a scholastic rating of 93.75 are the recipients of the awards in their respective colleges. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Vice-President of the University, will present the twenty-five dollar prizes to the winners on Tuesdav afternoon, March 26.
The S.A.C. inaugurated the awards three years ago when the winners were awarded gold medals. A year later a new ruling provided that the awards be paid in gold. The present governmental restriction on gold payments invalidated this method of payment, so this year’s winners will be awarded their prizes in checks.
It is the intention of the S.A.C. to make the awards a permanent fixture of the organization to promote a higher scholastic standard at the University. Next year the twenty-five dollar awards will be listed in the University Bulletin among the scholarships and prizes. The winners in the future will be presented the prizes in November of each school year by the President of the University.
Notice
The Cercle Francais will hold a special meeting in Brownson Rec on Monday night, March 25, at 8:00 p.m. to discuss plans for a club smoker.
5 even
starch 22, 1935
GLEE CLUB CONCERT IS HIGHLY PRAISED
Dome Dust
By William Tourney
PROF. SEIDEL WATCHES RISE OF THE SYMPHONY
Critics of both South Bend papers were rich in their praise of the concert given by the University Glee Club last Sunday night in St. Joseph’s parish hall. The audience, reported to number 500, seemed timid in its appreciation of the fine effects produced by Prof. Joseph' J. Casasanta, director of the 48 voices.
Writing in the South Bend Tribune the well-known critic George A. Maurer called the glee club “the best in the history of the university.” He praised the fine interpretation, diction and splendid tone balance of the club. It was his prediction that “when this organization goes to New York City after April 9 for a week’s engagement on Broadway, it need not fear for success.”
No less exuberant was the writer of the South Bend News-Times who said of the members, they “stand with their eyes glued on Mr. Casasanta’s expressive hands. They smile while they sing, and in general seem to be having a fine evening themselves, while entertaining others. They are an excellent group of singers and will deserve all the praise they are sure to get when they go on their tour of the Eastern states. . .”
Both critics and audience enjoyed the motets “Emitte Spiritum” and “Laudette Patrem.” The humoresque “Italian Salad” with tenor obligato by William O’Brien received special commendation. The rearrangement of the numbers “Little David Play on Yo’ Harp” and “The Mosquitoes,” done by one of the more experienced first tenors, brought forth many a chuckle.
The solo work of Francis Schaefer was greeted -with spirit. Because of laryngitis the singing of John Ryan was not heard.
The next concert appearance of the Glee Club will be made at St. Mary’s College on the evening of April 4. This will precede the annual and traditional Palm Sunday concert given by the Club in Washington Hall, to be held this year on April 14, just before the Easter interim.
“TURN TO THE RIGHT”
(Continued from Page 7)
Callahan, the players were aptly selected. Hal Miller, as the rich playboy, Lester Morgan, sneered when he should have and acted the part convincingly. Richard Baker did his best to trick Mrs. Bascom out of her farm. The two smoothies, Muggs and Gilly, speeded up the vehicle with their genuinely amusing horseplay. The feminine element took care of the love interest with a vigor that caused our three heroes to blush becomingly at the right moments.
Eight
Class of ’41
One of the main building Rotarians was recently traveling through New England’s broad ‘a’ belt, making one night stands interviewing and lecturing to prospective students.
On one occasion he was talking to an assembled high school senior class, relating some of the traditions and explaining the more explicable of salient facts. When he had finished the formal portion of his speech, he inquired if any of his listeners had a question to ask.
Receiving no answer, he exclaimed: “Isn’t there anything you want to know about Notre Dame, the football team, what the fellows have to eat, or how they all engage in some form-of athletics?”
Then a small chap in the rear raised his hand and was acknowledged by the speaker.
“Say,” he asked, “what’s this I hear about the Palace of Sweets being closed?” ,
O
The white shoes are here again. But the fellows only wear white shoes at the approach of Spring. Therefore we hope no fresh upstart will come forth with pure white suede boots and shame us into discarding the freshman-bought moccasins we put out a dollar ninety-eight for in 1931.
Again
At this stage of the game you patient readers are probably sick and tired of reading anything more about the Bengal bouts. You freshmen are no doubt wondering why a mere boxing show warrants all this fuss; from the sophomores up, the boys are hoping that this ’35 card will equal those of former years. Well, you can take our word for it that this will surpass any similar show we have seen around here in many a year back.
Bengal is a word that means sacrifice to those of the Congregation. The missionary band can get along without your two bits. When you pay your quarter tonight you will be making a sound investment. You will be seeing an evening of leather pushing and comedy that is worth four times what you are paying.
So get over early and don’t gripe about sitting behind a post. Bring your room-mate with you and lend your friends a quarter, if necessary. It will be one debt you’ll never have to worry about collecting. .
A pleasant man with soft white hair and mustache has taught music in one of the little rooms in Washington Hall since 1922. He is Professor Richard Herman Seidel who directs the Notre Dame Symphony in its Thursday concerts. Professor Seidel chose this evening as the one for his concerts purely as a matter of sentiment, for the Leipzig Symphony,' in which Professor Seidel began his musical playing career, used to give its concerts on Thursdays. That great musical organization still delights large audiences on that evening every week during the concert season.
When still a youth, Professor Seidel began studying at the internationally famous conservatory of music in Leipzig. While he was there, he was chosen from six students of the violin to play in the Leipzig Symphony, a large musical organization even then. Of all the students at the conservatory, these six violinists alone were selected to try out for the Symphony. During the two years when Professor Seidel played in Leipzig, such famous men of music as Brahms, Rubenstein, and Richard Strauss waved their batons as guest conductors of the organization.
It was at the end of Professor Seidel’s second year with the Leipzig Symphony that he came to America to play the violin with the Chicago Symphony as one of its first members. Frederick Stock, who was then the conductor of the organization, had to give up his position during the World War because he was an alien. He later returned and is not only the present conductor, but is also a very close friend of Professor Seidel. Victor Herbert and Gabrilowich both conducted as guest artists while Professor Seidel was a violinist in the Symphony.	•
The death of Theodore Thomas in 1904 came as a great blow to Professor Seidel. The violinist had worked with the founder and first conductor of the Chicago Symphony for 14 years. The two were very close friends.
In 1929 Professor Seidel left the Chicago Symphony to take his present position in the music department at Notre Dame. He had been instruc-ing here at Summer School since 1922, and had also taught at St. Mary’s previous to that time.
To Professor Seidel composing music is a separate talent entirely different from playing. He maintains that to write music one must be inspired. From; the beginning of his career he has favored study and practice as the best means of advancement in the field of music.
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, March 22
Bengal boxing bouts, gymnasium, 8:00 p.m.
Saturday, March 23
Movie, Washington Hall, 6:45 and 8:15 p.m., “The Last Gentleman” with George Arliss.
Sunday, March 24
Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. Benediction, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Monday, March 25
Lenten devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:15 p.m.
Tuesday, March 26
Lenten devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:15 p.m.; Symphony orchestra practice, Washington Hall, 6:30 p.m.; Wranglers Club, 6:30 p.m., Law Building.
Wednesday, March 27
Lenten devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 7:00 and 7:30 p.m.
Thursday, March 28
Lenten devotions, Sacred Heart Church, 5:15 p.m.
GRUDGE BATTLES
(Continued from Page 3)
evening, when the champions meet in the struggle to the death. Don’t sit too near the ring. If one of the mammoths should come sailing through the air and land in your lap, you can’t say we didn’t warn you.
While both camps were putting a fine edge on the mental condition of their boys, the bog play in the McGrath - Sheedy scrap shifted back to Sedalia, Mo., birth place and training ground of the Gunner.
Last Tuesday while the local product was stamping about the campus shouting high and wide of the cruelties he is going to inflict on the ever ready Sheedy, eight simple, ordinary, common-type bandits roared into Sedalia, took over the active management of the town for a few’ hours, and then robbed the local bank in w’hich the Gunner has a personal interest.
“Heck,” said the Gunner when interviewed immediately after the news was on the street. “Those sissies sure were smart in waiting for a time when they knew7 I would be away from school. Bandits don't come within fifty miles of Sedalia when I’m at home. We have a one man police force down there, and I’m the man.”
Sheedy is still gloating over the news. Listen to his comment: “So that’s supposed to be to tough town, huh? Well, those thugs have already proved what I am going to settle for once and all tonight: that Sedalia is only another cow hamlet and the natives jump a mile at the sound of a car’s back fire.”
starch 22, 1935
THE WEEK
By William A. Kennedy
Poll
Perhaps you’re curious to know7 how7 All-Americans spend their spare time. Of course, there are ways and ways, and we aren’t going to attempt a survey of an athlete’s leisure, because it’s obviously too big an undertaking for one person. One of the milder pastimes, seems to be the taking of movie polls.
Your All-American center, Robinson, conducted one of these in Sorin Hall last week. Where else would a movie poll be conducted? In Corby, perhaps, but most probably in Sorin. There’s something about the look on a Sorin man’s face that practically cries out for a movie poll or two.
At any rate, everybody who was anybody voted, and the results were posted on the bulletin board. Those boys can’t do a thing without posting it on the bulletin board. Well, maybe some things.
Right near the top was Gloria Shea, an up-and-coming youngster who took Robby on the rounds of Hollywood and environs after the Southern Cal game. Another one of the ■winners was Virginia Reed, beautiful and talented actress of the west coast. She had helped Tommy Thompson get dizzy after’ the same game. Then there were others who received votes —little known extras like Myrna Loy and Ginger What’s-her-name.
Diet
The state of affairs at the exclusive and polygot diet table in the west dining hall may be gathered from this incident.
Someone passed the potatoes to another sickling. “No thanks,” said the other.
“What’s the matter?” inquired the first case seriously, “you on a diet?”
St. Patrick’s Day
And for some reason or other, the same diet table was thrice insulted on Sunday. First it w7as orange juice, then carrots, and then the denial of the miniature and imitation shamrocks. -The lattei’ could have been done without, and the orange juice ignored, but those carrots weren’t even cooked enough!
•
Birthdays
The downtown radio station, with its early afternoon birthday club program, is doing a greater service than it supposes. You are probably aware • of the idea. Somebody writes in, says that so-and-so is having a birthday and would they please play a record
to celebrate it. To be sure, replies the announcer over the air, and he reads the names to a palpitating world.
Of late, the most palpitating audiences have been on the two local campi. Names mentioned have reference to outside appointments with certain people, on certain days, and so forth. Very round-about, but it saves four- cents on the telephone calls.
•
Reader
This man who eats eight pies doesn’t fool with anything, it seems. If he goes in for something, he goes in, and without dragging his heels, either.
Since the start of the school year, he has read upwards of 200 books. This, in addition to his’ regular assignments of a short story and a daily 200-word article. Apparently it’s another case of spare time and what to do with it.
The worst hours he ever spent were with a recent best seller the name of which is anathema, Moby Dick, and the Koran. According to his own admission, the Koran was the most difficult to finish.
“Why,” he said, “I was on that book for days!”
We can understand that. It would be different if he were just skimming through the pages, and not, as he dryly confesses, pausing to study each section.
•
Semi-Personal
To the freshman who left his notebook in the Commerce Building:
You are not, apparently, getting the most out of your education. Your notebook proves this. It is filled with the names of girls, and the names of those who might be able to recall, if pressed, the days when they, too, came under that listing. Is this, sir, the use for which your notebook was intended?
I perceive that you have them classified, too. What sort of thing is this? They are termed bum, good, swell, lots of fun, fair character, very fine, fair fun, and then there are question marks. What’s wrong—did the summer end too soon? And how did you ever get to know 40 of. the creatures?
Yes, my dear boy, we are afraid you have an entirely wrong slant on university life. That isn’t the sort of thing we are interested in here. We shall expect a marked change in your attitude in the near future. If you wish, call for your notebook. And bring particulars on Sally B., whom you have listed as “FN??.”
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1SG5
The Scholastic is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
JOHN D. CARBINE.......................Editor-in-Chief
EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING.............Managing-Editor
Associate Editors
JOSEPH A. BUCCI Chiej Associate Editor
ROBERT F. ERVIN______________________LOUIS H. HRUBY
ROY O. SCHOLZ
Departmental Editors WILLIAM A. KENNEDY.__________________________The Week
WILLIAM H. TOUMEY.___________________________Dome Dust
VINCENT A. GORMAN, Jr______________________College Parade
MITCHELL C. TACKLEY Graduate Assistant
News Staff
JOHN J. MORAN________________________________News Editor
CLIFFORD F. BROWN____________________Assistant News Editor
ANDREW D. HUFNAGEL___________________Assistant News Editor
ROBERT L. GROGAN_____________________JOSEPH RATIGAN
PAUL FOLEY__________________________IRWIN L. GOLDMAN
PAUL BIAGIONI_______:_____________FREDERICK SHANLEY
PHILIP F. WELSH_____________________JOHN A. GILLESPIE
ANTHONY F. O’BOYLE...........................FRANKLYN HOCHREITER BERTRAM SMITH.................LOUIS DA PRA
LINDSAY PHOEBUS HARRY A. BALDWIN
Sports Staff
JOSEPH P. PRENDERGAST._____________________Sports Editor
CYRIL F. STROKER____________________Assistant Sports Editor
JOHN L. GLANZNER__________________ROBERT J. DONAHUE
JOHN L FLANAGAN.____________________JAMES A. WALDRON
EUGENE VASLETT__________________________JOHN CACKLEY
james McMullen
Business Management
JOHN F. STOECKLEY_______________________Graduate Manager
MEMBER
Associated Collegiate $ress RAusmers or	* ■
— 1934 (unlc^alf DlOCSt 1935 s-
HMHSOM	WISCONSIN
March 22, 1935
INEFFICIENT RATHER THAN DISHONEST
During the past week several students have inquired just why The Scholastic is so persistently washing the Metropolitan Club’s dirty linen in public. To understand our reasons one must briefly review the history of campus clubs. Several organizations have, year after year, piled up huge deficits on every affair they have conducted. These consistent deficits are obviously attributable to one of three causes: dishonesty, inefficiency, or the running of affairs which never should have been run. The Scholastic believes the Met Club fiasco to be a typical case and therefore is making an attempt to probe through the motley mess of the club’s financial entanglements and discover the exact cause of its troubles in order to provide an example for other clubs of what not to do.
The investigations of The Scholastic, thus far, point to inefficiency rather than to dishonesty. We do not question the honsety and integrity of the Metropolitan Club’s officers. There are those who do and who are able to support their claims "with good evidence. But, say we, the very preponderance of the evidence belies the theory that the officials were dishonest. If they had intended to embezzle, they certainly would have been more careful
in concealing the evidence. We are convinced that the New Yorkers were more naive than naughty.
The question has also been raised of what we propose to gain from the investigation of the Metropolitan Club. Here again we must review a bit. As a haphazard guard against dishonesty in campus clubs a casual alumni supervision has been set up. Such financial supervision is not enough. No amount of checking over the books can either explain or prevent lost favors, lost ticket stubs, lost constitutions. The solution of the troubles of campus clubs does not lie in more strict external supervision, but in a more active and more careful internal supervision.
To suggest internal improvements is easy; to accomplish them is difficult. There are two means to this end which, if used simultaneously, might produce the desired result. Both of these methods concern elections: first, that the electors of the club pay more attention to the ability than to the affability of the candidates; second, that previous experience as club vice-president, treasurer, or dance chairman be a prerequisite for presidential eligibility.
This plan might not work. The first part is a bit idealistic and the second might allow control of the club to remain in the hands of a small faction over a period of years. The plan is, however, well worth trying as a means of saving the clubs from complete oblivion as a result of general assessments.	.
9
TOO LIGHT AND TOO FRIVOLOUS
“Turn to the Right,” as presented by the University Theatre last Sunday and Monday, provided a very entertaining evening for those who were fortunate enough to attend. As amusement “Turn to the Right” had but one grievous flow — too much time was consumed between acts in the shifting of scenery. We suggest that the stage hands of the University Theatre take a few notes on the “streamlining” efforts of the Globe Players.
As a University dramatic vehicle, “Turn to the Right” is open to another criticism. It is too light and too frivolous a piece for a college production. If it were in comic relief after a series of tragedies, it might pass, but coming after “Gold in the Hills” and “Shades of Notre Dame,” it only makes one wonder why the University Theatre does not attempt a more ambitious and more serious production. For various reasons, The Scholastic suggests “Journey’s End.” The actual choice, however, would entail little trouble once it was definitely decided to attempt a worthy production.
WORTH YOUR TWO BITS
Tonight the Bengal Boxing Show will hold the spotlight of the campus. It well deserves that spotlight because some fifty boxers have trained two months in the hope that they would appear in the show, because the card as arranged, tops all previous Bengal cards, and it is, beyond all doubts, the outstanding event in the intramural sports season.
You still have a chance to buy your ticket if you haven’t done so. The Scholastic staff members will canvass the halls after supper. There will be tickets sold at the gymnasium box office. The price is only twenty-five cents, and it’s for Bengal as well as for twenty-four rounds of boxing.
T en
The Scholastic
♦ SPCKTS ♦
Champions Battle Way To Finals
NTEDS
FRO/A THE
JJRESS BOX
-f
Bitterly Contested Preliminaries
Waged In Bengal Bout Warfare
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
E THERE’WHERE? Those of you that saw the preliminaries to the Bengal Boxing Show earlier this week know. For the few of you who were not on hand and those who have escaped a wide and
sincere publicity campaign, it might be well to remind you that tonight you have an opportunity to witness the athletic event of the year.
Sixteen finely - trained Notre Dame men, possessing more than an average amount of boxing skill, will show the results of a six weeks training campaign in the annual Bengal Boxing Show tonight in the gym. The cream of Notre Dame’s pugilistic crop is on the verge of providing the year’s entertainment bargain, awaiting the first gong that will usher in the outstanding intramural event of the year.
It’s not our purpose to make history. We feel that the boxers will take care of that in the ring tonight. If we can’t make it we’ll try to relate it — a little background concerning this festival. The idea of a boxing show to aid the Bengal Missions was conceived by the S.A.C. several years ago. The Council couldn’t make the show what it should be so The Scholastic took the reins in the spring of 1932.
Since that day the bouts have been under the sponsorship of this newspaper. In three years THE SCHOLASTIC has promoted many successful shows— successful from a financial angle and from the viewpoint of skillful boxing. In the first year six champions were crowned. In 1933 and 1934 seven title holders were created. Tonight, with (Continued on Page 19)
Max Marek
Another Max, another real fighter
PURCELL CHANGES DATE FOR ANNUAL S.A.C. SWIM MEET
Plans for the annual S.A.C. swimming meet to be held April 8 at the South Bend natatorium, are gradually taking definite form under the direction of Phil Purcell, S.A.C. member.
Very few entries have been received as yet but Purcell expects the number to increase quickly as the meet is scarcely two weeks away. He has announced that special rates can be secured by him if a sufficient number of students wish to make use of the pool for practice purposes before the day of the meet. He wishes to hear from all students interested in receiving these special rates. He can be reached in Room 106, Walsh Hall.
Very few of last years winners are returning to defend their laurels and nearly every event is wide open to competitors wishing to establish their swimming supremacy.
ONE CHAMP ELIMINATED
By James A. Waldron
Demonstrating that all the “Fighting Irish” don’t play on the football team, the O’Neills, Mulligan, and Callahans squared off with the synthetic Irish on the campus to revive the “sport of Erin” in the preliminary bouts of the Bengal Show Monday and Tuesday nights. From fifteen sensational fights, of which seven were by the knockout route, emerged the finalists for tonight’s bouts. Before capacity crowds, which were thrilled by the skill and gameness of these well-conditioned men, all but one of the defending champions fought his way through the ranks of challengers and is primed for the climax, his title defense.
The stocky figure of Walt Marshall projected itself into the path of Harry Marr’s road to a successful defense of his light heavyweight championship, and when the bell ended the fight, a title-hold.er was dethroned. This freshman, who continually wades in throwing punches, had decisioned Joe Strand before meting Man-. Phil Purcell, light heavyweight champion in 1933, gained the other final post by taking a close fight from Walt Schraeder.
For action, courage and ability, the welterweight finalists won the heart of the crowd. After scoring a technical K.O. over Kevin Kehoe, Jerry “Red” Gillespie, won a great scrap from one of the gamest Irishmen to enter a Notre Dame bout, Tom Mulligan, who had won his first fight by knocking out Bill Gallin. “Larruping Lou” Purcell, defending welterweight champion, lived up to his name and peppered fiery lefts and rights at Bob Callahan, knockout conqueror of “Slim” Thompson, until Referee “Kitty” Gorman awarded the fight to Purcell on a technical knockout in the second round.
Sporting his massive opponent 26 pounds, Jim Broscoe won the right to meet Max Marek for the heavyweight crown, by scoring a technical K.O. ovex* Norman Ballitine. Burly Bart (Continued on Page 14)
diarch 22, 1935
Eleven
A BARREL OF FUN - - -
EIGHT MEN IN HEAVIER CLASSES READY TO GO
champion.
ABOVE —BUI Whit-
man, defending
LEFT—Harry Marr.
BELOW — McGrath
and Sheedy, who meet
in the big attraction.
Those Beltin’ Bengal Boxers meet tonight in what promises to be “Ye Bloody Battle of the Century.” With the prelims turning to be one slam bang, on-thefloor-off-again, bring-em-in-and-drag-em-out affair, there should be enough excitement tonight to stimulate the most blase into undignified shoutings and carryings on.
Because the bigger fellows pack the heavier punches, the interest in them runs higher. From the 147 pound class to the heavyweight division there is a very select group of deadly punchers.
Taking them in order of weights, at 147 pounds there is Jerry Gillespie. He is a tall, slender boy who boxes straight up and throws an effective left jab, his chief offensive weapon. That he scored a technical k.o. mainly with this weapon in one of his preliminary bouts, is proof enough of its utility in the ring. Lou Purcell, his opponent and defending champion at this weight, is probably one of the cleverest boxers in the show. He has plenty of class and hits well with either hand; punching with lightning speed which should make up for the advantage which Gillespie will have on him in height and reach. Two knockout artists in the same ring—you pick it.
The 160 pound division is very capably represented by Bart McKernan and Sam Borzelleri. McKernan, the defending champion, should be well known to all. An excellent boxer and powerful hitter, he will have a big edge on Borzilleri in experience, but 'Sam’s aggressiveness will offset this somewhat and McKernan will have to be evei’ on the alert for one of Borzilleri’s wild, long haymakers which he throws so often and which is lable to connect at any time. This haymaker will have to be Borzilleri’s chief threat and like as not he may land it, then—
What looks to be the best bout of the evening comes up in the 175 pound class. Walt Marshall is the only man to defeat a defending champion, beating Harry Marr in the preliminaries. Marshall is only a freshman but he’s tough. Short and stocky, he employs a charging type of fighting, punching short, murderous blows when in close. This infighting is his chief fort and should make this bout most interesting in as much as his opponent, Phil Purcell is the exact opposite in style. Purcell is another one of those tall, rangy lads who punches standing straight up. He boxes very well'and uses a powerful uppercut which should prove very interesting against Marshall, who fights from a crouch.
(Continued on Pajje 14)
Twelve
The Scholastic
SMALLER MEN ON CARD
TO FURNISH THRILLS
By adding an extra class—the bantamweight— to this year’s program, the prowess of “Slugger” O’Neil will be exhibited for all those who care to pay their ducats for the Bengal show. “Slugger” starts his swing from the ground up, and is the most feared man on the third floor of Walsh. His native city is Springfield, Mass., and prior to the past month, O’Neil had never drawn on a mitt or entered the four-squared arena.
Manilla will be well represented in the person of “Killer” Roces, 118 pounds of dynamite, when the leatherpushers have their little get together tonight in the fieldhouse. The “Tiger” Fox hails from Newark, Ohio. He is a veteran of but one official fight in his career—that being the first of this week, when he whipped Helmar, a Bengal contestant for the last three years.
Opposing Fox in the 126-pound class, will be the pride of Oklahoma, Howard “Kid” Gooden. The “Keed” is a protege of his big brother, Hal, having absorbed quite a bit of instruction from the latter. Gooden captured the paper-weight championship of 85 pounds, in Tulsa before he was out of the ninth grade. While in junior high school, wrestling along with boxing consumed most of his time.
The man with quite a past is “Senator” Bud Marcy, one of the leading contenders for the lightweight crown. Coming from Chicago, Marcy has had 3% years of ring experience. In 1934, he carried away high tallies in the 126 pound division. In all, the “Senator” is a leatherpusher of 160 battles and in 1931 was C.Y.O. featherweight holder. His name has graced the Golden Gloves team twice in a row, and in ’32 the Intercollegiate championship rested in his possession. .
“Tex” Durkin seems to ‘dog’ Senator Marcy’s heels or perhaps it’s vice versa. Only last March, the game two boys clashed in the 126 pound, featherweight quest, and this week they are the finalists for the lightweight laurels.
Bill “Memphis” Whitman is a proud son of the south. His most guarded trait lies in controlling a bad temper. Last year as a freshman he won his title by sheer hard work and hard punches. He defends his title tonight.
The Gooden boys seem to dominate the card on this season’s mission proceeds. Hal, the eldest, won the lightweight trophy last year, but because of excess poundage he will stack up against Whitman in the 142 pound, finale.
- - - A BUSHEL OF FISTS
HIGHT—Hal Gooden, a junior welterweight, twice holder of lightweight title.
ABOVE-—Bud Marcy and Tex Durkin, finalists in a promised thriller.
TONIGHT«
THE BENGAL BOUTS
8—Championship Bouts—8 Plus . . McGRATH vs. SHEEDY
Plus . . TANCREDI vs. CONNER
TICKETS 25 CENTS (Available at Box Office)
March 22, 1935
‘Thirteen
Peters And Ford Chosen To Co-Captain The 1935-36 Cogers
ONE FAVORITE FALLS IN PRELIMINARY BOUTS
(Continued from Page 11)
EIGHT MONOGRAMS GIVEN
By Joseph Prendergast
Martin Joseph Peters, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters and a two year monogram winner in both football and basketball, and John Francis Ford, a junior in the Arts and Letters College, were elected cocaptains of the Notre Dame basketball team for 1935-36 at the annual banquet tendered the cage squad last

Tuesday evening in the east wing of the University dining halls.
Peters is from Peoria, Ill., and attended Spalding Institute of Peoria before enrolling at Notre Dame. He is a left end on the football squad and has won two monograms in the gridiron sport. Last year Peters was fourth in scoring, and this season he was second with 134 points, Joe O’Kane winning top honors with a total of 137 points.
Ford hails from Indianapolis, Ind., and prepared for Notre Dame at Cathedral High School of Indianapolis. He was third in scoring glories this yeai' and has won two monograms on the hardwood. Ford and Peters succeed John Jordan of Chicago to the cage captaincy.
Monograms were awarded to eight players: John Jordan, Joseph O’Kane, Martin Peters, John Ford, George Ireland, John Hopkins, Don Elser, and Francis Wade. Two monogram winners will be lost through graduation, while the remaining six insignia winners will be seniors next term.
Roach Telegram
The office of the Vice-President of the University received the following telegram from Gerald Roach, ’29, Jerome Roach, ’33, and Thomas Roach, ’35, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, thanking the University for sympathy and masses in behalf of their mother, who died last Wednesday and whose funeral was held this morning at 9:00 a.m.:
“Sincerest thanks for sympathy and Masses. Funeral Friday at nine.”
Gerald, Jerome and Tom Roach.
Capt. Murphy Scores In K. C. Meet as His Mates Tally at Chi.
The cream of the nation’s track stars competed in the annual K. of C. games held last Saturday at Madison Square Garden in New York. Notre Dame’s lone representative, Captain Vince Murphy, was a leading contender for the high jump honors. Pitted against the best the country had to offer, Murphy was conceded a chance to head the list in view of his brilliant high jumping in recent meets. Especially noteworthy was his supreme effort of six feet seven and one-fourth inches which established a new record for the C. I. C. meet recently.
Coach Nicholson had prophesied that it was almost impossible for any high jumper to be at top form for four* consecutive meets. The popular Notre Dame coach was absolutely right for Captain Murphy was unable to clear more than six feet four inches. The event was won by George Spitz who topped the bar at six feet eight inches. Curiously enough Murphy attained that height this season while practicing in the Notre Dame fieldhouse.
Notre Dame’s twelve man representation at the Armour Tech Relays last Saturday, made a good showing in their competition with thinly clads from 33 other colleges and universities. The Irish bagged two second place ribbons, and its two mile relay team provided a thrilling battle with Purdue in that event.
Don Elser and Mike Layden were the Notre Dame point winners. Big Don again ran into his foremost rival, Frank Davis of Hillsdale, and this time the veteran of the smaller school was victorious. He threw the 16 pound shot 48 feet 4 inches to better his former meet record of 47 feet, 7% inches. Don gave his best performance of the indoor season which fell two inches short of the winner’s distance. It was a new Notre Dame record in the event.
Layden placed second behind Joe Knappenberger of Kansas State in the high hurdles, and ran fourth in the lower barrier race to the double winner. Knappenberger’s time in the 70 yard lows equalled the record set by Ken Sandbach of Purdue in his :7.6 second effort.
Joe McGrath, John McKenna, Du-cassa and Jim Sheils were Nick’s baton passers over the two mile route.
McKernan is again defending his middleweight title, but a smiling Irishman, Jimmy McQuire, almost stole his thunder away from him. After three torrid heats, Bart took a close decision and meets Sam Borzil-leri, who threw too many gloves for Bernie Donnelly, for the crown.
Scarcely had the bell sound died out when “Memphis Bill” Whitman, junior welterweight champion, started one from about Niles, Michigan, and it reached home against the chin of Phil Walker, who thereupon made a non-stop flight through the ropes. Walker picked himself up and gave battle in a way which won the admiration of the boxing critics at the ringside. “Memphis Bill” had enough reserve to win the nod of the judges and referee and will meet Hal “Butch” Gooden tonight for the title.
In the lighter divisions, Franklyn Fox proved too fast on his feet and with his hands for Johnny Helmar and meets the younger of the Gooden boys, Howard, for the featherweight championship. A clever, fast, little fellow, Jess Roces, with a haymaker right and an engaging grin as his chief weapon, scored a technical K.O. over" Jack McGural in the bantamweight class. Joe O’Neil won the other finalist position in this division by outpointing his shorter opponent, Paul Rich.
Excellent officiating was given to these bouts by two capable referees, Georgie Nate and Tom “Kitty” Gorman. The Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., and John “Tony” Andreoni were the judges of the rights with Edward F. Vyzral in the timekeeper’s role.
HEAVYWEIGHTS
(Continued from Page 12)
On the other hand, Marshall is, just the type of fighter who would spoil Purcell’s style.
Little need be said about Max Marek who fights in the heavyweight finals. His is a nation-wide reputation among amateur boxers and he is undoubtedly the best ring man on the campus. He meets a very game kid in Jim Broscoe who k.o.’d a man 25 pounds heavier than himself in the prelims, showing that he must pack a tremendous punch. He should keep Max plenty busy with his aggressiveness and always remember: if a man is hit hard enough on that spot called, so quaintly, the button, he’ll go out —no matter how good he may be.
Fourteen
I
The Scholastic
( KLINE HOPES TO MAKE USE OF HEAVY HITTERS
Irish Track Team Closes Indoor Season At Butler Tomorrow
The baseball squad finally got its first taste of outdoor work when Coach Jake Kline led his charges onto Brownson Field last Saturday. The four hour workout gave Kline his first action glimpse of fielders and hitters, and he seemed satisfied with the results of the workout.
। The pitchers had a two-week start over the batsmen, and managed to steal the show by silencing the heavy war clubs most of the afternoon. Though the weather suited Jake, for a change, his dour prediction was for more cold winds to hold up outside practice.
On Monday his guess materialized, and the squad was forced to fall back to the share system which Kline and Track Coach Nicholson had worked out for the use of the field house, k Under the agreement Jake has the rights to the structure until 4 p.m., when Nick and his thinlies take over the track and the infield.
Kline started where he had left off outdoors by sending his infields through a peppy workout on the improvised diamond indoors. He managed to work four combinations into action before the baseballers were forced to retire in favor of the spiked shoe men. The first group with Gaul at the plate, and Scarfati, Cunha, Reagan, and Fromhart guarding the close-cropped area, turned in a fast exhibition that kept Kline busy hitting grounders about the diamond.
The last few days have given the Coach a pretty definite line on his । material, and his problem is making the right selection. Replacements for most of the berths seem available, though Jake has yet to develop a suitable understudy for the reliable Captain Dunn at the initial sack. At present selections are still in the doubtful stage; the outdoor work will make the final decisions.
Meanwhile the pitchers are progressing rapidly with regular practice, and are far ahead of the rest of the squad. But Kline is no little concerned about the staff that has to * carry him through a mighty tough season.
“We have about 20 games in the short season of six weeks, and it will be the pitchers that will have to bear the strain. Most weeks we have three games, and we’ll have to have six pitchers to carry us along. Matt Themes, Joe Beach, and Bill Tourney are on hand to take their turn. We can only hope that the sophomore prospects: Rydell, Van Wagner, Mo-har and Hostermann, will develop sufficiently to take their places on the mound.”
starch 22, 1935
Irish Outdoor Track Campaign Slated To Start on April 20
By Cy Stroker
Now that their indoor competition is drawing to a close, the Notre Dame track team is looking with an expectant eye toward Cartier field and the outdoor season. A schedule of ten meets to be run on the cinders has been arranged for the Irish and of these only five are dual meets. The list is headed by the Kansas relays which will be held at Lawrence on April 20.
Following the Kansas meet are the Penn and Drake relays on April 26 and 27. Coach Nicholson intends to split his team for these two meets, sending part to Philadelphia and part to Des Moines. These three contests complete the Notre Dame activities during April. The results should be a good indication of what the Irish will do throughout the season.
The five dual meets will be run in quick succession during May and June. The meet with Ohio State at Columbus is scheduled for May 4, that with Michigan State, will be run at East Lansing, May 11. Three home contests follow, Pittsburgh, May 18, Marquette May 25, and Indiana on June 1.
The Notre Dame team will be composed of the same men that are now competing in the indoor meets with the addition of Lavicki in the javelin and discus throws, Cummings in the javelin, and Boyle in sprints. The prospects for a successful season seem fairly bright at present although the Irish seem to perform better in dual meets of which there are comparatively few this year.
Of all the teams on the schedule, Nick most wants his men to defeat Pittsburgh. The Panthers ran the Irish into the ground last year and defeated them by only a silght margin in this year’s indoor meet, but the chances for a Notre Dame victory in the outdoor contest seem much better this year.
SCHEDULE
April 20—Kansas Relays
April 26, 27—Penn and Drake Relays
May 4—Ohio State at Columbus
May 11—Michigan State at East Lansing
May 18—Pittsburgh here
May 25—Marquette here June 1—Indiana here June 7—Central Intercollegiate June 14—National Intercollegiates
472 STARS WILL COMPETE
Probably the largest indoor track meet of the year, the Butler Relays, will get under way Saturday night in the huge Butler fieldhouse in Indianapolis. A sparkling array of track stars from all parts of the country are sharpening up their spikes tonight in anticipation of the opening gun. Indications point to a new high in entries with last minute reports setting the list a bit over the 1934 total when 472 individuals represented 36 schools.
The Governor Paul V. McNutt trophy is now in the possession of Michigan, and the Wolverines are heavy favorites to retain their title. Chief among the challengers who will be out fighting for the crown are Notre Dame, Ohio State, Marquette, and Pittsburgh, 1935 Central Intercollegiate conference champions. All of these teams have valuable pointgetters but it appears that Michigan has the edge because of excellent reserve strength.
Captain Vince Murphy of Notre Dame will make his final attempt to surpass the world’s indoor record which stands at six feet, eight and three-quarters inches.
One of the most exciting races of the evening is promised in the four-mile relay with a field of outstanding milers to compete. Tom Ottey of Michigan State, Ray Sears of Butler, Billie Zepp of Michigan Normal, and Don Lash, sophomore distance ace from Indiana, are among the stars who will lead their respective batonpassing squads. Although the defending champion in this event, Notre Dame has not entered a four-mile team because of the loss of John Francis and Leo McFarlane.
In the one mile relay, Pittsburgh will again attempt to outdistance Notre Dame and rules a topheavy favorite to get the call in this event having covered the distance in 3:21.9 at the Armour Relays last Saturday. Illinois and Marquette appear to be the challengers, both squads having speedy quartets. The two-mile relay should be fast with Notre Dame, Purdue, and Wisconsin entering some of the best half-milers in the Middle-West.
A squad of 20 men will compete for Notre Dame and the Irish have high hopes of concluding their successful season with a victorious showing at Butler. As Coach Nicholson would say, “We have a good team. but so have the 35 other schools in the meet.”
Fifteen
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
I
INTRODUCING
By Joe Prendergast
THESES and other manuscript work typed. 10c per sheet (double spaced), one carbon copy free, you furnish paper, call 4-3907 or come to 409 Pythian Bldg. Hours 2 to 5 pm. except Fridays.	It.
On January 19, 1913, in a small city just a nickel “el” ride from Boston, James Francis Bowdren Jr. was born. Medford, Massachusetts never realized the importance of that day until 16 years later when the young Bowdren youth’s name started to make page one sporting news through his track conquests.
James Francis as a youngster first began to become aware of his fine running prowess when he habitually outdistanced all rivals in the time-old hare and hound games. Later he won first prize in his parish’s Sunday school track meet. Jim was allowed to enter only three events in
his parish games and oddly enough he won all three races. As a freshman in Medford High, Jim came under as keen a track mind in Eddie Pigeon that could be found in the East in Prep school circles.
Coach Pigeon developed this 150 pound boy’s running form until he was the class of scholastic runners around the Hub. As a senior, Jim was Captain of the track team and placed first in close to every important schoolboy track rodeo in New England. In the Northeastern Interscholastics, he won the 600 yard run and set a record which still stands. Jim won the Andover Interscholastics, finishing a yard ahead of Bill
Sixteen
Bloor of Newark Prep who later in the same season nosed out Jim in the Bowdoin Interscholastics. Bloor was Captain of the Ohio State track forces last year.
James Francis Jr., won the Harvard Interscholastics against the cream of the East’s 600 yard schoolboy standouts. It was in the winning of this title that Jim received his greatest kick from all his years of competition. He says, “I just was able to beat this runner from Hill School, Pa., who had led all the way.” He won the New England schoolboy championship in the 600 yard affair in the Boston Arena as a juni
or and also copped the laurels in the 600 indoor run for the state schoolboy title along with triumphing at the half-mile jaunt out-of-doors. He played three years of left end in football that must also be reckoned with before his Medford High history is concluded.
Jim spent a year at Clark School, Hanover, New Hampshire, the camp of the Wah-Hoo-Wah Indians from Dartmouth College and was slated to join the student body at Dartmouth after Clark School was over but he changed his mind when he read about Alex Wilson of Notre Dame. James was All-New Hampshire end at Clark
(Continued on Page 20)
.--- 1	~	J
Dr. E. J. Cain
ROGERS
Eyesight
Specialists
212 So. Michigan St.
Phone 4-8251
<
*
GLASSES Properly FITTED
DR. J. BURKE
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS
DR. E. C. BEERY
Optometrist* and Mfg. Optician*
228 S. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana
Established 30 Years
L^MDNTRE^S
OPTOMETRISTS 222% South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana
• REASONABLE
•	DEPENDABLE
•	PERSONAL SERVICE
BROKEN LENSES
DUPLICATED IN OUR
OWN LABORATORY.
The Scholastic
We’re Headquarters for ARROW Shirts and ARROW Underwear
Blwnrth 0
Bookmen
“How to get in and out of Print,” was the subject of Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell’s talk at the Bookman meeting in the Commerce building last Thursday. Persuaded by his friends to try writing, Mr. Campbell starred with Black Sadie. A friend to whom Mr. Campbell had read the first seven pages of this novel took the pages (without permission). A few days later Mr. Campbell was notified by wire that Macmillan and Co. was “Retaining your Black Sadie” — He was in print and receiving the “benefit of success” which “makes you brilliant.” The success he says depends upon a few details: “Don’t' begin without a contract.” An agent, preferably a free-lance, is necessary. “Refuse to read the manuscripts that flood your mail the minute you have published a successful novel.”
First printings or first impressions of a novel average 1500 copies but the first printing of Black Sadie numbered five thousand. Black Sadie was soon followed by Old Miss, another Old Dominion story and Far Trouble, which has China as its scene.
Italian Club
President John Busichio, of the Italian club, announced that the next meeting of the organization would be held Tuesday eevning, March 26, in Walsh Hall basement. The president urges the presence of all the members.
Plans for the forthcoming Italian dinner, the traditional annual banquet, will be considered. Pat Dizenzo, chairman of the entertainment committee, promises to have an interesting program for the meeting.
Headquarters for ARROW . . .
J
MAX ADLER
On the Corner — where Michigan crosses Washington
Arrow Shorts won’t grow shorter
The law of diminishing returns holds no terror for Arrow Sanjorized-Shrunk Shorts. They cannot shrink no matter how often the garment is washed. Sanforizing, the only process of its kind, guarantees permanent fit forever.
Don’t resign yourself to underwear that continually creeps up on you, cuts you in two, and generally ruins your disposition. Arrow Shorts give you comfort where you really need it—they are full cut with ample leg room—that bedeviling center seam has been replaced with a saddle seat —the garment is tailored throughout with your comfort in mind. See your Arrow dealer today.
Arrow Shorts Arrow Undershirts 65c up	50c up
ARROW UNDERWEAR
SANFORIZED SHRUNK
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO., INC., TROY, N. Y.
-March 15, 1935
<£ erenteen
SPLINTERS
(Continued from Page 11)
a field of fifty fighters slashed to sixteen, a full program of eight bouts will be run off.
Competition for the University ring championships has always been an interesting thing to watch. Holders of the titles have been envied and remembered for contributing something to Notre Dame athletics that no other group has been able to do. Many of the present student body will remember such skillful boxers as Bill Malloy, Howard Waldron, the late Jerry Duwan, Johnny Michuta, and Nick Cartan. These ex-champions have seen theii- day in the Notre Dame ring and have given way to a younger crop of battlers who are equally as colorful and masterful.
The Cartans, Malloys, et al are gone and in their places pop up such sterling battlers as Marek, Durkin, Marcy, Purcell, Gooden, Whitman, McKernan, and others. All but the first two are defending champions, with Gooden and Bart McKernan holding their titles for two years.
All this started out to be a history of the Bengal Bouts, but since we’ve wandered a bit it’s appropriate that we should leave the original subject altogether and bring this thing right up to date. To bring boxing up to date is to mention Max Marek. We’re going to get a jump on the editor and thank the — Max right here for all he has done to bring this year’s exhibition to a head. Marek unanimously agreed to be the best boxer in Notre Dame boxing annals, has done the heavy work for the bouts. Because of his limitless ambition the fighters you will see tonight are the finished products they are. Max has taken novice and veteran alike and given them instructions that they will find useful. To have him as technical adviser of the boxers was a relief to the editorial department. It was a tremendous burden placed on shoulders that carried it well.
Regardless of what you’ve thought or haven’t thought of past Bengal Boxing Shows you MUST see tonight’s show. We’ll guarantee it will be the best thing you’ve seen this year. Won’t you drop over and pass judgment? We’re confident you’ll agre with us.
LAETARE MEDAL
(Continued from Page 4 J
McCormack, and Genevieve Garvin Brady.
The medal is selected by the University Academic Council composed of the president, the vice-president, the director of studies, the deans of each college, and one elective faculty member from each college. A list of candidates for the honor is read at one of the meetings of the council in the order of preferment, and, if the occasion warrants, new names are added to the list.
The L a e t a r e Medal committee which is composed of five members and, the president of the University acting as ex officio chairman, critically analyzes the merits of the persons suggested for the award. Several months later a report is offered by the committee with a recommendation of the name it considers most suitable.
The official name of this year’s recipient has not as yet been published but may be expected in the very near future.
COLLEGE PROM
RUTH ETT1NG and her melody
RED NICHOLS and his rhythm
A college party is a lot of fun. Don’t miss Kellogg’s College Prom next Thursday night. New excitement. New songs. New dance rhythms. All the merriment and thrills of a college campus. Backed with action and sports. Be sure to lune in!
EVERY THURSDAY NIGHT 7:45 Eastern Standard Time W1Z Network—N. B. C.
Nineteen
INTRODUCING
(Continued from Page tfi)
School and won “C’s” in track and baseball besides on the gridiron. The Irish institution took Jim into its fold in the fall of 1931.
Jim was beaten as a sophomore in the Ohio State meet in the 440 yard dash and this is noteworthy for it was the Bay State boy’s first defeat in three years. While in his senior year at Medford High, later at Clark School and during his freshman year at Notre Dame, Jim was undefeated. He won his N.D. as a sophomore in the various 440 yard events. Last year Jim ran both in the 440 and on the mile relay quartet; sometimes alternating and other times attempting the both tasks in the same afternoon. This year his efforts have been solely expanded in the interests of • the fast-stepping mile relay team. Jim played “B” team football as a center in his sophomore term here but in a tilt against the St. Thomas eleven at Scranton, Pa., his right knee was injured and he hasn’t played since. James tips the scales at 185 pounds, at present, and stands six feet an' one inch in height in height. He is a senior in the Physical Education school and expects to coach after receiving his “sheepskin” ' in June. He rooms in a comfortable double in Walsh with Jerry Molinari.
“Old Golds respect my throat..and charm my ta ste .too’’says
Twenty	T he S cholas tic