
DISCE-QUASI- SEMPER- VICTVRVS-VIVE- QUASI- CRAS-MORITVRVS
!»
Vol. LI.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, 'February 2, 1918.	No. 15.
Solitude.
BY JAMES H. MACDONALD, ’19.
^WUET solitude, I love to feel
Thy soft arms press about me, Bidding me visit thy still gardens And breathe of thy serenity. » '
Gardens-of boundless acreage	- -
Unswept by wild, discordant winds, Whose walls are viewless battlements,
Where alien joy no entrance finds.'
Here with God at evening—	x
High fervor crimsoning the skies; ..
No murmur moves the garden air -And I am ravished by His quiet eyes.
The Training of an Airman.
The Steps Leading to the Conquest oe the Air, a Commission in the Air Service, and a Place in the Battle Skies of France.
training of America’s new airmen Il is one of the most scientific and the most fascinating courses of study ever evolved. It has every need. to . be scientific because it provides a general knowledge of the world’s newest sciences; it_has every certainty-of being fascinating because it -goes far into the mysteries of flight, of wifeless, of codes, of reconnaissance. It is stimulated - all the way through, moreover, by that irresistible urge of national service and by the knowledge that every bit of added skill gained will return with: interest in one of those forthcoming crises in the skies of France.
The course is divided into three distinct steps,—the ground schools, the flying schools in this country, and the final advanced flying schools abroad. This: has been necessary because -it provides an admirable means of measuring the men and- rapidly and logically ’ sifting out the unfit; and also because it allows
the greatest mobilization of resources,—the ‘ big Universities in this country for the preliminary technical'work, the new flying fields ' here with America’s good training planes, and the wonderful' schools abroad with their supply of fighting planes and seasoned -pilots and their atmosphere of battle.- Under this system. Americans are assured of a composite course -based upon the best of everything gained in three ye'ars of warfare abroad, .and are not held back by the original lack of facilities here.
Immediately a cadet is called into active service he' is directed to a/‘Ground School” at one of the eight large Engineering Universities which have placeci their resources at the service of the Government. Here the student aviator is under military discipline, but with all the comforts, the facilities and the atmosphere of college life. /
The purpose of this work is twofold: First and most important it provides a fundamental knowledge of the principles of all the sciences of aviation, which gives a rock-bottom foundation to a cadet’s training. Second it quickly uncovers those .who, both for the good of the service and of themselves, should not go further.
The cadets learn here how to take an engine, a machine-gun, or . a plane apart. and put it together again. They become so familiar with the mechanisms they will soon be. using as to have an instinctive mastery of them. No one of them will be allowed to go up into the air until he understands every phase of the machine, underneath him. He will' then have all the confidence, that an expert horseman has in his favorite, mount..	-
Wireless and the Morse code are also mastered so that the men can talk to their guns from the . v
-air as they would through a telephone. Then they are set at “spotting,” looking down upon an exact reproduction of a part of the front and wirelessing back the location of flashes, made to represent bursting- shells. Aerial* ; photography, reconnaissance, air tactics and ’ '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC

the like are also studied, and military drill, calisthenics, and army regulations mastered. By the end of eight -weeks the cadet is thoroughly “grounded” in .aviation and assured' as far as it is humanly possible to give assurance, that he is prepared to go off the ground.	-
Then come the flying schools. It is not possible for military reasons to describe them in detail. It can be "said, however, that the 'size of these 'schools would be startling to the . uninitiated, who would' see in them a life of which he. had hardly dreamed, a life that . ushers in the new day of air-travel for man. , And he would also see groups of cadets, Jlying, studying, working, oblivious of time and of hours, fascinated by; the romance of their subjects, earnest to prove equal to every test in the realization that the great test of all lies just over- the hill of to-morrow.-
' .Picture the thrill of the first flight with the instructor; then the feeling of power that gradually begins to come as the control of the machine is more and more taken over; the exasperation and then the joy as the all-difficult work of landing ' is conquered; finally the - exultation of the first soaring aloft, alone. Bit by bit-, the airman stretches out his wings, . flying a little farther, a little longer, a little .higher each day, until he feels himself master - of the air. Then with a 30-mile cross-country flight and a 10,000 foot , altitude test, -he is proved—a Reserve Military Aviator and a com. missioned officer in America’s Air Army, wearing the coveted wings and shield of Uncle Sam.
One step remains. Final training in evolution, in squadron formation, and in battle practice is given, in1. France, on the latest, up-to-the-
minute machines under seasoned French airmen, expatiate. on. whatever interested them. The result waS usually a tale,—a’ story embellished
in the actual atmosphere of battle. At its	. .	,
conclusion, .the aviator is trained as highly by little essays, by minor digressions, by disas it is possible to. train him, is awarded his proportionate descriptions, and often by a little
moralizing. We have but to recall the tales of grade and is ready whenever duty calls him. the Arabian Nights, of Cervantes, of Scott, .or This is man’s /work. It requires physique, of Irving to appreciate the type. Even Haw, brains,-and concentration. It is worked but ' thorne moralized in his.stories. Now Poe ban; upon the principle of complete mastery of every ished. all this. :Fbr the leisurely manner of the . step" before, another step is taken.. it is sur- old conteur, he substituted a purposive, econom-. rounded with every precaution of safety, as .ical style that developed the story to one, single is shown by .the fact that not' a dozen fatal air end. His idea-was first to conceive an effect, accidents, have occurred among all the hundreds secondly, to’im’ent and fashion a series of inci-of men. trained. . It/requires The highest type of dents that would lead-straight to this; precon-college' men, not; more, men, but -better men. ceived effect/ :There -was to be no dallying, no.
' -The;final article in this official series will sauntering,.nO'digressing;. “in tlm
appear. February 9, 19 x8.	//	/ r / position there<-should/be -no word "written of
Junior Military. Aviator brevet, promoted one
Four Pioneers in the Short Story.

BY LEIGH G. HUBBELL, ’iS.
_ The short story is literature’s youngest child; the epic, the tale, the drama, the essay, and the novel are each older. There are critics who deny that the short-story is a child at all; others - admit a new creation, but are inclined.to look upon it as a sort of enfant terrible, to use the -expressive French phrase. Whatever may be the opinions of literary experts, the short-story has won the masses, nor has it lacked men of genius to sponsor-it into public favor. The pioneer writers who developed the new form at least caught the world’s attention with their artistic experiments, and it is probable that they actually did develop a new literary genre.
' If we agree with those who .hold the shortstory to be a new species in literature, we -must follow them in looking back to Edgar Allan Poe as its originator and first pioneer. Tales were told before Poe, and some were told in the modern manner, but it was Poe who first clearly conceived and' convincingly stated the power and artistic' qualities of the story that aims at ‘ ‘ a certain unique effect. ’ ’ He not only’ conceived and delineated the new species, he gave his theories practical form, illustrating in more than sixty masterly examples the technique and "values of the modern short-story.
Before Poe, with sporadic exceptions, the world’s story-tellers /followed the leisurely, digressive manner of Chaucer. .They told a story, to be sure, but they , stopped by the way to
J
1






THE NOTRE DAME 'SCHOLASTIC	243
which the tendency, direct or indirect,” was not “to the one pre-established design.” The leisurely, garrulous times were past; the world henceforth w^s to be occupied by strenuous, purposeful moderns, who should have no time for dallying.
. Poe carried out his theories with a ruthless’ economy of effects. The resulting stories were artificial, but they were vivid, forceful, hypnotic.
■ There were tales of the preternatural such as . “The Fall of the House of Usher” and “Ligeia”; of psuedo-science, as “A Descent into the Maelstrom”; of ratiocination, as “The Gold Bug’’ and “The Murders in the Rue Morgue”; and of simple horror, as “The Pit and the Pendulum.” These tales-were translated into French by an enthusiastic admirer, and foreign appreciation of Poe led native by many years. -But Aiuerican and English appreciation has steadily grown and in the words of Professor Canby, “we would hail Poe first as a master of tech-, nique, as the great craftsman in English narrative, perhaps the most influential innovator since Richardson.”	•
’ The second important pioneer of the shortstory was Bret Harte. Fatherless at the age of fifteen, he went with his mother to the “Golden West” in 1854. Here, in California, he was . successively school-teacher, miner, express messenger, printer and editor. In the August number of- the new Overland Monthly for 1868 appeare'd his first study of the turbulent life around him, “The Buck of Roaring Camp.” Thejstory was at once recognized as a masterpiece; its characters were novel and primitive, its action as incisively sketched as any plot of Poe’s. “The Outcasts of Poker Flat” and “Tennessee’s Partner” were no less successful, and by 1871 Harte was famous. England, which had been cold towards Poe,, liked Plarte at once. This sudden fame called him East. In 1878 he was appointed Consul at Glasgow, Scotland, and lived abroad until his death in 1902., He is buried in -Frimley Churchyard, England.
What did Bret Harte contribute to the.de-
.. velopment of the. new literary species? The answer is that he illustrated the new form in at leasi> three imperishable" classics. He followed, consciously or not,y the definition laid down by Poe, and he made the new form known throughout the English-speaking world. So true was this thaF people began to hail him as the inventor . of the "new type, and it became- necessary for him. to answer his flatterers in a public dis-
claimer. (See the Cornhill Magazine for July 1899) Finally, Harte showed his countrymen how -to develop American local color, and how well-adapted is the short-story for presenting novel- situations, strong contrasts, and the peculiar characters of a given community. With Plarte the short-story-was established, and be- . came the? usual jather than the extraordinary tool. '	■	■	■
The’final stamp of-approval was set upon the new instrument when Robert Louis Stevenson " took it under his patronage. In 1877 and 1878 fie published three short-stories in English magazines that reassured most critics as to the permanence of the new forms. “A Lodging for the Night,” “Will o’ the Mill,” and “The Sire de Maletroit’s Door,” appearing within three months’- time, were finished, polished productions. Stevenson was a stylist above all else, and his gifts to the new form were beauty and grace,—the gifts of an English artist with French leanings. He brought distinction to the short-story, and made it more popular among his fellow Englishmen. .	.
Stevenson followed his first ^stories with “The Pavilion on the Links” (1880), “Thrawn Janet” (18S1), “Markheim” (1885)/and others less important. We must note that he brought from his French studies not only a passion for -. * style, but a point of view as well.. AU his stories are impressionistic, just as were the stories of -his contemporaries in France. What we mean' by an “impressionistic” story is best'explaimed _ by letting Stevenson speak for himself. “There are three ways of writing a story,” he told Graham Balfour. ‘ “ You may take 'a plot and fit characters to it, or you may take a character and choose incidents and situations to develop it, or lastly, you may take a certain atmosphere, and get action and persons to express and realize it—I’ll give you an example—‘ The Merry Men. There ! began with the feeling of one of those islands on the west coast of Scotland, and . I gradually- developed the story to express the sentiment with Which that coast affected me.” The best American impressionist'is undoubtedly. Henry James, and he'began writing short-stories before Stevenson; but the latter to date, has far surpassed him in influence. ’
We have now viewed three masters,—pioneers as well,—of Abe short' story in English, but - . -we have said nothing of a long line of masters : who wrote in French. We have said that the short-story is an American invention, and so,

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
^44
ks a self-conscious genre, it is; yet the French Prosper Merimee wrote superbly-restrained short-stories before Poe. It was the neglect of the French to appreciate Merimee’s achievement or to attempt to develop the type of compressed narration that he had begun, that made Poe’s definition of the form a new idea. Perhaps it would be more exact to say that the French were more' interested in other forms, as verse, the novel, and the drama, which they had in abundance. Then, too, the tale, or conte, had been with them a long time, and always as a minor species. The advent of Poe, translated by Charles Baudelaire, directed their attention to. the excellent work in the new form already accomplished by men like Balzac, whom they had regarded as a novelist, De Musset, the poet, De Vigny, Merimee, and others.
The Frenchman who took the short-story for his own was Guy de Maupassant; He pub* lished his first story, “Tallow-Ball,” in 1880; his last in 1S91; in the one decade he produced over two hundred. He carried Poe’s definition to its highest expression; every story that he wrote goes straight to the “preconceived and unique effect’’.that the American had laid down as fundamental. The most noted of Maupassant’s stories are “Moonfight” (1882), “The Coward,” “The Piece of String” (1885), “The Necklace” (1885) and “The Horia” (1887). His talent for minute observation was extraordinary; he constructed his stories with amazing economy. -	.
Perhaps we cannot better conclude our study ' of these four pioneers than by examining a story from the greatest of the.-four. Let us take “The Piece of String,” in which Maupassant showed how a fascinating story may be constructed from a very simple situation. It will serve, moreover, to demonstrate the entire genre. . The story has to do with old Master Hauche-corne, an economical old provincial, who sees * .a bit of string lying on the roadv- one morning.
He is slipping it into his blouse when he becomes . aware that the Harness Maker, ;an old enemy, is watching hiih. Fearing his enemy’s ridicule, he; fumbles. about, pretending to be looking for somethings else,, and-.then goes on To market. Towards evening of the same day. the citizens are summoned by drumbeat to the public square. A wallet with five hundred francs has been lost. .The Harness/Maker accuses 'Master. Hauche-- corne, who. tells the mayor that it was only a b bit of string that /he picked up that morning.
//' -- - /-: -? ’* ' ' /' . •
The incredulous mayor-finally lets him go. He spends the evening explaining to his neighbors, and is not believed. The next day the wallet-is found. Hauchecorne is triumphant now, but the citizens merely believe that he tossed the wallet- -where it would be found. He is aghast at their incredulity. He goes the rounds again, trying to convince Them.—But let Maupassant finish:—	-	.
“‘Those are a liar’s reasons,’ people said behind his back. He realized it; he gnawed his nails, and exhausted himself in vain. He ,grew perceptibly thinner. - Now the jokers asked him to tell the story of ‘The Piece of String’ for their amusement, as a soldier’ who has seen service is asked to tell about his battles. His mind attacked. at its source, grew feebler. Late in December he took to his bed. In the first days of January he died and in the delirium of the death-agony he protested his innocence, repeating: “‘A little piece of string—a little piece of string—see, here it is, m’sieu mayor.’”
Can concentration for a “certain unique effect” be carried farther? -
Freshman Thoughts.	i
•	- > - -------
The will is the -whip of fife.
, Time-.and the. time-clock wait for no man. Don’t watch the boss; he’s watching you. The machine of success is not a self-starter. Be not merely good; be good for something The sea of life has no motor boats; try rowing. If you wish to get ahead and stay ahead, use a head.	'
A man without-faith is like a man without a country.	.	_	<
A man who is satisfied with himself is easily satisfied." .	.
, When.a tool is making a lot of noise you know
it is not cutting. . '	. ,	Ji
Wouldn’t it be great if we -were all as great	;
as we think we are? .'	-	.	.
•	A real man is like-a punching bag; the harder '' you. hit him the harderTie comes back..
/ .Life to a man.should be neither .a succession of banana,peels nor a succession of comedy reels
“Nature gave, us-two ears but only one
' mouth,” and' some .people have been working ; ever since to overcome’the handicap.	~
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Varsity Verse.
Frank’s Debut.
-	Local Limericks.
There was a young Walshite named Farrell, Whose shape much resembled a barrel;
He would not exercise,	.
So up in the skies	■
He is now, perhaps, singing a carol.	•
.	T. j. T.
A barber named “Jimmy Ha-Ha” ’ Used to trim us'with perfect sangfroid; When asked could he shave, •" ' Said this witty old knave;'	:’
When a sliaver I shaved.your grandpa.” ’	R. D.
There’s a fellow in Walsh, so they say, Who’s supposed to eat*at the Cafe;
He went to a show,	,
■And blew all his dough,— That’s why he is falling away. .
T. A.
There was a young fellow from Nome, Who came to N. D. from his home; He thought lie was smart,	.
And acted the part, -So they sold him a share in the Dome. '	D. E.
A student in Sorin is wise;	.	.
One in Corby is quite otherwise.
While a Brownsonite lad
Is supposed to be bad,	.
And the beggars in Walsh, wealthy guys. .
.	T. B.
We have a young student named Hope, Who some day expects to be pope. • When he told this to me,	'
At once I could see	'
That he must be a user of dope.
v. G.
In Walsh Hall there is a.sorority, Consisting.of quite a majority;	'
. For soldiers they knit	'	■
Nice sweaters to fit. ■
On that sport they are sure an authority. .	-	n. s. F.
His eyes were decidedly blinky,	_
He stammered and stared, just to think he
Could not go to town, . .	.
As the King/with a frown, ~	-
Showed him, three times', his name on the dinky. ’	■ 1	_ ' -	-	' ' . ' \ ' C. II. K. •
BY LEO J. JONES, T8.
“Say, Frank, Mae has a friend-visiting her -this week and she. asked me to bring someone ' 7 along Saturday evening. What do you say?” Al Boswell was sitting-, in front of his littered. desk, leisurely puffing a fat stogie. y ' . '	.
Frank carefully looked up the etymology ofA . myopia and deliberately deposited the data, in:	'
the proper pigeon-hole of his cerebrum, before 7 he nonchalantly countered, “Where’sTom?” \
“Tom? oh,Tie’s cutting up over in Lawrence. -at present. • Besides, Mae suggested my roommate,” returned the other suavely. “I me ver gave it a thought before, but it. is rather funny that we have never been out together, except when you dragged me off to see old Bill Shakes- . peare’s substitute for race suicide.” :.•	•
“I’ll go, Al,” Frank declared all of a sudden.-. ' and decisively. - “But don’t bother’ me until I ; finish this dissertation on the, termination of Hamlet.” •	.	;	•
Al dutifully laid out his psychology text: and	- .
proceeded to a practical application of■' its principles rather than an investigation of them; < / < For a year and a half the boys had shared .their ' room, but that was about as far as their;.. ' association had gone. Though both accepted ' -the same motto—“Get the most out' of life”—each interpreted it in. his own way. " Frank was- continually striving for the most -	-
knowledge, while Al was just-as earnestly seek- ' ing the most fun. Bach envied-the accomplishments, though neither noticed the- defi— r ciencies, of the other. Al was , now wondering ' : how his roommate always managed to “get in” first, and how he was able to banish, all thought of his social affairs the moment he opened his 'books i Some of his own greatest enjoyment, he realized, came with the pleasant : t _ recollections of his last entertainment. Finally' he abandoned the problem for a:brief “skim” *	.
over the next day’s;assignment. He was just — planning an attack on the second, paragraph, . .. when ... Frank, • discarding his references, < interrupted. .	.	'7;; ... ;
“ What are we going to do? ” he burst forth./ y -
“When?” -inquired Al,, from'his 'seay of ■	7
generic images, concepts,, and ideas.' :	. 7 7. L
“Saturday night, of course.’” 7: , ;.y</-“Oh, I. don’t know.' 'It’s; at the;house.” y; . . y

246
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Frank thought the explanation rather vague,
but he persisted. ‘ ‘ What’s her name ? ’ ’
“Who?” serenely inquired the other; he absent-mindedly thumbing the pages of Maher.	.
“Why, your friend’s guest,” explained, exasperated seeker of knowledge.
was
Ins
the
“Oh, Nellie Bently,” said Al jerking himself put of his reveries. “She’s from out of town, . and Mae says she’s everything she could be.
She dances like Mrs. Vernon Castle , and can girls. He hurried through his supper and
keep a crowdin good humor at her uncle’s wake.”
“She’ll be all righty I guess,” admitted-Frank, with the air of a connoisseur. With that important matter settled, the two boys proceeded to “obliviate” their troubles in the land-of dreams.
When Frank awoke at his usual early hour his first thought was of Saturday evening to. come. In the-cold gray morning, some of the assurance pi the previous night was lacking-. Perhaps, he would fail in some emergency, thereby embarrassing all concerned, and then Al would be sorry tliat he had been invited. At . any" rate, it would be no more than fair to inform Al of his misgivings and short-comings, and thus give him a chance to withdraw the invitation if he so desired. Yes, that would be the best way, for Al would at least see him through and probably give him a pointer or two when it was necessary . Stilly it would be ' humiliating to confess that-he could.not do the
latest steps nor sustain a conversation in words Ins companion rah on innocently. “I think it is. just splendid for you boys to have such good . '
of less than three syllables. If Al would only be ■willing to take a chance on his ability to “get by”, with discourses on such topics as the ionic theory or the possibility of a - fourth dimension. Perchance Al could guide the conversational flow into channels adapted to his knowledge.- Anyhow, he would broach the subject of his rustiness and let Al decide as soon
. as he awoke. Meditating in this manner Frank consumed the hour which he.ordinarily devoted to hisMetaphysics.. —	■.'■■■
But when Al did finally sit up and rub his - - - * - - ? r : * ' . ■- _ . eyes, he was alone in the room. Frank had -departed for classes somewhat earlier than usual in order that he might investigate the new displays of cravats at Tobin’s-.Toggery.; Nor did the room-mates meet at noon, since Frank was
irig the party had slipped his memory. The following day he perisisted in his determination •to offer Al an opportunity of retracting the invitation, but the'course of the day’s -events continued to keep the two of them separated.
As Saturday progressed, however, and his anticipations' grew accordingly, he decided to say nothing about his misgivings. Wit-h his command- of English, he would not be' discomfited by the light chatter of a couple of


arranged his rather prepossessing person in all his recently accumulated finery. Contemplating . the result, he was interrupted by Al, dashing in with a “Wonder if I’ve got a fresh collar?”
“Take that extra one of- mine,” responded Frank composedly as he dropped onto the bed for a last pull on his old,corn-cob.
“Miss Bently, this is Mr. Evans,” one radiant vision of feminine beauty was saying and another, . still more charming, smiled demurely at the erstwhile student.
“I’m.just too enchanted to meet young college men,” greeted Miss Bently and Frank felt that the worst was over.	'
“You know it is a rare .treat, Miss Bently for. us boys to break away from the musty old jokes of Terence .and Aristophanes • for a bit of sparkling pleasure like this,” rattled the interloper, glibly. -	'	- .	■
“Yes, Mae has told me all about you and Al,”
!
■ i
)

times together at college.”
“It is good fun when one takes time to think about it,” he admitted, assuming just a touch of-ennui. “But it wears on one a little—this burning the candle at both ends.”
“Oh, speaking of candles,” chanted the girl, “we bad had such a lovely time at the Halloween-Party last- night. You just should have been there. But I suppose you boys had more fun larking than we did at the dance?”
“We did get away with.some pretty foolish antics,” he modestly admitted, “but,” confidingly,. “ Al ■ hasn’t quite persuaded me to learn the new steps.”.
. “ Why; Frank Evans, you don’t dance? ” she chidded. . . • - y T. . L. - ’
•<

i
, painfully endeavoring: to inform the proprietor / “WellyyoucbuIdn'Vexactiy call me a dancing : of the Han Chu Hand laundry that .-he desired . master,” he confessed. ' . ; . - . > ■ . . '■• . a paricularly good job on his best shirt. By “ Oh, we. must teach you, then. . I. don’t evening, ..Frank .was so engrossed- iiyhis prep7 'think your old college course is: complete,” she arations that the. possibility of his.not attend- .complained.,;:	; T -	~


THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
/247:

A

"I don’t think we had better begin to-night,” lie tried to protest uneasily;. but she was already selecting a record.
“Come on, you folks, Mr. Evans has got to be taught' to dance,” she cried and the others readily joined in.	-■	.
“Honest to goodness, Nellie,” Frank was' declaring after naif an hour’s exertions, “I wasn’t kidding, I haven’t been on a floor in three or four years.-”	' •	■
“You must have been an artist then,” she complimented. .
is well exemplified in' the men- she .sends Forth, from us. Father Walsh, vice-presidents of ..the ' -University and dean of 'the /department/ of ' history, who by. his" teaching, has inspired ' hundreds of young men. with an appreciation . -of history, leaves us to help make the records which will equal if "not' surpass .in grandeur . the annals of bygone years. -And with/him departs Father Edward Finnegan^ who has won , our affection during his years as professor, as . prefect Of Corby, and as prefect of discipline. Father George Finnigan, a member •, of the /
“No, I was scarcely mediocre, but I didn’t ’ Holy Cross -Mission Band, -a 'distinguished ■ have so good a teacher,” he returned. '	■ - alumnus of* our university,. who as a. student.. .
“That’s very nice of you,” was the answer as they drifted off into another "fox-trot.
“Are you to be in town long?” he inquired.
“Well, that depends on circumstances. Mae insists that I stay two weeks and I don’t think I’ll be without a good time,” she invited; '
“Not if I have anything to say about it,” he replied confidently.	.
“Come! Come! Frank, old boy,” burst in Al. “We will have to hurry like the very old Harry. Mae will take the head off me if we keep her waiting much longer. Say, you did‘look
, contented though!” .	-
“All right, Al! Have you dressed so-soon?” answered Frank,-as he knocked the ashes out" of his pipe. “ Did you say Miss Bently has light, golden hair?”	.	. . .-
“No, I think Mae said she was decidedly
here was distinguished in college-., activities,. . ’ responds also to the • call' of countryto-day.
We students at: Notre Dame appreciate- the -sublimity of our-Alma Mater’s. self-sacrifice, because we know what these-men mean; to her, • and by the'greatness of her immolation.do we. -measure her patriotism.	...	•
..Notre Dame loves the Stars'? and Stripes/ . second1 only- to the Cross. She loves the -flag . under which Corby and Cooney and . Dillon served their God and their country.- on the ; battlefields , of the Civil War. She doves the . Flag the more intensely as she -sees the Irish ' Brigade in/genuflection at Gettysburg; .as she sees her old president and professor, Father -Corby, standing there, asking the benediction of the Almighty on his men, and? pronouncing the .words of absolution. She loves the banner :

1'
£

brunette.’
Farewell to the Chaplains.*
BY JOHN A. LEMMER, ’l8.
■ Little , more than a half-century ago Notre * Dame gave .six of her noblest priests to serve a Union, the integrity of which was threatened. She made glorious response to the call of country during those .years of civil war, and gave en-. thusiastic expression to that spirit of genuine patriotism which she has always inculcated and
. fostered: Again to-day does the professor leave his" classroom, as he did in the early Sixties, to go forth with the armies of America" in ..defence
-- under which her sons of to-day are fighting somewhere in- France. She loves the banner-.- . under which Fathers Walsh, E- Finnegan, and G. Finnigan shall-consecrate themselves. Notre Dame loves the Stars and S.tripes, -because' love
. of God< and love of country , are the.- supreme.
tenets of her religion. ..	>
' We*pray God to bless the, chaplains to whom we bid farewell -to-day,- to bless with speedy victory our country, for the vindication of-whose	.
principles they, are offering themselves’. We ’ know that the expression of devotion which our. chaplains will appreciate most, is prayerful remembrance before the altar, and we-assure them that in our prayers and-at Holy Communion, we will- ask for. their encouragement in time- of .
. of democracy. Again to-day does Notre Dame 'danger,' and-for their .safe and. early, return, sacrifice men who have been her leaders, men -after glorious victory-to/many happy, peaceful whose services it will-be hardest .to replace, years at-Notre Dame.	- / yr - .
that the principles of- American government - .Addressdff the name ot the
may: prevail. . -	~	■	- sity, delivered ori the recent occasion ot Nbtre Daine’s
The sincerity of.. Notre /Dame’s sacrifice farewell to her army.chaplains.

248	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
||otpe]|)arne|^^
Discin' h\Sl-SEMPER-Vicn/’PUS -VIVE- O' fASI- rp' m<'WFVRVS Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Tenn at the • UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
f VOL. LI. '	FEBRUARY 2. 191S.	NO. 15
Board of Editors.
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’iS Charles W. Call, ’iS John A. Lemmer,’iS John L. Reuss, ’18
George D. Haller, ’19 Thomas F. Healy, ’19
*	Brother Austin, C. S. C., ’18
Leigh G. Hubbell, ’18 Thomas J. Hanifin, ’19
—A bread-line is one sight that never fails to elicit the sympathy of those who witness it. Like man)’- another silent procession, it needsno explanation; the Remember the Bread-Line, story of urgent human need is too obvious to be missed. Very , true, agrees the student, but what has Notre Dame to do with bread-lines, except perhaps, as a. matter for discussion in some sociology class? The breadline belongs to our crowded industrial centers. But here is where we make a mistake, for Notre Dame has a bread-line, one that is not a mere supposition. Every day, at the university •kitchen, there is a line of-women and children, . with baskets for the Sisters to fill, and this fine
• waits while inside the warm refectory, we students leisurely pick the1 fluffy centers put of five or six buns, or thoughtlessly appropriate an extra'helping of. sugar to. nourish the bottoms of our cups. The figures as to the bread-line have been obtained first-hand. .Every day the Sisters fill at least five or six baskets, ' and when the weather permits more children to walk out, there are eighteen or twenty to care for. The moral, scarcely needs stating." If not from patriotism, then at least out of charity, let us make more effort to cut down our waste at table. Remember the Sisters’bread-line!
—Long before: the United States .became ^involved in the present war, governmental censorship had often been advocated as- a remedy forthemany well-
Too Much Censorship? .known faults of the y -	- press. In time of war.
much news must for strategic reasons be sup-
pressed. From the beginning of the hostilities	A
with Germany our American newspapers have	’’
exercised a rather strict voluntary censorship. Editors throughout the land have been glad to do this “bit” in the cause of their country.
They have, cheerfully surrendered their time-	j
honored fortress, “Freedom of the Press'” and	J
have accepted for the present Censorship of the Press.” Of late, however,, there has been much dissatisfaction on the part of prominent journalists in consequence of the severe censor-	Fi
ship practised by the agents in France. News	y
concerning our troops there, apparently of no. possible value to the enemy, has been sys-tematically withheld from the home country.
Our correspondents in Europe are complaining bitterly of the way their writings are mutilated, made unintelligible, or suppressed altogether. They maintain that the present censorship has become a perfect screen for the .mistakes that are made on that side of the world by barring all criticism. -They- urge that if.the public, which generally forms a more accurate judgment than individuals, is to be kept in ignorance or is to be deceived concerning. its army, we have nothing but failure to look forward to. All'this may .be exaggerated; and we hope that it is badly exaggerated, but it nevertheless suggests .that their* * is need oP a rational compromise e between unrestricted freedom of the press and unreasonable, censorship.
• —Though many .do not understand .it to be so, some solitude is quite as necessary to the development of the complete man as com-
, panionship. Man is by The Social Examen. nature a social being, and
. .	too 'much solitude is not
good for him, but by far the more common fault is too much, sociability. Lovers’ quarrels, domestic spats, “cabin fever,” and’the like, are all violent illustrations of the truism that ■z	r
familiarity breeds contempt. Solitude is the antidote^ for excess of familiarity. Then too, 't it is only when we. are alone that we have a fair J chance to . know ourselves. The intrusion into . our consciousness of any person, however dear, is a distraction. An hour a day spent in solitude will accomplish in anyone a surprising mental and:-social orientation. Withdraw, into soli-’ tude nowr and then, and study yourself and your ' > relations to your, .fellows.'' Try those relations if they be in tune, Jas jthe virtuoso tries his
: instrument.before he' dares touse it. . A.	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
.249,

The Navy and College Man
Local News.

BY HON. JOSEPHUS DANIELS, SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.-(Published by request of the War Department.)
• It is vital to a powerful navy to have powerful guns and powerful ships, but they are only so much well-fashioned steel unless they are manned by officers and men with trained’minds and hands, with steady nerves and heads. We have to-day in the Navy all the men we need until ships under construction and repair are furnished and put in commission. The greatest need, therefore, is for officers who know how to sail a ship, how to man its guns, how to organize it to fight.
The Navy’s reliance upon the Naval Academy for educated and capable officers in peace times is well placed. Since the war began this-fine institution, un, surpassed in the world, has been doubled, but to-day
*5


its facilities are inadequate to graduate officers as rapidly as they are needed.
But all the normal sources of officers combined did not serve to give as manjr as the expanding Navy needed, and we turned with confidence to the civilians, with love of the sea and some knowledge of seamanship to qualify themselves for command. Before war was declared there were some reserve officers who had shown talent and are giving evidence of ability, but many of the men initiated.into the glorious company of naval officers came direct from civil life, and upon their willingness to learn, their swiftness, and their aptitude we must depend for a large increase in the number of those who are to be given command -of our. ships.
The Navy has given warm welcome to college students and college graduates.- I wish I could personally shake hands with each college man who has entered or will enter.the service. I would like to say to each:
“You will touch here with the stimulating traditions dear to all who love the Navy.
“Your country has confidence in you.' You will justify that confidence in proportion as you master " the work on which you are entering. Its rewards come only to those of good courage whose minds-are wholly given to learning the mysteries of modern fighting craft.
. “I am empowered officially to welcome the youthful defenders of our country. You come as citizens called to-duties of citizenship in time of .war. When civil liberty is at stake, civilians become.warriors. So to-day
• the Republic has gone to war!	' .
“As you may .be called into service you will go to the fleet, to the patrol,' to the transports, to whatever duty you will be assigned with the feeling that you have shown that'civilians can do whatever there is need for them to do.	-	-	•

"You are engaged in a righteous war, and when faith Logan..
in right shall triumph over faith in might, as it surely will, you will share with the veterans of the Navy the gratitude of a people who have never looked to their Navy in vain. .	-	. '	.	-
. "I do not know what particular .service you will be called upon to do: I can not lift the veil. One thing I do know, however, and that is that you will be worthy of the noble work into which you enter. 'May the All-
—There ds one hour to which the- Minims look forward each week. This is the Story Hour under the direction of Brother - Raymond on . Sunday afternoons. Besides the .telling: of stories the time is devoted to the discussion of the best juveniles, especially those by Catho- .
.	. .	.	r - T.	,	,	lie authors.- An opportunity will be given from
Wise Providence give you of His strength to bear the .	. . '	.	„	--	,	- ..	, 1 /	=
., ,	•	,	- . “	„ . -	.- time to time for the youngsters to tell about
.	world'to an early peace—a_peace that shall insure jus-	.	,	.	7 . &	-
tice and right alike to_all^peoples and all nations.” their favorite story.	.	’
..—Dave Hayes, member of the varsity foot— ball team - and sophomore in economics, was called to his home in South Manchester, Conn., recently by the death of his father. We extend our sincre sympathy to the bereaved family.
—At the next general meeting of the South Bend Women’s Club, which will be held February 5, Professor John Becker, head of the Department of Music, will deliyer a lecture on' “The Making of a Music-Loving People.” ■ —Alexander. A. Szczepanik, junior journalist, has been made correspondent of the “Dziennik 'dla Wszystkich,” a Polish daily of Buffalo, N.Y?, . to “cover” the Convention of the Polish Clergy Alliance, to be held in Chicago, Feb. 6-7-8. Archbishop Mundelein will open the convention with the celebration of Mass. Ignace Paderewski will address the clergy.	' .
—A letter from Yokohama, Japan, states that Father Finner, C. S. C., member of the Notre Dame Mission Band, and- Brother .Peter, C. S. C., have just left there for Bengal, India. From there they will'go on to Dacca, which was their destination when they left Notre Dame in December. They are to engage in missionary work among the- natives.
—Prefessor W. A. Johns, Dean of the School1: of Agriculture, predicts a flourishing attendance in his course next year, “war or no war.” -The
first year of its inception has proven as successful as conditions warranted hoping for. Next year it .will be sufficiently well-known that Notre Dame boasts this agricultural school and a large influx of students is expected. .
—Preparations for the Senior dance is always a harbinger of spring. At the last meeting of the seniors of all courses a committee of seven was elected to adjust all the details of the social; . event of the year. They are:—David Philbin, Charles Williams, Leonard Mayer, Thomas * Clark Kelley, Raymond Murray, and James
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
' —The University of Wisconsin has kindly lent to the preparatory department a large collection of very fine lantern slides to be used for illustration in Professor Worden’s class in physiography during this semester.	-
—As the first of a series of speeches by prominent orators and public men, arranged under the auspices of the Men’s Sodality of St. Ignatius Church, Chicago, Father Cavanaugh delivered an address in the Loyola college auditorium, Tuesday evening to the members of the parish. His subject was “The Vacant Throne,” discussing the decay of authority in the home and nation.	"	.	-
—On February 22 the Scholastic will issue a special number dedicated to the Notre Dame boys now in the service. It will give the complete data, in so far as it is possible to obtain it, of ever}- Notre Dame soldier and sailor boy. Students are requested to furnish any'
information which they possess as being of possible use in the preparation of this number -and are also urged to make arrangements for extra copies before the edition is printed. „ ,
—A brisk, sale of tickets is reported for the Annual Sophomore Cotillion which takes place Wednesday Evening, February 6, at the Oliver Hotel.' The Sophomore social event has a patriotic tinge this year as the net proceeds are to be contributed to the Notre Dame Ambulance Fund. That this commendable * attitude . is meeting with unqualified approval may be deduced from the general rush for tickets. The program committee is working overtime preparing musical surprises fdr the event. .
—Father Timothy. Maher, the venerable and beloved Dean'of the Faculty, was the guest'of a faculty reception held in his honor on his feast-
.	:—The 1918 Dome is to be dedicated to Brother
day last Thursday week. Father Cavanaugh Alphonsus, C. S. C., rector of Brownson .Hall, in the name of the faculty wished Father Maher This was the unanimous, decision of the Seniors . a happy -feast, and assured him of the high of all courses. Brother Alphonsus came to regard and reverence in which he is held by Notre Dame as a Minim, and left Carroll to his colleagues. Father Maher in return expressed enter - the Novitiate. . He has been rector of his appreciation and gratitude. .- Father Maher Brownson for more than -fifteen years and celebrated his sixty-firstanniversaryas a mem- through : his inflexible observance of the rules ber of the Congregation on J^riday, Jan 25th. which;does:not however .forget to be kind and Next year will fie the golden jubilee of his human, has won the respect, and regard of thou- . ordination-. .. . ty	- sands of students. He is known throughout the
• —-Father Charles C.Miltner,C. S. C., late West as an ornithologist; and is; vice-president. of New Oreleans, has been added to thehstaff of the State Audubon Society. He is also the . of-the department df„ philosophy; Father . founder-of tlie Brownson Literary and Debating Miltner received they degree of Bachelorof^Society.This is.the first Time the. Dome has . Philosophy here in ipir and following that spent been dedicated to a brother and it could not
four years in Rome at the Gregorian college where he added the degree of Doctor of Philoso-.. phy and’ Bachelor of Theology. At Laval University, Quebec, he received the degree of Doctor of Theology. After several months’ work in the Sacred Heart parish, New ’Orleans, Rather Miltner wasicalled to Notre Dame where we feel certain that his charming manners and agreeable personality will van him many friends.
—The Carroll - basketball team defeated the team representing the Holy Name Society of St. Patrick’s'Church, South Bend, last Wednesday evening in the big-gym by a score of 27 to 7. .The Carrollites were outweighed by their opponents and in the first half only succeeded in getting eight points. to their opponents’ 4. ' In the’ second half, however, the youngsters ran all around’ their heavier rivals, piling'up 20 points - while the South . Bend team was gathering a lone basket and a foul The game ‘ was full of “pep” from start ^o finish.	'
—The Frosh Frolic, the get-together meeting

I


i
of the. first-year men was held-Monday evening in Walsh Hall. The. Scholastic’s." Sherlock Homes,”—no, not Alex. Szczepanik,—deduced this from sundry evidence remaining upon the scene the next morning,, certain suspicious, papers, cigar stubs, tell-tale burnt match ends, etc. Reports go that the entertainment was voted a big success, the audience even being in favor of another performance sometime before Lent. Mes'srs. Blumr Kenney, Gpoley and Morier, the first-year.men’s quartette, caused much merriment. A well-liked vocal selection -
. by Lawrence Ott and an excellent, reading bj^ A. Sweeney finished the program. A dance is to be held after Easter.
3
' -5

I

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
-have reflected more honor upon itself by any <• other choice. .	'	-	•
-—The Notre Dame Chamber of Commerce, under its capable director, has succeeded in ' bringing to the University a number of notable men to deliver addresses bn interesting_ and f’ instructive subjects. These speeches are all of / general interest, and the organization would F be pleased to have more college men attend.
. The last speaker to be brought here was Charles L. Baine, of the national committee engaged in launching the War Savings Stamp Loan. Mr.
I Baine in his address to the' Chamber Monday / afternoon, remarked concerning ‘ War Finance” that “the object of the government'in this War Savings Stamp plan is not so much to raise the ” two billions involved as to teach the people of ’ the country to save.” The money that would have been spent for non-essentials,” he said,.
' “is the- money to be put into these. Stamps.; A county’ that lias 'learned thrift is a. country that will never know defeat.” •
—Woe to the Germans! .Notre Dame buns have made their appearance upon the battlefields of France. One'wonders what, were the • feelings of the censor when he . opened the r-’ package. Did he think them a new and par. ticularly atrocious German bomb? And,,what ' memories they brought back to the son of \ Notre Dame who received them! Did he recall hiking across the winter campus to' fill up on countless cups of coffee and our “ Only-Origi-> nals”? Did they, recall memories of skives as .perilous then as the raids in No-Man’s Land now? Who sent the Buns? Will Mr. or Mrs.
- Anon., please step forward and . acknowledge?
Whoever the sender, we. know the buns had a T safe voyage.. Here is the evidence:
v	'	France, Europe, Jan. 28, 1918.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., ' '	. >
. Buns received. .Regards to: all.-
>	.	•	A. M. Mclnerny.
—In a rather well-delivered and -interesting lecture in Washington Hall last Friday; President Powell of Hobart College, N. Y., related
• some of his experiences and impressions received-while touring England and France in an endeavor' to’ study the effect of war upon the schools and riniversities of those countries. '“The colleges of England and. France,”, he said, ‘‘are empty of< men students while . women are twice as
■. numerous.”- This he accounted ..for by the realization,on the part rof-the girls that to-many
25I_
of. them, marriage as a careen, is no longer open and they must'carve other careers. The Doctor , also related a dramatic, experience he had .’in Paris with a woman, a noted spy of the Kaiser’s. -. The peroration of his^ speech, was as follows: . “Young students, this is your war and I give you’this ideal,—Noblesse Oblige.. . Others have ■ saved us from Belgium’s fate; now it is our turn to go over the top, not only to save ourselves, but because we understand the words , of the Savior,—“Greater love than this hath no man that he.lay down his life for a friend.”
—We append the following brisk report of a recent event as set forth in La Prensa, of San Antonio:	’
Fiesta en la Universidad de Notre Dame.
En el Teatro. Washington de la Universidad de Notre Dame, tuvo lugar aver, a las 11 de la manana, -una importante 'ceremonia, con objeto de dar la despedida a los RR. Padres Mateo Walsh y Eduardo Finnegan, quienes han sido nombrados Capellanes’ del Ejercito americano, y estan designadps para.ir a Europa, a cumplir con su deber.	'
- A la hora fijada en el programa, el Director de la - Universidad, Rev. ZPadre Juan Cavanaugh, hizo una apologia de los' nuevos Capellanes, llamando la aten- -cion sobre que Notre-Dame, ahora como en otras ocasiones anteriores, ha respondido al llamado, de la Patria, yse ha desprendido, no ya de sus estudiahtes, ya no de profesores, sino de sacerdotes; que integran , la Comunidad, para-ofrecer sus servicios en aras.del ' bien comun.	..	-	.	.
Muy aplaudido' fue el Padre Cavanaugh, y los . .Capellanes Walsh y Finnegan; que aparecieron vis-tiendo elegante uniforme militar, fueron objetode .. carinosas manifestaciones de simpatfa por tpdos los-estudiantes de la Universidad, que llenaban por-com-pleto el Teatro Washington.	-	.
El senor Juan Augustin Lemmer Profesor de ingles de Notre tyme hizo, a su vez, una sentida relacion de ' lbs trabajos de los Padres Walsh y Finnegan; se dirigio a ellos. para pedirles siguieran el ejemplo de sus antepasados, .Walsh y. Corby; en-la guerra civil, y-obtuvo una calurosa ovacion al final de su' elocuente . discurso,. cuando, invbcando el. nombre de su patria, exclanio:	; '	‘	-	*
. Id vostros, misioneros de Cristo,-a cumplir con vuestro deber, que el amor a la Patria, y el amor’ a la Bandera, son los primeros amores que. proclama vtiestra Religion.	.	■	- ‘	\ -
’ .Los Capellanes Walsh y Finnegan dieroh las gracias al cuerpo facultative y a los estudiantes’ de la Uni-, versidad por la demostracion de la simpatia de que -se les habia .hecho objeto, y, con emocioh vivisima, se despidieron de sus camaradas, csperahdo que una victoria completa de los ideales de este pueblo, eviten ; el ‘ que solo piiedan verse reunidos otra vez, en el campq del honor. .	....	\ ’1.
Algunos numeros musicales fueron cubiertos por . el “Glee'Club,” de la Universidad y por la Orquesta \ de la misma,' los cuales fueron aplaudidds. . -
252
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Letters from Camp.
Through the kindness of Father Moloney, the Secretary of the University, who is gathering ’all available information concerning the Notre Dame men in the war service, we print the following letters from former students and friends now in the various camps.
Camp Funston, Kansas, -	'	January 2, 1918.
Rev. William Moloney,
Notre Dame, Indiana.	,
Dear Father:	’.	'
I saw a letter written by you asking for information concerning all the N. D. boys in the service. I am a regular old soldier now that I have been at it for six months. I am due to go over before long, and I am ‘ all set for it. It’s going to be great sport “ Over There.” Tell all the boys and faculty "hello” for me, and that I wil1 be back among them after the war.
There are only a few N. D. fellows out hire. "Sis” Hopkins, Paul Hart, E. Manuel Hubble,-"Red” McConnell, and myself, are all of us. Bill Egan was at Fort Riley with me last summer after he got his commission, but he’s in Texas now.
Wishing you a Happy New Year,	-
.	Tommy Glynn.
' American Ex. Forces, France,
'	December 12, 1917. ~
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., •	.
Notre Dame, Ind.	" .	’
Dear Father?—	-
I enlisted in the army last spring and for the past
five months have been in active service here in France. them, and IL will forward the same to you.
Since my arrival.I have,had the pleasure of meeting several Notre Dame men, such as Joe Gargan, Joe Ryan, Charles and Louis McCarthy, and Walter Gibbons. It has afforded me much pleasure on these-occasions to refresh my memory with reminiscences of the old days.	.	•
This morning I received a letter frem Matt Williams, of South Bend,—with which were enclosed several newspaper clippings concerning the w,ork of the football team. Allow me to congratulate you on behalf of the team for the strenuous and successful season. -	.	:	, ‘	~
At the time I enlisted in the army I was woefully misinformed about the military organization, and in ' my hurry to get to France I passed up the Officers V
Training Camp for the rank of sergeant in the Q.M.C. After several months’- experience I found that the
chances to rise from the rank of an enlisted man .to acting as Assistant Secretary to General Secretary
that of Jan officer is somewhat difficult. IL thereupon Louis F. Durrell in the Knights of Columbus Build-applied for an examination for the position of Army i	_	_ _	. .	’
Field Clerk and am at this time working in this capacity. As the salary and rank of a-Field Clerk is higher
ing a great deal, intour work. We have an extensive program for, Christmas'Day and New Year’s Day. than that of an enlisted man I am of the opinion that ’ An-open-air midnight Mass will be.held on Christmas my chances. for advancement are better. .	. .. just outside the K. of C. building? A'chapel car will
amination for such a grade in the Quartermaster’s Department. This latter position would require only business experience and fio.t military training. At present I am unable to state just what branch I will try for, as my decision will be influenced by the cir-.cumstances which arise in the future.	'
I am informed that a university degree will be a factor of some importance in the selection of men for the above-mentioned positions, and I therefore ask that you kindly send me an official certificate showing that I received a LL- B. at the University of Notre Dame.	-
If it is not too much of an imposition upon your conscience—I would appreciate very much a letter of recommendation from you in addition to the certificate.
.... Kindly extend my best wishes to any members of- the faculty who were at N. D. during my time.
Wishing you a very Merry Christmas and continued success in the New Year, I am, ,
v	’ Very truly yours,
.	Simon F- Mee, '
_	. Army Field Clerk.
•U. S. A., P. O. 702, c-o Hq. L-of C.
A. B. U. S. Disciplinary Barracks, Governors Island, N. Y. City.
-	> January 16, 191S.
Rev. Wm A. Moloney, C. S. C. • University of Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Father Moloney:	. -
. ’My work at Governors Island is entirely taken up with prisoners, sc that I have very little opportunity of coming in close contact with the enlisted personnel.
-However, if I meet?, any Notre-Dame men I will make it my business to acqjiire all possible data about
I deeply appreciate your kind offer of we shall need all the spiritual assistance during these stirring times.’
With best wishes, Sincerely in Christ,
' ’	George J. Waring,
. -.	_ '	Chaplain nth
prayers, as we can get
Cavalry.
Camp MacArthur, Waco, Texas
-	. . - - Knights of Columbus, Building
.	. :	. December 22, 1917.
Rev. William Moloney, C.S.C.,	’
Notre Daine, Indiana, j -
Dear Father Moloney:	...
- I received your letter some few days ago, but as we have been so busy preparing for our Christmas entertainment I could, not possibly answer sooner.
No doubt'by this time you know that I am now
inghere at Camp -MacArthur. We are accomplish-.
; It is my intention/ when the opportune time pre- be used for, the Mass and will undoub tedly-be a treat sents itself, to make an application for permission to for, iis .men from the North, as we have never experienter one of the army training schools here in-France enced a Mass of . this sort , before. The chapel car is and thereby, receive a commission or to take an ex- .' to remain at the camp sand- will, be'sent from' one
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	zii
place to another on Sundays for services. We are the same to you as soon as I get them. I am sorry
planning on giving a little package of "smokes” to every boy that enters bur building on Christmas Day. A large Christmas tree will be placed in the ■ center of the room and presents will be given from there.
Dances, mus;cal programs, and boxing matches will comprise our program for the holidays. Our Masses are always largely attended and the soldiers are very attentive .in.their devotions and in receiving Holy Communion.	•	-
I have always been a great admirer of the Scholastic, .and shall greatly appreciate its being sent me at the above address.	-
Yours sincerely, •
.	’ Vincent D. Vaughan.
---------*-«-»--------
Camp Greene, Charlotte, N. C.
■ December 19, 1918.
Rev. William A. Moloney, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Indiana. -	'
Reverend and dear Father:	.
Father Stephenson has referred your letter to him to me for reply and it is a real pleasure to be able to renew old acquaintances in this way. All of us and I in particular will be only too glad to do anything possible to help you in the work of serving the* Notre Dame men in the army.	~	’
. . . All the troops that were here when I first came have since been moved, and consequently I cannot help you much on the men in-the 41st Division. I met John Carroll and John Mai tin, both students of recent years. Both are lieutenants. Carroll is with a . machine gun outfit in the 41st Division and went from here to Camp Mills, Mineola, Dong Island N. Y. He may.be across by this time. Martin was transferred from this camp to some outfit at Waco, Texas. Stephen Scollard, DL. B., ’14, is a bugler and was in one of the Oregon national guard regiments. What the designation of. his outfit is since the reorganization I do not know. The same is true of Frank Kirkland, the hurdler, who enlisted in the Oregon Engineers, and was for a time detached on recruiting duty, but who has since joined his.regiment and is, I think, headed for France. Lieut. Steis, of South Bend, was here for a time. You have probably learned his address through local channels. I also-met a Notre Dame man named Bailey in one of the medical outfits. .He was at Notre Dame in ’06 and ’07 and afterwards went to Michigan. He has been in the drug business out in Portland in recent years.	.
Of the men who are here now I can give you more definite- information, but unfortunately Notre Dame men are scarce in this camp atpresmt.Lieut. Schei-belhut, ’11, is with the 59th Infantry. I was very much surprised and pleased to learn from yesterday’s Scholastic that "Jerry”. Murphy is now with the 58th Infantry, which , has recently come here from Gettysburg, Pal I. h ill look him. up to-day. Lieut. William O’Brien, 59th Infantry, U.S.A., Camp Greene, N. C., was at Notre Dame for a short time in 1903, Leo Hagerty of South: Bend-is also in this camp. . He is a brother of Charles Hagerty and you probably have his address; however, I will get it and send it on soon. From now on I - will. keep careful .watch on the N. D. men and will get their addresses and forward
that this information is so indefinite. If I can help ‘ N. D. in any way I am at your service. .
With every good wish for Notre Dame and* all my old friends there and with the best of Christmas wishes for yourself, J am, . '	* ■
Very sincerely yours, -.	Tim Galvin-
Block D, Barrack 34, Service Co. No. 1.	’	\
Camp Joseph E. Johnston, Jacksonville, Florida;. _
December 15, 1917.
Rev. William Moloney, .
Notre Dame, Indiana.	-	. * J
Dear Father Moloney:	-
I was indeed surprised this afternoon to have your letter referred to me for consideration. You may feel . assured I will personally see that the notices'mentioned in attached letter are posted and the Notre Daine men here rounded up in the best and quickest way possible under the present unsettled conditions, prevailing at this post. Camp Johnston is just under construction and probably will not be completed before the middle of next month. The commissioned and enlisted personnel will, however, reach here before that time. I will, under those circumstances, try to have the names of every Notre Dame man at this camp, sent to you by February 1.	-
My presence here is the result of enlistment in the Regular Army at Washington, D. C., on November 22.’ Soon thereafter I was assigned to duty in the’ Administration Headquarters at this post. So far. I have enjoyed army life, although I would like to be back at Notre Dame to finish my class work. '	. ~
The University has in the past year, made wonderful progress in the East. The football victories over the Army, and Washington -and Jefferson certainly -were fine. Greater still was the announcement published* broadcast last week . that six Notre Dame priests, Fathers McGinn, Davis, Walsh, Edward Finnegan, George Finnigan and O’Donnell are ready for Chaplain service in the-Army. Every N. D. man certainly can feel proud of the part taken by the University, its 1 priests, instructors and students in this war. ,,
Catholic services at this camp for the time being consist of confessions Saturday afternoons and'eve-nings, Masses at 6:15 and 9 o’clock Sunday mornings. During the week we listen to lectures by prominent men and enjoy many amusements in the large Knights . of Columbus building.	’
Assuring you of my return to Notre Dame aftei the war is over, I am, very respectfully yours, I ■ .	. , Francis J. Clohessy,
Corporal Q.M.C., N.A. . 353d Infantry Med. Dept; _
t • Camp Gordon, Atlanta, Georgia. '	.
.	January 6th, 1918;
. Rev. William A. Moloney, ’	j .
. Notre Dame, Ind. . ■	’ .	.
My dear Friend:— z -	'
Rev. J. A. Horton, our post chaplain, informed me " this, morning of your desire to know what N. D. men are at Camp Gordon. You may rest assured that we ;
, would be glad to do anything you might ask. '
I doubt very much if there are many of our men here.
254
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Announcements were made at all the Masses this morning,—we have six each Sunday—and only two men gave their names to me'.' One, R. C. Ruffing, 307 Field Signal Corps, Camp Gordon, w.as at N. D. in 1914 and 1915. Th'1 other, Adrian S. Molloy, Divisional Headquarters Troop, Camp Gordon, was at Notre Dame in the years 1906—’07—’oS. Then there is another man in this neighborhood whom I think you may remember. His brother used to cause . the disciplinary staff about’ as much trouble as I myself. His name in full is Arthur R. Carmody. At present his address is Georgia Tech. Aviation, Atlanta. He will be there for two months.
All of the above goes to . prove that the world is small. I found Art sitting in my place at the mess table one evening. We sure have had some grand “buzzing bees” since. I'also visited Rev.* Charles L- O’Donnell’s sister in Atlanta. - I am informed by her that I may.hope to see Father O’Donnell soon.
This being mixed up in the war game. is a great life. It’s the only place that has seemed like home since I left the greatest spot the sun ever shone on. But, you see, “I should worry”; T have the bullet-proof job. I am one of those slackers Teddy became so furious about some time ago. Seriously, Teddy is right. I do not suppose that I shall ever experience such disappointment in all my life to come, as I have in the last nine months. I have tried time’ after time to sneak by, but these miserable eyes of mine hold me
up. Friday and Saturday I made a few more attempts: personal fouls, and Klendsworth lacked but
twice in different branches of the navy, twice in the aviation, once in the regulars and once in the marines. Now, as my last hope I am communicating with the r	.
Quartermaster General of the Army. ! Surely there should-be some place for an N. DJ man, even though his eyes are crippled. .	:	.
If the" reports I get are true,- the gold and blue is shouldering her share of. the burden.. One evening in Toledo, after a celebration in front of the Federal building, an officer of the Toledo Regiment of the
.Ohio National Guards halted the audience to tell them of the great number of N. D. men that were enlisting or had enlisted after the graduation exercises in June. - It sure felt good to be.able to say, " That’s my school.”
Out of the. thirty-four thousand men we have here ten thouasnd or more are Catholics. We sure are opening, up the eyes' of some of these Georgia "crackers” whose highest type of literature has been for the most part the rot that Tom Watson belches forth. On. Sunday mornings our building is nearly
torn down by. the men attempting to get in to hear . ®	:	\	..	.	.	.	•
Mass."-It nearly stupifies these people, who thought jected into the game , at various intervals in an Catholics had horns, hoofs and tails.	attempt to stop the opposing quintet, but it
There is only one N. D. man residing in Atlanta always was„ simply a case of. only hindering it. ' as far as I know. I refer to Fay Wood, former basket- . Notrer Dame showed a surprising flash of ball .and. football player. He coaches a high school , ' ' ,	, ,,	r L	, ,	, ...
; ' T uV - ' >	<-• ’ 1	- A -J ™ .strength at the start of. the second half, but it
. team, I believe, and practices law on the side. There > -	®	.	4 . * - ’ :	.	-	..	.
is noTun in the law with the big game going on, even was short lived whenWabash retaliated with a . though. I am sitting on the bench, as it were. ' •-	. rapid tatoo on her basket with shots that gen- ;
I shall not take up more of your time.. I am going . erally went’ through for goals/ Wabash made
-to’insert a notice in the paper, relative to.N; D. men in nearly every opportunity, for a shot count, and ?rthe-camp'. When there is anything else I can do for ,,	, , r
v r i ■ - -nr-., , \	4. the shots or some of her men were remarkable.
you or the school, let. me know... -With best wishes to -	, , - . .	■
. .--ybirand all my friends, .1 dm, very, sincerely,- - •	• •-^54^0 Dame, it ..must-be • say!,. di(l have .much
’ ■ ,7 Dwight Cusick, Gen. Sec. k. of C.,	; hard- luckon long shots) for -the ball repeatedly
Athletic Notes.
Wabash proved too strong for Notre Dame in the local gymnasium last Saturday evening. The ‘‘Little Giants” scored ten points at the outset of the game,. before Notre Dame had. caged a basket, and the visitors increased their lead throughout the game. It ended 34 to 16 in their favor. Wabash, though possibly not as strong as the Stonebraker, Bacon, et al., combination of recent seasons, seemed ,to possess all the characteristics' that have made her a shining-light’ in the basketball world of late years. Hunt and Manson. were the objectives for a unique style of passing that kept Notre Dame at bay through the two halves, and the two tall gentlemen accounted for twenty points between them.	’
There was a tendency among the visitors to stretch the rules governing the game just a hit, and Referee Haggerty had his troubles making. ■ them behave properly. He had to remove -Schan-laub from the game for the commission of four
one-offense from joining Schanlaub on the Wabash bench. In all, the visitors committed a dozen fouls, but according to the way Notre Dame was (not) profiting by the consequent free throws they might just as well have committed a score. .	'	’
-' Bahan and. Brandy formed a' great contrast alongside of the “Little Giants.” They, were at a great disadvantage among their long-geared opponents, and found it exceedingly hard to make any.baskets. Stine scored first for.Notre Dame with a pretty field goal. Pearson became sick' just before the game and Hayes took his place at guard. Hayes . worked hard, but was
baffled by the. extensive system of.passes Wabash uncorked before the game had hardly started. Hogan,' O’Connor, Bader and Smith were in-


J

>
ll
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
bounced from the basket after it apparently had hit the desired spot.
The summary: .	’
255
following list of candidates: Susen, McGrath, Butler, Wood, Kirk, Thompson and Grace. The Preps will sojourn to Plymouth next week to take on the local high school. Andrews will announce the men to make the trip Saturday;
’	‘	. a. w. s.
Wabash 34-	Notre Dame 16
Schanlaub_____________L F.......  X____-.'.Bahan
Klendsworth..L..._____R F...’__________Brandy '
Manson----1_____’......C--------.-.---Ronchetti
Hunt (Capt.)....._........L Q.—........  Hayes	Annual Report of the Notre Dame Weather
Larson---------------.R G..............  Stine	_	c+ K #
Substitutions for Wabash—McKinney for Schan-	*	a On -Or I9I7*
laub; Naber for Manson; for Notre Dame—Hogan	-	, .	■ . ..
for Hayes; Bader for Brandy; O’Connor for Ron- The mean temperature for 1917. was 45-6°.
chetti; and Smith for Bader. Baskets: for Wabash The maximum monthly mean was 70.70 during
Schanlaub 2; Klendsworth 2; Manson 6; Hunt 4; ’	■	' '
Larson 2; Naber. Baskets for Notre Dame—Bahan 3; Ronchetti 2; Stine 2. Fouls.thrown—;Hunt o out of 3; Ronchetti 2 out of 7; Brandy o out of 2-; Bahan c out of 1; Smith o out of 1. Referee—Haggerty.
■ Timer, Rockne. Time of halves, 20 minutes.
❖ '
There was no mistaking the superiority of Corby against- Brownson in the inter-hall relay race between the halves of the Wabash game. -Corby travelled around the gym track six times “on high,” and the supreme effort of Hayes on . the last relay-all but enabled his team to break the track record. Corby’s time was 1:3s. Walsh appeared with a flashy sextet and had no trouble in humbling Badin in the good time, of 1:40. Father Farley’s pets will give Father-Haggerty’s . hounds an awful battle when they meet.
. Intrrhall- •	. -
. Badin opened up the'Interhall season with .a *■ well-earned victory over Walsh, Sunday morning, in a 27 to 2 2. ffay C Maier, the Badin star, was in a class by himself, playing a consistent, heady game throughout. Flick, Kennedy, and Duffy for Badin, and Kirk and Bluhm for
July. The minimum monthly mean was 19.20, _ during February. The highest temperature was 96°, on July 31 and August 1. The lowest was — 12°, on February 12. The greatest change in temperature occuring on one day was 390,
on April
The total precipitation (rain.
. Walsh, comprised the balance of the. after' noon’s headliners.' From the- classy fight presented by Badin Sunday it is evident that the newcomers in iriterhall ranks intend to cop a trophy to dedicate their'new recreation room.
hail and snow) was 24.S7 inches. The largest monthly precipitation was. 6.40 inches in October, and the least was .26 inches, in November. The maximum rainfall for 24 hours oc- . curred October 17 when 1.85 inches-fell. The total snowfall for the year was’ 29.8 inches. The maximum monthly fall, 11.2 inches, oc-. curred in December. During the year, there were 114 days on which 01. inch or more of precipitation took place. There were 136 clear days, that is, days on which the cloudiness did not exceed three tenths; 158 partly cloudy days, that is, days on which there was from 3 to 7 tenths cloudiness; and 71 cloudy days. The latest heavy frost in the spring was on May 14 and the first heavy frost in the fall was on , October 9. The direction of the prevailing wind was southwest.	. ..
In comparing the date for 1917 with the data gathered during the five previous years, it is
■ found that the mean temperature was. about 40 below the average and that the precipitation was abou t6 inches below the average. .
Brownson defeated Corby in a fast gamq in'

the afternoon, garnering 2 8'points while Corby was t stacking up 22. A^ohs, Brownson’s big * forward, caged seven baskets with ease, Foran
- ' ' * * _ - -
Summary for January, 1918.
The mean temperature for the month was 10.20, or 17.50 below, the average for the last
-
and Hoar piling up the ’ balance.. Xombardo, five years. The maximum was 350 on the 25th. Gilfillan, and Sanford were the stars for Corby, This was . the. only day. during the month on distributing the . markers between them... which :the temperature went above freezing.
. .	.	***	'. The minimum temperature was 210 on the
.Under , the tutelage, of Coach Andrews, the 12th, the lowest temperature recorded at the Prep, basketball team is fast rounding into local weather station. . Qn twelve days the shape. McDade and ; De; Sio' are making the . temperature was below o. The total precip-strongest bids', for the .forward. positions., itation was 2.96 inches and the total snowfall Andrews will pick the other three men from the 25.6 inches. ....	. .	t. p. 1.
256
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Safety Valve.	Half the profanity in the world to-day has been
.	•	caused by the inventor of the collar button.
Study is the curse of the loafing classes.
Quarterly Exams.’ .	■
Of all sad words of tongue or pen
. The saddest are these "You’ve flunked again.” ' * ' ' ■ * *
Some students seemed about as comfortable at the recent examinations as the man who went to bed on a zero night and found the bed clothes were too short to cover his feet and shoulders at the same time.
- * , -•* * ,
•Spare the food and starve the child. ■ - *
All shirk and no stay makes Jack a Walshite.
• . * *
■ Nobody loves a fearful "flivver.
Oh, what is so raw as a day in Feb.!
- ■ * . * * •
"Yes,” he said in that knowing way that characterizes Sorinites, "it’s much like 'Pilgrim’s Progress,’ a perfectly wonderful paregorical tale.”	’
. - * * Why Not?
You never let me have my way, . You’re cruel as can be, • . If I insist I like the neck
You give the wing to me. .
You’ve never granted me a thing
I’ve asked from you all year, I’d like to know sweet little one -
Why can’t I bite your ear? .
* * .
"No, I’m'not a slacker, I just don’t want to get shot, that’s all.” .
* ■
*. *
. At Least No One Has Claimed It. - • *,
He stood at the window of one of the back rooms of
Sorin looking out into No Man’s Land.	.
- * - *
• . * *
• Presence of Mind.
(From a Freshman Story.)
"She has- refused him a date. He slapped the receiver into the hook, left the telephone booth and entering the natatorium he held his head over the swimming pool and began to weep.”
- - * * *
'	■ My Heritage.	‘
She promised that night as I held her white hand
And slobbered my kisses thereon,	.
That she’d never forget me as long as she lived'
That she’d think of me e’en when she’d gone. ■ And I love to remember those heavenly eyes, -
They just seemed'to.be dancing with youth, As she turned all her loveliness full in my face
And willed me her last golden tooth.	•
It was only a molar, but oh! it was dear, ' For it came from her little white jaw,
And she got it first hand for it never was used .
By an aunt or a mother-in-law,	)
And it. chewed all the candy and meat that she ate— • "For I’m certain she told me the truth— So T'll treasure that-token as long as I live	'
. That last golden, glittering tooth.	,
' I never liked to kiss a girl, . It seemed to me unwise, ■
I never cared to. hold her hand Or look into her eyes; - .
' But you have been to me sweetheart Than all the rest more dear, So tell me pretty little maid Why can’t I bite your ear? ,.
I wouldn’t want to bite your hand For, dearie, you might die, And no one ever thinks of bit- .
Ing put a person’s eye. ,.	.
But it.has always seemed .to me To be so very queer, ;	: .
. That you have never asked me, love. To bite you on" the edr. .. :	'
■ . - . . - ' * - ■■
’Old Stuff. . . "	;
_ "Yes,” he said, in argrave solemn -tone as he toyed
1 with His watch fob and paused: between the ;words to make ah impression on the.girl, "when I die.I’m going to leave my. brain to some, medical.school.”	. ; ’
\ She turned her flashing black eyes upon"him and said '
_ ?n the sweetest way “Oh! ypu stingy thing!’’-. . \ ~	;
• * ■ ■ The Daily. Letter.
Dearest Lyndon:—	•
Whose little pozie woozie are you?
Babe.
♦ ' * . - * • - -
Harry was a poor little boy whom nobody loved because he .had .flat. feet. , Harry couldn’t help it, however, as he lived in a flat all his life. The girls who would have admired crooked noses or who would ' . have, been delighted with dislocated ears would not look at Harry because he had flat feet. Harry couldn’t talk about'his "little-pinkies’'' because they were flat. Trench feet would have got by but flat feet' never. . People who like pigs’-- feet-ivon’f "ever consider flat • feet. . Harry left the flat to ; live in a' house but he ■ couldn’t leave the feet’ without being defeated in his walk in life. And so, dear reader,- Harry was scorned by people whp~ had double chins, crossed eyes and scared brows because he had flat feet. .	’
-z-	' A: A	■ -
.. . I Must Go Home. .	.	. ’
My grandmother died in,Chicago; .	.	_
• -. F on weeks her condition was low,	. ’
But she’s.gbne/.and she’s going to be* buried ,
The day of the big,auto show. ,