THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
741
THE SCHOLASTIC STAFF
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
Jack Mullen, Harley L. McDevitt,
Leo McIntyre, Richard Parrish, Richard Elfers,
John V.
Hinkel,
■ - News Editor Asst. News Editor Literary Editor
• - Sports Editor
J. F. Mahoney, Cyril J. Mullen, Arthur Stenius, John Bergan,
- - - The Week The College Parade Music and Drama - - Club Editor

William Bernard
Craig Garber
David Saxon George McNally
NEWS
R. W. Munz
George A. Kiener
John DeRoUlet Raymond Drymalski
ADVERTISING
J. T. Bonner, - - Local Adv. Mgr.
H.	J. Noon, - Local Circulation Mgr.
D. M. Meinert, - Foreign Adv. Mgr.
BUSINESS
L. J. Wisda	h. O’Bryan
C. M. Ashman	E. J. Carlin
W. E. Burchill
VOL.-LYL
MARCH 30, 1928
No. 24

1872
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1928
J. F. Mahoney
The Advertisers in Netre Dame Pubfications Desene the Patronage of AH Notre Dame Men
742 743
745 749
Prospero Image..... . Jack Dempsey..... .Edward E. Brennan .Cyril Mullen —.... J. V. Hinkel.......
Tin SCHOLASTIC to pokltohod weekly nt the VsLwrOtret Notoe P^^^******	*
oddrewed to Tira SCHOLASTIC or to Mt or tM Morrisey
Enter* as eeoonMae, matter at Notre Dome.
of postage. Section IIOS. October I. i»tT. osthoris* Jeno M. I»«.

The Week.............. Next Week’s Events . Campus Personalities Music and Drama The Campus Clubs The College Parade The Editor's Page Hobnails ............. The Stuff of Life . Oswald at Evening (A Poem)..... On Going to the Hospital ......... The Fearless Gambler (A Story) Reply on Parting (A Poem) ........ All-Interhall Basketball Team .... Other Sport News .................


Arthur Stenius
>	John Bergan 	 »	Cyril J. Mullen					 750 	 751 	752
		753
	Jasper	Brent ............		 754
... 757
... 758 ... 758 ... 759
... 760 761-763
742	TH E NOTRE DAME SCHObASTI C
THE WEEK - —------=
The movie section this week will consist of a dispatch, relayed to us via Martha S. W., from Kankakee, Ill., which reports that while the picture “Love,” starring John Gilbert and Greta .Garbo, was being shown ,at a Kankakee theater, the film caught fire, endangering thousands of precious lives. What the dispatch fails to state is how the film was set ablaze. You are allowed three guesses, the winner to get a souvenir postcard of Santa Claus, Ind. Anyone failing to guess the correct answer will be awarded a set of the adventures of Tom Swift.	.
Mr. J. P. McEvoy, a former student, now a successful playwright and humorist, returned, looking very playwrightish, to the deal- old school for a few days this week to lend his professional knowledge to the rehearsals for the Monogram Absurdities. His powerful personality quickly made itself felt at the rehearsals to both the actors and the Absurdities’ capable directors. In an address to the Scribblers Tuesday, Mr. McEvoy-said, in his own inimitable fashion, “When you have finished your story, address it in your neat round hand to the publisher, saying, ‘Here is my story. I think it’s good and I hope you will like it. Enclosed herewith are stamps with which to return it to me.’ ”
The first showing of the Absurdities took place Tuesday night. The production as a whole was well-acted, well directed, and well staged, this last due in a large measure to the labors of John Wallace. We liked particularly Harry Engel’s skit, Fred Collins’ and Joe Benda’s performances, Dailey and Denchfield, Mr. Casasanta’s orchestra and Tony Kopecky’s rendition of popular* ballads. Tony, by the way, sang Monday night during the Riverside Hour, sponsored by the Montgomery-Ward Co., which was broadcast over a hook-up comprising forty-odd stations, and he was introduced to the dear., folks of radioland as having “the sweetest voice in all the world.”
The custom of giving medals and more useful, if less decorative, tokens to leaders in various fields has grown to such proportions that we feel obliged to fall in line. Accordingly, we have prepared a list of outstanding figures to whom we believe recognition is ' due, and present it forthwith: For heroism, to the boys who went swimming last week in St. Mary’s Lake; for optimism, to the lad with a half-hour at his disposal who goes to the gym with the intention of playing three games of handball; for foolhardiness, to those who will drink whatever is offered them during Easter vacation; for persistence, to those who maintain that it is possible to get a number with the dial system; for unmannerliness, to those who make concerts, movies, and allied entertainments in Washington hall the scene of stompings and boisterous applause, for ability in the Black Arts, to those who can get a desired book at the Library; and in the outside world, for a combination of bravery, trust, recklessness and fortitude, to the man who announces his candidacy for political office in Chicago.
This delightful Indiana weather has changed its mind twice during the past week, dampening sadly the hot young bloods who plan to partake of the safe and sane delights ■ of indoor- baseball as played outside. We take ; consolation in the fact that we are no longer ' a target for* golf balls.	-
The Week’s Platform for Notre Dame and •; Environs:
1.	A street car which leaves town at $ 11:45 P.M.
2.	More concerts of the Brunswick type. | 3. A golf course.	|
4., A swimming pool.
('this platform will be augmented from | • time, to time as additional planks occur or J are Suggested to us. You are urged to sub-	|
mit Ideas).	—j.f.m. , 1

)
DAME SCHOLASTIC
743
THE NOTRE
4 4 ***•>**<•* 4 ******* 4 * * $ ♦ NEXT WEEK’S EVENTS .	♦
Friday, March 30—Debate Washington hall_8'00
P. M.	’
Recital, under the auspices of the University's School of Music—Recital hall, at the rear of Washington hall—8:15 P. M.
Via Crucis—Sacred Heart Church—7:00 P. M.
Saturday—The Monogram Club’s “Absurdities”_ Washington hall—8:15 P. M.
Mid-semestej tests start, ending Wed., April 4.
Monday—Meeting of the Scribblers—Hoynes hall— 8:00 P. M.
Neo Scholastics — Lemmonier Library — 2:15 P. M.
German Club—Hoynes hall—6:45 P. M.
Tuesday—Movies,—“Two Flaming Youths,”—Washington hall—6:30 and 8:30 P. M.
Wednesday—Meeting of the Wranglers—Lemmonier Library—8:15 P. M.
Benediction—Sacred Heart Church—7:30 P. M.
Thursday—Spanish Club—Hoynes hall—7:30 P. M.
Friday—French Seminar, which replaces Cercle Francais — Community House — 8:00-9:30 P. M. N. B. French Seminar,which is conducted wholly in the French language, is open to all students at the University proficient in French.
Via Crucis—Sacred Heart Church—7:30 P. M.
“ABSURDITIES,” 27—AUDIENCE, 0
The “Absurdities,” a sprightly, well-drilled, speedy team representing the Monogram Club outplayed, outfought and defeated the Audience, a motley, intelligent, critical group representing the University of Notre Dame and environs, by the score 27 to 0. The uneven contest, an annual thing, waged on the Washington hall gridiron, Tuesday and Wednesday evening, March twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth, at eight-fifteen o’clock, lasted almost four hours.
The “Absurdities" scored their first touchdown early in the initial period, “Freddie” Collins annexing the point after touchdown. Then followed a touchdown by the team. representing the Monogram Club in each of the remaining three quarters. Collins successfully booted over the resultant goals after touchdown with the exception of the one in the second quarter when, poised perfectly to score, he slipped off his stool, missing the ball.
From the opening minutes of the first quarter to the waning moments of the second half the game, tnough one-sided, was a thriller. Quarterback John J. Wallace handled his team perfectly, evinced a fine selection of plays and ran them off. with the . Precision and smoothness of a European diplomat.
The “Absurdities’ ’’ two halfbacks, Joseph J. Casa-
santa and Mary Grace Mohn, who prepped at the Mary Grace Mohn Studio, South Bend, were in the game for sixty minutes, during which time their fumbles, misplays, and mental’’peregrinations were as numerous as fingerprints in a home of armless paperhangers. Fullback Frank W. Kelly backed up the line in impeccable fashion and never failed to gain yardage in a forward direction when entrusted with the ball.
Coach Rockne, who watched the play closely-Tuesday evening from a salient spot in the middle aisle, front, of the Hall, declared, subsequent to the contest, that it was the only team in his many years of coaching which played an entire game without once crossing its signals. Be this as it may, Loca L. Color, a star in the “Absurdities” in other years, was strangely absent this year. It does not matter whether the cause of his absence be either the enforcement of the three-year-playing rule or the scholastic-standing rule; but his absence from the line-up does! His non-appearance was as disappointing as, say, an appearance of the Yankees at the ball park of Oscaloosa Corners, Wisconsin, without “Babe” Ruth.
•‘We present for your amusement and our own amazement the 1928 edition of the “Absurdities.” Shakespeare said ‘The play’s the thing.’ He was right. And we further believe that the play, interspersed with mumbled tones and tripping dances, has IT,” -writes Mon O. Gram in the foreword of the “Absurdities’ ” program. All this serves to acquaint one with the fact that the “Absurdities” possess IT, who is known on the campus to his friends and his roommate as “Freddie” Collins. “Freddie” this year has both admirably filled the number-twelve Douglasses discarded, upon graduation at mid-year, by “Big John” McManmon and caught the nymph-like movements so characteristic of Ray (Bucky) Dahman on the boards of Washington hall in his heyday.
If the writer were asked to name his all-Absurdities team for 1928,—an honor which has thus far escaped him,—he would do so as follows: First team—“Freddie” Collins; Joseph J. Casasanta and his University Orchestra; Jack Lavelle, alias “Shamus” O’Houlihan; The Monogram Chorus; "Tony” Kopecky; “Just a Little Argument; “Freddie” Collins; “The Girl From Knock-Kneed Gulch;” “The Death of Little Nell;" “The Student Prince of Denmark;” and “Freddie” Collins. Each member of this team, in recognition of invaluable services rendered, would be awarded a copy of “The Monogram March," a song which has in its rendition thus far walked away with the house. Our second and third team selections will appear in the SCHOLASTIC when, and not before, the dust is extracted from the stage-boards of Washington hall.
The contest was staged under the allspices of the University Theatre.	' ' -	,
See you Saturday night at the “Absurdities." So long.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
744
PROFESSOR R. L. GREENE’S NEW BOOK REVIEWED
“The Chemistry of Health,” the latest work of Professor R. L. Greene, scientist, inventor and educator, has recently been published by, the author at Notre Dame. This is a volume which, we believe, the layman as well as the scientist will find interesting. Although the author deals with a subject not commonly understood by the average man, the book is written in so clear a style that the uninitiated will have no difficulty in understanding it.
The value of the volume is almost immeasurable, for it deals with a subject of vital importance to all of us. In speaking of “Chemistry of Health,” P. K. Mullany, M. D., says: “It is a mine very rich in practical information containing the essence of the basic studies taught in medical schools.”
The scientific accomplishments which Professor Greene already has to his credit make it easy for one to understand why his work should receive such a warm welcome from teachers and scientists throughout the country. The author has a fine reputation, having invented the Greene water still, an air purifier, and an automatic vendor.
The Notre Dame man should find most of the chapters in “Chemistry of Health” very interesting because they deal with such subjects as general health and exercise, The titles which Professoi’ Greene has given his chapters are particularly attractive. “Diet General,” “Exercise,” and “Improving the Race” are some of the chapter headings which the average intelligent student would find interesting. Aside from those sections specified there are any number of particularly helpful chapters which anyone will find beneficial.
In writing of Professor Greene’s book, Brother Anselm, a Harvard graduate and at present professor of chemistry at St. Xavier’s College, says: “. . . I congratulate you on your wonderful treatment of the subject. It is surely a book that will be appreciated by all teachers and students of health. If your book could be
placed in every family and its wholesome advice followed, we would have, in a short time, a great supply of mentally, morally and physically fit children.”
Such praise as has been received by “Chemistry of Health” may seem too great to be taken seriously, but when one reads Professoi’ Greene’s volume, one realizes that not enough has been said. The book is fitted for use as a text, yet it provides ideal reading for the man who is interested in his own health. Aside from these qualifications it is written in a lucid style, is well illustrated, and in every way a worthwhile contribution to contemporary scientific literature. ------------------------------
WORK OF BEAUTIFYING CAMPUS ADVANCES
The fencing off this week of certain portions of the main quadrangle, the sight of freshly plowed earth, and the appearance of many new plants, give evidence that the spring drive for a beautiful campus has be-gun. Brother Ferdinand; the landscape architect in charge of the work, is now superintending his assistants in an occupation that is as old as Notre Dame.
Landscape work here was given a decided impetus recently when B. H. Slavin, Superintendent of Parks in Rochester, N. Y., spent two days at the University studying the grounds with a view of preserving the present beautiful portions of the campus and developing them for a future day. A representative of the South Park Board, Chicago was also here.
Mr. Slavin, who is the father of Arthur Slavin, a senior residing in Corby hall, agreed with the school authorities that the present bare spaces of ground about the campus must be converted into lawns. This refers in particular to the grounds surrounding the buildings.
The strict regulation of automobile traffic in the main quadrangle has been of assistance in saving the grounds about the main building and in preserving the quiet that is needed about school buildings. Two new roads have been built to deflect traffic from the quadrangle.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
■ \ ■
' 745
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ <9> <. <. .>
« CAMPUS PERSONALITIES ❖
.> ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖❖❖❖❖«
"Not once.again in all the time to come. Shall I be ever as I am tonight, Not once again find liberation from
The condemnation of tomorrotv’s light.”
RICHARD C. ELFERS Literary Editor of The Scholastic
Thus wrote Richard C. Elpers. And this, in a sense, is tomorrow’s light but certainly it finds nothing for condemnation.
Dick Elpers, as a true son of Indiana and a loyal Morrissey-ite, has given many poems to our publications. He won first prize in the Scribblers poetry contest of 1927 and third prize in a similar contest for
1928. He has contributed during the past two years to both the Juggler and the Scholastic, and had three verses in the Notre Dame Anthology. The coming Easter number of the Santa Maria will contain one of his verses.
Dick is Literary Editor of the Scholastic and also conducts “Hobnails” and “Our Contributors” departments. He has been a member of the Scribblers for several years and was chairman of the committee in charge of their recent poetry contest.
Other organizations to which Elpers has membership are the Evansville Club and the Press Club, of which he is secretary-treasurer. Also he was a member of the Senior Football Dance Committee. '
For further record of the activities of Richard Elpers there will be the Dome of 1928—and eventually, Who’s Who, for he is just “on the eve.” ---------------------*---------
CHICAGO CLUB INVITES ALL NOTRE . DAME MEN TO FORMAL DANCE
Students unable to go home during the
9 Easter vacation are invited by President
Dick Halpin of the Chicago Club to attend the Easter Formal that the club is holding on April 9 in the Gold and Balloon Rooms of the Congress Hotel. Tickets may be purchased at the door, but table reservations should be made with Halpin in 219 Lyons as soon as possible.
Johnny Hamp’s Kentucky Serenaders will furnish the music during the early part of the evening. The Serenaders have recorded a number of records for the Victor Company, and are well-known for their skillful rendition of dance tunes. After the evening performance of “Good News,” Abe Lyman and his famous orchestra from that excellent production will join with Hamp in spreading cheer for the dancers.	,
Special provision for the parking of the automobiles in which students attend the dance has again been made with the Wabash-Harrison garage, 606 S. Wabash Avenue, where a low rate will be given to Notre Dame men for the night.
NEBEL WINS GILBERT’S AD CONTEST
Edward J. Nebel, a sophomore in the College of Commerce, was the winner of the first prize in the Gilbert’s Ad-Writing Contest which was conducted recently in the Scholastic. Nebel, who lives in Lyons hall, is from Grosse Pointe, Michigan. As winner of the first prize, he receives a Spring Lear-bury Suit from the Gilbert establishment. His ad appears again in this issue of the Scholastic.
The second prize was won by Charles J. McGuckin, a senior also of the College of Commerce, living in Walsh hall. McGuckin, who comes from Akron, Ohio, is to receive a pair of Florsheim shoes as the winner of the second prize.
Thomas F. McMahon, of Walsh hall has been awarded the third prize. McMahon, who is a junior, is also a student in the Col. lege of Commerce.	'
John A. Smith, ’29, of Morrissey hall, and Paul W. McMahon, ’31, of the Law College, received honorary mention from the three judges who- were selected from the South Bend Tribune staff.
746
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTENTION TO ATTEND BALL MUST BE SIGNIFIED BEFORE EASTER
192# A
Joseph S. Morrissey, chairman of tickets for the Senior Ball of 1928, announced during the week that all seniors who intend to attend the Ball must signify this intention to him or to a member of his committee on or before Sunday, April 8. “Seniors who neglect to signify their intention of attending the Ball by this date,” says Joe,” will be just out of luck the night of May 11.” Decorations for this year’s Ball will be most elaborate, according to James Shocknessy,
merit has
general chairman.
stated Wednesday
Shocknessy afternoon,
March 28, that a greater allot-been laid aside this year for Ball
decorations than has been done in past years. “This action assures of consideration of the
Ball by decorating companies of national importance,” remarked Shocknessy, “who have in their employ only expei’ts in the decorative art. Several of these companies have already submitted unique plans to the decorations committee,” terminated the Ball’s general chairman.
The Ball committees have decided this year to invite the members of the University’s Alumni Association to the affair, to be held in the Palais Royale ballroom Friday evening, May 11. All seniors going home for Easter are urged to invite to the Ball the local representatives of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.

DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION OFFICIAL NOTICE
To the Editor of the Scholastic :
. Dear Sir:—The first of the wild birds have been located on the Notre Dame property. Within the year this number will be greatly increased through breeding and migration. It is to be supposed that there' will be some persons who, either through ignorance of the law or wilfully, will attempt to kill or capture some of these birds.
Permit me to remind them of the game laws protecting the game birds throughout the closed season. In addition there is to be absolutely no hunting henceforth, either with dog or gun, on the Notre Dame proper
ty. The entire ground surrounding the school is now a bird preserve and the rules regarding such property must be observed. Any person found molesting the birds in any way will be subject to heavy penalties including fine or imprisonment.
'Owners of dogs or cats are also warned to keep their animals on their own property. Any animals found on the school grounds will be captured as predatory and disposed of. (Signed,) Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C.
A
“CLERGY NIGHT” OBSERVED BY NOTRE DAME COUNCIL
Notre Dame Council, Number 1477, Knights of Columbus Tuesday evening, March 27, in their chambers in Walsh hall observed “Clergy Night;” Many priests prominent on the university campus were present. Among these were Father Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., who delivered the address of the evening; Father P. J. Carroll, C.S.C., who gave a very interesting talk; Father E. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C.; Father James J. Stack, C.S.C.; Father James H. Gallagan, C.S.C.; Father Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C.; Fathers Boland and Murray, C.S.C.
All these guests of honor, on their turn, congratulated Grand Knight Howard V. Pha-lin, the Council’s other officers, and the members of the Council at large for the tremendous success) achieved by the Knights this year. The speakers, in the main, declared that this year was the greatest in the history of the Council since its founding in 1910.
The meeting Tuesday evening was conducted by Grand Knight Phalin. Lecturer Edward McKeown introduced the various speakers to the gathering.
--------$-------
PLAYGROUND BALL LEAGUE BEGINS ORGANIZATION
Scheduling of games for the hall teams in the Chicago Club’s new indoor league has been completed by Father Mooney and his assistants of the School of Physical Education. Play will begin on Sunday, April 15. Each hall will have a team composed of Chicago Club members, as reported in last week’s Scholastic.
Work on the schedule for the inter-club league will begin Monday. Entries from the campus clubs must reach Dick Halpin, in 213 Lyons hall, today. Rules will be mimeographed and distributed among the clubs, besides being posted on the bulletin boards.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
747
. TEACHING REQUIREMENTS ANNOUNCED
With interest in teaching as a profession becoming widespread among the students of Notre Dame, it is advisable for students planning to enter that field of work to inform themselves immediately concerning the professional and academic preparation required for teaching.
That is the opinion of the Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C. S. C., director of the School of Education of the University. As illustrative of the ignorance of many students regarding the courses of education here, Father Cunningham points to the case of a junior in the College of Science, who took Education A this semester (a freshman course in “How to Study”) thinking he was taking a course that would help him learn “How to Teach,” and would count as professional training.
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING TOTALS 20 HOURS.
Professional preparation required of A. B. students majoring Education and for others desirous of and receiving the Certificate in Education, is as follows: three hours each in the following subjects—Introduction to Education or History of Education, General Psychology (Philosophy 2b or 2c), Educational Psychology, Principles of Secondary Education, Principles and Technique of Teaching (General Methods), and Directed Observation and Student Teaching.
A professional Course (Special Methods) of two hours in one of the subjects in the Secondary School curriculum is also required, making a total of 20 hours of work. In this connection, it should be mentioned that candidates for an Indiana first grade high school teachers license must have a Teachers’ Course in each of two separate subjects.
TEACHING SUBJECT AND BACKGROUND COURSES
Academic preparation comprises a teaching subject and background courses. The student must have from 24 to 36 hours in a teaching subject. The exact number of hours and the nature of the courses to be followed is determined by consultation
with Mr. A. Confrey, Head of the Department of Secondary Education. Candidates for an Indiana first grade high school teacher’s license must have a.definite number of hours in each of two separate subjects.
Background courses are made up of the remaining subjects for the Bachelor degree. They include such required courses as English, Philosophy, Science and the like, as well as electives. „
Students intending to teach in Indiana schools will be interested to learn that licenses to teach in that state will be turned over with the certificates in Education at the time of graduation.	.
--------4-------- ,
SCRIBBLER CONTEST .
The dead-line of the Scribbler Short Story Contest, which is open to all undergraduate campus writers, will be April 15, it was announced at the Scribbler meeting last Monday night. All students desiring to enter are urged to send their manuscript in at the earliest possible date, to avoid any delay in the final decisions.
John Cullinan, chairman of the contest committee, expressed his gratitude to the instructors in the English department, through whose generous cooperation the rules of the contest have been announced in the English classes of the University.
Cullinan has already obtained two judges of exceptional ability for the preliminary reading of manuscripts. They are..Dora S. Keller, head of the English department, South Bend High School, and .Sidney B. Whipple, Editor of The Neivs-Times. And the chairman feels that judges of ability are needed. Because of the high quality of the material appearing in campus publications during the last two years, he anticipates an abundance of good short stories.
In case you have missed the previous announcements, the following are a few of the more important rules. All manuscripts must be over 1500, and under 4000 words in length. Stories must be in triplicate form, typed or in ink, and must be accompanied by a sealed envelope containing the name of the author, and the title of his story.
748	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
♦ OUR CONTRIBUTORS ♦
Now it can be told! Jasper Brent and Prospero Image are exposed, and discovered to be Jack Mullen and Murray Young. The Poetry Number brought about their identification by publishing under their own names certain prize-winning poems that previously appeared in the Scholastic under their pseudonyms.
Jack Mullen is best known to the campus for his editing of the Scholastic, as Jasper Brent is best known to Scholastic readers for the number and excellence of his poems. In the essay in this issue, Jack Mullen does a service to Jasper Brent’s field by bringing to his proper prominence a poet who, as the writing shows, has been too widely overlooked.
A discerning ear could have detected the phrasing of Prospero Image in the poetic lines of Murray Young’s play, “A Sign and a Wonder,” at the University Theater performance March 17. Even the most casual reader can recognize in “Oswald at Evening” the modernistic spirit in its freedom from “poetic diction” and worn expressions.
It is interesting to compare “Oswald” with Cyril Mullen’s “Reply on Parting,” which is modern rather than modernistic, that is, the latter retains more than the former of the sympathy and depth of our poetic tradition.
Jack Dempsey is really no pseudonym, nor is his story of going to the hospital an imaginary experience. Jack is a freshman living in Howard hall, and he really received a dish of jello for a square meal.
Edward E. Brennan, who makes so much of so little in “The Fearless Gambler,” is also a freshman, of the Arts and Letters College. He comes from Grand Rapids, and lives in Howard hall. R. C. E.
--------4-------
FLAGS PRESENTED TO UNIVERSITY
Two large American flags were presented to the University recently by P. J. Keough of Lake Bluff, Ill. Mr. Keough has been an admirer of Notre Dame for many years.
BRUNSWICK RECORDING CONCERT PRAISED HIGHLY
The most successful concert of the season was given Friday night in Washington hall by a group of Brunswick Recording Artists from Chicago. The program was , interesting and diversified, ranging from topical jazz to the classics, and from solo to choral singing.
By popular approval, Mr. Lee Sims would seem to have been the success of the evening. His piano playing was a ‘ miracle of technical virtuosity. His selections were all familiar popular numbers which by skillful playing he managed to convert into new and fascinating compositions. His performance of the difficult , piano part of Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue” was particularly brilliant.	,
Jules Huberbeaux’s Recording Orches- ■ tra presenting a group of the newer type of salon music was greatly applauded. ; “Scarf Dance” and “The Volga Boatman” ; orchestrated in syncopated rythms were especially liked.	\
The string quartet from the Chicago c Symphony played several delightful numbers. A sureness and quiet ease of play- ? ing marked their performance. •	f
The Notre Dame Glee Club sang one of j their most popular numbers, the amusing and bravura “Italian Salad.” This number always displays to the best advantage their unusual skill. Their second number was a rendition of the Notre Dame Hike Song.	.
Marie Morrissey, combining a splendid 'J contralto voice with an irresistible charm of manner, shared with Mr. Sims the honors of the evening. She sang beautifully the ever popular love song from “Samson 3 and Delilah,” and then coming to the semi-classics ranged from “Mighty Like a Rose” to a lovely old Irish song, “Would g God I Were An Apple Blossom.”
This widely divergent list of numbers w was held together by the bland and genial Professor Clarence Manion, who served as Master of Ceremonies. It is to the credit of Mr. Manion that the concert gave the effect of a satisfying whole.	®
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
$ *QG<fQ***&**4#QQ4 4 &
♦ MUSIC AND DRAMA ❖ <fr <8>
Those who were present in Washington hall Thursday evening and heard Irene Pav-loska, Ruth Ray and Walter Wheatley in a concert, which might inadequately be described by terming it as one brilliantly given, rest assured that they witnessed an evening’s entertainment which might readily and rightfully be considered one of the highest points of a concert season that surpasses any given at Notre Dame within the past few years. In a program that was delightfully light for the most part, each artist contributed a worthy share, and if applause may be used as a norm of popularity and musical excellency, then surely, the evening’s concert was one given by three equally able artists. Both Miss Pavloska and Mr. Wheatley were as graciously received as any singer who has entertained us during the year, while Miss Ray1, seemingly from the first stroke of her eloquent bow, captured the audience and held them with the scintillating verve which is so characteristic of her playing. Certainly Father Carey is adding the better to the best in giving the campus such concerts.
—o—
Wit^ a performance tonight and two tomorrow, the Oliver with its presentation “Broadway” is giving the final opportunity of seeing a real worthwhile legitimate stage production before the Easter holidays. A play which carries all the dash and action of a “thriller,” yet lacking any touch of the vulgar or crude as might be insinuated by its name and theme, “Broadway” is a success in every sense of the word, and South Bend is fortunate that it comes here with a cast that has carried the play through some fifty weeks in Detroit and Chicago.
And greeting us on our return from the holidays surrounding Easter, is the latest play by Kenyon Nicholson, “Fly-By-Night,” a comedy dealing with that ever humorous organization, a struggling “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” show troupe. The play comes to the Oliver for a three day stay, beginning Thursday, April 12. Better get back on time.
J. P. M’EVOY ADDRESSES SCRIBBLERS ON WRITING '
J. P. McEvoy, author of many Broadway successes and son of Notre Dame, commented briefly on the theatre, newspaper life, the movies, writing in general and a number of other topics at a special meeting of the Scribblers last Tuesday, in the Law Building. Mr. McEvoy spent Monday and Tuesday here assisting in the production of the Monogram “Absurdities,” to which he contributed a sketch.
In a talk of a more or less humorous nature, Mr. McEvoy declared that newspaper work is a good training for the potential writer, that the playwright must know intimately a friend of the play producer if he would have his play read, that the magazines are buying stories by the tonnage, that moving picture title writing can be learned only . by long experience, and that the writer who produces a successful play, story or novel learns that there are more “rights” than this world dreams of.
Mr. McEvoy is now living in Chicago where he is engaged in writing a play. He has a national reputation as a humorist, being the author of “Americana,” the Broadway hit of last year, and “The Potters,” which has by the “right” route secured for its author credit as a writer of plays, movie, scenarios, and a number of other things. Mr. McEvoy has also written certain numbers of the Follies and he is a contributor to the magazines.
--------*-------
EXAMINATION FOR P. O. CLERK
ANNOUNCED
The United States civil service commission has announced an open competitive examination for the position of clerk in the Post Office at Notre Dame, Indiana, to be ■held some time the latter part of April. Receipt of applications will close April, 11,1928.
For particulars, see announcement 824 posted on the University bulletin boards or inquire from the local secretary at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Indiana.
--------$-------
The next issue of The Scholastic will appear Friday, April 20.
750	THE NOTRE D A M E S C H 0 L A S T I C
H525H5a5a525H5H5a5H5B5a5aS2Sa5H5a5a5E5iEH5B5a5
THE CAMPUS CLUBS - -
By John Bergan
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB
The members of the Connecticut Valley club met Sunday morning, March 25, in the south room of the library. Thomas C. Shea, club proxy, conducted the meeting.
The chief business of the meeting was the selection of Father Frederick T. McKeown, C.S.C., of the * deparment of Modern Languages at the University, as honorary president and chaplain of the club. Father McKeown originally came to Notre Dame as a student from New Haven, Conn.f which was his home.
Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce of the University was named an honorary member and member of the advisory council of the club.
A. I. E. E.
The Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its regular bi-weekly meeting last Monday evening, March 26.
Mr. Edward Thoman spoke on “Architecture as Applied to Sub-station Design.” Mr. Thoman gave a resume of his recent investigation of the East Side sub-station of the Indiana and Michigan Company, and explained in detail the operation of the station.
Mr. Frank Gagliardi gave a talk on “Charles Proteus Steinmetz, the Man and His Works.” He told a number of interesting facts in the life of the late electrical wizard and sketched his contributions to the electrical industry.
Refreshments were served by Messrs. Larsen, Loeffler and Collins, as usual.
Also, Dr. Caparo announced papers to be presented by the members of the local branch during the remainder of the year.
SCRIBBLERS
Three new members, Frank Connelly, Murray Hickey Ley, and Louis L. Hasley were elected to the Scribblers at the club’s meeting Monday night. Connelly, a junior, has been a contributor to The Scholastic and is a member of the Dome staff. Two of his poems received mention in the recent contest held by the Scribblers. Both other men are Sophomores,- Ley having been a contributor to The Scholastic and the Scribbler Anthology, and Hasley to The Scholastic and the Juggler. Ley is from Davenport and Hasley from Marengo, Iowa.
At the business meeting, John Cullinan, chairman of the short story contest committee, reported that the preliminary judging of the stories had already been arranged for, and that it will close on April 20. President Walter Layne is arranging for a Scribbler room in the Publications building, where he hopes to be able to hold meetings in the future.
There will be a meeting Monday night at which the new members will be initiated.
CLEVELAND CLUB
The regular monthly meeting of the Cleveland club was held Tuesday evening, March 27, in Hoynes hall. The club’s president William O’Neill conducted the' meeting at which final plans were announced for the Easter Formal which will be given under the auspices of the club at the ball room of the Midway Club in Cleveland on Easter Monday. This dance if present plans are carried out will equal the popularity of the club’s Christmas dance which was one of the most successful affairs staged by a Notre -Dame organization in the state of Ohio.
Other business decided at the meeting was the choice of a club pin and the plans for the giving of a trophy to the Catholic high school champion of Cleveland at the conclusion of the season by the club were discussed.
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
A special meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science was held Monday evening, March 26, in Science hall. Two papers on decidedly different scientific topics were the features of the session. Mr. John W. Viktoryn, a senior Pre-Med., presented in detail the theories which are concerned with the origin of the human species in “Evolution.” Mr. Robert J. Schulze, a Junior Pharmacist, dealt Xvith the subject of “Diet and Nutrition,” and told in a brief and concise manner the purposes of each of the different classes of food in the ordinary diet.
The next regular meeting will be held on Monday evening, April 16.	t
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB	'
The Grand Rapids club will meet in the North room of the Library tonight. The meeting will be called at eight P. M. sharp and Pres. Walsh.urges all members to be there. Final plans for the Easter Dance and other important business will be discussed.
ROCHESTER CLUB
The Rochester club held its regular monthly meeting last Saturday noon in the Library. The club’s president, Don J. Corbett, conducted the meeting at which plans for a banquet to be held after the Easter vacation were announced.
EAST-PENN CLUB
The East-Penn Club at the University, following its successful “Father Devers’ Night,” plans soon to hold an “Election Banquet,” at which officers for the year 1928-1929 will bo elected. A meeting of the club to formulate plans for this affair, according to Leo R. McIntyre, the club’s president, will be held shortly after- the Easter- vacation.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
751
THE COLLEGE PARADE
By Cyril J. Mullen
A pleasant bit of educational philosophy in The Sou’ Wester, of South Western College, Memphis: “If the American university doesn’t teach a man wisdom, it at least teaches him how to loiter thru life gracefully, and how to make other men work for him, and how to laugh and sing, and how to make love . . .” The author is probably right about the love-making, the laughing, and the knack of making others work for him.—All commerce men will agree to the last, except those sophomores who do their own accounting—, but I have grave doubts in regard to the singing and the loitering. I have heard Mother Machrees soulfully gurgled in the shower room; love songs rendered and interpreted in automobiles; and wavery victory marches issue forth from i muffled faces. The result has been either mournful, like the thing that always sings outside the house the night before Aunt Tillie dies, or terrifying, like the cat that got into grand-father’s whiskey. And as for coming to college to learn how to loiter—I solemnly pronounce such an idea, the merest pishposh. I have yet to- meet the college man that has to be taught how to loiter.
“Coeds Fail to Agree on Ideal Man—Mere humans are best, after all,” relates The Butler Collegian. This is a great and charitable concession, and we should all be duly grateful. It would be most proper and fitting, I think, for the males of Indiana to set aside a day for innocent merriment by way of showing their appreciation. Games such as ring-around-the-rosy, wheel-borrow races, who’ll flipp my posie, and diving for apples, would go a long way toward showing the girls that we are, as they say in Kansas, “just folks.”
—•>—
According to the Indiana Bell Telephone Co., the college man’s creed is as follows:
“Study, Cheer, Dance, Sleep, Eat, and call the folks once a week on long distance.” Advertising men are getting more original every day. ■
The Purple and White of Assumption College, Ontario, is the most consistent paper on the continent. Its make-up is in strict accordance with its name. The paper is white—not an extraordinary phenomenon— but the ink is a delightful purple, in hue.
As a further protest against the twentieth century standardization, which, I have been told, is smothering all beauty, and in recognition of the merits of The Purple and White, I suggest that hence forward The Scholastic be printed in gold ink, upon blue paper. Incidentally, you could use your old Scholastics for mural decorations.
While eyeing the Parade, I have been subject to a number of High-School dailies, weeklys, and occasionals, marked “please exchange and comment.” To clear up the possibility of misunderstandings, resulting from my neglect of juvenile endeavor, I am publishing an open letter in this column:
Dear kiddies:
There must be a misunderstanding. There was once a high school here, but St. Edward’s Hall is only a grammar school. This is not Notre Dame High School, either. That is in Cleveland and has only female students. Notre Dame is in Indiana and doesn’t’ have female students. If you will read the catalogue you will see that this is a University. If you will read the newspapers you will also find this is the place where they play football.
But I am very glad to get your papers. They are nice.* They are very nice. I see that most of your papers are from Eastern high schools. The East is a fine place. A staff member who lives there told me so. He says that I should publish lots and lots of eastern news-items. Maybe I will some day. But I don’t have anything to do with the exchange. I only comment. This letter is the comment.
I am sure that you all have great futures. Lovingly,
Cyril Mullen.
752
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE EDITOR’S PAGE

PLEASE!
Work on. the improvement of the campus has again begun. Because of the necessary abuse that the quadrangle suffered before the onslaught of the steam-shovel last year, it is at present in a sad state compared with its appearance in previous Springs,-but the men in charge of the landscaping are working as rapidly as possible to repair the ruin.
So far this year, the students have kept to the paths with a fair degree of faithfulness. During the bad weather, short-cuts were not extremely damaging to the future of the lawn on the main campus, but now, when the grass is beginning to grow again, and the shoots are tender, any consistant tramping outside the paths will make bare spots that must last another year.
Keep to the paths. There are a sufficient number to make short-cuts unnecessary.
THE SMOKING QUESTION
There was a time when Notre Dame men
blamed on lower-classmen, who were excused on the plea of ignorance. The apology is no longer valid. The S. A. C. has printed signs, and the Scholastic has printed editorials ; if you are too busy to read the latter, the former can scarcely escape your eyes. Furthermore, the lower-classmen are not lonely in breaking tradition.
It may be that the men are asking "Why | have these traditions?” We will try to ex- ■ plain. The reasons are entirely obvious, but j we cannot help that.
First, stale cigarette smoke is abominable to anyone not smoking in self-defense and, particularly in the winter, it makes the close atmosphere of street-cars nauseating. Secondly, pipes are offenders in a proportionately worse degree. They do not even need to be in action, but are capable of passive evil-doing. Thirdly, cigarette butts scatter- ' ed generously over an otherwise clean lawm add nothing to the aesthetic effect. And we conclude with the modest appeal: Please do
did not carry cigarettes into street cars with them; now they board a car anywhere puffing nonchalantly at the collegiate fag. They used to begin smoking when the Notre Dame street car struck the mountainous stretch between town and the University; now they' light up when passing the Palace theatre or any other building. They once refrained if a woman were present on the car; women make no particle of difference, now. They formerly stepped on the remnants when women boarded the car; now the cigarette is consumed to the point at which most men would require a holder or heat-proof fingers, and reeking pipes prevail.
To continue in the same vein/ a Notre Dame tradition once forbade smoking on the quad which separates Sorin, Washington hall, the Main building, and the Sacred Heart statue. That tradition has fallen into innocuous desuetude along with corduroy trousers, hobnailed shoes, lumber-jack shirts and “Hello!”	’
Infractions of the type listed used to be
not.
, AND ONE OTHER THING
One of the things a college man is expected to have is a vocabulary superior to the man who has not had the educational advantages. More than that, he should use it, not for purposes of displaying his really meagre knowledge, but to give a better expression to his ideas.
All this is a theory generally held by educators. It may be operative in some institutions of learning, but it is not practical at Notre Dame. Here, if you use in class any word not previously heard at Sophomore hall sewing-circles, or Hullie’s indoor sports palace, you are greeted with a gasp, a boo, 01 a birdie.	.
The man who cannot use good Enghs> and who publicly scorns those who can, e‘ cause they can, shows a complete lack of any sense of values, a probably congenital ance of courtesy, and a deliberate antipa to the possibility of learning. J' '

MHMMm
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
753
SPRING
I.
You are a delicate young girl, New freed from a sequestered life In a cold old house.
You enter the world with open arms And soft caressing hands, Bringing life to earth And teaching man to live.
II.
You are a timid little colt
With friendly eyes,
Neio let out to pasture.
On stiff little legs'
You frolic—
With much mad
Running round the lot.
You bring a happy smile
To earth— ■
To me.	—NEMO.
YOUR ARGUMENT HAS SOME BEER-ING
DEAR Al: Tell me—If Baltimore and its Lassie can make "Hobnails,” how about the Quaker City Chap?
Our beer in Philadelphia is great, and besides— we have Mitten Men and Management.
—the Q. c. c.
A MEMORY
Ah! there still gloivs a spark Where there once flared the flame, Like the song of a lark, ' Afar off sounds the name;
And there still leads a path, Arid now of its streams, ■ And the woodland is bare, . And my brooks are but dreams.
Only brambles remain;
In my garden it snows, \ .'And the dread autumn raizi
Mourns, where once blushed a rose.
, ,.But I treasure the name, , . . ? And I still fan the spark, ’ Though it’s lost in the day, How it glozvs in the dark!
,	.'	_A LASSIE IN BALTIMORE. ■
/ '	years
■<.‘■.4' Years of sorrozu; years of zvaiting; i'^'/'/Will she ever come?
the morrow, hesitating, "i^tfi^Find my heart as numb? l^>t,flA‘ifear8 are coming; Years are going;
^•^A^-'Yet 1 am alone.
benztmbing, etill is flowing;
'^S&f‘!.i)ay8-to~c6me have flown! ted J. b
VILLANELLE
I’ve loved you, sweet, so very long My hungry heart can only say, Perhaps I’ll win her with a song!"
Sometimes I think it may be wrong To ask you for a moment's stay, But I’ve loved you so very long!
Of course I know I must be strong If I would take your heart away. Perhaps I’ll win you with a song! How often have I moved along The moonlit paths marked on the bay— I’ve loved you, siueet, so very long! My love is like a leather thong Which holds me fast. I smile and say, Perhaps I’ll win her with a song!" Your voice is like a silver gong, Your laughter is so szvift and gay. I’ve loved you, sweet, so very long Perhaps, I’ll win you with a song.
—THE LUCKLESS LAD.
BUT “A CHANGE IS RELISHED BY THE BEST OF MEN”
Now Allan: Whyfore dost thou seek a bride? Hast thou been fickle to the maid of the Greenwood ,forest, or she to thee? Remember, Friend Allan, “the wife oi thy youth,” whether she “still abides with thee,” or no.
—THE COMEBACK OF NOTRE DAME.
RE-BIRTH
It seems that all of life Is new, and strong, to me Whenever I see a green, green leaf Bzid forth upon a tree;
And all the world is bom anezv,	1
And virile tremors pierce it through, And skies that were of raven hue Becozne again as clear and blue As eyes that cried When love had died, But once again zvith ardor burned, When heart to heart once znore retuzmed, And lips to lips again were pressed And loving arms once more caressed Their ozvn.	J0I|N nanovio.
April Fool’s Day comes on Sunday, but that won't cheat the profs out of their innocent little fun. Thev’re going to start their happy mischief Satur-dav^nd keep right on going up to Wednesday noon. And oh, what fools they’ll make of one Allan-a-Dale Send in your dirtiest cracks about absent-minded nfneqnrs* we’ll turn the worm on them.
professors, wen mi	—allan-a-dale.
754
The Stuff of Life
On the Poetry of A. E. Housman
JASPER BRENT
THE customary and, I suppose, human thing for a writer to do after achieving success, popularity, and critical acclaim with his first work is to sit him down immediately to the production of another volume, equal to the first, or its superior. And usually h,e fails. The second book, if written with a view to current demand grown out of the free advertising that the first obtained, will be poorly done. There is the possibility. that the writer in question is a genuine artist, in which case he will probably give the same labor to a succeeding work as to his first, but even such an artist is not likely to allow thirty-six years to pass between two publications.
One man has done that: A. E. Housman, a British poet who is, unfortunately, not so well known as his small but brilliant collections of verse deserve. You will find references to him in almost any essay which treats modern poetry, but you will not find many who have read him. Even in the libraries, if the local one may be taken as a fair example, it is nearly impossible to find anything of his life.
The Encyclopedia Britannica does, not list Mr. Alfred Edward Housman at all; it does give about four inches of type to his brother, Laurence, who is a poet, artist and playwright. Beneath the article on Laurence Housman appears the following solemn sentence:
“His brother, Alfred * Edward Housman (b. 1859), an accomplished scholar, professor of Latin at University College, London, is known as a poet by his striking lyrical series A Shropshire Lad"
I was not surprised to fin'd that Mr. Housman had been born; I was surprised only
that the Britannica should not give more than one biographical sentence to the man who is i probably the greatest living English poet, ' and who ranks with the best in the world. J
Housman is a graduate of Oxford Uni- 1 versity. After leaving the University, he	i
worked for ten years in the British Patent	J
Office, and then became a professor of Latin ’ at University College, London, in 1892. In i the early months of 1895, according to his	:
own terse statement in the preface to his	’
“Last Poems,” Housman was visited by a “continuous excitement” under which he wrote most of the lyrics that later appeared ; in A Shropshire Lad. He was then thirty-six years old, and he was taking a walking tour through Shropshire, along the old border between England and Wales.	i
In one of his essays, Mr. H. L. Mencken, : whom many people persist in taking seriously, comes to this conclusion with all his dog- : matic splendor: “An adult poet is simply ! an individual in a state of arrested develop- , ment—in brief, a sort of moron.” At thirty- • six, Housman wrote these lines:	i
From far, from eve and morniny	■,
And yon twelve-winded sky,	.
The stuff of life to knit me	;
B/ew hither', here am I.	:
Now—for a breath I tarry	S
Nor yet disperse apart—	■
Take my hand quick and tell me	J
What have you in your heart.	;
Speak now, and J will answer;	;
How shall I help you, say;	’
Ere to the zvind’s twelve quarters	i
I take my endless ivay.	J
In 1896, a small volume of poems A Shropshire Lad, embodying the quoted lyric and t sixty-two others, appeared. Housman’s fame
i ' ri 1*0
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
was made certain by the single volume. He was praised widely, and I imagine that those who read him at the time awaited the publication of another lyrical collection impatiently.
But the poet retired again into the scholarly oblivion that had been his in the years preceding A Shropshire Lad. In 1911, he left University College to take a professorship at Cambridge. Eleven years later, he published his Last Poems, only forty-one lyrics, making the total of one hundred and four.
A general impression of that packet of little songs (no one of them is more than four small pages long) is like such an impression of the same number of slim, clean needles stabbed successively into the skin. Like the needles, they all hurt. The pain may come from the expression of neutral beauty or of compact, biting emotion. Ordinarily, that emotion is induced by love and its resultant misfortunes, although fear, homesickness, and the martial spirit of drums and bugles sometimes enter into the composition. Death is another favorite topic; death discussed as being the end of all things, a blank wall agaihst which all of humanity is incontinently dashed.
If small in physical stature, the poems are tall in emotion. Here is one not usually quoted. Like most of the lyrics, it is without a title, and is known only as
XLV '
If it chance your eye offend you, Pluck it out, lad, and be sound: 'Twill hurt, but here are salves to friend you, And many a balsam grows on ground.
And if your hand or foot offend you, Cut it off, lad, and be whole;
But play the man, stand up and end you, When your sickness is your soul.
As in this case, Housman’s prevailing tone is one of tragedy. He says in A Shropshire Lad:
XL
Into my heart an air that kills
From yon far country blows:	.
What are those blue remembered hills, , What spires, what farms are those?
' That is the land of lost content,
I see it shining plain,
. 755
The happy highways where I went And cannot come again.
This is the note of regret at departure which he frequently expresses. It is surpassed in strength, I believe, by this single stanza, supposedly the words of murderer:
Long for me the-rick/will, wait, And long will wait the fold, And long will stand the empty plate, And dinner will be cold.
Both of these are excellent examples of Housman’s characteristic simplicity and restraint. His emotions, of course, are those that'other poets have been trying to express since the beginning, but where many of those others would require pages of type to tell their stories, Housman compresses his into eight, twelve, or sixteen lines, almost without decoration. He rejects the blunderbuss in favor of small-calibred pistol that is quite as deadly, but makes only a single, sharp report.
Not all of Housman is tragic, however. Occasionally, he bursts into a delightful and re- ' lieving whimsicality in which he laughs good-humoredly at himself or at others. This is also from A Shropshire Lad:
XVIII	.
Oh, tvhen I was in love with you, Then I was clean and brave, And miles around the wonder grew How well did I behave.
And now the fancy passes by, And nothing will remain, And miles around they’ll say that I Am quite myself again.	'
But his finest work is in the tragic mood, I think. Through all the poems runs the same simplicity, allowing for no doubt as to his meaning, and so unostentatious as to place some of the best-cut gems in danger of being passed over as merely pretty rhymes. Nearly always reflective, at times he is deliberately philosophical. This tiny bit is from Last Poems:	•	•
, X
Could man be drunk for ever With liquor, love, or fights, Lief should I rouse at morning And lief lie down of nights. ,.	;;
THE NOTRE DAME
•756
But men at whiles are sober And think by fits and starts, And if they think, they fasten Their hands upon their hearts.
Nothing to it, some might say. Nothing to it, yet it would be a long, a weary search to find another of such length expressing so thoroughly the awful, predicament of man.
Like the poems themselves, Housman’s technic is unostentatious. He is an artist whose mechanics are almost never apparent to his readers. He does not call attention to ' himself by astounding figures of speech, nor by a rumble-jumble of outlandish rhymes and interminable alliteration, nor by new rhyme schemes and metrical arrangements. His materials are usually short stanzas composed of short lines, with alternate masculine and feminine endings.
He hides his technic well, yet is a skillful technician. Notice the ‘n’ sounds in this aching little quatrain:
And naked to the hangman’s noose The morning clocks will ring A neck God made for other use Than strangling in a string.
In the field of imagery, he is not fertile; his lyrics, for the most part, are beautiful and strong enough to need none of the delightful images that other major poets have compassed. He has sought to express the sting in his heart and has done so. One could hardly ask more.
■ Although confining himself to simple, almost conversational diction in his poems, Housman holds a rare music. This stanza is quite irrelevant when placed alone, yet it illustrates the beauty of his melody:
Across the glittering pastures And empty upland still And solitude of shepherds High in the folded hill.
The open spaces are Housman’s; the open spaces,,and the swift wind, the aching heart,
SCHOLASTIC	|
and the bugle calling from a hill-top. He	I
will have none of cities in his work, nor of	|
many things outside the small rural area	|
of Shropshire. His universality is one of	I
feeling rather than of vision; he is not to be	|
imagined writing such lines as: ‘Silent upon	f
a peak in Darien,’ or ‘God stands winding a	I
lonely horn.’ Except in a few poems, he does	|
not give the feeling of a limitless space	I
around a small world; instead, he communi-	I
cates a limitless emotion in a tiny division of England.	|
The lack of more spacious vision, if I may | call it a defect, with the close similarity in | form existing among so many of his poems, j are Housman’s principal faults. The second does not prevent enjoyment of the individual poems: each seems a rare stone under special -i examination. When they are read one after 1 another, however, at the end they produce a * pleasure springing from the mass of the	*
lyrics rather than from each individually.	<
The resemblance in form that one has for another almost destroys the particular emo- ? tional mark of each.
But these deficiencies are small at most	■
when placed beside the warm artistry of the	J
poet’s entire work. I have included them ? simply because it is the ‘modern’ fashion to • see only the good in that for which one has < a personal preference, and only the bad in	*
that which is not so appealing. The poet	i
himself is modern,- but not ‘modern’; his • J: piquant lyrics are as different from the bar- { baric yawps of the extremists as a rapier is J different from a mace. He has beauty, form, restraint, and significance—characteristics still held high by those not entirely lost in the business of being startling. I am sorry that he has called his second book Last Poems, and most of all that he ends it with:
Tomorrow, more's the pity, Away we both must hie, To air the ditty And to earth I.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
757


■ Oswald At Evening
Now all the Seraphim	-
Striking bright guitars, With voices small and dim,	■
Sing among the stars	.	.
But here below the evening comes Announced by clanging bells
~ And frantic whistles screeching from The roofs of factory hells.
The piano in the living room
Emits a topic waltz;
But Lizzie adds embellishments Original if false.
Within the kitchen Mrs. Finn
Is also moved to song.
She agitates the pots and pans.
Her voice is loud and strong.	,
And Mrs. Gintz across the way Gathers in her brood;
The vocal menu of her voice ■ Summons them to food.
The busses and the taxi cabs	'
Reiterate their threats, And Oswald in the passageway Shuts up his book and frets.
For Oswald’s eyes are heaven turned, To dim Rossetian glades
I Where Cecily and Gertrude glide With other phthisic maids.	,
The world with Oswald is too much (Echoes of “late and soon,’’);	’ ,
His body seeks a pious dance, His mind a holy tune.
, But Lizzie in the living-room, ' The taxis in the street,	,
Prevent supernal escapades	■
'	. With pietistic feet.	’
Cacophany and ,darkness grow, .	,
While Oswald in despair	,
Gives forth an atavistic cry,
’ And tears his flaccid hair. ’	. •
And all the Seraphim ,	.	' ■ ,
Striking bright guitars,
'	With voices small and dim,
Sing among the stars,	■	*
•	—PROSPERO IMAGE

758
A Dissertation Upon Going To The Hospital
The Fatal Operation	■
'	JACK DEMPSEY
YOU say that you are just dying to hear all about my operation? Well, since you insist. Like the heroine of the Confessions magazine, I might just as well begin at the beginning and tell all.
During my “stretch” in the hospital the nurses played a most important role. I learned that they, have a very peculiai’ sense of humor. I didn’t mind when they laughed at the numbei* of books I brought with me. When all the nurses on my floor and some from every other floor came in to meet and view me just because I happened to have an unusual name, it did not give me great concern. Why, I even permitted them to give me a bath I
They never seemed to get enough attention during the day so they used to wake me regularly at midnight and again at four in the morning to hold my hand and stick a glass cigarette or pacifier—I never could figure out which—in my mouth. I could tolerate all these,, but what broke down my morale was this: After being on a liquid diet for two weeks, one of the nurses asked me what I wanted for dinner. Of course I said a square meal. I was all set for a nice juicy tenderloin steak with all the trimmings. She
returned with a large tray, the contents undei- cover, and said, “Here’s your square meal.” . Gee, I was hungry! I was like a small boy who has been kept waiting till two o’clock for Thanksgiving dinner at Grandma’s. The nurse laughed when I lifted the large cover and found only a small square of jello with a little whipped cream on it—my square meal! Yes, I learned that nurses have a very peculiar sense of humor.
Did you ever realize that going to the hospital is quite an adventure? Why, a great many things can and do happen to a fellow while he is unable to defend himself. For instance, one morning an acquaintance came to see me.
“What happened to you?” he asked, looking at my face which was buried in gauze and adhesive. “I didn’t know you were going to have your face lifted.”
“The hospital barber,” I explained, "shaved me in bed.”
But what, you ask, about my operation? Didn’t I tell you? Well, the undertaker looked up my income tax, and, when he showed it to the doctor, they decided I didn’t need an operation.
The Fearless Gambler
Tragic Picture of a Strong Man’s Ruin EDWARD E. BRENNAN '	'
THE dice lay face upward on the table. Reuben read the legend on their faces with pained disillusionment. Four and three, the magic seven! A number desired at times but otherwise disastrous, seven is like fortune, both good and bad, mostly bad. This was a time when seven meant ruin. Reuben had lost the stakes and the dice, his quest for “little Joe” being interrupted by “Calamity Jane’s” visit.
The futility of it all! His mind raced back over the events of the last few days.
He had always been unlucky and it had culminated in this. The prom, for instance, the girl—well, she was all right but then and the railroad fare from Prairie Hen was so high. Why had he quarreled with that Mishawaka girl ? More bad luck I To cap it all he had committed the juniors unforgivable sin. He had arisen for breakfast the morning after the prom and had been ostracised for his neglect of the junior custom.
So this was their idea of revenge, eh.
,	I
THE NOTRE DA M.E SCHOLASTIC
The inhumanity of the monsters! He recalled the blandishments lavished on him, the wiles used to inveigle him into this gambling. The vulgarity of it! To think that he had succumbed to their crude flattery.
With reeling brain he turned his eyes upon the group about him. The locked door,- the darkened transom, and the lowered voices, all told of the nefarious business being enacted in this den of iniquity. The leering faces blurred together before his eyes, one only standing out from the throng, the face of Ezra, whom he had called friend, now a proved betrayer and hypocrite. Ezra was the ringleader of this criminal group, the originator of the plot against him.
759
Suddenly he noticed that the whole group was interestedly awaiting some outward manifestation of the distress and pain that was racking him within. Theii he thought that any protest would but increase their enjoyment of his woe.
He would show them, he would! Was he not a Bugg of the Prairie Hen Buggs, and as such, was he not infinitely above them ? He would show them that a gentieman lost without protest or wail, even when he lost thru dishonesty. Despite the fact that his brow’ was beaded with sweat, that his eyes were moist, and his voice husky, his hand was steady enough as he did the fateful deed.	.
“You win, Ezra,” he said, and reluctantly he shoved the dime across the table.
•J»—»*♦—»*♦—
Reply On Parting	, ■	'
Life urill not be so full for me again	-	.
Unless oxer trembling vision can sustain '	-	-
Itself against the suffocating blast	\
The world will bring, tvhen we have dreamt our last. •
Our tie was made with bitter mountain crest,	.	,,	. /
With fragments of an eagle’s broken nest,	'	.
With charred pines dying in slow agony	.	.. . ’ -
And gentle things, like cigarettes and tea.	■>
For we have knelt with beauty in a crowd ,	.	,
When others passed, or only slightly bowed;	.
And beauty in our dreams can never die—	.
Then do not soften beauty with a sigh.	;
. But most of all, together we have been	■	•
With laughter, full and hearty, not the thin	., V: >
And labored mirth we give the rest to hear:	-
O, do not tarnish laughter with a tear.	.	. . j .
'—CYRIL,MULLEN.	■	.
760
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Official 1928 All-Interhall Basketball Team
FIRST TEAM
Raymond Mock (Badin), forward (C). John Forsee (Soph.), forward.
•Thomas Murphy (Walsh), center. Clifford Logan (Soph.), guard. Joseph Benda (Sorin), guard.
SECOND TEAM
Arthur Hurley (Soph.), forward.
John Viktoryn (Sorin), forward (C).
Thomas-Medland (Soph.), center.
Joseph Nash (Lyons), guard.
George Vik (Soph.), guard.
THIRD TEAM
Thomas Tunney (Fresh.), forward.
Arthur Stenius (Day), forward.
Thomas Purcell (Lyons), center (C) Thomas McDougal (Badin), guard. Joseph Lordi (Lyons), guard.
Honorable Mention: Sidenfaden and Wilhelmy (Badin); Spaulding, Callahan and Fogg (Brownson); Dailey and Bloom (Morrissey); Leech and Nichols (Corby); Cannon, Bailey and Mershmani (Day); Dillon (Carroll); Brannon (Walsh); Kaye, Knox and Wozniak (Howard) ; Hensenkamp, Conmey and White (Sorin); Leahy (Freshman).
The Scholastic, in conjunction with the Physical Education and the Boy Guidance Departments of the University, herewith presents the annual All-Interhall basketball selections for the 1928 season.
Each player who participated in the heavyweight division of the series recently concluded was carefully evaluated, and eliminated or retained for further consideration as his performances in each game seemed to warrant. Playing ability and knowledge of the game were not the only factors involved in the selections, although they did go a long ways toward the ultimate placing of the men, but the number of contests participated in; the interest shown; attendance at practice; and sportsmanship, were other important requisites considered in the formation of the personnel of the three teams.
Members of the Physical Education and Boy Guidance classes of the University who were intimately associated with each game of the entire series as coaches or officials, and who knew more about the in
dividual players than did any one else, were, as fitting, asked to give their respective opinions as to the composition of each quintet. Accordingly, every member of these two departments who served in any important capacity whatsoever during the competition, submitted a list of three complete teams which in his fair and unbiased opinion was the best combinations possible. The general results of these choices were tabulated on the basis of five points for members of first teams; three points for members of second teams; and one point for members of third teams. The three complete quintets offered by The Scholastic as the Official All-Interhall combinations for 1928 are composed of the men who received the highest number of points according to this method.
Singularly enough, Mock, Forsee, Murphy, Logan and Benda, the first quintet, received practically unanimous choices for the berths they obtained, their respective point totals averaging much higher than their closest competitors. However, be
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
tween the members of the second and third teams, and several of the players who received honorable mention, notably Siden-faden of Badin, White of Sorin, Leech of Corby, Leahy of Freshman, and several others, in most cases there was very little -difference in the individual point totals, but just enough to enable the men to be so classified.
Every man on each of the three teams and among those receiving honorable mention was honored only after a thorough, impartial, and careful consideration, and in the opinion of the Scholastic and the Physical Education and Boy Guidance departments of the University, is fully deserving of the honors received.	'
FINAL INTERHALL BASKETBALL STANDINGS HEAVYWEIGHT DIVISION
	Won	Lost	Percent
Sophomore 		11	1	.916
Sorin 		10	' 2	.833
Walsh 		8	3	.728
Badin 		7	4	.637
Lyons 		7	4	.637
Freshman 		6	5	.546
Off Campus		5.	6	.455
Brownson 		4	7	.364
Howard 		4	7	.364
Carroll 		2	9	.182
Corby		2	9	.182
Morrissey 		• 2	9	.182
LIGHTWEIGHT DIVISION			
	Won	Lost	Percent
Sophomore 		11	• 0	1.000
Corby		9	2	.818
Howard 		7	4	.637
Freshman 		7	4	.637
Brownson 		7	4	.637
Morrissey (Bears)..	6	5	..546
Oft Campus		5	6	.455
Badin 		5	6	.455
Morrissey (Cubs)..	4	7	.364
Walsh 		3	8	.274
Lyons 		3	8	.274
Carroll 		1	10	.091
761
FRESHMAN HALL CAPTURES INTERHALL SWIM TITLE
Freshman hall nautatic representatives scored a decisive victory in the Annual Interhall Swimming Meet, held in the University ’ Natatorium Thursday evening, March 22. In fact, so great was the winning margin of the Paste Board Palace splashers that they nearly trebled the score of their closest competitors the Howard Hall swimmers. The final scores for each of the four halls represented in the meet were: Freshman 50; Howard 19; Sophomore 3; Walsh 2. The other eight halls either failed to place or were not represented in the meet.
The Freshman contingent captured every first place on the evening’s program with the exception of two which went to the Howard combination. The Yearlings also captured a majority of the seconds and thirds to run up one of the largest scores ever recorded in Interhall swimming annals.
Allen and Hay, both of the victorious hall, , were the oustanding swimmers of the meet. The former swam to victory in the'40 yard free style and placed second in the fancy diving, while the latter won the 100 yard free style and placed second to Allen in the 40 yard event. In addition, both men performed on the Freshman Hall relay teams which captured every relay event on the program. Fahey of Howard, with a first in the 100 yard breast stroke and a third in the 220 yard free style, was right behind the leaders for top honors.	’
Practically every event was featured with exceptionally close competition. Allen of Freshman, swam a beautiful 40 yard free style race to finish within 4-5 of a second of the tank record. Foley, of Freshman, and Stephan and Helmuth of Howard, staged a 'pretty duel in the 40 yard back stroke outclassing the rest of the competition to finish in the order named. Fahey of Howard, and Kegowicz of Sophomore fought it out for first honors in the 100 yard breast stroke with the former winning out by a substantial margin. Eaton of Freshman, won the 220 yard free style over Cole, a teammate, and Fahey of Howard, by a thrilling spurt in the last fifty yards. Gore of Howard and Allen
762
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of Freshman fought it out in the fancy diving with the Howardite winning by 1 2-5 points over his opponent. Hay of Fl’eshman showed the way to Cole, his teammate, and Carey of Walsh, in the 100 yard free style.
Both relay events, the 120 yard medley affair and the 160 yard event, were taken by Freshman Hall men. Foley, Allen, and Hay took the medley, and the last two named together with Eaton and Cole, were never headed in the 160 yard four man event.
SPRING FOOTBALL TO ENTER SCRIMMAGE STAGE SOON '
. Spring football assumed a new aspect when Coach K. K. Rockne’s announcement of the program for the remainder of the spring season was made known last week. Instead of just a training session, spring practice is now revealed in its true light, and has become active competition for varsity berths in the fall. Under the proposed program, scrimmage of all candidates will be the order until Easter. Just before vacation the squad will be cut to six complete teams, the cut being made on the basis of the showing the men have made in scrimmage. After Easter the fortunate survivors will be allotted to one of the various teams, the plan being to split the talent in such a way that the strength of each team will be about equal. With this division accomplished a Round Robin tournament will take place between the teams with a dinner as the prize to be awarded the victorious aggregation.
Surviving the pre-vacation cut means more than the right to play in the Round Robin, for such survival carries with it an invitation to be present in the fall at the time when the varsity will be chosen. Thus the incentive urging the men on is doubly great, for on their display of ability now depends their pigskin future. Failure to make one of the six teams chosen this spring implies that the candidate is not of varsity calibre, and thus reduces the coaching work in the fall, for only men worthy of the intensive training to’ which they will be subjected then will be considered. Hence, spring training is of great- •
est importance for it establishes the criterion of ability which will characterize the fall varsity.	J- H. Zuber.
--------$--------
BASEBALL TEAM EMBARKS FOR SOUTH SUNDAY
Sunday evening marks the date of departure for Coach Tommy Mills’ diamond performers on their annual spring trip, when they are to leave for Fort Benning, Georgia, to engage in a three-game series with the soldier nine on April third, fourth and fifth. The trip is to cover the entire spring vacation period and will include games with Louisiana State at Baton Rouge on the sixth and seventh of April, with Loyola of New Orleans on the ninth and tenth, Spring Hill at Mobile on the eleventh and twelfth, and a final southern engagement with Vanderbilt at Nashville, Tenn., on April thirteenth.
The weather man has favored Coach Mills in the last week and the squad was able to partake of a little needed outdoor conditioning. The outfielders received some real practice in garden maneuvers and both the batteries and the infield profited immeasurably.’
Although the men who are to represent the Blue and Gold on the diamond this year are of unusual caliber, the few days of outdoor training have not ironed out all ; kinks and it will take the South to bring out the best that is in them. The members of the outfield have been selected but their names have not been published as yet. The ; triangular struggle between Law, Lordi , and Mahoney behind the bat is still being ’ waged at white heat and all three are putting forth their best efforts to be able | to comprise the duet of catchers that is to leave with the rest Sunday.	$
Sixteen men are to make the trip, but their identity is to remain unrevealed until । tomorrow evening. Practically nothing will | be lost scholastically by this southern in- । vasion, and it will give the baseball men an J opportunity to show sport enthusiasts in J that section of the country that Notre Damb is as capable on the diamond as it is on the gridiron.	p‘ D’ j!
THE NOTRE dame scholastic
763
Cocnrrisbl 1923 Hart Schaffner & Marx
For the Easter Parade

This is your last chance to purchase that new Spring Suit and Topcoat for the big event of the Springtime.
Come down and let us show you the styles that the well dressed University men are wearing.
s.
Hart Schaffner & Marx Suits with two trousers $35 $40 $45 $50
—>*
THE HOME OF HaLt SCHAFFNER & MARX CLOTHES

764
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
CRONIN TO HEAD 1929 SWIMMERS;
INSIGNIA AWARDED
s William Cronin, a junioi’ in the Arts and Letters school of {he University, and a prominent member of Notre Dame swimming teams for the past two seasons, was elected to the captaincy of the 1929 team at a meeting of the 1928 monogram men Tuesday, March 27. Cronin specializes in the 40 and 100 yard free style dashes, and the relay events, and has been a consistent point winner in practically every meet he has participated in.
Before the election of the new captain, it was announced that the following men were the recipients of swimming monograms for the season recently concluded: Captain Brennan; Capt.-elect Cronin; Cunningham, McMahon, Reaume, Campeau, Cassidy and Sullivan.
Numerals were awarded to the following freshmen: Allen, Hay, Foley, Eaton and Cole of Freshman hall, and Fahey, Foley and Stephan of Howard.
TENTATIVE TENNIS SCHEDULE April 7—University of Kentucky, at Lexington.
April 9—Vanderbilt University, at Nashville.
April 26—-Northwestern, at Evanston.
April 28—Drake, at Des Moines.
May 1—Dubuque, at Pittsburgh.
May 2—University of Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh.
May 4—Grinnel, at Notre Dame.
May 10—University of Louisville, at Notre Dame.
May 12—Michigan State, at Lansing.	,
May 16—Marquette, at Notre Dame.
May 18, 19—Indiana State meet, at Terre Haute.
May 24, 25, 26—Notre Dame tournament, Notre Dame.
, (Freshman and Varsity Champ.) May 30—Ohio State, at Notre Dame. ---------------------------
JUNIORS ATTENTION!
Remember, Saturday, April 1, is the last day that orders for senior pins will be accepted by pin committeemen.
BETA OF PI SIGMA
PRESENTS THE
EASTER DANCE
Saturday, A pril 7, /928
Featuring Two Great Orchestras—Continuous Dancing
BILL DONAHUE GUS. C. EDWARDS
and his University of Illinois	and his Edgewater Beach Hotel
Orchestra	Orchestra
’	AT
THE DRAKE
MAIN DINING ROOM
Bids at Kennaway, 64 West Randolph Street, Chicago, are Three Dollars.
Bids at the Door will be Three-fifty.