
FEBRUARY 6, 1942
Volume 75
Number 13
' WShHhE ^wKbI||||||^^ ^"Wiillllil^^ Raise a frosty bottle of Coca-Cola to your lips and drink. Instantly its clean, exciting taste brings you refreshment plus. And quality—the quality of genuine goodness... the quality of Coca-Cola—the real thing. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Bever Avenue " - * ■ ” ' ’ - -	You trust its quality
COLLEGE PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
The pseudo spring weather has started many of the draftable Juniors thinking about the prospective torrid summer ses-ion. There is a certain fellow who lives around the corner from us who isn’t helping much to brighten the thoughts of the future. This industrious fellow attended a previous summer session of the University. He claims that the heat is so terrific at times that two 12 ounce bottles (plug not paid for) of a well known “cola” drink are scarcely sufficient to prime one to expectorate.
He will rave indefinitely on the fly situation. He conservatively estimates that, with the aid of four swatters, he and his roommate killed on the average of 100 flies a day. They partially solved the night situation by leaving all the windows and door open. He swears that such procedure fooled the flies into thinking that no one was in. But enough pessimism for one time.
Epitaph
His cross unseen
His coffin bare,	.
Here lies the man ’ Who wasn’t there.
—Queen’s Journal
More on the Speedup r
The Universities of Indiana, California, and Michigan are among the many that have adopted the three semester system. By the way, the Stanford paper pointed out. that you can’t have three semesters in a. year. Sounded funny to us too, but consult Webster and you’ll see.
Playing at the Proms
At Marquette U. it’s “Melody Lane” with Dick Jurgens, Les Brown does the honors at the U. of Wisconsin, and Glen Gray sends it solid at Georgetown U. Oh yes, Bernie Cummins is at Xavier U.
Bill “Scoops” Scanlan seems to have taken on other duties besides writing the ' Splinters column. Maybe he isn’t doing publicity work for St. Mary-of-the-Woods College but if not, then he certainly has interests down that-a-way. Bill halted us in the quadrangle the other day and wanted to know if we noticed the choice item for the Parade in the Fagots. Seems as though the girls had a
blackout in their dining hall when a bat got loose. After much screaming by the girls the poor bat escaped. 0. K. Scoops, is she blonde, brunette, or red-head?
Thumbers Th-stuff
The University Daily Kansan ran an article commenting on how the familiar and colorful college - student hitchhiker will soon be obsolete. Reason: The coming scarcity of automobile drivers because of the rubber and gas shortage.
Not yet affected, however, were the debaters down at St. Edward’s University in Texas. These boys found themselves without official transportation to a scheduled tournament but they obtained official sanction to get there by their own methods. Yes, they hitch-hiked. They found that a different question than the one they had prepared for was being used. Not phased, they debated and won two debates anyway. And so home via the thumb.
True Tale?
In the Minnesota Daily Russ Roth writes a column called “Out of the Frying Pan.” Not long ago he wrote of a visit to a sorority. One passage was particularly enlightening:
“We went in the living-room which was a riot of color and cigaret smoke. Coke-drinking coeds sprawled on chairs. One sprawled on a divan. In the corner, a divan sprawled on a coed.
“The room even had a gay colonial touch, but instead of dried onions and turnips, Dried male heads hung from THE RICH BROWN WALNUT BEAMS.
“Fraternity men who masqueraded as coeds in the Snow week sorority snowshoe race last year,” whispered one of the friendlier coeds to me by -way of explanation.
“That’s when I left, through the window.”
(Are those walnut beams in the Louis XIV across the way?)
❖
Take No Chances
We were going to reprint a poem from the Cormont entitled “Prayer of An English Major.” But doggone, it isn’t worth losing our Commerce man and two Engineer readers just to fill two inches of space. Not a bad poem though.
A Pornographic Publication Favorite
We point with pride to the purity of the white space between our jokes. (Incidentally they’re bragging when they call them jokes.)
❖
Another Nut Job
First nut in darkroom of insane asylum: “I bet you can’t climb up that beam of light.”
Second nut in darkroom of insane asylum: “You think I’m crazy? I’d get halfway up and you’d turn off the light.”
The above picture of U. S. ski troops in camouflage attire on patrol duty during a snow storm is reprinted without permission from the Daily Californian.
Heard that J. Q. O’Connell’s ghost writer was drafted. It’s an ill wind,etc. If he’s careful about whom he hires he might get his money’s worth next time. Mr. O’Connell, who, by the way, carries a copy of Main Street with him continually, lives in Chicago. He is from the city; he has never taken a dog team up to God’s country.
N. D. Men Get Around
When we picked up the exchanges the other day, a secretary in the publicity office called to our attention a picture in the Vogue magazine. Believe it or not, in the picture was none other than John MacCauley, a graduate of last year. Tom McGee, however, was not in the photo. For the enlightenment of those who didn’t know Tom or John, the two met here as Freshmen and were inseparable from then on. They roomed together for all four years and majored in philosophy together. This last mentioned fact earned them the nicknames of “Essence and Existence.” Anyway, it seems that John is doing all right for himself.
❖
A Filthy One
“Are you a graduate student?”
“No, I’m only a Senior. Why?” . . “I didn’t think you could get a shirt that dirty in four years.”	...
THE WEEK
BY J. Q. O’CONNELL
Top of the Week:
Promenading at the Palais!
"Mother, It's Like This...
The returns are in, the casualty lists posted, the hang-overs hung, and once again the little red books are closed on the results of another session of Notre Dame’s own Inquisition. Looking back at it all, we quite agree with the sage who said anticipation is the worst part of torture, and now that it’s over, we’ve begun to wax philosophical on the subject of examinations.... especially after our experience in the cafe. Some Commerce professor was sitting near us, correcting his blue books. Although personally unacquainted with the gentleman, we could tell he was a Commerce professor because he had a moustache. Anyway, he was sitting there, humming happily to himself. As we remember it, his little song went something like this: “Oh, some pass i-i-NN, and some pass OUT, de dah dah diddle de bum,” accompanied by brisk, precise sweeps of a red pencil.
Not all of us, apparently, have arrived at a philosophical stoicism, however. Shortly after the grades for Business English were published, one student was seen to race madly across the campus to St. Joe Lake, and, with a loud cry of “Good-bye, Father Carey,” leap right through a hole in the ice. We visited the spot yesterday, and he’s still down there, thrashing about, because the hole has since frozen over. He indicated by pantomime that conditions are not exactly what he expected, and we believe he’s beginning to regret his rash action.
"Jit Me Around Again, Jimmie...."
The big news of the week, of course, is the Junior Prom tonight. We would know there was a dance tonight, even if no one had told us, because the click of high heels . on the sidewalk below has steadily grown louder and more insistent, and there’s a subtle hint of delicate perfumes in the air, and. it’s harder than ever to get a seat in the cafe.... Ah, what a treat it is to watch, even from a distance, these luxuriously furred beauties, with their rosy cheeks and starry eyes.... If any of the fair damsels want further details in the same rhapsodical vein, our address is 306 Alumni Hall, and, as an added attraction, we have . prepared several
pieces of rare old tire rubber which we will present gratis to every 25th visitor, as a souvenir of the occasion.
Mundane Stuff:
Our own special poll of the campus, conducted last Sunday, reveals a unanimous vote in favor of the rationing system. .. juicier steaks, whole half-chickens .... Mr. Connelly is there anything you can ration about chop suey?
Friends remark that Tom Hennigan is losing weight, although this has nd connection with the above item. The maid fixed up his bed the other day, and did not notice that he was still in it. “Gee, I was mad,” Tom is reported to have said.
Somebody pointed out a rather rare little oddity in our mail room last week, a large brown envelope, containing, to our practiced eyes, a prospectus of some sort. It was addressed to Mr. Lawrence Joseph Kelley, and the return address on the envelope was: “Camp Lady Glen on the Maumee, Grand Rapids, Ohio.” There it lay, in plain sight, for several days, before somebody, probably Kelley, took it away. What Horatio Alger couldn’t have done with “Larry Kelley of Lady Glen!”
Slashing John Kovatch, of football fame, has deserted the gridiron for the field of drama. In his first attempt at playwriting Johnny had a hard time deciding between “The Three Bears,” and “The Three Little Pigs.” It’s all settled now, with “The Three Bears” on top. Goldilocks, you know...
"I Say, Mr. Henderson. ..."
We attended a formal dance over at St. Mary’s last Friday night, through the kindness of our sister, and were fortunate enough to bring away in our canteen a small quantity of their famous “punch.” We’re told the recipe for this “punch” has been handed down from Refreshment Committee to Refreshment Committee for generations. The chemist across the hall analyzed it with a great deal of interest. He reports that it is undoubtedly good “punch,” but claims it has a much higher value from a commercial angle. He found it an admirable substitute for rubber cement.
<♦
Bottom of the Week:
“Sorry, son, we’ve got to save the tires.”	......
| NEXT WEEK |
FRIDAY, FEB. 6:
6:15 a.m. The sun rises as two juniors sit on their beds and wonder how it takes . a Prom week-end to eat up $9.53 and two car-checks.
12:00 noon. Ban on driving cars temporarily lifted.
5:30 p.m. Rosie’s Spaghetti Salon puts up the SRO sign.
9:00 p.m. Junior Prom, Palais Royale, Bobby Byrne and his orchestra, and Junior with the most beautiful girl he knows who would pay her own fare to South Bend.
SATURDAY, FEB. 7:	.
2:00 a.m. .Name, room number on the line for the watchman.
12:00 noon. Prom Guests’ promenade begins at Cafeteria.
.2:00 p.m. Candle light Tea Dance in the Gold Room of the Oliver.
Track team meets Marquette in the fieldhouse.
8:00 p.m. Basketball game, Irish vs. Kentucky, at the Fieldhouse.
10:35 p.m. Two juniors find good use for two car-checks. .
SUNDAY, FEB. 8:
4:00 p.m. Prom fadeout begins. Ennio Bolognini, world celebrated cellist with the South Bend Symphony at John Adams High School. $.28 seats for students in the balcony.
^MONDAY, FEB. 9:
2:00 a.m. 3,000 local male citizens forget to get up to turn their clocks up an hour as Notre Dame goes on daylight saving time.
8:00 p.m.: Rev. James A. Magner, Ph.D., eminent lecturer of wide travel and experience, speaks in Washington Hall.
TUESDAY, FEB. 10:
Fencers parry Illinois in fieldhouse.
WEDNESDAY, FEB. II:
. 7:30 p.m. Italian Club meets in Room 115, Main Building.
THURSDAY, FEB. 12:
6:30 p.m. Monogram Club meeting, Herky Bereolos holding forth in Rockne Lounge.
7:30 p.m. Notre Dame’s War Charity Carnival, sponsored by the • Knights of Columbus, has opening night in Fieldhouse, decorated Mills-style. Free shows. Food, refreshments, games, door prizes. A chance to show your loyalty to the Notre Dame men in the service.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing '	at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
FEBRUARY 6, 1942
Number- 13
700 PROM-MEN AND GUESTS TAKE OVER CAMPUS;
WEEK-END FESTIVITIES GET UNDER WAY TONIGHT
. Prem night! The night when the juniors. and their guests are the toast of the campus, and the seniors are relegated to a temporary obscurity. Edward (Bud) Doyle, general chairman of tonight’s dance, has done his job and done it well, and tonight he and his guekty^ueen of the Ball Frances Ann Moran of Morristown, New Jersey, can enjoy the fruits of his planning and labor. Tonight is top night of the year for the men of ’43, and especially for Class president Bill Costello. His guest is Miss Catherine • Cann of Gloucester City, 7 New Jersey, who is the guest of honor for the prom.
The dance is being held at the Palais Boyale ballroom, scene of most of Notre Dame’s undergraduate dances for several years.? The decorating committee, headed by Herb Melton and Jerry Currier, have attractively. styled the ballroom, using a “gold cup” theme. Incidentally, the favor for the dance will be a miniature gold cup, an excellent remembrance for the guest of each prom
goer of one of the biggest weekends of the year. Bobby Byrne and his well-known orchestra will play for the dancers. Byrne is fresh from a Chicago engagement, and recently played for an extended period in the east.
Only 350 tickets have been sold for the affair, and this supply was completely exhausted the night the sale of tickets was opened to the student body, indicating how enthusiastically the juniors and seniors have been anticipating the prom. It will probably be the last social function of note that many will attend at Notre Dame, and most are taking full advantage of their opportunity. •
Prom men are allowed to sign in at two o’clock, and will enjoy the added privilege of being able to drive a, car for the entire weekend. It’s safe to say that hardly, a junior will be without this otherwise forbidden luxury for the weekend. Every available car. that could be rented has been reserved in town for farsighted men.	•
. Tomorrow afternoon a candle light tea dance will be held in the Gold Boom of the Oliver Hotel, with music by the Notre Dame Cavaliers, one of the best student bands we’ve evei- had at Notre Dame. Walt Jones, chairman of this dance, has arranged every detail, and the dance promises to be more than successful.
And the weekend will come to a dose Saturday night when Prom men and their guests attend the basketball game between the University of Kentucky and the University of Notre Dame. This game is expected to be one of the best on the schedule, although Notre Dame, recent conquerors of- Northwestern and Michigan State, are favored. .
' A complete list of the chairmen of the. various committees and their assistants follows. .These are the men who. have worked ■ for three months, building an idea into the reality of the biggest weekend of the year for the junior class.
General Chairman: Edward (Bud) Doyle.	.
Music: Co-Chairmen: Bob Walshand Joseph Kresock; Assistants: Vince Com-isa, Gil Gilhooly, Buck Nueman, Harmon Spina.
Miss Catherine Cann, a beautiful guest to honor... and Queen Anne.. ..
Tea Dance: Chairman: Walt Jones. Assistants: Bob Bensberger, Tom Sweeney, George Kelly, Joe Kush.
Programs: Chairman: Bill O’Neil. Assistants: Jim Godfrey, Harry O’Melia, John Murray,' James Downey, Bill McAllister.
Tickets: Co-Chairmen: Dick and Bob Padesky. Assistants: Vince Jerry, Bill Dvorak, Harry Scott, Joe Campagna, Tom Maloney, Frank Kelly.
Patrons: Chairman: Bob Nenno. Assistants Bob Webb, Jerry Dunne, Ed Holland.
Favors: Chairmen: Bill O’Connell and Bob Gardner. Assistants: Pete Bobles, Bob Collins, Bill Bandolph, Ed Neagle.
Decorations: Co-Chairmen: Herb Melton and Jerry Currier. Assistants: Jim Girard and Jack Finnegan, Paul Pfeiffer, Tom Cooney.
Publicity: Chairman: Bill Brady. Assistants: Jack Dunlavy, Jay Gibson, Ed Hickey.
5
The Three-Semester Plan:
Here Are SOME Details
The details of the Notre Dame three-semester academic year were announced by Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., on Jan. 13. The program will be in effect for the duration of the war.
In summarizing the new program, Father Carrico stated:
Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C.
Any four year college course pursued successfully through eight consecutive semesters can be completed in two and two-thirds years. •
It is possible for a present junior to complete his course and get his degree next December, a present sophomore in the September of 1943, and a present freshman in May of 1944.
The student who at any time interrupts his course may return to school at the beginning of any semester and resume his course, in full, where he left off.
A student may attend school two semesters of the three provided in any calendar year and so give four years to his college course.	.
A student who fails in some of his work will have within , his three years a ninth semester, extra, in which to make up his deficiencies, complete his course, and receive his degree.	.
The school expenses of the student for the slightly shortened semester . of the new arrangement will be proportionately adjusted, with the result that the total expense of the college course will be reduced appreciably from the total amount involved in the 18-week semester.
“Classless” days from now until May „ 10 will be nil. ,	.	. .
6
For purpose of clearness, the three semesters of the schoolyear 1942 are officially designated the spring semester, the summer semester, and the fall semester.	-
The legal holidays and the Catholic holydays of the schoolyear 1942 on which there will be no classes are, in order: in the spring semester, none; in the summer semester, July 4, Independence Day, and August 15, feast of the Assumption; and in the fall semester, Nov. 26, Thanksgiving Day, and Dec. 8, feast of the Immaculate Conception. Classes will be held on Memorial Day, Labor Day, and Founder’s Day.
The Easter recess of this year will extend merely from the noon of Good Friday, April 3, to eight o’clock the following Monday morning, April 6.
There will be no classes in the afternoon of Monday, Feb. 16, the day of the national registration.
Noted Chilean Educator
Visits N. D. Campus
Monsignor Francisco Vives, vice-rector of the Catholic University of Chile, arrived at Notre Dame on Saturday, Jan. 24, for a week’s study of the University organization. .
Monsignor Vives is in this country as a guest of the State Department, and is making a study of several universities, including Catholic University, Harvard, and Notre Dame.	-
He is the author of a biography of . Pope Pius XH, and a recent work on the Philosophy of Law, his special field of interest. His visit - coincided with the lectures in this field delivered at Notre Dame by the eminent American jurist, Dean Roscoe Pound.
The Catholic University of Chile is one of the leading institutions of higher learning in South America^ Monsignor Vives has established there a center of foreign relations to. promote better interAmerican understanding and friendship.
Sign of the Times
That dash of red high-lighting the west, entrance of Washington Hall was found on inspection to be a neon sign reading
TO NIGHT
Below this commercial-looking bit of local color is a deluxe announcement board. It will give you completely reliable information about ; dates, places, and hours for lectures and entertainment procured by the University Program Committee, who are responsible for the sign. .	.	.
Rev. James A. Magner
The Rev. James A. Magner, Ph.D., S.T.P., noted author and lecturer will present a talk in Washington Hall next Monday. His subject is “God and Victory.”
Father Magner came from Catholic University, Washington, D.C., where he is assistant-secretary and treasurer. He is also a faculty member of Mt. Quigley Preparatory Seminary, Chicago. Widely known throughout- Canada, Mexico and the United States, he is also founder and executive secretary of the Charles Carroll Forum of Chicago and Washington.
Father Magner is also a widely-known authority on Mexican social problems. Three outstanding books authored by him are: This Catholic Religion, For God and Democracy, and Men of Mexico.
Hitler's Germany Is
Subject of Kisch's Book
Sachsenspiegel and Bible, a work . by Professor Guido Kisch, and edited by Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., is the fifth volume of Notre Dame’s Publications in Mediaeval Studies. Sachsenspiegel - and Bible is a study by Professor Kisch of the radical departure of Hitler’s Ger' many from the long-standing German concept of law. Professor Kisch’s work is a spiritual monument to Eike yon Repgow of Anhalt, Germany, a lay judge of knightly rank who lived during the early 13th century and who wrote the great German legal document of the Middle Ages, “the Sachsenspiegel.”
The “Sachsenspiegel,” the legal tradition of older Germany, is imbued with both the spirit and letter of the Bible . and is in timely contrast to the present German philosophy of “blood and soil.”
: . —Paul Carr
Aamliu^aiuMi NewA,
Prof Engels Gets The
Draftee's Opinion On It
Many people in all walks of life have stated their opinion about the present war. Few have been the opinions of the young man most vitally concerned, the man whose draft board has classified him 1-A.
Professor Norbert Engels, of the English department, treats of the draftee’s decisions on worldly affairs, when he reveals the results of a survey of 100 of these men, '95 of whom are immediately eligible for military service, in the February issue of Columbia, the Knights of Columbus magazine.
The outstanding result of the survey is the solid thinking that is shown by the expressions of these potential young soldiers. Professor Engels says: “. . . the war and their place in the war are much more real to them, more concrete and tangible than the subtle values of the poet’s mind. It is something they can get a hold of, and whenever they can get a hold of something, especially something interesting and intimate to them, they have no trouble at all in expressing themselves well.”	.
Ninety per cent of the boys said that “. . . a lot of things matter besides the war and maybe some of them matter now more than they ever did.” ’	-
Asked about the relation of the ordinary things of life to preparation for the service, one student said: “We aren’t defending a geographical location; we’re fighting for apple pies and baseball games and public library cards and the girl friend.”
Another student said that, spiritually, they hope to retain “a trust in Almighty God that, come what may to our physical beings, we will always be 1-A.”
The best humorous opinion was that, “. . . rather than dwarfing the gravity of the situation, it enlarges the man to meet it.”	•
Pound Emphasizes Catholic "Right Wing" Aid to Law
“The world has its stomach-full of supermen,” Dean Roscoe Pound told his audience in the fourth and final lecture on “The Revival of Natural Law,” in the Law Auditorium on Jan. 26.
In his final topic, the “Future of Philosophical Jurisprudence,” Dean Pound said that Catholic faculties of law have , always been a strong “right wing” in the conception of law on a basis of philosophy!
The author and teacher, a leading
scholar in the field of American law, had traced out in earlier lectures the history of law and the various efforts and theories in applying to the laws of the ages the ideals which men of all periods of history have felt should dictate the rules by which they live.
In the final lecture Dean Pound said that “.... this age-old belief of man— that the current law must be made against a basis of an accepted. standard of values—has as its alternative for the realists only the predication of a race of supermen in jurisprudence and politics, whose wisdom and judgment in making, judging, and enforcing the laws will be acceptable to their fellow-men.”
“The unsupported belief that the rule of such supermen will overcome all problems of jurisprudence is less acceptable than a belief in God, and a natural law behind a man-made law,” Dean Pound concluded.—J. H. Johnston
Catholic Students To
Meet Here Next Month
The Fort Wayne Region of the National Federation of Catholic College Students will hold its winter council meeting in the Rockne Memorial Lounge Sunday, Feb. 15. Representatives to the meeting will come from the region’s eight schools: Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich.; St. Mary’s-of-the-Woods, Terre Haute, Ind.; St. Joseph College,
Dean Emeritus Pound, of Harvard Law School, and Dean Manion of the Notre Dame College of Law, chat in Lounge of the Law Building. -
Collegeville, Ind.; St. Thomas Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, Mich.; St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross, Ind.; Marion College, Indianapolis, Ind.; St. Francis College, Lafayette, Ind., and Notre. Dame.
Notre Dame representatives will be the Rev? William Craddick, C.S.C., regional chaplain, Louis Kurtz, regional vicepresident and delegate to the national council, and Notre Dame delegates John A. Lynch and Jack Terry.
Miss Betty Navarre, Nazareth College, president, will preside over the meeting. It is the hope of the committee in charge that a meal may be served in connection with the regular business of the meeting, but final arrangements have not as yet been made.
Treasury Requests Aid Of Father O'Donnell
The Treasury Department last week requested Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, to serve as an executive member of the National Defense Savings Minute-Men Committee. The purpose, of the committee is to appeal for increased participation of all Americans in the defense savings program. The committee is headed by David Sarnoff of New York, president of the Radio Corporation of America.
Invitations to serve on the committee of which Father O’Donnell is now a member, were extended to 34 Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish religious leaders.
7
NOTRE DAME POST OFFICE IS RATED FIRST CLASS
HARRY OSBORNE
Did you ever wonder what happens to the letter you send to the “one and only” after it reaches the Notre Dame Postoffice? Did you ever wonder how all the mail to and from Notre Dame is sorted out and sent to the right places? DicLyou ever wonder what else the postoffice does besides send and receive letters? Well, here are a few little-known hut interesting facts that one may like to know.
Notre Dame has a first class postoffice. This means that it, along with other first class and second class post offices, does all of its business directly with Washington, D.C.; that is, it receives its stamps, supplies, bonds, etc., directly from there.
The other two classes of post office, the third class and fourth class, do their business with a central office generally in the state in which the office is located.
Notre Dame is on a mail messenger route from South Bend. This route also handles the mail bound for. St. Mary’s. However, hardly any of it is unloaded at Notre Dame, it having been sorted and labeled while still on the train. The only mail for St. Mary’s handled at Notre Dame, are letters from here to there (of which there are quite a few), and some odds and ends which have as part of their address “Notre Dame.”
Notre Dame has 12 publications leaving the office, some weekly, some monthly, and some quarterly. Of these, The Ave Maria has the largest circulation, adding up to something like 1,820,000 copies yearly, and weighing 130 tons or to be exact 260,000 pounds. That is a whale of a lot of printed matter. The Ave Maria is sent to every state in the
N.D. P.O.... quite a tew letters to St. Mary's.
Union and in addition, copies are sent to many foreign countries.
One of the unique jobs of the Notre Dame Post Office is the changing of address for the papers which come for students during the year and are still coming at the close of the year. Between 2,000 and 3,000 cards must be made out and dispatched to publishers telling them to change the address for the vacation period.	.
The post office, besides selling postage stamps, . also sells bonds and saving stamps, handles Postal Savings, Soldiers Bonus Bonds, sells Auto Tax Stamps,. registers aliens, takes fingerprints of selective service men and students applying for Civil Service positions, and handles packages for Notre Dame students.
Some of the mails, that leave the office are placed in direct sacks and will not be opened until it reaches the city to which it is labeled. Other mail is put into a sack and labeled to a certain train. This is sorted on the train and sacks or pouches re-made up and thrown off at offices along the line in route..
We Save Daylight, Starting Monday—
Conforming with a new federal law, the University will, for the first time, adopt daylight saving time at 2 a.m., Monday, Feb. 9.
• In previous years the University refused to accept the de-daylighted standard because of the hardships it worked
upon the religious life of the priests, brothers, and sisters, residing on the campus. By remaining upon standard time, however, the University was left open to criticism of the lay professors and students who had to pattern their spring and summer lives on two clocks.
But in keeping with the war effort, in which hardship’ is an integral character, the University accepts the burden and the new time schedule.
What effect the confusion attending many local laws, which has been increased by defining the new daylight time as “standard,” will have on the campus, cannot be predicted, of course, until the laws are clarified generally.
All Out Defense Effort
Creates 27 New Courses
On Jan. 31 an enrollment of 300 industrial workers completed initial training in 27 separate defense courses at Notre Dame.
Under the Engineering Science and Management Defense Training of the U. S. Bureau of Education, these men have been attending night classes at the University for the past 15 weeks, taking courses from a catalog list offering 65 separate instructional sections.
The courses range from organic chemistry and other highly theoretical sciences to classes in defense contract problems, personnel administration, industrial safety, and allied topics.	•
No charge is made to these night students. All the University’s classroom, laboratory, and shop facilities are opened to the enrollees. Forty-five of the Notre Dame faculty serve as instructors. No ■ college credit is given, but the courses improve. efficiency in industry, and accelerate the progress of the workers.
—Bill Talbot
Notre Dame Missionaries1
Fate Still Unknown
No word has yet been received con-ceming the welfare of the Holy Cross missionary band stranded in Japanese-controlled Manila, announces Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., provincial.
In the party are Rev. Robert F. .McKee, C.S.C., and Rev. Jerome Lawyer, C.S.C., two young priests recently ordained' here at. Notre Dame, Brother Theodore, C.S.C.i and Brother Rex, C.S.C. /	,
Naturally all communication facilities are in the hands of. the Japanese, said Father Steiner, and no news can be ■ hoped for unless some lines of communication are re-established.—J. H. Johnston
8
"China, Our Best Ally
In Far East"—Campbell
Last Monday evening one of the most entertaining and absorbing talks ever heard by Notre Dame students was delivered in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial building. And yet it wasn’t a lecture, nor was it delivered by a visiting dignitary. It was an informal talk-
Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell
discussion and the speaker was Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell, of the department of history.
This was the first in a newly revived Monday night series of “Student-Professor Meetings” to which all students are invited as bulletin board announcements proclaimed late last week. Professor Campbell, long noted for his intimate and scholarly familiarity with the Far East, spoke on the theme, “China as Our Ally.” After carefully relating the intrigue and diplomatic sparring centering about the modern history of China, and particularly about United States moves for a portion of Far Eastern profits, Mr.
. Campbell recorded the unity into which the “Japanese Incident” has forced the Chinese. Taking the occasion to denun-ciate the concept of the superiority of the white over the oriental, and of praising the intellectual and moral capacities of the Chinese, Mr. Campbell yet subordinated this and other points to the
. one most pertinent to the moment:
. “Our most potent ally in the Far East is not the British nor the Dutch, but the .
. Chinese, four hundred million strong. Vast in numbers, they desperately await arms and equipment with which to throw their tremendous weight to the cause, that is now also ours. They are justly ordained to become the masters of the
orient and our trust will be safest if placed with them.”
Time went fast under this torrent of illuminating ideas but yet when that Rockne buzzer signaled 9:00 p.m. the fellows were too involved in their questions to bother about stopping and didn’t do so until someone mentioned being locked in “the Rock” for the night. With this beginning the proposed series of “Student-Professor Meetings” looks for a popular success among the students. The campus C.A. students, who are sponsoring the meetings, plan to have one every Monday'from 7:30, to 9:00 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial lounge. The professor for this Monday evening had not been announced when Scholastic went to press, but in general the plan is to invite those professors who can best discuss subjects of vital and of personal interest to the students.. Announcements of the meetings will be placed on the hall bulletin boards every week.
"Singapore Essential To
Allied Victory"—Shanahan
“Without Singapore the Allies virtually cannot defeat Japan,” William O. Shanahan, of the department of history in the University of Notre Dame, told the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty Club of the University at a dinner meeting Tuesday evening in the Blake Garden Dining Room. “If Singapore is lost now it will have to be retaken before there can be a successful campaign in the Pacific;”
Professor Shanahan, a specialist in military history, joined the Notre Dame history faculty this year, coming from the staff of Columbia University in New York City. His subject Tuesday evening was “Sea Power in the Pacific.”
“Allied prosecution of naval war in the Pacific is limited by enormous distances and lack of bases,” Prof. Shanahan said. “In this stage of the war the Japanese are fighting with the advantage of internal lines and bases situated at relatively short distances from the combat areas. The allies on the other hand, have lost an excellent cruiser base at Cavite in the Philippines, are hard-pressed to defend Singapore, and may be forced to fall back on Port Darwin in northern Australia. If Singapore falls naval war in the far east could be conducted only from Port Darwin. This base is over two thousand miles from Singapore, and it is doubtful if anything more than limited resistance could be offered from there to the Japanese conquest of the Indies. For these reasons the defense of Singapore is vital for American interests. If Singapore falls commerce in the western Pacific would be subject to Jap
anese attack. Partial blockade of Australia would follow and powerful Japanese forces would be released for a land attack on Burma.
“Eventual American victory over Japan depends upon the recovery of the island approaches to the Indies and on the maintenance of communications in the Indian Ocean that the Chinese army may be equipped for a crushing offensive. Heavy engagement of Japanese land forces in China would enable the allies to recapture the Malay Peninsula, and with it, Singapore. From tjais great base, the Indies and the Philippines could be retaken and preparations made for the close blockade of Japan itself. If Russia enters the war against Japan, aerial assaults upon Japanese industries and sea communications with the continent of Asia would hasten tthe allied victory.”
Walter M. Langford, professor of Spanish was elected president of the club for the current year. Prof. Theodor K. Just, head of the department of biology, was re-elected vice-president, and William J. Coyne, professor of economics, was elected secretary-treasurer.
Army Engineers
The army engineers constitute a unit of primary importance to the forces of any nation. Modern armies with their highly mechanized divisions have learned to rely on the Corps of Engineers for utmost proficiency in the performance of their duties.
The engineers corps lays pontoon bridges across rivers in the face of enemy fire; they prepare the way for the tanks to pass through fortified positions; they erect lines of supply and communications, both of which are of greatest importance to an army in the field; they repair damaged highways and railroads; and they locate field artillery strategically so that the fire will do maximum damage to the enemy fortifications. AH this and much more is the work of the army engineers in time of war.
However, in peace time the engineers have duties of equal importance. When the batteries of war are silent, they build redoubts, forts, airfields, military highways and bridges, and fortify our vulnerable harbors. It might be said that the conflict is won in time of peace because it is the preparation before a war that makes it possible to fight most efficiently.—Charles Macfarlane
The placement bureau of Bemidji (Minn.) State Teachers college has placed 96.4 per cent of all candidates for positions in the last five years.
9
A METEORITE FOR DEFENSE
CHARLES MACFARLANE
In times of national want it is sometimes necessary to resort to all means imaginable to supply the material in question. The present problem is the metal, nickel. This metal formerly was supplied to the world in a large part from the mines of Finland; however, the Russo-Finnish war in 1939, and the present war caused the nickel mines to change hands twice, until now it is no longer a source of supply to the United States. The mines in Canada have increased their output tremendously, but the nickel production is still short of the needed amount.
The United States has turned in its need of nickel to a meteorite that has lain in Central Arizona for thousands of years. Geologists who have examined the crater caused by the meteor have estimated that it fell in the vicinity of 50.000 years ago. The dimensions of the crater are 4,500 feet long, 500 feet wide, and some 500 feet in depth.
If this meteor would have landed in modern times, it would have been the most disastrous event in history. If it were to fall in the limits of a city the size of New York, the fatalities would be almost uncountable. Most of these would be from the direct result of the collision of the meteor with the earth, but the heat generated by the percussion
THE COMMUNICATIONS LABORATORIES
DODGE ANGELAKOS
One of the newest yet most complete laboratories on the campus is the Communications Laboratory. The 1942 electrical engineers are only the second group to make use of the facilities of this laboratory. Before 1938, the Electrical Department had no optional Communication course to offer the seniors. All were given the same general power course with few exceptions. With the coming of Prof. P. A. Guarino and Prof. H. E. Elli-thorn, tremendous progress has been made in offering an optional course. Having very little equipment to start with the newly-appointed instructors proceeded to buy the essential materials and to build the rest of the apparatus.
Three rooms were alloted to the department, and permission was given to change the rooms and equip them as the instructors saw fit. The first room became the Telephone Laboratory. Originally this room was a locker room. Modern laboratory benches were constructed
and by the atmosphere would destroy every form of life within a radius of 500 miles. The collision would cause seismographs all over the world to vibrate to an extent never before recorded. Many scientists set an estimate of over millions as to the number of meteors in the sky every day; however, most of these are microscopic particles, and the rest burn up before reaching the earth due to the heat generated by the friction created by contact with the atmosphere.
We can be thankful that such a catastrophe has not occurred in modern times, but we can. be more thankful for the metal that the meteorite contains. This specific meteorite in Arizona has a content of 92 percent iron, and seven percent nickel, the rest being small amounts of platinum, iridium and other rare metals and minerals. The amount of nickel is estimated at 70,000 tons, a ten year’s supply; the value of the platinum and iridium is set at $100,000,000.
-Due to the fact that the meteorite traveled below the surface of the earth some distance after the impact, it was difficult to find; however, after exploration the meteorite was found. The development has begun, and it ■will not be long until the precious nickel will be available to the industries of the United States.
and equipped in such a way as to allow ten individual experiments to be performed at the same time. An artificial telephone line .was designed and constructed under the direction of Prof. Guarino. This line is equivalent to 200 miles of open-wire telephone line, having all the electrical characteristics condensed and mounted on a large relay rack. This arrangement allows the students to have access to any point on the line for individual tests. Auxiliary measuring equipment, consisting of audio frequency oscillators and line loss measuring sets, for the entire line, were mounted on an adjacent rack.
The second room became the Radio and Electronics Laboratory. Formerly this room was a laboratory for electron tubes experiments. In it were then placed benches similar to those in the Telephone Laboratory. A shielded screen-room for radio frequency measurements was con
structed, and a number of audio and radio frequency oscillators were obtained for this laboratory.
The last room became the Standards Laboratory. This room was a reading and study room. It now contains elaborate meter calibration apparatus for testing all ranges of indicating instruments used throughout the year. Extensive equipment was completely constructed for measuring and testing any vacuum tube under any desired conditions. All this work was completed within two years, and so by 1940, the Communications course offered at Notre Dame compared favorably with other schools which have had much longer-established departments.
Professor H. E. Ellithorn heads the Telephone studies and laboratory while Professor P. A. Guarino instructs the Radio students.
Prof. Guarino has built a radio repair room above the machinery laboratory. This room is equipped with numerous shelves of radio parts, wires, and a homemade power supply and tube tester. In this room, equipment is tested and repaired with all the facilities of a professional radio shop.
All graduates of this newly-established department have obtained good positions either with the government or radio branches of large electrical companies.
Credit must be given to Professors Guarino and Ellithorn for their work in establishing this communications option and giving the University another fine laboratory.	'
Mills, Engineers Cover
For Winter Carnival
The. spacious Notre Dame fieldhouse that is bi-annually treated to sell-out basketball crowds and bunting, will receive an unexpected share of the latter soon when the Engineer’s Club, under the able chairmanship of Rockne Memorial Director Thomas E. Mills, does its part by cooperating with other city and state clubs in preparation of the Fieldhouse for the University’s elaborate winter benefit carnival set for Feb. 12, 13 and 14. The Engineers will pull out of the moth balls drapery customarily seen only during music week and at graduation ceremonies.
The sell-out crowd belongs in this story too because that’s what University officials hopefully predict will happen when the three-day carnival opens on the basketball premises.
10
Prof. Waldman Discloses
Working of Atom Smasher
At last the ancient alchemists’ goal has been reached: transmutation of one substance to another—the transmutation of matter. The method by which this is accomplished today in Notre Dame’s atom smasher was outlined recently before a regular Rotary Club luncheon of the South Bend chapter by Bernard Waldman, Ph.D., assistant professor of physics at Notre Dame.
The purpose of these experiments in atomic disintegration is the advancement of pure science through the data obtained, and the application of the results to such practical purposes as the preparation of artificially radio-active substances to replace expensive and rare radium in the treatment of diseases such as cancer.
As Dr. Waldman indicated, the difference between substances occurs because of the differences in the core of the atom, and the differences in the weight of the atom. This core, he likened to the sun of our solar system, and the planets of our solar system to the electrons surrounding the core. The core is called the nucleus and is composed of protons and neutrons, the protons having a positive charge and the neutrons, no electric charge. Both the protons and neutrons have equal weights and these two particles make up the weight of the atom. In order to effect transmutation, the number of protons or neutrons in the nucleus must be changed. This is accomplished by bombarding the atoms with high velocity projectiles such as other atoms or even electrons.
The generators at Notre Dame employ electrons as projectiles and with these, bombard a target of the element to be studied at a velocity of 180,000 miles an hour, almost the velocity of light. The principle used to obtain these speeds is that like charges repel and unlike charges attract. The generator consists of a steel ball insulated from the earth. If the ball is negatively charged, any electrons released by the ball would be repelled to the earth, the great velocities obtained by increasing the voltage on the ball. The disintegration that takes place when the electrons strike the target is not visibly noticed but is detected by electrical measurement.—J. C. R. Clark
Freshman curriculum at Brooklyn Polytechnic institute has been lightened considerably, as the result of a study of freshman loads undertaken by faculty committees.
Will Talk to A. S. M.
At a joint meeting of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society for Metals and the Michiana chapter of the American Foundrymen’s Assn., to be held on the University of Notre Dame’s campus Wednesday night, Feb. 11, Bradley H. Booth, metallurgist for the Jack-son Iron and Steel Co., will speak on the smelting for high-silicon pig iron and give a brief historical account of the development of iron smelting.
The speaker is a graduate of the University of New Hampshire, and has done graduate studying at the University of Illinois. Mr. Booth’s experience in foundry control has included the analysis of cast iron and of raw materials, heat treatment, and general foundry practice. His special work in his present connection is in assisting foundries with melting and casting problems.
Preceding the technical session, which will be held in the University’s engineering auditorium, the two groups will hold a dinner in the Notre Dame dining hall.
Prominent Artist's
Paintings Exhibited
An exhibit of the art works of William Hollingsworth, Jr., prominent Mississippi painter, is featured in the Notre Dame Library during the remaining month of February. The exhibit, sponsored by the University’s department of Architecture, brings to the campus examples of Mr. Hollingsworth’s work in Negro genre, landscapes and portraits. His Negro subjects are particularly effective, one picture “Widow Man,” being a popular favorite among the early visitors to the display.
Mr. Hollingsworth is a personal friend of John T. Canizaro, Notre Dame alumnus and Jackson, Miss, architect, who is expected on the campus later in the month to talk on the work of the artist.
A graduate of the Chicago'Art Institute and a member of prominent art organizations, Mr. Hollingsworth has exhibited throughout the nation, including by invitation the Whitney Museum in New York, the Art Institute in Chicago, the New York_ World’s Fair, museums in Oakland and San Diego, and in the Baltimore Water Color Club.
The artist was gold medalist of the Mississippi Art Association in 1935, won the William Tuthill prize in the International Water Color exhibition in Chicago in 1937, and won honorable mention in last year’s national water color exhibition in San Diego.
Clipper Commander Is
Laetare Medalist's Son
Capt. Robert Ford, commander of a Pacific Clipper of the Pan-American Airways, found himself in a difficult position on the morning of last Dec. 9. He had just left the Hawaiian Islands and was piloting his plane toward the Philippines some 1500 miles away when he received a radio report that Japanese bombers were attacking Pearl Harbor and the airports on the “pineapple” islands behind him. An attack of the same nature was expected imminently on the Philippines. Capt. Ford is back in the United States after flying his plane entirely around the world.
The commander of the world-girdling clipper is the son of Dr. Jeremiah D. M. Ford, distinguished professor of romance languages at Harvard University, who received in 1937 the Laetare Medal from this University.—Paul Carr
Prof. Frank Flynn Appointed To Teach at Chicago U.
Prof. Frank T. Flynn, head of the department of social work at Notre Dame, has accepted a professorial position at the University of Chicago. He is teaching a course on the social treatment of crime which began Jan. 5 and is to last for the duration of the winter quarter. Chicago is on the quarter plan rather than the accustomed semester system.
Fortunately, Mr. Flynn’s appointment to the faculty of the Chicago school will not deter or interrupt his work here at Notre Dame.
The selection of Prof. Flynn by the officials of the University of Chicago was made in recognition of his outstanding persona] achievements and varied experience in this field.
After graduating from Providence College, Prof. Flynn received his MA. at Notre Dame in 1931. The Chicago locale is not new to the Notre Dame head of the department of social work as he has done graduate work at the institution where he is now teaching; and he has also spent two years as a case worker with the Travelers Aid, and with the Federal Transient Bureau. He also has taught at the summer sessions at Purdue in 1939-40.
As a member of the board of trustees of the Indiana State Prison, and as an executive in the South Bend Council of Social Agencies, Prof. Flynn has added inestimable practical experience to his studies.
He has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1934.—Ed Adams
11
12

CARNIVAL NIGHTS COME TO N.D. NEXT WEEK WHEN HUGE WAR CHARITIES EVENT GETS UNDER WAY
Ten Students Prep For Discussion Contest
The Carnival nights will come to Notre Dame next Thursday, Friday and Saturday. For the first time in their history the sombre old walls of the Notre Dame field-house will be hung out in red, white and blue—for the first time crowds will move into the armory-like edifice with charitable instead of athletic motives at heart. Thirty-five campus organizations and over 1,000 students have united in promoting the Carnival, proceeds of which will go to war charities, among which are the Fed Cross, Navy Relief and the.Notre Dame Student Commission.
Conducted under the patronage of the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, the Carnival will be the first of its kind ever to be staged on the Notre Dame campus. The 50,000 square feet of the field house will be completely utilized in construction of the midway, of the stage where entertainment will be given every night. The concessions will include games of skill and chance while the prizes all have a collegiate tone fitting with the occasion. There will be several free door prizes given away nightly.
The Carnival, which is being promoted by the local council of the Knights of Columbus with the aid of various campus organizations, will be open to the public,
admission free. Included in the many attractions are the nightly raffles which will be held, a Notre Dame monogram blanket being given away each of the three nights while the grand prize, a §200 combination victrola, radio, console will go to the winner on Saturday night. The raffle is being conducted by the Commerce Forum of the Villagers Club of South Bend. Ten thousand tickets are being handled by these organizations for distribution.
Fayette and Reidy : Philanthropists
Invitations have been sent out by the committee to organizations and persons in South Bend and the surrounding vicinity, to St. Mary’s and down town schools and the pastors of various churches.
•Arrangements were being made last Wednesday for radio broadcasts with a possible major network hook-up direct from the Carnival scene. Various celebrities have also been contacted and invited to attend the affair.	.
The Carnival will offncally open next Thursday evening at 7:30. The colors and roman lights of the midway, the shouts of barkers, the blare of loudspeakers and band music will announce that Carnival time has come to ’ Notre Dame. From then until Saturday night brings the Carnival to a close a variety of entertainment acts will be disclosed. Included among campus talent which has been drafted for the show are Tony Do-nadio, William Scully, the Cavaliers, the Glee Club and the Glee Club octete and magician Jack Whelan. An interviewing mike will be set up on the premises with a program to be broadcast through the loud speakers.
Co-chairmen of the Carnival are Edward Reidy and James Fayette, working under the supervision of faculty moderator, Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.
A National Intercollegiate Extempore-Discussion Contest on Inter-American Affairs, has been lately announced by the office of the Coordinator of InterAmerican Affairs.
The contest, for the purpose of stimulating a nation-wide study of interAmerican affairs, and to implement the Good Neighbor Policy, will be conducted on college campuses throughout the nation.
Here at Notre Dame preparations have already started to select six contestants and one alternate to represent the school in the district meeting. From the district meetings will be chosen two winners to appear in each of the six regional contests. Winners of the regional contests will be sent to the National Intercollegiate Conference in Washington, D. C., May 14, and will go on a specially conducted, all expense paid tour of South America during the summer.
Notre Dame students preparing for the contest include Rafael Alducin, Robert Millet,' Joseph Ryan, Joseph Miller, Robert Nenno, Leo Raymond, Mark McGrath, John Morris, William Scanlan, and John Cashman. This group, under the direction of George M. Reichle, professor of speech, meets every Monday and Friday at five o’clock in the afternoon in the seminar room of the Law building. At these meetings the men work on material and present speeches on various topics, as prescribed by the information sent out by the Coordinator’s Office.
According to a spokesman for the group, an audience open forum will be* presented Wednesday evening, Feb.. 18, before the members of the International Relations Club. It was pointed out that an “audience open forum” differs slightly from a panel discussion.
It is hoped to have the six Notre Dame contestants and an alternate, for the district contest, picked by Monday, Feb. 23.
Contestants in this national contest will be judged by their performances in three activities dealing with the general subject: How can we best implement the Good Neighbor Policy? The activities will be in the form of participation in a round table discussion, a question period, and a prepared five minute speech;
—Dave Condon
13
V-Boys Take a Day At
Indianapolis On The Navy
Thirty-four Notre Dame Juniors and Seniors underwent their final physical tests for admission to V-5 and V-7, naval reserve units, in Indianapolis on Thursday, Jan. 29. Final results ranked the Irish group as one of the finest ever examined.
Accompanied by the Rev. James Tra-hey, C.S.C., director of the University defense activities, the group left the circle by bus at 6:30. The morning was spent in the medical tests and most of the applicants had the afternoon off for sight-seeing in the Hoosier capital. In the evening, the students -were guests of the Notre Dame club of Indianapolis at a banquet.
On Feb. 3 and 4, Ensign Childs, USNR, was on campus to interview new applicants for V-5, the naval aviation reserve.
By becoming members of the V classifications, Notre Dame juniors and seniors •will be allowed to complete their education before reporting for duty after graduation.	'
A special math class to satisfy naval requirements in V-5 and V-7 has been in operation on the campus for three weeks.
Those taking the tests were:
Walsh Hall—Francis Quinn, Johnny Kilbane, Michael Kelly, Robert Burke, Ray Ebli, Art Pope, Bob Maddock.
Alumni Hall—Robert Matthews, Leo Lee, John Stauber, Bernie Crimmins, Douglas McDonald, Charles Kearney.
Sorin Hall—John Noda.
St. Ed’s.—Hurley Engstrom, Thomas Conley, William Liljestrom, Francis Delaney.
Dillon—R. F. Browning, Charles Kra-lovec, Stephen Ensner, William Midden-dorf, Thomas Miller.
Howard—John Reis, William Fischer, Charles Steltman, Thomas Maloney, Robert Kasberg, Raymond Duggan, Cornelius Wade, Eugene Fehlig, Oliver Hunter.
Town—B. J. Turnock, Edward Hoyne.
James McCafferty and Jeremiah Mc-Sweeny.—Ted Weber	.
60 Per Cent of Students
To Return For Summer
A week ago last Tuesday at night prayers underclassmen rectors conducted a survey to discover how many students were returning for the May-September
semester. All students were asked their future plans individually, and the result was that about 60 percent, or 1,900 students, are already positive of taking advantage of the three-semester plan now offered by the University. Approximately ten percent have reached no final decision. It is more than probable, however, that this undecided group will attend the summer session, thereby increasing the enrollment for next semester to about 2,200 men. :
Detroit Club Takes
Initiative In Carnival
As befits the industrial spirit of the local Detroit Club, more than 100 club members will join with the University and the Knights of Columbus in staging Notre Dame’s war charity carnival on Feb. 12, 13 and 14. In its booth occupying the largest and most strategic single

booth space in the fieldhouse the club will operate for everyone’s pleasure 26 attractive gaming devices known as Hooligans. Here the fatal “bones” will rock in their cages and act as the medium between the players’ pockets and war charity, and, incidentally, substantial prizes.
The club will also feature a benefit raffle, offering as first prize an automobile donated by Detroit friends. To inspire ticket sales, 2,000 of which are expected by boasting club members, the car will be exhibited to the public eye only when the winner has been announced on Saturday night. Throughout the carnival the car will remain decoratively crated in front of the booth. As an added incentive a defense bond will be attached to the windshield of the car. On the same raffle will be other lesser prizes, some of which will be clothing coupons redeemable at Parker-Winter-rowd Clothiers, South Bend. Entire returns from this raffle will be added to the carnival profits directed to war charity.
Officers of the club, who are actively engaged in this charity work, are: John Kilbane, president; Joe Dimond, vicepresident; Jerry Currier, treasurer; and Ed Hickey, secretary. Directing the club’s part in the carnival is Jim Danaher, general chairman. He is being assisted by Jerry Currier, chairman, and
John Lynch on publicity; Dick Milliman, raffle tickets; Ed Hickey, finances; Jtm O’Donnell, chairman, Carl Look, Paul Rooney, Bob Pelanchier, and Dan Sullivan, booth.
Other club members will help where needed, as will a number of St. Mary’s girls, the club having obtained the single privilege of their cooperation.
Almost Half of Student
Body Favor "Scrip"
Scrip, the literary quarterly, is read and liked by almost half the students on the campus, according to the results of a poll, conducted by the Scholastic last week. Of the 100 students who were approached with the question, “Do you like Scrip?” 47 answered yes, while 53 voted no.
Because of its nature, the poll can only be regarded as an indication of student sentiment toward the much-discussed magazine. Scholastic reporters were merely assigned the task of asking ten students each what they thought of the magazine and, although the campus was covered completely, there was no scientific basis a la Gallup. Thus the poll can not be regarded as being conclusive, but only indicative of part of student sentiment.
Weekend Permissions Stay on Peace Time Basis
When it was announced that the University was going on a three semester plan, a great many of the easy-going lads began to ponder: “What, no summer vacations? Then what will Grace do? I will only be able to see her for a few days between semesters.” .
After a little more thought, he came to this apparent solution. “If I can’t see Grace during the summer, I will see her on more week-ends. Surely Father Burke will grant more week-end permissions. He’ll just have to.” _
Nevertheless, last week Father Burke stated that privileges in the future will still be issued on the present basis.
—Frank Sierdwski
14
Writers Hunt and Connors Top "Scrip" Contributors as Latest Issue Meets With Campus Approval
RICHARD POWERS
Brother Germain Faddoul, C.S.C., The Totem Pole seems to be a permanent feature now, and with its subtle banter and New Yorkerish wit it is a welcome relief to the serious ■writing.
The second issue of Scrip, the literary-quarterly, appeared last week and with surprisingly few changes in format. During the past four years the magazine has undergone a number of evolutionary transformations both in external appearance and in literary content. Size, binding, cover-layout and type, having varied considerably for the last three years, seem to have been definitely decided upon at last. The cover is laid out in the same blue, gray and red color scheme which appeared on the November issue. It is rather effective, but, somehow, too much type seems to have been packed on the cover, which war-
C. J. Kirby-and Don Connors
rants simplifying and neater arrangement. The only two changes are minor ones. Two “slick” pages, carrying the Contributors section and the title page, preface the body of the magazine which is done in large type and rough readable pages; and the Book Review section has been enlarged and given more prominence.
As regards literary transformations, the poetry section seems to have suffered most and perhaps unfortunately so. Instead of the more radical symbolism of poets C. J. Kirby and Don Connors, which caused much controversy among students and faculty, the style of verse seems to have retreated to a more neutral and ordinary position. For instance, Kelly Cook contributed a Kentucky folkballad with a quaint, nasal tone which is different and interesting; Gerald Hogue has written a sharp little barb which he calls Tea which has the sting of Pope, but with perhaps more subtlety. Neither, however, show the maturity of thought or the forceful imagery of Kirby or Connors, but they are at least partakers in the revival of poetry in Scrip. Frank O’Malley’s The King of Heaven, a Christmas poem written some time ago, also appears in this issue. It is a beautifully wrought and moving expression of faith.
Of the main body of writing, the stories and sketches, those done ’ by John Hunt, John Sprague, Don Connors and “Sean ,0’Sylvan”. (a pseudonym) are the best. Hunt’s story, A Little Boy Laugh
ing Just Like You, is the most original of the lot and, by virtue of this, is superior to any of the other work done by him. It is done in an extremely sensitive “stream-of-consciousness” style, which is ' admirably carried out even if at times the author fails to sustain the effect completely. It is a fine registering of the impressions which the world and-people make upon the delicate sensibilities of a little boy. S. Nicolini, Trucker by Sprague is an expertly-handled story of a wheat-worker and his young helper; Connors contributes a clever bit of satirical fantasy called Mr. Peter Wolfe and the Minor Potuer. The Arbor by O’Syl-van is a delicate, and at times lyrical, story of the friendship between an Italian carpenter and a romantic, adolescent girl. Other stories are contributed by Gerald Smith, Robert Henegan and Kelly Cook, the first two of which are of a more ordinary stamp while the last is a folk tale patterned after The Devil and Daniel Webster.	'
The most brilliant review in the Book section is that of Van Wyck Brooks’ Opinions of Oliver Allston by Don Connors. With the merciless incisiveness and deliberation of a surgeon, Connors proceeds step by step to cut away the decadent and sentimental layers of thinking with which Brook’s covers himself to leave him naked in a world “feeling,” devoid of metaphysics. Brooks attempts a revolution by lashing out at Eliot, Baudelaire, and Joyce, (“the sick Irish Jesuit”) but as Connors says “he has left his ammunition at home.” J. R. Hil-lebrand does a good job on his expose of .that indefatigable scenario-writer A. L, Cronin and his Keys of the Kingdom-. Eric Gill’s Autobiography is given a just estimate by William Keenan in his re-■ view. James Clark, Kelly Cook and
George Kelly also present book reviews.
Among the essays, that of Clarence Finlayson’s stands out for its clarity and conciseness in dealing with a very metaphysical concept of love, of man’s consciousness of immortality, and of the attitude of an organic rational being towards death. The other essays do not reach this standard of excellence but are all interesting at least. Kirby’s estimate of Pope and Dryden is very orthodox and valid if not very original; Henry L. Adams’s sketch of George Washington Carver’s life is good but sentimentalized in the writing; an interesting sketch of the achievements of the great Kemal Ataturk, the Turkish dictator who modernized his country, is presented by
Francis J. O’Malley
One criticism that, might be made is the art-work, which is scattered sometimes purposelessly throughout the magazine. These drawings should be made either to illustrate the stories or else (and this applies to Scrip) if they are to be separate entities of their own, they should have quotations or titles below them so that they be understood and appreciated. For example, the frontispiece in this issue is a fine drawing, but since it obviously does not illustrate the text, its meaning or literary reference is obscure. '
H.M.S. Pinafore Due Soon
Mr. Cecil Birder, head of the department of speech and director of the Notre Dame Savoyards, announced this week that production will soon start on the Gilbert and Sullivan masterpiece, H. M. S. Pinafore. Tryouts took place in the Music Hall on Feb. 3 and 4.
The operetta will be presented in Washington Hall on March 22, 23, 25, and 26. Last year, under the direction of Mr. Birder, the Savoyards gave the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, The Gondoliers for three nights to full houses, and then were asked to stay at Notre Dame after the close of . the schoolyear for a command performance before the visiting alumni and the families of the graduates.
The Savoyards lost heavily through last June graduation. The baritone lead, Robert Bischoff, who played the part of Guiseppe Palmieri, as well as many members of the chorus received their degrees. However, Mr.’ Birder has expressed hopes that the success of the show last , year will induce some hidden talent to come to the fore and fill the gaps made by graduation.—Frank King	.
15
VALENTINE'S DAY BALL, FINAL CARNIVAL ACTIVITY, WILL BE STAGED IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL
Culminating the three-day War Charities Carnival will be the Valentine’s Day Ball, Saturday night, Feb. 14. Breaking with precedent the Ball, open to all University students, will be held in the Rockne Memorial. Previous to this the Memorial has been used only for the Senior Ball. Motivating force behind this shift in policy is the Student Council which has for a year campaigned for a series of dances in the Rockne, under the leadership of President Eugene Schumaker.
Schumaker this week revealed that the Student Council first suggested using the Memorial for dances last school year. They have kept at the idea until the Carnival presented the opportunity of inaugurating the dance series. Schumaker said the Council is making plans for more informal dances to be held in the Memorial this year.
N.D. CAVALIERS REFORM WHEN MAESTRO, DRUMMER, AND TRUMPETER FAIL TO RETURN TO SCHOOL
FRANK A. KING
John Molloy, the organizer and maestro of the Cavaliers, Notre Dame’s offering to the jive world, should have had a problem on his hands when he returned from the Christmas holidays. His lead trumpet, Jim Walsh, was all set to leave school, and “Doc” (Paradiddle) Dooling was already on his way to an Army Air Corps training field to become a pilot. The reason why Jack Molloy didn’t have any trouble getting replacements for the missing men was that Jack didn’t come back himself.
The whole band was disorganized. Bill, nee Vito, Capello wasn’t long in deciding that something had to be done. He seized the reins and soon had everything running with the smoothness of a well-oiled rock-crusher. But it wasn’t the Vito’s fault. He had only Bill Frye for a rhythm section, and although Bill is the only man on the campus, or, in the whole bass fiddle field for that matter, who has mastered the difficult double slap, he wasn’t enough. So Vito and the boys got together and sought out the best talent on the campus for the replacements.
Dick Pedrotty, a freshman from Mishawaka, joined the band in place of Jimmie Walsh who left school in order to have some time at home before he entered the army. Confidentially, Mr. Pedrotty plays the sweetest lead trumpet
16
The Valentine’s Day Ball, final activity of Carnival week, will be informal. The reorganized Notre Dame Cavaliers dance band will provide the music, minus the service of Maestro Jack Molloy who has left school, and under the tutelage of Bill Capella.
Time limits imposed by the prefect of discipline’s office is the usual 8:30 to 11:30 regulation, traditional with Notre Dame dances of the past. The Student Council will provide busses to facilitate the return of St. Mary’s students to their own campus upon completion of the evening’s festivities.
Tax for the evening will be a dollar-ten per couple. All proceeds from the dance will go to the same war charities receiving money from the Carnival. The Carnival, by the way, will enter its third and final phase the same evening. Students who do not wish to take in the dance will have the opportunity of attending the Carnival.
that has been heard in these parts in a long time. He doesn’t stop there, however, because his rides are just about technically perfect. He shows a fine knowledge of music and played the complicated Song of the Free without an error the first time that he saw it, which proves his ability to read. He has a fine tone and is an all-around benefit to the organization. And, believe it or not, he never had a lesson in his life.
John (Snuffy) Kelly, a Senior from Chicago, was called upon to fill “Doc”
Dooling’s shoes. Filling the latter’s shoes is a very difficult task, even though he didn’t have very big feet. However, let it be said to the credit, of Mr. Kelly that he did a very fine job. Technically a good drummer, . Johnny’s specialty is -taking a few measures by himself. His rides are as perfect a.s a metronome. Recently the band made a record of one of
Johnny’s rides and played it back very slowly to a beat by the metronome and Mr. Kelly kept a perfect beat for 64 measures.
Dick Hines, a sophomore from Boston, Mass., rolled up his sleeves and took over at the piano. There is little doubt that he knows his music. He, together with Mr. Kelly of the drums, wrote all the music for the benefit show, Bundles for Britain which gave the audience something to cheer about and sent them away humming. Dick plays a fine piano and when the occasion demands he can give the jive fans a few licks. Dick keeps things moving at a dance by playing between sets.
The Cavaliers are practically a new band and revamped as they are, they are sure to give out with a lot of good dancing and listening music when they play for the Junior Prom Tea Dance at the Oliver’ Hotel tomorrow. They have . had several offers to play at High School Proms nearby but so far they haven’t been able to accept any because of the examinations. However, with the new fields laid open to them and the splendid new organization .they now have, this band will go a long way in the future toward showing the world that college bands can be good.
Day at Gary
One morning in the early part of last December, the Alumni Hall mailman dropped a long, white envelope over the transom of 353. Inside the room, dark, steady quarterback Bob Hargrave picked it up, blinked, and sat down to read the contents.
A few days later, we find him on a bus with 60 or 70 other men, including a few Notre Darners, bound for Gary. On arriving at the armory, they reported to the head officer. Each was marked on the hand with a number by which they were identified for the duration of the day.
Then began the check-up. First Bob stripped to the waist and his lungs were X-rayed. He proceeded through an elaborate arrangement of stations until thoroughly examined for physical defects. The entire procedure lasts several hours. After that dinner is in order, followed by a long wait for the results of the tests. If your condition is . good, you become “1-A in the Army and A-l in Our Hearts” according to a current song hit. Or if there is some defect, for example, an injured knee—as in Bob’s case—you are held for consultation. Then back to the bus and home.
There’s nothing unusual about all this, of course. Just the story of a man who was drafted, and who took his physical exam. It could happen to anybody.
—Charles J. Patterson
ADMINISTRATION HEADS HELP WITH CARNIVAL
The three-day Notre Dame Carnival for War Charities will be staged under the patronage of Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. All proceeds from the carnival will he devoted to war charities, among which are the Red Cross, Navy Relief, and the Student Commission, which is currently engaged in a program of maintaining school ties with Notre Dame men now in the armed services of the country.
On the. Executive Committee of the Carnival are Frank W. Lloyd, J.’ Arthur Haley, Herbert E. Jones, James E. Armstrong, Frank W. Leahy, William R. Dooley, Eugene F. Connolly, Thomas L. Mills and Eli Abraham.
Members of the Holy Cross congregation serving on the executive committee are Rev. Walter McInerney, Rev. John J. Reddington, Rev. John J. Burke, and Rev. Charles M. Carey.
Student committeemen are James J. Fayette, Eugene J. Schumaker, Edward P. Reidy, Donald T. Heltzel, George E. Murphy and Paul B. Lillis.
J. Arthur Haley
Inter-American Sextet
Sponsors Discussion
About six weeks ago, six students from Notre Dame represented the school at an inter-American conference held in Chicago. These students were so impressed by the activities of this group that they decided to establish an inter-American club on our campus. Bob Millet, perhaps the most energetic member of the sextet, asked the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., if he would preside over the as-
James E. Armstrong
similating organization as moderator; Father Cunningham who is deeply interested in our South American neighbors assented.
The club now has 20 members and four officers. Bob Millet is the president of the group and Mark McGrath was elected vice-president. This young society holds its meetings in the basement of the Law building every other Wednesday evening. It is now soliciting for new members and the only requisite for a contender to the club is that he be truly interested in an inter-American congregation and contribute something to the meeting discussions. ■
The aggressive moderator, Father Cunningham, has already induced the club to sponsor several panel discussions. The discussion will be on our “InterAmerican Relations” and the panel will consist of seven members and a chairman. It is hoped that each member of the panel group will represent a different Spanish-speaking country. Thus, the task of formulating the panel will fall to the LaRaza club, a Spanish-speaking organization over which Father Cunningham is also faculty advisor.
The first discussion will be held on the Notre Dame campus shortly. The speeches will be of five-minutes duration, and when they are concluded the general
topic will be thrown open to questions from* the floor. If the member of the panel being, questioned finds it difficult to answer in English, he will state his reply in Spanish and the chairman, who speaks both languages, will translate the reply into English.
If the first discussion is successful, a second meeting of the group will be held at St. Mary’s College. Plans are being laid to hold panel discussions at various schools in Chicago.—Paul Carr
Speakers' Bureau Averages
Four Talks Per Week
The Notre Dame Speakers’ Bureau aided the City of South Bend in its Red Cross Drive for §80,000. During the week of Jan. 11-17, several members of the organization presented “pep-talks” to Parent Teachers Associations and other similar groups.
This up and coming organization has strengthened its membership in the past few weeks by five members: John Shannon, a freshman from Kenosha, Wis.; Robert Nenno from Buffalo, N. Y.; Louis Kurtz of Des Moines, Iowa; Norman Van Sile of Detroit, Mich.; and Charles Murphy of St. Louis, Mo., all juniors. Requests for speeches have increased to approximately four per week, and in view of the prospects for the future, the number of speakers has been increased considerably.—C. S. Coco
Frosh Make Last Stand at St. Mary's Next Sunday
The final get-acquainted dance of the present schoolyear will be held at St. Mary’s Sunday, Feb. 15. The lucky fellows that day will be the residents of Breen-Phillips Hall and the Off-Campus, freshmen. There will be no dance this Sunday because of the Junior Prom.
This series of dances was begun last fall by Senior class president Jim O’Neil for the purpose of introducing the present Freshman class to the delights of St. Mary’s College. Each dance was given for the residents of a picked Freshman hall, and those in Breen-Phillips Hall are the only ones who have not yet been guests at one of the gatherings. Several Juniors have been working with the Seniors this year and it is believed that they will continue the plan next year for the incoming Freshman class.
When asked if the series had been a success, O’Neil said, “I believe the dances have served their purpose. The freshmen have been introduced to the girls; the rest is up to them.”—Bill Clarke
17
VARSITY DEBATERS PREP FOR MANCHESTER TOURNEY
BOB LEMENSE
Drop into the periodical room of the library one of these afternoons. Naturally there will be the usual scattering of intellectuals and newspaper readers, but there will also be a group of from six to eight fellows who seem to be working together on something. One might be paging through the Readers Guide, another almost hidden in a New York Times' file, one copying something out of some current magazine, and the rest gathered around a dark-haired gentleman, obviously a professor, who is apparently assigning tasks to them.
The industrious lot are the members of the varsity debating squad; the professor is William J. Coyne who is also debate coach. These are busy, days for debate team members because they have only a few short weeks to prepare for their first tournament at North Manchester, Indiana, on February 27 and 28. Both “A” and“B” teams will participate in this tourney.
Mark Lies, junior Commerce student, is first speaker on the negative “A” team. His colleague is William Meier, senior A.B. man, whose average hovers around 96 and is tops in this year’s senior class. First speaker on the affirmative “A” team is sophomore James O’Dea, an A.B. man. Second speaker is Joseph Tracy, junior A.B. man, majoring in Philosophy.
John Utz, sophomore A.B. student, is first speaker on the affirmative “B”
.. besides intellectuals, they're debaters.
team with Robert LeMense, junior A.B. English major, as second man. First man on the negative “B” team is William Lawless, sophomore A.B. man, and second speaker is Robert Galvin, sophomore Commerce student.
So far only one debate has been definitely scheduled for the home series, this against William and Mary College on March 5. The two “A” teams will enter the University of Wisconsin tournament at Madison on March 27 and 28. Another away-from-home debate has been set for April 14 against Western Reserve University in Cleveland. There is a possibility of scheduling about two more debates at home and two more away.
The official question is this is: “Resolved, That the Federal Government should regulate by law all labor unions in the United States.	*
Summer Semester Sport Policy is Undecided
By Ray Donovan
The question of whether Notre Dame will maintain an athletic program during the ensuing summer semester has not been decided, and will remain unsettled until a committee from the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics has made a complete and detailed study of the situation. This much information regarding the much-discussed question was disclosed by the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., chairman of the board and vicepresident of the University, following a meeting of the Faculty Board.
The situation was created when the University Council reorganized the academic program at Notre Dame by dividing the academic year into three semesters. Such a program necessitates one semester extending through the summer months, and ever since the action by the Council, speculation and rumors have circulated regarding the athletic policy of the University during this summer semester.
. Competition is a Factor
One of the widely-discussed possibilities regarding the summer program consists of active participation by Irish track, baseball, tennis and golf squads with other universities and colleges who, like Notre Dame, have adopted the three semester program. Such neighboring schools as Indiana and Purdue have
speeded up their academic program in a similar manner, and thus face a problem similar to that confronting Notre Dame officials regarding participation in summer athletics.
Good Material Available
Among teams which would be affected should officials decide in favor of intercollegiate competition this summer would be Coach Bill Mahoney’s crack cindermen. Manned chiefly by sophomore and junior stars, the 1942 squad represents one of the most potentially powerful teams to wear Blue and Gold in years. Coach Langford’s racketeers, paced by Captain Dan Canale, sophomore Bob Faught and stocky Olen Parks promises to be one of the outstanding.net squads in the history of the sport at Notre Dame. Likewise, Coach Kline’s baseball squad and Rev. George Holderith’s golf team look forward to better than average material this spring.
Hot stove league adherents are having their fun, deciding in their own minds what the policy of the University should be regarding this new situation. It should be emphasized, however, that the question has not been settled, and that until the problem has been completely studied in detail by those in charge no official decision will be forthcoming.
35 Campus Organizations
Combine in N. D. Carnival
Among the 35-odd campus organizations that have combined their efforts to make the Notre Dame War Charities Carnival a success are the following, all working with the local council of the Knights of Columbus which is the central organization:
The Villagers of South Bend, Colorado, Oklahoma, Texas, Calumet Region, Fort Wayne, Indianapolis, Minnesota, Little - Three, Kansas City, Missouri, Metropolitan, Buffalo, Capital District of Albany, Kentucky, Detroit, Michigan, Old Dominion, Boston, Bay State, Fox River Valley, Law Club, Monogram, Student Council. "	'
Montana, Pacific Northwest, Cleveland, Youngstown, Chicago, Peoria, 5440, Engineers and Managers.
Many of the city and state clubs mentioned are conducting booths.and concessions which will line the midway. Others are handling special tasks, such as the Commerce Forum and the Villagers which are working on the raffle tickets, and the Student Council, which is promoting the Valentine Day Ball, Saturday night climax of the three-day ' Carnival week. -
18
N. D. Students Eligible
For Marine Commissions
Notre Dame University Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores are eligible for appointment to the U. S. Marine Corps candidates’ class, a preliminary officers’ training course, under a new plan of reserve officer procurement, according to an announcement by Capt. Ralph E. Boulton, officer in charge of Marine Corps recruiting in the Indiana area. Those students who are accepted and successfully complete this course will be commissioned second lieutenants in the Marine Corps Reserve for service during the duration of the war.
Successful completion of the candidates’ class course, which is approximately six months long, will qualify the candidates for commissions as second lieutenants in the Marine Corps Reserve, after which they will receive additional training in a reserve officers’ course. Upon completion of this latter course, the officers will be assigned to general duty with troops.
On or about Feb. 1, an officer of the Marine Corps will be assigned to the Chicago Marine Corps recruiting station to act as liaison officer between Notre Dame University and the Marine Corps. He will visit Notre Dame early in February to contact students who wish to make application for this officers’ training course. A medical officer will visit the University in March to administer physical examinations to those men who have been deemed qualified in other respects. Notre Dame is one of eight Indiana colleges and universities from which students are being selected for the Marine Corps candidates’ class.
Pay while serving on active duty during the first three months of training will be $36 per month, plus transportation to the training center, food, clothing, medical and dental care while undergoing training. After being commissioned a second lieutenant the candidate will receive $125 per month and, in case government quarters are not furnished, subsistence and quarters allowances totalling $58 per month. A $150 uniform gratuity is furnished for the purchase of required uniforms when commissioned.
The age limits in the candidates’ class for seniors require that the senior be over 20 but not over 24 years and six months when enlisted. Juniors must be over 19 but not over 23 years and six months, and sophomores must be over 18 but less than 23 years when enlisted.
Other qualifications for enlistment in the candidates’ class are that the applicant be a male citizen of the United
States, unmarried and agree to remain so until after commissioned. He must belong to no other military organization, including the Army or Navy R.O.T.C. He must be pursuing a course of study leading to a bachelor of arts, bachelor of science or engineering degree, must pass the required physical examination, must be at least 66 inches but not over 76 inches in height, must be recommended as to character and qualifications by the president or dean of the university, by one member of the faculty and by at least three citizens of his home community and, if a minor, he must furnish the written consent of his parents for enlistment.
Moreau Seminarian Wins
Breen Medal for-Oratory
In the balcony of Washington Hall on Jan. 16, a group of students dressed in black cheered lustily for the third last speaker. The speaker was William Connelly, C.S.C., and applauding were his classmates from Moreau Seminary. In the two annual contests preceding this one, the seminarians had won the Breen Medal for excellence in oratory, and Bill Connelly upheld the tradition when the judges proclaimed him the winner, making the third successive year that a student of Moreau Seminary had captured the honor.
Connelly is a senior at the seminary and is a native of Boston, Mass., a transfer student from Boston College. His speech was entitled, “America’s Bulwark of Defense,” and dealt largely on the rights of the American citizen. In his speech he stated that when these rights are achieved, “Then we shall be united, not only against those governments which are against the individual; but we shall also be united for our government which is for the individual.”
The second and third best speakers as chosen by the judges are John Morrison, a junior from Dillon Hall, and Don Morgan, a resident of Cavanaugh Hall. John Specht, who acted as chairman, gave the audience the background of the contest which was founded by the Hon. William P. Breen, noted jurist and Notre Dame alumnus of the class of ’77 and then introduced the ten speakers.
Acting as judges for the contest were: Miss Taaft, head of the speech department at Saint Mary’s; Miss O’Heam, head of the dramatic department at Saint Mary’s; Thomas Mills, former head of the department of speech here; Rev. Bernard Pegarski, C.S.C., member of the mission hand; and James Byrne, graduate student of the department of English.—Jalck Anderton
Powers Edits "Scholastic"
as Jack Reilly is Drafted
The Scholastic was rudderless and minus a pilot for a few minutes last Monday. The situation arose when the editorship changed hands. John A. Reilly, Boston, Mass., the former editor resigned
John Reilly and Thomas Powers his position just before leaving for home to be inducted into the army. Appointed to his position by the Faculty Board in Control of Publications, is Thomas V. Powers, Walsh Hall senior from Enid, Okla., who previously held the position of managing editor.
A week before this Robert E. Brooks resigned his position as administration editor and was replaced by Thomas Clemens. The above shifts in organization were the only changes made. The position of managing editor will be left vacant until the new staff appointments are made at the end of this semester.
Reilly edited the Scholastic from the start of the present school year. Under him the magazine was completely renovated and divided into the three-section plan which it still follows—Administration, Campus and Sports. It was under Reilly that the largest Scholastic in the history of the publication was brought out. The football issue of last fall was the largest, from the point of view of the total number of copies printed and the number of pages in the issue.
Marine Officer To
Be Here Tuesday
Lieutenant James W. Crain, U.S. Marine Corps, Liaison Officer for this district, will be on the campus, Tuesday, Feb. 10, to interview applicants for commission as Second Lieutenants in the Marine Corps Reserve. For further details, see story on this page-
19
Pre-Med Senior Talks To
Academy on Insect Life
William Arthur Fish, a pre-medical student from Sorin Hall, highlighted the last meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science with a fascinating discussion of “Insects, Man and Medicine.” Fish pointed out that it is only since the beginning of the twentieth century that man has come to regard the insect as being of more importance than any other common, unavoidable nuisance. .
“But now it is known, chiefly through tedious work on life histories, that they are more than a mere annoyance; that they appear in a more insidious maimer as enemies since they maintain and disseminate some of the most important and serious diseases of mankind.”
Viewing each order of insects individually, Fish observed a three-fold classification of those with which man is especially concerned: insects which are directly poisonous, those which are parasitic on the body of the host and derive nourishment from it, and those which transmit disease as simple carriers, direct innoculators or essential hosts of pathogenic organisms.
The Notre Dame student dearly loves his girl and his car. It is traditional with Notre Dame life that he must sacrifice -both upon entering the University. Salve for this great hurt is two and one-half years of anticipation of the Junior Prom,
President Moulder called attention to the fact that this year celebrates the 15th anniversary of the founding of the Academy. The Academy has enjoyed an enviable position among campus societies ever since the late Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., then dean of the College of Science, saw the need for an honor society among the Science students which would present the opportunity for men with common interests in the fields of biology, mathematics and the physical sciences to meet regularly and exchange ideas. The next meet will be the 200th in the history of the organization.	.
In conjunction with the commemoration of this anniversary, a smoker feat-, uring a debate on the question of “Socialized Medicine” has been planned for the near future. An essay contest has also been announced and all members are invited to submit entries.	'
.	—Jack Bennett
At the last unofficial count there were 143 Notre Dame graduates serving as head coaches of assistant coaches. Five are in the professional leagues, 73 in colleges and universities, and 66 in high schools.
that climactic event which brings partial release from strict University regulations. Today, the time of the Junior Prom, Notre Dame students may have their cars and their girls—but only for a week-end. ,
❖	Bookmen/4. Cosines t
Short Stories From the New Yorker, Simon and Schuster. 1940. $3.00.
. One copy of The New Yorker is enough to make the present day .reader, weary of wading in the chaff of the average periodical, sigh pleasantly. A collection of 68 short stories which have appeared in the magazine during its 15 years of publication . should leave him with a psychosis.	•
This is not a collection of Nezu Yorker humor. Though some of the stories are funny, most of them are dead serious. Yet their seriousness is not numbing; its effect is always one of stimulation. Each story is charged with some of the tension, the rush, the confusion, the chaos, the humor and the tragedy of life in twentieth century America. For the most part they are trenchant studies of economic, social and philosophical problems of our life. The problem of the southern tenant farmer, freudianism, . selfishness, the problems of the breadwinning artist, the sterility of the modern apartment building, Christmas, the
social stigma of Catholicism in a Prot-= estant milieu, and the unfairness of intolerant authority-are but a few of the subjects treated.
Here is realism at its best: not brash, blatant, thumb-written stuff, but quiet, subtle, incisive writing. Subtlety, in fact, - is so characteristic of New Yorker stories, that the only overt feature of this anthology is. Simon and Schuster’s en-" thusiastic “syllogism” on the book jacket:
1.	The New Yorker publishes the best short fiction in America.
2.	America now produces the best short fiction in the world.	.
3.	This is the best collection of contemporary short fiction not written by one author ever assembled between the covers of a single book.
With contingencies, I suppose that the conclusion is hard to deny.
Readers who collect “names” will lay down their three dollars quickly when they thumb through this book. Sherwood ; Anderson, Kay Boyle, Erskine Caldwell, Robert M. Coates, Wolcott Gibbs, John O’Hara, Dorothy Parker, Marjorie Kin-nan Rawlings, James Thurber, E. B. White, Thomas Wolfe, and St. Clair McKelway are a few of the more familiar authors.
One of . the best stories is John (Continued on page 29) .	;
20
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
Thomas V. Powers, Editor
Don Heltzel..............:...................Campus	Editor
William Scanlan ;............................  .Promotion
John Dinges ..........................  .....Sports	Editor
’WiLUAyL Baader................................Art Editor
Tom Clemens..........-...............Administration	Editor
Ed Drinkard ....-------------------Staff Photographer
Leo Lee-------------------------------;___Advertising
Frank. Kiener------------'.___.-._________Advertising
John E. Lynch_____________________________Photo Editor
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C_____-.^^Facidby Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 F. M.; General Staff, 7:00 P. M.
THE PROM AND THE WAR
“Do not be carried away by violent emotion, which leads to confused thinking and acting. Go about your- normal ways until such time as your country calls. Let the usual social and recreational programs continue. Of course there should be a senior ball, junior prom, and other social events. . . . Such programs are necessary for good morale at a time like this.”
This excerpt from Rev. President O’ Donnell’s “Onward to Victory” address to the student body on January 13, 1942, may well be and probably has been the guiding spirit of those who have worked long and diligently to make tonight’s Prom the success it will be.
From General Chairman Bud-Doyle to the Student Activities Council, the Prom-producers have recognized the need of a normal social.life in these critical times, just as oiir President has insisted upon the normal academic and religious life that has always been a part of Notre Dame. They know Junior Proms must not be rationed like tires. They are as. much a part of our educational .system as high school playgrounds.
Prom guests may do well to remember the spirit with which this year’s dance was planned. They will find no pessimists there despite the probability that their escort may soon be making his next Grand March in an European battle setting, where cannonading artillery and spitting machine guns will play the musical accompaniment. For all Notre Dame men know what their patriotic duty is, and they know that they can best prepare for their individual assignment in the Phillipines, France or South Africa by maintaining a normal balance in their present way of living. The Prom itself is evidence of the clear thinking that is being done by the undergraduate of Notre Dame today.
A word of caution for those who will drive cars: Drive. carefully! The special privilege of driving .cars on these particular week-ends is a project that the Student Activities Council has gone to great labor to obtain and maintain. Don’t deny this privilege to hundreds of future Prom-goers by your own foolhardy conduct.
THE CARNIVAL SPIRIT
This is the hour for sacrifice. We have been made deeply conscious of that fact by the reports that come over
the radio hourly, telling of the heroic stand of our soldiers on the battle fronts throughout the world; or we have felt the absence of those who walked beside us- short days ago; and who are now intent upon the sterner course of military : preparation.. We have been touched at the-sight of doctors, nurses, and volunteer workers, and the straining of industry, all eager to do their share in preparing the nation to emerge victorious from the struggle. Indeed, everywhere there is a spirit which touches and generates in the American public an earnest desire to support every cause that is allied to this patriotic crisis.
It is significant that .the men of Notre Dame should . participate in this spirit of the hour. Accordingly, the . campus is alert and intent upon a project dedicated to those who have forsaken Cartier Field, Brownson Yard, Badin Bog, and the paths circling the lakes—for the grim and terrifying business of life and death. And so our Knights of Columbus suggested the idea of a Carnival for War Charities. The idea was indorsed and accepted by the State Clubs, the S.A.C., the Law Club, the Commerce Forum, The Villagers, and other local groups. Officials of the University, from the President down, heartily lent their cooperation. The project gained impetus, and is now a reality.
It yet remains for the student body to manifest its patriotism in this hour of national need by heartily supporting the Carnival. The Scholastic urges a generous cooperation and participation in this splendid project. In these times, charity commands the best efforts in all of us. And the men of Notre Dame are no exception.
PRIVATE REILLY
If you notice that the name John A Reilly, Editor is missing from the above masthead, don’t begin to fret about the fate of your favorite editor because we can assure you you will hear of him again, soon. Granted that The Scholastic and the United States Army are entirely different from the point of view of personnel, style and purpose, the Army does recognize resourcefulness, determination and talent. Whether or not they find all these qualities in . Editor Reilly as a Private, immediately or slightly later, we are confident they will. Private Reilly we salute you!
21
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
CAGERS CLOSE SUCCESSFUL MONTH WITH ONE LOSS
Sophomores will again lead the attack, this time against Kentucky, as Notre Dame attempts its 11th victory in 14 collegiate starts in the fieldhouse tomorrow night. Paced by Bobby Faught, high scorer for the Irish with a total of 125 points, the Irish sophomores—Niemiera, Hiller, and Kuka—with Rensberger the only junior, will seek to stretch its consecutive chain of victories to four straight. The Kentuckians consider the Irish as their jinx team, since the Irish lost the first game ever played between the two schools but have defeated the Wildcats each game for the past six years. Each team enters the contest with a record of 10 wins in 13 starts. If last year’s result will further emphasize the closeness of the games, it could be recalled that the Irish won a 48-47 decision at Louisville.
Great Lakes Monday
On Monday the Irish journey to Chicago where they will meet the Great Lakes quintet in Chicago stadium. Proceeds of the contest will go to the Navy Relief Fund. The Sailors reign as odds-on favorites since they are vastly improved over the five that managed to come from behind to beat the Irish, 52-46, last December. It is said, however, that the Irish eagers plan to “make puddles out of the Great Lakes.”
Butler 49; Notre Dame 43
Butler’s Bulldogs snapped the Irish January string of victories by a score of 49-43 on Jan. 17, before 6,000 fans in the huge Butler fieldhouse. Notre Dame never took the lead in this 14th victory out of 37 games played with the Bulldogs. The Butler starting quintet proved “iron men” as they played the entire game while Assistant Coach Ray Meyer substituted 13 men in a vain effort to discover a clicking combination. Led by Wilbur Schumacher who scored 21 points, the Bulldogs held the Irish without a field goal'for the first 10% minutes of the game, and led at the intermission, 26-21. The Irish attempted to catch up midway in the final half and succeeded in cutting Butler’s lead to 35-31. However, Schumacher and company again took command to cinch a victory. John Niemiera, sophomore center, took high point honors for the Irish with 11 points.
Midway in examination week, thou-
sands of students took time off from exam cramming to watch the Irish completely outclass and befuddle the Northwestern Wildcats, by a complete sweep of athletic contests with the Wildcats in the current school year; it was the largest score run up on Northwestern this year; the biggest ever accomplished by either team in the series; and it was Northwestern’s fifth straight defeat. To top it off, versatile Otto Graham of the routed Purple, scored 18 points to cop the honors of the evening. Wendland tallied to open the scoring, but less than a minute later Rensberger and Niemiera countered for the Irish to nullify the only lead Northwestern ever got. Graham managed to knot the count twice midway in the first half before the Irish got started to make the score read 34-25 at half time. Singer, Faught and Butler scored in the first two minutes of the final half to make it 40-25, and with but eight minutes to go, the Irish led 56-35. Singer and Curran completed the scoring by making field goals in the final two • minutes of play. Bus Hiller captured
honors for the Irish with 11 points.
Notre Dame 52; Mich. State 49
Notre Dame nipped a four-game winning streak, 52-49, when they beat -the Michigan State Spartans in the Irish fieldhouse on Jan. 24. The score was tied at 5-all after five minutes of play but the Irish led all the way after that. The Irish were ahead, 18-9, with eight minutes of the first half remaining but the Spartans jumped the score to 25-22 at half time. In the first four minutes of the second half the Irish ran the score to 34-24 but the combination of Aubu-chon and Gerard, Spartan forwards, managed to keep the count close. Gerard scored 19 points to lead both teams. High-point man for the Irish was Faught with 15 points, closely followed by Singer, with 13, and Bus Hiller who scored 11.
N.D. 66; Marquette 42
Bobby Faught, 6 foot 5 inch sophomore center, scored 25 points to lead Notre Dame to a complete rout over Marquette, 66-42. In sinking his 9 baskets and 7 free tosses, Faught almost equalled the 28-point record set by Johnny Moir, all-American Irish center, back in 1936. However, in fairness to all concerned, it should be recalled that Moir,
in scoring his 25 points, had to contend with the powerful Pittsburgh quintet which was at its peak at the time; while Faught was opposed by a Marquette squad that was not quite up to par. On the other hand, it might be mentioned , that Faught was yanked out 10 minutes before the final result while Moir was allowed to play all but the final five minutes of the game against Pittsburgh. Moir, like Faught, was a sophomore when he ran up his record against the Panthers. The victory over Marquette was Notre Dame’s 10th in 13 collegiate games; the Irish also having dropped a close decision to Great Lakes, 52-46, early in December. It kept intact a record of not having been defeated on the home court in the month of January since 1933.—John Powers
Most Valuable Jim Brutz
Returns the Compliment
“What’s your reaction, Jim, to receiving the award as most valuable player on this year’s undefeated Notre Dame eleven?”
Jim Brutz, whom Irish opponents remember as the bearded, bruising, battering left. tackle on N.D.’s great 1941 team, settled himself more comfortably in an easy chair, and pondered this question thoughtfully. This time, however, it was a smooth, clean-shaven young man who answered to the name Brutz. And just as on the gridiron, Jim wasted Very little time in answering.
“AH 55 men on the squad were equally valuable. They were all out there doing their part.”
A note of strong conviction could be detected in his husky voice as he said this. And a pair of keen, unwavering eyes regarded the interviewer as the next question was put.
“Jim, what personal thrill came to you as a result of this great honor?”
The gentleman from Niles, Ohio, and 224 Walsh, and incidentally, this Mr. Brutz is a true Gentleman of Walsh in every sense of the word, raised his leg over the arm of his chair, and gave the question plenty of consideration. Finally he replied, and the answer was worthy of the deep thought and typical of Jim.
“It really thrilled me to know that the boys appreciated the fact that I’ve always tried to get along with everyone.
22
After all,” he added, “that’s the only way to win victories.”	.
Again that sense of seriousness and earnestness was felt as he spoke.
“I want you to include this. They are the best bunch of fellows that any boy could ever want to play football with.
MIGHTY "MOOSE" KRAUSE RETURNS TO N. D. TO ASSIST LEAHY. HE SET MANY RECORDS
Edward “Moose” Krause, one of the greatest all-around athletes in Notre Dame’s history, returns to the campus March 1 as an assistant to Coach Frank W. Leahy.
Krause began his remarkable career at De LaSalle High in Chicago where he was named all-state tackle. His N.D. career began in 1931, when he started for the injured Al Culver. He played sensationally against Northwestern, blocking and recovering one punt, and blocking another. This brought him recognition among such teammates as the late Tommy Yarr, Nordy Hoffmann, and Marchy Schwartz. He went on to make some All-American team in each of his three years, being a popular choice for the left tackle spot in 1933, his senior year.
First Irish All-American Cager
Krause also earned three monograms in basketball, being the first Notre Dame player to become an All-American in that sport. He was center and captain of the 1933-34 team, and set scoring records for a single game, single season, two and three seasons, all of which were later broken by Johnny Moir.
In track, Krause won monograms his sophomore and junior years. He was prevented from throwing the javelin his senior year due to an elbow injury received that spring in the annual Old Timers’ game. This was ironical, because he had the distinction of never missing an athletic contest due to injuries, and the distinction of playing 521 out of a possible 540 minutes during the 1933 football season.
There seem to be stories and legends enough to fill a volume on the athletic prowess of the “Moose.” He was cocaptain of the all-star squad that met the Chicago Bears in 1934. He twice led all-Indiana collegiate players in basketball scoring. He was one of the best men for executing the pivot play in that sport. During his three years in basketball, the Irish won 54 games, while losing only 12, and he is one of the few men who have been named All-American two years in succession in basketball.
Along with these seemingly endless
And the coaching staff was tops.”
No more questions were asked, and the interview was closed. For now we felt that we had learned what we came to find out—how Jim Brutz really felt about being voted the most valuable playei- of 1941 by his Fighting Irish teammates.—Frank Keenan
exploits, Krause was quiet, modest, had a good sense of humor and a great fighting heart. With this combination, it is no wonder that he was one of the best liked students ever to attend Notre Dame. As concrete evidence of this, he was awarded a trophy by the student body.
And All This Before He Was 21!
When he graduated in 1934, at the age of 20, he was already signed as head coach and athletic director at St. Mary’s College of Winona, Minn. He left there
when Joe Sheeketski, newly - appointed Holy Cross coach and former teammate, chose him as an assistant.
As Krause is also basketball coach, he has stayed on at Holy Cross, and will be there until the end of the season, coming here in time for spring training.
■ —Coleman McGuire
Sports Quiz
1.	Can you fill in the names that finish these bike racing teams?
. a. Peden and----------.	.
b.	Debeats and-----.
c.	Kilian and-------.
2.	Can you guess the record pay for any basketeer?
3.	Who was called the Dean of Basketball?
4.	Where was the first book of rules for bridge made up?
5.	Who is considered the master promoter in boxing (deceased) ?
6.	What is peculiar about the first rule in bob sledding?
(Answers on page 31) .
23
J<<(I*N /PRINTER J
FROM THE PREJT EOX
---- •	■■	■	__= by BILL SCANLAN
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS?
FAUGHT AND CO. READY FOR NAVY
Bob Faught, the Cleveland Heights, Ohio, sophomore who was run over by a truck when he was four years old, displayed his best form of the season Saturday in piling up 25 points in 30 minutes — perhaps the greatest scoring exhibition in Notre Dame history. . . . Johnny Moir, of an earlier era, also tallied 25 points one evening. . . . But Bob came out with 10 minutes to go. . . . Which indicates the Irish offensive is set for the all-important charity game with the Great Lakes team at Chicago Monday. . . . Another important game with Kentucky, however, keeps the Irish occupied here for Prom guests tomorrow night. . . . More expert shooting by Faught, plus aid from Hiller, Niemiera, Butler, Singer, Rensberger, and others, will be necessary to pass those two hurdles.
BARRY TO KRAUSE TO BARRY
When Ed (Moose) Krause, the new Irish assistant coach, was a high school athlete, he performed at De LaSalle in Chicago. . . . His coach was Norm Barry, one-time Notre Dame sports great. . . . Now Krause moves back to Notre Dame to find one of the better line candidates, Norm Barry, Jr., or Jack to his friends. . . . Barry played end last season, very capably too, but may use his speed as a guard during 1942. . . . Bill McGowan, editor of the 1940-41 Scholastic, currently receives mail at Aberdeen, Maryland, training camp. . . . Greetings, Soldier.Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune sports editor, stated in a La Crosse, Wis., speech that the annual Collegian All-Stars vs. Chicago Bears football show will be held as usual during August.
TEAMMATE OF BOB FELLER, JOHNNY HOPP
Dick Kisgen, Carroll, Iowa, junior who lives in Sorin hall, batted .364 for the Carroll baseball team which won the Noi-thwestern Iowa championship last summer. . . . Dick, a promising candidate for Coach Jake Kline’s varsity this spring, played with both Bob Feller, the ex-Cleveland Indian pitching whiz, and Johnny Hopp, St. Louis Cardinal outfielder, before they hopped to the majors. . . . And Dick did an ironman stunt in football for his home town high school. . . . He still holds the record of playing in 73 consecutive quarters, spread over three seasons. . . . He was an end, and plays the outfield in baseball. . . . Paul Lillis, football captain, made a hit with guests at the annual football banquet when he read Grantland Rice’s celebrated poem, “The South Bend Simoon” against the colorful background of Professor Daniel Pedtke’s talented Glee Club. . . . Father Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., University president and 1915 center, Gene Edwards, 1926 co-captain and coach at St. Vincent’s college, Latrobe, Pa., the late Joe Prelli, and Christy Flanagan, 1927 all-American halfback, were other Irish grid stars who have performed with the University Glee Club.
HISTORIC MONTH OF DECEMBER, 1941
Wilton Garrison, who writes for the Charlotte, N. C., Observer, recently gained Associated Press recognition when he observed: “The month of December, 1941, will long be remembered as the month the Japs attacked Pearl Harbor—and the month Notre Dame elected a football captain named Murphy.” . . . Take a bow, George. . . . The lantern-jawed South Bend lad has already hit the speaking trail and teammates expect much valuable verbal assistance in the fall. . . . His St. Ed’s A.C. roommate is Bill Stewart, the one-man hockey gang who attended Boston English Classical high school, established in 1821. . . . And Boston Classical was a recent topic of discussion in Professor E. J. Quinn’s education class which includes both Murphy and Stewart.
BENGAL BOUTERS UNLIMBER KINKS
Bengal Bouters began unlimbering kinks accumulated over the past year this week. . . . Jim (Red) Rice, 145-pound finalist, seeks volunteers to suggest how to eliminate an extra 10 pounds, most of it accumulated around his mid-section. ... Joe Rorick, one of the few men ever to last a full fight with Rocking Rod McGuire, is rapidly regaining Bengal Bout form . . . recuperating from an injured ankle, result of over-ambitious basketball play. . . . Dominick John Napolitano, the Bengal Bouts matchmaker, general manager and boxing instructor, already has classes started for beginners and'the more .experienced fighters. . . . It’s not too late to enroll now. . . . Bouts are planned for late in March.	.
24	'
By Red Lonergan
The records of Loyola of Chicago show • that it is not foolish- for a small college to compete in athletics with large universities. It is true that to be good a small college must have fine coaching and an endless amount of practice. The team must be physically perfect to keep going against opponents who have numbers of good substitutes. One coach who is capable of winning with such a team is Lennie Sachs of Loyola (Chicago), the dynamic coach of many well-known Loyola quintets and the respected enemy of many larger college basketball teams.
Lennie has been a great sportsman from the days when he won 11 letters at Schurz High in Chicago. He entered the Naval Reserve during the last war, but continued to play football with the Chicago Cardinals and basketball with the Illinois A.C. After the war he attended the American College of Physical Education where he grounded himself in athletic directing. He eventually was appointed to a coaching position at Loyola University. He coached football for a time but preferred basketball, and soon produced a winner in his favorite sport. He brought Loyola a national championship and set a record of 37 consecutive wins.
The city championship series for Chicago has been in existence for five years, and Loyola has won all five times. For three years Loyola walked all over nearly every outstanding team in the country. The 1938-39 squad will go down in basketball history.-There were three AllAmericans on the team, Mike Novak, Marv Colen, and Wibs Kautz. All they had to do was to give their sharpshooters a chance to run up the score and then put Mike Novak under the basket so he could keep the opposition from getting the ball near the basket. He was penalized several times for lifting the ball out of the basket. Perhaps the loss of this trio should have been enough to bring on a let-down but that never happened. Lennie Sachs is still producing great teams and proving that a small college can compete with a large university in athletics as well as in mental gymnastics.
Woman’s college of the University of North Carolina installed the first milk bar on a southern college campus.
Opening of 14 state teachers’colleges in Pennsylvania was delayed by an outbreak of infantile paralysis.
INTRODUCING
BY JOE PALMER
In his early years at St. Ignatius High School in Chicago, George Schiewe had few or no ideas about being a runner. His one ambition was to be a basketball player, with perhaps a little football on the side. Then, in his junior year at the Jesuit school, the lanky athlete suffered a bad shoulder injury in a football game, and the end of his football and basketball days had come. Willing to do almost anything but sit around idle, George
SINCE UIS ENROLLMENT AT N.D. 5CHI EXNEHAS MN THE- HURDLES, DASHES AND QUARTER NILE. HE FIRST STARTED RUNNING IN HIC\H SCHOOL AFTER A SHOULDER INJURY DEPRIVED HIM OF TAKINGPART IN OTHER MAJOR
SPORTS.
GEORGE
SCHIEWE
went out for track, and again showed results in a very short time. In his senior year, he won the city championships in the hundred and in the two-twenty, then took part in the National Catholic Championships held at Notre Dame. While on the campus (where he again cleaned up in the two dashes), he met the Notre Dame coach, the late John Nicholson, the man that was to give him his collegiate start a year later. A short time after he had abandoned earlier plans to attend the University of Minnesota, and it was nothing but Notre Dame from then on.
Asked about the man that really helped him most in his early athletic
days, George will be glad to tell you about Ralph Mailliard, former tackle on the Chicago Bears, and, in his collegiate days, football captain at Creighton University, Omaha, Nebr., Mailliard coached St. Ignatius in football and track, and for three years he tried to get Schiewe out for track. Finally, aided by the shoulder injury, his arguments won, and it wasn’t long before the cinders were really flying on Chicago straightaways.
But that’s only a part of George Schiewe. To really know him, you have to see the pictures in his room, said pictures centering around one very attractive subject. And there’s no doubt but what George would rather talk about her than anything else. The very fetching blonde, a Rosary College graduate,, teaches third grade in a suburban Chicago grammar school, but that doesn’t keep her from being in her favorite’s company on weekends. Rumor has it that she and George haven’t missed a weekend since the start of the school year. That’s all we could get out of him, but it looks like he’s pretty contented with life right now.
Nearing the end of his college days, Schiewe has a scholastic average of 86% and is majoring in business finance. His hobbies aren’t very numerous but he does get a big kick out of dancing and listening to good music. He has no favorite orchestra leader, but thinks that most any orchestra will sound good if the company is good. He’s got something there, we would say.
A Good Scholar Too
The Army? Well, it looks as if the Hitlerites and their puppets will have to lose the war without being bothered by George, at least for a good while. His shoulder injury has put him in 1-B, and it seems that he’s there to stay. On the wall in his room on the second floor of Sorin Hall is the car token that the draft board in Chicago gave him for his fare home after he failed the physical examination.	.
Like many another Chicagoan, George used to be a Cub fan, but, as he. tells it, he grew so tired of being ridden over by South Side fanatics that he finally lost interest in baseball. Deep down in his heart, though, he longs for the day when “Major League” baseball will return to North Side Chicago.
The wavy-haired runner used to run both high and low hurdles and the quarter-mile, but he now confines his efforts to the low hurdles and the quarter, and does a very respectable job on Coach Bill Mahoney’s relay team. If you look over the track record at the Michigan State field, East Lansing, you will note that, in the past season, one George Schiewe of the University of Notre Dame set a new mark of :49.3 in the quarter mile. However, he eclipsed even this mark when Notre Dame walked off with the mile relay at the Drake carnival last year. His best mark in the low hurdles was :23.5. Got a big thrill out of running in the meet sponsored by the Chicago Daily News at the International Amphitheater last year, but is really anxious to do his best in the Millrose Games at Madison Square Garden tomorrow. He knows that he carries Hie best wishes of all of us with him.
Lastly, a word about his life on the campus. He is seen most frequently with Frank Meehan, Senior Commerce student and head track manager. Frank hails from Newton, Mass. On George’s weekend jaunts to Chicago, he usually has as his companion, Father George Claridge, O.Praem., physics professor who lives in Sorin Hall. . . . Say, that reminds me of those rumors about midnight snacks in 141 Sor—. O.K., George, we’ll quit now. Hit ’em. hard at the Garden this Saturday.
25
Walsh Cagers Boast Two
Well-Rounded Squads
Walsh hall no longer is classified as a “dark horse” but now looms as a favor-
ire to win the
HENRY DAHM
lightweight bracket in Interhall Basketball by virtue of its scrappy play the last few weeks. Co-coach Bob Fushelberger directs the “ponies” from the bench, while Henry “Hammering Hank” Dahm steadies their smooth functioning attack on the court.
' The lights boast one of the highest point getters in the league in 1941 Bengal Bouter, “Red”. Rice, who along with Frank Fox, brilliant floor man and lanky Jim Duggan supply the necessary punch. Bill Eaton, John Treacy, “Quent” Marshall, and Sam Boyle round out a speedy club.
The heavy “Gentlemen,” although not heads on favorites, will be a big knot in the way of the 2-1 choices. Their offense built around its guards, Andy Chlebeck, one handed shot ace and tricky Paul Patton, shows plenty of spirit and fight. Steady Jim O’Brien, Vince Daigler, of Interhall Football fame, and rangy Len Masterson comprise the number one forward line. Steve Juzwik, “Rocky” Moran and Bob Timmel alternate with, this starting five.
Lyons hall continued to pace Heavy League 1, with its third consecutive triumph, routing Dillon 35 to 16. Also in Heavy League 1, Pellouchoud, tallying 15 points, drove St. Mary’s to a 31-21 margin over Howard hall. Heavy League 2 found Brownson unable to stop Creevy, who amassed 18 points, while leading St. Ed’s to a 44-31 victory over Brother Pat’s huskies. Walsh led by Patton
.You know good cloth and cut when you see'it —.and you will see it in ADLER-ROCHES- < TER made-to:measure clothes. .
Tweeds, coverts and Shetlands — in suits or topcoats . . . distinction in quality and style — at a price that will . surprise you.
- Authorized representatives for Naval Cadet uniforms through D. Klein & Brothers. , .
PARKER-WINTERROWD
.	~	.115% - 117% N. Main Street (Upstairs)	-
CAPTAIN PAUL LILLIS	LARRY KELLEY	NEIL J. McCARTHY .
321 Alumni Hall .	. 334 Alumni Hall	•	-	115 Sorin Hall
snuffed Cavanaugh as the Law Club kept pace by downing Badin as future lawyer Meyer collected 16 tallies.
Results of the week of Jan. 26 appear below and the schedule for the week of Feb. 9.
Heavy League 1: Breen-Phillips 32, Alumni 28; Lyons 35, Dillon 16; Off-Campus default from Zahm; St. Mary’s 31, Howard 21; Howard 22, Navy 17.	.
Heavy League 2: St. Ed’s. 44, Brownson 31; Walsh 37, Cavanaugh 27; Law Club 33, Badin 26.
Light League 2: Lyons 39, Breen-Phillips 28; Howard 40, Cavanaugh 26; St. Ed’s default from Sorin.
Schedule for the Week of Feb. 9 -
Monday, Feb. 9 — Light League 1: Brownson vs. Carroll, 7:30; Alumni vs. Dillon, 7:30; Morrissey vs. Zahm, 8:30. Heavy League 2: St. Ed’s. vs. Walsh, 8. :30. '	:
Tuesday, Feb. 10 — Heavy League 1: Alumni vs. Navy ROTC, 7:30; Breen-Phillips vs. Dillon, 7:30; Zahm vs. Howard, 8:30; Carroll vs. St. Mary’s, 8:30.
Wednesday, Feb. 11—Light League 2: Sorin vs. Cavanaugh, 7:30; Howard vs. St.Ed’s., 7:30; Badin vs. Lyons, 8:30. Heavy League 2: Law Club vs. Morrissey, 8:30.
Thursday, Feb. 12—Heavy-League 1: Breen - Phillips vs. Off - Campus, 7:30; Zahm vs. Carroll, 8:30. Heavy League 2: -Cavanaugh vs. Brownson, 7:30; Sorin vs. Badin, 8:30.
Rockne Memorial News
Handball, squash, swimming, and has-ketball are on the menu this week at the Rockne Memorial. Director “Tommy” Mills served a doubles handball tournament to 21 teams this Monday. Play is progressing rapidly and the winners will be crowned “champs” shortly. The priests’ handball doubles tournament commences next Monday with last year’s
winners, Father Bednar, C.S.C., and Father Enright, bracketed together again in the favorites’ role.
Mr. Mills also offers a Novice Squash tournament, which opens Monday night. Experienced players are not eligible to compete, so all beginners will have an inside chance for the top rung.
The American Red Cross will conduct a life saving course in swimming starting Feb. 16 at 7:30 p.m. The instruction period -will be 1% hours each night, five nights a week until the required 15 hours have been given.
VALENTINES
aimed straight at her heart!
. Burruel's Valentine Hanky of sheer, imported linen.
59c
Seamless Nylon Hose.
Sheer flattery!
1.65 pair
Her Favorite Perfumes: Arden, Rubinstein, others.
1.00 up
Accessories . . bags,- gloves, belts, jewelry galore!
Valentine Cards, sweet, .
. sentimental 8r flippant.
Big assortment! _ - .	/	• 5C UP
'	~	’ L -
Ellsworth’s Street Floor
26
Trackmen Meet Marquette;
Mile Relay, O'Rourke Away
Walter La Berge
Notre Dame’s trackmen will try to continue the scalping started by the basketball team when they meet Marquette in the first Irish dual meet of the season Saturday afternoon in the home gymnasium. The Irish, minus the services of their champion mile relay team and high jumper, will have a difficult afternoon disposing of the strong Hilltopper squad.
The Milwaukee runners come to Notre Dame boasting a star sprinter in their captain, Howard Mallen, - and of Hal Egbert of Gary. But when they run here at Notre Dame they will meet a squad made up for the most part of seasoned veterans who have proved their ability to run and jump.
Coach Bill Mahoney’s prize athletes will be at the Millrose games, the biggest of Madison Square Garden’s track meets over the week-end. Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta, George Schiewe, and Ray Roy will compose the mile relay team. Drake’s relay squad is entered and has a strong chance for the Millrose title, and will probably be matched against the Fordham crew, the pride of the East. Keith O’Rourke will be highly rated in the high jump. He should clear the bar as high as 6 feet 8 inches, and should place well in the ranking. His main competition, will be Mel Walker, Ohio State’s former world’s record holder.
But back on the home front, the Irish . will display a powerful team. Ollie Hunter and the rest of the distance men will be trying to show their heels to the Wisconsin men. The invaders possess and intend to display to their advantage . Chuck Gorochowski, theii' fleet half-miler.
The Hilltoppers are reputed to have two pole vaulters who regularly soar
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
over 13 feet. Notre Dame will pit Jack Wiethoff against them.
In the weight department the Irish are strong. They have Jim Delaney, one of the best shot putters in the country, who tosses the iron ball in the neighborhood of 51 feet, and holds the all-time Notre Dame record in that department. Backing up that position will be Wally Ziemba and Hercules Bereolos. These three should garner quite a few points for the home squad.
Charley Murphy will fill O’Rourke’s place in the high jump. Topping 6 ft., 4 ins., he can be counted on to turn in a good performance. Buster Hogue and Bill Nicholson, who each jump over six feet will also try to snatch some points for Notre Dame.
Veterans Bill Nicholson and Bill Dillon will skim over the hurdles for the Irish. Brehmer, Conforti, Hunter, and Maloney will run the mile, while Bill Kelly will step off the half-mile for Coach Bill Mahoney. Kelly, a sophomore, promises to develop into one of Notre Dame’s future stars. Dick Tupta, Notre Dame’s other star half-miler will be in New York and unable to compete.
Marquette will have a few established stars, but for the most part they are an unknown quantity. Notre Dame will be weakened by the loss of the boys attending the Millrose games, but they will still be very fast and powerful. The meet should be close and well worth seeing. .
The indoor schedule follows:
Valentine Gifts for Sweetheart or Mother
HANDBAGS GLOVES MANICURE SETS
Your choice gift-wrapped or wrapped for mailing.
Hans/Rintzsch
^hcp.
Michigan at Colfax
Feb. 7—Marquette at Notre Dame and Millrose Games at New York.
Feb. 14—Illinois at Champaign.
Feb. 20—Michigan at Ann Arbor.
March 6 and 7—Central Collegiate Conference at East Lansing, Mich.
March 14—Butler relays at Indianapolis.
March 21—Chicago relays at Chicago.
Corpuscles and Wedding Bells
A shadow has been cast on Joe (Captain Bligh) McArdle’s reputation for toughness and meanness. After volunteering as a donor for a friend in need of a blood transfusion, the husky “captain” fainted when pricked for a sample. Revived, and pricked again he fainted a second time. Reports do not state whether or not the friend ever did get any of the McArdle corpuscles. It could be that love softened the coach’s heart for he became engaged during the holidays to Miss Eleanor Sullivan, sister of Bill, Coach Leahy’s secretary. Bill himself was married during the holidays, and Johnny Druze was scheduled to take that step on January 24.
the
Dining Room
You will enjoy fine food — distinctive appointments and excellent service.
ORVILLE FOSTER at the ORGAN
Sunday, 12:30 to 2:00 p. m. and 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
Week days, 6:30 to 8:00 p. m.
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
27
She's sweet? Tell her so!
— some "sweet" gifts from Wyman's —
By “Faberge” PERFUME ENSEMBLE
.	#2.50
(Bottle of perfume and cologne)
Aphrodisia Chambray Straw Hat Tigris Woodhue
By “Lucien Lelong” #1.50
Flippant Whisper
ANDES CANDIES
Valentine Special
HANDKERCHIEFS Linen prints and whites '	#0.50
FLAPJACK COMPACT with initial #1.50
WYMAN'S
Ask for Miss ‘“Lil” Manion
Guilty Gourmet Admits Gastronomic Excesses
I like to eat. But I’m particular. I like to take about five lamb or pork chops and just eat the center of them. I like to take three steaks, knife a chunk from, each, and then eat the tenderest one. You can easily tell I like to eat and I’m particular about what I chew and gulp.
But now what happens?'! go to night prayer the one night and Father, tells us that they are going to start rationing our food. I decide they can’t do that to me I got to have a lot to eat. I go to see Father Cavanaugh to find out all about this rationing business.
“Now, Father, about this rationing.”
“Sit down, Stan.” Father and I are chums. He calls me ‘Stan.’ “Don’t use that word ‘rationing.’ We’re not rationing; we’re economizing. You’re going to get just as much to eat as you ever did. And probably that’s more than is good for you. This country is at war. The price of meat has gone up 60%; eggs, over a 100%. In times like these it’s a grave sin to waste food; to plaster butter up against the wall; to soak the table cloth with milk. Your university can’t afford that. We are forced by finances to make these changes, slight as they are.
“No, Stan, we’re not economizing on what goes into your mouth. We’re economizing on what is left in your glass; on the nibbled-at steaks. There is where we’re cutting down.	'
“And the changes are small. You’ll get one half-pound steak, and you’ll eat the whole thing. A sufficient amount of butter will be put at each place. Salad will be served once a day, and at the meal where the salad is lacking, two vege-, tables will fill up the gap.”
Well, anybody with a 70 in Phy. Ed. could see that Father was giving it to me straight. So I figured there isn’t anything else I can do but accept this rationing with a few more grains of salt—over my next half-pound steak. But what am I-going to do about day-light saving?
Some 20 senior accountants went into a foaming frenzy one day this past week when they were stood up by a business interviewer from New York. It seems most of the boys had put on clean shirts. “Gee, whiz,” complained Bud Murray, “I even washed behind my ears.”
❖
University of Minnesota extension division is offering a course in cartooning under Len Kleis, Chicago Tribune cartoonist.	.
- ❖
President William H._ Cowley of Hamilton college predicts the United States will be fighting in the war by Jan. 1.
WILLIAMS, The Florist
Just west of the Oliver
THE PERFECT CORSAGE FOR THE JUNIOR PROM
For your Valentine Flowers
THE
HUDDl^
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow __________  $1.50
Yeflo-Bole Regular______ 1.00
yello-Bole Imperial ___ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless --- 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor —	4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran---- 5.00
Hollycourt __________   3.50
Comoy _________________ 6.00
Corncobs__________10c and 25c
28
Physical Exams Good News to 32 Students
Attracted by the offer of a commission and a guarantee of graduation, some 65 Notre Dame students this week applied . for jobs in their Uncle Sam’s Navy.


Have fun-be friendly
Treat yourself and others to fresh-tasting Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum The Flavor Lasts
PATRONIZE ■'SCHOLASTIC' ADVERTISERS


On Monday of this week the Naval Examining Board esconced itself in the Rockne Memorial Building to give physical examinations to the hopeful applicants. The majority, 53 to be exact, were applying for commissions in the Engineering Specialist classification. Of this number, 32 passed the rigid examination.

The other 21, however, still have a chance of being accepted if the cause of their rejection was not too serious or can be easily remedied.
The remainder, 12 in number, were candidates for positions in Notre Dame’s Naval R.O.T.C. unit. Of these, eight passed. They will partially replace the 27 men who left the unit since its beginning in September.
To the Engineers, commissions in the O-V(P), E-V(P) and E-V(S) classifications looked particularly attractive. The commissions carry a pay allowance amounting to about §2200 dollars a year, appreciably more than is being paid to student engineers in industry, even in war times.—Robert E. Brooks
BOOKMEN
(Continued from page 20) O’Hara’s “Over the River and Through the Wood,” a brilliantly-done piece on the tragedy of old age. Joel Sayre’s “Love in the Snow,” is a charming little story of the pathos of adolescent love. A vivid picture of the struggling artist in the very economic society of Brooklyn is seen in Irwin Shaw’s “Main Currents of American Thought.”
Most biting of the stories is probably Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings’ “The Pelican’s Shadow,” concerning the sensitive young wife of a middle-aged scientist who refers to her as “his mouse” and to himself as “an articulate scientist.” The parallel between the domineering scientist and the flopping, loathsome pelican asserts itself so quietly that the reader does not realize its existence until the story’s climax.
James Thurber’s “The Secret Life of Walter Mitty” shows his ever-recurring male animal at his best. Inscrutable Walter Mitty, overshoed and cowed by his wife, finds release in a dream world in which he commands battleships, performs miraculous surgical operations, and bravely faces a firing squad without a handkerchief.
Robert M. Coates has two fine creative treatments of criminal psychology, “The Net,” dealing with the dull panic of a murderer, and “The Fury,” concerning extreme psychopathology. Marc Connelly’s famous “Barmecide’s Feast” is included, of course, as is Thomas Wolfe’s “Only the Dead Know Brooklyn,” easily as good as its title.
Short Stories from the New Yorker is hot for readers of The Woman’s Home Companion. It is for the intelligent reader who appreciates craftsmanship and realism in short story writing. For him it will be a quenching oasis.
—Neil J. McCarthy
29
Fencers Lose Cragin to Navy;
Beat Spartans and Purdue
Purdue became the second victim of the swift blades of the Blue and Gold last Saturday, falling by the wayside with Michigan State, to the tune of 16-11.
, After trailing, 5-4, at the end of the foil bouts, Captain Veit and his men, minus the services of Marleau Cragin, left no doubt as to their superiority in the remaining battles, winning the sabre and epee bouts by the identical scores of 6-3. Captain Frank Veit achieved the best percentage gaining three epee victories without a defeat. Herb Melton fared likewise in his two sabre bouts. John Flynn, with two victories and one loss in the epee bouts and one victory and two losses with the foil, added a valuable three points, as did Mike Humphreys, who won two sabre and one epee while losing one sabre and two epee bouts.
Coach Walter Langford was greatly encouraged by the improvement of the fellows since the Michigan State opener and he gave special words of praise to the sabre and epee men who finished the meet in such great style.
The Purdue triumph followed on the heels of the 14-13 win over a strong Spartan team in which Captain Veit’s mates surprised Coach Langford in nosing out a Michigan State team reported to be its strongest in years. In chalking up victory number one, the Blue and Gold continually came from behind to even the matches. Late in the afternoon, after 26 bouts, the scoreboard showed each team with 13. Epee men, Cragin of Notre Dame and Shepherd of Michigan State stepped on the mat for the . decisive battle of the day. After four fast points in which each man won two, Cragin came through with a typical Notre Dame finish, winning the bout 3-2
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
and giving the home team that precious 14th bout.
Although encouraged by the great fencing against Michigan State, Coach Langford can not help but feel that if this is going to be a successful season, it will undoubtedly be an - uphill fight. Sorely missed will be several of last year’s squad, namely Gaither and Harris, as well as Captain-elect Lou Peck now in the U. S. artillery. To top the loss of these men, the squad suddenly lost the services of Cragin who left for his home in Las Vegas, Nevada, between semesters and expects to enter Naval Intelligence service in the near future. His studies as a criminology major here fit
will gather in the
Emerald Room
Friday Shore Dinners complete from...—$ 1.25
Dinnerette (fish) ______________ .85
A GOOD IDEA FOR THE SUNDAY DATE SPECIAL DINNER — $1.00
OLIVER HOTEL "/7	with, foobie Men"
Emerald Room	Coffee Shop
him particularly well for this work. He had planned to enter Notre Dame’s law school this semester.
In addition to his timely epee victory, Cragin registered the best percentage on the N.D. team with three victories and no defeats, a glorious end to an Irish fencing career.
1942 Fencing Schedule
Jan. 24—Michigan State at Notre Dame
Jan. 31—Purdue at Lafayette
Feb. 7—Cincinnati at Cincinnati
Feb. 10—Illinois at Notre Dame
Feb. 21—Chicago at Chicago
Feb. 23—Ohio State at Notre Dame
March 6—Wisconsin at Madison
March 7—Marquette at Milwaukee
—Phil Keen
30
DISC-CUSSION
By Ed Roney
The prize of the week goes to Claude Thornhill for his “Autumn Nocturne.” With one of the most beautiful melodies of the last few years, Claude outdoes himself in this one with his piano hacked by some really fine reed work. In fact, Mr. Duchin had better look out, for this
BOILED DOWN -
There are 19 Trains Daily!
Don’t let timetables keep you in a stew—just remember this easy South Shore schedule to Chicago: The first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and on through until 9:30 P. M., there’s a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight.
For information call
C. W. Veach, Ticket Office 301 N. Michigan Phone 3-3111
TO CHICAGO
7 5
Phis Tax
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
Thornhill man is really selling records. One student tabbed it right by calling it a “Symphony in Embryo.” “Where Has My Little Dog Gone,” on the back, is a nifty swing number. When anyone can make something worth listening to out of that piece, he’s good—with no maybes.
For those who like Dinah Shore—and who doesn’t—she has just recorded two new numbers. “Sometimes,” the first, is the kind that you find just about that often. It drips with sentimentality and sweetness. “Blues In The Night,” on the reverse, gives Dinah that chance that she has been waiting for to give out with those low-down blues. One of her better records—and they’re all good.
If you like swing, rhythm, more swing, and more rhythm, you’ll get a solid six minutes of it from Harry James new recording. “Record Session” on the A side is a record session deluxe. Backing it up is “Nothin’ ” which is only a name for it’s really somethin’. The first one is a mixture of “In The Mood” and “Tuxedo Junction” and the second is in that style.
From straight swing we go to Freddy Martin’s newest, “Greig’s Piano Concerto.” As well done as his first concerto, this one is just a little more lively. Jack Fina is even fina than before on the piano. Backing it up is another Tschai-kowsky number, his “Serenade for Strings” played without them. This one is a beautiful waltz that spells good listening any time.
Benny Goodman is his old self again with his new recording of “Clarinet A La King.” This is just what its title implies. Coupled with it is a number you won’t forget for some time as Peggy Lee sings “How Long Has This Been Going On?” Slow, sad, and really sweet. Benny has improved a lot since he started featuring his vocalists instead of drowning them out with the orchestra.
By this time you’ve all heard Glenn Miller’s version of “The President’s Birthday Ball” by Irving Berlin. But did you know that all the proceeds from the sale of it will be divided between the President’s fund and the Red Cross? On the back is “Angels of Mercy,” an inspiring piece about the Red Cross Nurses and their work. This is a good way to support both funds and get some added enjoyment out of it.
For the novelty number of the month, try Vaughn Monroe’s “Sam, You Made The Pants Too Long.”
Due to a surprising personal request from the U. S. War Department I ask you to “KEEP ’EM FLYING.”
Answers
1.	a. Peden.
b. Letourner,
3. Vopel.
2.	The record pay for any basketeer went to Hank Greenberg when he was paid §20.00 per minute for playing with the Brooklyn Jewels.
3.	Doctor Meanwell, former head of basketball at Wisconsin.
4.	In Russia.
5.	Tex Rickard.
6.	The first rule in bob sledding states that there must be at least two women passengers on each sled.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S. Bldg.	South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST
314 J.M.S. Building	Telephone 4-3601
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER.	M. J. THORNTON.
M. D.	M.D.
PHONE 3-2805	RESIDENCE 4-1544
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bend
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST
FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2574
31
IT’S CHESTERFIELD says LOIS JANUARY Star of Stage and Screen


always Milder and Better-Tasting olWQyS Cooler-Smoking... that’s what makes Chesterfield
the steady smoke of more smokers every day. You can count on Chesterfields to give you, day in and day out, more smoking pleasure than you ever had before... So make your next pack Chesterfield and -	its right combination of the world’s finest cigarette tobaccos will go
to work to give you all you want in a cigarette
Copyrigjtt 1942. LtGGEiT & Mms Toucos Co.