Mabie, ^basne
SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 8 I, No. 5	April 14, 1944	10 Cents
APPOINTED BY THE U. S. NAVY
Get More Quality for Less in These
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
created by the U. S. Navy
$40
RAINCOATS mth removable All W)ol Linings $3750
Indiana's LARGEST
Naval Officers' Uniform House is NOT DOWN TOWN in South Bend.
It is EIGHT BLOCKS South on Michigan Street!
PRODUCED under the supervision of the Navy
Department, these uniforms fit flawlessly, are fashioned to perfection. And the low prices established by the Navy provide you with the best of all possible value.
REMEMBER! — It is not only the uniform but the Fit that Counts. You can depend on Gilbert's tailors for this expert service.
TAXI FREE!
—in South Bend Hail any cab— we pay on arrival.
THE MODERN GILBERT'S (hut Mm, TMl dutluVi'
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
OPEN
HOUSE
Saturday afternoon and Evening — and Sunday, 9 to 4
In South Bend TAXI FREE to The Modern Gilbert’s
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.	.
VOL. 81
APRIL 14, 1944
NO. 5
Endowment Figures Reveal U. N. D. Need
In light of recent Scholastic comment that students of Notre Dame should acquaint themselves with the facts of the University’s very low endowment fund, a check of the 1944 World Almanac today revealed that there are 156 American colleges and universities, including five Indiana institutions, that have endowment funds of $2,000,000 or over.
Notre Dame’s endowment fund stands close to $1,400,000, a figure that has been described as pitifully meager considering the wide scope, influence, and rating of the University.
State Schools Have Much
The Indiana schools with endowments of two million dollars or over are Butler University, at Indianapolis, 3 million dollars; DePauw University at Greencastle, $6,265,380; Indiana University, at Bloomington, $2,200,000; Rose Poly Institute at Terre Haute, $2,500,000; and Wabash College, at Crawfordsville has $2,200,000.	.
By comparative enrollment figures, the Almanac lists Butler’s enrollment as 2,663; DePauw’s enrollment as 1,503; Indiana’s as 6,411; Rose Poly as 330; and that of Wabash as 389.
Many Catholic Schools
Among the Catholic institutions represented among those with large endowments are Catholic University of America, in Washington, D.C., $3,323,398; Creighton University, in Omaha, Nebr., four million dollars; Loyola University of New Orleans, $4,800,000; Marquette, over two million dollars, and Villanova, with an endowment of $2,771,516.
The Almanac tells that Catholic University was founded in 1887, and has an enrollment of 2,000. Marquette, founded in 1881, is listed as having an enrollment of 4,197. Creighton’s enrollment is 1,319 and it was founded in 1878. Loyola University of New Orleans has an enrollment of 1,163 and was founded in 1912. Villanova, founded the same year as Notre Dame, 1842, has an enrollment of 863.
Notre Dame, whose peacetime enrollment touched around 3,200 and to make (Continued on next page)
MOVIE SCHEDULE
COLFAX
“GUNG HO!” (Universal) with Randolph Scott, Alan Curtis, J. Carroll Naish and Noah Beery, Jr. Outstanding adaptation of Carlson’s “Marine Raiders on Makin Island.” New Yorker called it one of the best “real war” pictures so far.
PALACE
“HIGHER AND HIGHER,” (RKO) with Frank Sinatra and Michele Morgan. A musical vehicle for “The Voice.” Go see it for the swooning, but don’t for much else.
“MINESWEEPER” (Paramount) with Richard Arlen and Jean Parker. Drama in the Atlantic. Both start today.
“THE LODGER” — not Roger — with Laird Cregar is coming Thursday. It’s really great for thrills.
GRANADA
“SPITFIRE” (RKO) with Leslie Howard and David Niven. A pair of Britishers in the bristling business of bombing.
“ROOKIES IN BURMA” (RKO) with Wally Brown and Alan Carney. Army troubles coated with slapstick. Both start today for a week’s run.
STATE
“OLD ACQUAINTANCE” with Bette Davis and Miriam Hopkins. Good story with clever twists. Try to make it, if you haven’t yet had the chance, today through tomorrow.
“SAHARA,” with Humphrey Bogart; “TOP MAN,” with Donald O’Connor. Both begin Sunday.
Father Cavanaugh Addresses Chicagoans
Rev. lohn I. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vicepresident of the University, spoke to a .group of northside Chicago Catholics in Chicago Wednesday night.
Subject of Father Cavanaugh’s talk was “The Hope of Liberal Education.”
Host at the meeting was Byron V. Kanaley, chairman of the University’s board of lay trustees.
Father Cavanaugh, in addition to his numerous other duties, is chairman of the board of publications.
DRILL HALL
“PHANTOM LADY” and “STANDING ROOM ONLY.” A Drill Hall experiment in double featuring. Has the “box-office” on Eddy Road been doing poorly?
WASHINGTON HALL
“THE WATCH ON THE RHINE” with Paul Lucas and Bette Davis,
8

U. N. D. ENDOWMENT
(Continued from previous page) it the largest boarding school in the country, was founded by the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., in 1842.
Big Money Elsewhere
A check of some other schools listed shows that the endowment of Harvard
University is over 154 million dollars; Yale’s endowment exceeds 106 million dollars; the University of Chicago has a fund of $71,350,268; Columbia University’s endowment is 89 million dollars; the University of Rochester has a fund of 51 million dollars; the University of Texas endowment stands at 47 million dollars; and Stanford University has an endowment of almost 31 million dollars.
Other Figures Revealing
At the same time, reports show that endowment incomes for American colleges and universities totaled $71,304,241, or, about eight million dollars more than the expense of “general administration” which has been listed as $62,826,835.
In addition, with an interesting contrast to Notre Dame, the Almanac reveals that universities and colleges receiving government aid received 151 million from state governments, 38 million dollars from federal government resources, and 24 million dollars from local governments.
Challenge to N. D.ers
These figures have been pointed out as a challenge to Notre Dame men. It has been emphasized that a lack of a sizeable endowment fund has handicapped the University in many ventures, and students and graduates have, in past, been inclined to shrug and pass off one of the greatest problems confronting Catholic education today. The University’s large enrollment, outstanding contributions in the fields of arts and letters,. science, engineering, and commerce, and its many outside influences, when considered in the light of other colleges and universities, make the present endowment figure seem appalling. Those queried have stated emphatically that men of Notre Dame should realize the problem and- attempt, in some concrete. way, to recognize it and educate others to the University’s need.
NOTICE
❖ AU Engineers will want to attend the "Engineers' Ball"	❖
•I* Date: May 5, 1944	❖
Suggestion: Get your dates now! , ❖ ❖ Dress: Semi-Formal -	, ❖
«£♦ «$» «£♦
HO HUM
I suppose by now everyone has fully recuperated from the Easter I-n-t-e-r-m-i-s-s-i-o-n; Everybody and his brother was in Chi- with quite a representation at the “Beach.” Yep, splurge we did— return we must and save we will for ahead lies another big dance.
IN REFLECTION
Overheard as the. College of New Rochelle colleens marched up Fifth Avenue midst the everlasting rain of St. Patrick’s day:
“Only the Irish would parade on a day like this.”
Which, incidentally brings back memories of another rainy day in the fall of ’41 on which another group of Irishmen marched down Fifth avenue to ride the Army mule.
In the same publication there is a little girl who by-lines her column of wit and humor with the nom de plume of “Also Rationed.”
My dear, this is leap year.
VOICE FROM THE FLEET—
Or “Ode to a CPO"
I wish I was a wittie egg, Away up on a tree;
I wish I zvas a wittie egg, As wotten as could be.
And zvhen some bonehead CPO Would start to shout at me, I’d frow my wotten wittie self And splatter down on he.
Anonymous.... It should be
MORNING AFTER
The professor rapped on his desk and shouted: “Gentlemen, Order!”
The entire class yelled, “Beer.”
OVERHEARD IN 8 O'CLOCK PHYSICS
First Trainee, “How far are you from the correct answer?”
Secoond Loafer, “Two seats.”	.	„ •	,	■ .
’	- ,	’ degree m chemistry.
—From a revengeful CPO ’ .
A 1943 bachelor of science graduate
, v , ;	of the University of Portland, Mr. Mer-
IT WAS DANDY	ryman is now doing work toward a mas-
. April Fool’s day at Purdue was quite J	ter’s degree in organic chemistry at the
a time. It seems that there was?a mixer,	University of Notre Dame.
in the Union building over which an unannounced fool presided. The students were guided to the dance by misleading signs and several unheard-of things occurred during the evening. The April Fool doorman handed out sticky lolipops to any (brave?) individual who promised to lick them. The dancers were continually stepping on guys and gals who were playing poker, bridge or any nonsensical thing that appealed to them.
... Silence is uncensorable . . .
PINK ELEPHANTS AND MOUSETRAPS
Professor: “You can’t sleep in my class.”
Frosh: “If you didn’t talk so loud I could.”
“Oh, Marie, je t’adore.”
“Shut it yourself. You opened it.”
THE LOOSE END
There was a little daschund once, So long he had no notion,
Hozv long it took to notify His tail of his emotion.
And thus it was that while his eyes Were filled with zvoe and sadness,
His little tail kept zvagging ozi Because of previous gladness.
Fellowship Goes To A Notre Dome Scholar
John Henry Merryman, 7925 North Wabash, Portland, Oregon, was one of 91 graduate students awarded fellowships’ to the University of Chicago for 1944-45, President Robert M. Hutchins announced today.
The fellowships, their total value exceeding $75,000, were granted to students representing 30 states, the District of Columbia and. nine foreign nations.
- Mr. Merryman, who was awarded one of the Eli Lilly fellowships for study in the division of. the physical sciences, will work towards his doctor of philosophy
•1
, Bust of Frank E. Hering Presented to University
By JAMES McCARTHY
One of Notre Dame’s great alumni, Frank E. Hering, Litt.B., ’98, LL.B., ’02, first football coach, outstanding athlete and scholar and later in life the national president of the Alumni Association and a member of the Board of Lay Trustees, is appropriately commemorated in the University art galleries through the generous gifts of his widow, Mrs. Claribel Hering, which include a bust and a group of significant medals.
Mr. Hering, at the time of his death, was the long time nationally known editor of the Eagles Magazine. In that prominent post he had fathered Mother’s Day, he had championed old age pensions through successful legislative channels, and he was outstanding in the active • fields of social justice. The four medals in the collection—given by Montana, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and other groups—represent Mr. Hering’s recognized leadership in these fields, and in distinguished service to America during
Letter to the Editor
Mr. David Condon, Editor The Notre Dame Scholastic Notre Dame, Ind.
Dear Mr. Condon:
In regard to your article on the Student Council in last week’s Scholastic, I would like to correct a number of misapprehensions. We feel that you were more concerned with sensationalism than with accuracy.
First, Mr. Condon, the meeting was no more shrouded with secrecy than the meetings of any other campus groups, including those of the Scholastic editorial board. Notices were posted on the bulletin boards, and the great majority were informed personally. Some of them later, for no known reason, failed to attend. This is, obviously, no reflection on the council.
The Scholastic erred in the statement that the Wranglers and the Knights of Columbus have no representatives. Both of these organizations signed up at the proper time with the assistant prefect of discipline. The Scholastic, however, failed to do so. Apparently it was less informed than the other groups—a rather unhealthy condition for a news magazine, with the world’s largest collegiate circulation.	.
The constitution of the Council was read to the members and, after several changes, was approved. It had already received approval by the prefect of disci-
World War I.
The bust is an excellent bronze, made in 1929, j'ust before Mr. Hering’s presidency of the Alumni Association, by Emory P. Seidel.
Mr. Hering, who died on July 11,1943, came to Notre Dame from the University of Chicago. He played on, captained, and coached the football team in 1896, and remained in graduate study and-coaching for three more years to establish a strong varsity football tradition. At the same time, he was a promising writer, and the Scholastic of' those years bears evidence of the power of style which marked his later editorial prominence.
Mrs. Hering’s thoughtful gift brings to Notre Dame tangible recollections of an alumnus already enshrined in the memory of the University and the alumni who knew him through his long years of loyal devotion. ’
pline. And the document is not the original production of two CAS members, as your article suggested. In fact, there seems to be, in the Scholastic story, some confusion on this point. You speak in one place of the original writers, and again you say that it is “drawn mainly from past constitutions of Notre Dame Student councils” — which latter statement is correct. There is nothing original in the constitution, except the changes made necessary by wartime conditions.
As you know, every campus organization is entitled to a representative, and the Bookmen and the CAS each have one. It is true that there are four other Bookmen on the council. But they were elected by the Glee Club, Law Club, Sorin hall, and the Commerce Forum. The fact that they are also Bookmen is only a tribute to that club, one of the most distinguished on the campus at the present time. You also mentioned that there are no monogram winners on the council. There is no longer a monogram club, and the athletes among the civilian students were as. eligible for membership as anyone else.
We hope that this note will repair the damage done by last week’s article, and that in the future the Student Council may expect more accuracy and cooperation from the Scholastic.
Joseph H. Murkane, President, Student Council
Band Concert Makes Hit
By STEPHEN LOYACANO ’
Despite the fact of violent Indiana weather, the band concert proved to be a success. * Like honey draws flies, the University band drew enough students to Washington hall last Tuesday night to fill over half the seats.
After the “Star Spangled Banner,” "Bach’s “Chorale and Fugue in G Minor” opened the program followed by the “Lustspiel Overture” by Keler-Bela. The preceding selections included such great achievements as “Huldigungsmarsch” from Grieg’s “Sigurd Jorsalfar Suite”; the very beautiful “Sleeping Beauty Waltz” by Tchaikovsky; Conrad and Madigson’s masterful collaboration — “Midnight-in Paris.” Most probably the number best liked and appreciated by the audience was the selection from “Porgy and Bess” by Gershwin. Hailed as the first real American opera, “Porgy and Bess” has gained far-reaching fame with audiences all over the world. Some of the numbers included in this rendition were: “Summertime”; “A Woman is a
■ Sometime Thing”; “I Got Plenty of Nothin’”; “Bess, You is My Woman”; “It Ain’t Necessarily So”; “Picnic Parade”; “0 Lawd, I’m on My Way.” The well - played arrangement incorporates many of the j'azz effects and ideas so very familiar and characteristic to the music of George Gershwin. -
The encores .played that night were such stirring marches as “Officer of the Day,” and “Them Basses,” a difficult and intricate composition especially for the bass tuba instruments. The concert ended with the playing of the “Victory March.”
Marine Group Graduates
Captain Finney received an invitation from Dave Curtin, class ’43, to attend the graduation exercises at Quantico, Va. last Wednesday. '
This group graduating included some of the first group of 80 that left here last Nov. 1, for Parris Island, among which were Bertelli and Curtin. A short while after that word was received hete that of the original group, 18 had made officer candidate school at Quantico. Since then the major part of the original 80 have been sent to Quantico, and are .undergoing training there.
No word has as yet been received concerning the names of thos who received their commissions of second lieutenants in the Marine Corps, but that Dave Curtin was among them is a surety.
5
^he ^Notre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
CONDONSATIONS
THE STAFF
DAVE CONDON, Editor-in-Chief
RALPH ABELL	EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Marines	Associate Editor, Navy
HAROLD BERLINER, Associate Editor, Civilian
EDITORIAL STAFF
AL LESMEZ
BILL WADDINGTON -
DICK MURPHY
BOB O'TOOLE
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -LIEUT. (J.G.) J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -JIM REGAN
BILL CARNAHAN ROBERT RIORDAN JIM FENNELLY
Observations Know Your Navy The Green Banner Introducing The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters
THOMAS PAYNE
ARTHUR WAGNER
NEWS STAFF
STEVE LOYACANO BILL THOMPSON
Managing Editor Sports Editor Circulation Promotion
JOHN KNUDSON BOB STEVENSON
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
I SEE BY the Sunday papers that there are 20 residence halls at Stephens college, in Columbia, Mo. Eleanor Nangle, Chi Trib columnist, reports that Stephens is a “one fee” college, with flight training being the only course for which there is an extra assessment. Stephens has the largest riding-school in the country, she reports.
—drc—
THE CHICAGO SUN tells that discharged war veterans will be given free tuition in the engineering college at Columbia University. The same source mentions that lack of deferment for students of engineering may be partially accountable for the drop in enrollment at the Illinois Institute of Technology. Illinois Tech has 690 Navy V-12 enrollees, the Sun says.
—drc—
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS has reported that a Yorkshire admirer of the University of Oxford shell team recently sent the team a large orange to assist the crew in conditioning for the annual race with Cambridge.
—drc—
IN SOUTH BEND last Sunday the Aquinas Library and Book shop honored the 87 th anniversary of the birth of Agnes Repplier, famous Catholic author and essayist, and winner of the University of Notre Dame Laetare medal in 1911. She is the oldest living Laetare medalist, and in the field of essay is ranked with Emerson and Lowell.
—drc—
The Associated Collegiate press reports that a special school for vocational teachers of the state will be conducted at the New Mexico Highlands University in Las Vegas from June 5 to 30, according to an announcement made by Dr. Edward Eyring, president of the university.
—drc—
The ACP further reports that Capt. Paul Rusch, for 17 years a teacher of economics at Rikkyo university in Tokyo, in a recent address in Minneapolis, Minn., said that the greatest test for the United States, with regard to the war with Japan, will come when that country, in defeat, tries to negotiate peace.
The SCHOLASTIC Announces:
The Advance Campus Ticket Sale for
THE BENGAL BOUTS (Finals Only)
April 21, 8:00 p. m.
SPECIAL RATE To civilian students, and to all in uniform who purchase tickets from cam-
(General Admission)
50 cents
(Tax included)
pus agents and hall representatives prior to date of Finals.
Otherwise — All general Admission tickets purchased at the Box Office — $1.00.
(All tickets for the Prelims and the Semi-Finals may be purchased at reduced rates only at the Box Office on the nights of those contests.)
6
Maggioli Plans Revue Composed Entirely of Marines: "Muskrat Maulers" Featured
—Photo by Renaud
Pappy Maggioli and his “Muskrat Maulers"
With the strains of “Home, Home On the Range” resounding within the passageways of Cavanaugh Hall a few weeks ago, Pappy Maggioli and his “Muskrat Maulers” made their first public appearance. So instantaneous was the popularity of this organization that many questions were asked as to their history. Therefore, in answer to the many demands, here it is.
It all began when one of the marines leaving his detachment for boot camp left his beloved guitar because of no packing space. It was discovered resting in a third deck room and at this point the talented hands of old Pappy entered the picture. He tenderly picked it up and began strumming the beautiful tune, “Pick Me Up a Purple One, Pansy” (from the picture of the same name). Thus Pappy Maggioli started on the road to musical success. Many times he picked up the strum box but-each time the music was the same but the words were different. To this repertoire he added such solid senders as “Bessie,” “Wreck of the Old 97,” and “Dan McGrew.” The popularity he enjoyed was tremendous and since he is one to give the boys what they want he collaborated with McAndrews and formed the “Penny Serenaders.” This was simply a two-man corporation with Pappy playing and McAndrews mon-.
keying. This still wasn’t what the audience wanted so the boys got together and formed the “Muskrat Maulers” an organization originally composed of seven tried-and-true musicians. This included such distinguished artists as “Hot Lips” Scotty on the tuba, U.S.O. Eg-beer on the G.I. drums, Jim Kress playing the baritone, Twardzik and his trumpet, McMaster and his slip stick, McAndrews himself on the licorice stick, and Pappy leading with his singing guitar.
The outfit proved to be such an immediate success that the audience began asking- for an act to go with the show. The two stellar senders got together and for the first time wrote a show securing the talents of one Larry Lynch, the roller skating phenom, from K. C., Mo. This satisfied their sponsors, the Chow-Hound Co. of Skirmish Stream, Mich., makers of the “Bow-Wow” dog food and Chip Chip pigeon food. .And now the act is. history.
For the future the boys are planning bigger and better things with a varsity revue composed entirely of marines. If everything goes all right, the show should prove to be a big hit. So until you hear more, just keep their slogan in mind, “Make merry with the Muskrat Maulers.”
Universal Notre Dame Night Observed Monday
Universal Notre Dame night will be observed Monday evening, April 17, throughout the United States and in some war tom shores throughout the world.
Servicemen scattered around the world have signified their intention of participating in the observance, if possible, and the key celebration for 1944 will be held in New York City, James E. Armstrong, secretary of .the Alumni Association, said.
In South Bend, the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame club will hold a dinner at 7 p.m. in the Bronzewood room of Hotel LaSalle with Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., new club chaplain’; the Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., assistant prefect of religion, and Bernard J. Voll, a member of the board of lay trustees and a graduate of the University in 1917, scheduled to speak.
Officers of the local Notre Dame club will be installed for the ensuing year. They are: J. Frank Oelhoffen, president; Eugene O’Brien, vice-president; Richard Kaczmarek, secretary; and Albert McGann, treasurer. Father Schumacher will be installed as chaplain, succeeding Father Sheedy.
Walter M. Langford, University professor, tennis and fencing coach, and retiring president of the club, will give a review of the activities during his term of office. Entertainment will be furnished by talent from Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.	.
Bookmen Hold Dinner
Members of the Bookmen, honorary campus society, met last Monday evening in the La Salle hotel at a dinner meeting to formally receive nine new members into the society.
Following the dinner, the group head Prof. R. W. Rauch, of the department of English, spoke on the works of T. S. Eliot.. Prof. Rauch said that Eliot was at one time thought a fraud, and unreal, but of late his work has been given the recognition it deserves.
The program was under the. direction of F. J. Pequigney, president of the club and Arts and Letters senior, from Galveston, Texas, and Prof. T. Bowyer Campbell, of the University department of history.	■
The nine new members, including civilians and members’of the U. S. Marine Corps reserve, were received into the club following tryouts some time ago.-
7
Know Your Navy
(Lieut, (j.g.) J. J. Collin’s supplementary notes on the “History of the United States Navy”).
Tribute paid to the Barbary Pirates. Our early relations with the Barbary Pirates make sorry reading for Americans. In 1794 our consul at Algiers was authorized to pay $800,000 to the Dey and to promise annual tribute. In the same year, John Jay sailed for England to make the treaty which bears his name. He carried instructions which we read with amazement today: “It may be represented to his British Majesty, how productive of perfect conciliation it might be to the people of the United States, if Great Britain would use her influence with the Dey of Algiers for the liberation of American citizens in captivity, and for a peace upon reasonable terms.” President George Washington and Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson, with no Navy, could do little else.
Gouverneur Morris, financier and statesman, felt that a powerful Navy would solve our problems. In 1794 he wrote, “I believe that we could maintain twelve ships of the line, perhaps twenty, with a due proportion of frigates and small vessels; and I am tolerably certain that, while the United States pursue a just and liberal conduct, with twenty sail of the line at sea, no nation on earth will dare insult us. One thing I am thoroughly convinced of, that if we do not render ourselves respectable, we shall continue to be insulted.”
We continued to pay the blackmailers. In 1796 a treaty was arranged with Tripoli at a cost of some $60,000. Others followed. The motto, “Millions for defense—but not one cent for tribute” was not taken seriously until a later date.
Joshua Humphrey (1751-1838) believed that the new vessels “should combine such qualities of strength, durability, swiftness of sailing, and force, as to render them superior to any frigate belonging to the European Powers.” His chief innovations were provisions for heavier batteries than had hitherto been attempted for frigates, much thicker scantlings, finer lines, and spars longer and stouter than those of any British frigate. The six frigates were the famous United States, Constitution, Con-
Badin Bog Causes S.O.S.
I had been in the bookstore getting a new buckle for my roller skate strap, (the old one broke while I was conducting a little experiment on combining calisthenics ■with roller skating; everything was in order during the jumpingjack and the wind-mill, but on the squatthrusts the buckle just gave up; so did I).	.
As I was saying, I was in the bookstore, and I suddenly remembered that I had to see my history prof to try to square a 0900 cut. (He probably won’t believe my story, but it was the best I could do; wrhat wmuld you do if your roommate went away and left you sleeping?)
Well, the shortest distance between two points, and all that rot; so I came out of the bookstore, took a bearing and set a course for the Administration Building. Little did I realize what I was in for as I started across the Notre Dame Moors. After going about 30 yards I was submerged.
Carroll (Charley) O’Connor . . . Syracuse (N. Y.) swab-jockey . . . one of Chief Gallagher’s V-l boys . . . looking forward to being a large sitting target on an L.S.T. . . . 4th semester Business Ad. major . . . may work for G.E. after graduation.
Odds w-ere 10-1 he wouldn’t graduate from Christian Brothers Academy . . . took last two year’s work in one year . . . football letter one year . . . worked as carpenter, life guard, cook, camp counsellor, meat clerk, truck driver, and for G.E. . . . has made three conversions . . . has a brother starting here in July.
Civilian here January ’43 . . . Navy V-l July ’43 . . . reason for navy—doesn’t like to sleep in the mud . . . lived in B.-P., Dillon, and Alumni . . . grades
stellation, President, Chesapeake, and Congress. (The President, for example, had a thicker side by one inch than the
. British 74-gun ship-of-the-line Hero.) They proved the best in the world.
Reasons for early opposition to a permanent Navy. There were several reasons for the opposition to a permanent Navy after the American. Revolution.
The treasury w’as empty and we had an
When about half-way across, I encountered a magnetic disturbance -which made my compass useless. (I figured out later it must have been the sewer pipe several feet above me.) I put up my periscope just in time to see three Middies preparing for a depth charge attack. While -wondering how they had discovered me, I sa-w that I wras leaving a -wake of bubbles. (That darn leak in my waterwings.) I was in a bad spot (any spot in Badin Bog is bad, brother!)
I rang for the engine room to order full speed ahead, but all I could get was a voice answering, “Kelly’s Pool Hall!” There was only one thing to do: I’d have to surface and make like a V-12 passing a swimming test. I wTould have gotten away with it, too, but The Hound of the Baskervilles caught up with me just as I wyas about to emerge from the swamp.
The battle w-as over shortly thereafter. The score: I lost the seat of my pants and my dignity with it; the hound lost two front teeth and the footrace -which ensued. Never did find out what happened to the Middies!
Seaman William Friday
here—“so far, so good” . . . w-as Student Commission secretary and in New- York* Club . . . still trying to pull the wool over someone’s eyes . . . details are a professional secret . . . only sports— 0615 calisthenics . . . would like three meals a day . . . chief moan—“If you don’t drink coffee, you ought to get tw’o bottles of milk!”
A South Bend girl takes most of his time . . . would like to get his w’hites back . . . met her last July . . . writes to Meg, Rhea, Jackie, Kate, Mary, Joan, and interested also in Jeanne ... a fast talker . . . sometimes too fast.
Boogie-woogie artist . . . w-ants to write music after he learns to read it . . . doesn’t like: Eleanor . . . wonders wrho washes President’s socks.
Likes to eat, drink, and sleep . . . read a book once—“World’s Best Jokes” . . . prefers funny papers and sports section . . . drinks beer . . . Drewry’s . . . developing a Milwaukee tumor . . . Rosie’s every Saturday night . . . w’ants to come back and graduate after the w’ar, if he can make graduation . . . doubts it.
overwhelming public debt. However, the most important factor w-as the prevailing notion that an army and a navy wTere dangerous to. the liberties of a republic. Even after the adoption of the Constitution, w’hen it wms evident that a Navy cost less than the annual tribute to pirates of extra insurance on ships and cargoes, the same cry of monarchism continued.	j
■	I
* . , . 1
PROMOTION
For the past few weeks vague little whispers of a rumor have been blowing about the campus which even the scuttlebutt boys have been apt to pass on with hushed and reverent tones. Well, for once it’s true! Chief Gallagher, who has become more legend than fact hereabouts is soon becoming an Ensign. We extend our heartiest congratulations to the Chief, with only one small remorse clouding the scene.
What about all those dire things which were supposed to happen when certain V-12’s became Ensigns?
1—2—3—4	’
Grace Moore may thrill the Opera fans; Frankie can swoon the girls, but when it comes to downright power and sheer volume, we absolutely defy anyone to best the candidate put forth by the Notre Dame midshipmen. The remarkable abilities of this iron-lunged individual are marveled at from the Cafeteria, where he rattles the pans, to South Bend, where the puzzled populace strolling down Michigan Street find themselves all in step. His cadence runs something like this: “Ya beep ... ya beep ... ya beep, fo, beep; ya lep . . . ya lep . . . ya lep, ri, lep . . . etc.” After a considered study by Ethylbert Amundson and C Brownson, foot regulators for Companies B and A, respectively, the secret of the midshipman is revealed: “He hasn’t a thing we haven’t got; he’s only got it twice as loud.”
ENTHUSIASM ’	‘
Yes, sir, there is nothing like it! It could be the spring air; it might be the cafeteria food; in fact it might even be the coming of summer time. Whatever the reason, however, if anyone would have told us about what happened in Alumni last Friday night we would have classed it along with such impossibilities as cheers when squad thrusts are announced, and someone asking for two helpings of fish. Four hundred Seamen can’t be wrong, however; here’s what happened:
Positively bubbling over with eagerness the budding young officer candidates residing on the third deck of Alumni Hall couldn’t wait for Saturday
to have an inspection of rooms. No sir, nothing would do but to turn on the lights, have a field day, and persuade the Chief to inspect right then. All this at 2200, naturally. To those who participated we extend profuse felicitations; ask not to make so much noise next time; and announce that you are now eligible for a new service ribbon: The green banana for broom sweeping above and beyond the call of duty. All desiring this,, cut the top off of two lockers and send them to Rudy Lopez, who will, telegraph the ribbon, consisting of three life savers hung on the green background of a cafeteria sausage, as soon as he feels like it. Danzig Cobbwhistle is now demonstrating the ribbon in 385 Dillon.
PINPOINT POISONALITIES
Charles Stan “Smudge’s” ex-girl friend made the South Bend Tribune recently ... as a bride. Smudge thinks some soldier is pretty lucky.
Tom Leahy and Bob Lee have expressed their deep regrets on Chief Jav-aleckian’s departure. They say: “We’ll sure miss his morning inspections.”
Wally Kostera has been trying to date Roy Lang’s “Millie” lately. Having any luck, Wally?
Nelson Boszuell: This independent in
Listen you guys! . . . nothing's more important than what I've got to say!
dividual has what is known as the nelson jaw. He positively defies the Company Commander concerning white stockings; has an inimitable style of marching as if he were using a pogo stick. (Info courtesy of M. Rubinelli).
Mano Rubinelli: This muscle-bound character is what is known as “One o’ dem guys from Chi.” At present a commerce man, he finds it too easy, and is thinking of switching to a Math major. Any one desiring Math tutoring, see Rube. (Info courtesy Nelson Boswell).
ACTION	***
As the V-12 program comes into its third semester of existence, more and more men who have experienced battle action are arriving at Notre Dame. We interviewed one of them this week. His name: Jack Grady, from Dillon.
Jack entered the Navy in July of 1942, and got his first dose of Navy life the cornfield way, at Bunker Hill, when this now tremendous station was nothing but just that, a cornfield. Finally boarding ship at Norfolk, he spent some time in the Atlantic, went through the Canal, and then got into real action at Tarawa. Says he: “The first hour we gave them a nine-gun salvo every (censored) seconds; the second, one every (censored) seconds.” His cruiser was the first one in at Tarawa. After this and other sea experience, Jack got his orders for V-12 on Christmas Day, 1943. “If you’re not scared in battle,” sums i:p Jack, “you are either crazy or unconscious.”
BENGAL BOUTS
Missing the Bouts at Notre Dame is like missing Gone With The Wind in Atlanta. You couldn’t see a better show for the price at Madison Square Garden. See you there!
9
Rockne Memorial, Massive Monument, Serves Through War and Peace-Builds Men
burning oil, surface-diving against strafing, and basic life-saving. All of those taking this course must pass standard swimming tests before they’re finished, the beginners spending their whole 16 week semester at it if necessary.
The thirteenth anniversary of Knute Rockne’s death last week brings to mind the impressive structure dedicated to his memory, the Rockne Memorial. Undoubtedly, “Rock” would voice instant approval of the purposes and services rendered by this massive monument insofar as he was a strong adherent to a type of creed that fostered the betterment of youth’s physical and mental nature.
Bust of the late Knute Rockne
Many years ago, the University realized the need of a larger and more up-to-date athletic plant -as the enlarging student body and the stress of intramural sports made it impossible, to accommodate all in the old fieldhouse. -Thus, the Rockne Memorial came into being. Flanking the west side of the quadrangle, the Rockne today, in a world of war, serves Notre Dame and country alike by physically equipping all trainees with the stamina and body strength that the services require.
: - Once a Playground '
Before the current conflict, the Memorial’s main duty was affording the religious, faculty, and. students with recreation, a typical playground site, but the swift change-over to wartime conditions warranted itsbeing used for training the service men; as well as offering an opportunity to others in expending their surplus energy in an-extra-curricular sort of way.	.	.	■	>
10' . ' ' '	-:J
With the advent of the Navy on the campus in 1942, it became apparent that the Rockne Memorial was ideal for the physical training requirements of the service. The Midshipmen’s School, the first active duty contingent to garner a section of the campus, demanded time on the swimming pool for beginner’s swimming instruction and life-saving lessons for the already proficient. The V-12 program, with the many Navy, Marine, and NROTC trainees, was inaugurated in July of ’43. On their program was a one hour phy-ed period five days a week.
Mr. John Scannell, head of the physical training department, working with Navy physical training instructors made a schedule to be followed by all civilians and trainees alike. In the winter months, outdoor activity being impossible, phy-ed is confined to the Rockne building. All students and Navy men are divided into classes of approximately 30 and each is assigned a training room for two weeks, meeting there every day and working on a rotating basis so that all versions of the physical build-up courses would be taken in.
Swimming Important
The student may be assigned to swimming under the regular pool instructors and Navy chiefs who teach the beginner how to swim and tutor others in the Navy strokes: elementary backstroke, side-stroke, method of swimming through
The Sailor must learn to swim — "Rock" supplies the means
After two weeks of aquatic exercise, the student goes to basketball, then to light apparatus, negotiating the horizontal ladder, does tumbling, encounters a few “Tarzan” maneuvers on the rings, and ends up with a rugged routine on the stall bars, where the emphasis is on the abdominal muscles.	'
He next moves to heavy apparatus, taking workouts on the high, low, and parallel bar, besides the horse and ropes. Boxing and wrestling follow consecutively in this organized schedule. One round of such activity does make a man fit for anything. Diversion from the “usual stuff” takes in handball, squash, and the ever-popular sun lamp which provides the “mid-winter tan.”
Official Abode
Other rooms in the Memorial hold the classrooms for the NROTC, the V-12 and NROTC executive offices, the book and clothing storerooms for the NROTC, office space for the phy-ed instructors and in addition, the show cases of the main foyer house the trophies presented Notre Dame athletic teams—past and present mementos of the stirring victories of the Fighting Irish era.
The daily mecca for all students on campus, the Rockne Memorial is a versatile setting, a noteworthy aid to the Navy and a beautiful tribute to Notre Dame and her illustrious son, Knute Rockne.
gj	ttiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiitiKiiiinimiigg mm ।
i Marine Murmurs
INFORMATION PLEASE
Of the week-end’s escapades the field trip of Ross, Newgard, and Barsalou rate special mention. These boys, not content with the classroom and textbook description of industry, sallied forth to rub elbows with workers making products of special interest to them. While at the brewery, they found the workers most congenial, their product fascinating—somewhat confusing after so much “study”—and, incidentally, a delightful refreshment for the grueling task of inspecting the plant.
Marines are seriously considering unionizing if Ernie “Early Bird” Ki-visto gains control here at N.D. “He’s a good fellow,” the men say, “but his cries of ‘fall out for calisthenics’ at 07:00 Sunday hardly meet with our approval, even when accompanied by demonstrations of tumbling to show his willingness for a seven-day week.”
Speaking of control, Co. Commander Okleshin has his problem of being master in the chow line. “It wouldn’t be so bad if just my problem-boy Chick got ahead, but when he. brings along his little playmates, Perko and McLaughlin, well, you know, three, make a crowd.”
Hubert Hicks, famous for his “She begged and pleaded but I wouldn’t do it,” finally broke down Saturday evening. She talked him into it. By the time . the drummer had beat the beat, Hubert was a master at dancing the polka.
The throngs at the door of the Lynches have, in their number, autograph hounds; but the majority are talent scouts camping until Larry signs a contract. Seriously though, hats are tipped to Larry for his performance on the stage at the Oriental Theatre in Chicago last week-end. If he had performed on skates, there’d been no news; but a demonstration on the net, well, that’s O.K/ . . . and on the solid side/it’s said.
FASHION NOTES.... or
VOGUES FOR ROGUES
The Easter wardrobe of the average Cavanaugh man showed definite evidence of military influence. The graceful lines of the majority of the Marines were accented by such flattering cuts as displayed by William (Moose) Nelligan who chose for the Easter Parade a gay forest green pattern that blends be-
witchingly with the fresh green of spring at Notre Dame. Equally alluring is the intriguing suit of Bob Murphy whose gay green fabric is the essence of the spring mood. Supply Sergeant Blunt, whose department supplies many of the Cavanaugh Marines with their latest ensembles, states that there is a prevailing tendency to choose such airy millinery as the sonnet-inspiring bonnet of “Hoot” Gibson. The simplicity of his new creation is strikingly similar to those garrison caps worn by some non-commissioned officers. The sheer white hosiery which was the campus rage among the Marines last summer will maintain its popularity for this season. The sweet simplicity of the coiffures (haircuts to 1 you) reflect the carefree spirit of early April. Outstanding among the hair-dos is that of Bruce Butler. It needs merely a brush to look as sleek and lustrous as the best. The footwear problem, has been cleverly solved by such smart selections as those of Pat Wilson and “Putt” Puttman. The sleek lines of these slippers are the essence of the light-hearted tread of their wearer. Colors predominating this season’s shirts are solids, khaki, with finely woven cotton cravats to match. Costome jewelry, boutonnieres, and accessories will be at a minimum ... a few of . the more distinguished of the group choosing multicolored ribbons and silver pins to add a distinctive touch to their ensemble. As infinite care and painstaking effort were spent by all in making selections for the annual display of finery, they will rejoice to learn that fashion experts thought their styles to be the vogue for many months; some hint for the duration.
Chaplains on Campus
(Editor’s Note; From the' Executive Office of the Navy V-12 Program, comes the request that the folloiving notice be printed in the SCHOLASTIC.)
By arrangement with the Council of United Churches of St. Joseph’s County, ministers of different denominations have volunteered their time to serve as civilian chaplains for advice and council to any trainee desiring to consult them.
t
These chaplains will be present in the visiting room adjacent to the Discipline Office, USNRMS, in the west wing of Howard Hall, in accordance .with, the following schedule:	~	- /	7
April 15, 2:30-3:30:. Rev. T. M. Green. hoe, pastor, Sunnyside Presbyterian <
Church.	.	7^	. . _,
April 16, 5:00-6 :00: Rev; T; M. Greenhoe.	.	'’7-7’"	'
April 22, 2:30-3:30: Rev. C. C. Bosse, pastor, River Park Methodist Church.
April 23, 5:00-6:00: Rev. M. C. Hoefer, pastor, St. Peter’s Evangelical and Re- / . formed Church, South Bend.
April 29, 2:30-3:30: Rev. F. E. Davison, pastor, First Christian Church,. South Bend.	...
April 30, 5:00-6:00: Rev. F. E. Davison. '	.	. 7	, .
Nine Game Schedule For Racketeers Announced
By DAVE CONDON “Scholastic" Editor .
If Walter Langford, University tennis coach, is .smiling more than usual today, it is because there are about 101 mentors in America who would like to have either Chuck Sampson or Jerry Evert on their tennis squads.	.
You’ve guessed the reason already—. Langford has both Sampson and Evert, 7-and his only difficulty, at present, is de- ' ciding which of the lads will occupy the number one berth on the Irish net team.,
By way of introduction, Sampson is the hard driving Wichita, Kans., boy -who last spring played the No. twa slot for Ohio State, and led the Notre Dame summer team when he came here with the V-12. Jerry Evert, on the other.hand, came down from Chicago with advance notices. The notices all concerned young Evert’s prowess, but it is a matter of record that he is the younger partner of the Evert tennis family. The senior member of the firm will be remembered as Jimmy Evert,; who led the Irish tennis squad: last year and who currently is ranked as no. 11 in these wide United States. ’	:	.
About 30 candidates for the tennis team have been working out under Langford’s supervision each day, and all are gunned for the opener against Northwestern, at Evanston, next Friday afternoon. The schedule winds up the week of June 26 -with the national intercollegiate championships at Northwestern.
The schedule:	. \
April 28—Northwestern at Evanston ■
- April 29—Wisconsin at Madison ’	’.	/
May 6—Michigan at Notre Dame. .	.. .'
' May 11—Chicago at Notre Dame .	■ . 7 ~ 7 "J-
May 13—DePauw at Greencastle	. -May 13—Indiana at Greencastle .	.	-	-' 7-
■ May 16—Western Michigan at Notre Dame . - 7- . June 3—Western Michigan at Kalamazoo - . • . . / June 10—DePauw at Notre Dame .	-	/ . •
June 26 to July 1—National Intercollegiate tennis
. tournament. Evanston.	'7. ~
11 7
Official Baseball Schedule Opens Tomorrow;
Indiana to be First Hurdle for Klinemen
win the pennant. He hopes that the White Sox can get into the World Series also—but only so that his Cubs can give them a real beating.
ai
tl
For the first time in ten days, the ND Diamond Strutters last Thursday breathed in the ozone as they slammed out hits and shagged flies in the great outdoors. Although there has still not been any hurling and batting under actual game conditions, brief batting practice drills have helped bring back the team’s collective batting eye. The fielding, which showed up very strong inside, also sparkled outside.
This week, Coach Kline released for the first time his starting lineup against Indiana at Bloomington tomorrow. It is Phil Reither, first: Dick Balbreiz, second; Bob Klein, short: Ken Manarik, at the hot corner; Tom Sheehan, behind the bat; Jack Mayo, right field; and Len Scarpelli, center. Left field is still an open fight between Gilhooley, Whittingham, Flanagan and LaJohne. Frank Zieminski powerful right-handed blond bombshell will start the first game. Another right-handed, ex-Bengalese fighter, Bob Martin, will handle the twirling chores of the second game. Lammers and Johnson will be on hand if needed. Although the pitching looks promising, the men are short of experience. Johnson, who is from Great Lakes, has had a couple of years experience in organized baseball. As yet he is having a little trouble getting back into shape and acquiring control of his fast ball. Lammers is a civilian freshman without much experience, but is coming right along. Zieminski and Martin played for the unofficial Notre Dame varsity last summer
The batting order will be about evenly-divided between left-handers, Reither, Mayo, Scarpelli and Gilhooley, who hit from port side, and orthodox hitters, Tom Sheehan and Bob Klein will be depended upon for some timely hitting and Phil Reither looks as though he can lay the wood to the horsehide effectivelv. Scarpelli, a dash man at Santa Clara, is a speed merchant on the bases as well as in the outfield. Four of the starters will be newcomers to Notre Dame, diamond competition. They are: Phil Reither, a marine from St. Louis University; Dick Balbreiz, from the University of Rochester; Ken -Manarik, from- Great . Lakes and Lewis Institute;-and whoever plays left field, either Frank. Gilhooley, - well known varsity basketball player,
Flanagan, varsity football player, Bob Whittingham from Ohio State, or Joe LaJohne.Bob Klein and Tom Shee- -han are returning Notre Dame varsity men.. Consequently, Notre Dame is pre-
12 .	. -a-.? ; a •/ . - ■
senting a nation wide lineup, ranging from Santa Clara, California to Rochester, New York. Indiana will be a tough hurdle. They have had the benefit of many brisk workouts with the Cleveland Indians, who undoubtedly have taught them many of the tricks of the trade. In addition, their starting pitcher, “Lefty” Spence held the powerful semi - Big League Great Lakes team hitters for seven innings last year. The Klinemen are ready and eager, however, to display their mettle and give the Hoosiers a surprise.
JOHN PATANE
John Patane, better known as “Poo” by his V-12 friends in Alumni Hall, is a veteran of last year’s Bengal bouts but he is seeking his first championship in this year’s matches. Last year he had the misfortune of meeting Bob Lee in one of the early’ rounds of the 145 pound class when Bob was having a good night and was thus eliminated. With a little added weight, John is competing in the 155 division this year.


By John Power
Ek
....EJ
BOB LEE
Bob Lee, last year’s champion in the 145 pound class, is one of the few Bengal winners who will be defending his championship in this year’s event. Bob, a V-12 trainee, has Cicero, Ill. as his home town and is at present in his fifth semester here in the College of Commerce.
Bob attended St. Bede’s High school in Peru, Ill., where he was a member of the boxing team for four years. He started out in the 112 pound class but each year he jumped a division or two until he was in the 135 pound class in his .. senior year. He now boxes in the 145 division.
He fulfilled a boyhood ambition when he enrolled here in September 1942 as a . civilian student. He later was assigned .
to the V-12 program here and is at present in his last semester. He expects to enter Midshipmen’s School upon comple- . tion. of this semester. Bob, of course, has ; been one of the leading members of the Commerce Forum. In last year’s Bengal bouts he scored one knockout and was . the winner in . his . other bouts by decisions. . ;	'
Although, boxing is the sport in which he excels, Bob is also a tennis player of sonie ability. He enjoys watching football games, particularly when Notre Dame is playing. His favorite boxer is ■ Pittsburgh’s Billy. Conn. Since he lives . Y right next to Chicago it is only natural that he follow one of the Chicago basebalk teams—and he does. He pulls for the ... / . Chicago Cubs every .year and he thinks .. that this may be the vear for them to
it t( li S
h b, w E sc h;
“Poo” came to Notre Dame from LaSalle Academy in Philadelphia where he was a member of the track team. He was also a member of the French and Camera Clubs. His home is in Glenside, a suburb of Philadelphia. He is in his fifth semester in the College of Arts and Let- . ters. His favorite subject here thus far has been psychology’-. After this semester .he expects to enter Midshipmen’s School..
One of John’s favorite pastimes is roller skating. He used to enjoy’ “pleasure riding” but that’s out now. His favorite meal must include chicken. His
favorite athlete is Harold
Mc-
Spaden who is the professional in Germantown, Pa. “Poo” is also a charter member of the “Bad Barbers Union” in Alumni Hall.
After the war “Poo” expects to join his father in a Real Estate and Insur-
McGRATH.....
McCORMICK
MURPHY.
LEAHY.....

ir y G w P tc
SI di cl st hi tc
al ir
P< in
B
di
SEMI-FIbM
DAUGHERTY.
PETANE....
KINNEY.. ROEMER
135 PjpN .... S .... ......
.....’S ....
145 PfjN
...'S --.. 'S ....
155 PJJN
..... -
-....S -
165 P>PN
.... AS ....
CUTT... ASHLEY
COTTON.. MEDOWS.
175 P|JN . IS ... .....'S .... HEAVAjTK
... AS ...
C - : ;	. ADMSSIC
Students and Uniformed Men ——
Visitors (General Admission) ---
; Ringside (For All) .-._____1---
ance Agency. Business will really boom then for the firm.	.
WILLIAM ROEMER
d n d it ri e
Bill Roemer, second-semester freshman in the College of Commerce, is expected to be one of the leading contenders in the 160-pound class. Bill makes his home in South Bend.
In high school Bill played both baseball and basketball. He was also a member of the Student Activity Council, and was a class officer in his sophomore year. He was graduated from Adams High school. Born on June 16, 1926, Bill will have to start planning for military service in another couple of months.
Bill started boxing in his senior year in high school as a welterweight. This year in February he competed in the Golden Gloves tournament in the middleweight division. He captured the championship in South Bend to gain the right to represent that city in Gary, Ind. He • succeeded in reaching the finals of his division. He was forced to default the championship because of the pressure of studies here at school which prevented him from traveling a second time down to Gary.
Bill takes a keen interest in following all sports, particularly baseball and boxing. His favorite athlete is John “Pepper” Martin, who is making a comeback in major league baseball this season. Bill’s favorite dish is pork and beans. (Needless to say he doesn’t eat in the
dining hall.)
I
IbAL GARD I ■	'
P>JjNDS
. 'S ............... DUNN
.	..........  DEBETTITO
PgJNDS
J'S 		...ENGBERSON	z
AS	.-...		BURNS	Z
PlJjNDS		z
A§ 			  AMATO	
			.... BLAIR	z
P)UNDS		z
. A§ - .2	 .....	...... O’PARKER	=
. AS		....ARNOLD	z
PflJNDS	' _ >	=
. AS 	2				CRITTER	
. AS 	..........		KELLEY	
VlfTIGHT		
. ^S 						VENNING	:
AS 					FORD	:
1		
MISSION	:		
1 * ■■	... ; r * * *		$ .25 . . 			 .50	I
r	■	. ...	  1.00	=
		■s
Roaring Bengal Preliminaries Set Stage
For 14 Fistic Clashes in Semi-Fiiial Round
❖ ROSS TO REFEREE FINALS ❖
❖ According to word received from ❖ ❖ New York, yesterday. Sergeant Bar- ❖
ney Ross will be on hand to referee ❖ ❖ the “Finals," April 21.	❖
The Bengal Bouts preliminary schedule was completed on Wednesday night and with the usual fistic action, that marks each year’s renewal, there was a good brand of boxing displayed with an emphasis of talent in the 145 lb. class. Tonight’s card brings on fourteen bouts of the semi-final fixture that finds all the boxers eyeing the finals a week from tonight. The curtain rises at 8:00 p.m.
Summaries of the preliminaries:
TUESDAY
145 lb.—Jim Masterson, Dillon	-
Louis Kontras, Zahm
This was a closely contested bout with plenty of blows on both sides but a decision was given to Kontras as his last round aggressiveness proved good.
155 lb.—Jim Dougherty, Alumni
Vance Shaw, Zahm
Dougherty started out with a salvo of fists and landed plenty of good punches to make an impressive start. Both men exchanged evenly throughout the second frame. Shaw came through with a shower in the last after feeling out his opponent with a good defense throughout but Dougherty got the decision.
145 lb.—Neal Harrington, Alumni .
Tom Nowlen, Alumni
Harrington, a southpaw, got plenty of right-hand from Nowlen in all three rounds and was signaled out in 1’15" of the third on. a .TKO after being floored. ;	.
145 lb.—Bob Hagriauer, Dillon . . „ ,
Bill Dwyer,’Dillon ' -	,
Dwyer, a leftie, was pounded in the opening round with several rights while failing* to land few effective blows. Adding much, to his prestige, .'Hagriauer won- after > -	1' 55" of the second when the ref-
- eree stopped the match.
165 lb.—Don Kinney, Cavanaugh	.	.
Bob Tracey, Cavanaugh
Kinney developed a bloody nose in , the second as Tracey landed some stiff punches but Kinney’s comeback and persistence gave him the bout.	.
165 lb.—Dick Uphoff, Cavanaugh; won on default over Joe Lessard ,	.
WEDNESDAY
145 lb.—Tom Bums, St. Edwards
Tom Mahoney, Dillon	.
Both- boxers exchanged punches evenly feeling each other out. Ma- ? honey went to work tri the second round to count points. Burns’ all-around punching and boxing ability took the match.
145 lb.—Louis Kontras, Zahm
John Murphy, Alumni	. .
Murphy started off with a first-round attack but Kontras came back with a little fistic skill in the second frame to even things up. A closely contended third round saw the decision going to John Murphy.	.
145 lb.—Tom Nowlen, Alumni . .
Ray Engberson, Cavanaugh
Nowlen, a second-time performer
in as many nights, found it a Jit- =
• tie tougher against Engberson and _ was plenty stunned in the second round. Engberson added more solid blows to raise his prestige . . in the 145 class and finally TKO’d . Nowlen in 1'15" of the third.
145 lb.—Bob Hagnauer, Dillon
* Jim Leahy, Dillon ’	• . .	.. -
Jim Leahy knocked out Hagnauer,. a first-night repeater, in 1'57" of /.
. the first to score the first official. . knockout of this year’s renewal of <	.
the Bengals.	;	. •
155 1b.—Jim Dougherty, Alumni
. John Stanfill, Alumni -
: Both boys floored each other in the <	’
opener, Stanfill going down again -j'.-in the second as both continued to exchange hard punches. Tiring in .,	;
the * late stages, Stanfill landed/ some heavy blows that caused a: 2	-
(Continued on page 16) . _ *?/ . • S? 'r-
-/	■	'13	\
Bengal Finals Next Friday to Feature Trophy, Surprises, Music; Intermission Act is Secret
Promoter Bob O’Toole has virtually completed all arrangements for the Finals of the Bengal Bouts — even to the minor but necessary details of popcorn and peanut venders — scheduled for the Fieldhouse, next Friday evening.
Huddle To Award Trophy
Following a precedent established many years ago, the “Huddle,” local campus emporium of all good things to eat and drink “in a hurry,” has again announced the awarding of a trophy to the Bengal Fighter who manifests the most sportsman-like conduct in the ring during the tourney.
While Mr. Ford, manager of the “Huddle,” is somewhat new to the campus, he is yet most eager to follow in the line of the best Notre" Dame traditions. When informed by Promoter O’Toole of the “Huddle” tradition of awarding a trophy, Mr. Ford assumed the honor, no less than the financial bur-
opinion at least, will make fans forget all about the manly art of fisticuffs. He was unwilling to give details: preferring to keep as a secret what he had prepared, that it might be all the more pleasantly received when the surprise was unfolded. However, he did intimate that flying tackles would appear tame when compared to the antics of his troupe of groaners.
“I just hope we don’t frighten the audience,” Murphy confided to Promoter O’Toole, when he outlined his plans. “We shall give them a treat in the form of a spectacle they are not likely to forget in a long while. It isn’t as scientific as judo, perhaps, but it is spectacular, and little short of death defying. Those sitting near the ring will have to be careful, lest things get out of control, and the audience itself becomes a casualty.”
Each year, at the Intermission, the Bengal Bouts Finals have regaled the audience with an act that invariably is the antithesis of the serious business of boxing. This year’s treat promises to be as laugh provoking and as entertaining as anything yet devised.
force for the Bengal Bouts Finals, Promoter Bob O’Toole announced this week.
Although the band is somewhat smaller than in previous years, the concert given in Washington Hall on Tuesday evening more than satisfied the audience, and gave an excellent account of itself. The selections were colorful and well balanced, and were received accordingly.
For the Finals, the band will take a position much in the manner it did at several basketball games, this winter. The selections promised by Mr. Hope will be of a light nature, including for the most part numbers well known on the campus, replete with rollicking airs, and of a nature that encourages community participation. Stirring favorites of the various branches of the service will be intermingled with folk songs and humorous airs, thus giving the audience reason to participate.
“The Finals would not be complete without music,” cautioned Promoter O’Toole. “Therefore Mr. Hope, who is more than eager to help make the show a complete success, has promised to hold up his end of the entertainment. This promise will more than add flavor to the event which already appears to be replete with excitement.”
Tickets for Finals on Sale
den involved, and expressed eagerness to cooperate in every way in order to make the fights a success. Contacts were immediately made with the Balfour Company of Attleboro, Mass., and assur-
- ances were received that the emblem would arrive in time for presentation sometime during the tourney.
' The trophy is to be awarded, according to Promoter O’Toole, by the honorary referee of the tourney, on the night of the Finals. All entrants ■ are eligible to comprise the list from which the winner will be selected, regardless of the amount of time spent in the ring, or the number of contests won. Not infrequently, the judges have selected a man who never reached the Finals. .
Should the trophy arrive early, it will be . placed on display at the Huddle.
Intermission to Feature Groans Galore
According to Dick Murphy, chairman of entertainment for the intermission, the Bengal Finals will provide the customers with some of. the'fanciest groaning that has ever rocked the walls of the local Fieldhouse. For the. past three weeks, Murphy has been considering va- -rious intermission suggestions,, arid now has decided upon an act that, in his own
14 '
Finals to Have Music
With H. Lee Hope wielding his baton, the University band will turn out in full
A lucky punch, a soft spot, a count, . . . the Winnah!
Under supervision of ticket chairman, Tom Bremer, tickets for the Bengal Finals went on sale, last Tuesday, at (Continued on Page 18)
gxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxx
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
The cafeteria has made a change for the better. Instead of facing towards Ball Band when we fall in line for our bacon and eggs, we now look in the direction of Bendix. No longer is it necessary to use a knife and fork when cutting one’s gravy. A knife is now suih-cient. Our meat and potatoes are still warm when we finally locate a table, and the strength in the soup has not entirely settled at the bottom of the bowl.
A simple change made all of this possible: the coffee cauldrons and the cash register were moved from their East end location to the same position in the western end. It’s too bad this insignificant change was not made ages ago. Especially with the cold-cuts season coming up. Perhaps the bread will now be a little stale, but that small inconvenience cannot compare with the good that has been accomplished.- Mr. Ford, you have made a warm meal possible for Cafe society. We doff our hats in your praise!
The politicians of West Virginia and Indiana certainly wish Herb Coleman would settle down. He’s back and forth between the Snake and Hoosier states so often, that they find it difficult to decide his citizenship.
Ensign Bud Kuhn, resplendent in his new uniform, also 'paid us a visit over Saturday and Sunday. “I’m very pleased with my orders,” was the only information we could dig out of the Senior class prexy — of the class of 1943.
Bill Brezenski, Bob Murray and Joe Kelly, freshman operators from Breen-Phillips, claim that they have the phone numbers and addresses of so many local lassies, that they don’t know what to do with them all. Hmmm, could be that they have access to the files at the Service Men’s Center. Our second guess is that they swiped a whole phone book, Mishawaka included.	‘
When we first heard of the July, 4th demolition bomb being set off in Breen-Phillips, we thought it was “La Raza” practicing, to blow up. the Dome. They cleared themselves of all charges, however, and the University would appreciate it, if the real culprits would donate, the remainder of their ammunition to the war effort. No questions will be asked.
>♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
M
Sam Rizk claims that if his roommate doesn’t stop talking in his sleep, he’ll be “paying through the nose” for the rest of his life.
Frank Kuzniar and Steve Layocano had to discontinue their partnership, as roommates. They both have “Mary Lou’s” as girl friends and were continually confusing their guests when speaking of the brighter side of their respective lives. The usual question was “And whose Mary Lou are we speaking of now?”
There was a rumor, one of many, floating around last week, that St. Mary’s had experienced a fire, and that some N.D. men went over to assist in putting it out. It took the boys about an hour to get the fire out, and St. Mary’s faculty five hours to get the boys out.
Jim Cantion asked Ed Fisher if he had ever read Esquire. Replied Ed seri
I do hope automobiles will come back! Next thing you know, she'll be asking me to don a suit oi armor.
ously: “And since when did they have writing in Esquire?”
Brownsonites, Bob Bidney, Bill Cahill and Fred Davis, spent an evening in South Bend “trying , to get acquainted.” Checking over their results on the last returning bus, they . computated their box scores as follows: No runs, no hits, and twenty-two “Misses.”
Whose picture is that in football attire on Walt (Publicity Man) Kennedy’s desk? . . , Walter Barbue, ex. ’45, and a naval air cadet, dropped in Monday. He-informs us that he’s finally learned how to study. . . . Creighton Miller has a cousin. . . . ’Nuff said on that score. ... “Tex” Brickson, 6' 2" and 210 lbs. freshman, has a hobby ... he builds model airplanes. . . . Les Alberici may remind some people of John Garfield, but we’ve seen better heads on nickel beers. ... Dancing at the Hoffmann has been curtailed. ... Yep, the new beverage tax on places of entertainment was the cause. Wonder what effect it will have on their patronage? ... The engineers are planning a University dance for some time next month. . . . Attention Frank Pellitteri: take a closer look at your watch. Any timepiece costing §10,-000, whether it belonged to Frank Sinatra or not, must have an alarm on it.
ySELiWS
Pressbox Splinters
dark SGrenAr-voasT, coach of The Pitts-u--A-. tfvssw football Team, -will be one .of the speakers at the annua] Purdue University w»nrhA1 Amir to be held this -gs^-arg; 27 Lafayette... Coach Shaugh-->«gy wf2 speak on his favorite topic -The rrmcple of the T Formation’" at the -rp" sesacm. Saturday, April 15.... 7~--s -uark fhe second time in as -r^^y -g-eAr= tw h= has lectured on his with pp=n ~anyhdng-Ean-happen’’ system -sr-5tm he beherss is the football of
These, tales, the ~~~ of which was giver ar a three day dime at Pittsburgh Urfv-ershy before 409 Eastern coaches, are primarily -deshnter to wean high savors roarhes from the firmly en-trenchea uersr power system football. .___Eer-.-m.dky Urfv-ersty's basketball ream that defeated the Irish at Louisville last season has been picked as the no. 3 v-- -of de rarhr by the Helms Ath-jes5r 7-1—m Lrs Angeles.
The Embed States ~MTHtary Academy as West Pamr was given top ranking while the Utes of Utah University were rhesen to tempy the Na 2 slot.____Coach Addf Hmm. who has been the Wildcats mentor fur 14 years won the Founda-uhs's 1P~ seferdnn for its hall of fame. ___________________________________George Mikam, 5 ft. 5 in. 230 pound renter of Ue Pad University, who fig
ured in the Blue Demon win over the Irish at the Chicago Stadium last season, was proclaimed “Player of the Year” by the Foundation.
The Illinois Institute of Technology has discovered a method to keep the
home town basketball fans happy. —
The system is simple: when you have a -winning team let the fans see it, if you have a losing team you don't let the fans see it.... Last season the Techawks played its first home game, before spectators since Pearl Harbor, having always played in an armory which was closed to the public.... But when a winning team came along they “suddenly discovered” a new court.
The man power shortage doesn't hold
any terrors for Henry rrnka coach of
the Tulsa University football team._____ Coach Frnka has a spring training squad that numbers three deep at every position though all are a little green on experience. ______________________________Purdue University's baseball schedule just released lists 20 games, ten of them against Big Ten opponents. .... The Boilermakers meet the Irish twice this season playing host at Lafayette on May 6 and appearing here at Notre Dame. June 17.
The greatest football play ever witnessed by the late Knute Bockne occurred
.jo	t —r *	LI
Gabel
^122 n x z2.2.2.zixzxxxizzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzztxzzzzzztzzzi z zzr; X	H
X	X
2	JOSIE and JIM'S	2
| flNNY ITALY CALL s X	.	-	.	X
X	X
X	z-x	X
x	(9 vsA	M
X	X
X	X
X	X
X ’	M
5 NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS PLACE 2
X . .	X
X	X
X	SUNNY ITALY	x
w	M
w	601 N. NILES	x
x	PHONE 3-0678	x
x	x
£	«
2	A TRADITION AT NOTRE DAME	2
X	— ~ ' --- -- - -N ■ ■ - ..T-Nr- - -	X
x - -t. .	.. H	x
x SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Oft! §
2	. '-u ■	x
in the Notre Dame-Indiana tilt played in Indianapolis in 1920. He based his decision on the quick thinking and perfectly executed maneuver involved in the play. .... The setting for the play: Score 10-7 in favor- of Indiana, less than 60 seconds to play, Notre Dame’s ball, fourth down and the ball one yard from the Indiana goal line. Joe Brandy, the Irish quarterback, called for a quarterback sneak.... George Gipp, the left halfback, turned away from the crouched Indiana line and called, “Hold it a minute Joe, my headgear’s caught.” . . . Every Hoosier eye turned to watch him as he, with deliberate motions, proceeded to remove the helmet. As they did the ball was snapped, the Irish line charged shoulder to shoulder and Brandy fell over the goal line for the winning touchdown.
Down Memory Lane.... 20 years ago this week.... Sports Item “Winning four games in six starts, the Notre Dame baseball team finished its annual spring training trip at Calumet, and arrived back at school Sunday. The Terriers (A common nickname for Notre Dame teams in the ’20s) won their opening game against Georgia Tech 4-3, and then swung into . Knoxville, Tenn., where Coach George Keogan’s charges dropped a 7-2 decision to the University of Tennessee. ... April, 1924.... Results of the
DePauw University track meet.... 100 yard dash, first.... third, Elmer Layden; Javelin third, Elmer Layden.... April, 1934.... “Athletic Director Elmer Layden and track coach John Nicholson plan National Interscholastic. Track Meet.”... Signs of the Times.... April 1934— “Jake Kline, Irish baseball mentor believes this baseball season will be a great success.... Hugh Devore is slated to play left field.”.... “Rev. George Hold-erith, C.S.C., golf coach, has released the spring schedule. Vince Fehlig will captain the team.” ... “The LaRaza club will play the South Bend Blue Jays in a soccer game on Sunday.”—And believe it or not, it was all printed ten years ago... Randolph Field, which stayed in the national headlines last fall with a gridiron
the /lebie ^bame BOOKSTORE
*	Rings	* Bookends
•	Stationery	e Pillows
•	Cards	* Toilet Articles
mnnrixxxxrxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxinixxiiiixziixiiixm’
record that included a 7-7 tie with mighty Texas University in the Cotton . Bowl, will play Big Time football next season. — Glenn Dobbs, who spear-headed the Ramblers attack, is now at Officers’ Training School and probably, won’t be back but there is plenty bf material around to help the cause in a schedule that includes Rice and Texas universities plus some of the top service teams in the country.
Campus Centenary Publications - Notre Dame—100 Years_______$4.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. O’Donnell______$2.50
... at the Bookstore
South Bend's Oldest Custom Tailors
-We cordially invite all SPECIALISTS to inspect our wide variety of materials, from which you may fill your future requirements for Officers' Uniforms. All garments are tailored to your measure, whites and greys included.
THE COMMODORE CAP, expressly styled by Parker-Winterrowd, with genuine Beaver crown and 4% gold chin strap, .10 carat gold and Sterling silver device, with two Van Husen white crowns, at S18.50 ’
PARKER-WINTERROWD
I 15% N. Main Street (Upstairs)	North of Oliver Hotel
17
BENGAL FINALS TO FEATURE TROPHY ' (Continued from page 14)
various campus spots and in neighboring South Bend.
On the campus, the places deemed most popular and more easily accessible were the Huddle, the Cafe, and the Bookstore. The Publications Office has confined itself largely to mail orders.
Within each hall, a ticket captain has been canvassing the rooms, seeing to it that campus residents get the first choice of tickets for the limited crowd that can be accommodated. There is also an element of economy which has had more than a little to do with brisk sale of tickets, since those in uniform and the undergraduate students who purchase Finals tickets prior to April 21, may purchase them at bargain rates. The privileges of these bargain rates have likewise been extended dates of the students and men in uniform.
In the downtown section, tickets have been placed on sale at a number of stores indicated by large white placards placed in the show windows. Bargain rates are, however, confined to campus agencies.
White Navy Hats Here Again— a la Clorox
By SEAMAN BILL OYLER
“0 I could write a sonnet
About your nice white bonnet And of the ivork you’re going to do To keep that hat looking like new.”
Bring out the soap and Clorox, mates. White hats are now in season! Hoping that the order would become effective on April first about the ides of March, I began singing “I’m Dreaming of a White Hat,” removed my white fedoras from the dark, smelly recesses of my dress shoes, where they had been functioning admirably as shoe trees, and immersed them (the hats, not the shoes) in billowy suds of Rinso. Gleefully the suds tobogganed down the crown of each white hat; so happy were the bits of dirt that each and every one dove into the water and went swimming; whereupon, I pulled my hats from the water and let the dirt drown. The lovely things were then bathed in soothing, bleaching Clorox, removed from the magic potion, reverently carried to the window and placed in the rays of rollicking sunshine,
which peeked from around every speck of dirt on the windows to behold those true harbingers of spring, sailors white hats.
Some of you dry land sailors may think this elation is foolish. It is not. It is as exciting as having a baby — I mean becoming a father (ask the man who is one). As for white hats: “Ask the man who owns one.” Even the civilians eagerly await the day when the fleet comes ashore in white hats — the women go wild (oh, man) and their flirty flirty eyes stare at those nifty nifty guys. Drop into any room at Notre Dame. Do you think the topic of conversation is women? No. It is and has been about white hats. Farmers wait until they see those hats before they lay the seed of an infant crop to feed upon the earth’s sweet flowing breast. The honorable gentlemen of Congress have been locked in noisy harangues as each member attempted to prove that his hat prognostication date would be correct. No military matter is so fettered with secrecy as the official date for the first-wearing of the sailor’s Panama. .The V-12 Marines are misquoting Browning by saying, “Oh to be in the Navy, now that white hats are here.”
Have a “Coke” = So glad you’re back again

...or welcoming a home-coming sailor Fighting men look forward to that home-world where friendliness and hospitality are summed up in the familiar phrase Have a “Coke”. Be sure and get Coca-Cola for your icebox at home. From Atlanta to the Seven Seas, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,— has become a global symbol of good will and of good living.
BOTTIS) UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
“Cokers Coca-Cola It’snatural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called ifCbke”.
18
Art Giraldi—Fleetman, Has Unique Record
By SEAMAN JOHN J. CAHILL
Born and reared in the Bohemian atmosphere of Greenwich Village, Art Giraldi joined the Naval Reserves on Oct. 7, 1940. His first experience of navy life was at the combination boot camp and radio school at Noroton Heights. This was during the era when the reserves were not appreciated and they trained in makeshift boot camps.
Leaving school, Art went to the Destroyer Base at San Diego for assignment. There he boarded the U. S. S. Wharton for transportation to Pearl Harbor, and after arriving there he went aboard his ship, the fighting U. S. S. Boise. His 29 months of active duty included quite a bit of Asiatic duty, Southwestern Pacific duty, African duty and the intermittent shuttling back and forth with the occasional layover for overhaul at the Navy Yards.
While on liberty, Art wears five campaign ribbons on his dress jumper. Having been in before the fatal day at Pearl Harbor, he rates the American Defense Ribbon, plus a star for active duty. Incidentally, the blitz found him barely out of Manila Bay. He has a Good Conduct Award, the Asiatic Pacific ribbon, with stars denoting the Battle of Cape Esperance and other Solomon Island engagements, The American Theatre ribbon, starless, and the Middle Eastern ribbon, with stars for action in the Sicilian invasion and action off Gela.
His tour of duty brought him across the Equator so many times it would take a calculator to add them all up, and the number of crossings of the International Date Line adds up to six. Thus, he is a member of the Golden Dragons, as well as a shell-back. In the line of duty he made liberties in Bombay, Tjilatjab and Saerobaja in Java, Manila, Honolulu, Darwin, .Melbourne, Freemantle, Colum-bo, Pago Pago, Bora Bora in the Society Group, Panama, Algiers, Oran, Noumea, Espirito “Sasparilla,” Vila Efati, as well as other ports both Stateside and abroad.
The Boise was one of the fighting ships of the Navy. In the Battle of Cape Esperance, she was cited for being influential in the destruction of six enemy warships. She also received a citation from General Eisenhower.
One of his most vivid memories is. the cheers, of fellow sailors as the.victorious Boise came back after Cape Esperance.
. He recalls that it was rather hot at his battle station during the battle. ...
/

Marine Coms Photo.
8^J'S1*!
Communications men on every front are getting the message through,” stringing U	D 7	D D
wires, repairing breaks, keeping the circuits working. They even use captured enemy wires and pole lines.
Maintaining dependable communications at home is the Bell System’s wartime job. And Bell Telephone Laboratories’ scientists, on war assignment now, will one day turn again to peacetime work—making this country’s telephone service the best in the world.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
War calls keep Long Distance lines busy ... That’s why your call may be delayed.
19
OFFICER'S - PAK
. Navy or Khaki Weight under 6 Pounds
$21.30
(Tax included)
Also available at J. B. SIMPSON, Inc. 205 N. Main St.
Carries necessary uniforms and accessories.
NAME IN GOLD FREE
HansARintzsch
(uyyaye Shop
Michigan and Colfax
At a Notre Dame Bus Stop
"Lady in the Dark" is Confusing to Critic
By SEAMAN DAVID H. ARMSTRONG
To those who saw Moss Hart’s magni-, ficent musical show “Lady in the Dark,” the Hollywood reproduction must provide a bit of a let down. The perfectionists of the movie capitol ran riot in technicolor fantasy, but the picture was far better in the technical sense than in the dramatic. It was beautiful, lush, and all too often a bit dull.
The show centers around brilliant, successful Liza Elliot who has sacrificed femininity and romance on the altar of business success. But Miss Elliot begins to yearn for the things she has missed and unfolds her problems to a psychoanalyst. Then come the dreams cloaked in all the lustre Hollywood can obtain for $3,000,000. The poor girl is certainly confused for a while and gives the psychoanalyst some elaborate problems to unravel. But all ends well when the career girl falls into the arms of her. advertising manager, the only man more masculine than she.
Considering the great success of the stage play starring Gertrude Lawrence, it is hard to evaluate the film without comparing “Lady in the Dark” in the two mediums. The plots were almost identical which is indeed something for which to be thankful. To compare Ginger
Rogers and Gertrude Lawrence as Liza Elliot is more difficult. It takes a greater imagination than mine to imagine Ginger Rogers as a business woman, and as an actress Miss Rogers will never approach the perfection of Gertrude Lawrence. However, Ginger deserves praise for her splendid handling of The Saga of Jenny. The Rogers’ legs and voice made good when she sang the clever story of the girl who always made up her mind. It was the one time when we forgot for a moment the superiority of Miss Lawrence’s acting. Ginger tried hard and did admirably, but when she was fully clothed, even in a $20,000 mink dress, she was trying to fill the footsteps of a master.
With all the plush and decoration that was thrown around with so much abandon, the plot became confused and lifeless. It was easily a case of too much of muchness. The director’s motive seemed to be to make the show so lush and gaudy as to dazzle the audience into submission. In the building of bigger and better dreams, the excellent dialogue that added sparkle to the stage play was sadly neglected. Even the usually hilarious Mischa Auer turned the part of the refreshingly temperamental photographer into a complete bore. Ray Milland did admirably in the part of the advertising manager, Randy Johnson, who leads Ginger out of the dark. And Warner Baxter does as well keeping Ginger in. A lot of competent work was done in the background but the personality of Gertrude Lawrence and the sparkling wit of the original version were sadly lacking.
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R.R.
SIX CONVENIENT CHICAGO STATIONS
The South Shore takes you direct to downtown Chicago. Six convenient stations — Kensington, 63rd St., 53rd St., Roosevelt Road, Van Buren St., and Randolph St. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
20
OBSERVATIONS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY, USNR
1.	Types of candidacy available for regular screening into advanced phases of V-12: This week begins the classifying of the 315 seamen and Marines now in their second semester of college. They will know by the end of the present term to which of the upper-level specialties they have been assigned, and will receive advance notice of their orders about two weeks before the last day of examinations. Their own statement of first, second, and third preferences is given serious consideration by the Bureau of Naval Personnel, and, provided their grades and achievement test scores seem to support their choices, they are assigned what they request from among the 16 specialties onen to seamen and xhe six open to Marines. The chief changes in the available candidacies this term as compared with last are these: 1. no opening in NROTC Business Administration. but continued openings in NROTC General and Engineering; 2. only those men already in V-5 or V-12a may request to be classified as aviation candidates; no openings at this time in general engineering and none for physics majors. There are still 7 known kinds of engineering open and also aerology, in addition to NROTC Engineering. There are openings in the Supply Corps, and Deck, as usual. The Marines may request assignment as Line Officer Candidates. If specialists, they will be considered for one of several kinds of engineering: electrical, electrical and electronics, civil, mechanical, mining. These opportunities in the Marine Corps are not open to seamen, but are open only to enlisted Marines.
2.	Naval Officer Training Schools
Three new officer- training schools, with a combined capacity of nearly 6,000 men, opened in March to accommodate graduates of the Navy V-12 Program as well as increased numbers of enlisted men from the fleet who are being given officer training.
The new schools are:
U. S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen School, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., with a capacity of 800 students.
Naval Training School (Indoctrination), Camp Macdonough, Plattsburg, N. Y., with a class of 2,000.
U. S. Naval V-12 Pre-Midshipmen School, Asbury Park, N. J., with approximately 2,500 students.
The present reserve midshipmen training capacity is not large enough to absorb immediately all V-12 graduates as they complete their courses. As of March 1, 6,075 young men finished the required number of semesters at the 131 V-12 units and are eligible for reserve midshipmen training.
Lieut. S. L. Beatty, USNR
Consequently, some 2,500 of these students will receive varying periods of preliminary training at the Asbury Park school and will be transferred to one of the Reserve midshipmen schools as new classes open. In addition to the new schools, there are three U.S.N.R. midshipmen schools for men — Columbia University, New York; Northwestern University, Chicago; and University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Reserve midshipmen are also trained at the U. S. Naval Academy.
Small groups from among, the recent V-12 graduates will be given special training for Staff Corps duties rather than be sent to the regular deck-duty midshipmen schools. For this, 175 have been selected for the U. S. Construction Training Center, Camp Peary, Va., for training leading to commissions in the Civil Engineering Corps. A unit of 180 men has been selected for the Harvard Supply Corps School, Cambridge. After four months reserve midshipmen training, those who successfully complete the prescribed course will be commissioned and continue training as officers for eight months more. An additional 320 men will be assigned to Supply Corps billets pending further assignments to four months midshipmen training at the Harvard Supply Corps School or U. S.
I HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL Z SUCCESS DEPEND ON Z YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS £ APPEARANCE. LET OUR Z
TRAINED GRADUATES = EXAMINE YOUR HAIR Z AND SCALP. ..TREAT £ THE REAL CAUSE OF = RECEDING HAIRLINE. x FREE EXAMINATION. - • TREATMENTS $1.00.	£
Phone 4-1481	1
i HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP i
PliinmiiitiimiiuiiiiiiHiiiiMiiittiiiiiiiiiiiuiitunmuiiitiiminifSI
R«iiiiitiiitiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiinnii|7| |	BUY WITH CONFIDENCE	|
|	at	|
=	South Bend’s Leading Jeweler	=
=	A wide selection of	|
1	Desirable Gifts	I
=	on display.	|
S	Use our lay-away plan.	=
f^iiiiiiHimimiiiiiiiiitiiiminiiiuiiiiiiiitiiimuiiiiitiiitiiiniiniffl
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE. D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bldg.
South Bend. Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661 702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER .	DENTISTS
503 Shetland Building
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Shetland Building L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton', M.D.
21
TXXZXXXXXXZXXXXXXXXXXXZXZXX1
Greeting Cards
Artists' Supplies
Picture Framing
I. W. LOWER CO.
DECORATORS
128 N. Michigan Street (Across from the Frances Shop)
XXXXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
GOLF CLUBS	|
H	BASEBALL GLOVES	|
1	BASEBALL BATS	A
I	SOFT BALLS AND BATS	§
1	TENNIS RACQUETS	I
1	FISHING TACKLE	8
I	*	1
|	Goldsmith and Spalding	A
5	Distributors	§
SONNEBORN'S SPORT SHOP I
|	121 W. Colfax Ave.	|
S2222222222222222Z22222222222222222222222222222222222X
1	Campus Centenary	1
| Publications I
= Notre Dame—100 Years$4.00 e
E Collected Poems of	i
E Charles L. O'Donnell_________$2.50 E
. | ... at the Bookstore I
Fii>iiiiiiiniHimiinimiminiiiiimtniiiiiminiiiiitninniiiti>iiij7|
Navy Supply Corps School at Wellesley College.
Since the inception of the reserve midshipmen training program in 1940, 32,000 officers have received their commissions as ensigns in the U.S.N.R. after completing the rigid four-months training course. Many of the early graduates now hold the rank of lieutenant.
Graduates of these schools are serving on all types of ships, in all areas of the world and have participated in all major U. S. Naval engagements since the war started. They have received every type of decoration for valor and courage, including the Medal of Honor. Many of them now have their own commands at sea, primarily on landing craft and patrol craft.
•	3. New Cadets in U. S. Coast Guard .
Nation-wide competitive examinations of approved applicants will be held 10 and 11 May, and a class of about 150 cadets will begin the three-year course which leads to commission as ensign in the Regular Coast Guard. The new class will begin about 15 July 1944. Seamen and Marines who filed their applications on 15 March and civilians are eligible to take the examinations. Six men from this V-12 unit filed applications.
4. Lectures and Musical Programs Open to V-12 Men	.
All V-12 men on this station should appreciate the advance programs of musicians, lecturers, artists, and publicists published in last week’s Scholastic in an article prepared by Father Connerton who is in charge of University programs of this kind. In Rear Admiral Randall Jacobs’ address at Columbia University last May, the Chief of Naval Personnel said: “This is a college program. Its primary purpose is to give prospective naval officers the benefits of college education in those areas most needed by the Navy. We desire, insofar as possible, to preserve the normal pattern of college life.' We hope that the colleges will; give regular academic credit for" all or most of the Navy courses, and we desire that college faculties enforce all necessary regulations to keep academic standards high.
“We are contracting not merely for classroom, dormitory, and mess-hall space and for a stipulated amount of instruction, but for.the highest teaching skill, the best judgment, and the soundest administration of which the colleges . are capable. We desire our students to. , have the benefits of faculty counseling, . of extra-curricular activities — in short, the best undergraduate education the colleges can offer.”
V-12 men can not make good use of the many facilities of the University of Notre Dame for their education in the sense recommended by Vice Admiral Jacobs unless they hear good music and mature public speakers with special experience and knowledge in their art or craft- or public service. Father Connerton. has stated. that the University is providing the programs for the benefit of all the students and staff at Notre Dame, and that the Navy is paying the admission for Navy trainees who attend the programs. Watch the bulletin boards and the Scholastic for the program- of coming events. The executive officer of V-12 has authorized the attendance of trainees who wish to go and who will’ maintain their academic work at a satisfactory level. In courses, in personal reading, and in public lectures as well as in hearing good music, a Naval student can enrich his personal . resources and gain the kind of education that will make him a better citizen and a better member of the nation’s armed forces.
Former N. D. Coach is
Now at Navy Pre-Flight
Athens, Ga., April 14—Lieut, (jg) William P. Mahoney, USNR, on leave of absence as head coach of track at Notre Dame, recently rejoined the staff at the U. S. Navy Pre-Flight School here, after 15 months service at Del Monte (Calif.) Pre-Flight. He will aid in the military training of the 2,000 Naval aviation cadets.
Appointed head track coach at Notre Dame at the age of 23, Lieut. Mahoney was the youngest major college head coach in the country. He captained the track team there in 1938, and was presi-. dent of the student body.
A member of the bars of Arizona and Indiana, he has practiced law in both states. His father, W. P. Mahoney, lives at 1505 Cherry Lynn Drive, Phoenix.
Bill Lawless Weds
Ensign William B. Lawless, jr., for the past year editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, was married last week to Miss Jeanne Offermann. The bride is a graduate of St. Mary’s Academy, Holy Cross, Ind. and Marymount College, .Tarrytown. Ensign Lawless, who maintained a high scholastic average while in school, was a member of the first Notre Dame NROTC class to be graduated. At the present time he is a supply officer aboard the U. S. S. President Polk, a destroyer escort. .
OUTFITTED BY SIMPSON	WALINGER PHOTO
Nagual	U I l~O	°/ (Muznacteb
— CUSTOM TAILORED —
Thousands of Naval Officers from coast to coast	•
and on every fighting front proudly wear Simpson .
Uniforms. Our aim is to give every officer such	-	.	. -
splendid value and service, he will remember	.
Simpson Clothes for his civilian needs after glor-	.
.	ious victory has been won!	• '	-
Branch Shops from shore to shore assure you of prompt, efficient service on your	.
Simpson Uniforms, regardless of where	'	-
• you may be stationed.
BLUES — WHITES — GREYS
*	•	Caps — Accessories
. ’ YOUR SATISFACTION GUARANTEED	■
J. I. HHI H S. Inc.
205 N. Main St. South Bend
. “Located just across the street from 'SWEENEY'S SHAMROCK'"
23
Bill I IIMa—M—agl^1MKM CHESTERFIELD
l WHEN THEY GET CHESTERFIELDS On fighting fronts the world around andfrom smokers all over America you hear... Chesterfields are Milder, they sure Taste Better. Yes, join the big swing to Chesterfield and make the most of your Smoking Pleasure.
It’s Chesterfield’s Right Combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos that makes the difference.
■	NOT * SLOGAN .
..	. vf j -BUT AFACT •/;;
Copyright 1944, Liggett & Mrtfs Tobacco Co.
SCHOLASTIC
ft
A
Vol. 81, No. 6

April 21, 1944

10 Cents
lieMaal tyi*uzu>
Largest College Newsweekly Circulation in the World.
Sgt. Barney Ross, Former Lightweight and Welterweight Champ, Honorary Referee
• Engineers' Ball May 5
9 Council Holds Meeting
t
• Miller Awarded Trophy
-I

^he SNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1S67
EDITORIAL
<
’ i
*

THE STAFF
DAVE CONDON, Editor-in-Chief
RALPH ABELL	EDWARD MADDEN
Associate Editor, Marines	Associate Editor, Navy
HAROLD BERLINER, Associate Editor, Civilian
EDITORIAL STAFF
AL LESMEZ BILL WADDINGTON -DICK MURPHY BOB O'TOOLE
Managing Editor
Sports Editor Circulation
Promotion
GIVE THEM A HAND
This business of staging the Bengal Bouts is a complicated and onerous one; a task that would become very difficult, were it not for the splendid cooperation of a number of men about the campus who have shown themselves very generous in the tasks assigned to them — even more so in the services which they volunteered. Therefore we think it fitting to acknowledge this gracious cooperation. If the Scholastic succeeds, this evening, in bringing the Bengal Bouts to a successful conclusion, it will be due largely to the efforts of: Mr. John Scannell who supervised training and technicalities of staging the bouts; Mr. Jack McAllister who prepared the gymnasium for the staging of the bouts; Sergeant Joe Santos and Chief Bob Robertson who instructed the boxers; “Scrap” Young who attended the boxers as trainer; Mr. Herbert Jones and John Donnelly who managed the box office; Manager Ford of the Dining-Halls for his contribution of the Sjwrts-manship Trophy; Mr. H. Lee Hope and his band; Mr. Tom Bremer who managed the ticket sale; The University Ushers for their generous assistance in handling the crowds at both the Semi-Finals and the Finals; our advertisers who made possible the program; all the officials who donated their time and skill in assisting at the bouts; the C.A.S. for managing the concession; the fighters themselves who are the “show;” Because of the labors and cooperation of all these people, the Scholastic is grateful, and promises you a thrilling evening of skill and excitement.—Robert O’Toole, Promoter. .
i
J
"i
A
!
5
4
COLUMNISTS
LIEUT. S. L. BEATTY -LIEUT. (J.G.) J. J. COLLINS JIM CASEY -JIM REGAN BILL CARNAHAN ROBERT RIORDAN JIM FENNELLY
Observations
Know Your Navy
The Green Banner
Introducing
The College Parade Man About the Campus Pressbox Splinters
THOMAS PAYNE
ARTHUR WAGNER
N E WS STAFF
STEVE LOYACANO BILL THOMPSON
JOHN KNUDSON
BOB STEVENSON
PHOTOGRAPHY
AL SHAEFER CHARLES RENAUD JOE HALLER
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY, C.S.C. - Faculty Advisor
. Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los - Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty time during the school year at the University of Notre Dame.’Address .all manuscript .to the Editor, 121 Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana; -	.	, •	‘
2	.
WHERE SHALL WE GO?
A preview of the lectures and musicales that are coming to Notre Dame appeared in the Scholastic two weeks ago. The list included three fine artists: Claudio Arrau, Bishop Yu Pin, and Vivian Della Chiesa. Any person at the University who attends one, two or all of these attractions will be delighted with his own good judgment. For taking time off from the humdrum of life’s routine work in order to enjoy the fine arts' refreshes a person’s mind and lessens its humdrum plodding.
. The cultural activities of service men and civilians need not be confined to the University, however..Chicago, which is available on -weekends," abounds with art institutes, museums, theatres, and numerous other places, suiting individual tastes. Then, too, South Bend is a haven of opportunity for men on. mid-week-liberty. Among its attractions are the Northern Indiana :Histprical Museum, 112 South-La Fayette Boulevard; .moving pictures’, with an occasional legitimate production; churches; book stores; and’ the public library. Even browsing in antique shops is often fun arid profitable.
. Finally, you can use. your, own ingenuity. If everyone would add one more place of - “entertainment” to dur list, its value to everyone . would grow Immensely.—Edward Madden