CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY:
I
J
IN JUNE IN JULY IN AUGUST
<1
NO CARRYING CHARGE
Vs
FINE QUALITY SPORT SHIRTS
at savings of
Jr.

Stock up now on America’s finest quality sport shirts . . . save exactly one-half! You’ll find solid colors, handsome patterns, brand new styles in sizes to fit all men. Charge it the Campus Shop way.


On the Campus—Notre Dame
SUITS, TOPCOATS AND SPORTCOATS
at savings of
1/4
Save up to one-half on America’s finest clothing, suits, topcoats and sportcoats from our regular stock ... in sizes to fit all men. Stock up now while selections are complete. . . . Charge it the Campus Shop way.
^GILBERTS dampug^hop
On the Campus—Noirt Dmt
On Campus MaxShulman
(Author of “I TFas a Teen-age Dwarf” "The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)
THE SEARCH FOR BRIDEY SIGAFOOS
It was a dullish evening at the Theta house. The pledges were down in the catacombs; the actives were sacked out upstairs, not doing much of anything. Mary Ellen Krumbald was sticking pins in an effigy of the housemother: Evelyn Zinsmaster was welding a manhole cover to her charm bracelet: Algelica McKeesport was writing a letter to Fabian in blood. Like I say, it was a dullish evening.
Suddenly Dolores Vladnay stood up and stamped her foot. “Chaps,” she said to her sorors, “this is too yawn-making! Let’s do something gay and mad and gasp-making. Anybody got an idea?”
“No,” said the sorors, shaking their little sausage curls.
“Think, chaps, think!” said Dolores and passed Marlboro cigarettes to everybody, for if there ever was a smoke to start you thinking, it is mild and flavorful Marlboro! Things come clear when you puff that good, clean smoke through that
fine filter—knots untie,
dilemmas dissolve, problems evaporate, cobwebs vanish, fog disperses, and the benevolent sun pours radiance on a new and dewy world. Oh, happy world! Oh, Marlboro! Oh, soft pack! Oh, flip-top box! Oh, get some already!
Now Geraldine Quidnunc, her drooping brain cells revivified by a good Marlboro, leapt up and cried, “Oh, I have a perfect gasser of of an idea! Let’s hypnotize somebody!” “Oh, capital!” cried the sorors. “Oh, tingle-making!”
At this point, in walked a young pledge named Alice Bluegown. “Excuse me, mistresses,” said she, tugging her forelock, “I have finished making your beds, doing your homework, and ironing your pleats.
* * *
We,' the makers of Marlboro, have our doubts about this story. About cigarettes, however, we hold these truths to be self-evident: Marlboro for filter smokers, Philip Morris for non-filter smokers. Try some.
4
Will there be anything else?”
“Yes,” snapped Dolores Vladnay. “When I count to three, you will be hypnotized.”
“Yes, excellency,” said Alice, bobbing a curtsey.
“One, two, three,” said Dolores.
Alice promptly went into a trance.
“Go back,” said Dolores, “back into your childhood. Go back to your fifth birthday, back to your birth, to before your birth, to your last incarnation . .. Now, who are you?”
“My name is Bridey Sigafoos,” said Alice. “The year is 1818, and I am in County Cork.”
"Coo!” said the sorors.
“How old are you?” asked Dolores.
“I am seven,” said Alice.
‘ ‘Where is your mother?” asked Dolores.
“I don’t know,” said Alice. “She got sold at the fair last year.”
“Coo!” said the sorors.
“Tell us about yourself,” said Dolores.
“I am five feet tall,” said Alice. “I have brown eyes, and I weigh 3200 pounds.”
“Coo!” said the sorors.
“Isn’t that rather heavy for a girl?” said Dolores.
“Who’s a girl?” said Alice. “I’m a black and white guernsey.”
“Coo!” said the sorors.
“Moo!” said Bridey Sigafoos.
© 1960 Max Shulman
EXPRESSED OPINION
Editor:	j
I commend Mr. Rose on both of his ; articles in the Feb. 12 issue of the Scholastic. And I muse with disap- ; pointment while considering that, if the ' quality of his articles is any criterion for value judgment, it is indeed regret- t table that certain other of his efforts have been stifled.
J. Michael Kelly e , 320 Badin
HAIL CHRISTOPHER!
Editor:	. t
By the devious ways best known to God and the Postmaster General, my copy of the January 22 Scholastic was delayed until this morning [February “ 16].
But I will not carp at that, since 'when 'r j it did arrive, it contained Mr. Foley’s | brilliant pastiche a la Plato.	*
Congratulations. This is the finest piece of collegiate humor which it has ever been my pleasure to read.
Let us see more — much more — of “ this capable author’s work.
Marion Crane * , Lafayette, Ind.
MISUNDERSTANDING	j
Editor:
“It should be made clear that the > award (patriotism award to Mr. Nixon) is not an official act of the University, -and is instead a free choice of the senior class.” (Quote from Associate Editor Charles Tausche’s story in the January 15 Scholastic). It would seem from this statement that the invitation extended to Mr. Nixon was not the action of the University, but rather one of the senior class alone. There seems $( to be a contradiction here as the Scholastic editor has pointed out that > “The Vice President is here as an official guest of the University.” (“Com- < mentary,” February 19). I believe these statements speak for themselves and should stimulate much thought as to ; just who are responsible agents and un-der what circumstances responsibility should be admitted to.
Further, let us not sacrifice the seniors’ graduation to establish Notre ' Dame as the center of Catholic life. Inviting political heads to the campus is (Continued on page 11)
The SCHOLASTIC is entered as second class mail at Notre Dame, Indiana, at a special postage rate authorized June 23, 1918. The magazine is a member of the Catholic School Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. It is represented for National Advertising by National Advertising Service and by Don Spencer, College Magazines Corp., 420 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the SCHOLASTIC is . printed at the Ave Maria Press. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year. Please address all manuscripts to the Editors, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC.
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
>	- / I--?.; ; -	-
I Vol. 101 No. 16
FEBRUARY 26, 1960
THE SUBLIME SUBLIMATED: The editors of the Scholastic regret very much that the insert entitled “Casual Reading for Fun and Profit” did not appear in last week’s issue as announced in “Commentary.” The Ave Maida Press, printers of the magazine, were instructed to include the alumni-sponsored contribution, but due to an unfortunate mistake failed to do so. This week our fingers are crossed that the article will appear, and our hope is that the delay will not decrease from its interest to our readers.
Founded 1867	■
* * ’ editor-in-chief	’
RONALD BLUBAUGH
associate editors	' ’
E. (TED) THOMPSON	i
" CHARLES TAUSCHE	!
*	news editor and staff	;
ROY RUBELI	1
Wade Clarke .	,
Arthur Graham	:
. Thomas Weiss	;
*	features editor and staff	‘
f, CHARLES RIECK	' ■
Francis Smith	J
Thomas Sullivan William Sweeney	-J
'	• William Veeder -	,
r	sports editor and staff	i
THOMAS ROSE . J
~ William Cary	.
' X (Jay) Kilroy	. -
copy editor and staff	i
’	WALTER RUDGE	j
George Casey Peter Geniesse	;
Thomas Marciniak ’ ' ':
art editor .	5
* JERRY FLORENT	i
"	- .• ' i
photographer	. <
WALTER DALY, Jr.	'•
business manager and staff
* ROBERT HORN	i
c Thomas Carey	.
‘ Joseph Finnigan .	; : d
circulation manager LAWRENCE LEACH
: moderator	• • •- J
REV. CHARLES CAREY, c.s.c.
' news reporters	_ - £!
'	Philip Larrabee .	’
-’.J	John Ohala	. ,
Thomas Schlereth
. J '	William Sparks . .. . ■ . .
^ sports reporters S John Bechtold •? --
S-j -'V'--."' Jerry Hewitt '
.■ ■'j :j-. " George Varis .. ?/ - 7 ‘1 T^	t
ad salesmen/ IfM^^RicKarft
ON THE VICE PRESIDENT: For those of us who had an opportunity to speak with Mr. Nixon when he was here on campus recently, it was, indeed, a perplexing experience. How do you judge such a man? A politician to the core, his words and actions were polished and perfected, well-chosen and effective. He presented the appearance of a forceful man and put forward the political essentials of a firm handshake with a confident grip. And yet it is so difficult to really see into the man. Between this stem figure and the reporter at his side, something of a barrier exists. He knows so well what to say and he says it with such perfection that it doesn’t really seem to mean anything. Yet, although his words carry little, there is still something behind him that strikes home. His casual humor would make him “just one of the fellows” but his dignity cuts him off from the rest and it is not what he says but how he says it that makes the impression. He is at the same time the man who lives next door and your boss. He is friendly but stem, warm yet reserved. He is what the American press and mass communications have made him: a leader with ideas and convictions who must be reserved in their presentation lest he give offense. Some observers of the political scene have said that today’s President must be a personality first and a leader second. Possibly this is a valid analysis, for a casual meeting with the Vice President would surely indicate that it is so. Recalling Walter Trohan’s article in an earlier Scholastic, we have certainly had it brought home to us how very difficult it will be for the voters to make an intelligent choice in 1960. It is hard to vote for the real man when it is impossible to even know him. And if the voter marks his ballot according to the personality a name conjures up, we wonder which personality he is voting for. The real one (if it can be found) or that “one of the fellows” dignity which candidates of both parties now share.
RESIDENCE WITH FRESHMEN: Under current discussion among some of the student government leaders and the Blue Circle is a plan which would put about 40 seniors in the freshmen halls. These seniors would act as student advisors and counselors and help the younger students over theii- roughest year. Such a plan already exists in a number of universities, both state and private. Partial scholarships are granted for the service and so there is a remuneration for all that is given up. From the outside, however, we tend to be a little skeptical of the idea since at Notre Dame there are already prefects living on the floors. We do not see what these students could accomplish that the priests do not. Nevertheless, we will watch the plan with the greatest of interest and we certainly hope that it proves to be a success.
FESTIVE WEEK: Tonight at 9 p.m. the annual Mardi Gras festival will get under way with the Mardi Gras Ball in the New Dining Hall. Saturday evening the carnival will be held in the Drill Hall, climaxing Tuesday with the drawing of the names of the winners of two prize automobiles. Under the excellent management of this year’s committee, the 1960 prelenten celebration appears to be finer than ever. The ball is the only function of the school year being held in the New Dining Hall which, except for the problem of decorations, is the most pleasant dance floor on campus. Not only this, but the well-managed carnival will be slightly revamped to provide better and more imaginative booths and games of chance. All in all the event shapes up to be very enjoyable, and we urge everyone to take part, even those who were deeply saddened by their failure to make the lottery list for the dance.
SMOOTH SAILING: The visit of Mr. Nixon here this week was handled excellently by the Washington Day Exercise committee and the University’s department of public information. With swarms of local and state police in addition to the Secret Service men, who walked about with little white pins on their lapels and conspicuous bulges under their coats, the job was even more difficult. The entire visit went very smoothly, and our only hope is that if the President does come to address the commencement audience, his stay on campus will be handled as well.
—B. T. & T.
5
B
j
EEBB
□bebe ____ sansas
ME BE man smnsBBBBB EBBS DEB E3EE0 BBG1SBBBB0 0SH ana dbbqb IBEBG1B anHEQBE -□shbhee Bane □HWEannc anas HEES BBS GISEIEI
assn anas bbed ebbs
At the Theaters
Back Page
Campus Scene
I±|V
an
HlO
tQMSNVlGDM
Commentary
Critical Horizons
WDL KROSSWORD
ACROSS
1. Small orchestra
5. Spring is here
8. Jukebox maw
12.	Kools are on 	everywhere
13.	Affectionately (2 words)
15.	Overstated somewhat
16.	Lover of Tin Pan music? .
17.	When to make time, obviously (3 words)
19.	Calf's culmination
20.	Dodger’s first name
21.	Garden-variety girl
22.	longa, vita brevis
23.	How you feel while smoking a Kool
28. Charles Trenet song hit
30.	NatColeinParis
31.	Go it alone
32.	Giving in a little
34.	Half a pack of Kools
35.	Where Halifax is (abbr.)
36.	Resistance unit
37.	Religious groups 40. What’s meant by student body?
42.	Hi, 50th state!
43.	Not a requisite for rock ’n* roll
44.	Reaction to no checkin the mail
45.	Villa d’___
46.	Unload
47.	Hardy heroine
DOWN
1.	Sonja Henie’s home town
2.	One doesn’t make a shower
3.	Comes after 2
Down, naturally
4.	Ibsen girl
5.	They send flies or silence ’em
6.	What you have when loaded
7.	Shrunken ocean
8.	Fox feature
9.	Tress protector?
10.	The shape of goose eggs 11. Brigitte’s head 14	Ho!
18. Half of Africa
21. Maureen
O’Hara’s land 22. American Booksellers Assn.
(abbr.)
24. Faith (French) 25. Obviously Kool tobaccos aren’t grown here
26. These are basic 27. Put on Oxfords? 29. The kind of Magic Kools have
33. Cold place in India
36.	Singing crew
37.	Goes limp 38. She’s French 39. Perfect description of Kools, man
41. Just-passing letters
1	2	3	
12			
15			
17			
	20		
5
13
Contents
18
26
7
5
13
41
Feature of the Week
Odds and Ends
Our Cover
Repercussions
Sports Picture
No. 5
16
28
27'
36
40
37
22
32
42
44
46
16
22
19
4
21
ii»Q
1

4
Are you kodl enough to KRACK THIS?*
43
45
47
4.
f 5
I
k®l
cigarettes
When your throat tells you itis time tor a change you need a real change

YOU NEED THE

ofKODL


2


6
The Scholastic
' MARDI GRAS BALL TO INAUGURATE YEARLY WEEK-END FESTIVITIES
'Night Train* Morrow to Supply Musical Background; Plan Unusual Decorations to Provide Scenic Setting
by THOMAS SCHLERETH
Billed as “the” social activity of the school year, the Mardi Gras festivities will move from the new North Dining Hall and the swinging melodies of Buddy “Night Train” Morrow to the k Fieldhouse and the New Orleans jazz of the Dukes of Dixieland and then to * the Navy Drill Hall with its festival excitement of the carnival.
h
i Start with a Ball. Tonight, the 1960 Mardi Gras Ball will inaugurate the week-end festivities with the down-beat *■ of the Morrow orchestra. The fourteen-man contingent, whose name has become - a standard in the American music field, will provide the dancing enjoyment from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Also featured with the orchestra will be Jane Taylor, the x group’s solo vocalist.
Miss Joyce Moreth, the date of General Chairman Jim Wysocki, will reign . over the entire celebration with the highlight of her reign taking place at midnight tonight when Rev. Theodore Hes-
*' burgh, C.S.C., will crown her “Queen of the Mardi Gras.”
Lady Luck’s reward to a Mardi Gras supporter.
Using one of the largest backdrops constructed for a campus dance, Bob Baca has accented the theme of “La Nuit Enchantee.” He has combined birch screens with a lace pattern of intertwining circles, a blue-red rayon curtain and indirect lighting to create a spectrum of deep reds and blues.
In addition to pictures by the photo concession the girls will 'be able to take home memory-loot that ranges from impressively labeled champagne bottles to souvenir napkins.
Old-time jazz. After a brief respite the pace picks up once again tomorrow afternoon with the Dukes of Dixieland concert at 1 p.m. in the Fieldhouse. The group, which will be coming straight from their Bell Telephone Hour performance of the night before, has a style stemming basically from that of the original Dixieland band which was so popular in the early part of the century.
From the Fieldhouse it’s only a short walk to the Navy Drill Hall and the street scene of New Orleans at carnival time. Besides the 27 booths set up by
MISS JOYCE MORETH “La Nuit Enchantee” Queen
various campus area clubs, there will be six prize booths where anything from teddy bears to Notre Dame pennants can be won.
Monday night from 7:30 until 11:30 will be the traditional “gamblers” night when impoverished students can try to win back “all the money spent on their week-end date.” To those who come in before 9 p.m. a head start will be given in the form of a bogus dollar bill.
The winners of the raffle will be drawn on Tuesday evening around 10:30 and this will be the wrap-up of the pre-Lenten affair. The winner of the student auto and the winner of the St. Mary’s wardrobe prize will be chosen in addition to the 1960 Cadillac recipient.
Instead of being eligible for a chance on the student convertible^ a St. Mary’s girl will receive a “Day of Shopping” at Saks in Chicago where she can run up a bill of $300 for a wardrobe of her own choosing.
$37,000 give-away. Besides adding up to fun and entertainment, the three part week end is expected to total $37,000 for charity. The biggest share, $15,000 will go to the Campus Charity Chest. Under the administration of students, this fund distributes money to American and foreign missions as well as to the South Bend Community Chest and to Christmas parties for South Bend orphans.	_	:
The next cut of $10,000 will be used for the maintenance and improvement of the LaFortune Student Center which is also under student management. Finally, the Student Government Scholarship Fund will receive $12,000 which will be used for full and partial scholarships, for incoming freshmen and deserving upperclassmen. This is done by a student committee which works with the ' Office of Admissions.
February 26, 1960
To Hold Annual Debate Tourney Next Week; Debaters To Try for Schiller, Bolger Trophies
Under the general chairmanship of Joel Haggard, the eighth annual University of Notre Dame Invitational Debate Tournament will be held in the LaFortune Student Center next Friday and Saturday, March 4 and 5. Competition will be for the Richard D. Schiller Trophy which is awarded permanently to the winning team. In addition, the name of the winning school will be added to the Rev. William A. Bolger Trophy, which is retained at Notre Dame.
Presidential debater. Chairman Haggard, a junior majoring in mechanical engineering, is from Seattle, Wash. A varsity debater since his freshman year, he served as publicity director of last year’s tournament. He has been a member of teams that brought back first-place laurels from a University of Kentucky tournament and a second-place victory at St. Joseph’s College in Philadelphia. In addition to his debating activities Haggard is president of the Pacific-Northwest club and vice president of Pangborn Hall.
As general chairman, Haggard is presently completing his final plans for the coming tournament, which this year will include some possible new features. As last year, the debate finals will be broadcast over WSND radio and there is a possibility of the last round of the tournament being televised by WNDU-TV.
Representing Notre Dame in the tournament itself will be two junior debaters Guy Powers and Jay Whitney, who will argue both sides of the topic, “Resolved: That Congress Should Be
DEBATERS: HAGGARD, WHITNEY, POWERS Congress versus the Supreme Court, a matter of dispute



Given the Power to Reverse Decisions of the Supreme Court.”
Whitney, a Dean’s List student, is from Burbank, Calif., and is enrolled in chemical engineering. His future plans include four years in the Navy followed by law school. The Blue Circle Honor Society also claims his talents.
Powers hails from Forest Hills, N. Y. and he is a student in the general program. After graduate school, he intends to teach. He is also on the Dean’s List.
High school to college. Both Powers and Whitney debated extensively in high school and as freshmen rapidly earned a place for themselves on the debate team. They have been on winning teams for tournaments at the University of Kentucky and Miami University, and together took second at St. Joseph’s College. Whitney debated in the Nationals at West Point in his freshman year and also debated in the Invitational here. Both Whitney and Powers were Notre Dame’s entry in last year’s tournament held here.
There will be four awards made to the winning teams. To the championship team will go the Schiller Trophy and a place on the Bolger Trophy. First-place Speaker Awards will be given on the basis on a speaker’s performance in preliminary rounds. Certificates will also be presented to the ten Top Speakers.
General Chairman Haggard invites the entire student body “to attend all the rounds of the tournament,” in the Student Center (majority of the preliminary rounds), or the Law and Engineering Auditorium (semi-finals) or the Engineering Auditorium (finals).
Canvassers to Seek Support For Resident Frosh Advisors I
Starting next week, a team of four < student senators will make a grassroots tour of the sophomore and junior halls. 41 They’ll be a bit early. The fall round of campaign speechs won’t hit for an- * other two weeks. But they’ll be campaigning just the same, campaigning v for Project Guidance.
The project is the outgrowth of an ‘ idea Student Body President Bruce Babbitt had earlier in the year. Babbitt * wondered why seniors couldn’t live in freshman halls as advisors, taking some *' of the burden off the heavily-taxed rectors and prefects. About the same time, * the Blue Circle was groping for some way of extending their one-week Freshman Orientation.
As the project has evolved, the main v problem involved in it has developed. Quite simply, it’s whether or not there ~ are 40 seniors (or mature juniors) of a high caliber who would be willing to spend their last year giving sei-vice to the school by orienting freshmen.
They'd be giving up a great deal. * Instead of relaxing a bit and enjoying the customary senior apathy, they’d live among freshmen — two seniors per floor. They’d be expected to guide the novices in two ways, by being available ‘ for friendly advice on just about any- ; thing and by giving good example of the proper attitude toward a university , education.
No goodies. The committee doesn’t -want “goodies” guiding the freshmen. Nor do they want, of course, the senior who divides his time equally between his hall and Joers. What they do want is the well-rounded guy the freshman can appreciate as a friend. They want a senior who has a grasp of the University’s aims and the reasoning behind *• its policies, and who can relay his own interpretation of them to the freshman. *
The senior would be on his own. And ‘ he might be given a tuition stipend > from the University in gratitude for his V efforts.	—Jim Naughton <
Smile Pretty
Any junior who has not had his picture taken for the yearbook or who has not made an appointment to do so, is asked to moke an appointment during this coming week.
The photographer for the DOME will be in room 2-C of the La-Fortune Student Center on Monday through Friday, between 1 and 5:30 p.m. and 6:30 and 8:00 p.m. At this time a one dollar fee will be charged each student.
Proofs of the pictures will be returned in about two weeks. A representative will be on campus after Easter vacation to advise students on pose choice and to accept orders for more pictures.
8
The Scholastic
Nixon Presented 'Patriot of the Year' Award; ’ Points Out Leadership Challenge to Seniors
An affable, suave Vice President of the United States received the annual “Patriot of the Year” award last Tues- day night at the Washington Day exer-
1 cises. Richard Milhous Nixon, recipient * of the award, spoke for approximately a half hour in accepting the honor.
’ Sitting on the platform with his wife and University dignitaries he listened to ‘ the citation read by the president of the senior class. It read in part: “We wel-* come you, Sir, as a citizen and statesman who has dedicated himself to the
* best interests of our country. . . .In your present office, to which you have added
1 extraordinary life and luster, you steadfastly help our President to bear- his tremendous burdens. Above all, we praise you as a courageous and energetic • interpreter* of the American IDEA to the world.”
~ In his speech Nixon pointed out that a tremendous challenge has been hurled at the college students of today, that of leadership. These students, he said, must * be patriots, but constructively critical patriots, of their country and way of
* life. They must avoid the extremes of
► ----------------------------------------
Foundation Notes Gains r During 1959 Fund Drive
Deep in the main building a red light • flashed, a puff of smoke arose, and a white slip of paper flipped out of the IBM machine. The total, $3,375,792, registered the amount in gifts and grants
1 that the University received during 1959. Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., acting director of the Notre Dame Foundation, the school’s development organization, tried the machine again and came up with more results.
♦ During the first two years of its ten year, $66,600,000 development program, $6,395,844 has been contributed to Notre Dame. By 1967 the University hopes to acquire $18,600,000 for new buildings, the first of which will be the library, * whose construction begins next year.
The ten-year goal also provides $27,000,-• 000 for faculty development, $11,000,000 for research and $5,000,000 each for student aid and special administrative purposes.
The 1959 total of gifts and grants represents an increase of $355,740 over the previous year, largely in the research and grants category, Father *■ Wilson said. Among the major sources of research support were the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation and the U.S. Army, Navy and Air Force.
* According to the Foundation’s report, $700,420 came from Notre Dame alumni,
•' $18,285 from honorary alumni, $1,215,338 from non-alumni sources including 501 corporations and foundations, and $1,441,748 was in the form of research grants and fellowships.
patriotism and defend their country on the basis of what they know it stands for. The relative strengths of our opponents must also be known. The Communists, said Nixon in reference to his recent visits, are not passive patriots. They are “true believers.” Like them we must base our faith in knowledge and understanding. Khrushchev, he insisted, has the ability to concentrate great power to overtake us in the horse race between our two countries. Not only that, but his people are imbued with a spirit of competition which has been drummed into them by their leaders. We must rise to the challenge of this horse race, said Mr. Nixon, “provided we stay on our own horse and don’t try to get on his.”
Cost too great. There are weaknesses in our economy of which we are well aware. There are also weaknesses in our modem educational system which must be remedied. But they must be solved by our traditional methods of local control and not at the cost of increased federal control over schools. This cost is too great to pay.
Nixon asserted that we need not be ashamed of a system which has virtually erased poverty and has produced prosperity for all. But our- system stands for more than military might of material welfare. It stands for “progress with freedom.” While the Communists want to dominate the world and convert everyone to their system, we do not want to impose our will on anyone. We want to offer our cooperation in a cause which we are certain is right. In Poland, the Vice President found, this was borne out on the faces of the people who greeted him as a symbol of what Amei-ican represents. In this cause the country deserves good leadership, he concluded, and we must give our best.
Senators Prepare for Debate Over NDEA Loyalty Clauses
Although the Student Senate took a vacation last Monday along with the rest of the school, they have not been idle. Several senators have been doing homework in preparation for Monday’s debate on the National Defense Education Act on the Senate floor.
One Senate member has pointed out the importance of the Senate’s determining the views of the student- body and then taking a stand in this national controversy which can be carried to the National Students Association.
The basic issue is whether or not the government should require a disclaimer affidavit regarding subversive activities. Since it is not required of many other-government loan holders some educators have considered it to be a form of discrimination. They consider the affront compounded by the fact that the universities must administer it.
FATHER HESBURGH First to address Institute
Fr. Hesburgh to Give First Marriage Talk
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. will open the twelfth annual Marriage Institute this Wednesday, with a talk on “Courtship in Marriage.” The lecture which will be held at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall, will be the first of six lectures to be held on succeeding Wednesdays of the Lenten season.
The Institute, held annually for those seniors contemplating marriage soon after graduation, was begun in 1949. It started with a movement which sought to recognize the fact that living fully as a husband and a father of a family is an important part of education today. In the past eleven years, the program has become known as one of the most interesting and informative events of the senior year.
Since the Institute is designed to take the place of the Pre-Cana conference required by many parishes before marriage, a certificate of attendance will be given to everyone who attends all six lectures. This will be done by stamping the ticket each time a lecture is attended.
In his talk Father Hesburgh will stress the all important need for the compatibility of the marriage partners. Beginning his survey of marriage with the factors which enter into courtship, he will probe into the problems of “determining if she is the girl for you, winning her love, and making it a permanent, good and holy thing.”
Using ten basic categories derived from a recent survey, Father will enumerate the most important qualities that must be taken into consideration to answer the basic question “Is she good for you?”
Moral virtue was found to be the most important thing a man looked for in a wife, while love formed the second important category.
February 26, 1960
9
BamerlNcS
SIX MORE EASY LISTENS WITH CAPITOL RECORDS
I
A)
8:04 PM There’s a lamp that’ll get knocked over later if you don’t move it. Take care of this and then take care, since talk can flag during a party’s early moments, to have a covering background of harmonious music. The recording to the left, with the Four Freshmen and a 10-trombone brass orchestra blending furiously, is harmonious and then some. The group just won an award in the Playboy All-Star Poll and the album includes ice-breakers like Route 66, Sunday, Candy and Laura; the picture on the back, though, could raise one slightly unsettling question: These guys are freshmen?
8:41 PM The laments in Kay Starr’s new release aren’t dangerously lugubrious and, actually, should stimulate casual entrances onto the dance floor. That’s due to Kay’s ardent, ringing style and the lush string background which is under only mild sedation behind her. Anybody downcast after hearing Into Each Life Some Rain Must Fall, I Should Care, Please Don't Talk About Me When I'm Gone or the others isn’t in a mood to enjoy or contribute much to things anyway, and might appreciate a thoughtful suggestion that there’s probably still time to make it to the library before it closes.
9:22 PM If the party’s billed as a “Dance,” this is as good a time as any to find out how seriously it is meant. Put on the new Kenton album; it’s in the lit-up Latin tradition of Peanut Vendor. Some numbers, like Adios, are fairly relaxed, but most—e.g., a sizzling new Artistry in Rhythm—test dancing prowess. It should separate the men from the boys. (If it separates the men from the girls, try the music in Capitol’s “Arthur Murray” series. Sets of sambas, foxtrots, etc. with top bands and good for pleasant, low-pressure dancing. Little pictures show where to put your feet.)
10:07 PM While the blood is up, put on Ray Anthony’s latest, “Like Wild!” The title means much the same as “It’s the cat’s pajamas” but says it faster, in keeping with today’s modern, highspeed living. Both expressions become clear when the record is played, for it’s a fine, swinging, powerhouse of brass effects, some delectable, some almost alarming. Anthony plays new stuff and ones like Peter Gunn Theme, Room 43, 707 and Walkin' to Mother's that he’s already made a lot of money on as singles. An intermission will be needed. Who won the basketball game?
10:49 PM What, aside from having all been great instrumentals, do Snowfall, In the Mood, Poor People of Paris and Flyin' Home have in common? Practically nothing. What, do you suppose, does this mean to Billy May? Practically nothing. He has outrageously spiced up the originals with flutes and things and somehow turned them all, plus others, into some very cheery cha-chas. Twelfth Street Rag-Cha-Cha, though, is unforgivable. Laugh, cry, spill something —you’ll just have to do the best you can.
11:28 PM The Quiet Time is at hand. “Ballads for Night People” are the songs June gets asked for most by nostalgic nightcrawlers, in pubs. Mostly sentimental tunes with the kind of introspective lyrics she sings best. While Christy lights her way in the dark with Bewitched, Don't Get Around Much Any More, My.Ship and others in that price range, some couples may wish to sit this one out, wending to the dimmer comers to speak softly of issues like the November elections, lung cancer, and so forth. The record changer can be set to repeat and that, perhaps, will take care of that.

10
The Scholastic
Repercussions
(Continued from page 4)
, one thing, however, segregating us in the commencement exercise by establishing four different distribution centers for diplomas for the purpose fo making ; our ceremony more inducive to any political figurehead is asking too much.
*	Paul M. Priebe
122 Walsh
(ED: While Mr. Nixon was the choice t of the senior class not the University, he is nevertheless an official guest of the » school, since the Washington day exercises are an official function. Also, Mr.
*. Eisenhower’s possible appearance at commencement had no connection with । the decision to change diploma distribution. The new method has been the prac-v tice at many schools in recent years.)
„ A LATERAL QUESTION
Editor:
Normally I have a rather indifferent opinion of the student government, but at present I wish to offer my congratulations for their organization of the • Student Discount Stores which offer a wide variety of services at somewhat * reduced prices. There seems to be one store, however, which is conspicuous for ► its absence from the list of cooperating stores, namely the beloved campus Bookstore.
George Izo r	201 Fisher
* END TO DISCUSSION?
»
Editor:
In the past weeks, we girls from Saint Mary’s have suffered many unjust and insulting remarks in the Scholastic. This publication has further victimized Saint Mary’s upon several occasions in that disgusting “Escape” column.
We would like to make the following points clear. First, let us say that Saint Mary’s girls are not conceited. We are convinced of this fact and personally know no “stuck up” girls. Air is merely thinner and smelliei’ on the Notre Dame campus. Second, it was hinted that, perhaps, Saint Mary’s girls wander over to the Notre Dame campus with the hope of drawing crass remarks. This is obviously ridiculus [sic] as we would not resort to enticing Notre Dame men if others were available.
Third, our fathers have generously provided the funds for our college education at a place sufficiently removed from civilization as to facilitate our study of wild life. Although there are many varieties of Notre Dame men, worthy of close personal inspection, life is simply not wild enough on or near the campus.
We sincerely hope that this puts an end to further discussion of Saint Mary’s girls in the Scholastic.
Nancy Suthern Ginny Charles 240 and 247 Holy Cross
THE OTHER SIDE
Editor:
The glowing description of the “Case for the Democrats” that appeared in the February 19 issue left me with one unanswered question. If daring and fearless spending is the panacea for our national and international woes, how well are we equipped to bear the burden of such spending? Perhaps more money should be spent on national defense and education, but obtaining this money presents a real problem. I am no economist, but I do know that unbalanced budgets eventually demand some reckoning. Either the funds must be borrowed from somebody (such as those who invest in government bonds in hope of eventually receiving theii" money with interest) or the goods and services must be bought on credit. If in our daring spending, we should finally exhaust the confidence of investor or creditor, what then?
If increased taxes, especially corporation taxes, are to be the source of our funds, then how will our manufacturers fare in the world market with prices elevated as the result of increased taxation? The author of “A Case for the Democrats” suggested that we must concern ourselves with immediate crises. But may I suggest that a very real, imminent crisis is to be found in the economic sphere. Mr. K has challenged us to a peaceful war in the field of international trade, and at present our prospects are none too encouraging. Increased taxation would hardly improve our chances in the competition.
I am not trying to discredit last week’s article, but I do think that a platform calling for more progressive and daring spending should be carefully considered. Perhaps such a platform would create more problems than it would solve.
James Schneidler 101 Walsh
FOOTBALL: A CONFLICT?
Editor:
In agreement with your statement in “Commentary” of the February 12, 1960 issue of the Scholastic, your procon series on major college football is-both current and worthy of discussion. I would suggest, however, that Messrs. Thompson and Blubaugh have merely scratched the surface of a much larger problem and rehashed some very familiar arguments. The former was not quite as pro-football as he was pro-everything; i.e. the article was defensive, rather than illuminating the positive contributions football can and does make. The latter, I believe, was much too quick to imply that because Chicago and the Ivy League “de-empha-sized,” the “tail was (also) wagging the dog” at Notre Dame; that academic endeavor is competing with football to “survive”; that the football era ended in 1952; and that football is merely a distraction and victory is inconsequential! Is it really?	.
I am neither pro-major college football, nor con-academic excellence, per se: Bather, I stand for proper emphasis of (Continued on page 25)
This is the B-52. Advanced as it may be, this airplane has one thing in common with the first wargalleys of ancient Egypt...and with the air and space vehicles of the future. Someone must chart its course. Someone must navigate it.
For certain young men this presents a career of real executive opportunity. Here, perhaps you will have the chance to master a profession full of meaning, excitement and rewards... as a Navigator in the U. S. Air Force.
To qualify for Navigator training as an Aviation Cadet you must be an American citizen between 19 and 26)4—single, healthy and intelligent. A high school diploma is required, but some college is highly desirable. Successful completion of the training program leads to a commission as a Second Lieutenant ... and your Navigator wings*
If you think you have what it takes to measure up to the Aviation Cadet Program for Navigator training, see your local Air Force Recruiter. Or clip and mail this coupon.
There's a place for tomorrow's
leaders on the Aerospace Team. I | Air Force
MAIL THIS CMPM TOMY	|
AVIATIM CASH INFOMUTIM	!
DEPT. SCL02	I
BOX 7SM, WASMINCTM 4, D.C.	I
I am between 19 and 26’/2, a citizen J of the U.S. and a high school graduate I with_______years of college. Please ■ send me detailed information on the I . Aviation Cadet program.	|
NAME__________________________-	|
STREET________________________—	j
CITY__________________________.	I
cnnmv	STATE----- I
February 26, 1960
11 r
BEST BUYS IN PAPERBACKS
The Man Who Was Chesterton Bond
•
Popular History of the Reformation
Hughes
•
Origin of the Jesuits Broderick
•
Son of God Adam
•
Scholasticism & Politics Maritain
•
Restless Flame . de Wohl
•
Progress & Religion Dawson
•
Autobiography of
St. Teresa of Avila
Knox
•
Catholic Church in the Modem World
Hales
•
Giants of the Faith
O’Brien
•
System of Thomas Aquinas De Wulf
•
Symbolic Logic
Lewis-Langford
•
Conceptual Thinking
Korner
•
Noire Dame Bookstore on - the - campus
Esterbrook fountain pens write with the amazing new miracle discovery—INK!
Don’t bother to have your handwriting analyzed. It probably looks just like your room-mate’s.... No character at all.
Wait until you come to your senses and buy the smart looking Esterbrook Classic fountain pen—with the point that’s custom-fitted for you.
The Esterbrook Classic starts writing instantly—the minute it touches the paper. Feels so ‘right’ in the hand ... and looks good, too! Choice of six colors.
Another thing—the Esterbrook Classic always uses ink. You’ll like ink once you get used to it. It makes clearly discernible marks on the paper.
Stiteiitooli SimA
AT. M. The Esterbrook Pen Co. •
THE CLASSIC FOUNTAIN PEN
Other Esterbrook pens slightly higher
THERE’S A POINT CHOICE OF 32—ONE IS CUSTOM-FITTED FOR YOU!
The Scholastic

. Following last week’s article on the inadequacy of Republican leader} ship, Terry Lamb, president of the Young Republicans, boldly answers I * back with an exhaustive presentation of this country’s traditional con-| servative principles, carried since the Civil War up to the present, by ' the Republican Party.

A CONSERVATIVE CREED
THE choice facing America today is between the Conservatism of the Republican Party and the Liberalism that controls the Democratic Party. The present-day Republican party was founded in 1854 to curb the expression of slavei-y which then threatened and later sorely wounded the Union. Its conservative spirit was expressed in the party’s first platform: “Believing that the spirit of our institutions as well as the constitution of our country guarantees liberty of conscience and equality of rights among our citizens we oppose all legislation tending to impair them.” This was reaffirmed in the Republican platform of 1936 and is still the dominant spirit within the Republican party.
What is the basis of American conservatism? It begins with the “certain unalienable rights — life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness” as stated in the Declaration of Independence. It affirms that these rights belong to the individual and should only be relinquished by him to a higher power when the common good demands. Either the state exists for the individual or the individual exists for the state. The establishment of order leaves no other alternative.
Until the New Deal both American political parties were conservative in theory and in practice. The 1932 Democratic platform vied with the Republican platform in presenting a conservative solution to the economic depression, for it advocated immediate and drastic reduction of governmental expenditures “to accomplish a savings of not less than 25 per cent in cost of Federal Government.”
If you dismiss this platform which F.D.R. endorsed in 1932 on the grounds that New Deal expediency solved the unemployment problem, I should remind you that in 1938 almost ten million capable workers were jobless. This number- is two-thirds as great as in 1932 under President Hoover. True, we suffered another depression in 1937. All the more reason to argue that the New Deal was a False Deal. If a government centered economy was the cure-all — why another depression?
All Democrats did not follow the utilitarian concept which guided the Roosevelt Administration. As early as 1936 Al Smith asserted the fundamental role of government was to aid the governed in raising the general level of human dignity throughout the world. Basically, human nature was responsible for World War I which in turn created the economic misery of the great Depression.
Governor Smith wisely recognized that true reform can no more be legislated by the state than can true economic prosperity. Economic and moral reform must voluntarily begin from within the individual. The “Radical Republicans” overlooked this necessity in their “liberal” legislation during the Reconstruction and Prohibition eras.
Which political party is conservative in theory and practice today? The Republican party is still guided by the spirit and principles of its first platform. The party’s stand on major issues has recently been outlined in a “preliminary platform” for the campaign of 1960. In summary, this platform emphatically opposes any compulsory hospital and
February 26, 1960
medical insurance programs under1 the Federal Social Security system. It provides for- matching federal grants for the building of public schools “when need is demonstrated and local resources are clearly inadequate.” Federal financial and economic policies should be aimed at “warding off inflation and depression.” (This may sound like little more than a truism but it demonstrated a Republican administration’s willingness to guide rather than govern the economy of the state.) Foreign economic aid should be shifted whenever possible from government giants to private loans. Here is true “dignity of the individual” which the liberals claim to champion. These principles reaffirm confidence in human nature to cope with human ills.
It will be argued by my friends from the “left” that the Republican party is no longer as conservative as it once was. The liberals will assign us the negative role of protecting the past while they set the progressive pace for the future. I
deny the theory that if “progress” is to be achieved, this is inevitable or if victory is to be won at the polls we must submit to this fate. Mr. Eisenhower has explained it this way: It is impossible to reverse the current of a river overnight; for the present, our task is to stem the tide. Does
13
Mr. Nixon consider himself a conservative? He indorsed the “preliminary platform” mentioned above as follows: “The report brings home the fact that we are conservative because we want progress.” Can conservative principles win at the polls? Yes, Senator Barry Goldwater provides an excellent example. (Most Democrats will agree his are rather conservative.) Although the Democrats have had a much larger registration than Republicans in Arizona, as late as 1958 Senator Goldwater won by over 35,000 votes out of a total of 280,000 votes cast. He attributes his victory to talking openly in favor of conservatism and what it means to the individual. The senator has pointedly stated that we must reassert that it is not only impossible to out-promise the big give-aways of the welfare states, but morally wrong and destructive of freedom.	’
THE COMING OF THE NEW PARTY
In 1932 the present senior senator from Illinois, Paul Douglas, wrote a most interesting book entitled The Coming of the New Party, in which he remarks that while the Republican party has a definite place and a real function as representative of conservative elements, the Democratic party has no logical place in American life. Under a heading entitled “The Role of the Socialist Party in the New Alignment,” Mr. Douglas comments:
The Socialist party has in the past been a force for good in American life. And yet despite all (their) appealing qualities it is doubtful whether the Socialist party can as such become the predominate representative of the new movement. Excellent as its program and membership now are, its potentialities for growth are greatly hampered by the unreasoning prejudice which large elements of the public attach to the word socialism. It should moreover be remembered that by the encyclicals of the Pope it has become almost impossible for loyal Catholics to be members of any party which is actually named as socialistic.
I am impressed that Senator Douglas has interpreted “Rerum Novarum” so judiciously and that he has recognized that “Religious Socialism” and “Christian Socialism” are contradictory terms. “No one can be at the same time a good Catholic and a true Socialist.”
Today, the Holy See not only condemns socialism but even warns against the present-day trend toward all-embracing socialization prophesied by Senator Douglas in the “New Alignment.”
In the second place stands the protection of the individual and the family against their absorption by the state, a process of excessive socialization at the end of which looms the threatening nightmare of the “Leviathan.” (Pius XII)
The New Deal did indeed provide America with a “New Party” and that party exists today under the old name of the Democratic party.
Are Mr. Douglas’ views the same today as they were in 1932? Yes; if Mr. Douglas’ views have changed, he would repudiate the Democratic party today. And Senator Douglas is presently chairman of the Joint Economic Committee of the United States Senate. Who supports Douglas’ economics today? The senator has succeeded in achieving the highest honor the Americans for Democratic Action can bestow on a congressman — a 100 per cent voting record.
OBJECTIVES OF THE DEMOCRATS
What does this organization, the A.D.A., so closely aligned with the present-day Democratic party, profess? Primarily two quite lofty objectives: “economic security for all people ... attained by democratic planning” and a “crusade for expanding democracy against Fascism and Communism.” However the A.D.A. is slightly confused as to just what constitutes the Soviet threat against which they have sworn eternal vigilance. Their publication, Toward Total Peace, notes that there are a number of possible explanations of recent Soviet per
formance. At one extreme, it is said, is the thesis that the | U.S-.S.R is irrevocably embarked on a career of unlimited $ conquest. At the other is the thesis of the American Com- |i munists that the U.S.S.R. is virtuously and selflessly engaged | in liberating the downtrodden masses of Europe. The publication concludes that “No one can be sure (which) of these theories is true.” I do not wish to be misunderstood, I do not *1 accuse the A.D.A. of being “pro-communist,” but somewhat i naive concerning Soviet intentions. This publication was t written in 1950.	;
Regarding “economic security for all people,” the A.D.A. stresses the need for a “Social Revolution.” They go to great > pains in this same publication to explain that the development of a democratic socialist Europe, for example, on the model I of Britain might well supply the best means of checking the *1 aggressiveness of the U.S.S.R. It is amusing to note that the | Laborites have now disavowed their platform that has carried * _ them to defeat in the last three general elections. May I nom- | inate capitalistic Western Germany with its higher standard of living as a model for checking Communistic aggressiveness. I
Is there evidence to equate the A.D.A; with the other controlling powers in today’s Democratic party? They apparently । see eye to eye with all aspirants for the 1960 presidential Vj nomination except Senator Lyndon Johnson. Among other I Democratic senators holding a 100 per cent rating on A.D.A.’s 4- i “Roll of Honor” are Senators Kennedy, Symington, and ! Humphrey. By comparison, Senator Goldwater is listed as -100 per cent anti A.D.A.”	t
Who else belongs to this controlling clique of the Demo- ; cratic party? Among its more prominent members are Mrs. F. D. Roosevelt, Adlai E. Stevenson and Walter Reuther. * Mr. Reuther incidentally has credited himself, A.D.A. and his Economic Policy Committee of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., as * “. . . Vanguards in America of the great crusade to build a s better world. We are the architects of the future.” Is this < accusation by association and inuendo when the A.F.L.-C.I.O. I expresses the same socialistic ends as the A.D.A. and there- , fore necessarily the principles of the Democratic party? ; Senator Johnson himself achieved a respectable 75 per cent ■*! pro A.D.A. record. Not bad for a “Westerner.” If Mr. | Reuther’s “architectural plans” propose to bring these about ’I at the cost of depersonalizing the individual, can there be any I true progress?	|
J
A REPUBLICAN FUTURE	(
J
Is there therefore, “a logical place in American life for the Democratic party” today? Yes, I do not deny leadership the right to advocate their party’s principles. However, prudence would advise any and all conservative Democrats not ' in complete sympathy with their party’s means and/or socialistic ends, to move over to the right side of the aisle. No ' presentation of Republican principles could exclude Herbert Hoover’s views on true “Liberalism.”
Liberalism is a force truly of the spirit, a force pro- * ceeding from the deep realization that economic freedom cannot be sacrificed if political freedom is to be preserved. I do not wish to be misinterpreted as believing that the United States is free-for-all and devil-take-the-hindmost. The very essence ef equality of opportunity and of American individualism is that there shall be no domination by any group oi- combination in this Republic, whether it be business or political. On the contrary, it demands economic justice as well as political and social justice. It is no system of laissez-faire.	*
I, too, can envision a better tomorrow. A world in which j public confidence can be restored in the morality of her lead- I ers. Where “payola” will not settle the disputes of govern- s ment versus labor versus management. A world in which labor and capital are no longer pitted against one another in j the classical Marxian concept which Mr. Reuther character- I izes as “. . . the dynamic balance in our economy so essential to the economic growth and industrial expansion.” Rather a world where imagination and initiative are once again allowed to challenge America’s present mediocrity.
' (Continued on page 18)
14
The Scholastic
V
..Mi., Till IIITION
An intellectual service of the University of Notre Dame „> .for the constant enrichment of the minds
of Notre Dame's diverse family.
CASUAL READING
FOR
FUN AND PROFIT
A Broker’s Prospectus on Some Recent Issues of Light-but-Rewarding Literary Securities
INTRODUCTION: LEISURE READING AS AN INVESTMENT
By John T, Frederick
j
A friend of mine who is of a mathematical turn of mind once undertook to find out what portion of his life he was destined to spend in the act of shaving. My friend has a .large face and a tough beard. He found, by repeated timing, that the whole ritual from lather to lotion consumed an average of fully six minutes. My friend’s occupation is such that he feels obligated to shave seven days a week. For round numbers he called it 40 minutes a week. He allowed himself two weeks for fishing trips, when he > would shave rarely if at all, and came up with 2,000 minutes a year, or some 33 hours. At the time he made-this study my friend’s “expectation,” in the pleasant' phrase of the life insurance companies, indicated that from the time he began to shave daily until presumably he would no longer need to do so would be a term of 44 years. At 33 hours a year that gave the somewhat dismaying total of 1,452 hours — more than 36 40-hour weeks: nine months of his working
■■ life, spent in front of a glass scraping his face.
Let me hasten to say that I am not starting a crusade for the return of the beard. I tell this story simply to illustrate the fact that all of us invest very substantial portions of our lives in unconsidered daily activities.
One of these is, reading, of three distinct kinds. First there is the reading we do to "be informed of daily events, “to keep up with the world” — reading of newspapers and news magazines. For most: of us this is a natural, enjoyed, and more or less necessary investment of our time. Second, , there is the reading we do in direct relation to our jobs: reading of business and professional books and periodicals. This tod has definite practical importance and reward. There remains the reading we do for its own sake: reading for entertainment, for relaxation, as a' hobby, for significant pleasure. For many men and perhaps for more women, the aggregate time given to reading we don’t have to do, reading that (has no immediate necessity or practical purpose, may add up to , far larger portions, of our lives than my friend’s investment in the act of shaving. .
This investment of time — which is, after all, about
.■ ■ ■ ' j \ , ;	'	u.	j ■
the only thing we as human beings have to invest, it is not? — can be actually lost, wholly unprofitable, because unconsidered and undirected. If our leisure reading is haphazard, done as we sometimes say “to kill_time,” the phrase may have a fatal accuracy. On the other hand, this portion <rf our lives can be in the highest degree enjoyable, fruitful, and profoundly rewarding, to our permanent and ever-in-creasing enrichment as human persons. The reviews in this and succeeding issues of the Notre Dame Alumnus are meant to offer varied and illuminating,suggestions.of books which are likely to make you feel that the time you spend in reading them is well invested.
John T. Frederick, professor of English and (since 1958) head of the English department, took his AE. and A.M. degrees at the ' State University of Iowa. He edited The Midland, an influential journal of .regional writing in the. twenties and thirties. Joining the faculty 1 in 1930, he conducted the CBS radio series “Of!
( - Men and Books” for many years while on leave from Notre Dame at Northwestern University. Contributor of a regular column on books to the Rotarian magazine, Prof. Frederick is author and, editor of several books and anthologies in-	'
z eluding the two-volume AmericanLiterature' , and, with the late Rev, Leo L. Ward,C.S.C., the :' English composition text Reading for Writing. ;
FICTION: LEGENDS, MYTHS AND ' OFT-TOLD TALES

By Richard Sullivan
Richard T. Sullivan teaches creative writing as a professor of English and staff member of Notre Dame’s Workshops in Writing. He was graduated from the University in 1930 and , joined the faculty in 1936 after study at the Art Institute and Goodman School of Drama, Chicago, and free-lance writing for magazines and radio. He has published a collection of his short stories in the volume The Fresh and Open Sky; a rhapsody about his alma mater entitled Notre Dame, and several novels, including Summer After Summer, The Dark Continent,' •Hie World of Idella May, First. Citizen, 311 Congress Court and The Three Kings. * *
THE ONCE AND FUTURE KING? .
MaYBE it is true that there are some stories so wonderfully good in themselves that over the centuries they constantly demand retelling. As times change and attitudes shift these stories seem to insist upon keeping up with the contemporary mode of fiction, inwhich, as ever, they . reflect the unchanging verities of human nature and illumi-nate our common and continuing existence. x ~
In The Once and Future King T. H. White has taken
a set of such old stories and has made them newzand abso-j . lately fascinating. This big book — which consists of three separate earlier published novels, one severely cut, and all revised to unite with a new fourth novel in a single extraordinary work of story-telling—deals with the ancient adventures of King Arthur and of the assorted personages who long ago surrounded him.	s '
Everybody knows the . Arthurian stories in one form or another. Certainly none of us," reading as boys about the' Knights of the Round Table, quite realized that something adulterous was going on between our hero Sir Lancelot
and the king's wife Gueneyer. Probably most of us never j finished' reading Sir Thomas Malory’s highly readable fif- • -teenth-century account of the goings on at Arthur’s court. >, Yet we all remember, however dimly or distantly, certain high adventures' we once shared, through reading, with the * unforgettable figures of the adventurers who .once chivalrously supported a now mythical king. -	'	*•
" What T. H. White has done, picking'and choosing among . these high adventures, is to'renew them in a big novel alive k
with wit and !with wisdom. The Once and Future King7 is a book of gripping, dramatic narrative, of bright^ fantastic comedy, and of profound, immediate Insight. When White tells us^how it feels-to ride in full armor upon a horse, we K sweat ‘and’; clank, encased in iron, at a fast trot. When he tells us how, it feels to be a fish, swimming, or a bird, flying, -r we know. For this is writing which conveys exactly the impression, the very sensation, of the experience it .deals *-< with. It is also precise in other ways. When Lancelot and the queen betray the king they both love, this novel — in a way uncommon in contemporary fiction.— treats with
delicacy and accuracy their grievous, offense. They , are * rendered not 'as victims of glandular compulsion but as mortal human sinners, !ree and knowing. ...	'*•
There is l
. love, and — marvelously
great understanding, great. compassion, great I marvelously .— great fun in this large novel., 1
Indeed, The Once and ■ Future King may sometime hence
. be called one of the rarest and most brilliant fictional achievements of our hurrying age. \
ThejDnce and Future King. By T.H. White. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1959. 677 pp. $4.95.
4
Also,recommended?
- ' ' V	V? .	. .
Bulfinch’s Mythology. ByThomas Bulfinch. . Modem Library Giant No. 14. New York:
. Random House. 778pp.$2.95
. White. /New York: Putnam, 1959.
The Godstone and the Blackymor. By T. H. . White. /New York:Putnam, 1959. 225 pp.
$3.95.
■«
z AUTOBIOGRAPHY: THE ANATOMY OF
■;<	. i;
. - . NOSTALGIA	■ -

By A. T. Smithberger

_ ON THE SUNNY SIDE OF AONE-WAYSTREET. - -	' "
/A nyone who grew up in. the early yearsof this century , or’who-would care to go-back to those; early years to /see what a Hoosier boyhood was like wilLfind much refresh-
- ment and delight in the twenty-one chapters of On the z Sunny Bide of a One-Way Street. Those exciting years,	x
from Bull Moose days to toe upsurge of the Ku Klux Klan,	-
/ with hyperbole at the beginning of the account and harvard
at the, end, William E. Wilsbn, the author, now 'professor of _ English/at Indiana University, relivesfoi'.us until 1924,	'
when he was ready for his second-year of college and “was
beginning to discover, for.the first time, what it meant to be a man.” . .. y-\	--	' -■<.-•
'-z Evansville-is the immediate setting, with such townsas . Poseyville 'and New Harmony1notaltogetherdisregarded.
1 But the general backgroundxis the boyhood of this century, ‘ the time when automobiles/fwith t^e laprobe and the “Honk, * 'honk!” or the “A-oo-ga, a-oqoo-ga!” horn) had such names ? as Reo,. Cole, Chandler, and Stearns Knight not to mention - i*
/' the ubiquitous. Model-T. At that time the Raya bicycle was more pri»& byboysthan the Bluebird. Then a boy told time by'the sun or frbm anllngenoll watch, perhaps read ' abookfroma Globe-Wernecke'' bookcase, listened /to an/ e
' ■ /- ■	! : ) - * ■ / "■ : • - ■■ t -V k
1-
>


Professor Andrew T. Smithberger ; was - -y formerly assistant head of the English department and currently serves as managing editor of the Natural Law Forum. He joined the
' x faculty after graduation from Ohio Uni- „ ~ versityiin 1925 and was awarded an AJf. by
Notre Dame in 1927. Ah authority on the essay and the Romantic Period of English literature, . he has published two college textbooks, On ~
Poetry and Essays: British and American.
Prof. Smithberger is a member of national and
- state College English Assns., the Indiana Academy of i Sciences; Tau Kappa Alpha, EtaSigma Phi and Lambda Chi Alpha fraternities.
monplace enough. But what about, having a birthdaydC February 12, in 4 good Democratic household? How alamt having three: fathers? (Everyone has atleasttwo-—/the - real and the mythicaL But who; has the chance todGscbeer that his own father has the same name as a^aracter ab • > famous story by Poe?) Who has lived in a “shotgun houasTY:
Or in a . house with a built-in vacuum cteaner?Andhod. -■ —may boys had to endure a “cast-iron belly” for a yauf at sot j
Or have a father not be reelected to Congressbeeauaehe would , not consent to j'ointheKIan? '	?’ - v- '
? In an easy, straightforward manner ProfessorJ Wibnm -- tells us;of the amusing and sometimes distressing expert*.
ences of his growing up, at work and at play. This is a , richly evocative book, with many passages of such wit .and delight that one willcome back to them for a least a second . ' reading.. ' •	7	y -
On the Sunny< Side or A One-Way Street. By William E. Wilson. New York: Norton, 1958./223 pp. $3.75.	;	\
V
Edison phonograph, saw a Biograph Picture — and was tortured at school with the Palmer Method of handwriting.
This book is chiefly a boy’s story, a story of a city boyhood, charmingly and wistfully told. Most boys have raced -or struggled through the ordinary experiences7of home,and. _ school and work and. play — and survived them! —• but many have missed some of the unique experiences related here. Playmates and games, relatives and “drummers,” -county fairs and old-fashioned barbecues are nodoubtcom-
Also Recommended:- A '	' '	-
Act One: An Autobiography. By Moes Hart. New York: Random House, 1959. - 444 pp^
I $5.00;	—	x
j	/	■■	><
x - What Next, Doctor Pegs? By Joseph Howard.
' Peck, M.Di New York: Prentice-Hall, 1959.
-	209 pp. . $3.5O.	-
CRITICISM: MASS MEDIA AND THE
CAPTIVE IMAGINATION '
y By Robert E. Christin, Jr.
►
- Robert Ernest Christin, . Jr., is an associate professor of English and director of the University’s —Freshman English program. 4
\ member of the faculty since 1953, ^he attended^ " the University of Detroit and has B.A., .MA^~^ and PhD. degrees from Ohio State University;^
" A student of American culture and literature, he . is Affiliated with the National Council of .
. ^Teachers of English; the College English andj
\ Modem\ Language Assns., and the American
Assn, of- University Professors;, During~W6rld ' War II he served in naval campaign^ in^the v ^Atlantic, Pacific and Mediterranean theaters.
\: -
THE IMAGE INDUSTRIES z
.	t, -	‘ j V ■	" j	,
The title of Father Lynch’s excellent,book refers to the x,. . television and movie industries' industries/that produce \ . the images that in large part form our attitudes toward the _ world in which we live, father Lynch’sbook isnotanother diatribe againstthetawdriness,of< many "movies and teleVision programs, nor is it another of those booksin which
the author places the blame on mass media for mahy of ~ the ills of our society. Father Lynch .fully approves of __ ■ these media, and praises many movies and television pro- /
grams. And his criticism is constructive: he elaborateson major problems■ and writes at length on what can be done* r to solve them. v	‘
Father Lynch is; alarmed about harmful effect of iiMiTiee ; . and television on our imaginations, on our view of reality. -J-	He is concerned about “the monopolyofcufture”Jexerciaed	'
~	by these mass media, their “increasingly centralized^ ’	'
_ ment of the' imagination of a whole nation.” Td' this situation, he calls 'on everyone . in the, audit	.
exercise -intelligence and imagination in becoming aware of
' whatis happening. He specifically enlists the active sappart. ' " < of four groups: the. artists,<jthe creative theologiahs, the
: critics, and the universities. Avoiding the usual statementy- .;
, about-, art versus, morality, Fr. Lynch distinguishescarefully the work to be accomplished by eachof thesperialistslistad . ~ above, cautioning against their tendency to interfere' with each other, urging than /to cooperate in a poritivedliortA
y Y to improve-our mass media.	—’j .	' '	- . / A x
? %In an important chapter du “Fantasy and Reality^ timA
’ author emphasizes the need in any culture-1or aome fa^tBay, ';
but? warns that we must always be aware of dntasy as " fantasy.' The danger presented by much of our television . and movies is that fantasy is bring presented in .the guia»_ ."
of reality, creating a confusion among all of us as to ?what Aiv '-Jreality is?-' ' •. v	-x	~ A

amples of his major topics,andanalyzesseveralcurrait
mu* «—*■- -4—-	-*- *-' .-
seemingly disparate items as torch singers, cigarette commercials, Bing Crosby, the Japanese film, Rashomon, Dante’s Divine Comedy, television weather analyzers, The Ten Commandments, Bells of Saint Mary’s, West Side Story, I The Jury, The Diary of Anne Frank, Alfred Hitchcock, horror movies, Paradise Lost, and numerous other programs, movies, and plays.
What Father Lynch sees in all of these is something that the reader will see clearly once he has read Fr. Lynch’s clear account, but something few ereaders would, have otherwise noticed. The book is one of vital importance to everyone, and several television critics have alluded to it as one of the best analyses yet to appear.
The Image Industries. By Father William F. Lynch, S.J. New York: Sheed and Ward, 1959. 159 pp. $3.50.	..
Also Recommended:
American Catholic Crossroads. By Walter J, Ong, S.J. New York: Macmillan, 1959. 160 pp. $3.50.
Mass Culture. Edited by Bernard Rosenberg and David. White. Glencoe, Illinois: The Free Press, 1957. 561 pp. $6.50.
HUMOR: ANECDOTE
AS ANTIDOTE FOR
BILE, PHLEGM AND BLACK MELANCHOLY
~	By Louis Hasley
Professor Louis Hasley, assistant head of the English department, joined the faculty in 1931 with A.B. and A.M. degrees from the University. He was assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters from 191$ to 19^9 and was director of / the Notre Dame Writers’ Conference for four years. He has contributed articles, poetry and fiction to various magazines, including America, The Sign, Saturday Review, Spirit and Tomorrow. Prof. Hasley’s specialty is the literature of American humor. His wife, humorist Lucile Hasley; is the author of Reproachfully Yours, v The Mouse Hunter, and Saints and Snapdragons.
THE YEARS WITH ROSS.
A book by America’s greatest living humorous writer about one of the greatest editors of our time: this is
James Thurber’s The Years With Ross.	-	'
Unless you are just in from the back side of the foothills, you know who James Thurber is and are acquainted' . with. some of his fantastically chaotic personal experience; essays, .his fables, his cartoons.and, among his short stories, at least "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty.” But you might have lived many years within shot-put range of Madison Avenue and not have- heard of Harold1 Ross, founder (in 1925) of the celebrated New-Yorker magazine zand till his death from cancer in 1951 its first, editor. ■	--
Ross himself was no soplusticated New Yorker, to the manner born. His birthplace was Aspen, Colorado. He worked on newspapers in the far\West and the South till he arrived in New . York in 1919/following two years as editor in Paris of . the overseas World War I magazine, Stars and Stripes. The book, is packed with) rich anecdotes . of Ross’s encounters with New Yorker contributors like . Alexander Woollcott, Robert Benchley, Dorothy Parker and
U . J '	4	'	”	„	V	‘1 1	"
Thurber himself. A blunt, conservative, naive, honest, profane man, he became, in Thurber’s opinion, “by far the most painstaking,, meticulous, hairsplitting detail-criticizer the world of editing has known.” He felt that an editor had, metaphorically, to hold an artist’s hand. The bluster * the gruffness were real but they covered great kindness and solicitude for his temperamental stable of artists and ■» writers. He did not respect people who wouldn’t fight back and yell him down, but always, at the end of the yelling, it was, “All right. God bless you.”
Ross-had, in Charles MacArthur’s phrase, “the charm of gaucherie.” And, let us add, of naivete as well. He could join H.v L. Mencken and Thurber in a conversation, about Willa Cather and ask in all sincerity, “Willa Cather — did he write The Private Life of Helen of Troy?” He had to be ’ told who William Blake was, and he once asked the magazine’s checking department, “Is Moby Dick the whale or 4 the man?” Some of his'editorial queries1 fall into the nearclassic category. “What woman? Hasn’t been previously ' mentioned,” he wrote when he became puzzled by a reference in a Perelman manuscript to “the woman taken in adultery.”
Interesting as Ross is, few will regret that the book is nearly fifty per cent self-revelation on the part of Thurber. And all of itzis in an unflawed, unmannered style, one that j blends easy sophistication and mature objectivity. The humor * arises unobtrusively, keeping intact the dignity of his subject I in a book that is essentially a tribute to an > incomparable editor, a long-time - associate and a much-loved friend.
The Years With Ross. By James Thurber. Bostont -Little, Brown and Company, 1959.
I . 310 pp. $5.00.	.
Also, Recommended:	S ,	>	1
Verses From 1929 On. By OgdenNash. Boston:	*
j Little, Brown, .1959. 522 pp. $5.95.	*
The Return of Hyman Kaplan. By Leo
Rosten. New York:/Harper, 1959. 192. pp.
$3.50.	;	[ •' . v 1 . ‘ '
? -1 a '	' ' '	'
.	!	' J , •	\ ' -	' '
This week Tom Scanlon, Blue Circle Chairman, writes a full explanation of the functions of the Circle as a guide to prospective members. During the coming week the Circle will be conducting a membership drive for interested and qualified students.
SERVICE BY THE FEW
F
. TAST week, the announcement was F -L* made that applications are now be-i ing accepted for membership in the Blue Circle Honor Society. For the benefit of v those who are going to apply, I have decided to write a description of the nature and work of our organization as well as the experiences and opportuni-L ties that are involved in membership.
Any questions that are left unanswered in this article can be brought up at a general session which the Circle officers > will hold prior to the start of the interviews.
* The ultimate concern of the members of the Blue Circle is to serve the Uni-k versity. This is not to say that it is the handmaid of the administration or the servant of the students. It means that its members dedicate themselves to the * University as a whole — its students, faculty and administration as well as * the ideals and principles that bind them together in a unity of purpose. Each committee plans and executes its activities with the understanding that in some real way, however small, they contribute to the welfare of the entire University.
We consider the benefits that the University oi’ that we derive from our work to be independent of recognition and many have gone on student trips, attended pep rallies or enjoyed the Artists Series without realizing that they were accomplished through Circle activity. Thus, for the benefit of those considering applying for membership, it is necessary to enumerate certain categories of oui- work.
ORIENTATION WEEK
Freshman orientation is the most time-consuming and the most rewarding of all Circle functions. There is hardly a more confused group in the world than ■	1500 freshmen away from home for the
first time. To make their first few days on the campus less bewildering and to help them become situated before they are asked to start rigorous study is an important and gratifying task.
In the past three years, the student trip has been arranged for 2000 Notre Dame students to visit Baltimore, Washington, New York, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. By organizing these trips and all the pep rallies, we feel we do service to an aspect of campus life which Notre Dame
February 26, 1960
has historically defined as an integral part of itself.
As members of the Blue Circle, we are frequently called upon to represent the University. Already this year, over a thousand people have been taken on Circle tours of the campus. We have escorted ambassadors from Chile, visitors from Kenya and housewives from Mishawaka from one historic (or at least interesting) sight to another. We consider ushering in Washington Hall and the Drill Hall to be opportunities of representing the University in a smaller and more indirect way.
Although it is the office of the student senate to represent the students to the administration, the Circle does have opportunities to discuss problems of environment with the administration. The committee which studied the possibilities of permanent hall residence was a Senate-Circle committee, and for three years we have been working with Mr. Schaefer at the library by offering suggestions that would improve study conditions there.
Some of our work can be described as providing service directly to the student body. This year’s vaccination program against a possible epidemic of Asiatic flu, the committees that supervise the selection of Who’s Who and campus elections and the men who organize the Christmas caroling party, function in this respect.
Some Circle committees are organized to provide opportunities for Notre Dame students to perform acts of charity in South Bend. This Christmas we sent men to the crippled children’s hospital, the old folks home, the day nursery and the orphanage. These activities also help to cement good relations between Notre Dame and the residents of South Bend. We are planning another function of this nature in the spring, a “help week” that will send over a hundred students to do the manual labor that is necessary for spring cleaning at these institutions.
We consider the Leadership Training Program and the Artist’s Series to contribute directly to the process of education. The Artist’s Series has established a reputation for supplying entertainment that is cultural and artistic as well as enjoyable, and this year’s Leadership Training Program will raise some important questions -for sophomores and
freshmen about the nature of university education. ’
It would be dishonest to claim that the objectives of those committees are the only reason we have for initiating them. There is a world of experience that accompanies membership in the Circle — experiences of friendship and responsibility and social life. No description of our- nature would be complete without a mention of this aspect of Circle membership.
RESPONSIBILITIES AND REPUTATIONS
It should be clear that membership on each committee involves great responsibilities. Many have budgets for thousands of dollars, and the others are responsible for the reputation of the University itself, or at least for the impression it gives its visitors. However, the most important experience entailed with membership in the Blue Circle is that of association. It is certainly a fraternal organization. But this “fraternity” is not something legislated or false. It arises naturally among men working together toward common goals. Association in the Circle is with men who have been selected because they manifest the ideals of the University. It is with men who respect the University and its purposes to the extent that they want to serve both in their free moments.
These experiences .of association and responsibility are powerful sources of personal development, but they are not the best reasons for applying for membership. Too frequently there will be tasks that are trivial and apparently meaningless. These can be accepted willingly only by men who embrace the purpose of the organization itself, by -men who have the desire to serve Notre Dame. Such a desire proceeds from a real attachment to the University. It is based on the realization that Notre Dame is the locus of four years filled . with the incidents and people that will become precious memories. Its origin is- . in an appreciation for the development that takes place in our own personal!-ties in these same four years. It mani- '. fests itself in a desire to become more a part of the University and to serve a ' cause which is greater than ourselves. : This form of loyalty to Notre Dame, is what makes the Circle work make sense: to Circle members. It is one quality we ' will search for in all applicants. . <
Perhaps every article should begin like this
Ski Trip
1960
4
By Andrew J. Lawlor
In the three short years since its founding, the Notre Dame Ski Club has enjoyed considerable success and growth. It has expanded its membership from the original forty skiers to a current paid membership of over 500. This phenomenal increase placed the Ski Club among the ranks of our largest campus clubs. To say the least, the club has been very suc
cessful in fostering the popularity of a sport that had been almost ttnheard of at Notre Dame. Under the direction of the 12 newly elected officers the club is sure to function as efficiently as it has in the past. Plans for next year’s between-semesters trip are already on the drawing boards. The following is an account of the club’s trip this year.
“. . . and Mom, it’s one of the last chances I’ll have before I graduate, and it’s such a long time till Easter and besides it’ll probably be cheaper and even safer than Chicago. You just ask Dad — he used to ski. Ah please Mom, huh?”
“. . . but you saw what happened to that skier in Squaw Valley last week . . .”
“Gee Mom, you’re the greatest. I promise I’ll be careful.”
“I’m just enclosing the accident report from Stowe, thought you might be interested in it.”
After the mails, swollen with pleas, doubts, anxieties and finally letters of parental blessings, had subsided and after the scrap paper, blue books and all night lights had been happily disposed of, four hundred and fifty members of the Notre Dame Ski Club left Notre Dame and St. Mary’s for the snowy slopes of Cabrafae, Michigan.
The exams which had been such a painful reality a short time earlier, faded to dim and even forgotten memories as the buses barreled toward a vacation which would be remembered as one of the most enjoyable vacations of college. The bus trip couldn’t exactly be billed as the “joy ride of the century” but then, even the bitter things of life have their better sides. Take the “rest” stops for instance. After a few hours in our chariot the happy character at the wheel got on the P.A. and announced with a practiced flourish that we would soon enjoy a “rest stop and that doesn’t mean a refreshment stop.” “You kiddin’ me, these lips be parched!”
Well anyway—as we stoimed the “Inn” we were reminded of a general store in a secluded country town. (When we left we were all too convinced that it was.)
“Four hamburgers over here, please.”
“Three here please.”
“Two more hamburgers.”
“Sorry sonny, only have ’nough meat for seven. Wait a few minutes and the boy’ll be back from the butchers, how ’bout some pig’s knuckles?”
“Nah, we’ll be okay with this and these pretzels.”
“Hey Bill, you check them?”
“Yea Paw — they’re all in a Press Club.”
And then the bus rolled on— Plainwell, Grand Rapids, Big Rapids, . . . Even though two of our drivers started a crosscountry run before we reached the slopes (that dividing island you tried to cross must have been an advanced run, eh Clem?) we finally reached the motels.
The Ski Club officers were sleepily waiting there with accommodations which varied from princely suites to very humble pads. For a few, however, the trip wasn’t quite over. Some of us had lost our assigned rooms to the troops who had
16
tripped up earlier on their own.
“Sorry boys, you 15 will have to go somewhere else.”
“Hey great! We’ll take Moffet’s and Church’s.”
“You kiddin’ me! The girls are staying there. You’ll have to stay on the other side of town. Go over to the South Shore.”
“Oh my Gawd! All the way back there, we left South Bend at noon.”
“You idiot, not that one. It’s only down the road.” (Like miles and miles down the road.)
Those few lucky ones who arrived at Cabrafae early Thursday evening had the wonderful experience of doing the town; a rather quiet place to say the least. After walking, talking and hitching our way in ... .
“Hey buddy, what’ll it be?”
“Okay, let’s see four ID’s, one with a picture.”
Unfortunately Newton said nothing about going up
The Scholastic
“Well, err— I really only wanted a As I was saying, a real swingin’ t< We went to bed Thursday night with of rolling out to the buses by 6:45 A.
sandwich.” >wn.
the unhappy prospect M. Well maybe 7:15 would have been a better time to begin with anyway. After a breakfast which all enjoyed and a few never saw, we piled on the buses once more and slept our way out to the slopes. Since the majority of us had never been skiing before it was really surprising to see the “pros” ski out of the rental shop. But then we all can’t be “pros” and someone had to start the ball rolling. Your author managed beautifully by being the first one to fall — Ah, happy humiliation!
The sport of skiing isn’t the easiest thing I could hope to effectively describe. It is a combination of spills and thrills which can envelop you in a whole new world. For the less cau-
y Thy Kingdom come . . •	tious this envelop-
ment might take the , form of a bright new cast. It’s difficult to worry about the trivial things which clutter our everyday life when you are skiing down snow-covered mountains and can look out over a vast expanse of placidly shrouded woodland. This is an experience to which you might well become accustomed but nonetheless which you will never forget. Between the time of your first spill, when you wonder whether your legs are still there, to the last run when you are trying to figure how > you can scratch up enough cash to make the next ski trip you go through an experience which might be compared to a 4 catharsis, a catharsis brought about by humiliations (“those little kids way up there — there oughta be a law”), frustrations (“I just can’t fall this time — Oh well, what the . . .”), and the final mastering of the snow which is so beautiful and yet so terribly challenging.
Besides the experience of skiing itself the trip provided ►	us with an opportunity which the majority of Notre Dame
>	students sorely need. I refer to the hackneyed subject of
Notre Dame-St. Mary’s relations. Those who were at Cab-[	rafae were able to see S.M.C. in an entirely new light. When
I	the young ladies from across the Dixie are away from the
i	strait-laced and warped social environment which pervades
I	student life here they break down the very elaborate stereo-
I	type which many of us have unfortunately formed concerning
* them.
In many respects the trip was very similar to life at N.D. k We ran for buses (not the Dixie Shuttle, but close), waited in line for the ski tows and waited again for dinner. But then, if we flip the coin over there are some aspects in which the trip greatly differed from campus life. Why I might even say that many of us managed to confirm our suspicions that we aren’t really so very immature or irresponsible after all.
And so the trip continued as we tried to milk the last drops of pleasure from it.
F “The buses for the Notre Dame group will leave in half an hour — at 4 P.M. Please turn in all your equipment at the rental shop.”
“What! Oh well . . .” “It’s hard to believe that it’s over so soon.”
But then, it didn’t look like this often
“Well, there’s the bus. I’ve really had a great time. Think I could see you Saturday night?”
“Good, I’ll call during the week, so long. — Ohhh, those phones again!”
And then the buses rolled back, leaving the St. Mary’s juniors and some of oui- more fortunate N.D. upperclassmen to return Monday evening. The sad looking coaches, loaded with tired bodies, empty pockets, light hearts and two new white casts sped into the dusk leaving the slopes, parties, first falls and final runs to the reality of vivid memories. Each houi- we were brought closer to campus life, registration, a new semester, and plans for becoming more adept at the sport of young America, one which we are sure will become an integral part of Notre Dame life.
“Hey Bill, you gonna get your own equipment?”
“Hell yes! You going up on the Washington’s Birthday trip?”
“Don’t know yet. ' Have to get some dough.”
“Think the grades’ll be posted?”
“Who knows, but we register at 8:30.”
“You kiddin’ me? And I wanted to sleep in, too. Oh well, wake me up when we get there.”
And then the snow was brushed away
February 26, 1960
AT THE THEATEKT
Parker-Winterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
115’/2-117y2 No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
Complete service to all Air Force, Army, Navy, and Marine Personnel. Uniforms, Caps, and accessories — entire ready - towear or tailor made to measure. You may pay when you receive your Government allowance.
Placing your order early means better service.
Parker-Wiiterrowd
Inc.
TAILORS-CLOTHIERS
HS’/j-llZYt No. Main St.
UPSTAIRS
Phone CE 3-6318
K
Rain, nor sleet, now snow, nor raging floods, nor vicious storms, nor a combination of these (which adds up to the present weather) will stop this public servant from the accomplishment of his duty. That is slightly undefined at present, but nothing will stop me.	'
At the Avon Art, The Seventh Seal blithely came and went without a peep from the management. Now, they are showing another BB picture called The Girl in the * Bikini, which goes to show how much is on that girl’s mind. It’s logical co-hit is a molasses-thick melodrama starring Gina Lollobrigida. In the movie, she plays two < roles: a luxury-loving Parisienne and an Algerian girl. Which seems a solution to De Gaulle’s problem. All this, and nothing more, at the Avon this week.
Kay Kendall’s sudden death at 33, of leukemia, depiived us not of a star-for-a-day, but of an actress whose talent would have kept us laughing for many years to come. Her last movie, Once More, With Feeling (Colfax: Feb. 25-March 2), in which she starred with Yul Brynner and Gregory Ratoff, shows her worn out by her illness but still full of the same joy of living. The story concerns a symphony conductor (Yul) and his long-time mistress (Kay), and their tempestuous love. She wants to leave him to marry a respectable and quiet man and, to preserve appearances, she marries Yul while arranging the divorce proceedings at the same time. Her determination wanes when confronted by his charm and everything turns out fine for both. Gregory Ratoff plays an almost apoplectic agent who tries to keep peace r between Yul and Kay. This is definitely deserving of the Movie of the Week Award, not because of Kay’s death, but as a tribute to both hei’ and Brynner’s talent.
The Bible states it very simply, in three or four short references. The Queen of Sheba came to visit Solomon, they fell in love, Solomon took part in her pagan rites and thus offended God, and she finally left. Out of this short account, Hollywood ' cooked up 139 minutes of full-screen, full-color, bigger-than-life perdition. The title sticks to the basic story pretty much: Solomon and Sheba (Granada: Feb. 25-March 9). But from there on the screenwriters have taken as much leeway as they * were allowed, and then some. There’s no use in outlining the story, because it would still be confusing. Detail is the big thing here, and so many are added that the transformation of the story, from Bible to screen, is more radical and stupefying than Gigi’s growing up. In general, the moviegoers may feel that they are being 1 led into an enormous showroom where propmen have collected the most lavish and costly pieces of set decorations from all of DeMille’s movies. They may also feel that the story has been excessively drawn out. But then, what can you do with about 200 words of original script?
Held over for a third week, Toby Tyler is still at the State. The end of the engagement is not yet in sight, and the manager’s prophecy of the length of the run ’ (six or seven weeks) is being verified slowly but surely. Disney has done it again.
Even though only one movie this week is really worth your money seeing, some good things are coming up. The Avon plans to have Ingmar Bergman’s The Magician very soon, the Colfax is already displaying posters about Porgy and Bess in its lobby, and even the River Park enters the competition with Diary of Anne Frank the third week of March. So don’t despair. There’s hope of better things in the near future.
—Tony Wong
fane WORLD of FUN!

Conservative Creed
(Continued from page 14)
These are the paramount questions of all generations which neither biggei-missiles nor bigger public works nor bigger government spending can replace in importance or serve as solutions. To this may I add two pertinent questions. Is today’s national integrity any higher than before the New Deal? Secondly, can the Democratic Party produce a man of Wilson’s stature to lead this nation in a personal renaissance of the individual spirit?
I firmly believe that if we apply the above forthright philosophy of Herbert Hoover, we would truly progress toward a Christian renaissance which neither the foreign policy of the A.D.A. nor the socialistic goals of Labor presently presented by the Democratic Party can ever deliver.
Travel with SITA
SPEND LESS
Many fours include college credit.
Orient
43-65 Pays
*—$998
Europe • ilt«w from $675
Alio low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tour $59$ up and Around the World $1*9$ up. "" ’•* Ask Your Travel Agent
■	St. JUchifM Aw.
■ ■ WVkOktg* 4, u 7-2SS7
WORLD TRAVEL
i
1

The Scholastic
1 Classified Advertising
*
£
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES—
Wednesday, March 2.________________ All interviews are held at the Placement Office.
Contact Lens Specialist
DR. T. R. PILOT
Optometrist
•
EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED
•
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
OUR COVER: Fun-time, whiz-bang artist, Gerry Welling, two-time winner of the
Amalgamated Finsterfreen Foundation Felicitation For Finer Frivolity, returns to grace this week’s issue with his interpretation of the Carnival. Has he succeeded in capturing the physical and atmospheric aspect of the Mardi Gras? See for yourself at the Drill Hall (Note to Frosh and Sixth Session Sophs: No need to bring I.B.M. cards. You won’t even have to memorize your name or I.D. number — just bring money) and while there, keep an eye on the crowd for familiar faces. Wow!
Holy Cross Bro,?rs
TEACH'S 3 'O Ju C - < *d'~ .ng : e ' : a *:'< :: -□ * 3 r □ ♦ * ' s a ’ o « 2 ’ a ' ~	:
‘ 3 d a , « »”e L 5	’?•-* '. ~
SSiC s
For information and literature write:
BROTHER EYMARD, GS.C.
11 Dujarie Hall . Notre Dame, Indiana
Shirts Expertly Laundered
RUBIN CLEANERS
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus line
Serving Notre Dame Men
for Over 39 Years!
v>
1
Stays moist and firm throughout your shave!
regular or new mentholated
*
Take your choice of new, cool mentholated or regular Smooth Shave. Both have rich, thick Old Spice qualitylather that won’t dry up before you’ve finished shaving. Both soften your beard instantly—end razor drag completely. For the closest, cleanest, quickest shaves...try
SMOOTH SHAVE by SHULTON
Old Spice Smooth Shave!
JOO
s
AVAILABLE AT
•'i
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
February 26, 1960
19
minis LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
BLOCK BROS.
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., South Bend A Nonprofit Organization
Cor. Michigan and Washington ... in Downtown South Bend
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS AND FACULTY FOR OVER 37 YEARS
BODIES IN MOTION 219-220
Advanced Pursuit of Females
Professor Stalk
Time 8c Motion Study. Study of time required to set dates in motion, (1) with ordinary hair tonics, (2) with 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. Conclusive proof that latter more effective on men’s hair and women’s reactions. Special emphasis on common use of water on hair. Evaporation of same with dire consequences noted. Proof that 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic does not evaporate but replaces oil that water removes. Laboratory specimen: H. Ragmop, before and after 'Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. Before, a walking hayloft. After, B.M.O.C. This course specially suited to Bachelors of Science, Bachelors of Art, and just plain bachelors.
Materials: one4oz. lottie ’'Vaseline'Hair Tonic (full) one little black book (empty)
it’s clear, it’s clean, it’s Vaseline’ HAIR TONIC *Yasaliaa * is a ntlstaratf trademark
•f Clmtlmik-PMrfs lac.
20
at
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The Scholastic

SfUitll Pictol
NCAA-BOUND IRISH BATTLE LOUISVILLEHVE
Y
♦
i ।
1
i i
। A
*
*
ND Accepts Invitation After DePaul Victory
Notre Dame’s NCAA-bound basketball team makes its last Chicago Stadium appearance of the 1959-60 season tomorrow night when they host the University of Louisville in the second game of a double-header.
The Cardinals promise to give the Irish a tough contest. Coached by the highly-regarded “Peck” Hickman, Louisville has averaged 20 victories a year since 1944. However, this year’s record of 12-8 is not indicative of the squad’s ability. Seven of the top nine men from last year’s NCAA team are back to haunt the Irish again this year. Louisville leads the Irish in their series 5-4.
Cardinal stars. Pacing the Cardinals this season is 6-8 sophomore forward, Bud Olsen. Olsen is not only an outstanding shot but also rebounds with the best. He will receive ample scoring support from John Turner, a 6-5 junior forward who led the Cardinals in scoring last year. Center Fred Sawyer, a 6-11 giant, is the tallest opponent that center Mike Graney will have faced this season. He has been a consistent per
DePAUL’S STAR HOWIE CARL DRIVES AGAINST IRISH
Schnurr and Dearie block the path of the 5-9 Blue Demon guard
former for the Louisville quintet all season long.
Directing the Cardinal attack will be guards Roger Tieman and Ron Rubenstein. Although neither is a high scorer, both Tieman and Rubenstein are well known for their deceptive playmaking ability and tight man-to-man defensive tactics. Rubenstein hails from Senn High in Chicago.
Notre Dame will be at home for their final game of the regular season schedule when they meet Creighton in the Fieldhouse next Monday night.
Creighton, having a poor season, has managed to win only ten out of 23 contests. To add to the Jay’s distress, two of their top players, Ron Wauer and Claude Thomas, were recently declared ineligible due to scholastic difficulties.
The Jays are paced by 6-7 senior center Dick Harvey and junior forward Dick Hartmann. Haiwey has averaged more than 19 points per game. Hartmann is averaging 17 points while also leading the Creighton squad in rebounding with over 15 per game. Forward Jack Chapman is the Jay’s third high scorer with an average of ten points per game. However, forward Red McManus has been outstanding in Creighton’s last four contests, hitting on almost 45 percent of his field goal attempts. He will see a lot of action against the Irish.
The Jay’s backcourt duties are handled by a pair of speedy guards, Dick
NCAA PRELIMINARIES
Notre Dame has accepted an invitation to an at-large berth in the first-round of the National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball tournament in Lexington, Ky., March 8, it was announced last Monday by Edward W. (Moose) Krause, athletic director.
Pairings pit the Irish against Ohio University, Mid-American Conference champion. Miami (Fla.) plays the winner of the Ohio Valley Conference in the other half of the twin bill.
The Lexington winners advance to the NCAA regional at Louisville, Ky., beginning March 11, with the champions of Big Ten and Southeast Conference completing the field.
McMahon and Ed Hubbard. Both are averaging only seven points a game but they are primarily responsible for setting up the Creighton offensive series.
On February 16, the Irish defeated the Butler Bulldogs for the second time this season. Leading by a score of only 34-33 at half-time, the Irish began an early second-half surge which carried them to an easy 79-62 victory.
Team effort. Leading the Notre Dame attack against Butler was center John Dearie. Although he did not start, Dearie led a second-half surge and ended the evening with 22 points to his credit. Dearie was followed closely by Emmett McCarthy with 15 points. Sophomore guard Eddie Schnurr, starting his second game for the Irish, hit on eight straight free throws and ended up with twelve points. Bill Crosby, the fourth Notre Darner to hit in double figures, scored ten points.
On Saturday, February 20, the Irish were host to a revenge-minded DePaul quintet from Chicago. However, Notre Dame started well and went on to win by an easy 70-58 margin. The Green, led by the brilliant shooting of Crosby and Graney, quickly jumped out to a 208 margin and were not seriously threatened after that. The win pushed the Notre Dame season record to 15 wins and seven defeats.
The Notre Dame five was most effective defensively against DePaul. Using a tight man-to-man defense, the Irish guarded the Blue Demon shooters so well that a great many of their attempts were blocked. Crosby’s defensive tactics were outstanding as he held the high-scoring DePaul guard Howie Carl to eight points until midway in the second half.
Offensively the Irish were paced by the consistent shooting of Graney who led both teams in scoring with 22 points. Graney was also the games’ leading rebounder with 16.
February 26, 1960
21
ODDS and ENDS
Is hockey soon to have a murder on its hands? Andy Bathgate, the leading scorer of the New York Rangers, seems to think so. In the current issue of TRUE he states that if the vicious practice of spearing isn’t stopped, the NHL will soon be able to add homicide to its list of atrocities committed on the ice. According to Bathgate, spearing is the practice whereby a player sinks the end of his stick into the unprotected midsection of his opponent. If done in the proper manner, it can be the end of the victim.
While all the clamor this winter has centered around the prolific scoring of Oscar Robertson, a lad from tiny St. Bonaventure has been doing some outstanding hoophitting of his own. Tom Stith is the youngster in question. He is second to Robbie in scoring with a 32-point average. Last Saturday he hooped 42 points in the Bonnies 74-70 win over Eddie Hickey’s Marquette Warriors. A few weeks ago, he netted 46 points in the Bonnies triple overtime 90-89 verdict over Providence. On that occasion, Tom swished 19 of 31 shots from the field while adding 8 of 11 from the charity stripe. To top off this brilliant performance, Stith sunk the winning basket with 16 seconds remaining. Stith is a senior and should be drafted early when the pros do their selecting.
Bob Bradtke, the fine senior guard injured in the 75-63 win over Detroit on January 9, is out for the rest of the season. The 6-1 Hammond Noll grad will undergo a knee operation within the next few weeks. Bob was rated by some as the finest all-around player on this year’s quintet. Undoubtedly, he was an outstanding marksman, hitting consistently with his jump shots and long sets. Bob is a triple monogram winner who had his best game this year with 21 points in the first Butler game. We hope the operation will be successful and that Bob will soon be as good as new.
DID YOU KNOW? Ralph Wells, Northwestern’s fine 6-1 sophomore guard, has grabbed off 103 rebounds despite his lack of height. St. Bonaventure has won 93 straight games at home while the Irish have 15 straight in the Fieldhouse. Ron Johnson, the 6-7 Minnesota pivot man, has scored on 35 of his last 48 shots, a cool 72.9%. And last year at this time the Jordanmen had a 10-12 slate. This year it reads 15-7.
From March 1-5 the Interhall Wrestling Tournament will take place. There will be two divisions, novice and open. The novice group will be for boys with no previous experience. The open division is for freshmen wrestlers and those with previous experience in high school. Points will go toward the President’s Cup trophy. Varsity wrestlers will be the coaches of the competing teams. All wishing to enter may leave their names in die interhall office in the Fieldhouse up to and including February 29. Notices will be posted in each half regarding die meet.
22
Gregory's Record Half-Mile Paces Irish Over Pittsburgh
After closing out an undefeated indoor dual meet season last Friday night against Pitt, the Irish spikemen head for Western Michigan College at Klamazoo tomorrow for the Central Collegiate Conference Championships.
Ron Gregory provided a brilliant finish for the Notre Dame indoor season last week with his record-breaking half-mile victory of 1:50.5. His victory also proved to be the turning point of the meet, for the Irish pulled ahead at this point and went on to a 64-40 triumph over the Panthers.
In the early stages of the contest, Pitt had taken the lead on the strength
of Mel Barnwell’s victories in the 60-
JERRY FITZPATRICK Top Irish sprinter
yard dash and 440, and Ron Rush’s blue ribbon in the mile. Although Jim Sheeler’s win in the 60-yard highs temporarily evened things up, the Panther’s came back with a one-two in the shot put and a second in the two mile by Rush, ‘behind Dave Cotton, to take the lead again.
It was at this point that Gregory led the Irish sweep in the 880, giving the Irish a six-point advantage. In the next race, the low hurdles, Sheeler added to the Notre Dame lead with his second winning performance of the evening.
The Irish merely widened the gap in the contests that followed as Dick Monjeau picked up a tie for first in the high jump with Regis Goggin of Pitt, and the relay team of Pat Reilly, Dennis Boyle, Terry Jones and Steve Schwartz came in first. The final event of the evening saw another Notre Dame sweep completed as Tom Reichert went up to fourteen feet one inch for the pole vault honors.
Jerry Fitzpatrick picked up his usual first in the broad jump with a 23'1%" leap and was barely nosed out by Barnwell in the 60-yard dash.
ND Tankers Host Pitt In Final Home Contest
Tomorrow at 2 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Pool the Notre Dame swimmers battle the University of Pittsburgh’s tankmen. This will be the final home meet of the year for the Irish and Seniors Paul Chestnut, Jim Carroll, Gene Jordan and Dick Dunn will make their final competitive appearance in the Rockne Pool.
Thus far the tankers have compiled a record of five wins and two losses, excluding the meet against Loyola on Wednesday of this past week. After tomorrow’s contest with the Panthers, only an away meet with North Central remains on the schedule.
Last Friday against Bowling Green the Irish wound up on the short end of a 60-35 score. The next day they bounced back with a 54-41 win over Detroit in the Motor City.
The Bowling Green loss marked the first time this season that Chestnut or Carroll, the two Irish divers, have not won the diving competition. Notre Dame managed to pick up only two firsts against the powerful Bowling Green team. Senior Dunn won the 200-yard butterfly and the 400-yard medley relay team of Jordan, Dave Witchger, Tony Haske and Gene Witchger also captured a blue ribbon.
Against Detroit the next day Coach Dennis Stark’s charges were more fortunate. They racked up six first place finishes and six seconds.
In the 50-yard freestyle Frank Dinger won top laurels with a time of 24.6. Carroll and Chestnut finished one-two in the diving. Haske and Dunn provided another one-two Irish finish in the butterfly. In the 100-yard freestyle Bill Bronin and Dinger provided Notre Dame with still another one-two finish. Notre Dame sophomore Dave Witchger won the 200-yard breaststroke and his teammate Joe Bracco came in second. The meet ended with the Irish 400-yard freestyle relay team of Gene Witchger, Joe Meaney, Dinger and Cronin posting the winning time of 3:39.5.
Fencers Slate Now 14-1 After Three More Wins
The Notre Dame fencers ran their season’s record to 14-1 with three wins on the road this last week end.
In a triangular meet at Michigan State last Saturday, the foilsmen defeated Ohio State and the host Spartans by the identical 16-11 count. It was the second win of the season for the Irish over the Spartans, the latter* having succumbed on the Irish home grounds, 19-8. Detroit bowed to the Irish last Friday as the fencers opened their highly successful road trip with a 17-10 win over the Titans.
In the triangular meet, 7-2 advantages in epee was the deciding factor in both matches. Pete Giamo won five straight in epee in this meet.
The Scholastic
I Irish Wrestlers Host Miami In Tough Match Tomorrow
Notre Dame’s wrestlers face the matmen of the University of Miami of Ohio r at the Fieldhouse tomorrow afternoon, fe Very little is known about the Redskins, O except that they hold an impressive vic-| tory over the University of Cincinnati, ; one of Notre Dame’s earlier rivals.
| The Irish grapplers faced a strong I Northwestern team on Wednesday and a several individuals from the team par-g ticipated in the two-day Wheaton In-b vitational Tournament in Wheaton, Ill., over the past week end. A match with J Marquette, scheduled for this week, was | postponed until March 2.
■i In the Wheaton tournament which at-j tracted the best wrestlers from Iowa, ft Illinois, and Indiana, Irish captain Jerry I Sachsel was beaten in the 123-pound {4 finals by Bill Kontas of Northern Uli-J nois, 5-3. Sachsel had moved into the L finals by whipping Jim Norder of i*	Bradley, 12-3, and Floyd Dee of East-
ern Illinois, 5-3.
_ Notre Dame’s Dick Sapp, wrestling f in the 147-pound class, lost his semifinal match to Ken Weaver of Illinois Normal. Weaver pinned Sapp in 4:07. Earlier Sapp, a senior, had defeated Northern Illinois’ John Colley, 3-1.
Two other Irish representatives were eliminated in their first matches. 157-r pound Sophomore John Churnetski was pinned in seven minutes by John Guzak < of Northern Illinois. Jim Brunette, 191 pounds, was pinned by Southern Illinois’ Al Houston in 5:10.
j Tyler Jr.'s Picks of the Week !>
i	TOMORROW
-!	Cincinnati over Wichita.
j	Villanova over St. Joseph’s (Pa.)
:	California over Oregon State.
j	Utah over Utah State.
1	Bradley over Tulsa.
‘ ►	Notre Dame over Louisville.
;	St. John’s over Temple.
>	Ohio State over. Wisconsin.
'	North Carolina State over LaSalle.
f	Indiana over Minnesota.
DePaul over Creighton.
St. Bonaventure over Niagara.
> Georgia Tech over Vanderbilt. Illinois over Iowa.
> Detroit over Seton Hall.
. Purdue over Northwestern.
Navy over Army.
North Carolina over Duke.
Michigan State over Michigan.
I, St. Louis over Houston.
v	LAST WEEK
20 right, five wrong, 80 per cent.
TOTALS TO DATE
82 right, 16 wrong, 83.7 per cent.
KEGLERS' KORNER
CLASSIC LEAGUE
Pabst Blue Ribbons....... 45-19
Brunswick Shop .......... 41-23
High Series: Jim Lewis, 179-234-205— 618; Fred Hoey, 198-186-209-593.
High Average: Ted Nekic 185, Dan Halloran 184, Ron Dvorak 183.
KAMPUS KEGLERS —RED
Rochester Club .......... 38-18
Beatniks ................ 37-19
High Series: D. Halloran 165-234-162 -561; R. Stefani 178-185-183-546; B. Men-ill 197-189-155-541.
Averages: D. Dvorak 178, D. Halloran 177.
KAMPUS KEGLERS — WHITE
Sixty-Niners .............. 45-7
F.F.G.M.................... 30%-21%
High Series: M. Bentley 180-211-192583; T. Nekic 160-176-198-534.
Averages: T. Nekic 185, M. Kubiak 175.
KAMPUS KEGLERS — BLUE
Detroit ‘A’ .................. 40-16
Chern. Eng. ‘A’ .............. 38-18
Seines: John Roark 176-161-206—543;
Bob Kriner 169-180-190—539.
Averages: J. Roark 169, E. Mossner 168.
KAMPUS KEGLERS — YELLOW
Lucky Strikes .............. 43-13
Shady Grove .............. 38%-17:*^
Series: Fred Hoey 211-182-176-569;
Frank Araneta 151-236-175-562.
Averages: F. Araneta 169, Emmett
Sharkey 166.	•
KAMPUS KEGLERS — GREEN Five Jokers ............... 34%-17%
Met Club ‘B’ ................ 28-24
Irish ....................... 28-24
Five Splits ................. 28-24
Series: D. Akers 180-203-220—603; J. Lewis 161-202-189—552.
Averages: J. Lewis 179, D. Akers 176.
Tom Reichert, star pole vaulter from Walsh Hall says: “Beetle’s sandwiches give me so much pep and energy that I broke my pole in the Purdue meet. Try a Beetle sandwich!”
Gregory’s Greatest
He used to consider himself a two-miler. Now he considers himself a miler. What would happen if he ever considered himself a half-miler?
The he is Ron Gregory, star Irish distance runner from St. Louis, Mo., who swept around the dirt track against virtually no competition in a dual meet with Pittsburgh last Friday and left the field far behind after the first quarter, traversing the 880 yards in 1:50.5.
This mark broke the Notre Dame indoor and Fieldhouse records for the half-mile as well as establishing a new
RON GREGORY
Shatters 880-yard record
world mark for this distance on a dirt track. Gregory cracked by almost a full second the old mark of 1:51.4 set by Notre Dame’s Dale VandenBerg two years ago.
• Gregory prepared himself for his record-breaking feat by zipping through the anchor leg half-mile of the distance medley relay at the Michigan State Relays the week before in 1:51.1. It was this performance that convinced Coach Alex Wilson that his versatile distance man should have a chance to annex his third school indoor marie. He already held the indoor mile record of 4:10.0 and the two-mile standard of 9:14.6, . both of which were established last year.
Ron followed pacers Christ Monahan through the first 220 and Dan Rorke through the second furlong and passed the quarter mark at 55 seconds, methodically ticking off his first two 220’s in 27 and 28 seconds.
While the pacers fell back, Gregory maintained his pace and ripped off his next two 220’s in 27.5 and. 28 seconds for an almost perfect race.
—Ted Thompson
23
February 26, 1960
EYES EXAMINED GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS “JUST BRING IN THE PIECES”
CONTACT LENSES I
INQUIRIES INVITED	I
■^RWTURBOW \apTOMirm*T
207 W. Wash. (Pick-Oliver Hotel)
Phone CE 4-5777
LUGGAGE
Trunks and Bags
JACK’S =■
327 S. MICHIGAN
AT 7-3009 Free Delivery
that erased without a trace—or,
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND Typewriter Paper
. It’s a cinch to "rub out” typing errors and leave no "clues”, when you use Eaton’s Corrasable Bond Paper. Never smears, never smudges—because Corrasable’s like-magic surface... erases without a trace! (A flick of the wrist and a pencil eraser puts things right!) This fine quality bond paper gives a handsome appearance to all your work. It’s a perfect crime not to use it!
Erasable Corrasable is available in all the weights you might require—from onionskin to heavy bond. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Made only by Eaton
EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
and Club League Squads ! Prepare for Campus Playoffs '
Races for each of the six divisional	j
crowns in the Interhall League were	'
very close all season. In the Red , League, Zahm was declared the winner with a 5-0 record, followed closely by Lyons with a 4-1 mark.
The White League produced a threeway tie for the top position. Pangborn, Dillon and Zahm all had records of 4-1. The competition in the White League was the closest of any of the leagues. < In the Gold League, the Pangborn quintet was outstanding in sweeping five straight victories without a loss. Stanford Gold followed with a 4-1 record.
Pacing the Blue League were Dillon and Stanford, both exhibiting undefeated records. The Green League also ended up in a tie for the top position. 1 Lyons and Stanford both had 3-1 records. Breen-Phillips finished atop the (-) Black League with a perfect 2-0 mark.
Having reached the halfway point in 4 its schedule, the Interclub League has revealed several fine squads.
In League I, the Detroit and Central Illinois clubs share the lead with perfect < 3-0 records. The Met Club leads League II with a 2-0 slate while the leadership of League III is shared by the Philadelphia and Kentucky powers. League IV is led by the Italian, Toledo and Villagers clubs. The Physical Education i Majors head League V while the Chi- \ cago club is winning League VI.	1
The date set for the single-elimination ; tournament is March 7. The tournament $ will match eight finalists from both the hall and club leagues to determine a | campus champion.	-
ROTC Quintet Competes r In Regional Tournament Jr
Notre Dame’s Navy ROTC basketball team has gained the finals of the Mid- L west regional Naval ROTC Basketball . Tournament at Glenview Naval Air Sta- | tion, Glenview, Ill., on February 27 and I 28.	’
The Navy courtmen have compiled a record of nine wins and two losses this year and have also been participating in the Interclub League here on the campus.	-
In reaching the final round of the Navy tourney, the ND midshipmen de- . L feated Ohio State, 59-53 and Michigan, : B 62-37, last Saturday, February 13 at. Ann Arbor, Mich.	nte
Competing with the Irish in the final round will be Missouri, last year’s cham- ;p pions, Kansas and Wisconsin.	/
Heading the team is Captain Dick | Belmont, a senior, who is also a mem- -t.. ber of the Notre Dame varsity baseball team. Others include senior Bob Cen-name of Philadelphia, Jerry Crowley of f-l South Bend, Bob Demeester of Mishawaka, Ray Kelly of Chicago and Al Smith of Indianapolis. The team is coached by Lt. John Staehle of the Notre Dame Naval ROTC staff.
The Scholastic
24
I	Repercussions
(Continued from page 11)
g the football program and “peaceful co-3 existence” with academic excellence.
;	Ideally, intercollegiate athletic compe-
ls tition should involve teams drawn from S student bodies without such evils as recruiting, subsidizations, etc. The prob-g lem with ideal situations is that they all H too frequently do not exist. So, within ?	the existing framework of intercolle-
| giate competition, why can’t we have a J	major football program that is com-
w patible with the “excellent” pursuit of K truth and knowledge? I fail to see an inherent contradiction in the goals of j	the University football team and the
I	University academic program. What is
I to prevent “peaceful coexistence,” and | as a matter of fact, why shouldn’t Notre d Dame continue its excellent football tradition even as it excels academically, cul-|	turally, and spiritually. I do not see
4^	these as unrealistic ideals; rather they
>	are concrete realities, as objective evalu-
5"	ation of the University’s current status
J	will reveal. Let us remember that this
I	tradition is built not alone on “inconse-
5	quential” victory, but upon the will to
j'	fight and win — not at any cost — but
i	against any odds: Army, 1913; Ohio
State, 1935; Oklahoma, 1957. Are we B now to substitute mediocrity in football 3 for such a tradition?
| Having granted the importance of I football in the development of an out-y standing academic institution, why shouldn’t this same factor be an important economic and recreational aspect of the maintenance and continued development of that institution? This im; plies football is important in attracting t capital and students, and that it does J make a social contribution.
• Certainly elimination of football (good ! or bad) doesn’t eliminate distraction. U Women and drinking might be considered distractions too, but few people are * heard to suggest de-emphasis here! Perhaps in light of some recent adverse f publicity, what the “Button-Down Col-I lar” schools need is not de-emphasis but re-emphasis!
In conclusion, I say let Notre Dame provide an example of HOW a major college football program can be properly f conducted, properly financed, and properly emphasized in the over-all program of the University. Today we have major college football, enviable academic standards, and an increasingly important ( cultural and .spiritual influence. This ( * is as it should be and can continue to > be, right here in the shadow of the ’ * Gold Dome.
Joe Cooney 117 Alumni
(ED: A feiv questions back to Mr. Cooney— 1) If no conflict exists between academics and athletics why then call for a “co-existence.” It would seem that > the very word presupposes a conflict.
2) In naming the great games over the years, why omit Iowa in 1953? Possibly because this is an example of win [or try to] at any cost?)
February 26, 1960
STILL THE OTHER SIDE
Editor:
Mr. Shaul’s article in Scholastic, February 19, 1960, was excellent rhetoric, but of questionable factual value. It was not an argument for the Democrat Party as it exists, but as it should exist. Any connection between the Democrats of today and the Jeffersonian principles they espouse is in name only. The trend away from these principles began in 1896 with the Populists.
As for his attacks on the present administration, they are quite unfounded. Using his definitions of peace and prosperity, the success of any administration is open to debate. It is not his personal feelings which concern me. It is the “facts” he uses and their interpretation which are objectionable.
Is the word of Admiral Burke to be accepted and the ideas of Ike’s defense experts to be rejected? Shaul is worried that we are incapable of fighting a limited war, but he advocates greater expenditures on missiles and space exploration to protect us in “the age of missiles and near-instant destraction.” To help alleviate his fears— and correct his facts—concerning our plight in regard to the missile “gap,” I refer him to the Feb. 29, 1960 issue of U. S. News & World Report. It has some very enlightening figures — which don’t exactly coincide with his.
Isn’t it a fact that the fann program is legislative and not executive? And what kind of Congress have we had? And what was the nature of Harry Tinman’s farm policy that was left as a legacy to the present administration? All very interesting factors not brought out by Mr. Shaul.
Finally, Mr. Shaul, I would be most interested in learning more of your ideas concerning your proposed “channeled” economy.
Michael T. Monahan 110 Fisher
WHAT THEY ASK ABOUT
mixed marriages
Order the complete set and have all the answers in one package. Especially the answers to questions people ask
Non-Catholic
MARITAL LIFE
or won't ask in regard to these important subjects. This series of twelve two-color booklets has red answers to red questions in language you will understand and with a style you will appreciate.
An excellent addition to the home library or as material for a discussion group. Full of answers to over 200 questions.
AVE MAMA PRESS Non. Dam., Indiana
TRY ONE AT
1003 N. Notre Dame Ave
are you suffering,
FROM ITCHY PALMS ??
STUDENT DISCOUNT SERVICE saves you that paiN in +ne pain wheN you trade*** ____________' AT______________
Reco Sporting Goods
Nicola’s Pizza
Eddie’s Restaurant
Simeri’s Cafe
Louie’s Tuxedo Rental
Sheehan TV Sales and Service
William’s Furniture Store
Portage Sunoco Service Station
Rubin Cleaners
Palais Royale Bowling
Washington Shoe Repair
Walgreen’s Drug Store (Michigan and Colfax)
25
Back Paqe
license or caution
by EVERETT W. WELLS
Everett Wells, author of the “Back Page” for this week, is a senior history 'major from Hayward, Calif. He is active in the Herodotians history club and the International Relations club and has contributed on previous occasions to the Scholastic.
In this article Wells, a noted reactionary and reputed monarchist, looks at the elections in 1960 as a crisis in our times. He has some dire predictions to make in this regard.
WE HOPE that it is by this time clear to all that the shibboleth of party distinction in this country is invalid. Both of our current political organizations are heterogeneous amalgamations which represent a polarity of political philosophies. Therefore, it should be evident that it matters little which party will gain nominal control of the legislature or of the presidency in the 1960 elections. Rather, the basic political tenets of the men in power will determine the sort of government to which we shall be subjected for the next four years. We would beg to suggest that the foi*thcoming election will present the voter with two basic alternatives: liberalism and conservatism. More specifically, the choice will be one between license and caution.
It is only with the greatest temerity that we shall venture in the face of opposition from all intellectuals (who are by definition “enlightened” and liberal) to suggest that the men we choose to guide our fate during the next four years should be conseiwative. To justify this contention we intend to explain what the conservative is, why he must oppose the policies of liberalism, and why he is better prepared to guide this nation than his radical cousin.
CONSERVATISM DEFINED
In attempting to define conservatism we are undertaking an impossible task. At best we can only hope to point out a few of the more important characteristics of this political philosophy which, unlike its liberal counterpart, is not a series of rationalistic theories with a common origin in time. Rather, it is the product of many centuries of gradual evolution — years of experience which have led most men to believe that all institutional changes must be the organic developments or the historical continuation of a traditional framework.
This innate instinct to conserve “the ancient moral traditions of humanity” is nothing new. Indeed, it is the latent principle of that conservatism which we
know today — a “force called into activity by the French Revolution [of 1789] and operating against the tendencies that that Revolution set up.” From the very first moment when the idealistic notions of the philosophes were given ascendancy in the practical realm of politics, their liberal descendants have spent all of their waking hours devising ingenious plans with which to experiment whenever they should have the opportunity to govern.
In 1960 the American people are once again forced to face the quadrennial threat of a liberal inundation; but this particular year there seems to be an especially dangerous menace to the traditional order. During the last seven years there has grown up in the Congress of these United States a particularly radical coterie of the “enlightened” brethren. Each year this group has lamented that we are falling behind the onward march of progress. As a result of their current anxiety, we can fear (and not without reason) that the liberals, if given political office, would react in such a manner that government would not only overtake but far surpass man in his humble efforts to keep pace with the “enlightened” theory of progress.
The liberal has been depressed by our unimaginative and unaggressive foreign policy. To be sure there have been no wars in the last few years; and, therefore, both the prestige and the economy of the country have stagnated. We must note that this sad state of affairs has no counterpart; under the imaginative, inspirational, and aggressive leadership provided by our last three liberal presidents— all three of whom managed by means of war to uphold the prestige of the United States and to improve its economy.
In addition we should mention that the timid prosperity (or the lack of it) during the last seven years has been a thorn in the sides of all liberals. They point out that, by approximating a balanced budget and limiting the growth of the national debt, the conservatives have allowed our economy to stagnate. No doubt, if the liberals had controlled the government during the same period, they would have spent the nation into such a state of prosperity that inflation would probably have increased at a geometric rate. However, the wisdom of such a procedure is questionable.
Why are conservatives more deserving of our trust? In the first place, they are realistic, competent, and experienced while their liberal counterparts are idealistic, anxious, but untried. It might be objected that the conservative is
shortsighted; and, perhaps, this is true. We must allow, therefore, that he will frequently have to stop and readjust his perspectives. But surely this condition is better than that of the farsighted liberal who is constantly rashing forward in his eagerness to attain man’s natural perfectibility and just as constantly stumbling over those objects which the dull but plodding conservative manages in his muddling way to avoid.
PROGRESS DOUBTED
Many of our smug liberal friends would contend that “conservatism can only succeed as a political principle when man has lost confidence in the future.” Perhaps this statement could be more accurately phrased in the following manner: conservatism can only exist as a political principle when it is no longer reasonable or possible for man to place confidence in the future. When the bankrupt liberal philosophy has so consistently led the world into a state of utter chaos and, indeed, to the brink of its destruction, how can any man justify blind faith in the future or in progress? Indeed, the success of certain radical elements in the last congressional election was frightening. No sooner had these men been assured of victory than they began to boast of plans for a monstrous spending spree. Fortunately, however, conservative elements in the Congress and the executive veto were able to restrain these “radicals.”
We can only hope that this near disaster will be enough to cause a reaction against the forces of radicalism. However, should the American voters prove themselves oblivious of the liberal menace, we can expect a repetition of the black era of the thirties — an era which saw the institution of the welfare state and the attempt to pack the Supreme Court. Another such period would probably result in an inundation of social legislation and in the complete emasculation of the Supreme Court.
This list of Cassandralike forebodings is certainly not designed to inspire unlimited confidence in the future. We can only hope that the forces of conservatism will be strong enough to resist the immediate threat; but, if they should succumb to another liberal advance, there will still be some hope if a few stalwarts will only manage to preserve the principles of conservative philosophy and thought, for as Russell Kirk suggests: “We ought to understand conservative ideas so that we may rake from the ashes what scorched fragments of civilization escape the conflagration of unchecked will and appetite.”
26
The Scholastic
I------------------------------------------------1
;	A Campus-to-Career Case History	'
In the master control room of San Diego TV station KFMB-TV, Max Beere discusses a new studio-transmitter link with chief engineer Charles Abd,
His “temporary” job became a career
Max P. Beere spent two years at the University of Hawaii while with the U. S. Navy, then earned his B.S. degree in Engineering at the University of Utah, where he served as technical lighting director for numerous campus theater and television shows.
On graduating in 1955, he fancied a television career for himself, but felt that, being married, he couldn’t afford to serve a TV apprenticeship.
Max had an interview with the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company in Los Angeles. “I was offered a position in transmission engineering,” he says. “It sounded great—but I really thought of it as a ‘temporary’ thing until I could get into television.”
Max’s TV career came sooner than he had hoped. Assigned as telephone com
pany liaison with the TV networks, he was soon surveying micro wave relay routes for the “Wide, Wide World” show, and working on “remote” and mobile telecasts from such interesting locations as Death Valley and rocket-launching sites deep in the desert.
In August, 1958, he was transferred to San Diego, where he took on full responsibility for TV-and-radio Special Services. This led to a particularly satisfying assignment in early 1959—the development of a new and successful closed-circuit educational TV system for 18 elementary schools in Anaheim.
“The telephone company really opened my eyes,” says Max. “It’s a fine place to work, where new ideas are welcomed and recognized and chances for advancement are excellent I’m sold on it”
Max Beere is one of many young men with varied college backgrounds who are finding stimulating careers in the Bell Telephone Companies. Learn about opportunities for you. Talk with the Bell interviewer when he visits your campus—and read the BeU Telephone booklet on file in your Placement Office.
BBLL.
TBLBPHONB COMPANIBS
L
J
IBM WILL INTERVIEW MAR. 2
IBM invites candidates for Bachelor’s or Master’s Degrees to discuss opportunities in Applied Science, Business Administration, Marketing, Product Development and Programming . . . positions throughout the United States.
Laboratories and manufacturing facilities are located in Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Yorktown, N. Y.; Burlington, Vt.; San Jose, Calif.; Lexington, Kv.; and Rochester, Minn. Corporate headquarters is located in New York, with 192 branch offices in cities throughout die United States. The IBM representative will be glad to discuss widi you die type of career of particular interest to you. IBM offers:
•	Leadership in die development of information-handling systems.
•	New applications for data processing and advances in computer technology.
•	Favorable climate for continued career growth.
•	Opportunities for a wide range of academic backgrounds and talents.
Contact your College Placement Officer to arrange an appointment for a personal interview widi die IBM representative.
If you cannot attend the interview, call or write:
Mr. W. F. Wahl, Branch Manager IBM Corporation, Dept. 868 618-620 North Michigan Street South Bend 1, Ind. CE 2-8251
IBM
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION