Disee quasi semper victurus; vivo quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVIII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, NOVEMBER 8, 1884.
No. 10.
A Never-Failing’ Tryst.
BY ELEANOR C. DONNELLY.
There are leagues and leagues of land,
There are mountains dim and grand:
There’s many a shining river, love, and many a silver lake,
Betwixt thy face and mine,
As 1 kneel at Mary’s shrine, And open at her virgin feet each hidden pain and ache.
Yet this hour I can say:
“ At an altar far away, Another pair of eyes (like mine) are lifted to her face;
And another pair of lips
Murmur, while the Rosary slips
Thro’ another pair of hands (like mine): ‘ Hail, Mary, full of grace!”’
O with what a fresh delight	.
Our spirits reunite
At dawn, at dusk, at noon, at night; in gladness or in grief;
O’er the plain and o’er the prairie,
Flying straight to Blessed Mary, Ev’ry hour sure of graces, ev’ry care of swift relief!
Change, and sorrow, and chagrin,
Doubt, distrust, and even sin, May build between our loving hearts a momentary wall;
But the instant that we kneel
At our Mother’s feet, we feel
That all obstacles must vanish,—ev’ry cloud in dewdrops fall.	'
The mountains melt away,
The plains, in vapor gray,
Dissolve like dreams at morning light; and time and space are nought:
For here at Mary’s-feet,
In closest union meet
“Two hearts that beat as one: two souls with but a single thought!”
—Ave Maria.
•	Protection.
In the last issue of the Scholastic appeared an article entitled “Protective Tariff,” in which the writer started out with the broad and sweeping assertion that protection has been the cause of our material growth during the last twenty years, or, in other words, during Republican rule. Now, it is an easy matter to make assertions, but to prove
them is another thing. If we examine the history of our country’s growth we shall find that many things have gone to make up the measure of her prosperity. In the first place, at the time mentioned in the article above referred to—namely, i860,— a large part of the country was a vast wilderness or prairie. A large section of this territory is now covered with populous and industrious communities, who annually contribute to increase the total wealth of the nation.
The first argument our protective friend brings forward is the value of our imports since 1841; showing they have steadily increased since that date. But what proof is that in favor of protection? It simply shows we have bought so much goods. Neither is this proof that we have grown richer. Nations as well as individuals have been known to purchase beyond their means of settling. If he wished to see whether we had gained by our trade, he should have taken the value of our exports, cast a balance, and seen in whose favor the difference was. But after having done so, he would have a difficult task to prove the connection between this and protection.
The next argument brought forward is that the wealth of the Nation has increased from $16,000,000,000 in i860 to $55,000,000,000 in 1880. These figures are simply wild exaggerations. The estimated wealth of the country in 1880 was $43,000,000,000, which is itself an exaggeration. This estimate was arrived at by reckoning all railway, steamboat, telegraph and telephone stocks, and bonds at par, and by twice counting in $300,000,000 of worthless stock. Reducing the stock to an average of fifty per cent., and taking in the-bonds at par, which is twenty per cent, too high, a reduction is made in the single item of railroads of $2,000,000,000. Then comes ar. estimate of the value of manufactured goods of $5,300,000,000; but the census plainly states that all but $1,900,000,000 of this is included in the estimates of the • products of agriculture and the mines. Thus, in two items a manifest error of over $4,000,000,000 is shown. What reliance can be placed on the rest of the estimates? But, granting the wealth of the nation to have increased $20,000,000,000 from i860 to 1880, it would only be an average annual increase of $1,000,000,000. During this period of vast prosperity, the average annual levy of taxes by the national and local governments has been $700,000,000, and, added to this, is at least
146
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
$500,000,000 more in taxes to protected manufactures. Thus, before we can save $100,000,000, we must pay out $1,200,000,000 to support an extravagant Government, and enrich manufacturing monopolies. This is truly a grand showing for protection. It shows, not that protection has brought on prosperitj’, but that we have managed to shoulder protection and keep our heads above water. The protectionist next tells us that if we buy in America both the profit of the buyer and seller remain with us. What system of political economy has he discovered which enables the buyer to make a profit? We are then told that, up to 1867, no steel rails were made in the United States. Very good; but it may be news to him to hear that the first steel rail was not laid in this country until about five years after that date.
The protectionist gives us some more of his ingenious figures showing the difference in prices during a series of years. He appears to be ignorant of the fact that a dollar in 1880 represents more than a dollar in 1867. There is a marked difference in purchasing goods when what is called a dollar only represents fifty cents and when it represents one hundred. But, granting his figures to be correct, the mere fact that an article is worth one price to-day and another a year hence, is no argument fosr or against protection unless he shows the-direct connection. He then tries to show that the earnings of the farmer are greater now than twenty years ago, and claims this as an argument in favor of protection. He gives the price of wheat in i860 —a year when the business of .the country is depressed—and that of 1880—a year remarkable for its posperity. Why did he not take this year for his comparison, when the price of wheat was lower than for twenty years?
He next speaks of overcrowding the farm; but it is fair to suppose he is ignorant of the fact that there are millions of fertile acres yet untouched by the plow.
Then, after having told us that agricultural products have increased in value, he turns around and informs us that all the necessaries of life have decreased in price. “ Consistency, thou art a virtue.” His last declaration, that it is unfair for protected capitalists to hire cheap labor in foreign countries, caps the climax. Who can doubt but that, after the monopolists have read this touching appeal, they will be imbued with such a spirit of patriotism that they will pay their employes the highest wages their business will permit?
P. J. Goulding.
Thomas Gray.
“ Can storied urn or animated bust
Back to its mansion call the fleeting breath ? Can honor’s voice provoke the silent dust,
Or flattery soothe the dull, cold ear of death ?”
The subject of this sketch was born at Corn hill, London, Dec. 26,1716. His father, Philip Gray, a money scrivener, had a violent disposition, and in consequence of this, he and his wife were compelled
to separate. Young Gray remained with his mother. She was an indefatigable worker, and it was through her exertions that Gray was sent to Eton and afterwards to Cambridge, where he finished his studies. When his education was completed, in company with Horace Walpole, he went to France and Italy, where for a year he studied the classics and became an admirer of art in every form. In consequence of a quarrel, he returned to England to study for a degree in Civil Law. He rambled through Scotland, Wales, and the lake counties of England. In 1747, his ode to Eton College appeared and attracted universal attention; so much so that Hazlett in his lecture has said that “No one sees the distant spires of Eton1 College without thinking of Gray.” T wo years afterwards his unrivalled “Elegy” appeared, and at once it sprang into universal favor. It was placed at the head of poetry of its kind.
No matter who reads it, he will be affected by the natural and touching strain. When it is studied and pondered over it makes an impression that will last, not merely for days or months, but for years. What verse in English poetry can show the uselessness of earthly fame, or make one wish for more than he of whom the epitaph speaks?
“ Large was his bounty, and his soul sincere, Heaven did a recompense as largely send.
He gave to misery all he had—a tear;
Hegainedfrom Heaven (’twas all he wished) a friend.”
Elis other poetic effusions have never become popular on account of the remoteness of his subjects and their position outside of the pale of ordinary human feeling.
On the death of Colley Cibber he was offered the position of Poet Laureate, but declined; shortly afterwards, he was appointed Professor of Modern History at the University of Cambridge. As he was fastidious in his tastes and a lover of books, he kept himself aloof from what he called society, but he loved to comment on it in his letters to his friends. It was one of his delights to ramble amid the scenery of his native country, with no other companion save his dog, and, as he himself expressed it, to drink in the beauty of the country and ponder on the loveliness of the many little lakes that go to make that part of the country attractive. Near the latter part of his life he suffered terribly with the gout; and whilst at dinner in the college he was seized with an attack which caused his death a week later, on th'e 30th of July, 1771, after a useful life of 55 years. .
Thus passed away one of the greatest minds that ever graced the pages of English literature with his poetry, and wherever the English language is spoken the name of Thomas Gray will be reverenced as the one man who stands at the head of all Elegiac, poets. Poetry which is now considered good may? pass into oblivion, but the “ Elegy,” as it was written, will stand the wear and tear of centuries. It may be for a time forgotten, but when the dust of ages has been brushed away, it will shine out in all its glory, and take its place in the front rank, and live while poetry lives.
’	. L. K.
1 i
i
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Author of the “Imitation of Christ.”
B. S., in The '■'■Ave Maria''
Next to the Holy Scriptures, the “ Imitation of Christ” holds the first rank among pious books, and yet very little is generally known of its author. Some have ascribed the work to the French Chancellor Gerson, others to a Benedictine abbot of that name who lived in 1240, at Vercelli; but further researches have proved incontestably that the author of the “Imitation of Christ” was an Augustinian monk, named Thomas a Kempis, from his native town Kempen, but whose family name was Hammerken.
Thomas was born in 1379, of poor but pious and upright parents. His father, Johannes Hammerken, was an artisan, and, in union with his good wife Gertrude, he tried to instil maxims of virtue and piety into the minds of his two sons, Johannes and Thomas. They attended the school of their native town, but, desirous of fitting himself for the ecclesiastical state, Johannes went to pursue his studies in Deventer, in the Netherlands, whose schools were held in high repute. Thomas followed him there when only thirteen years old, and to his providential meeting with the holy priest Florentins (Gerard Groot’s fervent disciple) we may ascribe under God the holiness of his future life.
At the end of the 14th century, the present kingdom of Holland, which then formed part of Germany, was disturbed by violent political contests, from which, however, the large towns, including Deventer, kept aloof. Partly in consequence of these disturbances, partly from the general decay of piety among the clergy, religion and morals had suffered severely in the Netherlands; however, there still existed- a few fervent monasteries, which kept alive by their quiet but widely-felt influence a spirit of interior piety and zeal.
In Deventer, then a flourishing city, a holy priest, named Gerard Groot, had collected round him a band of pious youths, who led a retired, community life, altogether consecrated to God, but bound by no vows. They lived together peacefully, supporting themselves by the work of their hands, under Groot’s direction. His design was, with their help, to receive young men who had a vocation for the cloister, and to form a seminary of Regular Canons of St. Augustine, which should serve as a model for others1 to be formed on the same plan. Johannes, the brother of our hero, joined this school; and shortly after he finished his theological studies, Groot, its saintly founder, was carried off by the plague at the earlv age of forty-five. His work was continued by his intimate friend Floris Radewinsohn (generally called Florentins, according to the custom of those times), to whom he had bequeathed it on his death-bed. Florentins fully developed Groot’s plan of an association of pious persons, and when Thomas had the good fortune to fall into his hands, the establishment was flourishing and in perfect order.
Thomas relates his introduction to Florentins as
follows: “When I came to Deventer to continue my studies, I first sought the choir brethren of Windesheim, where my brother Johannes was; he recommended me to go to the holy and venerable Master Florentins, a most saintly priest, who was attached to the church of Deventer. The fame of this holy man was spread through all the Rhenish provinces, and had filled my heart with veneration for him. The great number of scholars whom he had instructed increased his fame, and
. he was every where known as a true adorer of God and a tender lover of our Holy Mother the Church. Returning from Windesheim, therefore, I sought . the reverend Father, and was received by him with great kindness. He kept me for some time in his bouse, and then sent me to the school, and provided me with the necessary books. He also recommended me to the charity of a pious lady, who took me and several other boys into her house, and provided us with all we required.”
Thomas frequented the school of Boom, and studied diligently. His master was an intimate friend of Florentins, and the following anecdote ____________	'	o
related by Thomas shows the friendship between the two men, and the simplicity of manners that prevailed at the period: “When the time came, everyone brought his money to pay for the lessons. I gave the master what I owed him, and asked o	1
him for the book which I had left as a pledge for payment. But he knew me to be a protege of Master Florentins, and so he said: ‘Who gave .
*	__ o
you this money?’ I answered: ‘Master Florentins.’ Then he replied: ‘Go and bring him back the money; I will take nothing from you, out of love for him.’ I brought back the money to Master Florentins, and said: ‘The teacher has given me back the school money out of love for you.’ ‘I thank him,’ he returned; ‘in future I shall repay him with other gifts.’ ”
The choir, in which Thomas also took a place, was likewise under Boom’s direction, and Florentins often came there. The boy’s heart was so full of love and veneration for his benefactor that he chronicles the smallest incident relating to him. “ As often,” he says, “ as Master Florentins came to the choir, I was so filled with veneration for him that I could not venture to say a word. Once I was near him, and he sang out of the book I was ' singing from; and as he was just behind me he leaned both hands on my shoulders. I was beside myself with delight at such condescension, and held myself as stiff and immovable as I could.”
One of the most charming traits in the character of young Thomas is his enthusiastic veneration for his patron. “ What though all the world be silent on the goodness of Master Florentius,” he exclaims, “ I will never be silent. I shall publish his beneficence everywhere; I experienced it for seven years that I lived with him. . . . All can furnish proofs of his generosity. To one he gives clothes, to another books; this one he provides with boots, this other with paper, pens, ink. No one is excluded from his bounty, and before all he keeps the eternal salvation of each one in view.”
After a few years, Thomas was taken into the
I
THE NOTRE .DAME SCHOLASTIC.
house of Florentins, and he ^ives the following picture of the life led there. It is interesting as a specimen of those “ dark plague spots on society ” —-a religious community; still more so as it portrays those benighted Middle Ages, on which the 19th century looks back with such self-laudatory complacencj': “ Daily I observed the manner of life of this God-fearing man and his pious associates. I rejoiced in the good manners and kind words which issued from the lips of these humble souls; for never had I seen men so inflamed with the love of God and of their neighbors. Although they lived among their fellow-men, they seemed not to belong to earth, and, troubling themselves with no worldly concerns, occupied themselves in reading and transcribing pious books and holy considerations. In silent prayer they found comfort and strength for their labor. They were one heart and one soul. Each one gave what he had to the common store, and, content with frugal fare and simple clothing, had no care for the morrow. As they had consecrated themselves to God of their own free-will, thev obeved exactly and in the smallest particular the superior or his representative. Obedience was their first rule. With the utmost energy they sought to overcome every evil inclination and to destroy self-will, and very often they earnestly begged each other to manifest to them what they found faulty in their conduct, in order that they might correct it.”
We must not linger anv longer over Thomas a Kempis’s peaceful student life, lest we be tempted to exceed the limits of this brief sketch; but we cannot omit his account of his bosom friend’s piety —Arnold von Schoonhoven. “ Every morning,” Thomas writes, “ at four o’clock when the signal for rising was given, Arnold rose at once, and kneeling down said a short prayer; then he dressed quickly, and hastened to early Mass. He loved to get a quiet nook, where his prayer would be undisturbed, and sometimes I succeeded in watching him unobserved. What a prayer was his! The very sight of his fervor inflamed my heart, and made me long to discover the secret of such ardent devotion.”
Arnold remained with his masters until his death, in 1430; but a different career awaited Thomas. His contemplative nature could only be satisfied in complete retirement and solitude, and Florentins advised him to enter the monastery of the Augustinian monks then in course of erection at Zwoll, of which his brother Johannes was prior. Thomas gladly followed this’counsel, and in 1399 he presented himself at the gates of St. Agnes’s Convent in Zwoll and begged for admittance among the brethren. He was accepted, and professed, after a novitiate of six years’ duration, on the 12th of June, 1406. His brother left Agneten-berg (as the monastery was called) some years later, after nine years of successful efforts for its prosperity. He then employed his great, practical energy in other good works, and died in 1432, rector of the convent of nuns called Bethania, in Arnheim. Thomas was ordained six years after his profession; he then filled successively the offices
of procurator and sub-prior; the latter office he . held twice.
The profound solitude of St. Agnes’s, where the monks were principally occupied transcribing and illuminating manuscripts, was soon seriously interrupted. On the death of the Bishop of Utrecht, Friedrich von Blankenheim, Rudolf von Diepholt was elected. Pope Martin V refused to confirm his election, but having many partisans in Deventer, Campen, Zwoll, and the other large cities, he	'
.persisted in setting at defiance the Papal authority, and, notwithstanding a threat of excommunication, held possession of the see. Religious orders, of course, sided with the Holy See, and were thereby placed in a most unpleasant position and very often driven into exile. This was the lot of Thomas’s community, who, twenty in number, were expelled from their convent, and, with their sub-prior at their head, obliged to seek a refuge with their brethren elsewhere; going by Hasselt to Friedland, they finally settled down at Liinekerk.
Three years later, Eugenius IV raised the interdict from Rudolf of Diepholt, and the monks returned to their old home. Thenceforth the life of Thomas a Kempis was passed in unbroken peace. He lived to the age of ninety-two years in the enjoyment of perfect health, and died on the 26th of July, 1471, as peacefully as he had lived. He was interred in the monastery church.
In the year 1672, Max Heinrich, Prince Elector of Cologne, on the occasion of a visit to Zwoll, had the grave of Thomas a Kempis opened, and his remains placed in a reliquary in a church of the city. Here it is well to allude to a story which * has in some way gained considerable circulation,	’
but for which not a tittle of evidence exists. It is asserted that some time after the death of Thomas a Kempis, his grave was opened, and it was found that he had been buried alive, and had evidently recovered consciousness, burst the coffin lid, and finally expired with an expression of horrible despair on his features. This, it is further declared, is the secret reason why so holy a writer has never been canonized. Now, catalepsy at the advanced age of ninety-two is unknown, and in no writer, ancient or modern, do we find a trace of this strange story; yet it is circulated, and believed by many. That it is utterly false it is scarcely necessary here to remark.
Cotemporary biographers describe Thomas a Kempis to have been well built, slightly under the middle height, with a brown complexion, and an eye so sharp that' he never required glasses even in his extreme old age. Always recollected in himself, he minded exterior things so little that he was ignorant of the name and use of many common objects. Silent even in company, he took little or no part in conversation so long as worldly matters were discussed; but if God or heavenly things were spoken of, his words flowed like water from an inexhaustible source. His aspect inspired veneration, and when he prayed he seemed no longer to belong to earth, so great was his fervor and devotion. Night and day he was the first to enter choir, the last to leave it. At the recitation of the	/
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
149
psalms he always stood upright, never sat, nor leaned against his stall. Often in conversation with the brethren he would feel the call of God, and, saying, “ I must go now; there is One to whom I must speak in quiet,” he would hasten away and become lost in contemplation. But he fulfilled punctually the rule of his order, uniting work with prayer. He occupied himself transcribing and illuminating books, or writing devout treatises. The convent possessed an entire Bible in four volumes written by him, a large Missal, several of St. Bernard’s works, and the original manuscript of the “Imitation of Christ.” He sometimes preached when called on, and his reputation for sanctity drew numerous hearers. He had taste for music, and composed the words and music of several hymns. His chosen motto was, “ I have sought peace everywhere, and found it only in solitude and books.” Franz von Tholen saw a portrait of him in the Monastery of St. Agnes a hundred years after his death, with the above-mentioned words inscribed beneath.
His ascetic works are numerous. The most famous of all is the “ Imitation of Christ,” which, next to the Bible, has the largest circulation of anv known book. More than 2,000 editions have been issued of the original Latin text, and, besides the innumerable translations into every European tongue (even into old Greek), the French translations alone exceed a thousand. Every year brings new editions and new translations. One to which a melancholy interest attaches is that by the unfortunate Abbd de Lamennais. It is impossible for any-reflective mind to read the beautiful considerations he has attached to each chapter of the “ Imitation ” without a secret terror while remembering his end. In his reflections on the 14th chapter of the Third Book, he describes the danger of spiritual pride, and its insidious undermining of all good in the soul, and adds, “Thence comethose terrible falls, which terrifv and fill us with consternation; those unexpected lapses, which offer such fearful examples of divine judgments. Woe to him who relies on his own righteousness, for ruin awaits him!” Did he think of those words in the last fatal years of his ruined life?
Thomas a Kempis composed the “ Imitation of Christ” at intervals; the Fourth Book was written first, then followed the others by degrees; but all were written in the full maturity of his manhood. Whence did a man whose whole life was passed in solitude and contemplation derive the wonderful knowledge of human nature which has made the ‘■Imitation” the text-book of every age and every station ? Massillon gives us the answer when asked where he, whose life had been so holy and guarded, had procured such knowledge of crime as he showed in his wonderful sermons. “ In the study of my own heart, where I found the germs of every vice,” was his reply; and it may also be that of Thomas a Kempis. And the truly wonderful diffusion of this little treatise, so simple, so unpretending, but so true and, therefore so attractive, can only be explained by the marvellous power of Christian truth. So little did Thomas a Kempis
think of fame that he did not even sign his name as author of his invaluable work, but merely as its transcriber. Fie wrote many other ascetical works, such as “ Garden of Roses,” “ Manuale Parvu-lorum,” sermons, etc., etc., and all are worthy of him; but it is as the author of the “ Imitation of Christ ” that the name of Thomas a Kempis is revered throughout the whole Christian world.
Art, Music and Literature.
—It is said that the present Duke of Wellington is engaged in editing the private correspondence of the great duke for publication. It will contain much curious political, personal and society gossip.
—A Correspondent informs the Athenceum that the line “A little more than kin and less than kind ” is translated in the Italian version used by Signor Salvini, ^Piit di cugino e med di figlioP The meaning of “ child ” assigned the word kind by Mr. Wilson Barrett is thus anticipated..
—A late interviewer of Sims Reeves, the famous English tenor, reports him as saying that Wagner’s music would do more harm to a voice in two years than other music would in ten years. The only Wagner operas which are suitable for production, and likely to keep the stage, are “ Lohengrin ” and “ The Flying Dutchman ”	.
—The Rev. John S. Moffat, who returned from South Africa mainly for the purpose, is now engaged in writing a memoir of his father, Dr. Moffat, the well-known missionary, and father-in-law of Dr. Livingstone. Mr. Moffat has lately brought to light several letters written bv both his father and his mother at the period of the first arrival of the Boers in the country now known as the South ' African Republic. These letters are said to be almost prophetic in their tone as to the relations of the Boers with the natives, especially with the Bechuana tribes. The work will not be published before spring. .
—Capt. Burton will shortly publish the first installment of a new translation of the “ Arabian Tales.” Nearly all the popular editions are more or less imperfect, being renderings from Prof. Galland’s French version, which is itself an abridgment of the original. Some years since, Mr. Torrens published a literal translation of about fifty tales out of the “ Thousand and One.” Mr. Payne’s translation has been published at a price which is almost prohibitive, and Mr. Lane’s translation does not contain more than half the tales, and is from the Cairo Arabic edition, which is itself an abridgment. As Capt. Burton knows Arabic as no other Euporean, he will probably reproduce the tales in a form as closely Arabic as possible.
— The Century begins with the November number of the present year a series of separate papers, the object of which is to set forth, in clear and graphic manner, the life and spirit of the most important of modern military conflicts—the war for the Union. The main portion of the scheme consists of papers of a popular character on the great engagements of the war, by general officers high
i5°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in command at the time, either upon the Union or the confederate side. In many instances, the contributor will be the officer of first command, and in every instance a participant in the engagements under consideration. For instance, the battles of Shiloh and Vicksburg will be described by Gen. U. S. Grant, who will contribute four papers to the series: Gen. Beauregard writes of the First Bull Run; Gen. McClellan will write of Antietam; Gen. Rosecrans, of Stone River, etc.
—Corneille did not even speak correctly the language of which he was such a master, and it was when remonstrated with at refusing to be bound bjr the limits of grammar in conversation that he made the pompous answer: “ I am not the less Pierre Corneille!” Addison was proverbially dull in conversation, and, probably, of the many who knew “ Mr. Spectator ” few knew anything at all of the Rt. Hon. Joseph Addison, one of the Lords Commissioners of Trade and Secretary of State to his Majesty King George I. The Countess of Pembroke used to rally Chaucer by saying that his silence was more agreeable to her than his conversation. La Fontaine, who, when he wrote, was the model of poetry, could not speak or describe what he had just seen; and Isocrates, who excelled all in writing speeches, was so shy and nervous that he never had the courage to get on his legs to speak in public. He compares himself to the whetstone, which will not cut, but enables other things to do so.
o
Scientific Notes.
—An ingenious Frenchman has applied a cushion of red india-rubber to the bottoms of a series of household objects in earthenware, porcelain, glass, etc., so that they can be inclined at an angle of from 45 to 60 degrees without falling over. Ocean steamers may profit from the use of such an invention as this.
—A German test for watered milk consists in dipping a well-polished knitting-needle into a deep vessel of milk, and then immediately withdrawing it in an upright position. If the milk is pure, a drop of the fluid will hang to the needle, but the addition of even a small portion of water will prevent the adherence of the drop.
—M. Ckiandi Bey communicated to the Academic des Sciences on September 22d a note “ On the Antiseptic Properties of the Sulphuret of Carbon.” The author finds that this sulphide, which is soluble in water, arrests all fermentation, kills all microbes, and is a’ very powerful antiseptic. r He therefore recommends it as an efficacious remedy for cholera, typhus, and other diseases which are traced to living germs.
—Among the l^st inventions reported from Australia- is a machine for producing rain-storms. It is intended to force a rain supply from the clouds during a period of drought. The apparatus is in the form of a balloon, with a charge of dynamite
attached underneath it. The balloon is to be sent into the clouds, and when there, the dynamite is to be fired by a wire connecting it with the earth. A. trial of this novel contrivance is to be given upon the dry districts of New South Wales, and the result is looked forward to with interest by some of the residents of that colony.
•s
—Engineer in <r states that the attention of the o	o	,
Indian Government has been drawn to a tree in Southern India from which large supplies of caoutchouc can be drawn. This is the “tuchmig” of the Chinese, or Prameria gl'andnlifera of botanists. Unlike the South American tree, from which the caoutchouc is tapped by piercing the bark, the gum is obtained from the new source by breaking the boughs and drawing it out in filaments. If the new caoutchouc is at all equal to the old in insulating properties, it will form a timely discovery, for the introduction of electric lighting has created an increased demand for india-rubber coated wires.
—A correspondent of the Chicago Tribune says:
“ While you are writing up this subject (‘ Wheat and Bread’) your readers might as well have scientific facts in regard to the nutritive elements of wheat. The ‘ United States Dispensatory’—page 653, fifteenth edition—says: ‘ One of the facts which has been previously shown by Fresinius is that almost the whole of the ashes of wheat consists of phosphates; of these nearly two-thirds are soluble in water and are mainly phosphates- of potash and magnesia, the insoluble salts being phosphates of lime and iron. Another highly-important fact is, that by far the larger proportion of these phosphates exist in the parts separated in the sifting of the flour, and our fine white bread is therefore greatly deficient in the most essential elements of nutrition.’ Prof, von Liebig says: ‘ One hundred pounds of wheat contains two and one-tenth pounds of phosphates, while 100 pounds of bolted flour contains only one-half pound.’ M. Mouries, a distinguished French chemist, says: ‘ There are fourteen times as much of the nutritive elements of wheat in bran as is in flour of the present day.’ Prof. Silliman, of Yale College, says: ‘The phosphates of potash and magnesia lost in the milling process suppl v the waste of the flesh.’ Another chemist says: ‘Bread made of bolted flour is 40 per cent, deficient in life-sustaining qualities.’ Von Liebig, Mouries, and others say that 100 pounds of wheat made into flour contain only three fourteenths of these phosphates, while the bran that is thrown away contains eleven fourteenths. Bakers use yeast, v hich in fermenta’ion eats up the sugar of flour. Grape creamtartar with soda undergoes a chemical change, and in the biscuit or bread is converted into rochelle salts, which, eaten daily, is very injurious. There is a flour that is represented as being made of ‘ entire wheat,’ but it is impossible by mechanical means to preserve all the elements of the bran without retaining the woody fibre. Bread containing all these elements would be sweeter and more delicious, as well as more easily digested and more nutritious.”
—How to Split a Sheet of Paper.—It is one of the most remarkable properties of that wonderful product, paper, that it can be split into two or even three parts, however thin the sheet. We have seen a leaf of the Illustrated Neius thus divided into three parts, or three thin leaves. One consisted of the surface on which the engravings are printed; another was the side containing the letter-press, and a perfectly blank piece on each side was the paper that lay between. Many people who have not seen this done might think it impossible; yet it is not only possible, but extremely easy, as we shall show. Get a piece of plate-glass and place on it a sheet Qf paper; then let the latter
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
151
be thoroughly soaked. With care and a little dexterity the sheet can be split by the top surface being removed. But the best plan is to paste a piece of cloth or strong paper to each side of the sheet to be split. When dry, violently and without hesitation pull the two pieces asunder, when part of the sheet will be found to have adhered to one and part to the other. Soften the paste in water and the pieces can be easily removed from the cloth. The process is generally demonstrated as a matter of curiosity, yet it can be utilized in various ways. If we want to paste in a scrap-book a newspaper article printed on both sides of the paper, and possess only one copy, it is very convenient to know how to detach the one side from the other. The paper when split, as may be imagined, is more transparent than it was before being subjected to the operation, and the printing-ink is somewhat duller; otherwise the two pieces present the appearance of the original if again brought together. Some time ago the information of how to do this splitting was advertised to be sold for a considerable sum. We now impart it to all our readers gratuitously.—British and Colonial Printer and Stationer.
College Gossip.
—P T. Barnum has given over $50,000 to the Scientific department of Tufts College.
—It is said that there are one hundred and four college graduates in the present House of Representatives.
—Vinton, the pitcher of the Philadelphia Baseball Club, has just entered Yale College. This, says the Buffalo Express, is progress backwards and a reversal of the usual order of things.-
—One of the younger members of the Cornell Faculty was highly edified recently by the approach of a Freshman who inquired, in a kindly and sociable way, if this was his first term at that institution.—Ex.	.
—The Russian Government, in view of its relations with Asiatic nations, has decided to open early in 18S5 two linguistic schools expressly for training interpreters. The languages to be taught are Chinese, Manchurian, Calmuk, Tatar, and other Mongolian and Central Asian tongues.
—As thev were trudging along to school, a five-vear-old Boston miss said to her companion, a lad of six summers: “Were you ever affrighted at the contiguity of a rodent? ” “ Nay, forsooth,” he replied; “I fear not the juxtaposition of the creature, but dislike its alarming tendency to an intimate propinquity.—Univ. Press.
—The new Alumni Hall at Seton Hall College was formally opened, with appropriate ceremonies, last Wednesday. The building is of undressed stone, presenting a solid but not ungraceful aspect. Its dimensions are 70 feet in length, 40 feet in width, and 76 feet from the ground to the ridge of the roof. Exclusive of furniture, steam and gas fixtures and gymnastic apparatus, it cost $14,325.
—The will of Mrs. Augusta M. Huntington, formerly Mrs. Shumway, gives $300,000 in trust to Bishop Whipple, of Minnesota, and directs that $100,000 be applied to the building of Shumway Flail on the Shattuck School grounds, at Faribault, Minn., and $50,000 for its endowment for the education of boys. Another $100,000 is for the erection of Johnston Hall, in memory of her father, in Seabury. The Divinity School of the same place receives an endowment of $50,000 to assist the students.
—Some time ago, on a commencement day, one of our instructors who graduated here several years ago, went to a barber shop to have his face placed in condition to smile benignantly from the Gymnasium platform. “Ah,” said the barber, “you graduate to-day, do you ? ” “ No,” said our instructor, “ I did that some time ago.” “ What are you doing now’, then ? ” inquired the inquisitive barber. “ I am a tutor,” was the reply. “ A tutor!” ejaculated the barber, “In what band do you play?”— Occident.
—“ Gentlemen,” said the Professor to his medical students assembled in clinic, “ I have often pointed out to you the remarkable tendency to consumption of those who play upon wind instruments. In this case now before us we have a well-marked case of lung disease, and I was not surprised to find, on questioning the patient, that he was a member of a brass band. Now, sir,” continued the Professor, addressing the consumptive, “ will you please tell the gentlemen what instrument you play on ? ” “I blays der bass drum,” said the sick man.
—In one of the English public schools, a difficulty arose betw’een a teacher and a scholar concerning certain prescribed lessons which were to be learned at home. The case was taken before the Appellate Court, where it was decided that “ home lessons set by teachers cannot be enforced.” The New York Medical Record thinks the practical results of the decision will be largely modified by the fact that teachers will continue to give lessons of such a length as to compel home study, or result in a lowering of the scholar’s standing. The Record asks if the requirements of home study are not, in general, “too exacting for the proper development of the health of children.”
—President Edward Hitchcock, at the head of the Hygienic department at Amherst College, recently delivered an address before the students of the Union Theological Seminary on “Physical Education.” He spoke of the requirements of a gymnasium, which should be well ventilated and well lighted, besides being well furnished, and advocates boxing with' gloves and playing billiards, which, like all other forms of exercise in a gymnasium, should be done with moderation. Young men, he said, should not get over-winded, because the heart is a tender organ in young men as well as in young women [Audible smiles]. Regularity was the chief requirement in physical training. As to the time of exercise for students, he advised the early part of the evening.—Crimson.
T52
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, November 8, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Eighteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and. above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.jo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—We give place in this number to a review of an article on the “Protective Tariff,” which appeared last week.' The stud}7 of one of the most important political questions of our day cannot but prove beneficial; and we hope the present publications will lead to a fuller consideration of the arguments ■ in favor of “both sides of the question.”
—The Annual Convention of the Catholic Total Abstinence Union of America which was held in Chicago, last August, was noticed in these columns at the time. The attendance indicated the great development of the noble cause, and the presence of several distinguished prelates gave additional impetus to the movement. The addresses delivered on the occasion by the Archbishops and Bishops who were present—Archbishops1 Feehan, of Chicago, and Elder, of Cincinnati; Bishops Ireland, of St. Paul, Spalding, of Peoria, and Watterson, of Columbus,—made no slight impression on the minds of their auditors, and, circulated as they were, to some extent, through the medium of the press, carried the seed far and wide. We say to some extent., for we have reason to suppose the addresses were abridged or imperfectly reported, thus diminishing the amount of good they were of themselves calculated to produce. We are glad to see now that these addresses have been collected and published in pamphlet form. ' We are indebted
to the publisher in Philadelphia for a copy, and we would wish to see the pamphlet extensively circulated.
—A most welcome visitor to the College dur-ing the week was Major General W. S. Rosecrans—the most successful General during the war; the hero of the famous battle of “Stone River,” which was characterized by President Lincoln as a “ national victory,” and many other well-fought engagements during the Civil War. He ar-rived at the College on Wednesday evening, and remained over until yesterday. General Rosecrans is a man of great depth of mind and nobility of character; qualities which, with his firmness of purpose and devotion to principle, have placed him for a long time in the foremost rank of the statesmen of our Republic. Indeed, his career is so well known to the American public as to need no reference here. One of the General’s sons (Louis) passed the last two years of his college life at Notre Dame, subsequently joining the Paulist Order in New York, where he died after a short but efficient career in the work of the Sacred Ministry.
•2^ *
On Thursday evening, at half-past seven o’clock, a large number of students and visitors assembled in the Music Hall to hear the distinguished General who had consented to an invitation, on a few hours’ notice, to address the students. General Rosecrans chose as the theme of his discourse the political relations of the people to the State, showing the manifold evils arising from our present system of canvasses and election, and the necessity for a change that would not only prevent or remedy those evils but also give the people a more direct representation in state and national government. The Honorable gentleman spoke for an hour and a half, and although the hall was uncomfortably cool we venture to say that-most of the audience, like ourselves, were surprised at the rapid flight of time when the speaker —apparently in the midst of his charming conversazione—pulled out his watch and announced the necessary close of his remarks on account of the lateness of the hour. . The issues presented were new, and given in such a pleasing style that another hour could have been pleasantly and profitably spent there by the students. We hope to give a complete synopsis of the lecture in our next number.
* * *
The visit pf Major General . Rosecrans will
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
*53
be long remembered at Notre Dame, not only on account of the word* of instruction imparted, but also on account of that true nobility of mind and heart which he unconsciously displayed in his whole manner and conversation while amongst us. May his life be prolonged for many years to come, and may the example of his upright life have its due influence upon the nation in whose affairs he has acted, and, we trust, is still destined to act, a prominent part!
—The Honorable Thomas A. Hendricks, ExGovernor of the State of Indiana, visited the University last Sunday morning, and was heartily welcomed by the Facuity and students. The demonstration made in his honor was as enthusiastic* as it was heartfelt, and manifested the high es-teem in which he is held at Notre Dame, both for his social virtues and for his unimpeachable integrity as a public functionary. Many are the friends, irrespective of party, whom Gov. Hendricks has made during his long and brilliant political career, and in not a few instances has he manifested his friendship for Notre Dame. The reception accorded him last Sunday was thus made all the more hearty. '
The honorable gentlemen drove up to the main entrance of the College about nine o’clock; passing through the long files of the students, all heartily cheering, he was met by President Walsh and members of the Faculty. Turning on the steps of the College, his Excellency was introduced by President Walsh, saying:
“ Young Men:
“It requires only a glance at the badges’ which I see so many of you wearing this morning to satisfy me that a formal introduction of our honored guest is unnecessary. However, in your name and in that of the Faculty let me assure him that we heartily appreciate the privilege which we now enjoy of welcoming to Notre Dame so distinguished and estimable a gentleman as the Honorable Thomas A. Hendricks.”
Mr. Hendricks replied, briefly and kindly, saying in substance": ■
“ I am very happy to have an opportunity of visiting this seat of learning, and, in fact, cannot think of anything that would be more agreeable to me. I haVe not forgotten the days when I was a student myself—not at a grand college like this, but in another institution in this State—where I pursued the studies that in some measure fitted me for ihe duties of my future life. You are engaged here with your books, and the thoughts of older men, in order fully to develop your faculties, to prepare yourselves for the business of life. But this is simply preparatory; it is not education altogether; it is only for the time being to prepare your minds for that practical system of thought which will be inseparable from active life. I do not pretend to speak to
you this morning of your training or studies, as these are in the hands of more experienced persons. But I wish to say that he who learns to think correctly, to work diligently, to make few mistakes, to draw proper distinction between truth and error, and never fear to defend the truth whether it is popular or unpopular, that young man will succeed. Those who have not learned those things, who have riot learned to think at all, or who have not learned to think and judge correctly, will hardly become successful in the future. I can congratulate you most heartily upon your opportunities here at this home of study, withdrawn as you are from the more disturbing scenes of the busy world outside, and under the fostering care of skilful teachers in the various branches of learning—opportunities which fall .to the lot of few. I will look forward to the time when we shall meet again, which I hope will be in the near future.”
The party then adjourned to the parlors of the University, and the time passed quietly and agreeably till ten o’clock, when the bells announced the hour of divine service. Gov. Hendricks, though not a Catholic, cheerfully accepted an invitation to be present at the High Mass, and his manner during the service showed that he entertains none of that unreasonable prejudice or religious animosity which betrays the narrow-minded uncharitableness of not a few professing Christians of our day. After Mass, the distinguished visitor and party dined with President Walsh and the students in the Senior dining-room. The repast over, a few moments of general conversation were passed, and our illustrious guest bade farewell to each and all.
Exchanges.
—The Exchange-Editors of most of the college papers have before this made their bow, and said their say regarding the proper method of conducting college papers in general and the Exchange department in particular; but the great bulk of college papers seem to be neither better nor worse, notwithstanding the vast amount of sage advice gratuitously heaped upon them. One thing, however, is evident,—that the Exchange department is no longer considered of doubtful importance. Many editorial boards that had dropped it last year have resumed it again; others, that never had such a department, and condemned it most severely, have lately changed their minds and come out in its praise. “To be or not to be” is no longer the question; nearly all agree that the Exchange department is one of the most attractive features of a college paper. Some readers turn first to the “Local,”—others to the “Literary”; some, who themselves probably contemplate a pilgrimage to Olympus and a nectar social with the Nine, wish to see what kind of stuff the local poets of. each pa-
154
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
pei- grind out; as for ourselves, we are free to confess that we first turn to the Exchange department of every new arrivahto see what its Oracle has to say about his contemporaries. He may
“ Condole, congratulate, invite, praise, sco.ftj” as the case may be, and often with very little ' judgment, according to our opinion, still we want to know what he has to say and how he says it. So great is our curiosity in this respect that even the small, jam med-up type of the Exchange department of The Niagara Index is not an insuperable obstacle; every line is scanned,—no matter how great the strain upon our optic nerves, the operation is performed,—proof positive that the Exchange department has a peculiar attraction for us. It is, therefore, needless to say that papers or magazines like 'The Cornell Era, the Vassar Miscellany, College Message, Penman's Art Journal, Portfolio, Sunbeam, Earlhamite, Georgetown College Journal, Academica, Vanderbilt, and many others, possess at least one feature of attraction that is wanting in equalty good or better college publications, like The ’ Varsity, Argonaut, University Quarterly, Oberlin Review, etc., etc. A few papers—like The Princetonian—give but one short column to exchange notices, and as the type is large, only one or two exchanges can be . briefly mentioned. Although the interest in such a department must be doubtful, to say the least about it, one person cannot fail to be satisfied, and that is the Exchange-Editor whose duties are so materially lightened.
A propos, the Portfolio has the following:
“ Among the first exchanges that came to us was the Notre Dame Scholastic, a paper which has its reputation well established So far, its exchange column seems to have been used to give pufts to the different Catholic family papers. Perhaps this is owing, however, to the small number of college papers which were published before the end of September.”
Yes, that is the reason, as we stated at the outset, but it may be that the editress of Portfolio's “ Exchanges ” did not notice the statement. However, we are not of the straight-laced order, and do not intend to devote our attention to college papers exclusively; we claim to be at perfect liberty to call attention to what pleases or displeases us in any publication whatever that comes to our table.
—The University Quarterly for August, which has just reached us, is made up chiefly of class-day addresses and essays, among them the Address of General Wager Swayne to the graduating class of the Law School. From the essays we singled out “A Day at West Point,” and we must confess to no little disappointment; we did not find what the title naturally led us to expect, something of interest about the place, either descriptive or historical.
—The scribes of the St. ViateuPs College lour-nal give a very well-written account of St. Viateur’s day at their college, from which we learn that it is celebrated much after the style of our Founder’s’ Day at Notre Dame. Among the visitors from Chicago we notice the familiar name of James Solon, B; S.j of ’84, who’made his voice heard at
St. Viateur’s with as favorable a result, it seems, as formerly attended his efforts at Notre Dame. For the benefit of the many French students attending the college—we believe St. Viateur’s is in a locality chiefly composed of French residents or their descendants—the College Journal publishes a supplement exclusively French and showing a marked degree of abilitv.
—The PenmaiHs Art Journal is typographically beautiful,—that counts as nothing; money and good printers can make a nonsensical paper a paragon of typographical beauty, and yet such a paper would not be worth a cent to subscribers. The Penman's Art Journal contains practical instructions upon an art useful to everybody,—that is something worthy of consideration and money. These practical instructions are from the leading masters of the art, and are handsomely and prac-atically illustrated, regardless of expense,—these are a great deal more, and make the paper worthy of further consideration and more money. The editors of The PenmaPs Art Jozirnal are practical men, penmen and artists, and lose sight of nothing that can further both the tyro and the advanced reader, therefore the paper is something that no one should be without who wishes to excel in penmanship and cognate branches. Premiums are offered to subscribers; but the Art Journal is well worth double the subscription price, therefore premiums should not necessarily be an object in subscribing. It has been objected that the Penmazils Art Journal sometimes contains articles that are unjust and displeasing to Catholics,—this is to be regretted, and we think the editors could profitably leave out such articles; still, the offensive articles are so rare —and probably published with no intention to offend—that one might overlook them on account of the general excellence of the paper and the absence of intention to offend. Therefore, we call attention to the Art Journal. Besides the “ Lessons in Practical Writing” by Prof. Hinman, a series of “Drawing Lessons,” by Prof. D. T. Ames,' the editor, is now started, the first of the series appearing in the October issue. Taken in toto, it would be difficult to find a better dollar’s worth than The Penman's Art Jozirnal.
— The Michigan Argonaut is now issued weekly, —hitherto it was a fortnightly. The Argonaut contains twenty-four columns of reading matter, and in the course of the college year thirty-six numbers will be issued. .The editors claim that during this time their paper will print about one and one-third column more matter than usually appears in any of the college fortnightly papers. “ Up Pike’s-Peak ” is a very enjoyable sketch by a former editor of The Argonaut who made-the trip to the summit of that famous landmark of the gold regions, albeit that no gold has been found in its immediate vicinity. The description of the Peak is graphic and interesting; the writer is hardly correct, however, in calling Pike’s Peak the “Monarch of the Rockies,” for there are twenty-fivepeaks in Colorado higher than Fike’s. Hunt’s Peak, the highest of the Rocky Mountain elevations in
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
J55
Colorado, is 15,056 feet above the sea-level, and 909 feet higher than Pike’s Peak. In every other respect the sketch, though meagre, is as accurate as it is interesting-. We hope it is t lie first of many that can be written of the picturesque neighborhood. Manitou, with its five mineral springs; the “Garden of the Gods Williams’s Canon, with its grand amphitheatre at the so-called “ Cave of the Winds,” “Bridal Veil Falls,” etc., are not even mentioned. Colorado possesses beautiful and wonderful scenery, as we can testify; it is a pity that it is so little known, even by Americans who have travelled Europe in quest of scenic beauty. Coming back to our table and to business, the editors of The Argonaut have done well in introducing the tour-ist’s-sketches; we hope they will follow up their own good example and continue them. We think scenic sketches of any kind far preferable to those chaotic productions of the Spectator kind,—after the Spectator, they may be, but out of sight behind their prototype.
To Correspondents.
Duns Scotus:—Yes; the Picts were a much smaller race than the Scots, because there was never any difficulty in getting- a pocket Pict.
Solemnitas:—It is probable that the angel always meant to have Abou Ben Adhem’s name on his list. If he did not put it on just at first, it was only to pique Abou.
Acrobat:—“ Park” is derived from the Latin parcere—to spare, because when you have any land to spare, you make a park of it. Some derive it from Parcce—the Fates, because a park is just the place for fetcs-champctrcs. Persons who don’t understand three languages won’t appreciate this.
Krites:—No; '■'■Hor'" is not necessarily an abbreviation for “ Horace.” It may mean “ horrid,” or lots of other things. When a man has done his level best, and puts Hor after it, it stands for “ horizontal.” Vaccis-puerisque, although literally “with cows and boys,” by hendiadys means simply: “with cowboys;” just as '■'■bibit ex auro et pateris” means: “he drinks from gold cups.” The objection to using the adjective derived from cow is twofold: it would spoil the metre and sug-
I	_ o
gest unpleasant ideas of the small-pox. The figure hendiadys is used quite sparingly by the poets, and never unless the hen dies a natural death, so that Macbeth’s “ murder most fowl” cannot.be adduced in this connection.
Personal.
—Thomas B. Clifford, of ’63, is practising law in New York city.	.	.
«—Charles Hutchings (Com’l), of ’72, is in business in Brooklyn, N. Y.
—James B. Runnion, of ’60, is on the editorial staff of the Chicago Tribune.
—Very Rev. Father L’Etourneau spent a few days at Mt. Clemens, Mich., during the week.
—M. P. Burns, ’83, came all the way from Washington to cast his vote in Clay township, last Tuesday. .
—Mr. D. J. Regan, of Atchison, Kansas, the brother of our esteemed Prefect of Discipline, is visiting at Notre Dame.	.	'
—We extend congratulations to the Hon. James H. Ward, of ’73, on his election to Congress, from the 11 th district of Illinois.	•
—Mrs. Mary Flemming, of Ft. Wayne, a former pupil of St. Mary’s Academy, was a welcome visitor to the College last week.
—The Hon. Wm. C. McMichael, who graduated in the Law Course here several years ago, has our congratulations on his election as Representative from this district.	-	'
—Charles A. Tinley, of ’84’s “ Staff,” is at his home in Covington, Ky., in the law office of O’Hara & Bryan, and spending his evenings attending lectures at the Cincinnati Law School.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin, accompanied by Rev. P. P. Cooney, Miss. Ap., left Notre Dame last Thursday night to attend the National Council of the Catholic Church convoked in the city of Baltimore.
—Orville T. Chamberlain, of ’62, first among the prominent lawyers of Elkhart, Ind., visited the College last Sunday, accompanied by Captain Joseph A. S. Mitchell. The latter gentleman has since been elected Judge of the Supreme Court, a fitting recognition of ability and worth.
—Thus. Ewing Steele, of ’84’s “ Staff,” writes that he is at home for the winter, studying law in the office of Judge Chas. D. Martin of the Supreme Court Commission of Ohio and lately a candidate for Supreme Judge. Tom says he may go to the Yale Law School next year. We presume he is happy now, that he is no longer bothered with the “ Exchanges.” His promise of sending something “ weighing less than 7,500 pounds, for the Scholastic,” is noted with pleasure. We hope others of the Alumni will follow his example.
Local Items.
—Cold!	'
—Shake?
—Wintry!
—Did you vote?
—“ Locals ” are scarce.
—Bright was the morn.
—The punster must go.
—“ Who got there. Eli? ”
—Hurrah for-------! Wait.
—Muscle makes the wheels go.
—“ Another county heard from! ”
—“ What’s the news this morning? ”
—“ They laugh best who laugh last.”
—-Our friend John has gone to the sea-shore.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The Scientific Association will soon be organized.
—The reading-rooms are well patronized these days.	•
—The second snow of the season came last Wednesday.	.
—The visitors admired the electric crown last Thursday night.
—Our friend John says he was bulldozed. He wants an investigation.
—The boat crews look “ nobby ” and “ airy ” as photographed by McDonald.
—The St. Cecilians and Philopatrians are engaged in holding moot courts, o o	O
-s-The Sorin nine will play the “ Blues ” on Thursday for a barrel of apples.
—“Oh, who did pull that little line, line, line, when the boss was taken away ? ”
—Nunc dies erit pnegelida
Sinistra quum democratica
—The Hall was decidedly too uncomfortable for any white man last Thursday night.
—Another entertainment took place in the Seniors’ reading-room last Wednesday evening.
x—The classes of Telegraphy and Phonography have an unusually large attendance this year.
—Our slim and slender dude excelled himself in the polished art. “Freddie G., thou art a daisy!”
—Prof. Edwards has received from Mr. Amo-retti, of Wyoming Ter., a large grizzly bear-skin rug-
—A highly romantic novel, entitled "Mac in the Photo. Gallery,” will soon appear. There are two heroines.
—Cecil wrote home for his sled on the first appearance of snow; but now he can’t see where that snow is.
—We would suggest that lectures be delivered oo
in the Rotunda—when the hall cannot be made comfortable.
—Bro. Marcellinus, and F. J. Hagenbarth, went to Chicago last Thursday on business of the Junioi Athletic Club.
—The St. Cecilians boast of an old member who has been elected to Congress. They are inclined to think they will furnish the next President.	;
—The Directors of the Lemonnier Library are indebted to Mr. S. Ashton, of the Senior department, for an elegantly bound copy of “ The Boys of ’76.”	”
—Our genial friend J----------- has abandoned the study of Spanish. He thinks that circumstances will not permit of his accepting ;a portfolio at . Madrid.
—An interested friend wants to know who is our “funny man.” He still roams at large and has not yet settled down to “ the contemplation of the ludicrous.”
—From the quantities of beautiful bulbs that
have been planted in St. Edward’s Park this last week we expect it will look more beautiful than ever next spring.
—The South Bend Tribune says:	“ The
crown light shows admirably at this distance from Notre Dame. A large number of our citizens gathered on Pearl avenue Thursday night to see it.”
—The members of the Crescent Club and their guests of the Senior department are under many obligations to Professor Paul for the very pleasant evening which he enabled them to pass at their-reunion on the 5th inst.
—The Curator of the Museum returns thanks to Major General Rosecrans for a collection of ancient coins from Montenegro; and to Master E. Amoretti for a pair of Indian moccasins, Indian amulets, and a pictorial Indian mantle.
— A feature of the fourth regular meeting of the Columbian Literary and Debating Club was an animated debate on the issues of the day. Messrs. P. Howard, J. Wagoner, C. Cartier, and Willard especially distinguished themselves.
—On the Festival of All Saints, last Saturday, Solemn High Mass was celebrated by Rev. President Walsh, assisted by Rev. Fathers Toohey and Regan as Deacon and Subdeacon. The sermon was preached by Rev. Father Cooney who closed the exercises of the retreat.
—General Rosecrans visited St. Edward’s Hall on Thursday. In passing through the different class-rooms the General remarked to Rev. President Walsh that everything at Notre Dame was modern, and that all the arrangements seem to be made with a view to convenience and comfort.
—The regular entertainment bv the St. Ceci-lians in honor of the festival of their Patron will not be given until some time in December. Plow-ever, on the evening of the 22d they will give a private entertainment consisting of music, both vocal and instrumental, and oratorical selections.
—The fourth regular meeting of the Junior Athletic Club was called Tuesday evening, Bro. Marcellinus presiding: Bro. Lawrence was also present. There were fourteen applicants for membership, of whom only seven were accepted. W. Ruthigan, W. Berthele.t, S. O’Brien, B. Arnold, W. Morrison, F. Fehr, and W. Vandercarr being the lucky ones.
—The Gymnasium will soon be fitted up with new apparatus, and our athletes can keep up a regular course of physical exercise during the winter months. We learn that it is proposed to form a Gymnastic Club in the Seniors similar to that already existing among the Juniors. Such organizations, while keeping up a proper spirit of union, impart additional interest to the various exercises indulged in.	"
—The second regular meeting of the Junior branch of the C. T. A. U. was held November 2d. Masters R. Morrison, E. Schmauss, J. Garrity, M. Zozaya were elected members. Mr. Hagenbarth read an excellent paper on “Intemperance.” It
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
*57
was decided to hold meetings hereafter on every alternate Sunday. The Treasurer and Censors read their reports, and after a few remarks from the President, the meeting adjourned.
—The 3d regular meeting of the Junior Archconfraternity was held Sunday evening, Oct. 25. Among the visitors present were Rev. Fathers Toohey and Kirsch, and Bros. Lawrence, Marcellus and Anselm. Essays were read by Masters C. Cavaroc, S. O’Brien and J. Dorenberg. Masters M. Mulkern, J. Courtney, C. Stubbs and F. • Hagenbarth were appointed to take part in the proceedings of the next meeting. A very interesting instruction on “Prayer” was given by Rev. Father Toohey.
—During the Civil War, while Gen. Rosecrans was in command of the Army of the Cumberland, the Confederates had conceived unbounded admiration of his qualities as a commander, on account of the great victory he had gained at the famous battle of Stone River ovei' Gen. Bragg who. in the estimation of the Confederate Army, was their greatest General. A little paper published at that time at Chatanooga—called The Chatanooo-a Rebel—when the news came that Gen. Rosecrans, through chicanery, which need not here be referred to, had been superseded, said : “ The Yankees have lost the greatest Captain their nation has ever produced.”
—Monday afternoon, the Seniors indulged in an exciting game of football. As in the last game, D. Reach was captain of the “ Blues,” and A. Browne of the “Reds.” The first scratch was long and vigorously contested, but as the “Reds” had a large number of the best men on their side they were enabled, in the end, to secure their goal. Some of the good men of the “Blues” now dropped out and the second scratch, after 15 minutes of hard play on both sides, was again a victory for the “Reds.” A second game was then played with Goulding- and Browne as captains. Chapin and F. Combe, of the “ Reds,” worked the ball- down to their goal where, after a lively scrimmage, it went rolling between the red flags.
— On the 2d inst., the Juniors played another interesting game of football. As usual, T. Weiler and J. Dorenberg were the captains. The first goal was won by Dorenberg. The playing was not very spirited. D. Tewksberry, seeing a good chance, rushed the ball in, winning the goal. After an exciting, contest of 25 minutes, the game was steadily going in Weiler’s favor, when J. Courtney, by an awkward mistake, sent the ball to the wrong goal. The third cast goal was won after a play of 45 minutes, during which some fine playing was done on both sides. W. Aikens and J. McGordon made a most masterly play, which won the last and winning goal. A barrel of fine apples rewarded the boys for their work. On the winning side, Masters Martinez, Myers, Cartier, Garrity, Daly, and Harris; among the losers, J. Kelly, Congdon, Shaw, Courtney, and Fehr, did some fine playing.
—The Prodigal Law Student.—A drama
in four acts (for male characters only), with stage directions, etc. Edited and published by Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, A. M., Notre Dame, Indiana-. Price 50 cents. This is a cleverly produced drama, “designed to impress the beautiful lessons of expiation, the only path whereby the faults of ignorance and thoughtlessness can be worthily effaced.” The whole tenor of this play is moral and elevating. It consists of four acts, and the ordinary time of representation is an hour and forty minutes. It is intended for male characters, twenty-one of whom, exclusive of stage attendants, comprise the cast. Edited, as well as published, by the Prof-fessor, it contains all the necessary directions regarding scenes, movements, relative positions, etc. — Trite Witness.
—The result of the elections has given a big boom to our astrologer. His predictions concerning-the next President made last year for the Scholastic Annual have been verified in every particular. Read them, and see what a faithful pen-picture they present of Cleveland, the successful candidate. Here are the predictions:	.
“ In judging of the results of popular elections, the Moon is the first of the heavenly bodies to be considered. We find her in the First House, although not in opposition to the Sun, which would have been unfortunate. Her strong position indicates a large majority for the successful candidate. Her opposition to Mars is fatal to the hopes of a military nominee. The successful candidate may have a military title as many civilians have, but will never have seen service. Her trine with Venus shows that the successful man is emphatically the ladies’ candidate. Her • quadrature with J upiter indicates the discomfiture of political ‘ bosses.’ Mercury is next to be considered. Being combust of the Sun, he will not influence the election. Thi' shows that bribery and corruption will be of no avail: neither will the successful candidate be remarkable for oratorical powers. The conjunction of Venus and Uranus, Venus being in her own house, Libra, shows activity on the part of the ladies in behalf of the successful nominee. It also indicates that he will be unmarried. Neptune, retrograde, ascending in Taurus, shows that the future President will be a man of grave deportment and great deliberation. He will be of the phlegmatic temperament, tall and portly, short, thick neck, light hair, blue eyes,pale complexion, agreeable manners, and somewhat subtle and crafty.”
—The following books have been added to the Lemonnier Library: “Natur und Offenb.arung,” 8 vols.; “ Stimmen aus Maria Laach,” from 1S66 to 1882; “Ehmig’s Katechesen,”4 vols.; “Ehmig’s Erklarung der Evangelien”; “Alte und Neue Welt,” 4 vols.; “ Miinchener Sonntagsblatt,” 3 vols.; “ Kornahren,” “Schule der Weisheit,” “Licht und Schatten,” “Friedliche Stunden,” “ Kreuzes Fruchte,” “Pilger Gaben,” “ Heilige Denksteine,” Einsam im Hausgartchen,” “ Nach der Vesperglocke,” “ Sinniges und Gemuthliches,” “Im Stoppel-Felde,” “Auf der Moosbank,” “ Sonntags Nachmittags,” “Abend-Freuden,” “Un- ‘ ter der alten Linde,” by A. Hungari. The foregoing works were generously donated by Rev. A. J. Abel and Mrs. Mary Noonan, of Golden, Colo. Among other works acquired by the Library have been the following: “ Liberatore Ethicae et Juris Naturae,” 2 vols.; “Acta Ephemerides,” 2 vols.; “Acta Sanctte Sedis,” 2 vols.; “The History of the Progress and Termination of the Roman Republic,” by Adam Ferguson, LL. D.; Oral Dis
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cussion, Hughes and Breckenridge”; “Life and Times of Fred’k Douglas”; 35 Nos. of The Catholic World, and 2 Nos. of The Month.
—Very Rev. Father General honored the “ princes” witha visit last Tuesday. In the course of a speech, which he made in his own eloquent, impressive style, he let fall some remarks which his attentive listeners will not soon forget. After referring to the excitement that was agitating the country from ocean to ocean on that election day, he said: “And you, my young ‘princes,’ you are not too young to begin to lay deep the foundations of those qualities of mind and heart that will fit you for the highest position in the country. Be truthful, honorable boys and earnest students, and who knows but I may have the happiness of seeing you some day in the White House? And as your model I can propose none more suitable than the great Saint whose feast the Church keeps on the 4th of November—St. Charles Borromeo. From childhood he applied himself closely to his studies; and so renowned did he become for learning and sanctity that at the age of 23 he was created Cardinal of Milan; the youngest Cardinal the Church has ever had. But his wisdom and learning were only equalled by his generosity and greatness of soul. When a terrible plague was ravaging Milan, he threw open the doors of his palace to the plague-stricken victims, carrying his charity so far as to give up his own bed. No wonder that such an heroic soul was a power before the throne of God! While the pestilence rasred with its fiercest violence he assembled all Milan in solemn procession, he himself going barefoot, his faith and prayer averted the scourge: no sooner was the procession over than the plague disappeared.” In conclusion, the venerable speaker told his young auditors that it was his happiness, in one of his 42 trips over the Atlantic, to visit the magnificent Cathedral of Milan with its seven thousand statues—-all masterpieces of art—in which is still preserved the pulpit from which the great Cardinal preached those wonderful sermons that moved alike both kings and people to virtue and holiness. The “ princes ” wish to express through the Scholastic their deepest thanks to their beloved patron. Their best wishes follow him to Baltimore, and they hope that on his return he will honor them with such another visit.
.	. • 1
-------—--------------■
Roll of Honor. •	,
*	_____ I
-	---- - .	I
SENIOR	DEPARTMENT.	|
Messrs. Ancheta. Alvarez, A. Browne, A. Barbabosa, J. Barbabosa, Bustillos, Felix Baca. Filadelfo Baca, J. Baca, ; F. J. Baca, Burns, V. Burke, F. Burke, Breen, Callaghan, Conlon, Win. Collins, W. Collins, Chapin, Crawford, Casavantes, Creel, F. Combe, Cusack, Dory, De Groot, Donohue, Dwan, Dexter, Dolan, E-trado, Goulding, Gor don, Garcia, Hamlyn, Harless, Halligan, Howard, Haus-herg, Johnston, King, J. Lechuga, Livingston, M. Lechuga, McMillian, McKinnery, McNulty, G. Miller, McGuire, Meyer, McErlaine, McCartney, Mahon, McArdle, Marquez, Mathers, McGill, A. Miller, Noonan, J. V. O’Donnell, j. P. O’Donnell,. O’Connell, Perley, H. Paschel, C.
Paschel, Pohl, Padilla, P. Proudhommc, J. Proudhomme, Piefer, Rothert, J. Ryan, Reach, Riley, Rivard, T. Ryan, A. Smith, J. Smith, Sheridan, Stephens, Spangler, Schaefer, Sanchez, Triplett, F. Waggoner, W. Williams, C. Williams, Willard, White, Wilson. Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Aikins, H. Ackerman. Arnold, Arts, Amoretti, Borgschulze, Bearss, Baur, Brown. Congdon, Cummings, G. Cartier, D. Cartier, Crawford, Cavaroc, Cleary, O. Dillon, Dempsev, Dorenberg, Dougherty, Donnellan, Daly, Darragh, Emmons, Ewing, Finckh, Fehr,* Flood, L. Grever, E. Grever. Grimes, Hoye, Howard, Hairing, Hib-beler, Holman, Houlihan, Hagenbarth, Johnson, Kelly, Knisely, Kenny, Luther, II Long, F. Long, A. Moye, Martinez, V. Morrison, AV. Morrison, B. Morrison, R. Morrison, Monschein, Menig, Meehan, Myers, Mullane, Macke, J. McGordon, Oxnard, O’Dricn, M. O’Kane, Portillo, Regan, Real, Rose, Ratighan, Rebori, Ruffing, Remish, Robinson, Ryan, Reynolds, Rogers, Ruger, Senn, Soden, Smith, Spencer, Schmauss, Shaw, Sedberry, Shea, Talbot, Vandercar. Wabraushek, P. Wagoner, Williams, Weiler, Cooper, Byerly.
MINIM l-EPARTMEST.
Masters J. /Addington, H. Addington, Ackerman, Berry, Bull, Barger, Blakeslee, Crotty, Comins, Cobbs, F. Dunford, E. Doss, L. Doss, Ernest, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Falvey, Grunsfeld, Grimes, Planey, Hopkins, C. Inder-rieden, R. Inderrieden, E Kelly. Kellner, Landenwich, McPhee, McVeigh, Morgan, J. Mitchell, Moncada, McCourt, Mahon, Mason, McNulty, McGuire, Mooney, Nus-baum, Nester, J. Peck, Piel, Piero, Paul, Rugee, Sweet, Scherrer, Stone, Shoneman, Weston, Zozaya, Ramsev Adams.	'
* Omitted last week by mistake.
BALLADE OF' THE GIRTON (OR VASSAR) GIRL.
She has just “ put her gown on ” at Girton, She is learned in Latin and Greek, But lawn tennis she plays with a skirt on, Mrs. Grundy remarks with a shriek.
In her accents, perhaps, she is weak (Ladies arc, one observes with a sigh), But in Algebra—there she’s unique, But her forte’s to eliminate -.
She can talk about putting a “spirt on” (I admit, an unmaidenly freak),
And she dearly delighteth to flirt on
A punt in some shadowy creek;
Should her bark, by mischance, spring a leak, She can swim as a swallow can fly;
She can fence, she can put with a cleek, But her forte’s to eliminate -.
She has lectured on Scopas and Myrton, Coins, vases, mosaics the antique,'
Old tiles with the secular dirt on, Old marbles with noses to seek.
And her Cobett she quotes by the week, And she’s written on zs> and zal
And her service is swift and oblique, But her forte’s to eliminate -.
ENVOY.
Princess, like a rose is her cheek, And her eyes are as blue as the sky, And I’d speak, had I courage to speak, But—her forte’s to eliminate -.
—Pall Mall Gazette.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
z59
Saint JRary's Academy.-
One Mile West of Notre- Dame University.
—Among the visitors were Mrs. Mooney and Miss Hawkins, of Earle Park, Ind.
—The monthly adoration of the Blessed Sacrament was observed on All Saints’ Day.
—Last week, Clara Richmond won the mosaic cross. This week it fell to Cora Proudhomme.
—For improvement in Elocution, the Misses Campeau, Brown, Chapin and Lee deserve mention.
—By mistake, the name of Fannie Spencer, of the “ Princesses,” was omitted afnong those who received ico in everything last week.
—In St. Catharine’s Literary Society, the Misses Ellen O’Connell and Grace Wolvin deserve much praise for ready and intelligent replies to difficult questions.
—Next Sunday, two prizes will be awarded in the Junior department: oile to those who have not missed a morning study for the session, a second to those who have not lost their good notes.
—All Souls’ Day was solemnized on Monday. The Catholic pupils received Holy Communion in the Chapel of Loreto, after which the Very Rev. celebrant gave a most thrilling sermon on devotion to the faithful departed.
—For the first time in over a year, Father General distributed the notes at the Juniors’ reunion, on Sunday, at 5 p. m. Grace Regan greeted him with a cordial address of welcome. Clara Richmond recited Adelaide Procter’s “Homeless,” and Hannah Stumer presented a charming parody on “ The Kaiser and the Little Maid.” Father was in so great admiration of the salutations in receiving their notes of the pupils in this department that he wished them repeated. Two by two, they advanced, bowing to the three clergymen,—as Rev. Fathers Shortis and Saulnier were present—and then returned to their scats.
—At the regular Academic reunion, presided by Very Rev. Father General, the recitations were as follows: “ Somebody’s Mother,” beautifuly rendered by Angela Donnelly; “The Alarm Bell,” given with excellent expression by Miss Williams; “ The Wreck of the Hesperus,” finely analyzed and presented by Miss Fuller; and “Drusilla’s Answer,” feelingly interpreted by Miss Munger. By special request, “A Letter of St. Hilary of Poitiers,” from No. 44 of The Ave Maria, was read by Miss Anna Murphy. The programme of the evening was “ exceptionally good,” if we credit the verdict of those best able to judge.
—On Thursday, the Rt. Rev. J. B. Brondel, Bishop of Helena. Montana, with the Rev. A. Lemmens, of Victoria, B. C., visited the Academy. The Senior pupils were entitled to the first interview, which his Lordship rendered not only very
entertaining, but very useful, by the valuable considerations with which he interspersed his amusing anecdotes of western adventures. From the Seniors’ study-hall he passed to that of the Juniors. The Superior called on a Minim for a recitation. The honor fell to Alice Schmaus. The Rt. Rev. . and Rev. visitor appeared well pleased, and the former gave a beautiful instruction to his youthful auditors. The pupils desire to tender their humble thanks to Bishop Brondel for kindness.
—Saturday, Nov. 1st, marked a new era in the recreation life of the Senior pupils at St. Mary’s. The spacious and inviting Library of choice volumes where so many scientific and literary puzzles can be solved; the beautiful apartment with its southwestern exposure, which takes in one of the most charming landscapes on the premises, and which belongs to the devotees of ornamental needlework—not to speak of the utilitarian plain sewing-room—extra hours in the fascinating labors of the studio, or in practice on piano, harp, or guitar, have seemed in the past to almost supersede the necessity of a special room set apart for general quiet relaxation of the energies after days of close study. Of late, however, this necessity has been felt. In summer time the expansive lawns, shaded avenues, and smooth cement-walks surrounding the Academy give abundant opportunity for this; but as the occasional warning of the autumn blast has reminded the young ladies that an interdict will soon fall upon the use of' lawns, avenues, and walks, their delight may be better imagined than described when the kind Prefect of Studies announced that the necessary steps had been taken, that furnishing materials had been received, and that a reading-room on the recreation floor would be soon opened. The event was anticipated with the most lively pleasure, and on the above-named date, Very Rev. Father General, at the urgent invitation of the young ladies, kindly consented to be present; and at 7 o’clock p. m., with the Rev. Chaplain, and Rev. Father Saulnier, was ushered into the brilliant salon. Miss Mary Fuller, when ail were seated, advanced, and, in a clear tone of voice joined with graceful and appropriate action, said:
Very Rev. Father General, Rev. Fathers, Kind Teachers, and Schoolmates:
“ We gather this evening on an occasion of no light significance—that of the formal dedication of our new reading-room to St. Edward. To the Patron of the Founder of our beautifhl scholastic retreat such a token of veneration and confidence rightfully belongs. Next to the culture of our religious nature, that of our social and literary tastes stands paramount. To this cul-ture St. Edward’s Reading-Room shall be devoted. Some one has said that “ children naturally are rude.” It may be true of the larger proportion, but as those who have reached the Senior department of an Academy are supposed to have passed the verdant stage of adolescence, with that verdancy the characteristic rudeness is also supposed to have been cast aside. In St. Edward’s Reading-Room, courtesy, quiet conversations, edifying reading, and strict regard for even the slightest rules of propriety are to be scrupulously observed. That such a seclusion shall be. afforded to us, kind friends have proffered donations, and now, V ery Re v. F ather, in the name of your glorious patron St. Edward, we ask you to do us the great honor of ratify
160
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
ing the design and blessing the intention for which we are now gathered. Should you kindly make a donation, for your sake it would be prized beyond measure. But we forbear further remark as we wish, dear Father, to listen to you.”	'
Very Rev. Father General rose, and graciously responded, expressing his satisfaction in being able to comply with the request, and said that he hoped to come frequently and enjoy soirees in this beautiful room. He referred to Father Shortis, who agreed with the sentiments already expressed, and said he saw the chess-board there, and that the game was a favorite with him. He also remarked the portraits of Father General, of the late lamented Father Lemonnicr, of Father Lauth, and also of himself, at which last-mentioned circumstance, he said, he felt quite flattered; with other remarks in the chaplain’s accustomed pleasant manner.
The cozy, comfortable aspect of the apartment was so suggestive that with the young ladies the thought of “Home, Sweet Home!” sprang up simultaneously to each heart, and many -were the grateful ejaculations in blessing on the kind teachers and .donors who had been so considerate of their happiness. Rockers, couches, centre-tables, stands and corresponding adornments compose the furniture; while rich lamps—the gift of Mrs. Regan, of Indianola, Texas,—throw a mellow light over the pretty picture of school-girl jov and beautv. Thanks are due Miss Maude Wiley (Class ’83), of Lansing, Mich., for a kind donation. The handsome wall paper—the gift of Miss Nellie McGrath (Class ’So), of Chicago, Ill., and the rose-colored curtains and attachments, the gift of Miss Kate Young (Class ’72), of New York city, were mentioned in the report of last week. Ribbon to loop the curtains was kindly donated by Miss Minnie Hawkins, a former pupil, of Earle Park, Indiana. Gifts of resident pupils—handsome chairs from Miss Barlow, fine table-spreads from-Miss Williams, beautiful chairs from the Misses St. Clair, are gratefully acknowledged. Other less expensive donations were made; but the kindness of thoughtful teachers has done more than all the rest put together. Thanks are due to them for their cordial and enthusiastic co-operation in the plan. Without it nothing would have been accomplished.
When the Rev. visitors had taken leave, Miss Lora Williams presented thanks to the Prefect of Studies, on the part of the young ladies, who were then left to note the various excellencies of the apartment, and to congratulate each other on the acquisition. Draughts, chess, reading, conversations on elevating topics, occupied the hours and attested to the fact that the favor conferred was already producing the desired effect.	.
,	* Boll of Honor.	.
; _ ' ' _______ -
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses M. Adderly, I. Alcott, M. Bruhn, L. Blaine, M. Blair, N. Brady, E. Call, C. Cox, L. Carney, C. Congdon, M; Cummins, F. Carmien, Dunne, A. Dwan, M. Dillon, E. Donnelly, A. Donnelly, B. English, M. Fuller,
D. Fitzpatrick, C. Fehr, Faxon, Foster, A. Gordon, A. Gor-do.n, B. Gove, C. Ginz, O. Griffith, C. Griffith, bl. Hale, B. Heckard. F. Hcnrv, L. Hutchinson, B. Kearney, N.Kearns, B. Lauer, C- Lang, G. Legnard, M. Munger, T. McSorley, A. McSorley, N. Myler, J. McHale, Newman, E. O’Connell, H. Ramsey, E. Rose, M. Reinboldt, D. Reynolds, M. Scully, K. Scullv, L. St. Clair, L. Sheekey, A. Schidler, M. Shea, M. Schmidt, E. Taylor, C. Torrent, L. Walsh, E. Walsh, A. White. 2d Tablet—Misses N. Danforth, M. Fisk, A. Heckard, E. Horn, M. Helpling, M. Kearsey, A. Murphy, S. St. Clair, L Williams.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses N. Brown, M. Barr, O. Boyen, A. High, F. Hertzog, M. McEwen, L. Norris, E. Preston, C. Proudhomme, C. Richmond, G. Regan, N. Sheekey, B. Snowhook, G. Stadtler, M. Smith, Margaret Smith, L. Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Misses M. Cox, L. Trask.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses E. Blaine, E. Burtis, E. Chapin, - F. Johnson, L. Johns, V. Johns, M. Lindsey, D. Lee, B. Mun ay, F. Spencer, A. Schmaus, S. Van Fleet.
Glass Honors.
Graduating Class—blisses Call, Dunne, Ginz, Gove, Sheekey, Ramsey.
ist Senior Class—Misses Heckard, Cummins, Munger. Carney, Barlow, L. St. Clair, Williams, M. Ducey.
2D Sr. Class—Misses Horn, Kearney, Wolvin, Alcott, C. Griffith. Connell, C. Scully, Dillon, Kearsey, McHale, Congdon, A. Donnelly, E. Sheekey, Hale, Myler, Fuller, A. Murphy, C. Ducey, AL Helpling, Shepherd.
3D Sr. Class—Misses E. Kearns, B. Heckard, T. McSorley, Eisenstadt, Schmidt, Taylor, Rose, Regan, Richmond, B. Snowhook, Trask. High, C. Cox, B. English, Car-mien, Barr, Fehr, Fisk, Alice Gordon. M. Scully, M. Newman, Faxon, Reinholdt, Brady, Van Horn, Murdock.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses A. McSorley, Reynolds, Hertzog, Blaine, Stadtler, Malbceuf, Barry, Margaret Smith, Biair, A. English, Margaret Ducey, Dwan, M. Cox, Brown, Campeau.
2D Prep. Class—blisses Shea, E. Walsh. M. McEwen, Norris, Searls, Quill, Murray, Schmaus, M. Murphy, A. White, Hawkins, Strawn, Torrent, L. Johns.
Jr. Prep. Class—blisses Spencer. Allen, Burtis, Hagen, Lindsey, Paul. ’
ist Jr. Class—Misses Johnson, Van Fleet, E. Blaine, Boyen.
2D Jr. Class—Misses Lee, V. Johns.
BOOK-KEEPING.
2D Class—Misses Dillon, Legnard, Morrison, Wolvin, Alcott, Regan, L. Blaine.
3D Class—Misses L. Walsh, McHale, M. Scully, Car-mien, Torrent, /Mice Gordon, Addie Gordon, Newman, Keyes.
FRENCH.
ist Class—Misses Call, Bruhn, L. Sheekey.
2D Class—Misses Barlow, O’Connell, Adderly, C. Griffith, Morrison, Malbceuf, O. Griffith, .
3d Class—Misses Snowhook, Van Horn, Richmond.
4T11 Class—Misses Kearsey, Cummins, Kearns, Lang, T. McSorley, Legnard, E. Sheekey, Hertzog, Norris. McEwen.	’
2D Div.—Misses Stumer, M. Ducey.
1 5TH Class—Misses Johnson, blurray, Chapin, Proudhomme.
'	LATIN.	_
Misses Lang, L. Blaine, Scully, Trask, Helpling, Keyes.
GERMAN.
ist Class—:Miss Ginz.
2D Div.—Misses Horn, Fehr, Reinholdt.
3D Class—Misses Kearney, Rose, Danforth, Henry, Taylor, Eisenstadt, Schultz. ’	.	.
4TH Class—Misses Lang, Congdon, Myler, N. Donnelly, A. Donnelly, Carmien, Lauer, Schidler.
5TI1 Class—Misses Dillon, Blair, E. Blaine, Smith, L. Johns, Dwan.