'q 01 ion si yona stu’
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
IS CTS. A COPY $2.60 THE YEAR
DECEMBER 1 Nineteen Thirty-three
THE SCHOLASTIC is published 26 times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to editor, 119 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus FOUNDED 1865
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 191S.
James S. Kearns...
Mitchell C. Tackley.
....Editor-in-Chief
.Managing Editor
Associate Editors
JOHN D. PORTERFIELD_______________EDWARD J. O’BRIEN
RICHARD B. TOBIN____________________JOHN E. CONLEY
Departmental Editors
THOMAS J. STRITCH__________________________The Week
JAMES T. FITZPATRICK---------------------College Parade
RICHARD P. PREZEBEL.________________________Staff Artist
Sports Staff JOHN D. CARBINE..............)	•_______ Editors
•EDWARD J. VAN HUISSELING____j NICHOLAS J. CONNOR___________HOWARD T. WALDRON
News Staff EDWARD F. MANSFIELD----------------News Editor THOMAS G. PROCTOR------------------Assistant News Editor
JOSEPH A. BUCCI.-------------------Assistant News Editor
ROY O. SCHOLZ______________________ROBERT F. ERVIN
MICHAEL F. WIEDL-------------------JOHN W. WALKER
WILLIAM A. KENNEDY____________________PAUL J. DOYLE
GEORGE P. LEYES-----------------------.LOUIS R. HRUBY
FRANK KELLY
Btisiness Management JOHN F. STOECKLEY ________________Graduate Manager
Volume LXVII
December 1, 1933
No. 10
THE WASHINGTON HALL PROGRAM
Announcement of two lectures in Washington hall next week by Etienne Gilson, renowned French Catholic philosopher, comes as a welcome addition to the program of lectures and features at Notre Dame.
This two-lecture series by M. Gilson brings the second important philosophical speaker to Washington hall within a month. A few weeks ago Mr. Francis Sheed, of Sheed and Ward, London, spoke twice to large audiences that were at once charmed and interested. Such lectures have a definite place in the scholastic program at a university.
Admitting that the department of philosophy has done ample justice to the interested students in the matter of outstanding lectures, isn’t there some room for questioning of the programs of other departments?
. Why, aside from occasional instances, must the winter program in Washington hall consist wholly of Saturday night movies and student productions. Isn’t there enough of campus interest to justify bringing lecturers more frequently? Or in the line of entertainment as such, isn’t it possible to arrange for at least a few better class stage performances? With Notre Dame situated as it is, close to Chicago, and with the commercial stage and radio in a situation not too happy financially, it seems plausible that really high class entertainment might be had at not too high a figure.
The Cossack Chorus and the Vienna Sangerknaben, to cite two examples from fairly recent times, were undeniably well received by the students. Why not more of them, or at least, more of the same type?
A SENSE OF PROPORTION
There are some things which should be the pre-supposed possessions of an educated man. And because college students are, theoretically at least, aiming toward the goal of being “educated men,” it should not be outside the realm of legitimate assumption that they are at least striving to acquire those qualities. In the first
December 1, 19 3 3
group of such attributes, a sense of proportion and a sense of values will always have an assured place.
Collegiate enthusiasm and youthful tendencies toward a few destructive larks now and then, are all right so far as they go, but they are not of the right category to be substituted for the rational judgment and the discreet balance that should be marks of college students.
Notre Dame has been distinctly free from mass demonstrations of inanity the past several years. It is to be sincerely hoped that recent indications of a changing spirit are not true ones. After all, most of us chose this institution as our school and the majority of that group still wants to go out of here with the label “Notre Dame Man’’ continuing to mean what it used to. That ambition cannot be realized if any group persists in activities that mark the student body as slightly overgrown prep schoolers, and invite justifiable criticism from people on the outside. It is just as much the responsibility of the underclassmen to think of the school’s good name after a pep meeting as it is to shout themselves hoarse on a “He’s a man” when the cheerleaders wave their arms.
THE JUGGLER
We have heard sufficient sincere praise voiced in the past week for the 1933-34 Juggler to, justify adding our bit of printed approbation for the Notre Dame humor monthly. The campus has apparently received the publication whole-heartedly as new highs in local circulation continue to be reached. Visitors to Notre Dame have added their approval by exhausting the available supply at the cafeteria newsstand. Contemporary college monthlies reprint the Juggler’s material regularly. It is a distinct pleasure to watch the success of a publication that is so definitely representative of the campus, and so quietly and effectively produced.
It effects other things as well as broad smiles and hearty laughs. Its deft editorial statement of a student point of view on what the rest of the country views as a national calamity recently was cited by an eastern sports writing newspaper man, as evidence that good sense still lives in the student body at Notre Dame as - well as in the official sanctums of the University.
One
THE WEEK
By Thomas J. Stritch
Identity
Last Friday, when all was' excitement over the fireworks and such, a little clot of students were holding forth, chattering and jumping about. Up came a young man who pushed through them, trying to make his way to the front of the crowd. One of the boys was miffed at the procedure. “Don’t get funny, you,” he allowed, “watch where you’re going.” The elbower smiled, and pushed on through.
Later on they met him again. “Who is that guy, anyhow?” asked the man who had fumed at him earlier in the evening. “Why, that’s Max Marek, the boxer,” they told him. He nearly fainted.
“Blows”
To Father Dolan and the Rally Committee, whose fireworks and pep meeting Friday night were as good stunts as we have seen. We liked the idea very muc h— nothing tedious, short speeches, everything run off smoothly.
To Father* Molony and the Washington Hall entertainment, for all manner of improvements. The pictures are getting better all the time, but the most noticeable improvement is in the shorts. The “Walter” Disney things are a thousand times better than Flip the Frog and Oswald the Rabbit — not to mention Betty Boop, all of which are, we think, pretty bad. And the projection and sound are vastly improved.
•
Say “Uncle!”
From the Law School comes a story of poetic justice, edifying in the extreme. Two of our distinguished lay professors are taking some law subjects and rolling discreetly in the glory of the law. The other day the law professor called on one of them for a case. The professor hemmed and hawed a bit, and then:
“I’m not prepared,” he said.
Trolley Idyll
The street car was filled with students going down town. They sat in two rows, staring blankly at each other: grey and blue smoke filled the silence. The car careened around a curve into the switch, and stopped at South Bend Avenue to admit passengers. A huge negress got on, with two little pickaninnies. While mammy settled with the motorman the children ran delightedly down
Tw o
the aisle. One of them stopped in front of one of our students and put his hands on his lap.
“Dad-dy” he said, plaintively.
The Bishop’s Grip
Among the ecclesiastical visitors to the campus over last week-end was Bishop Hayes, Bishop Finnegan’s successor at Helena. His Excellency arrived late Friday afternoon and taxied, as he thought, to Dillon Hall, where he was to stay; but the driver misunderstood and took him instead to Badin. The Bishop left his suitcase in one of the rooms nearby, and sought out some friends for dinner and talk.
When he got back to Dillon for the night, he bethought him of his grip. “It’s in one of these rooms here on the first floor,” he said. Of course they couldn’t find it, and the greatest commotion prevailed on Dillon’s ground floor. Searching parties started out from the chapel and ransacked the place, but no sign of the grip could be found. Everybody thought it a good joke, including the Bishop, who received all sorts of offers of pajamas and combs for use for the night.
It was not until somebody thought to ask the Bishop for a description of the hall he was driven to, that Badin was deduced as the resting place of the hierarchal toothbrush. The next morning it was found, presented triumphantly to the Bishop, who has it now, we expect.
Newsstand News
The very choosey newstand in the Cafeteria has taken this pai*ticular time to add Variety to its stock. Why, we don’t know, unless the “Linnets” have fired the campus with a desire to get next to the romance of the theater. But then the newsstand long ago snubbed Time; perhaps Variety was brought into fill the breach.
•
Inheritance
It came out during the week that a man over in Corby had just fallen heir to a quarter of a million dollars, left him by his uncle. We don’t know how these things get started, but it was all over the campus in a couple of days. The maids in Corby were bruiting the story about, and it gained a wide credence.
We have sifted the thing to its foundations, however, and found it to be quite unfounded. Seems as though the man made it up himself; they say there’s a wild streak of exhibitionism through him anyhow.
Linnet Show Tickets Go Oh Sale Tonight
Skits of original songs and dialogue play an important part in the forthcoming Linnet stellar production, “Thanks For the Blow,” to be presented in Washington Hall Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday, Dec. 10, 11 and 12. Tickets for the extravaganza will go on sale tonight under the general direction of Vincent Gorman.
Extraordinary is the special skit planned and executed by Charles Morris, Tom Bott, Jim Keough, Paul Guarneri, and Vince Gorman. The spirit of the show is brought forth in this as yet unnamed feature.
Tom Byrne, senior, will make his debut on the Washington Hall stage in a specialty act in which he will do a tap dance on roller skates. He will be featured with the “Rolling on Your Roller Skates” chorus.
The Rhythm Club, comprised of several prominent local singers, will give an acute portrayal of “Harlem” personified. They will be dressed as Negroes and will enact their parts in a barn setting.
Frank McGuire and Jim Hamilton assisted by Justin Tompkins, Bill Fromm, and Tom Flynn, popular campus trio, will give a clever interpretation of current melodies in a skit called “Crazy Town.” This featurette •will be satirical in tone.
The Linnet Glee Club of 22 voices will also take an active part on the program. Among the numbers on their repertoire are “Song of the Bayou” and “One Alone,” in which John Ryan will also be featured.
Tickets for the show have been priced at the moderate figure of 25 cents. Hall representatives and special canvassers of the Linnets and of the St. Vincent de Paul Society will sell the tickets.
Prof. Myers Addresses Bookmen Members Monday
Professor Frederick Meyers of the Department of English of the University addressed the Bookmen at their meeting held last Monday evening in the Law Building. Speaking on polar exploration he traced the history of the many expeditions to Arctic and - Antarctic regions telling of the discoveries and hardships. He described many books, particularly diaries of these journeys, which have been published, giving interesting portrayals of men under unusual conditions.
The next meeting will be held next Monday evening at 7:45 in the Law Building..
The Scholastic
Calendar
Friday, Dec. 1—First Friday, adoration, 7:30 a. m. to 5:30 p.m., Brownson Chapel; Benediction, 5:15, Brownson Chapel; Symphony orchestra rehearsal, 6:30 p.m., Music Hall.
Saturday, Dec. 2.—Football, Notre Dame vs. Army, New York, broadcast (NBC-CBS) 11:30 central standard time; Movie, Washington Hall, “Three Cornered Moon,” Claudette Colbert and Dick Arlen, 66:35 and 8:15.
Sunday, Dec. 3. — Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:00; Benediction, Sacred Heart Church, for upperclassmen, 7:00 p.m., for freshmen and students in Lyons and St. Edward’s Halls, 7:30 p.m.
Monday, Dec. 4. — Collegians rehearsal, Music Hall, 6:30 p.m.; Cracow club meeting, 7:30 p.m.; Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Kalamazoo, gymnasium, ■ 8:00 p.m.; Bookmen meeting, 7:45, Law Building.
Tuesday, Dec. 5.—Wranglers meeting, 6:45, Law Building; Symphony orchestra practice, 6:30 Music Hall; Educational seminar, 6:30, Law Building; Pharmacy club, meeting, 7:45, Chemistry Hall.
Wednesday, Dec. 6.—Collegians rehearsal, 6:30 p.m., Music Hall; Irish club meeting, 7:45, Carroll Rec.; Chemistry club meeting, 7:45, Chemistry Hall; Debate, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, at Evanston; Dante seminar, Law Building, 6:45.
Thursday, Dec. 7. — Spanish club meeting, 7:45 Carroll Rec.
Native of Ireland Speaker At Irish Club Meeting
Last Wednesday evening the Irish Club held its fortnightly meeting in the Carroll Rec room. The group this wek was particularly fortunate in having George Gallagher, a native of Ireland address the meeting.
Mr. Gallagher confined his talk to that part of early Irish history when Saint Patrick was converting the eager inhabitants. An intersting idea developed was the almost unknown fact that when Leif Ericson visited Greenland and Iceland he found traces of Christianity which had been implanted in the natives’ minds by Irish monks.
After the talk a lively discussion was held and sevral erroneous bits of Irish legends were corrected by the speaker. It was also decided that on next Wednesday evening a paper on the Danish invasion of Ireland will be given by James Reilly.
All students and professors who are interested in Irish history and culture are cordialy invited to attend and take part in the discussion.
December 1, 1933
ARMY GAME TOMORROW CLOSES FOOTBALL SEASON
Army Trip-
Approximately 100 students left the University Wednesday for New York City on the student special. The round trip rate of $22.35 was secured by the Metropolitan, New Jersey, and Connecticut clubs for the purpose of students intending to spend Thanksgiving in New York and witnessing the Army-Notre Dame game in Yankee Stadium Saturday.
The student special left South Bend Wednesday afternoon at 12:40 o’clock and arrived in New York City Thursday morning at 8:40. The special will arrive in South Bend Monday morning at 6:40.
President James Dunnigan, Robert McDonough, and George O’Brien of the Metropolitan, New Jersey and Connecticut clubs respectively arranged the trip and sold the railroad tickets.
French Club Members
Stage Debate On NRA
At the meeting of the French Club last Monday night a debate in French was staged on the relative merits and disadvantages of the National Recovery Act. The debate was between William Ellis and John J. Ryan.
Reverend Augustine Seguin, O. P., spoke on “Conviction” with special reference to the problems of youth in the twentieth century. Other members of the faculty said a few words to the members.
George Martinet and Tom Cassidy will head the committee for the next meeting, which will be held sometime before Christmas, probably in the faculty Dining Hall. It has been planned to have a music program in connection with this meeting.
CONTENTS
“The Week" ..................   2
Linnet Shozu .................. 2
Army Game ..................... 3
Gilson Lecture ................ 4
Byron Kanaley.................. 5
Deficient Students............. 5
K. of C. Nezus ................ 6
Nezus of the Week.............. 7
Man About ..................... 8
College Parade ............... 10
Basketball Opener ............ 11
“Introdzzcing” ............... 12
Southern California Game ..... 13
So They Say................... 14
“Splinters” .................. 15
DEVORE IS CAPTAIN
By Howard T. Waldron
“One-two-three-four,” barks the quarterback as the green-jerseyed men of Notre Dame shift, relax and then throw the irresistible flood of pent-up energy at the opposing gray-
Captain Hughie Devore
Leads Irish in last stand.
clad wall of Army. Notre Dame, a team with the greatest man-power east of the Mississippi, was clicking against the flashiest Army team in West Point history and crushing them by power, rhythm, and speed. That was the Army game of 1932 in which the Cadets were humiliated to the tune of 21-0 and it could very easily have been more.
In this epic contest a year ago, the Army host had thought to meet a sick and leathargic Notre Dame team that was depressed by injuries and a crushing defeat from Pittsburgh. The Army mule was made the odds-on favorite by those in the know, but the Irishmen concentrated their great power for one full afternoon and the Army team with a speedy offensive was kept on its haunches by the sheer drive of the powerful Notre Dame forward wall.
Tomorrow a crippled Irish squad, hampered by injuries and with the worst playing record of any Notre Dame team since football started here in 1887, faces a great, undefeated Army team and is once again the under-dog. Conceded one of the most powerful teams in the country if the Irish find themselves tomorrow, all the Army howitzers will be wiped off the Atlantic seaboard by (Continued on Page 13)
Three
Elienne Gilson To
Lecture Dec. 7, 8
Etienne Gilson, outstanding Catholic philosopher, and a member of the faculty at the Sorbonne university in Paris, will deliver two lectures in Washington hall next Thursday and Friday evenings, December 7 and 8, on the social function of theology.	.
Professor Gilson’s first lecture will be on the topic, “The Primacy of Theology and the Unity of Christendom.” The following evening his topic will be “The Disruption of Christendom and Its Future.”
This visit of Professor Gilson to Notre Dame will be his second in a little more than a year. Late in November a year ago he delivered two lectures here on “The Christian Concept of Man” and “The Christian Concept of Nature.”
At present Professor Gilson is teaching at the Institute of Mediaeval Studies at St. Michael’s college, Toronto.
Plans For Xmas “Juggler”
Near Completion; Out Dec. 13
“Plans for the Christmas issue of the Juggler are nearly complete,” announced editor Degnan today. “Doyle has already drawn a suitable cover, reflecting the spirit of the season, of course, and there is an abundance of excellent written material submitted for publication.”
As in the past all the associate editors have ben working diligently on the forthcoming issue, and the same may be said of the columnists. Such ace contributors as Bud McNichols, Bill Ayres, John Sharpe, and Tom Stritch are in no small measure also responsible for some of the success with which the Juggler is meeting.
Dick Prezebel and Vincent Sing-son supply many tricky cartoons and illustrations for the gags. The work of these two men has been on the upgrade, if such is possible viewing previous performances, since the appearance of the first number.
Membership in the Juggler club is still open, and, to any who sign up for the remaining five issues, a copy of the Christmas issue will be given free. Consideration should be given to the inducement before passing it up.
Der Deutsche Ver ein
Der Deutsche Verein will meet Wednesday night, Dec. 6, in Walsh Hall basement at 7:45.
Prof. William E. Farrell will speak on “The Background of Modern Germany.” The lecture will be the second in a series, the first having been given by the Reverend Hugo H. Hoever, O.Cist.
F o n'r
Father Dolan Calls Meet Of N,D. President’s Council
There was a meeting of the Presidents’ council last Tuesday evening in the lounge of the lay faculty dining hall. James Armstrong, alumni secretary, and Reverend Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C. addressed the assembled presidents.
In his short talk, Mr. Armstrong pointed out that a closer knit organization of the campus clubs with their respective alumni clubs is desired, and that he should be glad to straighten out any difficulties of misunderstandings arising from their relations. Furthermore, he stated, “such an arrangement is beneficial to you foi* you are here but a few years and then return to your particular section of the country where the alumni are already established, and where your cooperation will increase and strengthen the prestige of the group.”
Father Dolan made an announcement to the effect that no city or geographical club is to hold a holiday dance unless it is run under the auspices of the affiliated alumni club. In the past many bills have been sent to the prefect of discipline’s office after such an affair, urging him to try and collect the amount. Since this is a particularly distasteful occurrence, it has resulted in the measure adopted this year.
The members of the council were also asked to make contacts with boys in their own locality who would make real Notre Dame students, and to furnish them with information concerning the University. In this way such students would be better acquainted with the school before entering in the fall.
Varsity To Return Monday
Morning From New York
The following is the official itinerary of the varsity football squad’s trip to New York City for the Army game. tomorrow as arranged by Senior Manager Clyde A. Lewis:
Thursday, Nov. 30.—12:00 noon: Leave Post office in cabs for New York Central Station. 12:40 p. m.: Leave South Bend via New York Central, train No. 6, “Fifth Avenue Special,” for New York.
Friday, Dec. 1.—7:08 a. m.: Arrive Harmon, N. Y. 7:25 a.m.: Mass at Church of the Good Shepherd, Harmon, N. Y. 8:35 a. m.: Breakfast at Westchester Biltmore Country Club. 2:00 p.m.: Practice.
Saturday, Dec. 2.—8:00 a.m.: Mass at Church of the Resurrection, Rye, N. Y. 1:30 p.m.: game. 6:00 p.m. Dinner at McAlpin Hotel.
Sunday, Dec. 3.—4:20 p.m.: Leave New York via N. Y. Central on train No. 67, “Commodore Vanderbilt.”
Northwestern, N.D.
Debate Next Week
John Heywood, Robert Schmelzle, and Thomas Proctor have been chosen from the affirmative teams of the Varsity Debate squad by Coach W. J. Coyne to represent Notre Dame
Thomas Proctor He speaks first.
against Northwestern University at Evanston, Wednesday, Dec. 6. Notre Dame will argue the affirmative, Northwestern the negative in a nondecision contest on the question, “Resolved : that an amendment to the constitution making permanent the powers of the president-as of July 1, 1933 should be adopted.”
Practice debates were held this week between both negative and both affirmative teams of the squad. As a result Proctor will deliver the first speech against Northwestern, Schmelzle the second, and Heywood the third. William Kirby, veteran debater, will accompany the coach and team to Evanston. Byron V. Kanaley, new lay-trustee of Notre Dame, and several other prominent alumni residing in Chicago have stated that they will attend the debate.
A team to debate against Michigan University’s negative trio here on Tuesday, Dec. 12, has not been selected to date. This will be a decision debate, with Professor Sandford, head of the University of Illinois Speech' Department, acting as critic judge.
Another affirmative debate with Minnesota and a negative debate with Purdue may materialize within the next two weeks.
NBC and CBS to Broadcast Anny-Notre Dame Tilt
The Notre Dame-Army game tomorrow will be broadcast over both major networks, with Ted Husing doing the play-by-play for Columbia, and the NBC also assigning one of their best announcers to the broadcast. South Bend’s WSBT and WFAM will be the local CBS outlet.	■
The Scholastic
I 1 I I
Fr. Carrico Releases Deficiency Figures
BYRON KANALEY IS ELECTED HEAD OF N.D. BOARD OF LAY TRUSTEES
The following report of deficient students for the first quarter is now ready. The total number of students reported by the teachers at the recent mid-semester, as being deficient in at least one course, is 584: 209 in the College of Arts and Letters, 86 in the College of Science, 120 in the College of Engineering, and 169 in the College of Commerce. ’
Of the total number of students reported as deficient, 234 are freshmen, 142 are sophomores, and 115 juniors, 88 are seniors, and 5 are special students.
From the total enrollment in all the colleges of the University 22.93% were reported as deficient in at least one course; 19.6% of the enrollment in the College of Arts and Letters, 35.7% in the College of Science, 32.6% in the College of Engineering, and 23.8% in the College of Commerce.
15% Of Enrollment Deficient
Of the 584 students reported as deficient 400 (15.7% of the total enrollment of the University) were reported in only one subject; 130 (5.1 %) two subjects; 36 (1.4%) in three subjects; 13 (.5%) in four subjects; 4 .16%) in five subjects; and 1 student (.04%) in six subjects.
Out of the 584 students reported, 17 were reported as deficient in two semester hours of work, 284 in three hours, 80 in four hours, 17 in five hours, 75 in six hours, 36 in seven hours, 15 in eight hours, 14 in nine hours, 3 in ten hours, 16 in eleven hours, 2 in twelve, hours, 2 in thirteen hours, 4 in fourteen hours, 2 in fifteen hours, 1 in seventeen hours, and 14 in high school deficiencies; 398 of the students reported are deficient in less than six semester hours of their work; 159 are deficient in six hours oi* more; 13 are deficient in twelve semester hours or more; and fourteen are deficient in high school subjects. The enrollment for the first semester of this -school-year is 2547.
Walsh Hall Leads
Number of students deficient in each hall:
Dillon Hall, 80; Freshman Hall, 64; Lyons Hall, 54; Morrissey Hall, 48; Alumni Hall, 47; Off-Campus. 45; Howard Hall, 44; Carroll Hall, 38; Brownson Hall, 37; St. Edward’s Hall, 26.
Corby Hall, 25; Badin Hall, 24; Sorin Hall, 22; Walsh Hall, 20; Moreau Seminary, 4; Dujarie Institute, 3; Community House, 1; Holy Cross Seminary, 1; Mission House, 1. Total, 584.
December 1/ 1 9 '3.3
Banking Laws Is Subject Of Economic Seminar Paper
John Ruppel presented the paper at the bi-weekly meeting of the Economic Seminar held in the Cafe Peacock, South Bend, last Tuesday. In his paper, “New Banking Legislation,” Ruppel discussed the history and development of our national banking system. He also explained the Glass-Steagall Bill and pointed out that it is too early now to see its results.
After the paper, the club held a round-table discussion on the Federal Reserve system of banks. Mr. R. B. Riordan, of the Economic Department faculty, attended the meeting in place of Mr. W. H. Downey.
At the next session, December 5, Leo Brugger will give a paper on the subject, “Modernization of Rail Transportation.”
Morley Discussed at Meeting Of Bookmen Last Monday
“Amenities of Christopher Morley,” was the title of a paper presented to the Bookmen by Edward Kilmurray at the regular meeting-held last Monday evening. He summarized and commented upon Morley’s more important works. This was followed by a general discussion on the author and his works.
Professor Frederick Meyers of the department of English will address the bookmen at their next meeting which will be held Monday evening at 7:45 in the Law Building.
“DOME” NOTICE
The Dome photographer has been signed to resume sittings of the seniors for a limited time early in January. Sittings have necessarily been discontinued in Walsh basement but any seniors desiring pictures before Christmas may obtain a sitting in the Bagby Studios in South Bend as arrangements have been made to accommodate them any day in the week.
A notice will be posted early in January announcing the date the photographer will be in the Walsh basement studios to photograph the remaining members of the senior class. ’
Student Directories Out
The Student Directories are now on sale at the newsstand in the Cafeteria. They are priced at a quarter and give the addresses of both the faculty and the student body. In the near future they will be sold from room to room.
IS A GRADUATE OF 1904
The Lay Trustees of the University held their annual meeting last Friday afternoon in the University parlors in the Administration Build-
Byron V. Kanaley
President of lay trustees.
ing. Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, president of the Notre Dame senior class of 1904, was elected chairman of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees. He succeeds the late A. R. Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corporation.
At the meeting the Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and acting president, gave a summary of the progress and achievements of the University in the past year. It was announced that the appointment of a successor to the late Edward N. Hurley will not be made public for some time.
Mr. Kanaley is honorary president of the National Notre Dame Alumni Association. He is a director of the Hamilton State Bank of Chicago, and a member of the firm of Cooper and Kanaley, Chicago investment bankers. As a student he took an active part in debating, and was an editor of The Scholastic for two years.
STAFF NOTICE!
There will be no meeting of THE SCHOLASTIC staff tonight. All news men see Ed Mansfield, 317 Sorin, and all sports staff members see Ed Van Huisseling, 413 Howard, before Sunday night.
Five
“Lawyer” Distributed To All Law Students
The Notre Dame Lawyer, quarterly law review, made its first appearance of the current school year last Wednesday, Nov. 29. Heading the editorial board of this year’s publication is Thomas L. McKevitt, editor-in-chief, with John P. Laughna and Joseph A. McCabe aiding as assistant editors. Joseph E. Kelley serves as business manager of the Laivyer.
Three articles are featured in the current issue. Stating that the scope of his discussion is determined by Christian philosophy of peace, Professor W. F. Roemer, Ph.D., in his article on “The Church and Peace Efforts,” advocates an ethical and moral basis for international peace.
Professor John W. Curan, of De Paul University, contributes an article entitled “Lincoln Conspiracy Trial and Military Jurisdiction Over Civilians.” Here Prof. Curan deals with the question of military courts having jurisdiction over civilians when the regular civil courts are open.
Professor William D. Rollison is the author of “Assignments in the Law of Mortgages,” wherein he discusses the methods used by mortgagees to assign their interests in mortgages. Such interests are found in the conveyances of the mortgage premises, transfers of mortgage debts and transfers of mortgage deeds.
A brief review of the activities of the Law Club is written by Editor McKevitt. Notes are furnished by Leonard J. Dunn, Editor McKevitt, and John A. Barry. Harry Kilburger, Louis Jackson and Professor Wm. M. Cain offer recent decisions, while book reviews are contributed by Thomas Gately, Editor McKevitt and Professor E. J. Payton, of the College of Commerce.
Clinical Psychology Students Visit Logansport Asylum
Forty students in the clinical psychology course attended a three and one-half hour clinic at the Logansport State Hospital, Logansport, Indiana, Monday, November 20. Dr. Leo F. Kuntz, head of the Department of Education, accompanied the group.
Demonstrations of type cases of the two general groups of mental psychoses, organic and functional, and their seven more specific classifications, were made by the hospital heads. Over fifteen hundred patients, representing a ratio of two to every thousand persons in the district from which the Logansport institution receives its patients, are at present in the hospital.
Six
K. of C. News
By Ray Martin
All of you who missed the meeting last Monday night also missed a very interesting bit of information con-ecrning the man under whose name we are enrolled. Father Gregory of the Benedictines, who is noted for his reproductions and portrait paintings, spoke about his efforts to ascertain the exact spot on which Columbus landed on his first visit to America. Making personal explorations along with two other priests, Father Gregory proved definitely that Watling’s Island, of the Bahama group, was the San Salvador on which Columbus first set foot after his long journey from Spain. Tins information should be gratifying to all Knights, inasmuch as it ends a controversy of many years among leading historians.
The Grand Knight anounced at the meeting that the chairman of the K. of C. Formal would be Frank Honerkamp. Frank merited the position by virtue of the work he has done in the past three years for the council. He was especially active this year during the membership drive, bringing into the council many more candidates than could be reasonably expected of anyone. Other chairmen and their committees, together’ with the date of the dance, will be announced soon. ,
There will be a special meeting' Monday night to exemplify the first degree in the council rooms. Everyone is urged to attend in order to make this exemplification as impressive as the last one. The following Sunday afternoon, December 10, in the clubrooms of the South Bend council, the second and third degrees will be exemplified. At the banquet following, Tim Galvin will be the principal speaker, and it is hoped that Pat Manion will be able to take over the duties of toastmaster. These names alone should assure your presence.
A. S, S, T. Hear Speaker
The Notre Dame group of the American Society for Steel Treating heard D. L. Colwell, chemist and metallurgist for the Stewart Die Casting Corporation, Chicago, in a lecture on the die-casting process at an open meeting Thursday night, November 16.
Notice
Because next Friday, December 8th, is a Holyday, The Scholastic next week will appear on Thursday afternoon.
Electrons Is Subject Of A.LE.E. Lecture
By J. D. Porterfield
The fifth meeting of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held on Monday night, November 27th, in the Cushing Hall of Engineering.
The principal speaker was Mr. T. E. Johntz of the Chicago division of General Electric Company, whose subject was “Industrial Applications of Electronic Tubes.” Mr. Johntz prefaced the main topic of discussion with a few explanatory remarks upon the principles of operation of vacuum tubes in general. Their action, he said, depends upon the emission of electrons from a hot cathode and their absorption by a cold anode.
The speaker enumerated the types of electrons tubes now being made by the General Electric Company for applications in industry, the most widely known being the phanotron, the thyratron, the kyratron, the kenotron, and the photoelectric tube. These tubes find their largest applications as smoke indicators, counters, light regulators, light controllers, motor controllers, spot-welding con-t r o 11 e r s , and door-openers. Mr. Johntz had a large amount of apparatus on hand and gave several demonstrations of the uses of vacuum tubes, which greatly interested the audience.
Explains Smoke Indicator
One of the pieces of apparatus, a smoke indicator, consisted of a photo-electric cell mounted at one end of a panel and a small source of light at the opposite end. When the beam of light was interrupted by the interposition of smoke or some other dark mass, the photo cell actuated a relay which caused a red light to light as a signal. This device is used in factories to prevent chimneys from giving forth too much smoke, in violation of smoke ordinances.
Photo-Electric Cell
The speaker remarked, in passing, that the photo-electric cell can see about as well as a nearly blind man. It is, however, hundreds of times faster’ than the human eye, since it can respond to light interruptions occurring at the rate of several thousand times a second; and therein lies its great usefulness to industry. Mr. Johntz also mentioned that a very practical use of the photo cell would be a counter for counting sheep for people who fall asleep too soon. -
The lecture was exceedingly interesting and entertaining and was very well received by the sixty who were in attendance.
The Scholastic
Dr. Banish Speaks At Local Chemical Meet
The St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society held its one hundredth monthly meeting at 8:00 p. m. on Wednesday, November 22, 1933, in the auditorium of the Cushing Hall of Engineering at the University.
The speaker of the meeting was Dr. J. I. Banish, consulting engineer for Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corporation and the" Linde Air Company. He spoke on the subject of oxygen therapy, his talk being illustrated with demonstrations and lantern slides. Dr. Banish brought with him the equipment necessary for oxygen administration including nasal catheters, an oxygen tent, and a portable oxygen room.
Dr. Banish is the designer of the Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corporation exhibits in the Hall of Science at the Century of Progress. He is also president of the National Safety Council and a noted authority on the applications of oxygen in medicine and in industry.
The meeting was also attended by the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Medical Association. In view of the topics discussed, the meeting was an open one and a very large audience attended.
Dr. Cornelius Hagerty Addresses Science Men
Dr. Cornelius J. Hagerty, junior pathologist at St. Luke’s Hospital in Chicago, spoke on “Leukocytes” at the first open meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science held Monday evening, November 27, in the auditorium of the Law Building.
“The blood,” the speaker stated, “is a complex tissue which differs ;	from all the other tissues of the body
I	in that it is a fluid. It is composed
:	principally of water, and also con-
tains proteins, carbohydrates, fats, i	and other collodial material.” The
;	leukocytes are included in what are
known as the formed elements of the blood.
The structural characteristics, which are used to a large extent in differentiation of the various types of white blood corpuscles, as well as the origin of these cells were explained in detail by Dr. Hagerty.
The role of the leukocytes in combating the spread of infection and the comparative percentages of the types of these white blood corpuscles in normal and pathological specimens of blood, obtained by the routine procedure of differential counting employed by the pathologist, were among the many interesting features of Dr. Hagerty’s address.
December 1, 19 3 3
Sorin To Meet Alumni In
Group I. Debate Finals
Alumni and Sorin Halls in Group I, Morrisey and Lyons Halls in Group II, will debate next week to determine the finalists of the Lemmer Trophy Debate League, sponsored by the Wranglers. A. L. Korzeneski, debate chairman, has arranged for Alumni’s affirmative team, coached by Louis Hruby, and Sorin’s negative, coached by John Hayes, to argue before the Young People’s club of St. Casimir’s Parish in South Bend, next Monday, Dec. 4 at 8:00 p. m. The Rev. Dr. Liszewski, C.S.C., has consented to give critical judgment of this contest. Arthur Sandusky, Wrangler president, will be chairman of the debate.
No definite date has been set and no final arrangements have been made for the final debate in the other league, Group II, that between Morrissey and Lyons, coached by Gene Blish and Edwin Holman, respectively. Both of these teams argued the affirmative side of the question in the preliminaries, a fact which necessitates that one team must change its case. The winners in the two leagues will meet at St. Mary’s College for the championship and trophy now held by Howard Hall.
Sorin Defeats Howard
During this last week, Sorin, negative, defeated Howard, affirmative, to win its way to the group finals. Professor Frank O’Malley gave the decision for this debate. Brownson, affirmative, won a decision from Dillon negative; Lyons, affirmative, won by forfeit from Freshman, negative. The coaches for these teams are Richard Ballman, Justin Hannen, and Frank Hochreiter.
Standings in both leagues are as follows: Group I, first place (to be determined) Alumni and Sorin; third place, Howard and Corby; fourth place, Badin and Walsh; Group II, first place (to be determined), Morrissey and Lyons; third place, Carroll and Brownson; fourth place, Dillon, fifth place, Freshman and St. Edward’s. Interhall debaters argued the varsity question throughout these contests. This question concerns the permanency of President Roosevelt’s present powers.
Anniversary
Yesterday, Thanksgiving Day, was the 91st anniversary of the first Mass celebrated at Notre Dame by the Reverend Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University. Father Sorin celebrated his first Mass here in the Log Chapel on November 30, 1842.
Prof. Manion Speaks At Bedford Banquet
Professor Clarence E. Manion, of the Notre Dame Law School, was the principal speaker at a testimonial banquet given in honor of Governor
Prof. Clarence E. Manion “Never more Jeffersonian than now.’’
Paul V. McNutt of Indiana. This was the first testimonial banquet given for Governor McNutt since his election. It was held in Bedford, Indiana, Nov. 22.
Between 300 and 400 were present at the banquet. Representative Crowe of the Ninth district of Indiana was also a speaker. Professor Manion was the keynote speaker and temporary chairman of the Indiana State Democratic convention in 1932.
In his speech Manion stated that the Democratic party was not swerving from the Jeffersonian principles, • that it “was never more Jeffersonian than now.” He defended the interpretation given the Constitution by Roosevelt, and the money policy he was taking. He stressed particularly that the Constitution was being administered in spirit as well in letter. “I would remind these staunch Republican constitutionalists to bear in mind the injunction of St. Paul: ‘The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.’ The Constitution has spirit as well as letter. It is not merely form; it also has substance. It is a container, it is true, but with very precious contents. The spirit of the Constitution, its substance, and its contents, is the protection of the lives, the liberties and the equality of the citizens. The Democratic administration is administering the Constitution with an eye to its spirit as well as to its letter.”
Seven
F. Duffy, A.F. of L.
Leader, Speaks Here
Mr. Frank Duffy, First Vice-President of the American Federation of Labor, and International Secretary of the Carpenters and Joiners Union, delivered an address in the Auditorium of the Engineering Building, Thursday afternoon, November 23. This lecture was open to students and faculty members of the Sociology and Economics Departments. Mr. Duffy spoke on the topic “Racketeering and the Labor Unions.” He emphasized the cooperation which labor has given to the government under the N.R.A.
During his stay at Notre Dame, Mr. Duffy had dinner in the Lay Faculty Dining Room with many members of the University Administration and Faculty. Among those present were: Reverend John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.; Reverend William A. Bolger, C.S.C.; Mr. W. H. Downey, and Mr. J. L. Apodaca.
Mr. Duffy has contributed some of the records of the American Federation of Labor to the University Library.
Symphony Orchestra to Play At ‘‘Taming Of The Shrew”
Instead of presenting a concert as was scheduled for December the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Richard Seidel, will play foi' the Dramatic Club’s presentation, “The Taming of the Shrew,” on the evenings of December 17 and 18.
The first concert of the year will be presented in the middle of January. The program will consist of the following selections: “Martha” Overture, by Von Flotow; the second symphony of Beethoven; Sweet of the Flowers, by Handel; the overture “Rio Grande,” and finally, the march Athalia, by Mendelssohn.
40 Members In Attendance At Italian Club Dinner
Approximately 40 persons attended the third in a series of Roman dinners sponsored by the, Italian Club last Tuesday evening, November 28, at Vumbaco’s restaurant, Niles avenue, South Bend. .
A brief talk given by Emilio J. Gervasio, president of the club, was followed by music furnished by the management. The committee in charge of the affair was as follows: Andrew Maffei, chairman; Leonard Cacciatore, Jules Rocco, and Anthony Camperlengo.
Eight
‘^nbout the cornPys
Smooth gentlemen are seldom the
better liked gentlemen—in fact there
are times when
is somewhat of
a glistening black shoe, a collar of glowing white, and a suit uncomfortably well pressed bring hither a positive dislike. Yet in the case of Harry Rockett, erstwhile of Boston, South America, and Nova Scotia — today of 223 Sorin—we must pause a while and muster a few facts, for the guy an exception.
Just recently the urbane Rockett smiled his way into an 8 o’clock that is conducted by precisely the right sort of gentleman. This Professor has the habit of a genial greeting— even to latecomers. It was something like this: “Why good morning, Mr. Rockett. Nice of you to come over.” Somehow or other you expected the glowing Rockett to chirp “Wasn’t it though?” in exactly the same genial way. But he didn’t, of course, not to that charmingly agreeable Don behind the desk. .
Boston Latin, the oldest, and incidentally one of the best high schools in the country, helped Harry to an understanding of things. While there he dribbled hround with a hockey puck chased flies by the hour—and told a few of his famous tales with his equally famous color shadings. Rockett is a master at dressing a story up.
A defiant English major, Harry posed his way into one of our more difficult stumpers last year with nothing but a monocle and a world of good will.
When he hasn’t been busy adjusting perfectly selected ties in much too carefully starched collars, Mr. Rockett has had his dabble in politics. Through it all he has managed to lose often enough to maintain a statesman-like martyrdom that is truly Bostonion.
Then, of course, there are the ladies—but this is a personal sketch, not a novel.
Engineers* Lecture
The Engineers Club heard a lecture on “Currency and Inflation” by Professor Joseph L. Apodaca, of the Department of Economics, last Tuesday night, November 28, in the auditorium of the Engineering building.
University Band Ends Season On The Field
With the strains of Notre Dame’s “Victory March,” the University band of 90 pieces wound up its season of field work Saturday afternoon at the close of the Southern California football game. Professor Casa-santa, director; Louis Alaman, drummajor; and the entire personnel are to be complimented on the flawless performances given at five of the nine football games on this year’s schedule.
The band made its first appearance of the season at the Kansas game, the first home tilt. Because the new uniforms had not arrived, they were unable to maneuver on the field. However, the musicians led the singing from the stands. The first field appearance was at the Pittsburgh game when the bandsters turned out in their new uniforms of navy blue and gold.
Only one trip was included on the itinerary this year as the added expense of the new outfits made it financially impossible for the band to take another trip. The performance given at Evanston, Ill., for the Northwestern game was commended highly by the newspapers and radio announcers.
Tribute To Fallen
Highlights of this year’s maneuvering include the impressive tribute to the American soldiers who gave their lives in the late World War. This took place on Armistice day dur-the halves of the N. D.-Purdue game. The silence that prevailed throughout the stadium with its some 40,000 spectators in itself showed that the band really registered; The band was led by Professor Casasanta in the beautiful “Notre Dame Our Mother,” alma mater song of the University, written by the Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president.
Formations this year included the making of the letters of the visiting team, accompanied by the playing of their football song. This formation was immediately followed by the N.D. letters and a playing of “When the Irish Backs Go Marching By.” From this position the band swung into the “Victory March” and a Notre Dame monogram. Only on one other occasion this year did the band play the alma mater song, that being last Saturday at the Southern California game. -
Now that the band’s field season has. ended, Professor Casasanta and the boys will forget their militaristic training, Louis Alaman will toss his baton and his high hat into a corner, and the entire personnel will concentrate on their concert season which will open early in December.
The Scholastic
N.D. Collegians Plan
Tour For Holidays
The Notre Dame Collegians, popular 12-piece campus dance orchestra which has won the favor of all who have heard them so far this season, are contemplating a dance tour during the Christmas holidays.
In the event that a satisfactory program of club dances can be arranged, the Collegians hope to extend their tour from the mid-Western to the Eastern states over the two-week period. Campus clubs wishing to secure the services of the orchestra for their Christmas dances or other work may consult J. J. Casasanta, director "at Music hall. This opportunity will offer campus clubs financial economy on the dances as well as a satisfactory musical treat.
Weinstein Talks on Socialism At Education Seminar Meet
Benjamin Weinstein, graduate student, South Bend, read a paper to the members of the Philosophy of Education Seminar Tuesday evening in the Law Building. “Socialistic Conception of Life and Radical-Social Education” as discussed in the book, “Philosophy and Education” by De-Hovre-Jordan, was the topic of Weinstein’s paper.
The group must be placed first and the individual second, he said. “Man is not a social being because he is man but is a man because he is a social being.” This is the theory of socialism and its relation to man. “If we wish to comprehend man, we must learn first to comprehend the group.”
Speaking of the distinct turning to socialism in all fields, Weinstein stated that education has become social education; psychology, religion, ethics, art, history, and culture have all become socialized. He then quoted the ideal of social education as being an appeal to the principles of the new pedagogy and the problems of sociology.
Weinstein then quoted Dewey: “The only way to learn to live in social life is to live in social life.” He concluded his talk by criticizing the socialistic conceptions and offering remedies for the present educational system.
Following the reading of the paper, a general round table discussion prevailed. An active part in this discussion was taken by the Reverend J. Sigmar, a member of .the Seminar. Father Cunningham, teacher of the course, also supplemented the talk.
Next week’s subject will be “Nationalism.” Father Sigmar and Victor Astone will discuss the subject.
December 1, 1933
News of the Week
By George Leyes
In the coming battle between the inflationists vs. the hard money leaders, a new high was reached during the week with charges and countercharges between such national figures as Father Coughlin, Alfred E. Smith, Senator Borah and Prof. Sprague. Both sides go to the extremes in making dire predictions, and it appears that public sentiment is with the president. The battle lines are drawing up in this conflict over governmental policy that will probably be settled before Congress returns Jan. 1.
The recent lynchings in California and Maryland are potent in their significance. Does it mean that citizens are sick of the appeals, red tape, and lack of convictions that characterize our law courts, and are ready to take the law into their own hands in a desperate attempt to achieve some sort of justice? The discharge by the jury of the Touhy gang in Milwaukee for the kidnapping of William Hamm, Jr., wealthy brewer, is a case example. The decision caused consternation to all people with respect for law and order.
The attitude of Governor Rolph in approving and even praising the mob justice in California can no more be justified than the kidnappings if we are to keep a high standard of civilization.
With legal liquor not far away the Federal government has completed a code with strict Federal control regarding the price, sale and the right to revoke licenses without resorting to court action. There is every indication that the national government will take liquor control into its own hands.
In about 20 states the average citizen will be able to take his first legal drink of something stronger than three-point-two on Dec. 5. Most of the state control plans reflect a strong distaste for the saloon and the swinging doors. The trend of the laws is toward the sale of liquor in original packages for consumption elsewhere, or with food if it is to be drunk on the premises.
Spanish Club
The Spanish. Club will hold its regular bi-monthly meeting Thursday night, Dec. 7, at 7:45 in Carroll Rec, President Edwin Holman announced this week.
Plans will be discussed for the proposed joint meeting of the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Spanish Clubs, to be held at St. Mary’s.
Fr. Fogarty Speaker At Commerce Forum
Tuesday evening in the Law Auditorium Fr. Fogarty, C.S.C., addressed the members of the Commerce Forum on “Relief Measures of the NRA.”
Starting by distinguishing between outdoor and institutional relief, he traced the sources of our poor laws and their development up to the institution of the NRA and contrasted the former with the new program to show how and where improvement was initiated. He outlined the various forms this program had taken and explained the basis of each.
At the conclusion of the talk a business meeting was held and plans were formulated and approved for the holding of a smoker on Thursday, Dec. 14, in the Lay Faculty Dining Rooms. The suggestion was made and ratified that the smoker be open to all Commerce students for a minimum assessment.
The following committees and committeemen were selected to carry out the details of arrangement.
General chairman: John Hess.
Speakers committee: George Belting, chairman; John Heywood.
Entertainment committee: Ed Cosgrove, chairman; Tony Dunning, Thomas Flynn.
Arrangements committee: John Gleason, chairman; Paul Staub, James Sherry.
Refreshments committee: Leslie Jandoli, chairman; Louis McNich-olas, Ken Montie.
Press Club Holds Banquet at Oldenburg Inn on Dec. 13
The Notre Dame Press Club will hold a banquet in the Oldenburg Inn, South Bend,, on Wednesday, December 13. President John E. Conley made the announcement at a meeting of the journalists Tuesday afternoon of this week.
About twenty members of the club were present at the meeting called for the purpose of discussing several important business proposals. Joseph Bucci, junior, was named chairman of the junior elections which are scheduled for next Thursday, December 7 in the basement of the Library.
Plans for an official Press Club key were discussed by the members. Secretary William Reilly was authorized to secure information and samples.
The president appointed a special committee to see the Director of Studies to straighten out several misconceptions concerning required courses that are in evidence among the senior journalists.
Nine
Many Fields Covered In Library Additions
The following list of books has been added recently to the University Library:
Religion: Barnes, Arthur, The Martyrdom of St. Peter and St. Paid.
Description and Travel: Wierz-bicki, Felix, California As It Is and As It Should Be; Fuller, Oscar, Pictorial History of the American Negro; Hill, Edwin Charles, The American Scene.
Statistics: White, Reul Clyde, Social Statistics.
Economic History: Epstein, Abraham, Insecurity, a Challenge to America; National Association of Manufacturing of the United States of America, Unemployment Insurance Handbook; Todd, Arthur James, Industry and Society; Tugwell, Rexford Guy, American Economic Life and the Manner of its Improvement; Yoder, Dale,’ Labor Economics and Labor Problems.
Sociology: Kolstad, Arthur, A Study of Opinions on Some International Problems; Mangold, George, Social Pathology; Wallis, Mrs. Grace, Our Social World; Winning Janies, Behind These Walls.
Education: Davis, Frank, A Course in Supervised Teaching; Lull, Herbert Galen, Secondary Education; Jarman, Arthur, The Administration of Laboratory Schools.
Fiction: Milburn, George, No More Trumpets and Other Stories; Norris, Mrs. Kathleen, Walls of Gold; Porter, Edward Sefton, Raw Edge; Tarkington, Booth, Presenting Lily Mars.
Criminology: Monachesi, Elie David, Prediction Factors in Probation.
Literature: Cunliffe, John William, English Literature in the Twentieth Century; Forman, Henry James, Our Movie Made Children; Grebanier, Mrs. Frances, Poor Splendid Wings.
Science: Lenard, Phillip, Great Men of Science.
Anthropology: Peake, Harold, The Horse and the Sword.
Physical Education: Lloyd, Frank, Safety in Physical Education in Secondary Schools.
Cracow Club Meets
The Cracow Club will hold a meeting Monday night at 7:30. Vicepresident Albert V. Orzechowski will speak at the meeting. The seminarians and the brothers have been invited to attend.
UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI students may “crash” Columbia theatres three times this fall during the football season, according to a decision of the Student Council and the theater manager. This may be done Saturday nights following a victory.
Ten
College Parade
By James T. Fitzpatrick
“The newsreel, one of Hollywood’s hardiest offsprings, is rapidly becoming one of the most boresome. The purpose suggested by the word ‘newsreel’ has evidently been lost sight of, and the producers have been concentrating on entertainment of a doubtful nature.
“It is so seldom that a news event of world wide importance is shown that any photographs of this nature come as a distinct surprise. Any consistent moviegoer can predict the contents of a newsreel and be 95 percent accurate. The reasons for this constant outpouring of tripe have probably been lost in the 1914 files, and it seems a safe bet that nobody would miss the absence of ‘The Eyes, Ears, Nose and Throat of the World.’
“The contents of the average newsreel can be classified into the following categories: parades, reviews of the Japanese army and navy, reviews of Uncle Sam’s army and navy (especially battleships), field days, one sporting event of national importance, animals, somebody taking a drink, interspersed with a few bathing beauties in varying stages of undress. Occasionally some famous personage denounces something or other and fills the theater with a gentle warmth. One can’t judge if or not the film magnates consider Japan a becoming menace, and hence deserving of advance publicity, but not a week goes by without a detailed review of the power and the glory that is Japan’s. Perhaps by way of variety the announcer may insert a standard joke to fit the occasion, but that is as far as ingenuity is allowed to go.”—The Purdue Exponent.
“At the UNIVERSITY of SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, the “Tapping Method” was suggested to enforce the honor system in final examinations. Tapping to expose cheating is a method of warning students who are seen attempting to evade examination rules. Observers of the violation stop it by tapping with their feet upon the floor. This disturbance is taken up by the entire class, and the result is a cessation of the cheating. But suppose everyone is cheating?”—The Indiana Daily Student.
A UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON survey shows that the average college student carries more money in his pocket than the average professor does, and that the professor’s secretary carries more than the two of them combined.
Students at AMHERST COLLEGE bet on the number of the hymn to be called for in the college chapel.
Old Clothes Campaign Opens This Afternoon
Today is the starting date set for the “Over-the-Top” drive for old clothes by the St. Vincent De Paul Society.
Father John Kelly, C.S.C., spiritual director of the society; Frank Mc-Gahren, president; and George Belting are putting forth every effort to carry it through to success. Since the setting-in of the cold weather, the poor of the parish of Father Finnegan, C.S.C., and those of Roseland have been in dire need. To expedite the work of providing for those people, the whole hearted co-operation of the student body is asked.
Old clothes of almost any description can be used. Particularly, old cords, hats, shirts, socks, sweaters, and underwear are desired. Then, too, discarded magazines will be collected at the same time, although the emphasis will be on the rummaged old clothes.
In all the halls of the campus, placards will be set up indicating the Society’s representative. The use of these signs is to bring home to the student the necessity of the case, and to get him to sort out the old clothes, having them ready for the St. Vincent de Paul social worker when he calls.
George Belting, 346 Sorin Hall, has charge of the concerted drive that will take place in all the halls. Members of the Society who have been appointed to collect in their halls are: In Brownson and Carroll, Carmi Belmont; Sorin and Morrissey, Frank McGahren, Vincent McAloon, and Dan Phaneuf; Lyons, John Desmond, Edward Owens; Corby, John Petrillo, John Pavlick, and George Martinet; Howard, Art Gregory, and Charles Reilly; and in Badin Hall, Charles Hill. Members will be assigned later to Freshman, Dillon, Walsh, and Alumni Halls.
In addition to this, members of the Society will sell tickets for the Linnet show, “Thanks For The Blow,” using the receipts for charitable purposes.
Alumni Board Meets
The Alumni Board met last Saturday noon to discuss the program of expansion planned at the meeting the week-end of the Pitt game. Directors present were Byron Kanaley, honorary president; Harry Miller, Frank Walker, and Francis Werner. The plans call for a period of extensive expansion beginning the first of the year.
According to an investigation at the UNIVERSITY OF IOWA, only one out of eleven college engagements results in marriage.
The Scholastic
ATHLETICS
Formulate Plans For CAGERS OPEN YEAR AGAINST Hall Hockey Program KALAMAZOO TEAM MONDAY
Although little definite news is obtainable at the present time, plans are being formulated to organize a hockey league here this winter as a part of a movement which will attempt to bring about a full winter sports program.
The Department of Discipline has expressed its willingness to provide the necessary man power to keep the lakes cleared of snow, but as yet no financial backing has been given to the movement in general.
The sponsors of the plan are holding a meeting of all students interested in hockey or skating of any kind in the faculty lounge of the Dining Hall immediately after supper next Wednesday night, Dec. 6.
Plans at present call for four teams composed of members of various halls which will be grouped (two or three halls in a group) to form a team. Interhall competition would be climaxed by a picked group of players making a trip to Culver* Military Academy for a game.
The only objectionable feature to the entire plan is the fact that the weather here is not consistently cold enough for hockey, the lakes becoming too soft for skating. However, the points in favor of the movement are so many that they greatly overshadow the disadvantages. The hockey situation could be very impressive if the student body responds to the call.	'
Plan Skating Activities
The early approach of winter this .year seems to predict a long ice skating season, and plans to promote the popular sport are being formulated by several members of the faculty.
The Department of Discipline has announced that the lakes will be cleared and kept in condition during the season and a hockey rink will be erected if at all possible.
James Dunnigan, who scored 20 points as representative of the University last yeai* at the inter-collegiate skating meet in St. Louis, will instruct beginners in speed skating. Members of the faculty have consented to give instruction in figure skating and hockey.
A meeting will be held in the faculty lobby of the Dining Hall on December 6 at 6:30 p. m. to discuss plans for a skating club.
December 1, 19 S3
History —
1913—Notre Dame, 35 ; Army, 13. 1914—Notre Dame 7 ; Army, 20. 1915—Notre Dame 7 ; Army, 0. 1916—Notre Dame, 10 ; Army, 32. 1917—Notre Dame, 7 : Army, 2. 1919—Notre Dame, 12 ; Army, 9. 1920—Notre Dame, 27; Anny, 17. 1921—Notre Dame, 2S : Army, 0. 1922—Notre Dame, 0 ; Army, 0. 1923—-Notre Dame, 13 ; Army, 0. 1924—Notre Dame, 13 ; Army, 7. 1925—Notre Dame, 0 ; Army, 27. 1926—Notre Dame, 7 ; Army, 0. 1927—Notre Dame. 0 ; Army, IS. 1928—Notre Dame, 12 ; Army, 6. 1929—Notre Dame, 7 : Army, 0. 1930—Notre Dame. 7 ; Army. 6. 1931—Notre Dame. 0 ; Army. 12. 1932—Notre Dame. 21 ; Army, 0.
Totals—Notre Dame. 213 ; Army. 107.
Notre Dame won 13, lost 5 tied 1.
This annual intersectional grid clash between the United States Military Academy, or the Anny as it is called, and Notre Dame originated back in 1913, when Notre Dame won a sensational victory from the Cadets, 35 to 13. In that year when the Army officials scheduled Notre Dame, the game was to be more or less of a breather for the up and coming soldiers. Even before the whistle the Irish had not been conceded a chance to win; in fact the Army had counted upon using their reserves, thus saving their regulars for the following week.
Coach Jesse Harper’s little band of stalwart Notre Dame boys who had journeyed to the plains of West Point had been on the field but a short while before they completely bewildered the fans and players. The Notre Dame attack was led by Gus Dorais and Knute Rockne, who together nearly passed and ran the Cadets back to their trenches. This was the first time that the forward pass had ever been seen by the eastern fans. It was known as Notre Dame’s double pass as Feeney at center passed the ball to Dorais at quarter who in turn passed the oval to Rockne.
Notre Dame’s next big conquest was in 1924 when Rock and his immortal Four Horsemen won a thrill-, ing victory from the Army 13 to 7. In this game that famed quartet be-
(Continued on Page 15)
TRY FOR 12TH STRAIGHT
By John D. Carbine
Coach George Keogan’s Irish basketball quintet will open its.^season against Kalamazoo College next Monday night in the Notre Dame gym.
Up .to two years ago, the Hornets of Kalamazoo were one of the lead-
Leo Crowe
Starts final year.
ing basketball teams in the Midwest. In 20 years of Michigan intercollegiate competition they have won 14 championships. During the past two years, however, the Hornets have lost much of their fromer hoop prestige.
The Notre Dame hoopsters have defeated Kalamazoo in their last two meetings. Stinging under the humiliation of these defeats, Coach Barnard’s team is making plans to gain back some measure of its prestige with an upset victory over the Irish.
The success of this year’s Hornet team depends almost entirely upon the performance of two . sophomore guards, Walter Survilla and Bill McClellan. Both Survilla and McClellan were members of the Kalamazoo Central team which reached the state finals in both 1931 and 1932. One of these untested sophomores must fill the position left open by the graduation of Hackadarian.
Jim Thompson, who starred for Kalamazoo in their last contest with the Irish will be back at his center
(Continued on Page 14)
E I e v e n
Spartans Win C.LC.
Meet; Irish Third
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
The annual Central Intercollegiate Conference cross country run held at East Lansing, Michigan, last Friday was won by Michigan State College. Ypsilanti Normal placed second with 72 points and Notre Dame third with 74. Scattered behind the Irish were Kalamazoo College, Ball State Teachers, and Butler University in fourth, fifth, and sixth places, respectively. The Spartans won the meet with 16 points.
Tom Ottey, recognized as the outstanding cross country man in the country, and recent winner in the I. C. A. A. A. A. meet, was favored to romp home first. Ray Sears of Butler, also a great runner, turned the tables on the Spartan star and lead him to the tape by fifteen yards after a brilliant sprint.
McFarlane Leads Irish
The first Notre Dame man to register was Leo MacFarlane, sophomore sensation of the Irish troupe. Leo garnered a seventh place. Joe Young, track captain, and Norman Duke were other Notre Dame scorers. Duke counted with a ninth while the diminutive Young wound up twelfth.
In commenting on the festivities Coach John P. Nicholson said that Sears’ surprise victory over Ottey was the highlight of the event. He seemed well pleased wtih the showing of his men in this, their last appearance of the year. The Irish squad this fall was one of the best turned out here for some time. During the course of the season recently concluded the Blue and Gold runners earned victories over Carnegie Tech and Pittsburgh on successive Saturdays. Michigan State, admittedly the best cross country squad in the country this fall, took the Irish into camp the following week.
“They Were Tough”
In a triangular meet with Indiana and Purdue the Irish finished second and in the recent C. I. C. meet they placed third. “It was a very good team but we had a mighty tough schedule,” was Nick’s comment on the accomplishments of his men.
Tennis Final Postponed
The much delayed tennis tournament has been indefinitely postponed because of the inclemency of the weather. The final round of the doubles tournament will be played by Jack O’Hanlon and Dick Kelly against Weldon and Fallon as soon as weather permits.
Introducing...
By John D. Carbine
When the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame and the Cadets of West Point trot ofF the football field of the Yankee Stadium tomorrow afternoon,
Joe Pivarnik
A small man but a good man.
fourteen Notre Dame seniors will have concluded their football careers. One of these fourteen will be Joseph J. Pivarnik who for three years has been one of the mainstays of the Irish line.
Pivarnik came to Notre Dame from Bridgeport, Connecticut in 1930. Although he had been All-Conecticut interscholastic center for three years, he was shifted to guard by the Irish freshman coaches. Joe showed up well in both freshman football and spring practice and made the varsity squad in 1931.
Although Notre Dame had several veteran guards that year, Joe saw enough competition to win his monogram. Along with the majority of other seniors who wind up their careers tomorrow, Pivarnik got his first taste of varsity competition in the Indiana game. Joe looked so good in this contest that Coach Anderson used him in every other game during the season.
Last year Pivarnik played with the shock troops. He reached his peak in the Navy game when he and Tom Roach tore huge holes through the Middies’ line for the Irish backs to dash through. When the varsity linemen went into the game, they could not even budge the same Middies that Pivarnik and Roach had pushed all over the field.
This year Pivarnik’s play has been marred by frequent minor injuries. None of these have been serious enough to keep him out of a game, but they have interfered with the quality of his play.
Reserve Men Make
Trip To Rochester
Notre Dame’s “B” team and Saint Bonaventure College of Allegany, N. Y., clashed yesterday in a charity football game jointly sponsored by the alumni associations of St. Bonaventures and Nazareth College of Maryland. The game was played in the Redwing stadium, home of the Rochester Redwings, in Rochester, New York.
The “B” team men making the trip to Rochester were:
Left ends: O’Neil, Schroeder.
Left tackles: Esser, Katz.
Left guards: Shamla, Mueller. Center: E. Dunn.
Right guards: Weidner, Fisher.
Right tackles: Jehle, Lynch.
Right ends: McIntosh, McLaughlin. Quarterbacks: Caldwell, Harper.
Right halfbacks: Costello, O’Brien. Left halfbacks: Beach, Clark.
Fullbacks: Shackett, Heinle. D’Arcy.
Fencers Scheduled to Meet Strong Midwestern Teams
The Notre Dame fencing team will meet the fencers of Purdue University on February 10 and will hold a bout with Illinois February 24. They are scheduled to tilt with the teams of Indiana, Chicago, Butler, Detroit, and West Point later in the season.
The freshmen members of the team are reported to show great promise. Among the outstanding freshmen are, Telmo deLandero, Mc-Aulife, Sullivan, and Murphy. More material, both among the freshmen and upperclassmen is desired, and all students interested in fencing are therefore requested to attend the instruction in the boxing room of the gym any afternoon at 3:00 p. m.
Pivarnik is one of the best athletes ever turned out by Harding High School of Bridgeport Connecticut. While at Harding he played four years of football and three years each of basketball and baseball. He made the All-Connecticut Interscholastic football team for three successive years at center and was captain of Harding’s grid team in his senior year. Harding won the state football championship in 1928 and 1929.
Pivarnik caught for Harding’s baseball team. When he played against the Yale freshmen, Joe twice hit long home runs into the bleachers of the mammoth Yale Bowl. This is considered an unusual feat even in intercollegiate competition.	'
Joe played guard on the basketball team which twice reached the finals of the state tournament only to be defeated by narrow margins both times.
The Scholastic
Twelve
Capacity Crowd To See Irish Play Army
(Continued from Page 3)
WARBURTON LEADS TROJAN TEAM TO DECISIVE WIN OVER IRISH, 19-0
the mighty eruption of a too-long submerged force.
When Notre Dame beats the Army, it’s usually because of a superior line, and when the Cadets win it’s because of a well-organized backfield. This year the tables are reversed. Notre Dame has the backs, but the line is constantly being out-charged, while Army’s line had yet to meet its equal in the East.
Buckler The Leading Back
With only three veterans returning for a nucleus, Lieutenant Gai-Davidson advanced last year’s second stringers to the front ranks and moved his third team to fill the shoes of the second team. But luckily for Coach Davidson he had enough veterans to give him one strong backfield for his Warner single wingback attack, and a dependable line coach, “Fats” Ellinger, to turn out a strong, mobile forward wall to replace the vacated posts.
Jack Buckler, the Texas flash, has been the star of the attack from the number three or left halfback attacking post. Buckler is a great runner and passer. His perfect bul-et-like passes to, Stancook or Kopc-sak have netted the Cadets many precious yards and enabled them to battle through nine straight games without a loss, seven of them by shutout scores. Paul Johnson, a fleet quarterback who can pass and run, and Dutch Sebastian, another great Army back, are capable performers for the varsity club.
Speed Army Keynote
At the fullback or number two berth is Joe Stancook, a fast 195 pound plunging and blocking back. He is the biggest Army ball carrier and his sturdy frame once graced the Notre Dame freshmen team. In fact, he will be playing tomorrow against his teammates of that freshmen team before he transferred to West Point.
This mechanically perfect ball team has been whipped together- by Davidson, a new coach at the Army, from green and relatively inexperienced material. They have been filled with the usual fire and spirit of Cadet teams and have changed from just an outfit of ordinary caliber to one of the finest in the country.
Speed is the key-word to the Cadets’ success both in the backfield and in the line. While averaging only 185 pounds, this line has developed a mighty crushing power, and opens plenty of holes for the knife-like thrusts of their fast, lambent backs. The veteran Pete Kopcsak is a standout at left end ,while Paul Burlin-
Faculty Volley Ball Teams Enter Final Week of Play
Play in the Faculty Volley Ball league is nearing its final week’s play with teams from the Arts and Letters, Commerce, Physical Education, and Science-Engineering schools competing.
In last week’s games the Arts and Letters aggregation defeated the representatives of the Commerce school in three consecutive games. The scores were 15 to 11, 17 to 15, and 15 to 13.
At the conclusion of play an AllFaculty Volley ball team, composed of the best material that league has offered, ■will enter the Y.M.C.A. city league in South Bend.
Play will begin in this circuit early in December. The league will be composed of some of the best volley ball teams in South Bend.
game holds down the other* flank post. Jack Hutchinson and Tex Beall give weight and size to the light line at their tackle places. Hutchinson, who weighs in at 205 pounds, is the heaviest man on the team. Captain Harvey “Jabbo” Ja-blonsky, at left guard, and Stacey Gooch pair with Ralph Bucknam, center, to give more fighting strength to the forward wall.
Southern California not only handed Notre Dame a defeat, but by hard play put the giant Don Elser definitely out of the game, and made Hugh Devore and Tom Gorman only probable starters. With his first string men handicapped by injuries, Coach Anderson may have to depend on replacements to play the entire game. Hugh Devore, battered or not, will captain the Irish tomorrow playing before his home town friends in his last college game.
It’s been a long, dreary season for the Irish with five defeats marring the once unblemished escutcheon that contained many great traditions and football records. Few, if any, of these traditions remain to Notre Dame, but an Army victory would be more than welcome to the battered forces of the Irish. Army has had another of its great seasons and may play in the Rose Bowl game, if the Notre Dame men can be conquered. Back in 1928, another great Army team was bowling along to a championship season when another much defeated Notre Dame team rose in all its might and turned them back 12-6. Maybe history will repeat itself. Notre Dame hopes so.
ELSER AND DEVORE HURT
By Edward J. Van Huisseling
By virtue of its 19 to 0 defeat by Southern California last Saturday, Notre Dame assured iself of the first losing season in Irish football history since 1888. In that year the Blue and
Nick Lukats
Tried, and. tried and tried.
Gold were defeated in two of their three games.
The Trojans have now defeated Notre Dame in three successive starts, a feat which has not been accomplished since 1887 and 1888 when Michigan won from the Irish three times in two years.
Howard Jones cannot be too thankful for having a certain Cotton Warburton in his troupe, for without him the story might have been different Saturday. The Trojan speedster watched the Irish battle his teammates to a standstill in the first period. With the start of the second period Cotton was inserted into the fray, and in a few minutes he proved to be the determining factor in the ball game. ■
The cry “Stop Warburton” never materialized. The blonde Trojan, the marked man of Jones’ crew, ran hither and yon in piling up 95 yards and scoring two touchdowns. Rosie Rosenberg didn’t need his clippings either. He gave an excellent demonstration of how guards should pull out of the line and lead the interference. On defense his play was equally as impressive.
From a Notre Dame angle no one could ask for more from the seniors who played their final game in Notre Dame stadium. Captain Ray Bran-
(Continued on Page 16)
December 1, 19 3 3
Thirteen
So They Say
“Notre Dame’s Irish stuffed 20 rabbits’ feet in their uniforms for good luck Saturday against Southern California’s Trojans, but they couldn’t catch the slippery “cottontail” from San Diego’s hills and were hopelessly crushed, 19 to 0.
“Picking up where he left off with his spectacular raids along the far west sector, Irvine Warburton, a human rabbit with a hundred tricks concealed in his five foot, six inch, 145 pound frame, smashed the Irish defense to lead the Trojans to their most decisive conquest in eight games of warfare against their once mighty foemen.
“Warburton started the scoring in the second period and so riddled the Irish line that he gained a total of 95 yards in 19 attempts for an average of better than five yards a try.” —Paul Mickelson (Associated Press Spol'ts Writer) in the Milwaukee Journal of Nov. 26.
“Irvine Warburton, who never had been east of Phoenix, Arizona became nationally famous by leading the Southern California football team to a 19 to 0 victory over Notre Dame before 37,000 midwestern fans this afternoon. It was the most decisive victory that the Trojans have scored in their eight year rivalry with the Irish and it evened the series at four games apiece.
“It was a race of the swift, not a battle of the strong and as Southern California had far more speed, it was a one-sided contest all the way. It was a signal victory and that signal was Warburton, who was the game in himself. Out of the heat of combat and from twisting, writhing masses, he twice slipped away for touchdown. On each occasion his touchdown was preceded by brilliant ball carrying. An eel is sandpaper compared to Warburton.”—Arch Ward in the Chicago Tribune of Nov. 26.
“Irvine (“Cotton”) Warburton, a half-pint Trojan from Southern California, sent Notre Dame into a tailspin here today. The hapless Irish stepped up by their victory over Northwestern last week, had enough stuff to stop all Howard Jones Trojans except one—Warburton, cotton-topped and weighing only 147 pounds, soaking wet.
“They couldn’t stop that phantom mite of a football player, however and because of this failure they were ultimately forced to assimilate their third straight defeat the the hands of Southern California, the score on this particular occasion being 19 to 0.
“Previous to the appearance of
Fourteen
AVarburton in the game, which occurred at the outset of the second period, Notre Dame battling with the zeal that is characteristic of the Irish fought the Trojans to a standstill. Actually Notre Dame, placed in the hole by a quick kick that drove them deep into their ovm territory on the second play of the game, outplayed the Trojans, hurled them back and wrenched the ball away from them when’their goal line was threatened.
“This sort of endeavor caused great hope to spring within the breasts of the 40,000 spectators most of whom were pro-Notre Dame. But that was before Warburton horned into the picture.
“. . . Notre Dame’s offense and defense collapsed thereafter, although its own errors, the mistakes of commission and ommission that have harassed the luckless Irish all season were partly responsible for the two other unnecessary touchdowns Southern California compiled, one of which was registered in the third period and the other in the final chapter.”— Harry MacNamara in the Chicago Herald Examiner of Nov. 26.
“In a fashion, that is all understandable, Notre Dame is the victim of its own resounding fame. It has spread eagled the field so completely for years, that this sudden and almost complete collapse seems hard to measure by the regular rule. Other colleges have their good teams and their bad. Nothing much is thought of an occasional washout, but this one for so long was so close to the top that a single loss was considered a shock and two in a season as a national upset.
“. . . The answer is so amazingly simple that nobody on the outside has thought of it. Looking for something big, sinister and mysterious, they’ve simply barged completely past the simple, plain-as-pie reason.
“Notre Dame for once simply finds herself without her usual brand of material. She has a cobbled up club of last year’s subs and this year’s sophomores. Her man power has slumped, while her schedule stayed stiff. There are no Carideos nor Schwartzs—there isn’t even a Koken on this ball club. She has one good end, Devore, and that’s about all. She has one fair back, Brancheau, left from last year. Lukats is another, but when Brancheau comes out half the team’s defense comes out with him.
“The whole story is that here’s merely a sub-normal football team trying'to carry on a tradition that was laid down by champions. They’re trying to play the schedule the champions played, and they simply haven’t got what it takes.—Bill Cunningham in the Boston Post of Nov. 21.
BASKETBALL
(Continued from Base 11)
post. Weiss, who led the Hornets in scoring last year, will again see action at one of the forward positions. Steve Selmecy, another veteran, will pair with either Survilla or McClellan at the guards.
The Irish will start the first game minus the services of Captain Ed Krause, All American center, who will not be in shape until the Northwestern game on Dec. 9. In the absence of Krause, Joe Voegele will take over the center position. Voegele is a veteran of two years play and was second only to Captain Krause in last year’s scoring.
Two monogram men, Eddie Alberts and Johnny Jordan, will start at forward for the Irish. Jordan was a regular forward last year and seems to specialize in coming through with baskets when they are most needed. Alberts is another veteran who has been a member of the Irish court squad for the past two seasons.
Leo Crowe and Don Allen will take care of the guard posts. Crowe is a veteran of two seasons while Allen is a newcomer who Coach Keogan believes will develop into a great guard.
1932-’33 Cage Record
The following is the 1932-33 record of the Notre Dame basketball team:
Notre Dame, 41; Albion, 20.
Notre Dame, 24; Ill. Wesleyan, 12.
Notre Dame, 28; Northwestern, 25.
Purdue, 35; Notre Dame, 31.
Ohio State, 30; Notre Dame, 24. Northwestern, 33; Notre Dame, 29. Marquette, 35; Notre Dame, 32. Notre Dame, 36; Michigan State, 19. Butler, 27; Notre Dame, 25.
Notre Dame, 30; Minnesota, 22. Pittsburgh, 39; Notre Dame, 35. Notre Dame, 36; Penn, 34.
Notre Dame, 42; Toledo, 14.
Notre Dame, 37; Carnegie Tech, 35.
Notre Dame, 39; Chicago, 26.
Notre Dame, 38; Pittsburgh, 31.
Notre Dame, 40; W. Reserve, 35.
Notre Dame, 30; Michigan State, 25.
Notre Dame, 42; Butler, 41.
Notre Dame, 43; Wabash, 29.
Notre Dame, 36; Marquette, 34. Notre Dame, 31; Minnesota, 27.
Pharmacy Club Meets
The Pharmacy Club will hold its regular monthly meeting Tuesday night, Dec. 5, in Chemistry hall, at 7:45 p. m., announced President William J. Kenny this week.
Alfred Panella, College of Science senior, will submit a report at the meeting.
The Scholastic
I
SPLINTERS FROM THE PRESS BOX
By James S. Kearns
KEOGANITES
Next Monday night another addition of the already famed Notre Dame basketball teams will open its season. The game against Kalamazoo college will be the 32nd opening game in the history of Notre Dame basketball.
Within the last decade, basketball has advanced to a ranking position at Notre Dame. Keogan - coached squads have annually been in the top flight of mid-western cage rankings, and have, more frequently than not, been among the outstanding teams of the nation.
During the past foui' years, which is as far back as our first hand knowledge of Notre Dame basketball goes, the court spoi-t has been tremendously popular with the student body. Everybody goes to the games, the audiences are unusually obseiw-ant and well-versed in basketball, the schedule regularly provides the best teains available, Oppo sells his peanuts (or Crowe’s and Newbold’s), the band plays, and the crowd has a great evening. Support? Of course the eagers get it! They’re a Notre Dame team and students’ support goes to every Irish squad.
This year should not be any exception in the matter of student interest. Fourteen games will be played at home, five against Big Ten teams, two intersectional games, and such traditional rivals as Marquette, Butler, and Michigan State.
The Irish have an unfinished run of eleven straight victories holding over from last season and we’ll be watching with interest to see how high they can boost that record of consecutive wins before some team pushes them over. Starting the season a yeai- ago, the Keoganites possessed an unfinished string of 16 straight from the previous season, and ran it up to 19 before Purdue’s great five dropped them 35 to 31 while Captain Johnny Baldwin and Al McGuff were in the hospital.
We don’t look for the Irish to hit their best stride until after the holidays. Captain Krause and a few of the other boys will need that long to get in shape. But after that, look out.
HARRIERS
It’s high time that someone gave a blow to the crowd of stout-hearted fellows who chased themselves and a lot of other people over miles and miles of hills and valleys this fall: the Notre Dame cross-country team.
It may be a minor sport in so far
as its comparative importance in an athletic program goes, but there is nothing minor to us in the idea of running five miles with no more company or encouragement than the sight of some fellow’s head disappearing over the top of a hill or the sound of an opponent’s feet pounding the frozen ground right behind you when you’re still a couple of lakes and a golf course removed from a ■warm shower room.
So a bit of a hand for the longdistance Irish: Captain Red Grimes, Joe Young, Clyde Roberts, Leo McFarlane, Eddie King, Norman Duke, and Eddie Moran.
COMPARISON
Chicago beat Dartmouth Saturday 39 to 0. That’s news enough in itself, but the shock it gave us was the light in -which it put eastern football. Dartmouth tied Harvard, lost by one point to Yale, by only one touchdown to the Rose Bowl-maybe Princeton Tigers, and beat Penn. Illinois, Purdue, and Michigan beat Chicago; Indiana and Wisconsin tied the Maroons, and still they walloped Dartmouth.	'
SCORECASTS
Last week we guessed on 21 games. In that list we picked 16 winners, and five losers. Our season’s record now stands at 149 winners, 46 losers, and 20 ties. The average, with ties figured as losses, is now .693; eliminating the ties from consideration, the figure becomes .764.	•
Today is the last Friday on which we -will include scorecasts in this column. The major portion of the season is over in almost every section of the country, but a few outstanding games will be played tomorrow. Our opinion on eight of those games is as follows:
NOTRE DAME 7, ARMY 0.
Duke 13, Georgia Tech 7.
Holy Cross 10, Boston College 6.
Louisiana State 14, Tulane 6.
Princeton 13, Yale 7.
Southern California 20, Georgia 7.
Florida 14, Maryland 0.
HISTORY
(Continued from Page 11)
hind the equally as famous Seven Mules, swept through a much heavier Cadet team in the last quarter to bring another National Championship to Notre Dame.
During the 1928 season Notre Dame had her ups and downs until they met the Army. As this memorable game was entering the fourth quarter the two teams were tied at 6-all. Then on an exchange of punts Notre Dame received the ball on their own 20 yard line and from this point on Jack Chevigny and Johnny Niemic went through the line, around the
ends, and through the air to the Cadet 20 yard line. On a certain picked play Cheyigny cut back through the right side of the Notre Dame line and crossed the goal line muttering- to himself. “Here’s one for the old Gip-per.” Notre Dame fans will never forget that 12 to 6 victory.
Jack Elder’s 95 yard dash in the 1929 fray was the high light of that classic game, as his touchdown tied the score at six points apiece. Frank Carideo’s educated toe proved to be the margin of victory that day as he booted the ball through the uprights. Notre Dame lost the 1931 game 12 to 0 in New York after a brilliant 60 minute stand against the Cadets.
Last year Hunk took his train load of invalids to the metropolitan city where they completely outclassed Uncle Sam’s pride and joy. They play topping Notre Dame’s fun for the day was Jim Harris’s touchdown. ’Tis said that Jim got up out of a sick bed, shuffled out on the field and played long enough to fall on one of Krause blocked punts for six points.
Tomorrow when the Notre Dame team faces the Army they will come in contact with three great Cadet hero’s in Pete Kopsack, Harvey Jab-lonsky and Jack Buckler. These three players have been the main cogs in the Army grid team this fall.
Dept, of Education Notice!
Dr. Leo Kuntz, head of the Department of Education, wishes to call to the attention of students the need of planning courses so as to be able to meet' State requirements in the subject matter field and specifically in the Education courses.
Students should understand that they cannot take practice teaching unless they have the pre.-requisite courses for it. Anyone thinking of teaching should be planning his program now.
’33-34 Cage Schedule
Dec. 4-—Kalamazoo College, Here.
Dec. 9—Northwestern, Here.
Dec. 13—Ball State Teachers, Here.
Dec. 15—Albion College, Here.
Dec. 19—Purdue, Here."
Dec. 22—Bradley Poly. Inst., Away.
Dec. 30—Northwestern, Away.
Jan. 4—U. of Arizona, Here.
Jan. 6—Michigan State, Away.—
Jan. 9—Marquette, Here.
Jan. 13—Butler, Here.-
Jan. 20—Pittsburgh,Away.
Jan. 24—Chicago, Here.
Jan. 31—Valparaiso, Here.
Feb. 3—U. of Detroit, Away.-"
Feb. 6—Minnesota, Here.
Feb. 10—Xavier (Cincinnati), Away.
Feb. 12—Temple, Away.
Feb. 17—Pittsburgh, Here.
Feb. 21—Michigan State, Here.
Feb. 24—Butler, Away.
Mar. 3—Ohio State, Here.
Mar. 10—Marquette, Away.
Mar. 12—Minnesota, Away.
December 1, 19 3 3
Fifteen
On Down The Line
By Nick Connor
During the last two seasons “PUG” LUND, Minnesota back, has played 793 minutes out of a possible 840 in 14 games . . . JACK DOYLE, Irish heavyweight is on his way to the U. S. to fight under the management of JACK DEMPSEY ... Do you know that a football player’s equipment weighs 20 pounds when it becomes watersoaked from playing on a wet gridiron, compared to a normal weight of seven pounds? . . . JACKIE FIELDS, twice holder of the welterweight title, is expected to return to the ring as a middleweight . . . Mrs. J. H. WHITNEY’S SINGING WOOD, with $88,050 won in the Belmont Futurity, leads the money winning two year olds . . . ALABAMA’S versatile halfback, MILLARD HOWELL, averaged a gain of 7 yards each time that he carried the ball in the first six games played by the Tide’s this season . . . ’Tis said that the late JIM CORBETT fought for 18 years and never got a black eye or a bloody nose . . . POP WARNER and HOWARD JONES are cigarette fiends during a football game, each smoking two or three packs.
•
Do you know that COTTON WARBURTON was laughed at when he first reported for the Trojan grid squad, because he was so small. But he finally received his tryout by inserting 14 pounds of lead in his pants, thus bringing his weight up to near that of his teammates . . . The cotton topped scooter was also the state prep quarter mile champion for two years . . . Figure this out. STANFORD scored only three points against U. C. L. A., Northwestern, and Washington, yet they ran up thirteen points against SO. CALIFORNIA . . . Historians claim that football was played In FLORENCE, ITALY, ten years before Columbus discovered America.
It is rumored that WESLEY FESLER, Ohio State’s All-American end of a few years ago, will be head coach at Harvard next year . . . RAY SEARS of Butler defeated TOM OTTEY, the newly crowned national champion, by 15 yards in the annual central intercollegiate cross-country meet, held last week at Michigan State . . . ZUD SCHAMMELL, Iowa’s big guard, spends his week nights in a hospital with an infected leg, but hasn’t had to call time out or leave a game because of physical disability . . . “CHUCK” DUVALL of Northwestern, is the unluckiest player of the year, twice during, the
season he has been in automobile accidents . . . Telling bank officials that he had lost his pocketbook, a slicker impersonating PUG LUND of Minnesota, talked the bankers of Rice Lake, Wis., into letting him have $30 dollars . . .
The perfect kick was given to football by ERICKSON of Montana Mines, when he stood on his own goal line and kicked the ball out of bounds on the six-inch line — 72 , yards in the air . . . HOWARD JONES, whose Trojans were tied by OREGON STATE, receives more for coaching one game than Coach Lou STINER of Oregon State receives ALL SEASON . . . Every one of the ten teams entered in the National Football league average more than 200 pounds ... In ARMY’S recent game with HARVARD, the Cadet halfbacks had their legs greased, they seemed to be copying prize fight tactics . . . From recent developments it seems as though MAX BAER can make more money in Hollywood than he can in the prize ring . . . “SKIPPY” ROBERTS, Georgia Tech’s 130 pound quarterback, is rated as the quickest thinking quarterback in the game this season . . . A check of 125 leading schools in the country revealed that 34 are coached by NOTRE DAME GRADUATES . . . ELMER LAYDEN will lose 10 of his 11 first stringers at Duquesne next spring . . . ANDY KERR signed to coach the Colgate grid team for three more years just a few days after his Red Raiders had been beaten by Tulane.
U. s. C. GAME
(Continued from Page 13)
cheau, Ed Krause, Harry Wunsch, Steve Banas, Nick Lukats, Tom Roach, Kitty Gorman, Jim Leonard, and Hughie Devore played as well against the Trojans as they have anytime this fall.
Much pre-game publicity was given to Southern California’s quick kicking ability and they wasted no time in proving that they had the stuff in this department. On the first play from scrimmage, Homer Griffith booted the oval over the Irish goal from his quick kick formation. Clemens kept the Irish back on their heels when he rolled a punt out on the Notre Dame four yard line a few plays later.
Elser’s punt rolled out on the Irish 30 and it appeared is if the lads from Troy were on their way when they made a first down on the 18 yard mark. Here Notre Dame stiffened and took the ball when Griffith’s pass was grounded in the end zone. Near the end of the opening quarter Don Elser was helped from the field with a knee injury which will prevent his
playing against the Army in New York next week. Hughie Devore was also seriously injured during the second quarter. He returned in the last half but was unable to play his regular game because of the injured side.
With the second quarter only a few minutes old the Trojans gained possession of the ball on their own 38 from where they marched to their first score. Wotkyns and Warburton made it first down in midfield on three plays and Wotkyns followed up with a nine-yard spurt off tackle. Warburton broke loose off right tackle on the next play and streaked down the sideline to the 10 yard line where Mazziotti dragged him out of bounds. Warburton carried the ball on the next four attempts, going over on the final try. Stetvens kicked the extra point.
Late in the third period the Trojans registered their second tally. With the ball resting on the Notre Dame 48, McNeish heaved a long pass to Bescos. who was downed by Bonar on the eight yard line. Two line plunges netted five yards before McNeish tossed a pass to Griffith for the score. The California quarterback caught the ball in the flat zone without a Notre Dame man within shooting range.
Notre Dame opened up with a desperate passing attack in the final frame, but the Irish passes failed to click now as they had failed all through the game and Clemens intercepted one of Lukats’ heaves to give the Trojans the ball on the Notre Dame 29 yard line. Warburton was pressed into service once more and, bearing the brunt of the attack, the speedy mite ground out 21 of the 29 yards to the goal, scoring finally from the one-yard line.
The Notre Dame attack showed up well at times but was never consistent enough to allow the Irish to get within striking distance of the visitors’ goal. Brancheau, Wunsch, Leonard and Krause played well on de
fense for the Irish.
The lineups:
Notre Dame (0)	So. Calif. (19)
Millner ____________L.E_____________ Bescos
Krause _____________L.T_____________ Bright
Leonard ____________L.G__________ Rosenberg
Gorman ______________C............... Youel
■ Wunsch ___________R.G____________ Stevens
Roach ______________R.T_________ Dittberner
Devore ____________R.E.......... Palmer	(C)
Bonar _____________Q.B_........... Griffith
Lukats ............ L.H............ McNeish
Brancheau (C) _____R.H............. Clemens
Elser ______________F.B............ Wotkyns
Touchdowns: Warburton (2), Griffith.
Point after touchdown—Stevens.
Substitutions: So. California—Tatsch, Warburton, Clark, Harper, Probst, Shannon, Howard, Reboin, Seixas, Williamson. Notre Dame—Vairo, Solari, Davis, Peters, Mazziotti, Pilney, Young, Banas.
Referee — James Masker (Northwestern). Umpire—Frank Lane (Detroit). Field Judge— Dr. J. H. Nichols (Oberlin). Head linesman —J. Wyatt (Missouri).
Sixteen
The Scholastic


to be entirely correct, this winter, are the prescribed Tails, according to gentlemen of refinement.
New Glee Club members will have an immediate need—as well as an anticipated one —with the Christmas holidays at hand.
We have devised co-operative arrangements which 'will meet the need of Notre Dame men. In addition to the appealing factors of time and price you have distinctive tailoring by
GOLDEN RULE
o NASH p
Cl NCI N NATI • • OHIO
aaliorCA Wic^
For your inspection and selection, either in your room or in our South Bend rooms .	.	.
Al Daschbach,’25, Mgr.
542 Associates Dldg. Phone 3-2644

From Other Campi
George Washington University has a complete “broken-nose” backfield. All four men wear grotesque protecting masks on the field of play.
A Denison University regulation reads: “The student may be reinstated only if absence is caused by long continued illness or death.”
Students at Connecticut State College demand half royalties on examination papers which are sold to humor publications.	.
Harvard University owns enough football equipment to outfit 6,000 men.
Most Chinese universities are coeducational, but none of the high schools are. The only courses available for women in the universities are teaching courses and training for secretarial work.
In the early days when the Oklahoma A. & M. College was established at what was then known as “Prairie Dog Town,” a rule was adopted requiring all students to leave their firearms outside the buildings.
In 1732 co-eds at Salem College could take baths only by special permission and at times indicated by instructors.
A co-ed at the University of Chicago was granted a master’s degree after she submitted a thesis on “Four Ways to Wash Dishes,” while Columbia University went one step farther and granted a Ph.D., to the author of a manuscript on “The Duties of a School Janitor.”
Only senior women are allowed the privilege of using lipstick at Connecticut College.'
“The idea that girls are an inspiration for a football player to do bigger and better things is a hoax,” says Coach Michael Percarovich of Gonzaga University.
Freshmen at the University of Maryland declared an “open rebellion” against the “weak and doddering” sophomore class, going so far as to reverse the custom and issuing a set of rules for sophomores to obey.
Students at the University of Wisconsin are patiently awaiting sufficient snow and cold weather to enable them to experience thrills on their newly completed toboggan slide which guarantees 60 miles an hour down an almost perpendicular cliff.
The Navy football team wears cleatless canvas shoes when playing on a frozen field.
The American system is education by the adding machine, according to Dr. Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago.
Dr. E. J. Cain Dr. H. H. Rogers
ROGERS
Eyesight Specialists
213 S. Michigan Street
Phone 4-8251
REDUCTION in our Regular Round Trip Rates to
CHICAGO
Now, any day in the week you can buy a round-trip ticket to Chicago, good for 10 days, not including the date of sale, for only
PER MILE
Last year you paid $6.02 for a regular round-trip fare; this year the regular round-trip rate for 180 miles is only $3.60.
No need, now, to wait for special excursions to Chicago. Go any time—catch the 5:00 o’clock, attend the theatre, return that evening, or at your convenience, for only two cents a mile—much cheaper than you can walk around town.
■505»
December 1, 193 3
Seven teen.
Noted Scribe Gained
Start at Notre Dame
i
5
I
k
t
X
J !
t
I
i
5
3
Paul Mallon, ex-’23, brilliant young journalist whose syndicated “National Whirligig,” behind-the-news Washington, in daily column, is one of the journalistic features of the countries leading papers, is another of the illustrious line of Notre Dame journalists. Paul came to Notre Dame in ’19 and left in ’20, but his association with Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the department of journalism, with whom he lived as a “day-dog,” has evidently had lasting results. The following biographical sketch is taken from the Ohio State Journal, one of the papers using Mallon’s material.
Who is this Paul Mallon?
Shortly after The Ohio State Journal began printing “The National Whirligig” on page one every morning, the people of Ohio began asking this question. Now it is heard with daily increasing insistence. Reading the “Whirligig” has become a part of the daily routine of thousands of men and women in Columbus and thereabouts. Some of them admit they would be as lost without it as they would without their breakfast coffee.
The secret of its success is partly due to the public’s love for “inside dope,” but largely to Mallon’s keen perception and his incisive style of narration.
Mallon has been in Washington 13 years and nothing of any importance has happened there or in the American political field since that he hasn’t “covered.”
He was with Coolidge at Plymouth Notch, Vt., the night President Harding died. He was with Coolidge again in the Black Hills when he made his famous “I do not choose” statement in 1927.
He rose to journalistic eminence the country over when, in 1929, as political writer for the United Press,
! f
t
s 5
Come out to the OLDENBERG INN for food that is famous for Quality and Quantity CHICKEN AND STEAK DINNERS (Try the Chicken and Noodles, Reasonably priced.)
Phone us (4-2091) and we’ll send a car for you—no charge for transportation for parties of four and over. Make the week-end perfect by dining at the
OLDENBERG INN, on the South Michigan Road
Eighteen
he published the secret Senate roll call on the nominations of Irvine L. Lenroot to be judge of the United States Court of Customs Appeals and Roy 0. West to be secretary of the interior. He was the first correspondent ever to publish a Senate roll call taken behind closed doors. The political repercussions of his published information were great. The roll call he published was correct. The upshot was that the Senate abandoned secret sessions thenceforth except in imperative cases. Only one has been held since.	.
Paul Mallon has “been in on” enough big public events to fill several life times—and he is only 32 years old.
Born in Mattoon, Ill., he was educated in the public school of Birmingham, Ala., and Louisville, Ky., the University of Louisville and Notre Dame University.
He went to work as a cub reporter on The Louisville Post, Herald, and Courier-Journal. When he was 17, he went to New York and worked briefly on The Brooklyn Eagle, before going to the United Press. The latter sent him to Washington in 1920.
At the national capital, he covered the Teapot Dome investigation, the Smith-Vare inquiry, the Harry M. Daugherty investigation, and inquiries into prohibition, lobby activities, and foreign bond operations.
In 1924, he traveled extensively with Coolidge, Davis, and La Follette, the presidential candidates. Four years later, he was with Hoover at Palo Alto when the secretary of commerce was notified of his nomination for the presidency. He wound up the campaign that year traveling with Smith.
In 1931, he -was elected president of the White House Correspondents Association and in 1932, he was reelected. Newspaper correspondents in Washington rank him high. As a political writer he is setting the pace for the newer type of political writing.
11
why Luckies taste
Copyrlcht. 1933. The American Tobacco Company.
LRK1SH TOBACCOS
On certain mountains in the Near East is a limited collar of earth — called in Turkish, “Yacca.” Tobaccos grown there cost as high as SI. 00 a pound. Carefully they are examined, leaf by leaf. Often it takes a man a whole day to select two pounds of certain of these fine tobaccos. Lucky Strike is the world’s biggest user of fine Turkish tobaccos. For these tender, delicate Turkish leaves are blended with choice tobaccos from our own Southland — to make your Lucky Strike a cigarette that is fully packed — round and firm — free from loose ends. That’s why Luckies taste better, smoother.
jaccos
ALWAYS thejinest workmanship
•	Luckies please/
*it’s toasted ”
FOR THROAT PROTECTION—FOR BETTER TASTE
Ninete en
SHREDDED WHEAT helps you go places and do things. And that’s easily explained. Shredded Wheat is whole wheat. And whole wheat is man’s greatest energy food, blessed by Nature with all the vital elements ... proteins, vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, and bran. All of these come to you in Shredded Wheat. Nothing has been added, nothing taken away.
The next time you draw up a chair in your
THE VITALLY DIFFERENT FOOD
SHREDDED WHEAT
A pandect off NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY "Unooda Bakers”
favorite campus eating place, order Shredded ■ IM Wheat. When the crisp-I /I baked, golden brown bis-l cuits are placed in front I \ \ of you, just pour on plen-V °r cream an<i top with your favorite fruit. And enjoy the best-tasting bowlful of energy that ever brightened your day.
JFAew you see Niagara Falls on the package, you KNOW you have Shredded Wheat.
Photo Contest Open to AD Readers
•
Student readers of The “Scholastic” and of “Collegiate Digest” will be paid $1 for unusual snapshots of student and faculty activities, it was announced today by the editors of “The Collegiate Digest.”
This offer is being made by “The Scholastic” and by “Collegiate Digest” to foster student photography, and to give all students the opportunity of competing for publication honors in the magazine rotogravure section that is distributed weekly.
All photos should be sent to the Editor, Collegiate Digest, Madison, Wisconsin, or should be sent x directly to “The Scholastic.” All photos that are selected for publication will be paid for at the rate of $1 each, with no limitation made on the number accepted from any one student.
^(SVe’re Siring t^l'way the Christmas juggler!
—to anyone who subscribes for the last five issues. Think of it— for a modest seventy-five cents we’ll deliver to your door, or mail anywhere, the January, February, March, April and May “Jugglers”—and throw in our big, cheery, Christmas number without further cost to you.
•	What better Christmas card than one which lasts six months! Let Uncle Sam’s mail man play Santa Claus till June for you. And what more sparkling, good-humored, messenger could you send than “The Juggler”?
•	Hurry over to the Publication’s Office, while time remains. We’ll answer all your questions and arrange the details. Invest seventy-five cents—you’ll reap dividends of warm appreciation that will gladden your heart.
JUGGLER'S Business Offices are located at 232 Main Buildmg\
BOARD OF PUBLICATIONS
At the University	Notre Dame, Indiana
© 1933, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Come on with us!
with Linnet Cast of 100 (entirely student talent)
TWO-BITS, PLEASE
Sunday, Monday and
Tuesday
Dec. 10, 11, 12
Curtain at 8: 00 p. m.
PLAYING AT