The Notre Dame Scholastic
391
Qiiiiitiuiiuiiiiiiittiiitiiitintiitstiiii
liitsinittiiiiiiiiiiiittuiitmiiiiuiiiiiiituintssiiiiniiniitittfiiiiiiiiiiMuuiiiiiiiiimiiitsimiiiiaii
A giant lies dying on his bed; his breath is coming in short gasps; the mourners are clustered round; outside waits the hearse, drawn by twelve horses, eager to be away; the name of the one in the lead, December, the one in the rear, January. Soon the tossing Titan will resign from the lists; the funeral cortege will dash over the hill and over the cliff; and another dead giant will join the hosts of his fellows.
In other words the year is about at end. It is time, we are told, to look back and see if it has been studded with any fine deeds on our part. And if any, how many?
As we look back we realize that there are many things we might have done, which we didn’t do. And there are some things we’ve done that we wish we’d left undone. However: the future is starting to rain its minutes and chances on us even as we write, so we must look to it.
But before laying down our pencil we would Jike to enter a word of defense. We have been accused, from time to time, of doing anything, in this column, but that which should be done. Doorways in study halls are jammed at class time and we write about the jamming of life at any time; games are won and we talk about the winning of mental battles; noted men tell us things and we hold forth on what music and the long bow of the cloud arrowed air have to tell us!
Yes: we do this: we admit it. But we do have our reason. And it is, simply, that we are commenting on life, on your real life, your inner life, the life that will be with you long after the things of the passing moment have fluttered into that Grand Canyon which is a common grave for giants; and a moment ago we noted the passing of one giant.
We do not make a practise of referring you, in this column, to something else in the Magazine. But we would like to say that in the editorial this week you will find our comment on Christmas. Our comment on the new year will" come, regularly, once a week, from January to June.
Our sands of space are running low; and we do wish you a Merry Christmas, merry because of renew. ed life and heightened awareness. And if this kind of Merry Christmas is yours, the New Year will take care ' of its own happiness!
Gke
No^re Dame Scholas^t ic
bisee- Quasi -Semper-Vicluvus-Vive-Quasi-Cras-MorituTia
Founded in 1872	'
Murray Hickey Ley Harley L. McDevitt.
... .Eclitor-in-Ghief Graduate Manager
EDITORIAL STAFF
T. Vincent McIntire, Emil L. Telfel...... Thomas A. Cannon..
J. Archer Hurley.... Walter Langford..... Joel Egerer......... Ramon G. Smith...... Alfred E. Gall...... Paul J. Hallinan...
........Managing.Editor •Assistant Managing Editor Assistant Managing Editor ........The	Week ........The College Parade ........Music and Drama ........Campus..Clubs ........Script.Editor ........Features.Editor
NEWS STAFF John Bergan, News Editor		
James J. Kearney	Richard J. O’Donnell	George Allan
James Collins	Neil Hurley	John Motz
Howard Webster	Joseph Reedy Edward Brennan	Leslie Raddatz Edward Connors
Austin Boyle	SPORTS STAFF	James Carmody
John A. Kiener, Sports Editor William J. Magarral, InterhaU Sports Editor Harry A. Sylvester, Jr. Henry B. Asman James E. McFeely, Jr.
BUSINESS STAFF
Harrington J. Noon.Local Circulation Manager Chester M. Ashman. .Foreign Circulation Manager Frederick N. Davis.Local Advertising Manager James L. Rizer.....Foreign Advertising Manager
James H. Rorke	William Sherman	John Blanda
Frederick J. Bauer	Frank J. Conboy	Andrew McGuan
Merle V. Baldwin	Norman E. Duke
VOL. LXIII.
DECEMBER 13, 1929.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
No. 13.

The Week—Archer Hurley—•_______________________________• 392
Coming Events__________________________________________ 393
A Man You Know_________________________________________ 394	:
A Man About the Campus_________________________________ 395	|
Junior Prom Committees Announced_______________________ 397	|
Editor’s Page------------------------------------------ 399	j
Campus Clubs—Ramon Smith------------------------------- 400	:
The Wink_______________________________________________ 401	|
Lake Forest Cagers Are Swamped—John Kiener_____________ 402	=
Splinters From the Press Box—H. A. S., Jr._____________ 413	|
On Down the Line 416	=
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manuscripts may be addressed to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building’.
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June 25, 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
[■liitiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitfiiiniiitiiiiiiiiitMiiiiiiiiiniiitiiiiiiiiiitniiiiiitnfiiiiuiiiiiiinuiiiiiiitiiiHiiiimiuiiitiiiiiiiiHitiiiiittiBiiiiil
392
The Notre Dame Scholastic
RANK CORBETT, a member of that select and sempiternal aristocracy which exerts itself nowhere, yet is felt everywhere, walked off with the Breen Oratorical laurels jauntily crowning his massive Celtic pate. He walked off the platform and on to fame amid the cheers and encouragements of his fellows and friends, and received from their hands generous portions of spirited appreciation. Frank has been fighting appendicitis a good share of the year; he was consequently overcrowded with work, and his victory comes hard fought and well won. As one veteran to another we salute Corbett, and honor his victory as worthy a Fighting Irishman.
| RRITATIONS are the pride of the college man. They are classed with cigarettes and alarm clocks as one of the earliest of essentials. We shall miss a few of these petty nuisances during vacation, only to greet them with renewed annoyance when we • return. Faucets that won’t stay on, - shoestrings that break every morning, radios that have no ambition beyond WSBT, and toothpaste that persists in trying to be petrified. Not to forget the insistent bothers, the ones who snarl, “Uhhuh, I come to the Palay every nite,” and their more presumptuous sisters, who nasally drawl, “Meet me in town Wednesday, Bill, and we’ll have dinner together.” These latter are the standing jokes—they stand, and stand, • and stand until our local hotel mezzanines look like the waiting rooms in somebody’s sorority house. Christmas will relieve us of all this for a while, and that will be a relief. From now on till vacation it’s a case of every man for himself, and may the first man home be the last man back. Everyone should have a Merry Christmas, it’s traditional and everything, and we must cling to our traditions. You cling to yours and I’ll cling to mine, and meanwhile we’ll remember the days when*we recited, “’Twas the Night
Before Christmas” and wish everyone the best of luck, . and a very merry Christmas.
OU, being the thinking sort of man, frequently look at your lathered jowls in the mirror, and, reflecting upon our advanced civilization, congratulate yourself upon the safety razors and snug efficiency of modernity. We change everything we touch, even trying to change ourselves. And not satisfied with having brought the light , of day into night, we are now shrouding days with some of the shadowy indefiniteness of night. As proof of this darkening of our days we have but to realize that the -o holy days are becoming holidays. Peasants the world over always had their buffoonery and dancing on holy days— for it is one of the paradoxes of faith that m^n who can- / not play cannot pray. Christmas and its holiness was but enhanced with a bit of holly and mistletoe; but today some men think holiness casts a shadow over the holly, and really withers the mistletoe. Christmas—Santa to children, rest to workmen, a home-gathering to elderly parents, a vacation to us; and the other meaning, the first and the last. Too often we remember first meanings last.
CRIP, the newest performer in the publications
troupe, was taken from room to room on the campus last
* 1
week. He made a bit of a bow, and after* the embarrassment of introductions, went on to seek new friends. The young artist wore a quiet green jacket, and was in a modest mood throughout. Modesty is always welcomed in the young. I had only one misgiving from my few moments of intimacy with the new trouper. He seems to < be of the opinion, rather widespread- in these hazy days, that a string of dots trailing after a few words will con-
. vey some kind of an impression to a reader. Sentences that want to extend themselves into infinity are quite apt to be as incomprehensible as eternity.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
393
Coming Events |
•>-----------------------------i
FRIDAY, December 13—Basketball, i Notre Dame vs. Albion College, University Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m. —Scholastic editorial staff meeting, Lay Faculty Dining Room, 7:00 p.-m. 1
SATURDAY, December 14—Movies, I George O’Brien in “Noah’s Ark,” * Washington Hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, December 15—Masses, Sacred Heart Church, 6:00, 7:00 and 8:00; High Mass at 9:00 a. m.— Benediction, 7:30 p. m.—Second and Third Degree initiations, Knights of Columbus, Council Chambers, Knights of Columbus Building, South Bend.
MONDAY, December 16—The University Theatre, presenting “The Taming of the Shrew,” Washington r Hall, 8:00 p. m.—Meeting of the Notre Dame Academy of Science, Science Hall, 8:00 p. m.
TUESDAY, December 17—Youngs-' town Club meeting, Law Building, 7:30 p. m.
WEDNESDAY, December 18—Interhall debating, Law Building, 8:00 < p. m.
THURSDAY, December 19—Christmas vacation begins at noon.—See Campus Club page for departure • of special trains.—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, University Gymnasium, 8:00 p. m.
. FRIDAY, December 20—Last day for turning in written applications for
1	the Roger C. Sullivan Scholarships.
MONDAY, December 23—Basketball, ~ Notre Dame vs. Iowa.
SATURDAY, December 28—Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Ohio State at ; Columbus. •
THURSDAY, January 3—Classes resumed.
' SENIORS, ATTENTION!
All seniors who have not as yet been measured for cap and gown are requested to do so ' before December 18. There are five days left in which to be measured. There will be a man in the old Carroll refectory between the hours of 2:00 and 4:30 to take care of orders. Don Sullivan wishes to remind the seniors that no measurements . will be taken after next Thursday.
FIRST ISSUE OF ‘‘SCRIP” HAS LARGE SALE
More than three hundred copies of the first issue of Scrip have been sold already, and only half of the halls have been canvassed. The South Bend News-Times and the South Bend Tribune have given much favorable comment on the new magazine, praising its distinctive appearance and the excellence of its contents. Scrip has established itself as the literary magazine of Notre Dame.
Plans are already in the making for the next issue, which is to be published in March. The cover-design has not yet been definitely decided upon, because the editors have several designs submitted by various students to choose from. Many well-known campus writers are already at work upon contributions for the next issue, and the editors believe that this issue will be even better than the first.
All contributions to the new magazine should be sent to Mr. Heitger, 305 Walsh Hall. Many students sent in contributions for the first issue; the editors hope that many more students will interest themselves in writing poems, short stories, and essays for- the next one.
CAPTAIN LAW SPEAKS AT BANQUET
John Law, captain of the football team was guest speaker at the Reitz Memorial High School, Evansville, last Sunday Evening. During the banquet monograms were awarded to various members of the High School team; Captain Law spoke on current athletic events and gave several stirring accounts of former football games. He included in his talk a few reminiscences of interest to the young athletes and ended his speech with a few words on Notre Dame spirit.
JUNIOR CLASS PIN COMMITTEE ANNOUNCED
Along with the announcement of the personnel' of the committee which will have charge of the 1930 Junior Prom, comes the appointment, by Vernon J. Knox, president of the Junior Class, of the committee which will have charge of selecting and distributing the class pins.
Vincent Busch, a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, will be chairman of this important committee. He will be assisted by the following men: Harold J. O’Connor, Morrissey Hall; Michael J. Kinney, Badin Hall; Joseph J. Hughes, St. Edward’s Hall; James S. Swift, Off-Campus;
Fred Rahaim, Corby Hall; Jack Lynch, Lyons Hall.
The design of the pin will be, with a few minor changes, similar to that of the past few years. Due to the number of companies which have expressed a desire to bid on the order, it is expected that the quality of the pin will be somewhat improved. To date, about ten of the leading jewelry manufacturers in the country have expressed their intentions of presenting pins for the consideration of the committee.	.
The selection of the pin will be made about the middle of January at which time each company will present its pins. Selection will be made on the basis of quality and workmanship as well as the reliability and reputation of the company submitting the bid.
NOTRE DAME PROFESSOR HONORED
Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance Department, has received notification of his appointment to serve on a committee of the International Boys’ Work Council, created to compile a pamphlet covering the history, program, principles, and scope of every existing organization engaged in the field of boy guidance.
This committee was authorized at the 1929 meeting of the Council held in Toronto in October. Professor Hoyer was present at this meeting and read a paper on “Leadership Training.” It is probable that he will be asked to collect the data on the various Catholic agencies engaged in boy guidance and to prepare this material for the proposed publication. This will be the first attempt in the history of boys’ work to bring together this sort of material.
CHEMISTRY CLUB HOLDS MEETING
The Chemistry Club met in Chemistry Hall on December 4. Addresses were made by Messrs. Herzog and Garza, who discussed various experiments on the rate of reactions. Mr. Merritt Otto spoke on the “History of Chemistry,” an exceedingly interesting topic to put before a club of this kind. Mr. William Ginder read a paper on the “Open Hearth System,” after which another discussion took place. Professor Froning, head of the Department of Chemistry, outlined the purpose of the club and advocated a closer interest in the events it entertains. Refreshments and smokes were seiwed at the conclusion of the program.
394
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About the Campus
Tommie Keegan should really have been /vritten up along with Bob Kuhn. For some reason or other we have always associated them together; probably because Tommie was
Tommie Keegan
Editor-in-Chief, and Bob Business Manager, of last year’s Dome. In fact, we became so used to thinking of them as a team—Keegan-Kuhn—that for a long time we did not get their names straight, and called Keegan “Boh,” and Kuhn “Tommie,” with fine disregard for accuracy.
Tommie’s chief activity is debating, in which he has distinguished himself since his freshman year, when he was very active in interhall debating. He has been a Wrangler for three years. Last year the Wranglers appointed him as chairman of inter-hall debating, which honor he still holds. The University has recognized Tommie’s forensic ability by making him an un-dergradaute assistant in the department of speech. He also is making a strong bid for a place on the varsity debating team this year and will display his speaking ability next Monday evening when he will be one of the men to represent the University in its debate with Purdue University over radio station WLS.
Tom, in addition to his debating ability, has found time to serve as editor of the 1929 Dome, as mentioned before, and did a very nice job of editing the Notre Dame yearbook. In addition, he served on the staff of the Scholastic for a year, and at present is a member of the Juggler staff, contributing some very good copy for every number.
Last year when a number of fellows on the campus sought an outlet
for their views on philosophy, literature and current events, the Spectators’ Club was organized. Tom was a charter member and one of its founders. He still takes an active part in the discussions of the club on all matters.
This marks the last year that Tom will be around the campus for he is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. His home town is Rockford, Illinois.
WILK AND DUNN WIN “DOME” PRIZES
Joseph A. Wilk, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, has been announced the winner of first prize in the most unusual contest ever held at the University, to secure subscriptions for the Dome. Mr. Wilk is an off-campus student and his home town is Adams, Massachusetts. As the recipient of first prize he will receive a trip to Europe next summer.
Joseph Dunn, a junior in the College of Commerce, whose home town is El Paso, Texas, has been awarded second prize of seventy-five dollars in cash.
The contest, extending over a period of three weeks, has awakeneed keen interest among the students participating and has been most successful, according to Harley L. McDevitt, graduate manager of publications. Over 2,300 subscriptions have been received, establishing a record for campus Dome sales.
As a result of this extensive campaign the Dome circulation is now one of the highest among similar publications among American universities.
niliiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiitiHimituiiniiHHiuniiilfBl I ATTENTION, SENIORS I I AND ACTIVITIES	I
I	MEN!	I
|	Because of the added business |
| during the Christmas season | | the Dome photographer has | | been called back to Chicago E I several days in advance of the = = stated time. Due to this fact = = he will be back on the campus | 5 the first week after Christmas | E vacation, for three days. Those | | who have not as yet had their | | Dame pictures taken please take f E notice.	=
= According to Editor-in-chief | | Robert L. Pendergast, the sen- | | ior section of the Dome must be | | arranged in January. There- | | fore this will absolutely be the E | last time the photographer will E = be on the campus.	|
S. A. C. Notes
At the week’s meeting of the S. A. C., Bob Hellrung, chairman, read a letter from the Secretary of the Notre Dame Club of New York. The letter was one of praise for the performance of the band at the Army game, and the Secretary of the New York Alumni expressed the wish of that organization that it might have the pleasure of assisting the band in making the trip to future Army games.

I
With the approach of the holiday season the Council has been busy granting concessions to students for the selling of various articles on the campus. At the last meeting the selling rights to “National Championship” banners were granted to Manny Vezie, and Joe Corea was given the concession for “National Championship” stickers.
l r


The S. A. C. is planning to improve the organized cheering and singing during the basketball season. Bob Hellrung has emphasized the necessity of this since the home games in the new stadium next year will require that the student body be well acquainted with the school songs and cheers. There will be an opportunity during the winter for the cheer leaders to work up a spirit in the stands, and the student body is asked to co-operate with them whole heartedly.
“The Hike Song,” “The Victory March,” and “Down The Line,” are three songs that every student at Notre Dame should know. It is probable that most Freshmen will have memorized them for rendition during the holiday season. Upper classmen are asked to try to find the right words to fill in the spaces where they usually hum. The band will be on hand at all the basketball games; so Joe Casasanta’s boys will supply the tunes and it will be up to the student body to know the words.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
395
A Man You Know
Prof. Henry B. Froning
facts. But, since we
It is with misgiving that the winter attempts to give anything that presumes to be a fair and accurate idea of the character and a c c o m plish-ments of Professor Henry B. Froning, head of the D e p a rtment of Chemistry. Such an idea cannot be derived from an objective appraisal and a recitation of are limited by
our medium, we shall present such facts and impressions as may indicate something of Mr. Froning, the man, and Professor Froning, the teacher.
We learn that Professor Froning obtained his A. B. degree from St. Joseph’s College, Rensselaer, Indiana in 1908, and his A. M. degree from Ohio State University in 1912. The following year, 1912-1913, he spent as a graduate student at Johns Hopkins University, returning then to Ohio State University where he taught courses in bacteriology and chemistry until 1919. In 1920, after a year spent in industrial work as research chemist and bacteriologist for the Nizer Laboratories in Detroit and Cleveland, Professor Froning came to Notre Dame to assume the duties of Head of the Department of Chemistry, teaching classes in organic and physical chemistry as well.
Something of Professor Froning’s ability as a far-seeing organizer is evident when we understand that the Department of Chemistry has more than kept pace with the natural expansion of the University since 1920, both in the size of enrollment and in educational standards. This year there are more than 700 students registered for classes taught in that department. There has also been a decided increase in the number of graduate students during the past few years. Chemical firms such as the Du Pont Company and the Grassel-li Chemical Company have recognized the Department of Chemistry of the University in establishing fellowships. All of this cannot but redound not only to his credit as a capable administrator, but also as an educator of unusual vision.
One of the best evidences of the worth-while work that Professor Froning is doing here at Notre Dame is the fact that he was the first recipient of the annual Lay Faculty Award. This award, a prize of 500 dollars, is bestowed upon the member of the lay faculty whose work for the year is selected as being the most meritorious. Professor Froning also has served as a member of the University Council and is on the Laetare Medal Committee.
Perhaps more than any other one thing, Professor Froning is known as a friend of the students. Almost any afternoon between 12:30 and 6:00 p. m. he may be found talking—not at, but with some student, helping, advising, and (occasionally) reprimanding. Yet always the student goes away, knowing that he has been fairly and constructively dealt with. Ask any of the students! They could not do better than to refer you to the dedication of the senior number of the Catalyzer for May, 1927. The dedication of this number reads: “To Professor H. B. Froning, A. M., a true educator who is ever instilling into his students an irresistible urge to know the truth, the Class of 1927 with a great debt of gratitude and appreciation dedicates this Senior Number.”
Professor Froning’s work at Notre Dame, we say, certainly presents itself as a testimony of constant devotion to the University, to his Department, and to his students.
“TAMING OF THE SHREW” TO BE PRESENTED MONDAY
William Shakespeare’s “Taming of the Shrew” will be presented in Washington Hall on Monday evening, December 16, by members of the University Players. The cast for this presentation will include Mrs. Norbert Engels, Virgilius Phillip, Harry Merdzinski, Arthur Dennehy, Bill Sherman, John Nowery, James Phelan, Jerome Crowley, Frank Walker, Victor Martzel, Robert Haire, and Leon Zabriskie. The induction will be presented by Jake Leisen, Mike O’Hara, Joseph Beeman, and Frank Mihan.
The University Theater, which is sponsoring this presentation, is an amalgamation of all the activities of the University which have to do with dramatic art. By means of its organization all campus work along this line is united, and Notre Dame’s
high standard of dramatic endeavor is maintained. The University Theater directs student playwriting, direction, presentation, and business management. The plays which it has produced since its foundation in 1926 have been very well received. Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar” was successfully produced in 1927. So this year’s presentation is awaited with a great deal of interest. The players, under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly, have been rehearsing for several weeks, and will undoubtedly present the play in an appreciative and competent fashion. No admission will be charged.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS MEET .
Last Monday evening, December 9th, the Knights of Columbus held their regular bi-monthly meeting in Council Chamber in Walsh Hall. The business portion of the meeting was run through very rapidly as many prominent guests were present. The item of major interest was the announcement of the first degree, Sunday afternoon, December 15th, in the South Bend Chambers, at two o’clock.
The Reverend Thomas Lynch, chaplain of the LaPorte Council, spoke on the present day need of intelligent Catholic laymen, and urged all present to retain their membership in the Order after leaving school! Otto D. Dorsey, District Deputy, Frank P. Shakie, Grand Knight of the LaPorte Council, Joseph and Albert Kashmer were also present from the LaPorte Council.
Grand Knight Egan, of the South Bend Council invited the members to visit the down town Chamber, and Lusius Miller, District Deputy, told of the $20,000 home being raised by that Council, and asked the support of the Notre Dame Council in the disposal of tickets for it.
Daniel Butler, Supreme Agent, was the principal speaker, and said that the Order was in the best condition it had ever been in. He quoted facts and figures in stating that the Order was not slipping either in membership or activities.
Music for the evening was furnished by Jerry Roach and Johnny Beljon’s Madcap Trio. Refreshments were served during the meeting. --------------------------------
NOTICE!
Knights of Columbus first degree initiation Sunday, Dec. 15,' at The South Bend K. of C. Chambers—2 p. m.
4-------------------------------*
.Notre Dame Scholastic
396	The
DR. KHARASCH ADDRESSES
AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY HERE
The last regular meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society was held in Chemistry Hall at Notre Dame, Wednesday evening, Dec. 11, at 7:30 p. m. The usual dinner preceding the meeting was held in the University Dining Hall at 6:00 p. m.
The speaker for the meeting was Dr. Kharasch, Professor of Organic Chemistry at the University of Chicago. Professor Kharasch is an outstanding authority on the electric concept of valence in the interpretation of organic reactions. The title of his talk was “Trends in Organic Concepts.”
CHRISTMAS “JUGGLER” TO OFFER NEW FEATURES
When the Christmas Juggler ap--pears on the Notre Dame campus Monday night, the Funny Fellow will offer two new features as a special holiday gift to the students. One of them will be a theme which is carried out in the book, perhaps the first time the theme idea has been used in a college humorous magazine, and the other is a colored inside section.
The theme of the book will be the Christmas story of the Notre Dame Juggler. The cover illustration, done in splendid colors through the process method, begins the theme, which continues in the inside section of the book, climaxing in the feature which carries the colored illustration. In addition to that, the monthly feature article this month is “The Santa Claus Scandal,” written by Professor Charles Phillips.
A wealth of material for both literary and art divisions of the book made possible a very choice selection, so both parts of the book contain only the best material. The art work, especially, is very fine, and received much favorable comment from the other college editors to whom it was shown at the annual college comics convention last week.
The next issue, the Home Town Number, will be out in the middle of January, as usual, instead of being postponed to the end of the month. This necessitates most of the material before the Christmas vacation, and, at the very latest, the Saturday after returning, which will be the deadline for the number.
“JUGGLER” IS PRAISED BY CONTEMPORARIES AT
CONVENTION
Notre Dame’s Juggler received much praise at the annual convention of the Mid-West College Comics Association, held at Iowa University last week-end. Most outstanding in praise was Mr. George Eggleston, college art editor of College Humor, who considered the drawing by Richard Sullivan, in the Freshman issue, the best piece of art work he had seen in college magazines for some years. The Juggler’s monthly feature story, and its judicious selection of long and short material, were the subjects of an interesting session the last afternoon of the convention, and were suggested as a pattern for other magazines to follow both in make-up and contents.
The convention was attended by most of the college comic editors of the mid-west. The first afternoon was devoted to business problems, in which Mr. Harley McDevitt’s discusion of the possibility of automobile advertising, as he tried it in the Jziggler, was foremost. The Juggler rates and method of handling advertising were also considered. Saturday morning, Mr. Eggleston talked to the conventions about plans which his magazine has in mind. He also took part in the editorial discussion • that afternoon, during which John Nanovic, Editor of the Juggler, explained the methods of gathering and selecting the material, arranging the makeup, and distributing the magazine, the day of the sale.
VARSITY DEBATE TO BE BROADCAST
On Monday December 16th, at 7:30 p. m. the Notre Dame varsity debaters will be heard over station WLS, the Hotel Sherman, in Chicago. Their opponents will be the Purdue University team, who will uphold the affirmative side of the question, “Resolved: That the prosperity of the farmer is more important to the cities than cheap food.”
Since the farm situation is one of the most important problems confronting the nation today, this debate will, no doubt, create widespread interest.
The team has been preparing for the debate, under the able tutelage of the Reverend Francis J. Boland, C. S. C.
CONROY IN FIRST’ PLACE IN CONVENTION OF
ENGINEERS
Competing with representatives from seventeen major universities of the Middle-West, Edward G. Conroy, president of the Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, won first place for the best report on Branch activities presented before the annual convention of the Institute held in Chicago last week. In winning the award, Mr. Conroy gained for Notre Dame national recognition as having one of the most progressive departments of electrical engineering in the country.
In addition to winning a first place for the best report, Mr. Conroy was acknowledged as having presented the outstanding paper of the year before the Institute, in his presentation of “A Discussion of the Recent Public Utility Investigation at Washington.” Because the paper is the first ever prepared on the subject, it occasioned widespread comment among leading utility executives and engineers. It was considered so significant, by them, that many utility organizations sent representatives over extended distances to be present at Mr. Conroy’s delivery of the paper.
This paper has already been presented to the Notre Dame engineers, and to the Spectators’ Club, of which Mr. Conroy is a member.
REGULATION POSTED CON-
CERNING TRANSFERS
Anouncements are now on the bulletin boards regarding the transfer of students from one college of the university to another at the semester. Those desiring to make such transfers should signify their intention of doing so to the deans of the two colleges concerned, before Christmas vacation. Evidence must also be presented that the students’ parents approve the change.
DINING HALLS TO SERVE CHRISTMAS DINNER
Mr. Robert H. Borland, manager of the University Dining Halls has announced that' as in former years, a Christmas dinner will be served to those men not going home this Christmas. All those intending to partake of this feast should hand in their names as soon as possible.
397
Junior Prom Committees Announced
RED CROSS DRIVE ON ALL WEEK
Initial plans for the Junior Promenade, formal class dance of the third year men in the University, have been started with the announcement of the
Wm. J. Sullivan
General Chairman
dance committees by Vernon J. Knox, class president. William J. Sullivan has been appointed general chairman of the committees with a competent corps of men assisting him. Each of the committee chairmen has informed his assistants of meetings at which all suggestions will be considered. These meetings will be held early next week.
As yet no definite date has been named for the Prom. The general chairman intimated that the event would take place during the latter part of February. As usual the Palais Royale ballroom will be engaged for the affair. Arrangements for an orchestra are tentative but it is understood that several nationally famous bands are considered.
Contrary to the custom in vogue in class dances of former years, the 1930 Junior Prom will not be burdened by any distinguishing adjectives but will be known simply as “The Junior Prom.” Mr. Sullivan’s advance plans indicate that the dance will be distinguished in itself. One of the most attractive features of the dance will be the prominence of the orchestra engaged, according to Mr. Sullivan. Decorations, favors and other arrangements will be as prominent as in other years.
By ruling of the Faculty dance committee, headed by Professor Paul Fenlon, only fifty seniors will be allowed to attend. Most of the reservations for seniors have been taken but a few remain which can be secured by application to the Chairman of the ticket committee, Edward Madden, in Morrissey Hall. It is, of course, imperative that these applications be made immediately.
The committees to assist the General Chairman in the various details of the dance are announced as follows:
Tickets: Edward B. Madden, chairman; Joseph O’Hara, Al Seymour, John Blackwell, Joseph Lauerman, Thomas F. Monahan, James C. Rich, Frank O’Neil, Jack Shiveley, Tom McGough, John Bergan, and Phil Konop.
Decorations: John J. Kuhn and Timothy Benitz, co-chairman, Charles Geherin, Robert Neydon, Frank Flannery, William Leahy, John Zaback, Thomas R. Ashe, Frank Holland, Albert J. Tuohy, John Hickey, and Ed-ward Everett.
Publicity: Robert C. Balfe, chairman, Ramon G. Smith, Robert Pendergast, Joseph Wilk, William H. O’Brien, Ralph Garza, Chester* Franc-kowiak, Donald O’Toole, Edward J-Meagher and Walter Cahill.
Music: Edward B. Ryan, chairman, Rolland J. Poulin, Clay Adams, Joseph Blaney, John C. Sullivan and Joseph Kirby.
Favors: William C. Brown, chairman, Joseph F. Deeb, Walter De-Baene, Matthew Cullinan, Edward Hosinski, and Charles Slack.
Arrangements: Ray Manix, chairman, Richard Baker, Phil Angsten, Edward Mehren, Charles Cushwa and Jolin Agamy.
Programs: John F. Meagher, chairman, Paul F. Fox, Robert Gore, Joseph Vertacnik, Charles Stack and John E. Dempsey.
Reception: Thomas A. Cannon, chairman, Vincent Ponic, Walter J. Murphy, Henry G. O’Connell, Malcolm R. McVean and Pat Lahey.
Invitations: Raymond Collins, chairman, Joseph Keogh, Donald Mihan, Howard Maloney, Clarence Brink and Alfred Gall.
Patrons: Nordhoff Hoffman, chairman, Myron Hershfield, William Rowen, Thomas F. Golden, Jerry Desmond and Morris K. Leahy.
Members of the Student’s Activities Council have been canvassing the residence halls on the campus yesterday and today in order to enroll students in the South Bend Chapter of the American Red Cross. The week, known as “Enrollment Week” has been in charge of Robert Hellrung, chairman of the S. A. C.
Large posters were tacked up at conspicuous points around the campus last Monday and Tuesday. Literature concerning the Red Cross had also been distributed during the week. It is hoped that the student body will lend its assistance to this worthy project.
MONOGRAM CLUB TO IN-
ITIATE NEW MEMBERS
Sunday afternoon will mark the admission to the Monogram Club of twenty-two new members. The Gym will be the site of the traditional ceremony, and will be closed to all students except those participating in the initiation. Just what form that initiation will take has been kept secret by Tommy Murphy, acting as President of the Club, but it is certain that the installation will be as exciting as previous ones.
Of the men to be initiated, nineteen are football men, two are from the baseball squad, and one is a track man. The football men are Brill, Culver, Gebert, Howard, Kaplan, Kenneally, Kassis, Frank Leahy, Locke, McMan-mon, McNamara, Metzger, O’Connor, Savoldi, Schwartz, Vik, Yarr, and Quinn and Conroy, managers. With these men are Lisicki, French, and Sheaffer, whose initiation, was held over from last spring.
On Sunday evening, the Monogram Club will hold a dinner for the new members. It will be the climax of the annual admission rites, and will be the occasion for welcoming the fortunate few who were awarded monograms, into the most exclusive of campus organizations. The Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, honorary president of the club, will be the principal speaker.
The officers of the club have announced that the actual presentation of the monograms will not be made, personally, before the holidays. It has been decided that the coveted sweaters will be mailed to the men shortly after the general holiday exodus.
398	T h
FRANK CORBETT WINS BREEN MEDAL CONTEST
Frank Corbett, a senior in the A. B. college at the University, won the Breen Medal for Oratory last Tuesday night with his excellently delivered speech, “Safeguards and Injustice.” Frank McGreal, George Allan, E. L. Ackerman, Joseph Apodaca and Charles Hanna pushed their successful antagonist hard and each made a real bid for the historic award. The Reverend Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., and Professors Daniel O’Grady and Albert Doyle, judges of the contest, admitted difficulty in reaching then-decision. It was announced immediately to the Washington Hall audience by Mr. Coyne, of the Speech Department.
The winner of the Breen Medal represents the university in the Indiana state oratorical contest held in February. It is interesting to note that Corbett, while a senior at Central Catholic High School in Fort Wayne, Indiana, home of the donor of the medal, won the Indiana state high school oratoi-ical contest and placed third in the national high school meet. The theme of his convincing speech was that the criminal has an undue advantage in the courts of the day.
PRESS CLUB HAS ROUND TABLE DISCUSSION
The Notre Dame Branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its first meeting of the month last Monday evening.
Dr. J. A. Caparo, counselor of the local branch and Edward G. Conroy, chairman, both gave interesting accounts of the National Convention of the A. I. E. E. held in Chicago, on December 2-4 inclusive.
Mr. Conroy, having won first prize for the best student paper presented at the convention, repeated his interesting talk before seventy-five of his fellow engineers, present at the meeting.
Hebert Perry of the Junior class and Nathan Altman of the Sophomore class presented papers that had been assigned to them for the regular meeting.
Mr. J. P. Kennedy, of the Kennedy South Bend Company, gave a paper on “What the Electrical Engineering Course of Notre Dame has meant to the graduates of 1929.” His paper was based on several questions that he had sent to the engineers of last year class. Mr. Kennedy also demonstrated the Kennedy portable screen grid receiver.
Notre Dame Scholas
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
HEAR SEVERAL SPEAKERS
Press associations and publicity work in general were the topics of discussion at the Press Club round table meeting, Tuesday night. Messrs. Hoiles, Harris and Saxon, staff members of the South Bend Tribune, were guests of the club at this informal gathering. Mr. Dave Saxon is past president of the Press Club and has been actively engaged in newspaper work since his graduation from the School of Journalism last June.
Mr. Holies was a United Press correspondent for a long number of years, and enjoyed many interesting experiences while engaged in this field. He particularly emphasized the value of press association work for the young reporter.
John E. Motz, president of the club, presided at the meeting, and announced that the Press Club charms may be had by calling at 217 Sorin Hall.
WRANGLERS TO ELECT AT NEXT MEETING
The Wranglers Club will hold an election of members at the next meeting of the organization. All candidates who wish to apply for membership may hand in then- application to any member of the club. A scholastic average of 85% and participation in some form of Notre Dame forensic activity are the two requirements.
A banquet was held Wednesday evening at the Joanne Tea Room, which the Reverend J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., Reverend Francis Boland, C.S.C., and the Reverend Michael Mulcaire, C. S. C. were invited to attend. Speeches were given by the various members of the club and guests. President James Walsh stressed the need for co-operation of the members in putting the different Wrangler projects before the University. This was the first banquet of the year for the club.
Inter-hall debating, sponsored by the club, is progressing very well. The contest seems to have simmered down to Brownson and Howard, who stand the best chance of winning the cup. Freshman Hall did not enter a team in the race, and Carroll has twice been defeated. Should Brownson Hall win the cup, it will have two legs on it; Freshman Hall won it last year. .	'
‘JUGGLERS’ NOW ENGAGED IN BUSY SEASON
Notre Dame’s own jazz band has been doing quite a bit of juggling during the past week. From all indications their program from now until Christmas will be a busy one. Last night John Beljon and his Madcap Trio furnished the music at the Mishawaka Hotel for a state convention. Saturday night the “Jugglers” will play for a dinner dance to be given by the South Bend Credit Men’s Association. Next Wednesday night the trio will entertain the South Bend Rotary Club in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel.
Both the band and the “Jugglers” played in New York City over the week-end of the Notre Dame-Army game, Nov 30. The “Jugglers” played for a fashion show at the Central Park Casino, and also at the dance held the Friday evening before the game, at the same establishment. Saturday night, they played for a banquet and reception of the Notre Dame Alumni in New York City at the Hotel McAlpin. Following this, they played for the dance conducted by the same club, also at the McAlpin.
CHICAGO CLUB TO CHANGE CHRISTMAS DANCE POLICY
A change in the policy of the annual Christmas Formal of the Chicago Club was announced by Paul C. Heidkamp, general chairman of the dance, at a meeting of the club held December 5. The attendance at the dance will be limited to members of the club and members of the Chicago Alumni Club, each of whom may invite one guest from outside the club.
Both the Gold Room and the Balloon Room of the Hotel Congress will be used for the formal. Bobbie Meeker’s orchestra will furnish the music in the .Gold Room, while Johnnie Hamp and his orchestra will be on hand in the Balloon Room to delight the dancers.
Chairman Heidkamp stressed the fact that no one will be admitted to the Formal without an invitation. Members may secure invitations from him at 121 Walsh Hall, and may make reservations at the same time. He urged the members to get the invitations and secure reservations as soon as possible, in order that he and his assistants may be able to estimate the size of the crowd before making final preparations.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
399
I EDITOR’S PAGE
a .iDcrri’ Ojnstmas ainb Question!
'	The Scholastic, on the occasion of its last appearance of the year 1929, extends to all its readers
best wishes for a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
~	Once again the great festival has come around; gifts are purchased, preparations are made, ex-
cited whispers are exchanged, the wind is a sharp knife stabbing space, and the snow writes a white . period after the many worded sentence of the year 1929.
It is customary for one temporarily in possession of advice giving powers to raise a solemn hand, (with a solemn gesture!) intended to warn the busy millions that they are forgetting the real occasion which caused this one day, but a wave in the ocean of days, to surge above its mates and swell into a lighthouse shedding light over the far, blackly tossing waters. In such a gesture there is, of course, a certain amount of truth; and yet we are inclined, on the one hand, to overdo the gesture, and on the other, to pay no heed, to say “Yes, you’re right"—and then hurry on.
Not that we intend to write a miniature sermon; but it does seem to us that some words, on an aspect of Christmas too often overlooked even by accomplished signal setters, are not altogether out of place.
_	Christ came that men might have life—and that more abundantly. He showed men a Way of
Living that was at a far remove from the majority of methods of life of the time. By bringing men to a renewed consciousness of the future life He brought them to a greater awareness of the glories ' of the present life. His coming into the world was as the coming of a quivering stalk of dawn ban-, nering the grey east with flags of light; his passage through that world a flow of music such as men never had heard before, a sudden drift of roses in the sparsely flowered gardens of their souls.
On December twenty-fifth of this month we will celebrate that coming; but, will we, as the Adeste *	Fideles rings out, see that slender, quivering stalk fluting its way up the canyon of Night? Will the
[	fluted notes of light speak to us as only the music of light can?
|	As we wish one another “Merry Christmas” will we have in mind a stable that was the birthplace
| of a new world, a birth that was a blast of trumpets across the lands and waters of that world?
1	In our concern with the means let us not forget the end; and when on Christmas morning Day
1 j
bursts her bombs on the far horizon, let us remember that the silent thunder of the explosions once heralded such a birth as man has never known, always herald a word that is a star bringing man to the foot of its ladders of light—Love.	—M. H. L.
CHRISTMAS DANCE ANNOUNCEMENTS
AUBURN CLUB—December 25, Pompeian Room, Hotel Osborn, $3.00, Charlie Doyle’s Vagabonds. Formal.
BOSTON CLUB—December 27, the Hotel Kenmore, $4.00, Bill Dooley and His Copley Plaza Orchestra. Formal.
BUFFALO CLUB—December' 30, the Terrace Room, Hotel Statler, $3.50, Keener’s Blue Boys. Formal.
CALUMET CLUB—December' 27, Crystal Ballroom, Hotel Gary, $3.00. Informal.
CHICAGO CLUB—December 26, Balloon and Gold Rooms, the Congress Hotel, Dinner Dance, $5.00, Bobbie Meeker’s Orchestra in Balloon Room, Johnnie Hamp’s Orchestra in Gold Room. Formal. Entrance by invitations only—secure now at 121 Walsh Hall.
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB—December 26, Hotel Bond, Hartford, $5.00, Dick Newcomb and his orchestra. Formal.
DETROIT CLUB—December 27, Detroit-Leland Hotel, $5.00, Johnnie Johnstone and his New Yorkers. Formal.
CLEVELAND CLUB—December 27, Mid-Day Club, $5.00. Monte Carlo Ball. Formal.
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB—December 30, Hotel Pant-lind, $2.00, Jack Lawrence and his orchestra. Formal.
INDIANAPOLIS CLUB—December 30, Hotel Severin Roof Garden, Dinner Dance, $6.00, Charlie Davis’ Orchestra. Formal.
METROPOLITAN CLUB—December 26, Main Ballroom, Hotel Roosevelt, $5.00, Howard Lally of the Plaza Grill. Formal.
MINNESOTA CLUB—December 28, Flame Room; the Hotel Radisson, Minneapolis, “Slats” Randall’s Orchestra. Formal.	.	’
NEW JERSEY CLUB—December 26, Newark Athletic Club, $5.00, Hotel Park Central Orchestra. Formal.
NORTHERN NEW YORK CLUB—December 27, Community Club, Potsdam, New York, $2.50, Clarkson Melody Boys of Clarkson College. Semi-formal. .
PHILADELPHIA CLUB—December 27, Locust Room, Penn Athletic Club, $5.00, “Doc”. Daugherty and His Hotel Adelphia Orchestra. Formal.
ROCHESTER CLUB—December 27, the Hotel Sagamore, Dinner Dance, $6.50, Ray Fagan’s Keith-Orpheum Band. Formal.
PITTSBURGH CLUB—January 1, Field Club, SupperDance, $7.00, Dewey Bergman’s Music. Formal.
UTICA CLUB—December 26, Yahnundasis Golf Club, Dinner Dance, $6.00. Formal.
VILLAGERS CLUB—December 26, Palais Royale Ballroom, $3.00, “Doc” Davis and His Orchestra of Chicago. Formal. -
WEST VIRGINIA CLUB—December 28, Hotel Stonewall Jackson at Clarksburg, $4.00. Informal.
WISCONSIN CLUB—December 28, Old Athenium in Milwaukee, $3.00. Formal.
YOUNGSTOWN CLUB—December 26, Stambaugh Auditorium, $2.50, George William and His Music. Informal. December 30, a closed dinner dance for members only, Wickliffe Manors. Formal.
SPECIAL CARS
ST. LOUIS CLUB—December 19, Special combination diner and club car on the Wabash, leaving Chicago at 3:00 p. m. Leaving South Bend, New York Central, 12:11.
I
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI CLUB—December 19, Special car on the Illinois Central leaving Chicago at 6:15 p. m., to New Orleans.
METROPOLITAN, NEW JERSEY, BOSTON, CENTRAL NEW YORK, NORTHERN NEW YORK, CONNECTICUT VALLEY, CLEVELAND, AKRON, EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA, YOUNGSTOWN, TOLEDO, BUFFALO, ROCHESTER, UTICA and ERIE CLUBS— December 19, Special Train leaving South Bend on New York Central at 12:30. For reservations see Warren Fogel, Sorin Hall, at once.	,
ROCKY MOUNTAIN CLUB—For reservations see Ramon G. Smith, Campus Club Editor, at once.
All those students who are remaining in South Bend over the Christmas vacation are invited to attend the Villagers’ Club formal. ‘-‘Doc” Davis, and his orchestra from Chicago will play. Students of St. Mary’s College remaining here for the vacation may attend the affair.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
401
THE WINK
Merry Xmas! We asked Wazzie how to get some Xmas spirit into the column this week. He knows all about spirits. He said, “Put Merry Xmas at the beginning.” We did. How do you like it? It would be easier to sentimentalize but you can’t do that very well in a hodge-podge like the Wink.
“Reading further, Helen asked of the messenger if the heart of the one who fell from the room of the Main Building (ovei* the weak end) suffered any fatal.consequences. The messenger responded that it was to be revealed! And taking the book and pointing to the letters S. J. he turned to that part of the volume relating to Spanish Grammar. ‘Mark ye that the adjective follows the noun it modifies. Henceforth the letters should read J. S.’ Lo, a troubador of Twashtri appeared in the heavens, and the sky parted, and forthwith there issued a messenger clad in the brightness of the sun and the deepness of the night. And, handing Helen a book, he commanded her saying, ‘Take ye and read.’ ”
—o—
That, dear kiddies, is a Christmas story by James Blanch Babble. And now we have a Christmas poem by pee wee rummings. It has been appropriately named “b.b. (again).”
“b.b. (gain)”
T. Talbot Tabloid
he who WRITES the Wink
I wish you pleasant dreams.
0 i was born one night one morn, the whistles rang boom boom.
i cooked a (steak) and drank a cake, when— the mudpies were in bloom.
Six and six are 9 and we get ice from; a mine:
old black joe was an eskimo and pork comes from a porcupine.
i saw a frog swim up a LOG till he fell and broke his wing.
all the pigs and cows they barked “MEOW” and the goldfish LOVED to sing.
All the camels sail the seas and we get honey from the fleas, And all the horses climb the trees on the road to Mandalay.
—Beau Boy.
As dear old bossy coilins always said, “It’s not who is but who is it.”
—o—	.
After reading about the old St. Mary’s-Notre Dame bus line we’ve decided that it would be more exciting to try to find the old bus than to find a taxi. And then think of the fun in being mistaken (in the old bus) for a St. Mary’s student. K-s-t!
There is another rumor that we do not exist. We do not exist except for our public. If we didn’t read this column ourselves we would therefore have no existence.
We know the school has a “slush” fund. We’ve seen the plow and horses ambling around. It is rumored that both horses and plow are “taken care of.” Carnegie Foundation please note. Pittsburgh papers please copy. Omit flowers.
Our friend Derfla Llag says to beware of airplane rides during the holidays. “It isn’t what its cracked up to be,” sezz he.
Leo Reisman has a new Victor record with some new, strange rhythms. That’s nothing, I’LL bet I used them all in my poetry last year.	.
—Donnie D.
It seems we were wrong in suggesting a present for Jeanne last week. There ain’t no more tea in that samovar. (With apologies to The Luckless Lad.)
We’re thinking of taking back that radio we borrowed two weeks ago. It hasn’t worked right for more than fifteen minutes at a time.
—0—	.
As dear old Aunt Jennifer used to say, “Come and stay a month. If you like it here send for your trunks and pay us a visit.”	.
Joe Whysit has a new scheme for assigning rooms next year. All men who, during the previous year, have received an average of three or more telephone calls a day will be put on the first floor; all those receiving two calls, on the second floor; and so on. This will greatly increase the total percentage of calls received; it will save each student at least four thousand steps per year; and it will arrange matters so that the men on the upper floors will not have to stir out of their rooms except for meals—in the case of Commerce men—and for occasional classes.
Our best wishes to you all. We hope the rectors are satisfied with their Xmas presents. We hope you all pick off a few good ones—presents, of course. We hope the presidents of the larger clubs will be satisfied with the financial returns and that the presidents of the smaller clubs have wealthy'fathers. We hope you have a happy New Year and we hope you’ll have a few contributions for us next year. We’ll be seein’ ya.
—T. Talbot Tabloid.
402
The Notre Dame Scholastic

HELLO MEN!
SMITH'S CAFETERIA!
di
111 East Jefferson Boulevard
GEORGE L. MILLER
103 North Main Street South Bend, Indiana
Bachrach Neckwear $2.00 to $5.00
The Favorite Eating Place of Notre Dame Men
Hausen Gloves The English Sac-Fit Lined and Unlined
$4.00 to $7.50
The Home of Quality
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
SMITH'S COFFEE SHOP
West Washington Ave.
Shirts collar-attached and collar-to-match distinctive patterns $2.50 to $6.50
IMPORTED and DOMESTIC MEN’S WEAR
&
*
1
I

i
I
i
I
I
4
I
1 i
I
I
I
o
e



f 'F F F 'F
F 1 ■ 5
F F i f F E
4 ;F 'F 1
■F 1
F
Ml
fl

U. S. Army Style DOUBLE. SOLED Field-Shoes Riveted Vamps $3.65
Sizes 6 to 11 gCT Boys* Sizes 2 to 5
*M2-98
I
I




F
•F F F F 1
F
Corduroy Trousers...........$2.95
Sheepskin coats ?......$5.95 and up
4 Buckle Galoshes...........$2.98
GILBRO’S
FORMERLY U. S. ARMY STORE 330 South Michigan Street

F F 1 F •F
F
F

F
i
THE OLIVER BARBER SHOP A. M. MYERS, Prop.
COMPLETE, COURTEOUS
205 W. Washington Avenue THE OLIVER HOTEL Phone 3-7171







I	-	[
The Notre Dame Scholastic
403
3 PORTS
Lake Forest Cagers Are Swamped, 49-21
McCarthy and Smith Lead Notre Dame Quintet to Victory
THE Notre Dame Blue and Gold cagers tried their “darndest”'for -	an extra point to make an even
fifty points but the final gun prevented and they were forced to rest content with a mere 49 to 21 ram' page over a game and hard trying Lake Forest quintet on the local floor last Saturday evening.
—	Using a total of nineteen men in
the uneven contest Coach Koegan let his charges run the gamut of the Lake Forest net just about as they pleased. Jack McCarthy and Ed Smith were able to score over half of the total number of their team’s points, McCarthy getting six goals and three free throws while Smith " was obtaining five field shots for a grand total of 25 points.
Notre Dame displayed a little better- brand of passing than was seen in the first game with Kalamazoo. The, passing had fair precision and no r. one man attempted to hold on to the ball for any great length of time. Apparently Keogan has eliminated the one outstanding fault which was ~ noticeable in the initial fray. McCarthy, Smith, and Donovan carried on a sustained passing game right under the Lake Forest basket at the start of the second half which had the visitors fairly dazzled.
Ed Smith started the game off with a bang, dropping in a long and a short goal for the initial four points. t Kunz opened the scoring for the . Foresters by making good his two free throws. Newbold veered off to the corner to sink one for' Notre Dame, and after Crowe put one in i from the foul line, Newbold dribbled through the visitors’ defense to count from under the net. Crowe passed to Smith who very prettily caged a shot from mid-floor.
Ferzacca Scores for Visitors
Ferzacca clever Lake Forest forward saved his teammates after
Ed Smith, Guard
they had been passing the ball around blindly, by taking it down the center of the floor and dropping it through the meshes, making the score 11 to 5 in Notre Dame’s favor. On a quick pass from Joe Gavin, McCarthy dribbled off to the right side of the floor and flipped a shot through the net for the Gold and Blue.
Donovan counted one from the foul line and immediately after Ferzacca put in a short goal from the left corner, bringing the score to 15 to 7, with Notre Dame still in the lead. McCarthy counted another goal front under the basket and Ashton made good his foul shot.
McCarthy Again Counts
This time from the foul line, McCarthy scored and after’ Gavin twisted one in from the corner on a pass from DeCook, McCarthy pivoted under the basket for another goal just as the gun went off, marking the end of the first half. Notre Dame was well in the lead at this time with a score of 22 to .8.
As the second period began it was evident that the Notre Dame shots were ringing truer to form than before and McCarthy again took the limelight, sinking a foul shot and dribbling under the basket for another goal. Strako, Lake Forest forward, surprised the crowd by meshing a long shot from the center of the floor.
Smith came down to take a pass in the left corner and placed the ball through tie net. McCarthy, Smith, and Donovan went into a passing game beneath the Lake Forest basket which kept their opponents whirling across the floor. Notre Dame had the complete advantage in this melee, however, and not until four minutes were up did the losers get another chance for a shot. Ferzacca made the score 27 to 12 with one in front just outside the ring.
Technical on Keogan!
McCarthy put a shot in from under the board and Ferzacca made two foul shots when Umpire Warren called a technical on George Keogan for “coaching from the sidelines.” With the score 31 to 15, McConnell, Gavin, and McCarthy sank three free throws in a row and the latter then scored another field goal.
With the score 38 to 15 and the second period nearly half over, Coach Keogan began to run in his substitutes as fast as the scorekeeper could check them. Smith and Gavin managed to get in a shot apiece from outside the ring and Heenan sank two in a row, the first one from inside the circle and the second on a snappy pass from Host. The latter was fouled by Dixon and his foul shot was perfect.
Carideo Gets Hand
Ferzacca broke through with a goal from outside the ring and a minute after Host retaliated for Notre Dame, the ball never even touching the hoop as it passed through, bringing the
404
The Notre Dame Scholastic
score to 49 to 20. At this point Carideo was substituted for Bill McCarthy at guard and the football-minded fans let out a huge howl of approval upon his entrance. Fer-zacca had the honor of concluding the scoring for the evening by making his free throw count. The game ended with Notre Dame striving in vain for another point to add to its 49 to 21 victory.
McCarthy, Smith, Captain Donovan and Gavin were the best performers for Notre Dame due their sure shooting and clever passing. These men showed great bursts of speed, the essential part of snappy floorwork, and their attempts at field goals were above average. Ferzacca, small but hefty forward, was the leading light for the Lake Forest team with four goals and three free shots for a total of 11 points. Ashton, center, and Strako, forward, also played a fast game and kept alive what little interest there was in the game.
Notre Dame (49)	G	F	P
Newbold, rf_____________2	1	2
Gavin, rf_______________3	1	1
Heenan, rf______________2	0	1
Forsee, rf______________0	0	0
Crowe, If_______________0	0	0
J. McCarthy, If_________6	3	1
Host, If________________1	1	1
McNally, If_____________0	0	0
DeCook, c_______________0	1	0
Busch, c________________0	0	1
Duwan, c________________0	0	0
O’Connell, c____________1	1	1
Smith, 1g---------------5	0	1
Burns, 1g_______________0	0	0
W. McCarthy, 1g_________0	0	1
Carideo, Ig_____________0	0	0
Donovan, rg 0	1	2
Johnson, rg_____________0	0	1
Kizer, rg_______________0	0	0
Totals 20	9	13
Lake Forest (21) G	F	P
Kunz, rf 0	2	0
Strako, rf______________2	2	0
Ferzacca, If____________4	3	1
Ashton, ,c______________0	1	2
Cary, 1g----------------0	0	2
Dixon, 1g---------Z-----0	0	1
Sabosky, 1g 0	0	3
Fieldhouse, rg__________0	0	0
Johnson, rg_____________0	1	1
Totals 6	9	10
Score at half—Notre Dame, 22;
Lake Forest, 8.
Referee—Young (Illinois Wesleyan) ; umpire—Warren (South Bend).
BASKETBALL AND SWIMMING NEXT ON INTER-
HALL CARD
Preparations are progressing rapidly for the interhall basketball league which gets under way about the middle of January. The schedule is being arranged, the date for disposal of uniforms will be listed in each of the halls, and everything is expected to be in readiness when the students return from the holiday session.
There can be no doubt that the popular Indiana sport will be as enthusiastically received as in the past. Last season the season closed in a deadlock between Morrissey and
AND SAVE MONEY

After the Dean quits sobbing hysterically at the thought of being parted from you over the Christmas holidays, grab yourself a Greyhound Bus and hit for home.
Be sure to let the folks know you traveled by Greyhound and saved money. Then you can safely break the news about flunking in math, as well as the need for new clothes. Popper and Mommer will remark (when they’re alone) that their- offspring isn’t dumb about practical matters, and, after all, maybe it’s the college that’s wrong.
For your further information, you’ll find these Greyhound Bus lines run almost everywhere. You’ve probably seen their ads in the Satevepost. Riding a Greyhound Bus is cheaper than wearing out shoe leather. As for comfort, it is just like leaning back in an overstaffed morris chair with your feet on the radiator.
For further dope consult:
James L. Rizer, 206 Badin Hall
Badin Halls. The former won only after a hard struggle which attested to the strength of the teams at the top of the heap when the league ended. These two fives fought through four bitter- periods which were of truly championship caliber.
At the close. of the cage season, competition will immediately turn to swimming. After a number of dual meets, the interest of the natators will swing to preparing for the championship meet in the Spring. The first three place winners of the event will receive medals, and the hall scoring the greatest number of points will win the championship.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
405
TRACK SCHEDULE IS . ANNOUNCED
Coach John P. Nicholson, after attending the Western Conference meeting last week-end, announced the 1930 Notre Dame track schedule. Five dual meets, four relays, the Indiana State meet, the Central Intercollegiate Conference indoor championships, and the National Collegiate championships make up the most formidable schedule a Notre Dame team has faced in recent years. The highlight of the season is a dual meet with the Navy at Annapolis on June 7.
The indoor season opens on February 15, with Notre Dame playing host to Illinois. The Irish return the visit during the outdoor season when they go to Urbana on May 17. Indiana University will be met at Bloomington on February 22, and Wisconsin at Madison on March 1, to end the indoor dual meets.
As has been the custom during the past few years, Notre Dame will be host to the other teams of the Central Intercollegiate Conference on March 7 and 8, for the annual indoor championships. Following this will come the Illinois indoor relays on March 15, the Kansas relays on March 19, and the annual Penn relays on April 26.
Indoor
February 15—Illinois at Notre Dame.
February. 22 — Indiana at Bloomington.
March 1—Wisconsin at Madison.
March 7 and 8—Central Intercollegiate Conference at Notre Dame.
March 15—Illinois Indoor Relays at Urbana.
March 19—Kansas Relays at Lawrence.
April 26 — Penn Relays at Philadelphia.
Outdoor
May 3—Ohio State Relays at Columbus.
May 17—Illinois at Urbana.
May 24—Indiana State Meet at Bloomington.
June 7—Naval Academy at Annapolis.
June 13 and 14 — National Collegiate Championships at Chicago.
The Ohio Relays on May 3 will be the first outdoor appearance of the team this spring. This will be followed by the dual meet with Illinois on May 17, and the Indiana State meet at Bloomington a week later.
As mentioned above, the regular season will close on June 7 with the dual meet with the Naval Academy, but Notre Dame will be represented in several events at the National Col-legiates at Chicago, June 13 and 14.
CHEWING GUM
With an exclusive flavor that’s refreshing and lasting. Save the wrappers. See inside for list of premiums.
VAL BLATZ BREWING CO.
MILWAUKEE, WIS.
SAWYER'S Rainwear nOG BRAND SLICKERS
C AW YER*S Frog Brand Slicker* have ealab* lithed a lasting reputation on the campus among well>drc*»ed college men and women where rain garment* of good appearance aa well aa long life are e**ential.
Sawyer flicker* are all good-looking, roomy, well-cut garment*, guaranteed to keep you absolutely dry and warm an^ are la be had lined or unlined. button* or elaepe aa yau prefer, in a wide variety of style* for rr**y purpooe. Your choice of color*. Shope every- -where carry them.
H.M. SAWYER^ & SON
EAST CAMBRIDGE. ---------MAS* ’
Offices New York, N. Y. San Antonio, Texas Chicago. Ill. St. Louis, Mo.
The Pipe even helps you say nothing at all . . .
YOU’VE noticed how expressive the pipe can be, what, meaning it can put into the simplest gesture. The pipe even helps you say nothing at all—and that, O mortal, takes a man among men I
Men to their pipes and women to their lipsticks—but suppose you had no pipe and faced repression? Suppose you had no tobacco to put in your pipe! Empty pipes make empty gestures that have no meaning. Filled with good tobacco, your pipe becomes eloquent. Filled with Edgeworth, it is Olympian!
What, no Edgeworth? Lose not a moment—haste to the mails with the coupon. Let the machinery of government rush to you a free packet- of good old Edgeworth, delicious and friendly Edgeworth, full-flavored, slow-burning, cool.
Edgeworth is a careful blend of good tobaccos —selected especially for pipe-smoking. Its quality andflavornever change. Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two forms — “Ready Rubbed” and ‘ “Plug Slice”—ISe pocket package to pound humidor tin.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
LARUS & BRO. CO.	}
100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va. . ।
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try { it in a good pipe.	।
I
Name----------------------------- I
1
Street---------------------------{
I
Town and State_____________________ |
Now let the Edgeworth comet V I
406
The Notre Dame Scholastic
!...................................... n	!
I f f f i f f f
THE N. D. MAN’S FLORIST SHOP
o
I
WILLIAMS
THE FLORIST
I
THINGS
for the Student
s
f f It
I
1 I
I f
Leather Coats Sweaters Sweat Coats Buckskin Jackets Basket Balls Boxing Gloves Exercisers
Pocket Knives Flash Lights
:§

Flowers Telegraphed Anyivhere on Short Notice.
219 WEST WASHINGTON AVE. TELEPHONE 3-5149
The “RECO” Store
113 NORTH MAIN STREET
Open evenings till 8.
I




WALK - OVER
THE SOUTH BEND CLEARING HOUSE BANKS
I i
n
Where
f
I
1 I
Good
Shoes
1
1
I
Are Not
1
I
Expensive

WALK-OVER
111 S. MICHIGAN
I r I f 1 1 1 1 •
1 1
•I
St. Joseph County Savings Bank
I
I
o
INVITES THE ACCOUNTS OF NOTRE DAME MEN
L
o
122 W. Washington, J. M. S. Bldg.
L L
L
r
L .L



The Notre Dame Scholastic
407
. . . and here are just the skates to wear .... The perfect fit and correct balance make skating a pleasure. You’ll be proud of these fine tubular skates attached to shoes. Sizes for everyone, for every kind of skating.
AI feed, Johnson Xkate rampanu SASA Worth Ave Bncm U.S.A.
The Choice of Champions
Send for this Free cBook on Skating
A Quality Outfit for Beginners
^or salt by Leading Sporting Goods, Hardware and Department Stores

i	*
f Office 3-69T8 Res. 2-6741 j;
1	i
1	Dr. Leo J. Quinlan	f
■	DENTIST 1
F	i
*	514 J. M. S. Building	>
£	f
.	South Bend, Ind. j
■___L

1 STUDENTS I F	it !
: £ Earn extra money in your spare 4;
: * time selling popular priced pat- 4
: | ented Athletic shirts and shorts. 4
£ No experience necessary. Bep 4 £ Menswear Products, 150 West J
22nd St., New York City. ;
ALBION IS CAGE OPPONENT TO-NIGHT
Coach Koegan’s twice-victorious basketball artists will clash with Albion College quintet from Albion, Michigan, tonight on the home floor. Prospects of another victory are bright but these northern stars having hopes of a state title with four of the regulars from last year returning, have developed into a smooth running and point-getting team.
Last week Albion defeated a strong Battle Creek outfit, 25 to 19 with a spirited rally in which Jack Nellar, flashy Albion forward, accounted for 16 of his team’s points. Notre Dame’s defense will have to be running perfectly tonight if Coach Koegan’s hoys intend to come out on top again. As shown against Lake Forest last Saturday, the Blue and Gold outfit is making the field goals count more consistently and there should be no worry in this regard tonight.
Notre Dame will be host to Northwestern on December 19th, the last day before the Christmas vacation, and during this period will play Iowa, Ohio State, a return game with Northwestern, and Indiana on Jan. 7.
“FOOTBALL REVIEW” OUT TUESDAY
The Football Review for 1929 will make its appearance on the campus on Tuesday, December 17th, according to Harley McDevitt, graduate manager of the Review. A record circulation has been reached. At present the demand is 2,000 copies, but it is expected that that amount will reach 3,000 before the book is published.
Editor Joseph Petritz has announced the inclusion of several novel features. He calls particular attention to the Review’s All-Opponent Team, chosen with the aid of Coach Rockne and Tom Lieb, as well as the coaches of Notre Dame’s opponents this year. The issue will also include statements from various coaches and captains. Because of the fact that the team has been recognized as National Champions, it is expected that the campus sale will be large. Already the students have shown a keen enthusiasm for the Review.
On the evening of December 17th, monogram men will make the rounds of the halls with the books. Students on the campus will be able to buy the Football Review at a special rate of one dollar.
408
The Notre Dame Scholastic
8 8
8 I
8 I 8
I I
& w 8 !
8 8
8
I
i
For school supplies
and
appropriate reading material
patronize
w 8 •g
$
The Book Shop
119 North Michigan St.
■$ ?gw«^W?!w«?Sre?S!^^
i i	’
sg
•1 1
1
I
8
&
i
1


8
Where Notre Dame
§
f
8
r
‘I
r
h:
Follow the
Basketball Team
at home and abroad
thru the columns
THE
NEWS - TIMES
Men Meet
“Always in the Crowd”
Excellent Sandwiches
Hot and Cold Drinks
Hot Chili
Ice Cream
Candy
Delicious Malted Milks
Hot Tamale
KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG
327 North Michigan Street •
I
I
I
1

% 8 I I I 8 8 8 f 8 8 8
I

I	I
J	1
f	.	.	i
j	For	week-ends	in	Chicago	|
?	take	the	South	Shore Line	i
• J	fir
[	Trains leave South Bend	I
£	every hour on the hour	f
I	1
I	1
i	i
See Charles Woods in the Bookstore or call a
F	M
; I	2-5764 for complete information.	»
1	■	1
• I
; CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE |
L & SOUTH BEND |
U	RAILROAD	|
‘ '	I
J •	1
The Notre Dame Scholastic
409

f
f f

f ¥ f f
f § f
s-
f f f
wC
Corner Michigan and Colfax
CIGARETTES
Camels
Old Golds
Three Kings
Lucky Strikes Piedmonts Clowns
Chesterfields Two packages for 25c.
SMOKING
Prince Albert Hale and Half Dills Best
TOBACCO
Edgeworth
Velvet Buckingham

f
t
•5
Sir Walter Raleigh Two Tins for 25c.



&
3 I I I s 8 s i I
% s
4 i
3
3
I
I

I I f
I
f
f f f f
t f
f f
South Bend’s
Real Gift Store
GLOVES
HOSIERY
HAND BAGS
LEATHER NOVELTIES
LUGGAGE
ROBES
TRUNKS
The Leather Shop
134 N. Michigan St.
1 s
a*
I
I
!
S 1 1 1 1 1 1
I I 1 1 I i I
5 f f f f
t


F
PRESENTING
A NEW SERVICE
By Notre Dame Men for Notre Dame Men
of
Suits, Overcoats, Dress Clothes, etc.
Unexcelled Workmanship
Standard Prices
Insurance Against Loss Satisfaction Guaranteed
See Our Representative in Your Hall.
The Student Tailoring Association
Phone 3-0580
Office, 128 Walsh Hall
Dan Halpin Jos. Thornton Dan Cannon
$ I i
I
&
I
S
&
M
&
$

f f
I
I
W
f
SODAS
PAPERS
1
1
1
UNIVERSITY CAFETERIA
—and—
i &
8
■ S
8
8
*
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 A. M. to 9:40 P. M.
CIGARS
CIGARETTES
J
I
1 1
1
1

410
The Notre Dame Scholastic
«s?jr<»!5re»?rt»5res£rt»sijrcs5ct^xe«^^
R. K. 0.
f f 5?
$ f f f f f f f f f f f
PRLRCE

«
3 Days Commencing Sunday
The outstanding Science
MARVEL OF THE ERA
Marveltone
t
g

I

ALL IN ONE .
$ l I I f it sg f f f I f f
Motion Pictures that Think and Talk, answering your questions directly from the screen.
Thinking Pictures are motion pictures with the
capability of actually conversing with
mem-
bers
You talk
sitting in the audience.
see the characters on the screen, to you and answer all questions.
They
They
will tell you about the past, present and future; advise you of the outcome of your perplexing problems or business relations.
Furthermore, the characters appearing in
f
Marveltone
Will upon request play any musical composi-’ tion ever written.
f
You will be enthralled with the uncanny powers amazingly revealed by

Marveltone
£
ALSO 4 OTHER BIG RKO ACTS
ON THE SCREEN-
JANET GAYNOR
CHAS. MORTON in
‘XHRZS7L4MT
1
I
3
I
z£ 2?
1
I

I
I
! i
.1
I I
He fought all the world!
-	Snarled at every law! Then	'
among his enemies he found his love!
GEORGE
BANCROFT
“The
Mighty”
with
ESTHER RALSTON WARNER OLAND RAYMOND HATTON O. P. HEGGIE
A Paramount
All-Talking Drama
George Bancroft is the mighty! You’ll call him the world’s acting genius! It’s . even mightier than “Thun- derbolt.”
SATURDAY thru TUESDAY
One of the Publix Theatres

The Notre Dame Scholastic
411
'V

MANAGERS HOLD BANQUET; CUT LIST
At a banquet of student managers held on Tuesday night the number of Freshman managers was cut to 23 and the number of Sophomore managers was reduced to 7. Naming of the senior managers for basketball, football, track, baseball, and minor sports was postponed until after the Christmas vacation because of the absence of Knute Rockne.
John J. Quinn, senior football manager, and associate football Manager Bernard W. Conroy are now occupied with the task of arranging football equipment and storing it away until the spring football season. At that time these two managers will again asume charge of activities in that field. The remainder of the undergraduate managers are divided between basketball, and indoor track duties. Quinn and Conroy will receive monograms for their services.
Con Carey, senior basketball manager, is in charge of the managers for the cage season. The position of senior track manager is being filled by A. W. Kegowitz who supervises the work of the undergraduate men
in both indoor and outdoor track. J. Franklin O’Marah is the associate senior track manager and Robert Hellrung will assume his duties as senior- baseball supervisor, in the spring. The managerial reins of minor sports are held by Gene Kennedy, senior head of that division.
Senior managers for next year will be chosen from these seven Juniors:
Cornelius J. Carey
Basketball Manager
Dan Halpin, Tom Ashe, Jack Saunders, Joe Lauerman, Robert Balfe, Jack Hughes, and Bourke Motsett. These men are at present working
under the senior, managers in all sports.
When the call for freshman managers was issued in September, 68 responded but the number had diminished to 29 at the time of the banquet Tuesday evening. Two trips to Chicago were taken by the first year men. These freshmen who will form the roster for the first year division for the rest of the season are: Fallon, Fox, Noble, Shinners, Sheedy, Kenefick, Greer, Johnston, Murray, McGeary, Baker, Biehl, Aubrey, Ad-donizzio, Bergan, Burke, Kenn, Martin, McCoy, Noll, O’Keefe, Scholnick, and Wirry.
Sophomore managers are: Corr, Colville, Grams, McKeon, Ross, Span-genberg, and Weiss.
ROCKNE TO RECUPERATE
IN FLORIDA
Now that the worries of following a team from a sick-bed have passed on, and Notre Dame has finished an undefeated season, Coach Knute K. Rockne will strive to regain his health, lost through a leg infection, by spending several months in Florida.
8
RADio-KEiTH- T) A XT A TA A Starts orpheum VJ IV/yLN ADA Saturday
I
I f
i
The Isle of Lost Ships
All Talking Melodrama of the Sea
t
I
I
i
i i a
VIRGINIA VALLI - NOAH BERRY
&
I
1
I A Story That Makes You Live the Adventures of Which f	You Have Dreamed.
I
HEAR IT!

412
The Notre Dame Scholastic
sg
Best Advice
Ofttimes in college the dean is confronted by students who are seek' ing advice. Matters pertaining to school activities are brought to him for solution. His word is taken as final.
But when John or Mary bringtheir personal troubles and perplexities to him, it’s not so easy. He finds it a difficult task to make a decision, be it of trivial or vital importance. To assume the responsibilities of a parent is a serious problem.
Then it is that the wise dean realises that a talk with mother or dad is all that the student needs— and he will sagely prescribe the use of Long Distance. For not only is parental advice needed in such cases, but the sound of voices from home invigorates the college day.
^Add J^ong ‘Distances to your college course
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
Jr I f
f f
I
f


f
&

1
I
I
I i
I
1
A Christmas Gift
for Notre Dame Men
Life Insurance From
Your Folks
Perhaps Mother and Dad cannot find a suitable gift for you—
Suggest Life Insurance
As a representative of the CENTRAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY (Mutual) of DES MOINES, IOWA, I can offer you any kind of life insurance that you desire. It is THE SAFE INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS PLAN.
When you return to the campus after the holidays send me your name and address and I shall call at your room to arrange for the kind and amount of this investment that your folks wish to give you. Let me know if you want further information before Christmas.
Mother and Dad may make two or more years’ deposits at once if they so desire. A discount of 4% will be allowed on all premiums paid one year or more before due.
I am interested; come and see me.
Name
Address
R. Zeno Staudt, Jr.
331 Badin Hall NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
I 1 i i I
a •ft &
&
I s
I
I
I
I 1 i I •1 1
&
I s
ip i i
I
■i
a
I s
1 I I

I
I
The Notre Dame Scholastic
413
*
Splinters from the Press Box
Daniel Hays Gloves
IPlugging hard for your diploma? Don’t let wrong food hold you back. Heavy eating hinders your best effort. Shredded Wheat doesn’t tax digestion or slow up thinking. It’s, a big help at grind-times.
ShreddedL Wheats?
A complete meal with milk or cream
PATRONIZE “SCHOLASTIC” ADVERTISERS
One player whom we think is as good as any in the country and who has received little recognition this season, is Stumpy Thomason, Georgia Tech’s diminutive firebrand. He has played with an unsuccessful team but in spite of that has stood out like a beacon light. What he didn’t do this season, didn’t matter. In the Notre Dame game he did every, thing save punt and pack water, even to the playing of an end position going down under punts. Pickers of All-America teams have given him little recognition, but the men who have played against or with him know his true worth, and they will remember Stumpy Thomason—The Workhorse of the South.
When Pitt goes West it will be seeking the second victory that an Eastern team has ever scored in the Tournament of Roses. Only once before has an Eastern team evei‘ emerged victorious in seven games. played; Harvard being the victor over Oregon in 1920 by the score of 7-6. But in its game with the representatives of other sections of the country, played in the Tournament of Roses, the West Coast has split only even, winning five, losing five, and tying three. Incidentally, we pick Southern California to beat both Carnegie Tech and Pittsburgh.
This is the seventh successive year that a Crowe has played on the Notre Dame basketball team. First Clem, then Fran, and now Norb. Rumor has it that there is yet another one who will matriculate here as a freshman when Norb is a senior, thus extending the number of years a Crowe will have played on the Irish basketball team to twelve. The Newbold family seems to have started a little competition in this respect, however.
Strong though the track team will be this year, there is no department of it that will have anything on the hurdlers. Led by Roy Bailie and Johnny O’Brien, there will be very few schools scoring points against the Irish in either the highs or the lows. Neither O’Brien nor Bailie ever even attempted the hurdles before matriculating here; they are merely two more of the products of the genius that is Coach Nicholson’s.
414	The
Coach Rockne predicted a great team for Notre Dame this year in direct contrast to the time-honored custom of picking one’s team to lose, so prevalent a practice among coaches in the past. Now that his prediction has come true it is an even more direct rebuff to such a practice. At that, one Gilmore Dobie, the lachrymose Scotchman who coaches Cornell, and whose tears run down the heights
Notre Dame S c h o la
“far above Cayuga’s waters” and go to swell the flood below each year is about the only one of the pessimists— the persistent and die-hard pessimists —who has ever had more than ordinary success.
George Kojac, Olympic swimming champion, who is now a junior at Rutgers, holds eight of the ten rank records at the institution “on the banks of the old Raritan.” This is
Stic
no easy feat, even for an Olympian, as in the past the Scarlet has produced some of the greatest swimmers ever known, and has always rated high in intercollegiate circles.
—C—
This boy, Wear Schoonover of Arkansas, must be the goods in order to get the recognition he has playing for the Razorbacks, who are not exactly what one might call “in the public eye.”
❖4-
The Notre Dame Scholastic
415
NEW MEN ADDED TO FROSH CAGE SQUAD
Since the close of the football season, nine new men have been added to the roster of the freshman basketball squad, which is tutored nightly by freshman coach Joe Jachym. The nine men were members of the freshman football squad and have now donned the shorts to seek further first year athletic laurels. The addition of these players to the squad brings the number of yearling cage men to 30.
Varsity Coach George Koegan and Joe Jachym plan to obtain several games with reserve teams of the section for the freshman squad at Notre Dame. As yet, no definite action has been taken in this new direction, it was said.
The nine new men on the frosh cage roster who played football are: Gabrysiak, Jackwitch, Staab, Bene-vino, Aug. Donnelley, Kurth, Donahue, and Tobin. The remainder of the squad is comprised of the following: Sabo, Voeghe, Samp, Ferris, Keating, Baldwin, O’Donnell, Hinnuyfied, Quinn, Ropier, McGrath, Terry, Crosby, Thume, Campbell, Irincich, Lene-han, Shrader, Le Compte, Lozio, and Shumacker.
AWARD INTERHALL MEDALS
The winners of the interhall crosscountry meet held recently were awarded medals last Wednesday, December 11 for their efforts in this event.
FOOTBALL STARS TO PLAY IN POST SEASON CONTEST
Jack Cannon, All-America guard, and Ted Twomey, an equally famous tackle have accepted the invitations, issued them by Coach Dick Hanley of Northwestern University, to play with the All-East team against the AllWest team of college ’stars in San Francisco on New Year’s Day. This game is sponsored by the Shriners’ of California and has become a much looked-for event during the last few years.
Johnny Colrick, Joe Nash and Bud Gebert will be in the lineup of the all star team chosen by Coach Jimmy Phelan of Purdue. This team, composed of Mid-Western stars, will play a picked team of South-West players.
1
I
The most popular cereals served in the dining-rooms of American colleges, eating clubs and fraternities are made by Kellogg in Battle Creek. They include . ALL-BRAN, Pep Bran Flakes, Rice Krispies, Wheat Krumbles, and Kellogg’s Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit. Also Kaffee Hag Coffee—the coffee that lets you sleep. .

It’S not a hard question: Why are Kellogg’s Corn Flakes the most popular ready-to-eat cereal in the world? Two words give you the answer—matchless flavor.
Just pour milk or cream into a brimming bowl of these crisp and golden flakes tomorrow. You’ll want to repeat.
Ask your fraternity house steward or your favorite campus restaurant to serve Kellogg’s—the original Corn Flakes.

CORN FLAKES
CORN •JAKES
k'‘“SX,C0'Wwly

a
416
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Ready-made And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY STYLES. TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE INTHE UNITED STATES
Shutter peruse
Suits •40, *45, *50 Overcoats
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT OUR STORE IS THE	.
(Jhwterl cruse
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
:	The character of the suits and
r	overcoats tailored by Charter House	i
,	will earn your most sincere liking.	’
MAX ADLER
Inc.
On the Corner
Michigan and Washington
Residence Phone 3-4041
Office Phone 2-1067
Dr. Edgar S. Lucas
Dentist
702 J. M. S. Building SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
, f
On Down the Line
. . . Glen Harmeson, Purdue star, has fallen arches, flat feet, and bunions ... so if you don’t possess those “qualities,” you’ll probably never be a football player . . . Florence Kisecker, University of Kansas, is considered to be the most versatile girl athlete in the West . . . she’s goalkeeper for the Kansas hockey team now . . . 100 straight “clays” thrown from the traps was the feat of W. C. Miller, amateur gunner . . . • this in a trap-shooting meet in Kansas City, Mo. . . and Mr. Line-o-typer ' don’t change that “t” to a “c” . . .
. . . Night baseball is to be tried next . . . one advocate says in part, “it will offset the use of the auto” . . . Charles Clements, Alabama tackle, wears size fourteen shoes . . . Canada intends to “upset” the Olympic games program for 1932 ... It wants canoe racing added to the events . . .
... We hear that Dick Shelton, of Tilden, Texas holds the world’s steer throwing record . . . The Big Ten put the blanket on our Iowa friends . . . and the lowans claim it is all “wet” at that . . . Gerald (Cowboy) Curtin, Okla. A. .and M. halfback defensive ace, claims he uses Wyoming steers as tackling dummies . . . and 600-pound hefties to “block” . . .

. . .Charles Arthur (“The Great”) Shires, is slated to appear in one of the local South Bend boxing emporiums on December 20th • . . Our ow Jack McGrath, (remember him?) is said to be the. lucky boy to meet him ... A big diamond thief ... no, no— just Hans Wagner, who stole more than 50 bases in five straight seasons . . . annexed 61 in 1907 . . . Gus Sonnenberg, the demon wrestling champ, claims that his shoulders have never been pinned to a mat.. . . his sole defeat being the result of a dive out of the ring . . .
. . . Japan is taking to the game of billiards . . . especially with teachers, professors and other professional men . . . which is all we have for 1929 . . . Next time we see you with some more nonsensical nonsense it will be 1930 . . . and “On Down The Line” wishes everyone—on down the line—a merry Christmas and a boisterous New Year . . . Toodle—Oo! . . .
The Notre Dame Scholastic	417
INDIANA
£uxe
; Cab Company
'	“The Cabs the Students Ride”

iiiintn t tiiiiin t iniiii t inn muni i nt t inn t inn i it tniicii mutt unit tiictiiiiiiiimiiit tint tint tin unit
After the Dance,
After the Show, As the nights grow colder, call an
INDIANA
it mi t limit it tnnni tin i miiimmmmtimmmmmmiiiiiiimimiim it in tut m inn mmnmimu
Call 3-7147	Call 3-7147
^Reliability! Safety! Courtesy!
418
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I reduced | twice yearly --- in January and july our suits and overcoats are all available at 29S0 3450 39s°
prices reduced on all men’s furnishings
adler brothers