
Can't figure out what to write?. 

Please send _ years of Scholastic to: 
Name: ___________ Notre Dame's 
Address:.__________ 
City:_____State:_Zip:___ excuse not to 
Please make checks payable to : 
write home. 
Scholastic Magazine Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
. Enclosed is a check for $20.00 x _ years = $_ 
Notre Dame's Student Magazine April 27, 1989 
Cover The Passport: Manifesto by Angel Manuel Cuevas and Felix Villalba/ Page 4 We are the World by Ramzi Bualuan/ Page 5 Open Minded by Jeff Long/ Page 6 What's in a Name by Huma Ehtisham/ Page 7 Impressions of Peru by Victor Krebs/ Page 8 Israel Under Attack by Edna Hidekel/ Page 9 
Cover by Vivienne Padilla 

Scholastic is published weekly during the school year except during examinations and vacation periods at the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, lN, 46556 
and printed at The Papers, Inc., Milford, lN 46542. The subscription rate is $20.00/year and back issues are available at $1.00/copy. Toe opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do nol'necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are 
welcome. All unsolicited materials become the property of Scholastic. 
Copyright 1989 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. 
April 27, 1989 
On Other Campuses 


Just the Facts, Eh? 
Study shows our neighbors north of border consume alcohol ... heavily 
EDITED BY MARK FLAHARTY 
C 
anadians are drunkards! Yes it's true, a study con­
ducted by the Addiction Research Foundation, a provin­
cial agency in the Canadian province of Ontario, has proven the above generalization, The Chronicle ofHigher Educa­tion reports. A survey of 4,911 students at four unidentified universities showed that nearly thirty percent of college stud ents in Ontario are "heavy drinkers," consuming more than 15 alcoholic drinks a week. The survey found that nearly 65 percent of the students were light to moderate drinkers, while about six percent said they never drank alcoholic beverages. Among those described as heavy drinkers, however, was a group--accounting for about 12 percent of all respondents--who consumed more than 28 drinks a week. Even so, the study determined that the abuse of drugs, alcohol and tobacco generally was not a serious problem for Ontario students. 
And in the United States ... Drug use isdown among high school seniors and college students, states the 14th ''National High School Senior Survey" conducted by the University of Michigan's Insti­tute for Social Research. The National On-Campus Report re­vealed that the study--which surveys high school seriors and graduates--found that use of cocaine and crack had dropped among both groups in the last year. Marijuana use was also down, as was alcohol use slightly. This news was released just as a study from Duke University reported ... 
... Drugs can enhance your G.P.A. The study of 400 students, conducted by the Student Health Center at Duke, concluded than 54 percent of the students who had used LSD have a grade point average of 3.5 or above, a report in College Press Service stated. Robert Gringle of the Student Health Center said, "Duke students seem to be able to juggle drug use with the ability to keep up their grades." But in a subsequent interview, he cautioned the study's results saying they were preliminary and that drugs probably do not help students improve their grades. "There's nothing like that that we could conceivably say," Gringle maintained. "There's nothing we could say about that connection or lack of connection." 
Left out in the cold? Eighty University of Toronto students who were stranded in Florida in late February may sue the tour company that planned their trip, The Daily Illini reported. The students were stuck outside of Jackson ville when buses failed to show up because of bad weather. When one student tried to call the tour company, Inter-campus Programs of Chicago, the vice-president hung up on her, twice. The next morning the local sheriff's office helped the students to find other buses home, though a few had to book flights in order to return in time for scheduled exams. 

Professional athletes? In a survey taken by the Media General­Associated Press it was found that most Americans believe the colleges that regularly field the best sports teams sneak illicit pay­ments to their athletes and fix their athletes' grades in order to keep them eligible to compete, the College Press Service reports. 54 percent of the people polled believed schools pay their athletes in defiance of sports rules that prohibit colleges from giving their athletes anything except scholarships. The poll also revealed that a majority of the participants believed colleges fix grades and a full 80 percent supported the NCAA's new Proposition 42, which bars colleges from giving athletic scholarships to students who cannot meet NCAA academic standards. 
Voting with their feet? It might be an all-time low: Members of the student union governing board at Oregon State University were elected on a voter turnout of 0.007%, the National On-Campus Report revealed. One new board member took her seat after defeating her opponent, 54-38, in the only contested race. Besides the scarcity. of contested races, the fact that the boards' elections were held separately from the student government elections con­tributed to the microscopic turnout. II 

Music/Heather Ingraham 


Go Ahead. I Dare You. 
Senior Heather Ingraham challenges all to take the plunge 
Well, here 'tis: my last-ever col­umn for the Scholastic. I've enjoyed the opportunity, but at the same time it's kind of a relief that this is the last one. It's difficult to write coher­ently about music, and I feel uncomfortable acting as an arbiter of taste. And yet being a music critic seems to be an increasingly popular hobby these days; there are literally thousands of fanzines, both glossy and ama­teurish, devoted exclusively to the contem­porary music scene. Writing about bands comes easily enough for most of these critics --why then has it been so difficult for me? Part of it, of course, is simply that it's difficult to write about music. I don't know anyone who is able to recreate on paper the impact a particular song or lyric has on him when he first hears it Imagine how much more difficult it is to relate the intensity of the experience to someone else. That's one of the most difficult things about reviewing music: unless you are analyzing the techni­cal structure of a piece, you are describing your emotional responses to it It's not easy putting your feelings in print for people you've never met and will never see; and it's frustrating knowing that a great many of them probably couldn't care less about your feelings in the first place. Maybe writing about "feel-good" music would be easier; most everyone can identify with light-hearted songs and there is no stigma attached to "feeling good." Once you start writing about music that makes you think, however, or music that addresses your fears and concerns, there's no guaran­tee that other people will see your point of view. When the point of view is unfamiliar, the author is "weird" and so, by association, is the music being reviewed. 
This stigmatization of unknown music as "weird" is easily the most exasperating aspect of writing this column. Fanzine col­umnists have it easy because they are writ­ing for an audience already familiar with the music they are reviewing. Here at Notre Dame, the music I have reviewed must sound foreign and perhaps intimidating, and · people have no interest in experimenting with it As a result, people put the bands in pre-set categories. One of the most frequent categorizations of the music reviewed in this column is "hardcore;" another is "gloom-and-doom." Not true, on either count Bands that simply hate the world, or bands that constantly meander on about what life would be like if they killed them­selves, make the listener (this listener, any­way) wish the aforementioned bapds were dead. I'd be happy to help. 
To the extent that either hardcore or death-rock expresses valid emotional con­cerns, fine, and I'm sorry for hypocritically exploiting stereotypes. Buttotheextentthat both types of music contribute to a lot of standing around and complaining, that's not fine. Music prompts an emotional response, and when it makes you feel a certain way about something, then you ought to do something about it. The world is imperfect, and there is a lot to complain about--buthow much more construe tive it is to try to remedy these defects instead_ of simply grousing about them. 
A lot of 60s activist-type music is be­coming popular again, and I'm delighted, even if it isn't my personal cup of tea. Ide­ally, it means that people are interested in making music an active force in their lives and the lives of others. I only hope the revival doesn't become an easy-listening, greatest hits dead-end, which is the real danger of recycled music--somehow, the hope and anger and alertness always get filtered out For my own, I prefer the music ofbandslikeRifleSportandBig Black, who have kept alive through innovative effort the intensity, theawarenessand the constructive anger of what "punk rock" used to be, before it meant adopting a "look" and recycling other people's energy into negative "thrash." If there's one thing that I hope someone will respond to after wading through my columns, it's this: Please, listen to music that urges you to address the world's shortcomings. A little effort can make a world of difference. l'I · 
Heather Ingraham is still a senior, and is still graduating this May. This, however, is her last music column...definitely. 



Manifesto 
International Student Organization sets goals for new magazine--Passport
During the last few years, the number ofinternational students and minorities has increased steadily at the University of Notre Dame. This process ofgrowth is expected to continue in thefuture, according to Edward "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., the university's president. As a result, the influence ofinternational students has increased strongly in campus life. Events such as the Black Cultural Arts Festival, the Year ofCultural Diversity, the ISO Festival and the increasing participation ofstudents in many ofNotre Dame's ethnic organizations clearly reflect the degree ofthis influence. As international students, however, we have noticed that a considerable number ofstudents remain unaware ofthe character, the contributions, the history and other important features of the various cultures represented within the student body. As representatives ofother cultures we have undertaken the task ofoffering the rest ofthe students the opportunity to experience our values, our concerns, and, in particular our experience as active participants in the mainstream ofAmerican collegiate life. Although folkloric dances, ethnic festivals and lectures byforeign professors are beneficial, they are not sufficient to promote the proper understanding ofa multicultural community. We have thus agreed that the best way to achieve our goal is to establish direct communication between different cultures through the Passport, a magazine sponsored by the International Student Organization. This magazine, currently in its early stages ofdevelopment, will encourage participation ofall members ofthe Notre Dame com­munity, ranging from undergraduate and graduate students to faculty, both American and foreign. The ultimate aim ofour project is to promote what the Multicultural Executive Council of1988-89 defined as a "multicultural personality," or the ability by which an individual "accepts every culture for its own internal coherence and integrity, and actively tries to incorporate components of the various experiences into his own identity." Furthermore, the magazine will attempt to establish an active dialogue on topics ofinternational relevance, including politics, economics, art and culture, as well as the process ofintegration between American and foreign students at Notre Dame. The Passport is our legacy to the university. We hope that this magazine remains as an integral part ofcampus lifefor upcoming generations ofstudents. Finally, we would like to thank the students.faculty members, and Scholastic for their support and ideas throughout the initial stages ofdevelopment. 


~~.,.ere· 
~jl.o/i!fu1~ 
'E,:(_ecutive 'E,aitor
'E,aitor-in-(liief 

'I 



e are the 
orl 



Notre Dame's international side comprises important ,1 part ofstudent body 
understanding of the international nature of leaders serve as examples: the Philippines' 
BY RAMZI BUALUAN 

the world; to develop the expertise in interna­Corazon Aquino, Mexico's Salinas de Gor­They number 554 and they come tional affairs the U.S. needs if it is to be tari, Colombia's Virgilio Barco, Pakistan's 
from all around the world. Three effective and not lose its competitive edge Benazir Bhutto and El Salvador's Napoleon 
hundred and eighty-seven of them throughout the world; to enhance ties be­Duarte. are graduate students, 106 are undergradu­tween various countries and the U.S. through At Notre Dame, the International Student ates. The remaining 61 are here for their the relationships among academic communi­Organization, the Multicultural Executive practical training or post-doctoral studies. ties; to understand the international dimen­Council, the Year of Cultural Diversity China and India with 110 and 80 students, sions and origins of domestic issues; and to Committee, the Kellogg Institute, the Center respectively, form the bulk of the interna­
for Social Concerns and· the Institute for tional student body. The remaining students International Peace Studies are all major are somewhat evenly distributed with respect vehicles for developing awareness of cul­to the other 70 countries. tural diversity. These groups try to promote 
Over a third of a million international understandings of peoples, their languages, students are in the United States today study­their cultures and their ways ofthinking. The ing in roughly 2,500 colleges and universi­commitment to accept the differences of ties. This is a very high number considering others and the willingness to learn from them that there were only 35,000 in 1964. They enhances the education of students. have come here for many reasons -eco­Through its foreign study program, Notre nomic, political and educational. The educa­Dame sends students abroad to discover new tional aspect holds especially true for engi­worlds and learn from them. A majority of neering graduate students. these students return feeling enlightened 
It was after World War II that the United from such experience. At the same time, States emerged as a major center for foreign Notre Dame welcomes international students study, largely because. the peaceful era al­from all over the world each year. While lowed the improvement of the quality of these students benefit greatly from a top­higher education. As the influx of interna­encourage students from abroad who will notch education with facilities and educators tional students kept increasing throughout become leaders of their countries to come that not many universities around the world the years, the U.S. government realized the and study at American institutions. can offer, they add ·to the richness of the benefit that it could derive from such an This last point is quite significant, espe­university on academic, cultural and social intercultural exchange. cially ifone is to believe an article published levels. The different languages, cultures and 
Effective exchange of international stu­by Newsweek (February 16, 1987) which religions add diversity to a very homogene­dents and faculty was found to serve five pointed out that in the next 25 years one-third ous student body. They bring to Notre Dame main purposes according to the 1985 report to one-half of the world's top positions in what Notre Dame tries to reach out for: a entitled "Higher Education and the Ameri­politics, business, education and the military sense of mission in making the world more can Resurgence" by the Carnegie Founda­will be filled by internationals currently at­tolerant, more peaceful, and a better place to tion. They are to create in all students an tending schools in the U.S. Some of today's live. 

hat's In a Name? 


Foreign names can be difficult for natives to handle 
BY HUMA EHTISHAM 

What's your American name 
honey?" she said. 

The lady was pleasant and kind. She touched my elbow and flashed me a smile. 
"I'm sorry, I don't have one," I said apologetically. 
"Oh, okay. I'll just call you Didi then. I had a friend once and her name was Didi. Do you like that?" 
On exposure to her beautiful teeth and pleading eyes, what could I possibly say? 
"Fine," I responded. "Whatever." 

You might wonder why I related this brief experience to you. The reason is that so many other foreign students have had simi­lar conversations with Americans. 
The difficulty many Americans have with alien names especially on this campus, is completely understandable. The student body is not nearly as diverse as many other colleges of this size. 
Take my name Ruma, for example. My grandparents proudly attributed this name to me, even before birth. It is an old Persian word which has become redundant in collo­quial speech. Poets used it in an attempt to conjure up a certain image. Ruma is a mythical bird, and the possessor of a magi­cal power which is supposed to grant a kingdom to the man on whom its shadow falls. 
The correct pronunciation is Hu'ma (Hu-as in hook, not hoot). Even at home, this is not a common name, but it has never been as much of a novelty as it is proving to be over here. I have been greeted on the phone with such original (and admittedly, rather funny) openers as: "Room-a talkin' to?" 
Many people think the "H" is silent and call me Uma (which is a wholly legitimate Indian name in itself). 
Puma seems to be another common de­rivative. It's always said with so much con­fidence, correcting the addressing party just wouldn'tbeworthit. It'smuchmoreconven­ient to make an allowance and pretend it has gone unnoticed. My name proclaims me a mysterious, legendary entity yet, at the same time, I am equated with a brand of footwear! My grandparents are undoubt­edly grimacing in their heavenly rocking chairs! 
Although it can be frustrating at times, the mispronunciation ofone's name is not of such great importance. Especially here at Notre Dame, since everyone seems to make an honest attempt Most foreign students appreciate the effort. II 






n 
ind 


American conveys importance ofdiverse friends 
BY JEFF LONG 

Notre Dame's Year of Cultural Di­versity has been a year marked by innovative events such as the Inter­national Festival and the foundation of a magazine by the International Student Or­ganization. Does such awareness have some intrinsic value that makes it worthwhile and important? My own experiences with cul­tural diversity have shown me that learning about and trying to increase my understand­ing of other cultures is not only enjoyable, but enriching to my life in very significant ways. Sharing in other cultures is something we should all experience if we wish to grow as human beings and reach our full potential. Of course, when the value of cultural awareness is discussed, it tends to be in terms of its external benefits. The fact, for ex­ample, that cultural awareness promotes greater toleration and harmony among people of different ethnic backgrounds, and is therefore an instrument for peacemaking, is frequently cited as a prime reason to pro­mote such awareness. Also frequently men­tioned is that understanding among cultures makes cooperative actions between people of different countries easier. But even though these are certainly excellent, practical and very important reasons to heighten one's awareness of the cultures ofothers, they are, I think, secondary to the internal rewards from the experience of foreign cultures. What are these "internal rewards?" How does one go about experiencing cultural diversity? Speaking from my own point of view, I have found that the best way to experience cultural awareness is through relationships with people of different back­grounds. I am a student worker at the Insti­tute for International Peace Studies in the Notre Dame Law School. The Institute spon­sors the International Scholars Program, in which graduate students from a number of countries live and study together for a year and learn how to form a community of very diverse individuals. 
This year, the program includes two stu­dents apiece from the United States, the Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China and the Philippines, and one student apiece from Japan, Chile, Ghana, Israel and a Palestinian student from the West Bank. In the course of working for Anne Hayner, the administratorof this program, I have come to know all of these students, and have formed close friendships with several of them. I have also developed friendships with other stu­dents from India and Latin America. On top of this, my roommate is from Colombia. 
These friendships have exposed me to a great deal of cultural diversity, more than would have been possible if my exposure to other cultures had been limited to "book learning." My international friends have taught me how to empathize more with those who are different from myself: not only people from other countries, but with people in general. I have also learned a great deal about how people from the United States are viewed by the rest of the world. 
In fact, I think the real purpose, the intrin­sic value, of multicultural awareness, is the formation of a "multicultural personality," one that is open to the good elements of all cultures and is willing to incorporate these elements into itself. In other words, a multic­ultural person wishes to become the best person he can by taking all of the best that the world has to offer. But a multicultural person is not a "cultural relativist." Openness must also be accompanied by an ability to be discriminating and critical when appropri­ate. A multicultural person nonetheless tries to apply criticism in as objective and non cul­ture-bound a manner as possible, with a will­ingness to be critical ofhis or her own culture as much as those of others. The idea is not simply to relativize cultures, but to be open to the insights ofeach culture and, perhaps most importantly of all, to let them challenge and shape one's own way oflooking at the world. This does not mean that the multicultural person loses his or her own unique cultural point of view (assuming that such a loss is even possible), but that this point of view is expanded and fine tuned by exposure and openness to the ways of others. 
Multicultural relationships are particu­larly conducive to the formation of a multic­ultural personality. I did not deliberately set out to get to know people from other coun­tries to find out what I could learn from them. Such an attitude treats people as means to an end, and would certainly not produce any kind of friendship with lasting value. I have gotten to know international students not as simply "Chileans" or "Indians" or "Filipi­nos," but as unique individuals. An attitude of openness and a willingness to learn and grow from my relationships has made my international friendships particularly rich. I would not make the boastful claim that I have succeeded in becoming a multicultural per­son, but I am certainly finding the attempt worthwhile. The cultural awareness gained through my friendships is making me a better person. Although I have always considered myself fairly liberal and open minded, get­ting to know and love people with quite different world views is broadening my hori­zons more than I ever thought possible. That is the real value of multicultural awareness and exreriencing cultural diversity. 


r 
of 
•
IO r 





Reaction to country in turmoil following three week visit 

BY VICTOR KREBS

A fter thirteen years of military dictatorship, Peru has been struggling to uphold a democratic government since 1980. Five years ago the young populist leader Alan Garcia Perez won the national elections. He begun his presidency with a bold statement to the United Nations, in which he made a unilateral pledge to limit payments on Peru's foreign debt to 10 percent of export earnings. As a result, he was nicknamed the "President of Hope" by the Peruvian people who acclaimed him as their long-awaited leader. But his defiant stance against paying the foreign debt backfired, cutting Peru off from international aid. Moreover, uncontrolled gov­ernment spending has bankrupted the country. When I went back to Peru in January, the optimism I had seen three years ago was gone and instead I found the country was in a state of utter bewilderment and hopelessness. Inflation hit a record 1,800 percent in 1988, government corruption is at an all time high, terrorism continues to grow, and itis not uncommon forpowerplants in the capital to be bombed monthly. Blackouts occur daily, and the poverty and crime in the streets appalls both visitors and natives. This young and promising leader has become a ghost while people harass him as he speeds by the streets of Lima. The following is a collection of entries in my journal. They are meant to present an impressionistic picture of the situation as I saw it during the three weeks I was there. These are my impressions of a country in turmoil. 
I have been in Lima for three days now, and I realize I have entered a different world -a world in rebellion. People are rapidly approach­ing the brink of madness. 
I tum on the TV. The news is on. 

There's this woman being interviewed. She's obviously tired. Sweat drips down her brow as she speaks into the microphone, holding her baby in her arms. She complains because she's been running up nine stories to get her child to the doctor. There's no electricity in this sector of the city and so the Polyclinic elevators aren't running, and patients have to use the stairs. This has been going on for several days now. 
Another segment shows a tremendous line outside the Ministry of Foreign Relations. People are rushing to get their passports. It is an exodus of sorts. People are interviewed: A woman almost in tears declares she has to leave. "The country is in a shambles. Let the young ones stay to see if they can do something, I'm too old for that," shesaysasherfacecontortson the screen in pain.Hundredsofpeople are lined up. Impatient, angry, frustrated faces are shown by the cameras. The journalist informs us that this has been going on for weeks now. People are trying to leave the country in hoards. On the side I also learn people are resorting to all sorts of tricks in order to get to the front of the queue -even paying people for their place. The relatives of security personnel, the reporter mentions, are using the side entrance. Privilege in Peru at any level is a function of personal contacts. 
A second woman is being interviewed. Scenes of her living room serve as dramatic background. The furniture is thrown about. Signs of violence are everywhere in that room. She tells the story of being broken into during the day, people just coming in to do as much damage as possible. She appeals to the citizenship for support against these terrorist acts. Her husband is one of the directors of some national institute and believes this is a threat. They're telling him they mean business. Terrorism is ever present at every level. Chaos. 
The war is between the poor and the rich, the white and the Indian, the young and the old, the government and ·the people, and even within the government itself ... 
(continued on Pg. 11) 
Israel Under 
tta 


Israeli student gives her personal views on the situation in Israel 
The views exspressed in this article do not necessarily reflect the also called for by 242, Israel could not then move on tne resolution. views ofScholastic or its staff. In 1973, while Jews observed Yorn Kippur (the religious Day of Atonement), Egypt and Syria joined in a surprise attack that took a 
BY EDNA HIDEKEL 

heavy toll in Israeli lives and equipment. The determined Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) eventually turned back the attack. 
0 n May 14, 1948, the state oflsrael was created. Since that In 1982, seeking to end PLO terrorist attacks from bases in time, the new Jewish nation has fought a war by its neigh­Lebanon, Israeli troops entered that country and for a short time were bors and has been engaged five times in full-scale combat. 
stationed in partofitscapital, Beirut. One outcome was the expulsion On May 15, 1948, the day· after the declaration of the state of of PLO members from Beirut and from southern (but not all of)Israel, armies from five Arab states crossed Israel's border and Lebanon. Israeli troops remained in southern Lebanon for the attacked its inhabitants. By December, Jewish forces prevailed, protection of their own border. 
although Egypt's armies remained in Gaza and Jordan's in Judea and One hopeful note was sounded in this period. In 1979, Israel's Samaria (the West Bank). Separate armistices were signed with Prime Minister, Menachem Begin, and Egypt's President, Anwar Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan and Syria in 1949. It would be 30 years Sadat, signed a peace treaty. Fulfilling a treaty promise, Israeli before just one of these armistices was replaced by a treaty (Camp troops withdrew from the Sinai by 1982. 
David, 1979, with Egypt). 
Recently the Israelis have had to deal with a new enemy -the In October of 1956, Egypt, backed by Soviet aid, nationalized the Palestinian Arabs. Both Israel and the Palestinian Arabs claim 
Suez Canal and blockaded the Straits ofTiran, thus cutting offaccess Palestine as their homeland. The PLO is an umbrella for several 
to the Israeli port ofEliat. Provoked further by terrorist activity from groups, representing various Palestinian civic, labor and militaryEgyptian-occupied territory, Israel's forces entered the Gaza Strip factions. The Arab League recognized the PLO as the sole, legiti­and Egypt's Sinai Peninsula, but withdrew at U.S. urging. United mate representative of the Palestinian Arab people in 1974, and the Nations "buffer" troops moved between Israel and its enemies. 
U.N. voted the PLO observer status the same year. 
In June 1967, following a series ofterrorist attacks on Israel by the In December 1987, Palestinians began an uprising ("intifada") in recently formed Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), Egypt the territories. 
! renewed its naval blockade of the Straits ofTiran. It ordered U.N. 
The Palestine National Council (PNC) met in Algiers between peacekeeping forces out of the Sinai and threatened a war to wipe out November 12 and 15, 1988, to issue a unilateral declaration of 
Israel. Jordan subsequently bombarded West Jerusalem and Jewish independence. The Palestinian Arabs were 41 years late in accepting. coastal towns and Syria shelled the Golan Heights. 
U.N. Resolution 181, which recommended the creation of a Jewish 
Israel sent its planes and troops against Egypt in the Sinai Desert, state, an Arab state, and an international zone for the city ofJ erusa­against Syria in the Golan Heights, and against Jordan in Judea and lem. The PLO chairman also declared that he accepts U.N. Resohi­Samaria. Successful in its military action, Israel assumed the admini­tions 242 and 338 and renounced terrorism. 
stration of all these territories as a strategy for self-defense. In Is Arafat moving forward? No! 
Resolution 242, the U.N. called for Israel's return ofterritories taken On U.N. Resolutions 242 and 338: 
in the 1967 action. Butwithout the secure and recognized boundaries United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed unani-

mously on November 22, 1967, emphasized in its preamble: 
-the inadmissibility of acquiring territory by war; and 
-the need for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. 
The resolution outlined principlesfor peace: 
-withdrawal of Israeli forces from territories occupied in the 
recent conflict (June 1967); 
-end of the state of belligerency; 

-acknowledgement of sovereignty, territorial integrity 
and political independence of all states in the area; 
-right to live in peace within secure, recognized boundaries; 
-freedom from threats or acts of force; 
-ajust settlement of the refugee problem; and 
-guaranteed territorial inviolability, with demilitarized 
zones, if needed. 

The resolution also requested the Secretary-General to designate a Special Representative to promote agreements and assist efforts toward peace. Swedish diplomat Gunnar Jarring was the Special Representative, but his efforts were fruitless. 
Israel seeks an end to belligerency and recognition before nego­tiations begin. The resolution refers to the Palestinian Arabs as a refugee problem, with which Israel agrees. A key clause ofResolu­tion 242 is "withdrawal of Israeli forces from territories ... " which means withdrawal from some territory, since it is not written with­drawal from the territories (which would mean all the territories). By giving the Sinai to Egypt as part of· the Camp David peace treaty, Israel has already withdrawn from 91 percent of the territories. Resolution 242 does not request Israel to withdraw from JOO percent of the territories. 
United Nations Security Council Resolution 338, passed unani­mously on October 22, 1973, called for: -a cease-fire to end the fighting that began on October 6, 
1973; 

-the parties to implement UNSC Res. 242; and 
-negotiations to be held under appropriate auspices aimed at 
peace. 

Arabs interpreted the phrase "under appropriate auspices" to mean an international forum, such as the U.N. Security Council. Israel rejects the international conference formula, preferring direct negotiations between the parties, as was the case in the Camp David discussions that led to the Egypt-Israel peace treaty in 1979. 
Since Arafat renounced terrorism last December, six raids have been attempted from south Lebanon. All failed to penetrate Israel's northern border. But on March 20, Palestinian guerillas succeeded in crossing into Israel from Jordan and killed an Israeli soldier. 
Recently Yassir Arafat, PLO chairman, said that attacks against military targets from Lebanon are a justifiable form of resistance to Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
The Palestinians claim that the uprising is a nonviolent symbol against Israel. I wonder how they can explain that Israelis are being killed ifthey are not using violence! Two weeks ago, an Israeli soldier· was killed by a large stone that was thrown on his head from a roof of a building; Palestinians stabbed to death a number of Israelis; a pregnant woman and her child were burned to death as a result of a Molotov cocktail that was thrown on their car by Palestinians; another woman was killed the same way; a mother and three of her children were killed last November when a Palestinian put a bornb in a civilian bus in Jerusalem; ten days ago a Palestinian man from the Gaza Strip stabbed and killed an Israeli Jew in Tel Aviv and wounded two others. These are only selected examples from a long list. 
When Arafat renounced terrorism he said that violence against soldiers and in the territories is a justifiable form ofresistance, these killings committed by Palestinians were not only soldiers and not only in the territories. These killings were also directed against civilians -women and children, and in cities outside the territories. 
such as Jerusalem and Tel Aviv. 
So, Arafat was ambivalent. My explanation for his reaction is that he has lost leverage over various PLO factions. There are anti-Arafat factions in the PLO. In fact, one could have read several weeks ago, in the New York Times, that leaders of several Palestinian groups hostile to Arafat are now gathered in Tripoli, the Libyan capital, with the intention of setting up a rival PLO leadership. A spokesman for them said that they plan to establish their own PLO to replace the movement led by Arafat. Those present in Tripoli include Ahmed Jabril, leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine; General Command Colonel Sued Musa, leader of the breakaway AI Fatah Uprising; as well as officials from the Syrian-sponsored AI Saiga and others. 
So how can the Israelis trust what Arafat is saying or the way he controls his extremists (which he doesn't) when all of this is going on? In fact, they don't. 
In the last poll taken in Israel three weeks ago, almost 70 percent said they believed that the Arabs would "commit a holocaust against the Jews in Israel" if they could. A large majority said they believe that the Palestinians would not be satisfied with their own state in the West Bank and Gaza. They said that they think the Arabs want nothing less than to establish a new state in all of Israel. Only 18 percent of the Israelis said that negotiations should be started on the basis of Yassir Arafat's recent declarations. 
So the feelings among the Israelis are that what Arafat said is ambivalent and certainly not satisfying. Let me remind you how small Israel is and why security is so important for us: 
Can you envisage barbed wire between 15th and 16th Streets in Washington, D.C.-Americaonone side,an enemy with loaded guns on the other side? 
Can you imaginean American town adjoining a town inhabited by the enemy? Barely one mile apart? The enemy in the hills, looking down? 
Can you imagine a whole country that you can cross from West to Eastby car (traveling at the normal speed of 55 m.p.h.) in ten minutes? (That is, if a Palestinian state is established). 
I can't. No wonder my government is not willing to deal with the PLO while all ofthis violence and terror continues, and while the PLO is still holding its Palestinian charter (from 1968) which calls for an "armed struggle" as the only way to wipe out Israel. 
10 


inevitable. Civil war? Coup? What else? 
Peru (FromPage8) 

Without prior notice, the Minister of Economy and Finances spoke tonight. Out of the blue, as if it were no more than a commercial, his image appears on..the screen, and without any more than his nameand title flashing intermittently, he starts talking about the government's economic plan and something he calls the third "economic correc­tion." The feared "paquetazo" (critical economic measures) for January is here. He's monotone and his words, pure demagoguery: "I want you to note, because it is ofthe utmost importance, that this third correction is much less serious than the ones in September and November, because the economic plan is already yielding its fruit" Strange logic, but it's supposed to be obvious. The message is short, the key ideas repeated throughout: The correction is less serious than the previous ones. So there. is an improvement. Just as mysteriously as he appeared, and just as unannounced, the Minister disappears from the screen and we shift back to a stand-up comic. The program resumes. The illusion continues. 
Meanwhile people are starving in the streets, the miners are on strike, people are flocking out of the country, and thePresident...whereis the President? ~ 
The country is in a state of shock. Almost hysterically the television screen shows a message repeating the Minister's ideas: The economic plan is moving ahead, things can get better, they will get better, but you need to believe. They are pleading and trying to ward off the The money exchangers are hoarding all major street intersections, equipped with large bags where they keep their money and calcula­tors; swarming cars for dollars. "Buy or sell?" The ever-fluctuating exchange rate is the thermometer of the country's temperature. A symptom of a growing cancer, a sickness already along an unstop­pable course. 
One feels the unrest, the convulsive atmosphere. People are afraid, expectant, ready to throw the stone, to fend for themselves at the slightest sign. It's very scary. Still, life goes on. 
Live piano music gently slides out ofthe main door, down the streets. The Casino of Miraflores is still catering to the few: the Peruvian elite, the diplomatic corps. There's a fake sense of security behind those doors, in those smoke-filled rooms that smell of scotch. Small strategic pubs found throughout the city; private clubs for the senoritas, the young aristocrats, telling the latest political joke, discussing the tragedy of the country, seeking comfort i~ like minds yet outnumbered, feeling increasingly the urge to flee. 
The sun hardly dares to peek through the foggy sky over the suffering city. Almost providentially, the summer is late this year. The heat would be dangerous in this volatile situation. Hope against all hope. 
But perhaps only ~rom the ashes can the Phoenix rise... 
Wake the Kids Phone the Neighbors Last Chance to Commemorate the 1988 Football Season with 
Scholastic Football Review 
Great Gift Idea 
$5 ($3 with Student I.D.) 
Scholastic Magazine 3rd Floor LaFortune Notre Dame, IN 46556 



Gary Troll Weil was strength and conditioning coach at Notre Dame for five years. 
The TROLL? of Notre Dame 
Living legend leaves campus for the big league 
BY CINDY PETRITES 

nee upon a time...well; thirty-one years ago, in a place not too far away, a Troll was born. He and his mother, father and sister, whom Troll named Piglet, lived in a three-story air-conditioned log cabin just a mile and a half from Yankee 
Stadium where little Troll dreamed of play­ing centerfield some day ... 
Such were the storybook beginnings of a certain Gary T. Weil, more affectionately known to students as Troll, who left his post as freshmen conditioning coach at Notre Drune to become strength and conditioning coach for the New York Yankees this spring. 
Until last December, Troll was a familiar sight on crunpus, espedally to freshmen, whom he would regale with his jokes and movie "Picks of the Week" during condition­ing class. Every semester he would recount his own stories of becoming physically fit, reassuring freshmen that they too could go, in his words, "from pud to stud." 
.. 
Features 

"He was entertaining, but he was serious about the physical aspect ofit, too. He got to know everyone, and he knew how to get everyone involved," said freshman Paul Schaeffer, who Jad Troll for conditioning last semester. 
A dynamic, driven personality who keeps a 14-and-a-half foot python named Lucy as a personal pet and whose musical tastes range from the Beatles to Gregorian Chant, Troll cooks, dabbles occasionally in stand-up comedy, has written a movie screenplay (''a sort of political story with some cerebral parts to it, kind ofa combina­tion Einstein and Rambo''), works as an animal activist, and still finds time to do the daily crossword puzzle, which he eloquently deems "the only way to increase one's se­mantic wizardry beyond the educational experience."­
Troll's educational experience at Notre Dame began during Gerry Faust's first year, when he lived on $40 a month in a basement, slept on a spare mattress and ran wet clothes in the dryer at night to keep w~. In Febru­ary 1982 he became strength coach to male and female varsity athletes and PE condi­tioning teacher to hundreds offreshmen. He served as strength coach for six years until July of 1987, when he became assistant di­rector ofRockne Memorial, though he con­tinued to teach freshman PE. 
Troll's big break came last October when 
he signed on as strength and conditioning 
coach for the New York Yankees and their 
minor league affiliates. For Troll, it was 
more than just the fame, money and prestige 
which attracted him to the job, it was the 
realization of a childhood dream. "I have 
followed the Yankees religiously all my 
life," Troll said. 
It's a goal that has been part of him as 
long as his nickname. When he was an I I­
year old, people noticed that little Gary had 
an affinity for getting into trouble but a 
knack of never getting caught "Whenever 
trouble was around I would just disappear ­
like a troll," he said. The name stuck with 
him through high school -he even had it 
printed on his football jersey -and college. 
Five years ago he made it his legal middle name. 

Troll was a standout at the Bronx High School of Science (which he describes as a "palace of dweebs") not only for his "trol­lish" behavior but also for his athletic prow­ess. He both invented detention at the school 

-"No one there ever got in trouble prior to me" -and was the first graduate to go on to play football for a major college football team. 
Troll attended Arizona State University, where he played strong safety and went to two Fiesta Bowls with the Sun Devils: in 1975, when number two-ranked ASU de­featedNebraska 17-14,and 1977, whenASU lost to Penn State. Troll enjoys the fact that so many people at Notre Dame finally got the chance to see his alma mater for themselves at the Fiesta Bowl last January. 
Graduating from college at 20, Troll fin­ished his master's degree in kinesiology and exercise physiology at the age of 21 and, after teaching math and coaching high school football for two years, volunteered his services as assistant strength coach to Notre Dame's Coach Clemson. Clemson ac­cepted, and the rest is history. 
"It's been a lot of fun," he said of his 

seven years at Notre Dame, "but when 
you're without a team fora while, the coach 
in you yearns to get back with the athletes." 
As far as Notre Dame's athletic program 

is concerned, however, Troll has nothing but 
praise for the team, and respect for the 
university's high academic standards. 
"Notre Dame's priorities are straighter than a lot of schools' in the country," said Troll, one of the four football players on his ASU team to graduate. "Notonly are the (ND) stu­dents playing sports, but they're also getting a viable education (so that) after their ball playing days are over, they'll have a life. Graduating is more important than playing ball." 
After seven years of teaching freshmen his secrets of how not to be a 98-pound weakling, the one thing Troll will miss the most at Notre Dame is the people. ''They keep meyoung," Troll said. "Besides, I don't think there are any really great places any­way, except maybe Disney World." 
How would he like to be remembered? "As someone who had a real desire to teach. .. but never took himself so seriously that he became a pain in the neck while doing it," he decides. For the pastseven years, he has tried to teach the students not only the basics of conditioning but also the value of commit­ment. "I try to give them the idea, especially in conditioning, ofknowing exactly what you want to achieve, and them making the com­mitment to do it," said Troll. "The more desire from within, the greater the chance of attainment, and the greater the feeling that comes with it" 
You can tell he speaks from experience. 
II 


Troll has realized his lifetime dream ­working for the Yankees. 
Sports 


Marl Okuda 

CONFRONTING NEW CHALLENGES 
Notre Dame hopes to bring credibility to themselves--and Midwest lacrosse--with NCAA tournament bid 
BY PETE LaFLEUR 

S ix months ago the Notre Dame · lacrosse team em barked on their first full-fledged fall season. Awaiting them was a daily schedule of prac­ticing and lifting and a humbling 22-3 fall exhibition loss to national power Johns Hopkins. Waiting beyond these untradi­tional fall workouts were tedious 7 a.m. winter practices at the Loftus All-Sports Center. A grueling spring road schedule lay even farther down the road. And today? Today the lacrosse team is on the verge ofcapturing its first NCAA tourna­ment bid, an accomplishment that would begin a new tradition in Notre Dame athlet­ics. 
"Usually we've had a very casual off­season, but those workouts made us feel like it was the actual season without any games," said junior midfielder Mike Quigley, in refer­ence to those twice-a-week treks across the frozen tundra to Loftus. "It was at that point that we realized we'd have to be committed to stick with it, no matter what it would take." 
Just exactly what the lrish have had to "stick with" for a chance at theNCAA tour­nament Western -bid is three-dimensional. 

For one, they have had to adjust to the style and discipline of first-year coach Kevin Corrigan. They have also had to find a way to effectively integrate 13 "new" players ­eight freshmen, two first-year sophomores, two injury-plagued returnees, and a return­ing exchange student -with only ten return­ing lettermen. Finally, the Irish knew that in order to have a realistic shot at the bid they would have to get their act together early and beat Air Force, last year's NCAA Western representative. 
The Irish overcame all these obstacles and more, soaring past Air Force 10-7 in an emotional win March 29. They used that win 
' , ,. ~ ' . -----· .,. . . .
' . 
Sports 


as the springboard to a seven-game winning streak that included crucial victories over Kenyon and Denison. Thanks to their hot streak, the Irish were two wins away from capturing the NCAA Western bid entering Wednesday's action. 
The Western bid was implemented by the NCAA in 1987 to encourage the develop­ment and exposure of the traditionally Northeastern sport. Entering the Michigan State game, the Irish (7-4) were in the driver's seat among the four Division I teams in contention for the 'bid -Notre Dame, Michigan State, Air Force and Ohio State. 
Air Force has already lost to both the Irish and the Spartans, thus nullifying any chances of a repeat appearance in the tournament. Ohio State, meanwhile, closes their season against Notre Dame and Michigan State and is still entertaining thoughts of capturing their first NCAA invitation. 

Then there's Michigan State, who was awarded the first Western bid by the NCAA selection committee in 1987. The Spartans were to host the Irish Wednesday in what promised to be a physical battle. The winner of that game should have the upper hand in claiming the coveted bid. 
No matter who represents the "west" in thetoumament-eitherthelrish, theSpartans, or the Buckeyes -such exposure can only continue to help the popularity of lacrosse in the Midwest, where tales of the gridiron and hoops hysteria predominate. Corrigan, the son of former Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Corrigan and an Irish lacrosse assistant in 1983, said that Midwest lacrosse has grown immensely since the NCAA bid was introduced. 
"All of the (Midwestern) programs, bar none, have been tre­mendously improved 
since I was here in '83," Corrigan said. "I think the NCAA bid is a big factor because the stronger lacrosse gets in this area the more it helps every­one. In addition to that, as the colleges get better you'll see high school lacrosse in the area get better, and that in tum feeds players back into the programs in the Mid­west." 
All the "Pride of the Midwest" feelings aside, the Irish would much rather see them­selves among the 12 teams invited to the postseason tourna­ment They've come close in the past, only to lose to eventual par­ticipants Michigan State and Air Force. 
But now the Irish are better prepared to claim the bid, accord­ing to senior tri-cap­tain and two-year starter Kevin O'Connor. 

"The major difference is that, in the past, we knew about the bid but we waited to see what the other teams would do," O'Connor said. "But I think this year we have confi­dence that the bid is ours for the taking. lfwe watch out for our end, then the bid will take care of itself." 
Early in the season it looked as if the Irish might not break the .500 mark, much less be in a position to capture the bid. Opening losses to Stony Brook, Georgetown and Penn State gave the Irish their first 0-3 start since becoming a varsity sport in 1981. But Notre Dame then outlasted Lehigh and routed Hart­ford before coming up big against Air Force. Five games later, they're on the verge of"a new era." 
Corrigan, who became only the second lacrosse coach in Irish history after Rich O'Leary guided the Irish club and varsity squads for 24 years, said character and hard work have made his team deserving of the bid. 
"They'll have a tremendous amount of satisfaction out of (the bid) because they've all sacrificed a lot," Corrigan said. "In terms ofthe program, I think that it's a step we have to make and I think our exposure to recruiting (prospects) and to teams in the East will be very important." 
Playing in the NCAA tournament would be a special tribute for the five seniors -tri­captains O'Connor, second all-time leading scorer John Olmstead, and Doug Spencer, plus defensemen Brendan Cahill and Warren Sanger. In fact, the introduction of the bid has given the team a serious goal that was not there when the seniors were freshmen. 
"When I came here, because of where the 

school is and because there are no scholar­
ships, there wasn't much to play for," 
O'Connor said. "When the bid came, it gave 
us something to play for and it became our 
focal point. To be considered among the top 
12 teams in the country.will be a tremendous 
honor and it will do wonders for the future of 
the program. But I came to college never 
even dreaming ofplaying in the NCAA tour­
nament" 
In the meantime, the Irish will anxiously 

await their wake-up call from the NCAA 
selection committee next week. That's one 
calling they'll have little problem gettting up 
for. . Ill 
Sports 

STEPPI 
GOUT OF THE SHADO 
s 
Several Irish female athletes staked their claim to excellence at Notre Dame and beyond this year 
BY RICK FARLEY 

Notre Daine women's sports were hardly lacking for standout per­formances in 1988-89. For start­ers, the women's fencing teain enjoyed yet another strong season in 1988-89, finishing with an 18-1 (.94 7) record. Although all four starters performed very well, senior captain Janice Hynes led the way with a 30-6 record. This showing is even more impressive when considering Hynes sat out her junior year to concentrate on academics. Hynes did not stop there, though, as she went. o~ to finish fourth at the 1989 Midwest Regionals and 
I 
sixth at this year's NCAA chainpionships.
I 
The latter accomplishment enabled Hynes to capture second-teain All-America honors as well. 
Julie Bremner and Zanette Bennett were instrumental in leading the women's volleyball teain to its finest season ever. Theiroutstanding play helped Notre Dame to a record of 19-12, its first-ever NCAA ap­pearance and a final national ranking of 15th. Bremner provided the Irish with a strong setter while being named to the All-Tourna­ment teams of the Saluki Invitational, What­aburger Invitational, and the Golden Dome Classic. She was also named Most Valuable Player of the Western Michigan Invitational and selected as a member of the A VCA All­Region Team. 
Bennett finished her career at Notre Daine strongly as she was named to the All­Tournament teams ofthe Saluki and Western Michigan Invitationals. She was also se­lected to the NCAA All-Region Tournament Team. Bennett's performance in 1988 vaulted her to the top ofNotre Dame's career lists in hitting percentage (.288), kills (1,465) and total attempts (3,486). 
CeCe Cahill led the way for this year's women's tennis team. She is attempting to advance to the NCAAs for the second straight year after a tremendous freshman year in which she set an Irish record with 39 singles victories. Cahill has held down the top singles spot all season, recently ranked as high as 60th in the nation collegiately. Her doubles play has been stellar as well; she and freshman Tracy Barton are currently ranked ninth nationally in that division. Cahill also finished the 1988 fall season ranked 40th in the nation in the Volvo Tennis/Collegiate Rankings. 
With the loss ofstar center Heidi Bunek to a knee injury early in the season, the 1988-89 women's basketball season seemed destined for a disappointing end. However, with the help of sophomore guard Karen Robinson, the teain finished the regular season with a record of 21-11 (12-2 in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference) and earned a sev­enth-place finish in the National Invitation Tournament. 
Robinson averaged 12.5 points and 5.75 assists per gaine to lead the team in both categories. She received first team All-MCC honors and was selected to the Investors Classic and MCC All-Tournament squads. Robinson compiled 184 assists forthe year in increasing her career assists to 284, good enough for third on Notre Daine's all-time list. Her .794 career free throw percentage places Robinson first on the all-time list, while her 99 career steals place her seventh. 
Scholastic recognizes these athletes' ac­complishments and extends its congratula­tions for their success in 1988-89. 
16 
Scholastic 

,[ i 
.. 
BY KEVIN SPROULE 
The 1988-89 season was a rousing success for Notre D&me men's sports. First in everyone's mind is the national championship in football. The basketball team also finished well, losing a tough game to top-seeded Georgetown in the NCAA tournament. What many people don't recognize, however, are the exploits ofathletes in some of the lesser-known varsity sports. The fol­lowing is a compilation of select Irish men's athletes who deserve accolades for their out­standing performance. Senior Frank Starns and junior Mike Stonebreaker represented Notre Dame's football defense well, as their first-team, AP All-America status would attest Stone­breaker also finished third for the Butkus Award, given each year to the top collegiate linebacker in the country. Both led the defense not only statistically but emotionally. Stonebreaker perhaps played his best football in the first two weeks of the season against Michigan and Michigan State. He set the tone defensively that the entire team would follow throughout the season. S tams played his best during the big games. Starns ·was named Notre Dame's MVP against Miami for his dominant defen-. 

THE 
LEFT THEIR 
-

MARK... A 
DTHE 


0 
E 

Notre Dame men's athletics produced slew ofnational-impact 
peiformers in 1988-89 
sive play, causing two fumbles and recover­ing one. He was also named defensive player of the game against West Virginia for his stifling of quarterback Major Harris. 
Forward Randy Morris was the driving force in a stellar season for the Notre Dame soccer team. The Irish made their first ever appearance in the NCAA tournament as Morris led the team in scoring with 40 points (14 goals and 12assists). He was a third-team All-American selection, marking the first time that honor has ever been bestowed upon a Notre Dame soccer player. He was also named to the first-team All Great Lakes Region team. The Midwestern Collegiate Conference selected Morris as its Player of the Year after leading the Irish to a 17-4-2 record and the MCC championship. 
Junior Joe Fredrick proved his worth for the Irish basketball team in 1988-89. He was the team's top scorer with a 16.7 points-per­game average, but his ability to lead by ex­ample over a young Irish squad set him apart from the rest. Most impressive was his abil­ity to provide clutch scoring during tight ballgames. Fredrick always wanted the ball down the stretch. 
The Irish baseball team is currently en­joying its most successful season ever. Pav­ing the way is pre-season All-America Dan Peltier. Peltier is hitting .453 with 48 runs batted in and six home runs through Monday. 
Sports 

Earlier this season he smashed Notre Dame's all-time RBI record of 128. He has 157 and counting in only his junior season. 
Ron Markezich stood out as the mens' top distance runner in both the fall and spring seasons. As a member of the cross country team he won the MCC championships, fin­ished eleventh at the NCAAs and was named All-American along with teammate Dan Garrett. Despite spring injuries he did not rest on his laurels, as last week Markezich turned in the fastest collegiate time ofthe year in the 10,000 meters for the track team. 
Jerry Durso and Pat Boyd dominated the competition for the Notre Dame wrestling team on their way to attaining All-America status. Boyd compiled a 25-7 record this year and finished fifth at the NCAA champion­ships. Durso ended the year at 35-8 and took eighth place at the NCAAs. Durso leaves Notre Dame as the school's all-time win­ningest wrestler (130-30-2). 
The traditionally strong men's fencing team was led this • year by Leszek Nowosielski. Nowosielski was named a second team All-American for the second year in a row, placing fifth at the NCAAs in the sabre competition. 
Scholastic congratulates these athletes for their outstanding performances in 1988-89. 
Sports 


FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE YEAR: 

ARY KAY WALLER 

BY JIM MAGQIO 

H ead coach Art Lambert knew what was needed for his volley­ball team to succeed in 1988. Notre Dame's seniors wo~ld have to step to the forefront and take command if Lhe Irish were to earn their first-ever NCAA tourna­ment bid, a goal Lhey had fallen short of despite rolling to a combined record of63-16 Lhe past two seasons. The four seniors responded to the chal­lenge. Maureen Shea, Zanette Bennett, and Whitney Shewman each did more than their share to help Notre Dame to a successful 19­12 season. But the contributions of Lhe six­foot middle blocker from Lawrence, Kansas helped put the Irish over the edge as they earned that coveted tournament bid. Mary Kay Waller simply overwhelmed the opposition in her fi.lal campaign atNotre Dame. In 31 matches she led the Irish in six different statistical categories: -kills (444) -total attempts (1,041) -service aces ( 44) -block solos (61) -block assists (145) -total blocks (206) 
The magnitude of these figures is under­scored by the fact that Waller's 1988 totals in service aces, block solos, block assists and total blocks established Notre Dame single­season records. The last two achievements broke school records that she had set only a year before. 
Waller's ability to excel in these areas enabled her to compile an impressive list of honors as well. Her performances in Lhe Saluki, Western Michigan, Holiday Inn/ University Park Classic and Golden Dome Classic Invitationals earned her All-Tourna­ment honors in each. 
Waller garnered Most Valuable Player honors in the Golden Dome Classic after hitting .500 and registering 25 kills, 42 at­tempts and only four errors in two matches. Paced by her efforts, Notre Dame rolled over Duke and Northwestern to capture the tour­nament crown. 
Aside from these records and honors, Waller was instrumental in possibly the big­gest victory in the team's history October 8. She contributed 19 kills in Notre Dame's 15­13, 12-15, 15-9, 16-14 triumph over then seventh-ranked Kentucky, snapping the Wildcats' 22-match home winning streak dating back to 1986. More importantly for the Irish, the win helped establish them as a legitimate contender for the NCAA bid they would later attain. 
Not only would the Irish receive their first-ever NCAA tournament bid, they would also emerge victorious in the first match. After disposing of Penn State in four games, Notre Dame took on fourlh-ranked Illinois in the second round. Waller racked up 18 kills, but the Irish would lose a close five-game match to the eventual Final Four participant. 
Waller's playing days atNotre Dame may have ended at that point, but her career per­formance had already left an indelible mark in Irish volleyball history. She rewrote the Notre Dame volleyball record books and asserted.herself as a powerful force around the net. Moreover, she made sure that the opposition payed for trying to hit the ball on her side ofthe court. By the end ofthe season Waller had shattered the Irish career marks for total blocks (699), block solos (185), and block assists (514). She also set the school's career mark for service aces with 116, while her 1,188 kills, 2,835 total attempts and .279 hitting percentage rank her in Notre Dame's top three in each category. 
For her outstanding achievements Scho­lastic congratulates Mary Kay Waller, our 1988-89 Female Athlete of the Year. 


18 

• ' ,. .-" l . .._ • • • { , . .
1' J 
Sports 


TO Y RICE & ANDY HECK 
BY JIM MAGGIO 
A 
s mentioned before, several per­sons were deserving of Scholastic' s Male Athlete ofthe Year honors. No one can say anything to diminish the magnitude of the performances of Randy Morris, Dan Peltier, Jerry Durso and several others. Unfortunately, through no fault of their own, they picked the wrong year to contend for the honor. 
Let's not kid ourselves, folks. It is only logical that ourchoice for Male Athleteofthe Year would come from the national champi­onship football team. 
The only problem that entered the picture was selecting from a considerable list of deserving candidates on the team itself. Starns. Stonebreaker. Green. Pritchett. The list goes on and on. But when you look at whose individual performances made the difference in solidifying two areas vital to the successful execution of Lou Holtz' grand scheme, Tony Rice and Andy Heck stand alone. 
All season long, Rice had to withstand constant criticism regarding his abilities at quarterback. The cry of the Notre Dame faithful was a familiar oneat the beginning of 

MALE ATHLETES OF THE YEAR: 
the season: "Great athlete, runs the option well. Can'J throw worth a damn, though." Even as Rice was leading his team to victory each Saturday, there was growing concern over the Irish passing attack. The "experts" contended that Notre Dame had no chance of beating the nation's top-ranked teams -much less winning a national championship -if its quarterback couldn't find his receivers. 
The Miami Hurricanes, USC Trojans and West Virginia Mountaineers found out the hard way that Rice was more than up to the task. All three teams boasted Reisman Tro­phy candidates at quarterback who were supposed to make Notre Dame the latest casualty on their path to the national crown. Yet it was number 9 in the blue and gold whose efforts allowed his team to walk away from each game victorious. 
When preseason detractors weren't busy questioning Rice's passing capabilities, they were wondering how he could possibly run the offense at all behind an inexperienced and untested offensive line. Andy Heck was the sole returning starter in that unit. To make matters worse, he had to make the switch from tight end to tackle, a position entirely new to him. He beefed up to 280 pounds prior to the start ofthe season to undertake the task, but his toughest job still lay ahead in the form of 12 formidable defensive opponents. 

Heck responded by .shoring up an offen­sive line unit that exceeded all expectations, turning an apparent weakness into one of the team's most reliable strengths. They fended off the best that the likes of Michigan and Miami had to offer, creating gaping holes in the defense for the Irish running attack and protecting Rice enough to let him to get the job done in the air. Heck's admirable under­taking ofa monumental task did not go unno­ticed by the Associated Press, United Press International and The Sporting News, who all named him to their respective All-America teams. 
Heck's and Rice's accomplishments on the field were perhaps best put into perspec­tive by their own teammates. By their vote Heck received the Nick Pietrosante Award, given to the player"who bestexemplifies the courage, teamwork, loyalty, dedication and pride ofthe late All-America Irish fullback." The same men named Rice the team's Most Valuable Player for his part in leading Notre Dame to its first national championship in 11 years. 
For their achievements on the football field Scholastic salutes Tony Rice and Andy Heck, our 1988-89 Male Athletes of the 
Year. ¦ 



THURSDAY, APR. 27 Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Saint John's Men's Chorus and the Saint 
$2. Mary's Women's Choir at 8 p.m. in the 
Lectures 
Church of Loretto. 

SMC Justice Education 1989 Conversa­
FRIDAY, APR. 28 

tion Series 'Parables of Diversity,' "Con­
Movie 

cluding Reflections,'' Joe Incandela, As­BIG at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in Cushing sistant Professor in Religious Studies. In 
AA Meeting Engineering Auditorium. Cost is the Stapleton Lounge at 12 noon. 
Open Meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous $2. in theHolyCrossHousefrom 7:30to8a.m. 
Kellogg Institute lecture "Urban Folklore in Contemporary Brazillian Cronica,'' 
Concert 
SUNDAY, APR. 30 

Heitor Martins, Indiana University at 
ND Department of Music presents

Bloomington. Room 131 Decio Hall at 4 
Notre Dame Chorale Spring Concert, Carl 

p.m. Stam, Conductor. At 8: 15 p.m. in Wash­ington Hall. Notre Dame vs. Xavier University at 1 
Snite Museum of Art lecture "The Holly­p.m. wood Star System and the Politics of 
Movies 

Glamour," by Pam Falkenberg, Assistant 
Symposium
Jean De Florette at 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. in 

Professorof Communications and Theater 
the Annenburg Auditorium at the Snite ND Hesburgh Program in Public Service, at Notre Dame. In the Print, Drawing and 
Museum. An exquisite adaptation of Mar­College of Business Administration and Photography Gallery at 4: 15 p.m. Limited cel Pagnol's beloved films and novel about Department of Marketing Symposium on 
space; call 239-5516 to reserve a seat. 

shatterd dreams among Provencial peasant the future of the Federal Trade Commis­farmers in the 1920s. Breath-taking cine­sion at 7 p.m. Address by John Keane, 
ND Communication and Theater lecture/ 
matography and an extraordinary cast. dean of Business Administration. Dinner presentation, Judith Berry, New York 
at the Morris Inn. Please call 239-5770 Video Artist. In theO'ShaughnessyLoftat 
Married to the Mob at 8 and 10: 15 p.m. in or 239-6484 for more information. 
7p.m. 
Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Cost is $2. 

ND Fellowship of Christian Athletes, "Christian Ethics in Business,'' Jim Early, class of'76; and "The Secret ofa Christian 
SATURDAY, APR. 29 Special Events 
Life,'' Bill Freeman, Notre Dame Alum­nus: In the St. Edward's Hall chapel at 7 
p.m. Super Sale in the JACC Fieldhouse on Medical College Admission Test at 7 a.m. Saturday, April 29th from 10 a.m. to 6 Concerts in Cushing Engineering Auditorium. p.m. and Sunday, April 30 from 12 noon 
ND Department of Music Student to6p.m. Composer's Concert. In the Snite Museum 
Tennis 
at7:30p.m. 

Notre Dame Men vs. Illinois State at 9:30 Isis Gallery-Annual Student Exhibition 
p.m. and vs. Kalamazoo at 1 p.m. in the sponsored by the Department of Art, Art SMC Department of Music presents the 
Eck Pavillion. History and Design April 24 through Saint Mary's Wind Ensemble, Roger May 21. Briggs, Conductor. At 8 p.m. in the Little 
Notre Dame Women vs. Northern Illinois Theater. 
at 1 p.m. on the Courtney Courts. Saint Mary's College Student Reviews, All Galleries from April 23 to April 27. Movie 
Concert Buckaroo Banzai at 8 and 10:15 p.m. in 
SMC Department of Music presents the 
20· 


An Tostal Schedule 
Frivolous Friday 
Tye~Dye, Walsh Hall from 12:30 to 3:30p.m .... Strong Person, South Quad at 
12:30... Jello Toss, Alumni at 12:30 ... Licorice Eating, K of C Building at 
12:45... Hot Pepper Eating, Alumni at 12:45 ... Marshmellow Stuffing, Alumni at 
1:00...Mattress Drag, South Dining Hall at 1:15 ... Munchkin Madness, Fisher Hall at 1:30 ... Watermelon Seed Spitting, Alumni at 1:15 ... Egg Drop, Dillon at 
1:45... Pie-in-face, Alumni at 2 ... Egg Toss, Fr. Sorin Statue at 2:00 ... Tire Rolling, South Dining Hall at 2:15 ... Pie Eating, Alumni at 2:15 ...Jump Rope, South 
Dining Hall at 2:30 ..•Toilet Paper Unrolling, Dillon at2:30... Cereal Eating, Alumni at 2:45 ... Nerf Basketball, South Quad at 2:45 ... Popcorn Eating, Fisher at 3:00 ... Obstacle Course, South Dining Hall at 3:15 ... Comedy Improv/ Imper­
sonations, Rockne Stage at 3:45 ... Charity Auction, Rockne Stage at 4:30 RECESS, Stepan Center from 8:30 to 11:00 
Sunny Saturday 
Road Rally, Alumni Senior Club at 9:00 a.m .... "I Can't Believe" I Ran In the Morning Runs, Stepan Center at 9:00 ... Can Building, Stepan Center at 10:00 ... Kite Flying, Stepan Field at 10:00 ... Frisbee Golf, St. Mary's Lake at 10:00 ... Mud Volleyball Finals, White Field at 11:00 .. .Picnic, Stepan Field at 11:00 ... Limbo, Stepan Fields at 11:30 ... Fresh Squeezed, Stepan Field at 11:45 ... Egg Roll, Stepan Field at 11:45 ... Apple Bob and Pass, Stepan Field at 12 noon..•Balloon Toss, Stepan Field at 12 noon ... Wheelbarrow Race, Stepan Field at 12:10 ..•Bucket Brigade, Stepan Field at 12:10.:.Potato Spoon Relay, Stepan Field at 12:20 ..•Sack Race, Stepan Field at 12:20 ... Three-Legged Race, Stepan Field at _12:30... Dizzy Izzy Wet Clothes Relay, Stepan Field at 12:30 ... Slip and Slide, Stepan Field at 12:40 ..•In Your Face, Stepan Field at 12:40 ...Chariot Procession/Mud Pits, Washington Hall to White Field at 12:45 ... Mud Pillow Fights, White Field at 1:05 ..•Mud Chariot Races, White Field at 1:15 ... Mud Tug-o-War, White Field at 1:35..•Greased Twister, Stepan Field at 2:30 ... Obsta-Draw, Stepan Field at 2:40 FIREWORKS, Stepan Field at 2:40 
Serene Sunday 
Bookstore Basketball Finals, Stepan Courts All Star Game at 1:00 Women's Final at 2:00 Men's Final at 3:00 
SOUTH BEND AREA MOVIES 
Forum Theater 
Gone With the Wind 1:30, 7 Pet Semetary 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 The Rescuers 1:40, 3:40, 5:40 Cyborg 7:30, 9:30 
100 Center 
Three Fugitives 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 Cousins 1:30, 4, 7, 9:15 
Scottsdale 
976-EVIL 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 Pet Semetary 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 
Town and Country 
The Dream Team 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 Major League 2:10, 4:40, 7:10, 9:40 Jacknife 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 
University Park East 
Red Scorpion 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 See You In the Morning 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30 Say Anything 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45, 9:45 She's Out of Control I:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 Dead Calm 1:40, 3:40, 5:40, 7:40, 9:40 Rain Man 1:30, 4:15, 7, 9:35 
University Park West 
Disorganized Crime 1:30, 3:35, 5:40, 7:45, 9:50 Speed 7,one 1:40, 3:40, 5:40, 7:40, 9:40 Fletch Lives 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:40 
**Purchase your movie tickets for Forum Cinemas, University Park Cinemas and Town and Country Cinemas at the ·Information Desk in LaFortune and receive special student discount rates. 

Money and Looks Deafen Ad1ninistration 
This being the last Scholastic for the 1988-89 school year, an abundance of topics still need to be addressed. Like all schools, Notre Dame is far from a perfect place. The university should serve the best interests of the students. Unfortu­nately this is not always the case. The motive behind most ofwhat the administration does appears to be either money or promotion ofimage. Several prominent examples of this attitude have emerged. The 9.6 percent tuition increase: what benefits have accrued from this annual change which is greater than the inflation rate? In addition, where has the Fiesta Bowl money gone? The administration claims that these funds have gone to the general scholarship fund. Will financial aid make more money available to students next year? Will the library improve? Investment in South Africa, co-ed housing, alcohol policy, honor code, parietals: Students have repeatedly called for a change in the administration's treatment of these issues. They ask our opinions on such topics, but why? So they can say to the public, "Yes, we asked for student input before we made a decision." Let's be honest-whatdid they do with that input? There was no follow-up, no real considerations of student opinions that were not convenient. Faculty senate: Yes, even the faculty has failed to see results from the adminstration. In fact, they have become so unhappy that they have determined their senate is a ineffective body for dealing with the leaders of the university. The commitment to diversity and the expansion of student computing facilities have shown a limited response to student needs and desires. But these two "positives" originated under the dome. The Year of Cultural Diversity had good intentions and results, but many events lacked student input as was evidenced by "Soul Food Cooking Night" The new Mac labs have greatly improved student access to computers on campus, but much of the funding for these systems was provided by Apple Computer itself. In the end, what is called for is answers to the many questionable practices of the administration. Many people from outside the dome have opinions which should be not only heard, but listened to and considered. At first glance, the university's policies seemed to be directed only at money and image. With ail attitude like the administration's, what else could be assumed? 
-Scholastic 
22 



Final Word 

Time To Put the 
Toys Away 
Senior year means reality, and storybook characters 
BY PAUL KANE 
A 
!right, here it is ... the Final Word 
ofthe final Scholastic. I suppose 
you are expecting something deep and philosophical. As a fifth-year senior and an RA, I have been hoping that people would come running up to me in these last few weeks and say, "Yo, Paul, you've been here a while, what's it all about?" That has not exactly happened yet But I did get real close the other day when one ofmy freshmen came by and said, "Yo, Paul, I'm locked out, I need to borrow your keys." Perhaps I read too much into that, now that I look at it Anyway, here it is: my big chance. And what is my topic for the day? Winnie the Pooh. 
Okay, I know what you're thinking, "Winnie the Pooh? This guy's been sniff­ing the ethanol for too long!" And perhaps, in fact, I have. But after a little thinking, and a lot of beer, I've come up with a theory: Winnie the Pooh represents all the fun we have in college. To the trained Poohologist, this makes sense, but as most ofyou are lay people, allow me to explain. 
You see, when A. A. Milne wrote the Pooh books, he was not relying totally on his own imagination. The boy, Christopher Robin (hereafter referred to as CR), was his real sori., whose name was Christopher Robin Milne. Every one of the animals, (Pooh, Piglet, etc.) was a real stuffed ani­mal his son had; Pooh being his favorite. As you read through Winnie the Pooh, you realize Pooh is a clueless bear who gets by somehow. How better to represent the typical Domer? 
Unlike today's children's book writers 
(i.e. creators of those wacky Smµrfs), Milne does a very fascinating thing in The House at Pooh Corner. Throughout the book, the animals notice that CR is not around as much as he used to be. And when he is around, he seems to know things he didn't know before. Although it doesn't say it explicitly, his absence from the Hundred Acre Wood represents his going to school. 

Wow, you're saying, I didn't realize Pooh was this deep. It gets better. 
The last chapter of The House at Pooh Corner is called, "Chapter X, In Which Christopher Robin and Pooh Come to an Enchanted Place, and We Leave Them There." In this chapter, all of the animals realize CR must go away ... they don't know why or to where. This, of course, represents CR growing up and having to put his toys aside. CR is moving on. He knows he can always open up his old toy box and see all the stuff there, butit will never be the same. With two weeks left in my Domer career, I am just now starting to put my "toys" away. (IfI am getting too deep or sappy here, just ignore me. I do this sometimes.) 
In the very end of the book, all the other animals have gone away and we are left with CR and Pooh. They go for a walk into the woods. CR tells Pooh that what he likes doing best is Nothing. Nothing is explained as,"Well, it's when people call outatyoujust as you're going off to do it, What are you going to do, Christopher Robin, and you say, Oh nothing, and then you go and do it" And naturally, as a second semester fifth-year senior, I find myself doing Nothing quite a lot. 
Now CR realizes that the end of his days in the Hundred Acre Wood is near, and he begins to philosophize a little (as much as a five year old can philosophize ... ) 
"I'm not going to do Nothing any more," CR tells Pooh~ 
''Never again?" 
"Well, not so much. They don't let you." 

Translated into college lingo: "Hey, baby, they real world is just around the cor­ner. And ND ain't that different than the Hundred Acre Wood. Those story book characters aren't any stranger than we are. And our little world here certainly isn't any less controlled or protected. Let's face it; the only thing they need to do here now is throw a big plastic dome over the campus so they can control the weather as well. Butnext year ... you gotta wash your own socks." 

Just like a group ofCRs, we know we can't come back and expect things to be the same. But on the other hand, there is a part of this weird place which will always be with us. It's called being an alumnus. Yes, membership does have its privileges. 
So, in hindsight, maybe Pooh is a pretty good representation of the fun I have had at Notre Dame. Soon, Keenan Hall, those classrooms and South Bend will be behind me, much like the animals CR left But he saved Pooh for last. Even then, CR said he might come back and see Pooh every once and a while. 
Notice above how the name of this chapter refers to Pooh and CR going to the Enchanted Place and staying there. The Enchanted Place is the memory. Apparently, the Enchanted Place be­comes the only place that is accessible to CR in the future. But Pooh has agreed to hang out there. At this point, I need not spell out the connections of this with our own situation. You'','.e been keeping up alright II 
"So they went off together. But wherever they go, and whatever hap­pens to them on the way, in that en­chanted place on the top of the Forest, a little boy and his Bear will always be playing." -A. A. Milne 
23

J,~ .· ~ . . -------~ -­
·••J • __.....,__ 


! 
i­
·,i 
L\ft 1N ©\989 B~ -t,tE...t..t..,... MAiT 6~0fNJtJ6 
AkSARStJEFF: MASTERSOF1000DIS6UISE5 





