COLLEGE PARADE
JOHN A. LYNCH
FACTS ON LIBEL
We have always wondered what constitutes a good libel suit, and the Boston University News has recently put us on
JOHN LYNCH
the inside track. The News, a respectable paper we thought, has a $10,000 libel suit on its hands now, indirectly because an associate editor resigned from the staff in order “to save his journalistic career while
it was still worth saving.”
A humorous article about the plaintiff
was the direct cause of the suit, for therein he claims “you call me 'Franklin Walsh’ when my correct name is Franklin J. Walsh.” And he says further: “In defense of my rights I am instituting a $10,000 suit against you for malicious libel. — Sir, you shall not get away with it!”
We wonder if the “Sweetbriar” girls
know it is as simple as that?
BENGAL BOUTS
For the fifth time the two rather careful boxers had fallen into a clinch.
“Turn out the lights!” shouted a voice from the gallery. “Them two lovin’ ’earts want to be alone.”
“Leave the lights alone,” shouted another voice. “I want to read.”
—The Villanovan
LEFT-OVER DEPT.
Then there was the blind fellow who was placed in 4-F because his seeing eye dog had flat feet.
❖
REVEALED
' “Lost: Square man’s Bulova watch with red leather wrist band.”
Ad in the —Daily Kansan The original Mr. Five-by-Five?
ODE TO A TOAD
There on your log you sitta;
Your skin looks like it don’t fitta.
Biting the insects that flitta;
If you get one that’s sour, just spitta.
*
NEW ERA DEPT.
Maybe we can blame war conditions,
but the following appeared on the editorial page of The Carnegie Tartan.
“The telephone operator, here at Tech, would like to have a ride home on Monday and Friday nights at 9:30. She lives on Bennet Street in Homewood and can be reached at Mayflower 2600, the school telephone. Anyone living in that direction who needs a passenger should get in touch with her.”
Aren’t the ad columns good enough for this sort of thing? Shame!
HOW TO DIE YOUNG
“.... An old dirty, shabby tramp, standing on the curb, his dingy coat tied with a huge safety pin, struggling with a beautiful red nose, trying to get it into his threadbare lapel....”
—Kansas City paper That must be quite a trick!
FOR MEN ONLY
“Esquire, catering to bad men and college boys fills its pages with Janus-jokes and Petty girls.”
—Queen’s U. Journal
Nothing like a distinguished audience!
FOR THE BIRDS AGAIN
“My wife rah off with the butler.”
“What a shame.”
“I’m satisfied. Furthermore, my house burned down and I haven’t any fire insurance.”
“To bad.”
“I’m satisfied. And to cap everything off, business is so bad I’m going bankrupt. But in spite of everything I’m satisfied.”
“How is that possible with all your misfortunes?”
“I smoke Chesterfields.”
—Utah State Student Life
❖
SHORT SNACK DEPT.
“Mustard and Cheese club will hold its regular meeting on Wednesday afternoon at 4 o’clock in the Mustard and Cheese
- room in Drown hall.”
Notice in Lehigh Brown and White
Must be delicatessen majors!
❖
CLOSING THOUGHT
A bird in the hand is bad table manners. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Discc Quasi Semper Viturus Vive Quasi
_	Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Daniel Downey, Editor Ted Weber............Managing Editor
Bill Boss................Sports	Editor
Dave Condon..............Campus	Editor
Jack Denniston............Admin, Editor
Phil Keen..........Asst.	Sports Editor
Robert Lonergan ...........Promotion
Al Schaefer________Staff Photographer Rev. C. M. Carey, C.S.C., Faculty Adviser
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published thirty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 313 Sorin Hall or 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings in the Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building: Sunday through Wednesday at - 7:15 p. m.
IN THIS ISSUE
CAMPUS
Elections.....................      3
Class Dances .................      7
Play to be Given.................  5'
Air Corps Called ...............    8
ADMINISTRATION
Press Month ...................     9
New C.S.C. School ............  ...10
Father Hope's Book______:.......... 12
NAVY PAGES .„___________ ________14-15
SPORTS '
... Basketball .................— 17 .
Bengal Bouts ....................  18
Track...................   „........20	I
. Petritz Leaves __________________20 |
FEATURES	I
College Parade ......___.-.........  2	|
The Week ______....._______________ 4 |
- . Warming the Bench  ............—21
- M usic..............i..______1.......28
2
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Vol. 78
FEBRUARY 19. 1943
No. 3
John Kuhn Captures Senior Class Presidency;
Casey, Scheuch, and O'Connor Also Win
DAVE CONDON
JOHN KUHN
A five candidate race for senior class president was won by John Kuhn, science student from Evanston, Ill., who received 99 out of 315 ballots cast. Kuhn, who succeeds Jack Tallett, E. Chicago, Ill., was followed in the race by William Lawless, Buf-, falo, N. Y., who tallied 70 votes.
For vice-president, Daniel Casey, with
107 ballots, received the largest total vote count of any candidate in the elections. Dan Downey was second with 62.
Bill Scheuch, an engineering student from Jackson Heights, N. Y., was placed in the secretarial office with a count of 90 votes. Behind him was Art Ley with 72.
In the race for treasurer, senior voters favored Bill O’Connor with a 93 ballot count. Mickey Finn was a close second with 86.
The elections were held Monday, Feb. 16, under the supervision of the Student Council. Balloting was in the basement of the University dining hall. Complete election returns were broadcast by WND, “youi- campus station.”
President Kuhn was unavailable for comment on the controversial class dance question, but it was expected that he would immediately formulate plans concerning senior action and policy in the dance scheduled for March 5. '	.
The campaign was closely contested. Five tickets entered the field, and were balanced out .with first and second semester seniors. Included on the ballots were the names of such famous Fighting Irishmen as Fred Evans, the immortal “Dippy” and as great a thrill-back as ever skirted across the stadium sod, and Notre Dame’s twice' All-American end, Robert Leo Dove.
Other candidates for the president po
sition were Coyne Callaghan, Frank Vignola, and Thomas Kerrigan. Dip Evans, William O’Brien, Daniel Downey, and Fred Funk were in the vice-presidential race. Other candidates for secretary were Bob Dove, Joe Rud, Bill Mulligan, and Arthur Ley. Eugene Kelley, John McGinnis, Joe Arens and Frank Finn were on the ballots as treasurer candidates.
Election judges were Dick Doermer, who merited a student council membership by virtue of his class presidency last
Herlihy, Creevey, Crowley and Cowhig Win; Close Voting in Race for Class Secretary
Jack Herlihy, New London, Conn., led three of his party to victory in the junior class elections as he tallied 159 votes to win the class presidency, over Creighton Miller, who placed second with a 60 vote count. Other candidates in the race were John Padon, Joe Byrne, and Russell Ashbaugh, who left school this week when members of the army air corps reserve were called to active service.
John Creevey, of the educated toe, was elected vice-president. A student from Clawson, Mich., Creevey received a total vote of 133. Running second was Thomas
Coach Keogan Dies
Notre Dame suffered a blow Wednesday night when George M. Keogan. head coach of basketball here for 21 years, died suddenly at his home from a heart attack. He seemed to be in good health while watching his team practice Wednesday afternoon. Though Mr. Keogan had been suffering from a heart ailment for several years, his death came as a complete surprise.
year, Bob Fanning, Cavanaugh rep., Don Colgrove, elected from Breen-Phillips but now residing in Dillon; Joe Lanigan, Alumni representative, Bernie Finucane, Walsh hall, John Anhut, vice-president last year and acting president, and Jack Terry, C.A.S.
Juniors, sophomores,, and freshmen _ were to go to the polls later this week and select officers. Complete results will be carried in next week’s Scholastic. :
The best election story to date was one' brought into the Scholastic office, by assistant sports editor Phil Keen, who reported of the junior candidates who asked the mailman to write their names on the back of each Religious Bulletin he distributed uunder the doors of Walsh and Cavanaugh halls.
Reybum with 77 ballots. Also in the race were Angelo Bertelli, “the Springfield rifle,” Herbie Coleman, and Jack Denniston.. . .	.
The secretary contest was more closely contested than either the presidential or : vice - presidential race. Frank “Tex” Crowley, with 95 votes won the office-. He. was followed by Jim Gallagher. Crowley is from Dallas, Texas. Gallagher, from Newton, Iowa, received 75 votes.
Gerry Cowhig, fancy "stepping fullback, won a hotly contested race for treasurer. Cowhig, from Dorchester, Mass., won by four ballots over Paul Cartwright. Cowhig totaled 76 votes, Cartwright 72, and Roy Grumbine also figured in the contest with 71 votes. ■ .	‘
Other candidates for secretary were Jim Favret, Dan Hecht, and William O’Connor. Andy Burke and Frank Brady were candidates for treasurer. .
THE COVER
* ■ 1 „ , ' -
"Counting the Ballots" is»the feature of .
this week's cover. Councilmen Jim-Crow- -ley, John Anhut’ and. Joe Lanigan'tabu-late the returns on class'elections.-7
THE WEEK
JACK WOBLFLE
TOP OF THE WEEK
Sixty fighters report for Coming Bengal Bouts.	•
HURRY! HURRY! HURRY!
With the addition of tent shelters the dining hall has taken on the appearance of a circus. When you first approach the tents you have the feeling that you’re entering a side show. One look at your tray and.... Anyway, we expect Mr. Connolly rn concession any day
now. After all, what have Ringling Bros, or Banana & Bailey got that we haven’t got, cooked?
SUCH A CLIMATE
The weather around here changes faster than the buttons on a shirt in the laundry. We heard of one lad who left the Main Building, suffered two sunstrokes, frostbite, and was water logged before he reached Alumni. It’s nice looking forward to spring though. Ah, those walks around the lakes with the St. Mary’s girls! Yessir, we walk around our lakes and they walk around theirs. Those cold cuts we get in the summer are nice, too. Of course we get cold cuts in • the winter, also. So we settle back and wait. It’ll be fun going on those long walks this summer, with packs and rifles. E. R. C., I hear you calling.
SHADES OF LOUIS THE 33/4
The good neighbor policy was very much in evidence two weeks ago when the V-7’s were entertained royally by the girls from the Rock. From all reports the Navy is taking over the concession. Ah well, it’s well known that the sailor has a girl in every .port. No competition, you know. But just wait till the E.R.C.’s get uniforms and begin operating!
LA DE DA - ♦
Bill “Bubble^ Bath” Boss, local campus sportscaster, has what is known as a regular sports program each Tuesday afternoon. Bill’s broadcasts are about as
regular as your chances of getting the same pair of socks back from the laundry twice in a row. Two weeks ago Bill sat ready to take the air. After a lengthy build up by Paul’s Kreamo Bread WSBT suddenly switched to Chicago leaving Bill as high and dry as St. Mary’s the weekend of the Senior Ball.... You can’t tell a St. Mary’s girl without your program since the ban on lipstick, etc. Without their war paint the girls are about as colorful as a green banana.
LOOK AT THE BIRDIE
Each semester the campus is invaded by funny little men sent here by the local picture studios in Souse Bend. They pop into the room armed with an order book and a picture of what they think is a beautiful girl. “Pictures?” they shout. At first you wonder whether it’s some lonely lad who wants a picture or the rector looking fol’ Pettys. You sit at your desk expecting anything and it usually happens. Before you know it the lad is posing on your clean sheets dipping into the new box of Fanny’s Fanny Bum Bon Bons that the little lady whipped out for Valentine’s Day. “Nice room” he observes as one of the gooier Fannys slides to the pillow. “Sweet dreams tonight,” he chuckles as he cleans the candy off with the heel of his shoe. “How’s about a picture chum?” he inquires. “Regular price is a buck but I gotta get rid of the coupons fast. Draft board you know.” At this point he lowers his voice. “Hurry up chum. If the rector sees me you’ll lose your opportunity.” At this point he usually begins trying on your clothes and shining his shoes with your face cloth. If you listen long enough he’ll own the room and you will be selling him the coupon.
LAUNDRY LAMENT
This is a little tale about a lad named Oswald. Oswald is a Notre Daixe student and his clothes are washed by the laundry, they tell him every week. Well Oswald decided to investigate. He took a trip to the laundry just to see what made things rip. When he arrived the girls were ripping through their work. Oswald joined one in a game she was playing. It was button button, who’s got the button. As she played she sang a merry
little song. “Oh button button! We got j the button and Oswald’s got nuttin’.” ■ One of the girls said she was taking a ' short cut home. Oswald thought she was talking about his new shirt and became panicky. After returning from his trip Oswald had the following to say: “Oh well, I like sleeveless shirts.” Oswald then returned to his hall. Oswald was angry.
MUSCLE MEN
You’ve seen them trailing from the j Rockne these last few weeks, towels J wrapped around their heads. It’s the fad ; on days like these to work out. Work out means you lie under the sun lamp and ? wiggle both big toes very vigorously until g a light sweat covers the knees. Then : comes a brisk rub down. This consists of * standing in line outside of the dining hall. The customary shower is furnished with the compliments of the dining hall. Cold gravy is dashed briskly on the arms. A delightful muscle builder is the balancing of two mystery balls in each hand. After this exercise put on your hat and coat ’cause, brother, if you get this far you’re bound to get in a little road work. You’re a success once you feel the hot breaths of Slim and Tommy on your neck.
TUES. AND SAT. NITES
Gremlins seem to hop into the clarinet
section of the band during the “Star
Spangled Banner”.. .. How about a little
cheer leading during the basketball game? If the band can keep going aftei- j the football season and not get anything j
for it, it shouldn’t be too much to ask of j the cheer leaders to get a little organized | yelling.....It wouldn’t be a bad idea if | some of the would-be athletes would stay | off the basketball court after the game. I If the rest of the 2,000 can waif a few | extra seconds to file out they can too. j
LE PAGE'S SPECIAL I '	I
That special brand sooper - dooper j punch was served at the St. Mary’s I Sophomore Cotillion last Friday night. | “A little too much rhubarb,” said Jack, | “Oh I Go There Often” Watters. Sam j Wing saw the revolutionary possibilities i and took home a cup. “No more Scotch g tape for me,” Sam was quoted as saying, g This week the O.P.A. was on the St. J Mary’s campus testing the possibilities » of the punch formula for retreads. S
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
Thermometers, man, thermometers!
4
Notre Dame Dramatic Players to Present Smith's "A Tailor-made Man" in Early March
ROLAND J. STEINLE
Straight comedy, American style, is the theme of the current effort of the Notre Dame dramatic players in Harry Smith’s “A Tailor-made Man,” scheduled to appear early in March on the stage of Washington Hall. An impressive cast, led by Dave Curtin in the role of John Paul Bart, revives the pre-World War I comedy for the entertainment of the faculty, student-body and friends of Notre Dame. Unlike many of the past productions, the play bears the stamp “Made in America,” and though it was first produced in 1916 it is surprisingly up to date and appropriate for the times. “A Tailor-made Man” is unknown to the present generation and promises many a moment of pleasant distraction.
The story of the rise of the tailor who made the clothes to the gentleman who wore the clothes was made famous by Grant Mitchell of movie fame, and it
“A Tailor-made Man"
reveals the character of an ambitious and smooth-talking tailor’s apprentice. At a large society party Mr. Bart attracts the interest of a man of means, and from then on it is a case of trying to blot out the past and live up to his new-found position. The audience is assured of many laughs as the transplanted tailor rides the crest of the waves, ever fearing the day when his dream will fade.
The versatile Dave Curtin, veteran of many Washington Hall performances and Notre Dame’s favorite master-of-ceremonies, is supported by 27 other players, including Miss Barbara Dolezel who plays the feminine lead, Tanya. Dr. Sontague will be played by Lyle Joyce, a member of the cast of “The Merry Wives of Windsor” and also “Anthology of Scenes.” Joe Flynn of K. of C. vaudeville fame portrays Mr. Huber, and Bill Boss will be seen as Mr. Nathan, Tom Duffy as Peter, George Bariscillo as Pomeroy, Dan Downey as Mr. Jellicot, and Warren Dana as Rowlands.
According to Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C., University director, “A Tailor-made Man” is still in its early stages, and the definite dates of presentation will be announced soon.
Glee Club Will Present
"Story of Notre Dame"
The Notre Dame Glee Club, under the direction of Mr. Daniel Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, plans to give a concert in the near future. A special this year will be a choral symphony entitled “Story of Notre Dame.” The script was written by Kelly Cook, a senior English major from Louisville, Ky., and Alumni Hall, December Dome editor. All of the music was arranged by Mr. Pedtke and the concert will be directed by him. It was completed last week and the Glee Club will take it into rehearsal Monday. Mr. .Pedtke and the Glee Club believe this feature will be one of the greatest attractions any Notre Dame Gibe Club has ever had, and surpasses
even the well known “Song of the Free” of two years ago.
The Glee Club this year boasts 40 veteran members and with much experience behind them they have had little trouble preparing this new program. Though missing the solo voices of such members as Tony Donadio, Jerry Heinlen, and Bill Scully, the Glee Club is a rounded, well-balanced group capable of the successful concerts of past years.
Recently an octette was formed to take care of smaller local concerts in and about South Bend. Included in the eight-man group are: first tenors, Ed Hoban and George Bastyr; second tenors, Frank Repilado and Tom Bremer; baritones, Dave Curtin and Herb Clark; basses, Reggie Flynn and George Bariscillo. Leader of the octette is Herb Clark, Alumni hall senior from Oak Park, Ill-Herb is also the club’s business manager this semester.
Great Lakes Contest
Again Attracts Students
With the coming of the Great Lakes-Irish basketball game at Chicago Stadium tomorrow night there comes the inevitable preparation on the part of Windy City students for a large powwow on the home reservation. The Great Lakes game promises to be one of the best on the Notre Dame schedule and certainly should set the stage for a more than enjoyable week-end.
Since Washington Day falls on the Monday folio-wing the game, students checked with the Main Office on the possibility of that day being a campus holiday. But it seems that with the shortened semester such things are impossible, and so, while Washingon’s birthday will be a legal holiday all over the country, it will be just a plain Monday to the N.D. boys and probably a blue one at that for the week-enders. If you are the type of person who likes to lament such things, here is meat for a good melancholy afternoon. Conjure up in your mind a picture of a big old-fashioned pre-war week-end in Chi. lasting from Friday (if you’re a good conjurer) until almost Tuesday.
Conspicuous by its absence will be Notre Dame’s traditional observance of Washington’s birth by the presentation of the senior class flag. For the first time in 60 years the ceremony will go unobserved.
5
Barristers' Ball Set For March Fifth;
Tradition Suffers From War Priorities
JIM DASKALOFF
Transportation difficulties have blasted another tradition at Notre Dame, and this time it remains for the University Law club to suffer the brunt of the punishment.
These Law Balls are All Right!
Past years have seen the annual Law Club ball being held at the Erskine Country club, but- rationing on gas and tires has resulted in the ball being shifted to the Bronzewood room of the Hotel LaSalle. March 5, date of another University dance, has been long set as the occasion of the barristers’ ball.
The lawyerites will be swinging in step to the music of Johnny Burkhart and his band. Bids will go on sale at three-fifty per couple.
Tim Green, Hubbard, Nebr., is general chairman of the ball. He is assisted by Hal E. Hunter, New Madrid, Mo., ticket chairman; John H. Tallett, North Chicago, Ill., publicity; John W. Hackett, Maumee, 0., arrangements; Nick Villa-rosa, favors; and James Price, Muskegon, Mich., decorations.
Miss Alma Weber, Grand Rapids, Mich., and guest of Chairman Green, will be queen of the ball. Mrs. Warren A. Deahl, South Bend, Ind., wife of the Law club president, Warren Deahl, will be the guest of honor.
Tradition has it that the Law ball is a closed affair, limited to members of the club. A deviation from tradition, however’, will be made this year and each member of the Law club will be allowed to invite one guest couple.
Some of the lawyers look with dis
favor on a formal class ball being held the same evening, since a large number of the first year law men are juniors and will support their own class dance in preference to the Law club action. The upper-classmen of the club rather favor the idea of having a closed ball and were heard to say that the absence of the juniors certainly wouldn’t be felt in upper-class quarters.
"Scholastic" Poll Reveals
N.D. Opinion on Reserves
Since Pearl Harbor the “reserves” of the armed forces have been one of the leading conversational topics on the nation’s college campuses. In view of developments occurring this past week, particularly concerning the Army Air Corps Enlisted Reserves receiving notice to prepare for induction, the “reserves” theme has been bandied about more than usual the past few days.
Scholastic interviewed members of the various reserves and gave them a chance to express opinions concerning the new notice. Potential draftees also get their say.
Joe Carroll, Dillon sophomore and member of the Army Enlisted Reserve Corps, said: “Boy, am I glad I memorized that eye chart.”
Tom Culyer, 4-F, also a Dillon sophomore: “All I have to worry about is how long will there be a school to go to?”
Tom Walsh, V-l, a Cavanaugh junior: “You can’t beat the V-l. I get in on all the parties to se my buddies off. What worries me is whether I’ll be able to keep up the pace.”
John Kerver, Air Corps Reserve and cuius anyhow.”
Dillon soph: “I was getting tired of cal-
Don Currie, Dillon and ERC member: “I think the ERC is a lifesaver for us fellows who would otherwise be draft bait. You future officers can laugh at us, but we’ll at least be in school while you’re called up.”
Creighton Miller and Jack McGinnis, ERC members from Sorin: “We have decided not to accept captains’ commissions right away. Just to be democratic we’ll start as privates and work our way up.”
John Sweeney, draftee from Cava
naugh and a junior: “I’m hoping my draft board forgot about me.”
• Leo Krumkel, V-l, and freshman from Zahm: “I guess the government played smart. They would have been passing up a good bet by taking me out of school.”
Dippy Evans, Army Air Corps and Sorin hall resident: “I’m meeting Dudley, my ex-roomie, in Santa Ana, and we’re going to clean up this mess.”
John G. Smith, Army Air Corps and Dillon sophomore: “And to think I’ve been razzing my room-mate in the ERC!”
—John Anderton
Cadet Jack Whelan Dies
In Texas Plane Accident
The faculty and student body were saddened by the announcement last week that Naval Aviation Cadet John Joseph Whelan, Jr., had died at the Naval Hospital, Corpus Christi, Texas, as a result of an airplane accident.
Cadet Whelan completed his junior year in the College of Commerce at the University of Notre Dame in May 1942, before entering active duty with the Naval Air Corps. He was noted for his feats of magic which he performed at
A real Notre Dame Man: Jack Whelan
many charity exhibitions as well as campus shows. He was also an active member of the Knights of Columbus.
Cadet Whelan began his basic training at Glenview, Ill., base, and since last August he had been stationed at the Corpus Christi, Texas, training station. He had been recently transferred to the Marine Corps and was to have received his lieutenant’s commission at the end of the month.
6
Class Dance Puzzles Newly Elected Officials And is Perplexing Problem to Student Body
DAVE CONDON
At present the only thing definite about March 5 is that it is Friday and stands only ten days removed from the fatal income tax deadline. But also, with the same certainty as death, taxes and stew for the Saturday noon meal, March 5 will be the date of some University class dance, be it a junior prom, senior ball, or a combined shindig with both classes officiating.
This much has been promised — that the entirety of the Palais Royale has been reserved in the school’s name for some class dance on the aforementioned date.
Originally the Notre Dame barristers had planned to have the March 5 weekend exclusively for the Law ball. Then, politicians, testing which way the wind bloweth, arranged for a class dance to be held on March 5. Many were the political campaigns centered around the theme of a class dance before Lent and much was the amusement of students, who watched certain politicos attempt to stay on both sides of the fence, keep an ear to the ground, and mend fences as they scurried around to various candidates. One vote-gatherer, on sensing an election should be in the air, was ready to deliver a class dance, signed and sealed, on the evening of the fifth. This irked certain members of the same class, members of the Law club, the out-in-the cold sophomores, and most of all the Knights of Columbus, whose Casey ball had already been set for Feb. 26.
The Knights of Columbus, unwilling to attempt a formal dance one week before . a class project, withdrew from the race. The lawyers announced that they would go ahead with plans already underway and would not be greatly perturbed if certain of their members favored the class ball over the barristers’ gathering.
What may have been a hitch in a certain bit of the plans came when the office of the prefect of discipline announced a class election schedule and postponed one rushed election. The theme of a class dance became community property and all parties were able to campaign with a promise to do their best to hold the affair. It is expected that the newly elected class officers will get together on the matter and iron out the difficulties immediately. Some announcement will be forthcoming in next week’s Scholastic.
Members of the Sophomore class also supported candidates pledging efforts to
promote some form of an abbreviated Cotillion. As Scholastic goes to press the sophs have not been entirely pleased with the March 5 date being cast everywhere but in the direction of Dillon. Developments can be expected in the next few days as officers of the three classes attempt to harmonize on the dance question.
Joyce, Newman Open
Club Speech Schedule
Wranglers, campus honorary forensic club, swung into their schedule of papers on post-war problems last Thursday evening when Lyle Joyce, Tucapau, S. C., spoke on “Preface to Post War.” Last night James Newman, Clear Lake, Iowa, read his paper, “Lessons of the Past as Guides to the Future,” discussing specifically the failure of the League of Nations after the last World War.
Joyce saw four general movements as causes for the present conflict. He listed these as nationalism, pacificism, collectivism, and the rise of Hitler to power in Germany. He maintained that more detailed and specific problems were contained within these four. He also pointed to the Industrial and Protestant Revolutions as indirect causes of the war, pointing out the effect each had on man’s thinking and mode of conduct.
Bill Lawless, president of the club, presided at the meeting.
Profs. Utz, Walker Join
Notre Dame Faculty
Mr. William Ray Utz, a mathematics instructor, has been added to the faculty list. Mr. Utz was born November, 1919 in Boonville, Mo., and attended grammar and high school there. He received his A.B. degree from Central College, Fayette, Mo., and in 1942 he took his A.M. degree from the University bf Missouri after teaching there for a year.
Mr. Leland Walker is the second mathematics instructor to be added to the department. He is a graduate of the class of ’31 at Notre Dame. He earned his Master’s degree in mathematics here. Mr. Walker lives in Niles, Mich., and was the head of the Niles high school mathematics department before taking up duties here.
Lieut. Stansbury Leaves For East Coast Base
Lieut. Theodore Stansbury, U.S.N.R., attached to the naval reserve officers training corps at the University of Notre Dame since last March was transferred last week to the motor torpedo boat training center at Newport, R. I.
Lieut. Stansbury accompanied Notre Dame’s unit on its cruise last summer
Lieut. Theodore Stansbury. U.S.N.R. .
aboard the U.S.S. Wilmette, and he was in charge of the recent naval ball.
A graduate of the naval academy in-1927, Lieut. Stansbury retired shortly after receiving his commission, but was recalled to active service after the war broke out. He will be temporarily replaced by Lieut. H. M. Ehrmann, U.S.-N.R., of the Notre Dame midshipman’s school.
Anne Regan Joins WAACs
Anne Elizabeth Regan, secretary in the publications office at the University, has joined the Womens Army Auxiliary Corps. She reported to Fort.. Oglethorpe, Ga., yesterday.	*
Miss Regan started to work for Mr. Thomas Barry ex-publicity director of’ Notre Dame and now regional editor of the Chicago Sim, late in 1938. She has handled the advertising and circulation work for the Scholastic, as well as circulation for the other publications printed by the University Press and The Ave Maria.
Anne joins two brothers in service for their country and is the first University employee to enlist in the WAAC. .
Speech Picture Shown
An educational sound motion picture “Sound Waves and their Sources” was shown Wednesday, Feb. 17, in the Engineering building auditorium.
This film was particularly concerned with the production and the nature of sound waves, their transmission and their reception.
7
Army Air Corps Called to Active Duty;
Navy R.O.T.C. to Report July 1; E.R.C. Safe
.	R. H. KEOUGHAN
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., administrative assistant, called a meeting of all the Army Air Corps Reserves last Saturday, Feb. 13, in the Engineering Auditorium. At the meeting Father Trahey told the reservists that, because of a re-interpretation of previous orders, the Army Air Corps Reserve would be called to active duty before the first of next month.
It was previously announced that the deferred status of the Air Corps Reserve would not be terminated until the end of the semester in which they were enrolled on Dec. 31, 1942, which, in Notre Dame’s case would be this present semester. But a communication from the Fifth Corps Area headquarters, in Columbus, Ohio, disclosed a change in these plans. It stated that all Army Air Corps Reserves who had not begun their spring term prior to last Dec. 31, would be called from their colleges this month. It also stipulated that the reservists would be called by the service command in which they live rather' than where they had enlisted.
Ground school is to be the first on the program for the 146 Notre Dame AirReservists. This portion of theintraining will include meterology, radio, and navigation and will last for eight months. On completion of ground school training the cadets will begin their pre-flight work.
It was also announced last week that 250 members of the Navy R.O.T.C., who are enlisted in 'the Navy ’ V;l, will be
"Into the Air,".... After Eight Months
called into active duty this summer, probably around July 1. Although on active duty, these students will continue with their current R.O.T.C. training and most of their scholastic curriculum will remain the same; however, they will hold the rank of apprentice seamen. Consequently they will receive the pay, allowances, and uniform respective to this rank.
Ensign commissions are awaiting the R.O.T.C. students upon completion of their advanced course. This date is expected to be May, 1944, for the present juniors and a year later for the freshmen.
Looking into the near future, Father Trahey disclosed the plan which is to succeed the Navy V-l program, now open to students under 17. All enlistments in V-l will end March 15, and, subsequently, about April 1 a new V program, the V-12, will be inaugurated. V-12 is to be similar to the present V-l set-up. It will be open to students between the ages of 17-20, and is expected to receive most of its enlistments from the present high school students. The V-12, however, will be open to college students who have not as yet enlisted in any branch of the armed services.
In spite of all the rumors and expectations, Father Trahey says the prospects for the E.R.C. (Army Enlisted Reserve Corps) are very good. This reserve branch is not expected to be called until two weeks after the'present semester.
University Records 2,622 For Spring Semester
The enrollment records at the University for the current spring semestershow that 2,622 students are now in attendance, comparing favorably with the winter semester registration of about 3,000.
A considerable part of the present enrollment resulted from the government’s decision that college student members of the Enlisted Reserve Corps (Army) would be called to service only at the conclusion of tire first semester ending after January 1. In the case of Notre Dame this means that ERC men — of whom there are about 450 — will presumably be allowed to remain in school until the conclusion of the semester on May 2.
Included in the enrollment of 2,622 students is a surprising number of 215 new freshmen who entered the University at the beginning of the present semester. This number, together with 40 transfer students and students returning after an absence from the University and 2,367 students returning from last semester, comprises the total enrollment.
Dr. Max Jordan of NBC
To Address Students
Dr. Max Jordan, dean of American foreign radio correspondents, and for ten years Continental-European manager for the National Broadcasting Co., will address the student body on “The Challenge of this War—Our Stake in the Peace” in Washington Hall, Thursday evening, Feb. 25.
At present Dr. Jordan is serving as NBC director of religious broadcasts and acting as assistant to Dr. James I. Angell, NBC’s public service counselor, with special assignment of research work in connection with the Inter-American University of the Air. ■
Originally a newspaperman with the Hearst organization, Jordan worked in the New York and Washington offices. After circling the globe as a writer and lecturer, he became European representative for NBC in 1931.
Looking back on many broadcasts which at the time thrilled so many NBC listeners, Jordan considers them mere rehearsals in the light of the long list of “scoops” he chalked up as a result of the war. Hitler’s march on Austria and the famous Munich agreement were reported to the world by Jordan ahead of all other news services. The invasion of Norway and Denmark, the first broadcast from the Siegfried Line and the story of the ill-fated City of Flint are other achievements in Jordan’s long list of war “scoops.”	'
*t====================—
Notre Dome Fosters Catholic Press Month With Flood of Literature by its Authors
F. I. PEQUIGNEY
The centennial plus the war have yielded a flood of literature from Notre Dame authors. February, annually dedicated to the Catholic Press, finds a larger volume this year than at any time previously.
Francis Wallace, ’23, prominent feature writer and novelist, has just published his latest book, Explosion. He has written some five or six other works, among them the well-known Kid Galahad.
Harry Flannery’s recent Assignment in Berlin was widely acclaimed. Mr. Flannery, ’23, edited the Notre Dame Daily, the Scholastic, and the Juggler during his student days.
Father Arthur J. Hope’s Notre Dame —100 Years, and the Collected Poems of Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., edited by Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., both commemorate the centennial. In a 482-page volume Father Hope traces the history of the University from Father Sorin to World War II. The Rev. Charles O’Donnell, C.S.C., was president of Notre Dame from 1928 to 1934.
The Road to Vichy, by Yves R. Simon, is now followed by his The March to Liberation. In both Mr. Simon, professor of philosophy, writes of the tragic fall of his native France.
Harry Flannery, '23
Rev. Charles O'Donnell, C.S.C.
Summer After Summer, a first novel by Richard Sullivan, professor of English and noted short story writer, and Cooperatives in Nova Scotia, by the Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., also heralded Notre Dame’s first century.
The University’s department of philosophy was honored by three articles in The Thomist in a special issue honoring the 60th birthday of Dr. Jacques Mari-tain, distinguished French philosopher. Dr. Yves Simon, Dr. Francis E. McMahon, and Dr. Waldemar Gurian contributed to testify that Notre Dame is one of the nation’s strongholds of scholastic philosophy. ■
Among the leading alumni journalists are Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune; James Kearns, sports columnist of the Chicago Sun; and Cliff Ward, managing editor of the- Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette. Thomas Coman, ’25, is a special writer for David Lawrence in Washington, D. C., after a brilliant career with Associated Press as labor writer. Phil North, ’39, is on the public relations staff of General Douglas
MacArthur. Harry Sylvester is prominent in the magazine field for his fiction.
Several young journalists are attracting attention with their work on armycamp newspapers. Bill Fay and Harry Williams, both former Scholastic editors, report for their camps in the Chicago Tribune and the Baltimore Sun respectively. Their stories, similar to See Here, Private Hargrove, have been highly praised.
Writings of the faculty have been published voluminously in The Review of Politics, The Ave Maria, and other periodicals printed here on the campus. Book reviews, essays, and short stories have appeared in various newspapers and periodicals throughout the country in staggering quantities.	-
University Will Offer
CAA Teacher Training
In response to an invitation by Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., a meeting of representatives from the high schools in St. Joseph, Elkhart, La Porte, Berrien, and Cass counties was held last Wednesday, Feb. 17, in the Engineering auditorium. The purpose of-ibis meeting was to decide plans for preparing high school teachers for the necessary work of teaching their male students a pre-flight aeronautics course. This program is advocated by the Civil Aeronautics Administration.	-
Notre Dame, endeavoring to contribute to the war effort, offered this training to as many teachers as its facilities would permit. There is to be no charge for the course and the subject matter will consist of 64 hours of meteorology, navigation, civil air regulations, general service and operation of aircraft, and pre-flight aeronautics in secondary schools. The classes are to be taught by University instructors.	;,
Club Changes Name
The Arts and Letters Lay Faculty Club has changed its name to the Arts and Science Lay Faculty Club. Mr. F. M. Brown, professor of Aeronautical Engineering, spoke on the subject of “Helicopters” to the group at the Morningside Hotel on Monday, Feb. 8.
The. new officers of the club are: William J. Coyne, president; John D. Mizelle, vice-president; Theodor K. Just, secretary-treasurer. The retiring president is . Walter M. Langford.
South Bend Jr. Symphony To Present Concert
The 85-piece South Bend Junior Symphony orchestra, one of the few organizations of its kind in the nation, will present a concert on Washington’s Birthday, next Monday, in Washington Hall. These boys and girls, ranging in age from 11 years upward and averaging but slightly more than 16 years, come from many northern Indiana and southern Michigan communities.
John Di Giralamo, violinist, and a student at Notre Dame, is featured soloist for this concert. A Notre Dame graduate of the class of December, 1942, Rocco Germano, is still the concertmaster of the Junior Symphony. Mr. Zigmont George Gaska, a violin instructor in South Bend, is conductor.
The program follows:
1.	Don Giovanni (Overture) _____________.Mozart
Barcarolle Tsehaikowsky
2.	Concerto in E Minor Mendelssohn Allegro Molto Appassionato____John Di Giralamo
3.	Wine. Women and Song Strauss Berceuse --------------------------- Jarnefelt
The Moldau ........................  Smetana
. Pomp’ and Circumstance Elgar
Brother Raphael Dies
In ‘ the death of Brother Raphael, the , Congregation of Holy Cross lost one of its most brilliant younger members. His was the unique distinction of having held four degrees from the University: B.S., M.S., M.A., and Ph.D. He had just completed his thesis for the doctorate, which was awarded him in December, when he was stricken with a fatal malady. For the last four years he has been connected with the Department of Biology and since the September of 1942 has been a member of the faculty of that department.
Brother Raphael was born in Chicago 36 years ago. In 1923 he entered the Congregation. Upon the completion of his year’s novitiate, he matriculated here. As a student he showed a decided-aptitude for mathematics and science. For a number of years before returning to the University to study for a Ph.D. degree, he had taught in various schools conducted by the Brothers of Holy Cross: Cathedral High School, Indianapolis; Reitz Memorial High School, Evansville; Central Catholic High School, South Bend, and Holy Trinity High School, Chicago, Ill., of which he had formerly been a student.
He died at St. Joseph’s Hospital, South Bend, Feb.. 11. Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart Church, Feb. 13. The Rev. Joseph A. Maguire, C.S.C., officiated.
Prof. P. C. Bartholomew
Outlines Principles
Setting down the principles which must guide a Christian soldier’ on the battlefield, Prof. Paul C. Bartholomew, of the University’s department of politics, Monday night, explained to students they can never rightly have an actual intention to kill an enemy.
Prof. Bartholomew spoke at the weekly student-professor meeting sponsored by the Catholic Action students. Dean Clarence Manion will speak next week.
Manuscripts for the spring issue of "Scrip" are now being accepted in 310 Alumni Hall. March 15th is the deadline for the issue, announced Editor Ed Meagher.
Symphony Orchestra Hit
By Graduation; Seeks Men
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Frederic H. Ingersoll, is operating under- a heavier
I’KOF. INGEKSOLL
rehearsal schedule in preparation for its annual Music Week concert. The concert will include among a lengthy program the following: “M arch Militaire Francaise” by Saint-Saens, from the Algerian Suite; the overture from von Flotow’s “Martha”;
and an excerpt from the ‘'Secret of Suzanna” by Wolf-Ferrari.
The Notre Dame Symphony Club elected their officers at the close of the fall meeting. They are: Robert Tait, trombonist, as president; Charles Crown, pianist, as vice-president; and .William Cullen, violinist, as secretary-treasurer. In the appointed offices, Paul Hanlon was named librarian and Lloyd Molter manager. Rocco Germano retains the chair- of concert-master.
Like many other campus organizations, the symphony has been greatly affected by graduation and, especially, the draft. A campaign is now under way to obtain new members. Hardest hit section has been the strings, with vacancies in violin, viola, cello and bass. Also needed are clarinets, French horns, flutes, oboes, and bassoon players. Mr. Ingersoll urges any student who plays an instrument mentioned above to contact him in the Music Hall.
South Bend Junior Symphony— 85 Strong
Holy Cross Order Takes Over School in Chile; Fathers Send, Havey, Doherty First To Go
The Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the United States province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, has announced that the first step toward establishing the Congregation as a factor in South American education will be taken late this month. Father Steiner announced that three members of the Congregation will leave the United States this month to take over the operation of the Colegio San Jorge in Santiago, Chile, at the invitation of the Archbishop and Auxiliary Bishop of that diocese.
The Colegio is a school of 440 boys. It includes work from the elementary department into the humanities, a 12-year program under the system generally in operation in South America. The property is described as a very beautiful school in a highly desirable location, with an enrollment drawn from the best families of the Chilean metropolis.
Those who will form the first group to undertake the mission are the Rev. W. C.
Rev. Alfred Send Rev. William Havey Rev. Joseph Doherty c. s. c.	c. s. c.	c. s. c.
Havey, C.S.C. who has been named superior' of the delegation; the Rev. Alfred Send, C.S.C., professor- of economics at Notre Dame; and the Rev. J. M. Doherty, C.S.C., of the University of Portland.
Father Havey is a master;of French and Italian and formerly served as the vice-president of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas. He received a Ph.D. and an S.T.D. from Gregorian University in Rome during the middle twenties. After returning to this country he taught in the Foreign Mission Seminary in Washington, D.C., and in' Holy Cross College there. From 1932 to 1937 he served on the mission band of . the. Congregation; following that he. went to St. Edward’s. He is a brilliant scholar, and carries a rich background of education
and experience to his new post.
Father Send graduated from Notre Dame in 1932. He studied in Washington, was ordained in 1936, and received his M.A. from Catholic University in 1937. Since then he has been teaching at St. Edward’s and Notre Dame. In additiion he worked in the Mexican missions in and near Austin, Texas.
Father Doherty, the youngest member of the group, was ordained in 1941. He came to the Congregation from New Brunswick, Canada. He spent several years in France, leaving that country immediately before the German occupation. Since his ordination he has been at the University of Portland.
These three priests form the first group to assume the operation of the South American schools. Eight Brothers at present studying Spanish at the University of Notre Dame, are expected to join them soon.
Father Steiner, in commenting on the action, said, “The move has been made
after more than a year of careful study of the situation and conferences in this country with South American churchmen and educators. Oui- Superior General, Very Rev. Albert Cousineau, C.S.C., and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame, visited most of the countries of South America during December. The people of Santiago are reported to be very pleased at the prospect of the Colegio being taken over by an order from the United States. There are many other educational opportunities in South America. We anticipate development in Santiago and possibly expansion of our work later. This is our first step, the only definite move in our present program.”
Notre Dame’s rich Latin American
background, going back, to the South American travels of the late Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., and including the personal background and interest of the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., D.D., together with the many Latin-American students who have attended Notre Dame, makes this new affiliation one of mutual significance and logical development.
—Al. Sommer, Jr.
Speed-up Plan Cancels Washington Day Program
For the first time in 60 years the seniors will not hold their cap and gown procession or their traditional exercises in Washington Hall commemorating Washington’s Birthday -next Monday, Feb. 22.
Under- the three-semester .'program, with the intensive 15 week course, the former list of holidays has shrunk to war-time proportions.
The traditional flag, presented to the University by the seniors and used during the subsequent year as the official flag of the campus, was presented at the Dec. 20 commencement by the Class of 1943, who were only juniors on last Washington’s birthday. The present seniors, once the Class of 1944, will be graduated in September, and the presentation of their flag wall in all probability form a part of that commencement. Also included in the traditional ceremonies, which wall be missed this year, were selections from Washington’s orations and the traditional class ode. The ode will be given at the September commencement.
Dr. Menger Discusses Problem of Dimension
Dr. Karl Menger,'head of the University of Notre Dame department of mathematics, is the author of the fifth in a distinguished series of articles in the American Mathematical Monthly. Dr. Monger’s contribution, just released in the January issue, is ‘entitled “What is Dimension?”	.	’ J
The December volume of Proceedings of the National Academy of Science contained his paper “Statistical Matrix.” Dr. Menger also spoke recently before the Mathematical Biophysics School of the University of Chicago on “Mathematical Remarks 'Concerning Thresholds of Sensation.”
Publication of a number of outstanding contributions to mathematics by nationally known authorities through the Notre Dame department has attracted widespread interest and stimulus, especially in the field of Statistics.
An Undergraduate's Interest in N.D.'s History Lies Behind Father A. J. Hope's Recent Book
AL SOMMER, Jr.
“Speaking broadly, you might say I began working on the history of Notre Dame back in 1916 and 1917 when I was an undergraduate here. At that time I did a good deal of work in the archives and thoroughly enjoyed the rummaging through hundreds of thousands of documents telling of Notre Dame’s growth from an idea in Father Sorin’s mind into a universally known and loved university.”
The Rev. A. J. Hope, C.S.C., author of Notre Dame—100 Years, was telling a Scholastic reporter why it was he wrote the history of Notre Dame.
“Of course, when I was an undergraduate, I had no thought that someday my work would find its way into a centenary book. After my days as a student here, I studied abroad and then returned to Notre Dame as a philosophy professor. I thought I would spend the rest of my life teaching philosophy. However, I continued my interest in Notre Dame’s history, still without thought of putting my work into print. About eight years ago, Bishop O’Hara, while still president of Notre Dame, commissioned Professor Corbett to begin research on the history of the University. Professor Corbett for several years scrutinized the archives; William Farrell combed the files of the
South Bend Tribune; Father Thomas McAvoy helped over in the library. Finally in September, 1941, Fr. O’Donnell asked me to assemble all their material and write the book.”
Father Hope then told of the sources from which the material for Notre Dame —100 Years was abstracted. First, he said, there was Professor Lyons’ book covering Notre Dame’s first 25 years; that was published in 1869. Then there was Professor Timothy Howard’s book commemorating the golden anniversary of the University, published in 1895. Another important source was the Scholastic from 1865, when it was founded, up to the present. The letters of the priests, brothers and students which are in the University archives provided much of the intimate information which revealed the spirit of the University. Most important for the period from 1842 to 1868 was Father Sorin’s year by year account of the growth of the Blessed Mother’s anniversary. Another source was the Alumnus.
Father Hope grinned as he told of the last source, The Black Book. “This was a book containing the disciplinary records of the students. It covered many years; believe me, it was interesting to read the reasons for which students were
suspended and campused in the old days. One thing though was evident: the student of today and the student of yesterday, as far as discipline goes, aren’t very far apart.”
Father Hope explained the historical technique he used in writing Notre Dame’s history. He took the history by administrations; for instance, he studied Father Morrissey’s administration from 1893 to 1905 in all its aspects and divided the period into many parts, such as academic progress, equipment, improvements, athletic activity, discipline, and so on; also the various important figures who played a part in Notre Dame’s history during the administration were characterized and their contributions to the University explained.
“I typed the entire manuscript. After that I carefully revised it and submitted it to Fathers Matthew Walsh and Butler for historical criticism and to Father Leo L. Ward foi' a literary criticism. I incorporated their suggestions into the next revision, which is the one published.”
“The principal difficulty I encountered in writing Notre Dame—100 Years was the haste with which I had to work; this is probably evident to any reader. Many points which should have been treated more exhaustively were not given adequate consideration. But the job is done. I hope that students and alumni null learn from the book the heritage and tradition which is theirs.”
From Interest and Research—The Story of Notre Dame
Notre Dame Approved
For Specialized Work
Notre Dame was listed among the 51 additional colleges and universities approved for use by the war and navy departments for specialized war training programs announced by the Wai' manpower commission last Saturday evening.
The list is a supplement to the group of 238 schools announced a week ago. The actual contracts for the training of specialists in technical courses will be let by the army and navy to institutions whose facilities prove acceptable and which are willing to undertake the training program under the terms of the armed services.
WMC said it would continue to approve other institutions and in some i cases additional training programs for i schools already approved.
Notre Dame was the only Indiana school on the list. Five others, Indiana, Purdue, Butler, Indiana Central, and Rose Poly, were designated for various training in the first list two weeks ago.
12
Rev. Francis J. Boland
Reports For Active Duty
Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University, has been granted a leave of absence from his duties to become a chaplain in the Navy. Father Boland left Saturday, Feb. 13, for the Naval Training- School for Chaplains at Norfolk, Va. He will remain there for six weeks and upon graduation will receive his commission as lieutenant senior grade, which is equivalent to the rank of captain in the Army.
Father Boland was formerly vicepresident of St. Edward’s University, Austin, Texas, before he returned to Notre Dame where he originally graduated in 1918. He was appointed Dean of
Rev. F. J. Boland. C.S.C.
the Arts and Letters College in 1940. He had served as prefect of discipline from 1934 to 1937.
The Popes of Christian Citizenship, a pamphlet containing excerpts from Encyclical Letters of five popes, was compiled by Father Boland a few years ago. Another" important work of his is a politics textbook entitled Catholic Principles of Politics, in which he collaborated with Rt. Rev. Msgr. John A. Ryan, D.D., of the Catholic University of America.
In 1935 Father Boland organized the Department of Politics for both graduate and undergraduate students at Notre Dame. Father Francis P. Cavanaugh will serve as acting dean of the College of Arts and Letters in Father Boland’s absence.—James Daskaloff
University Cancels Remaining Centenary;
Observances to be Resumed After the War
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced last week that Notre Dame’s centenary year observance will have to be suspended until the termination of the war. Father O’Donnell said:
“Recognizing the rising tide of physical problems confronting us and those who had planned to share the observance with us, and in keeping with the recent request of the Office of Defense Transportation, the University of Notre Dame has postponed until after the war the various meetings, symposia and other-activities that were originally a part of our centennial program.
“The University observed its Diamond Jubilee in the early months of World War I, before the exigencies of that war effort had reached the point of curtailment comparable to that of the present. The move now, however, is not without precedent. In 1893, scheduled for the observance of the Golden Jubilee, several deaths, including that of our founder, Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., marked what has become knoown as the ‘year of sorrow.’ It was not until 1895 that the 50th anniversary of the founding was formally observed.
“We have enjoyed already a spiritual observance of the historic occasion. The centenary schoolyear was opened in Sep-teember 1942 with the students participating in the solemn Mass of the Holy Ghost. And on Nov. 26, anniversary date of Father Sorin’s arrival at Notre Dame, Bishop Noll celebrated a solemn Mass of Thanksgiving and Msgr. Fulton Sheen delivered an eloquent sermon, which radio and reprints have carried to the thousands of friends of Notre Dame throughout the nation; afterwards Bishop Ritter blessed two placques commemorating the occasion and our Superior General Rev. Albert F. Cousineau read the Centenary prayer at the Founders’ monument. We shall postpone the academic and cultural events until the time, which we hope will be soon, when the scholars, statesmen, churchmen, alumni, and friends originally envisioned can come to the campus of Notre Dame for the various functions that will comprise a major contribution to the life of America.”
The deferred events to which Father O’Donnell alluded include a symposium on post-war problems which was to be held sometime in September. Many of the foremost scholars and statesmen of the
country were to have been present. Coupled with the religious ceremonies, this occasion would have assembled leaders of the American hierarchy and clergy on the campus.
The short summer session, which was attended by the nuns of the various religious orders since 1918, is cancelled. This is of course due to the accelerated academic program now in force at the University.
Notre Dame will not be able to hold many national conventions as originally planned as even sectional meetings of these groups have been requested by the Office of Defense Transportation to postpone their programs because of the increasingly rigorous wartime travel restrictions.
Also the spring music week, which was to have been in keeping with centenary celebrations, will revert to its usual scale this year.
Father O’Donnell’s announcement is in concurrence with his statements made last fall. At that time the original plans were divulged but he made clear that the University would pursue them only insofar as they met with the complete endorsement of the government war program.
Two books commemorating the centenary have been published however: Notre Dame—100 Years, the work of Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., and Collected Poems of Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame and outstanding Catholic poet, edited as a centenary publication through the University Press and Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., faculty advisoi" of Scholastic.
—Frank Lucas
Northcott, Shields Attend
Engineering Conventions
Mr. John A. Northcott, professor of Electrical Engineering at the University, attended the National Technical Conference of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held in New York City, ' Jan. -24-29. Mr. Northcott was recently appointed to the institute’s national committee on education.
A week previous Mr. Walter L. Shilts, professor of Civil Engineering, attended the annual meeting of Hie American Society of Civil Engineers, Jan. 18 to 22, in New York City.	’
13
z	at Naito ^batfta
K New Life and Rules
An entirely new life has started for approximately 1,250 men on the campus of the University of Notre Dame this week. From the clothes they wear to the manner in which they speak—it is well. It calls for the most serious and determined type of readjustment possible if these 1,250 men are to fulfill their pledge, their role and their respective desires. A goal has been set—not by these men—but by their superiors, and this goal is one which must be met if any man is to succeed as a member of the United States Naval Reserve Midshipmen school here.
That, possibly, is not a new thought to most of the men just arrived.
In each one’s way some thought has been given to this. In the more serious moments the realization of what is expected as apprentice seamen first, then as midshipmen, finally as ensigns, has no doubt been given careful consideration. It should have, at least.
For this is no “country club.”
The course ahead is obviously not an easy one; nor, equally obvious, is it the intention of the superior- officers to “break” any man. There simply are certain qualifications which must be met; certain standards attained. That is our job.
And in this job the parts* are many and varied. Primarily we are being trained so that we may aid to the utmost in winning the war. During such training we will be taught many things; we will be shown much. Out of this course we must come, a representative group of which the United States will be proud.
Undoubtedly there are many men in the school who have been “out of college” for a number of years. Some of them may have reached responsible positions in Chilian life. Others have shifted from one school to another. In either case, the readjustment must.be made to conform with what is expected of us.
The intelligence, the integrity, the tradition, the honor of the United States Navy must fit us like, a finely tailored glove; must be a part of us to infinite completeness.
No matter how highly we may regard ourselves individually our. first-task is to readjust ourselves, into this new pattern of life so that, we will unconsciously uphold the standards of the Navy., ■_ 14	•	. “	' <■-. ’■
EDITORIALLY SPEAKING
By P. T. SPRING
Public Relations Officer
There exists today a second front few people know about. On that front men are fighting a bitter, hotly-contested battle. Their weapons are words, their goal —destruction of the enemy. In this new type of warfare we hold a tremendous advantage over the enemy. The great weapon in oui- hands is TRUTH. For by telling the truth we hold the confidence and loyalty of the people of the United Nations. We have given.them the
U. S. S. Badin
bad with the good and they have not flinched from accepting it. This loyalty will pay great dividends, for when the moment of crisis comes, when the chips are down, when the enemy’s spirit flags and his lies stand naked before the world, then integrity will prevail. .	.
No man can gauge this spirit or say when the turning point will come. But I .firmly believe that when that day arrives the confidence expressed by the American people in their leaders, and in the statement made by those leaders, will prove a decisive factor in winning the war.. Navy Public Relations will spare no effort to keep that confidence alive. It will be attained by simply telling the truth.. .	.	. -- . ■
Eleven Irish Alumni in
New Midshipman Class
Seamen now attending the Midshipman school at Notre Dame that were once students at this University.
Brown, C. M., ’34-’38; Indianapolis, Indiana; Interhall baseball and golf, Architects and Indianapolis Club, Sollitt prize for best thesis, American Society Award for second highest average in department; architectural engineer and designer, consulting engineer for Russell B. Moore Co.
Casper, J, A., ’38-’4O; Louisville, Ky.; basketball; plant statistician, Jos. E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.
Donnelly, J. T., ’37-’42; active in interhall and club activities; inspector of Signal Corps Equipment, Philadelphia Signal Depot, Mackinac Island, Mich.
Hickey, E. J., ’39-’42; Grosse Pointe, Mich.; interhall baseball, football, and basketball; retail clothing, J. L. Hickey Company.
Kirby, A. G., ’39-’42; Great Neck, New York; junior clerk at Pan American Grace Airways.
Neagle, E. F., Jr., ’39-’42; Orange, New Jersey; Magna cum Laude; student.
Smith, D. K., ’39-’42; Excelsior, Minn.; student.
Ronstadt, R. C., ’37-’41; Milford, Conn.; boxing, 3 years, 2 championships and varsity, football three years; ballistics at Remington Arms.
F. B. Fitzpatrick, R. D. Casey, and W. J. Wuebbold.
New Burnett Choir
The newest edition of the famed Captain Burnett Choir presented its first official concert over Station WSBT of South Bend on Monday evening at 1815. Fifty nautical voices were heard in three numbers, including the U. S. S. Notre Dame’s own song, “Go Navy.” The program will be a weekly feature of the local station. .	-
< A. S. Robert H. Sprecher, former tenor soloist, at St. George Episcopal Church, New York, led the group in Cole Porter’s “Night and Day,” and a blue water : _ chantey, “The Song of the Sailor.” AS John Shaw served as the announcer and . Stanley Sandberg was in charge of production. “Anchors. Aweigh” was the opening theme, and the program closed with “Dear Land of Home,” by Sibelius.
ATHLETES IN THE NAVY
Don Frick
A galaxy of all-Americans, college captains and leaders in the American athletic limelight of the past decade decorates the roster of the apprentice seamen now serving their indoctrination period here.
By a quirk of fate no son of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame is included in the roundup of the regiment’s outstanding sports performers. Making up for this lack of South Benders is an overabundance of stars from the East, South, Middle West, Southwest and Far West. From this punch bowl of names we will select a few at random.
Back in the days when Senator Huey Long preached the doctrine of Louisiana State University’s gridiron invincibility, a rangy, pass-snatching end rose to the heights of football stardom by his acrobatic * antics on the receiving end of State’s aerial offensive. Two years an all-American, a three-letter man in college and football coach at his alma mater since graduating in 1937, Gaynell Charles Tinsley today is A. S. Tinsley, G. C. in the USNR midshipmen school. Twenty-eight years old and married, Tinsley already has three relatives serving in the Army and Marine Corps.
. Confined in his national fame because of the size of the college he attended, Robert E. Stokes of Howard Payne was one of the outstanding performers ever to operate on gridiron, basketball court or track in the history of the Texas conference. A 10-second man, the 220 pound Stokes was Little all-Americaan fullback in 1942, conference champion in the shot put, discus, and javelin throw and, on the side, captain of both these athletic teams . . . and they talk about Frank Merriwell.
Lest one think that football is the only sport which attracts national attention, we turn to two other athletic realms for our next pair of head-liners.
Followers of the cinder, paths can, without difficulty, hearken back to the not-so-long-ago days when a quartet of human, two-legged colts matched strides week after week on board and cinder tracks over a quarter-mile route. Fordham’s John Joseph Campbell, mustering petty officer of Company III, was one of the participants in these duels, and, more often than not, it was he who breasted the tape ahead of Colgate’s Al Diebolt, NYU’s Jimmy Herbert and Hal Bogrow. Captain as well, Campbell anchored the Ram’s powerful mile-relay team to Eastern supremacy.
Ice-hockey has often been thought of as a Canadian game, originated and played by Canadians exclusively. A liv
ing denial of that theory is Raymond Charles Chaisson, Boston College, ’40. Leading scorer in eastern intercollegiate circles in 1939 and 1940 and a member of the Boston Olympics, Chaisson is one of the most prominent of American ice-hockey performers.
Fordham’s most talented athlete of the past year, George Michael Babich, gridiron and court performer deluxe.... going into still another field.... Rodger Travis Dombrow, Temple alumnus and third place winner in the Eastern Intercollegiate fencing championships. . . A Aquatically speaking, Rollin Harold Bak-
U. S. S. Lyons
er of Texas U was captain of his school swimming team in 1936._______All-Rocky Mountain Conference, end Carl S. Ashby picked passes out of the ozone for Utah State’s eleven . . . diamond athletes are almost as scarce as hen’s teeth this week and the only one -who comes to the writer’s immediate attention is A. W.-Buchanan of Texas A. & M. who, after graduating in 1939, turned his attention to pro ball. In college, he had only three years each of football and baseball however. . . ; Here’s a man who couldn’t be . kept down; he was captain of his boxing team at Pitt for three years. His name is Ralph N. Caruso. ., . The Indians have given us one Of oiir most strenuous games in the manly art of skull-cleaving shin - splinting, and general mayhem
. which marks lacrosse matches.... Robert Gates DeWeese of R. P. I. must have been an accomplished “ducker” for he survived long enough to become captain, of his team in his senior year.
.1 was captain of an athletic team too, but I’ll surrender the last paragraph to an even greater'star, or rather pair of stars. These men were modest in filling
out their batallion questionnaires and. the first almost grudgingly admitted that he was “active in intramurals” while the second man conceded “that he had played some ‘water polo’.” However, we of the fourth deck of Lyons Hall know better and we salute Messrs. Fitzpatrick and Funk as the two most gifted athletes of the week.
To Men in College—
There will be a future.
The very service you are being called on to render to your country is assurance of that. We. know the stuff you’re made of because we have watched two generations of college men join the ranks and grow with us.
And.the material which the older men in industry are pouring out makes that assurance doubly certain.
By chapter and by verse, no one can recite exactly. But a lot of people mean to see that opportunity is going to be greater than any generation of young men has ever known.
Every hour of thinking time we can catch on the fly is devoted to that one aim. Here in the Navy we call it “Imag-ineering.” We are letting our imagination soar, and ballasting it with naval experience of many years. Our purpose is to make naval men out of lawyers, clerks, college men, salesmen. Your chance is going to be a creative one. The material, tools and techniques are ready and waiting. Your imagination, your ingenuity, your courage to do, cannot and must not fail to have their turn.
Scuttlestuff
A penny for the Future: One of the recent graduated Ensigns, who was re- . ported to have received, orders for the East coast, expended a penny to learn his weight and got. this fortune from the scales: “You desire to travel. Better make your trip West. It would be more profitable.”
Suggestion Department: In answer to Jimmie Joiner the recruiting sergeant confessed that the quicker way he knew of becoming an executive officer was to ship on a two-man submarine.
The boys who have been across advise the Texan to leave his lasso 'at: home when he enters Tokyo. The Japs seem tangled enough.
Infamous ‘ last words: (On being around her so long)—As the duck said to 4he mosquito,-while they were sit-, ting on the keg of dynamite: “It’s been just a trifle quiet. I wish something different would happen.”
Students "Teach Yourself" Book Display Continues Through Catholic Press Month
JAMES MURPHY
Two important steps have recently been taken to introduce the best books in all fields of knowledge to the Notre Dame students.
The C. A. students, under President Jim Cunningham, with the assistance of the Library staff, have selected books of all types and all ages that should form a nucleus of Notre Dame reading. Classics, science, philosophy, religion, modern literature—all have been included. Library attendants revealed that a number of students come to the main desk looking for books to read. To help these and others who seem puzzled upon entering the Library and who, perhaps, haven’t had the opportunity for much reading before, C.A. has placed these better books on display in the Periodical Room to the right of the Circulation Desk. It is hoped that this exhibit will stimulate an interest to peruse these books and select those most appealing for reading. They sug-
Liberal Arts Defense
Frank Willett
Hitler’s goose-stepping iron-hats have brought in a new type of war—total war. No longer is war the occupation of soldiers on the battle-front alone. It is the duty of the whole nation. The people at home have to support the soldiers at the front. Men leave peace-time jobs and enter war factories. Others become air
Looking over the Display: Post-graduate Bruno Schlesinger. Bill Coghlan. .	. Brock Lynch and. Jim Kennedy ...	. .	.
gested a minimum of 20 minutes a day as a beginning to a wider, more cosmopolitan taste in reading.
In a similar effort Professor Frank O’Malley of the department of English has compiled a list to acquaint the student with the best books and make easier their selection. Along with the author and title, the “call numbers” have been listed to facilitate taking the books out of the Library. This list is all inclusive and contains volumes of vital interest to every student of every college in the University. Mr. O’Malley’s list is posted on the bulletin board in the main lobby of the Library.
Both these efforts are concrete echoes of the words of Father O’Donnell who has warned that we must not let the exigencies of war and the emphasis of technological subjects divert us from the path of true education, thereby producing automotons, and not men.
raid wardens, firemen, first-aid workers. War has invaded civilian life. War has invaded education.
Modern technical warfare has made necessary the training of youth in science and mathematics. These things are essential to an “all-out effort.” As the seat of these branches of knowledge is the school, the tendency is to turn the school into an Academy of Science and to neglect the liberal arts: history, liter
ature, philosophy, the social sciences.
The sciences and math are essential. But the liberal arts have their place in a nation at war. Man is first of all a man. Only secondly is he a doctor, a machinist, a soldier. The liberal arts educate man as man by putting him in touch with his great cultural past by means of history; by inspiring his mind, with literature; by giving him principles to live by, in philosophy; by teaching him the doctrine of service to his fellow-man, through the means of the social sciences.
Man is a whole. We cannot divide him. We cannot train him to be only a soldier. We want men who can understand what they are fighting for, who appreciate that for which they are sacrificing. We want to give our posterity more than the mere history of the greatest war man ever fought; we want to add our share to the stock of man’s cultural heritage.
Even a soldier has leisure. All his time is not spent in fighting. Unless he has wide and varied interests, especially in literature, he is opening himself to degrading inroads from cheap magazines which will cross his path in an army camp. This is the contribution of literature to the soldier. His history will give him an appreciation of the struggle of which he is a part, and enable him to act more usefully. His grounding in sound philosophy will give him the conviction of right that is necessary for courage.
When this war is over, we will have to form a peace that will last. For this, a wide knowledge of history, philosophy, economics, and sociology will be necessary. History enables us to judge the present and gauge the future by the study of the past. No treaty can be successful unless it takes into account the historical angles.
What can be said of history can be said of all the social sciences. Each has something definite and vital to contribute. The principles which underlie the treaty must be understood not only by the underwriters but also by the people back home; for a sound treaty can be wrecked by a public which does not understand it.
After the war we will have to fit back into society millions of soldiers and workers. If we are lopsided on the side of science, we will live in a sterile age, when science will create a leisure for which people are not. trained.
This is.a war for survival. We must win. But in winning we need not be fanatic, . and in a fit of sacrificing, throw ' away that for which we fought. The liberal arts are desirable and essential. By all means let us save them.	.
„ Nobe.
N. D. Matches Goals with Former Mates As They Tangle with Great Lakes Five
BILL BROWN
With an overwhelming victory in Madison Square Garden to their credit the Irish journey to Chicago this Saturday for a battle with the Sailors from Great Lakes at the Chicago Stadium. Last year after dropping an earlier contest to the Sailors the Irish invaded the Stadium and defeated the Sailors. This will he the first match between the two teams for this season.
Great Lakes brings with them a formidable record marred with only two defeats, one by Illinois and one by Northwestern. They are now in the midst of a long win streak that includes a 92-45 victory over Missouri. When they take the floor against the Irish, the Sailors will have some 30 games behind them for references.
Included in their roster are three Notre Dame men, Buster Hiller, Eddie Riska, and George Sobek. Riska and All-American Bob Davies of Seton Hall are vying for scoring honors of the team along with Dick Klein of Northwestern. Davies has played every position on the floor this year except referee and on many occasions has proved sudden death to the Lakes’ opposition if allowed to get too close to the basket.
Forrest Anderson of Stanford and Klein are the only two remaining members of last year’s great Sailor squad. Both of them were kept on as company commanders and to aid in recruiting. Anderson is an Indiana boy who went west where he starred for two years; Klein had a 6.7 point per game average last season but at one point in the middie of the season made 17 points in three consecutive games.
The Notre Dame representatives on the team have not lost any of the Fighting Irish spirit for getting up off the floor and striking death blows to an opponent’s seemingly cinched victory. In recent dispatches from the different fronts that the Sailors have invaded Riska and Hiller have shown up as the guys who got a rally started that resulted in the final victory for Great Lakes. Sobek, although such things never show in the box score,
is handy as one of the quiet, reserved type of players who spends his time on the floor holding the opponent’s scoring threats to grammar-schoolish totals.
Butler Invades Fieldhouse
Next Tuesday the Butler Bulldogs come here to attempt again to upset the Irish victory caravan. Last month they absorbed a 45-34 whipping at the hands of the Keoganmen. Captain Butler and his gang will be seeking revenge for a 49-43 setback administered last year’s squad by a fighting Bulldog five.
The visitors will be more than anxious to atone for this year’s defeat and determined to prove that their win of last year was no freak. Led by Wilbur Schumacher, who scored 21 points, they defeated Captain Quinn and his ’42 squad to halt a brilliant winning streak of the Irish. Schumacher is not found in the starting line-up of the visitors’ current team, but they come up with a traditionally strong quintet.
Anyway, We've Still Got the Ball
Notre Dame Rallies to Drop Met Quintet
Notre Dame’s colorful aggregation of eagers took to the Garden’s court last week-end and annexed their 11th victory of the season in their 74-43 trouncing of New York University. ’A packed house of 18,452 witnessed a close contest in the first 15 minutes but after that, it was strictly an Irish scoring spree.
Led by Frannie Curran and Bob Rens-berger getting 21 and 20 points, respectively, the Blue and Gold broke away from a 22-22 tie with five minutes to go. in the first half and were never headed . thereafter. Four times in the initial period the score was stalemated. From a 1212 knot the Violets grabbed a 20-14 lead - that was good to the midway.point of the half.- Henceforth the N.D. lads brought on the counter-attack that was to give them a 37-28 margin before leaving the floor at half-time.
Curran and Rensberger netted 12 points in the closing five minutes of the first period ably assisted by another trio of counters by John Niemiera and Ray Kuka.
Getting off to a fast and furious start in the second period, the Irish ran their lead to 45-32 with only a quarter of the period gone. They piled up 12 more markers in the ensuing five minutes while the opposition could gather only a meagre four. When the subs took over at three quarter time, the scoreboard registered a 67-38 Irish edge. The reserves capably chalked up seven more tallies that was to give the Keoganmen their biggest basket blitz of the season.
John Niemiera was able to .cop off a-• neat 13 in the scoring column while Charlie Butler counted six and Bob Faught _was held-to four, although being withdrawn on personals. Despite Rensberger’s absence during the last nine minutes, he connected with ten buckets .and a toss. Curran’s four straight from the near sidelines helped to stand the New Yorker’s on their heads.
AI Grenert led the loser’s fighting cause with four field goals and three charity tosses. It was the second setback in 14 starts for the’ easterners while the Irish • proudly boosted their record to 11-1. It also,, gave N.D. eight out of a possible ten victories in which they have encountered this “big city” foe.
—Bill Waddington
17
1943 Crop of Bengaleers Prepping Early For Annual Charity Bouts, March 16,17,19
J. D. USINA
Notre Danie’s colorful Bengal Bouts will be staged in their traditional season—the days adjacent to the feast of the hero of Ireland, St. Patrick. Scheduled for the night of March 16, 17, and 19, St. Patrick’s feast will be the date of the semi-final card with preliminaries on Tuesday evening and the classic finals slated to be presented on Friday night, March 19.
From present indications the popular campus event will lack none of its past luster. Working out under the guidance of instructors are approximately 50 would-be titlists while an additional score are getting into shape on their own, not being able to attend the regular practice sessions.
Sponsored annually by the Scholastic, the Bengal Bouts will be the source of charity proceeds for the foreign missions of the Congregation of Holy Cross, whose American missionaries are carrying on the preaching of the Gospel in Bengal, Dacca Province, India.
Aside from the worthiness of the affair, the enthusiasm with which the local ring talent abounds, is evident in the long hours being spent now, a good month prior to the contests, in conditioning themselves for the hectic three nights of leather pushing under the roof of the University fieldhouse.
Mr. John A. Scannell, head of the department of physical education, has the directorship of the Bengals and is planning to make the bouts as good as in the past. Able assistants to Director Scannell are Bob Dove and Charles Wat
ters. The latter was champion of the 175 pound division in the 1942 battles.
A change in the night of the finals was made so that the students will not be tempted by the Saturday night ahead of them and Red Lonergan, promotion manager of the Bengals, says: “We’ve not only changed the night of the final card but we’ve reduced the price to 30 cents so there can’t be any reason why the entire student body won’t respond and make the Bengals really successful.” The 25% decrease for the championship brawls should be enticing to all. Reserved seats will go for 55 cents while the ringside thrones will be dished out for S1.10. Admission to preliminary and semi-final events will be 15 cents.
On each evening, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday, March 16, 17, and 19, the initial bout will begin at 8 o’clock. At present plans are underway for amusing intermission shows.	.
Mr. H. Lee Hope and the Notre Dame band will be -in battle dress for every night’s entertainment and will occasion- ’ ally inject a bit of spirited music.
The services of a prominent personage in the fight world will be secured to assist in the running of the Bengals. Last year, Jack Elder, graduate of Notre Dame a number of years back, was the honorary referee. Mr. Elder had the distinction of being known as “Notre Dame’s fastest human.” He capably performed his ring duties and his successor will be announced in the near future.
Two 1942 champions will return to the canvas to defend their Bengal crowns. Stafford Atwater, of St. Augustine, Fla.,
who battled his way to annex the 135 pound title, and Farrell Quinlan, Vermonter, who took honors in the 155 pound show, will be back to protect their laurels. In addition, Walt Romito, 145 pounds, and Joe Farrell, at 127 pounds, summer champs, will be entered in the bouts. Atwater, at 135, also gained top honors in the summer fistic shows.
Cold weather has hampered the efforts of a number of the entrants who find roadwork of great importance in getting into top physical shape. With contact action already in progress, the boxers hope to hit the lake paths to build up stamina for the gruelling contests. Others will make use of the indoor track in the fieldhouse. Shadow boxing, rope jumping and various other lighter indoor conditioning work rounds out the slate.
The 1942 Bengal Bout champions: Bantamweight, Paul Malloy; Featherweight, Joe Mahoney; Lightweight, Stafford Atwater; Junior welterweight, Kermit Rousseuve; Welterweight, Farrell Quinlan; Middleweight, Bill McNamara; Light heavyweight, Charles Watters; Heavyweight, George Kelly.
Irish Whip Canisius
Canisius became the twelfth victim in the.Fighting Irish victory parade last Monday evening as diminutive Frankie Curran led the Blue and Gold hardwood boys -with 13 points in their 55-37. Captain Charlie Butler and Johnny Neimera registered 10 markers each. Speed was the outstanding factor in the game and, as has been proved before, the Irish had a definite edge in this department. Displaying the fast break at a point near perfection, the Keoganites pulled steadily ahead after the Canisius boys played them on even terms for the majority of the first half.
Last year's Bengal winners: Mahoney. Malloy, Rousseve, Atwater, Hon. Referee Jack Elder. Kelley. Quinlan. Waters, and MacNamara
18
Alumni, Cavanaugh, Pace Basketball Heavies;
Lightweight Features Cavanaugh-B. P. Tie
DICK GRANT
Interhall basketball stepped into the second week of competition this week as the four leagues begin staging some real give and take exhibitions of hardwood strategy. Alumni II paces the heavyweight league number two with two victories in as many starts, while Cavanaugh holds top position in the number one league with three wins and no losses. In the lightweight leagues Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips are tied for the first spot with two and nothing while the Naval R.O.T.C. leads the number two league with the same total.
Lightweight league Czar Bill Aman reminds all participants in this division to be sure to have their weight approved by him before entering a game. If this warning is not heeded, forfeiture will be the penalty. If any lightweight is found to have participated in a heavyweight game, he forfeits his chance to return to the lighter division.
Games of the week of Feb. 1 to 4.
HEAVYWEIGHT I
Cavanaugh. 21; Dillon. 18
The Cavanaugh heavies nabbed a gruelling match from the Dillon quintet to open the interhall season. Herb Coleman led the winners, tallying 12 points.
Alumni, 31; Law Club. 17
The boys from Alumni romped over the Law Club, 31-17, with Earley and Pfeiffer leading the winners by hitting the hoop for 25 points between them. “Senator” Bodden presided for the Law Club registering six markers.
Sorin. 42; Breen-Phillips, 22
Ray Duffy of Sorin Sub led the winners in their rout of the freshman hall by garnering 11 points via five field goals and a charity toss.
Alumni I, 21; Dillon m, 18
Alumni eked out a victory over the Dillon III team with Ahern leading the winners and Thomas, the losers with seven points each.
Games of Feb. 6 to Feb. 12:
Cavanaugh, 47; Law Club, 15
The Cavanaugh team stretched its winning string by trouncing the Law Club. Bucky O’Connor was the pocket ace for the victors as he ripped the nets for 10 points. Ten players were used by the winners and each managed to hit the ring at least once. '	'
Sorin, 29; Alumni, 34
The first upset of the league came as
A Bit of Varsity Material
Alumni rallied in*the second half, after trailing at the end of the first period, to defeat the Sorinites. Gaffney and Purcell were the offensive stars for the winners, scoring 13 and 12 points, respectively.
Cavanaugh, 50; Breen-Phillips, 29
Cavanaugh went into the undisputed lead of the heavyweight league by defeating the frosh hall. The stellar performances of Coleman and Gormeley nabbed the victory.	.
ALUMNI TOPS HEAVY LEAGUE H
Alumni II whipped St. Ed’s, 36 to 22. .Walsh defeated Zahm, 27 to 20, as lanky George Grimm split the nets for 11 points. Bronson was defeated by the N. R. 0. T. C., 37 to 19. Alumni II nosed out a win over Dillon II, 27 to 23. High scoring honors of the league, thus far are in the hands of Merrill, flashy forward of the Naval R.O.T.C., as he goaled 23
points while his teammates thoroughly trounced St. Ed’s, 65 to 19. Walsh beat Bronson, 16 to 8.
- LIGHTWEIGHT LEAGUE I
Cavanaugh and Breen - Phillips have won two games to date. The former has met and defeated Dillon, 34 to 14 and St. Ed’s, 27 to 23. Breen-Phillips has kept stride with Cavanaugh, nipping St. Ed’s, 26 to 15, and the Law Club, 37 to 18. Sorin holds down the bottom rung of the ladder with St. Ed’s by suffering two losses. The Law Club and Dillon topped the seniors, 25 to 20 and 4 to 20.
LIGHTWEIGHT LEAGUE U
The Naval R.O.T.C. heads this circuit with two wins and no setbacks. The navy boys have defeated the Off-Campus gang, 34 to 27, and won its second game by a forfeit from Brownson.
STANDINGS
Heavies
LEAGUE I	w.	L.	PCT.	■ LEAGUE II	w.	L.	PCT.
Cavanaugh 3		0	1.000	Alumni II	2	0	1.000
Alumni I	2	0	1.000	R.O.T.C.	2	0	1.000
Dillon I	1	1	.500	Walsh	2	0	1.000
Dillon III	I	1	.500	Dillon II	0	1	.000
Sorin	1	1	.500	Zahm	0	1	.000
Alumni III	1	1	.500	Brownson	0	2	.000
Law Club Br.-Phil.	0 c 0	2 3	.000 St. Ed’s .000 Lights		0	2	.000
LEAGUE I	w.	L.	PCT.	LEAGUE II	w.	L.	PCT.
Cavanaugh	2	0	1.000	R.O.T.C.	2	0	1.000
Br.-Phil.	o	0	1.000	Walsh	1	1	.500
Dillon	1	1	.500	Zahm	1	1	.500
Law Club	I	1	.500	Alumni	1	1	.500
Sorin	0	2	.000	Off Camp.	1	1	.500
St. Eds.	0		.000	Brownson	0	■>	.000
Concentrated Baseball
Program Being Planned
University officials this week gave baseball coach, Jake Kline, the “green light.” Spring baseball plans are being speedily formulated despite threatening athletic curtailments.
Indoor batting and fielding sessions have commenced and material is seemingly plentiful. Coach Kline is assured of a competent battery, possibly an experienced infield quartet, and a doubtful outfield assortment. -
Games are being planned with Indiana, Northwestern, Michigan State and Western Michigan Teachers. Complying with government transportation requests, Notre Dame will not travel far from the Irish home garden. Whether nearby major league outfits can be scheduled during the spring training rounds is not yet certain. Coach Kline is doing his best to round up a few of the clubs and.may be able to trade balls with the Indians and Reds. Detroit is nearby and the Pirates are within a few hours , of South. Bend.
19
Joe Petritz, Commissioned Lieutenant, (jg); Was Rockne's Sports Publicity Director
BOB CRONIN
Joe Petritz, genial director of sports publicity at Notre Dame, changed jobs last week. Far removed from his daily duties of tabulating shooting percentages and yardage-per-man charts Joe will now chart enemy sub positions and the course of battle cruisers. He has gone to Princeton University to enter training as a deck officer in the Navy. He received a commission as a lieutenant, (jg), in the United States Naval Reserve.
As a student, Joe worked in the sports publicity department under Knute Rockne. At that time, Rock did most of the writing himself, but Joe soon learned the tricks of the trade; and it was not long before he began distinguishing himself as the best in the business. After Joe’s sophomore year, Rock decided to give him a full-time job. On the way here, Petritz stopped off in Chicago for a few days and arrived here to absorb a sound lecture from Rock. But he soon learned to understand Rock’s dash of sarcasm mixed with his understanding and kindness. Work was easy with Rock behind him. He learned to supply the 300 writers at every home football game with working accommodations and to dispatch stories each week to 500 newspapers, narrating the Green’s supremacy in the athletic world. Joe was invariably off to some distant city taking charge of advance copy concerning the Blue and Gold before they arrived on the scene of battle. He issued by-weekly releases for the big papers so that the fans and “alumni-at-large” could be kept well-informed on the progress of the pigskin outfit, basketball team, cinder artists, and what not. Ninety radio sports commentators and four syndicates have these bulletins available for their immediate use.
Without a doubt, Petritz has the most complete dope sheet of its kind, giving reference to every individual thing that has to do with the squad, games, and opponents. Joe furnished literature by the yard, column inch, or what have you, and typed in a satirical, elevating, or cynical manner, as the paper demanded. His sports’ statistics are the most complete in the country. Joe is especially interested in statistics and has devised many methods of standardizing them. He was instrumental in starting the National Statistics Bureau. His broad knowledge of sports has enabled him to serve on several rules committees.
During his 13 years at N. D., Petritz has experienced many sports thrills, but those he remembers best were most sig-
Lieut, (jg) Joe Petritz
nificant. Since his favorite pastime is writing of victories, his career here started successfully with an exciting Irish victory over Loyola. The half-time 6-0 lead of Loyola was overcome in an impressive rally which found us the winners, 12-6. One of Joe’s standout thrills came in Chicago when Greg Rice set a new two-mile record. Our Iowa Seahawk game of last fall displayed the Irish at their finest, and Joe will nevei' forget the memorable Ohio State game of 1935.
Miss Miriam Petritz, Joe’s sister, is a first lieutenant in the WAACS and is now stationed at a southern base. His younger brother, George, is an ensign in the Navy and was on a patrol boat in the Pacific area. He has been reported missing in action since last May. Ensign Petritz was in that outfit commanded by Lieut. Commander John Bulkley, and his heroic work there won for him the Navy cross. George attended Notre Dame for a year and then was graduated from Marquette.
Joe’s home town is Rockford, Ill. For the duration, Joe’s wife and six year old daughter will live in Laporte, Ind., with Mrs. Petritz’s sister.
Irish Cagers Stretch Elastic Victory Band
Displaying a burst of speed and exceptional ball-handling, Notre Dame scored its tenth victory in 11 attempts by topping a mediocre Michigan State quintet, 45-34, Feb. 6, in the Irish fieldhouse.
The Irish, using their aggressive style of play, immediately gave evidence of superiority by taking an early seven
point advantage before the Spartans were able to connect. The fast-breaking ” offense employed by Notre Dame five enabled them to hold a 25-17 lead at the half-time.
Coach George Keogan substituted freely in the second half as the Irish outscored Michigan, 20-13, for the comparatively easy, 45-34, win.
Bob Rensberger, stellar guard from Nappanee, Ind., contributed 16 points for individual scoring honors and thus retain®! his lead as top scorer on the Notre Dame roster. Frankie Curran, diminutive junior forward, continued his fine brand of play by adding eight points and playing an excellent floor game.
For Michigan State, Irv Petoski proved to be the greatest threat to the Irish by tallying eight points and holding Notre Dame’s two high-scoring pivot men, Bob Faught and Tom Brennan, to a total of six markers.—Don Cisle
Thinlies Drub Navy;
Prepare for Indiana
Bill Carey
With the indoor season now in full swing, Notre Dame’s track team has tasted the salt of competition three times. In their initial test the Irish smothered Navy Pier of Chicago, even though many sure point winners did not compete. The sailors were no match for the boys in blue and gold silks, and the contest reverted into the intra-squad time trials. Bill Dillon was high scorer running up a total of 15 points himself.
On Saturday night, Feb. 6, Doc Handy sent five men onto the wooden saucer of New York’s Madison Square Garden in the Millrose Games.. Two-miler Ollie Hunter struck with Greg Rice for 20 laps, but with the sprint that has carried him to 58 consecutive triumphs, the Pony Boy pulled away. Ollie finished second in the exceptional time of 9:11, the fastest of any collegian this year, and also of Hunter’s career.
A mile relay, team of Austin Jones, Don Lundergan, Dick Tupta, and Gene Fehlig won gold medals for their victory over New York University, Dartmouth, and Harvard in that order. The Irish quartet led from opening leg and broke the tape going away. When final times were computed, the Notre Dame boys were but a fraction of a second behind the pace set by the swiftest of the 14 college baton teams entered.
. Notre Dame and the University of Michigan all but turned the 23rd annual Michigan State College Relay Carnival into a dual meet, the two schools copping first places in 13 of the 19 events. While the Wolverines took back to Ann Arbor
20
seven blue ribbons to six for Notre Dame, the Irish piled up an impressive total of points by its seconds and thirds. Held at the million dollar Jenison Field House of Michigan State at East Lansing, the meet was one of the high spots of the intercollegiate season and brought together some of the Mid-West’s greatest athletes. Five record shattering efforts climaxed a thrill-packed evening.
Captain Jim Delaney broke the Field House record which he himself made in 1942, when he catapulted the shot put 50 feet, 4% inches. In this event the hefty muscles men from Notre Dame ran one, two, three—Jim White and John Yona-kor completing the sweep. Others who crashed the existing marks were high jumper Taylor of Western Michigan, Michigan’s 300 yarder Ufer, Dupre of Ohio State in the broad jump, and the Michigan mile relay team.
High-scorer Dillon
Bill Dillon, N.D. senior scored in three events, taking a first in the high hurdles, second in the lows, and a fourth in the dash. Ollie Hunter won the one mile, and anchored a relay team of Purcell, Currie, and Maloney to a victory in the Distance Relay. Jack Wiethoff, jumping with an untried pole, cleared 13 feet, and outclassed the other’ stratosphere men. Blond Gene Fehlig, Notre Dame’s picture runner, finished ahead of a fine field in the 600. Creighton Miller and Frank Con-forti took second places in the broad jump and thousand, respectively, while 300-yarder Jack Murphy and the shuttlehurdle relay team of Dillon, Huber, Nicholson, and Smith placed third.
A meet scheduled for tomorrow with Missouri, has been cancelled because of transportation difficulties. A new rule enacted by the Bix Six, of which Missouri is a member, forbids any of their
Warming the Bench
With Bill Boss
It takes a rampant imagination and careful research before any coach can
evolve a specific system of attack, either
BILL BOSS
system of play.
offensive or defensive, in any particular sport. But necessity, rather than deliberate study, gave nativity to the zone defense of basketball. This is the saga of an inspiration relative to the formulation of the zone
ACT I
A sagacious mountaineer was principal of a small West Virginia high school in 1914. Bristol was the town, crafty Cam Henderson, the coach. Basketball, mused the athletic minded tutor, was needed to smother the yawns of inactive huskies around the quiet burg. The incessant fall rains and winter snowfalls made outdoor participation in the sport impossible so Cam delegated the town’s carpenters to build a gymnasium. A wooden structure was erected — four sides, a roof and a floor—but it served the purpose.
ACT II
Five men—an invaluable necessity in this game—were tempered into a pretty fair cage unit by the fall of ’14 and the lads yodelled for competition. Games were arranged, played and won. Bristol was rapidly becoming the porridge pot of court activity down in the hill country. But something was wrong with the fieldhouse roof. When the rains came, it seemed to leak. The gym wasn’t renovated and used for an aquarium but the flooi’ was swept and the boys kept sliding along. When it was raining it wasn’t possible to repair the leaky cover and colleges to play schools not in the conference.
The next dual tilt is next Saturday night in the field house, when the invading thinlies will be the Hoosiers from Indiana.
On the evening of the Indiana battle, Doc Handy‘will once more lead Ollie Hunter, Tony Maloney, and probably Hurdler John Smith — if his legs get back in shape — on the golden trail to the Madison Square Garden. This time the sponsoring body will be the New York Athletic Club. Thus, once again, a few fortunate Irishmen will have that coveted crack at the big time.
when the sun was shining it didn’t need repair.
. ACT m
Scene I.
A snowy night. The wind flipped around the wooden shed. Fifteen dollars had been gathered as a guarantee to bring Glair Bee’s Grafton High quintet to Bristol. Townspeople plodded through the snow and crowded the gym to the splintered shingles. But just before game time snow began sifting through the roof and swirling pools of water padded the court.
Fifteen dollars was quite a sum in those days and the rival coaches decided the game must be played at any cost. During the first half the ambitious boys -skidded, splashed and literally swam around the hardwood. Taking a crowded number of time-outs the local First Aid unit crammed in valuable experience administering artificial respiration to the submerged eagers.
Scene II.
Crafty Cam needed a shave and as he ran his broad hand hard against his stubbled beard between halves he was sad. He wanted to keep his boys on their, feet and win the tilt. The score was near knotting and Henderson barked—“Boys, you can’t beat the tarnation out of those fellows if you don’t stay on your feet. Don’t work the ball down the floor. Camp under the Grafton basket, three in front and two in back. With the five of you protecting half of the court maybe we can keep them from scoring.”
Strangely enough this spontaneously composed defense clicked. Grafton was defeated. The stationary zone was employed regularly thereafter, on wet or dry floors, Bristol flattened balky quintets for the next two years. Shifting to a more flexible zone defense when it was necessary the opposition was again baffled. Curtain.
The characters involved in this playlet shambled to prominent coaching berths later. During the current cage era Crafty Cam Henderson, now coaching at Marshall College in West Virginia, has fathered some of the best football and basketball units in the nation. Jackie Hunt, the . nation’s leading grid scorer two years ago, played ball at Marshall and when the now defunct Ohio Conference was -riding the pendulum Marshall clipped the circuit title many times.
Clair Bee, whom we cloaked as tutor of the Grafton five, now mentors the nation’s consistently strong Long Island University quintet. Last year the Flatbush group won 26 scuffles in 27 attempts. De Paul was the only team that doused the Brooklyn club, dropping them, 44-43.
Thus ends our satirical sports drama. A moral is pending.
2!
Branch Officers' Apparel Store—Drake Hotel, C h i c a g o
The Modern Gilbert's
by NAVY APPOINTMENT
— official distributors of
U. S. NAVY UNIFORMS
for commissioned officers
WE carry complete stocks of the new regulation uniforms, furnishings, caps, braid, insignia and devices. Prices established by the Navy Department.
. Commissioned Officers’ Service Blue $40 Commissioned Officers’ Overcoats $50 Commissioned Officers’ Raincoat - Overcoat (with removable wool lining)'$37.50
In South Bend — taxi free to Gilbert's
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR 'MEN!
Branch Officers' Apparel Store-Drake Hotel, Chicago
Customized
HICKEY-FREEMAN
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
$60 and np
' I ''HERE are no finer made. Tailored to Hickey-Freeman standards and individualized by the Modern Gilbert’s expert fitting, these uniforms assure naval officers long, hard wear and complete ease and comfort. In buying your uniform here you have the advantage of a fine store’s taste and exacting quality standards.
DOBBS Officers’ Caps
With 3 covers, $18.50
In South Bend — taxi free to Gilbert's
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND'S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!	"
------------------;:---------£
N.R.O.T.C. Rifle Squad
Marks One Win, One Loss
The Notre Dame Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps has started its rifle team schedule with a win and a loss. The Naval R.O.T.C. defeated the University of Marquette Naval R.O.T.C. by the close score of 1316 to 1312 and lost to the University of Colorado squad by the count of 1675 to 1650.
In the five man meet with Marquette, the Hilltoppers built up an 18 point lead in the prone and sitting positions, but in kneeling the Irish sharpshooters regained six of them. The sailors from Marquette were unable to maintain their lead in the standing position as the Notre Damp team outshot them by 16 points for their margin of victory. Donald A. Finel-li of New York City led the Irish shoot. ers with 269, firing ten times at prone and standing while firing five at sitting and kneeling. John H. Zwicker of Apple-.ton, Wis., Charles E. Seghers of Pittsburgh, Pa., Thomas B. Mahar of Fair Haven, Vt., and Alan H. Guard of ■ Geneva, N. Y., followed in that order.
In a ten man meet with Colorado, the Irish shooters were unable to match the snipers from Boulder, Colo., in the prone, sitting, and kneeling positions with the result that they suffered a 1675-1650 defeat.. Only in the standing position were the Notre Dame sharpshooters able to beat the boys from out west and then only by six points. Five shots were fired from each position and once again Finel-li led the Notre Dame team. His total of
A Local Sharpshooter Takes Aim
180 was high for the entire 20 men who competed. Zwicker followed closely with 179 and was also second high for the meet. Besides Seghers, Mahar, and Guard; Edward K. Handlan of St. Louis, Mo., Peter N. Belmont of .Upper Montclair, N. Y., Francis E.’ Moore of Potts-, ville, Pa., John G. Brozo of New Augusta, Ind., and Raymond G. Clark of Wayne, Pa., fired to complete the' team. .■ .
The rifle team will be very busy in the next two weeks as matches with the
24
Naval R.O.T.C.s’ of Tulane, Virginia, Michigan, Oklahoma, New Mexico, U.C.-L.A., and Georgia Tech are on tap. A meet with the Military R.O.T.C. of West Virginia has also been scheduled.
All these meets are a build up for the Randolph Hearst Trophy Match which must be completed by March 19. All the R.O.T.C. units in the country will compete in this tournament which attracts nation-wide interest. Last year the Notre Dame squad finished 23rd out of 58 teams competing and Ensign Coryn, U.S.N.R., officer-in-charge, has great hopes of improving the Unit’s standing.
A special match for all Naval R.O.T.C. Units will be held soon afterwards and the Irish expect to finish high.
Irish Receive Big Blow
From U. P. War Reporter
From the frigid New York day years ago when the immortal Knute Rockne snatched the touchdown melons as tossed by Gus Dorais, up to the conclusion of the 1942 grid season, when the green shirts flashed lightning twice in three minutes to nearly scuttle a Great Lakes Navy squad, the fame of the Fighting Irish has spread around the world — on the land, on the sea, and in the air.
It was Morrissey Hall residents, last year, who first put the idea into words when they, with their modern-design home-coming motif, publicly acclaimed that the Irish were the best, be it “On land, On the sea, or In the air.” But it took the brainstorm imaginative United Press war reporter, writing at a U.S. bomber base in Eastern India, to liken the American heavy bomber to the Irish grid squad.
The reporter, writing a news dispatch printed in the United States, described American heavy bombers, “using tactics that clicked. like a Notre Dame shift.” This is perhaps the first recorded time that the Notre Dame shift has blasted a 5,000-ton freighter to the bottom of the locker, and will perhaps solace the lowa-Seahawks who were severely jolted here last October.	.
< - -
A clipping of the story, as printed in a Los Angeles paper, was sent to the school by one of the Irish “sidewalk” alumni. The paper seemingly commented on the story of the bombers clicking like a Notre Dame shift ■with a little sub-head “Seems Authentic.”	,
In a note enclosed with the clipping, the contributor adds that perhaps next year the school could use the moniker “Notre Dame Bombers.” He wished the .University, good luck and, to quote his note, “I guess this is the first time the running attack of Notre Dame has been -
used in the sky.” Perhaps he’s right; but those who witnessed the aforementioned Seahawk game, will recall that the Irish used a running attack through, around, and over. And as far as Notre Dame and the sky are concerned, it is to be questioned whether the contributor has ever seen the “Springfield Rifle” chuck one of those grenades in the general direction of some green-shirted receiver.
—Dave Condon.
Spartans Outpoint
Irish Fencers, 14-13
Fighting valiantly against strong odds, a green Notre Dame fencing team was nosed out last Saturday night by the Michigan State Spartans, 14-13, at East Lansing. This is the third season in a row that the final score between the two teams has been 14-13, the Fighting Irish winning the two previous matches.
Since not one man in their lineup was a starter against the Spartans last year, the showing of the losers was indeed amazing. The draft and December graduation have taken such a toll upon the Irish squad that it was necessary for Coach Walter Langford to put in men who had never fought before in varsity competition.
The outstanding feature of the contest was the showing of southpaw Elmer Sil-ha in foil. Fencing in his first varsity match, Silha subdued his more experienced opponents by the amazing scores of 5-0, 5-0 and 5-3. Usually, an average of one bout out of the 27 in every meet is a shutout.	•
John Watters, selected acting captain for the match in the absence of Captain Jim Madigan, who graduated last December, won all three of his bouts in epee. These were the only Notre Dame victories in this weapon. The Blue and Gold sabre men, Roney, Gonzalez and Slevin, each nabbed two bouts.
Coach Langford was well pleased with Notre Dame’s performance, though he must have felt the defeat sorely. This marks the first time that an Irish fencing team under his tutelage has had more losses than wins at this stage. Thus far the Irish record stands at one victory and three defeats.
Wisconsin comes here tomorrow to meet the Blue and Gold. Although the Badgers -will be favored, the Langfordmen should make the match an interesting one.
Despite difficulties in scheduling meets . with traveling conditions the way they are, Notre Dame has scheduled contests with' Purdue here next Saturday, with Marquette here March 6, and with Marquette at Milwaukee March 20.	.
- .	_ ' ‘ —Jim Gillis
“REO” LONERGAN
Jim Cunningham
WE GOT A DATE	.
Yes, that’s right, fellows, and that date is on the 16th, 17th, and 19th of March at eight o’clock. You guessed it, those are the dates of the Bengal Bouts, three nights no real Notre Dame man misses. To make your dates a success the boys are working out nightly to present an amateur boxing show the quality of which you will
wait many a day to see again. Assistant instructors to Mr. Scannell, Bob Dove and Charley Waters, inform us that the scraps for the middleweight crowns should be unprecedented in Bengal Bout history as there are large numbers out at this weight and many old faces appear in these classes. . . . Our instructor, Mr. Dove, seems to be having a hard time keeping his belongings together. He sent half of his dress clothes from the EastWest game to Washington sc that they would be on hand for him to wear at the presentation of the Knute K. Rockne award, which he merited. Upon arrival he had a frantic time hunting up a substitute dinner jacket. To make sure the trophy got back to school safely he had that shipped too, and that got here just a few days ago. Bob is just about sold on pony express now. . . . When asked by many writers and pigskin fans who was the better passer, Paul Governali of Columbia or our own pitcher, Mr. Bertelli, Bob said that Paul was truly a great passer but that he hadn’t played with him long enough to be able to compare him with “Bert.”
"THE SHOW IS ON"	„
You don’t have to come from Indiana to be basketball crazy; just live in it. If you don’t believe it just wander over to the “Rock” and watch the swarm of boys trying to become future Moirs, Nowaks, or Riskas. Director Bill Amann tells us that the interest in the game at present surpasses all other years. This may be due to the war, he claims, as there are many seniors in this group, and they are probably using it as a means to get into condition for the services. There seems to be a hall monopoly on the star players, as Cavanaugh’s Heavies I and Lights I and Walsh’s Heavies II and Lights II look like the best outfits at this early obseiwation. The fact that the games thus far have i
been low scoring affairs seems to prove that it is much harder to pick up on offense than defense. . . . Talking about defense, there was a great need for selfdefense in the AJumni I and Dillon III game, which wa/ won by the seniors, 21 to 18. The game ended up in something that resembled a Bolshevik party meeting—lots of bumped bodies and a grand assortment of “shiners.” The referee spent so much of his time blowing his whistle that he has developed a lung condition. . . . The Casey twins are at it again. This time it’s basketball. Those boys seem athletically inclined. . . . Your author received a letter from the old commissioner of intramural athletics, Vince Commisa, and, while he has been a physical education instructor in several of the Newark schools, he claims that the easiest group to instruct is the one of colored boys with whom he is working now. .
LOOSE SPLINTERS
Harry Elmore, Notre Dame’s sports photographer the past 23 years and several times winner of the South Bend tennis and golf championships, is retiring from photography to spend the rest of his days in balmy Miami Beach, Fla. . . . Two surprises on the track this year have been Creighton Miller and Jim White, both of football fame. Creighton has been consistently beating our better dash men to the tape in the 50. Jim is just learning the tricks of throwing the Irish confetti (shot put) and his first tries look like those of one Jim Delaney. ... We hear that Milt Piepul’s five from Cathedral High in Indianapolis has one of the toughest schedules in their league, and it looks like they will have a banner year. - There is a fine article on. Greg Rice -in the Feb. 6th issue of the New
Yorker which claims that Greg is one of the few great trackmen of today who doesn’t train under some coach; Greg’s answer is, “The late John, Nicholson spoiled me for other coaches. He molded my stride, my brain, and my heart and now he’s dead. If I were to submit to some other coach he might teach me contradictory principles and this would result in confusion, - the one state it’s advisable . not to be in while running.” Greg is an accountant in one of the New York munitions factories, and his business ability is surpassed only by . his pleasing personality, which has made . him an office favorite. ... A card from
Andy Chlebeck tells us he is wintering (Virginia—Quantico.	,
Richard Thomas
DICK DOERMER
One of the Fort Wayne boys— always has big blow for his many friends....
Doermer.____6'2", 185 pounds, rugged countenance. ...wears shell rim glasses in, class. . . . protecting eyes for pending V-l.. exam. . . . h o p es to serve on a PT boat.
This Business Add major holds the Fort Wayne doubles cham-
pionship in tennis together with his curly-haired roommate, Artie Hoffman ____as Mutt and Jeff combination these two have shared same doubledecker three years.....now live in giant room in Walsh’s famous “attic.” %	. -
Economic Round Tablet and. retiring junior class prexy.	Dick engineered last November’s stupendous prom.	has long tried with others to talk Student Council into weekly dances in Rockne... now leads “quiet” life studying math, keeping cum laude average, taking trips ; to Chicago and the Hometown once a month.____________________________. -	- - .
Likes.variety in girls.____dates several .... Is always found in McGovern’s Liberty Inn when in the Windy City___; not drinking man but enjoys the floorshow ___________________________________sees S. B.’s Michigan street twice a week with GHQ at Hook’s.__________Like to twirl key chain, play records______ Has not eaten a Friday night meal on campus since frosh days.... plays handball twice a week._______________________his first four semesters plopped his 13 B’s around Morrissey and Zahm halls with mail. — now heads campus corsage salesmen’s association.
Before war spent summer vacations at family cottage in upper Mich.___________pike fishing.reads current books_______________ is semi-isolationist.... in spite of study done in N. D.’s farsighted commerce school believes the Western Hemisphere should keep to itself after war.___________Dis' likes Walsh’s 63 steps.... and dining hall’s chop suey.... flew to Cincinnati with pilot friend last summer._____________ice formed on wings.... skillful friend made amazing three pointer in stump studded field._____________________________________after war: law school for Dick at Georgetown._____________________________: .
AUTHORIZED
Representing
M. BORN & COMPANY Chicago's Largest Custom Naval Tailors
EAKEER - WINIIIE<HI
Old Established Uniform Tailors and Clothiers
1151/2 -	N. MAIN STREET, UPSTAIRS NORTH OF OLIVER HOTEL
CUSTOM TAILORED UNIFORMS AT READY-MADE PRICES
• . ' ‘ • *	- * ■ ’
Compare Our Prices!
Blue, 16 oz. Serge Uniform...................$37.50
Blue, 16 oz. Lastique Uniform................ 47.00
Whipcord Raincoats, with detachable lining..... 49.50 30 oz. Beaver Overcoats........................ 57.50
Cap and Device......................„„$14.50 and up
2 White Twills for_____________________________$25.00
ALL ACCESSORIES, INCLUDING SHIRTS AND TIES, AT REASONABLE PRICES.
26
NOTRE DAME BOOK STORE
OFFICIAL NAVY STATIONERY AND NAVY JEWELRY
Toilet Articles
Supplies
SOUTH BENO/ INDIANA
Bruggner's in. the J. M. S. Building have a fine line of Tobaccos, Cigarettes, Pipes — Novelties — Fountain Service — Billiards.
FHoIm cmd
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Bruggner's News Comer for magazines, books, maps, and greeting cards.
MUSIC
J. C. B.
This week or this month sees the first issue of a new all-radio magazine called Tune In which came to our attention a week or so ago. With a format somewhat like Life's, it is smaller and at the present only a monthly. Published by the D. S. Publishing Company, Inc. (whatever all that might mean) it contains articles on radio from “Superman” and the psychology behind and before him, to a sketch, with pictures, on Gladys Swarthout of “Carmen” fame. This month’s issue, (Vol. I, No. I, March, 1943) contains beside the sketch on Gladys Swarthout, a rather “nice” picture of Dinah Shore and an article entitled “They All Cried,” the story of Glenn Miller’s last performance with his band at the Central Theatre in Passaic, N. J. The first issue of this new magazine was excellent as it goes; it may well become the top-ranking magazine of its kind and may well become a weekly by popular desire. The “caf” has it. . . .
About a month ago, the Cleveland Orchestra lost its great conductor, Artur Rodzinski, to the New York Philharmonic. Rodzinski is certainly moving to a much greater post, and if the critics may be believed, he has a task on his hands; to make the Philharmonic the first orchestra of the land, as it was a few years back. Rodzinski has been in his 49 years conductor of the Warsaw Opera Orchestra and conductor of the San Francisco Orchestra. It was he who was picked by Toscanini to organize his great NBC Symphony in ’36. He stayed there for a while, rehearsing and working with Toscanini to make it the great orchestra that it is.
Then he went to Cleveland and in a few short years made the second rate Cleveland Symphony the foremost orchestra in the Midwest and one of the nation’s greatest. But now Rodzinski has gained another great honor and the Cleveland Orchestra is without a permanent conductor, and it may suffer' the same fate that the’Philharmonic suffered the past year. We have heard the Cleveland Orchestra these past few weeks, three in a row without Rodzinski and then Saturday with him. The difference is tremendous in favor of Artur, and we sincerely hope that this excellent Cleveland Orchestra won’t slip back into the comparative depths from which it came these past few years.
NAVAL OFFICERS
Fine serviceable leathers and approved design are just a part of these Mansfield Military Oxfords. It’s their superb friendly fit that makes Mansfields the preferred shoe by men in the Service.
military blucher oxford, black Alpine leather and rubber heel.
MANSFIELD’S
FAMED FOR FIT
$5.95
BOSTONIANS, $8.95
M‘X ADLER
Michigan at Washington
28
Biology Club Enjoys Talk by Prof. Ervin
The Notre Dame Biology Club consisting of pre-medical and pre-dental students met last Feb. 10 and were addressed by Mr. Robert F. Ervin, instructor of biology, on the “Bacteriology of Wounds.”
In his lecture Mr. Ervin outlined the various types of bacteria which are the most ordinary infecting agents of wounds, namely, Streptococci, Staphylococci, lockjaw bacillus, and gas gangrene bacillus. Explaining what the bacteria are and where they are most commonly
"WONDER WHAT THAT FELLOW THINKS ABOUT ON THE WAY DOWN"
you count on. glad you were
And quality Makes you thirsty."
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND


found Prof. Ervin then showed how they enter the wound and migrate through the body.
Stating that “the lockjaw organism is more likely to • cause infection in punctured or- lacerated wounds than in any other injury of the skin.” Professor Ervin followed through by listing the different possible injuries.
In conclusion he compared the treatment of wounds and the death rate of World War I and World War II, bringing to light the sharp decline in the death rate of World War II because of the new and improved methods of treatment since the first war.
Did you know that high altitude makes you terribly thirsty? ‘Dehydrates’, they call it. Who wouldn’t want an ice-cold Coke. Coca-Cola not only quenches thirst, it adds refreshment, too. And taste ... a deliciousness all its own.
Immediately following the lecture the -election of officers for the Biology Club was held. Robert Nelson, of Auburn, New York, was chosen as the new president.
‘	—J. Ross Lo Casico
Forum Eliminates Trip, Plans Active Semester
The Commerce Forum laid plans for the current semester- at a recent meeting of its officers. Faculty advisors chosen to aid the Forum were Professors E. A. Smith, Guy H. McMichael, Wesley C. Bender, and LeClair H. Eells. Dean J. E. McCarthy was selected as chairman of the Faculty Board.
The Forum, whose purpose is to encourage the participation of its members in activities which will lead to a better knowledge of business and finance, will, according to Pres. Tom O’Reilly begin the membership campaign immediately. All Commerce men whose scholastic average is 82% or better are eligible to become members.
Although the annual educational trip to Chicago has necessarily been eliminated because of transportation restrictions, the officers of the Forum seek to have an active year. Many of the best speakers in the business field in the MidWest area are sought for some of the meetings. In addition to the speakers, educational movies will be shown and recreational meetings held. From the sports angle, a handball tournament has been planned and possibly a bowling team, if there is sufficient interest.
Plans Formulated For
NFCCS Convention Here
Discussing plans for the coming regional congress of the National Federation of Catholic College Students at St. Mary’s and Notre Dame, the Notre Dame Federation of Catholic Activities met on the campus Sunday with Jack Terry, student commission head, serving as chairman in the absence of Federation President George Bariscillo.
The Fort Wayne region will hold its annual convention on the St. Mary’s and Notre Dame campuses on March 13, 14, with representatives invited from more than ten colleges in this district, includ- ' ing Nazareth, Aquinas, St. Joseph’s, Mundelein, Rosary, Loyola, and St-Xavier.
Five general sessions with the general theme, “Permanent Peace Through Oneness in Christ,” will be included in the two day meeting. Terry will act as congress chairman. Betty Navarre of Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich., is president of the Fort Wayne region.
29
See the throat microphone?
FIGHTING WORDS delivered by Western Electric Radio
Wherever American soldiers ride into battle in roaring "hell buggies,” they get their orders over radio telephone sets. So do pilots of Army bombers and fighting planes — and the commanders of the Navy's deadly PT boats.
The Signal Corps needs great quantities of field telephones, wire and switchboards to get the message through. Aboard large naval vessels are battle announcing systems and sea-going telephones.
Sixty years of experience in making Bell Telephones gave Western Electric the "know how” to speed equipment that helps "keep ’em in contact.”
Economic Round Table
Accepts New Members
The Economic Round Table has announced that applications for membership will be accepted until noon, Mon-
day? Feb. 22. Joe Rud, president of the organization, states that any sophomore o r junior interested in membership should contact one of the following membership committee by that joe i.un time: Bob Nanno, 225 Sorin; Mike Pessemier, 201 Alumni; Al Sommer, Jr., 230 Walsh. The final interviews for membership will be held Monday evening, Feb. 22, in 230 Walsh Hall.
The Economic Round Table was founded in the early ’30’s by Professor William Downey of the economics department to foster student interest in and discussion of current economic, social, and political questions. Since that time the membership has been limited to approximately 18. It has been traditional that the organization have a dinner-meeting every Wednesday evening in a private dining room in or around South Bend. At these meetings one of the members delivers a paper on a subject of his own choosing; following that the various members comment and discuss the paper. Every semester the Round Table traditionally ends its activities for the semester at a banquet in any of the larger hotels in South Bend. Mr. Downey has continued since the founding of the organization as the faculty moderator.
On Feb. 10 Tom Duffy of Walsh Hall discussed a plan for post-war reconstruction in the Far East. .Duffy emphasized that we must admit China to the inner circle of major world powers and encourage her to industrialize. “Furthermore,” Duffy said, “the western countries must gradually withdraw their fingers from the eastern pie. Ultimately complete autonomy must be the rule in the East.”
Western Electric
ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS
Last Wednesday Bob Nanno of Sorin argued for a world union of all the nations of the world following the present holocaust. “Never again must the world experience what we are now experiencing,” Nanno said. “The only hope for future generations, the only hope for civilization, is the establishment of a planned world, a world union, founded on the principles of justice and charity and united in a common hatred for war.” Mr. E. L. Powers of the Biology Department was the Round Table guest for the evening.
30
Ghuu Correctly Fitted
J. BURKE
W. G. BQGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mig. Opticians 128 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Pick, Gents!
19 TRAINS DAILY TO CHICAGO
No guesswork, just remember this easy schedule: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning with the third, at 7:30 A. M., and until 9:30 P. M., there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too.
For information call C. W. VEACH Ticket Office
301 N. Michigan St.
Phone 3-3111
NAVY MEN!
Ash about special furlough rates
Chicago,-South Shore and South Bend Railroad
50WRE
H. S. Taylor of Princeton, To Address Chemists
On Thursday evening, Feb. 25, the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society will present as part of the Notre Dame Centennial celebration, Dr. Hugh Stott Taylor, David B. Jones Professor of Chemistry of Princeton U., Princeton, N. J.
At the meeting, which is to be held in the Auditorium of the Law Building at 8:00 p.m., Dr. Taylor will discuss a very timely topic, the rapid progress which is being made in the field of catalytic agents as applied to the production of aviation fuels and synthetic rubber.
Dr. Taylor, who has been affiliated with Princeton University since 1914, was born in Lancashire, England and received the doctor of science degree from the University of Liverpool in 1914. He has been chairman of the department of chemistry at Princeton since 1926, and was visiting professor at Manchester in 1931 and at the University of Louvain in 1936.
He has been the recipient of many awards, including the Nichols Medal in 1928, the Cross of the Order of Leopold II in 1937, and is one of the few Americans honored with membership in the Pontifical Academy.
Dr. Taylor has conducted numerous researches in the field of catalysis, photochemistry, and activated adsorption, and is recognized as an authority in these fields.
Dr. Taylor’s talk on the role of catalysis in the production of gasoline and synthetic rubber is of interest scientifically as a fitting pendant to the work of the late Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. whose basic researches led to the development of synthetic rubber by the duPont Corp. Dr. Taylor’s long and close friendship with Father Nieuwland is climaxed by his appearance as part of the Notre Dame Centennial.
Captain Webster, '40, Killed in Action
Word has been received that Captain Thomas Jerome Webster, of the United States Marine Corps, was killed in action in the Solomon Islands campaign.
Capt. Webster, a Notre Dame graduate of the class of 1940, was injured in action at Guadalcanal on Nov. 24, 1942 and was taken by plane to a nearby hospital base where he died from his wounds.
Notre Dome HUDDLE
GYM SHOES
PLAIN “T” SHIRTS
N. D. “T” SHIRTS GYM PANTS
SUPPORTERS
SOFT DRINKS CIGARETTES
CANDY TOBACCO PIPES
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S. CYRIL F. ROSE. DJJ.S. PETER J. ROSE. DJJ.S.
623-629 Sherland Blds.	Sooth Bead. tod.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building	Phone 3-2474
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GBYERAI. DENTISTRY Diseases and Surgeij at Meath and Jaws X-Rays and Consultation
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg.. South Bead. tod.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend. Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher. M.D.	M. J. Thoratao. MR
31
the \N°rV°
. i	« v/orkets
A ^900,00° s0fisty
expert06 *° <o our °,r'
rto°k	needed
/urv/ay5' . y/or^* men o«
won
? $ £
'X X-/
Ligg^
ALL OVER THE WORLD
Chesterfields
MILDER BETTER TASTE

Action shots, news pictures and on-the-spot reports show that cigarettes are mighty important to the men in the Service.
That’s why billions of MILDER, BETTER-TASTING Chesterfields are being shipped by train and truck and ship and plane to every corner of the globe.
Their right combination of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos gives smokers everything that makes smoking more pleasure.
THE CIGARETTE THAT GIVES SMOKERS WHAT THEY WANT

CopynShtl94j