f

SCHOLASTIC
Vol. 81, No. I
March 17, 1944
10 Cents
.4
•	Laetare Medalist Named Sunday
6
•	Co/. Romulo Speaks On Campus
•	McKeever Starts Spring Practice
•	Boxing Championships Announced
9 N. D. Celebrates Coronation Date
For Years Largest Collegiate Circulation in Indiana

Colonel Carlos P. Romulo accepting an honorary Notre Dame degree from Rev. John F.
O’Hara, C.S.C.
Get More Quality fo?' Less
in These
$40
RAINCOATS
with removable All Wool Linings
Indiana's LARGEST
Naval Officers’ Uniform House
is NOT DOWN TOWN
in South Bend.
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
In South Bend TAXI FREE to The Modern Gilbert’s
REMEMBER! — It is not only the uniform but the Fit that Counts. You can depend on Gilbert's tailors for this expert service.
It is EIGHT BLOCKS South on Michigan Street!
$375°
TAXI FREE!
—in South Bend Hail any cab— we pay on arrival.
OPEN HOUSE
Saturday afternoon and Evening — and Sunday, 9 to 4
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
RODUCED under the supervision of the Navy
Department, these, uniforms fit flawlessly, are fashioned to perfection. And the low prices established by the Navy provide you with the best of all possible value.
7WF MODS KM
GILBERT'S
2
191F30
Home of HICKEY - FREEMAN Navy Officers’ Uniforms
FRANK KENT
Frank (Kinky) Kent . . . popular junior ... . lived in Zahm, Dillon, Sorin sub . . . now has Sorin third suite . . . at one time claimed honorary membership in La Raza club.
Constant joker, his main source of peeve occasioned by his stature . . . would like to be just a bit taller . . . locker stocked with clothes . . . very easily could claim title of one of best dressed men on campus.
Commerce major . . . once flirted with A.B. . . . graduate of Loyola high school in Chicago . . . lives on Ellis avenue . . . boosts White Sox . . . hit manhood last May . . . celebrated 21st birthday . . . has two younger brothers . . . chagrined because they are practically as tall as he.
At various times has been employed by Ball-Band, Studebaker, and the Huddle . . . latest employer was Uncle Samuel . . . now holds 1-C draft registration . . . one-time member of famed E.R.C. . . . illness made him drop one semester of school in summer of 1942 . . . has knack of enjoying life ... at same time can remember accurately anything he has read.
BMOC . . . has variously been free lance artist in matters d’amour . . . currently tied up with St. Mary’s . . . true Notre Dame spirit. . . . Rosie’s every Friday . . . was member of 1941 interhall football runners-up, Zahm’s Zahmbies.
Famed as letter writer . . . his greatest masterpiece ten-word, epistle sent to ex-roommate in army. . . . “Hey, how about a letter. Write soon. As ever, Frank.”
Highspot of his life ... doing literary criticism of Scrip for Scholastic. ...
Frankly, youse don't look like de type . who would enter de Bengal bouts. . .
THIS MATTER OF POLICY
AN EDITORIAL BY DAVE CONDON
"SCHOLASTIC" EDITOR
With this issue Scholastic begins publication of another volume in the history of Notre Dame. The problem of news presentation in the semester ahead is not going to be without difficulty.
Scholastic is primarily a news publication. Regardless of other days when the : magazine may have occasionally fluttered from this path, the present editorial staff j is resolved that the publication shall continue a policy of news presentation. It is 1 hoped that this presentation will be accurate, reliable, and first.
The editors of the magazine are at this time seeking to work out an agreement with the University publicity departments whereby University news, literally a property of the University student, will first be presented in the pages of Scholastic. , There are times and circumstances where this will not be possible, nor advisable, but insofar as possible, readers of the Scholastic will read Notre Dame community news in the. Scholastic prioi' to publication elsewhere. This is as it should be. •
In this matter Scholastic must be aided by the faculty, the students, the | representatives of all organizations, and members of service units on the campus. | Those connected with events or promotions worthy of news space are solicited to keep in constant contact with Scholastic, bearing in mind the magazine’s complicated printing problem makes it desirable for the editorial staff to have all news tips at the earliest possible moment.	|
Scholastic is a community publication. It covers the community of Notre Dame ! and must present the news of civilian students, service students, and the school j administration. The news shall be treated as news and no attempt will be made to group news under departments such as “student,” “V-12,” “NROTC,” or “administration.” The most prominent news stories, on the assumption that the whole populace * of the community is interested in Notre Dame life, shall take precedence, no matter where that news breaks.
Of its editorial staff, Scholastic will demand accurate and complete news coverage. Stories, save those of the feature type, must be written in an acceptable news manner.
Of its readers, Scholastic asks only that there be recognition of the publication’s | policy and agreement that the magazine must be published in the best interests of ’ the University. There must be recognition among all the community that there is no compromise in the manner of correct news presentation.
Scholastic is proud of four things. The editorial staff looks with pride upon the service units that so ably have given Notre Dame a prominent part in the war effort. With this we are proud of the contribution that Notre Dame students, faculty, and the religious, have made in not only this war, but in the three other struggles through which Notre Dame has survived. Secondly, we are proud of the rich heritage given the University by the Congregation of Holy Cross, which has numbered among its members representatives for every good cause in the world. Next, we are proud of the one hundred-odd years behind the University—the years of difficult doing and hard labor—that have made Notre Dame’s name in the sun. Lastly, Scholastic is proud of the eighty-odd volumes that have gone before this one.
With the background of these traditions, Scholastic hopes to build for the future. Scholastic policy calls for the continuance of these traditions. Scholastic policy i has been resolved around a determination that whoever its readers be—faculty, stu-	'
dents, service, men, religious, or the “side-walk” alumni, they are all united under that ! oft-repeated, yet at this point again appropriate, “For God, Country, and Notre Dame.”	.
4
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 81
MARCH 17, 1944
NO. 1
Laetare Medalist to be Named Sunday
Preparations were complete today for the announcing Sunday of Notre Dame’s 62nd Laetare Medalist. The announcement is made annually on Laetare Sunday, fourth Sunday of Lent, from a custom adapted from the Golden Rose award of the Papacy, once made on that Sunday to the layman who had most advanced the Church’s cause.
In 1883 the University began its annual custom of recognizing an outstanding Catholic layman or woman whose career has added to the Catholic contribution to the United States. Since that time, 61 recipients, including 13 women, have received the award. They have included among their number generals, admirals, physicians, actresses, novelists, statesmen, scientists, and philanthropists.
The medal was founded by the spirit of cooperation' existing between a lay professor, the late James Edwards, and .	the president of Notre Dame at that
time, the late Rev. Thomas Walsh, •	C.S.C.
One Notre Dame alumnus, Albert F. Zahm, scientist and pioneer in the aero-t nautics field, received the medal in 1935. A former Notre Dame professor, Timo-u thy E. Howard, later' an Indiana supreme court justice, received the medal in 1898. In 1892 the medal was won by Henry F. Brownson, philosopher and son of the late Orestes Brownson, who contributed much to University history. In 1939 Josephine Brownson, catechist, r	daughter, of Henry F. Brownson, re.	ceived the award. .
Thomas F. Woodlock, journalist and author, and editor of the Wall Street Journal, received the award last year, r	The first winner was	John Gilmary
|	Shea, historian, who	received the	award
}r	in 1883.
Jr Complete details of the 1944 winner ,	will be carried in	next	week’s	Scho-
LASTIC.
k Other winners have been:
1942—Helen Constance White, author ■ (president of the American Assn.
of Univ. Women)
1941—William T. Walsh, journalist, author current popular St. Theresa of Avila.	.
1940—Gen. Hugh A. Drum, United States Army	.
1938—Dr. Irvin W. Abell, surgeon, former president of the American Medical Association
1937—Jeremiah D. L. Ford, Harvard „ scholar, author and professor
1936—Richard Reid, editor The Catholic Neius, New York, former director of the Georgia Layman’s Association
The Laetare Medal
193o—Frank H. Spearman, novelist
1934—Genevieve Garvan Brady, philanthropist	.
1933—John McCormack, artist
1932—Dr. Stephen J. Maher, physician, tuberculosis research leader
1931—James J. Phelan, business man, Boston Catholic welfare leader
1930—Frederick P. Kenkel, publicist in German American Catholic life
1929—Alfred E. Smith, statesman
1928—John J. Spalding, lawyer, Southern tolerance champion
(Continued on page 28)
Civilian Student Council
In Organizing Process
A long felt need on the campus will be realized next week with the formation of a civilian Student Council to function as a representing- board of the men in the four civilian halls. It will perform the same duties substantially as the Navy’s V-12 executive council.
There will be one member on this council for each duly organized campus club, and one member from each residence hall.
According to the plans proposed by the Catholic Action Students, clubs will be allowed to select their men on the council by whichever method they desire. In the halls, each floor will choose a candidate. The men so chosen by the floors then will automatically be candidates for the general election on the second night. In this general election one of the men from each hall will be elected by popular vote, to be the hall representative.
The qualifications for office are two: Being a civilian student, and having a general average of not less than 80%.
Next week there will be an announcement of the date and places of election. Each campus organization wishing representation should apply immediately to the prefect of discipline’s office.
Admiral Nimitz Honored
WASHINGTON—On March 14 the house unanimously passed a resolution awarding Admiral Chester W. Nimitz. commander of the Pacific fleet, the Distinguished Service Medal.
(Some students on the campus will remember that in October, 1941, Admiral Nimitz appeared in Washington hall and addressed students of Notre, Dame. At that time he paid high tribute to the ideals of the University. The speech was broadcast.) .
5
Col. Carlos P. Romulo, member of the cabinet of the Philippine government in exile and aide to Gen. Douglas MacArthur, returned to Notre Dame Sunday, March 12, after an absence of almost eight years.
After his arrival here Sunday morning, Col. Romulo spent his time seeing a little of South Bend, and viewing the campus. During the afternoon he addressed the Town Hall division of the South Bend branch, American Association of University Women, in Central High school.
At 6:30 p.m. he rejoined his “friends of Notre Dame” in a banquet given in his honor by La Raza Club, at the Oliver Hotel. Father W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., faculty advisor’ of the club, served as host. All formality was done away with, - the colonel making everyone feel at ease with his jokes and with his most pleasing personality.
After the banquet, “Bitsy” Repilado acted as master of ceremonies, introducing Prof. Jose Corona, of the Spanish department, who read an original poem, “The New Race,” which he dedicated to the honored guest.
Following this, Dr. Romulo, who is noted as a lecturer and author, spoke in Spanish to the Latin-American students. He started off smoothly and reserved, going through a description of the days of Bataan and Corregidor, and mounting in fervor and tempo as he told of Philippine youth martyred with his American brothers in the bloody sacrifice for liberty.
Dr. Romulo emphasized the strong ties of culture, language, religion, and ideas, which have always bound Pan-American countries with his native land. He told of the abundance of martyrs and patriots among the Spanish-speaking countries who have believed in ideals even to the point of death. “. . . men who have , fought for liberty, not with empty words, but with their lives.”
“In these dark nights of danger, more men wait for help to come. And this help must come from the strength of people who believe in liberty. These young men, with many tilings for which to live, are waiting for our strength to be felt. I who come from the' holes of Bataan, holes of sweat and tears, holes of death—I who have seen my fellow buddies torn apart and butchered, who stand on this spot
Romulo, Honorary Alumnus, Speaks Here
By AL LESMEZ "Scholastic" Managing Editor
Col. Carlos Romulo
by a miracle of God Who spared me, plead with you brothers to aslfour compatriots not to abandon us in this terrible fight.”
Ten minutes after having concluded this talk, Col. Romulo was busy again talking to a group of several hundred faculty members and students of the University at Washington Hall.
Doctor Romulo related how more than a year ago, when he first came to the United States, fresh from the agony of Bataan, the memory of dismangled friends and blood-rivulets still warm in his mind, he saw the jitterbugging and gayety of cafe society, and he lost all hope and all faith in the America that 21,0C0 Philippine youths had died defending. It sounded like laughter in a funeral parlor to him, and the complacency and indifference in that „ first impression ’ shocked him.... he who had seen an American army in the disgrace of full retreat.
Col. Romulo went on to explain that in his lecture tour of the United States, a tour which brought him to 364 different American cities, he saw the other America:—the America of defense plants, of training stations, of voluntary groups, and even of colleges. “This was my America at last talking to me. No, not
to me, but through me, to the youth lying in un-named graves of Bataan.”
Before leaving, Dr. Romulo told Father Cunningham that the greatest compliment he has received was in 1935 when he was here to receive his honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. He had just finished his speech, when a husky student slapped him on the back and said: “That was a swell speech. After that showing we should keep you here to be our quarter-back.”
Symphony Organizes
Aftei- a semester of inactivity, the Notre Dame Symphony will again begin its series of rehearsals in preparation for Music Week. But graduations and obvious war circumstances have created vacancies in the orchestra. These vacancies permit new students with the proper qualifications and necessary musical experience to become associated with the orchestra. Further information in regard to these qualifications can be had by contacting any of the instructors in the Music department who are available any time daily from 10 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. in Music hall.
It is the aim of the officers of the orchestra and the music department to have a fine fifty-piece symphony orchestra of selected musicians who can ably represent the University in this field. The fellows are enthusiastic and we have promise of a good year ahead.
The first meeting of the orchestra will be held Sunday, March 19, at 9:00 a.m. in the Band Room which is located on the ground floor of Music hall. Since there are many vacancies, especially in the string and woodwind sections, any’ student musicians who are interested in partaking in the activities of the orchestra should attend this meeting to better acquaint themselves with the personnel and officers of the Notre Dame Symphony.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Tryouts for positions in the N. D. ❖ Radio Department will be held Wed- ❖ ❖ nesday, March 22, from 3 to 5:30 p.m. *•* in the Studios on the lower floor of *** & Washington Hall. Students may ap-ply for alL positions, writing, acting, ❖ *?• announcing, or engineering.	*»•
6
Notre Dame's First Naval Reserve
Unit Commissioned on February 27
Seventy-seven members of Notre Dame’s first naval reserve officer training corps were commissioned as ensigns in the naval reserve in ceremonies Feb. 27, on the Notre Dame campus.
Speaking to the group, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University, warned that false philosophies threaten the United States, and said: “We are at war against the vicious principle that might makes right. We must fight it with every means at our command, because a nation, like an individual, must resist wanton attack. But, we must always keep before us the intrinsic dignity of the human personality. Be on guard against holding immersed in the philosophy of hate which is rampant in the world.
“We should hate the crime,” continued the Notre Dame president, “we should hate the thing; but it does not follow that we should hate the individual who.is ignorant of the principles of Christianity which are the bedrock of American civilization. If this distinction is not observed, two consequences follow logically; first, we make ourselves party to the might-makes-right philosophy that we are now fighting on fifty-two fronts; secondly, by encouraging hatred abroad, we also encourage a dangerous reaction at home where the flames of religious and racial hatred are already being fanned by those who ignore or deny the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of
man. Back of the Hitler philosophy and the Tojo philosophy and the Communist philosophy is the false conception of
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.
man as a glorified animal. That doctrine has a hold on the leaders and their followers, but are we to conclude that the people themselves should be destroyed? Rather, they should be redeemed. In other words, let us hate the sin, but not the sinner.” ,
ident of the University, Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., that “Holy Father with grateful affection imparts to the superiors and students first paternal blessing.”
The present Pope became popular with the students on the campus during his visit here, in more than one way. Following the receiving of his doctor of letters degree, he turned to the students and said, “Now, if your superiors have no objection, I suggest that you-have a holiday for the rest of the day.”
On October 29, 1943, on the occasion of the University’s centennial commencement and the last formal commencement until after the war, a message from the Pope was read to the students. In this message he lauded the work of Notre Dame and paid tribute to “the glorious traditions • of Notre Dame, a truly Catholic tradition of enthusiastic and patriotic devotion to their country.”
As Cardinal Pacelli the Pope presented to the University an autographed photograph and an autographed volume of sermons, souvenirs of his visit in 1936.—Dave Condon.
Ex-Student Gets Wings
Harry L. Delaplane, jr., son of Mrs. H. L. Delaplane of 7030 Calumet avenue, Chicago, and a former Notre flame student, was recently commissioned a second lieutenant in the army air forces, at Victorville army air field, Victorville, Calif., according to word received here. He is a bombardier - navigator. He graduated from Campion prep school at Prairie du Chien, Wis., prior to entering Notre Dame, and entered the air corps in December, 1942.
Notre Dame Celebrates 5th Anniversary of Pope
The fifth anniversary of the coronation of Pope Pius XII, long a friend of Notre Dame, was celebrated here on the ' campus last Sunday -with Rev. John J.
Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, celebrating high Mass ■ in Sacred Heart church.
Sermon topic for the occasion was . “The Present Peril of the Pope.” Ser, mons at all Sunday Masses were r preached by Rev.- Arthur J. ‘ Hope, C.S.C., and Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C. Father Hope is best known as < author of Notre Dame’s history, Notre Dame—100 Years. Father Carroll is editor of the religious publication, The Ave Maria. (The Ave Maria press publishes the Notre Dame Scholastic.) .
t, At the same time Notre Dame began a series of special Lenten observances in continuation of a long University
tradition. Each day now, until the close of Lent, there will be adoration of the Blessed Sacrament, closed daily with solemn benediction in Sacred Heart church. This program is under the directorship of Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., prefect of religion.
In what was expressed as a desire to express gratitude to Pope Pius XII, for what he has done for Notre Dame, the University was joyous in - celebrating the fifth anniversary of his coronation. The Pope holds an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame, awarded in October, 1936, when as Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, papal secretary of state, he knelt in Sacred. Heart church to pray, and bestowed a papal blessing upon the assembled congregation. '
Notre Dame, too, was the recipient of one of the first paternal blessings given by'the present Pope following his election. It was on March 3, 1939, that the newly elected Pope cabled the then pres-
Important Council Rule
to Affect N. D. Students
No degree will be conferred on any student before he has satisfied in full the requirements for the particular degree, it has been decided by the University council, which announced that such a ruling would take effect beginning March 1.	.
The council further decided that: the student who is called out of school into military service within a semester is to have early examinations in his courses and credit for them in case he does not discontinue school more than three weeks before the end of the semester. Furthermore, in view- of the short semester of the wartime, the period of absence from classes because of sickness for which excuse of absence and permission to make up the w*ork missed may be given is to be reduced from six to four weeks.	.
7
8
Two Sudden Deaths Shock Notre Dame
University Mourns Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C.. Administrative Assistant, and Thomas E. Mills, Rockne Fieldhouse Director, as Fatal Attacks Take Lives of Both Prominent University Figures.
Two sudden deaths among prominent administration members at Notre Dame plunged the University faculty and student body into mourning recently. A heart attack suffered in the Rockne Memorial fieldhouse on Friday, Feb. 25, was fatal to Thomas E. Mills, 60, exRockne aid and director of the fieldhouse since it was opened four years ago.
Six days later sudden death came to the Rev. James Dennis Trahey, C.S.C., 37, administrative assistant, from an attack. He had been recovering from an emergency appendectomy and was apparently in good health. The death of Father Trahey occurred at 12:50 a.m., Thursday, March 2.
Father Trahey, former prefect of discipline, was coordinator of the wartraining classes at the University and for the past two years had served as liaison officer between the University and the established naval reserve officer training corps.
Well known in th city of South Bend because of his directorship of the engineering, science and management wartraining classes being conducted on the campus, Father Trahey had been widely praised for his efficiency in handling this work. He was coordinator of the civilian pilot training program when such courses were connected with the University.
Father Trahey In A Familiar Pose
A 1930 graduate from Notre Dame, Father Trahey majored in the College of Arts and Letters. Following his ordination he was an instructor in religion and English and became prefect of discipline in 1937, a position he held until he was appointed administrative assistant in 1941. Father Trahey was born on April 7, 1906, in Michigan City, Ind., and is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Dennis Trahey, of that city.
At the time of Father Trahey’s death, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, said: “Many Notre Dame men who were here before the war knew Father Trahey best as prefect of discipline; students of the last three years frequently turned to him as the special counselor on military questions in which capacity he was also known by many officers of the army, navy and marines. To hundreds of representatives of industry in this area, Father Trahey was admired as the institutional representative in charge of the night classes in the E.S.M.W.T. program. I am sure that all who ever knew Father Trahey will join the administration and faculty in mourning him as an exemplary priest, an able executive, and a wise and kind friend.
“Personally, I feel his loss keenly, and to his beloved parents I express heartfelt and prayerful sympathy.”
Funeral services for Father Trahey
Thomas E. Mills
were held Saturday, March 4, in Sa- , cred Heart church on the campus, with Father O’Donnell celebrating the funeral Mass. Rev. Charles F. Girardot, pastor of St. Joseph’s church, Fort Wayne-Ind., and a lifelong friend of Father Trahey, served as deacon. Rev. Gerald A. Owens, pastor of St. Basil’s church, South Haven, Mich., and a close friend of Father Trahey, served as sub-deacon. Rev. Leo W. Gorman, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, was master of ceremonies. Pall bearers included Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C.; Rev. John Lane, C.S.C.; Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C.; Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C.; Rev. Joseph Powers, C.S.C.; all of Notre Dame, and Rev. John O’Connell, C.S.C., of Indianapolis.
The death of Thomas E. Mills came just as students were leaving the campus for semester vacation. Many students did not learn of the death until their return here for this semester.
Mills was brought to Notre Dame as an assistant football coach by the late Knute Rockne. He stayed here until he accepted a coaching position at Georgetown, and it was there that he gave the present Notre Dame coach, Frank Leahy, his first collegiate coaching job-
(Continued on page 24) .
TXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXZXXZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXTi
§ THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY
GREETINGS!
Howdy, men. It’s good being back- at school, once again, isn’t it? Well, that’s your opinion. Wash it up a bit, and I’ll print it.
Graduation and the commissioning- of 80 new naval officers, three weeks ago, went off without a hitch. The entire campus miss the many familiar faces, the owners of whom have now taken their rightful places among the alumni of other years. In their wake have arrived the freshmen. Some are young, too; too
young for the draft, while others, a little older, have already seen what life in the nation’s several services is like. They’ve been here for two weeks now, and already a few of them have endeavored to get their old ratings back. All things taken into consideration, Notre Dame is an opportune place for the man of college age awaiting his 1-A classification. Not only will he receive University credit, hut if he keeps his eyes open, he’ll also learn how to throw a snappy salute, as elbow bending seems to be a favorite pastime around here.
Our boys are always up front when it comes to aiding the war effort. While at home, Orville Colianni, had so much debris thrown at him by hostile neighbors that he came in first in the scrap collection drive. Instead of being an outcast, he was made a local hero. For very shame, Orv, taking the credit away from the hard-working Camp Fire Girls!
LAUGH OF THE WEEK
Frank Gilhooley is ordinarily a thoughtful fellow; indeed he is. During our past holiday, Gil, knowing that his former employer was feeling the labor pinch, decided to go up to the cemetery and help him out. The. boss was overjoyed at seeing Frank, thus proving that he was really hard up for men. Our boy io
went at his task of digging a grave, and worked for three solid hours, without once stopping. Then, deciding he needed a rest, he stepped back, surveyed his work, and discovered to his amazement that he had dug a hole about nine feet deep. It being impossible to climb out, he began shouting for help. After about 20 minutes, a fellow ghoul (slightly inebriated) heard his desperate pleadings, staggered over and looked down. The Gil asked him to hurry up and get a step ladder; that he was weary, and that it was very chilly down in the hole. Without further ado, the rescuer said: “No wonder, you’re cold, poor- boy; you’re not covered up. So saying, he began shoveling the dirt back in on the desperate victim. Frank never did say how he got out of this embarrassing predicament. So, if you notice a green tinge behind his ears, it’s not grave mold, but just the shortage of soap that always seems prevalent in his room.
WE NOTICED THAT
Bob (Cover Boy) Ghegan and Rocky (No, I’m not getting a pension) Sullivan returned to school this semester several days late. It seems that neither one could drag himself away from the Astor which featured Bobby Dangerfield and his make-you-wish-you’d-stayed-at-home music. Their waiter turned his attention, to other customers once too often; and the boys, being of normal intelligence (?) and real Notre Dame men, decided that whether or not they wanted to, this was the time to leave. Rushing into Grand Central and up to the ticket agent, the boys asked how long it would take them to get to South Bend. The glunk in the cage informed them that it would take about 40 hours. “Forty hours,” replied the boys, “Is that as the crow flies?” “Yes,” said the agent, “and the next crow leaves in 15 minutes. Hold your own tickets.” From here on, the boys will make only essential trips.
HERE AND THERE
Harry Ryan, of the numerous Chicago Ryan affiliations, returnerc-fto the blue and gold after a lapse of two semesters. It had been rumored that Harry was doing quite a job with the Merchant marine. He set all of us straight, however, when he informed us that he had only been working as a deck hand on a sightseeing boat between the California Coast and Catalina Island.... We understand that a representative crowd from St.
Mary’s met all the trains last week, and welcomed us back, bless the little darlings! Said they had never spent nine darker days in their little lives than those of our absence. And then one of them came up with the flattering offer of a job to anyone of us who might be a mechanic. Yes, she insisted that he be a mechanic. And when pressed for the nature of the work, she screamed that it was a highly specialized job in the “Oriole” (twin to the Notre Dame “Huddle”). We all volunteered and inquired our duties. And here’s the payoff, men; the pert miss looked up and replied: “To tighten the nuts in the peanut brittle.” Aren’t they perfectly dreadful!! . . . . We’re thinking of instigating a Clean Plate Club at the dining hall! . . . Famous last words: I’m sorry, Hassett, but you’ll have to move back on campus! . . . . Who is Jane Coughlin, and at whose house does she break furniture? Could be that the chairs are made of soft wood. . . Nuts! still no labor shortage in the library!! . . . Bob Femiani (NROTC grad) of Walsh Hall is still awaiting his commission. Come, come, Washington, where is it? ... . Creighton Miller is not going out for football practice this spring; but oh will the old Niles highway and the paths by the river take a beating! . . . . Every day we catch our breath when the mailman comes; the suspense is terrific. When will that spring issue of Chimes arrive? .... For the latest in lowdown on Frank Kent, local problem child, nature lover, and gentleman of scholarly attainment, look elsewhere in this issue . . . . And now the $64 question for the girls at the “Kock”—Where do Ubangi maidens get their lipstick? And now, brothers, we’re off to Rosie’s.
Student Book Exchange Reports Favorable Sales
Nearly 800 books have passed over the counter at the student book exchange this semester, officials of the B-X esti- j mated today as they, said that “everything was at a fair price to the buyer and seller.”
The story of the B-X, officials said, has been encouraging. In times past at the end of each semester, buyers from large city textbook companies would canvass the student halls and buy used books at prices often as low as one-tenth the original value. .	...
After much discussiolScff the problem, ' A both by the’ SCHOLASTic'and disgusted students, the CAS took over the idea ( and made a co-operativ,e B-X a reality.
They obtained ani. office in-the lower floor	’
of the Administration building, and adopted a system of selling student books at a fair and set price. It has, reports indicate, been successful.
can try on your favorite brand of Scotch: Connect 20,000 volts, across a pint' If the current jumps it, the stuff isn’t very good. If it gives a precipitation of lye, tin, arsenic, iron, slag, and alum, the whiskey is fair. If the liquor chases the current back to the generator, you’ve got good stuff.
HUDDLE SCUTTLEBUTT
Rumor has it that due to the new addition of female help in The Huddle we can expect anything from pink bows on the door knobs and rosy lace curtains to Oriental rugs and wall decorations of Robin egg blue.
DID YOU KNOW THAT:
—41% of all college students talk in their sleep?
—Snakes are Co-eds greatest fear. Bulls, Cancer and Fleas follow in order?
—200,000 (21%) collegians attend college in other than their own state?
—Paul Robeson, famous Negro singer and actor, was a four-letter athlete at Rutgers University; was selected by Walter Camp as an All-American end. He graduated with high honors and made Phi-Beta-Kappa?
—Student Life
SYLLOGISTIC REASONING?
Dames are pushovers for gay cabel-leros.
Cabelleros are athletes in Spain.
Athletes in Spain throw the bull for diversion.
Therefore, dames are pushovers for 1 bull-throwers?
OR............
The other day in a crowded Notre Dame bus, a girl remarked quite audibly to a friend standing by her side:
- “Oh, dear, I wish that good-looking man would give me his seat!”
And Murphy, . Ames and Gillespie promptly got up.
What was her name, Murph?
r CINDER MEN. HEAR THIS!
' A different kind of Queen is to be - elected at Purdue; one with actual du-
ties at hand. The campus is going to elect a girl to reign as Relay queen and her duties will include meeting incoms ing track teams and helping in the
fieldhouse. She will be chosen by repre' sentatives of different photographers , not by campus politics. '
NOTRE DAME LAUNDRY BEWARE . . .
Latest Flash! “U. S. Ferry pilots now leave their laundry in Africa for faster service.”
THIS GEM IS DEDICATED TO YOUR GAL. AND MINE?
“I told him he mustn’t see me any more.”
“What did he do?”	.
“Turned out the lights.”
C'EST LA GUERRE . . .
Co-eds dated co-eds at the annual Puff-Pant ball, last week, at South Dakota State college. Any costume from bathing suits to night shirts was acceptable, with the exception that one girl of each couple donned masculine attire and escorted the other girl to the affair. Prizes were given those couples judged to have the most beautiful, the most comic and the most original costumes. Some fun, eh, kids?
Which reminds me of a new test you
An estimated 600 civilians returned to the Notre Dame campus for the spring semester, only to find that the fickle Indiana weather man was again playing around. Nonetheless, scenes such as ~ this one of civilian days were few and far between' as civilians confined themselves to five campus residence halls. Most students, too.. ■ moved to new quarters before leaving the campus on vacation. The snow, however, makes it look like old times.	.
I'LL STILL TAKE THE GROTTO
The Naval Cadets at DePauw University must find their exams pretty hard, for according to the student publication the collection of pennies pitched at the foot of Lincoln’s is growing into quite a sum. Following an Old Annapolis custom they are hoping that it will bring them good luck in their exams. Could it be that they are teaching Notre Dame physics at DePauw?
JUST MARRIED
Husband: (answering the phone): “I don’t know. You’ll have to call up the weather bureau.”
Wife: “Who was that?”
Husband: “Oh, some darn fool called up and wanted to know if the coast is clear.”
As my barrister roommate would say: Paper scarce Time short Lack of ink Close up court.
11
Trumpet Solo from Dome Balcony Was Feature of One Saint Patrick's Day
On this St. Patrick’s day it appears unlikely that students will be awakened by the notes of a bugler sounding “Rev veille” from the top of the Golden Dome —but it can happen here, as has been attested by past history.
Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., in his story of Notre Dame’s first one hundred years, recalls the time that Tim O’Sullivan, a true son of the old sod, slipped out on the balcony of the Golden Dome and awakened the campus with a stirring trumpet rendition of “St. Patrick’s Day in the Morning.”
O’Sullivan later joined the priesthood.
At another time, Father Hope relates, when Father Edward Sorin had forbade any special celebration of St. Patrick’s day (in the interests of Americanism), two novices, Dave O’Leary and John Quinn, became “so aroused by this ‘unjust’ order” that there should be no wearing of the green, that they went to the chapel, extracted the green ribbon from the missal, cut it in two, pinned the ribbons to their surplices, and marched into the sanctuary.
Quinn and O’Leary were expelled, but later. Father Sorin relented and told
Holy Cross Seminarians Rescue Attempt 'All Wet'
Four students at Holy Cross seminary had their spirits dampened considerably on Thursday, Feb. 24, when they attempted to rescue Percy Alford, captain of a South Bend fire station, who fell through the ice on St. Mary’s lake while fishing.
Alford was fishing in the center of the lake when the^ice gave way. His cries for help were heard by James Ryan, Paul Lorio, Joseph Carter, and Eugene Homrich, of the seminary, who started out on the ice to attempt rescue. The ice was too thin for the seminarians, who soon found themselves in the position of being rescued instead of being the rescuers. Ryan, Lorio, and Carter all received ducking in the icy water as they attempted to bring the fire chief to safety.
Finally, about an hour after the mishap, members of the captain’s own fire station had arrived on the scene and combined efforts landed the drenched captain and seminarians on shore. No ill effects were reported due to the incident.
No Serenade From The Dome This Year
them that they might stay. O’Leary remained, but Quinn stating that “I’ve been fired!”, took leave from the University—to return at a later date as a distinguished monsignor and to deliver a baccalaureate sermon.
Co-Hop Dances Off For
Lent; Lectures Given
The Co-Hop dances, which have in past been a regular Saturday feature at the Progress club in South Bend, have been discontinued until after Easter, it was recently announced.
At the same time sponsors of the CoHop dances have taken advantage of the Lenten season to present a series of four lectures at the club. Two weeks ago Judge Albert Doyle, judge of the juvenile court in South Bend, delivered a talk on “Youth and Delinquency.” Last Sunday Ann Harrigan, of Chicago’s Friendship house, spoke on “Youth and The Racial Problem,” (see story elsewhere this issue).
Next Sunday at 4:00 p.m. Edward Marciniak, an instructor in the social school of Loyola University, Chicago, will speak on “Youth and Labor.” The following week “Youth: To City ..or Country?” will be the subject of a lecture by .Willis D. Nutting, professor of history here at the University.
Admission is 55 cents per lecture and tickets may ’be obtained in room 306, Sorin hall.	■
2500 Enrolled for Spring Semester, Report Shows
Lacking official count, Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., associate director of studies, has estimated that there are about 2,500 students on the campus, this figure includes all service groups, with the exception of the naval reserve midshipmen’s school.	.
With the spring semester of 1944 officially opening on March 6, the figure of students has been broken down to represent some 1,800 V-12 trainees, approximately 600 civilians, and an indefinite number of NROTC unit. This approximate enrolhhent is a little short of the average Notre Dame figure, which in 1941 hit about 3,300.
A new course in English and Speech, designed to aid the Spanish speakingstudents, has been inaugurated for the civilian students. The courses for the Navy students remain the same except for a slight change in the teaching of the physics course. Instead of the method used last semester wherein the student had a quiz with multiple choice answers every class meeting, he will now have three lecture periods a week and one period a week for tests in which he works the problems and hands in his answers.
The beginning of the new semester marked only a few changes in the faculty. Added to. the mathematics department was Dr. Murray Manor, formerly of the faculty of the University of Delaware.	.
The schedule for the spring semester has been announced as:
May 2—Mid-senlester report of deficient students.
May 8 to 13—Pre-registration for courses in the summer semester. .
June 19 to 23—Semester examinations for all students.
June 25 — Commencement mass and baccalaureate sermon. Conferring of degrees at 3 p.m.—Seaman Tom Payne
Stop!!!
Turn to the sports section and read about the Bengal bouts.
12
i
I11t1II1III11111 i 111111 i I11 11 11 I IKI 11111III«11IIIIH1 III 1111 III 111II1111IIII [el
I Marine Murmurs i
I < II ■ I ■ II ■ 11 tl I ■ 1111 < 11 < <> 11111111 ■ > 11 > 111111 ■ I > 11111111111 > 11111111 ■ 111 <1 < < E
Outlooks for the Leathernecks (V-12 variety) in their third semester at Notre Dame show great variations, depending upon the man telling the story. The prospects vary from the mournful sob, “Just we three in the Shamrock! Just we three! I tell ya all the good men are gone,” to the modest, “Well, all but the best have been eliminated. We’re the cream of the crop.” The man from Idaho, H. Hicks, offers his old reliable, “I just don’t know what to tell you.”
According to an ancient philosopher of old Szombathely, the joy of college life under the Golden Dome is related directly to the roommate one has. Reactions to the changes in roommates-brought about by the new semester ranged from the deliriously happy whoops of Donald N. Dackins to the tearful wails of “Doc” Little. (To the censor, my old and new roommate, no feelings will be hurt.!) . . . Speaking of wails, the beefs of the most successful gripers were momentarily silenced when some of the transfers hailed the chow here as “Better than we had back at H-m-m-m-m.” . . . There are other ways of becoming social outcasts — but no quicker.
The better informed and usually reliable sources state that were a poll taken to determine the “pride of Company B,” privates Horner and Miniclier who seem to have a monopoly on the company mail, would lose in a landslide to the man who was without a field jacket because “mother forgot to pack it.” . . . While on the subject of popular men, John “Porky” Lynch has suffered a setback in the public eye. This loss in popularity is said to be the result of the Breen oratory contest winner’s inability to talk the S.P.’s in Chi out of a ride down to
give an impromptu on missing furlough papers. Even more annoyed was the chick waiting at the station.
When the “honor roll” appeared Saturday, Private Maggioli was among those to make the first honored this semester. “Chick” has only 5, some 5 below the highest. He stoutly asserts, however, that the semester is just started and with Luke out of the running he will have no trouble gaining and maintaining- supremacy of the list.
This semester finds a numbei- of Marines aiming for a degree. Along with these happy lads are such men as “Tosh,” whose major is forestry. A very liberal education, courses in every college of the campus, is his only consolation for only seven graduation credits in three semesters’ work.
Scuttlebutt of the early days of this new semester centered on liberty. Great variance was observed in reports from the usually unreliable sources. One faction strongly asserts that a maximum of five hours will be granted each week (some modify this with an additional three hours every fourth Sunday) to
STAFF WRITERS NEEDED
Staff writers for the Scholastic are needed for the coming semester. All students interested in writing for the Scholastic are invited to attend an editorial meeting in the Scholastic offices, basement of Walsh hall, at 8 p.m. Sunday.
all those trainees whose average is below 92.10027. Those with averages above . this will get even a better break. The other main, and it may be added, more popular, belief was that all men not below 50 in more than’ five courses would be given liberty from their last class Friday or Saturday until their first class Monday. There was to be daily liberty from the last class until 03:00. Then there were those dull souls who refused to believe either but waited until official information was distributed.
Among the favorite gripes were one mail delivery per day and the abolition of the 20:00 to 21:00 study hour. These were the main beefs. However, it is rumored to have been said that one Marine (imagine!) was heard complaining in undertones about having to copy regulations. If this is to be believed, it will be generally accepted that ■ he. was attempting to be an individualist with such an absurd complaint.
Monogram Winner Dies In South Pacific Zone
The first major monogram winner among Notre Dame athletes to be killed in World War No. 2 was Lieut. .Robert G. Smith, age 24, a marine corps flyer, t who was'killed in action in . the southwest Pacific.	.
QE-^ (The death of Lieut Smith is the 85th casualty among Notre .
Dame men who have perished in- the cause of God, country, and Notre Dame)-.
Smith was a star guard on the Notre Dame basketball teams of. 1940 and 1941 and was one of the highest scor- . ing guards in Notre Dame basketball history. In his senior year he. scored _ 134 points.	-
A graduate from the College of Commerce, Smith was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Smith, of -Joliet, Ill. He enlisted in the navy air corps and was ultimately transferred to the marine air corps.	:
Other Notre Dame athletes who have been listed as victims of the war include Lieut. Howard (Howie) Petschel, of St. Paul, Minn., a football star end who was not a monogram winner because he left school to enlist in the army air corps, and who was killed in aerial combat shortly after the war started, and Mario (Motts) Tonelli, of Chicago, an army sergeant and fullback on the football team a few years ago, who is listed as a Japanese prisoner of war after his. capture on Bataan.
Commerce Forum Holds
First Semester Meeting
The first meeting of the current semester for the Commerce Forum was held. Tuesday evening in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial fieldhouse. New officers were introduced. They are: Joe Murnane, president; John Toole, vicepresident; Richard Murphy, publicity chairman; Tom McCoy, program chairman.
Plans for speakers to appear before the Forum during the semester, as well as an outline of social activities, were discussed by the meeting.
Fifteen new members were received into the Forum. Meanwhile, it was announced that the group will meet each week on Tuesday evening.
A short talk on the history of the -Forum was delivered by president Murnane. Following the meeting, refreshments were served.
13
(•Jltitlltllllllllllt.tllllltlitll1lttUIIHI>IHiiMf«ittillllltlll|jB]
I Now hear this! | nHttimitittttnittiiittitiiiii»iiiimttt»tititiiiin<tii»itiitnttiitttiittifM|
PORK NOT A PREMISE
Now that midshipmen of another class have obtained their bearings (position of chow line and path to Sweeney’s) and are making a swift course toward commission it’s time for the usual lament about the V-7’s not getting any chance to come in contact with the real Notre Dame.
Drawing conclusions from the age of Badin hall and the nightly potatoes and hog, is a false step which the 25 or so old timers in the present class will be quick to call you on. The much heralded spirit of N.D. is something we middies come close to but never see.
MATE'S LOG
Seats on the local shuttle bus will be plentiful this week . . . inasmuch as the number of empties is directly proportioned to the D-C tree. . . . Eddie Doherty of the first batt, is the same E.D. who not only quarterbacked Boston College’s informal eleven to a good season but coached the outfit as well. . . . Ambition overcame two of the fourth batt.’s “overworked” S’s last week and resulted in a new coat of paint on the deck of billet 316 . . . 316’s Jack Canfield and Larry Chevernak have been promised a lynching if the success of their experiment causes a “paint day” . . . fouled anchor of the week goes to the sadist who ended a recent Eriday night movie-drill by starting out the first reel of “Broadway Rhythm” and then cutting
it off as the whole regiment cheered in indescribable glee. . . . Nats to you, SIR.
MYSTERY OF WEEK
Few joys can compare to that of a big meal off the station on Saturday eve. The thought of juicy steaks and white tablecloths brings a light to the eye of a midshipman that shines for miles. So imagine the surprise of two fourth batt, men who entered a local hash house, famous for its sirloins, were seated at a table with a third and unknown middie, and just as the sizzling beef was approaching saw their new acquaintance disappear out the dooi’ never to return. Seeing as it was just after payday the man was not broke, so he either suddenly remembered he was a vegetarian or oui- two informants have run into Houdini.
BUNNY ADRIFT
A South Bend drug store displays a large table in the center of which sticks up a large sign reading, “Servicemen’s Needs.” Surrounding the sign and completely covering the table are 30-inch high Easter rabbits. To date we can think of only the following needs such an item would fulfill:
1.	Could be hid in locker to scare inspecting party, but then it might be declared adrift since bunnies are not standard equipment on this base.
2.	Trade to chow line girls for a second bottle of milk.
Other suggestions may be sent to this department. In the meantime someone might drop into the Oliver Hotel drugs and ask the managers but consider all information “restricted” until you’ve filed forms B-1455 and E-443.
A rough estimate of the Navy’s cost in making us ensigns runs as follows according to figures worked out in a recent “Navy” class:
COST OF AN ENSIGN
For S’s ................$750	to $1000.
For G’s ..............$1500 to $2000.
The question only we can answer: Are we working hard enough to give the Navy a bargain?
ON WSBT
Notre Dome's Boland
Resumes Sportscast
. Following a highly successful season as football commentator for WGN — Mutual Broadcasting Co., Joe Boland, prominent Notre Dame alumnus, has returned to the staff of WSBT, the South Bend Tribune broadcasting station. He now broadcasts at 6 p.m., Monday through Friday, under the sponsorship of Drewry’s Ltd., U.S.A. He is continuing his former program, “Joe Boland on Sports.”
Boland, at the time he accepted the Chicago football announcing position, was president of the St. Joseph valley Notre Dame alumni club. He was a tackle on the Notre Dame football teams of 1924, 1925, and 1926. Following his graduation his coaching career took him to Santa Clara university in California; St. Thomas college, St. Paul, Minn.; and finally back to Notre Dame. He was prominently mentioned for the Notre Dame coaching position when Elmer Layden resigned. Mr. Boland coached at Purdue in 1941 and then returned to South Bend to accept a position as special events broadcaster and sports announcer for the local station.
eep up on Notre. Dame News — subscribe to the SCHOLASTIC for yourself or for your friends in service
$1.00 for March - Jun e semester
Name
Address
CLIP BLANK AND MAIL TO PUBLICATIONS OFFICE — NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
14
New Publicity Set-up for University is Announced
In a reorganization of the publicity department of the University, Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president, has announced the appointment of J. Walter Kennedy as the head of a new department which will coordinate all of the publicity channels of the University. Kennedy, a Stamford, Conn., man, and an alumnus of Notre Dame in the journalism class of 1934, has a background of experience as publicist, newspaper writer, publishers’ representative, and author. In July, 1943, he succeeded Joseph Petritz as sports publicity director at Notre Dame, when Petritz, nationally known figure in sports writing, accepted a commission in the Navy.
James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary and editor of the Notre Dame alumni magazine since 1926, who has been directing general publicity for the University since December, 1941, in addition to alumni work, will devote full time to the expansion of the program of the Alumni Association. The new program includes a more articulate and effective body of college men generally, a substantially increased fund-raising-plan, publication of a news letter to supplement the alumni magazine, a nation-wide program for local alumni clubs anticipating the return of the 6,100 Notre Dame men now in the armed forces, and a thorough coordination of the Association with the development of the University.
Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., prefect -of religion, is in charge of a special series of Lenten observances which include daily Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament and daily Benediction.
Scenes like this are common during Lent. Here a student is pictured as he makes the "Way of the Cross" at the Stations around the lake.
Name New Administrative Assistant;
Father James Leahy Takes Position
Rev. James J. Leahy, C.S.C., today held the position of administrative assistant, filling the vacancy created by the death of Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., whose untimely death on March 2 shocked the communities of Notre Dame, South Bend, and Mishawaka.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, officially named Father Leahy to the position where he will, in addition to other duties, act as armed forces representative on the campus.
A member of the faculty since the fall of 1943, Father Leahy came to Notre Dame from a faculty post at another university operated by the Congregation of Holy Cross, St. Edward’s University, in Austin, Texas.
Father Leahy received his seminary training at Notre Dame in Holy Cross and Moreau seminaries. He was graduated from the College of Arts and Letters in 1933, was ordained to the priesthood on June 24, 1939, and returned to the University to receive his Master of Arts degree 411 1941.	’
In his new post, Father Leahy will be liaison officer between the various branches of the service and the University administration. And in this post he will direct the extensive work of the Engineering, Science and Management War Training- program, which conducts
courses in three colleges of the University for defense workers in the St. Joseph Valley industrial area. These classes bring the administrative assistant before many of the large industrial leaders in Michiana and have increased in scope until they have become another of the many important wartime activities of the University.
A brother of Father Leahy’s, Bernie Leahy, was a football player here in the early thirties, and is now a lieutenant in the army.
Hamlin Autograph Given to University Library
The University library has announced the acquisition for its autograph collection of a letter signed by Hannibal Hamlin, vice-president of the United States during the Civil war, former governor of Maine, and a United States senator from that state.
The letter is a gift of John Paul Cullen, executive in the Hines Memorial hospital, and a 1922 graduate of the University.
The library’s autograph collecting, based upon the University’s rich documentary history of the church in the Americas, has, been growing in* recent years, and now extends beyond the religious field into the broader phases of public life.
15
An apprentice seaman is ordered to "square" his hat.
Seeing that men are cor-
rectly dressed at all times is part of the job
of the shore patrol.
South Bend Tribune photo.
Statement Reveals V-12
Ball Financial Success^
A financial statement of the Naval| V-12 ball held in January today re-f vealed that the ball was a financial suc^f cess. The statement was made by Lieut.^ (j.g.) J. J. Collins, welfare and recrea^ tion officer, and was approved by Cap^ tain J. W. Finney, USMCR, executive^ officer. The report:	8
Balance on hand. Jan. 5. 1944.
Receipts: <05 tickets at $3.50...
$	22.98;
Total
s; b d C fi I
t
An Editorial
By LT. (JG) PAUL T. SPRINZ
Enforcing Navy regulations and customs is the job of the shore patrol when liberty is declared.
Each week 12 officers and men selected from the personnel of the station, patrol the streets, hotels, and bars of South Bend to keep a rigid check on the activities of the men attached to the naval training station and also all men in uniform in the city.	‘
ficer will range from extra duties, confinement to the station for extended periods to dismissal from the school. This means that a man will lose his opportunity to become a naval officer.
Cooperate with the shore patrol. It is their job to see that you do not bring disgrace to your uniform. Their requests are not unreasonable; remember you are an officer candidate.
Your free time is scarce so don’t have it taken from you.
Expenditures: Orchestra ...............
Refreshments ..........
Printing .......... Special Invitations .. Programs .......... Checking .......... Decorations ....... Police ............ Waiters and maids..... Publicity ......... Radio ............. Flowers ..............
Piano tuning Miscellaneous expenses Refund ................
Total Cost
4
.8
900.00
441.65
26.25
11.00
206.73
15.00
347.71
16.00
23.00
24.33
15.6S
32.50
5.00
15.28
3.50
■S1.6S3.63
Service charge on checkings..?
Paint, paper, etc............
Christmas party .............
Donation, Service glen’s Center .......................
Christmas wreath. Service Men’s Center .................
Donation, U.S.N.R.M.S. welfare fund .................
Service Men’s Center party....
1.00
1.25
4.40
100.00
10.00
150.00
300.00
Total
■S 566.65
&
I
Navy and Marine corps personnel who have not reached their twenty-first birthday are forbidden to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages, including beer, at any time or at any place. Rules regarding saluting and proper dress are carefully scrutinized. Men out of uniform in any manner will be corrected and if the offense is serious enough he will be sent back to the station, under guard, to await the discretion of the commanding officer.
Any trainee, regardless of age, showing signs of intoxication, will be sent to the University7 under arrest and he will be the subject of a special report to the commanding officer.
Overcoats, peacoats and raincoats shall be worn buttoned up and properly belted or shall be carried folded.over the left arm. Cuff of blouses or shirts will be kept buttoned. Hats and caps will be worn squarely.
Punishments for infractions of the rules set down by the commanding of-
The shore patrol and South Bend police department work together in answering calls and making rounds , of outlying public places.	.
South Bend Tribune photo.
Total of all expenditures.
Net Surplus for contingencies____ Outstanding checks, $8.00, S3.00.
Balance as stated by Merchants
Trust Company __________
S2.250.2l
240.2g
11.005
S 251.21

All payments were made by check and the balance is in the general welfare fund for V-12. The checks and ban-J statement were submitted for audit and were approved.	|
N. D. Navy Group Sees How Other Half Lives
A chance .to see how the other half lives was accorded Capt. J. Richard Barry, commandant of Notre Dame’^. naval training station, and other members of the naval complement stationed

here, on Thursday, Feb. 24, when the
Vil X1LUXLJUUJ. J.	nilCll	„
group visited the air service command f
specialized depot at 1217 South Walnut street, South Bend. .
The Notre Dame naval men were* guests of Major Harry J. Brown, commanding officer of the air depot, and*
16
■ spent two hours in tour of the army base. Members of the Notre Dame naval delegation were, besides Capt. Barry; Commander H. B. Butcher, executive officer of the NROTC unit; Capt. W. J. Finney, USMC, executive officer of V-12 units on the campus; Lieut. Commander C. W. Myers, senior watch officer; Lieut. T. A. Waage, material officer; and A Lieut, (j. g.) J. AV. Covington, supply officer.
I Officers and men receiving instructions ( from the senior officer. Rules and regulations governing the behavior expected of I the men on leave are read at the squad
room of the South Bend police station.
South Bend Tribune photo.
$ fl
CONDON-S4TIONS
mately will, risk their lives, for their country, during this emergency period-
The point not to lose sight of is that members of the police force are also in the service of their country. Every police officer in South Bend, by virtue of the fact that he is entrusted with the task of law enforcement, stands as a possible martyr for the country. Persons familiar with police history in South Bend can readily recall instances when police officers, without warning, have been slain in cold blood. Others can remember instances when officers perished in the task of protecting life and property of some member of the community.
—o—
While it cannot be denied that men in the armed services deserve our greatest appreciation and sacrifice, it will also be admitted that a debt of gratitude must be given to local police officers. To sum the matter up, it may be said that police officers have taken, as a lifetime vocation, the job of protecting the same liberties that our servicemen are now defending. The police officers, as many of the men in uniform, volunteered for this duty. They live a life that is not unknown to danger. They are the unsung heroes of our everyday history.
Fortunately, the abuses of law by men at the Notre Dame naval station have been few and far between. Further, their behavior, for the most part, has been in cooperation with local authorities. The gist of the trouble lies around such minor infractions of law as jay-
"Leave" papers are inspected before boarding a train to spend a week-end in Chicago. "LD." cards must be with a man at all times. South Bend Tribune photo.
walking, walking against a red light, and similar occurrences.
Since South Bend is striving for complete compliance . with traffic laws, and since officers have a difficult task when it comes to correcting some uniformed man who is breaking one of ihese regulations, the task should be settled by service men themselves. A respect for the traffic regulations in South Bend will undoubtedly earn additional respect for those responsible for the enforcement of such regulations.
BY DAVE CONDON
OOil

Elsewhere in this issue appears a double-page article on the activities of the naval shore patrol. Members of all military units on the campus are urged
J| I to cooperate with the patrol in the en-M I forcement of military and civil law. The ~ patrol handles all military personnel in III South Bend.
M r	—o—
5

At the same time, one other factor in the question of law enforcement has recently been called to attention. That fact is that South Bend police are responsible for law enforcement in South vBend. This problem has been complicated because of the fact that officers ’''are reluctant to censure a uniformed man, and has been made doubly difficult o t occasions when a police officer has »I id to resort to this. Public opinion, and the opinion of some men in uniform, is that uniformed men should be allowed a little leeway—this in view of 'the fact that they are risking, or ulti-
A senior officer of the shore patrol for the day issues night sticks and brassards at
the regimental headquarters.
South Bend Tribune photo.
. Id
On this St. Patrick's Day it is fitting to report that the annual boxing tournament of the Fighting Irish, sponsored by the Notre Dame Scholastic, will definitely come off in April. Plans are now being furthered and arrangements are being made for {mother star-studded card of entertainment. (Further details in separate story.)
Ray Meyer Takes Coach of Year Award in Chi
Perhaps the most enviable record in coaching major college sports is held today by Ray Meyer, Notre Dame alumnus, who, in his second year as a head' coach, won for the second time the title of “coach-of-the-year,” an award annually bestowed by the Chicago Basketball Writer’s association.
Meyer is head basketball coach at De Paul in Chicago. As the result of his winning the award he was presented the George Keogan Memorial Trophy, given in honor of the late George Keogan, immortal Notre Dame basketball coach, who died suddenly during his greatest season.
It was fitting that Meyer should win the award. He has been considered one of Keogan’s greatest pupils. His scorebook at De Paul, for the current season, up until he won the award, showed a record of 19 wins against three losses — including one win over Notre Dame.
Meyer was captain of the Notre Dame cage team in 1937 and 1938, and returned here as an assistant coach in 1940. He handled the team many times when Keogan was ill.
In tribute to Meyer, Keogan at one time said: “Ray Meyer is one of the finest young men I have ever coached at Notre Dame.”
While Meyer succeeded in defeating Notre Dame this year, it stands as a matter of record that a Meyer-coached team, or any other team coached by an alumnus of Notre Dame who had played under George Keogan, was never able to defeat a Keogan-coached team.
Announce Fall Football Schedule;
Green Wave, Big Green, to be Met
Notre Dame’s 1944 football schedule now comprises ten games as announced by the athletic authorities, subject to the approval of the faculty board in control of athletics.
Two newcomers have found spots on the Fighting Irish grid card, Dartmouth and Tulane. The latter is a home game scheduled for Oct. 7, while the former is to be played at Fenway Park, Boston, Oct. 14. The “Big Green” and “Green Wave” have never appeared on Notre Dame schedules in the past—in fact, Notre Dame has not played a game in the New England states since the Yale encounter of 1914. The traditional Navy game has switched its site to Baltimore instead of Cleveland as was the
case for the past two years. The Army game stays planted in the Yankee Stadium.
Four home games are billed for Notre Dame stadium, Tulane, Wisconsin, Northwestern, and Great Lakes, the latter game will probably be a homecoming for many ex-Notre Dame men now stationed at “The Lakes.” The card is as follows:
Sept. 30—Notre Dame at Pittsburgh
Oct. 7—Tulane at Notre Dame
Oct. 14—Notre Dame vs. Dai-tmouth at Boston
Oct. 21—Wisconsin at Notre Dame
Oct. 28—Notre Dame at Illinois	.
Nov. 4—Notre Dame vs. Navy at Baltimore
Nov. 11—Notre Dame vs. Army at New York
Nov. 18—Northwestern at Notre Dame
Nov. 25—N. D. vs. Georgia Tech at Atlanta
Dec. 2—Great Lakes at Notre Dame
Plans for Outdoor Track
Intending to make up for the lack of an outdoor track season last year because of an extended vacation period, Coach E. R. Handy plans to have a large outdoor season for Notre Dame this year. Handy plans on having about a half a dozen meets with other schools, both at home and away.
If all the, men live up to their winter’ form Notre Dame looks forward to a good season, provided that the new men continue to display the ability they have already shown. Many of the new men compete in events in which the Irish have thus far been particularly weak.
The race to enter the 1944 Bengal bouts has already started.
18
Spring Practice Sessions Open Today;
Absence of Leahy Cause for Wonder
BY DAVE CONDON
lastic, that there will be 17 freshmen ball players, many of them under 18, who have answered the call to the colors —blue and gold—who will be on hand for practice. All these frosh hold civilian status.
"Scholastic" Editor
The “on again—off again” Notre Dame spring football -practice session was back on again today as candidates for the 1944 Irish varsity officially began spring practice.
Drills are under the direction of acting' head coach and director of athletics Edward C. McKeever, in the absence of Frank Leahy, who is, we have been led to believe by occasional hints in the South Bend Tribune, somewhere not in this continent, showing moving pictures of the 1943 Notre Dame games for the U.S.O. under the auspices of the war department.
Candidates for spring practice were issued equipment Wednesday. The first practice was scheduled for today.
The question of manpower again enters the football picture this year — affecting not only the player problem, but also showing itself seriously among the coaches.
With Leahy overseas (it is alleged), and Jake Kline, who has dabbled in
football more years than we can remember, holding down his baseball crew, the tasks are going to fall heavily upon McKeever, end coach Hughie Devore, and Wally Ziemba, assistant line coach.
On the player front, there are several players returning from last year’s intercollegiate championship. They are John Adams, Frank Dancewicz, Fred Earley, Gerry Ford, Mike Ganey, Bob Kelly, Johnny Lu jack, Julius Rykovich,. Jim Snyder, Art Statuto, George Sullivan, and George Terlep. Many of these, however, will not be in school by the time the autumn season rolls around, thus further complicating an already befuddled situation.
The situation was not helped, either by the entrance of line coach, and head basketball coach Ed (Moose) Krause, into the marines.
On the rosy side of the picture one finds the announcement, released too early for first publication in the Scho-
They are: Don Begley, a halfback, of Philadelphia, Pa.; Joe Fitzsimmons, a tackle, from All Hallows high school, New York City; Joe Gerity, a guard, also of All Hallows; Robert Iliff and Jim McGurk, both halfbacks, of Montclair, N. J.; Ed Musco, a tackle, from All Hallows high school; Bill O’Connor, an end, from Mount St. Michael’s high school, New York City; Peter Viviano, a guard, from Detroit, Mich.; Munzo Marino, a halfback, from Windber, Pa.; Ted Dorosh, a halfback, from Philadelphia; John Mastrangello and Joseph Tasparcelli, both halfbacks, from Vandergrift, Pa.; Frank Scafati, a halfback, from Dedham, Mass. All are under 18.	.
A Notre Dame freshman in 1942, Ray Franklin, a halfback, from Claremont, N. H., who was given a medical discharge from the army, will be back, along with three others rejected by the army: Emil Ladyko, an end from Bridgeport, Conn.; Fred Rovai, a fullback, from Hammond,- Ind., also a 1942 Notre Dame freshman; and Don Murphy, a quarterback from Leo high school.
Today the Fighting Irish begin practice for the time when scenes like this will again be commonplace. Fall, observes acting coach Edward C. McKeever, is only around the corner, and this year's team is going to need conditioning. The scene above shows Irish glory in former years, with Jimmy Mello ripping through a hole in the line.
Track Team Scheduled for Chi. Purdue Relays
Rounding into top shape, the Notre Dame track team is expected to give a good account of itself in the remaining two indoor meets within the next eight days. Tomorrow, seven members of the squad will compete in the Chicago Relays, which is strictly an invitational affair. The following Saturday Coach Handy will have a full team on hand at the Purdue relays which will close the indoor season for the Irish.
The men who will compete in the Chicago events include Notre Dame’s crack mile relay team of Fred Jones, Frank MacAuley, Bob Purcell, and Dave Murphy. Frank Martin will run the two-mile and Phil Anderson is entered in the pole vault. Brad Bennett will represent N. D. in the sprint events.
The track team has been strengthened considerably by new additions this semester. Among those who have impressed “Doc” Handy most favorably are Bob Struble in the pole vault; Tom Kelly in the pole vault and broad jump; Bill Crilly in the sprints; .and Don Patrick in both the high and low hurdles. These men will be eligible to take part -in the Purdue relays.—Jim Regan.
19
Kline Crew Unlimbers Muscles for Longest Season in Diamond History
By JOE MURNANE "Scholastic" Baseball Writer
Undei’ the arched ceiling of the Notre Dame fieldhouse, to the tune of horsehide against leather, 75 eager’ hopefuls engage in close competition for berths in the Irish 1944 varsity baseball team. The diamond season has begun and there will be many hard fought battles for positions, the situation being described by Coach Jake Kline as “wide-open.”
Of a large squad of 75, 16 are trying out for mound duty, eight for catcher, 30 for infielder spots, and 20 for outfielder positions. Tom Sheehan, Tom Carlin, and Bob Klein are returning monogram men, plus Jim Thomas who had experience on the spring squad. Pitchers Martin, Zieminski, O’Brien, and Selakovich; infielder Menarik; and outfielders Scarpelli and Mayo played during last year’s unofficial season. There should be about 20 encounters in all. To date, games are tentatively scheduled with Western Michigan, Michigan, Indiana, Purdue, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Great Lakes, Freeman Field Army Air Corps Base, Iowa Pre-Flight, and Bunker Hill Naval Pre-Flight.
Unlike last season, which was abruptly interrupted by an eight-week tenure at the end of the semester in April, this
University Boxing Championships Schedule Announced by "Scholastic" for April
By HANK SLAMIN
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
The Scholastic announced today that the already famous University Boxing-Championships, or familiarly called “Bengal Bouts,” were in the stages of planning.
For the first time, naval trainees on the campus will be permitted and are furthermore urged to participate in this spectacle. With the announcement of the bouts earlier this week, it already appears that there will be a goodly number of contestants in all weight classes. The boys reported to John Scannell Wednesday and received their initial training instructions.
The University Championships ■ have been staged yearly since 1930. Since 1932 the profits have gone to the Bengal missions, but promoters of the affair are planning to convert the proceeds to a different charity this year.
Some of the foremost fisticuff figures
season will be continuous until July 1, the longest single season in Notre Dame history. The baseball - weather -
months are on the team’s side, now the player possibilities have to prove themselves.
Coach Kline seemed satisfied with the material as he said, “We have a good schedule of games which will be played on week-ends. The material is above average. We should be strong offensively and defensively, and the success of the season depends on the calibre of pitching that can be developed.”
in America have appeared at the bouts in the past twelve years. Max Marek, one of the few to beat Joe Louis, and a Notre Dame man, refereed the encounters many years ago. Others have been Jack Elder, former chairman of the Illinois state boxing commission and also a Notre Dame graduate, Billy Conn, former light heavyweight champion of the world, Danno O’Mahoney, one time world’s wrestling champion, and Barney Ross, former lightweight title holder, later to become a champion with the Marines in the South Pacific war theater.
Last yearis session had Lieut. Arthur Donovan, third man in all important New York fights before he joined the service, billed as guest and honorary referee, but last minute Navy orders made his appearance impossible.
John Scannell will have another staff this year to assist the contestants in
Klier Sets New Mark in I
&
Score Book; Irish Lose o
If you search through the Notre ks Dame scoring records today, you’ll find a new mark. It has been placed there by g Leo Klier, of Washington, Ind., a for- W ward on the basketball team, who re poured 22 points through the basketball £ hoop in Chicago stadium on the night of March 3, to establish an all-time high Notre Dame record.	|
The Irish were playing Camp Grant p in the final game of the season for both | teams. Klier went into the contest need-ing 19 points to tie and 20 points to	£
beat the record of 290 points in one sea-	f
son established by Johnny Moir during’ s the 1937-38 season. Klier did better | than that. He ran his season’s total up J to 293 points—established in 19 games. | Moir’s record was set in 22 games.
On the other side of the ledger, it was | an unhappy picture for the Irish. Under f the tutorship of acting head coach | Wally Ziemba, Notre Dame dropped the | decision to the Warriors by a 63-47 I count, with Johnny Niemara, ex-Notre | Dame star, contributing 15 points to- j ward the winners’ total.	1
John Kelly, a guard, came in second | in the Irish point column by dropping j in 15 points.	j
Another player on last year’s Notre | Dame team which placed second in the | nation, John Craddock, also saw action f for Camp Grant, and scored one field B goal.—Dave Condon	S
National Championship Won by John Yonakor ,
John (Jumbo) Yonakor, now in marine training at Parris Island, S. C., made his final appearance in Notre Dame colors on Feb. 26 in New York City when he captured the national A. A. U. indoor shot put title. Yonakor tossed the 16-pound weight 50 feet, 214 inches, in taking the event.
Chosen as an end on most All-American football teams. Yonakor was active in Notre Dame track circles and was a regular shot put performer during the 1943 season when his efforts were paired with those of Jim Delaney and James J. White. Yonakor’s home is in Dorchester, Mass.
their training routine and to give pointers needed by those in the glove game.
Preliminaries hold the ring limelight and are scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday, April 11 and 12. Friday, April 14, the surviving men in each weight class will battle for the finalist’s posts. A week later, April 21, the finalists will swap punches for the “University Championship” in their division.
20

WE’RE ONE OF THE FEW.
wno can kiKe utu t mea^ule
Having discovered long ago that, in uniforms too, there’s no substitute for fine custom tailoring, we skillfully adapt regulation correctness to your personal proportions. We fashion every detail of your figure, in our own workrooms, to a uniform that’s your clothing double! That’s just one reason why you’ll find Browning King apparel definitely superior although it may not always be the lowest-priced. Our long experience with fabrics and our faithful cutting-to-measure in our own workrooms are the ultimate assurance of your complete satisfaction.
UNIFORMS FROM 040
cut tc ucui inclividua/ tneam/te
FIFTH AVENUE • NEW YORK 215 W . WASHINGTON STREET SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
We also carry a complete line of regulation accessories and furnishings
2i
McColley is Ping-Pong
Winner; Takes Miller
.The Scholastic ping-pong tournament conducted in the late weeks of last semester turned out to be another successful enterprise in an effort to promote more intra-campus recreational activity.
Dale McColley, noted for his talent throughout the state of Indiana, defeated Creighton Miller in the finals of the senior division which originally comprised 16 entrants in the opening round. John Dockweiler was triumphant over Dan Kozaks in the intermediate class which numbered 26 contestants in the opening pairings. Fred Shadley was the victor in the novice section over Don Strzalkowski in the largest field of competitors, counting 32 in its origin.
Winners in each division were awarded gold medals while the runners-up were presented with silver medals.
Editor’s Note.—The Scholastic wishes to thank- all the contestants for their support in the event and also the attendants in Brownson recreational hall for their attention in keeping the tourney on an even keel.
Former Scholastic Editor Elected Company Prexy
Neil Hurley, jr., Notre Dame graduate in the class of 1932, has been announced as the new president of the Independent Pneumatic Tool company. He succeeds his father, Neil Hurley, sr.
Hurley, jr., majored in the College of Arts and Letters while at Notre Dame
IHOLD THAT HAIRLINEH
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. . .TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS Sl.OO.
Phone 4-1481
f HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
[»|iniiiuinniiiiiiiiiininuiiiiiiiiiiimi»iihiniiitnmiiiiniiniim[7|
Neil Hurley, Jr.
and was editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic. He was active in campus life and held many positions. His home is in River Forest, Ill. He had been executive vice-president of the company prior to his election as president.
At the same time it was announced that John A. McGuire, Notre Dame graduate in the class of 1938, had been elected to the board of directors. He is secretary of the company and was reelected to that position. McGuire also majored in the College of Arts and Letters. His home is in Chicago.
Another Notre Dame man, William Shakespeare, famed in football circles, was employed by the company as a South American representative, prior to his induction into the army.
OFFICER'S - PAK
Navy or Khaki Weight under 6 Pounds
SI 8.75
NAME IN GOLD FREE
Carries necessary uniforms and accessories.
Hans/-Rintzsch
Michigan and Colfax At a Notre Dame Bus Stop

YOU CAN’T LOSE
YOU CARRY TRAVELERS CHEQUES!
That’s right! Because if your American Express Travelers Cheques are lost, stolen, or destroyed uncountersigned, American Express will promptly refund your loss. These Cheques are handy to carry, the size of a dollar bill and are readily spendable anywhere.
American Express Travelers Cheques are issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. The cost is % of 1% (75p on each $100 purchased), minimum 406. For sale at Banks, and Railway Express offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS _TRAVELERS CHEQUES _
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.

Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair U service in our own laboratory. (J
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
22
Former NROTC Officer is Reported Wounded
Word has been received here that Lieut. Commander Thompson Black, jr., former executive officer for the NROTC,
Lt. Commander Black
has been wounded in Italy. The news came in a letter from his parents. It stated that Lieut. Commander Black would be returned home for treatment and said that he suffered bad injuries to his legs.
Lieut. Commander Black was well known at Notre Dame and in South Bend. His family now resides in Hollywood, Calif. His parents live in East Aurora, N. Y.
OUTFITTED SY SIMPSON	WALINGER PHOTO
Many Transfers Affect Notre Dame Marine Unit
As a result of between semester changes the Marine detachment has undergone a considerable change in personnel. Today there are only 315 men as against 452 last semester and 700 during the summer semester. The detachment has grown smaller because all men coming into the V-12 program now come in as seamen, except those men coming from the regular marine corps.
Following is a list of the number of • men who were transferred from Notre Dame between Feb. 1, 1944 and March 17, 1944:
U hl I K I H I
— CUSTOM TAILORED —
Thousands of Naval Officers from coast to coast and on every fighting front proudly wear Simpson Uniforms. Our aim is to give every officer such splendid value and service, he will remember Simpson Clothes for his civilian needs after glorious victory has been won!
Branch Shops from shore to shore assure you of prompt, efficient service on your Simpson Uniforms, regardless of where you may be stationed.
The list of places where the new men came from is as follows:
No. Transfen-ed to 45 Asbury Park. N.J.
1	Quantico, Va.
11	San Diego. Calif.
1 Purdue University
1 Great Lakes
S7 Parris Island, N.C.
27 San Diego. Calif.
24 Northwestern U.
10 Fleet Marine Corps and Boot camp
3 Dennison College
Reason pre-midshipmen’s school O. C. S.
Disciplinary reasons Mining Engineer-Illness Boot camp Academic reasons Marine detachment transferred to other schools
Just entering V-12 Marine detachment split up and transferred .
—By John Knutson
BLUES — WHITES — GREYS
Caps — Accessories
YOUR SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
J. I . IIMI H N. inc.
205 N. Main St.	South Bend
23
SUDDEN DEATHS SHOCK N. D.
(Continued from Page 9)
Known in collegiate sporting circles as “Tommy,” he was highly respected as a coach and scout. He was chief scout of Knute Eockne at one time and in 1926 scouted Carnegie Tech for Notre Dame. At that time he warned that Carnegie would upset the Irish if the game was taken lightly, but sports writers scoffed at the idea. Mills was still persistent. Eockne took the game so lightly that on the day Notre Dame was to play Carnegie, he went to Chicago to see the Army meet Navy. He was stunned when he was handed a telegram that said Carnegie Tech 19, Notre Dame 0. This proved Mills ability as an expert scout, and his repeated warnings as to the strength of the Carnegie team were proven correct.
Expressing the sympathy of Notre Dame, upon the death of Mills, Father O’Donnell said: “The campus was saddened by the death of Mr. Thomas Mills, a member of the faculty for many years, and latterly director of the Eockne Memorial. In both capacities he acquitted himself with a fidelity that won for him the admiration and respect of administration, faculty and students. He will be missed at the University of his adoption whose ideals were an integral part of his life. Peace to his noble soul.”
Funeral services for Mills were held in Beloit, Wis., his birthplace. Eev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., a close personal friend, preached the sermon at the services, which were held in the St. Thomas Eoman Catholic church, Beloit. Eev. William Craddick, C.S.C., prefect of religion at Notre Dame, was deacon. Frank Leahy, director of athletics, represented the Notre Dame athletic association.
Mills is survived by two sons, Staff Sergt. Thomas E. Mills, jr., and Eobert Mills, and one daughter, Maura. He lived at 1222 East Wayne street.
Andy Puplis in Navy
Another of Notre Dame’s .football greats, Andy Puplis, stellar quarterback in the Ebner Layden regime, has joined up with the Navy. Puplis was sworn in as an ensign on March 1. He had been football coach at Proviso high school, Chicago, and was a member of the Chicago Cardinals' professional football teams. He was coach at Proviso for four years. .	-
Letters written to the editor should be addressed to P. O. box 185, Notre Dame, Ind., and should bear the writer's name and address. Anonymous letters will not be considered for publication. .
Room 148
Morrissey Hall
Shop,
Custom Tailored Officers1 Uniforms
There is no substitute for fine custom tailored uniforms—they fit and look better.
Custom tailored uniforms are a tradition which has held through the decades with Naval Officers.
The Service knows the importance
of impeccable appearance. All uniforms — blue, white and greys — are measured, cut and tailored to your individual proportions
Ye Jolly Little Tailor
by expert craftsmen in our own
Officially appointed Ship’s Tailor for U. S. N. R.
Midshipmen School, Notre Dame.
work rooms.
117 West LaSalle Ave.
Phone 4-0220
Across from Hoffman and LaSalle Hotels
24
Thinly Clads Win With Ease in Triple Meet
By JACK McCRANE
"Scholastic" Sports Writer
Notre Dame, which previously had lost to Marquette and had defeated Western Michigan, closed its home indoor track season Saturday afternoon in the University fieldhouse by drubbing both teams. Notre Dame amassed 69% points against 38% and 33 for the boys from Kalamazoo and Milwaukee, respectively.
The Hilltoppers sorely missed the services of Bob Steuber in the dashes while the absence of Dick Radcliffe hampered the Bronco cause. Despite the loss of Ralph Pohland and John Yonakor, the Irish still won easily. -
On Top All the Way
Doc Handy’s boys led all the way, increasing their lead with each succeeding event. A triple tie for first place in the mile started the rout with Frank Martin, John Lyons, and Mike Kiely breasting the tape simultaneously. As in the mile run, the Irish dominated every race from the 440 to the two-mile, in which event Lyons, Martin, and Kiely finished one, two, and four. Martin scored another second in the 880 behind team-mate Bill Tully. In the quarter, which was run in timed heats, Bob Purcell won by dashing off 52.1 for two laps to better the time by Hank Murphy in the first trial.
The blue and gold runners did not so completely outclass their opposition in the dashes and jumping events. They were shut out in the 60-yard low hurdles, barely eked out a tie for fourth in the high jump, while Brad Bennet and Fred Lindahl could come no closer than third in the 60-yard dash and the 60-yard high hurdles, respectively.
Anderson in Form
Phil Anderson, the former Marquette vaulter now a marine trainee on the Golden Dome campus, won his specialty over Hilltopper Baerwald. Kelly and Sullivan garnered a first and third in the shot put while the mile relay team composed of Jones, McCauley, Purcell, and Murphy brought down the curtain on the 1944 indoor cinder season with an easy victory in 3:35.6.
Ken Weisner, Marquette high-jumper, 'turned in the best performance of the afternoon with a 6'4" effort which is one of the best leaps to be recorded during the current indoor season.
It speeds the fight on every front!
In this staff officer’s hands, the familiar telephone is a weapon of war. It controls the striking power of our forces in the whole area. Over it flash orders that help our fighting men to drive the enemy back.
Today, Western Electric is the nation’s largest producer of communications and electronic equipment for warmaking many kinds of telephone and radio apparatus for use on land, at sea, in the air. College graduates—men and women of varied abilities—are taking an important part ■ in this work.	>
Buy War Bonds regularly— all you can
ANNIVEps
LOST: Sponge rubber cushion, whipcord covering, from room 109, Law Building. Please return to Professor Downey.
Western Electric
IN PEACE...SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR THE BELL SYSTEM.
IN WAR...ARSENAL OF COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 Shetland Bld}?.
South Bend, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist
FOOT AILMENTS
406-40S Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS 503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
S25 Sherland Building
L. E, Fisher. M.D.
M. J. Thornton. M.D.
V-J2 Set-up Explained
By KENNETH L. SUMNER, A/S
Due to the large number of men who just entered the V-12 program at Notre Dame, a few words about the V-12 Administration will be necessary and helpful.
The following is a list of the officers directly responsible for the V-12 trainees on this station: Captain J. R. Barry, U.S.N., Commanding Officer; Captain J. W. Finney, U.S.M.C.R., Executive Officer; Lieutenant S. L. Beatty, U.S.-N.R., Course Officer; Lieutenant (j.g.) J. J. Collins, U.S.N.R., First Lieutenant; Ensign C. R. Brewbaker, U.S.N.R., Physical Education Officer; Warrant Officer S. A. Banashek, U.S.M.C.
These men work from the V-12 office in the Rockne Memorial fieldhouse, and not from the slate-grey Midshipman’s administration building behind the “Rock.”
The subject usually closest to the average V-12 trainee is discipline, since the result of any infraction of the rules is the application of some form of disciplinary punishment. This unit operates on the demerit system. The demerits are worked off at the rate of one hour of extra duty for each ten demerits awarded, and may be worked off either on the
drill field on Saturday afternoons or under Chief Scharff, the mastei- at arms, in the duty office. Lieut. Collins advises that most demerits are awarded for infractions of the study hour rules, and he warns that those rules will be even more rigidly enforced this semester. Capt. Finney will issue orders restricting men from liberty for three weeks when they are considered deficient in their studies. Sundays are to be free.
Among recent changes in routine is the new system for the care of valuables while their owners are taking physical training at the “Rock.” The items may be turned in to the towel man at the locker room office, and he will give the owner a tag which may be worn around the wrist during swimming or other gym work.
St. Patrick's Site of
Mello-Castle Nuptials
Seaman James A. Mello, fullback on the 1943 national championship football team, and Miss Winifred Jacqueline Castle, of Chicago, were married on Monday morning, Feb. 29, in ceremonies at St. Patrick’s Roman Catholic church, South Bend, with Rev. Father Walter Joseph Higgins, C.S.C., celebrating the nuptial Mass.
Parker - Winterrowd
I 15^2 N. Main Street (Upstairs)
Offers future Officers at Notre Dame the Finest Custom Tailored Uniforms
All Garments Tailored to Your Measure and Fitted in Our Own Fitting Rooms
THE' COMMODORE CAP, expressly styled by Parker-Winterrowd, with genuine Beaver crown and 4% gold chin strap, 10 carat gold and silver device, with two Van Husen white crowns, at_S18.50
South Bend's Oldest Custom Tailors
26
M. Vita Gets La Raza Post
For the first time in th history of La Raza club there was a hotly contested campaign for the presidency of the organization. Both candidates, Jose Cardenas and Mike Vila, are active members of the club and as such they had every right to be honored with this important position. Elections were held last Sunday, March 12, in which Mike Vila defeated Jose Cardenas by only two votes.
Other positions were voted to the following men:
Vice-President ........ Jose Cardenas
Secretary ............. Hector Faarup
Sub-Secretary .........
Treasurer .............
Arthur Garcia
Edward Ochoa
The club was very active last semester. At the meeting several plans were formulated, some of which the club hopes to see accomplished before this semester is ended.
The annual banquet held by .La Raza club on Pan-American Day. was moved forward because of the unexpected arrival of the distinguished Col. Romulo, of the Philippine Army.
Irish Stars Selected
Despite the variety and amount of competition that the Great Lakes eagers saw this past season, they must have been somewhat partial to the Notre Dame club for they placed two of the Krausemen on their all-opponents team, the Fighting Irish being the only squad to have more than one picked from the respective quintets that were available for the Tars selection.
First Team
Hoffman F Purdue Klier F_________________________ Notre Dame
Otten _________________G________ Bowling Green
Schadler G______________________ Northwestern
McNatt ________________G___________ Phillips 66
Second Team Kirk______________________F________________Illinois
Olivieri__________________F Illinois Normal
Patterson_________________C.___________Wisconsin
Rutledge G Notre Dame
Chandler__________________G____________Marquette
Campus Centenary Publications
Notre Dame—100 Years-----$4.00
Collected Poems of Charles L. O’Donnell_$2-50
... at the Bookstore
s....
I BUY WITH CONFIDENCE |
1	- at	I
= South Bend’s Leading Jeweler =
i	A wide selection of	=
I	Desirable Gifts	I
5	on display.	|
=	Use our lay-away plan.	j
Have a Coca-Cola = Meet a new friend
... or bow to relax on leave
What more friendly way to welcome a soldier to a family gathering than the hearty invitation Have a “Coke". It’s like saying, We’re happy you’re here. So be sure you have Coca-Cola in your icebox at home. From “down under” to back in the U. S. A., Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become the symbol of friendly folks the world over.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
27
LAETARE MEDALIST NAMED (Continued from page 5) 1927—Margaret Anglin, actress 1926—Edward N. Hurley, business man, World War I shipping board head 1924—Charles D. Maginnis, Boston architect
1923—Walter G. Smith, lawyer, former president of the A.B.A.
1922—Charles P. Neill, economist, commissioner of labor under Theodore Roosevelt, Taft and Wilson
1921—Elizabeth Nourse, internationally known American artist
1920—Dr. Lawrence F. Flick, Philadelphia leader in reducing consumption mortality
1919—George L. Duval, philanthropist, founder of many Catholic institutions
1918—Joseph Scott, distinguished Los Angeles attorney
1917—William S. Benson, United States Navy admiral in World War I, convert, daily communicant
1916—Dr. James J. Walsh, physician, author, lecturer
1915—Mary V. Merrick, founder of the Christ Child Society
1914—Edward Douglas White, jurist, chief justice of the United States 1913—Charles B. Herberman, guiding spirit of the Catholic Encyclopedia 1912—Thomas M. Mulry, philanthropist, benefactor of the children of New York
1911—Agnes Repplier, author, oldest living Laetare Medalist, ranked with Emerson and Lowell in the field of the essay
1910—Maurice Francis Egan, diplomat, former Minister to Denmark, author 1909—Frances Tiernan ( Christian
Reid), author, Catholic leader in the Carolinas
1908—James C. Monaghan, economist, U. S. authority on foreign relations and trade
1907—Katherine Conway, journalist, editor the Boston Pilot
1906—Dr. Francis J. Quinlan, physician, New York City
1905—Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, philanthropist, Boston Catholic benefactor
1904—Richard C. Kerens, diplomat, former ambassador to Austria
1903—Charles Jerome Bonaparte, lawyer, who said: “No man can be a good Catholic who is not a good citizen.”
1902—Dr. John B. Murphy, surgeon, praised by Dr. William Mayo as the outstanding contributor to America’s world supremacy in surgery
28
[■Juiiii ..mmimmim.min..immmmmmmiimmmmm.....minium.........mimmm...........iimmiiQ
(d
The LaSalle Dining Room
1	in the LASALLE HOTEL	I
* *
=	Enjoy dinner music every night except Tuesday and Friday	=
z	from 7:00 p. m. on.	=
Qjtiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiinniiitiiiiiiiitiiitinitt.11111111111111111111111111 m 1111 it • t • t it.iiiiiiiiin tnuiiii.imtiii.until untiiiiiniiiiuiiiiQ
H H H H M M H M H M M M H M H H M H M M M M M H H H H M M M H M M M M ►4 M H M M M H M M

JOSIE and JIM'S
TUNNY ITALY
CAFE
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS
PLACE
SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
M M M H H H H H M H M M M M H H M H H H H M M M H H M M M M H M M M H M H M H H M H H
A TRADITION AT NOTRE
DAME
SERVICE MEN: Make This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
^XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX^
To CHICAGO—and BEYOND
The South Shore Line sells tickets over any-line beyond Chicago. Ask us about fares, routing, stopovers, travel time to any section of the United States. Call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.	’
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
50U[hnsehor[

At the
BOOKSTORE:
/latte
JEWELRY

a
Miniature
Notre Dame
Rings
£
ALSO, AFTER APRIL 1st
JEWELRY
TOILET PREPARATIONS and
LEATHER GOODS
3
£
Will carry a 20% Federal Excise Tax instead of 10%.
1901—William Bourke Cochran, lawyer and orator
1900—John A. Creighton, philanthropist, founder of Creighton University
1899—Mary G. Caldwell, philanthropist, founder of the Catholic University ' of America by the gift of its first building. She also received the Golden Bose from Pope Leo XIII
1897—Dr. Thomas Addis Emmett, physician, world famed for research in childbirth
1896—Gen. William Rosecrans, soldier, military scientist
1895—Mary A. Sadlier, novelist, her works a “household word” in .her era
1894—Augustine Daly, dramatic producer, “apostle of high and uplifting art”
1893—Patrick Donahoe, journalist, Boston Catholic patriarch credited with the encouragement of Boyle O’Reilly's work
1891—Daniel Dougherty, orator, Philadelphian
1890—William J. Onahan, Chicago philanthropist, organizer of the Catholic Congress
1889—Anna Hanson Dorsey, novelist, pioneer Catholic novelist in America
1888—Patrick V. Hickey, editor, Irish-American leader
1887—Edward Preuss, publicist, respected German-American authority
1886—Gen. John Newton, engineer, military scientist
1885—Eliza Allen Starr, art critic, first woman to receive the Laetare Medal
1884—Patrick C. Keely, architect, profound influence on ecclesiastical architecture in this country.

'Ute.

BOOKSTORE
BADIN HALL
Speaks in Canada
Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., professor of education at Notre Dame, delivered one of a series of lectures on Catholic education before the Catholic Education club in Montreal, Quebec, last Wednesday. Father Cunningham, chairman of the reorganization committee of the National Catholic Education Association, spoke on “Reconstruction of Education for the Postwar Period.”
The series of six lectures is designed to promote interest in educational topics and to stimulate among English-speaking Catholics an appreciation and understanding of educational aims and ideals.
—Arthur L. Wanger
Tonight—Ballad Singers This Time for Certain!
By ARTHURL. WAGNER. USNR
The American Ballad Singers, led by composer Elie Siegmeister, will appear this evening at 8 o’clock in Washington hall. The group will feature lusty native folk ballads gathered from every part of the land. ’
Their concert is virtually a condensed folk history of America from the time of the Pilgrim Fathers right up to Sieg-meister’s own Ballad of Douglas MacArthur. The ballads include sea chanties,, cowboy tunes, spirituals, hillbillies, children’s game songs, street cries, and songs for victory.	•	.
Every singer of the group is a famous soloist in his own right, with a distinguished career in concert, opera, radio, or musical comedy.
Helen Yorke was the prima donna of the “Broadway Melody” show over a nation-wide hook-up for one and one-half years. She was the star on the Paramount circuit—scoring successes all over the country—has been heard on the “Metropolitan Audition of the Air,” and in concert both here and abroad. Ruth Fremont has starred in the Steel Pier Opera Company, Atlantic City, N. J., has broadcast from Radio City under Erno Rapee, has appeared in recitals throughout the east, and frequently over the radio. Rebekah Crawford is a well known contralto who has had a brilliant career in opera, concert, and oratorio.
The men of the group are similarly distinguished soloists. Earl Waldo has sung leading roles in such productions as “Student Prince” and “The Miracle,” and most recently returned to his original role in the Broadway success of “The Vagabond King.” He has sung leading roles in grand and light opera throughout the country. Lester German, dramatic tenor, was the original Prince of Song over Station WBAL of Baltimore. He has sung with leading choirs and glee clubs in many parts of the country. His background is Welsh, his forebears having come to this country about 1600, and settling in New England. Dolf Swing, baritone, brother of Raymond Gram Swing, has had a successful career on the continent where he sang in concerts and opera in Copenhagen, London, Berlin, Milan and Vienna. He appeared in leading roles of some 14 well known operas. He has been active in this country in radio,, with choruses, and as a well known teacher. He is also known as a composer of several works for male and mixed choruses.
29
GERRY FORD
With the coming of another spring-football season, attention is again attracted toward Notre Dame’s football team. This attention, in turn, brings Gerry Ford, hefty end, into the limelight.
Nick-named “The Colonel,” among other monikers, Ford saw his first Irish action about the middle of last season when he entered the line-up as a sophomore.
Ford now makes his home on Waterman avenue, in St. Louis, Mo., but did his high school athletic work down in New Orleans, La., at the same high school that gave Paul Limont, a starting end on the 1943 team, to the University. Ford, after starting the season as a tackle, was shifted to end and made the Louisiana All-State high school team as a member of the Jesuit high school Blue-Jays. He was also an outstanding track performer and — a fact attested by his soft Southern drawl, was awarded a medal for oratory.
Following his graduation from Jesuit high school, Gerry entered Notre Dame in the old civilian days. He started out in Breen-Phillips hall, but after realizing that this was too far to walk to the dining hall, moved over to Dillon — one of the few frosh to receive this privilege in recent years — where he took a double with John I. (Black Mac) McGowan.
This third floor double, according to Ford, was the scene of great happiness — particularly since he belonged to a select club composed of Paul Limont, Bill Brown, Ray Dempsey, Tonto Baroni, McGowan, Dave Condon, and himself. While Ford neglects to mention the purpose of the club’s formation, it is common knowledge that this club was responsible for his being nick-named not only “The Colonel,” but also “Perfection” — a name that keeps hounding him.
There came a day in the life of Gerard Ford, as there must, of late, in the life
of every man, when he must cast aside his civilian garb and don some uniform. Gerry joined up with the Navy V-12 and last semester roomed in the second floor of Alumni hall. This semester he is in Zahm hall.
Ford’s various rooms have been appropriately bedecked with the pictures of such damsels as have crossed his career. One affair in New Orleans was abruptly terminated by the Brown-Limont-McGowan, ci al., dinner club, who took matters of corresponding with the girl as a matter of their own interest.
While at the University, Gerry has flirted with Arts and Letters, Engineering, and at present is devoting serious effort to his V-12 duties. At present it is not known whether or not he will be available for next season’s team.
Donovan Resigns Here;
Accepts Editor's Job
The sportswriting field that numbers among its members such Notre Dame products as James S. Kearns, Arch Ward, Joe Petritz, William Fay, Francis Walalce, and Robert (Red) Lonergan, today includes a new member in its group.
He is Raymond Donovan, ’42, former assistant Notre Dame director of publicity who has resigned to accept a position as sports editor of the Logansport (Ind.) Pharos Tribune.
Donovan is a former- Scholastic staff member and during his senior year wrote “Introducing.” Following his graduation he accepted a position in the department of academic publicity. Later, when Joe Petritz entered military service, Donovan filled in as sports publicity director until a University contract with Walter Kennedy took effect. He was also Notre Dame correspondent for the South Bend Tribune and was a Tribune staff writer. He is married.
Iowa Retains Madigan as Hawkeye Mentor
Another prominent Notre Dame leader in the football world, J. Edward (Slip) Madigan, famous for his “Galloping Gael” teams at St. Mary’s College, Moraga, Calif., has again come into the grid news by virtue of his recent signing of a new contract with Iowa university.
Madigan was signed to coach the Iowa Hawkeyes during the 1943 season, and compiled a record of six defeats, one win, and one tie. His new contract for the 1944 season runs for eight months.
Slip Madigan, at one time the highest paid coach in football, succeeded another Notre Dame great, Dr. Edward (Eddie) Anderson, after Anderson entered the armed forces. Included on Anderson’s staff were Jim Harris, Frank Carideo, and Biill Hofer, all former Notre Dame athletes.
Madigan was inactive in college football circles after leaving- St. Mary’s college until he signed with Iowa.
Head basketball coach and football coach Ed (Moose) Krause, former Notre Dame All-American football tackle and baketball center, left the university to accept a commission in the marines. Wally Ziemba finished the season as basketball coach and will assist with football coaching this spring. Krause took over as Notre Dame basketball coach after the untimely death of George K. Keogan. in February, 1943.
30
At JWg/x. AMefc 6a.
South Bend's Quality Stere since 1913-
FOR. NAVY MEN — Store Open Saturday 'til 9 P. M.; Sunday all day
NAVY MEN
We are appointed by the U. S. Navy as official distributors of Navy Officers' Uniforms
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
BLUE SERVICE UNIFORM, $40 — OVERCOAT, $50 RAINCOAT WITH REMOVABLE WOOL LINING, $37.50 NAVY CAP WITH DEVICE, $10.50
SLATE GREY WORK UNIFORMS — $15.38 UP
Dunhill
Made to Measure
NAVAL UNIFORMS
Expertly tailored and styled to your individual measurements
KNOX
KNOX OFFICER'S CAP
Premier Quality with 3 covers
M850
ft # ftees*?fit	4E7£/
I
*
M*X ADLER
ON THE CORNER . . . Michigan at Washington
South Bend’s most conveniently located Navy Outfitters — Just across from downtoicn bus terminal.
31
ERNIE PYLE
WORLD-FAMOUS WAR CORRESPONDENT .
Copyright 1944. Liggett 4 Myers Tobacco Co.
FIRSTHAND
REPORT

FROM A FIRST-CLASS REPORTER
TSV>HESTERFI
On every front i*ve covered...with OUR BOYS AND OUR ALLIES, CHESTERFIELD IS ALWAYS A FAVORITE
Chesterfields are milder and better-tasting for the best of reasons... they’re made of the world’s best cigarette tobaccos — but what’s more ... Chesterfield combines these choice tobaccos in a can’t-be-copied blend that gives smokers what they want. That’s why your Chesterfields really Satisfy. They’re the favorite of millions.
MORE