The Notre Dame
Screen star Van Heflin surf-casting at Malibu Beach, Calif.
flfiniHC TESTS PROVE
LUCKY STRIKE MILDER
THAN ANY OTHER
PRINCIPAL BRAND!


Confirming these scientific tests, an independent consulting laboratory with more than 15 years’ experience in cigarette research reports: ‘lucky Strike mildest of 6 major brands tested”
Yes, Luckies are milder___proven milder! And here’s one good reason why:
Lucky Strike means fine tobacco—fine, light, naturally mild tobacco that gives you real deep-down smoking enjoyment—yes, the smooth, rich taste of fine tobacco. Prove to yourself what science has proved. Get a carton of Luckies today!
war
VAN HEFLIN says: Wherever I go, whatever I do—I smoke those mild, smooth Luckies!"


LET YOUR OWN TASTE AND THROAT BE THE JUDGE! FOR THE RICH TASTE OF FINE TOBACCO...FOR SMOOTHNESS AND MILDNESS... There’s never a rough puff in a Lucky
COPR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
-luty Strike Heam fine Tbkaece
So round, so firm, so fully packed — so free and easy on the draw
2
The Scholastic
I • I
I Letters

II Grotto Ceremony
ill	Editor:
'l l Hats off to the student body and to W	all who	had a hand	in the	beautiful
May 1	activities	in	honor.	of	“our”
II	Mother.	I believe	the	ceremony	at the
I " grotto was the most awe inspiring sight J	I have witnessed in my four years at
|	the University. It would be nice to feel
I	that this ceremony will become an an-
i	nual event. After all red is not really
|	such a bad color when it is blended
with the white and blue of Our Lady.
i	Dick Soisson
Dillon Hall
Frosh Thanks
! Editor:
The Freshman Class Officers wish to thank and congratulate the Freshman Class for its wholehearted and inspiring support of the Freshman Dance last Friday night. Our thanks also to Brian Kelly, Chairman, and the committee chairman who all gave so unselfishly of their time and energies to make our dance the success that it was.
Arrow Basque Shirts
MADE TO FIT YOUR VACATION PLANS
We also thank the Scholastic and WND for the fine publicity the dance received.
Finally, we wish to express our appreciation to Father Kehoe, Father Leahy and Ed Vasta, last year’s freshman dance chairman, without whose aid, encouragement and advice we could not have succeeded.
The Freshman Officers
Storage Rates
Editor:
Would it be too much to ask the student council for an explanation as to why they gave their approval to the price list for summer storage of students’ goods? The fees charged seem to be out of all proportion to the services rendered.
Last year a student’s goods were insured for §25 without any extra charges — and for each dollar over that value he paid an additional penny. This year, h's g°°ds are worth more than §10, he must pay the normal storage fee, §2 for a “special handling tag, and finally 3 per cent of the goods’ total value as an insurance fee. To top everything, the storage regulations don’t even tell you what you are insured against.
As an example of how great the price rise is, take the sample tabulation that this year’s order sheet makes for the fees on a chair, a footlocker, and a bookcase. Last year the total
W May 12, 1950
—So before you leave, pick up a couple of these trim-fitting shirts at your favorite Arrow dealer’s. Thev’re smart looking. They’re comfortable! Perfect with all your sports outfits, and ideal for your vacation wardrobe!
$1.25 to $3.95
ARROWshirts & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
The Place to Go
for the Names You Know
GILBERT'S
for ARROW
I
charge on these exact same items would have been $4.65. This year it is $14.10 — over three times the 1949 charge! It doesn’t seem possible that the agent’s overhead could have gone up that much.
The price for storing upholstered chairs is so high that several fellows I know feel it will be cheaper in the long run to throw out their present battered chair and buy a new one in September. Along the same line, I can send my . radio home and back again (round trip —1400 miles) for a lot less than the storage fee.
In all fairness it may be that the council had no alternative but to accept these arrangements, or that the person handling the storage was unable to get insurance for less. If such are the facts, or if there are any other extenuating circumstances, let’s hear them. It’s certainly a matter of vital interest to the student body.
Ted Prahinski
Badin Hall
Editor:
Am I glad I’m graduating! At least I’m supposed to. Anyway, my Sophomore roommate (bless him) showed me the 1950 storage fees and I was appalled. If I were to store all the furniture, etc., that I have accumulated over the years it would cost me $26.50, and that’s a very conservative estimate and doesn’t include insurance costs. For example, one of my two easy chairs would cost $3.50 to store during the coming summer, but I paid only five bucks for the thing three years ago, so that means that with a depreciation of 20 per cent per year, it would be worth $2 at present. As you can easily see, I would be paying a buck fifty more than the chair is worth just for three months storage. That doesn’t make much sense!
After seeing the list, I realize now that I won’t be able to sell my easy chairs, lamps, or other paraphernalia — in fact, I probably couldn’t even give them away and not because of their condition!
I can visualize the typical ND student boarding the South Shore -within the month with an easy chair under one arm, a lamp shade instead of a hat, and a rug thrown over one shoulder. It may set a new fashion!
George McCullough Dillon Hall
Editor:
We would like to express our disapproval of the extremely high storage rates which were announced this week.
Previously, this storage operation has provided the students -with an opportunity to store their properties over the summer at a student rate, thereby elim-
inating all contact with express companies and commercial storing houses. In its original sense the plan was an accommodation for students, but now it appears to be organized principally as a money-making proposition.
The local agency’s attempt to guar-
antee security for the student’s property has resulted in the raising of all basic rates so that a student must pay from 30 per cent to 100 per cent of an article’s value, regardless of insurance, to store it for one summer.
(Continued on Page 29)
will you save going
home
by Greyhound?
GREYHOUND LINES, Inc. 117 W. Western Ave. Phone 3-8283
Check these Greyhound Fares ... then COMPARE!
GREYH
	One Wav
Chicago 			—	£	1.75
Boston 		18 60
Buffalo ....	9 35
Cleveland 			 5.40
Los Angeles			 41.75
Washington		 13.80
Cincinnati 			 6.05
Dallas 		17 25
Milwaukee 			 3.30
New Orleans 			 14.75
Miami 			 23.70
Minneapolis		 9.05
Louisville 			6.50
St. Louis 			 6.50
New York 			 16.65
Philadelphia 			 15.25
Detroit 			4.30
Memphis 			9.95
(Plus Federal Tax)

The Scholastic
THE WEEK
by flack McGoldrick
Top of the Week
Senior Ball week-end . . .
Dancing in the Dark
As we go to press, the magnolia trees in front of the Dome are in full bloom, and most of the seniors are hoping they (the magnolias, that is) will stay that way through the week-end. But magnolias or not, the long-awaited Senior Ball is finally at hand. With the promised co-operation of the weather man, the 500 couples who will attend have a full and varied forty-eight hours of entertainment ahead of them. In anticipation of the influx of a bevy of young ladies from north, south, east, west — and St. Mary’s; who will arrive by train, plane, bus, car and railway express, the WEEK’S research staff has been busy tabulating a survey on the attendance. Incomplete results are as follows:
Why Gals Refused to Attend Ball Been to one before ............... 12
On picket line for telephone strike 24 Going to high school prom instead 17 Can’t dance ..................... 144
Don’t want to miss hearing
Charlie Ventura ................. 0
It’s a boys’ school ............... 1
Why Gals Accepted Invitations Have an aunt living in Mishawaka 6 Curiosity .............................. 18
Payment of an election	bet .......... 7
On spring circuit ...................... 71
It’s a boys’ school ................... 398
Others will have	reasons, pro and
con, later.
Notes to Ball Guests
As a friendly word of warning to those who will be visiting the University for the first time this week-end, the WEEK’S public service department offers the following adfivice:
1.	As you enter the Drill Hall, don’t say “Ooh, a barn dance.’’
2.	If you receive a dandelion corsage, take your date’s word that orchids are not available in Indiana at this time of year.
3.	Don’t remind your date that you saw Charlie Ventura’s band at a taxi dance in Peoria last week.
4.	On Saturday, you will probably have breakfast, lunch and dinnei- in the caf — at the same time. Try to remember that one meal a day on dance
week-ends is a tradition at Notre Dame, as well as an economy measure.
5.	If you’re lucky enough to eat in a real restaurant downtown, don’t be embarrassed when your date tucks his napkin under his collar. A subtle way to correct this is to ask him if he wants a hamburger or a haircut.
6.	Don’t worry about the noise made by the piano on the Sorin porch. By Sunday morning, Steve Oracko will have worn it out.
7.	Don’t think that the dance floor in the Drill Hall is smooth; it really isn’t-—it’s just that youi- date has shined his shoes.
Dissa and Data
Black George at 20 to 1 was heavily backed by Walsh Hall residents in last Saturday’s Kentucky Derby . . . his poor finish may be due to the fact that the jockey was using a 9-iron instead of a whip on him . . . wonder if Tom
ITS NOT TOO LATE! You Can Still Make That Summer Trip to Europe With International Youth PARIS by AIR $360 Round Trip
Flights to LONDON and ROME
Write or Phone INTERNATIONAL YOUTH, Inc.
150 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
COrtland 7-0362	To assure passage write immediately
Kelleghan received the Scholastic’s support in the recent Chicago Club elections? . . . Things we’ll never live to see department: the bull throwing a prof around the classroom for fifty minutes . . . although • many silent movie stars have made screen comebacks recently, this is impossible at Notre Dame; when Mary Pickford’s pictures play in Washington Hall, they’re getting here for the first time.
Bottom of the Week
. . . will last only three days.
Professor Pieper Resumes Lectures With Monday Talk
Professor Josef Pieper, professor of Philosophy, University of Muenster, will give the second and final lecture in his current series Monday evening at 8 p.m. in Room 101 of the Law Building.
The Monday night lecture is entitled “Anti-Christ: World Government and Christian Hope.” Last week Professor Pieper spoke on “Social 'Meaning of Leisure in the Modern World.”
There will be no admission charge to the lecture Monday evening and everyone is cordially invited. The lecture is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations.
May 12, 1950
Entertainment
MAY 12
DRILL HALL—Dancing in the Dark is the theme of tonight’s Senior Ball from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Charlie Ventura and his orchestra will play. Beautiful dates from all over the country — St. Mary’s, too — will swarm the campus over the weekend.
COLFAX (through May 17)—Francis (Legion of Decency Rating A-l) is a comedy-fantasy about a talking mule who upsets the equilibrium of an Army base in the Pacific. A bit of this type humor goes a long way, but Francis does a fair job of extenuating it.
PALACE (through May 16)—Westerns are bringing the sheckles into the box-offices, so MGM has come up with The Outriders (A-2), and by so doing, has come up with a winner. Joel McCrea, beautiful Arlene Dahl, Barry Sullivan and James Whitmore head an unusually fine cast. An added attraction of this pic is its scenery. The colored shots are among the best ever filmed. Guilty Bystander (A-2) is a low-budgeted’ semi-documentary, starring Zachary Scott and Faye Emerson.
MAY 13
STADIUM—The annual old-timers game — sadly lacking Zigmont — will start at 2:30. Right now the old duffers seem to have an edge over the Varsity.
DRILL HALL—The rejuvenated Monogram Club is to hold the final dance of the ’50-’51 year from 9 until 12. Permissions have been granted until 1. Gene Hull and his men will provide the music.
MAY 14
SACRED HEART CHURCH—A special section will be reserved in the Main Church at 9 o’clock Mass for all Ball-goers.
MAY 15
WASHINGTON HALL—The annual Spring joint-concert between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s will be held at 8 p.m. All students and faculty members are invited.
MAY 16
GRANADA (through May 20)—Arch Ward’s favorite picture of all-time, The Golden Gloves Story (A-l), is a mediocre sports film. James Dunn and Dewey Martin are its stars. Forbidden Jungle shares the marquee billing.
MAY 17
AVON (through May 24)—Every once in awhile an English film turns up that is just a notch out of the ordinary. Tight Little Island (A-2) is an example. If you like whimsey, you’ll like this captivating comedy.
MAY 18
COLFAX (through May 27)—Cecil B. DeMille’s latest extravaganza Samson and Delilah (A-2) does the impossible: it is as good as all the blurbs the press agents have invented. Sure, it’s pure hokum — but there hasn’t been any of it in so long that S and D rates high on the entertainment list. Victor Mature plays S and Hedy LaMarr handles D.
The Islander Ukulele is designed by Mario Maccaferri. A full size, professional instrument, made of resounding Styron plastic. Has perfect pitch, brilliant penetrating tone, easy precision fingerboard. Beautiful Rosewood grain and Ivory finish. Nylon strings. Patent pegs.
It is the greatest value ever offered in a musical instrument.
Guaranteed! The Islander will reach ' you in 5 days in perfect condition.
ORDER BY MAIL, USE THIS COUPON
Send check or money order, we prepay postage. When ordering C. O. D. customer agrees to pay all charges.
Please print name, address and*zone number plainly.	|
r——————————————— | Paramount Distributors, Inc.
I	Box 18, Fordham	Station,	New	York 58, N. Y. |	,
I ~ I	Gentlemen:	I	;
■	Please send	the	Islander	Uke	Outfit to	|	’
In	I	I
i	!	*
.	Address.......................... |	s.
■	I	L
| City............Zone.... State.... ■
| □ Check □ Money order □ C. O. D. J
The Scholastic ®
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91 May 12, 1950 No. 25
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors
KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI _________________ News
JOHN J. POWERS Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE  Features JOHN F. MEANEY  Sports JACK R. VARLEY__________ Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN__________Photography
LEON GARDNER___________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER______________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO ______________Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY Circulation
ROBERT WILDEMAN ____________ Circulation
DALE FRANCIS__________Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Rod Belcher. Frank Blanch. Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, Bob Butler, Don Carbone, Jim Carrig. Jim Clark, Joe Conerty, Jay Conlon, John Corrigan, Frank Cotter, Bryan Coughlin, Dave Driscoll, Charley Dullea, Carl Eiberger, Bob Finney, Tom Foote, Bill Gorman, David Hayes, Jerry Howell, Tom Kelley, John Kelly, Rik Klein, Joe Lang, Lou Meece, Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy, Tom Murphy. Jim O’Brien, John Quetsch. Tom Reedy, Neal Scarlett, George Schwartz, Roger Vorce.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin, Joe Deiss. Bill Delaney, Ray Dittrich. Jack Economou, Jack Keane, Joe Moresco, Ted Prahinski, Bill Reidy, Frank Ronnenberg, Bob Rubery, Joe Straub, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES: Jim Carroll, Jim Kingsley. Larry McDermott, Robert Rotnakcr, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
Member of the Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: This is the big night of the year for the Class of 1950. Nearly 500 Seniors will gather in the Drill Hall and dance to the music of Charlie Ventura and his orchestra. The theme of the affair is “Dancing in the Dark” but enough chaperones will be on hand to keep it from being too dark.
—Photo by Jim McLaughlin
From the Editor’s Desk..
New Trend in Education
The installation of the new General Program of Liberal Education ©
in the College of Arts and Letters, as announced in the news pages of the Scholastic this week, marks a new and encouraging trend in education at Notre Dame and in the country as a whole. Based on the great books approach to the heritage of the culture of Western civilization through the ages, the program is designed to give the student a broad and reliable foundation in the liberal arts as the basis for a cultural and intellectual integration consistent with the kind of thought that has made Western culture the living force it has been for well over 2000 years.
The program takes cognizance of the fact that our technocratic age has placed undue emphasis on the material side of this culture. The material side of any culture is important, but it is, after all, only one side. The intellectual, moral, and religious sides of our culture are without doubt more important than the material aspect, and yet, since the turn of the century’ and even before in this country, the material side has been touted and built up to the point where the ordinary individual is led to believe that it is the all-important and all exclusive side.
The result of this one-sided emphasis has resulted in the deification of Science in education. Science, in itself, is a good thing. Science.
' - © © -
when it attempts to do what by its very nature it cannot do, namely dictate the only norm by which men live, is bad. .
The General Program of Liberal Education refocuses the attention and studv of the student on the intellectual, moral, and religious elements in Western civilization. By so doing, it provides the necessary means for living according to the essential nature of man. It recognizes in man something beyond the technocratic, and something even beyond the rational. It recognizes the supernatural end of man and gives him the means to attain the highest development of his supernatural, rational, and technocratic ends.
It is a healthy trend in education and we hope it will be a successful one. The problems it brings on the administrative and practical side are numerous and worrisome. The program must not fail. If it does, it is conceivable that more harm than good can come of it, for it would set such a movement back as much as 20 years.
Two elements seem indispensable to the success of the new program. One element is a select and competent faculty. Without such a group of teachers, the program would have no chance of existence. The other element is cooperation on the part of the students who enter the ■ program. It is difficult to say at this point how they will respond to the idea. Their response will to some extent be determined by the very technocratic culture this program is attempting to counteract. Without cooperation on the part of the student, no program of education can succeed.
We feel confident that this program will succeed. It is well organized and well thought-out. It is not something new. It is as old as Western civilization. Its resurrection in a Catholic institution of the influence of Notre Dame is a thing to be proud of and to cooperate with. No matter what the end result, the program is the right one, and the men connected with it are to be congratulated for going this far. and encouraged to make it a successful undertaking.
© ©
.7
May 12, 1950
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
RESEARCH DECENTRALIZED
Du Pont scientists pursue their studies from Buffalo, N. Y., to Orange, Texas
OHIO
NEW YORK
MICHIGAN
PENNSYLVANIA
TEXAS
VIRGINIA
Du Pont has 42 research and development laboratories located in 10 states
The du font company is a large company. Its many manufacturing plants are now located from Maine to California. Likewise, the Company’s research activities are spread over a wide area. From the Founder’s informal scientific experiments on the Brandywine have sprung 42 research and development laboratories in ten states.
Each manufacturing department* has its own research director and maintains facilities for studies in its specialized fields. Thus, research having to do with dyes, neoprene and fine chemicals is centered at Deepwater, N. J.; research on cellophane and other transparent wrapping films at Buffalo, N. Y.; research on viscose rayon at Richmond, Va.; and research on coated and impregnated fabrics at Newburgh, N. Y. These
are only a few of the places where Du Pont scientists are now at work. Each manufacturing department does fundamental research as well as applied research on new processes and products.
Many types of training
At any one time, many hundreds of different projects are under way in these laboratories. Though a relatively large number of Du Pont technical people are chemists and chemical engineers, other fields of training are strongly represented.
Among the scientists working with Du Pont are mechanical, electrical, civil, industrial, mining, petroleum, textile, architectural and safety engineers, physicists, metallurgists, biologists and mathematicians. About 30% of these men and women who
Artist’s drawing of the Marshall Laboratory, new Du Pont laboratory for research on finishes. Under construction at Philadelphia, it should be ready for occupancy by late 1950.
are engaged in technical activities at Du Pont hold doctor’s degrees.
Interchange of thinking
All manufacturing departments may draw on the services of the chemical, engineering and toxicological laboratories of the company in Wilmington. In addition, the Chemical Department’s library at the Wilmington Experimental Station circulates reference material, conducts literature and patent searches and issues a weekly abstract of pertinent articles found in the important chemical journals of the world. This supplements normal work of this kind done by the various manufacturing departments.
No matter where a Du Pont research man may work, he has every opportunity to use his best talents, to advance as his abilities develop, and to profit by interchange of thinking with scientists whose minds complement his own.
^There are ten Du Pont manufacturing departments —each cond ucting research: Electrochem icals; Explosives; Fabrics & Finishes; Film; GrasselliChemicals; Organic Chemicals; Photo Products; Pigments; Polychemicals; Rayon.
★ ★ ★
SEND FOR "This Is Du Pont,” 52 pages of information on Du Pont’s methods, products, facilities, geography. Fully illustrated. For your free copy, write to the Du Pont Company, 2503 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
SSG. U.S. PAT. off.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING ...THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Great Dramatic Entertainment—Tune in "Cavalcade of America” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
8
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
VOLUME 91, NUMBER 25
MAY 12, 1950
Junior Class Leads Tuesday’s Voting
New Liberal Arts Program to Be Initiated At Notre Dame Next Fall Under Dr. Bird
•	By WALT COLLINS
"... And the drudgery of education disappears for the student because he is in contact with the greatest thinkers on Western culture and he feels their real problems — his own real problems.” Dr. Otto Bird, ph.d., spoke these words with feeling and optimism last Tuesday as he discussed the new program of Liberal Education to be initiated into the College of Arts and Letters at
Notre Dame next Fall.
Mr. Bird is to be in charge of the new program which he described as a part of “a new venture in education which is under way throughout the country. But the Notre Dame program differs from the others in that it is built on a Catholic foundation.” The venture, or trend, which Mr. Bird referred to is a new and growing realization in educational circles of the need for a general education rather than for specialization and concentration on one phase of practice or knowledge.
Specialization Inadequate
Mr. Bird lit a match and pulled on his pipe. “The program of General and Liberal Education that we are putting into effect next Fall coincides with the growing realization of the inadequacy of specialization and departmentalization to meet the essential needs and requirements of man’s na-ture. A man seeks knowledge in order to develop as fully as possible the faculties which are proper to him as man. These are his intellectual and moral faculties. No man lives only for the particular job he does in a society, and cannot make his fullest contribution to society unless he has developed his potentialities beyond the point of slavish concentration upon a single phase of life. In order to live and be fully man, a ^person must be acquainted with the whole field of knowledge and with
the relationships between the different parts of that field.”
This, then, is the object of the new program — a development of the individual’s intellectual and moral faculties to their fullest growth. To accomplish this, the new program is “general” and “liberal.” It is “general” because it takes into account and study the whole tradition of Western Civilization, from the time of the Classical Greeks to the present day. The underlying element of integration in this civilization is found in the philosophy and theology of Christianity. Philosophy, then, guided by theology, will be the integrating element in the new program at Notre Dame.
Not Training Philosophers
“But,” warned Mr. Bird, “we are not training philosophers. Our emphasis on philosophy is as an integrating factor in order' to unify the whole of knowledge and reality. It is not only a general education, it is ‘liberal’ as well, in the sense that it frees the power of the mind to know by enabling it to acquire the arts of knowledge — grammar, rhetoric, logic, and the mathematical arts and sciences.”
The primary means used in this program are the books of the greatest teachers in Western civilization—-the great books — and students in the program will read the works of these teachers in two radically different ways.
“On the one hand, the student will engage in a series of Seminars, covering the entire four year course, during which time he will cover the whole of liberal thought from Greece to Modern times twice — once during the first two years, when this whole period will be covered through a reading of the easier masterworks, and again during the second two years, when the same period
(Continued on page 28)
Hennessey, Mannion, O'Connell Presidents
A heartening but far from overwhelming number of students turned out to vote in the 1950 spring class elections last Tuesday. The current Junior class was represented by 486 ballots, 64 per cent of the eligible voters in that class. The Freshman class was next with 591 ballots, which approximates 47 per cent of the class. Trailing were the Sophomores with 567 ballots, 45 per cent of the eligible voters.
Jim Hennessey of the Foursight party polled 226 votes to become next year’s Senior class president, beating out High Life’s Bill Whiteside, who polled 201 votes. The High Life candidates for vice-president and secretary, Hank Madden and Bob Klingenberger, each took 225 votes to win those offices. Foursight’s Ray Miller and Don Sondag polled 182 and 208 votes respectively.
Running independently for class secretary, Bob Auld polled 31 votes. John Worthington won the election for treasurer on the Foursight ticket with 271 votes to 179 for High Life’s Randy McNally. Bill Carey, High Life, won a post as Student Council representative with 298 votes, together with Tom Wolff of Foursight, who received 238 votes. Phil Schwarz of Foursight polled 131 votes and Jack Broderick of High Life, 151. Al Bailey and Dick Herrle, running independently for the same offices received 80 and 40 votes respectively. The Independent party’s candidates for president and vice-president, Tom Meyers and Nick Scalera got 74 and 64 votes, respectively.
Next year’s Juniors also elected a split ticket. Poll-Toppers Jim Mannion, 175 votes, Jay Fox, 156 votes, and Chet Ostrowski, 158 votes, won the offices of president, vice-president and secretary. Their candidate for treasurer, Phil Everist, gleaned 103 votes to lose to Jack Daut of the One Way party, who (Continued on Page 29)
May 12, 1950
9
Miss Mary Feeley
Charlie Ventura
Miss Nancy O'Neil
Dressed-Up Drill Hall Awaiting Invasion By 'Dancing in the Dark' Senior Ball Goers
Over 400 couples will enter the kleig-lighted Drill Hall this evening for the climaxing social event of the year, the Senior Ball. Once inside they will be “Dancing in the Dark” to the smooth music of top saxophonist Charlie Ventura and his recently reorganized orchestra.
Leading the parade of Seniors and their dates will be the co-chairmen of the dance, Verne Kelley and Spark Thornton. The queens of the dance will be their dates.
Mary Pat Feeley, a 21-year-old Sociology major at St. Mary’s College, will be escorted by Thornton. Miss Feeley is from New Bedford, Mass. Verne Kelley’s date will be Nancy O’Neil. Miss O’Neil is a 20-year-old Junior at the University of Illinois. Residing in Chicago, she is a member of the Alpha Delta Pi fraternity and majors in Journalism.
The Drill Hall has been completely revamped by Senior decorators. Special boarding and yards of crepe paper have been used to change the barn-like atmosphere. Tables will line the side of the dance floor and white-coated waiters will serve the couples.
Each girl will be presented a jewel box as a favor when she enters. The boxes, with a Notre Dame emblem on top, are a popular hold-over from last year’s dance.
Tomorrow, the Seniors and their dates will witness the Old Timers’ football game in the stadium. After the game, the couples will be back in the Drill Hall for a buffet dance from 5 till 7 p.m. Gene Hull and his orchestra will
play. Nine o’clock Mass Sunday morning will have a reserved section for the Ball-goers.
Ventura’s orchestra was recently heralded by an article in Doivn Beat magazine which said he has one of the top dance bands in the country. Dropping most of his bop ideas, he has joined the parade back to playing strictly dance music. His style is new and refreshing, though, and little resembles the schmaltz of some leaders.
Tonight’s dance will begin at 10 pan. and continue until 2 a.m. Seniors must be back in their rooms at 3 a.m. Car permissions have been granted, subject to the usual regulations.
New Bricks +o Shield Shivering Howardi+es
In case you were wondering what the purpose was of all the scraping and cementing being done on the east side of Howard Hall during the past two weeks, Rev. Bernard Furstoss, C.S.C., head of Notre Dame’s maintenance department, has explained that the operation is a process technically known as “tuckpointing.” More simply, this means that a South Bend firm has contracted to secure the loose bricks in the wall, and replace the old, crumbling mortar with new material, in order to weatherproof that side of the building, and protect Howardites from the coming spring rains. A similar process is being carried out on Lyons Hall, to remedy basement-dwellers’ complaints of rain seep
ing into their rooms through brickwork around the windows.
The maintenance department is anxious to complete these minor projects before the school year ends, in order to clear their schedule for the multitude of tasks connected with the new buildings to be erected this summer. Although the actual construction work will be done by outside firms, most of the attendant jobs, such as the digging of sewerage tunnels and the laying of steam pipes and electric cables, will be carried out by Father Furstoss’ versatile crew.
CPA Group Will Hold Meeting Here Tomorrow
The annual business meeting of the Indiana Society of Certified Public Accountants will be held on campus to- @ morrow. This is the first time in recent years that the meeting has not been held in Indianapolis.
Plans for this meeting and the technical meeting held at the Hotel LaSalle today, were made at the meeting of the Northern Indiana Chapter held at the Hotel LaSalle on April 18. This meeting was attended by Mr. James Dincolo, Head of the Department of Accounting, and Mr. Bernard B. Fifi-nan, Associate Professor of Accounting and the President of the Northern Indiana Chapter.
ENGLISH ESSENTIALS
Upperclassmen who have not yet	, ।
passed the Freshman English “Essen-	; 1
tials” examination may take the examination on Monday, May 15, from 7 to 9 p.m., in Room 253 of the Main Building. Students will present their ID cards at this examination.
The Scholastic
20
I. A. O'Shaughnessy Donates $1,500,000 For New Liberal and Fine Arts Building
I. A. O’Shaughnessy, of Golden Beach, Fla., President of the Globe Oil and Refining Company, St. Paul, Minn., has been disclosed as the donor of the $1,500,000 for the construction of a liberal and fine arts building at the University of Notre Dame.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, in announcing the identity of the donor, pointed out that O’Shaughnessy is the third person who has contributed a substantial sum toward the University’s $5,000,000 two-year building program. The project, in turn, is part of Notre Dame’s plans for a $25,000,000 expansion of its facilities.
Four buildings are scheduled to be erected in the two-year program. Besides the liberal and fine arts structure, they include a Notre Dame Inn, for which Ernest M. Morris, of South Bend, Board Chairman of the Associates Investment Company, is giving close to $1,000,000, and a student residence hall, for which $750,000 was contributed by Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, of Detroit, Michigan, widow of the founder of the Fisher Body Company.
Also on the construction list is a $1,750,000 Science Building, expected to house one of the leading research centers in the country. All but $500,000 of the estimated cost has been received from alumni and friends of Notre Dame all over the United States. The
$500,000 is being raised in a Greater Notre Dame Campaign in South Bend, Mishawaka and other communities near Notre Dame.
“Notre Dame,” said Father Cavanaugh, “is deeply grateful for the very generous gift of Mr. O’Shaughnessy, who has donated so unselfishly of his time and effort on behalf of this University as a distinguished member of its Associate Board of Lay Trustees.
“Mr. O’Shaughnessy’s gift will enable Notre Dame to broaden greatly the scope of the training of students in the college of arts and letters. This college has been the cornerstone of the University’s educational system in its 108-year history.”
Father Cavanaugh said that the new structure would be known as the O’Shaughnessy liberal and fine arts building. The names of the donors also will figure in the Morris Inn and the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial student residence hall.
It is planned that the liberal and fine arts building, three stories and of brick construction, will house the 16 departments in the college of arts and letters. Most of the courses in the college now are taught in the administration building, built in 1879.
According to tentative plans, the building will include the offices of the dean of the college and his assistant, and office space for department heads
and other members of the faculty of the college. Preliminary plans call for the inclusion of such departments as theology, philosophy, economics, sociology, history, political science, English, journalism, modern languages, classical languages, education, speech, art and music.
Present plans call for the dean’s office to be on the first floor adjoining the entrance. Other office space would be on the first and the two upper floors.
Thirty-two class rooms would be built, according to the tentative plans. About 20 would have a capacity of 40 students each and the others a capacity of 80 students each. It is hoped to equip the smaller rooms with moveable partitions to divide them temporarily into smaller seminar or discussion rooms.
O’Shaughnessy, one of the nation’s outstanding Catholic laymen, is a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre, a Knight of Malta and a Papal Chamberlain of the Sword and Cape. He served as chamberlain to Dennis Cardinal Dougherty, papal delegate, in the Eucharistic congress in St. Paul in 1940.
A native of Stillwater, Minn., O’Shaughnessy was educated at St. Thomas Military Academy and St. Thomas College in St. Paul. He received an honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1947. He organized the Globe Oil and Refining Company in 1917 and he is also president of the Globe Pipeline Company and the Lario Oil and Gas Company. In World War II he served on the petroleum industry war council.
Sophomores Frolic at Barn Dance
Maybe three's a crowd, but Mary Jane Farnell and her ND escort Hay isn’t the only thing that Barn Dancers Bill Haskins and don't seem to care at all about that taciturn eavesdropper. John Guise are pitching to Mag Grigon and Mary Finucan here.
9
May 12, 1950
11
“...From Thy Heavenly Height”
Every Real Notre Dame Man Has His Own
Story of the Grotto — This Is Tom Carroll’s
Tom Carroll sauntered up the path from the edge of the lake. As he crossed the field and the mound behind Sacred Heart Church, his gaze was caught by the gleaming Golden Dome on the Main Building. The warm May sun bounded from the great statue above, proclaiming to all that this was her school and that aU beneath her outstretched arms
By JOHN E. FITZGERALD
were her children. He breathed a “Hail Mary” and walked on to class.
Tom Carroll never visited the Grotto while a Notre Dame student . . . for it wasn’t there. It was ten years before
the Civil War, 18-55 to be exact, when he attended classes here.
At this same time another student was also trudging to daily classes, only she was doing it in the Hautes-Pyrenees section of France. She wasn’t attending a university and never would, for Bernadette Soubirous was only a slight, wide-eyed girl of fourteen. The little

French student was not a “brain” as we know the term today, but was trying hard to use her meager intellectual talents to the best advantage.
The preceding year Tom Carroll had doubtless read about the Pope’s proclamation of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception. Yet it was to this frail French girl that the Queen of Heaven would appear in person and state, “I am the Immaculate Conception.” The first of a five-month series of apparitions began one day while Bernadette was gathering firewood by the cave at Mass-abielle. She looked up at the rocky ledge to see a shining apparition of the Blessed Virgin. Frightened at first, she began to pray her rosary. From the high niche in the stones, “The Lady” looked on and prayed with her. The prayer completed, she smiled and vanished before Bernadette’s eyes. It was this humble little student whom Mary chose to make known to the world her desire to have a basilica erected and to
have people come to pray and visit at her grotto. Wonderful things were happening to Bernadette Soubirous.
Across the Atlantic wonderful things were also happening to Tom Carroll. He had felt the inclination to give himself to God as a priest and was testing his vocation. It was only a year after the Blessed Virgin Mary had appeared to the fourteen-year-old girl that he became a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Both were linked to Mary by a close bond. Both had been chosen for a special task by God.
Bernadette also felt the gentle urging of a religious vocation and, nine years after Tom Carroll’s ordination, became a Sister of Charity. That was in 1868, and the struggles, trials and joys of Sister Mary Bernard, as she was now called, were to become much better ® known than the facts of Tom Carroll’s life. Eighteen years after her first visions, the great basilica was dedicated at Lourdes, a few hundred miles south of the Mother-House of Tom’s congregation. The miracles to be worked at the Lourdes Grotto were just beginning; but Sister Mary Bernard had but three more years to live.
During these years the Reverend Thomas Carroll, C.S.C., had joined the Diocese of Erie and had been made Rector of St. Joseph’s Church in Oil City, Pennsylvania. His devotion to Mary had deepened since his early days at Notre Dame and upon returning to the Indiana campus for a brief visit, he sought out the Rev. William Corby, C.S.C.^
Bill, the doctor’s son from Detroit had left college in his Junior year to become a priest. Later he was to become a famed army chaplain during the Civil War and the third and sixth presi
dent of the University of Notre Dame. It was to this friend of his from school days that Father Carroll divulged his idea of building a replica of the Grotto of Lourdes, on a smaller scale, right on the Notre Dame campus.
A site was decided upon, west of the Main Church and commanding a view of the twin lakes, St. Mary’s and St. Joseph’s. It was seventeen years following the death of the little French nun that the first workman’s pick bit into the sandy Indiana turf. The Grotto was begun. As the project grew, huge boulders, some weighing almost two tons, were hauled up and swung into position. A statue of Our Lady of Lourdes was set in the niche on the right and a kneeling replica of Bernadette was placed on the pavement before the Grotto.
Father Carroll’s gift to the University was thirty-seven years old when frail Sister Mary Bernard was canonized in 1933. For more than half a century this structure has been a part of the Notre Dame campus and life. Much time has passed since the Notre Dame alumni and the French nun served God and Mary on earth. Both of them were raised to great dignities and both are commemorated at the Grotto.
Yet the story of the Grotto is primarily in the devotion of Priests, Brothers, Nuns, students and visitors. In thanks
Marching Band Goes Through Paces
The Band, as well as the football squad, must hold spring drills. Here, led by Bill Ensign, the bandsmen take advantage of a balmy day to go through the paces.
giving and petitioning they all come to Mary, their heavenly Mother.
It’s quiet and shady there. Just what there is about the place can’t be described because it’s different for everyone. It can’t be described any more than the number of conversions, restorations and requests granted can be compiled. No one knows exactly how many candles have been burned or prayers answered. It is certain that Mary has never refused any of her children—for she herself has never been refused by her Divine Son. From the great Golden Dome of her University she reigns as our Queen. Yet at the Grotto she seems to have stepped down a little closer to us that she might emphasize the other side of her personal relationship with us—that of Our Mother.
ASCENSION THURSDAY
Because next Thursday, May 18, is Ascension Thursday and a Holyday of Obligation, all classes at the University will be excused for that day.
The prefect of Religion, Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., has announced that Masses on Thursday in Sacred Heart Church will be celebrated at the same times as on Sundays.
t May 12, 1950
13
HO 5M0KIHG
McLaughlin
John White's campaign oratory gains City Slickers' cheers and Country Hicks' jeers.
Final Workshop Meeting Burlesques Elections
Mr. William Eisen, Head of the Department of Speech and moderator of the Speech Workshop, presided as the Workshop held its final meeting of this semester in the Main Building last week. The members staged a burlesque of an election with the City Slickers against the Country Hicks for the Prexy, Veep, and Secretary-Treasurer berths. Its theme was a burlesquing of campaign promises and nominees. Several promises including overhead subways, a trans-continental canal, and others, were made by the aspirants to
Midshipman Summer Cruise Goes to South America
Most of the NROTC midshipmen at Notre Dame will be off to see the world on their annual cruise during June and July. The officers of the unit have announced the dates of departure, ports of embarkation, and ports of call for this training cruise.
Half of the senior and all of the sophomore members will go on the Naval Academy Cruise. These will leave Norfolk, Va., on June 4, and make calls at Boston,. New York, Port of Prince, Kingston, Santiago and Guanta-mano before returning to Norfolk to disembark on July 14. The other half of the seniors have been assigned to
office. Though no vote was taken, the two parties presented such good platforms that any vote would have been very close.
The Speech Workshop plans to begin next semester with a. more advanced program for speech training and perhaps another beginners’ course. All sessions of the workshop are informal, thoroughly non-academic in manner, and aim to increase, or begin, one’s at-easeness before an audience, so that he may more easily communicate his thoughts.
Junior officer billets on various comb.at ships in the Atlantic fleet or to Marine training bases.
The Junior group will be trained in the aviation and amphibious branches of the Navy. The senior contract students will leave Norfolk on July 10 and make a round trip to Quebec, returning on July 29.
The following freshmen have been selected for the status of a regular in the NROTC program, and they will also go on the Naval Academy Cruise: John Caccamise, John Cahill, John Conway, George Cusick, Olidio Diaz, Robert Finney, Francis Hennigan, Richard Rogers, Robert Straley, Walter Stuhldreher, and Thomas Thornton. Thomas Maloney and Richard Wollensack, sophomores, have also become regulars.

Council Discusses Charges Of Excessive Storage Rates
Queries by students relating to the summer storage situation were discussed at this week’s Student Council meeting. In answer to complaints of excessive rates being charged, the point
was made that rates are of necessity £ higher, insufficient provision being made for insurance last year. In addition, the party running the service has been b the only person to approach the Council t; with any program for storage.	£
Approval was extended to this Sat- ? urday’s Monogram Dance, as well as J its underwriting. Twenty-five percent 1 of the profits are to go to the Council, ; with the remainder accruing to the V Club.	/
Attention was given to the new con- ■ tract with the Palais Royale for 1951. A The agreement embraces 26 dates.
Seven first-place trophies are to be -awarded members of the winning team r in the Notre Dame Bowling Organiza- • tion. Thirty-five dollars was awarded ; the group for this purpose by the : Council.	"
A paper was read from the Economic Round Table and	International Rela-	1
tions Club reporting on	the Mid-West	.
International Relations Club Conference, attended by	both	organizations,	a
The convocation was held at the University of Southern Illinois, Carbondale, Ill.
Jim Garvin, NFCCS representative, announced that the regional congress will be held at River Forest, Ill., this Sunday.
Manion Urges Moral Law In April 'Newman World'
In the current April issue of The ~ Newman World, the official publication of the National Newman Club Federation, there is an excerpt from a letter written to all Newman Club chaplains by Clarence E. Manion, dean of the College of Law.
In his letter Dean Manion urged the necessity for the integration of the moral law in legal training. For, “During most of this century our law schools have generally attempted to teach and promote the study of our basically nor- -mal system of American jurisprudence with strictly secular" objectivity.” Dean Manion also stressed “the close alignment of American Constitutionalism with the principles of Catholic religion.” j
As a result of the letter Dean Manion ' accepted an invitation to address the National Newman Club Federation’s Convention to be held in Cleveland on
June 18.	.
14
The Scholastic ( $
Juggler Tosses Up Literature
Notre Dame’s Most Criticized Publication Shrugs '	*
At Jibes While Maintaining Literary Standard. '
While not the most widely read, probably the most criticized Notre Dame publication is the University’s literary magazine — the Juggler.
The Juggler is currently in its thirtieth year, after a number of discontinuations, and changes in title, price, and format. But it is essentially the same magazine now as in its beginnings, since it has the same objective — that of serving the literary interests of all so-inclined students.
Current Juggler Editor Robert Cas-urella explains the set-up: “W.e strive to get the best writings available from •5,000 students for each issue. Selling the magazine is a secondary matter; the Juggler is not intended to cater to the tastes of everyone.”
“As to the matter of criticism by the student body in regard to the type and quality of materials published, we only ask the reader to judge us for what we are. Compare the Juggler with other college magazines, and not with the Atlantic Monthly.
By JACK WARD
“Nothing in the Juggler has been subjected to more criticism than its poetry. ’ Never in its recent history has there appeared a poem other than in the modern free verse vein. The editors have no aversion to rhyme and meter in poetry; we welcome it; it is just that no one submits that type of poem.”
Certainly the Juggler does rank high among magazines of its type. Take a glance at what some Juggler alumni are doing now. Three of the editors of Commonweal are ex-JuGGLER contributors. Many past staff members are published in top periodicals.
Many students, under the impression that the Juggler is an organ of the English department, feel that the magazine is published only for the interest of that group. As to this matter Casur-ella notes, “In our Winter issue
we had essays from a Commerce student and a major in Modern Languages, plus book reviews by both History and Engineering majors. Naturally the majority of the Juggler, is the work of those majoring in English, but the magazine has no connection whatever with the Department of English, and of course anyone is invited to submit.”
This year’s Juggler though not lowering its standards shows a definite increase in popularity both as regards contributors and readers. There were 26 contributors to the recent Winterissue as compared to the Summer 1949 Juggler’s nine. Circulation is around the 2,000 mark. This includes magazines sold on campus, at St. Mary’s, on South Bend newsstands, and the copies sent out from the mailing lists.
The final issue of the 1949-50 school year will appear early in May, and will be headed by stories by Jim Curran and Dave Yerex. Along with the fiction; poetry, and reviews, an essay
Gathered together for a formal pose are the Juggler's editorial staff and many of its writers. Seated (l-r): R. Thompson, D. K. Yerex, business editor, Prof. Frank O'Malley, faculty advisor, R.* Casurella, editor, and W. Clements; standing (l-r): F. Haend-ler, H. Hennedy, D. Wilmot, J. Engels, P. Wel!s, J. Ward, G. Bolger, E. Rauen, J. Evans, J. Beymer, R. Forbes, and H. Hoene.
With Casurella editor and Yerex business manager, the Juggler Editorial Board — probably the largest in its history — is composed of Jim Beymer, Garrett Bolger, Frank Brophy, Walt Clements, Jim Curran, John Engles, John Evans, Rodney Forbes, Frank
Brickson
Editors Yerex and Casurella
Swygert, of the United States District Court of Northern Indiana.
The two successful finalists will represent the university in the national Moot Court competition which will be held in New York and judged by members of the United States Supreme Court.
History Prof Receives Research Council Grant
Dr. Aaron I. Abell, associate professor of Hiistory at the University of Notre Dame, has received a grant of §1,000 from the Social Science Research Council to aid him in research on the Catholic
Council Statement
Cash on hand Sept. 18, 1949 ............................ $	472 34
RECEIPTS
Dances
Victory Dances (Sept, to Dec.) ...........  §	813.58
Sophomore Cotillion	.....................   537.59
January Graduation	Dance .................... 27.00
Mardi Gras ................................. 818.89
Flower Sales for above	dances ................... 67.03
social history of the United States.
The award will be used this summer to complete his work and incorporate his findings in a book, which will cover the period from 1865 to the beginning of World Wai' II. Professor Abell, who received his doctorate from Harvard University in 1938, is a specialist in the field of socio-religious history and has already published a volume entitled The Urbali Impact on American Protestantism, 1865-1900.
Besides his larger works, Dr. Abell has also written a number of articles on the same topic for The Revieiv of Politics. He has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1945.
Haendler, Hugh Kennedy, Earl Rauen, Bob Thomson, Jack Ward, Paul Wells, and Dave Wilmot. Professor Frank O’Malley of the English department serves in an advisory capacity, a position which entails assisting the staff in selecting the material for each • issue, as well as giving constructive criticism to the. contributors.
Though there is no payment for Juggler contributions, there are awards given at the end of each school year for fiction, poetry, and general excellence, for §50, §50, and §100 respectively.
Whatever may be said about the Juggler, one thing is certain: it assures a fair deal to reader as well as to contributor.
Lawyers Hold Semi-Finals In Moot Court Competition
The semi-finals in the Moot Court competition sponsored by the College of Law were held last Wednesday and Thursday. The two winning teams will go on to the final eliminations to be held June 10.
This final competition will be conducted in conjunction with the reunion of the Notre Dame Law Association Alumni. Judges wall be Justice Robert Kiley of the Illinois Appellate Court, former Indiana Supreme Court Justice Michael Fansler, and Judge Luther M.
Total Receipts .................................§2,264.09	2,264.09
§2,736.33 PURCHASES
Freshman Orientation Program ...................  §	170.18
Pep Rallies ...................................... 102.15
NFCCS Meetings ................................... 184.56
LaRaza Club .....................................   25.00
Economic Round Table ............................   79.20
Inter-American Affairs ............................ 25.00
Blue Circle ....................................... 67.50
ND Basketball Game Broadcast ...................... 50.00
Kampus Keglers Donation .......................... 200.00
K. of C. Bengal Bouts Donation ................... 200.00
Sophomore Talent Show Donation ................... 112.50
Football Movies ................................... 38.73
Palais Royale Rental April 28, 1950—lost........... 65.00
Miscellaneous Expenses ....,....................... 39.91
Total	Disbursements ................§1,359.73
DISBURSEMENTS One Filing	Cabinet ....................§ 31.59
Total	Disbursements .................§1,391.32	§1,391.32
§1,345.01
Cash on Hand May 8, 1950....................................—595.01
Cash to Be Accounted For ............................§	750.00
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Social Committee ...........................§	150.00
Junior Prom ............................     500.00
Freshman Dance Committee ....................100.00
Total Accounts Receivable ...................§	750.00	750.00
0
16
The Scholastic
Your Future
12: As a Teacher
By AL LAPORTE
" Although teaching is not considered by the average Notre Dame student as a possible career it remains the largest of all the professions. In the school year of 1948-49 about a million classroom teachers, principals and supervisors were employed in the elementary and secondary schools to teach nearly 26 million pupils. About 100,000 of these teachers and 3,000,000 of the pupils were in private and parochial schools.
Perhaps one reason why the average Notre Dame student does not think very much about teaching as a career is because this profession is a source of employment particularly for women. Women normally constitute about four-fifths of the teachers below the college level. ^Most men teachers are in high schools; in fact about three out of every four in the public school systems are in high school. Nevertheless there are l educational authorities in many parts " of the country who would like to increase the number of men teachers and supervisors in both the elementary and the secondary schools.
Kindergarten and elementary sehool teachers constitute nearly two-thirds of the entire teaching profession below the college level. In 1948-49, considering only those in public schools, these people numbered about 590,000. High . school teachers, of whom about 325,000 I were employed in 1948-49, constitute the remainder.
What is the present picture with respect to employment opportunities in the field of elementary and secondary teaching? The picture of the two levels is quite different. So far as the elementary schools are concerned it is now generally agreed that the colleges and the teacher preparation institutions of the country will have to train five times as many teachers for the elementary | grades as were trained last year. These will be necessary to take care of the peak need for new teachers in 1953-54 when a very great increase in the number of children enrolled in the elementary schools will ocur.
The main reason for the great shortage of teachers in the elementary schools is that the teacher preparation institutions have been turning out far smaller numbers of teachers than had been needed. In 1949, 25,000 teachers were
prepared for the elementary school while at the same time the need was for 75,000. In addition to this neglect of preparation for the elementary school which has been going on foi-several years. there is now the added factor of the increased enrollment due to the entrance of the millions of “‘war babies” many of whom are already of
Professor Bernard J. Kohlbrenner
gramar school age. Millions more of the “post war babies” soon will be starting in school. Peak enrollment in grades one to eight is expected about 1957 in most states. The greatest number of new teachers will have to be hired in 1953 when the most rapid rise in enrollments is anticipated.
The situation with respect to high schools is quite different. Nearly every state now has an over supply of people prepared for high school teaching positions except in special subject fields such as home economics, commercial work and industrial arts. In 1949 four high school teachers were trained for every one who was needed. The outlook for teachers at the secondary school level may become worse before it gets better. The number of high school teachers required in most states probably will decline, too. For three year's after 1952 a slow increase is expected. After that will come a raipd increase until the late 1950’s as the peak number of students move on from the lower grades into the high school.
Despite the fact that for some years now teaching has been looked upon largely as a woman’s occupation a special word should be said about the opportunities for men in this field. Perhaps it is because of the fact that it has been looked upon for so many years as peculiarly a woman’s work in this country that very reason creates special opportunities for men. There are many employers of teachers in both elementary and secondary schools across the country who are very desirous of securing men. Not that they are opposed to having qualified women teachers, but many of them are interested in securing somewhat of a balance between men and women on their faculties. In addition to that there are special opportunities for administrative and supervisory positions for a considerable number of men in both elementary and secondary schools.
What should be said concerning the question of qualifications for teaching as a career? Distinction should be made between what might be regarded as the general qualifications and the specific requirements that have been established in various parts of the country. Among the general qualifications for teaching certainly should be listed some personality and traits such as patience, interest, a sound sense of justice, a desire to be with and work with young people and watch them grow and learn, and interest in study. Added to these should be a good college preparation with a better than average scholarship index. Each state specifies in its educational legislation the particular reqirements for teaching in various levels and in different subjects. Suffice for the present merely to point out that anyone interested in teaching should keep himself well informed of what the particular requirements for teaching positions are in each one of the states.
Besides the state requirements every one of the larger units of school employers, and that means particularly the larger towns and cities of all sizes, have additional specifications particularly with respect to experience and sometimes with respect to training. The man who is interested in teaching should keep himself alert as to what the developments are with respect to qualifications and specifications for teaching positions and certificates in each of the states in which he might be interested. It is not possible for a student to generally prepare himself for teaching and thereby satisfy all the particular requirements that may be found in particular places where he is interested in locating. This cannot be
(Continued on Page 20)
17
) May 12, 1950
Legal Institute Closes
McLaughlin
W. H. Parr speaks during the Legal Institute held in the Law Auditorium last week. Others on stage are Richard P. Tinkhorn and Robert D. Coleman. Story on page 35.
Novice Candidate Driven From Pillar to Poll As State-of-Mainer Cops Democratic Post
By CHARLIE DULLEA
The crowd stood sweating in the sticky night air. They were waiting, shuffling restlessly—red-necks from Farley, dirt farmers from Sorin, sharecroppers from Alumni. They stood awkwardly, feeling strange in their linty, mail-order suits. A murmur ran through the crowd. Slowly, it grew into a chant, echoing from a thousand scraggly throats: “Ray, Ray —we want Ray!” A tall, sunburnt figure stepped out under the arch of Lyons Hall. The mob roared. “Okay, I’m here.” said Raymond T. Earls.
If Robert Penn Warren had been here a week and a half ago, he might have set down something like the preceding paragraph. On the other hand, he might have gone to Sweeney’s. In all events, the chances of the Pulitzer prize-winner squeezing his way into the original “smoke-filled room,” 25 Lyons, would have been extremely slim.
Last week the primaries were run off and Ray Earls of Portland, Me., was among the candidates for precinct committeeman. This in itself was something of a feat as certain opposing factions had done everything to bar his candidacy except charging he had done time
18
in Dannemora and lost his citizenship.
In running for precinct committeeman, Ray met numerous road-blocks, ranging from rejection of his application on grounds of non-registration to the placing of his name in the Republican column; actually, he campaigned in conjunction with the ADA and labor groups. Come election time, our hero was suffering from a slight case of vertigo and dragging his left foot when he walked.
However, after counting the ballots, it was found that 119 votes had been cast for Earls on the Democratic slate of 16 for his nearest opponent. The South Bend Tribune neatly reported his name in the Republican returns with “no report’’ after it. “This,” said Ray, “seemed rather odd, considering 119 votes were cast for me on the Democratic ticket.” Anyhow, Mrs. Earls’ “favorite son” had come through.
A sophomore in Arts and Letters, Ray plans to major in journalism with a view toward public relations work in business and a possible fling at politics later on. He feels that it is the “duty of young people, and especially Catholics, to get into politics,” and looks on
his present efforts as valuable experience.
The pride of Portland enlisted in the army in November, 1946, after he was unable to enter Notre Dame in September of that year. Completing basic training at Fort McClellan, Ala., Ray was shipped to Fort Jackson, S. C-, when “young Lincoln” continued his peregrinations to Fort Dix, N. J.
Once settled at that well-known post, Ray entered the Troop Information and Education Section of the Sixtieth Infantry. In this duty, his work ranged from vocational and educational guidance to new recruits to keeping officers and noncoms abreast of current events by means of. lectures. The Corporal also managed to pick up a thorough working- knowledge of Times Square and its environs —for his dissertations on the contemporary scene.	M
Discharged in May, 1948, Ray spent his summer browsing over first-edition gas meters in Portland. His wish to enter Notre Dame was finally realized in September.
The incumbent’s dulcet tones are familiar to WND addicts by means of the Sunday night pick-up from the Palais Royale and the play-by-play from Cartier Field. Dropping his Maine twang for the occasion, he emits a mellifluous cascade of words reminiscent of Ted Husing or “Doodles” Weaver, or both, w As yet unattached, the boy orator of the Kennebec has broken his share of tender hearts between LeMans Hall and Walgreen’s. “However,” he ventures, “I don’t intend to get nailed down for a while.”
The idea of running was proposed to Ray by Professor Marshall Smelser of the Department of History. For the last month, the campaigner’s time was occu- _ pied in talking with prospective voters, sending out literature, and acting as chairman of the Campus Committee for Price and Scanlan. His efforts to obtain a post as delegate to the state convention, thrown out on technicalities such as the omission of a petitioner’s middle initial, will probably result in a trip to court. If allowed to participate in the meeting, Ray will send a proxy pledged to Dr. Charles Price.
Like all men, Ray thanks his mother for giving him the necessary push to get ahead. His roommate, Jack Lambert of Noroten, Conn., leans in the opposite political direction, but the bi-partisan domestic policy has been successful, as visitors to “the zoo” can attest.
There is only one thing that worries Raymond T. Earls. A faint shadow flits across his brow and his supple fingers tremble slightly as he says, “Now that I’ve declared my party affiliation, it may be dangerous for me to enter Maine.”
The Scholastic
Your Future
(Continued from Page 17) stressed overmuch. Every student who is seriously interested should attend regularly to the matter of being informed about what specifications are.
It is common knowledge that teachers are not well recompensed for their work. This has been true and will always remain true until our society values more highly the services of teachers. Ours is a materialistic age and the work of the teacher, which is not dealing with material things, is not highly rewarded. In 1948-49 the estimated average salary of all instructional staff, including teachers, principals, and supervisors in the public schools of the nation, was only $2,750. This includes all levels and all subjects, as well as administrative positions. There is, of course, a wide range in salaries from rural to urban parts of the country and from state to state. In many parts of the country there are ranges between elementary and secondary levels of instruction although in many parts of the country teachers on both levels are paid not according to the level but according to their preparation and training. The wide range in teachers’ salaries is indicated in a comparison of average salaries for secondary school teachers in two states. In 1948-49 the median for all high school teachers in the State of California was $4,051. At the same time the average salary for secondary school teachers in the State of Mississippi was only $1,775. It is, of course, the northern and industrial states that pay the highest salaries. Salaries in New York City are higher than any other large city in the country, averaging, in 1948-49, $4,630 for all classroom teachers, both elementary and secondary.
A word should be said about the special situation in the field of college teaching. There is now going on a general leveling off of enrollments in colleges and universities due to the slowing up of registration of veterans from the last war. There is some slight possibility of federal scholarships being granted to aid college and university students of high calibre. Much depends upon the temper of the politicians. Despite these temporary and specific fluctuations, however, there has been going on for a generation or two a general prolongation of schooling. If this continues in the years to come, and there is no reason to believe that it will not, this prolongation will create many more employment opportunities in college teaching. This will be particularly
20
St. Mary's, Notre Dame's Singers Rehearse $
Mr. Daniel Pedtke leads the combined glee clubs of Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame in rehearsal for their concert at Saint Angela's Hall on the S.M.C. campus.
true in the field of the junior colleges. These institutions are now becoming established in practically all parts of the country and they will take up a large part of the increased enrollment, if any, that will occur in higher education.
The qualifications for teaching positions in higher education would not differ very much from those found in the field of elementary and secondary education. There would be, of course, a greater emphasis on scholarship and intellectual interest among the candidates foi' teaching positions. In addition to this there would be the requirement for more prolonged and a higher order and level of preparation. At a time when, as now, the master’s degree is becoming a common requirement for secondary school work and administrative work in elementary and secondary schools, something beyond the master’s degree is becoming a requisite for teaching positions in higher education. The doctor’s degree is now recognized as a necessity. In addition to formal training there are, in many institutions particularly in the junior colleges other requirements. Especially there is desire for experience for prospective teachers of technical courses. For these fields some sort of work experience in the field of instruction will be found listed as desirable if not necessary.
Advertising Class Takes # Field Trip to Chicago
Last Friday over 30 students in Advanced Advertising and Public Relations took the regularly scheduled advertising field trip to Chicago, Ill.
The group went first to General Outdoor Advertising Company’s plant and offices where they witnessed several visual presentations featuring outdoor advertising as a medium and heard talks by the company’s executives.
They were entertained at luncheon at the YAR, a Russian restaurant, and participated in a roundtable discussion with officials of General Outdoor Advertising Company.	Mr. Al Cusick,	'
general manager of	the company, was	C
moderator.	;
After luncheon the students went to the Buchen Company, Daily News Building, the largest advertising agency of its kind in the world, where they were the guests of Mr. Walter Buchen, president, and Mr. Arthur Decker, vice-president of the agency. They were taken through the agency in small groups and saw and heard how an ad- i vertising agency operates.	I
Arrangements for the trip were made	;
by Professor Brooks Smeeton, associate professor of Marketing, College of Commerce, and Mr. Cusick, General Outdoor . Advertising Company.	. J
The Scholastic IF
Scholastic Sports

Old Timers Tussle Varsity Tomorrow
'* Spartan Track Squad Invades Cartier Field; Irish Face IC4A Champions This Afternoon
By TED PRAHINSKI
This afternoon at 3:15 over on Cartier Field, the Irish tracksters are taking on Michigan State, generally rated the best in the Midwest. The meet was originally scheduled for tomorrow, but it was moved up a day to allow students to see both it and the Old-Timer football game.
It will be the 45th time since 1905 that Notre Dame and Michigan State have met in dual meets, and while Notre Dame holds a 24-15 edge, the Spartans have won the last five meets.
Michigan State has a predominantly senior squad that has cleaned up in the East’s and the Midwest’s open meets during the past few years. They’ve held the IC4-A championship for the past two years and the Central Collegiate crown for the past four years. Outdoors this year the Spartans have dumped Yale, Ohio State and Penn State while losing only to Southern California.
One of the best of the Spartans is miler Bill Mack, who has run the distance in the neighborhood of 4:10. AnA other top notch distance man is Warren
Druetzler, who has clocked a 9:08.9 two mile.
Michigan State’s best hurdler, Horace Smith, is in the same class as Notre Dame’s Bill Fleming. Today’s high hurdle test should be a thriller, but Fleming gets the nod. In the low sticks race, Smith seems to be the better man. The sprints will be a battle of the Smiths, as Michigan State’s Horace will also provide the opposition for Irish captain, Bob.
Another potential trouble maker is Jack Dianetti. A little fellow with a tremendous finish, Jack broke the back of the Irish two years ago in a meet held on Cartier field. That day he came from behind just short of the tape three times to win the 440, the 880 and the mile relay.
The Spartans’ weak spot is the field events, especially since Fred Johnson, a 25-foot broad jumper, has been forced to discontinue athletics due to a torn muscle sheath in his* leg.
Best State field events man is Jesse Thomas, an all around athlete who broad jumps, throws the javelin, and runs the hurdles.
Seven All-Americans To Take Stadium Field
By JACK VARLEY
A crowd of 25,000 is expected to be at Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 for the twenty-second renewal of the Notre Dame football classic, the annual Old Timers’ game. Each year this game marks the end
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUPS
VARSITY	- OLD-TIMERS
Mutscheller .....E.......... Hart
Toneff __________T....... Cifelli
Burns ___________G......... Lally
Bartlett ________C------ Grothaus.
Wallner ---------G.------- Oracko
Flynn ...........T.------- Martin
Ostrowski _______E______ Wightkin Williams _______________Q______________ Tripucka Gay ____________________H._ Coutre
Barrett .........H_______ Spaniel
Landry ----------F......... Sitko
Game Time: 2:30
of Spring football practice and provides the stellar sports attraction of the Spring at Notre Dame.
It will be All-Americans on parade
Frank Tri pucka
Jim Martin
Leon Hart
® May 12, 1950
21
Bob Williams
as seven of them will participate in tomorrow’s spectacle. All of these, with one exception, will be with the Old Timers, but nevertheless the Varsity is a slight favorite. They are younger, have better reserves, and are better organized than the Oldsters who have not had the six weeks practice their opponents have had. Even tradition favors the Varsity. Only twice in 22 years have the Alumni been victorious, the last time being in 1948 when Johnny Lujack passed his teammates to a 20-14 win.
But this year there might be an upset in the making. Coach Bill Earley, assistant coach under Frank Leahy and mentor of the Old Timers, will have more All-Americans than he can possibly use at one time as end Leon Hai-t, fullback Emil Sitko, tackle Jim Martin, center George Strohmeyer end Bob Dove, and guard Marty Wendell, all promise to be on tomorrow’s roster. Moreover, nine of last year’s starting varsity will be playing with the Old Timers. Rodney Johnson, regular guard of last fall, would be playing but he injured his knee in an interhall basketball game. The remaining first stringer of the 1949 National Champs is Bob Williams who will be quarterbacking the Varsity. Another reason the Old Timers could cause the Varsity much trouble is that this year the Oldsters have had more practice than most Alumni teams of the past have had. Then there is always the chance that some other great of the past might show up on the day of the game, as has often happened.
Hart, Bill Wightkin, Martin and possibly Dove will be the ends for the Old Timers. Martin will also see service at one of the tackles along with Ed Hudak and Gus Cifelli.
The guard spots will be shared by
22
Bob Lally, Steve Oracko and Wendell, while Walt Grothaus and Strohmeyer will alternate at the pivot spot.
The backfield will have some of the best material to come out of Notre Dame in years as Sitko, John Fanelli — voted the most valuable player in the East-West game two years ago — and Corwin Clatt all vie for the fullback position. At halfback there will be Ernie Zalejski, Frank Spaniel, Larry Coutre and Coy McGee. Frank Tri-pucka will start at quarterback with George Dickson and Gerry Begley backing him up.
With most of his last year’s first team his opponent tomorrow, Leahy will field a Sophomore studded line-up as both starting ends, Jim Mutscheller and Chet Ostrowski, are second year
Captain Jerry Groom
men. Soph Bob Toneff will share tackle duties with Bill Flynn while another soph, Paul Burns, and Fred Wallner will hold down the guard slots. Center Jim Bartlett and Halfback Bill Barrett round out the Sophomore array. Besides Barrett, the back-field will consist of All-American Bob Williams at quarterback, Bill Gay at halfback and Jack Landry at full.
Walsh and Lyons Head Pack In Campus Diamond League
With interhall baseball heading into the second half of the schedule, league standings find the strong Walsh nine in front, closely followed by Lyons and Cavanaugh. Walsh has a 3-0 record, Lyons 2-0, and Cavanaugh 2-1. After a poor start in the first round, all the teams swung into action last week with eight games being played. Games were slowed down by weak hitting and spotty fielding due to lack of practice.
Walsh opened on Tuesday with a 4-1
win over Morrissey though they were held to one measley hit by Morrissey pitchers Back and LaPina. In their second game they took the measure of Howard, 6-4, behind the pitching of Jerry Bona, who also led the Walsh attack with two hits.
It’s seldom that a pitcher loses a no-hitter. However, Paul Schlafly of Sorin not only lost but gave up five unearned runs to Lyons. His mates got 11 hits from the offerings of Bud O’Brien, in- ” eluding a double and a triple by Pomier, but could push across only four runs. Lyons won theii* second game from Farley, also by the score of 5-4.
Cavanaugh, after losing their opener to Walsh, trimmed the two cellar dwellers, Sorin and Morrissey. Cotton Shelton hurled one-hit ball against Sorin in his team’s 6-2 win while his teammate Schoenfelder got 2 foi- 3. Price re-ceived credit for his team’s 4-3 victory ® over Morrissey. Finch of Cavanaugh got two doubles.
After an opening day decision from Morrissey, Alumni slid close to the cellar as they lost to Farley and Howard. Dick Salamida pitched and batted the Frosh to its 4-2 win. Howard built a ninth-inning rally around de Lyra’s double and squeezed in, 7-6. Battersby of Alumni continued his heavy hitting with three safeties in the two games.
—Ray Dittrich
INTERHALL BASEBALL STANDINGS w.
Walsh ................   3
Lyons ................   2
Cavanaugh ............   2
Farley ...........       1
Howard ...............   1
Alumni ...............   1
Sorin ..............     0
Morrissey .............. 0
L.
0
0
1
1
1
2
2
3	>
Bill Gay
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS
from the Press Box
by flack Meaney mswb
Old vs. New
Even though his first string lost their intra-squad game last Saturday, Coach Frank Leahy must have one consolation — both teams will be going against the Old-Timers tomorrow. The Old-Timers are out to win this one but the Varsity will have the strength of numbers on their side.
ENDS: With only two lettermen returning from last year’s squad, the flanker positions will be the thinnest they’ve been in four years. Jim Mutscheller, who played mostly on defense, and Chet Ostrowski are the pair slated to take over the duties of Leon Hart and Bill Wightkin. Behind them there is nothing approaching experience. Bob Kapish, Dave Koch, and Bob Dolmetsch, along with freshmen Al Kohanowich and Vince Meschievitz, will attempt to keep up the tradition of topnotch ends. Meschievitz may also take over the extra point chores of Steve Oracko.
TACKLES: Bill Flynn is making the same switch from end to tackle that Jim Martin made so successfully last year and from all indications Bill will also find the change to his liking. Bob Toneff is the only other letterman returning, which puts the tackles in the same need of depth that the ends have. W Toneff’s blocking is much improved over last year and he hasn’t gotten out of the habit of breaking through the line and pulling down ball carriers from behind. When November rolls around, Toneff should be well up in the running for All-American honors. Freshman Bardash and Murphy will be counted upon for second string duty.
GUARDS: The Irish may well have the best pair of guards in the country next year- in Paul Burns and Fred Wallner. Both are rugged, fast, good blockers, and weigh in the neighborhood of 220 pounds. Backing up are frosh Tom Seaman and soph Frank Johnston, aided by Bill Higgins, Tom Cain, Frank Epstein, Tom Carter, and Clarke Stroude, whom Coach Bill Early calls ' “the best linebacker since Marty Wendell.” Letterman Byron Boji is recovering from a knee operation and letterman John Helwig is competing with the

roster of the 1948 Irish eleven but are only Sophomores now at Michigan State.
Question of the Week
Will Leon Hart play in the backfield, too, tomorrow?
track team but both will be back in the fall.
CENTER: Captain Jerry Groom has been out of action during most of spring training because of a knee operation but may see limited action tomorrow. A couple of sophomore Jims, Bartlett and Hamby, will split the offensive duties. Jack Allessandrini is a top linebacker and will be used mainly on defense.
QUARTERBACKS: Last year it was all Bob Williams but John Mazur has shown he is able to cany his share of the offensive load. With Mazur clocking more playing time, Leahy will be able to use Williams on defense as safety man. Frosh Bill Gaudreau looms as the number three man.
HALFBACKS: The Irish stable isn’t as well stocked as it was last year. Sitko, Coutre, and Spaniel will be missed but Barrett, Gay and Petitbon are back. Soph Jack Bush and freshmen Murray Johnson and Ralph Pao-lone have showed up well in spring practice. Petitbon will be used a lot more on offense this year but will still be the number one safety man. Dave Flood’s speed marks him for defensive duty.
FULLBACKS: Jack Landry at 180 is light as fullbacks go but the lack of weight doesn’t handicap him at all. A slashing type of runner, Landry can always be depended upon to pick up those couple of yards needed for a first down. Del Gander is the fastest of the lot and will probably be used at halfback too. Junior Dick Cotter has been looking good all spring and helps give the Irish one of their strongest departments. Both Cotter and Gander played mostly on defense last year and it seems likely that they ■wall be used on defense as well as offense this year.
Time Out
John Helwig is aiming to make his last year of track competition his best year. Helwig has his sights on the NCAA shot put title. . . . Two former Irish football players figure in Michigan State football plans for next fall. Deane Thomas and Dick Kuh were on the
Prediction of the Week
This year’s Old-Timer squad is a lot stronger than last year’s and they outnumber the Varsity five or six AllAmericans to one. It will be a close first half but we figure the Varsity to pull away in the last two periods. Varsity, 27; Old-Timers, 14.
Sailors Take Second Place
In District Regatta at Chicago
At the District Eliminations held at Chicago last week, the Notre Dame Sailing Club placed second in a seventeam field to winner’ Northwestern. The Wildcats edged the Irish by six points. Third place went to the Illinois Institute of Technology.
Held on Lake Michigan, the races were sailed in heavy winds and many of the sailors were initiated into “The Royal Order of the Damp Drawers,” an exclusive club for those who capsize during a race.
By dint of their second place, the ND sailors will sail, along with eight other finalists, for the Midwest championship to be held at Ohio State May 20-21. Last year’s winner, Michigan, is the favorite but the Irish, who placed fourth last year, have high hopes.
The team at the Chicago event was Jim Amy, Jim Crowe, Bill Janak, Tom Starshak, Joe Shepherd, Dick Reynolds and Commodore Dick Brotherson.
This is the fourth regatta for the Irish who have captured three seconds and a third in inter-collegiate competition this year.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
May 12—BASEBALL at Minnesota TRACK, Michigan State here TENNIS, Purdue here
13—BASEBALL at Minnesota GOLF, Minnesota here FOOTBALL, Varsity vs. Old-Timers
16—BASEBALL, Purdue here
17—BASEBALL at Northwestern
18—GOLF at Detroit TENNIS at Northwestern
19—BASEBALL, Ohio State here TENNIS at Marquette
1$ May 12, 1950
23
Frosh Baseball Team Gets 'Diamond Savvy'
By RUDY UNGER
Way out on the eastern fringe of the campus behind the football stadium, Notre Dame’s baseball stars of tomorrow, the frosh squad, are mastering the fundamentals and fine points of the game prior to stepping in and competing with Coach Kline’s regulars for positions on next year’s varsity.
In general, the hopes for a bright future in Irish diamond achievements are good. The squad’s new coach, Gene Ritzenthaler, is an experienced young man with plenty of baseball savvy and spirit and is capable of turning a bunch of raw, young players into a hustling, heads up ball club. Ritzenthaler is aided by another newcomer to the coaching staff, Bob Klein, who also helps Jake Kline in coaching the varsity. The other reason for being optimistic is an eager bunch of freshmen players, among- which are three or four better than average prospects.
If the old axiom about great T-squads in football being strong down the middle holds true for baseball, then Irish fans sit up and take notice. For the core of this new bunch of baseball pearlings is a catcher, Pat Vito; a shortstop, Harry Durkin, and a centerfielder, Pat O’Neil.
Vito came to Notre Dame from Baltimore. Last year he was the most highly publicized high school catcher in the land while handling the back stopping chores for Mount St. Joseph High School. He’s a big lad, with power and a fine throwing arm.
In Harry Durkin, the Irish have not only one of the finest shortstop prospects, but one of the finest all-around ball players ever to come to Notre Dame. Coaches Ritzenthaler and Klein have a gleam in their eyes when they elaborate the talents and possibilities of this young Lou Boudreau; and that is exactly the way young Durkin handles himself afield or at bat. In possessing all the fundamentals, he’s a rarity in college frosh ball. He can cover territory to his left and right with equal ability, he has a rifle arm, he’s fast, he can hit and, above all, he lives the game.
The last of the trio, Pat O’Neil, is a talented lad with plenty of power, speed and a fair pegging arm. Last year he led New England’s Northern League in hitting with a .347 average and slid to league leadership in stolen bases with 27 felonies.
In building his infield Ritzenthaler has good possibilities on either side of Durkin in third baseman Jim Gibbons and second baseman Bob Manning. Gibbons will probably be heard from via the bas-
24
ketball courts before much notice is taken of his abilities at the hot corner. Jim was first string guard on Coach Krause’s frosh eagers this fall and natives of Chicago, Jim’s home town, will freely volunteer the information that Jim would be a top flight backfield candidate for Sir Francis’ knights of the gridiron had he chosen to play football.
Coach Gene Ritzenthaler shows Bob Manning and Harry Durkin how to lay 'em down
Brickson
Coaches Ritzenthaler (left) and Klein (right) with members of the 1950 frosh nine The Scholastic $
Jim has a deadly accurate arm and is fast on his feet. Philadelphia’s Phillies of the National League thought so highly of his possibilities, that they offered him a bonus in five figures but Jim turned thumbs down on it in favor of first acquiring an education.
In Manning the coaches have the makings of a fine pivot man. Bob’s graceful
'W movements and his ability to get rid of the ball is due to experience picked up in playing ball around Peoria, Ill.
The unknown quantity in the freshman deal is first base, where John O’Laughlin and Bob Fitzgerald, both green and in need of seasoning, are hustling for the number one job.
Backing up these lads in the infield are: Pat Dunn behind Vito at the plate; a spirited Ronnie La Pointe reinforcing Gibbons at third; behind Durkin at short, a fine prospect Dan Castigno. Holding down the number two spot at the keystone corner is Jim Kish.
Flanking O’Neil in the garden are right fielder Lou Basso and in left, Roger Nolan, both likely-looking prospects. Basso is a big boy with power and a strong arm; Nolan, a potent right hander at the plate, looks at home in left. - Pushing these lads are Harry Shea and V Joe Ridge.
In the all vital pitching department there are two frosh hopefuls, Stan Knop-cha and Fred Iota, who will probably be able to aid Coach Kline’s ailing mound staff come next year. Of the two, Knop-cha seems to have an edge in experience, his main asset being a fast ball.
Ritzenthaler, a native of Lockport, N. Y., has played in the Western Association, Cotton States League and with Rochester of the International League. He came to Notre Dame this yeai- after coaching Windsor, N. C., in a southern league last season and he looks like a real coaching find.
His aide, Bob Klein, is a graduate and former Irish diamond star having-played in ’42, ’43, ’46 and ’47. In the last year he was co-captain of the squad. During his service years Bob played with Rapid Robert Feller’s squad at Great Lakes.
Hall Softball Leagues Led By Dillon and Farley Nines
With the advent of warm weather, intramural softball has come along with a rush. So many teams were entered that four leagues had to be formed, a Gold and a Blue for hall teams and ‘A’ and ‘B’ for the campus clubs. Sj far, the batters are way ahead of the pitchers as some of the scores soar into telephone numbers.
Farley and Dillon are the leading Gold teams, each having won three straight games. They are closely followed by Badin with a 3-1 record.
Four teams are deadlocked in the Blue circuit: Vetville, Dillon, Morrissey, and Sorin Blues are up front with 3-1 records, while Zahm is a half game off the pace.
Cleveland and the Chemical Engineers
are leading the clubs of the ‘A’ division; each has won all three of their games by top-heavy scores. In the ‘B’ league, the Knights of Columbus and the Kentucky Clubs are on top with a three game win streak.
Standings:
GOLD LEAGUE
W. L.
Farley ...................... 3	0
Dillon ...................... 3	0
Badin ....................... 3	1
Zahm ......................... 2	1
Sorin ....................... 2	1
Morrissey Green ............. 1	2
Morrissey Gold .............. 1	3
Cavanaugh ................... 1	3
Alumni ...................... 1	1
BLUE LEAGUE Vetville .................... 3	1
Dillon ...................... 3-	1
Morrissey ................... 3	1
Sorin Blue .................. 3	1
Zahm ........................ 2	1
Cavanaugh ................... 2	3
St. Edward’s ................ 1	2
Sorin Green ................. 1	3
Walsh ....................... 0	4
‘A’ LEAGUE Cleveland .................... 3	0
Chem. Engineers .............. 3	0
Detroit ...................... 2	1
Aero ......................... 2	2
Central N.	Y................ 0	3
Columbus ....................   0	4
‘B’ LEAGUE K. of C.......................  3	0
Kentucky ..................... 3	0
Minnesota	................. 2	1
Kansas City .................. 1	2
Pittsburgh	...............     0	3
Erie ................  ...... 0	3
A member of Notre Dame's right handed hitting platoon takes cut at ball during Irish rally in game with Michigan State. Spartans edged Irish in 11-10 slugfest.
Klinemen Bow Thrice In One Week's Play
Hard-hitting opponents proved too much for the Notre Dame baseball team as they played three games last week and dropped all of them to boast a mediocre season record of three wins against five losses.
Traveling to Lafayette, May 2 to encounter Purdue, the Irish .entered a real slugfest and came out on the short end of an 11-8 score. Tony Lipton, the starting Irish pitcher suffered his first loss in two starts. The Klinemen out-hit the Boilennakers, 14-11, but Purdue’s hitting was more effective as they collected four triples and a double to put the game on ice by the third frame.
Back home at Cartier Field the following day, Notre Dame lost a heartbreaker to Michigan State, 11-10. The Spartans found a gift in starting pitcher Charlie DePrekel who was relieved before retiring one man. Jack Hilbrich relieved him and pitched admirably, giving up only three runs in eight innings.
Hoping to bring the season’s record back to the .500 mark the Irish traveled to Chicago last Saturday to take on the University of Chicago in a return engagement. But, Chicago clouted four pitchers around to gain its first victory over a Notre Dame baseball team in 18 years. Bob Nemes suffered his second loss in three starts when John Casey hit a home run with two mates aboard in the last of the ninth to give the Maroons an 18-16 victory. Chicago’s starter, Buzz Borowitz, struck out 14 men? in his seven innings on the hill.—Bill Delaney
£ May 12, 1950
25
Racketeers Sweep Three Weekend Matches Against W. Michigan, U. of Detroit, and Iowa
In matches over last weekend, the Notre Dame tennis team scored consecutive victories over Western Michigan, University of Detroit and Iowa.
The 6-3 victory over Western Michigan gave Notre Dame the edge in their 21 meetings. The records stand at 11 wins to 10 in favor of the Irish.
In the singles matches Bob David beat Constant of Michigan by a 6-0, 6-3 count. Captain Gene Biittner lost his match to Jim Jankowski 3-6, 6-3, 6-3 as did Jim Hennessy and Herb Hoene to give the Irish their three losses for the day. However, Matt Tuite beat Yale Brandt 8-6, 4-6, 7-5, and Tom Overholser defeated Bill Sagin 7-5, 6-3 to give the Irish an even break in the singles.
In the doubles competition the Irish predominated in the first two matches and then made it a clean doubles sweep when Tom Overholser and Pat Tonti won the last match 6-4, 7-5.
Against Detroit University in Kalamazoo, Michigan, Saturday, Coach Langford’s racqueteers gained the top digit of a 7-2 score.
This time the Irish took four singles matches and again swept the doubles. In the singles, Bob David, who is unbeaten so far this year, breezed through to take the first match. Captain Biittner won an interesting and hard-fought match from Zaborowski of Detroit, 4-6, 6-2, 6-4.
In the doubles, the teams of Bob David and Matt Tuite, and Gene Biittner and Jim Hennessy, who are also undefeated this season, spearheaded the Irish
attack to a sweep and the final margin of victory.
Last Sunday the Irish met the Iowa Hawkeyes on the local courts and came away with a 6-3 win. Notre Dame had little trouble with the Hawks as they took the first three singles and swept the doubles.—Joe Moresco
Golfers Besf Wildcats As High Winds Play Hob
Bucking high winds which raised havoc with the long drives and prevented any low scoring, Father Hol-derith’s linksmen stroked out a convincing 18%-8% verdict over a stubborn Northwestern golf squad last Saturday on the Burke Memorial Course.
Notre Dame led all the way going in front in the morning doubles competition by the count of 6% -2%.
Once again it was junior Tom Veech who turned in the best card to take the medalist honors with a very good 73 considering the unfavorable golfing conditions. He added a 74 in the doubles competition which was the run-nerup score also.
Scoring: Singles — Veech (73) defeated Love (79) 3-0; Hudak (77) dumped Reiland (78) 2%-%; Rolfs (83) lost to Fisher (76) 0-3; White (77) downed B. White (80) 3-0; Klett (78) dropped to Anderson (76) 2%-%; Murphy (75) defeated Sheridan (81) 3-0.
Doubles — Veech (74) -Weber (81) drubbed B. White (78)-Loce (81) 3-0; Capt. Paul Hudak (77)-Maury White (79) lost to Reiland (76)-Fisher (76)
1-2; Tom Klett (80)-Bob Rolfs (79) 8’ stopped Anderson (82)-Sheridan (83) 2%-%. Final score: ND 18%; NU 8%.
The squad journeyed to Madison, Wisconsin, to test the strong Badger team last Monday. Tomorrow they will play Minnesota on the Burke Golf Course.
Metallurgy Downs Dayton To Take Bowling Laurels F
In the final week of bowling for the Notre Dame Bowling League, the Metallurgy Club downed the Dayton Club, 4-1, to take the championship crown. Third place went to the Philadelphia Club with their win over their fellow statesmen from Pittsburgh. Ernie Huffman, first president and organizer of the Keglers, was on hand to watch his Smoky City boys in action. Detroit took fifth place with a win over InterAmerican. Jack Alwein turned in the best individual effort with a 556 total pinfall.
The annual Kampus Kegler banquet will be held at the Mayfair Hotel on either May 18 or 20. Twenty-one trophies and six plaques will be awarded to the individual and team champions.
Final standings: 1. Metallurgy; 2. Dayton; 3. Philadelphia; 4. Pittsburgh; 5. Detroit; 6. Inter-American; 7. Chern. Eng.; 8. K. of C.; 9. Aero; 10. Cleveland; 11. Italian; 12, St. Louis; 13. A.S.M.E.; 14. Irish; 15. Cent. New York; 16. Kentucky; 17. Syrian-Leb-onese; 18. Met Club; 19. Minnesota; 20. Civil Eng.; 21. Columbus; 22. Buffalo; 23. Akron; 24. New Jersey; 25. Kansas City; 26. Milwaukee; 27. Rochester; 28. Youngstown; 29. New England; 30. Generation; 31. Indianapolis; 32. Rockford; 33. Villagers; 34. Toledo; 35. Texas; 36. Utica.
lucAipine
1950 Notre Dame Bowling League Officers: (Lr) Treasurer John O'Brien, President Mike Piarulli and Secretary Louis Garippo.
McAlpine
Metallurgy Club Bowling Champs. Front, left to right: Sadler, Sadowski, Courtney. Rear: Drennan, Carew, Hoffman, Eggers. ,
The Scholastic ♦
26
Irish Nine Seeks Win Over Gopher Menace
By JIM BRISLIN
Jake Kline’s bruised and battered ballplayers will have five chances to mark up a few victories on the left side - of the ledger this week as they continue W on their road trip.
Tonight the Irish play the University of Minnesota under the kliegs at Minneapolis. They’ll stay on at Gophertown for a single game tomorrow afternoon. Dick Siebert's Minnesotans finished seventh in the Big Ten last season. They’ve been doing a little better thus far this year, and the experts are making no predictions concerning these games.
After a two-day layoff, the Irish will 1,9 meet Purdue at Cartier Field on Tuesday. Although out-hit, the Boilermakers handed our boys a 11-8 defeat at Lafayette earlier in the season.
On Wednesday the Klinemen will journey to Evanston to play Freddie Lindstrom’s Northwestern Wildcats. The Purple is another club which failed to impress last year, but Lindstrom, the old Giant third-sacker, is a shrewd baseball tactician and they can’t be sold short.
Ohio State will meet the Irish for the first time this season at Cartier Field on Saturday. Floyd Stahl’s Buckeyes finished sixth in the Big Ten last season, splitting twelve games, but they led the conference in hitting with a team batting average of .325. The sieve-like infield and weak pitching that wrecked
an
N. D. Blanket home with you for the folks.
72 x 84   $17.95 56 x 72 ..   8.95
N. D. Jackets, Tee Shirts and Sweat Shirts
SONNEBORN’S
SPORT SHOP
121 W. COLFAX AVE. South Bend, Ind. Phone 3-3702
Ohio hopes last year have been improved upon.
The Staters will miss shortstop Wey-gant and outfielder Alex Verdova who finished second and fourth, respectively in Big Ten batting last season. Stahl is counting upon second baseman Carl Pa-rill (.351 in 26 games), first sacker Fred Taylor- (.295 in 24), and outfielder Ray Gebhardt (.282 in 26) to supply some of the batting power lost by their graduation. Gebhardt, by the way, is the only letter-winning outfielder returning this year.
Righthander Pete Perini, starting his fourth year on the mound for State, hopes to shake the effects of a bad junior year during which he gave up 33 runs while compiling a 4-3 record in
sets the m spotrs
SPALDING A© WRIGHT&DITSON
RACKETS ARE. TRi-POWERED.’
FIBRE-WELDING OB FIBRE-SEALING BRACES WtHROAT" RAWTHIOE
REINFORCES THE^SHOULDERS
NEW SUPERr STRONG ADHESIVE
BINDS THE LAMINATIONS IN THE*BOW"
shooi 'cross V) | COURT— FOLLOW W THROUGH— TAi The net
TIMEOUT
MERCER BEASLEY,
TENNIS'H3RW.4RD THINKING COACH, HAS DEVISED A NOVEL AIEANS OF IMPARTING
WISPOW TOKS PUPILS AS THEY PLAY:.
/ HERE GIVE (TA TRY— FOR 2o YEARS OR-SO—
These rackets stand TACTORY TESTS EQUAL TO TWENTY YEARS OF PLAY/

eight conference appearances. Another Ohioan, southpaw Dick Hauck, would like to forget last season. He issued 33 walks in one 35 inning stretch.
ACAFH Confers Diploma On Rev. Peter P. Forrestal
The Academic Council of the Academy of American Franciscan History recently conferred a diploma upon Rev. Peter P. Forrestal, C.S.C., for his significant contributions in this field of History. The citation included a corresponding membership in the Academy.
Father Forrestal has in the past contributed articles, both original and in translation, to American Catholic historical periodicals.
step Wo it
fOP. MEALS?
May 12, 1950
27
Journalism Awards Given At ND Press Club Dinner
Prizes and awards in practical and theoretical Journalism were given out at the Notre Dame Press Club banquet last Monday night. Senior Bob Stock, former Scholastic editor, was awarded the J. Sinnot Meyers Burse for excellence in editorial Journalism. The burse consists of the income from $500 and is awarded yearly to a Senior in the Department of Journalism.
Another ex-ScHOLASTic man, Harry Monahan, was awarded the Hugh A. O’Donnell Gold Medal for Journalism.
F. A. Miller
This award is also made annually to the Senior in the Department of Journalism who has the highest scholastic average throughout his four-year college course.
Speaker at the Press Club banquet was James R. Doran, editoi* of the Schenectady Union Star. Doran was a former writer for the South Bend Tribune.
Associate professor of Journalism Edward A. Fischer presented the F. A. Miller Awards for Excellence in Practical Journalism during the banquet. These awards were decided on the basis of work by Juniors in the department on the six-week experimental newspaper, the Journalist. They are given for the best news and feature stories, picture, makeup and editing on this paper.
The Miller award for the best news story went to Ray Sullivan, from Neponset, Ill.; for the best feature story to John Stupalsky, Bluefield, W. Va.; R. O. Murphy of Indianapolis, Ind., got the award for the best makeup; Tom Minzing of Joliet, Ill., for the best editing, and John Rohrbach, of Crown Point, Ind., for the best picture. The Miller awards amount to $20 apiece.
Liberal Arts Program
(Continued from Page 9)
will be covered through a reading of the more difficult master-works. The books read in these Seminar courses include 113 different authors as diverse as Plato, Aristotle, the Bible, St. Augustine, St. Thomas Aquinas, Homer, Virgil, Shakespeare, Descartes, Kant, Galileo, Newton and Machiavelli. The books will be read rapidly by the student to give him a proficiency in rapid and intelligent reading and to acquaint him with the central ideas of the West’s greatest thinkers. Then they will be discussed in small classes around a table at which the instructor sits with the students.
“The ideas in these books will be discussed freely by the entire class, the instructor serving the purpose merely of keeping the discussion along the general lines of the main ideas to be grasped. The student, and the teacher as well, ■will be forced to think. It will be an eminently intellectual exercise.
“The other way in which these books will be read is under what is called the Tutorial system. Tutorials will be given in four basic subject matters — in language and literature; in mathematics and science; in philosophy; and in theology. These tutorials will, like the Seminars, be based on the great books, and their aim is to acquaint the student with the fundamental problems, methods, and conclusions of the great thinkers. The method in the Tutorial will be intensive analysis of selected basic texts in the four subject matters in order to give the student a grasp on the best in Western thought in these subjects.
“The Tutorials will be bound up and related to the knowledge gained in the Seminars, so that an integrated picture of the whole field of knowledge is given the student.
“A third method of teaching in this program, which will be used jointly with the Tutorials and Seminars, is a Lecture Series on the historical backgrounds of the books read and the problems considered in the other' two methods.”
Mr. Bird knocked out his pipe and continued. He revealed that students in the program will be limited and that classes will be small, thus affording a close relation of the teacher to the student. The classrooms themselves will not be the ordinary classrooms of the present educational setup. Students and teacher will sit around a single table and read the texts together and discuss them together. Mr. Bird smiled when he said: “Even the teacher will have to read the books, you see.” -
Little emphasis will be placed on marks or grades. Full credits for an AB degree will be given for this program, and accreditation is assured for graduate work and entrance into professional fields.
“With a course such as this as a background,” said Mr. Bird, “the student will be prepared to enter into the world of business or the professions, £ or to specialize in any particular branch of knowledge that appeals to him. But more than this, he will be fully prepared to think and to live, and to carry on the activities of man that are properly man’s activities. He will experience the little-known joys of intellectual life, and the pleasure of having developed his human potentialities. He will be truly man, and 'will be in a position to discuss any problem in any _ field intelligently and with an under- ™ standing of the problem itself and its relation to other problems and other solutions. In any field of endeavor, the graduate from this course will be qualified to act as an intelligent human being.” i
Mr. Bird, the director of the new program, has recently returned from Chicago, where he has been working on a series of the Great Books of the Western World, to be published shortly by Encyclopedia Britannica, in conjunction with the University of Chicago. He was assistant editor in this undertaking. Associated with him on the administrative end of this program will be Rev. Thomas James Brennan, c.s.c., Rev. Thomas Joseph Brennan, C.S.C., Mr. Richard J. Thompson, and Mr. Edward Cronin.
This program is an outgrowth of the work of a group of professors at Notre Dame who have been discussing the idea and working out its practical aspects ' for the last three years. The new program owes its existence to the constant support and help of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, and Rev. Howard Kenna, c.s.c.,	:
Director of Studies.
Clevelanders Breakfast
Members of the Cleveland Club will honor their mothers this Sunday with ' a Communion Mass and breakfast. The Mass will be held at 9:30 in the Dillon Hall chapel and will be followed by breakfast at 9:15 in the upper Dining Hall. Guest speaker will be Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.s.c. Also on the \ agenda "will be the awarding of the annual student prize of $50 to the member of the Cleveland Club who has been mjst active in the organization during the past year.
28
The Scholastic
Elections
(Continued from Page 9) received 165 votes.
In the usual order, the other One Way candidates ran as follows: Hank McCormack got 151 votes; Jack Hynes, 142; and Don Fager, 115. Harmony’s George Sweet received 94 votes; Dave Lajoie, 107; Wally Purcell, 113; and Jack Moran, 105. Walt Wolff of Your “ party polled 57 votes; Tony Critelli, 89; Dan Caulfield, 133; and Tex Ca-rubbi, 69. Pacemaker’s Sal Fiorella took 81 votes; Joe Straub, 60; Gene Lasmez, 36; and Ed Waters, 115.
The Four for You party swept the Sophomore officers, the only party to win on a straight ticket. Prexy John O’Connell polled 257 votes to Mike Downey’s 185, Joe Moresco’s 122, and George Pearce’s 22. Vice-president Tom Reedy won 272 votes, Al De Crane, 160; John Porta, 112, and Red Belcher, 44. Secretary Dan Collins won 273 votes to Frank Blanch’s 127, Dave Fox’s 158, and Joe Durkin’s 29. For treasurer, Gerry Marshall received 278 votes; Ed Raque, 96; Bob Niquette, 177; and Dan Spika, 37.
The elections were managed by the Service Committee of the Student Council, under the Chairmanship of Mike Jacobs, and the Blue Circle. Ed Farrell, President of the Blue Circle, served as Vice-Chairman of the committee. The machines, the same as those used in the recent state primary elections, yvere loaned by the city of South Bend.
Symphonetfe Presents Concert Next Tuesday
The Notre Dame Symphonette Orchestra will honor J. S. Bach in their May presentation scheduled for next Tuesday evening. Musical organizations throughout the world are dedicating programs to the memory of the great composer whose 200th anniversary is being observed this year.
The program will open with the Eg-mont Overture by Beethoven. The selection is typical of the music during the early 19th century, representing a transition from the old classical school to the romantic school. The symphony for' the evening will be Haydn’s Sur-_ prise Symphony, an 18th century com-’W position.
The major work of the evening will be Bach’s G Minor Fugue. Brother Jacob Eppley, C.S.C., will perform Haydn’s Cello Concerto.
The complete program, which will begin at 8:15 p.m., is as follows:
1.	Egmont Overture ........Beethoven
2.	Surprise Symphony ........Haydn
3.	Cello Concerto ...........Haydn
Soloist: Bro. Jacob Eppley, c.s.c.
4.	G Minor Fugue ........J.	S. Bach
A
May 12, 1950
Letters
(Continued from Page 4)
Does the fact that better insurance coverage has been provided warrant a doubling of last year’s basic rates?
Louis A. Reich Joseph St. Louis Badin Hall	Paul W. Kruse
Editor:
Two years ago I purchased a two dollar chair. This summer “Student Storage” -will charge me 83.50 to store it. I would be better off to give it to them. All the two dollar chairs on campus would make a lot of kindling.
C. R. Talley Badin Hall
For further details on this rather important controversy, see the report on Monday’s Student Council meeting on page 14. Exactly this question came up for discussion at that time. If you still have problems regarding storage, contact your Council representative.— Editor.
Train travel, too, is cheaper by the “Dozens"/
Get Together for a Big Saving! Form a group of 25 or more heading home in the same direction at the same tune. Buy your coach tickets under the Group Plan as far as you can all go together. Then get individual round trips for the rest of the way. Next Fall, you can each return individually, so long as you’re backfor school opening. Group Plan Tickets are good on most coach trains east of Chicago or St. Louis, north of the Potomac and Ohio Rivers, and west of New York City. And EACH group member SAVES 28% compared to regular roundtrip coach tickets, or up to 50% compared with one-way fares!
Ge* Together for a Swell Trip! It’s fun to travel with gang by train. Lots of room to roam around. Won-
Eastern Railroads
29
Still Confused
Editor:
Please help clear up the confusion caused by Scholastic’s apology for crediting the printing of a book to the Ave Maria Press instead of the University Press.
I am having company here for commencement and I had intended showing them through the Ave Maria Press. Since there is no connection between the two presses ■will you please inform us of the location of the University Press I
Jim Morgan
Walsh Hall
.4 “press” does not necessarily indicate a physical printing plant. The Ave Maria Press is both the publishing firm and the printing plant. The University of Notre Dame Press is a publishing organization that does not have its own printing plant. The C.S.C. order oivns the Ave Maria Press and it is not a part of the University. The University of Notre Dame Press is a university organization ivith headquarters in Farley Hall Basement.—Editor
derful dining car meals. A real headstart for your Summer holiday! So see your ticket agent or nearest passenger representative now. He’ll gladly help you organize a group for a BIG SAVING and a SWELL TRIP, TOO!
P.S. If you travel home alone, buy Round-Trip — Save up ta 24%! Today’s round-trip coach or pullman ticket is good for six months. It will bring you back to school next Fall—save money both ways!
For Fun—For Comfort— For All-weather Dependability
TAKE THE TRAIN
the
secret
of the
CENTURY!
its soft collar
won’t wrinkle
ever!
5
Ordinary j collars made in three pteces
Van Heusen |
Century woven in one piece
A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size!
New and revolutionary! Luxuriously soft collar on the new Van Heusen Century shirt stays neat all 24 hours of the dav... without starch! It's woven in one piece .. . has no lining... no fused layers to wrinkle. Even fold line is woven in . . . . it can t fold wrong ... feels handkerchief-soft on vour neck.
In regular collar or wide-spread, both in two qualities of broadcloth
S3.95 and S4.95.	—
©
Van Hensen
Reg. T. M.
"the world’s smartest”
(9
The Third Degree
By ED MERTZ
When the roll is called over yonder, will you be there? That is the burning -question these days among those who are handling the Buffet Supper in the Rec Hall on Saturday, May 20, at 6:30 p.m. The committee isn’t at all worried about details. They unqualifiedly guarantee a full evening’s entertainment. However, since this is a supper, the good Grad Wives must have an accurate estimate of those attending. If you haven’t made a reservation yet, now — right now — is the time. You can sign up with Bob Wilmouth, Ed Simmons, Dick Derenthal, Carl Julien or Ed Mertz. The last can be reached in 210 Chern Building, or at 3-6323. Admission is six bits a person for members and their guests, a mere buck for non-members. Considering the cost of acquiring the usual ration of vitamins and victuals on the commercial market, you can’t miss. Dancing, cards, etc., afterwards. You are welcome stag or drag, so don’t let the eternal problem of getting a date keep you away. But please, it’s later than even the clock W on the wall thinks, so drop anything non—breakable you are doing, and make your reservation today, now, quick like a cottontail.

shirts
PHILLIPS-J ONES COUP., NEW YORK J, N. Y.

The Place to Go
for the Names You Know
^GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
Those fortunate scholars who plan to don cap and gown this June pursuant to their acquisition of a degree are hereby warned that they had better get on the old ball and order the aforesaid academic garb while there is yet time. The old Glen Plaid may be a sharp entry in the male fashion parade, but it is bound to cause comment in an academic procession. Verbum, sapientia sat.
The Publications Committee of the Grad Assoc, under Chuck Mattingly is going ahead with plans for a Journal of Graduate Studies to deal with questions of general interest on the graduate level. It is hoped that such a publication will help to provide integration of the graduate students’ education and overcome the evils attendant on the specialization required in graduate study. Problems which overlap more than one field are to be dealt with, so far as possible from various points of view, so that some synthesis of thought may be arrived at. Since education almost necessarily implies a deep interest in such problems and the truly educated man is one who is capable of integrating his specialized knowledge into the
The Scholastic
30
overall picture, such an organ should represent a highly desirable goal.
As is always the case, such a project requires a great deal of promotional work in the planning stages. A great deal of such labor is to be carried out this summer. If you would like to add your name to the list of those who have volunteered for this work, see Chuck Mattingly or Ralph Masiello. Help is " needed and the end is well worth the burden.
Premiere of Concert To Be Given May 18
The premiere performance of the concert Mass in G Minor by Carl Mathes of the Department of Music will be given at 4 p.m. on Ascension ™ Thursday, May 18, in Sacred Heart Church. Written for solo quartet, mixed chorus and organ, it will be one of the outstanding musical events of the year.
The Mass was composed in honor of Our Lady of the Lake (Notre Dame du Lac), and work was begun on it when Professor Mathes, at that time a well known concert pianist and organist, joined the faculty two years ago. According to the Professor, who has written in all mediums of music, in-eluding suites and symphonies, the purpose in writing this Mass was to follow the European academic tradition of producing a major work upon his acceptance by the University.
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the University, will accept the manuscript for the University at the performance.
Concert soloists will include Jane Feezle, soprano from Indianapolis, Ind.; Evelyn Major, soprano from South Bend; Evelyn Sabol, mezzzosoprano from the St. Mary’s College music department; and Notre Dame students Richard Blaumeiser and Robert Reutz, tenors, and John Owen, bass. Chorus parts will be sung by a selected group of men from the Notre Dame Glee Club, and women from the various administrative offices.
Rev. William J. McAuliffe, C.S.C., director of the Moreau Seminary choir, will conduct. Professor Mathes will preside at the organ, and will open and close the concert with an instrumental prelude and recessional.
Included in the performance will be two smaller compositions by Mathes, “Salve Regina” and “Ave Maria,” the latter having been performed by members of the Budapest State Opera in Hungary.
The concert Mass is distinct from the
liturgical Mass, used at the actual sacrifice, in that it is a professional music concert, using Mass forms. This type is impractical at Mass, because it would place too much emphasis on the music. The basis for this form are masterpieces by Haydn, Mozart, and Bach, and the concert Mass is regarded as the highest form of music.—Bob Finney
George Gipp Award To Be Made a+ Dance
The highlight of tomorrow night’s informal Monogram Dance will be the awarding of the first George Gipp trophy to the outstanding monogram man of the year. Dancegoers will see
"SMARTEST UNDER THE SUN"
ROBERTSONS of
'	FOR ARROW UNIVERSITY STYLES
the man rated best on athletic, scholastic and extra-curricular activities presented the trophy, which will be an annual award.
Officers of the newly reorganized Monogram Club, acting as chairmen of the dance committee have obtained 1 a.m. and car permissions for those who attend the dance. When purchasing a $1.50 bid for the dance, students are asked to give their names and addresses to the seller so that the permissions may be arranged by the committee. Any member of the club will have tickets available for those who wish to attend.
Dancing, from 9 until 12 p.m. in the Drill Hall, will be to the music of Gene Hull and his orchestra. The dance is open to all classes.
May 12, 1950
31
Old-Timer Bucket Squad Squeezes Out Win Over Varsity, 75-74, in Overtime Period
By JOE STRAUB
In as exciting a game as has been seen in the fieldhouse this year, the Old-Timers eked out a 75-74 win over the Varsity in one overtime period last Friday. Sparked by All-American Kevin O’Shea, the Old Timers had to come from behind all the way and didn’t go ahead until the very end of the extra period after tying the score 23 seconds before the final buzzer.
Play was ragged in the first half but in the second a change was noticed. Both sides tightened up the defensive play and the passing was sharper. Lewinski of the Varsity and Jaeckels of the Old Timers looked good trading elbows at the pivot. The play of O’Shea, however, was spectacular. With two minutes to go, the Varsity was ahead, 66-61, and in possession of the ball.
Why the Varsity didn’t freeze the ball from here on out, the crowd, the Old Timers and Moose Krause will never know. They tried a long shot which missed and the veterans raced up the floor. Kelley drove in and was fouled. He dropped the first one in and waived the second. O’Shea passed out to Condon who sunk it. With 23 seconds to go, the Varsity still had the game, 66-64, but they tried to score and naturally the future Laker intercepted, passed to Jaeckels and the score was knotted at the final buzzer.
The five minute overtime was just like the rest of the game — almost a personal match between O’Shea and Neumayr. Jack drove in for a score, O’Shea sank a foul, as did Jaeckels. Then, with the count at 68 all, McClusky popped one in from 20 feet, so did Clancy, and then Lewinski. Finally, O’Shea ended the spree with his swish
from 25 feet. Each squad now had 72 and only one minute remained. Neumayr sank two foul shots to put the Varsity ahead. Clancy and O’Shea also dropped free throws to tie' it up again. With the score notted at 74, and only 12 seconds left, O’Shea was fouled. He dropped in the charity heave and that ended it all.
Clancy and Condon, Varsity men who played with the Old Timers, both looked good. Their lack of actual game experience was evident, but under the green covering there was a lot of natural ability. Tom Johnson helped them a lot under the boards and O’Shea, of
ND Runners Margined By Pitt in Last Event
The University of Pittsburgh came from behind in dramatic fashion last Saturday to nip the Notre Dame trackmen by a third of a point 65 2/3-65 1/3. A hard fought victory in the last event, the mile relay, gave the Panthers their Merriwell style triumph.
Both Bob Smith and Bill Fleming won two races for Notre Dame, but the Helwig family topped that by taking firsts and seconds in two events. John Helwig edged his brother, Joe, in the shot but in the discus it was Joe’s turn to come out on top.
Smith got his two wins in the 100 and 220 yard dashes. Bucky Ewing finished in third place behind Smith in both these races. The other double winner, Bill Fleming, was hardly pushed at all as he took the high and low hurdle contests.
Jim Miller was another high point man for Notre Dame as he took first place in the javelin and second in the
course, drove in for scores almost at will.
Neumayr was the big man for the varsity. His 23 points was nearly one-third of his team’s score and he was effective as usual on the rebounds. All Jack lacked last season was the eye. If he’s found it, he’s got himself a regular spot for two more years. Wray and Lewinski who split center duties, also looked good, especially when they wanted to be aggressive. Big Bob had tough luck on a couple of hooks which were nullified by fouls.
OLDTIMERS FG		F	VARSITY					
			Tf	FG F T				
Johnson	3	1	7 1	Neumayr	8	7	23	
Dombroski	1	0	21	Eaton	2	0	4	
Condon	6	1	13 I	Leslie	3	4	10	
Kelley	1	0	21	Fichtel	2	1	5	
Jaeckels	2	1	3 1	Lewinski	4	2	10	
O’Shea	8	9	25 |	Wray	2	5	9	
Halley	6	0	12 i	O'Connor	3	1	7	
Clancy	4	1	9|	McCluskey	3	0	6	
	-		— 1		——				
	31 1	13 75 ]			27	20	74	
pole vault for a total of eight points.
The star for Pitt was John Wilson who anchored theii" meet winning mile relay team a few minutes after he strode through the 880 in a fast 1:56 to beat Notre Dame’s Jerry Johnson and Vai Muscato. Pittsburgh was behind by four points when Wilson started z-his anchor leg of the relay two yards behind Notre Dame’s Boyne. With the meet in the balance the two fought all the way around the track with Wilson finally taking Boyne by a yard.
Both of the longer distance races went to Notre Dame. Jim Kittell took the mile in 4:23.6 with George Gross third. Benny Almaguer won the two-mile with Bob Fieler coming in third.
Hughes Wilcox, a center on the basketball squad, cleared six feet in the high jump to take a tie for second place, while Leo McKillip, trying the broad jump for the first time, took a third to finish out the scoring.
32
The Scholastic
Names Make News
Compiled by JAY CONLON
Release of the new educational motion picture The President’s Cabinet, produced under the supervision of PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, was recently announced by Coronet Films. The President’s Cabinet describes the Cabinet’s position in the governmental system and its relation to everyday life situations. Dr. Bartholomew worked with Coronet Films’ script writers and production crews throughout the film’s preparation. . . .
*♦*—
DR. LEO F. KUNTZ, Professor of Education at Notre Dame, is currently delivering a series of five lectures over station WHOT. He has spoken on “Mental Hygiene in Childhood,” and “Mental Hygiene in Adolescence.” The series will continue on May 16, when Dr. Kuntz will talk on “Mental Hygiene in Adulthood” followed by “Religion and Mental Hygiene” on May 30. . . .
BILL FAY, ’40, former Scholastic editor and captain of the Notre Dame tennis team, flew to Rome last week on a special assignment for Collier’s Magazine. Although former Sports Editor of Collier’s, Fay’s stories on the Eternal City will not concern athletics. . . .
“Social Meaning of Leisure” was the title of a lecture recently given by DR. JOSEF PIEPER, German PhilosopherSociologist and visiting professor of philosophy at Notre Dame. On May 15, he will talk on “Anti-Christ, World
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
Government and Christian Hope.” Dr. Pieper formerly taught at the University of Muenster, Westfalen, Germany and at the Pedagogical Institute, Essen, Germany. . . .
The cover page article in the current issue of the Paulist magazine “Information” was written by JOSEPH DU-KERT, liberal arts junior. The article titled “Ray Is Dead, But ...” is the story of Ray Espenan. . . .
CHARLES J. DULCE Y, ’28, was recently awarded the Charles Carroll of Carrollton Medal for the year’s outstanding Catholic citizen. Dulcey earned an MA at Notre Dame and has recently served on the New Haven Diocesan Labor School faculty. . . .
“Roosevelt: From Munich to Pearl Harbor” is the title of a new book by BASIL RAUCH, Notre Dame graduate, ’29. The book represents a survey of the Roosevelt record and an expose of the distortion of the testimonies of Root and Beard. Rauch is at present Associate Professor' of History at Bernard College. After graduation from ND, Rauch attended Yale University, L’Uni-versite de Besancon and Columbia University. He is recognized as one of the leading authorities on Roosevelt. . . .
—V—"
“Love Among the Camay Ads” is the title of an article in the monthly magazine Today. The author is GEORGE MURPHY, a graduate student in liberal arts.
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, May 13—white—Double; St. Robert Bellarmine, Bishop, Confessor and Doctor; 2nd Coll. Against the Persecutors; Credo.
Sunday, May- 14—white—Semi-' double—FIFTH SUNDAY AFTER EASTER; 2nd Coll. Comm, of St. Boniface, 3rd for the Blessed Virgin during Paschaltide, 4th Against the Pers.; Credo; Preface for Easter.
Monday, May 15—white—Double —ROGATION DAY—St. John Baptist de la Salle, Confessor; 2nd Coll* Mass of Rogation, 3rd Against the Pers.: last Gospel from the Mass of Rogation
or
Mass of Rogation—violet—2nd Coll, from the feast; 3rd Against the Pers.; Preface for Easter.
Tuesday, May 16—white—Semi-double—St. Ubaldus, Bishop • and Mass, 3rd for the Blessed Virgin Confessor; 2nd Coll, from Rogation during Paschaltide, 4th Against the Pers.	•
Wednesday, May 17 — white — Double—St. Paschal Bayion, Confessor; 2nd Coll, from the Vigil of the Ascension, 3rd from the Rogation Mass, 4th Against the Pers.; last Gospel from the Vigil
•	or
Mass of the Vigil of Ascension; white; Gloria; 2nd Coll. Comm. St. Paschal Bayion, 3rd Rogation Mass, 4th Against the Pers.; Preface for Easter.
Thursday, May 18—white—Double of the First Class with privileged Octave of the Third ’Order—ASCENSION; Credo; Preface of the Ascension and Communicantes.
Friday, May 19—white—Double —St. Peter Celestine, Pope and Confessor; 2nd Coll, from the Octave, 3rd Comm. St. Prudentiana; Credo; Preface for the Apostles; Communicantes for the Octave.
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE 601 NORTH NILES
Carey Debates With Cadets
William Carey, president of ND’s Debating club and Individual Debate Champion of the United States, staged an exhibition debate with two cadets representing the United States Military Academy in the Law Auditorium.
Carey and the cadets discussed “The Comparison of Educational Systems at West Point and Notre Dame.”
May 12, 1950
Roughly Speaking by Ken Zhorat ——
Looking Back
With only one more issue of the Scholastic to go, it is about time a recap was made on how the four classes fared during the year. The best description for it is — better than average. Nothing tremendously new was introduced, but there did seem to be good spirit in all four classes. Let’s go through the year by taking each class individually.
THE FRESHMEN: The first year men always get off to a slow start because of their late elections. Although they didn’t have anything to do with the running of the Freshman Orientation Program or the Frosh picnic, the large class did turn out nicely, proving great interest.
The men of ’53 didn’t have another chance to show their mettle until last week’s dance — but what a job they did on that! No other class affair throughout the entire year, regardless of class sponsorship, was as well handled. Upperclass bigwigs who moaned about financial losses during the year might have been better off if they had done less moaning and more publicizing. The Frosh publicity campaign saturated the campus.
year by sponsoring last Saturday night’s Barn Dance. The men ran into a little trouble on this affair, but not enough to hurt the year’s over-all record of excellence.
THE JUNIORS: Those high spirited men of ’51 entered their third year on a wave of praise for the work they had done previously. They were an active class during the past year, too, but something was missing. They just didn’t have the fire they exhibited in the first two years.
The Juniors held a class picnic out at Potawatomie last Fall that was lots of fun for the large crowd attending. The class took charge of the Mardi Gras dance and with fine support from the entire student body, jammed the Palais to capacity. They ended up their year with the annual Prom. From a financial viewpoint, it couldn’t be called successful — but it certainly produced a social bonanza.
THE SENIORS: The last year men opened their year with a Barn Dance. A large turnout helped start their ball rolling. Then in January a dance was held for graduating Seniors. Tonight their Ball will be held, followed by a
weekend filled with activities. On the whole, it was a year with which Seniors could be satisfied.
Officers
Looking back at the results, it seems that capable men were put into offices. Presidents Sparky Thornton (Senior), Ray Yanics (Junior), Jim Garvin (Sophomore) and Tom Reedy (Freshman) and their fellow officers did a fine job in leading their classes. It is hoped the men who won the elections Tuesday will do as well — but,- of course, that’s not to say they can’t do better.
There’s no reason why some new -activities can’t be introduced into the year’s calendar. If there was any one thing lacking in all four classes this year it was imagination. Every year there’s a Freshman Dance, a Sophomore Cotillion, a Junior Prom and a Senior Ball. They’re all fine.
But why can’t the class officers propose something else to go along with these big functions instead of just an occasional picnic or barn dance? The ground has been barely touched. During the recent election campaigns several new ideas were talked about. Once men get into office, though, they sometimes forget their plans — which mean extra work — and become satisfied with the same old affairs put on year after year.
Spirit Ratings
From this corner it seems as if the Sophomores are entitled to the mythical
And then the dance, itself, from all reports, was a walloping success, as anticipated. There’s no doubt that the Freshmen have what it takes. Now, if they don’t degenerate into the lethargic state that affects many classes as they climb to seniorhood, the Frosh should graduate with an envious record.
THE SOPHOMORES: Summer tans had hardly worn off before the second year men had begun preparations for the highlight of the Fall season: the Sophomore Cotillion. Nearly 500 couples packed the Palais for a dance that will be long remembered — aren’t they all?
The next project on the Sophs’ docket was their Talent Show. It was the first such presentation in two years and made everyone, who was lucky enough to squeeze into Washington Hall, realize how much it had been missed. Although the show was stuffed with fine acts it took expert supervision to put on such a smooth running, such a completely entertaining production.
The Sophomore Class ended their
34
The Scholastic
title of being the most spirited class of the year. They gave great support to not only their own functions but to all class events as well. Several Sophs were kingpins in the successful Mardi Gras Carnival. The Sophs came closest to surmounting that failing mentioned above. They weren't satisfied with putting on their Cotillion and then qui'.-ting. They made sure their year was 9 an active one all year long.
Some might question this, but the choice for second place is the Freshman class. They didn’t have much to work on — just their Spring dance — but since they did such an excellent job on that they rate the high position. As was said before, they apparently have a tremendous flame of spirit. If some ’53 cynics and pessimists don’t douse it with a bucket of apathy and discour-b agement, they ought to do okay.
The third place slot on this mythical spirit poll is shared by the Seniors and Juniors. There were plenty of hard workers in both classes but, as a whole, neither class was especially red hot. They sponsored successful years, true, but looking back now they both appear to be rather lackluster, mediocre ones.
That about does it. What’s in store for next year is anyone’s guess. Maybe it’ll be good; maybe it’ll be bad. Let’s hope it’ll be better.
Geologists Name Officers
At a business meeting held last week, the Notre Dame Geology C’.ub chose officers for the coming year. Dave Smith was elected Program Director; Dan Brennan was named Assistant Program Director; Don Jordan was chosen Secretary, and Bill Haskins was named Treasurer.
On Wednesday of this week, the new officers presided at the final meeting of the semester. Plans for participation in the annual Indiana Geological Field Conference were completed and the highlights of the Easter field trip taken by Dr. Erhard Winkler and several students were presented. Movies and color slidts of the trip were shown.
I Price Edits Column In 360 Newspapers
Dr. Charles E. Price, head cf the Department of Chemistry and candidate for Democratic nomination as United States senator from the state of Indiana, is now editing the circulated newspaper column, “A Scientist Looks at Government.”
Issues dealing with Farm Labor, Civil Rights, and Federal Aid, are dis
May 12, 1950
cussed by Dr. Price in his column. Since this is the first time Dr. Price has entered the political field he is using his column as a medium for presenting his political convictions to the people. These columns appear in over 360 daily and weekly newspapers throughout Indiana. They were initially issued on April first and their publication will run on into the month of June. Dr. Price has also been speaking at meetings of various service clubs, party organizations, and CIO meetings.
The primary policy of his political program is the prevention of another war. “To seek achievement of world peace and order through just representative world government is the most important political, economic, and moral problem we face today.” He believes this can be accomplished by uniting all nations in a world federal republic.
Presentation Ceremony Planned for RO Awards
On Thursday, at 10 a.m. in front of the Rockne Memorial, the outstanding members of the NROTC unit at Notre Dame will be presented awards for their achievements. A parade of the University band and the entire corps of midshipmen is also included on the program.
The Hearst trophy, symbolic of championship in rifle matches, will be presented to the Notre Dame unit at this time. The American Legion award “for outstanding military leadership” will be given to Herman Hamilton of Montgomery, Ala. Hamilton will also receive the Reserve Officers Association annual award to the Midshipmen Regional Commander.
The Chicago Tribune Gold medal, for the senior student with the highest average in Naval Science, has been won by Allan Miller, of Decatur, Ill. The Chicago Tribune Silver medal will be given to Hershel Herdy from Paducah, Ky., for having the highest mark in Naval Science for a junior.
Legal Institute Concludes Second Annual Gathering
Last week marked the completion of the Second Annual Legal Institute to be held at the University of Notre Dame. The Institute was sponsored by the College of Law in conjunction with the Indiana State Ear Association. The purpose of the Institute was to illustrate the practical applications of law school training.
During the first half of the Institute, Mr. Carl M. Gray, former president of the Indiana State Bar Association, spoke on the topic: “Defense of a Negligence
Action.” Mr. Richard P. Tinkham, president-elect of the Association, spoke on “Public Relations and the Bar.” Secretary of the Bar Association, Mr. Robert D. Coleman, discussed “Modern Title Examination.”
In the second half of the Institute Prof. Roger P. Peters of the University of Notre Dame, spoke on “Income Taxes and Corporate Dissolutions,” and Mr. Turner L. Smith, Assistant Attorney General of the United States, spoke on “Criminal Evasion and Income Tax Law.”
United States Senator Herbert R. O'Conor of Maryland spoke at a banquet held in South Bend in connection with the Legal Institute.
« flr . a Ml VlW; IiTMwS HEALTH SPOT
voa MU WOMIN ANOCaMMM 209 W. Colfax Avenue Paul Whalen_ Mgr.
Complete outfitting service fiMfi a day with Grumman alumr-
CAMPNG MTK
Qaetko - Superior Wilfaaess
choice—extra.
50-page Canoe Country picture booklet mailed postpaid anywhere for Sl.M "BASSWOOD LAKE LODOE” on Minn.-Canadian herder. Main Lodge and 20 log ca * Modern bathroom fa ities. American Plan rates J8.00 and up. Also housekeeping cabins.

FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
35
NG
*1
Co,


Smoke my cigarette, Chesterfield they're Milder... much Milder
...THAT'S RIGHT. CHESTERFIELDS ARE MILDER. I know that for a fact, because raising tobacco is my business, and Chesterfield buys the best mild, ripe tobacco I grow. Beside that, Chesterfield has been my steady smoke for 11 years."
PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER WYIUESBURG, VA.