.	- Che
Dotre Dame Scholastic
Disce-pvASi-scmpeR- victvrvs- - vivg qvasi- cras-imoritvrvs-'
- . . __ . . . .
Vol. L.	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, January 20, 1917.	No. 15.
„	Meeting.
..	BY SPEER STRAHAN, ’17.
^00 N to your far norjh country shall I go The thought of.you forever in my heart, While over hills the call of streams I know
Shall lure me to the deep pine woods apart Where I may meditate your gracious ways,— Your moments of wild sweet, each thoughtful word And all the acquainted tenderness of days When Joy flew o’er us like a summer bird.
j And if by chance in those'dim woods at evening. I come upon your spirit wandering there Oh, may I gather roses for our dreaming
To strew them round you in the trembling air,
And walk with you beneath those' shadowed skies, Feeling the ancient sweetness in your eyes. -------------------------------
The Natural Right to Life and Its Relation to the Haiselden Case.
’ BY ARTHUR B. HUNTER, PH. B., T6.
Concluded from Last Week.
BEFORE the. time of the . Civil War the . great majority of * the people ,of the North believed that Seward was right when he said that a “Higher Law”/ ■_ than the written law of the land governed . the question of slavery. It was because Webster /•’-/ believed that the written law' of the land was everywhere and always supreme'* that .--ri. he delivered 'his famous . Seventh - of -March _ - ' speech and became the ■ object rif hatred for .. the;/thousands of- New Englanders who -had ri formerly supported him. Chief Justice Taney couldsee no other interpretation of- the ■ Dred - Sbott case than that afforded to-him by the /	. written law of the land . At least one reason why
y	-the; North/went to Avar was the desire to amend
■ the Constitution fori the guidance of. the strict. / ■< legists inj ordbr/that/the courts might in the - * y< future understand 'thati negroes also had 5rights >
arising from the very fact that they were men. The slave had natural. rights as well as his - . white . master. His condition of servitude, whether right or wrong, did not give his -master the power of life and death over him. In short, our whole political history is filled with instances. * r where the American people have been willing to fight if need be in defense-of the natural rights of men.'	-	'
The industrial historv of America tells a similar story. The4 avowed purpose of the labor . ■/// organizations has been to secure better working . conditions, better hours of work, and better wages for all laborers and to protect the laboring '• man in the exercise of his rights as a man. Too often the industrial slave has been exploited^ . --v for the selfish enrichment of the man with ri/’ capital. Only through combination and organi-; / zation are the laborers able adequately to pro- . / ; tect, by violence if that means becomes necessary, and defend their natural rights against the : organized capitalists. The high standard of . life of the American worker to-day is due in no , - . / small measure to the steady; continued campaign conducted" by the labor organizations for the recognition of the rights of the working man.,-
In order to remain a man, a* man must live; /ri He cannot obtain the satisfaction of his wants unless .the inherent, dignity and worth of. his manhood are recognized and acknpwledged/by < *</■/ other men. The natural law, therefore, grants /'riy to man the right to life. This right is personal,riri^^ and perfect, .since it attaches only to the owner ,	/..
and is positively enjoined by law. ;It is cout /.ri;.^ natural and inalienable, since it . is possessed; ri ri/ -, independently of any- human conditions and . .. ri /since it is a right to a thing which is also a duty,. ; ri J which cannot, therefore, be renounced, r But / ri... ri above all, the. right to life'is a natural right, ri/ -ri / .arising from man’s inner nature; Being.a natural' ri/ri* /right, it. enjoins upon every other individual, ; ririy and upon the/ owner himself,- the “duty oE-preri^riri/ serving the fife of the. possessor.-/ Only/tfuoughriri the violation of some grave law of. the state riri ri;
r-* -	-ri-ri -	; ririri-wy-y
ri;X 'ri'*■ /"' *t *- ri	' riririririri
riris.ri	/• ri-ri, ■.yrij
234
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
or through the.,violation of another person’s right does the possessor of the right to life ever forfeit that right • Even then he can be punished only by the state for the sake of its own preservation or for the common safety of. its citi' zens, since the duty of promoting the public - welfare and protecting the natural rights of citizens is entrusted to the state. Not even the state, has the right of putting an innocent person . to death. There can be no right to do that which is intrinsically evil. Some have contended that lawyers often possess the power of life and death over an individual, but it must always be remembered that at all times the lawyer is an officer of the court of the state. Hence it . is only, as an agent of the state, if ever,^that the lawyer exercises any tiny portion of the sovereign power. Nor is the power lodged in the other - professions. Doctors are often placed in positions of special trust and confidence. Here their ■ discretionary powers are enormous. Yet no doctor is a state in himself and no doctor has < the moral power to dispatch any living person.
' . Since embryologists are agreed that.-the person starts' on his human life_ at the moment of his conception, this prohibition applies to all life, ■ fetal and non-fetal.^	_
Moreo\rer, the doctor’s estimate of the worth of the patient’s life has nothing whatever to do . with the case. An invalid, as for example in . the .case of an advanced consumptive, may have no chance of recovery so far as the doctor can judge and may. be a heavy burden and great - care to his family and the state;- but these facts cannot and do not give rise to the right- of dispatch in the doctor. Even where, as in certain cases in fetal life, the child’s life may be . - considered as valueless, that consideration can give-the doctor mo right to dispose of the child’s life, no matter ;how worthy and noble may' be his end in view. The bad means can never ' be justified by. the good end. Nor does a phys. ician’s attack upon the principle . make the ’ question a medical one, any more than Edison’s . .	attack on it would make it an electrical question.
The field of medicine is clearly marked. The
the state’s very existence might seem to depend upon getting rid of a given individual. Suppose a case of an epidemic of smallpox in a com- -munity. Here-; the health of the whole. state might be endangered, yet will any reputable doctor say that such danger Would justify either himself or the state in putting the innocent -unfortunate victims and sufferers out of the way? If not, it must be clear that limitation is a property of all rights, be the possessors thereof private individuals, professional men, or the state itself.
The natural, lav; teaches that murder is always and everywhere wrong. Hence murder as a direct means to an end can never be right. This is not to say that the doctor can never use extraordinary means in his efforts to save life,- but only that he cannot use a means that in itself is utterly opposed to the natural law. The defense of such a principle may seem, on first thought, to lead to narrowness and puerile quibbling, but the “hard cases are the quicksands’’ in the moral law as well as in the. civil law. Our rulings on cases presented must be either chaotically confused, because of the -laxity with which the principle is applied, or wholesomely consistent, because of the unbending truth expressed. Furthermore, our common sense .tells us that when a principle appears self-evident from reason, the logical consequences of that principle must also be admitted to be self-evident. “Thou shalt not . kill” applies to the doctor as well as to the man who has never studied medicine. This commandment of God, as revealed to us by. the Bible, is but the clearer expression of a maxim of the natural law which is promulgated to us by our own reason. .This commandment prohibits the killing of any person who has not through some positive- act-of his. own forfeited his right to life. Certainly the newborn babe, or the child - in its mother’s womb, of ah persons, has done -. nothing to forfeit this right. There is in fact, and should be in civil law, no distinction between criminal and “medical” abortion. The end
and the means are the . same-in either case. If
, field of ethics is equally clear. - The solution-of abortion do,es take place criminally the child rights;is not a matter of surgery. The study has been murdered just as truly as if the killing
. of human conduct belongs, properly to the science had takem place, after: the delivery of*the child. of\ethics.' This question. df;the;right to life is.a- '.Oftentimes the doctor claims that there' is a -questioirof philosophy, and whoever*attempts to . difference in. kind between the-taking of .fetal a philosopher.. It must; life land jthe .destroyings of non-fetal dife. \No
.., be reiterated What not.even the estate can murder physician;^owey^,- has yet been. able, to point
; Aitsfihnocent citizens by any. right,: even . though out any .reak distinction in culpability attaching *
Vic,

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
in the one case over the other. Were the doctor was needed to save the life of the child. He consistent he would advocate the direct killing justified his stand on the ground?; that the
of adults whenever there is involved the question. of saving fife, or honor, or convenience. - Bven expediency might logically drive him to kill, a person. Well did Dr. Pinard write on -the wall of his office: “The right over the child’s life and death belongs neither to the father, nor to the mother, nor to the physician.” The child has a natural right to life.
Life is a sacred thing, for life is a gift of God. Hence God alone has dominion over it. Real scientists long ago gave up the attempt to create life. They now" lend their endeavors ' to the study of the wonderful life that has been given. Since the gift is divine, not human, the individual has an inalienable right to it, a right which all persons, including himself, are bound to respect. His right to life is an inviolable moral claim to a definite personal good.
Tlie recognition of the reality of this right, physical defects might have been improved however, falls far short of being universal, by plastic operations. We believe that a.
• Men ha've been prone to reject the theory that prompt operation would have prolonged and life isTacred and to cast aside the reality of the perhaps saved the life of the child. We believe
right to life. Following the lead of Austin they have chosen to say that the state is absolutely sovereign and that the citizen has no rights whatever save only those granted to him by the state. Prominent among these self-styled reformers is Dr. Harry J. Haiselden, of Chicago. Dr. Haiselden goes a step farther than Austin and allows the. doctor to determine whether or not a given person is fit to live. If the decision of the doctor be adverse to the poor victim, then medical aid must be refused him and the unfortunate fellow either left to die or put out of the way quietly. To arrive at such a conclusion Dr. Haiselden necessarily rejects all theories of inalienable rights and at the same time , exaggerates and magnifies the power and the sphere, of - surgery. Many of the indictments that he draws against society for its sins are true bills, but the remedies that he proposes . are unthinkable, leading, as they do; to graver consequences than the existing evils. >
For fejar that Dr. Haiselden mayx not be known to all readers a brief informal introduction is deemed, apropos. Dr. Haiselden is the clean shaven surgeon who received national notoriety . some months ago because of the stand that he took in refusing, to operate on the Bollinger baby in a Chicago hospital. He was attacked by
newspapers and-clergy-?all over the country to live and that “nature.ought to be permitted for not performing an-ordinary operation that to take .its* course” without the,intervention of
mother of the child consented to the refusal to operate and that the baby, if it had been per' mitted to live, would have grown up a horrible cripple-and perhaps an idiot. He did not cont nd that the operation needed was extraordinary or major, but said that it was “not right o prostitute surgery to prolong the life of the absolutely unfit.” The learned doctor naturally makes no reference to the reception of his doctrine among his medical- brothers in' Chicago. The board chosen to consider Haisel-den’s case was composed of specialists picked from the faculties of the leading medical schools of the city and among their conclusions we find these rather uncomplimentary charges:	’
“We find no’ evidence from the physical defects that the child would have become mentally or morally defective; Several of the
the doctor’s highest duty is to relieve suffering ’' . and to save or prolong life.”
Nor does Dr. Haiselden mention the name of . Miss Catherine Walsh, a social. worker, who. baptized the child and pleaded with him for , its life. She declares that “it was not a monster —that child. It was a beautiful baby. I saw. no deformities. I patted him. Both his eyes . were open, he waved his little fists and cried lustily. I knew if its mother got her eyes on it ' she would love it and never permit it to be left to die.”
The danger is always present that the doctor -may -be mistaken in his individual diagnosis t -and -conclusions. In this case Dr. Haiselden , seems to have been badly mistaken. But,- .. allowing these horrible mistakes to pass, we.	-
follow the doctor-- to the theories that he seeks to deduce from the facts as he saw them. It. < would seem that ordinarily a doctor is called into a case not merely to stand passively by \ and watch “nature take its. course.” The family . * of the patient can do that much. The doctor -is generally called in to aid nature in its fight _ • against disease and to advise the patient of' . 5 means of staving off death. Dr. Haiselden,how- f ever, evidently conceived his duty otherwise. To . prove that the child .was “absolutely unfit” . , '
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
the.doctor’s skill in such cases, Dr. Haiselden was careful to describe in full detail the alleged pitiful physical condition of the Bollinger babe. Many of these conditions were revealed only at the time of the post mortem, but all of them are recited in Iris newspaper writings. To an uninitiated layman, however, not even such an ' array of unpleasant details, assuming all of them to be true, appears to prove the doctor’s case, but leaves it as far from proof as before. The doctor should show at least an inferential connection between such details and the theories of life and rights that he proposes.-
For ages past it has been an accepted proverb among the medical profession that “while there is .life there is hope. ’ ’ The board of doctors who tried Haiselden’s' case reiterated their belief in the maxim. In other words, the old-fashioned doctors believed that there was realty something
dispatch the souls of, these unfortunates to Heaven or- Hell with all. the authority of law and conscience. If the doctors be given this power, then why not extend it likewise to the other professions and the laity or at least to the state? But surely the learned doctor would not extend his doctrines to such cruel extremes. Logically it would seem that he ought to, but in fact he does not, because he advocates other measures than killing in the care of adult unfits. As for the helpless babe, though, the case is merciless.	-
After a hasty examination of the Bollinger child Dr. Haiselden tells us that “the question of whether it were best to perform this operation to save the life of a child hopelessly deformed ‘ arose,in my mind. It occurred to me that it was an easy matter for a healthy person to buffet the world, but that for a hopelessly
sacred about human life and that it was their duty i to preserve and prolong life as long as - their knowledge and their skiff could aid them.
Even when all human efforts failed, and when life seemed all but gone, instances have been - known in which red-blooded physicians have not been too proud to add their own petitions to the prayers of the anxious relatives and friends of the patient before the feet of the .Great Healer. Dr?" Haiselden dobs not want to be old fashioned.' Evidently he is a modern materialistic utilitarian, for, although he does not pretend to know exactly what life is or what
it means, he says brazenly and frankly: “To
some all life is sacred; to me life somewhat near, normal is sacred.”
“Somewhat near normal,”—those are anr , bigudus words, and it would probably be impos-
defective man it was nothing short of hell. . . It had a peculiar wailing cry—the pitiful sickly whine of a young kitten—not at all the healthy bawl of a. sound and normal child. It was this cry, poor arid thin as it was, that later affected me so strongly, when it became my duty to judge whether or not . this child was worthy, • physicalty an’d mentally worthy, of life. But now. it was only an added argument to convince . me that the' tiny body that lay before me was outside the pale—that it was hopelessly unfit. . .
I noted also that the femur, or thigh bones, were abnormally large. This also is the case in lower animals.- In fact the skeletori that lay before me in its hunched and twisted attitude looked like the skeleton of a monkey. It told me plainer than anything that" had gone before ' that this child was in reality, a defective,—
sible to discover exactly what the learned doctor an animal lower than man. Had that baby meant by them. One is'almost tempted to lived, it would have been a social outcast.
- query whether or not the doctor himself is He would not be welcome at such a social
•• . normal. Could a perfectly sane man, possessed . gathering as this .(a dinner club banquet), of-his normal faculties, come to the conclusion as far as physical defectiveness was concerned.
. . -that some human life is'not sacred? If that be Besides there'were signs of almost undoubted .. . possible, where' is _ that ‘‘normal” individual mental inferiority.” A cry and large thigh . z going to. draw the fine between - those persons bones,—these are the doctor’s chief reasons why
who are-not normal and himself? Surety a man the child was “absolutely unfit” to live. If in the last stages of consumption is not normal. Dr. .Haiselden had officiated at the time, the
. . Even heart .trouble is not so prevalerit as to great ’'English poet Pope would certainly, have justify thez'classification, of those who are had :a poof chance of. delivery. We wonder if afflicted with?it. as-normal.individuals. How. he would.have; tried to save the consumptive • about the drunkard, the. dissipated fool, and . Robert .Louis'SteyenSon; to cure the stutterer
. / the degenerate imbecile?.. Is the insane man or Demosthenes,, or to give comfort to the blind abnormal being?. If 'the.-.lives of none -/.M^	the, lives
■Aty.oflthese are sa'credLhen the- doctors ihay lawfully/; oftyhty consume	Beethoven and .
Ai


' THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
: 237
Lincoln to have been lived in vain by mere “Unfits”? We wonder what would have been his pronouncement concerning the worth of St. Paul ? Assuming, howeyer, all that the doc-_ tor here says to be true and assuming that he had satisfied his own conscience in the matter, it still remains for him to prove his point. The question will not be downed. What did the
child do to forfeit its natural right to life? Even still he is decideclly unprofessional in his methods
the doctor offers no evidence of misbehavior
on the does to eternal “Some
child’s part. All that Dr. Haiselden prove his point is simply to take the law of God and change it to read, human life is no-t sacred.” The mere
fact that man’s very nature has such an inherent dignity as to claim for itself certain undoubted and inalienable rights,, among' which is the' natural right to life, bothers a “philosopher” of the Haiselden type-not at all. Evidently he intends to strengthen his case when he says: “When I see the ease with which the unfit are allowed to propagate the epileptics, the insane, the stabilities, the horribly deformed, the acute tubercular, the habitual drunkard, without one particle of interference on the part of the law, I am appalled. I am enough of. an. American to believe that every child born has the right to be born well and sound.” This is true enough, but the doctor errs im assuming that if .the child by some mischance is defective, such child thereby and therefor forfeits its natural right to life. “The crippled child is moulded by the'hand of God as well as the most robust heir of humanity.” The child has noth-
- ihg whatever to say in the choosing of the kind of body'that it would like to live in, but even if it did it could hardly be blamed for a mistake in its young judgment. Neither physical defect nor color' of skin can deprive the child of its right to life.	,	.	'
It is not necessary to endeavor to show that Dr. Haiselden was" in any way culpable for his action in the Bollinger case. That was but a single, isolated happening in the doctor’s daily work. The real danger lurks in his doctrines and theories of life. Nor is the doctor condemned* because his case is exceptional. "Rather his case is only too typical of many doctors, Who have not received the same free advertising- as Dr. Haiselden, but who, with him, have attempted to lead in unfamiliar paths. The medic ahfraternity of Chicago voted to expel Dr.: Haiselden, yet there are doubtless ’many doctors still.holding membership in that
same organization who hold -views similar, to those for which Haiselden was condemned. V Those who do are unfit to discuss the .ethical-questions involved in their work and sad indeed is the case of the unfit.	*
Dr. Haiselden has attempted to revise one of the introductory chapters in the great book . of life. Professional man though he may be;
of argumentation. Before attempting to establish his own case he should be kind enough to destroy the theories, and point out the fallacies ' . in the principles, long held by worth-while doctors and laymen. He should explain away" \ the progress that has been made by following -the old idea of life and its sacffedness - in the medical science, especially in the way of discoveries that have been made through experi- . 'ment and study that result in the great increase of the doctor’s skill and efficiency-. He should _ show that all the patient endeavors of the workers in the medical laboratories, who have . ever sought’ new remedies for diseases now - • thought to be-incurable and who have succeeded marvelously in their searches of the past, have , been but wasted energy. He should further show that further progress is impossible without the 1 ejection of the theory that all human life is sacred. He should show, for example, that . a cure for cancer or one for tuberculosis can * . never be found; .or that-the possibilities of radium as a cm atiye agent have been exhausted: He should prove to us that there will never? be . any more mechanical aids, like . the x-ray, invented for the use of the "medical profession: Further than this, he should point out in the - . doctrine that he would substitute for the. natural right to life spme incentive that would , . cause men who adopted it to continue their search for remedies for the unfit. Until he does at least this much his attempts'to establish* his theory must of necessity fail and the prin-. 3 ciples which do really govern the case remain -A , in possession, continuing to hold and to bind- A, Bishop Carroll has put the case succinctly as: . . follows: “No physician, no matter how well versed in the wisdom of eugenics,: can foretell
- with .certain knowledge who will be-‘fit’ and ' who ‘unfit’ to live. .Granted that such - . ? a child would become a burden to society, I answer that-this is a burden that "society : is obliged to assume. Society assumes this burden;
.in the case of adults who are deformed? and^ feeble minded, and why should Jit be rdievedy
A*:

f
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
of the burden in .the case of helpless infants? - To the thinking mind such inconsistency is inconceivable.”
The rejection of natural law and natural 'rights leads to a series of absurdities that cannot ■ be countenanced. Tor example, one consequence of the rejection is the fact that, if morality and legality are one and the same - thing, any offence against what we call morals can be made perfectly Jawful by the mere process of legislative enactment. Thus adultery, rape and murder could become intrinsically ' indifferent if not positively good. Secondly, legality itself would, under such conditions, fall to the ground and all jurisprudence with
it. What reason could be given why any person ought to obey the law? The principle that citizens of the state-should obey all valid laws belongs to the natural law alone. When the natural law is rejected that principle must of course be denied. Thirdly, if legality is absolutely supreme there can be. no inalienable right, no right that the majority in the state is bound to respect.’ Austin, strangely enough, does not shrink from this consequence for he tells us infall seriousness: “A sacred or inalienable right is truly and indeed invaluable;, for seeing that it means nothing, there is nothing with which it can be measured.” If, however, we suppose the extreme case of a socialistic * . free-love state lawfully established, we can
easily, imagine that even Mr. Austin, if he is as much of a man as we- take ‘him to be, would . rebel nobly against' any attempted deprivation
. of his wife and home. He would be constrained , to appeal to'a higher law than the unjust . . - enactment of the state. If this law does not
.. exist, however, then Mr. Austin will indeed ’ be in a sorry predicament. Fourthly, if the .
. . doctrine of Hobbes and Austin be true, and if Dr. Haiselden is right in his stand that.some life
■ is not sacred, then any act of tyranny may
. become lawful and there =can be no lawful :
’ resistance to the will of the ruler. Both Hobbes. .
.. , and; Austin claim that the power of the sovereign
■J. , is from, its verymature incapable , of legal limi-
tatiori.The natural law1- is. the only known limi-tationupon that power, and the rejection of the S natural law,' therefore, leads- to unthinkable
.Estate absolutisms- T y-’_. "s T?:. ■	.
\ M y -When these bvo rival . theories - concerning
rightLand . life- boldly?face.: one another, their -y \ relative; merits readily appear. . In .the one^, Ay/tli^	and. despair,yin;the^pther there
is life and hope. In the one there is a selfish, disordered, brute-like, continuous war, in the other there is the well ordered-peace of a society whose members are not afraid to protect their own rights, but are at the same time wise enough , to see the limitations of these rights. In one we have the strict legalism of Austin and the pretentious infallibility of Haiselden, in the other we have the human spirit of American institutions and the moral courage of the average American citizen. There is no tenable middle ground, no straddling of the fence. Either there are some natural rights or there are no natural rights. The choice of theories 'must be made. We believe that the pendulum
of American thought and feeling is swinging away from the legalism of Austin back to the humanism of’ Aristotle and Aquinas. We believe, that all men “are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these arc Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness.” We believe that “the enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny, or disparage others held by the people.” We believe that the gross materialism of the Austin-Haiselden school must give way before the ennobling spiritism expressed in primitive American institutions.
... .	. the. end.	’.	.
Varsity Verse.
Exiled. .
The sea rolls restless at my feet, The breakers splashing spray;
My heart'is lured , by the measured beat, “ Of tumbling waves at play.
The sea-weed clings to the rising crag, The shore is fringed with foam,
' -Gray vapor wraps the crumbling scrag, : Of my rude island home.	• .	■
The. waves flow, slowly by my side—	.
I give to them no heed, ’
My. thoughts'on fancy’s rushing tide,
' To the dead past recede. _	.
- - .	" Jerome Miller, .’17.
: ■ . ~	' A query. - / . .
- ' .- There are people always kicking, There are people always picking. '
: Out^a flaw,in every little thing they meet;
; Thereare fellows 'in this college .
. ..-’Who display a lack of knowledge, r .
s In complaining of the'.daily food they eat. - .
THE NOTRE DAME 'SCHOLASTIC -
They complain about the steaks, and
They complain about.the flakes, and
They complain about the coffee and.the buns, Not a single meal can please them,— Even chicken won’t appease them, .
And they’d feed the food as fodder to the guns.
But a question now I’d ask you,
Which I’m sure will never task-you,
And ’twill serve my only argument to state,— If this food that they’re bewailing. In its real purpose is failiirg, -
Then how do these selfsame fellows gain in weight? . .	J-J. W.
The First-Love. - •
Is it for naught.I have loved thee, Now that we’ve eachgone our way?
The memory of thee'I will hold still For thought in some future day. _
In those far musings of leisure, 5 . As a pyarl in the chain of my past 'Twill be joyous to dwell on mj' first love . . When I pain with' the thorns of my last.
*	E. J. Dundon,’i8.
“Jim.” - -	• v
I might forget to eat my meals, •
- But till my mind grows dim, ■ I’ll not forget that rippling laugh I heard from "Barber Jim.”
' That constant laughing makes one fat Is false, for Jim is slim, .	.
And his oft dissyllabic laugh Has never fattened him. -	.	I
. I’m sure I never will forget The things he asked of'me: - To all I answered he agreed	-
Though I was wrong you see.
But.when I told him my "exams” -- Had only angered "pa,” ,	.
He slyly smiled.awhile at me r	_
And harshly said, "Ha, ha.”
He made remarks that puzzled me . And once'he praised my hair,	~
. And judging from its bulk, said, “There’s No room for brains up theje.” -	‘
Now if he meant my head’s all hair, , .. -I’ll try to pardon Jim, -	.
” Because,.you see, I really think
. ... His laugh distracted him.
-	...	- .William McNamara.
,	-	'	■	J > o	‘	i	v
239 X
All but the Brave.	.	'
BY DELMAR EDMONDSON,.. ’18. .	. . .
CONTINUED FROM LAST WEEK. . .	’ -	.
One night, shortly after twelve, Maggie and -her ideal were returning from a dance “up to . ■ th’ hall,” where, despite the fact that they 'J attended the affairs quite frequently, .Homer . / still received from the men a welcome of the sort accorded a cornet player in an apartment / ’ house. An almost imperceptible snow was falling, and the ground was lightly covered -like the- mint of a julep sprinkled with pulverized sugar.	-	:
“It’s just about two months ago to-night \ . that We met each other,” remarked Homer. ’ “Has it been that long?” asked Maggie -	' '
coyly. “Time passes so fast when your company . is pleasant.”	•	.	• .
• - Instead of an intelligible jeply Maggie heard nothing but a grunt, an outflung hand struck her on the arm, and she turned quickly to find .. two assailants, who had crept upon them from . behind, bearing Mr. Ducey to the sidewalk. -1 .. All this, while Maggie was wondering if Homer would, take advantage of the opening she had . given him by her last remark and become senti- -mental. The startled girl clutched her hands .	- .
together convulsively and was about to raise ' . her voice in a lusty scream when she reflected .	.
that perhaps it would be better to wait. .She could hold herself ready until Mr.. Ducey, lack- ; ing skill in the manly art as he undoubtedly did, was delightfully mangled, whereupon she y . . could drive these ruffians off with a few of the : -simple' tricks she taught her. girls every day. ?-Then hers would be the task of nursing poof, . bruised Homer back to health; and many were .. .-J the charming stories she had heard of the potency - v
■ wielded over a patient’s mind- by the . white- . Ml capped and'white aproned powers that feed him when’ he is too weak to feed' himself.	j . -
Numberless romances had been inaugurated	- 4/
in the sick-room. -.To have her hovering over Ty ' his bed’of pain, tenderly ministering unto him, .	•
was just what Homero-needed to make him . speak the word she was sure he wanted to . • . .
. speak. What did a cut more or-less matter- y^yh'. when their lives’ happiness was involved?. ' HMM. But while these thoughts 'were running;
through Maggie’s -mind, Mr. Ducey had ; y • struggled-to his feet and was proceeding, wonder
' - of wonders,- to' treat the attacking parties to ah'yy^Syx
240
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
unparalleled trouncing. He would knock down and devote himself exclusively to other, or perhaps they would come at
one the him
together, but singly or doubly he treated them with 'quickness, dispatch, and impartiality. And as his fists met the prominent parts of their anatomies time after time, he was uttering words that ill became the lips of a person who claimed to be what the Oueen of Sheba never was, a perfect gentleman.
Maggie was astounded. It irritated her to see how foolishly- the assailants exposed themselves to Homer’s ready7 blows. She'was almost tempted to jump in the fray7 and take their part. But instead of-that, she stood to one side pounding lief right, fist into her .left palm with a wasted vigor. When both strangers lay7
outstretched and unconscious Homer walked . gettin’ to like you better I got scairder to tell over to Maggie rubbing his knuckles gingerly, you about what I was. One night I almost
The girl looked at him with a fixed stare such as she might have bestowed on a walking delegate from the infernal regions.	.
“You—y7ou,” she stammered slowly7, in the approved manner of stage heroines who have been disillusioned. “You can fight! Andz I heard y7ou swearing. You aren’t any7 mollycoddle!” .	.
“Maggie/’ said Homer soberly, the former mincing quality7 entirely gone from his voice, . .’ “ I’m glad this happened. It gives me a chance ' to tell you something I’ve wanted to tell you for a long time. I’m not a sissy7 like you think '	‘ I am. .1 am a prize fighter. They call me
‘Battling Ducey,’”	•
Maggie gasped. A prize fighter! Gone was her dream' of a quiet future with the most peaceful man on earth. Think. of having a battling' infant who would be knocking the • feathers out of his pillow before he was a year . old!	■	. '	■	‘
* “Oh-h-h!” she wailed reproachfully7, “you’ve been deceiving me ever since you’ve known me!”
“That was the trouble. : I kep’lettin’ it go for. so long that I got more ’fraid of tellin’ you all’ the.time.”,	-'	.
Maggie .was very7 near to tears. “ What in .the world did you do it for?”
.	‘ ‘ Lemme tell y7ou all about it, ’ ’- cried Homer,
anxiously- wrinkling his brow and extending his .
. hand in deprecation. “One day you went by
l. “One.day you went .by- “So you’re a prize fighter,” went on his r Miller’s restaurant -when Mickey Donlan and inquisitor, scarcely, able to-believe the odious
was a wonder. Anyway, I says ‘that’s the kind of a girl I want for my wife.’ .
‘Fat chance you got,’ Mickey7 says. ‘Only7 the lad that takes to stiff collars like an ole maid takes to cats will slip the ring on Maggie’s finger.”
‘For a woman like that,’ I tells ’im, ’I’d pose, as one of them boys if I thought I could get . away7 with it.’	•	.
“He laughs at me an’ says I could get away7 with it all right, but he was cock sure I didn’t have nerve enough to trv. I was afraid I was too well known, but he told me not to be so damned 'stuck up, that nobody knew me on this side of the city. Weill, to come right down to it, he took'me up to the dance that night and introduced me to you. An’—an’ as I kep’
did tell y7ou—”	.
“That must’ve been the night I thought you was going to propose. I remember now,” Maggie went, on sternly7, “I thought I’d. seen your picture somewhere the very first night I met cha.”	•
“It’s been in the Police Gazette two or three times.”	■
“Oh—well I indignantly. “ watch?”
never read that,” answered she .
‘Where .did you get
“I used, to belong to.the army.” “You wear it ’cause they7 wear army?” ~	.
“Anything that’s, customary,” Homer sheepishly.	"
“You must’ve belonged to the didn’t cha?” -	'
“No,—why?”	’
that wrist
em in the
murmured
navy too,
“You’re always drinkin’ grape juice.” ‘
“My trainers won’t let me. drink anything stronger.”,	;
“Ah ha,” cried Maggie, shaking her head as though she had made a discovery, “they make you come, in yearly every night too, don’t they?” '	’
4 Homer nodded in bitter acknowledgment.
“And they’re the ones that take up your time all-day.” .	- .	.	'
Again Homer assented. ;	,
I was eatingin there. Tasked who you.were truth.. - y •/y ; Y . ' and it took him about an hour'to fell me when . The miserable chap seized at a straw, 'he, mighta said.it alL at'.once ;by-jus’sayin’, you,	‘Yes,'but L.doh’ t fight yery often,” he said,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
241 -
attempting to put the truth in a capsule so she could swallow it more easily. “I’m after the ’ middle-weight championship—an’ I’m gonna get it. Then I’ll retire like most of the champs do.”
“Well, you may be gonna get the middleweight championship, but you’re not gonna get me,” Maggie informed him with a determined bob of her head, disappointment making her forget that such a remark was a trifle premature.
“Aw, Maggie, I thought maybe you wouldn’t let it make any difference!—”
“Well, you estimate yourself too highly. You’d better take another invoice. I don’t want you to ever speak to me again.”
. _ “Aw, Maggie—”
, “You can go your way right now and I’ll go mine.”	'
“Oh, but I’m goin’ to take you home,” he cried in alarm.
“No, you’re not. I guess I can get home alone all right.”
" “But Maggie, listen—”	.
“Don’t chu dare walk with me. Go back!” And Maggie paused in the middle of the sidewalk, her fists resting on her hips. Homer saw that she meant what she said.
“An’ let me tell you one other thing. Shakespeare never wrote ‘Woodman, spare that tree.’ Nor Dongfellow didn’t either. You— you ignoramus!” '	-
With that felling blow she swung about and walked swiftly away. Homer watched her till she turned the first corner, then he went to the two prostrate forms on the sidewalk and gave each one a hearty kick. He felt not the slightest pity for them. Very shortly they would be revived by the cold stone, but feminine love killed by deceit knows no trumpet of resurrection. Slowly and sadly, apparently a direct contradiction to the soubriquet “Battling Ducey,” Homer trudged off into the darkness and snow, exiled from the land of Heart’s Desire.
Next morning as the brothers of the Loaf a Bouta Bar fraternity were gathering for their eye-opener, Mickey Donlan was seated at a table in Tim’s Place with two rather mutilated companions. '
“It ain’t fair,” oneof them was sayin’ “you’re givin’ him two dollars more’n yuh are me.”
“Listen, you,” Mickey replied, shaking his forefinger emphatically, “I told, you. guys that I’d pay you according to the amount you got hurt.: B ill here has two black eyes, a busted mitt, - an’, his face is all cut up. You’ve only . ■ . . •' v . _ ; .' . * / ’ * - „
got one black eye, some skin off .yer knuckles, ah’ a little bump on yer head that you musta got from. droppin’ outa yer cradle. It’s been on yuh ever since I’ve known yuh. You can’t, ring- that in on me as somethin’ mew. JBlack eyes was to be worth two bones apiece. Therefore an’ accordin’ Bill cops th’ extra cash. Ain I right or ain’t I, Bill?”
“He’s right about that, Charlie,” Bill assured the grumbler, who was silenced but unconvinced. .
“You guys are sure Maggie give ’im the goby?” asked Mickey.
“Never surer of anything in m’ life,” cried Bill heartily. “Me an’ Charlie layed there on ' that sidewalk till we damn near froze—that’s what makes m’ voice so hoarse this momin’— but it was worth it. That girl cut him as clean an’ pretty as anything I ever see. She oughta. be workin’ in a butcher shop.”
“An’ that guy Ducey wasn’t satisfied with what he’d done to us already, but when the girl goes off with her nose seekin’ the mountain air he had to come over an’ give, us each another kick. How did you come to. get mixed tip in this business with himKMickey?”
“Well, I tell yuh, I thought if Maggie got acquainted with one of them sissys like she-was hankerin’ after she’d be so rank disgusted-that she’d get the idea out of her head, an’ be ready to marry—ahem—a real man. ’Stead o’ that,. , ~ she falls fer the kid’s soft line, an’ I. had to get you guys to make ’im show himself up. ' I ’spose it was a dirty trick to play on a friend, but hell! anything goes in love an’ war. Besides^ it’s better fer the lad as it is. If he’d a’married- -her first an’ told her he was in the ring after-, wards he’d never had a peaceful day the. rest of his life. Believe me, boys, yuh can’t tell about these women. Solomon was a wise ole boy, they say, an’ he purformed nine hundred experiments in matrimony, but when he got through he knew less’n he did before he started. A weather prophet has an easy job compared to analyzin’ the female charicter. He can make a good guess an’ stick-out his report: ‘Showers to-day and probably yesterday,’ but to stand up an’ say: ‘She’s gonna do this an’ she’s gonnsi do that’ is another thing altogether. They aren’t doin’ it .with any success this season/’
“Ain’t it the truth,” agreed the one whose -purse had fared the better at Mickey’s hand, -signalling.the waiter to. bring three more of the same. ; -	‘	~	.
,	’	the end. ■	~ -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as Second-Class Mail Matter.
Published every Saturday during the School Term at THE UNIVERSITY' OF NOTRE DAME
Terms: $I:SO per Annum. Postpaid
Address: THE EDITOR, NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, Indiana
L.	JANUARY 20, 1917	No. 15.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Howard R. Parker, ’17
Speer Strahan, ’17
F. Jennings Vurpillat, ’18 '
Harry E. Scott, ’17
John A. Lemmer, ’18
Delmar J. Edmondson, ’18
Thomas F. Healy, ’19
Edward J. McOsker, ’17
Michael J. Early, ’17
Stewart H. Carroll, ’17 Charles W. Call, ’iS
T	-
—With the peace parley holding the centre ■ of the public stage and with the .recent election still unforgotten, the question of the Japanese and California ...is being for
A Home the time ignored. The “Jap” for the “Jap.” issue, however, cannot be disposed of except by a sensible settlement of it on the part of the "United States. Japan, is “bothering” the United States because the latter country is naturally able' to put up with “bothering” when it is a question of housing an over-crowded family. Japan has an area one twenty-fourth as large as that of the United States, while her population is six-tenths as great as that of our'country. The State of California is larger than the entire Japan, but the population of the Golden State is but one twenty-second as great as Japan’s. There are 370 Japs to a square mile, 85'-; Americans, 18 Mexicans and 15 Californians to the same area. Thus the family has badly outgrown the home. Japan cannot contain its; people. England, by a system of coloni-.
. zation beyond the seas, has solved the question of congestion. There are eight. British-colonies U in Asia, twelve in Africa, seventeen in America and nine in Australia. Nearly all of the European . countries maintain foreign colonies. With most.
of them colonization is a convenience, with . . Japan'it Js a- necessity. Seemingly the only outlook for Japan, as far as America is con
cerned, is West Mexico./ The country is sparsely settled and would make an ideal home for the yellow men, provided they desire to become Mexican citizens. - At any rate, Mexico is, in the opinion of Americans, at least, a better home for the Japs than California. --------------------------------
Book Review.
Songs of Wedlock. By T. A. Daly. 76 pp. > David McKay, Philadelphia. $1.00.
- From Mr. David McKay comes a volume delicately bound in dove and white, with gold- lettering, and entitled ‘-Songs of Wedlock” by T. A. Daly. Mr. Daly has long been known to a wide public through his sympathetic and whimsical poems on the Italian and Irish immigrant, three volumes of which, “ Car-mina,” “Canzoni,” and “Madrigali,” are clear proof of his genuine lyrical gift. Much of this verse, tender though it was, was felt to be of perhaps an ephemeral interest,, but the present volume has irrevocably placed Mr. Daly in American song. No zdoubt there is a temptation for many a college reviewer .to marshal superlatives in speaking of this collection,- but one believes that there is scarcely any critic having occasion to refer to it who will not commit himself to sincere and generous praise. With the possible exception of a few pieces of a lighter and more fanciful vein, every poem in the book is marked by poetic beauty and exquisite finish. There is so much foulness perpetrated to-day in the name of poetry, so much disgusting ■ lewdness masqueraded under the disguise of holy, love, that it seems almost an event to find a poet who sings .the old and true ideals in so convincing a manner. The gentle lady to whom these verses are addressed is the inspiration of her husband’s richest and, what may.prove to be, his most enduring song.
Mr. Daly’s work’ has much of the grace and tenderness of Coventry Patmore, but Patmore himself could not have sung more beautifully than Daly .in “To a Thrush,” the. prize poem included in this volume. “Inspiration,” “The Gates of Paradise,” and ‘.‘To a Violinist” are all deeply imaginative and tense with emotion, while “The True Vision” is as delicate, fanciful and sure as though Suckling or Lovelace had fashioned it. Lack of space forbids much quotation, but. we make bold to print “Her Music:” After "To a Thrush” it' is perhaps more beautiful than any other single poem In the volume.. -	>.
■	. Her Music.	- -
Thy soul was in thy fingers when they strayed Among the keys at twilight.hour to-night;
Then winging with the. melody they made,
It soared, by mine companioned,, to the height • Where holy Melancholy sat, arrayed _
One length.in gloom and one all golden bright. -Thy-soul returning, .brought but shreds of shade;
Mine filched the golden.light. ,	-
Then when I smiled and would not match thy mood With solemn speech, thou sought’st thy lonely bed.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
But that was hours agone, and thou hast* wooed Forgetfulness with tears so softly shed.
But I! How swift this June-night solitude
Hath poured prophetic sorrow on my head.
Here is my soul stripped bare, Promethean food For one sharp-taloned dread.
Death is a wholesome thing for inward thought, But not for mutual speech, dear heart.	-
Oh! long may Azrael leave us twain unsought;
But when he comes, I pray, not thine the part, Lorn lingerer in years with sadness fraught, .
To scent new-broken earth with such a start
And pang of loss as June’s sweet breezes brought .
To me to-night, dear heart.
Such is Mr. Daly’s achievement. His faith and his love are the springs of his inspiring life and his splendid art. For some years past Mr. Daly has been an annual visitor to Notre Dame and to the lecture platform in Washington Hall. So closely has he kr.’t himself to faculty and students, that he seems to be one c.f ourselves: his success is a matter of personal interest to us at the University. The “Songs of Wedlock” are lyrics of exalted loveliness; they are stamped with an exquisite beauty that is born of the spirit. And after all, is not. this the “volum el rara felicit as”?
Copies may be procured through the University book store. -	Speer Strahan.
- ----------------------- '
Notices.
The coming examinations will be held January 29th and 31st instead.of 30th and 31st as stated in the catalogue. January 30th will be a holiday. This-will, without doubt, be appreciated by both professor and student.
Prize Essays and Graduating Theses in all Colleges must be handed in before May 20th. This includes the Meehan English Essay and the Dockweiler Essay in Philosophy. .
To the Faculty and Students:—■	.
I have been relieved from duty at Notre Dame and ordered to duty in the Quartermaster Cojps at Philadelphia.
. I have had many happy experiences at Notre . Dame and leave with the kindliest feelings of real friendship for you all.
Sincerely, -
'	R. R. Stogsdall,
' Major, U. S. A., Rtd.
The Scholastic is in receipt of a letter from the “Maryland League-for National Defense” offering prizes of $100, $50, $25, and $10 for the best essay of not more than one thousand words on “Universal Obligator}’-Military Training and Service.” ‘
The rules of the contest are as follows:
Essays must not exceed 1,000 words. ■
243
Only one side of the paper is to be used. .
All essays are to be typewritten.	'
The name and address of the author must appear : on the upper left-hand corner of the first page of each essay. '	-I
All essays must be received at the offices of the league,, Sio Garrett Building, before February 15, 1917.
All essays are subject to use by the league. .
Articles and information on the subject will be gladly furnished by the league.
It is desirable to compete for the_ essay by . writing from one view-point rather than to present a general discussion of the subject-
Varsity News.	-	. .
—Mr. Barnes of the Civic Center of South Bend has invited the debating teams of the Brownson and the St. Joseph literary societies ’	’
to hold a debate before the Civic Center in the : near future:	'
—Arrangements are being made for .-the / appearance of. the Notre Dame Glee Club in Orchestra Hall, Chicago, .on the night of Easter .	.
Monday. This will be the first appearance of the club in Chicago. Since the'holidays, the : membership of the club has been increased, and there are now fifty voices in the chorus.
—Arthur H. Hayes, of last year’s class, has ; resigned his place as instructor in the pre- I• paratory school of the University to accept . - . /: a new and lucrative position with the Chicago ~ Herald. “Art” has-already made a name f for y himself as a fiction writer, and his new- serial, .	,
which began--last week, should make a big hit. While regretting to have him leave, we x 1 wish him the greatest success, confident that •	.
he will make good in his. new undertaking. -	:
.—When Mary Pickford is booked to -	'
appear on the screen in Washington Hall we - > can always expect a good night’s entertainment. . ~ ,L Last Saturday’s performance of “Hulda from ‘ Holland” eclipsed anything else presented here ;; this scholastic, year. As Hulda, the comely ;	,
little Hollander, Miss Pickford more than t ’ justifies her popularity on the film stage’. L She is, moreover, supported by an excellent .,-L company, not the least of whom is the “wee. ? little laddie’’-who plays his part so naturally /"LjL and so well. From the vigorous applause it ' JiV: was evident that films , of this, quality are -. TJr4; appreciated.
-. —The Poetry Society met ’on. Sunday last. ’ j The latest issue of the Bulletin of the Poetry., U.jLrJJ
♦	I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC	'	=
244
Society of America was summarized by the director, Father O’Donnell, who also introduced, .in the consideration of new publications, Father P. J. Carroll’s “Songs of Creelabeg,” reading some selections from it. A short talk was given on the work of Robert J. Service, whose “Rhymes of a Red Cross Man” is one of the most popular of “non-fiction” books in all markets. Some twenty original poems were read and discussed. A ballot taken upon these disclosed that the favorites were, “Ike,” by Mr. Thomas Duffy, and “Choice,” by Air. George Haller.” . .
—On Monday evening, Jan. 15th, the first meeting of those who are to try for the debating team was held in the Sorin recreation room. The largest number in the history of the University responded to the call.. Up to date sixty-one applicants have entered for the first pre-' liminaries, which are to begin on February 12th. Father Bolger who has charge of debating gave a short talk in which he explained the question for debate and instructed the new men in the
Indiana Club Organized.
" Arthur “Dutch” Bergman of Peru, Ind., was chosen president 'of the Indiana club, The other officers are: Thomas King, Lebanon, vice-president; Frederick Mahaffey, of Alar ion, secretary; John Rabb, of South Bend, treasurer.
- AIichiganders ‘ Get Together.
At a meeting Tuesday, the Wolverines selected the following list of officers: John A. Lemmer, of Escanaba, president; Edward Dundon, of Ishpeming, vice-president; Gerald Flynn, of Negaunee, secretary; Walter Perkins, of Detroit treasurer; John Hoskins, of Calumet, sergeant-at-arms.
St. Louis AIen Organize.
The following officers were chosen by the St. Louis club: • Prof.' J?. X. Ackermann, honorary president; Daniel F. McGlynn, president; Valda A. Wrape, vice-president; Alax G. Ziebold, secretary; Archibald D. Locke, treasurer.	'
Pacific Coast Officers.
’ manner of holding debates here at Notre Dame.
So far the only debate scheduled is "with • the University of Cincinnati, but other engagements are in prospect. Two teams will represent the University, one negative, the other affirmative. Father Foik has gathered a long.shelf of the best books on Prohibition for the exclusive use of the debaters. The Library will be open each evening until 9 :oo P. AI. H E. S.
'	The' Club Column.	-
y ,	State Clubs Organize. '
'	As plans for the big interstate banquet,
■ to be held some time in February, progress, .new state and sectional organizations are being r formed almost daily.' During the latter part of last .week, the Wisconsin and the Indiana men organized themselves and selected officers, .and the Alichigan students and students from the Pacific1 coast followed their example this ; week. ;	'	A .	-
. ’ J 1 Wisconsin Officers Chosen. .
. / The following men were, selected as officers ; \ ; of the newly .organized Wisconsin Club: Oscar ’	’ J. Dorwin, of Minocqua,. president;. Thomas
J Kelly, of Milwaukee, vice-president; Robert \ y ty Hannon, of Aljlwaukee, secretary.; ; Gilbert ' f -Hand, - of; Plymouth, treasurer; Joe Dorais, ■ of Milwaukee, sergeant-at-arms. -	.
N-C'N ,*• ' 7'-	-	\	/ . - ' - ' \	.
-1-	. -
►. - n.	. r V	tN - - ZN \-*•' "X ' ~N~-- ’■	-A.
The Pacific Coast Club was organized Tues-^.^day. Following are the officers: Howard R. Parker, Woodland, Cal., president; Frank AI..
-Kirkland, Independence, Ore., vice-president; -David Philbin, .Portland, Ore., secretary; AI. J. Phelan, Portland, Ore., treasurer; Biden Daly, Ketchikan, Alaska, sergeant-at arms.
Correspondents Form Club. ~
. The Notre Dame Press Club, composed of correspondents, for the daily papers, was formed . in the journalism rooms last Saturday afternoon, with-the election of the following members as officers for the year: Prof. John AI. Cooneyf director; ' Edward J. McOsker, Elgin, Ill., president; Stuart H. Carroll, Kansas City, Alo., secretary; Leo S. Berner, South Bend, Ind., treasurer.	-	'	-
•-	'■ New Yorkers’ Banquet.
The .Notre, Dame club of New York held a . banquet at-the Hotel McAlpin last Thursday* “ night, according to announcements received -by- The Scholastic. The invitations, which are signed by Angus McDonald, president, state that reservations were in charge of William E. Cotter. “This will be a winner,” says the announcement, ‘‘ surpassing yven the others... Old college songs will be heard again,-and. the memories associated with Alma Mater renewed. Prominent -theatrical artists ..will, entertain.” The invitation rings of • the real N. D. spirit
•-	C-LL'" ’ -	\
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
which characterizes McDonald, Cotter, and the other New York alumni, and this tone,, we imagine, was merely tl?e keynote of the event itself.
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago'Trill hold its annual banquet on the evening of January 27th, 1917, at the Hamilton -Club, 20 South Dearborn . Street, Chicago. - The tickets are $3.00 per plate. An interesting program has been arranged. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., President of the University, will be the guest of honor. Coach Harper will give a resume of the Notre Dame athletic situation and several prominent alumni will speak on subjects of interest to former sons of Notre Dame.
Tickets cap be secured from the following officers of the association: Hon. M. F. Girten, . Room 966 People’s Gas Bldg., Chicago; Mr.
Rupert D. Donovan, 1400 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago; Mr. Fred L. Steers, 1350 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago. '
You should arrange to be present to meet the students of your time and renew old memories and old acquaintances.—E. J. M.
EDITOR’S NOTE.—The Scholastic will conduct hereafter a column of news notes concerning the activities of .organizations at the" University and among alumni. The purpose of this new column will be to-encourage the organization of active clubs, to aid them in their undertakings and to furnish- readers of The Scholastic with the items of interest concerning them. Secretaries of all of the local clubs, as well as of the various alumni associations and Notre Dame city clubs, are urgently requested to send reports of their doings to the editor of The Scholastic or to Mr. Edward J. McOsker, who will conduct this column.
Personals.	-	.
’	—William Draper, star in track and football
of a decade ago, called at the University on ' Thursday.
;—Dr. Franklin B. McCarthy (B. S. Biol,, ’07) is devoting half, his time to research work and * teaching at Rush Medical-College, Chicago. His address is' 5536 Sheridan Road. '	.
-■	... —Mr. Roy T. Collentine. of Monroe, Wis., was
. at the University last week for a short visit with his cousin, Rev. J. Collentine, C. Si C., who is at the Mission House preparing himself , for' missionary work. - .	■
. —The marriage is announced of-Mr. George U Emmett Attley (C. E-, ’10) and Miss Mary Agnes Birmingham. The ceremony took .place .	* in Chicago on January 10th. Mr. and Mrs.
Attley will be at home after March rst, 144 South Cuyler Ave., Oak Park, Illinois. . ..
—We are pleased to note the marriage of Mr. -Harold D. Madden (EL. B., ’15), of Rochester, . -T Minn., to his “St. Mary’s cousin,”Miss Camille . ' Perrung of Cincinnati. The wedding took place in Cincinnati some time in December. ;	'
—The campus was pleasantly enlivened on ' . Wednesday and Thursday by the presence of : Rev. Michael Lee Moriarty^ vice-president . of the Cleveland Latin School, 'Cleveland, : Ohio. “Lee” was the most famous track man . -of his time and was also a member of the Varsity ; football team. His visit was much enjoyed, j .
—Professor Jesse E. Vera (M. E-, ’10; ' E. E., ’n) is rapidly recovering his old health . and strength at his'home in Queretaro, Mexico. . E For a time his condition gave cause for great . alarm among his friends, but a brief respite from all kinds of labor has brought about , complete restoration. "	.
—Paul V. Duffy, who was a junior, in the -School of Journalism last year, is now assistant advertising manager at the Emery Bird, ~ Thayer Co., of Kansas City, Mo. In a letter ; to Prof. Cooney, Paul says that although : “uniting department store ads is very inter- ( • esting,” he will be with us next year, adding incidentally that he is a bit homesick for the 4 old school.	.
—On December 27th, Robert Leonard Roach J . (Ph.- B., ’15) of Muscatine, President of the , Class of 1915, was married to Miss Julia Ramonal Schneider of Iowa City. Bob paid a brief visit. ? to Notre Dame on the return trip to Live Oak, Fla., where he has been living for the past ' year and where he has built his bungalow. . ; May the life journey of the young couple be . . long and happy.	*
—Frederick Palmer, noted European war J correspondent for ' the Associated Press, ’ addressed the faculty and student body of the University in Washington hall Wednesday ?
morning. Mr.
Palmer, who has been, the "most
privileged of the American correspondents, gave us many interesting facts concerning (the manner of fighting in the great conflict. His relation of. his personal experience in a flight from,England to France in a war aeroplane was especially interesting. Mr. Palmer has been on duty with both the Entente and the Central Powers, and he is thoroughly familiar with every phase of the Great War.—E. J. V. J. y I;

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
SERM ON COURSE IV—THE CHURCH AND THE WORLD
'	r
AND
DIRECTORY OF THE STUDENTS’ MASS, JANUARY-JUNE, 1917.
The course of sermons which will be delivered during the coming ..weeks presents the Catholic Church as viewed in her relations with the world. The subject is timely. The world at the present time, when such serious questions as marriage, divorce, the unity of the family, socialism, wealth, poverty, labor, and religious
that Holy Church is not now facing these questions for the first time, but has encountered them again and again; that her guidance in such matters is the safest and surest; and that she alone has received, by divine command, the authority “to teach all nations.”
Following is the list of sermon subjects and
duty, are receiving the attention of everyone, preachers, together with the directory of the			
stands	awed, hesitates, and looks for	light. College	Mass for Sundays and feast-days for
And the Catholic young man must realize the rest			of the year.	*
Date	Subject	"	.	Preacher	Celebrant	"
Jan. 14	■‘The Mission of the Church”	Fr. O’Donnell	'	Fr. Walsh	-
”	21	“The Church and Marriage”	Fr. Bolger	.	Fr. Maguire -
” 2S	“The Church and Divorce”	Fr. Hagerty	Fr. Crumley
Feb. 2	Candlemas: Explanation by Celebrant	-		„ T .	( Fr. Davis -	0 (Fr. J. Burke	.
”	4	“The Church and the Family”	Fr. McGinn	. Fr. Schumacher
”	11	“The Church and the Religious Life”	Fr. E- Burke	.	Fr. M. Quinlan
" aS	/‘The Church and Government”	Fr. Doremus	- Fr. Carrico
”	21	. Ash'Wednesday: Explanation by Celebrant		v	, f Fr. Walsh Fr. Cavanaughs .	.	(,Fr. Schumacher	,
25	“The Church and Socialism”	Fr. McEllione	Fr. McGinn .	-
Mar. 4	“The Church and Secret Societies”	Fr. Hebert .	Fr. Bolger
”	11	“The Church and Labor”	.	Fr. Wenninger	- Fr. T. Burke	.
” 17	“St. Patrick”	Fr. Davis '	' V -nr 1 t. J Fr- T. Burke Fr. Walsh j	_ .	f Fr. Devers
iS		*	Fr. Lennartz
”	19	“St. Joseph”	Fr. Schumacher	ta a,	.	( Fr. Doremus Fr. Maguire 1- „ ,	. s -	( Fr. Hebert
2 5	Passion Sunday: Way of the Cross		. Fr. Maloney
Apr. 1	Palm Sunday: Explanation by Celebrant		ta zt	; f Fr. Walsh Fr. Cavanaugh { Fr Schumacher
” is	Easter .	.	\ Fr. Cavanaugh	Very.Rev. Fr. Morrissev f Ir‘ ^arl ’co .		 t Fr. Lennartz
15	“The Church and the Child”	Fr. Ill ' '	’ Fr. Foik .
”	22	“The Church and Asceticism”	Fr. Lahey	Fr.- Zerhusen
A' 25	Solemnity of St. Joseph	*		ta «	f Fr. O’Donnell Fr. Connors _ .. _ r (. Fr. McEllione
”■ 29	“The Church and-Poverty” /	Fr. Haggerty	-	_ Fr. O’Donnell '
May 6	“The Church and Wealth”	Fr. T. Burke ~	Fr. Walsh	. •	..
’ ”	13	“The Church and Charity” ■	.	Fr. Lennartz'	• Fr. Schumacher ' -	•	-
. ” 17	. Ascension	.	...	Rt. Rev. Bishop	,	ta >a *	, f Fr. Walsh	■ Fr. Cavanaugh S	- (Fr. Schumacher .
' ”. 20	“The’Ckurch and History”	I -	Fr. Walsh .	. - ' Fr: Crumley : .
X'” 27	“The Church arid Progress”	Fr. Carrico	<- Fr. M._ Quinlan .	.	. .
June 3	“The Church and her Enemies” f .	. Fr.'Irving	.	Fr. McGinn -	’ ' .
-	:s»'	I. - f	Corpus Christi-: Explanation by.Celebrant	’		Very Rev.	" f Fr. Walsh , ; . . J Fr. Morrissey ( Fr. Schumacher.
/J”.*. IO	.. Baccalaureate Sunday -	-	;		
1
3
I

- THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
247
Basketball.. -
Scents o’ Humor.
West Virginia Wcslyan	16	Notre Dame	37
South Bend Y. M. C. A.	16	Notre Dame	32 '
Kalamazoo College	32	Notre Dame	30
After doubling the score of our opponents in the first two games of the new year, Notre Dame was nosed out by two points by the .speedy Kalamazoo College team last Wednesday evening.
The West Virginia team furnished the first local inter-sectional opposition of the - year. . - and they returned to the Panhandle region after taking part in a game in which they never had a chance to win. “Dick” Daley wound up his inter-collegiate career by making seven baskets, and McDermott was close behind him with five. Daley was suffering from a painful internal injury during the game, and he has on the advice of his physician withdrawn for the - season. ,
Last Saturday afternoon the local quintet . mixed things with the South Bend V. M. C. A. in the association gymnasium. Captain McKenna, McDermott and Grant played _a good game against the “downtown” boys.
Kalamazoo College was represented here by a crowd of rooters, masculine and feminine, and a good basketball team on Wednesday. McDermott threw three baskets immediately “ after the initial whistle, but thereafter every advantage was on the side of Kalamazoo. The score was 17 to 10 at the half-way interval'. In the last half Notre Dame showed large quantities of the “old fight” that has won fame for her teams throughout the country, and when Timekeeper “Chief”- Meyers fired the gun that ended the toughest battle seen in the Notre Dame “gym” for many a year we lacked just two points of . knotting the score. The lack of a capable successor to Dale}'- at center was the real cause of the defeat. Fitzpatrick, who started the game, and Murphy, who succeeded him clearly gave the best that : was in them, but neither of them could' reason-ably be expected to measure up to' the fast pace set by the blonde ex-captain.	.
Interhall Relay. Racing was revived between the halves of the Kalamazoo game’. Corby defeated Walsh in the “fast time of 1:43 3-5. ’ Degree, Ryan, Whipple, Sjoberg, Lockard, . and Keenan fan for the winners; Kenny, \ Moore, Wrape,Baine, Healy and McConnell carried the baton for the losers.—C. TV. C.
- Phunny Phellows.	-
A mighty queer youngster Is Samuel Strive; ’ . He never has wandered To town on a skive.
Another queer fellow	•
_	Is-Gregory Glass,	-
. Who’s always awake in Ontology class. ***
- - Liberties of the Press;	.
We note by Sunday’s News-Times that McDermott "and McKenna played right field and left field respectively in the Varsity—Y. M. C. A. game last Saturday.	.
Reminds us of the South Bend Tribune story of a mass	, -
meeting held in our gym last year. The esteemed Trib. informed us that Rev. Matthew Schumacher was the celebrant and Rev. M. Walsh was deacon at the mass meeting. -*** _
Such Limericks Make Us Profe!
~ There was a young fellow from Me., Who spent all his coin on a je., But when he went broke She called him a joke	-
And now the poor fellow’s inse.
. Knoonan Knew I
Prof.:—“Mr. Noonan, what is an anchorite?”	..
“Pete”:—“It’s a—a—O, yes, it’s a small anchor.”	-
. *** - -. The Passing Show.	_	.
Lucky:—“Say, hasn’t that girl a beautiful profile?’’	1
Ducky:—“I didn’t notice, I was looking at her face.’’	-
*** ' . .
'	c.
'His Mixed Ologies.
Eddie Moran’s exact words after seeing Jack Young	.
start atticward at the. Lilacs with a flashlight in his .
hand:	-	..	.	. -	.	.
“Oh, look! There goes Aladdin looking for an . ’ honest' man!”-	-	.
*** •
.	'	. Psalm of Strife.	\	.
- . Lives of great men all remind us*	-
That we, too, shoidd not be missed,	' '
And that every month shall find us First upon the ‘dinky’ list.
' ***
JEasy Misquotations. .	. ’
• It’s a wise student that knows his own professor. -	.	.
Missing. ...	.	.7. A
I sing you the dirge of the Carrollites small, -	.	'
My harp’s on a willow for them.	..	' .
. No more does their laughter resound in the hall	j
. Since Mooney has gone to the.“Sem.”—5. H- C-। ;	' '■ '	' ■’ -	- \	4
'	X'-d
_	■"	- -	•	„ - "	i
248	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notice to Contributors.—Those who wish to submit items for the department columns of ^The Scholastic should do so at the earliest possible moment. As a rule, nothing can be gotten into the current issue after the noon of ■ Wednesday.—Editor.
' - :------------------------\
Old Students’ Hall—Subscriptions to January 20, 1917.
The following subscriptions for Old Students’ Hall were received by Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Michigan, treasurer of the building committee:
$2000.00
Samuel T. Murdock. '86.
.	$1000.00
- Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, P. T. O’Sullivan, ’6S; Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, ’75; M. F. Healy, ’S2; John C. Shea, '9S; Clement C. Mitchell, '02; Byron V. Kanaley.'04; Daniel P. Murphy,’95; John P. Lauth • ’68.	.	’
’	$500.00
Robert Sweeny,’03; C. A. Paquette,’90; Rev. John Dinnen,'65: Warren A. Cartier, ’S7; -Stephen B. Fleming, ’90; Thomas Hoban, ’99; Angus D. McDonald, ’oo; William A. Mclnerny, 'or; Joseph M. Byrne, ’79; Cassius McDonald,'04; William P. Breen, ’77; Student from Far West; Rev. I. E. McNamee, '09’; C. C. Craig,’S5; Frank E. Hering, ’9S; Peter P. McElligott, '02; James J. Conway, ’S5; George Cooke, ’90.	"
$300.00
Frank N. Alaas, ’77.	-
$250.00	-
Fred E. Murphy, ’93; John M. Flannigan, '94; John H. Neeson, ’03; Joseph B--Naughton,’97; Peter Kuntz.’98; John H. Fendrich, ’S4; John Eggeman, ’00; A. A. McDonell, 'oo; Eugene A. Delaney, *99; R. A. O’Hara, '89.
$200.00
• W. G. Uffendell, ’01; John O’Shea, ’11; James F. Kennedy, ’94; 1 Louis C. FI. Reed, ’98; Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00; Joseph J.
Sullivan, 02: G. A. Fatabaugh, ’04; Robert Anderson, ’83; Joseph Lantry, ’07; Rev. F. J. VanAntwerp. ’14; John Dowd, ’99. Rt. Rev. Thos. F. Hickey, ’03; Christopher C. Fitzgerald, ’94: F. A. Kaul, ’97; WiUiam Hoynes, '77; Edwin J.'Lynch, ’10; T. D. Mott, . ’95; F. Henry Wurzer, ’9S; Paul R. Martin, ’13; Timothy V.
Ansberry, ’93; John M. Quinlan, ’04; Daniel Madden, '06; Fred J. Kasper, ’04; J. S. Corby, '98; Thomas Steiner, ’99; John F. Cushing, ’06; L. J. Keach, ’08.	-
'	-	$150.00
Rev. Michael Shea, ’04; Ambrose O'Connell, ’07;" William Byrne, ’95; James L- Tong, '94; W. A. Drapet, ’06; James E. Deery, '09.
-	$120.00	,
Maximilian St. George, ’08.
t	$100.00
Oliver J. Tong,’73; Hermann C. R. Piper,’11; Edmund OConnor, " ’93; J- L. Lamprey,’03; Walter Joj'ce/07; GeorgeN. Johnson ;_’g5; William H.Boland, ’88; William J. Granfield, '13; M. O. Burns, '86; Rev. MichaelRyan, ’95; William P. Higgins, ’03; James Frederick Coll, ’89; George J. Hanhauser, ’01; James P. Fogarty, ’00; Rev. John B. McGrath, 'So; John F. Fennessey, ’99; Cyril J. Curran, ’12; Ernest E. L. Hammer,. JO4; Alfred J. Pendleton, '97; Edwin -Wile, ’74; Francis C. Schwab, ’02; Rupert F. Mills, ’14; William H. McCaity, '99; Edwaid J. Glynn, ’11; Frank P. Growley, ’09; Thomas B. Curry, *14; James A. Curry, ’14;- Harry V. Crumley, ’03; Harry S. Cahill,'08; Walter V. Heekin,’05; William McKenzie,'88; Rev.-' Bernard P. Mturay; Mark M. Foote, ’73; Patrick J. Houlihan. ’92;
' E. J. Alaurus, ’93; Thomas J. Swantz, ’04; H. G. Hogan, ’04; Harold P. Fisher, .’06; John B. Kanaley, ’09; James F. Hines, ’09;
_ John B. McMahon, ’09; Rev.’John M. Byrne, ’00; J. H. Gormley, ■- ’03; Thomas'O'Neill, ’13; Robert E. Pioctbr, ’04';- jolin F. O’Con- ' - nell,’13; Frank C. Walker.'09; Rev. Gilbert Jennings,’08; George
O’Brien, *90; Vitus Jones,’02; W. A. Dully, ’08;.Rev. J. H. Guend- • . Jing, ’14; Fred C.-McQueen, ’oo; Charles J. Stubbs, ’88; Rupert ’ Donovan,'q8; Rev.-Francis H. Gavisk,. ’14; Rt. Rev.-Frank ’ , O’Brien, .’95;^ Frank L. McOsker, .’72;. Charles E. Ruffing, ’85; James F. Foley. -’13•' Rt.-. Rev...T. C; O’Reilly, ’09; Thomas J.
'/.Welch;*-’05;, William E.„-Cotter;Zia;-’ John C. .Tully, 'n; Johri F.--O’Connor, '72; <T. P. /6’Sullivan, ’o2;~ G. M. Kerndt, ’82;. Dr.\
Frank J. Powers, ’94; Rev. John Talbot Smith, ’07; Daniel C Dillon, '04; Thomas C. Butler, ’08; Edward M. Kennedy, ’oS; John J. Kennedy, ’09; Peter M. Ragan, ’92; James D. Barry, ’97; Fred L. Steers, ’11; Walter Clements, ’14; Edward J. Cailton, ’16: I.eonard M. Carroll, ’16; Luke L. Kelly, ’16; Frank E. Swift. ’16; C. P. Mottz, ’16; Samuel Ward Perrott, ’16; Edward C. Ryan, ’16; James Fiancis Odem, ’16; Emmett P. Mulholland, ’16; Thomas A. Hayes,'16; Frank J. Hiss,’16; Joseph J. McCaffery,’16; Walter P. McCourt, ’16; M. J. McEniry, ’81; Thomas J. Shaughnessy,’15; James F. O’Brien, '13; Michael L. Fansler, '04; A. C. Fortin, ’01; Daniel J. O’Connor, '05; M. H. Miller, ’10; William D. Jamieson, ’05; Grover F. Miller, '16; Thomas A. McLaughlin, ’16; Edwin H. Sommerer,’16; Joseph O’Sullivan,’16; Jacob E. Eckel, ’16; Vincent Mooney, ’16; John T. Shea, ’06; Edward AI. Schaack, ’93; Anton C. Stephan,’04; Dr. F. B. McCarty.’07; Harry F. McDonagh,’10; Charles W. Lahey, '13; Adam J. Kasper, ’95; George W. Kasper, ’95; Robert A. Kasper, ’07; Charles Girsch, ’94; Gerald A. Fitzgibbon, ’07; John B. Fruechtl, ’04; Hugh J. Daly, ’12; Edward ~K. Delana, ’13; Harry Curtis, 'oS; Charles Cullinan, ’07; Daniel
Cullinan, ’07; Dr. W. P. Grady, ’99; Edgar Crilly, ’90; George S. Crilly, 'SS; James V. Cuningham, ’07; M. H. Miller, ’to; Frank X. Cull, ’oS; Jesse E. Vera, ’10; Walter Duncan, ’12; James W. O’Hara, ’13; Joseph Collins, 'n; Dr. H. G. McCarty, ’12; James Dubbs, ’06; Raymond. E. Skelly, 'n; William R. Ryan, ’11; William A. McKearney, ’08; Maurice J. Breen, ’09; Raymond C. Langan, ’93; Charles A. Grossart, ’96; Edward J. Rauch, ’95; William J. Mooney, Jr., '14; John J. McShane, ’14.
§75-00
John W. Costello, ’12.
$50.00
Rev. J. E. Scullin, ’09; Louis P. Chute, ’92; William Fish, ’12;
J. Clovis Smith, '14; Frank B. Cornell, ’00; Rev. John Schopp, ’94; A. J. Major, '86; Charles Vaughan,’14; Stephen H. Herr,'10; J. N. Antoine, ’70; Rev. Thomas Cleary, ’09; Fred Stewart, ’12; Jay Lee, ’12; Albert -F. Gushurst, ’09; Edward P. Cleary, ’09; Rev. John J. Burke, ’S3; Rev. M. L. Moriarty, ’10; Rev. J. E. Scullin, ’09; Rev. John P. Quinn, ’83; Simon E. Twining, ’13; J. V. Birder, ’13; Cecil E. Birdei,’i4; M. Emmett Walter, ’15; -Ralph Eberhart, ’02; Rev. John M. Gerenda, ’09; Timothy P. . Galvin, ’16; Ray M. Humphreys, ’16; Hugh E. Carroll, ’16;
i Jesse C. Harper; Ronald S. O’Neill,’14; Louis P. Hari,’16; Joseph D. Kovacks, ’16; Patrick Maloney, ’16; J. F. Delpb, ’16; Hugh O’Donnell, ’16; Janies Sanford, ’14; Ira W. Hurley, ’14; Emmett G. Lenihan, ’15; Francis H.-Hayes, ’14; Raymond J. Kelly, ’16; Ernest P. Lajoie, ’15; Rev. P. J. Crawley, '95; Arthur Pino, ’06; William Milroy, ’13; Dr. Robert Frost, '02; Eustace Berry, ’03;	'
A Fiiend from the South; Daniel Shouvlin, ’14; R. B. McCon- _ logue, ’09; Thomas J. Jones, ’03; Twomey M. Clifford, '13; Cletus H. Kruyer, ’12.	i
'J.	.$40.00	.	j
Vi E. Morrison, ’89; Gerard N. Krost, ’04.	- _	|
"	$25.00	.	.	1
John M. Culligan, ’15; Joseph M. DeLone, ’02; Simeon T. | Flanagan, '14; W. B. McLain, ’04; Lawrence Janszen. ’09; Rev. 1 A. A. Lambing, ’83; James M. Riddle, ’13; Henry Hess, '82; Dr. I E. M. McKee, ’06; Robert B. Gottfredson, ’13; Rev. John H. 1 Mullin, ’11; I. N. Mitchell, Sr., ’92; Frederick Williams, ’13; Rev. 1 Joseph Toth, ’11; Joseph M. Walsh, ’14; Max Adler, ’89; John G. « Mott, ’95; Rev. T. O. Maguire, ’09; Paul J. Smith, ’16; 'C. I. a Krajewski, ’16; Joseph P. Flynn, ’16; John P. Conboy, ’i6;- W. W. 3 Turner, '16; Alfred Fries, ’i6;x J. A. McCarthy, ’16; J. Hairy 3 -Sylvestre, '16; Harold P. Burke, ’16; Peter C. Yearns, ’16; Fred 3 M. Pralatowski,’16; Francis J. Kilkenny,’12; Edward L. Figel,’1 r; 9 Thomas J. Dooley, ’97; Mark A;-Devine, ’10; Daniel E. Cooney, 3 ’10; Fremont Arnfield,’12; W. W. Harless, '86; Edwaid J. Walsh, « '00; Thomas Curran; '16; D. D. Myers, Jr., ’00; Dennis Moran, S ’14; Leo F. Welch, ’12.'	'	n
-	.	-	.	•	•	$20.00	♦	9
-	Gabriel Davezac,’94; James R. Devitt,’13; Albert A. Glockner, 9 '16. ■	' -	•	■ . -	-
~	. :§I5-OO	9
Bernard Dutch, ’13.	'	9
-	-	. ' ’	-	"	$10.00	9
■	P. J. O'Connell,’73; Paul T. Markey,’08'; Edward J. Markey, ’c6; 9 Alfred.Vignos, ’95; Andrew L. Shimp, ’91; Frank Niedecken, ’09; 9 Harry Kirki ’13; Louis*Chute, ’92; -J; J. Deasey,’’o6; H. King, '16; 9 - James E."Roach,’16; J. Ei Hogan, ’16;-Frank Maher, ’02.	£
'SS-OQ ~.............  -	■
Robert;!). Murphy, ’or;'.Mark Duncan, ’15; Hiram Halliday, 9 ’06; Claude S...Moss, ’95;. John Bell, ’08; P; M..O’Meara, ’09; * S
: - - - -	/ *	- 1 *	S