Make friends with WINSTON

TASTES
©
!
>5
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.. WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.
N
I
G^S ' Z E u
LIKE A
CIGAkE iTE
SHOULD.'
WINSTON
GOOD'
I Winston
N 8

Enjoy finer filter smoking!
Find out how good filter smoking can be! Make your next pack Winston! You’ll like the flavor, because it’s full and rich-tasting. And just as important — you’ll like the exclusive Winston filter that lets the flavor come through for you to enjoy. Try Winston for finer filter smoking.
Switch to WINSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!
E.E.’s, M.E.’s, A.E.’s, Math, Physics & Chemistry Majors:
Develop & Extend e
Your Capabilities
—At APL Where a Unique Combination of Industrial and Academic Approaches is Applied to R & D Problems
The Applied Physics Laboratory (APL) of The Johns Hopkins University, one of the country’s leading R & D organizations, affords young men of above-average skill and originality unusual opportunities for rapid progress toward (1) professional specialization, or (2) technical administration or operations.
APL is unique in that it is neither an industrial nor an academic organization. Instead it is a composite of both, having drawn freely from the methodologies of each. Because of this, APL has managed to keep in the vanguard, having pioneered the proximity fuze, the first supersonic ramjet engine, and the missilesTERRIER, TALOS and TARTAR. APL has sole responsibility for the Navy’s Bumblebee guided missile program, directs the work of 21
associate and sub-contractors, among them leading universities and industrial organizations.
Location & Facilities
As a result its staff members enjoy an interchange of ideas with members of these various organizations; have access to their facilities, in addition to the wealth of equipment available at APL’s 350,000 sq. ft. laboratories midway between Washington, D. C. and Baltimore, and in Silver Spring, Md. In this environment men of originality and talent flourish. Salaries compare favorably with those of other R & D organizations; staff benefits are manifold, including a strong program of financial assistance for graduate work. For full information contact your Placement Officer or write: Professional Staff Appointments
Representative On CAMPUS
Tuesday, Dec. 4
Contact your Placement Officer today to secure an appointment with the APL representative.

The Johns Hopkins University’ Applied PhysicsLaboratory
8621 Georgia Avenue, Silver Spring, Md.
November 30, 1956
3

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE On the Campus
IDEAL
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
To Fill Your List
Jewelry Longine Watches Religious Articles Personalized Greeting Cards Monogram Sportswear
Luggage Cameras ND Miniature Rings Gift Wrappings All kinds of Books
THIS YEAR GIVE A GIFT FROM NOTRE DAME
The Notre Dame $
Scholastic
Vol. 98 November 30, 1956 No. 9
-	■ - ■	- Q; '
Disce Quasi Semper Victuals	\
Vive Quasi Gras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized ; June 23, 1918.	;
&
CHARLES McKENDRICK Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DAVE THOMPSON
Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER ...			News	Editor
james McDonald ...			Copy	Editor
DAVID KUBAL 		.Feature Co-Editor
JOHN QUAGLIANO ...	..Feature Co-Editor
GEORGE CLEMENTS		Assistant News
JIM DULAN			Assistant News
BOB VONDRASEK			Assistant News
HARRY McKEE			Assistant Copy^
MARSH PIDGEON			Assistant Copy
DON STUHLDREHER.	...Circulation Mgr.
HARRY CONLON			Business	Mgr.
JOHN GLAVIN			Sports	Editor
BOB EARLY			Assistant Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK		Assistant Sports
News Staff : Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, Jack Coughlin, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Karnath, Bob LaMontagne, Jiw< Lenox, Jim Loeffler, Jerry Leppek, Jim Naughton, John O’Hara, Ed Plumly, Walt Rudge, Dave Schwartz, Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Bob Williams, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Pat Defoe, Jim Goethals, Jack Grady, Tom Gugert, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson, Doug Zilliox.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and evamina-tion periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c.
4
The Scholastic
View
team spirit
Tomorrow Notre Dame reaches the end of its most disastrous football season. For the seniors it is a dismal conclusion to four veal's of gridiron activity which began with the undefeated team of 1953. For the freshmen it may •signal a college career filled with many more football setbacks.
We have received a large amount of correspondence concerning the state of the Fighting Irish and the spirit of our student body. Some of these letters have been printed in the Scholastic in previous issues. The gripes ran the gamut from chastising drinking at the games to demands for Terry Brennan’s head.
Neither of the two complaints mentioned above are the reasons for the Notre Dame collapse this year. Nor do believe that a lack of student spirit, however defined, is the cause of the poor 1956 showing. Name another student body that would cheer outside their team’s locker room after 47-14 and 40-0 losses.
After two months of steady use, the argument about the lack of game experience has worn thin. If we could point to progressively improved performances week after week, there might be excuses for seven defeats in nine games. But against Iowa last Saturday, Notre Dame offered only token resistance.
I cannot see the logic behind the statement that, “the students have let the team down.” If anything, the reverse is true.	.
I don’t imagine anyone could analyze the Fighting Irish of this year and correctly diagnose all their ills. But I do think that one factor stands out above the rest.
On any team which is forced to employ so many sophomores, one of the major ingredients necessary for success is the strong leadership given by the veteran players. This year that leadership has been lacking. Some of the older ^performers lost heart after several defeats. The younger squadmen had to provide their own inspiration. Even their enthusiasm petered out at Iowa City.
No student demands that Notre Dame win each and every game. Football is a game, not a way of life. However, each student does demand that his team exert 100 per cent effort toward the game.
If team spirit ceases to match that of the student body, then it really will be time to de-emphasize football at Notre •Dame.	—C. McK.
November 30, 1956
the refugees
The Russian brutality in putting down the Hungarian revolt is shocking a lot of our “America for Americans” citizens to their senses. There is a general sympathetic feeling for the persecuted Hungarians and a desire for the United States to accept as many refugees as possible.
This is a marked change in the attitudes of many Americans who have selfishly insisted on bailing the door of democracy to the peoples of southern and eastern Europe.
United States immigration policy since 1900 has been I largely influenced by a feeling of “Anglo-Saxon superiority.” I As a result, the only sizeable immigration quotas have been | restricted to countries of northern Europe, countries which I have used these quotas least.	|
That this Anglo-Saxon superiority is a myth must cer-	|
tainly be evident to all intelligent Americans. Not only is	|
the idea inane, but the nationality composition of the 160	I
million people in this country shows only a minor percentage	i
of descendants of the so-called Anglo-Saxon race. And this	|
has been true since the beginning of the century.	I
Yet the myth continues to exert its influence. It has | been embodied in the universally criticized McCarran- I Walter Immigration Act which regulates, or rather restricts, i the flow of oppressed people into our free country. In the | eyes of these people Americans must seem a very selfish | breed.	I
Many stories have been published	about the Hungarian	I
refugees who have recently been allowed to enter the United I Orf	R
States. All any of them wanted was a chance to live in free- | dom. One of the stories related how a young Hungarian	|
looked down from a high window in a Chicago building	1
and marveled at the bright windows and the hundreds of	8
automobiles he saw below him. He was amazed to leam	1
that each person driving one of those cars owned it too.	|
But I wonder what he felt when he thought of the rest of I his people back in Hungary, knowing that the United States I held open her arms for only 214,000 of them.	j
It is small wonder that the United States has lost pres-	|
tige. We are the greatest country in the world materially,	I
and the campaign slogan of “peace and prosperity” has	I
been heard all over the earth. But while our peace and •	|
prosperity is held up for all to see, so is our attitude that we	|
are keeping it all for ourselves.	|
The United States is badly in need of ways to demon-	I
strate our good faith and to restore confidence in democracy.	|
One of the greatest steps forward we could achieve in this regard would be a realistic revision of our immigration laws.
-J. N.
5
MEN WITH SUCCESS IN
KNOW THE VALUE OF
BEING WELL-DRESSED
Success is made up of a number of things. Mostly, we are told, it is a result of hard work. There are many other factors too, not the least of which is a good appearance. Because the clothes that you wear makes up 90% of what others see of you, the right clothes are important to men with success in mind. The right clothes for you are at the Campus Shop. Gilbert’s buyers search the markets of the world to bring you the smartest styles, finest fabrics, most skilled tailoring and 2 wide selection o
of famous Brand Names. Come in now .for vour selection.
DRESS RIGHT . . . You can't afford not to!
On the Campus—Notre Dame

6
The Scholastic
I
PAY
PAY
PAY
MAR

BUY NOW . . . CHARGE IT THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY . . .

If you have success in mind, now is a good time to check on your appearance. The easiest way to do this is with a trip to the Campus Shop. Select what you want now (have a new wardrobe for the holidays ahead) and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in February, one-third in March and one-third in April. Naturally, there is no carrying charge. Do it now . . . look vour .	.00	.
best!
DRESS RIGHT ... You can't afford not to!
November 30, 1956
7

A BRITISHER SPEAKS
Editor:
Good to read you on Suez. May a Britisher comment?
1.	Personally, agreed that Eden-Moi-let not Britain-France, please, made a moral and diplomatic mistake.
2.	It was preceded by an Eisenhower-Dulles mistake of losing initiative in the Middle East. Why does the U.S. have a Secretary who has never kept the confidence of European Allies?
3.	Talk of imperialism (what you mean by “greedy action”) is stupid. Note developments in British and French & “empires” in the 'last ten years. Suez is as vital to Britain as railroads were to Western U.S.
4.	You do not know whether Britain and France prompted Israel to attack Egypt or not.
5.	The American public is badly informed on foreign events (observe our local read-see-hear idiocies). Travel teaches that the public Of any one country receives distorted news.
6.	Recriminations won’t help. Clearly, Britain and France treated the U.S. shoddily re: communicating intentions; and conversely, re: condemnation of loyal allies in two desperate wars, plus moralising a la Woodrow Wilson. Friends show their mettle by doing constructive things.
7.	I pray, too—that the Administration will find resolute policies to make ® the U.S. unequivocally leader of the Western world, and not “endanger the welfare of the free world” with confused indecision (Cf. “Users Association, by F. Dulles); “peace, by smoothingthings over and being friends with everybody” (by D. Eisenhower; White House Press.)
Arnold McKee
Department of Economics
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
EVERYBODY IS READIHG the IITIM1 ISSUE of the “J Iff Iff’ oi sale row at the Cafeteria aid Bookstore
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
8
The Scholastic
•by Bryan Woods
the art of wasting time
In order to find out just what are the most common ways of killing an afternoon around here without taint of work or study, I decided to take a survey. I selected a number of gentlemen who might be considered typical. Below I have transcribed the results of that survey.
a The first Domer I visited was a philosophy major. I entered the room and found the shades down and the subject sprawled on his sack. '
“Hunh, whasamatta, whosat?”
“I’m taking a survey. How do you spend your spare afternoons?”
“I lie down here on my sack and get comfortable and shut my eyes and think! What else should a philosophy major £ be doing?”
My next visit was to a finance major. As soon as I adjusted to the smoke and could see across the room, I asked if my boy was there.
“Who dealt this mess? This isn’t a . hand, it’s a foot. Hey, Chuck, you here somewhere?”
“Yeah, I think somebody came in.” • “Well go over and look. This smoke is a little thick.”
“Who sent you, stranger, and what’s the password?”
“Nick, the Greek.”
“That was last week, but I guess you’re okay. What do you want?”
“I’m taking a survey of what guys
November 30, 1956
do in their spare time. I picked you as a representative commerceman.”
“We’re having a seminar' in Money and Banking. Care to sit in for an hour or so?”
“Well I admit I’ve always been interested in a few of the more practical applications of Money and Banking. Deal.”
Next on my list were two chem majors. I knocked, but no one answered, so I just walked in. The room was crowded but they were too busy to notice me at first. The floor was littered with pots and kettles, in which they seemed to be cooking something. There were all sorts of brass tubing, all coiled up, and running from one can' into another. There were also a couple of bushel baskets of corn over in the corner.
“Ed, we’re all out of rubbing alcohol bottles; run over to Alumni and swipe a case of empties from next to the coke machine, why don’t you?”
“Okay, be light back. Oh, here’s somebody at the door. Customer, may-me.”
“Well come on in, buddy, you’re just in time. Just ran across a couple pints left over from October. Guaranteed a month and a half old. Only a buck.”
“Oh, I don’t want to buy anything. I’m just taking a survey. What do you men do in your spare time?”
“We’re conducting an experiment, you
might say. We’re studying some of the interesting chemical reactions which occur when we subject corn and certain other grains to certain processes.”
“How’s it coming?”
“Oh, the results are, uh, most gratifying. Here, try a sip.”
“Say, that is interesting. You say you have a couple pints of the, uh, byproducts of your experiments? I’ll take ’em. And wrap them as a gift, please.”
Unfortunately, I was forced to discontinue the survey at this point. A couple more rooms like that and I would have had to auction off my roommate’s clothes and books too. As it is, I got such a good price for the record player that I’m almost Solvent again.
IN CASE YOU HAVEN’T NOTICED
Once again you can watch the “Indianapolis 500” time-trials right out at the Circle. The bus strike is over. . . South Bend had snow for Thanksgiving. First time since 1955 that it snowed here in November. How about that? . . . A certain sports columnist for the Sun-Times picked Iowa over Oklahoma for No. I. I’m surprised you didn’t put Northwestern up there too, Gene . . . . Elvis won another fight. I hear he’s going to get this year’s trophy at the Bengal Bouts as the guy who contributed the most to boxing in 1956. . . . The local roundballers open in the fieldhouse next week. They’re cooking up this year’s popcorn supply right now.
1
Gives you more to enjoy
Quality Tobacco, Real Rltration Full King Size
£


I the taste is great I
f^ertipTAREYTON
© A, T. ca	FRODHCT OF t?
AMERICA'S UADJHG MANUFACTURE* OF CtGAMETTBS
10
The Scholastic
Scene
FOUNDATION SEEKS FULL STUDENT SUPPORT
$
Drive Opens Monday For Token Donations
One cubic inch of earth from beneath the Golden Dome.
This is the offer macle Notre Dame students during the third annual student Foundation Week which begins ’Monday according to Foundation Week ^Committee Chairman Dave Mann.
In return for the earth, sealed in a plastic container, the committee asks a donation of any amount from students. “A dime, a nickel, a few pennies—any amount the student can give is sufficient,” Mann emphasized. “The object
Tate Added to Faculty ®As Visiting Professor
Allen Tate, poet, critic and professor of English at the University of Minnesota, has been appointed a visiting- professor at the University of Notre Dame for the spring semester beginning- Jan. 28. The announcement was made recently by Bev. Phillip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president of academic affairs.
£ Professor Tate, who currently is in India on a State Department cultural mission, will join the faculty of Notre Dame’s English department under the auspices of the University’s Distinguished Professors program.
He will teach literary criticism, a graduate course, and an undergraduate course entitled, “From Pope to Johnson.” He is the author- of The Forlorn ^Denton, The House of Fiction, On the ^Limits of Poetry, and more than a score of other works.
A native of Clarke County, Ky., Professor Tate was educated at Vanderbilt University. He has been a faculty mem-i ber and lecturer at the University of I Minnesota since 1951 and at the University of Chicago, New York University, Princeton University, the University of ^North Carolina and Southwestern College.
In addition to his teaching and writing, Professor Tate served as editor of the Sewanee Review from 1944 to 1946 and of Poetry and Belles Lettres from 1946 to 1948. Earlier, he was advisory editor of The Kenyon Review. He held ^the Chair of Poetry of the Library of '-•'Congress during 1943-44.
November 30, 1956
of Foundation Week is not the money, but 100 per cent student support of the Foundation work and familiarization of students with the Foundation."
In addition to the container of dirt, students contributing receive a pamphlet describing work of the Notre Dame Foundation and a souvenir card certifying that the dirt was taken from beneath the Golden I tome.
Student Foundation Week is a Student Senate sponsored activity, in cooperation with the Hall Presidents' Council and the hall councils. Contributions from on-campus students will be handled thrugh the hall councils to facilitate contact with all students. The contacts will continue all week, Mann said.
Off-campus students have been mailed letters enclosing a student Foundation Week pamphlet and a letter explaining the Foundation and the purpose of Foundation Week. In each letter is an addressed envelope for return of contributions to the committee.
The first student Foundation Week, held in the 1954-55 academic year,
FINAL BRIEFING
Father Cavanaugh, Chairman Mann check signals.
achieved 93 per cent participation of students. Last year this was increased to 98.4 per cent participation, and this year the committee is striving for l<)0 per cent participation of students in the drive.
Assisting Mann on the committee are-Bob Toland, freshman representative; Larry Richart, sophomore: Gene Salem, junior; Burke Cueny, senior; Mike Kuras, off-campus: and Kuras and Neil Ball, publicity. Mr. Alan Powers, a regional representative of the Notre Dame Foundation, is advisor to the committee.
The Notre Dame Foundation handles all gifts to the University. It was organized in 1947 by then University President Rev. John J. Cavanaugh. C.S.C., who now heads the Foundation. The Foundation set as its goal a collection of S2-5 million by 1958 to finance approximately 30 per cent of the annual budget not covered by tuition, a Faculty-Development program, and construction of much needed buildings on the campus.
Since 1947, over three-quarters of that (Continued on page 33)
NSA Regional Assembly Opens Tomorrow; Constitutional Revision Studied by Committee
Delegates from 15 colleges and universities in the Ohio-Indiana region of the National Student Association meet for a regional assembly in the LaFor-tune Student Center tomorrow at 10 a.m.’The meetings will continue through Sunday.
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vicepresident of student affairs for the University-, and Pat Logan, Notre Dame student body president, will welcome delegates to the campus. Bob Kiley, Notre Dame senior and NSA regional chairman, and other Notre Dame students on the regional executive committee will act as hosts for the meeting.
Group discussions in three categories will be held Saturday night and Sunday in the Student Center. The categories include educational affairs, led by Jim Steintrager of Notre Dame; student government, by Ann Hopkins of Ursuline; and international affairs, by Roberta Meserve from Oberlin. The international affairs group will discuss particularly the Hungarian situation.
Jon Boss, from Denison, will conduct the program for non-member schools. Kiley said that a representative of Educational Travel, Inc., which conducts NSA trips abroad, will discuss with travel directors procedure for coming trips.
Tentative plans for a leadership semi-
ND Sweeps Top Honors In Moot Court Reqionols
Members of the Notre Dame Law School swept the honors of the regional ' eliminations of the national Moot Court ■ competition in Chicago on Nov. 8.	" "
Patrick Berrigan, Lewiston, N.- Y.; Wayne Kent, Evansville, Ind., and Law- . rence Kane, Jr., seniors in the Law School, argued four times and won four times. They did not receive a “bye” in any of the rounds, according to Tom Ryder, director of public relations for the Moot Court.
Among the schools involved in the competition were Chicago, Kent, Northwestern, and Loyola of Chicago. Loyola received second place and will travel to New York with Notre Dame for the national competition during the first week of December. The competition is sponsored by the Young Lawyers’ committee of the New York City Bar asso- -ciation.
The topic discussed involved a plea of insanity as a defense in a criminal prosecution. . ;
nar, to be held in February, and an international relations seminar in March will be made during the assembly.
Saturday night, a banquet and dance for assembly delegates will be held at the LaSalle Hotel, and Sunday morning the group will have a breakfast in the Morris Inn. The assembly closes with a plenary session Sunday afternoon, during which resolutions Avill be passed concerning objectives decided on in the commission sessions.
Schools attending the assembly include Youngstown, Oberlin, Earlham, Notre Dame College, Marian, Antioch, Fenn, St. Mary’s of the Woods, Ohio State, Ursuline, John Carroll, Wilberforce, Denison, St. Mary’s College and the University of Notre Dame.
GENERAL GRUENTHER ■ Laetare Medal Winner
Gruenther to Receive Laetare Medal Dec. 4
Gen. Alfred M. Gruenther, who relinquished his post as supreme allied commander in Europe last week, will receive the Notre Dame Laetare Medal for 1956 at a special ceremony in the Drill Hall at 8:30 p.m., Tuesday. All -students are encouraged to attend the ceremony.
The former NATO commander, who will become president of the American Red Cross when he retires from the Army at the end of this year, will deliver a major address at the event.
Gruenther is the fourth military figure to receive the Laetare medal, which has
J
?
i2
been presented annually since 1883 to • g an outstanding American Catholic lay- ; man. The medal recipient last year was i George 'Meany, president of the AFL- ; CIO.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will confer the honor on General Gruenther at the . ceremonies.	■
When the soldier-statesman was^ named to receive the award last year on Laetare Sunday, March 10, he was cited by Fr. Hesburgh “for his virile spiritual life” and as one who “personifies the military power and the spiritual strength which are the western world’s bulwark against the Communist tyranny.”
The Laetare Medal, generally regarded as the most significant annual award conferred upon Catholic laymen in the United States, has been presented to 59 men and 15 women during its existence. Among recent recipients are Diplomat Jefferson Caffery, Thomas E. Murray of the United States Atomic Energy commission, actress Irene Dunne, Gen. Joseph Lawton Collins, philanthropists I. A. O’Shaughnessy and John H. Phelan, and former Postmaster General Frank C. Walker.
Election Date Chosen For Frosh Hall Voting
Election of freshman hall presidents and representatives will be held Thursday, Dec. 13 in the freshman halls from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 p.m. to^ 6:30 p.m. Election Committee Chair-* man Bernie McGowan announced that nominations opened Wednesday, Nov. 28 and will close Sunday, Dec. 9 at 6 p.m.
Nomination forms are available at 1 Sorin Hall. All nominations must contain ja. minimum of 25 names and addresses. Candidates must possess satis. factory. disciplinary records and must . be able to serve one complete academic^, year. Nominating petitions must be re-^ turned by the deadline to 1 Sorin Hall, together with a full account of any campaign expenses incurred by the candidates. Campaign expenditures must not exceed a total of $15.
Only the hall presidents and representatives will be voted upon in this election. Other hall offices will be decided by vote of the hall council. The^) preferential ballot will be employed in the election. This requires the voter to choose the candidates in order of preference by placing “1” next to his first choice, “2” beside his second choice, and so on for all the nominees. This system is used because it decides the candidate who is most acceptable to the^. majority.	*
12
The Scholastic
THE IMPERIAL CROWN CONVERTIBLE COUPE
The Designs of a Designer
by VIRGIL M. EXNER
Director of Styling, Chrysler Corporation
Essentially, an automobile stylist is a purposeful doodler. That’s the first definition given when anyone asks me how a designer goes about styling an automobile. There’s much more to car designing than deliberate doodling, of course. But, taking steps in sequence, a rough sketch usually is the first visual expression of a new styling idea. You’ll notice that the type of doodling mentioned here has been carefully qualified. Unlike the idle scribbler who draws a series of unrelated objects while his jmind is occupied with other thoughts, an automobile stylist deliberately tries to transform his mental image of a car’s design into a series of related sketches. The basic lines of our 1957 car's originated in this way about four years ago.
While skill with the sketch pad is a necessary attribute, the automobile stylist of today must be considerably more than an artist. He is expected to be part
engineer, cost specialist and manufacturing expert. He must also be a psychologist in determining what motivates people to buy and in anticipating which styles will sell.
Having applied all of these considerations, together with the creative and artistic talents which are basic requirements, our stylists planning the 1957 models concluded that the American public would welcome a further extension of the Forward Look in automobile design which the company introduced in 1955.
In 1953, we based our projection of what would appeal to the public this fall on a careful analysis of the form and color of objects Americans were buying for their homes and offices. In addition, we noted what features of our several “idea” cars were best liked by the public. As many of you, who have attended auto shows or your own engineering open
house, well know these “idea” cars, embodying our concepts of advance automobile styles, have been placed on display in various sections of the nation to give us the benefit of the public’s reaction to them.
Our surveys of home and office furnishings showed that sculptured shapes, having little ornamentation, and low, sleek contours, were increasing in popularity. Also, that color preference definitely showed a trend toward softer hues, and that muted patterns were gaining in favor in the fabric field.
The basic design of our 1955 cars— which were then off our drawing boards and approaching the production tool-up stage—were right in step with this trend in the shape of things preferred by more and more Americans. From our “idea” cars came the sloping hoods and high rear fender fins characteristic of our 1955 and 1956 Plymouth, 'Dodge,
November 30, 1956
13
THE LINCOLN PREMIERE
DeSoto, Chrysler and Imperial cars. These styling features provide lines which naturally are further beautified by additional sculptured surfaces and lower contours.
Our guiding principle in designing the 1957 models was to match every part of the design to the function of an automobile.
For example, our high sweeping rear fins—in addition to accenting the aerodynamic design of our 1957 cars— have been shown in wind-tunnel tests to contribute measurably to the stability of the cars in severe crosswinds at normal highway driving speeds.
When setting out to design a new model, my staff and I keep in mind that automobiles have a common need— streamlining for greater freedom in motion. Nature accomplished that' with a unity of form which designers have been trying to match.
Also, we study the creations of designers in other fields who obviously have the same nature-inspired source. I refer to the naturally sleek streamlining of certain aircraft, speed boats, racing cars, guided missiles and rockets.
Fundamental to these shapes are tapered noses, upswept tails, or fins, and “tumble home”—a stylist’s term meaning body lines which curve inward at the top and bottom.
Because so much shape is built into our 1957 cars, only a minimum of chrome and other ornamentation is needed. This again, was in step with the trend toward simplicity and natural elegance. In addition, it is felt that bright color is unnecessary to bring out
highlights which are sculptured right into the steel. Interiors are tastefully styled to accent and complement exterior shape and color.
By using the skills, tools, materials ■.and experience which were not available when we styled our earlier models, we were able to further develop the 1955-56 styling concepts.
That was how we “saw” 1957 cars in the fall of 1953. So far, we have been concerned mainly with beauty. However, automobiles must, first of all, be practical machines—efficient, comfortable and safe.
Hands and machines sometimes cannot produce what the mind, primarily concerned with beauty, conceives. It is easy to bend metal in the mind’s eye and reduce it to a drawing or a clay model, but something else again to bend metal exactly the same way millions of times
in a huge, impersonal stamping machine. .
For instance, we may want to reduce -the height of the car for greater beauty and increase the slope of the hood to maintain the proper proportions. But, where would the beauty be if we had to . cut holes in the roof for the passenger’s heads, or if the carburetor and air cleaner poked through the hood?	’
What I’m getting at is that volume -, : produced products, like the automobile,"* ; can take on greater beauty and unity of design only as fast as technical skills and production techniques make it possible to accommodate all the components within the new shape.
Merely to “accommodate” is not enough, however. More important than fitting everything into the new body shell is the necessity of creating a better all-around vehicle. Ways must be found • to improve function as well as appearance, if the automobile is to be competitive in today’s market.
Translating our ideas into finished automobiles was made easier by the teamwork practiced at Chrysler Corporation. We all knew each other’s problems and we all were looking toward a common objective—a better performing car made more beautiful by a truly _ American concept of elegance in automobile styling.
These inter-related problems were discussed at meetings with executives in charge of the various divisions. Our plans were formalized and the target date set for the fall of 1956, when the 1957 models would be unveiled.
It is not possible to detail here the fantastically complex problems that had_ to be solved in order to bring forth ~ these completely new cars—such problems as inventing new ways of doing things, building expensive new machines, developing new manufacturing processes, etc. However, to give some idea of the complications involved, I’d like to mention briefly the chassis-suspension-styling challenge.
14
The Scholastic
£ Chassis engineers were working to perfect stronger frames, suspension engineers were developing a whole new system to improve riding comfort and road stability and stylists were trying to find ways of lowering the roof in line with contemporary ideas of beauty, while, at the same time, retaining desired interior dimensions.
Putting all of our ideas together we W were able to do these things by designing new frames and a suspension system that would also pennit a dramatic reduction in the car’s over-all height. That type of coordination was extended through hundreds of components which must perform dependably, yet fit the new over-all shape so that an integrated automobile results.
From the stylists’ full color drawings, called renderings, we translated our ideas into clay models exactly 3/8 the size of an actual automobile. Upon approval of these small reproductions, we created full-sized cars in clay in which all of the major surfaces and shapes could be seen! exactly as they would appear in production automobiles. About six months are required for this step and it marks the last time in a new car’s development when major design ® changes can be made. Minor changes are made, however, right up until about six months before the beginning of production.
Plaster molds are taken from the fullsize clays, then laminated fiber glass is laid up in the plaster mold to produce the full-scale plastic mock-up which is the next stage in new model development. Patterns for hammer forms, constructed of hardwood, are taken from sections of the mock-up. Metalsmiths then shape steel panels for hand-built prototype cars on these wood forms which also serve as a guide for shops that build the tools and dies used in actual production.
About a year remains now before the millions of dollars worth of new tools and machines will be in place to begin
THE DESOTO FIREFLITE
the volume production of the new models. During this period, the prototype automobiles—'the components of which already have been thoroughly tested in our laboratories—undergo rigorous road trials.
Hundreds of thousands of miles are covered during this process at our 4,000-acre proving grounds, in addition to testing on highways throughout the nation in all climates and over all types of roads. When the cars have successfully completed their tests we know they will give dependable service.
It is a tremendous thrill for all of us who have had a hand in developing a new model to see the first cars roll off the assembly lines. However, the edge to that thrill is somewhat dulled for us —because we are always concentrating on the future. In fact, we sometimes call ourselves “the loneliest people in the automobile business”—that’s because, unlike those in the sales or production end of the business, we can’t tell people (in very specific terms, at least) “what we’re doing now.”
We’ve barely had time to reflect on
all the styling and engineering advances our 1957 cars represent. Instead, we are busy putting the finishing touches on next year’s models, getting others into clay, swaddling clothes and doodling around with sketches of what your car will look like in 1961.
I can’t say what shape our cun-ent doodles are taking, of course. However, we can be sure that shape and function will have the same inter-relation as they have had in the past.
What will the function of an automobile be in the future? Well, some of the industry’s forward planners have expressed some farsighted thoughts on this subject. Some believe automobiles may evolve into three specialized types.
One of these might be a large, luxurious Highway Cruiser for safe intercity transportation. The second type could be the Urbanite which would combine maximum passenger space and maneuverability in a small package. Design simplicity and medium performance would be its hallmarks. The third type could be a sports car for travel over secondary roads to recapture the thrill of driving for pure fun.
As some auto visionaries see them, the Highway Cruiser would be somewhat longer, lower and wider than today’s cars. With a much lighter, somewhat smaller, power plant than we know today, it might have rear engine drive to give a flat floor and more optimum aerodynamic cleanness and sealed because the vehicle would be air conditioned. The vehicle would be highly streamlined for minimum power requirements and also for stability in motion.
There are prophets today who see the solution to the manifold problem of car control and safety through the use of electronic and electro-mechanical devices for obstacle warning, deceleration, and guidance.
One possibility which has been ad-
November 30, 1956
15
.-r jw^w***
Vanced might be an electro-magnetic field strip laid in the highway surface, furnishing a guidance signal which can be sensed and amplified into steering commands to produce directional steering control of the vehicle. This would maintain vehicle direction on curving roads, in cross-winds and around other vehicles traveling in the same direction. When integrated with the obstacle approach warning- appartus, this device could transfer the vehicle safely into the passing channel, with speed and necessary traffic delay being automatically controlled during the passing maneuver.
Putting the car on the guidance beam would merely involve driving onto the highway under manual control, perhaps with the assistance of an audio warning signal for approaching vehicles, setting the desired speed and direction, and picking up the beam appropriate to the speed lane selected by indicator light or perhaps another audio signal from the beam receiver. The vehicle would carry on until returned to manual control upon turning off the highway oi- until brought to a stop by automatic cut-off at the highway terminus or upon approaching an obstacle.
The passenger compartment, some forward planners believe, would have spacious accommodations for six people, with movable seating, instantly locked in place by an emergency warning system, coupled to the obstacle warning and deceleration controls, and a transparent roof. Some designers rule out the steering wheel as we know it today, and believe manual guidance might be accomplished with a small lever.
Although high acceleration would not be one of the necessai-y attributes of this vehicle, because of its size, weight will still be a problem in its design. The solution here might lie in an extensive use of light metals and new structural techniques. It also is conceivable that a
different type of glass would be used, something with more structural strength and less weight. Some stylists expect to depend on this for structure above the belt line. For privacy and sun protection they secretly hope for such radical solutions as activation of a molecular film in the glass structure.
The Urbanite would be a smaller, less complicated car, probably not so removed in concept from the cars we know today according to the forward planners. Tt would have capacity for four people in fixed seats, and might be about the size of today’s low priced cars, although probably lower in height. The power plant may be located in the rear to give a flat floor. The drive will be to the two rear wheels only. This would be a medium speed car for general use.
Acceleration will be one of its main features, so light weight will be important. Again, the solution may lie in extensive use of light metals both in the body and in the drive train, and the ultimate in streamlining for low poser requirement.
The car undoubtedly would be equipped with many power controls and, if not with automatic guidance control, perhaps with obstacle warning devices. The medium cruising speed would limit it to the assigned speed lane of the expressways when it travels on them, but generally the vehicle would be used for running errands in suburban areas. This car also would be air conditioned and quite possibly would have a transparent roof. The use of new types of structural glass might make this possible.
The specification of the sports car is left to your imagination. We can be certain that it will be highly maneuverable and will have manual controls, high power-to-weight ratio, and outstanding roadability.
The visionaries feel interiors of these
cars, in addition to offering comfort and ,* z. safety, would offer durability and color effects beyond anything we know today ■ through the extended use of synthetic h fibres and moulded, or rolled, or ex-	'
traded shapes of new miracle resins	■'
upon which chemical research is even now at work.	•	-
It is unthinkable that we should not see equally wonderful improvements in	’
manufacturing methods. Automatic ma-	;
chine tool cycles, electronic and punched t card scheduling of operations and con- : trol of machine processes could make 1 possible volume production with broad flexibility. All of these and many more processes properly applied would make possible the maintenance of the high degree of uniformity and reliability that will be required of these complex mechanisms.
Although much of the above may sound visionary, nothing here is really outside the scope of present day knowledge; in fact, many of these developments are already in use in other fields. They require only some basic applications studies and cost reduction work to make them feasible for automobiles.
No part of the automobile mentioned here has not undergone at least as great a change in the last 25 years as those described above. We are living in a universe which is expanding- intellectually as well as physically and the rate of this expansion is constantly accelerating under the pressure of human need and scientific research.
Viewed through today’s perspective, : yesterday’s achievement becomes the yardstick by which we mustfmeasure tomorrow. Certainly, today’s cars, viewed by yesterday’s standards, would be un- 1 believable. It is understandable, therefore, that we cannot envision the cars a quarter of a century away if we try to imagine them in terms of today’s think- J ing and products.
THE CHRYSLER NEW YORKER
Kmiujuanm

16
The Scholastic
*P<zbitoi the yeah
John F. Kennedy
by Frank Spiering
ON THE COVER: John F. Kennedy ^greets our readers as the Notre Dame ‘Patriot of the Year.’ Each year the senior class votes to elect a man who has shown himself to be a true patriot of his country. The Senator from Massachusetts will address the graduating class, Feb. 22, when he will accept the honor. Last year Curtis LeMay, General of the Air Force, was ^the selection.
One of the youngest and most colorful figures in today’s political scene is a soft-spoken young Democrat named John Fitzgerald Kennedy. In the last thirty-nine years he has carved a substantial niche in the minds of the American people. At the present time he is serv-£ ing his first term as United States Senator from Massachusetts.
Senator Kennedy, one of a family of nine children, was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, in the shadow of greatness. His father, Joseph P. Kennedy, served as Ambassador to Great Britain, as Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and as Chairman of the Maritime Commission. His mother is the daughter of the former Mayor of ™ Boston, John F. Fitzgerald. Another grandfather, Patrick J. Kennedy, was a member of the Massachusetts House-of Representatives and the State Senate from East Boston. A brother, Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr., a Navy Pilot, was killed in action in Europe and was awarded the Navy Cross posthumously.
Kennedy attended public schools in Massachusetts in his early years, and then he entered Harvard University. After his graduation from Harvard in 1940 with honors, he entered the Navy. Serving as a PT boat Commander in the South Pacific during World War II he suffered serious injuries when his PT boat was rammed by a Japanese destroyer during an action in the Solomon ™ Islands. In March of 1945, he was re
November 30, 1956
tired for injuries by the Navy, and was awarded the Purple Heart and the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for gallantry in rescuing his fellow crew members.
After the war Kennedy was a writer and a newspaperman. He represented the Chicago Herald-American at the San Francisco Conference and in 1945, he covered the British elections and the Potsdam Conference for International News Service.
In November 1946, Kennedy was
elected to the House of Representatives where he served with such capability, that, in 1952, the people of Massachusetts, who in the past had continuously supported the Republican administration, elected Kennedy over the incumbent Henry Cabot Lodge (Now representing the United States in the United Nations) by over 70,000 votes. This landslide was distinctively remarkable as Kennedy
received the highest vote ever given to a candidate in either party for the United States Senate in the history of Massachusetts.
Charged with ability, this energetic young man subsequently set records in the Senate which have rarely been equaled. In 1954 Senator Kennedy led the battle for adequate standards for Unemployment Compensation Benefits. This bill was badly defeated by Republicans and Democrats alike, but it inspired the St. Louis Post Dispatch to label him as a vigorous friend of the less fortunate.
In 1954 he inaugurated a three year battle to revise and strengthen the laws against illegal lobbying. This noteworthy straggle secured him a position on the Senate’s Committee to Investigate Lobbying.
He had always been interested in Medical Research, and in 1955 and 1956 he successfully proposed an amendment for increased attention toward that field of endeavor. This resulted in the founding of a National Medical Library in 1956.
Again the Senator devoted his efforts toward bettering the social existence of his fellow Americans. Between 1953 and 1956, he made possible the following outstanding measures:
He introduced the first bill to raise the minimum working wage to one dollar an hour, which is now a law.
He proposed the first bill to establish a system of flexible retirement under social security, to prevent rigidification at age 65.
To aid communities, industries, and workers hard hit by excessive imports he drafted the first bill to assist the nation’s fishing industry, through research and market development. These are only a few of the many incidents in which Senator Kennedy has helped to better National conditions.
In addition to these services the Sena-
Continued on Page 32)	-
17
‘ THIS IS
* OUR LIFE
e
by OSORIO
“THREE SCOOPS OF POTATOES, PLEASE.'
* “AT GILBERT’S WE CAN NT ANYBODY.’’
November 30, 1956	'
19
Rev. Gabriel Named To Legion of Honor
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the University’s Mediaeval Institute, has been decorated a Chevalier of France's Legion of Honor, it was recently announced.
The award was conferred last week by Jean Strauss, French consul general in Chicago, at a luncheon in the Morris Inn attended by Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., president of the University, and other University officials.
THORLET PRIZE
Father Gabriel, who also recently received the Thorlet Prize of the French Academy for his Student Life in Ave Maria College, Mediaeval Paris, was cited for his “many years of service in the interest of French-Hungarian and French-American friendship.”
Now a naturalized American citizen, Fr. Gabriel formerly was director of the French College in Hungary and served as professor- at the University of Budapest
He is the author of several publications on the cultural relations of France with central Europe. In Notre Dame’s Mediaeval Institute, he has built up a valuable collection on the history of the University of Paris.
The Legion of Honor was created by Napoleon in 1802 to reward distinguished services rendered in military and civil life. The president of the French Republic is the sovereign head and grand master of the order.
At the Movies
Debaters Take Second In Wichita Tournament
In the second major debate activity of the season, the Notre Dame debate team traveled to Wichita, Kan., on Nov. 16 and 17 for the University of Wichita Invitational Debate tournament. Of the twenty-five schools participating in the event, the Notre Dame team tied for second place.
Representing the University at Wichita were Jerry Brady, a junior; Tom Banchoff, a freshman; Patrick Curran, a senior, and Gerald Goudreau, a freshman.
Tomorrow, two full teams will represent Notre Dame in the Novice Debate tournament at Butler University in Indianapolis. The first group will be: affirmative, Dennis Shaul and Thomas Banchoff; negative, Robert Dempsey and Gerald Goudreau. In the second group are: affirmative, Michael Phenner and Michael McCarthy; and negative, Claiborne Johnson and Thomas Clusserath.
COLFAX
You Can’t Run Away From It. (B) Jack Lemmon, June Allyson. The plot revolves around the adventures of a runaway heiress and an unemployed reporter. June is supposed to marry a society playboy but she ducks out on him at the altar and as you might guess runs away with the reporter.
Shunning up: A much better title would be Low Society.
GRANADA
Love Me Tender. (A-2) Elvis, Debra Paget, Richard Egan. Let’s face it, this mode was made to capitalize on Elvis’ popularity, and there isn’t too much of an attempt to have a plot. Elvis sings the required number of songs and I suppose the required number of screams will be provided by the girls. Rich Clark says: “One of Hollywood’s All-Time best.”
Summing up: The wonderful thing about America is that anybody, and I mean anybody, can become rich.
AVON
Secrets of Life. (A-l) This is another feature film in Walt Disney’s True-Life Adventure series, dealing with a wide range of natural phenomena. It tackles a variety of fields—flowers and plants, insects, marine life, winding up with an exploration of volcanos and their function.
Summing up: Walt needs the money, so let’s all go see it two or three times.
STATE
The Big Sky. (A-2) Today. Kirk Douglas, Dewey Martin. A reissue of a fairly good western of a few years back.
Co-hit: The Lusty Men. (A-2) Robert Mitchum, Susan Hayward.
Tea And Sympathy. (B) Dec. 2-5. Deborah and John Kerr. They tell me that the play was a tremendous hit, but I can’t understand why. The plot although well developed is one that should have been left in the writer’s small mind. However, since it has come out, I guess the best thing to do is forget it.
Co-hit: Great Day In The Morning. (B) Virginia Mayo, Robert Stack.
While The City Sleeps. (B) Dec. 6. Dana Andrews, Ida Lupino. A whodunnit.
Co-hit: The Bold And The Brave. (A-2) Mickey Rooney, Wendell Corey. An excellent war story with a different twist.
RIVER PARK
23 Paces To Baker Street. (A-l) Nov. 30-Dec. 1. Van Johnson, Vera Miles.
Van Johnson is a blind detective who solves murders by using his other senses to great advantage. Vera Miles is his seeing eye dog.
Co-hit: Battle Stations. (A-2).
PALACE
Abdullah’s Harem. (B) Gregory Ratoff, Kay Kendall. Gregory stars, produces, and directs this peach. It is somewhat of a spoof of King Farouk, complete with the background of many girls. (Please, no letters.) I would say that this is a good one to miss, but then I know everybody would go. So I’ll say nothing.
Co-hit: Stagecoach To Fury. (A-2) Forrest Tucker, Mari Blanchard.
Legion of Decency Ratings: A-l, Unobjectionable; A-2, Unobjectionable for Adults; B, Objectionable in part for all; C, Condemned.
20
The Scholastic
About the Players by MIKE FITZPATRICK
December 5 marks the opening of the Irish basketball season, again under the capable direction of Coach Johnny Jordan. Again the Irish face a typically tough schedule meeting some of the finest teams in the country, including Louisville, the number one team in the country in the preseason ratings.
Captaining this year’s quintet is John Smyth, a two year- veteran from Chicago. Last year, Smyth played forward and was the number one rebounder and second in scoring. He vwill play both center and forward this year as the situation demands.
Bob Devine, flashy junior backcourtman, will open at one guard for the Irish. Devine, who is from Philadelphia, was an Irish regular last year posting a 13.2 point average to take third spot in the scoring honors behind graduated Lloyd Aubrey and Smyth. Although he has an excellent scoring punch, both set and driving, Devine is best known for his play-making ability and passing. He seems to have that uncanny knack for being at the right place at the right time.
Teaming up with Devine at guard is another junior, Eddie Gleason. Gleason, who was a regular for part of last season, is also a fine playmaker and possesses the best drive shot on this year’s team, and is smart on defense.
At the forward slots Coach Jordan will have Tom Hawkins and Joe Mo
THE HIGH COMMAND
Coach Jordan, Captain Smyth, Coach Gibbons
relli. Hawkins, a 6-6 giant from Chicago’s South Side, is the biggest man on this year’s starting team, and should prove to be an excellent scorer and capable rebounder. He has all the necessary attributes to become a truly great ballplayer and, though he lacks game experience, should prove to be one of the best that the Irish have had in some time.
Morelli, who took over a first string berth at the end of last season, can be expected to be one of the top Irish scorers this season. He possesses great speed and a fine array of shots, a one-hand jump being his most potent weapon.
When the Irish are playing an unusually big team Jack Bedan will open at center for Notre Dame and John Smyth will move to forward replacing Morelli. This should give the Irish considerably more board strength and enable them to field a front line which averages about 6-5.
Bedan, who played behind Aubrey last season, has improved tremendously since last year and can be expected to give the Irish a good solid performance. He has a fine hook shot and is an excellent rebounder.
John McCarthy, letterman from Chicago, is this year’s third forward. An aggressive competitor, McCarthy is probably the hardest worker on the club. He played center in high school
and has a fine assortment of shots, both from the inside and outside.
Tom Sullivan, a service veteran and starter on the ’52 Irish team, should give the team good bench strength at guard. He has a fine one hand set from the outside and drives well.
The other members of the .Irish second team are senior letterman Lee Ayotte and sophomore Gene Duffy. Ayotte can play either forward or guard and will probably see action at both spots. He is a fine shot and a dependable defensive man. Duffy, the smallest man on the Irish team, is an excellent dribbler and has quick speed, two attributes which will make him a valuable asset to the team.
Also counted on to lend reserve strength are seniors Chuck Wittenberg and Gus Luepke along with Jim Wil- ) liams and Mike Ireland. Ireland and Luepke are both centers, the latter alternating 'with Bedan last season as the second team pivotman. Ireland, a 6-7 sophomore, is a good rebounder and should see action against the bigger teams on the schedule.
Wittenberg, a smart, scrappy guard, has good speed and a fine set shot, making him a valuable man to have in a tight game.
Standing 6-4, Williams will help on the rebounding, although he is not a fast break type ball player.
The schedule is about the same as last season, the only major exception being that Notre Dame will play in the Holiday Festival in New York instead of the Sugar Bowl tournament over the Christmas holidays.
The top games of the year should be the Louisville, Illinois and the Indiana games, in addition to the Holiday Festival. Louisville, rated number one in the country by the sportswriters, is paced by Charlie Tyra, a 6-8 giant, who last year was the top rebounder in the nation.
Illinois and Indiana, co-favorites for the Big Ten crown are two tough ones on the Irish schedule. George BonSalle, who paced the Illini to a fine season is — back as is Hiles Stout who was so tough on ND last year. Indiana has a number of returning lettermen led by Archie Dees.
With the addition of a full time assistant coach, Jim Gibbons, the Irish will have complete scouting reports of every opponent. Coach Jordan has nothing but praise for Gibbons and says that he will help this year’s team immeasurably, both as a scout and as an assistant at practice.
Jordan is neither overly pessimistic nor optimistic concerning the season. He stated that because this year’s material and the attitude shown by the team has been so impressive, last year’s subpar 9-15 record should be bettered.
24
The Scholastic
'JORDANMEN OPEN SEASON IN FIELDHOUSE
Matmen Open Season At Northwestern Dec. 8
£ The Notre Dame wrestling team will open its 1956-57 campaign against Northwestern a week from tomorrow, December 8, at Northwestern. This meet will be the first crack at stiff Big Ten competition for the young Irish team, only in its second year as a varsity sport.
Next week Coach Fallon will wrestle off each weight class to pick his starters. a Favored to start in the lightweight divi-* sion, 123 lb. class, is Buddy Day, a junior with plenty of Notre Dame mat experience. Jim Rankin, one of the many rising sophomores on the squad, will probably wrestle the 132 lb. division. Fallon will welcome the return of letterman Bob Pivonka in the 137 lb. class. Team captain Terry Crowley, a senior from Omaha, Neb., will handle the 147 lb. class. Starters for both the 157 and 167 lb. classes are the biggest question marks of the day. Two juniors, Chuck Henzy and Mel Larsen, are bordering on both classes and may start at either, depending on their weights just before the match. A tough gap to fill will be the 177 lb. division, where Jack Armstrong’s shoulder injury has hurt the squad considerably. Last year Aimstrong was the top Irish muscle man, with the only undefeated record in dual £ meet competition. Fallon will probably rely on youth to fill the hole. With a week to rest up after the football season, soph Dick Loncar will probably start in the heavyweight division.
CROWLEY AND FALLON - Talk over mat opener
Irish Host St. Joe's in Wednesday's Opener; Badgers, Wildcats Provide Next Opposition
The 1956-57 edition of the Notre Dame basketball team makes its debut next Wednesday night in the fieldhouse against St. Joseph’s College of Indiana. The game, rescheduled from Tuesday night, will find Coach Johnny Jordan’s hoopsters out to reverse their losing record of last season.
Dale O’Connell, starting his second season as coach at St. Joe’s, has his starting five back from last year’s team, and it is the experience of these men with which he hopes to improve St. Joseph’s 10-9 record of last year’s club. This squad, which took fourth place in the 1955-56 Indiana Collegiate Confer-
NEXT WEEK
Next week's issue of the SCHOLASTIC will be the 1956 FOOTBALL REVIEW. In it will be first annual College Sports Editors All-America Football Team which was selected in a nation wide poll conducted by the Sports Staff of the SCHOLASTIC. Another highlight of the magazine will be a question and answer article by Coach Terry Brennan.
ence, also has four other lettermen back.
Dan Fenker, a 6-5 center, who led the team scoring with 222 points, heads the returning veterans and, in addition to his scoring feats, is expected to continue his excellent rebounding. The forwards are Bill Lewis, 5-11, and Greg Janick, 6-3. Janick last year ranked second in the league on scoring percentage as he dropped in 217 points for St. Joe, while Lewis, who specialized in the fast break, added 149. The guards, who at 5-7. and 5-8 give away height to most other teams, are Dan Rogovich and Ray Banary. Neither of these men, however, let their height bother them last year. Banary was second only to Fenker in scoring as he threw in 219 points, while Rogovich, the playmaker and best defensive man for St. Joseph’s, scored 186.
On Saturday night, December 8, the Fighting Irish travel to Madison, Wisconsin, to take on a Badger quintet which last year opened the Notre Dame home season with a 70-66 upset. Bud Foster’s crew this year bases its meager hopes on a return of only'two lettermen. Bob Litzow, a 6-2 forward who scored 259 points and saw plenty of action last
year, returns along with Glenn Borland, a 6-1 forward, who saw only limited action while dropping in 43 points. Both of these players are expected to start against Notre Dame, but the other three spots are still up for grabs. Any one of a number of promising newcomers, most of them up from the reserve and freshman squads may nab these positions, while three or four eagers who last year were withheld from varsity competition to retain theii- eligibility, will also have a good chance to earn their letters.
At center, Dave Telfer, 6-7, and Ray Gross, 6-6, are holdovers from last year, while Brian Kulas, 6-6, will provide some sophomore competition. At the guard spots two juniors who saw some action last year will get to see a little more this season. Walter Holt, 6-0, and Dave Leichtfuss, 6-1, appeared in seven and six games respectively and together accounted for only 22 points.
On Monday night, December 10, the Irish eagers return to home grounds for a tussle with upcoming Northwestern. Coach Waldo Fisher’s Wildcats, who twice lost to Notre Dame last season, have eleven lettermen back plus the graduates of Northwestern’s best freshman squad in six years.
Perhaps the best indication of how strong Northwestern will be lies in the
(Continued on page 28)
GLEN LOSE
Wildcat forward
November 30, 1956
25 \
Irish Play at Los Angeles in Season Finale; Seek Revenge for Last Year's Defeat by Troy
Tomorrow the Irish close their 1956 football season in Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum against the Trojans of the University of Southern California.
The series, dating back to 1926 has always been a close and exciting one. Although the Irish have a 17-8 bulge in the series, only six games in the long string have been decided by more than two touchdowns. There have been two ties.
Thus far this season the Trojans have piled up seven wins and have lost only two games, both by one touchdown. They operate from the multiple offense, a factor which should make them especially tough for the Irish this season. Another sidelight of this year’s game is the fact that it will be Coach Jess Hill’s final game. Hill next year will replace Willis Hunter as the Trojan Athletic Director.
Starting at ends for the Trojans •will be junior college transfer Hillard Hill and a reserve from last year’s squad, Bob Voiles.
Hill, a two year letterman at Pasadena City College, is a fine offensive end, probably the best on the Trojan squad. He is fast and moves well. Although inexperienced, he has turned in some fine performances and can be expected to play steady ball.
Voiles played behind Troy’s leading end, Leon Clarke, last year and as a result saw limited duty. However, this year he has come into his own, starting the last four games, and has been especially tough on defense.
The Trojans are well stocked with tackles again this season. The probable starters are junior Mike Henry and senior letterman Ron Fletcher.
CAPTAIN DON HICKMAN	JESS HILL
Fleet Trojan wingback	His last game
Henry is up from the junior varsity as the result of his fine play in the spring game last year. He started the California and UCLA games and did well in both.
Fletcher, a first stringer on last year’s Trojan team, is very fast and mobile for a big man. He was expected to carry
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
SOUTHERN CALIF. NOTRE DAME
Hill .........._.L.E_________ Royer
Henry _________L.T......... Geremia
Gurasich ......LG.._....... Hedrick
Rubke _________C-........  Sullivan
Willott _______R.G..„......  Ecuyer
Clark .........R.T........ Nagurski
Voiles ........R.E......... Wetoska
Kissinger _____Q.B.._....  Williams
Zampese .......L.H......... Hornung
Hickman _______R.H........... Morse
Roberts .......F.B..........   Lima
KICKOFF—4:00 p.m., C.S.T.
RADIO—WSND
■ the brunt of the tackle load for the Trojans this year and has lived up to Coach Hill’s expectation.
The guard slots are the strongest of any position on the SC team this season. Starting for the Trojans will be Gurasich and Laird Willot, followed closely by two juniors, Pat Reagan and Walt Gurasich.
Lardizabal, a service veteran, and letterman from the 1945 Trojan team, is the old man of the team. He is 31. However he moves well for his age and (Continued on page 29)
Zahm Winner in East; v Dillon Clinches West
Zahm took revenge on Cavanaugh, 20-13, in the play-off game on Sunday, Nov. 18, to win the Eastern Division crown of the Interhall Football League. Two weeks earlier, Cavanaugh had dropped Zahm from undisputed posses- . sion of first place with an upset win, causing both squads to end the season in a deadlock for league honors. Meanwhile, Dillon handed second-place Lyons its first loss of the season to clinch the Western loop title.
Going into Sunday’s final league action, Zahm, Cavanaugh, St. Edward’s and Off-Campus all shared a four-way tie for first place. Zahm dropped St. Edward’s from contention with a 7-0 victory, while Cavanaugh nosed out the Off-Campus club, 7-6, giving both winners a four-win, one-loss record for the year. St. Edward’s and Off-Campus finished in a third place tie, with three wins and two losses apiece. In the other game, Breen-Phillips blanked Farley, 7-0, to put them in fifth place, three games behind the leaders, with one victory and four defeats. Four games out of first place, Farley remained in the cellar with their final five-loss record.
Later that afternoon, Norbie Shew led the Zahmites against Cavanaugh with three touchdowns in the play-off game to win, 20-13. Shew ran all three tallies ■with dashes of 60, 50, and 40 yards. Captain Tony Shalhoup kept Cavanaugh in the game, scatting 20 yards for a touchdown, and passing 30 . yards for another.
Over in the Western Division, Frank Leahy, Jr., and Jack Armstrong led undefeated Dillon to a 6-0 win over Lyons. Chuck Von der Ahe and Jim Ogburn starred on the tough Lyons defense that was scored upon for the first time this year. Lyons lacked the services of quarterback Jim Kennedy, who was on the injured list. Frank Leahy passed to Lenny Barbarisi for the winning tally, to give Dillon first place with five wins and the only spotless loss column in both divisions.
Lyons remained in second place -with three wins, one tie, and one defeat, a game and one-half behind the leaders. Badin defeated Morrissey to move into a third place tie with Howard, who battled Sorin to a .tie in their game. Both Badin and Howard finished with two wins, one tie, and two losses, two and one-half games out. Sorin finished in fifth place, three and one-half games behind Dillon, with one win, one tie, and three defeats. Five games off the pace, Morrissey finished in the cellar.
'The two division champs, Zahm and Dillon, will meet this 'Sunday on Cartier field, for the championship contest. 'S'
The Scholastic
26
* Irish Edge Southern California; Complete Undefeated Season
Few rivalries in collegiate football match the excitement of the one between Notre Dame and Southern Cal. Dating back, to 1926 and 1927 when the Irish won the initial contests by 13-12 and 7-6 margins, 19 of the 27 games have ended with the final difference being two touchdowns or less.
Notre Dame has won 17 times, USC 8, and two games have ended in ties.
Many memorable games stand out in the long series, the most recent one being the 1954 contest. In that game, a sophomore halfback named Jim Morse dashed 72 yards on a quick opener for the ■winning touchdown as ND eked out a 23-17 win. Morse carried the ball 19 times for 179 yards in that contest, a single game high against the Trojans.
But the game we’re selecting as worthy of mention is the Notre DameSouthern California game which ended the 1941 season for the Irish.
Twenty-one of the ND-USC tilts have tended the Irish season, but the 1941 finale was a bit special.
It marked the final game of the first season for a new Notre Dame head coach, Frank Leahy.
Leahy had directed the Irish thus far to an undefeated season, marred only by a scoreless tie with Army. If ND defeated Troy, Notre Dame would have its first undefeated eleven since Knute ^Rockne’s last year, 1930.
The Irish did defeat the Trojans, and they did return to the list of football’s undefeated gladiators, but not before they had been thoroughly frightened by Southern Cal.
The final score was 20-18, and the margin of victory was not the toe of
'	ONE THAT PUT THE IRISH AHEAD
,0	Juzwik crashes for the score
Steve Juzwik who booted the two Irish conversions, but the defensive heroics of Wally Ziemba, John Kovatch, and Angelo Bertelli, who broke tip the three Trojan conversion attempts.
Bertelli was the shining light on offense, completing 13 of 21 passes for 156 yards and one touchdown, placing his name at the head of the list of great Irish passing quarterbacks.
The Irish won the toss and received. After two plays had been ran, ND elected to quick kick.
VERRY BLOCKS EVANS’ PUNT
Dippy Evans booted the ball, but it was blocked by SC’s Norm Verry. The Trojans picked up a first down, then with fourth and eight facing them on the Irish 21, Bobby Robertson threw a 21-yard pass to Ralph Heywood in the end zone for the score.
On the attempted conversion, Ziemba broke through the line and blocked the boot.
Early in the second period, an unnecessary roughness penalty against ihe Trojans enabled the Irish to go ahead in the game.
Heywood had punted and Juzwik had returned to the Trojan 47. But the penalty forced USC back to the two yard line, and Heywood punted out of bounds on his own 31.
Juzwik crashed over left tackle for 21 yards to the seven yard line. Evans lost a yard around right end, but picked up three to the five on the next play. The Irish called time out and Creighton Miller entered the game at left halfback.
Evans took a reverse from Miller and skirted right end for a touchdown. Juz-
wik converted and Notre Dame led 7-6.
The Trojans drove deep into Irish territory, but lost the ball. The Irish were forced to punt, but Evans recovered a fumble by Robertson on the Southern California 45 yard line.
Bertelli attempted two passes, both incomplete. On third down he passed 14 yards to Evans for a first down on the 26.
Bertelli passed on first down and Bob Dove caught the ball on the fifteen. But the Irish were penalized five yards for offside.
Bertelli again passed to Evans, but he slipped and fell on the 28. Bertelli passed again, this time to Juzwik who carried to the 14. He threw his seventh consecutive pass, five of them complete, to Bob Dove, who bulled his way to the four.
Evans carried to the two and Juzwik went over left tackle for the score. Juz-wik’s conversion attempt was not good and the score was ND 13, USC 6.
The Trojans took the kickoff and marched for the touchdown in six plays, largely on the passing of Bob Musick, who engineered the 65-yard drive with less than three minutes remaining in the half.
On the conversion attempt, which would have tied the score, Kovatch broke through and blocked it. The Irish held a 13-12 intermission lead.
Midway in the third period, Bertelli engineered a 54 yard march for the final and deciding Irish touchdown. He threw five passes on the drive, completing four for 54 yards.
TOSSES TO EVANS
The final toss was an 18-yard heave to Evans for the touchdown. Juzwik converted and Notre Dame led by eight points, 20-12.
The Trojans continued to drive against the Irish line, moving to the four yard line in the fourth quarter, only to be halted.
The next time they got the ball, which was the last time they had it, the Trojans scored. With a first down on the Irish 33, Mike Anderson lateraled to Paul Taylor, who passed to Joe Davis on the Irish eight. Robertson scored on the next play, and the conversion attempt was again halted, this time by Bertelli.
The final score of the contest was 20-18. Frank Leahy had his first of six undefeated Notre Dame teams and the Irish ended the season third in the country, behind Minnesota and Duke.
After the game Leahy felt that “If ever a group of boys deserved an undefeated season, these boys did.”
The Master had his first one and the Irish had their ninth victory over Southern Cal.
—Joe Bride
November 30, 1956
27
TIME OUT
The football season draws to a close this weekend and the basketball season moves into full swing next week with the schedule loaded with opening games. While everyone is picking pre-season AH-America teams and rating the top teams, we would like to get into the act too. It is all kind of foolish trying to pick the leaders before they start playing but the ratings make good conversation pieces. Here is whom I think are the ten best basketball players in the country but not necessarily in this order.
WILT CHAMBERLAIN—“The Stilt” from Kansas should make everyone forget Bill Russell. He already has pro coaches rubbing their eyes in disbelief.
CHARLIE TYRA—The 6-8 bull from Louisville will be one of the toughest in the country.
LENNIE ROSENBLUTH—The North Carolina senior should be just what Frank McGuire needs to put the Tarheels on top in the Atlantic Coast Conference replacing North Carolina State.
ELGIN BAYLOR—Former 'Irish assistant, John Castellani walked into a gold mine when he took over the Seattle post.
MIKE FARMER—The 6-7 San Francisco center will see that the Dons won’t fall as far down as everyone expects.
VINCE COHEN—The Syracuse guard could make the Orange one of the top teams in the East.
JIM MORGAN—Along with Tyra, this Louisville pair should put the Cardinals right near the top.
GUY ROGERS—The Temple flash is the smoothest little man in college ball. He does everything but eat the ball.
DICK DUCKETT—The St. John’s backcourt star will make the Redmen the team to beat in the East.
TEMPLE TUCKER—The Rice star will have Southwestern Conference coaches pulling their hair out for the next two years.
Rating the top teams is no easy task because there will be only a few standouts. Any one of some 25 teams could finish in the top ten, but anyway here are the choices.
1.	KANSAS. Wilt and Company will be tough to stop if such a thing is possible.
2.	LOUISVILLE. The boys from Kentucky are ineligible for NCAA play along with Kansas. They’ll take it out on teams during the season.
3.	ST. JOHN’S. Joe Lapchick returns to a club that had the. best frosh team in the country. Could be the NCAA champs.
4.	DAYTON. The Flyers continue to be one of the best in the country.
5.	SAN FRANCISCO. The Dons are going to surprise a lot of people.
6.	ILLINOIS. The best in the Big Ten always has to be rated highly, 7. SOUTHERN METHODIST. The best in the Southwest again.
8.	NIAGARA. Taps Gallagher has what could be the school’s best in history.
9.	NORTH CAROLINA. After four years of trying, Frank McGuire will bring the Tarheels into the national limelight.
10.	SEATTLE. . It will be a great start for our old friend, Johnny Castellani.	■
THE 1956-57 CAGERS
Some may ask about our own eagers which open their season next Wednesday. One doesn’t rate a team which had as dismal a season as the Irish did last year. But, things will be a little different this year. If Johnny Jordan can get his eagers off to a good start and show well in the Holiday Festival Tournament, they will rank high in the nation. We won’t make any prediction on the won-loss record, but I’ll take all bets that the Irish go to the NCAA next March. I don’t need Tyler’s crystal ball to see this..
PREDICTION OF THE WEEK: Floyd Patterson to be crowned new Heavyweight Champ tonight.—J. G.
Cagers Open Season 2s (Continued from page 25) fact that although last year’s starting five is back, only two are sure starters • this year. Glen Lose, 6-2, a forward, and Dick Mast, 6-1, a guard, are back for their third season with the Wildcats and should prove to get in Notre Dame’s hair all night.
Mast, voted most valuable Wildcat J last year, hit for 464 points and was the playmaker of the squad. He also rates as one of the best defensive players in the Big Ten and is particularly skilled in dribbling and outside shots. Lose backed up Mast in scoring with 341 points. A good rebounder, his best assets are speed and a fine jump shot.
Three very promising sophomores will probably be in starting positions against Notre Dame. Joe Ruklik, a 6-9 center has the potentiality of All-America status in a year or two. Possessing a good hook shot and ably using his size for rebounds, Ruklik, who was voted the outstanding player in the North-South All-Star game two years ago, appears to be the best upcoming player in the Big Ten. Bill Schulz, 6-9, a starter last >. year, backs him up. Schulz was North- 1 western’s leading rebounder last year * with 208.
Teaming with Mast at guard will be Soph Dick Johnson, 6-0. Johnson, a good shot from nearly anywhere on the floor, may have to fight to keep Jay Hook, 6-1, last year’s starter, and Chuck Thomas, another letterman, from getting his position.
'The third starting sophomore for the Wildcats will be Nick Mantis at for- . ward. In addition to great speed anc"£ ; all-around skill, Mantis is a fine dribbler, passer and rebounder.
TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK
Miami over Florida	;
Georgia Tech over Georgia
Texas Tech over Hardin-Simmons	.
Holy Cross over Boston College f ' Houston over Detroit	,
Army over Navy	‘	>
Auburn over Alabama	'
Baylor over Rice	,
Clemson over Furman	J
Oklahoma over Oklahoma A&M	‘
San Jose State over Hawaii
So. California over Notre Dame j ! TCU over SMU	'
Mississippi over	Mississippi State	;
Tennessee over	Vanderbilt	i,
SEASON:	i
134 Right; 37 Wrong; 4 Ties. Pct. .784	।
I
The Scholastic	J
28
• Harriers Place Sixth in NCAA at East Lansing; Michno, Haverty Highlight Season's Final Meet
by TOM EDWARDS
Paced by Captain John Michno and sophomore Mike Haverty, Notre Dame’s harriers closed out their 1956 season with a sixth place finish in the NCAA meet held last Monday at Michigan State University.
Michno was the top Irish finisher, run-ing the four mile course in 21:12 to nail down the 35th spot, but was hard pressed by Haverty who crossed the line less than half a second later. Junior Dale VandenBerg was the next Notre Dame man in. and his time of 21:19 'gained him 43rd place.
Following the first three Irish runners were juniors Ed Monnelly and John Burns who finished 48th and 64th with times of 21:29 and 21:47.
Michigan State, with three of the first five finishers, captured their second consecutive team championship with 29 points. The individual winner was Walter McNew of Texas with a time .of 19:55.7.
’ Monday’s meet was the last of the season for the Wilsonmen who finished the year with a dual meet record of two wins and two losses. In other competition, the harriers garnered a second place finish in the Indiana State meet. Haverty and Michno were the top Irish runners in that race also, finishing third and fourth respectively.
In the Central Collegiate Conference |jneet on Nov. 16, the thinclads rolled over Ball State, Marquette and Drake to cop their second title in as many
BURNS AND MONNELLY
O Cross country stalwarts
years. Following this was a fourth place finish in the IC4A Cross Country Championships.
Michno was the outstanding performeion the squad throughout the year and his absence from next year’s team will be strongly felt. However, Coach Wilson has the entire reinainder of this year’s team returning. Haverty, in particular, will be counted on heavily. During the latter part of the season, he was a constant threat to Michno. Juniors Ed Monnelly, Dale VandenBerg, John Burns, Bill Newell, Stan Wegrzynowicz and Neil Wallace also return. These seven men should give Coach Wilson a solid nucleus from which to build next year’s team.
Sailors Complete Fall Season With Fourth in Timmie Angsten
The University of Notre Dame Sailing Team rapped up its 1956-57 season until late next March with a fourth in the annual Timrne Angsten Memorial Regatta. The sailors closed their fall campaign with one first, three seconds and a fourth.
In the Timme Anston meet, held over last weekend, Notre Dame was tied for first after the first day’s racing, slipped five points off the pace the second day, and finished in fourth 15 points behind.
Brown University won the regatta compiling a total of 290 points, Bowdoin, the surprise of the meet, was second after a tremendous comeback with 288, and Michigan collected 283 points for third. Purdue, who finished in fifth behind Notre Dame, had only 225 points, leaving them 65 points down.
Bernardo D’Almeida skippered for the Irish in the “A” division and rolled up 147 points while Ron Meissner tallied 128 in the “B” division. Bernardo Gaillet crewed for D’Almeida and Lou Morgan for Meissner.
Final season statistics showed D’Almeida to be the Irish’s top skipper with Meissner right behind him. Morgan was the third ranking point getter.
HANDBALL MEETING
, There will be a meeting of all those interested in joining the newly chartered handball club Wednesday, Dec. 5, in Room 1 of the Rockne Memorial at 7 p.m. Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano will be the guest speaker, and a movie will be shown to round out the evening.
Irish Face Trojans
(Continued from page 26) outhustles almost every man on the team.
Willot, a second stringer last year behind All-Coast Orlando Ferrante, has come into his own this year. He is a fine blocker and strong linebacker with good speed and great determination. He is being pushed for All-Coast honors this year.
Gurasich and Reagan, both products of the Los Angeles’ Catholic League, are two strong junior guards. Both are big and extremely aggressive and should see a great deal of action against the Irish tomorrow.
Walt Gorrell, son of all-time Trojan great, Butter Gorrell, has taken over the center slot since an injury removed Karl Rubke from the starting slot. Originally a quarterback, Gon-ell -switched to center and has made the transfer easily. He is a fine blocker and an adequate linebacker.
Because of an injury to Ells Kissinger, Jim Conroy will start at quarterback for Troy. Although only a sophomore, he showed fine poise in directing the SC attack in their 10-7 victory over UCLA last Saturday. He is a fine passer and runs the option play like a seasoned veteran.
Wayne Kurlack should also see action tomorrow. He won a letter as Troy’s number two fullback in 1954, but because of C. R. Roberts he switched to quarter this year. He is an adequate passer and is a fine runner.
In Captain Don Hickman and Ernie Zampese, the Trojans have a fine pair of halfbacks with good speed and better than average power.
Last year Hickman gained a starting berth and ended up as the number four ■ rusher with a 4.1 yards per carry average. He is a fine pass receiver and the best blocking back on the Trojan squad.
Junior Zampese saw limited action last year, playing behind All-American Jon Arnett. However Arnett could play only five games this year and Zampese was called on to take over the allimportant tailback role in Coach Hill’s offense. He has filled the gap left by Arnett very capably and is the nation’s number three punter, with a better than 48 yard average.
Fullback C. R. Roberts is the finest fullback to play for the Trojans in many years. Irish fans will remember his fine performance in last year’s Notre Dame defeat at the hands of SC. He has the power of a fullback and the speed of a halfback, enabling him to run up the middle or around the ends. Last year he tied for top scoring honors with 36 points and averaged 6.5 yards per carry.
29
November 30, 1956
another innovation in good taste
Jord lljesf
first name in quality formals
H's to go formal in this trim new tux with semi-peak lapel, natural shoulders, flap pockets, non-pleoted trousers. Jet Black all-season worsted, silk satin facing.
For name of nearest retailer or free formal dress chart, write: West Mill Clothes, Inc., 10) W. 21 St., N.Y. 11
Have a WORLD of FUN!
Travel with fITA Unbelievable Low Cost
60 Days
43-65 Day. , "i., from $998
Many tours include college credit.
Also low-cost trips to Mexico $169 up. South America $699 up, Hawaii Study Tours $528 up and Around the World $1398 up.
Europt
fr*" $525
Orient
UTA Chicago
Columbia Southern Chemical Corporation
Interview Date Dec. 6
Opportunities available in seven plants: New Martinsville. W. Va., Barberton, O._: Lake Charles, La., Corpus Christi, Tex., Jersey City, N. J., Bartlett, Calif., and Beauharnois, Quebec, Canada.
Producers of heavy industrial chemicals: soda ash, chlorine, caustic soda, anhydrous ammonia, titanium tetrachloride, and other chlorinated products.
Research, development, production, design, and maintenance opportunities open for men in these categories:
BS, MS, PhD Chemists, BS & MS Chem. Engrs., BSCE’s, BSME’s, BSEE’s, BS Indus. Engrs., BS Instrument Engrs., and PhD Physicists.
Don Cossack Chorus to Perform Tonight; Program to Feature Varied Dances, Music
The General Platoff Don Cossack Chorus and Dancers, featuring soloist Kenneth Lane, a dramatic tenor, and Gabriel Soloduhin, will perform at 8:15 this evening in Washington Hall in the second attraction of this year’s Concert and Lecture Series.
The group is named after the. famous Cossack General Platoff, who achieved renown helping to turn back Napoleon’s invading army in his march on Moscow in 1812. The word “Don” is a distinguishing term, and refers to the river Don which runs through the district from which the Cossacks came.
Organized in Prague, Czechoslovakia in 1927 among a group of white Russian emigres who had fought Communism in Russia, the chorus is under the direction of Nicholas Kostrukoff, its original founder. Since that time they have toured all five continents and visited 65 different countries. The Chorus, which first came to the United States in 1939, has given over 1,600 concerts during their 17 year stay in this country.
The Cossacks have a varied program, ranging from stately religious music to stirring folk melodies and classical music. The repertoire also includes exciting Cossack dances and popular American melodies.
Kenneth Lane studied at Jui’lliard School of Music, Manhattan School of Music, Columbia University Opera Workshop and New York College of Music from which he graduated. He
.
Campus K. of C. Schedules Breakfast, Initiation Sunday
The Notre Dame Council 1477 of the Knights of Columbus will hold a Communion Breakfast in the Morris Inn next Sunday following the 8 o’clock Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
Later in the day, the council will have second and third degree initiation for approximately 90 candidates at the Mishawaka Council chambers.
The Communion Breakfast committee, headed by Ron Francis, expects around 150 candidates and members to attend. Honored guest speakers will be three past state deputies, each of whom has a son in the class of candidates. Thomas Medland, Timothy Calvin, and Henry Hasley are the three speakers for the affair.
Notre Dame Grand Knight Robert Miller announced that the class will be named in honor of former district deputy August Dossman who died recently. This major degree is the first of two scheduled for this year.
has performed 26 leading roles in major operas as well as appearing on radio and TV programs. He has given two concerts in Carnegie Hall.
Gabriel Soloduhin has made a number

COSSACK LEADER
Ready for tonight’s performance
of motion pictures. A daring horseman, Soloduhin has also been featured by Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey’s Circus in riding spectacles.
In the current program of the Cos- ' sacks, Soloduhin is featured in the Lezginka, a barbaric Caucasian dance which begins on the sad lilt of a peasant song and concludes in a wild dance of jubilation.	•
Tickets for the performance are $.75 for balcony seats and $1 for the main floor. Tickets will be on sale from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. and from 6 to 9 p.m., 45 minutes after the performance has? started.
NAVY TEST
The qualification examination for all those who have applied for admission to the Navy’s Regular NRO-TC program, will be administered in Room 250 of the Main Building on Saturday, Dec. 8, at 8:30 a.m.
Approximately 440 young men will take the exam, which will be handled by the department of guidance and testing. Registration for the exam closed two weeks ago. No one else may apply until next i year.	.

30
The Scholastic
• Changes Slated in Pre-Registration Program; I Procedure to Aim at Reducing Class Conflicts
All students of the University must pre-register for their spring semester classes between the dates of Monday, Dec. 3, and Friday, Dec. 14.
The manner of pre-registration and ©registration has undergone a change by the Office of Academic Affairs, and with the cooperation of the students, there should result a great saving of time and energy, and a tremendous reduction in the number of class conflicts. The
new program is also aimed at allowing the student a greater participation in the selection of his classes and courses, according to Mr. Leo Corbaci, administrative assistant to the vice-president of ^academic affairs.
The procedure of pre-registration is outlined below and the student should follow it as closely as possible.
On Monday, Dec. 3, or as soon as possible thereafter, students must go to the Office of Academic Affairs, in the Main Building and receive an enrollment permit and a four digit serial number. The form, which has three copies, is ^hen taken to the student’s dean or schedule advisor, and a schedule is developed for the spring semester.
The dean retains the second copy of the form and the student must return the first and third copies to the Office of Academic Affairs. It is very.impor-ant that the course number, section, time, and place are accurate as this will be the only evidence of enrollment. ^There will be no class cards.
W The student should return the form on the same day that he took it out in order to reserve his place in the class he wants. Courses will be set up on a tally board in the pre-registration headquarters where they can be controlled. Students who are late in returning their forms should not expect to receive the classes of their choice.
Both the first and third sheets of the ^orm are to be handed in at the Office of Academic Affairs. In return, the student will receive a fourth page of the I enrollment permit, together -with instructions for registration. This fourth page, accompanied by the tuition certificate, I will be required at the Drill Hall for I registration on Jan. 24, 25, and 26.
I Jan. 24 is reserved for all students I ^ave failed a course this semester.
This is compulsory. The list of failures will be posted in each hall as in the past.
The entire student body will register on Jan. 25, in order of the serial number they received at pre-registration. If a student is not present when this number is called, he will be considered late and charged accordingly.
In the Drill Hall, students will present page four of their enrollment permit and their tuition certificate. They will be handed back page three and then will simply have to place their student number on the IBM cards of their courses and return them.
Page three of the enrollment permit will be the only proof of enrollment in possession of the student when he enters his classes. 'The student must be certain that the professor reads his name on the roll call at the first meeting of the class.
Jan. 26 will be set aside for all class changes in the Drill Hall.
PHOTOGRAPHERS
Any photographer interested in working on the Dome Staff please contact Roger Bennett in 314 Walsh Hall immediately. Also, bring । ^samples of your work.
.................................
ORRWTURBOW
\OPTOMITRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
* Diamonds
• Jewelry • Watches
J. Trethewy
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
J. Paul Sheedy* Was A Scairdy Cal Till Wildrool Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
Poor J. Paul veldt too scared to ask for a date — he just lacked confidence because of his messy hair. Den one day his roommate said: "Sheedy, get Wildroot Cream-Oil. It’ll keep your hair handsome and healthy looking,
and I ain’t lion.” So J. Paul put the bite on him for some money and pussyfooted down to the store for a bottle. Now he’s the pride of the campus, manely bedaws his hair looks so good... neat but not greasy. Wildroot has no alcohol to dry your hair, instead it contains Lanolin, Nature’s finest hair and scalp conditioner. So be cagey, try a bottle or handy tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil yourself. It’s guaranteed to make you a roaring success on campus.
* of 131 So. Harris Hili Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil gives you confidence
buub omni
■mow ioqucmmot
31
November 30, 1956
Patriot of the Year
(Continued from Page 17)
tor was instrumental in such other undertakings as:
Arousing major foreign policy debates concerning our relations with the French in Indo-China, in 1953 and 1954. Constantly he emphasized the issue of independence for the Indo-Chinese.
SEAWAY SUPPORTER
He supported the controversial St. Lawrence Seaway, and became the turning point in its acceptance. The Boston Post and others concerned with the Seaway on the Port of Boston and Massachusetts railroad interests accused Kennedy of raining New England.” But in time his efforts were praised, as in the words of the St. Paul Dispatch, “the Midwest owes Senator Kennedy a debt of gratitude for his courage in following the dictates of his conscience ... as against the sectional political pressures.”
In turn he received nationwide recognition for his comprehensive analysis of the economic problems of New England, and he pushed the Federal action necessary to alleviate these problems.
His reputation for fearlessness in the face of opposition was further enhanced by the fact that in 1954 he was the only Senator from New England to support broadening of the Reciprocal Trade agreements as recommended by the Randall Commission. In 1956 he was the only Senator from New England to support United States Membership in the Organization for Trade Cooperation.
THE SENATOR VIEWS IRISH STRUGGLE
(L) Mrs. Shriver (Kennedy's sister) and Mrs. Kennedy.
Senator Kennedy is a member of the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee, the Senate Government Operations Committee, Senate Select Committee on Small Business, and Senate Special Committee on Technical Assistance abroad.
This year at the Democratic National Convention Kennedy was nominated for the Vice-Presidential candidacy. Although he was defeated by Senator* Estes Kefauver this event was significant not only as a measure of his influence, but it also acted as a suggestion of his political future.
KENNEDY THE AUTHOR
Despite his exhaustive schedule he has also found time to write two best selling books. In 1940, he wrote Why England Slept, published by Funk and Wagnail, a story of England’s unpreparedness for war. His most recent book, Profiles in Courage, published in 1956 by Harper and Brothers, is an account of the pressures endured by Senators who spoke out for what they believed in face of the heated opposition of their constituents.
On September 12, 1953, Kennedy married attractive Miss Jacqueline Lee Bouvier. The former Miss Bouvier studied at Vassar and George Washington University and was for a time employed by the W’ashington, D. C. Times Herald. Afterwards Life magazine published a picture story in which the Kennedys were depicted as one of the happiest couples in Washington.
On January 29, 1950, Senator Kennedy
REV. CAVANAUGH AND KENNEDY
Ex-President Advises Hopeful
received the Honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from the University of Notre Dame. This was only one of the honors that he has received from educational, religious, racial, and veteran’s organiza-^ tions throughout the nation. His other awards include:
Selection as one of the ten outstanding young men in America in 1949 by the Junior Chamber of Commerce.
The Star of Solidarity of the First Order, the highest honor that the Italian Government can bestow on any individual.
Honorary Doctor of Law degrees from twelve universities and colleges.
In 1956 he received the Cardinal Gibbons Award for the outstanding Catholic of the year.
In every phase of accomplishment he has shown himself to be an outstanding American and one of the greatest Catholic laymen of our time. John Kennedy —Patriot of the Year.
JUNIOR TRIP TO WISCONSIN !
The Junior Class will sponsor a , trip to Madison, Wisconsin for the , Irish-Badger game Saturday, Dec. 8. The trip will begin that Saturday morning and end late the next night. The price, $13.25, includes	j
bus transportation, hotel accommo-	i
dations, a game ticket and a box	'
lunch.	:
Tickets may be purchased Thurs-	k
day, Nov. 29, from 7-9:30 p.m. in	i
the basement of the Student Center. h
& h „—.—--------------....—.——.—........	j.
The Scholastic h
J 1
5
32
• Symposium to Discuss LayApos+ola+eAc+ion
Lay apostolate action in its phases of unification and specialization will be viewed Dec. 7 through 9, by the fourth annual Advent Symposium sponsored by the National Catholic Action Study Commission. Midwestern Catholic uni-$ versifies, will send over 200 student representatives to the symposium.
George Oser, co-chairman of the NCASC, will deliver the first talk in the O’Shaughnessy Student Lounge Dec. 7 at 7:45 p.m. Frank Feigl will then lead the discussion with an objective look at the student apostolate.
Saturday, an 8 a.m. Mass in Dillon Hall Chapel, will be celebrated by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. Following breakfast, the students will meet in the Engineering Auditorium where Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., will speak on the needs of the lay apostolate.
One of the purposes of the symposium is to impress the student that he can further the apostolate in any organization to which he belongs. After Father Fichter’s lecture, sodality, literary and human relations groups will describe how this purpose can be achieved. In a second session at 3 p.m., the panel will explain the method of forming various groups to carry on the work of the apostolate.
On Sunday, following 9 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church, a Communion Breakfast will be held in the Morris Inn. Speaker at the breakfast will be Mr. •Donald Thorman, managing editor of the Ave Maria Press. Thorman, a former editor of the “Voice of St. Jude,” will speak on the “Church and the Layman.”
Foundation Drive
(Continued from page 11) goal has been reached, and funds for construction of the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts, Morris ^Inn, Fisher and Pangborn residence halls, among others, have been channeled • through the Foundation. The Faculty Development Program, in operation for four years, has been strengthened by the $2.5 million Ford Foundation grant for faculty development.
' Since student Foundation Week was initiated, alumni participation has increased over two per cent, and 175 more ©Corporations contributed to the University last year. In 1955, over $2 million was given to the University, exclusive of the Ford grant.
One hundred per cent student support of Foundation activities will interest corporations and University friends in aiding the development of Notre Dame, ^^lann concluded.
November 30, 1956
Students to Hold Conference On National Security Policy
Notre Dame will be represented by Robert Sasseen and Paul Schierl at the eighth Student Conference on United States affairs at West Point, N. Y. The conference, to be held from Dec. 5 through 8, will include approximately 160 representatives from 63 schools.
The subject of this year’s conference is “The National Security Policy of the United States,” with emphasis on the vulnerabilities of the free world and the policies required to meet them.
Representatives to the conference are divided into discussion groups according to six geographical areas. The conferees in each group are expected to analyze the problems in each area and develop courses of action for dealing with them.
The conference will open with a keynote address by C. Tyler Wood, assistant to the director, International Cooperation Administration. Authorities drawn from academic and government circles will present one panel discussion on the “Vulnerabilities of the Free World” and one on the “Formulation of U.S. Security Policy.” Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, chief of staff, U. S. Army, will address the participants at an informal banquet at the close of the conference.
Two Legs, ho. hits, Sweaters, Jackets
Ivy League Sport Shirts Fine Quality Cottons Clan Plaid: Small Checks: $3.95
SWEATERS Crew Neck or V-Neck—100% Lambs Wool $8.95
Shetland Type Wool $7.95
118 So. Mich. St.
mniis UlUKYaM BOKSNP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
Selected by The American Football Coaches Association, this is the original and most authoritative All-America. In Collier’s, you’ll find
the complete stories of all the men and some of the most spectacular
football action photos ever taken in color.
C'OwellColher Pub Co .640 Fifth Ave . N Y 19, N.Y. Publishers of Woman's Home Companion, Collier’s

33
Back. Pays.
ink
by JOE TAFT
boarders
The whole thing began rather depressingly. My Thanksgiving vacation, I mean. My train arrived an hour late in South Bend, and I missed my 6 p.m. connection out of Chicago. Not that I didn’t hurry over to Dearborn station— I caught a cab but it ran out of gas— I ran the last two blocks, arrived at the track, and watched the tail light of the train playfully wink and then haughtily disappear into the darkness.
I even grew tired of watching the characters in the station. Not that I don’t enjoy human speculation—that’s not the point at all. Any sensible person knows that people in train stations are fascinating. They’re ostensibly off guard—actually they feel out-of-seasOn —for my type of hunting. But, as I was saying, this whole thing was terribly depressing. I guess the rain had a lot to do with it. I noticed business at the photo machine was far below par. Couldn’t blame them though—it’s difficult to guffaw through wet hair. No customers ventured into the mysterious new recording booth, but I did get a restrained chuckle from the exclamation point on its enticing sign: “STEP INSIDE. RECORD YOUR OWN VOICE. HEAR IT!” Two bums came inside and began to dry themselves. Just when the novelty of their complete casualness became amusing, a big Irish-looking policeman shooed them Outside and sat in their places. He took off a wet shoe and began rubbing his foot. His complete satisfaction annoyed me.
I went downstairs and bought a paper. Same depressing headlines—I ambled over to my track. I must admit I did get a few unrestrained chuckles watching the gateman at track two. He prided himself on recognizing the well-dressed Pullman passengers who were boarding the train ahead of the shabbier coach clientele. When business slacked off he and his coveralled friend (who had a red flag in his back pocket) entertained themselves pestering a stooped old man with a torn coat.
34
This old man had an overwhelming . desire to board the train. The gateman and his friend made the anxious customer move his five bags away from the foot of the check-in table. The train call over the loud-speaker abruptly terminated their game. I was more than happy to file through the gate. “Destination,” the gateman asked authoritatively. I almost said Mars but I knew that the shock would ruin his excellent mood —excellent because he and his red flagbearing colleague had practically befuddled the stoopy man.
I purposely chose a seat by the window near the center of the coach. A face full of rouge ambled by my seat—I breathed a sigh of relief. I had conscientiously placed my top coat on the aisle seat as a sign of hostility. The stoopy old man began stacking his mound of luggage on the rack across the aisle. The forward motion of the train jolted him into his seat.
“Cheep, cheep.”
“Quiet now, Billy. You be a good little parakeet, or else I will have to take you across my knee,” the face-of-rouge rasped behind my seat.
“I see you have a parakeet,” exclaimed the old man across the aisle.
“Why yes!”
“May I see him?”
“There! Now, Billy, look purdy for the nice gentleman.”
“My that’s an unusual colored bird!”
“Most people say Billy’s the purdiest parakeet they’ve ever seen.”
“Well, I wouldn’t go that far, but I like his oat meal color. Goodness—he looks good enough to eat!”
“Cheep, cheep!”
I opened up my newspaper.
“Don’t be afraid now, Billy—I won’t let that mean old man eat you!”
“Can he talk?”
“No. I’ve tried teaching him for hours.”
“I hate stupid birds. I wonder if he tastes like oat meal? Why I haven’t had
oat meal in a long time,” the old man continued.	1
“Just mind your own business and leave us alone!”
“Cheep, cheep.”
The old man turned around and began to stare out the window. He turned toward me and I returned to my paper.
“Everyone lives in the funny papers,” he said.	i
“What’s that?” I said.
“You know,” he rattled on, “I used to be in Dick Tracy, but then I turned bad-and had to quit.”
“That’s VERY interesting. What character were you?”
“Diet Smith,” the old man chuckled. “Just couldn’t swallow enough pills.”
“I must have barely missed you,” I said. “I was Flattop Junior for a while.”
“Well, I’ll be. I see you got a hair ■. cut—did you sell your* car?”
“Yes, I traded it even for a Corvette. Hated to lose my television set though. Are you in any of the strips now?”
“Yes, I switched to Terry and the Pirates a few weeks ago.”
“Of course,” I exclaimed. “How could I have been so stupid?”
“How about you?” the old man chuckled.
“I have my own strip now,” I boasted.
“Of course you do! You’re much*' younger though. I really enjoy your antics.”
The corridor lights dimmed.
“Guess we had better get some sleep now—tomorrow will be a long day.”
“Yes, you’re right, Dennis. Good night.”
“Good night, Major Drummond.”
A bag nudged my seat. I opened mj,^ eyes and watched a woman hurry down the aisle. The cover came off Billy’s cage but she didn’t notice. I guess she was in too much of a hurry. Funny, the train didn’t stop for a long time. The old man began to snore loudly and the Sound blended beautifully with the monotonous clickity clack of the wheels^
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS
Where the compliments are ladled out
>
These days, it’s very often that you find a guy wearing this Arrow Glen button-down. It rates plenty of praise for . its trim-tailored collar and harmonizing colors
(newest is a subtle blue). There are a dozen shades to choose from in oxford or broadcloth . . . and a
new Arrow silk striped tie to top it off.
Glen White shirt, £3.95; patterns and solid colors, £5.00; tie, £2.50.

ARROW
—first in fashion
SHIRTS * TIES
t
©
Youll be as proud as punch
What else, with this Arrow Glen button-down?
You will find it’s right for any occasion (and any suit) as it is right up to date. That’s because its subtle new colors are perfect mixers. We have a rainbow-full of them to show you, with ties to match, anytime you would care to drop in.
Shirt, $3.95 and $5.00; all-silk striped tie, $2.50.
©
GILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER — ON THE CAMPUS (Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St, South Bend