The Notre Dame Scholastic
395
COMMENT	
The Notre Dame Scholastic
The cold weather we have been expecting has finally caught up with us but we wouldn’t mind it so much if we weren’t reminded of the temperature by having to watch the freshmen “Fi-Ed’s” running around in their gym suits, near the point of freezing stiff. Our hearts go out to them inasmuch as the director comes out to boss them all bundled up like a Byrd explorer. A few gas stoves placed at convenient points around the “winter playground” would help a lot. It may be possible, though, that the freshmen are merely going through the process of becoming eligible for the absurd Polar Bear club of Chicago. If they are, they deserve to freeze.
Our good friend, Joe O’Rourke, has evidently turned his mind to the serious side of life—and it isn’t Spring, either. He has brought to mind the practise—almost a tradition—of having at least one member of the graduating class turn benedict. Joe has no marital intentions himself as yet but is waiting for someone to start the ball rolling. He may enter the game later. The seniors really should do something about it and appoint a committee to pick out the most likely prospect, then persuade him to do his duty by his fellow-classmen.
We were severely admonished this week for giving Mishawaka the same rating as the “Deserted Village.” It is too bad, indeed, that our readers misinterpreted our meaning. We were only kidding. Mishawaka is really a beautiful city but its beauty is eclipsed by the fair residents who so graciously consented to cheer up some of the students during the holidays.
We can’t understand why Joe Casa-santa doesn’t organize a class for voice development open only to Carroll and Brownson halls. The volume of sound coming from the throats of these ambitious and exuberant freshmen could be put to good advantage even though it should be nothing more than calling hogs. That pleasure the “Arabs” get out of screeching to the sky Joe Brown’s original “Uuuuuup-ton” yell we cannot guess but it sounds like a pack of wolves on the way to a sheepcamp. They should be choked.
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus I
Founded 1872
EMIL L. TELFEL—Editor-in-Chief
Assistant Managing Editor Neil C. Hurley
Edward E. Brennan
Austin Boyle
The Week
Richard J. O’Donnell
Music and Drama Frank E. Seward
William Fitzgerald John Conley Myron Crawford John Pick
Managing Editor John E. Bergan
Associate Editors James J. Kearney James Carmody
Make-up Editors Alfred E. Gall Walter V. Beesley
Feature Editor James K. Collins
Neivs Staff
Lloyd Teske, Neics Editor William C. Karl, Assistant Meivs Anthony R. Schreiner William Corr F, Granger Weil Walter Johnson-
Assistant Managing Editor John A. Kienep.
Edward R. Brennan-Paul J. Hallinan
College Parade Daniel C. Williams
Campus Clubs W. Leslie Raddatz
Editor
Lawrence Dunda Sanguinet Williams Lawrence Prybylski
Sports Staff
Henry B. Asman, Sports Editor
Cleve Carey
James E. McFeely, Jr.
George Belting
James Kearns
T. Edward Carey Irving Halper
James H. Rorke, Local Advertising Mgr.
James L. Rizer, Foreign Advertising Mgr.
Business Staff
John R. Blanda, Local Circulation Mgr.
Andrew McGuan. Foreign Circulation Mgr.
Frederick Bauer
Merle Baldwin
Raymond J. Naber
John P. Hess
JOHN F. STOECKLEY—Graduate Manager of Publications
Vol. LXIV
JANUARY 16, 1930
No. 13
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Frontispiece_________________________ The Week—Richard J. O'Donnell________ Yarr Football Captain—John A. Kiener_ A Man About the Campus—James E. Carmody— Music and Drama—Frank E. Seward______ Book Reviews—John Pick_______________ Glances at the Magazines—Edivard R. Brennan— College Parade—Daniel C. Williams____ Editor’s Page________________________ The Wink__________________________________
Campus Clubs—W. Leslie Raddatz------------ Hilltoppers Fall Before Cagers—James Kearns—. Splinters From the Press Box—Henry B. Asman-. On Down the Line—Cleve Carey--------------
396
397
399
402
404
405
408
409
411
412
413
414
420
424
THE SCHOLASTIC is scripts znay be addressed		published weekly at the University of Notre Dame. Manu-to THE SCHOLASTIC, Publications Office, Main Building.		
Entered as second-class		matter at	Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance	for mailing at
special	rate of postage. Section 1103, October 3, 1917, authorized June			25. 1918.
The Advertisers in Notre Dame Publications Deserve the Patronage of All Notre Dame Men.
396
The Notre Dame Sch
'1
Winter on Notre Dame’s Calvary


The Notre Dame Scholastic
397

THE WEEK
HE local chapter of the young ladies auxiliary of the Izaac Walton League (which might be stated more di-rectly, but we’ll get around to that) formally opened the 1931 season this Tuesday evening. There will be a followup gathering this evening, but it will be informal. The .17
■	newly initiated girls are rapidly being broken into the
intricacies of the most popular of the League’s sporting activities which is known arbitrarily as “baiting” or “fishing.” The older auxiliary members, already acquainted with the scientific points involved in angling, are vying ardently among themselves to make their “catch” as ,	rapidly and as deftly as possible. It is a most interest-
ing sport, affording amusement not only to baiters, but also to the would-be "catches,” which frequently are extended to the utmost of their diplomatic and conversational abilities to avoid the hook. The species which is exclusively sought is known among those who follow the technique contained in the pages of “The Complete ,	Angler” as “homo sapiens,” or just plain “homo sap.”
r	The former is preferred, but if it fails, the latter is hum-
bly, though not exuberantly accepted. The baiting season is not determined by the game laws, but there are certain events which stir up excited activities among the baiters. The more important the event, the greater the excitement. Such an affair as the K. of C. Formal, for •	instance, is usually a signal for a slight flurry, and a
delving into the feminine bag of tricks. The commotion caused by the approach of the Junior Prom is felt for a month in advance. The activity is noticeable especially on Wednesday and Sunday afternoons, and occasionally on a festive evening, such as tonight. The laws of the sport, however, requires that the festivities end at eleven
■a	o’clock.
I T has been generally known on the campus for some time that the posting of signs within the University’s boundaries, elevated less than eight feet above the ground is a rather futile business. The wall decorations •	in every hall bear testimony to the fact. It is only of
late, however, that local promoters and managers have had the foresight and determination to scale trees, walls, etc. to safeguard the products of the local printers and art students. The catastrophe of the past week, though, should relieve the situation which has been causing consternation among the ranks of student art collectors. For A	though it has been previously useless to post placards
*	within reaching distance of the normal collegian, it has
now been proved that an attempt to secure them among tree branches and at the tops of telephone poles and walls is dangerous, and full of accident potentialities. Mr. Bourke Motsett will bear testimony to this fact. This zealous gentleman, eager to give his all in the interests »	of the K. of C. and its annual ball, has become a hero
to the cause. In assuming the responsibilities of the chairman of the Knights formal dance, he “bit off an awful chunk,” as the saying goes. Some said at the time that Bourke bit off more than he could swallow. But Bourke’s latest swallowing feat has convinced even the most skeptical. Any dance chairman who will consume
tacks merely for the sake of placing advertisements high above the passing throng is well possessed of intestinal fortitude. If his intestines bear up under the attack of his snack of tacks, there will be no doubt about it. Following the astounding announcement that he had consumed several miniature nails, Mr. Mottsett was flooded with wires and letters from Ringling Brothers, Sells-Floto, and several vaudeville managers. The old act of the “Man With The Iron Stomach” is still a popular one throughout the country.
One of the lesser banes of collegiate existence is that remarkable product of modern invention, known as the telephone. We do not question the practicability or the good qualities of the blamed thing, but its exasperating characteristics were never so obvious as they are in a residence hall. Students who live alongside the phone booth usually flunk out before the year is over, but if they do manage to hang on in spite of the everlasting jangling of the bell, their mentality is in a questionable condition by the time June arrives. Nor have they a very attractive alternative to stopping the noise. Lifting the receiver is liable to bring a sweet feminine request for “Joe Blow in room 401.” Nothing is more pitiful than the expression on the youth awaiting a call, who answers the phone, only to hear such a REQUEST. The problem of the noise involved in the use of Mr. Bell’s invention is difficult to deal with. Noiseless typewriters, inaudible car wheels, and silent false teeth may be possible, but it is very probable that there will never be a genius to supph' us with a noiseless telephone bell.
Ed BRENNAN, of the Village, who pounds out copy for this sheet, has come forth with the latest confirmation of that much quoted proverb that “it’s a small world after all, ain’t it?” Ed received a letter this week from a brother of his who is studying at present in Rome. The brother, who is a seminarian, was taking part in a Church ceremony in the Holy City on Christmas Day. He was proceeding along the street, one of a group of seminarians who were part of a lenthy procession of the clergy, when a young man came alongside him, and asked him if he or any of those about him could speak English. Having taken a course in the subject here at Notre Dame, Mr. Brennan immediately answered in the affirmative. The youth then proceeded to walk along with him, continue the conversation, happy to have run into a fellow countryman. Before they had talked long, Mr. Brennan had let out the fact that he was a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross, that he was from South Bend,' and had spent several years in the seminary at Notre Dame. The young man who had accosted him received the news with something more than jubilation. He was Jack Yelland, member of last year’s graduating class. He has been many miles from his Alma Mater since he left with his diploma, and at present he is still roaming about Europe.

398
The Notre Dame Scholastic
I Coming Events | ❖----------------------------------------♦
These dates subject to change without notice.
FRIDAY, Jan. 16—Scholastic staff meeting, Main "building, 7:00 p. m.
SATURDAY, Jan. 17 — Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Pennsylvania at Philadelphia. — Movies, “The Big Trail,” Washington hall, 6:40 and 8:15 p. m.
SUNDAY, Jan. 18—Masses, Sacred Heart church, 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 a. m.	■
MONDAY, Jan. 19—Engineers’ club meeting, north room of library, 8:00 p. m.—Dome pictures, 12:20, in gymnasium; Monogram club, Blue Circle, Wabash Valley club, East Penn club. — Educational Confraternity meeting, 8:00 p. m., journalism room of library.—Wranglers’ meeting, 6:30 p. m., journalism room of library.
TUESDAY, Jan. 20—Dr. Eugene D’Andrassy, lecture, Washington hall, 8:00 p. m.—Dome pictures, 12:20, in gymnasium; Youngstown club, Akron club, Buffalo club, Detroit club.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 21—A. S. M. E. meeting, Engineers’ building, 7:45 p. m.—Dome pictures, 12:20, in gymnasium; California club, Indianapolis club, La Raza club, Spanish club.
THURSDAY, Jan. 22 — Spectators’ meeting, journalism room of library. —Dome pictures, 12:20, in gymnasium; Metropolitan club, New Jersey club, Philadelphia club.
All club secretaries are requested to inform William Karl, 201 Walsh hall, of the time and place of their meetings.
ftJiniiiiiHJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiinniniiiiiniriBHiiiiiiiiniHiHip] 1 NOTICE! j
= There will be a meeting of the | | editorial staff of the Scholastic = | at 6:30 this evening in the-Pub- : = lications’ office. The sports and = j news staff will meet at 7 o’clock. =
QiiiiuiiiiiiiiuinauiiiiuuiiniiiiiiimiaiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuHiiuQ
WELSH SINGERS THRILL
AUDIENCE IN OPENING OF CONCERT SEASON
Male Chorus Pleases With Varied Program.
Wednesday evening in Washington hall an enthusiastic audience of students was charmed and thrilled by the Welsh Imperial Singers.
The concert was under the direction of R. Festyn Davies. As is their custom, the chorus first sang “The March of the Men of Harlech.” The other concerted numbers of the evening were “Just a-Wearyin’ For You,” Gounod’s “Hymn to Apollo,” “Killar-ney,” “Carry Me Back to Old Vir-ginny,” “Crossing the Plain,” a rousing song of varied melodies and rhythms, “The Lost Chord,” “The Pilgrims’ Chorus” from Tannhauser, and “Ye Banks and Braes.”
The men were all in fine voice, and their blending harmony produced a great effect, as smooth and calm as the ebb and flow of the tide, or as vigorous as the dashing waves of the sea. The only duet on the program was Sargeant’s “Watchman, What of the Night,” sung by Jabez Trevor, tenor, and Howell Williams, baritone. Morlais Wrench with “Floral Dance” and Jack Newberry with “On the Shore” and “Asleep in the Deep” vied for honors as bass soloists. Elwyn Edwards, eighteen years old, and youngest member of the Singers, rendered “The Children’s Home” as a tenor solo. Harry Williams, possessed of a soft and charming tenor voice, was loudly applauded for his “Annie Darlin’ ” and was forced to respond to the demands.
The closing numbers which came all too soon, were by far the most impressive of the concert. The first of these was “Ar hyd y Nos” (All Through the Night). In this, the melody was hummed, and the effect was so much like the sound of a pipe organ that even the low notes of the foot keyboard seemed to be reproduced. The final song was “Silent Night” which Mr. Davies told the audience had been requested. Again the melody was hummed, and a happy coincidence occurred as the Singers neared the end—the big bell of the church tower began to strike the hour. The combination of the bell and the organ-like flow of melody was most effective.
SENIORS TO HAVE BUT
FOUR DAYS IN WHICH . TO GET CAP AND GOWN
Saunders Announces Personnel of Committee.
John F. Saunders, president of the senior class, has announced the appointment of Arthur McManmon of Lowell, Massachusetts, as chairman of the Cap and Gown committee. Other members of the committee are: Edward Mahon, James Walsh, Lewis O’Shea, Terrence Wharton, James McQuaid, Charles Miltner, and Vincent Turley.
Measurement of seniors for their caps and gowns will begin on the afternoon of Monday, January 19, and will continue on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday afternoons in Room 2, basement of Walsh hall. Mr. McManmon announced that after these four afternoons no further orders will be taken. The E. A. Moore company, of Chicago, who will supervise the measuring, will not return to the campus after Thursday. No deposit will be required of seniors at the time of measurement. This is the first year that such a concession to the seniors has been effected. Payment of the deposit for the garments must be made upon delivery a few days before Washington’s birthday, when the first official senior ceremonies will be held. A new and more efficient system of distribution has been instituted which will eliminate much of the confusion of deliveries experienced in past years. Seniors who do not return their caps and gowns after the ceremonies on Washington’s birthday will be required to pay an extra charge before receiving them for the commencement exercises.
Chairman McManmon announced that a meeting of the Cap and Gown committee will be held Sunday morning at 10:30, in Room 2, basement of Walsh hall.
Graduating men are urged to remember that absolutely no caps or gowns may be procured unless the measurements are taken during the four days alloted for this work.
I	NOTICE!	|
| The Classical association will | | meet Thursday, January 22, in- = f stead of Tuesday, January 20.	=
The Notre Dame Scholastic	399
YARR FOOTBALL CAPTAIN
-d &	'
Monogram Men Elect Tom Yarr
To Succeed Conley Next Year
“NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL IS ALL RIGHT,” SAYS FR. O’DONNELL
BY JOHN A. KIENER
Striking a responsive chord at the annual football monogram banquet last Wednesday night, the President of the University, The Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., said that “Notre Dame football is all right.”
Thomas Yarr was elected to succeed Thomas A. Conley as captain of the 1931 football team.
The Right Reverend George Finnigan, C.S.C., Bishop of Helena, Mont., Tim Galvin, ’16, prominent attorney of Hammond, Ind., and Warren Brown, sports writer and columnist for the Chicago Herald-Examiner^ also made speeches.
Knute K. Rockne, director of athletics, acted as toastmaster and kept the 350 guests present entertained throughout the banquet with his incessant good humor. Adding further praise to the 1930 national championship team, Rockne said: “I have never seen such a fine group of boys, so compact, and inspired by one another. There were no individuals, it was a team, and they liked one another. I can’t compare the team with the ones of 1920 and 1924 because it wouldn’t be fail- to any of them.”
“Regarding over-emphasis of football it depends upon what they mean of over-emphasis comes from a few He concluded by saying that this talk of over-emphasis comes from a few who have tasted defeat and have not adjusted themselves to that particular frame of mind.
In the election of the captain, Tom Yarr and Alvin Culver led in the nomination ballot. Yarr won the captaincy in the final ballot by a close margin. .
Introducing Father O’Donnell, Rockne spoke of him as a practical
idealist, and an educator second to none. Father O’Donnell said that there was only one serious problem during the entire year and that was the question of keeping or abolishing silent cheering. “After what happened on the coast December 6,” he said, “it’s well that we do not continue it further.”
Thomas Yarr
1931 Football Captain-Elect
Bishop Finnigan, the next speaker on the prpgram, warned the freshmen and varsity men who were remaining for the football season next year that prominence implies great responsibilities for yourselves and for your school.
Fourteen seniors made farewell speeches to their teammates. They were: Brill, Carideo, Conley, Donoghue, Hoffman, Howard, Kaplan, Kas-sis, Metzger, McManmon, Mullins, O’Brien, O’Connor, and Vik. In bidding goodbye to Captain Tom Conley, Rockne reminded the audience that he was a real leader, and able to assert himself always.
Gold footballs and monograms were awarded to 33 varsity men, ten of
(Continued on Page 406)
NOW, “BIG CHIEF” YARR; FILLS CENTER POST
TO PERFECTION
He is the “big chief” now. Tommy Yarr has been “chief” to his teammates and “chief” he is going to be for the remainder of his football career at Notre Dame. After the monogram men elected Tommy captain of the 1931 grid outfit at the banquet Wednesday night, an infectious smile spread over his broad face, but he immediately became serious as he arose to give his little speech of ac-knowldegment amidst the roar of applause.
“It is quite a surprise to receive this captaincy,” Tommy said, “and I’ll try to do everything to the best of my ability.” Turning to his right to Al Culver, runner-up in the nominations, Tommy said that Al was his best friend and hoped he would always remain so.
Nattily dressed in a light blue-grey suit with a light blue shirt and tie to match, his coal-black hair brushed smoothly back, Yarr looked every bit the connoisseur of fashion but his expansive shoulders bulging almost through the seams of his coat, was ample proof that he is an excellent football player, first and last.
Yarr hails from the far west. Dabob, Washington, is his home, and he began to play football at Chica-cum prep. The sage philosopher, Will Rogers, once said that most of the Notre Dame players’ folks came over on the Mayflower but that Yarr’s were there to meet the Mayflower.
The secret is this: Tommy is one-quarter Indian, which explains why he had the nickname “chief” tacked on to him by his teammates. And not to be outdone in that little matter his father was born in Dublin, Ireland. The “Fighting Irish” will be rightly named in 1931 as far as the captain is concerned.
The captain-elect is a student in the physical education school. He is 21 years old, weighs 195 pounds and stands 5 feet 10finches in height, a formidable man for the center position and a real gentleman for the captaincy.
400
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Sociology Department To Make Study of Criminal Justice Costs
Horan and Hickey to Collect Data From South Bend, Mishawaka, and Elkhart
At the request of the National Commission on Law Observance and Enforcement, the department of Sociology of the University of Notre Dame is to make a study of the cost of the administration of criminal justice in South Bend, Mishawaka, and Elkhart, according to announcement made today by Reverend Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C., head of the department of sociology at the University. The study is to form a part of a nation-wide investigation to determine the expense of criminal law enforcement in the larger cities of the country. In order to carry out the project, the results of which will not be known for some months, the commission is enlisting the aid of bureaus of municipal research and graduate students of the social sciences to study individual cities. The results of the city studies, made according to a uniform plan worked out by the commission, will be correlated and published later by the commission.
The general objective of the study is the ascertainment, as nearly as
EXTRA! MOTSETT EATS
TWO BIG TACKS’ EXTRA!
While assisting in putting up signs advertising the Knights of Columbus dance to be given Feb. 4, C. Bourke Motsett, chairman of the dance, suffered an accident when he swallowed two tacks. He had the tacks in his mouth for safe keeping as he climbed a wall to place a sign.
Whether Mr. Motsett merely wished to gain the distinction of being the only chairman of the K. of C. dance to swallow two tacks, or whether he has at some time been employed as a professional tack-swallower, is not known.
Mr. Motsett’s condition as a result of having two tacks in his stomach is not considered serious.
may be, of the cost of the administration of criminal justice in the larger cities of the United States, and the determination of the various factors affecting such cost. In each community an effort will be made to ascertain the extent to which that cost is affected by conditions peculiar to the community. The cost of the administration of criminal justice will be divided into four principal elements: cost of police, cost of prosecution, cost of criminal courts, and cost of penal and corrective treatment. Each of these will be studied separately.
Two advanced students, Leonard F. Horan of Medina, N. Y., and John P. Hickey of Homestead, Pa., both majoring in the department of sociology at Notre Dame, have been selected to collect data in the three local cities. They will work under the direction of the head of the department. The investigation, which will start at once, is expected to be completed before the end of the school year.
“DOME” WORK REACHES PEAK OF ACTIVITY
Due to the rapid work of Editor Paul Hallinan and his staff of assistants much progress has been made on the 1931 Dome. Hallinan announces that the entire staff is now at work and each day shows advancement in the many sections of the yearbook. Volume “dummies” have been distributed and a number of the section editors have reported their allotment of pages almost filled.
Photographs have been taken and developed in record time. The Dome is now nearer completion than it has been at this time during previous years. Group pictures, however, are still being taken each day. Students are reminded to be present with their groups when scheduled to appear.
SECOND ‘DOME* SNAPSHOT CONTEST ANNOUNCED
The Dome is sponsoring a second contest to get more snapshots for the 1931 yearbook, according to Alfred E. Gall, snapshot editor of this year’s edition. The contest is open to all students, who are urged to turn in snapshots of all kinds to the committee members in the halls. Jack Laux of Corby hall was awarded the prize of $5 last December for his prizewinning snapshot of Morrissey hall chapel. At that time over 150 different snapshots were turned in.
The second contest period will close • Sunday night, February 1. Announcement of the winner of the $5 prize will be made in the February 6 issue of the Scholastic.
Following is a list of committee men in the various halls: Sorin, Bill Gin-der; Freshman, Dick Cahill; Sophomore, Don Martin; St. Edward’s, Frank luen; Corby, Al Gall; Walsh, Robert Cahill; Badin, Jerry Bustin; Howard, Larry Prybylski; Morrissey, Lloyd Teske; Lyons, Larry Dunda; Brownson-Carroll, Chuck Fisher.
CHEMICAL SOCIETY TO
MEET WEDNESDAY
The St. Joseph Valley Section of the American Chemical Society will hold its regular meeting at the University of Notre Dame, in Chemistry hall, on Wednesday evening, January 21, at 7:30 p. m.
Dr. Ralph C. Huston, Dean of Applied Science and head of the organic chemistry department of Michigan State college, will address the section. He will speak on the subject, “Some Condensations with Aromatic Hydrocarbons and Phenals.”
All students interested and the public are cordially invited to hear Dr. Huston.
MEDIC APPLICANTS ASKED TO REPORT NEXT MONDAY
The Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, announces that all students who plan to apply for admission to medical schools in September will meet in Room 208 of Science hall on Tuesday, January 20, at 12:45 o’clock. At this time announcements and explanations of importance to those concerned will be made.
A written report on the thesis is required of all seniors in the College of Science. This report must reach the dean not later than Wednesday, January 21.
The Notre Dame Scholastic	401
VILLAGERS HEAR DEAN
KONOP AND JUDGE PYLE
Professor Thomas Konop, dean of the College of Law, and Judge Dan ■> Pyle of the Circuit court of South Bend were the principal speakers at the January dinner meeting of the Villagers club held Monday evening in the Gold room of the Oliver hotel. Norman Hartzer, president of the Villagers, presided.
j	Plans were announced for the an-
nual post-exam dance of the club but no definite date was decided upon for the affair. Charles Weiss, a junior in the College of Commerce and active in the Managers association at the University, was named as activities 1 chairman of the club for the remainder of the year. The various activities engaged in by the club will be under his guidance. His supporting committee will be announced at a later date.
After the meeting the members of r the club attended the Palace theatre as the guests of Manager Hooten.
Spitalny and Fiorito Probable Bands For Junior Prom; Favors are Selected
Chairman Collins Reports Final Decision on Orchestra To be Made This Week
PROF. O’GRADY GIVES
FIFTH FROSH LECTURE
Professor Daniel C. O’Grady of the philosophy department of the University delivered the fifth of the series of freshman lectures in Washington hall on Thursday evening, Jan. 8.
The speaker’s subject was “The Seven Lamps of Education.” Mr. O’Grady opened his talk by giving a definition of education which is, according to him, “the process of directing personal development.” He next enumerated what the seven lamps of education are: utility, health, science, philosophy, beauty, character, and faith. In closing, the speaker advised his audience as to where they might obtain this knowledge, and he coupled with this the warning that the present time is the best time to start.
JUGGLER “RACKETEER”
ISSUE OUT JANUARY 22
The “Racketeer” number of the Juggler will be ready for distribution on the campus by January 22, it was announced today by the Publications' office. The cover of this issue, drawn by Arthur Kane, senior in the Fine Arts school, will be in keeping with the ill-boding title. More than the usual amount of effort has been put into this issue, and it gives promise of being the most interesting, original number to be published this year.
Under the able direction of Chairman John J. Collins and his staff of committeemen, arrangements for the Junior* Prom of 1931, to be held at the Palais Royale on the evening of February 13, are rapidly nearing completion. The ten committee chairmen report that everything has been done to insure a social and financial success.
To date no definite decision has been made in regard to the choice of an orchestra. Collins, in collaboration with the music committee, headed by Philip Dunleavy, is seeking to secure the services of either Phil Spitalny or Ted Fiorito. It is more than likely that Fiorito’s band will be finally selected.
In accordance with the custom of other years a favor has been selected and is being withheld in the form of a secret until the night of the dance. Chairman Collins assures the members of the Junior class that the selection of the favor was determined only after careful consideration which suggested something worth while.
Distribution of tickets, in charge of Leonard Dunn, began yesterday. Tickets may be obtained from any one of the following: Joe Foley and Tom McKevitt, Lyons hall; Ray Geiger and John Ryan, Morrissey
SPECTATORS’ MEETING
Several matters relating to membership and purposes of the club were discussed by the Spectators at their meeting last week. For- the future it was decided to make the papers of a greater general interest and to attempt to improve the quality of the material presented.
Spirited discussion followed a talk by Thaddeus Xelowski on the recent drama presentations over the radio.
hall; Nick Kalmes and Leo Schiavone, Walsh hall; Bill Van Rooy, Badin hall; Murray Booth, Corby hall; Clay Johnson, St. Edward’s hall, and John Kramer, off-campus.
Decorations promise to be of an interesting character. Joel Ostrander and Benjamin Mikes, co-chairmen of the committee on decorations, have conferred with a number of leading interior decorators. To date nothing has been disclosed in this regard but from all reports decorations will assume a rather novel and unusual aspect. Plans are secretive and a surprise is forthcoming.
Thus far the dinner-dance scheduled for the night of Saturday, February 14, is tentative pending a faculty conference.
Plans for a Communion Mass and breakfast to be held on Sunday, February 15, are being considered by the arrangements committee under the direction of Theodore Kramer.
Copies of the prom song, “My Heart Tells Me,” written by Walt Philipp have been distributed among the leading orchestras throughout the country. Efforts are being made to have the song introduced in the various theatres in South Bend prior to. its official release on the night of February 13.
FR, NIEUWLAND READS
PAPER BEFORE SOCIETY
The Reverend J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., of the department of chemistry of the University, presented a paper on the action of boron trifluoride as a catalyst in acetylene condensations before the chemical section of the American Association for the Advancement of Science at the meeting held last December at Western Reserve university in Cleveland.
402
The Notre Dame Scholastic
A Man About The Campus
Last year Father Leo Ward had in his class an earnest sophomore who surprised him by turning in as class duties some very fine short stories and essays. Father Ward, always watchful for talent, more or less took the fellow under his wing and taught him a few of the finer points of writing. The result was that Louis Brennan became, while still a sophomore, a contributor to, and one of the editors of, the newly-born Scrip, and one of the most respected of the campus literary men.
Louie holds down a room on the second floor of Corby which, except for that occupied by Frank Connors, is about the barest one we’ve ever been in. Up to the time of the holidays one lone yellow bulb made a sort of half light, but since then an ornate lamp has taken over the job with the result that the rest of the room looks barer than ever. Louie’s hobby evidently isn’t interior decoration, but he does plenty of good writing hunched over a desk littered with odd sheets of paper, taking time out only for an occasional movie, a discussion of metaphysics, or a comparison of the merits of the various singers who make up a next-door quartet.
Don’t get the idea that Louie is one of the pseudo-intellectuals about whom Professor O’Grady speaks so scathirigly. He breaks out now and then with an “ain’t,” wears army shoes, and once in a while commends the Scholastic — he reads Collier’s and the Saturday Evening Post. Back home in Portsmouth, Ohio, he spends his summers working in a nail factory, and he has, unlike those same pseudo - intellectuals, callouses and muscles. Last summer he looked at the sun over a tray of dishes that he carried around in a shore resort. And, wonder of wonders, he plays end on Corby’s football team; plays so well that he was picked by the SCHOLASTIC for the All-Interhall team.
Louie took the examination for prospective majors in English and passed it with the highest mark attained for many years. Since then
he has been devoting his time to the course and at the same time maintaining with a vehemence that is convincing, that he does not intend to teach literature. His ambition, confided to us some time ago, is to edit a smalltown paper where he can organize
Louis A. Brennan
things according to some of his own theories, and at the same time continue his writing. He is serious about the writing part of things, and we have seen him spending most of his spare time working out sentences and phrases with his little stub of a pencil.
He has a hobby of course, although he admits it’s an odd one and does not occasion much thought. It’s the collecting of little brass statuettes of animals, and, for the skeptics to see, they are lined up in a row on the aforementioned meagerly furnished desk. Books he has in plenty, mostly of recognized authors like Hawthorne and Conrad and Stevenson; there are many autographed works of more modern writers; and he claims that Arnold Bennet’s “Old Wives’ Tale,” which took weeks to finish, is the finest thing that he has read. The Scribblers elected Louie secretary of their organization, as did the Classical association—but back in prep school, where we understand most of the good things of life are done, Louie never won a prize or gained the adulation of the whole school. From what we know of the boy, the prep school was blind to a lot of good material for prize-awarding; sometime they’ll realize it.
JOE WILK ANNOUNCES NEW “DOME” DRIVE FOR
CIRCULATION
Joseph A. Wilk, circulation manager of the Dome of 1931 announces that he will begin a final campaign for subscriptions this week. The campaign will last until February 13th and will be the last chance students will have for placing their order for this year’s Dome, to be issued shortly before school closes in June.
Circulation so far has reached past the two thousand mark, while returns on the business reply orders that were mailed to various students during the holidays have been very encouraging to date. Manager Wilk has set his quota at twenty-five hundred copies. Students who still have their business reply cards are urgently asked to return them as soon as possible.
Campus halls are again to be covered systematically, with men displaying copies of last year’s Dome throughout the freshman halls. Off-campus students may sign for their copies at the Off-Campus Office where a copy of the 1930 Yearbook is available for inspection by Off-Campus students who have not as yet seen the University annual.
In view of the fact that this is to be the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Number, the editors are making every possible effort to make this year’s copy even more successful than those of past years.
There is to be a much improved football section containing features of the national champions, a wonderful basketball section, baseball section, and articles by Henry B. Asman, sports-editor of the Scholastic, on track, in addition to an excellent picture section of every club, athletics and activities.
The amount is to be placed on the student’s account after February 13th. Bills up to that date will be sent home.
READING POSTPONED
Due to the impossibility of making railroad connections, Phildelah Rice, who was to give a reading in Washington hall on January 19, will not be able to be present. Her presentation will be tentatively postponed to some time in February, according to the Reverend William Molony, C.S.C.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
403
KNIGHTS DISCUSS FORMAL; ALLOT TICKETS BY HALLS; ST. MARY’S GIRLS INVITED
4 A Man You Know h
Announcements concerning the sale of tickets for the Knights of Columbus annual dance to be given February 4 in the Palais Royale ballroom were made at a meeting of Notre Dame council, held last Monday in their chambers in Walsh hall.
C. Bourke Motsett, general chairman of the dance, made the announcement that members were to purchase the tickets from the representatives in each of the various halls, and that each membei- was to receive one extra invitation to the dance. The exception is in the freshman halls where the first twenty-five non-members applying will receive tickets.
Motsett also said that arrangements had been made with Sister M. Claudia, C.S.C., to allow the girls of St. Mary’s college and academy to attend the dance.
“Denver Darling” and the “Salt and Pepper Twins” of radio station WSBT in South Bend furnished the entertainment of the evening. The South Bend station’s favorites were well liked by the knights.
“SANTA MARIA” TO BE
RELEASED ON TUESDAY
The January issue of the Santa Maria, official publication of the Notre Dame council 1477, Knights of Columbus, will be released on the campus next Tuesday according to Editor John Bergan.
Some notable contributors have written articles for this issue, the first of the new year. Among the writers who have articles in the publication are: Professor John M. Cooney, head of the school of journalism at the University; Professor Charles Phillips of the English faculty; Professor Henry Staunton, also of the English faculty; Ray A. Hoyer head of the department of Boy Guidance at the University; the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., campus poet; Theodore Maynard, famous Catholic writer; Kenton Kilmer, son of the famous Joyce Kilmer and a writer of no little importance in his own right, and Dr. A. Coplan.
The magazine also contains its regular feature and council news.
Nobody envies the work of a prefect—the work of keeping a group of forty or fifty students in reasonable order. The Reverend Dominic J. Cannon, C.S.C., now prefect of the second floor of Corby hall, has worked
Rev. Dominic J. Cannon, C.S.C.
as a prefect ever since he returned to Notre Dame in 1922, and has been in five different halls—Walsh, Sorin, Carroll, Howard, and Corby. One feels that after such a long period of distinguished service he should be given service stripes, although he disclaims the need of any.
Father Cannon was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, in 1879. After attending grade school and high school there, he came to Notre Dame in 1900. He spent a year and a half in Brownson hall, and entered Holy Cross seminary in 1902. He went to the novitiate in 1903, returning to the seminary in the following year. In 1907 he was graduated with the degree of bachelor of literature. After his graduation he went to Washington, where he studied at the Catholic university for four years. There he studied theology and physics. In 1911 he received the degree of bachelor of sacred theology from Catholic university, and he was ordained in the same year.
Then he was sent out to Columbia university in Portland, Oregon, a school run by the Congregation of Holy Cross. He remained there for eleven years, teaching physics. In 1922 he returned to Notre Dame, and since then he has taught physics here. This year, besides his classes in the College of Science, he is also teaching physics at the seminary.
During the fall and winter he has no particular hobby, unless occasional reading can be so considered. When the bass season opens, however, he at once becomes a sportman. He is an enthusiastic fisherman, being particularly fond of casting. Probably he looks forward to the summer vacation with as great an eagerness as that of his students, because he spends many week-ends during the summer at the Holy Cross summer home on Bankson lake, near Lawton, Michigan. There he has all the fishing he could possibly desire.
VALUABLE BOOKS ADDED TO LAW LIBRARY
The Law library has recently obtained three valuable sets of books. A rare set of New Hampshire reports, numbering 63 volumes practically out of the market, has been purchased from Chief Justice William Sawyer of the Superior court of New Hampshire.
Raymond Brady of the class of 1924, now practicing law at Salt Lake City, has donated a set of Utah statutes.
Gerald Meginley, of Ogallala, Nebraska, class of 1927, is donating a set of Nebraska statutes.
DEAN KONOP LECTURES
ON U. S, GOVERNMENT
Dean Thomas Konop of the Law school, addressed the members of Mr. Bartholomew’s politics classes Friday evening, Jan. 9, in the basement of the new Law building. The speaker first gave a resume of the last lecture given before the Christmas recess, and then proceeded to delve further into the workings of the United States Congress. The Con-gessional Record and the appendix to this work, which made its initial appearance during Mr. Konop’s first term in the House of Representatives, was explained and thoroughly discussed by him. In closing Dean Konop said that he could not impress too strongly upon them the mere importance of knowing about the workings of the governments, if they were to be successes in their community.
1
404
The Notre Dame Scholastic
« Music And Drama »
If you are as tired as we are of hearing the popular pieces in vogue just now, you won’t want to buy any records either, so there isn’t much use in recommending any. It’s get-ing so that now we can’t tell one piece from another. We still like “Body and Soul,” however, in the symphonic arrangement played by Jack Hylton and his orchestra, a London band. This is a fine record with its varied rhythms and climaxes, and it is really a dollar and a quarter’s worth of good music. On the reverse side is “With a Song in My Heart,” equally well played. These two are on a Victor platter. We also still like* “The Peanut Vendor,’ ’although most people tell us they find it monotonous. At least, it doesn’t pretend to have an interesting melody. Another worthwhile record is Ravel’s “Bolero” played by Nat Shilkret. It is a condensed version of this now famous modern music at the premiere of which in Boston the staid beaneaters rose to their feet and cheered for a good many minutes. The “Bolero” is not exactly jazzed, although its fascinating but maddening drum and tambourine accompaniment makes it seem in the popular rhythm. You may also procure a symphonic rendering of the “Bolero” in its original form. This takes three sides of two large Red Seal records and is done by the Boston Symphony. The “Bolero” like so many masterpieces has an interesting story in connection with its composition. People had complained to Ravel of the crazy music he had been writing. He said that if they thought his music was crazy he’d show them, and the “Bolero” was the result. (“Crazy” may not have been the adjective used, but it was something to that effect.) The music is so exciting and jarring that it seemed almost impossible, so a
MEETING POSTPONED
Robert E. Lee, vice-president of the Pre-legal club announces that there will be no meeting of the club until after the semester examinations.
friend told us, for the audience not to rise to its feet and shout. Anyway, hear the “Bolero” and like it or not, as you will.
During the holidays we saw a play which seemed to be just about as fine and beautiful as a play can be. It was John Balderston’s “Berkeley Square” with Leslie Howard and Margalo Gillmore. Mr. Balderston uses the theory of relativity to give his play plausibility, and whether the theory is scientifically or philosophically valid or not, it is true for “Berkeley Square.” Ask anyone who saw it. Or better still, ask anyone who saw it twice; there are several on the campus. We mentioned that the play is beautiful—the ending of the second act is a translation into words of the “Moonlight Sonata,” if such be possible. As for the touch of sadness or melancholy necessary to all beauty, the note of sorrow on which the drama ends is wholly unrelieved. Applause seemed futile as the curtain descended.
We also saw a Little Theater production of “Camille,” and it was about as far from our idea of “Camille” as anything could be. The play, as you know, is from the novel La Dame aux Camellias of Dumas, fils, and your mother probably wept over it in the early part of the century or earlier. The version we saw was given in modem dress, which fact robbed it of its charm and romance and made the stilted lines even worse. The leading lady looked somewhat peaked in the last two acts, but appeared too healthy to die of consumption so soon. The leading man was a sap. We shall not visit that playhouse again.
JOE MORRISSEY MARRIES
Joe Morrissey, former varsity quarterback was married during the holidays in the Log chapel of the University. Joe is coaching St. Francis High school, Pontiac, Mich.
STUDENTS USE AIRPLANES, AUTOS, AND TRAINS
TO GO HOME
Students of the University used many novel methods of transportation to go home over the holidays, as well as the standard method of railroad travel. Some of the innovations of this year included the chartering of buses of the various lines and the use of airplanes.
One of the most daring exploits was that of William Morphy, Edward Labarthe, Marcelino Garza, and Alfredo Canepa, who drove all the way to Mexico. These four hardy gentlemen used a Ford roadster for their trip, driving all the way to Monterey, Mexico. As the distance is 1800 miles, the time of fifty-two hours is remarkable. The return trip took only fifty hours and the four arrived at Notre Dame at 8 a. m. on Monday. Twelve days were spent in Mexico as the men left Friday afternoon. All that this reporter has to say is that “It happened in Monterey.”
Another group from the east chartered a bus. The details of that trip are something of a mystery although we do know that the 900 miles to New York required thirty-hours. As usual, the Metropolitan club had its special train east on the New York Central railroad.
Daniel D. Halpin, manager of the football team, went to California with the all-stars team and, being anxious to attend the Connecticut Valley dance in Hartford, he flew back after the game. After arriving at Newark airport a friend rushed him to the Pennsylvania station in New York where he caught a train for his home in New Haven.
Nevertheless all the students arrived back safely with the exception of the few who couldn’t bear to leave “her” just yet.
BEAUX ARTS AWARDS
THREE FOR DESIGNS
In a recent Class B competition conducted by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design, Thomas P. Feely won a mention and Peter J. Trolio and Paul Flanagan received half-mentions for their design of a meteorological station.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
40-5
REGISTRAR INFORMED
RESEARCH POST OPEN
Interesting to students in the College of Commerce and also to those majoring in economics is the an-3	nouncement of a civil service examin-
ation for the position of Research Assistant in Personnel Adminstration. The position, which pays $3,200 a year, is open to all citizens who meet the requirements, the registrar has been informed.
Education and experience count seventy percent while the writings of the applicant (filed with the application) are to count for thirty percent. All applicants must show that they are graduates of a recognized college or university with a bachelor’s degree and at least 118 semester hours of work. Graduate studies will be accepted as experience year for year.
After a probationary period of six months at the stated salary the applicant becomes eligible for promotion according to his individual effi-> ciency, increased usefulness and the occurrence of vacancies in higher positions.
Work in business administration, public administration, government or industrial economics will weigh heavily in favor of the applicant. Three »	years of practical experience, gradu-
ate work or teaching of collegiate rank are required.
BOOK REVIEWS 4
PROFESSOR HOYER NAMED ON TOWN CHARITY BOARD
At the annual meeting of the South Bend Community Chest, Professor Ray Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance department, was elected to membership on the board of directors for the ensuing year.
The Community Chest is composed of fifteen local social and pilan-thropic societies which raise their money jointly each spring. Prof. Hoyer will be the official representative of the St. Joseph Valley Council, Boy Scouts of America, which is a member of the Chest.
CHICAGO ALUMNI CLUB
HOST FOR CONVENTION
The Notre Dame club of Chicago has made arrangements to act as host to the fifth annual convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. This is the federation’s first convention in the Mid-West. Loyola, DePaul, and Marquette universities are co-operating with the Chicago club. The convention will be held at the Drake hotel, April 24, 25, and 26.
Education of a Princess. By Marie, Grand Duchess of Russia. Viking. $3.00.
Today the Grand Duchess Marie of Russia looks back, not remorsefully, not longingly, upon the tinseled prewar days. Though hardly forty, she has packed several lifetimes into that short span of years. Cei-tainly she has lived a varied life, and in the telling of it she has written a book steeped in interest and alive with color. Her book, Education of a Princess, is full and rich in its reminiscences, and well it might be in view of hex- life as a princess of the Russian royal house; as the wife of Prince William of Sweden; as the sister of the Grand Duke Dmitri who was implicated with Yusupov in the killing of Rasputin; as a nurse at the front during Russia’s war with Germany; as a refugee from the debacle that was Russia during the turbulent days of the revolution.
With her flight from Russia soon after the beginning of the revolution and with her successful escape from its border, Marie ends her story. One hopes that some day she will write a footnote to the present volume; a footnote describing, at least, her Paris years.
The Ring of the Loivenskolds. By Selma Lagerlof. Doubleday, Doran. $3.00.
Those who have read Selma Lagerlof’s Charlotte Lowenskold will remember how, when the hot tempered young clergyman, Karl Arthur Eken-stedt, quarreled with his fiancee, Charlotte Lowenskold, he ran from the house crying, “I shall let God choose for me. The first woman who crosses my path shall be my wife.” They will remember, too, that it was a young and pretty pedler girl, Anna Svard, to whom he proposed. “It is a miracle,” thought Anna, untutored and illiterate, “to marry a clergyman and live in a parsonage.”
Anna Svard, Selma Lagerlof’s latest work, the story of Anna’s marriage to Karl Arthur and how her life was subsequently complicated by her relations with Charlotte, Karl Arthur’s old love, and Thea Sundler,
who loved him and exerted a singular influence over him, is the last of a series of three novels which are hei’e published in one volume entitled, The Ring of the Loivenskolds.
The first part of the trilogy, The General s Ring, is like an overture to the other novels, a legend of eighteenth century Sweden which is steeped in mysticism and colored by the superstitions of the country folk. Hardly more than a novelette, it selves somehow to establish the spirit and a background for the other two stories.
It is Anna Svard alone that is of new interest to Selma Lagerlof’s American readers. And it is, indeed, a novel to excite renewed interest in Miss Lagerlof and even greater admiration for the talents of this Swedish novelist, the first woman ever to have been awarded the Nobel prize for literature. Anna Svard, who moved only vaguely as an individual through the pages of Charlotte Loic-enskold, now comes to life as a completely realized character, a robust young woman, a curious admixture of worldliness and naivete.
Swift: A Biography. By Carl Van Doren. Viking. $3.00.
Ever since death ended Jonathan Swift’s tormented life on Oct. 19, 1745, certain aspects of the great dean’s life have been subjected to fevered controversies. Carl Van Doren dismisses, and rightly, many of the disagreements on which. Swift’s previous biographers have frittered away their time. Instead, he presents Jonathan Swift, victim of his deeply inborn pride; Jonathan Swift, wanting to be somebody but consumed always by a sense of frustration; Jonathan Swift as vicar, dean, man of the world, man of power, and “king of triflers”: these various Jonathan Swifts are merged successfully by Carl Van Doren into one whole and concerted individual, boy, man, and half mad, recalcitrant old man with one foot in his grave.
Swift, though not a long biographv as biographies go, is scholarly, well balanced, and a work of consummate literary craftsmanship.
e Notre Dame Scholastic
406	Th
YARR FOOTBALL CAPTAIN
(Continued from Paste 399)
whom are sophomores, Those receiving footballs were: Mullins, Carideo, Terlaak, Kaplan, O’Connor, Culver, Conley, Schwartz, Metzger, Donoghue, Howard, Yarr-, Butler, Greeney, McManmon, Mahoney, Cronin, Hoffman, Brill, Vik, Kurth ,Kassis, Koken, Host, Harriss, Hanley, Jaskwhich, B. Leahy, Kosky, Rogers, F. Leahy, and Lukats. Gold footballs were given also to coaches Anderson, Moynihan, Chevigny, and Voedisch; Trainer Eugene “Scrap-Iron” Young; and Senior managers, Dan Halpin, Joe Lauerman, and Jack Saunders.
It was announced during the banquet that while Bill Jones and Manny Vezie, who graduate from the law school, would be leaving, Clarence Kaplan, halfback of this year’s team, would be here next season as freshman coach.
MAYOR WALKER SENDS
PHOTO OF NEW YORK
SKYLINE FOR “DOME”
W. Leslie Raddatz, organizations editor of the Dome, has received a telegram from Mayor James Walker of New York assuring him that the Dome will have a photo of the New York skyline as requested by Raddatz.
The request for such a photo was made after a decision was reached to have each of the larger city clubs page illustrated by the city it represents. Raddatz wrote Mayor Walker for the photo and received an immediate reply together with the photo itself. More important than this, however, will be the article written for the club section of the Dome.
Ten other clubs have handed in pictures of their respective cities and the addition is expected to brighten the annual.
KIWANIANS FETE TEAM
The Notre Dame national champion football team was entertained at a luncheon at the Oliver hotel, Wednesday noon by the Kiwanis club of South Bend.
Busses were chartered by the club to transport the men to the banquet room.
VOICE FROM THE CLOUDS SPEAKS TO NOTRE DAME
Students walking across the campus last Wednesday afternoon were startled to hear, following the roar of a passing airplane, a loud voice coming evidently from nowhere and calling “Hello, Notre Dame.” The blue and gold plane banked and swooped down again over the Dome; clearly and loudly came the question, “How would you like some music?” A band broke into the music of the Victory March while students stood and gaped.
A moment later the cause and source of the voice and the music was revealed when the same voice announced from the sky that the Stinson Aircraft Corporation was sending its greetings to Notre Dame by means of the newest thing in aviation, broadcasting sound waves right in their own element.
DR. D’ANDRASSY TO TALK NEXT WEDNESDAY NIGHT
The University will take its part this month in the celebration of the two-thousandth anniversary of the birth of Virgil, or as it is more eruditely termed, the Virgilian Bimil-lenium, which occurred last year. For the sake of those not mathematically inclined, it may be mentioned that Virgil -was born in the year 70 B. C.
Dr. Eugene C. D’Andrassy, Ph.D., LL.D., an authority on classical subjects and who conducted a Virgilian anniversary tour of Europe last year, will lecture in Washington hall, at 8:15 p. m., Wednesday, January 20. His topic will be on some phase of the classics, undoubtedly “Virgil.” Dr. D’Andrassy is head of the department of classics and Fine Arts at Holy Cross College, Worcester.
BRENNAN, CARROLL READ BEFORE SCRIBBLERS
Principal event at the meeting of the Scribblers’ held last Wednesday evening,- was the reading of “A Realist Looks at Christmas,” a short story by Louis A. Brennan. Since this story was a radical departure . from the usual work of Mr. Brennan, it excited much interest and discussion among members.
Joseph Carroll, talented freshman and new member of the Scribblers, read a paper on Walter de la Mare which showed that de la Mare is one of the few poets who still maintain a consistent mood of magic in their poetry.
“CALL A PLUMBER,” CRIES
SORIN SUB AS BROKEN
PIPE FLOODS HALL
Sorin hall “sub” was the scene of an impromptu beach party last Tuesday night' when one of the water pipes in the basement burst shortly after 11:00 o’clock. Torrents of water poured on the floor of the subway and soon many figures in lurid pajamas, rolled up to the knees, could be discerned wallowing in Notre Dame’s “Coney Island.” Among the joyous waders could be seen several prominent athletes of the campus.
The pipes are slightly beyond the reach of the students who were willing to give their all (pajamas included) for the safety of the rugs in nearby rooms. Soon the Reverend John Farley, C.S.C., took charge of the scene. The stentorian roars of Father Farley drowned out the wails of the luckless rug owners.
Suggestions flew fast and furious from the assembled students. Flood relief committees were suggested, to be composed of third-floor students. Father Farley then organized the students into a chain gang, and they ran between the nearby sink and the rapidly forming pools, pails and dustpans being pressed into service as bailing instruments.
Delegations from all the upperfloors descended to gaze at the hapless plight of the subwayites, and offer-humorous relief suggestions. Although the cause of the broken pipe was not known, it is rumored that some athlete was trying to keep himself in shape during the idle months by chinning on the pipes.
After ten minutes of feverish activity and great hubdub the leak was plugged.

FRESHMAN SUSPICIOUS;
FINDS BED GIVES WAY
Robert McDonough, a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters, is a man of great foresight. On Thursday evening McDonough, who lives in Carroll hall, had a feeling that sleeping in his own bed was not all right. He promptly shook the bed and had his suspicions affirmed. The bed gave way. McDonough slept elsewhere that night.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
407
«--------------------------------...
Campus Opinions
-------------------------------•>
“What subject or course of subjects tazight at Notre Dame do you, think will prove to be the greatest benefit to you upon graduation?”
John A. Perone, Corby hall, junior —“I think the electrical engineering course taught here will benefit me to a very high degree. I intend to enter the telephone and telegraph field, where it will be essential that I have a firm working knowledge of all branches of mathematics. For that reason I believe the mathematics taught in this course, along with the electrical engineering theory classes and laboratories, are exactly what I need after graduation.’’
Edward F. Draves, Off-Campus, senior—“I like Professor Kaczmarek’s physiology course, mostly because he states the facts as they really are and in the connection in which we are most likely to confront them later. In this course you either know the facts or miss them, for there is no chance to “cram” or “goof” on the questions. It shows a student that he must study if he expects to succeed while in school. I believe every student at Notre Dame should take one of Professor Kaczmarek’s courses, not only for the text-book matter, but also for his insights on life.”
Daniel D. Halpin, Sorin hall, senior, and manager of the 1930 football team—“I think Dean McCarthy’s finance courses will prove to be the most beneficial to me after graduation, because I am entering the investment banking business in New York. While the theory that is taught in the various classes does not necessarily qualify one for an executive position, it is a good basis for the beginning of knowledge of the particular financial business.”	.
Lawrence M. Zell, Badin hall, senior, and vice-president of the Academy of Science—“For a science student no course is more beneficial than one which teaches the fundamental principles of chemistry and also helps the student to arrive at a conclusion after viewing scientific data. Physical chemistry, taught by Mr. Froning, is such a course for science men. Mr. Froning’s course not only gives the fundamental principles of physical chemistry but also helps the student
FINALS IN BREEN MEDAL CONTEST TO BE HELD
NEXT MONDAY
Finals in the Breen Medal contest for oratory will be held Monday, Jan. 19, at eight o’clock in Washington hall, according to an announcement by Mr. William Coyne of the department of speech, who is in charge of the contest this year. In the elimination contest held previous to the holidays each of the contestants delivered an original ten minute speech.
The finalists selected and their orations are: Edward Ackerman, “The Heroes of Obscurity”; H. P. Rockwell, “Lincoln and the Constitution”; James J. Boyle, “Preparedness”; Frank Mc-Greal, “The Root Protocol.”
The Breen award, the gift of the late Honorable William Patrick Breen, of the class of ’77, is awarded annually to the student who excels in oratory. The winner in the contest represents the University in the Indiana state oratorical contest, held on the third Friday in February.
SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
OFFERS NEW COURSES
Dr. Leo J. Kuntz, head of the School of Education, announces the complete reorganization of the department of secondary education of the school. Two new courses have been added to the department, of curriculum construction and high school administration, the latter to be taught by Mr. Kohlbrenner. Both classes are open to seniors and Dr. Kuntz strongly recommends them to students planning- to follow high school administration -work.
Charles J. Griffin, formerly of the English department, will be an instructor in the re-organized department of secondary education.
to study scientific material critically and intensively.”
John G. Dorschel, Sorin hall, senior—“I believe that the art of expression, written and spoken, will prove to be of the greatest aid to me after I leave Notre Dame. In later life we will make many brief contacts with people whose only means of judging us will be our written or spoken words. Ideas must be expressed to be of value, and the man who can express himself logically and in an interesting manner will find an openingin the business world. Look what speech did for Groucho Marx and Joe Cook!”
College of Arts and Letters
Students of philosophy will doubtless welcome the recent publication by members of the philosophy faculty of the “Dictionary of Philosophical Terms.” Although only a brochure of some 65 pages, it contains the etymology, synonyms, and antonyms of the more important terms employed in the various manuals of scholastic philosophy. As far as is known, no other work of this kind exists in the English language, and certainly none could be more serviceable to the undergraduate student. It may be had at the Book Store. The price is 25 cents.
Within the next week pre-registration for the second semester classes will be begun. It is important therefore that all junior and senior students should inform themselves on the character of the elective courses that are to be offered. But too often this consideration is deferred till the moment of actual assignment to classes, thereby causing unnecessary delay, inconvenience and hasty and ill-advised selection of courses. University bulletins may be had on request at the office of the Dean.
Senior and graduate students who intend to enter the teaching field after graduation are invited to leave their names, together with all other relevant information, with the Dean of this college. Such action may be helpful to them in securing suitable teaching positions.
❖-------------------------------❖
Engineering Notes
Mr. Robert Pettingill, congressman and attorney, will address the members of the Engineers’ club at a meeting to be held next Monday evening at 8:00 p. m. in the north room of the library.
The Notre Dame student branch of the American society of Mechanical Engineers will hold a regular meeting on next Wednesday evening at 7:45 p. m. in the Engineering building.
The principal speaker at the meeting of the A. I. E. E. held in Badin hall last Monday evening, was Mr. A. Guinn of South Bend. He spoke on the subject “Street Lighting.”
408
The Notre Dame Scholastic
« Glances at the Magazines »
Scribner’s, you remember, was commended by Mr. Edward O’Brien for being the only one of the older magazines to be aware of the new wind on the literary uplands, and for providing a place in its pages foi' the new and younger writers whose work merits recognition.
In Mr. O’Brien’s Best Short Stories of 1930 was included a story from Scribner’s,—Walter Gilkyson’s “Blue Sky.” The 0. Henry Memorial Award Stories for 1930 included three stories that had appeared in Scribner’s: “Herself,” by Katherine Newlin Burt; “A Man of the World,” by John Held, Jr.; and “A Matter of Standards,” by Julian Street.
Now Scribner’s starts the new year auspiciously, publishing in the January issue “Dry September,” a short story by William Faulkner, one of the very best stort stories of the month. Mr. Faulkner lives very much to himself in Oxford, Mississippi. He is the author of two novels, “The Sound and the Fury,” and “As I Lay Dying.” His third novel will be published in the spring. He is regarded by many as one of the most significant, most promising of the younger writers of America.
Read Scribner’s new feature section “Straws in the Wind.” Especially see Thomas Beer’s article “A Little Exam. A Note on the Youngev Generation.” It is the report of an experiment made last September at a seaside colony in Massachusetts, where one afternoon there were grouped about the veranda of a private home twenty-five of the Younger Generation. Their ages ranged from 17 to 25. They came mostly of wealthy parents who provided them with all the advantages of education, travel, etc. There was but one exception, a young man who by his own efforts supported himself, his mother, and sister, and had no formal education beyond that afforded by the public schools. The others were products of Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, University of Michigan, Notre Dame, Smith, Bryn Mawr, tutors, governesses, and other institutions of learning.
The young people talked. They drifted into a discussion of“the misinformation of middle age.” They grew abusive, nor did the appearance
of two persons of middle age deter them. They talked on, idly, rashly. Their arguments were challenged. If Youth was no knowing, it would not object to an examination on topics of general information. A little quiz.
Youth agreed; but was wary, stipulating. Of the twenty-five eight were girls. It would be necessary therefore to exclude higher mathematics and physics. The terms were accepted. The examination of forty question was drawn up by a lawyer and an engineer.
One read the questions and dropped out immediately. A. girl from Bryn Mawr. There remaining twenty-four struggled through the exam, puzzled, perplexed, angry. They turned in their papers. Some fled, ashamed; others remained, protesting.
The best paper turned in was by the young man with the mother and sister to support. The ten worst papers were written by midlanders of whom there were twelve. One question received a “high” of eight correct answers. The average was much lower than that. Several of the questions were not answered correctly by anyone of the twenty-four.
The hostess who superintended the tragedy made this comment: “The trouble with these kids is simple . . . Not only do they not actually read anything, but their information as far as I can see, is all acquired by word cf mouth. Someone mentions something, a book, or a play. They ask about it, talk of it to someone else for the sake of an effect and then forget about it. Au fond, they do not actually want to know anything. I am afraid I find it just a little sad.”
Mr. Beer, on the contrary, finds it amusing. He is contemptuous of the young. He sneers at the younger generation which the twenty-four represented. A stupid lot, he thinks.
But it is unfair to condemn the younger generation as a whole, simply because twenty-four vain young persons boasted, and were confounded. “A Little Exam” is an indictment not of a generation, but of a set, a pleasure set, wealthy, idling playboys and playgirls, pleasure-bent. But the type is just as present among the elders,
TRY-OUTS FOR CAMPUS ORCHESTRA HELD
LAST WEEK
Tryouts for positions in the concert orchestra which is being organized on the campus were held last Tuesday in Washington hall. Approximately fifteen students were present. While this turnout is considered satisfactory, Professor Joseph Casasanta desires to stress the fact that many times that amount of men could be very well used.
The conducting and training of the orchestra will be done by himself and Professor R. Seidel of Chicago. The capabilities of Mr. Casasanta are well-known, while Professor Seidel is a man of broad experience in the musical field, having been associated with the Chicago Symphony orchestra for forty years.
Mr. Casasanta contends that under the tutelage of such a man opportunities along musical lines are unlimited. He, therefore, wishes that more men would take advantage of the situation, even though their instruments have been idle for some time.
who have failed the exam just as dismally. Miss Sackville-West in “The Edwardians” says, speaking of a middle-aged group: “To Sylvia, as to most of her acquaintance, the life of pleasure was all in all; neither books, art, nor music meant anything to her except insofar as their topicality formed part of the social equipment. . . . Books she never read at all, and indeed among her friends they were seldom discussed. A biography might possibly come up for argument, especially if it referred to someone they had known; but it was easy enough to pick up a little information from hearing other’ people talk . . .’’ That is the very same criticism as the hostess made. Only now the shoe is on another foot. True, Miss West writes of the Edwardians, but twenty-five years have effected no basic change in the mental habits of those to whom pleasure is “all in all,” be they middle-aged or infants.
We see no reason for attaching any great significance to Mr. Beer’s report. The exam was very useful in disconcerting a small group who unwisely talked too much. A cure for complacency, that is all.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
409
COLLEGE EARACE
TO THE READER OF THIS COLUMN
Congratulations. You are a brave man, braver than I am. I stopped reading this College Parade years ago. For the- last few seasons the College Parade has not been a parade at all, but a staggering column of maudlin facts and fictions culled from the news of other colleges. I cannot believe that the average student will go into ecstacies at the news that the co-eds at the University of Arizona have given up the habit of wearing stockings, or that such-and-such club has won the touchball championship of Princeton. Most of such facts are at the best merely interesting, and at the worst, terribly silly.
But, interesting or otherwise, they have sung their swan song in the College Parade. They will give place to the more pertinent movements and innovations which are taking place in the collegiate world today. From the student’s point of view, the fact that one may graduate from Chicago university in one year seems to be much more important and interesting than the fact that a new course in cheer-leading has been instituted in Whoosis college. Things are moving in the collegiate world today, moving perhaps faster than ever before in history. Criticism is being leveled at our colleges from educators, business men, students, and even the “man in the street”; and just as ably, men have defended the collegiate status quo. New theories are being advanced. Some are being rejected; others are being put into practice. Chicago, with its new administration, has taken decisive steps to change the time involved in acquiring an A.B. degree. Harvard, pondering over the question of democracy within its walls, has revolutionized its rooming system into a system somewhat comparable to the system in effect at Notre Dame. Courses are being dropped from the curricula of many colleges; new courses are being taught at others. Students are demanding self-government at one college; at another they are demanding that the power be taken away from them. In fact, all along the line, a revolution is under way. College Parade proposes to march to the scene of battle and report the ebb and flow of the fight.
Of course, if a professor at Tulane university, for instance, mixes his Coco-Colas with
crushed snake juice (and I assure you, one of them has done this thing) it is worth noting. But to make such collegiate idiosyncracies the chief subject of a column is to cheapen the magazine and the column at the same time. So the College Parade is going to shine up its buttons, clean its uniforms, buy some new trombones, and start a new march!
Inspired by our new credo, we must start out by reprinting an editorial from the Daily Princetonian. We hope that it will stir you to a new sympathy for editors and their troubles.
CONCERNING EDITORS
“The honor of the Princetonian is vindicated. Invidious rumors have been going the rounds of the campus to the effect that no one ever reads the editorial columns of this old family journal. As a test of the size of our audience, a Puckish editor yesterday introduced an obvious misquotation from the Bard of Avon, garbled and misattributed both as to speakei’ and the play, into an otherwise profound and erudite editorial. . . . We fully expected to receive indignant letters from Miss Louella D. Everett of Boston, from George Frederick Gun-delfinger, from Walter Hampden, and from Shakespeare’s publishers and literary and executors. In this we have not been disappointed. But our cup of joy was full when we received letters from 273 professors (including the full roster of the English department) and from 1,653 undergraduates, many of them seniors.
“Gentlemen, this is most encouraging.”
—Daily Princetonian.
These poor Princeton editors are not the only ones that have their troubles. Out on the West Coast, a Stanford editor has made such radical pronouncements on every conceivable subject, that all of California is up in arms. San Francisco editors have called him a “cub,” his friends have called him a genius, and the university authorities have called him down. So pity the poor editor. Sometimes he even get’s a chance to write an editorial, and then hopes that somebody will read—which they probably won’t. If you see a person trying to break through the ice any of these days, don’t stop him. It may only be a college editor trying to calm his nerves and forget his worries.
410
The Notre Dame Scholastic
UNIVERSITY ANNOUNCEMENTS
OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY
Bureau of Educatioxal Research
Three Research Assistants—The bureau of educational research of the Ohio State university will before April 1 appoint three research assistants for the year 1931-32.
Requirements: Master’s degree or equivalent; training in the area in which the appointment is to be made; printed publications, mimeographed material, dissertation, or term papers in the field; willingness to continue in the position for two years if the first year is successful; interest in continuing in research permanently; willingness to meet some member of the staff at a convenient place to discuss appointment even though some expense may be involved to the candidate.
Appointments Division—The appointee to the Appointments division will assist in investigations of teacher supply and demand, the selection and placement of teachers, and other problems of teacher personnel. He will not be expected to serve in the administration of this active placement organization, but rather he will be trained in .the research techniques of the field.
Personnel Division—The candidates chosen for the Personnel division will assist in the various personnel investigations which are being made in colleges and universities. He will be trained to continue research in this area.
School Survey Division—The appointee to the School Survey division will help in financial and school-building surveys and allied problems such as class-size and teaching-load. An adequate working knowledge of statistics is essential.
Specifications: SI,200 for twelve months' work; half-time to the Bureau (and a schedule making it possible to complete three academic quarters of work toward the doctorate during four quarters) ; a dissertation to be written in the field of the appointment; all fees waived except those for matriculation and. graduation; appointment from October 1 to October 1.
Inquiries: Address all inquiries to Dr. W. W. Charters, director of the Bureau of Educational Research, the Ohio State university, Columbus, Ohio.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA
University Research Fellowships—A number of university research fellowships at $500 each and free tuition are open to students in any department who have had at least one year of graduate work. No service is required. Awards are made on the basis of scholastic record and promise of ability in research. Apply to the dean of the Graduate college, Chemistry hall 202, for application blanks.
Scholarships in Business Research — From three to five scholarships at $500 each and free tuition are open to graduate students in the department of business research. No service is required. For information and application blanks apply to the chairman of the Committee of Scholarships, College of Business Administration, Social Science hall 310.
Research Fellowships in Chemistry—Five research fellowships for fhe study of organic compounds of arsenic are available in the de-
partment of chemistry to graduates of recognized colleges and universities. The stipend is $600 and freedom from tuition. No service is required. Apply to the Secretary of the Graduate committee in chemistry, Chemistry hall 205.
The Wolfe Memorial Felloieship — Friends and former students of the late Professor H. K. Wolfe have endowed a fellowship in his memory. The fellowship is available to graduate students in philosophy and psychology and pays $500 with freedom from tuition and university service. Apply to the chairman of the department of philosophy and psychology, Social Science hall 316, for application blanks.
Teaching Fellowships, Scholarships, and Graduate Assistantships—In addition to the above, a number of positions are open to graduates of recognized colleges and universities in the departments listed below. These require from five to sixteen hours of service to the department as teachers, laboratory assistants or readers and carry stipends of $200 and $750 and freedom from tuition. For information and application blanks apply to the chairman of the department.
Agricultural engineering. 1; agronomy, 3; anatomy, College of Medicine, 4 ; biochemistry, College of Medicine, 3; botany, 6; chemistry, 21; civil engineering, 2 ; classics, 4 ; economics. 2: educational psychology, 4 ; geography, 3 ; German, 3 ; history, 8 ; home economics, 2 ; horticulture, 1; mathematics, 4; mechanical engineering, 1; pathology and bacteriology’, College of Medicine, 3; pharmacy, 1; philosophy and psychology, 4; physics, 3 ; physiology, College of Medicine, 1; plant pathology, 2; political science, 5 ; sociology, 2; zoology, 4.
All applications should be filed with the proper university officer before March 1, 1931.
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY The Graduate School
College of Liberal Arts—Fellowships and scholarships: twenty university fellowships, $500 and tuition; two Catherine White scholarships, $150 and tuition; two Harris scholarships in political science, $150 and tuition; fifteen research fellowships in chemistry, $500-$1,000. For application blanks and further information address the dean of the Graduate school. Room 15, University hall, Evanston, Illinois.
Graduate Assistants: A number of departments employ college graduates for service on a part-time basis. The stipend varies from $200 to $1,000, depending on the preparation of the student, and the amount of service required. Tuition to the extent of three semester hours each semester is remitted to an assistant. Beyond this amount the assistant pays the regular graduate tuition of $7.50 a semester hour. Assistantships are available in botany, chemistry, economics. English, geology, history, physics, political science, psychology, romance languages, and zoology. Information relative to positions as graduate assistants may be obtained directly from the head of the department concerned.
School of Medicine—Sixteen teaching and research fellowships, $700-$l,500. Application should be made to the dean of the School of Medicine, 303 E. Chicago avenue, Chicago, Hl.
School of Commerce—Six teaching fellowships, $300-$l,000 and tuition; two tuition scholarships; four graduate assistantships, $200 and tuition. In the Institute for Research in Land Economics and Public Utilities: one junior research assistantship in public utilities, $750 and tuition; two scholarships in public utilities, $500 and tuition; three Henry Strong scholarships in urban land economics, $500 and tuition (open to men under 25 years of age). In the Bureau of Business Research: two research assistantships. $650 and tuition. Application should be made to director of graduate division, Commerce building, Evanston, HI.
School of Speech—Eight tuition scholarships. $400 each. Application should be made to the dean of the School of Speech, Evanston, Hl.
School of Education—Four fellowships, $500 and tuition; ten tuition scholarships, $150; three assistantships, $500-$750 and tuition. Application should be made to dean of the School of Education, Evanston, Ill.
School of Journalism — Eight scholarships paying all or part tuition. For information apply to director School of Journalism, Evanston, III.
Applications must be made not later than March 1. Awards are made by April 1.
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY St. Louis, Mo.
The School of Graduate Studies
Twelve university fellowships, provided by the university for second, third and fourth year graduate students of out-standing merit, are assigned as follows: one to each of the following departments or groups of departments: chemistry, commerce and finance and economics, English, geography and geology, German, Greek and Latin, history, mathematics and astronomy and mechanics, political science, zoology, two in physics. Stipend $500.
University fellowships and scholarships. In addition to the fellowships and scholarships listed above, the university appropriates a special fund for fellowships and scholarships for graduate students of outstanding merit. Fellowships carry a stipend of $500. Scholarships carry a stipend of $200.
Five Rufus 5. Lackland research fellowships in botany offered by the board of trustees of Missouri Botanical Garden. Stipend, $500 each.
Six Jesse R. Barr fellowships for women. Stipend, $400 each.
Two American Creosoting Company fellowships in civil engineering. One-half time is devoted to graduate study and one-half time to timber research investigations. Stipend, $1,000 each.
• James Harrison Steedman traveling fellowship in architecture for travel and study abroad. Stipend, $1,500.
Surgical fellowship in the School of Medicine , for special neurological work. Stipend, $1,200.
Eliza McMillan graduate scholarship. For a woman student. Stipend, $300.
Note: Holders of fellowships, scholarships, and graduate assistantships are exempt from tuition fees. For information and application blanks, address the secretary of the. Board of Graduate Studies. 'Applications must be filed previous to March 15, 1931. Awards will be made on April 1, 1931.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
411
I I IK IZT PAGE
THE NEW CAPTAIN
As the Scholastic’s able Mr. Kiener neatly put it, “Chief” Yarr is now “Big Chief” Yarr. The monogram men of the football squad elected him to lead them next year. The Scholastic believes that they have chosen wisely. “Tommy” Yarr will make a good captain because he has all the qualities necessary for leadership: fighting spirit, tenacity, and ability to inspire.
Two years ago Yarr was a fair third-string center. In one year he jumped from that comparatively obscure position into the limelight as the crack center of a national championship team. His play was no small help in the rolling up of ten straight victories for the year. Now he is captain. No small rise, that.
The Scholastic heartily congratulates “Tommy” and wishes him the best of success for next year. John Law and Tom Conley have established a precedent of undefeated seasons—the Scholastic hopes that Yarr keeps up the precedent.
TAKE A TIP
The Scholastic has decided that there is not enough co-operation between the various University publications. The Juggler, the Dome, Scrip, and Notre Dame’s greatest weekly have gone their separate ways without paying much attention to each other. Gentlemen, this is not as it should be. Ever ready to take the lead in progressive movements, the Scholastic proposes to remedy the condition. No more will it dismiss its fellow publications with a stickful of news and a two-line head. The reasons for the change of policy are too many to enumerate; but they are all good ones. It is sufficient to say that Scrip deserves more attention because it is printing amazingly fine literary endeavors; that the Dome, if advance indications mean anything, will probably surpass any previous yearbook; and the Juggler—ah, the Juggler. We wish to dwell at some length on our comic magazine, but not on its past performances. It is the coming “Racketeer Number” that the Scholastic desires to call to your attention.
J ack Dempsey has shown us some proofs of the issue. All that the Scholastic has to say is that the “Racketeer Number” is good. The Funny Fellow will be at his rollicking best. Joyously and light-heartedly, he will lampoon some of the best known of the local campus “business men” and men about the campus. Even editors, senior managers, and monogram men will not be immune from his quips.
The Juggler will be out next Thursday. Take a tip—buy it!
From Another Editor
How To Pass The Finals
For those who are seriously concerned about passing the approaching finals, the advice of G. H. Estabrooks of Colgate university in The Intercollegian might prove edifying. The secret, he says, is not in how to study, it is in how to review.
His system in short is this: Underline all important points in your textbooks, your reference books, and class notes with a red pencil. Copy these points on three-by-five filing cards. Mix these cards in one pile and each morning stick several cards in your pocket to carry about with you during the day.
During your spare moments glance at the cards, fixing the points in your mind. A card or two can be read while standing in line at the cafeteria; read one while smoking that be-tween-classes cigarette; a half-dozen can be gone through while you’re waiting for your date to powder her nose and put on her hat; and the remainder can be read whenever the instructor goes off into a series of reminiscences.
Those cards which you have thoroughly mastered may be laid aside while the remainder should be returned to those not yet mastered. Anyone pursuing this practice diligently each day will find his scholastic ambitions realized whether they be membership in Phi Beta Kappa or eligibility for the varsity athletic teams.
—University Daily Kansan.
412
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ THE WINE ♦
Tell us soon in mournful numbers What our grades are this semester. “Did I close at seventy-seven?” Demands each intellectual investor.
QUICK WINKS
Pursuers of the higher education who had forgotten they ever took the course hurrying over to the general offices to get their grades for the Chesterton lectures . . . What’s become of Joe Donlin, the Gate Crasher of local society? . . . No press-box rush for sandwiches, inspiring Warren Brown’s most cutting remarks, was complete without Joe leading interference during the football season. . . .At that, being the dreamy type, he may be responsible for some of the gridiron verse appearing in the second partition of this week’s column. . . . The lighter minds among us reporting high old times until 10:30 p. m. at the frolic across the lake a few days ago. . . . Ah dear, let youth dance while it may . . . “Red” McVean, our home boy, who has switched from the weighty pleasures of chess to the lighter joys of backgammon . . . Did anyone get a parchesi set for Christmas? . . . One of our intelligentsia breaking up an orderly talk session by inquiring whether -we really dream or only imagine we dream . . . This psychological poser will be turned over to the first philosopher prof we meet . . .
EGO
Mariette’s little hands were cold, Her nose- a fiery red.
They teased this freckled little minx— “Ah, you’re in love,’’ they said.
Mariette then blinked her pale crossed eyes And viewed them zvith suspicion.
“Fm just in love with myself,” she cried, “And there ain’t no competition!”
—Broztman.
Last Saturday night we listened to Walter O’Keefe broadcast as the “Professor” with the Vapex Musical Doctors, and earlier this week we heard Walt Philipp playing his Prom song and othei- pieces over in the musical hall. Both Walters are very good at writing songs and both boys are members of this club, the difference being that the first Walter graduated from here several years ago and the second one is still confined to the campus. Now our suggestion is that these two musical brethren of Notre Dame take the verses which follow, fit tunes to them, and rock the musical world next fall with the final tribute to the old school’s football prowess. In this week’s issue, the New Yorker takes note of the song you may have heard over the radio, “Twenty Swedes Ran Through the Weeds, Chasing One Norwegian,” dedicated to “That Fighting Irish Team of Notre Dame,” with “Carideo passed the ball to Schwartz, Savoldi passed to Brill—and how the crowd cheered every Irish name” among the lines in the lyric. Things like that would sound much better if home-grown. Therefore we are turning over -without reserve, free, gratis, for nix, the following lyrics to Walter and Walt, and expect something pretty dam nice in the way of a football song.
THE NOTRE DAME “IRISH”
Just now we’re hearing plenty ’bout the “Irish” in football, The other nationalities are scarcely known at all;
The queerest names you ever heard are heralded as “Micks,”
It’s doivn in Indiana where they learn the football tricks. And Jaskwich, Lukats, Hoffman and Culver, Yarr and Kurth
Parade the field of glory and always show their worth. What difference the ancestry from zchence those heroes came,
They’re just the kind of “Irish” that they grow at Notre Dame.
And for a sterling leader, this grand school in its need, Searched all the zvorld and round again and lit upon a Swede.
Yes, boys, he came from Sweden—looked the part from head to foot,
His cognomen was “Rockne,” his first name simply “Knute.”
Our country gave us Washington, remembered near and far,
But Rockne trained his buddies for other fields than zvar; Some Gaelic blood stirs in him and helps create his fame, And that’s the kind of “Irish” that they grow at Notre Dame.	—M. J. Donnelly.
Nozv the Trojan war horse lies on its shattered back, Four legs pointing skyward, a Notre Dame hat-rack. Column after column, zvhat men of Troy zvoidd do Proved just another ball game for this Irish wrecking crew.
Hereafter zee’ll have to place the sport scribes of this age With those zuhose timely accuracy fills the financial page.
—G. L. B.
On every side in the ziatiozz zvide, There’s a legion of football teams, By dazy they abide and at eventide They even appeaz- in our dreams. To prove the best needs the acid test, A fact you are bouzid to allow, So since Notre Dame has hez' zneed of acclaim, We’ll call them the “cat’s mieozizv.”
—M. S. Kelley.
THOU ART ROCKNE
(Copyright 1930, by A. P. Donnelly) Adozun the years I dimly see A znonument aloft to thee
At the south bend of the ziver. A sword shall not thy loins flank, Noz' scroll in hand proclaim thy rank, Not e’en a zvig thy crown shall bazik— A football in thine arm forever!
We’ve printed only, selected stanzas from all these poems. If further verses be desired, see your humble servant,
The Beamy Bard.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
413
6
CAMPUJ CLUB/
TO DATE
Since the CLEVELAND club opened club activity on the campus last September, nearly forty organizations have met off and on. During this time a numbei’ of important steps have been taken.
The president’s council has drawn up a schedule for every club, giving it a definite place of meeting together with a set time and date. As a result of this, every two weeks each club will meet at its assigned place.
Club dances (see last week’s Scholastic) have been planned and held, most of them successfully.
Other club activities have been allowed to suffer on account of the great interest in the dances. Now, during the next few months, club officers will attempt to relieve the monotony of the winter by smokers, banquets, bowling tournaments. When spring comes, inter-club and intraclub baseball teams will be organized.
Most active clubs on the campus to date have been the CLEVELAND club, NEW JERSEY club, CHICAGO club, PHARMACY club. Others have met, perhaps sponsored a banquet or smoker, but have not been nearly as consistently active as these four.
PICTURES
Dome bulletins have each day summoned various of the campus organizations to the gym for the taking of their pictures for the yearbook. During the past week nearly all of the educational clubs have been taken. Beginning Monday the photographing of the geographical clubs will begin. Editoi* Paul Hallinan again asks club secretaries to co-operate with him in bringing out a representative group. Schedule of pictures for next week is this:
Monday, January 19—MONOGRAM club, Blue Circle, WABASH VALLEY club, EAST PENN club.
Tuesday, January 20—YOUNGSTOWN club, AKRON club, BUFFALO club, DETROIT club.
Wednesday, January 21—CALIFORNIA club, INDIANAPOLIS club, LA RAZA club.
Thursday, January 22—METROPOLITAN club, NEW JERSEY club, PHILADELPHIA club.
Friday, January 23—NORTHERN NEW YORK club, PACIFIC-NORTHWEST club, PITTSBURG club.
Club group pictures are taken at 12:20 in the gym.
FAREWELL
The NEW JERSEY club is sponsoring a farewell banquet for New Jersey man Bucky O’Connor, who will graduate from the University in February. The date is February 2; the place, Hotel LaSalle. In charge are Pat Troy and Chink Kelly. Under them are R. Tutella and Anthony Grasso. Besides guest-of-honor O’Connor, the
Reverend John Farley, himself a native of New Jersey, will be present.
EVENTS
The ITALIAN club, with William C. Blind as chairman of arrangements, is sponsoring a banquet sometime in the near future. Guest of honor is to be Guisseppi Gastruceli, Italian royal consul in Chicago. Other guests will be the Reverend Charles L. O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, the Reverend Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Professor Charles Phillips of the English department. ■
Under Chairman Blind are Adam Sperra, chairman of the reception committee, and John Pajera, chairman of the banquet committee.
FREE
Departing from the policy of the average campus club, the ROCKY MOUNTAIN club will next week sponsor a free smoker, according to President Ramon ("Peppy Prexy”) Smith. Chairman of the affair is James Mc-Feeley.
Early next week the ROCKY MOUNTAIN club will meet to discuss the smoker, a banquet after the semester, and its group picture in the Dome.
MOSTIL SPANISH
Speakers at the last meeting of the SPANISH club were the Reverend Francis T. Maher, C.S.C., club chaplain, who gave the members advice on how to learn Spanish; Mr. DeVault, who read a story; President Augustine, who told of the Spanish author that he liked best; Mr. Manuel Estrada of Cuba, who told of present conditions in that country.
At the close of the meeting Mr. Martinez, director of the club, announced that the picture of the club that was to be taken last Wednesday would be published in the best magazine in Spain. Since, however, none of the SPANISH club members were on hand for the taking of the picture, the magazine will have to wait for a short time at least.
FUTURE TEACHERS
The Educational Confraternity will hold its next regular meeting January 19, at 8:00 p. m., in the Journalism room of the library. In carrying out the development of the program as arranged by the program committee, Benjamin Gannon, a graduate of Montana university, will speak on “Teachers’ Salaries” and “Teacher’s Agencies.”
These talks, though principally of vital importance to students majoring in education and those preparing for the teaching profession, are open to all who may at some time wish to teach, or to those who wish more information relative to the educational field.
414
The Notre Dame Scholastic
♦ SPOUTS ♦
Hilltoppers Fall Before Cagers, 30-23
Defensive Play of Keoganites Improved; DeCook Stars In Pivot Play
Ties With Gavin For High-Point Honors.
Playing a greatly superior brand of basketball to that of their opponents, Notre Dame completely outclassed Marquette Tuesday night, 30 to 23. The seven point margin is in no way indicative of the comparative strength of the two teams since the Blue and Gold team held a wide lead until the last few minutes. Marquette closed the gap with a scoring spree against the Notre Dame second team.
The scoring was slow in starting but speeded up a bit when the Notre Dame shooters found the range. Bud-runas and Crowe broke the ice with a basket apiece early in the fray. Zummach and Newbold matched free throws to keep things even and then
| 1930-31 BASKETBALL 1 | SCHEDULE
E Dee. 8—Notre Dame 26, Kalamazoo 15 E E	Dec. 12—Northwestern 42, N. D.	29	E
E	Dec. 15—Purdue 34, Notre Dame	22	E
=	Dec. 19—N. D.	31,	Pennsylvania	19	E
z	Dec. 30—N. D.	24,	Ill. Wesleyan	17	E
=	Jan. 3—N. D.	17,	Northwestern	20	E
E	Jan. 6—N. D.	27,	Ohio State 24	E
E	Jan. 9—Notre Dame 29, Wabash	19	E
E	Jan. 13—Marquette 23, Notre Dame 30	E
E	Jan. 17—Pennsylvania there	E
E	Jan. 24—Pittsburgh here	E
E	Jan. 31—Open	E
E	Feb. 3—Indiana there	E
E	Feb. 7—Pittsburgh there	E
E	Feb. 13—Wabash here	E
E	Feb. 21—Butler here	E
E	Feb. 28—Army there	E
E	Mar. 2—Syracuse there	E
E	Mar. 6—Marquette there	E
E	Mar. 10—Butler there	E
E	Mar. 14—Iowa there	E
®.  ...................................................B
the Gold and Blue began to pile up their lead. Two great follow shots by Newbold and Crowe made it 7 to 3 before time was taken out by Bud-runas who was injured. Gavin entered the game for Notre Dame at this point and teamed with DeCook to double the local total. Marquette added two charity tosses before the half ended, -which ended with Notre Dame leading 14 to 5.
Opening the second half it was all Notre Dame. They held the Hilltoppers scoreless from the field while they added sixteen points on their own account. De Cook and Gavin were the heavy scorers in this rally with two and three counters respectively. Marquette’s only scoring effort was a free throw by King. Notre Dame’s defense had the visitor’s completely bewildered and the few shots they did get were so hurried that they couldn’t find the mark.
With eight minutes left to play, however, Coach Keogan replaced all of his regulars except Gavin, and Marquette scored in quick succession against these substitutes. The entire visiting, team had a part in the burst that raised their total to 23 before the final klaxon.
Notre Dame displayed the best defense they have shown this year in holding the Hilltoppers to one field goal as long as the regulars were in the game. They coupled this guarding ability with a new style offense that kept them in control of the play throughout the greater part of the battle. In this new system the center is the mainspring, handling the ball on almost every play. DeCook did an excellent night’s work in this role. The forwards and guards kept the ball safely in front of the Marquette defense until a feint or fake
pass set the stage for a lobbing pass to DeCook. A quick pivot either placed him in a position for a shot himself or opened the path for one of the forwards to break for the basket. These plays worked with remarkable success and should carry the local eagers to great heights in future games.
Budrunas, elongated center, appeared to be the kingpin of the Marquette team, and his injury in the first half slowed up their game to a great extent. Captain King, guard, was also an outstanding performer and the main cog in the Hilltoppers’ defense until his ejection from the game on personal fouls about the middle of the second half.
Notre Dame (30) G T P Newbold, f 14 2 Schumaker, f 0 0 1 Crowe, f 2 0 1 Gavin, f 3 3 0 DeCook, c 4 12 Buterac, c 0 0 1 Burns, g 0 0 0 Jaskwich, g 0 0 1 Baldwin, g 10 3 Staab, g 0 0 0
Marquette (23) G t p
Zummach, f 1 2 1
Savage, f 0 0 0
McElligott, f 1 1 2
Rozani, f 12 0
Budrunas, c 3 0 1
McQueen, c 0 0 1
King, g 0 2 4
Shipley, g 2 0 0
Lonsdorf, g 0 0 0
Totals 11 8 11 Totals 8 7 9
Referee: Kearns (DePaul)
Umpire: Young (Illinois Wesleyan)
B............................................  ■	iiuiiiiiq
£	DE COOK LEADS			
	SCORERS (Including Marquette		Game)	
		FG	FT	T
2	DeCook, c	31	16	78
x	Newbold, f	18	15	51
	Crowe, f	12	3	27
•	Gavin, f	9	6	24
•	Johnson, g	9	4	22
•	Baldwin, g	8	2	18
s	Schumaker, f	2	1	5
	Burns, g	2	1	5
—	Schroeder, c	1	0	2
	Jaskwich, g	1	0	2
j	Staab,g	0	1	1
2		■ I —	—	
2	Totals	93	49	235
S	Opponents’ total points			.215
				
The Notre Dame Scholastic
415
Coach Nicholson Encourages Frosh Trackmen to Report for Workouts
"You Don’t Have To Be Experienced/* He Says
Frosh trackmen have been asked to report daily for practice from now on, but the number of men coming out has been anything but pleasing to Coach John P. Nicholson. “Nick” is desirous of getting a line on his yearling material right at the start of the season in order to have the greatest possible time to work with those men who show promise.
These workouts, under the direction of Coach Nicholson and his assistants, have become a feature of the freshman track program at Notre Dame, and men taking part in them receive training that is invaluable to them in future efforts on the track. That this is true may be more readily seen when attention is called to the fact that some of the most dependable men now on the varsity squad never took part in track before coming to Notre Dame. Joe Quigley, who has run every distance from the 440 to the two-mile with success, and who was a member of Notre Dame’s famous two-mile relay team last year, never had a track shoe until his freshman year here. Nordy Hoffman became a freshman manager when he arrived in 1927 but his ability in the shot put was soon discovered and under Coach Nicholson’s guidance he has developed into a most consistent performer.
Johnny O’Brien, captain of this year’s team, ran hurdles a year or so before entering Notre Dame but had no high school experience. After spending his year with the frosh squad he proceeded to tie the world’s record in the 40-yard high hurdles in his second meet in varsity competition. Since then he has tied the rec
ord for the 60-yard highs and set a new Cartier field mark in the 120-yard hurdles.
These are just a few of the men developed under Coach Nicholson and they are mentioned only to encourage those men who have high hopes, but little experience, to come out now. These men might do well to remember that now is the time when “Nick” can afford to give them his time and efforts. A month from now the season will be already under way and the varsity squad will require most of his attention. His plan, at present, is to have the freshmen report each day with the varsity men and take part in the same calisthenics and warming-up exercises. The yearlings will then be turned over to Freshman Coach “Spike” England, whose three years of varsity competition have fitted him perfectly for this position. It may be mentioned here, also, that England is the first regular freshman track coach Notre Dame has ever had. “Spike” will aimounce the daily workouts for the frosh and direct the work, Coach Nicholson, of course, will supervise the entire squad.
Freshmen who report regularly each day for practice will be excused from their Physical Training classes. They must, however, give their name to the manager in charge when they enter the gym and, above all, report regularly. One or two days a week will not afford a great amount of training for the track season, nor will it be sufficient excuse from the gym or swimming classes.
Those men who intend to ented interhall competition should also report within the next week. Although the interhall meets are not scheduled until later in the season, there is nothing to prevent men from training for them at this time. Those who start work now will merely increase their chances of winning a place in the final events and obtaining one of the awards.
Coach Nicholson has recently made public the requirements for freshman track numerals. These times and distances, to say the least, are exceptionally reasonable for first-year performers. Thirty-six feet in the shot put, 10 feet in the pole vault, 2:14 in the half-mile, 4:58 in the mile, and 10:45 in the two miles are just a few of the requirements, a complete list of which is given below. We may repeat, also, that numerals may be won in any form of competition or in the presence of Coach Nicholson. This includes interhall meets, handicap meets, the Blue and Gold meet, and meets between various halls and outside teams. It offers plenty of opportunities, therefore, to those who are willing to work.
The requirements for freshman track numerals as announced by Coach John P. Nicholson are:
60-yard dash----------------:06 7/10
220-yard dash__________________:25
440-yard dash__________________:57
880-yard run _________________2:14
Mile run______________________4:58
Two-mile run_________________10:45
60-yard high hurdles________:08 4/5
65-yard low hurdles_________:08 1/5
Pole vault__________________10 feet
High jump-----------5 feet, 6 inches
Shot put--------------------36 feet
Broad jump____________’_____20 feet
fa ([(ft
On your radio Saturday . . . listen .o Lorna Fantin, famous numerologist. She’ll tell you how names and dates affect success in business, love or marriage. A real radio thrill.
WBBM at 8 o’clock Saturday
CENTRAL STANDARD TIME
Lorillard Co., Ine.
OLD GOLD
RADIO PROGRAM
416
The Notre Dame Scholastic
WABASH IS VICTIM OF IRISH NET TEAM
Cavemen Suffer Defeat by 29-19 Score.
Notre Dame won her fifth cage victory of the season last Friday, when the Blue and Gold five journeyed downstate to Crawfordsville, where they took the measure of the Wabash college Cavemen, 29-19.
After trailing 13-10 at half time, Notre Dame staged a prolonged rally that was good for six successive field goals. So dazzling was the team-work of the Fighting Irish that the Wabash eagers scarcely laid their hands on the ball during the eleven minute bombardment.
Ray DeCook, lanky Notre Dame center, was the star of the evening, counting for seven field goals and two free throws. DeCook constantly out-jumped his opponent and did most of his scoring on plays from the jump formation, connecting on many one-hand shots from under the basket.
Starting the second half, DeCook dropped one in from the side. Baldwin sank a long one that put Notre Dame in the lead, and then DeCook again connected. Gavin accounted for the next score, after which DeCook added two more for good measure. This gave Notre Dame a 22-13 lead, and they contented themselves with a defensive game, holding Wabash practically helpless.
The Cavemen did their final scoring against the Notre Dame second team, which finished the game and chalked up the last seven points for the Blue and Gold.
Line-up and summary:
Notke Dame (29)
G F P
Newbold, f 0 13
Crowe, f 2 0 1
DeCook, c 7 2 2 Baldwin, g Oil
Burns, g 113
Gavin, f 10 2
Schumaker, f 1 0 1
Schroeder, c 0 0 1
Wabash
Chase, f Caldwell, f Johnson, c Howell, g Harmon, Bash, f Bowman, Harting,
Totals
(19)
G F P 2 11 0 0 0 0 10 2 2 2 ‘0 0 1 0 11 c 2 2 1 g 0 0 2
6 7 8
Totals 12 5 14
Refree, Strohmeier of Bloomington; umpire, McCoy of Indianapolis.
CAGERS JOURNEY EAST
FOR RETURN PENN GAME
Coach George Keogan and his bas-keteers, together with Senior Manager Jack Hughes, left today for Philadelphia where they will meet the eagers of the University of Pennsylvania tomorrow night. The game will be played in the Philadelphia Palestra with its 10,000 seating capacity, and a record crowd is expected to attend.
The Quakers have had a season of tough luck so far and the Blue and Gold added their share with a 31-19 defeat just prior to the Christmas holidays. At that time Notre Dame was not playing up to their best form either, so tomorrow’s game may be expected to result in another Keogan victory. The local squad, as a whole, has been developing a power and finish that was noticeably absent in its earlier games.
The Quakers center their attack around Peterson, a forward who showed much promise and ability in the game at Notre Dame. Penn’s hopes for revenge seem to depend on the showing of this boy.
-B B B B B B                 B—B B-<l
I ■	. 1
| Meyer’s Fountain j i Luncheonette I i
I	I
i	I
।	Taste a mug of our Hot	I
1	Chocolate. You’ll mar-	|
i	.	l
i	vel at its Fine Flavor	I
।	and Richness.	I
The Fastest Way
There is a necessity, at this particular time of year, for considerable hurried travel to and from Chicago. The hourly service of America’s fastest electric railway meets the demands of the busiest student; the appointments and service of its dining car and club car trains answer the needs of the most meticulous.
Trains every hour on the hour to downtown Chicago
।	Corner Michigan and Colfax

The Notre Dame Scholastic
417
PITT PANTHERS NEXT
ATTRACTION ON LOCAL
COURT; PLAY JAN. 24
The next appearance of Coach George Keogan’s Blue and Gold eagers on the local floor is scheduled for Saturday night, January 24, with the Panthers of Pittsburgh university offering opposition. Indications at present would lead one to believe that “Doc” Carlson’s squad will be able to give Notre Dame team all the opposition they could hope for in one evening.
Off to a bad start, Pitt dropped its opener to a strong Western Reserve squad by a 32-14 count. Then on an early season visit to the mid-west, they encountered more trouble and dropped two close games, including a 28-24 heart-breaker to Creighton. Since that time, however, they seem to have hit their stride and can now number among their victims the defending national champions. The Panthers surprised Syracuse with a defeat on the Orange floor and a short time latei’ astounded them by repeating in a return game in the Smoky City.
Fans who have followed Notre
Dame for the past two or three years will probably feel .that something is lacking in the Pitt team when it makes its appearance here next week. The presence of Charlie Hyatt, All-American forward and perhaps one of the best cage stars ever to participate in collegiate basketball, made Pitt one of the biggest attractions in. hardwood circles during the past three seasons. Hyatt finished his brilliant career last spring and his loss was undoubtedly one of the reasons for Pitt’s rather poor early season showing.
Another Pitt star who will be among the missing in this game is Baker, captain-elect of the Panthei* grid team and sterling guard of last season’s cage squad. Baker accepted an offer to play in a charity football game during the Christmas holidays and by so doing sacrificed his chances of returning to his old guard position. The organization of the team had progressed too far by the time he returned for him to break into the lineup.
Fans can depend on Carlson to put out his usual well-balanced team, however, and this game will undoubtedly be the best attraction of the local season.
TRACK RECONSTRUCTED; WEST END RAISED, CURVES BANKED
Work has been progressing quite satisfactorily the past few days on the reconstruction of the running track in the University gymnasium. The west end of the track is being raised in order that the curve may be banked. In the past, this part of the track has been considerably lower than the corresponding curve at the opposite end of the gym and has caused the runners much trouble due to the difference in bank.
During the past week Coach Nicholson had the varsity trackmen try the curves at each of the four corners of the track and took a vote on the one they considered best. The improvements now under way are, no doubt, the result of this vote.
The raising of this end of the track also necessitates a reconstruction of the main entrance of the gym proper. There will now be several steps just inside the big sliding door which the freshman managers so zealously guard.
MAGAZINES	PAPERS
University Cafeteria
and
Soda Grill
DAILY SPECIALS
Open 6:30 a. m. to 9:40 p. m.
CIGARS	CIGARETTES
♦ m—bb—8m——!»—■«
2
Wool Sweaters 1-2 Price
ten’s 4 Buckle |
Galoshes I $4.00 values I
,$2.39 | i GIL BRO’S | 1	FORMERLY —U. S. ARMY STORE	|
j 330 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET I ♦—      — —.4
418
The Notre Dame Scholastic
4 INTERHALL SPORTS »
Because of the short time that was originally allowed the coaches of the interhall teams to choose players for the various squads, the opening game on the schedule has been set back one week, from Sunday January 18, until January 25. Difficulty in choosing a roster was experienced by several coaches because of the unusually large turnout.
The personnel of all interhall squads must be submitted to James T. Masterson, director of physical education, by January 22, at which time suits will be issued to those who have survived the cut on their respective squads. All men who are to play on lightweight squads will be weighed in at the gymnasium by January 21 and their weights certified by officials, it was said.
Students in the physical education department have been chosen by professor Masterson to officiate at the games throughout the season. They will meet before the opening of the
schedule and will receive instructions concerning their duties at each contest; notices will be posted several days in advance to inform the officials of their assignments. A list of these men will be found elsewhere in this week’s Scholastic.
No official announcement has been made yet concerning the opening of the interhall indoor track season but it is understood that equipment for it will be issued very soon. Those aspiring to track honors, however, may work out •with Coach Nicholson in advance during the daily track practices.
Plans for interhall swimming are now being formulated and information concerning this sport will probably be available within the next week, according to Professor Masterson.
Following is the interhall basketball practice schedule for the coming week:
Friday, Jan. 16
Varsity Floor	Apparatus Room
Sophomore	7:00 p. m. Off-Campus
St. Edward’s	8:00 p. m.	Brownson
Sorin	9:00 p.m.	Carroll
Monday, Jan. 19	
Walsh	7:00 p.m.	Lyons
Howard	8:00 p. m. Freshman
Corby	9:00 p.m.	Badin
Tuesday, Jan. 20	
Off-Campus	7:00 p. m.	Sophomore
Carroll	8:00 p. m. St. Edward’s
Morrissey	9:00 p.m.	Sorin
Wednesday, Jan. 21	
Lyons	7:00 p.m.	Walsh
Freshman	8:00 p.m.	Howard
Badin	9:00 p.m.	Corby
“CHILE” WALSH REMAINS AT ST. LOUIS FOR 1931
Charles F. “Chile” Walsh, star end of the Notre Dame teams of 1926 and 1927, signed a contract a few days ago to coach the St. Louis university eleven again next season. Next year will be Walsh’s fourth at St. Louis. The first three were spent as assistant to “Hunk” Anderson and last year as Anderson’s successor.
“Chile” is a brother of Adam Walsh, present coach at Yale, and captain of the Four Horsemen team.
STARTS SAT. I vU*A> THRU TUES.
----------1 THEATRE|--------------------
Costing §4,000,000! Produced in danger! Photographed with death riding in the cockpit*
Howard Hughes’
Hell’s Angels
With
JANES HALL - JEAN HARLOW - BEN LYONS
A United Artist Wonder Picture
Joe Alexander
Metropolitan guest organist at the console of the Colfax Wonder Organ.
-----ADDED----
PARAMOUNT
SOUND NEWS
-----ADDED---
VITAPHONE
SOUND VODVIL
The Notre Dame Scholastic
419
“HUNK” ANDERSON SIGNS TO COACH NEXT YEAR
Heartley “Hunk” Anderson, line coach, of the year, has signed a one-year contract to act in the capacity of assistant coach for the coming 1931 football season, it was announced by the Faculty Board in control of Athletics this week. Anderson was a star guard on early editions of Knute Rockne’s football elevens, being a teammate of the immortal George Gipp. Following his graduation from Notre Dame he was line-coach at his Alma Mater. Last year after a brief spell at St. Louis university he returned to Notre Dame as assistant head-coach under “Rock.”
[■jiititttttii 11111111111111 ■■niiniitiiitii n mu   iitiiiiiiiiiiiiimiuiiiimiiiimiiiiiiimimtiiiiiiiimiimmiiiiiiiiiinmii timing
|	INTERHALL BASKETBALL OFFICIALS	I
= The following is a list of men appointed by James T. Masterson, di- =
1 rector of the Department of Physical Education, to officiate at all Interhall |
=	basketball games:	3			
	REFEREE	UMPIRE	TIMER	SCORER	Z
•	Butorac, F.	Garvey, Chas.	DuBois, Bill	Gru, George	
z	DeCook, Ray	Minardo, Wm.	LaBorne, Frank	Harris, James	z
=	Branfort, Chas.	Conti, Tony	Hennefeld, F.	McClurg, Jim	x
z	Staab, Fred	Wilson, Alex	Goldstein, Sam	McGrath, Jim	z
z	Brancheau, Ray	Smith, Bill	Seidl, Arnold	Pierce, Bill	z
	Koken, Mike	Addonizio, S.	Golden, Bill	McCue, Frank	X
	Butler, Frank	Friel, John	Sabo, Louis	Reuland, Robert	z
:	Keating, Leo	O’Neil, Edw.	Skely, E.	Del Prete, Louis	z
z	Kozak, George	Dewey, Robert	Hayes, Ed.	Ouellette, D.	z
z	Good, John	Tomasi, Francis	Holleran, S.	Fabrycki, Dick	z
	mt	itiitmimmimimmui	ituiiiimimmimmtmmmmimmmmmmmnmimmi		iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimitiiniiiiiiniiii	imQ
MASSACHUSETTS TECH
AWARDS MADE KNOWN
Announcement has been made by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology concerning scholarships to that school which are available for the coming year. The awards, both specific and general, are handled through the office of the Dean of graduate students of the Institute.
There are twenty-two specific scholarships available ranging from §110 to §2,000. These are open to students wishing to study in the particular fields for which the various awards were founded. The details of the scholarships may be had on application to the Dean of graduate students,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology? Cambridge, Mass.
In addition to these twenty-two awards there are six graduate scholarships also offered. These provide a stipend equivalent to full tuition made possible by the income from various funds. These incomes range from §800 to S22,000. ’
STARTING SUNDAY THRU TUESDAY BILLIE DOVE in a thrill-packed drama of the tropics.
The Lady Who Dared
And on The Stage An Outstanding Program of RKO VAUDEVILLE
LAST TIMES SATURDAY
COSTELLO CASE
Tom Moore—Lola Lane
Starting Saturday
The Inimitable
Charles Butterworth
in
“Illicit”
A couple very much in love, trying to decide how they can live most happily.
With the great star of “Ladies’ of Leisure”—
Barbara Stanwyck Ricardo Cortez
420
The Notre Dame Scholastic
In every college town there is one outstanding
Splinters From the Press Box
At Illinois it’s
ALONG Green Street, where xx campus leaders stroll ... in the great slate-roofed fraternity-houses of Champaign . . . there is one pipe tobacco which always rolls up the biggest vote. At Illinois it’s Edgeworth, every time.
A pipe—Edgeworth. That is the smoking combination which has won the college man. Harvard, Cornell, Michigan, Stanford, Dartmouth — all agree with Illinois. Natural merit has made Edgeworth the favorite tobacco in America’s leading colleges and universities.
College men everywhere respond to the appeal of pipes—packed with cool, slow-burning Edgeworth. Be guided by their verdict: try Edgeworth yourself. Find it at your nearest tobacco shop—15c the tin. Or, for generous free sample, address: Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
cm*
Edgeworth is a blend offineold bur-leys, with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworth’s distinctive ’’eleventh process.” Buy Edge-worth anywhere in twoforms—’’Ready-Rubbed? and”Plug Slice.”All sizes, 15^ pocket package to pound humidor tin.
CAPTAIN JOHN O’BRIEN
One of the least appreciated athletes here at Notre Dame is none other than John O’Brien, captain of the 1931 track team. Johnny jumped into prominence early in his career here when he caught the pass that defeated the Army in 1928. All that year, in football, he was used only to snag passes. The reason—his defensive play was weak. But Johnny is not the type to allow a single weakness to hold him back. He worked long and diligently to improve this part of his football play. The success of his efforts need hardly be mentioned here. His defensive play was one of the features of the all-but-perfect season just past.
At present he is confining his attentions to track. This is likewise his third year of competition in this sport and may truly be expected to be his best. His past efforts in the high hurdles have been nothing less than a string of assaults on existing track, conference, and world records. Possessing almost perfect form, an ideal build for his chosen event, and much natural speed, success attended his efforts from the first. He now holds the gym and Cartier field records and has tied the world records in both the 40 and 60-yard high hurdles. He is one of Notre Dame’s great athletes.
CONFERENCE BASKETBALL
Our old friends, Northwestern, seem to have an inside track to the Conference basketball title if early season performances may be counted ' for anything at all. Coach Lonborg’s veteran eagers ran up a string of five impressive pre-season victories, including two over our own Keoganites, and then opened the Big Ten season last Saturday with a 27-22 win at the expense of the Michigan Wolverines. A few nights before, Michigan had established themselves among the favorites by defeating Purdue, the defending champs. Wisconsin, another strong team, lost to Ohio, and the Buckeyes, if their- recent appearance here may be taken as an example of their ability, do not rate in the same class with the smooth-working Wildcats.
Chicago tipped the Indiana Hoosiers
in a heart-breaker and showed some power, but hardly enough to cope with the Reiff-Riel-McCarnes scoring combination. Illinois is already out of the race with three defeats hung up against them. Minnesota chalked up one against Iowa but, as yet, has not proven itself to be a contender.
Since that time the Wildcats have added an unimpressive victory over the Illini, Indiana has defeated the Buckeyes, and Iowa surprised Purdue with another two-point defeat. This has further complicated the race but has also left Lonborg’s men clearly in front.
MORE ABOUT RELAY TEAMS
This time it’s a one-mile team. Without taking anything from the worth of the two-mile team, which we discussed last week, Coach Nicholson will be able to put on the track this year a one-mile team which, though it will undoubtedly meet stronger opposition, will be able to hold its own with most any team in the country. This team, like the other, will be steadied and given a lot of speed to begin with, by the presence of Alex Wilson and Brant Little. These two, with Olympic experience as well as . more than two years of work under Coach Nicholson behind them, can hold down a place on any team in the country. For the other two places “Nick” has a world of material from which to choose. Not the least among this crowd are two sophomores, Mickey Macbeth and Charlie Kelly. Macbeth has had experience with the Canadian Olympic team; Kelly won almost national recognition, as a dash man, at Newark Prep before coming to Notre Dame. Others to be highly considered are Bradley, Kuhn, and Scanlon, with varsity experience, and Gough, Dilling, and others who have graduated from freshman ranks.
BASEBALL
It is unfortunate when a coach is forced to make a plea for a display of spirit among students. It would be much more unfortunate if the University should be forced to drop baseball, as Coach George Keogan intimated in his recent bulletin on this subject.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
421
TRACK TEAM TRAINS FOR MILROSE, SETON HALL
GAMES IN FEBRUARY
Every day over at the gymnasium there may be seen a large group of hard-working thinly-clads, some jogging, some sprinting, and still others trying their hand at putting the shot, oi- practicing the pole vault. For it will not be more than two weeks before Coach John P. Nicholson has selected the men that will compose the one-mile and two-mile relay teams that he plans to take east, together with Senior Manager Bourke Motsett, for the purpose of representing Notre Dame at the Milrose A. C. games in New York City on Saturday, February 7, and at the Seton Hall games on the following Monday evening in Newark, New Jersey.
Notre Dame relay teams have always given splendid exhibitions. Only last year Captain Joe Abbott, Alex Wilson, Joe Quigley, and Brant Little, the four men who made up the two-mile relay, covered the distance of that event on the board track of Madison Square Garden, in New York, in 7 minutes and 59 4/5 seconds, and thus established a record for the Milrose games. Not content with that, they went on to the Seton Hall meet at the Newark Armory and established a new meet record of 8 minutes and 1 second. As for their chances of repeating, well, only Joe Abbott is gone.
These two eastern meets mark the beginning of the indoor track season at Notre Dame. Coach Nicholson has several dual meets with Mid-western teams, including- one with Butler university on Saturday, February 14, at Notre Dame.
This year’s team, led by Captain Johnny O’Brien, shapes up as a well balanced squad, with there being a slight chance for a weakness in the field events next spring, although Nordy Hoffman, in the capacity of a discus thrower, looks very promising.
The indoor season passes way with the classical Central Conference meet on March 6 and 7, with Notre Dame acting as host.
CARIDEO, SCHWARTZ ON “DIGEST” TEAM
Frank Carideo and Marchy Schwartz Schwartz earned places on the- Literary Digest’s All-American football team, picked a short time ago from a consensus of the most prominent mythical elevens of the country.
Carideo was a unananimous choice for the quarterback position and Schwartz was picked on all but four of the fifteen teams used.
MULLINS SIGNS TO COACH AT JAYHAWKER SCHOOL
NEXT SEASON
Forrest C. Allen, director of athletics at Kansas university, has announced the appointment of Larry “Moon” Mullins as assistant football coach at that school. Mullins will assume his duties as director of the Jayhawk backfield next fall.
Larry has earned three letters in football at Notre Dame by his sterling play as a fullback. In the season just closed, he distinguished himself in the Army and Northwestern games especially, by consistent gains through the line and colorful defensive work. His entire career- at Notre Dame has been marred by a series of injuries that have earned him the reputation of being the hard luck player of the squad.
The activities of Mullins have not been confined to football, however. He has been prominent in the California club, the Blue Circle, and the former Neo-Scholastic society. He will receive an A.B. degree in June, having majored in philosophy.
Mullins is the third of the 1930 national champions to obtain coaching positions. Captain Tom Conley recently signed a contract as assistant coach and athletic director at LaSalle college in Philadelphia. Tom will make his bow to his home town as a coach next fall.
Frank Carideo is the third member of the trio of new coaches. The twotime all-American has been signed by Purdue university to act as assistant to Noble Kizer, guard on the famed Seven Mules of 1924, Like the others, Carideo expects to assume his duties in the fall, but may visit the Lafayette institution this spring to acquaint himself with conditions there.
CROSS-COUNTRY NUMER-
ALS AWARDED TO TEN
Coach John P. Nicholson announced recently that ten men have been awarded numerals in recognition of their -work in cross country this fall. These men made the required time in some of the various handicap or interhall meets held during the past season.
The harriers who received the numerals of the class of 1934 were: Joseph Young, Rudolph Obergfall, Ralph Else, Sheldon Wallace, Emmett McDonald, James Colvin, Arthur Cline, John Maker, Carlos Frank, and Pat Troy.
THE finest piece by Rudy and His Merry Men these old ears have heard . . . ultra-modern (yet reminiscent of intimate harmony at “Joe’s Place!”) with a lively lilt that fair lifts you off your feet!
All the latest hits are recorded by Victor ... by the finest and most celebrated artists and orchestras, who are exclusively Victor. The world’s finest entertainment! Cut your peppiest capers to the list below, for example...
5 Neto Hot and Happy Hoof-Shakers by Victor
Record No- 22572 ”YOU-RE DRIVING ME ( HAZY" "THINKING OF YOU” Rudy Vallee & His Orch.
Record No. 22573 "YOV ARE THE MELODY” "OLD FASHIONED GIRL” Wayne King & Uis Orch.
Record 22371 ”BOLERO” "LA SEDUCCION”—Tango Nat. Shilkret & His Orch.
Record No. 22364 «1’M A DING DOAG DADDY” Johnnv Johnson & Orch. "ONE .MAN BAND”
Ted Weems Orch.
Record No. 23018 “WASTING MY LOYE ON YOU”
Joe Venuti Orch. "DEEP DOWN SOUTH” Bix Biederbeck Orch.
The music you want WHEN you want it.. . on
Victor
Records
422
The Notre Dame Scholastic
OFFICIAL SCHEDULE IS
ANNOUNCED BY ROCKNE
Coach Knute K. Rockne, through the Publicity department, announced the official football schedule for the 1931 season early this week. The schedule, as had been previously intimated, contains nine of the ten teams who opposed Notre Dame during the season just past.
In carrying out his resolution to cut down on the length of future schedules after the “suicide” one of 1930, Coach Rockne found it neces-. sary to drop one team. Southern Methodist was the one to be dropped. The contract with the Mustangs was but a one-year affair and they were therefore the ones who had to be left off.
The season will be opened on October 3 against the Hoosiers of Indiana with the game being played at Bloomington. The second game will probably be one of the best of the year. The Wildcats of Northwestern will be Notre Dame’s guests at Sol
dier field in Chicago. The proceeds of this game, over a certain amount, will go to repay Northwestern the $100,000 they advanced to Chicago charities this fall.
jaJttttllMIttlUliHllltttlllllllintlintlllltttllllUttMIIIHltlltlHIQ
1	THE SCHEDULE	I
i	Oct. 3—	i
i	Indiana at Bloomington.	i
i	Oct. io—	।
=	Northwestern at Chicago.	=
1	Oct. 19—	|
=	Drake here.	I
|	Oct. 26—	1
=	Pennsylvania here.	=
1 Oct. 31—	.	1
5	Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh, j
I	Nov.	7-	j
=	Pittsburgh here.	i
9	Nov.	14—	=
9	Navy at Annapolis.	=
:	Nov.	21—	=
=	Southern California here.	i
=	Nov.	28—	=
£	Army at New York.	j
HinimiiiiitiiiitHiiiliiiliiuiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiHiHiiliiinilinuuiril
This game is followed by two home games, with Drake and Pennsylvania, on October 19 and 26. Carnegie Tech will be met at Pittsburgh on October 31, and on the first Saturday of November the Panthers of Pittsburgh will repay the visit of the Fighting Irish made to them this fall.
The Naval academy will be met on November 14 with the Middies as hosts. Returning from the east, “Rock’s” boys will be in for a week of hard work in preparation for a visit from Coach Howard Jones’ Trojans of Southern California. This game will undoubtedly be the feature attraction of the season in the new Notre Dame stadium.
The season is scheduled to be closed on November 28 with the Army offering the opposition. The Cadets have met defeat at the hands of Notre Dame three times in a row now, and are about ready to see what can be done about it. The Yankee Stadium should be filled to capacity—as is always the case when Notre Dame plays the Army.

i	HELLO MEN!	|
j	SMITH S CAFETERIA	!
I	=
I	111 East Jefferson Boulevard	i
WE DO OUR OWN BAKING
1
I	The Home of Quality	I
I	I
I —	1
I	I
I The Favorite Eating Place of | •	Notre Dame	I
I
+————.— ----------—------.--—♦
The South Bend Clearing	|
House Banins	j
Invite Your Patronage	|
1
_____	I i I s
INDIANA TRUST COMPANY	«
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SAVINGS	j
BANK	I
I
ST. JOSEPH LOAN & TRUST	'
COMPANY	।
■	I
UNION TRUST COMPANY	।
AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY	|
I
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK	|
I
CITIZENS TRUST & SAVINGS	1
BANK	|
FIRST NATIONAL BANK	J
I
a
I ■

The Notre Dame Scholastic
423
At the South Bend Theatres
You may have noted that last week the Scholastic carried a full page which some of you felt glorified the local temples of the talking screen —glorified their programs at the expense of-the truthfulness of this, your magazine. May we assure you that these were actual reviews of pictures and not merely press agentry of the flamboyant type. If you were among the many from Notre Dame who saw these pictures during the course of the week, you know that the shows in every instance were worthy of the praise, faint or otherwise, accorded them.
At last, now, finally “that widely heralded air spectacle costing $4,000,-000” reaches the local Public house, the Colfax, Saturday, January 17. “Hell’s Angels” is remarkable for some of the finest air photography ever shown in any adventure story. The picture moves swiftly and though the story running through it hangs by a hair, the production on the whole is decidedly worth while. Howard Hughes, the millionaire oil man who founded Caddo Productions, started shooting this picture four years ago, and succeeded finally in building a tremendous spectacle. Cast: Ben Lyon, James Hall, and Jean Harlow. See it for thrills, and an education in air-mindedness.
Of course you have heard Joe Alexander at the console of the Colfax theatre organ. And finally South Bend is singing! — ■ —
Now for the fare at the RKO Palace. “Polly’s Cellar,” featuring Seb Meza, Ken Kennedy and Pauline Saxon, heads the variety entertainment opening Sunday, January 18. Miss Saxon, a clever and popular comedienne, brings with her bn this tour of the RKO circuit a company of four, and we are assured that “she will serve you with laughs as rapidly as you can consume them.” Eva Mandell, a buxom young blues singer, is known in vaudeville, having been one of a double in Zeno and Mandell. Among the songs she croons is one she insists she wrote herself.
The current feature attraction (where the whole show is not on the living screen) will be that gorgeous lady, Billy Dove, in “The Lady Who Dared,” a drama of the tropics, as heavy as a Dove can stand. Conway Tearle and Sidney Blackmer are among the other members of the cast.
Wednesday’s vaudeville bill (January 21) boasts two international dancing stars, Harry A. White, and Alice Manning-, in terpsichore and hokum. Usually good. —
On the screen Louise Fazenda, Walter Pidgeon, and Vivienne Segal appear in “Viennese Nights,” a production which boasts of an original symphony played by the Los Angeles Symphony orchestra of one hundred pieces—which may or may not mean anything to you.
Across the street, • RKO’s Granada theatre hails the return to South Bend of one Charles Butterworth (born in South Bend, famous for his Rotarian after-dinner speech in J. P. McAvoy’s “Americana”), appearing’ as the comedy element in Warner Brothers’ “Illicit,” starting Saturday, January 17. The picture is adult fare, and falls under the general classification of “problem drama.”
To those of you mature enough in mind to witness serious drama without guffaws at inappropriate places we might recommend this picture— even though we risk our cultural standing by doing so. It is an intelligent presentation of an interesting question, even though the question remains unanswered at the end of the picture. Few problem plays can stand retrospective analysis of plot motivation. Fewer audiences attempt to analyze what they accept as entertainment.
And last but not least, the State theatre presents Johnny Mack Brown in “The Great Meadow,” a world premiere, which means to the initiate that it has not been released for previous showing in any theatre in the United States. We are told that it is an “epic” of the “Billy, the Kid” type.
How Quickly Will You Becomes Business o Executive ’
Are you prepared for business?
Do you know enough about Finance, Management, Production and Distribution to QUICKLY develop into an executive in the business world; or will you, after leaving college, drudge along for years in the “school of hard knocks” and possibly never achieve the business success you desire?
In just nine months you CAN prepare!
Babson Institute offers you exactly the kind of training you will need most when you are out of college and on your own. Here you may receive a practical and thorough training under the direction of business experts. Here you will learn business fundamentals and gain practical experience in the application of those fundamentals.
Practical Training at BABSON Institute
Students at Babson Institute keep regular office hours. They dictate reports, take part in conferences, and study the fundamental laws of business. Babson Institute is a place for work, not play; for the kind of “brass-tacks” training every ambitious young man wants! The instruction is intensive — no wasted time on trifles.
You owe it to yourself to find out how the Babson Institute Course may provide a direct route to business achievement for you. Send for a copy of our booklet, “Training for Business Leadership” which gives full information. It will be sent without any obligation on your part.
Next term opens March 28
Mail Coupon for FREE Book -BABSON INSTITUTE--;
Div. K301	Babson Park, Mass. ®
Send me, without obligation, ‘Training I for Business Leadership” and complete I particulars about Babson Institute. I
I
XT	1
Name	g
College	■
Address	■
Home Address
City	State
DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DURHAM, N. C.
On October 1, 1931, carefully selected first and third year students will be admitted. Applications may be sent at any time and will be considered in the order of receipt. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dean.
424
The Notre Dame Scholastic
ON DOWN THE LINE
o
"Left Telephone
Home!”
The Economical Noice of millions
Indiana Bell Telephone Company
. . . Colgate’s basketball team is one of the most versatile set of athletes ever placed on the court by the Maroon . . . three regulars are three-sport men while the other two are two-sport standbys.- WALTER WINCHELL, the columnist, stated about three months ago, that FRANK CA-RIDEO was signed to coach Canisius college of Buffalo, and he was, therefore automatically a pro for signing during the season . . . we suppose that accounts for CARIDEO changing his mind and going to Purdue . . . perhaps . ..
. . . SPORT HALLAHAN, a nag, went to the post last week with all the money in north Florida riding on him . . . the only way he could lose the race was by breaking his leg . . . he did just that . . . the BOSTON BRAVES, excepting the most highly paid members, will all rate an increase in salary . . . just exactly like the real big leaguers . . . Although four of the six coaches in the AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE were players last year, it is without a single player-coach this year . . .
. . . WAYNE MUNN, the masto-donic wrestler who crashed his way to the heavyweight title by smothering STRANGLER LEWIS in 1925, died last week . . . Munn was also a star on the gridiron at Nebraska when the Cornhuskers used to give Notre Dame quite a battle some years ago ... A canvas by the UNITED PRESS showed that exactly 101 football games played last fall were decided by a margin of one point . . .
. . . JOHNNY WOODEN, Purdue’s sensational scoring ace, was a member of the Martinsville, Indiana, high school team when that squad was the Hoosier state champs . . . now he is a member of the Big Ten champions . . . The TEXAS university football team, which meets HARVARD next year, loses only six men from the team that captured the Southwestern ’ conference this year . . . which fact bodes no good for the Crimson . . . ♦ GENERAL PERSHING has been invited to act as honorary referee of the Drake Relays in April . . .