;•_•;·. .. ~·--. -. . ~: t: :"~~ -i 
-. 
GOLDEN DOME T-SHIRT CO. 
· HELP RESURRECT THE NAZZ 


. . . 
-we rieed musicians and . . other creative-minded people ·. . ·. · to help make the 
• > 
NAZZ. 
Custom printing T-shirts . .
all it can be! · 
Ideal for clubs, dorms, special events .. and 
CALL 7757 
. . .· Christmas gifts: · __ . t .·. -•-: •• (Spec~ai stildent price~)-. ·. . . , Call._TOM REEDY, 289-0114 
· it's been a cold Winter so far, and there are : -q lot of cold_ nights ahead. next semester. How;ate yougoi_ng·to g~t thtough·them?. 
. ~ 
'Herels /ln idea: a·.nice hot dinnerJ ..sorne ·· -warm drin•ksJ 4n4 an everiing :of _theatre· u;it.h the one of your dreams. : 
·. . -~­
·. We have a shov\T coming up in.the4 dead of winter, and there ·are ple~ty of _year-round -_ restaurants. So, see you in February at THEY. 

-:Signed,___ . THE ND-SMC THEATRE. 
s:'. 
, ·.. I
tt
~, <.-_:tv 
) .. ~~.' .; . 
·-,~~~:;_,;~~~. .;.· :~:./. ~-~\.. 



Scholastic 
Vol 118, No, 6, December 13, 1976 Notre Dame, Indiana 
FEATURES 
4 Freedom of Mind, Body, and Spirit 
10 A Pursuit of Honor 
14 Improving By leaps and Bounds 
23 · Hallowed Halls of a Hollow Rock 

24 Shopping Through Shelves · 
. . 

26 Slow Start for a Fast Game 28 Scholars, Entrepreneurs, and Money Mongers , 30 Burglary Prevention: 
. He's Making His list and Checking it Twice 
REGULAR 8 Perspective 
16 Jottings _ 
18 Week in Distortion 
19 Gallery 22 Gym Shorts 
Jim · Romanelli Maureen Walsh Lisa Fulks Bob Piller Tom Kruczek Marc Novak MaryBeth Hines 
Peggy McGuire 
Ed Sellner, o.s.c. 


John Santos 
M. D. i=eord and 
I. B. Pollo 


Greg Young 

Editor 
John Phelan 
Managing Editor 
Annemarie Sullivan · . Design Editor ·· Bernie Valenti 

Production Manager 
Charles · Sweeney Copy Editor . Karen Caruso 
Cultural Editor. 
Gilda M. Montalvo 

Sports Editor 
Tom Kruczek 
News Editor 
Kathleen McElroy 
Photography Editor 
Tom Everman 
Advertising Manager 
Kay Andrews 
Business Manager 
Mark Ondash 
Advisory Board 
Ronald Weber, Carl Magel:' Bro. John Benesh, .C.S.C., James Cook, Richard Conklin, , 
Elizabeth Christman · · · 
Staff . . . 
Dave Beno, Leo J. Mulcahey, Mike Feord, Susan Grace, Dan Lombardi, Barb Frey, Gary 
Harden, Julie Runkle, Jim Ryan, Sue Hart, Andrew Gotuaco, Jim Romanelli,· Maureen 
Reynolds, Sherry Simon, Lee Hendricks, Tom Browne, Jim Jordan, Ed Rodgers, Norman 
Burkhart, Maria Maggi, Maureen Kelly, Mary De Roche, Betsy Birch, Jennifer Ryder, 
Christie A. Herlihy, Clare Leary, Andy McKenna, Hector Cecila Ham, Theresa Rebeck, 
Mike Doherty, Howard Rand, Lisa Fulks, Tom Westphal, Robbie Moore, Rosemary Mills, 
Keyin Connolly; Joseph -Caverly, Nicholas Durso, Michael Lavalle, Lisa Michels, Sheila 
Kearns, Peggy McGuire, Fran Gilbert, Russ O'Brien, Carol Ruppert, Marc Novak, Burt 
Brunner, Dave Dreyer, Marylou Walsh, Lacey Fortune, MaryBeth Hines, Thomas J. 
Waldock, Joe Caverly,. Don Orban. 
Hall Representatives: Kim Gumz, Mary Millen, Tom Westphal, John McLutchon, Russ Angelo, Greg Skranznas, Sheila Gavan, Mary Reppa, Wendy Fencl, Kevin Paulson/Joe Lauck, Norman·. Burkhart, David Perry;· Ed Rodgers, Kevin Gorman, Don Orban, John Delaney, Jeff Scholemer, Kathy Connely, Jessie Reed, Jim Jordan, Burt Brunner, Dan Lombardi, . Russ. O'Brien, Tom • Browne, Terry Molony, Ruth Hohl, Julie Runkle, Jay Tidmarsh, John Muldoon,. Matt Branyansky, Joe Caverly, Peggy McGuire. . 
The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors· of Scholastic and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the University of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or the student body. · 
Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y..10017. Published fortnightly during the· school year except during vacation and examination periods, Scholastic is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year and back numbers are available from Scholastic. Pleas_e address all manuscripts to Scholastic, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of Scholastic. . . copyright © 1976 Scholastic / all rights reserved / none of the contents may be repros· duced without permission.• · · · · · · · • · 
. . 


Freedom of Mind, Body, and Spirit 
by Jim Romanelli 

'. In recognition of th"e-Christmas . think or pretend to"be." Kelsey cites is nothing moredev~stating than the season, Scholastic would like to ex-the popularity of psychological self-· fear that per_haps he is only living p"lore the theme of Christian Libera-help books, ast11>logy · and Dale --out his mother's life;'' Kelsey sug~ _ 
· tion. Christ's message is not just a Carnegie-type courses as evidence of gests that this is particularly true in formula for personal faith; it die-people's common unhappiness. "If America where "the son's _values are iates· that ..we 'free our neighbors people were doing fine this -kind of . pretty well shaped -by. the mother. from all that oppresses them, be it thing wouldn't.be best-selling."_ And this becomes a terrible plight." material ·or psychological. Morton At Notre Dame, Kelsey sees a -He notes that mosL!'young men -at KebJey, an·associate professor in the "gqod outer wannth:imd friendship," Notre Dame must necessarily have Theology ; Department> was inter: but "not so much of real sharing, studied and done what mother said 
j
~ed on the subject of the Chris-concern and. caring." He quotes a ~ mother, Mother Church; Notr_e I tian Liberation. of• the Inner Man. friend that "Probably tlie ·loneliest Dame." The root of so much rowdi­.,I He is an Episco-pal priest, a psychol-place in the world is on a modern ness here is.the "attempt to prove to 
.ogist and a theologian, and in ·this American campus ... Yet, shouid this . themselves they really -aren't good interview he discusses what it is be true at Notre Dame? Kelsey says boys anymore. For the male there is within the person that must be liber-tha_t. _jj'J1le _same basic dynamics_ are _-the J!eed _of lib_erati9_r1_ from_ the fea_r ated. "F<>r what uiciuldbe· termed the .. working here" as "afa secular insti..: -·thafhe cannot be a-competent man; Christian Liberation of the Outer . -tution. "Perhaps . we are more un:-and this is the one thing he dare not Man, University_President Rei!. Theo • .-happy with them because .we feel-it talk to his peers about." _. __ . dore -Hes"burgh, ':· C.S.C,,, was.-inter-· '. is not appropriate' to an, iristitutioo· _-Kelsey believes that there. is. no_ viewed. He discusses. the· demands · which has' a Christian perspective.'' parallel fear among women: who of human•dignity ~ indeed.the de~ ·rri dealing with students on campus don't have to. make· a "change'-iri in.ands ofour ,CJliristian}aith··.:.:.:... in-.Kelsey:firids them saying/essentially, identification" from the mother. Also,. terms of social justice for the starv-; 0 There is' an image of what I ·am_ he thinks tha_t "our. ~ociety. permits ing,; -the politically repressed· and the · -supposed to· be, and if I _am not this,· relationships in depth among women uneducated. . . . I am not heard when I try to share much more than it does among men . 
. Probably the first reaction to the , it. If things are not fine,. I find few. There are always exceptions:" He subject -of· Christiani:Liberation of·, people who :want--,to listen --to. my. identifies the woman's problem as the Inner Man is,· ''Who needS:libera~,, darkness and.pain;'; He beiieves that "largely finding a difficult time find­tion? ·_certainly I lead a happy and -'.'Things are no worse ,here··than at a ing a man mature enough, who will well-adjusted·:,.life~~( -_ Accordin1i°-:·to -secular·. institut,ion; probably better, relate in depth.''. Also, for the woman Morton Kelsey, however, ','This is one but not as much better as we think living at a university or looki.ng for o('the_·, illusions, probably: the most -it _,should. be~-considering..this is a a job, itis often "traumatic integrat~:_ important illusion: that people are ChristiailJnstitution."-: ·, -•; "--'... ing into the masculine world; -she as they pretend to be. I-don't_ know · As Morton Kelsey sees it, individu-must take on masculine values_ with­many people who -are fine and hap.:. als need liberation froin '"the fear-out being dominated by ·them.': Some' py/' ·rn: indlvidu.al _and group couri-tliat _they. are not their own persons; -women have rejected feminine values:· seling, he has found that as soon as that they are merely reflecting either even to the point.of saying iwe can people ·0 begin· -to -believe that-they family,. ·parent ·or_-culture, and -get along withoutyou men at all.' " can trusf you : or. a: group;_ things haven't' come to_ their own identity.'.' Beyond :these fears; . -meri _·and begin to come _out which show that --Most-men must, face a problem of women share the common need of they·are n<>t quite ·as happy as they sexuaJ identity:}•For.-the male there "liberation from meaningless," the . 
4 SCHOLASTIC 

greatest ·of the fears. At a university 
"you come· into contact with . . ·. 
Camus, Sartre, against whom the old 
Church offers very little." What. is 
needed is "a way through existen­
tialism to meaning. What Jung does 
is to ,try to offer. the liberation for· 
the inner man without using Chris­
tian symbols.. But he believes that 
the same realities are there, no mat:­
ter what you call the symbols. For 
a man to have meaning he either has 
to accept , a religious system uncon­
sciously or he has to come into touch 
with the meaning which is at the 
basis of the. system [by exploring his 
unc~nscious] which . is much more 
difficult." 
The two "roads" to . meaning are 
parallel and, in some people's lives, 
intertwined. That is,.they seek to in­
tegrate psychological and philosophi­
cal introspection with religious faith; 
but introspection pursued by itself, 
without a spiritual director to act as 
a guide, can be dangerous. Kelsey 
says, ''If you can take·the dogmatic 
road, for. heaven's sake, take it.. I 
never recommend anyone • take the 
inner journey unless they have to. 
But for the sophisticated kind of 
students at Notre Dame, very few 
of them can accept it purely on faith 
once they've been really exposed 

to": existentialism and behaviorism. , These studieschallenge you to ex­
plore yourselfin a narro:wly scientific 
wiry, but they do not by themselves . 
permit afuil understanding of what 
makes you ~:person. . . 
./',To me, ,as. you go .inward,_, there 
is not only good but destructive_ eviL 
That which the Church talks about 
as" the demonic arid the destructive 
are realities. And particularly if . you 
go in separately; not under,the aegis 
of Jesus .Christ,: where there is :real 
protection, you can ,be torn to 'bits; 
Psychosis is being Jost; and torn to 
bits and submerged in the· uncon~ 
scious, disintegrated by ;that annihi­

lative, destructive. force which is 
there ·and.· which one. meets .. through 

the unconscious." ·--' .. ' 
i,But where does the ·evil and the good within a person c0ine from? To this /question Morton-Kelsey ·would offer no answer but the "myth";of Revelation 12:7-9, which follows: ,,, 
. . . . -. . . .
' 
::'Then wa:,. broke out in-hea:ven~; Michael ·and his . arigels battled against· the dragon:. Although. the dragori and h-is a1igels fough:t back, 

DECEMBER-13, 1976 
they were · overpowered and ·lost ·· ·their place ·in heaven. The huge dragon, the ancient serpentknoum 
a.s ·the devil or Satan,· the seducer ·of· the .whole world, was driven out; he was hurled down to earth 'and'his minions with him. 

Kelsey believes that "God made spiritual beings whom He intended to be good and who turned away from him; They thought they could run heaven -better ·than God could. They substituted efficiency and intelligence for · love." •-To pass through your darkness· to light 're:. 
· quires a. "trial and a · testing. In · a sense one repeats inwardly the para­digm·. of· the . crucifixion. One· knows the dismemberment and the destruc­tiveness of the unconscious" before "one . can come out on the other 
The Christian Myth is the strong­est and most powerful myth mankind has known. To · call the Christian faith a myth is not to question its historical truth since "myth· is a de­scription of spiritual reality or psy­chic realitys The Christian Myth is the one which best identifies all of the parts of reality and gives one the path through it." But how does that reflect on ·the · objective -reality of God and Christ? "I would say that the Christian Myth is the expression of that reality. It is almost a para­digm by which you come to experi~ ence the objective reality of God and Christ." · 
"The Mass is the central act" of the Christian faith· "because in the crucifixion and ·resurrection one knows that as Christ rose over the powers of evil· ·so· those in com­munion with him can ·be liberated 
.. ·, 

from '. that too; ,and, , of course, the Eucharist is the incredible re-enact­
. . . . 

ment of this in which we participate in the victory." The; significance of the Christian faith is not that it can give proofs for the Divinity of Jesus ­Christ, the historical man, but that in its affirmation of Christ as God Incarnate, the Christian faith offers man a way to meaning. Kelsey says, "I see the Christian faith as .the greatest possible liberation from, the agonies of man's inner 'caughtness.' It is the answer. For the.person who must go the inner route, I doubt if he ever makes it through without something similar to the Christian Myth as his_ paradigm. The one who goes the inner journey almost has to get into the darkness and find .that [the Christian Myth] actually takes him .out of the darkness before he 
really realizes this fact. 
"Again, I think that once one re­alizes how few of us are liberated, how many of us are unliberated, then the value ·both of the inner way,. through spiritual direction, and. the Christian Myth as liberating factors" will be recognized. The two roads to inner liberation are intimately re­lated. Kelsey was very happy to say, "One of my Jungian friends once said to me, 'You know, the best handbook on integration is still the New Testament.' It is still the best guideline on how to come through to wholeness and to the transform­ing culture of the Divine upon my life." 
One way, perhaps, to determine 

what is essential to the social, politi­
cal and economic liberation of people. 
is to ask, "What would you,· as ·an 
individual, require in your life?" Fr. 
Hesburgh posed this question to a 
Fr. Hesburgh believes. that people can work for this goal regardless .of their occupation or circumstance. "I think this is not necessarily a thing you do directly or head-on. It's an attitude of mind."What attitude? "I'd say, first of all, that you have to believe in human dignity, starting 
· with your own. Then you've got to act ,in a way that reflects that," Be­lief in _human dignity must ; be reflected·. in personal habits, like moderation in drinking.:"If you had to say what's wrong • with getting drunk, well, the first thing is that you _lose .your human dignity-and that's one of the most precious things_ you've got. You're made in the image of God and that's why you've got it. There's nothing very much in the image of God about a drunk." 
To promote human dignity re­quires that you use every freedom you have. "A person free to get an education, like everyone at this uni­versity, can waste it by doing every~ 
. thing but getan education. That's not using your freedom. It's using your freedom productively now that allows you to become a lot more pro­ductive later on." Martin Luther King, Mahatma Gandhi and Abra­ham Lincoln were cited by Fr. Hes­burgh as examples of people whose · serious studies prepared them to make great ·contributions to social liberation. , "Those things don't just happen. They are the result of a 
· long, long series of using your free­dom to develop yourself spiritually and intellectually and integrally." 
To develop your human dignity in this world demands a very strong sense ofintegrity. "A' person either 
..has integrity or doesn't -have integ­
seminar of the Council . on Foreign . · rity. Now some people's price of 
Relations last year. The answer he 
, . proposed was, "I would expect the freedom to develop my own human dignity to the extent that I could use my life to live in a constructive manner,· to help people around me and to help produce a better world in which human dignity, freedom and rights would be honored." That: is perhaps a credo to follow in obtain­ing the liberation of the "outer" man. It involves giving each person the freedom to develop himself "spiritu­ally, culturally, politically andeco­·nomically and all the ways· that a human being is supposed to develop himself.'' 
integrity is higher than others. I was once asked to do an article for Play­bO'}J magazine and they said, 'We'll give you $100,000 for the University if you do it.' I ·said, 'Stuff it,' and I said, 'I'll tell you· something else. I won't do it for $1,000,000 or $10,­000,000.' And they said,· 'Why?' and . I said, 'I just don't want to be asso­
· ciated with your kirid of a rag.' " In­tegrity is an all-or-nothing affair. "You can't have integrity a little bit like you can't be pregnant a little bit." Particularly if· you are con­· cerned with promoting universal human dignity you must maintain. your ii:itegrity becauseuyou can't do 
anything, about your neighbor's in-. tegrity until you've done something about your own.'' ­
In practice, then, "You try to be on the side of the angels, you always· try to put in a little plug for human dignity." On ithe University level Fr. Hesburgh believes that the· human dignity of· all members of the Uni­versity must be respected. As an ex­ample of this, ' he said, "I feel as strongly about• your academic free­dom as about the academic freedom of a professor on tenure: Because you are a human being the same as he is ....:.. you're seeking as he is ...:.. and your freedom to seek has to be pro­tected the same as his. Now you may be. wrong. Very often when you're protecting things like 'human rights you're · protecting . people who are really wrong, but10aLleast they're exercising a legitimate human free­dom." That is· necessary in educa­tion "when we're involved in specu­lation and learning and we're asking tough questions, looking at tough an­swers: we're going to be wrong now and then. But_ that's part of the ex­citement of learning and that's part of the thrill of discovering ;truth when -you're finally not wrong and you've gotit.'' 
The responsibility of the Univer~ sity in developing the human dignity of its students centers _around· offer­ing an intellectual and moral educa­tion. "I think the intellectual develop­ment is generally, at a good univer~ sity, on a fairly high level. But·. the problem I find in most universities, including· a· great :university Hke Harvard, . is they ·talk •about moral values but they don't do a blessed thing to' promote them.'' _Moral edu­cation should be part of a student's total education all through his life, but "it'd be a nice thing at the end to pull it all together on a higher intellectual level than youdo when you are a child.'' For this reason Fr. Hesbtirgh would like to see the insti­tution of "Values Seminar,'.'· In that course "People at least· will be ex­posed to a case that has a moral dimension. They will have to · iden­tify· the moral . dimension and some­how reason as to which side of the dimension they'd come down on.'' 
The individual has a real respon­

sibility to promote human dignity 
and ·it comes from «the conscious­
ness that you have to grow andthat 
~uman d.ignity is important, that 
· SCHOLASTIC 


_ 

human·rights·are terribly im~ortarit and wherever you see injustice you're agai~st it.· It's a. lot easier to · be against injustice in.• China than in your> residence hall, or in . your neighborhood· or law::firm or busi­ness: The farther away it is the easier it is to be against it." Our task is "to be'against inju,stice wherever it · happens." The . fight 'for · human freedoms' inust _be an active one; "Some· of these basic : . freedoms,' like · the · freedom to" live, are beirig stomped ·on very badly,· as in the whole abortion issue. And people 'sit back and say ·•,wen, that;s the Supreme Court's fault arid I can't do anything.·about tha.t,' but maybe you can. or· take violence. It's· amazing-to me tha.t wheri people··see violence being dorie-to'.' another human being that'they don't try 'fo stop it. If we don't . ca.re for ea.ch 
DECEMBER 13, 1976 
other we live in a· jungle and car_. ing for each other doesn't 'mean . just calling the . police. Sometimes y~u've got to put your neck ori the line to· care for somebody; Tha-t's the kirid 'of attitude that's the dif­. fererice between a civilized society .and general' society." . _ But what about· expanding· your 
: efforts' to the world' scale? ''I tliink you have·to,:but that's ·a question' of where you ·are; where : you're working and what leverage you can ­get. Normally, as you niove a.head in life arid get jobs of some im­portance your ,leverage gets ·_ larger and you can ·use it in larger circles: It's of course a very satisfying thing . if by writing a. letter you can get food for 100,000 people who would . otherwise starve. On the other hand; you can say 'It's none of my business: I won't write the letter. It'll' em.: 
barrass me or the President will think 
I'm a kook or the Secretary of State 
won't like it because he doesn't want 
to spend the money.' Well, you've 
got to do what's. rigllLbecause it's 
worth doing· and don't '!Vorry what 
people say about it." Within your 
own-. sphere of influence you must 
work strenuously for justice. 
If all this sounds rather humanis­

tic, perhaps that is not so bad. Chris~ 
tianity fits in quite well with the 
goals of human dignity. In fact, it 
requires pursuit .of those goals. 
"Christ's message is ,' really very 
simple. !tis th,e height of integrity, 
if you will. 'Love GocL with your 
whole heart,. your . whole soul, your 
who~e mind.' Thafs the first part of 
it, the theological part of it: your 
bearing toward God. And then the 
second part which really proves that 
you mean the first part. 'Love your 
neighbor as yourself.' " . You must 
work for the human dignity of peo_. 
pie wherever you are, just as you 
wish your own human dignity to be 
preserved.' "Don't do anything to 
your neighbor that you would not do 
to yourself. Don't deprive your 
neighbor of anything you'd not want 
to be deprived of. Don't withhold 
from ·your neighbor anything you 
wouldn't·want withheld from you. It 
really puts our feet ·to the fire, and 
with that kind of a· message you can 
go a long, long way. · 
l'Now· the message, of course, is 

in terms of love, but love, I think; in 
our kind of society is best manifest 
by the provision of justice for those 
who suffer from injustice. You say 
you love· your neighbor. Well, the 
first thing the Lord said when he il­
lustrated that was if he's hungry 
feed him, if he's naked clothe him; 
if he'~ thirsty give him ·something 
to drink. Those'are·very fundamental 
kinds of injustice, but there are 
deeper injustices; · One _of ·the deep~ 
est injustices is . to be born in a 
ghetto and' to face failure a.lways.'' 
The·message of Jesus Christ cer~ 

tainly includes the "Social Gospel.'' 
There remains today.those who are 
hungry, naked and thirsty; but the 
uneducated of our neighborhood, 
country and world have a. real claim 
to justice. To fulfill the message of 
the Gospels -requires that we nourish 
in ourselves a sense· of human dig­
nity. With integrity and real: ·com­
mitment, we can start liberating our 
neighbor from· hunger,-fear, ignor­. ance and despair. · 
. Like all students this time of· 

year, I approach the celebration of · 
Christmas harried by the advent · · · 
of deadlines· and the anxiety of · . ' 
what is still unfinished. Not· too 
much has changed since last year: 
outwardly,·I'm the same-give or . 
take a few· pounds-and involved 
in the same activities. Inwardly, 
however, · something has·· occurred:· 
a coming-together of experiences; : ' 
a growing awareness of concern; 
the emergence of conviction. It is this . conviction which has changed. · me, coming to birth like the Christ Himself~not in the center of my 
comfort and security, but on the periphery, i_n the darkness .of ques­tions and . crises of friends. This:. conviction, this awareness has led me to re-examine the traditional story of Christmas with its mem­
ories ; of.times past; . . ' . 
I remember those other.. Christ­mases: early childhood in North Dakota when my family would join those of my relatives, after a trip . through . mountains of snow, .to be . with my grandparents on tpeir , farm. ··i: .· was filled. with amazement,
.· . ~ . ' ·. . . : 

and fear at the noi_se caused by ·. Santa's arrival upstairs. (Later, : I di~covered_it ;was ·my uncles-so_ much !~r: "lost .. innocencett Then there were .the_ .Christmases of my adolesc_ence, home. from school, trimming. the tree~: wrapping gifts, anticipating Christmas parties with friends; (That ,hasn't changed.) .. And the , Christmases, since I've .. 


been ordained, when I've.left my . . and honest signs. ,Asi_such, t· '<·., religious .·community for parish . ,:, '. believe the Church, my. f~mily, · is assistance in .the small towns of, · in need of liberation so that pz:es~ ·: Christ, His story of origins in a small town, in the darkness of a stable or cave. But, as I said 
above, something's changed-I've changed-and what strikes me now about the Christmas story is not so much the stable and the joy that was born there, but the inn arid its own lack of hospitality. As 
you. recall the scene: "She wrapped him iri swaddling. · clothes, and laid him in a manger because· there .was no 
. room at the inn." (Luke 2 :7)-: . Why couldn't room _be found there for a young peasant 'woman about 
the jewish people has traditionally : · held such religious significance? As a persori~beyond the "hats" 
·of priest, pastoral theologian or. ..-... citizen ·of the United ·states~wliat is surprising is. that the image of. the inn in the story reminds me-• not. of. any' foreign inhospitality..:_:· but -~(my own' family's: the: .: :--·:. Roman Cathoiic Church to which'; I beiong. In the one specific area<,'. of ministry, the Church is for:-m~ no longer a sign of welcoming.. and agapaic Jove, but. rather of in-... ·.. •. equality, i~justice a1id fixation on ....:. 
. the past. In effect, it,has· become :. a sign ofcontradiction in a.world and culture longing. for . genuine 
Ohio .where I wasc:welcomed .by. the people into their hom~ii:'_ ~fter . Midnight l\1ass. In retrospect, all · 
those Christmases were focused . upon the presence and power. of the_ ent pastoral needs.can be met ;'., and_-future pc;,tentials, ~nd p~oniises fulfilled.•I.do not make that state­ment lightly; it has come to .me_ ,: ouLof experiences_ which have;._,' ' shaped and formed my fraine-of­thought. 
There are,. first of all, my experi­
ences as ari ordained priest in~ volved in a variety of tasks. That 
ministry came to me as a gift, the result of a conversion experi­
ence, a sudden awakening and · gradual awareness of the presence 
of the Holy in·my life. That expe­
rience called :forth .a response, 
like that of all ministers: a re­. sporise which is part of what . Abraham Heschel calls ."the great 
yearning· that sweeps. eternity: the . y~arning to ,praise, Jhe _yearning 
·the awesome presence·:of the' Holy, that I gather with others to cele­brate: Thanksgiving;· Eucharist. And now . . . now I:do.not under­
.stand why. that ministry·. itself : should not ·be shared; ,why if ,. should b·e, rath~r, limited to ioniy those who. are· male·; and celibate.. 
:·r do not .understanci~nor'do I anylonger·accept-the factJhat ·. friends of mine, because they fell in love and.'chose'to.marry,.cari no longer, function ·a; priests when they still feel_;caned ·,.·_to, that -'fo,rizi: of... ministry; iT don't . understand:. · and no· longer 'accept:other:friends. 
'of mine leavi~g their:' studies. for the priesthood--:-n'ot.. because they stiil'didni(feeLits ,calling; but: because they sens~d, in ,·themselves a iack of the charisni of celibacy. Others ·.too. who' wili riot even. enter a .seminacy:-i,ecause-of.that·:per-:_:; ceiv,ec( iack.· Then: there a're.those, trained and, :qu,al,fiecl:_marrie~_,men . h.e~~ on No_t~~ P~Il!e's_ca~p~ ~ho 
..SCHOLASTIC . 

have left the security of jobs, the positive reinforcement of recog­nized abilities, because they felt something more was being asked. Yet, they too will be denied. the priesthood. They and others: those who are lacking NOT in talents, in proper training, nor the· "yearn-.· ing to serve," .but the physical · · make-up of the·male body. Why 
this discrimination .toward those who love another in a special way, or who are female by birth? 
Secondly, there are my experi­ences as a graduate student in the field of pastoral theology. As 

one so trained, I have become a 
faith-reflector and articulator who 
takesseriously the present situ­
ation of humankind...:....with the con­
viction that it .reveals God's on­
going presence and power-a.. 
presence and power not just limited 
to the past. Since coming to Notre 
Daine, I've stu'died arid critiqued . 
many great theologians, and been · 
inspired by the breadth of their 
knowledge and the· -depth of their 
thought. I've read about "liber­
ation" and how ·the Church is a · 
sign and sacrament to the world 
of how it (the world) should and · can be. Despite that, despite Vati­
can II and the fresh air ushered 
in by people like'Pope John, there 
is still much more that needs to 
be . done:· Pastoral needs ·. are not 
being. met, not. being '.fulfilled be­
cause there are not enough· priests, 
we're toid, ·to go ··around. . 
-According:to a recent newspaper, 
Apostolic delegate· ·Archbishop· 
Jean Jadot predicted 'that fo·.· a 
very few years'we will be unable· 
to staff our parishes and institu-... 
tions,·. that •already ·there arir· :_ . 
parishes in which 'two' priests are 
trying to do' what four priests did a few. years ago, that in some regions priests are dying in their 50's from overwork .. Not so very long ago too, another Catholic paper reported a priest's attempt to recruit "delayed vocations," men in their later years who are single or widowed, so that they might be of help. (I'm not criticizing that, but the thought did cross my mind, from my study of history, o{how in the last days .of .World War II in· Germany, the very young and the very old were forced to take up arms in the defense of their country. Perhaps an analogy can be drawn....) Despite the warn­
. ings of the Archbishop and the actions of a few in .their attempts; we Cathoiics and our leaders con­tinue to ignore the pastoral plight-ignoring too those who are willing to serve and yet con­tinue to be denied. Liberation in preaching, teaching, theologizing for other countries and other peoples, we seem to be told, but not in the ministry ·of our · own Church. 
Thirdly, my experiences of being. a citizen of these United States. have also had their effect. Born in this country, and raised on ideals of equality _and justice for all, I . grew to realize that the world of ideals and the world of reality are not the same. I discovered· in the · civil rights movement and the . tragic assassinations, race riots 
. and peace marches, my homeland • . caught up in its own darkness, a time-of confusion, doubt and ques­tioning which precedes illusions · and innocence lost: Memory· takes me back to college years, working , in a New Orleans ghetto,· cam­. paigning for•· Roberf Kennedy's "Newer World,''. spending a sum­mer in ·a Colombian barrio, march~ ing in peace rallies .to end the Vietnam war.-Perhaps nothing · significant was , accomplished, and yet there is· the· sense that great , · changes have taken place -in-the last ten years. Despite tlie ·obvious problems that still· face us as a : · people, there is at least a greater• awareness· of the need. for equality and opportunity for service. among all· peoples, and both sexes of the human race. -What if, however, we 
as Americans had used the same argument so often heard today in the Church; what if, in the area of civil rights,· for example, we as a nation had continued to block reform because "we've never done it that way before"? 
Ideals and experiences have influenced me; .why shouldn't our culture also influence the direction of the American Church? No longer a missionary country, but a country "come of age," why can't our Church and its ministry reflect the mosaic, the diversity and pluralism Jimmy Carter spoke of on his visit iri October to Notre Dame? And if, as he pledged, our country should use its power to alleviate unnecessary suffering and discrimination, why can't our Church do the same for its own members and those who desire to be priests? 
No room at the inn: words from the Christmas story, a paradigm still being lived out. The inn con­tinues to stand, a sign of contra­diction, a symbol of hospitality now turning away those who seek to enter it for respite or to be of ser-· 
· vice there. But the Christmas story also continues:· continues to remind us of a power greater than any bul­wark against change. For, not far from. the inn, a child'was born­the birth of the new took place. It is that birth which is cause for hope, and even, in the midst of institutional. resistance and · dark­ness, a ·cause_ for joy. For, like so ·many births,~ a:s· the theologian Paul Tillich tells us: "It may_ appear iri some dark corner of the. world ... It may appear in a social group where it .is least expected. . . . The new ·in history ·always comes when people least believe ·in~ it. But, certainly, it .comes only in the moment when ·the· old becomes .. visible as old and tragic ·and dying, and when :no way. out is seen." · · The birth of the new is like that. Like the spark of -insighf and the emergence of conviction, it-comes at unexpected times; in unpredict-' able places, among unsuspecting · and often resisting people;_ . ' 


N.ot:re Dan.-.e -Exalllination. 
.• Cr 
~~-'.~­
~-. 1';.

·RULES 

~er,. ?!t:7 . 
. . ~ ·;:;
1 .. ::, ~ ..

J$' . -~­
Arrange all yo~r ~ork ~refully on. th<:5e sh~~ ~ ot?er. paper · :may be brought mto· the class-room dunng ~~on time.. · . . ·~ c.._"'~ .· 

2 -·A· 
""Y 
. ;~ ~ 

. ·<Z> -~--. • 
W~te the questions on pa_ge one. ·l§it ~ the number of !he question and t~e answer to 1t. on, ~uc~cclini pages. Begin each answer or subJect as a new pa~ph.~ · 
. . ~~ ~,rf· 
.. iQ -~­Do not foid .this paper.' ~~ ,iJ · ·.. . ~ ~. -· -~ ~ft, .
;:, ~ ..
.· 


#1~OUT BLANK 
~-~ 

; $ 0­NAME . . . ·-Q'Ci_,:,...,,~ ·_· 
~ ~~ ,... 
; . 6 ~--<· CLASS ,¢;o__J, 
Cb'·. 'Ci 
~

. -~-.. 0-~:. COURSE __________.;..;.:..:_ 
-~ 




A Pursuit of-H.ono·r_­

. ' . . -. . 

, ..... ·, .. '''. .., 
"As a :Notre Dame ·student,• I app~ared; Though not a's • steeped i~ .· . proctors·.w:erei prese~t. duri~g exam­pledge .honesty in all. my academic tradition as the leprechaun, the ducks · inations. A ,. ·.student .'. accused . · of work and will not tolerate dishonesty and the Blessed Lady, Notre Dame's . cheating; was ·,first giv.~~: the. oppor­in my /ellow students." Honor Code was in: eff~ct from the tunity_to·turn _hims~lf ir{and, _if, r:i,o~, 
The next· time· you · take -an· exam · spring of 1964 until its suspension . the . student , Ill~king J:he _accusatiop and the blue books are, handed out; in February of .1969. •· . was to· reportJ1im~· -.-Th_e, student was 
.. you. will note that these words are The .Code,· was established. by a ·then 1_brougllt befo!"~., · the ; l:ionol'. distinctly missing from the ·•cover. student referendum and . from. start Council, a University-run committee With their removal, the last _vestige · to finish was' run ; entirely''. by the composed; solely' o(student~, and his of the University Honor Code has dis-· students. ·_ N eithel'..: profesl?ors nor. cas~ was., hear_d_.·, If the,. qou~cil de., 
10 '.. ·;,r ,: ..SC!!O~STIC 
cided that the student was innocent, the charge was simply dismissed. If, however, the student was found guilty, the Council would prescribe . a penalty or failure in the course or, in very serious cases, require that the Dean make a decision as to whether the student should be ex­pelled. 
However, in comparison to the · functioning and more established honor codes at the.University of Vir-· ginia and the military academies, the . system at Notre Dame was unwork­able. Very few cases were brought to the attention of the Council. Stu­
dents simply di~ not want to turn each other in and, as reported in The Observer, the Council felt the pen­alty system had lost its "construc­tive purpose.'' In. February, 1969, the members of tlie Honor Council _resigned en mas1?e and suspended all administrative activity. In an open letter to the Notre Dame community, the members stated, "The current situation makes it apparent to us that the community is no longer com­mitted to this concept (honor) ... ::· · We are further convinced that, while most individuals seem to uphold per­sonal honesty, they do not consider 
· the . honesty of others .to be their concern." 
, The. Chairman of the Honor Coun­cil, Thomas Vos, stated that he didn't interpret this as. "the end of the Honor .Concept · at Notre Dame, though• this possibility does exist. Rather, this • is the only method available to us that presents the possibility . of getting the students realigned with •the basic tenets of the concept." Fr. James Burtchaell 
-shared Vos' desire to realign the students with the concept of. Honor and appointed.a Committee of Honor composed of faculty,· students and administration to-."probe .ever more ·deeply into the theoretical problems that beset us in our desire .to be scrupulously honest." The Commit­tee's goal, according to a final report submitted to Fr; Burtchaell, was ar­ticulated as ''not to s·olve these prob­lems but to understand them.'.' . : 
The Committee· concluded; that "Notre Dame's former :Honor Code failed for two ·important reasons; It, failed· first, because honor is not ari objectifiable thing or· set of ·moral precepts (though it can ·include thelll) which. can be described in static terms.. Second,.... because of 
DECEMBER 13, 1976 
general and pervasive apathy." The report stated, "Honor is a process by which an individual interprets in action the values distinctive of his or .her community. It cannot flourish in one sector alone; it lives in the conscience of the whole." At Notre Dame, the life of honor now exists in important ways, but significant areas of conduct are ungoverned by a· sense of. honor. The nature of the University as a community and as an academic institution suggests a basis for carrying honor into these areas, in an effort to assert the integrity of the University as a community with­
out dealing with the difficulties felt to be inherent in an Honor System: 
In March of 1975, the Academic Council adopted the Academic Hon­esty Policy which is now in force. The Preamble·of Policy states, !'One of tne most ·important aspects of academic integrity concerns the just measure of each student's academic accomplishments . . . it is essential that the teacher be assured that: the work used to evaluate the student's 
·performance is his own. This is a serious responsibility on the part of the teacher, if his evaluation is :to reflect the true accomplishment··of the student.· There is a corresponding responsibility on the part of the stu­

dent not to deceive· the teacher in any way in regard to them.ithorship or the work he presents as his own."· ·Under the new policy, each depart­ment must establish· an Honesty Committee. Unlike the entirely stu-· dent-run Honor Council, each depart-· mental· Honesty ·committee is com­prised of faculty and students, al­though.· in no specific proportion. If a teacher suspects a student of cheating, "he must ·submit a report" in writing to the Honesty Committee of the department involved. A hear­ing is held in which the teacher and student are both present and each in 
turn presents his case. Both are then asked to leave the room and the committee decides whether a viola­tion. of academic integrity has oc­curred, and if there is a violation, it will recommend an appropriate pen­-alty to the teacher. The .student is then informed of the decision, and if he has been found guilty, .he. has the right. to appeal the committee's decision to the Dean of the College. 
The present Honesty. Committees differ from the old Honor Council in three distinct_· areas. . First,. where the Council was . campus-wide, the committees are restricted to the de­partments. Second, the committees · have representatives of both faculty and students. Lastly, after the com­: J mittee has reached a decision, it can 

.· .. i 

. only recommend .to .the . teacher. the penalty that should be administered; strict adherence. to the decision is not mandated as it was under. the. Honor Council. ·· 
Implementation of .the present Honesty Policy .has • been achieved_ quietly. So quietly, in fact, tlmt most students when asked have. no. knowledge of the. existence of any such committee. Dean Bernard_ Waldman of the College of Science and Assistant Dean Vincent Ray-. mond of the College of Business Ad­ministration both stated unequivo­cably that "All departments (in the College) have standing Honesty 
Committees." Assistant Dean Robert Waddick of the College of Arts and Letters states, "As far as I know, all of the departments have them (Honesty Committees). They might not be standing committees, but they can be convened" if the situation . . . . . ,._. 
~ 

calls for it. The College of Engineer­__ 
.=u__ ·~· ~};;;,_,~--._____,;,__
ing previously employed a_ voluntary 
Honor Code in. which the students 
· Professor Edward Vasta 
voted whether to have their tests given under an honor system or not, sonally, I understand why the kids but Assistant Dean Ettore Peretti . do it. There's· a distortion of the states _that this policy "has been value of grades and averages. It's superseded· by the University's pol-what I call 'academic neurotics' -a 
icy'' and the College of Engineering kind of psychological and academic now follows the University policy. sickness where students convert every test grade into success or Academic dishonesty takes differ-failure in finding employment after 
ent forms under different circum­
graduation. The Honesty Committees stances. In the College of Science, in the College of Business Admin­Waldman states that most of the 
istration have. heard some cases, but cheating takes place "in the large agairi, only a few per semester.'; In classes·. or in the large courses with all the cases Raymond has heard, multiple sections." According to .there was "onlyone instance where Waldman, there is "no quesUon that . the student's academic survivaP' was it is the pressure for grades" which at stake..In most of the cases, "the 
makes students cheat. Admission to 
· · · · risk was not worth the gain." It was.
medical. school depends heavily on a a question of half of a grade, not 
student's GPA and MCAT scores, passing or failing. To alleviate the two very objective measures which possibility of cheating, Raymond 
cause tremendous pressures on an 
undergraduate seeking graduate feels it is the_. "professor's responsi­work in this field. • bility to take. the precautions to re­duce the temptation.'; This is not to Most of this type of cheating can be construed as '.'discipline ·or dis-: be done away with quite mechani-trust." Students should know·. the cally by using rimltipie test forms, profess.or's policy . in advance and forbidding· students ,to share calcu-that .the consequences will be harsh lators and stricter monitoring of ex-if cheating is discerned. . aminations; however; these measures While Waddick "doesn't_ think merely remove the opportunities, not there's a great deal going on,''' he the pressures, and hence, a few cases does state that there are always in­are heard by the committees anyway. stances of cheating. Both Raymond 
·-.· Rayiiiond agrees that it is the . and Waddick mentioned the special pressures of the. external ..world ''pressures on agra<luating senfor~• which make stu.dents cheat. ''Per-who might get a friend to help. him 
12 
~----·· ' 

with a project or plagiarize a paper in order to fulfill acourse require­ment. Raymond states, "A friend wouldn't ask . you to . participate in something that would jeopardize your position." The friend who 'does participate in this kind of activity is a victim of a misplaced loyalty, · that kind of anything-for-a-pal atti­tude with which many grew up. 
The English· Department's Hon~ esty Committee is one ·of those in the College of Arts and 'Letters which is both long-standing and functional. The· particular -·interest in academic integrity,·of the depart­mentis . most probably . due to.·· the nature of the discipline itself.· ; On an objective test; ·. if a student is found with 'a "crib sheet" concealed up . his sleeve, the ··question .· of whether he: is guilty of cheating or not is elementary. ·However, ,when a student's academic performance is appraised· solely ·on : his • ability to communicate his thoughts clearly in writing, the .· objectivity becomes muted: and one is·· 1eft to deaL with the . more· _nebulous area . of· plagia­rism. 
' ' ' 

. A s_tatement defining plagiarism is given to all freshmen in, English 109; and, occasionally, .to, upper~ classmen, so that no misunderstand-· ing'. as, te> the_ nature of plagiarism 
zSCHOLASTIC 

will arise. Like the other depart­ments, the English Honesty Com­mittee hears only a few cases each term and, "In every case but one, they have been cases of plagiarism" according to Associate Professor Donald Sniegowski, director of Un­dergraduate Studies in English. Professor Sniegowski states, "I am• not so naive as to think that every time a student plagiarizes, he is caught, or that every time a teacher catches a student, he reports it." 
This is one of the . problems in­herent in the University's Academic Honesty Policy. If a teacher takes a case into his own hands, it violates the policy itself and takes away the safeguards provided for the student. However, a teacher can hardly be blamed for avoiding the committee in a clear-cut_ case. According to· As­sociate Professor John . McDonald,. a member of the English department's member of the English Department's Honesty· Committee, "The vast ma­committee) are gui_lty anyway." The present system mandates the use of the coirtmittee which "fosters a legal­ism ·against the Catholic character of the. University." Each case brought before the Committee requires 30_ 
• : ; • J ~ • 

to 50 man-hours of work per case, a tremendous load on professors or students involved. Sniegowski feels "It creates a negative attitude which should not be allowed to take over." 
The energies used to advance aca­demic honesty should not be imple­mented to generate a witch hunt; however, the very essence of honesty itself cannot· b~ ignored. In the year since its inception, the Academic Honesty Policy has had little impact on the Notre Dame community. The departmental Honesty Committees, like the Honor Council which went before it hear very few cases each semester. The present Honesty Pol­icy took six years to develop in the wake of the "general and pervasive apathy" . which brought about the demise of the Honor Council. The Academic · Honesty Policy does not appear to have been greeted wiUi' any renewed: vigor. -. . . . . . . 
According to an essay.by_Associate 
manageable nature, become just an­other element of ambiguity in the world, then their demise is certain. .Yet this time it cannot be attributed to a lack of interest in a concept at once as noble and as tenuous as hon­esty, but only to apathy and dis­
interest. 
The outward attitude ofthe com­

munity in general would seem to in­
dicate a trend towards that apathetic 
end. According to a two-year empiri­
cal study directed by Professor Ed­
ward Vasta, Chairman of the Com­
mittee on Campus Honor, the one 
moral judgment upon which students, 
:faculty and administration could 
agree was the vague desire to uphold 
academic honesty. Though the three 
groups could not , agree. on the 
praiseworthiness or the blarrieworthi­
ness of certain. hypothetical . actions, 
they did all agree.on-the basic tenet 
of academic integrity~ This seems to 
indicate that if the present Academic 
Professor, Stanley Hauerwas of the. · Honeity:·Policy could be made more 
Department of Theology, the "Uni-· versity has· a· 'task _of. educating young people to bear the burden of truthfulness in a\vorld of ambiguity and hypocrisy." If .the Honesty 9o~niittees, . because of . their un~ flexible, more viable in · terms· -~f its mechanics, then'. the possibility exists that·ilie _community as a.whole can be_reassociated with the· concepts of honesty ·and, ~-opefully, honor. 
:SUMMER PROGRAMS 
SMC-NOTRE DAME 
... 

.LONDON .(May 24-June 24) . ROME (June 23-July. 221 c_ 
$997-ALL EXPENSES -OR .$115O_:.ALL EXPENSES TRAVEL IN. IRELAND, ·.TRAVEL IN· FRANCE,·: GERMANY; · SCOTLAND, ENGLAND AND, _FRANCE _ .. SWITZERLAND AND.ITALY 
VARIOUS COURSES AVAILABLE 
fof b~ochures and fu~th~r _info: 
CONTACT PROF·. ,.: R. BLACK 
. · 346 ~IADELEVA HALL • · 

SAIN_T MARY'S COLLEGE; NOTRE pAME, INDIANA , 
PHONE: (2_19) 284-4948 OR 272~3726 (HOME) 


IMPO~TANT.STUDY :ABRO.AD. ANNOUNCEMENT:. Llmlt~d. openings' re~aln on;. CFS ·accredited: Spring· 1977 Academic Year· Programs commencing · spring .. Trimester. Early acceptance Is now open for Fall '77, Winter, Spring '78 or Full Year '77-'78 In Moscow, Salamanca, Paris, Dlfon, Florence, Perugla, Copen­hagen, Amsterdam, Vienna, Geneva, England for qualified applicants In lan­guages, all subjects Incl. lnt'I law, business. All students In good standing eligible-Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors, Grads. Good faculty refer­ences, self-motivation, sincere Interest In study abroad, lnt'I cultural exchange count more with CFS than grade point. For applications/Information: CENTER FOR FOREIGN STUDY, AY ADMISSIONS DEPT. N, 216 S. State, Box 606, Ann Arbor, Ml 48107 (313) 662-5575. 
EARN. UP 'TO $3000 ·PER -SEMES­
· TER ·' OR MUCH' MORE!'·Campus '· Reps . warited.: to ·;post, ·. distribute . for :.: commission•. Lines . guaranteed to . sell. Aggressive, . 'motivated. persons.·. Few hours weekly. ·Send· resume,· $2 for' job description, info sheets, application forms, post & handlg. Upon acceptance receive coding number, niemb. card, work manual free. With first weekly commission check receive your $2 back. WRITE: Nationwide College Market­ing Services (NCMS), Box 1384, Ann 
· Arbor, MI 48106. · 
., 

Inproving by ·Leaps and. Bounds· 
Make no mistake about it, Notre Dame is devoted to sports and all it stands for. Whether participating, training, coaching. or just plain watching, Notre Dame's members, alumni and friends avidly keep alive age-old tradition of dedication to ath­letics. Naturally, priorities are set for the amount of attention given to various sports, with football and basketball in the far lead. The par­ticipants in these two sports'are able to enjoy a national audience. Mean­while, the more individualized sports recede into the background, drawing only those with a keen or special in­terest. One such sport is gymnastics. 
There is no official gymnastic team at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, but a few interested students have held meetings in the past few years in an attempt to initiate some changes. While there is still not an official com­petitive group organized, a gymnas-, tics club exists. Its members work out for the enjoyment and discipline of physical activity rather than for competitive purposes. 
· There is one student who has re­cently thrown herself into a gymnas­tic whirlwind. Maria Brown, a junior at Saint Mary's, has recently discov­ered the joys (and trials) of the. rigorous sport and gone at it with unusual fervor. Maria, a psychology major from Charleston, South Caro~ · lina, caught the attention of a South Bend gymnast trainer in the SMC dining haH·last semester.· 
Ron Dioro, a gymnast from Chi­

cago and veteran of the 1964 Olym­
pics, was interested in Maria's poten­
tial as a gymnast by her walk. After 
finding out she had had no previous 
experience with gymnastics, but that 
she'd taken ballet for 17 years, he 
signed her up for the• start of many 
rigorous sessions. 
Dioro started Maria off by having 

her lift weights down ·in the Regina 
Hall weight room. While capable of 
doing inore, she presses and lifts· 
weights of no more than her body 
weight, 100 pounds. This is to build 
stamina_ and facilitate easier mount-' 
ing and exercising on the uneven 
parallel ha.rs. 
Lifting weights is done in Maria's 

spare time, which can hardly be 
called her own. A typical day in-· 
eludes going to classes and labs from . 
nine until five. In between classes and after dinner, Maria does all her · studying. At 10 pm, three nights a · week, she goes to gymnastics prac­tice, which lasts until 1 a.m. or long7 er. On Tuesday and_ Thursday morn­ings, Maria has a gymnastic class and works out again for a couple of 
hours... 
While a typical day for Maria 

might seem taxing, a typical work­
out session is even more so. Dioro 
has her do free warm-up exercises 
for a while before starting in on the 
various gymnastic routines. These · 
by Lisa Fulks 

uneven parallel bars for two or three hours. 
Maria, as well as the 40 or so other girls who train· with Dioro, receives a huge amount of individual. atten­tion from the trainer. Dioro insists on being called a trainer instead of a coach because he claims he is actual­ly teaching and training his students rather than merely coaching them along. : ·· . 
Maria cites this individual atten~. tion as crucial in the development of gymnasts~ She states, "Everyone needs individual attention. When you get it, you work better and produce. Ron takes kids rejected from other teams, who have no self-confidence, and shapes their mental and emo­tional attitudes. ·He's taught me more than simple gymnastics." 
Maria maintains that Dioro is a drilling professional who is also able to be a friend to his students. Her confidence in her trainer is so strong that she claims that she never feels any fear when doing various "risky"· gymnastic maneuvers, such as a flip off the balance beam. It should be remembered that· Maria just. started gymnastics this semester. 
What does tlie Brown family think of. Maria's participation in gymnas­tics? She states that her :.parents' main concern is that she do well in school. She continues, "My father gets a kicl~ out of it; I'm the only 
routines entail practice on the bal­. girl, and have-always been his tom­ance. beam, vaulting horse, floor and boy daughter. He likes for me,to be 




physically active and· involved. I She's cut out alcohol anil uncon-ready for a good night's sleep." think my mother, on the other hand, sciously changed .her,.eating·. habits What about Maria Brown's future? likes me to be more of . a lady. One . this year. She states, "While not on Her immediate desire is to continue evening she'll see me in a. formal, purpose, I've almost completely her studies in psychology and get ready to go out, and the next morn­stopped eating meat. I might have into med school. But she is by no ing in a pair of jeans and sneakers meat once a week, but the majority means abandoning her newly-found playing football with the guys. Keep­of my diet consists of salads with no love for gymnastics. She also plans ing my grades up, though, is the dressing, grains,. vegetables and to continue with ballet next semes­most. important thing to them, and fruits. And never any sweets. I also .ter. At the mention of the Olympics, 
·myself." can. get along ·on five to six hours · she expresses uncertainty but hastens 
Maria cites med school as her first of sleep each night." to add,. '.'The thing is, anyone can priority after graduating from Saint The late night gymnastic sessions go into the Olympics. Anybody who Mary's with a degree in psychology. are regarded by Maria as an excellent· sets his mind to anything can get it, 
.Gymnastics for her are more a hobby opportunity to let. off steam after if he wants it badly enough. And than a career, though she devotes studies. She continues, "If I become again, the arts really help in de­40% of her time to the sport. She frustrated with my homework, I can , veloping. · Gymnastics is an art. It maintains that "the discipline of the let it all out at gymnastics. By. put-develops a lot of your personality, mind and body go hand in hand." ing a lot of work and sweat into it, mind and outlook on life. I can't 
Maria went on to say that gymnas­I can feel exhilarated. rather than ·-recommend it strongly enough." tics, for her, has also induced a bogged down. I've forgotten my wor-. cleansing of the mind and body. ries and frustrations and am , just 
DECEMBER 13, 1976 15, 



c_______ 


Jottings 

~
?~·
by John Santos · · (\ C 
from "The Passion of the Second Denver'' · l it was january when .!Jtbl~)you that Colorado was ~onceived . i? couplets;.s,t,one andijms bone, ~o~ntain aspiri?g to heaven \ hke a rhymmg, of the (two;-and vapor nsmg of the still water. ! I liked this~~se:-.of siffiiiar names and familiar faces,
-<:..h~"t'cz"i/ . ~\l\l 1 ~l • 1 ­
th

e way we ypnot1ze 9,urse v,~..,m mirrors, say ow prayers _ over the shapes•~~Ev:ry thing has its rhyme and sooner 
--•lf";I fl 
or later everybody meets1rverybody. Tliey greet each to each. 
I met you in a storefro~Wwindow whei;}Jtff1fog from your rushed breathjglazed the im_ageJon the pane, it was that dull-white s'p'ot that disturb'etl me to comment 
11 • ~ 
on the weather. Yo~ ~~'~\that I was {~ferish with :he ~as~ion for a Denves_:that.st1rred hke-the-first~prcl_g_of-,!! nation ms1de of me. The...handkerchief you put to my head=fel(-like sil&-,-, ----­It was a lold day. January is a cold month. c ~ .
s  - - 
.  n ­ -­ - .  
when we .were wed that spring at your father's house  
I watched the parson's spectacles reflecting your fice .·  ·  _­ ·  

while tho~e oldest and holy words;eclioed against the thin~ ­
c-urved gl~ss. The room was laded_.thick-witr do~-ood blossoms and whenJ she shook my hand, y~er's-palms _ were peailY with t~erumorthe flower. I remember _ --_ 
your hair, as a bouquet of lilac and dry yellow grasses. That wh~te-haired_~ale-eyed woman spoke to y'~u and touched your head, she turned to me and-yelled something m ;;heavy accent. -phristine, I felt like a foreig~r while she was laughinJ at me. Your father cried-wh~n I showed him tlrepostcard All of. tn~s is5itlen_tC>.teU.;yoi(that I have ~st~~ . picture of"Denver, uncle stanley took ~picture of him doing this. the photographs of the wedding onto(the leaves of _a dictionary; · 
we are kissing on page 1229 undert-word ••ts· : 


gaining speed on the west edg!;.,,of...tlie • nation ---,, -, -for/'christy · 
in halls made of pink stone, I hav~ known dancers with legs like tuned cords pulled b~tween the stage and those gentle rocking hips mas~ed in pastel satin.
., 

C
_ your limbs dear c., are not an artist's, they are a noise · so solemn they remind of stubboci\ palms in a hurricane, ._-_ ·_ those which a man will hug in thJJvicious winds, -0'\. n 
· letting his body wave behind like :tpat -banner of an ansient empire . . Please christy, send me no more letters _about your simple deathsL in 1908, there was an arc of fire that-,descended~ -~ _ on Siberia from the sky and· there was,.an explosion-so_firmGJ that for miles the trees were scorched ba~ leaf and branch. You write of madness, but considei-lthat plain of trees, there'still, ­like telephone poles waiting centu~ies to be webbed, with wire/ : 

I[ . 

\1


l1 . ~ 
-\ ~--/)
\_.\,, ---~:--,...--~~:"""r-----~--::~·~7~~~: ~ .._7:~~ 
"'~---~---~..~~~..~SCHOLASTIC 

. .. . . Portolani Before dawn, the wives would gather at.the docks . holding high the candles that burned with the smell of wine. · · . Their prayers were sung in a heavy breath that sank · to the sandalled· feet· in a mist, the colour· of baby's veins. 
The men woke to this sound of morning dirge, rhythmic from the shadows of masts and the sails, flapping now in first light. . C~~ey-left:-their-sha7ks with _bread or souvenirs of dirt,_bu~ th~ ca~tain · · · .. 7__'.'.:-liifg~r~d_i~.t,
with the dm of a sparrow's nones snappmg\m his dog's mouth:· 
-~ .. ~ . 
AfterAhe ships had !_eft, the women started like blind ones home . · . , . ~gging t~ls_a!}cl~ing-the#walk damp on their feet f~om morning tears. On~ho waited, watching the bodies gd smaller and tight on the horizon's breadth, 

· Sonnet fo.r the Travele_r
f .·t -:-for. Suzie Ryan
. 

my sisters•and•quiet"'6rothers who weep 
( are as homeless as I; in m1r~reams wese'e-ourhouses burn and. clothes fade into a penumbra)of smoke.~ sleepwalkers 
....------d \d ~l'.h. . h ' h
m a-esert:--un er,moon 1g t we tour t e mg t without gentle cresbent to lay us down iii. Oh sister in this evenin:g-·of-s~d have I not touched you, . 
j your fine ~like bridges into me? · 
. . . . -----..__ ., 
But quickly I'll not even remember-your eyes. 
\ as tender leaves_ dipped in· gold, we. k~\ 
,\ a briUianf ~gurefo o~~..cav.es in us. 
We are traveler,..alone, hoping_ that. beyond.:. · our . home . will,.6e safe· and whole, a large tone
' .. ,.. . . . . . . . .. ,• ~lbratlng c:we~ ilie poles of the worl.d.. 
f/~ 11 -. . .· . '. . . 
.~--,.,.,..,_...,_...,...,..,_-,, ,.,....,.,._~ ...,,7
DECEMBER :13 1976 . ...........__..__..,__,____,_ .......-~--.::::::.-;:.,... 
· · ' Ri~oe1e,:~ 



Week i11 Distortio11 
Is your family tired of getting Notre Dame T-shirts for Christmas? Probably not, but to add some variety to your holiday shopping, we decided to offer a selec­tion of games guaranteed to bring the folks at home closer to your collegiate experience. What follows is a potpourri of cliches and pet peeves, reworked in typical, hackneyed, undergraduate wit. Enjoy, and Merry Christmas! 
The Theology Game 

"Trick God and win salvation in this tantalizing game of exegetical tomfoolery. Good for all ages:" Includes: 
1 mansion-like seminary (open bar, free beer) 
1 verse of re-useable Scripture 

15 dehabited nuns Cost .•.... one vow of poverty (giving up :,vhat you 
have for what you'll get). ; 
The Lewis Hall Game 

"Storm the walls, cross the moat and free the pris­oners in the hidden dungeon." Includes: 
1 battering ram 
2 pots of boiling oil 
24 Detex-operated chastity belts 
160 screaming maidens 
2 virgins 
Cost . . . . . . one year suspension. 


The l\lRS Game 

"Try to maintain your academic status while crawling, grasping and seeking for this non-academic degree. For ages 17 to 21; older, see Old Maid Game." Includes: 
1 Saint Mary's College 1 shuttle bus · 1,500 eligible Domers 500 gallons of Chanel No. 5 Cost ... ; .. $20,000 (Grad school not included). 

The Pre-Professional Game 

"Object is to finish the game with virtue and throat intact. Suicide eliminates you from. further play." Includes: 
1 . well-sharpened razor 1 Morrison-Boyd. Organic Chemistry text 14 opening lines to· prompt the question, "What's 
your major?" 28 snappy comebacks to, "Oh, so you're Pre-Med." Cost ...·... integrity. 

The ND Nice Guy Game 

"Gain martyrdom by being the one to collect the most plastic nickels in wind, rain, sleet and snow.'' Includes: 
1 cut up plastic milk jug 

1 congratulatory· university president 
5 all-purpose chants 

1 portable backdrop of the South Dining Hall 
14 million starving people 
18 

by M. D. Feord and I. B. Pollo 

Cost ...... 25¢ (additional people available ·at 10¢ per million). 


The Theatre Game 
"Win obscure fame while entertaining no one." 
Includes: 1 ironclad clique 4 fairies 
· 28 fake auditions . 
1 . three years' supply of pre-typed cast Hsts Cost~ ....·.GPA.·· . . .. . 

The Security Guard Game 
· «Win the admiration of your peers by being the first· one to crack a student conspiracy to 'move D-1 on campus. For ages50 to. 65." ,,-, Includes: 
. 1 squirt gun 1 pair of blinders 1 fully equipped riot ·control van (green pickup 
truck) : .. .1 case of Geritol 1 crowd of violent townies Cost . . . . . .. pride. 
The Lion's Shower Game 
"Clean up your act without getting washed up.'' 
Includes: 2 Barbie dolls (washable) 2 Ken dolls (optional as roommates) 2 bottles of shampoo 1 bar of Irish Spring 1 shower curtain (optional) 
Cost . . . . . . cold showers for a year. 

The Christian· Administration Game 
"Have fun being apedagogical tyrant in your spare time."· · Includes: 
1 white, upper middle class, Midwestern, Catholic school· · 1 Jungian archetype college president (Cim't Starid Children). 1 jet plane (optionalairstrip) 1 administration· building ( complete with option­
ally brass, gold ·or silver dome) 1 unlimited supply of yes-men 1 provost marionette (complete with· strings) 1 Mercedes 
1 flexible Christian ethic (Cold Sweet Cash)· Cost ...... honesty. 

The Student Publications Game 
"Eriter the world . of high~powered journalism, w~thout really doing it." ·., Includes: 
1 blank student yearbook 1 unread student magazine 1 unobservable student newspaper 2 lousy lampooners (one,· chicken; the . other, 
stupid) And it don't cost nothin'. 
SCHOLASTIC 



Gallery 
by Greg Young 




,.. 
t '-· 
#··~ 
,..,..... 
.--~ 
.... .: 



Gym Shorts 

The women's tennis team has been seen several times this year in the Athletic and Convocation Center do­ing folk dances. Folk dances? That's right, and the supposed purpose be­hind these bizarre actions is for the sake of. endurance. Many a curious passerby, upon inquiring into the situation, has unfailingly had to be told twice that indeed what he was watching was the tennis team and nothing else. Then, after being told twice that this was the tennis team, a third question would in­variably follow: "Are you sure this isn't the Dancing Irish?1' And after a recent match in which the Irish ran roughshod over their opponents, a member of the opposing team asked what the secret of the team is. Is it long hours of practice? The reply was, "After we folkdance for about· two and a half hours, not much, really." Add that opponent to the growing list· of people who are baffled by the women's tennis team and their dancing feet. · 

Daphne Perkins 

Illusions always· seem to die hard, and two weeks ago some illusions which were held closely . to a young man's ·heart died in Los Angeles. It seems that when watching on tele­vision a USC game from the Coli-· seum in LA that one version of a Trojan game is seen and, when ac­tually there, a totally different ver­sion is observed. The . version one sees at the Coliseum is different in that what appears on the TV screen is not what is really going on out there. The cheerleaders,· for example, who look like they· are in perpetual motion on the sidelines, only seem to move when the television camera is focused on them. In fact, during the_ halftime show with Neil Sedaka singing, ABC's Jim Lampley was getting ready for a report from the sidelines, and right next to the aging "college" reporter were the USC 
cheerleaders dancing away, · right close to the TV cameras, of course. Even the magnificent Trojan horse isn't what it appears to be.· The war­rior on horseback that dashes around the field is in actuality a man who_ has been doing that job, we were told, for the last 15 years. He looks . more like a 35-year-old unemployed actor rather than the college student he is supposed to represent. The stu­dent section which sounds, on tele­. vision, like it is going . out of its · mind cheering for dear · old 

USC is really amplified via micro­phones on the sidelines. The student body only breaks into cheers when the yell-men, standing ·on raised platforms right by the microphones, ten· them to. Finally, even the band uniforms which resemble a Trojan warrior aren't what they look like on television. In fact, · one band member confided that. he is embarrassed when he has to go onto the field in front of 90,000 people dressed up like that. The thought about a USC game that a person is leftwith on walking out is that Walt Disney could do just as well with a handful of transistors and a few-wax dummies. In fact, he could call it, "It's a Phony, Phony 
World." . 

Sometimes a person just · doesn't know who his · friends · really are. Take the NCAA for example. Now look at what the University of Minne­sota is doing to the NCAA. ·Minn; sota and ·. the NCAA haven't been getting along so· well recently, . ever since the school was placed on pro~ bation. So the president of the University-· went before a home . football crowd in October and solic­ited · donations_ to a . "war". chest . to fight the NCAA. The school in the past had refused to make col­lections for organizations such as the Cancer Society, .the U.S. Olympic · team and even 'refused to collect for women's athletics; But to fight the big, · bad NCAA, a coliection was taken. · The total collected was over $12,000. · The kicker on the whole affair is that the following week, Minnesota was allowed,. while going through NCAA appeal procedures, to appear on 'national .· television and 
· play Michigan in footbaH. The.total pick-up on the television game for Minnesota was around $190,000. Not bad Minnesota, not bad at all. 

Tom Kruczek 


of a 



J!.)ollotu l\ock 
by Bob Piller 

The Rockne Memorial houses in its trophy cases a good share of para­phernalia. chronicling past Notre Dame athletic achievements. For ex­ample, there are several game balls commemorating significant Notre Dame football . victories. Among these are the 1935 Ohio State game (ND 18, OSU 13), the 1925 Rose Bowl. against Stanford (ND 27, Stanford 10), and Fat Eddy vs. the freshman class of '55 (Fat Eddy 14, class of '55, lost innocence). 
A number of hallmarks also pre­served for . posterity include the plaque for most Shakespearian so­liloquies. recited during· an audible. One· particularly moving performance was the recital of· Mark Antony's funeral speech· during• the 1939 Pur­due game.< The play· was· muffed be­cause of poor enunciation, however. Notre Dame, after all, still prides itself for b.eing a first-rate academic 'institution.· ·· · · 
Some different sorts of milestones may also be seen here.. One such ex~· ample is 'the first sports agreement between.Notre Dame and Army in 1913 · cleverly . titled "The· Notre Dame-Army Sports Agreement (and Indian .Squa~ Exchange. Program'' if you read .the fine print. This· was before both'_schools. went co-ed, of 
course), ·". . 
·'Aitho~gh football is the sport at Notre Dame,. much of· the "Rock's" attention is _devoted•to .the so-called minor sports.. So-called because no­body really gives a damn about them; However, in the Rock is the veritable history ·. of · Notre.. Dame's : minor 
DECEMBER 13, l 976 
sports. To begin with, there are 
track milestones. Two particularly 
interesting trophies labeled "On the 
Mark" were awarded to two Notre 
Dame men who stayed in the "on 
the mark" position for the duration. 
of a mile race. It happened twice, 
in 1924 and again in 1928, indicating 
that sports other than football had 
coaching giants. One of the more 
unusual events is represented by the 
Indiana Intercollegiate Conference 
Plaque for Marathon Moose Fond­
ling. The year was 1941. Marathon 
moose fondling was made popular 
by the decline in bisexual hoola­
hooping because of the war effort. 
The war years also witnessed a 
decline in football because leather 
from the footballs was being turned 
into G.I. underwear. This allowed 
for the development of less popular, 
if not more exotic, sports. Other 
sports not represented at the Rock 
include . the nostril-flare shot put. 
It was particularly prevalent among 
double amputees who. had difficulty 
getting into the Army, although not 
their coats. There was, however, a 
high incidence of foot injuries, as the 
problem· of maintaining· a sixteen;.; 
pound shot oil the nostril was never 
quite overcome. 
· ·The sport of baseball.(or the game of. baseball, .as . some may. beg to differ). also :was affected· by. the war. ·. A-shortage of· baseballs required the . team to use· turtles. in batting prac~ 
tice. Yes, it sounds cruel, .but it did 
save many_ a .turtle from being 
flushed down. a toilet by, a maniacal 
American· youth. · 
. These· frivolous · war -years soon 
gave way to some serious football,  
although the 1950's produced some.  
laughers (not many trophies from  
this period are on display). This  
also allowed for the development of  
minor sports. This time the trend  
was to the St. Mary's Lake duck and  
campus squirrel hunting. The method  
was to feed them until these ani­ 
mals became mildly euphoric at the  
sight of a human. Once within range,  
the animal was rendered senseless by  
an incoherent babbling of Aris­ 
totelian ethics and finally finished  
off by being force-fed mystery meat  
from the dining hall.  
In the consciousness of the 1960's,  
the minor sports sought to increase  
the involvement of those who were  
denied any active participation. For  
example, golf became a very popular  
game (note: game, not sport) for  
the fat. It created the impression  
that a person was actually doing  
something physical while his body  
was at the same time being over~  
come by cholesterol deposits. It was  
a perfect game for fat people, since  
the object is to sink that ball in the  
cup with a minimal amount of effort.  
·Yes, he. who does. the least work  
wins. We're very clever/us Amer­ 
icans.  
The 1970's brought on. coeduca­ 
tion and_ the emergence of French­ 
kissing as an interhall activity. 13ut  
University· officials have promised that next year this activity will be­ 
gin t~ include girls.  
So the next· ·time . you visit the  ii  
"Rock,'.' remember the great tradi­tion of minor sports at Notre Dame.  i! 'I "  
23  

Shopping Through Shelues 
Christmas is right around the corner, and if you are like most peo­ple, you haven't even begun thinking about what you're going to give as presents this year. One of the nicest and most appreciated gifts (besides Notre Dame football tickets) is a book. It's easy to wrap, hard to break and has an almost indefinite life span.­
Picking out the proper book, how­ever, can be difficult. It's more than · just going into the best-sellers sec­tion of a local bookstore, closing your eyes and making a choice. The person ·you're buying for must be considered as · well as the relative merits of each book. 
To help steer · you on• the right path, Scholastic has compiled mini­reviews of a number of books as a guide to ·giving packages of happi­ness and joy on Christmas_ morning.' In doing this . exhaustive search, the editors have dismissed . certain books . because · of inferior quality. Some of these are The Big Book of Vans, Confessions ofa Sex Research­er and anything written .by Peter 
Benchley. · · 
Instead, we give you the following six books which might be acceptable for gift. fare. If none of . these fits the interests cif your friends and rel­
atives....:... then we invite you to watch afternoon television commercials as a gift-buying guide ..There you'll find something more acceptable to their tastes and interests. · · 
Th!J Tyger Voyage, Richard Adams and Nicola Bayley, Alfred A. Knopf, 32 pp., $6.95. 
This is not -a good story book. Listen to it as a pleasant rhyming verse. Look at itasasplendid picture book. But read it? Only aloucl, please, and not for . a plot, a meaning or a message. · Unlike Alice's Adventures in· Wonderland, The Little Prince or_ 

· The . Velveteen Rabbit; this pro­claimed favorite for 'adults and-chil­dren will never be a story classic and probably never be read in soph­omore religion classes. 
· The Tyger Voyage is about Ezekiel and Raphael Dubb, two tigers who take a boat. to sea, backpack up a volcano, ·travel with· a gypsy train and return home to attend a civic dinner. Richard Adams, author of W atership_ Down, describes these events in a very simple, almost mo­notonous verse., His · text depends very much on the illustrations. 
Nicola Bayley has · painted intri­cate, luminiferous pictures of the tigers in their outlandish adventures. Her magical. illustrations by them­selves make this book a treasure. 
For children who cannot read, for children and adults who like to look at gorgeous pictures, The Tyger Voy­age will definitely be a favorite. For someone who wants a good story, ­this book would not be worth . its 
price.-Annemarie Sullivan 
Blind Ambition, John Dean, Simon and Schuster, $11.95. 
If the Watergate scandal did noth­ing else for the country, it• did give us a number of• new · writers. The latest to grace the literary front with a work is the. head honcho of the whole mess, John Dean. 
Dean, of course, first began to tell the story of Watergate, Richard Nixon and the "cancer on the pres­idency" to Senator Sam Ervin and his Watergate Committee back in June of 1973. The book attempts to give _the reader background from May of 1970 to the events which led to the Senate investigation and to the resignation of the President. 
It also describes in detail Dean's · term in prison from September, 1974, until early January; 1975, stemming from charges dealing with the cover­up. Written in journal· form, he de­scribes the terror and hopelessness he felt while incarcerated. -By now, however, it is difficult to write anything new about Watergate; Even.in Dean's book, it's difficult to 
by Tom Kruczek 

find any fresh material on the break­in and subsequent cover-up. What is fresh is the material on his testi­mony, testimony which was the cen­ter of controversy for quite a while. This material alone could be worth the price of the book; 
The Hite ReJJOrt, Shere Hite, Mac­. millan, $12.50. _ 
-The Hite Report is billed as a book 

by women about women.· And it is 
simply just that. It's a study of fe­
male. sexuality taken from the re­
plies• of thousands of questionnaires 
sent out . to women . -around the 
country.·•-· ­
, The replies to the essay questions 

came back and were . grouped under 
topics such as masturbation, orgasm, 
intercourse and lesbianism; Ms. Hite 
tried to remain absent throughout 
much. of the text to prevent her 
biases frcim entering .the book. • 
The bookis very successful in deal­

ing with a. difficult topic. It also is 
one of the first comprehensive writ-· 
tenworks on female sexuality. More 
importantly, , ,perhaps, . is :that the 
questionnaires . were designed .and 
correlated by a woman who was sen­
sitive. to the needs.and concernsof 
other women .. One sensessomehow 
that a male author could not have 
dealt so well with a study of this 
kind on female sexualitf . 
The · book is honest and candid. 

Qt.iestio.ns·are to the point, · such . as 
thefrequency of masturbation,' fak.: 
ing 'of orgasms and feelings· about 
stimulation;' The answers by 'the 
women: raise just ·about as many 
questions as 'they answer. Ms. Hite 
also publishes at the end of the oook 
the complete questionnaires used. for 
the study. · . · 
. -But a book _about sexuality for Christmas_? Although it may seem heretical, this book is for Christmas. It's for · · just · about any. time of the year that one might think of · sexuality· or having sex. It's a good 
book and one that should be read by women, as well as men. 
The Missing Links: Golf and the Mind, David C. Morley, M.D., Atheneum Publishers, $8.95. 
One thing that the world does not 
need is another book on the tech­
niques of playing golf. The market 
now is glutted with books on how to 
hit long irons or how, not to hit a 
slice. This book ·is different. In it 
you will not read how to hit a sand 
shot or how to get more distance off 
the tee. ·; 
Rather, you will read about the 
mind and the effect that it can have 
on your game. In no other sport does 
the participant spend so much .time 
with just his mind and himself. So if 
the book by. Morley, who is a prac­
ticing psychiatrist and a golf nut, 
does help the golfer deal with his 
anxieties on the course, then it will 
be .a worthwhile·:book. to purchase. -­Morley brings to the book a wry sense of humor, along with psychi-: atric insights. He also goes through · a round of golf with, as he calls it, a 
"shrink on your shoulder." 
As an unusu·al book for Christmas, The Missing Links fits the bill nicely. Besides, if you want to .get some­thing different for a golfer, this book will be much more appreciated than mink headcovers or a rhinestone putter. 
The Captains and Kings, Tayloz: Caldwell 
T~ylor Caldwell in her be~t~seller Captains' and Kings tries to follow in the great tradition of the historical-romantic novel. Unfortunately, the attempt fails. The lengthy noveLre­unhappy marriage to a vacuous so­cialite, one son is killed in the Spanish-American War, an accident turns his daughter into an idiot and his favorite son is assassinated in a bid to become the first Irish Cath­olic president. 
Sound familiar? Yes, it's the old Kennedy family saga, transported to a different time and thinly disguised to avoid a lawsuit. For the Kennedy fan, waxing sentimental and shedding maudlin tears, the novel and a box of Kleenex are a perfect accompani­ment to a dreary December after­noon. For the serious reader the novel is a waste of time. Stilted and corny dialogue, stereotyped . and shallow: characters and a :predic­

:..:....:.2~~::::;;-::-f::~~~ --:~---··:_-= 
..· ­
· 

volves around the life story of char-·•. table and inane plot • make for a ader Joseph Armagh, a poor Irish· boring time _: so skip it!-:--Colleen lad who makes good as an immigrant ·.. McCarthy 
to America. •We_ trace Joe's _life through the trauma of the Irish po­tato famine, the death of his mother aboard ship en route to the States, his apprenticeship to a wily on baron and his subsequent inheritance of the baron's fortunes.•· Joseph Armagh 
'Withoot Featl~s, Woody Allen, Warner Books, $1.95, paperback. 
-­If you've read Allen's earlier book, _Getting : Even, or seen any · of his 
climbs to the ·top of American high. _films, you'll enjoy Without Feathers, society . by using · his . cunning . and ·. a . collection . of writings published being utterly ruthless in his dealings · previ<msly in the New Yorker, the with people. . . ·. New. Republic and the New York 
We all know what happe~s to men who are cruel ancl heartless· -God punishes them: The Armagh f~m­ily is cursed; Joe is plagued by an 
DECEMBER_ 13, 1976 
· Times. For the: benefit of the poverty-stricken college student, the book has just recently come out in paperback. 
Once again Allen proves he is the master of the one-liner, as he asks: "My Lord, My Lord! What hast Thou. done, lately?" However, he also demonstrates an equal proficien­cy in handling longer comic routines, notably his parodies of other artists' works. Selections include a guide to civil disobedience, a detective story -"Match Wits with Inspector Ford," and an interpretation of Sean O'Shawn's world-famous poetry ­"The Irish Genius." Although some of the attempts at parody are· weak, especially his "existential" plays Death and God, the majority of the material is excellent. 
. One of the funniest vignettes is entitled "The Whore of Mensa," 




· find
-~Anibi · 
.,.'( ., . 
•·. 

~~-'~'<~ ~> 
~l~n 
' . , . 
•fho11 

· th .
""•••Q-rn. e~ 
. :~_•t~1:.~ 
·o.'· 

which-pokes fun at the intelligentsia. Private detective Kaiser. Lupowitz breaks into a bordello which special­izes in girls who sell intellectual, not physical favors. "Pale, nervous girls with black-rimmed glasses and blunt­cut hair lolled around on sofas, rif­fling-Penguin Classics provocatively," writes Kaiser. Allen is a success be­cause he manages to combine the sacred and the profane in such a way that· he has the reader laughing out loud.You don't have to be from New York, or Jewish, to enjoy the humm;­in Without Feathers; it is for any­body who appreciates the comedy of 
the human situation.-:--C'olleen Mc­Carthy 


Slow Start 
Quick -what Notre Dame ath­letic team has enjoyed the highest ranking in.the college polls this fall? The answer can .be found under the dome at the ACC from 3:30 to 6 
p.m. every weeknight. At the be­ginning of the season, the Notre Dame hockey team was ranked third in the nation. Their current 5-6-0 record belies this fact.· Were the pollsters wrong? What has caused this slow start? 
First of all, . "Pre-season hockey ratings are often deceiving," admits John Finneran, hockey. writer for the Niles Daily Star. "No one can really tell how good a team is until the season is .under way. The third­place ranking may have been a little high, but the Irish have a good team. In addition, Notre Dame. is a no­
. toriously slow starter. I don't really know if there is a particular reason for it." 
Mark Kronholm, N.D. advisor and a former Irish skater, agrees. "We usually don't hit our stride until December," he said. 
Injuries have also played a spoil­ing role in the team's plans this year. "Injuries play a large part in hockey because there ·are only a limited 
·. number . · of scholarships," · Coach Lefty Smith remarked. "We ·have a total of 20. .If we misjudge the ability of a few of these players, and a coup~e of other guys are hurt, we're down to 10-15 players. Since we use about 20 players in a game, we have to play walk-ons." 
Of these· 20 players, about one­third have been hurt seriously enough to miss some games this season. Dari Byers and Geoff Collier .have had shoulder .injuries. Collier is now playing, but Byers probably won't see action for a few more weeks. Don Jackson.has been one of a number 

For a 

Fast Game 
of players to play while hurt; he has a broken hand. Paul Clarke, a vital cog on power plays and pen­alty killing, has sat out about half the games. ·In, addition to the ha­bitual bumps and bruises, many players have also .been nursing leg injuries. Muscle pulls and severe leg bruises are especially detrimental to hockey players.. Jimmy Moriarty, sportswriter for the South Bend Tribune, comments: "A player's legs are the most important part of his body. Hockey is such a fast game that a player literally can't keep up if his legs aren't fit." 
These early season injuries have been the most important factor in the team's slow start. With some skaters 

by Marc No~ak 
hurt, other players have to be shifted to fill· the gaps. Since three or four complete lines plus defense­men are needed, one player's in­jury affects the whole team. 

·: Take the case of Brian Walsh; Due to the number of injured defensemen, Walsh·was forced to move from his center position back· to the defense spot. Although capable at that spot, · ·he was not as effective as a regular defenseman. Also, the line he had . centered was not as· potent during 
his absence frorri it. 

Hockey is such a fast game that each player on a line must know the . other players' moves. A center must know when his wings will break .across the blue line,. for example, 


or else an offsides will be the result. 
As in Walsh's lines case, when the 
man in the middle who triggers much 
of the action is taken away, the line 
does not move as smoothly as it 
should. The synchronization that is 
needed comes only through practice 
and time spent with the same line. 
Without it, each player is an indi­
vidual instead of part . of a working 
team._ . _ _ 
This has happened with the Irish 
this year. They have been forced to 
continually juggle their lines in 
order to field a complete team. No 
team can win without a set lineup. 
Although their slow start is a 
fait accompli, one compensation is 
that the hockey season is quite 
lengthy. Practice starts in the 
middle of September,' and the season 
is not over until late March. This 
is especially advantageous for the 
Notre Dame hockey team. It gives tlle younger players time to adjust . to hitting the boards and hiUing the books at the same time. Practice iri hockey, as in all sports, consumes two to three hours a day. Add this to two · games a week and time spent traveling and it comes out to quite a number of hours. It is easy to see why athletes are often pressed for spare. time. All this skating ' is · necessary to play the high caliber of competition which Notre Dame 
faces · each week. 
The Irish are undoubtedly in the 
best hockey conference in the nation. 
The Western Collegiate Hockey As­
sociation contains ten teams. Seven 
of those ten teams could be realis­
tically ranked in the top ten of the 
nation. According to Coach Smith, 
the brand of-hockey played in the 
WCHA is on a par with the' minor 
pro_ leagues. North Dakota (cur~ 
rently first in -· the WCHA) and 
Michigan Tech (second in the NCAA 
last year) may not strike fear in the 
hearts of football fans, but in hockey 
they are awesome. So far, Notre 
Dame ·has split four games with 
teams that were ranked 1-2 in the 
nation. Just last week, the Irish beat · 
Bowling Green 6-1. Although not in. 
the. WCHA, Bowling Green. was 
ranked fourth in the nation. To draw 
an analogy to·· football, imagine the 
Irish playing ·· five games agairist 
Pitt, Michigan, and Maryland within 
three weeks. · 
_ Conference win-loss records can 
be misleading for this reason . ."This ­
[WCHA] is a good conference,JI 
DECEMBER 13, 1976 
0 
. . 
' 
0 

Lefty Smith said. "It's very com­
petitive. Everyone knocks off every­
one else." 
Where does this put the Irish for 
the rest of the season? Recently they 
have ·. been · playing ·. good · hockey. 
Their play has been well-disciplined, 
and there have been· fewer offensive 
and defensive lapses. The players 
have skated with, instead of against, 
each other as they had ilone earlier 
in• the year.. After beating some very 
tough teams, they have gotten their 
confidence back. As John Finneran 
put ·it, "They know. they can play 
with any team. On a given night, 
they have a better than even· chance 
of winning. It is jtist a matter of . 
putting it together and getting the 
momentum to win back-to-back 
games." 
Coach Smith also · voiced this 
opinion. "The team just can't keep 
splitting two-game series if it wants ­
to be on top of the conference. 
We've got to get the consistency 
and sweep those series so we can 
have home ice advantage for the : play-offs." 
The play-offs don't begin until 
March, but it may take the average 
fan that long· to understand the format. They may seem to last as long as the regular season. The top eight teams in the WCHA qualify for the preliminary rounds of the NCAA play-offs. The number 8 team plays 
_the first .team in the conference, .the number 7 team plays the second place team in the conference, etc. The play-off consists of a two-game total goal series played on the higher­placed team's ice. The. second and final rounds are conducted in a sim­ilar manner. The higher a team's place in the standings at the end of the regular season; the more often they have the home ice advantage; The final victor then goes to the NCAA play-offs and the runner-up plays the champion of the · Central Collegiate Conference. The winner of · this series also goes to the NCAA play-offs with _the finalists · from pther regions · from .around the nation. Got all that? _ 
Hopefully, the Irish can overcome all their early season problems and the complicated playsoff system to play in the NCAA finals. If they continue to. play as they have re­cently, they. will justify their high early season ranking in the play­offs in March. 




Scholars, Entrepre'neurs, and Money MOngers 
School these days involves much · more than reading, writing and 'rithmetic. -Besides the regular grind of · homework, the high ·and rising costs of college force many students to moonlight during the school year. Mrs. June McCauslin, . · director .. of financial aid, · explains · that even with scholarships, "Finan~ cial aid very rarely meets the stu­dents' full needs. There aren't too many students that don't have some need." 
It is the primary responsibility of the family to provide educational funds, according to the financial aid philosophy. At Notre Dame, schol­arships are based on merit,. as well as need .. University· employment is based solely on need. When .a posi~ tion . demands a _special expertise, only the qualified are . considered, regardless of financial status. I~ order :to· make money, students have started independent businesses on ·campus and worked off campus. Often ingenuity leads to a good job; · ,Mary Fitzsimmons, for example, landed a job with Lyons Hall Food Sales. · This:; job is ministered through hall council, not the. finan­cial. aid.· office .. Mary. says: "money wasn't the main reason" for· taking this job; rather, . she thought it would . be. ~'interesting, fun and something .different.",· 
Jody · Gormley, also involved with Lyons _Food Sales, · took the job be­cause she knew more about it than anyone else,· and knew' all it would entail.. "I 'used to . hang ·around there a lot; 'it's· one ·of the· more social areas of the dorm." · She added' that "being your own boss, working· yotir own':hours" appealed to her. Also, she says;· "It's creative in . some respects. Trying to do a good job and coming up with new ideas" adds to the fun. She uses her wages as spending money. 
Another independent business on campus is "Flanner Records." Ed Garvey a_nd Bob Kastenholz in­herited the· business· when some friends graduated. "We're very much into music,". Ed explains. Having an on-campus alternative to .the bookstore and local record shops would be beneficial to students, they thought. 
"Hanging ·. Gardens II" operated by Eric Schmitt and Chad Tiede­mann also was passed down by graduating friends. ·. Both are · in­terested in plants, and used to fre­quent the other plant store before starting their own. The profits are of.minimal importance, _Chad states, and used for spending moriey rather than tuition. The . business: offers them an alternative to parties; as both enjoy meeting . people . · . . and they like learning _about-plants. 
'-'Siesta Imports," .a Mexican im­

by.: MaryB~th Hines 
port shop, is another.campus enter­
prise. Originally .. the , shop was · a 
project• for. a. business course, but 
John Riley and Joan Wiegand liked 
the, idea so much • they decided, to 
carry itthrough. Bothentrepreneurs 
needed money and wanted . to gain . business experience.­
Many students are: able to ·get 
jobs through. the , financial•· aid of­
fice; jobs based--on the, family's 
economic status. There.· are 800­
1000,. st_udents ..that have secured 
jobs through this,· procedure, Mc­
Causlin. states. :H's .. a' :-'.'large stu­
dent .work •force,n she says, ."but 
there are. not enough ;-jobs to go 
around. They need to: be. used by 
those who need a job to stay. in 
school," she adds .. Some of .the posi0 
tions · include: dining, hall workers, 
mail clerks,-. correctors;:• secretaries, 
library"' , assistants;• accountants, 
maintenan_ce workers arid computer 
operators..-s,: ) ''..-.~,. 
. Mike· O'_Driscoll ·.attained: his job through the financial· aid office: He works twelve hours . a week in the 



Freshman Year of Studies Office. 
The money he makes from this job 
is applied to tuition. He· complains 
that there is not enough scholarship 
money; more of. the operating funds 
should be put into scholarship 
funds. Students should be .the first 
priority, not the buildings, he inter­
jects. 
On the other hand, Bernie Cantu 
is satisfied with the aid system at 
Notre Dame. They ''have been 
really nice to me," he says. He 
works in the. Chicano Studies Office. 
Some dining hall employees . ob­
tain their jobs through financial 
aid, but many· · do not. Chris 
Doherty receives scholarship· funds, 
but works there as well. His earn­
ings amount to jjnickels and dimes, 
mostly," he says, but it helps. He 
pointed out that although financial 
aid is based on the parents' in-· 
comes, often that money "doesn't 
filter down· to the students." When 
his mother started working one day 
a week; his aid was cut $800; when 
his brother started college it was 
diminished further. Yet, he says, 
"It's .fair·:.__ I'm going to make it." 
Many happily employed people 
have·found jobs through their ma~ 
jor 'departments. Usually those are 
secured through financial aid, but 
when a · specialized talent · · i.s · re­
quired the job is open to qualified . 
majors..· Mike · Cleary found· he ·had 
a · "special talent" that helped him 
find a· job with· the philosophy de­
. Opei'atms of "Hanging. Ga~dens U" 
partment; "No one had the logic 
course that was the prerequisite for Lori Richardson applied. for fl­suggests less of an emphasis on the 
the job, therefore I got· it." He does nancial aid and was unsuccessful. parents' situation, and more on the 
not use· his · wages ·for paying ttii-However, ·she now works as a, sales~ student's. . 
tion>but. has "no qualms" about woman in Elkhart; a job .she de­· Some· students· 'are fortunate 
taking 'the· job since lie·' was the scribes as "a lifetime deal for a stu­enough ··to receive enough· scholar­
only qualified applicant · · ·. dent." Because she works on com-ship mOney so that work is no~ 
. ··· Toin· 'Laird also got his job with mission plus guaranteed base in­necessary. Al Hunter was awarded 
the Aerospace Mechanical Engi-,, come, she prefers that to working a football scholarship ' that covers 
neering Department because he.had. ·in town. · Although going to Elk­room, board, tuition and books. 
the · necessary background. ' He hart is an inconvenience, .she says Hunter · explained that about 30 
added that· correctors can only she earns more there than she could football scholarships are granted 
grade for classes they had high otherwise. She commented that every year. . . 
grades in. . there are problems working both Brian Harris received a grant and 
· · Some students who could not find on,; and off campus. "Most off­partial loan scholarship from the 
campus employment <have • found campus jobs .. need cars,· most·, on­university. This covers 90% of his 
work off campus. Many students . campus jobs don't pay welt" · college costs, he says. "It's a fair 
work in local restaurants, · but Eddie Bryan also tried getting deal." . . others have found interesting alter-aid at Notre Dame but did not Mrs. McCauslin ·states that 60% natives: .. qualify. Thus, he spends many . of Notre Dame students receive Paul Sergio and several friends hours at, '.'McDonald's" doing main­financial aid .of . some sort. The organized a band; both ·"for money tenance work. He is· working his problem is, she says, "there .. just . and· enjoyment." He plays· guitar way , .through school, .sometimes isn't enough money." She adds em­
and trumpet, and says the group working forty hours a week. He phatically, that ''no one should de­
works format affairs, mostly. It accepts the aid situation here .as cide for themselves whether or not 
gives him spending money, he adds. . "it's . that. way everywhere." . He they have need." 
I . 
Burglary Prevention: 

He's Making His List and Ch_ecking If Twice 
by Peggy McGuire 
... 

·. For the 20% · of the Notre Dame. Many floodlights · shine onto the student body living off campus, bur-street which blinds passing patrol­glary is a major . concern. Over men and only aids the criminal. · extended breaks; such as the up-Students who will be gone over the coming Christmas· vacation, student · holidays are reminded to take vari­homes are prime targets of thiev-ous precautions before scattering to ery. With a few common-sense . various parts of the continent. Most practices;however, there is no need of these measures aim at making the for . paranoia. home appear occupied. 
_According to Sergeant. Denny .· Arthur Pears, director of Notre Demeter of the South Bend Police Dame Security, suggests that stu..: Department,· 85% of South Bead's dents stop newspaper subscriptions. burglars· are· from 16 to•-20 years· Setting lights on a timer synchronized old. "I can break into most· any · with daily living habits is another home in five . minutes and so can way to deceive the thief. "Above all, those kids," claims Demeter. "If it get someone to clean sidewalks and. takes them any longer than that, · porches. After even . a light snow­they'll move on to another, easier fall, anyone can drive down the home.'' Crime prevention centers streets to find out which homes hase around the "four D's"-anything to been left vacant," notes Pears.. deter, detect, deny or delay the prospective thief's entry into the 
While Santa is .making a list 
home. · _and checking it twice, so should Entry into the home. is -. most off-campus students make a list 
commonly obtained . by breaking _a and check it twice as: ~rime­
window and then unlocking a door. 
prevention measures · theyA solid door, a sturdy frame and should take before leaving a good lock are all needed to resist ··.·for the holidays. 
entry. Demeter recommends·. the 
one-inch double cylinder dead bolt 
HAVE YOU ... 
lock, a double-keyed lock which -notified neighbors · · and works on both · sides of the door. 
landlord of your absence? 
This leaves the burglar with n.o 
-called the South Bend ­
alternative. but to break the door Police ·Department so ·that down, a time-consuming, noisy pro~ your house will be on their 
cess .. 
."Home Watch Program"?
Demeter. suggests securing win­~stopped all mail delivery? 
dows by pinning them. shut with a -hired someone to clean 
_three-inch penny nail dz1ven_. com­sidewalks and' porches after ­pletely through the inner frame and snowfall? 
halfway. through the outer frame. 
...::....set lights on timers to . This precaution, which costs less than give an appearance of occu-. 
a dollar, leaves only the head of the pancy? ­nail visible. · · · · · -removed all valuables? 
While floodlights can be an effec­Don't let some South Bend · 
tive means of discouraging burglars, youth deck his halls with your
Demeter warns well-intentioned r:es­goods! Prevent burglary before 
idents to set the light atop a tall pole it happens.
and direct the beam onto the house. 


Indiana Bell offers a new .device 
to. _vacationei:-s which transfers all 
calls to a local friend's home. The 
"call-transfer"js available to all res­
idents whose phones bear a 23 prefix 
number and costs $1.65 per month. 
Pears and Demeter, along with 
Darlen.e .Palma and Mark.Mashan, as­
sociate directors of off~campus hous­
ing, all advise tenants to . forewarn 
neighbors and landlords of. any ex­
tended absence. Ms. Palma adds that 
most landlords are very . receptive, 
but only upon request, for they fear 
disturbing their tenants' privacy. · 
One must remember, however, .that 
all of these measures are .only pre­
cautions, and no home is completely 
immune to· break-in. · Students are 
warned tllai:all valuables should be 
removed. befor~ leaving South Bend. 
Stereos, typewriters, calculators and 
other expensive. items should be 
stored in friends' on~campus rooms 
or _with neighbors remaining at 
home. 

Pears reminds students that they arewelcome to park their cars in the D-1. parking lot over the Christmas break. D-1 is enclosed tiy an eight­. foot fence which is topped with three feet.of barbed wire. It will be locked 
over the vacation period . 
No home ·can be completely de­
burglarized, but simple common­
sense: precautions can prove ·to be 
very valuable. As Sergeant De.meter 
says, "The key is to prevent the bur­
glary from the beginning, because 
the process for recovering stolen 
goods is long and often ineffective.'' 
. SCHOLASTIC 


Orders received by Dec. 15, 1976 will be delivered before Christmas. Mall check or money order to: TELTRONICS; 2400 E. Devon, Des Plaines. Ill. 60018 
AND NOW--THERE ARE 5 PLITT THEATRES IN MICHIANA. 
Town & Country Shopping Center. · · Telephone 259-909_0 ' ·• 


-_~ko/ . 
· Hustle 
· -: . (tr-Jt:~/-;;.;:/. 

,
•. 
er· any two· ·. Teltronics .watches .. · and get:.his 8-dipit. ·· 5-function electronic · . memoryalculator;c' 
attery and 
ry case. FREE! 
. . . ·: . 
Please send the following watch(es). (Specify your choice of 10 styles: A thru J, followed by ,·s·· for silver rhodium @$16.95 or. 
:·G"' for gold @$17.95.J·I understand that I will receive. free,.a Teltronics calculator with every rwo watches I order•. QUANTITY •. . STYLE · FINISH PRICE · 
,Add $1.00 shipping and handling.•cost for each watch. Illinois residenls add·5~ sales tax.·1 enclose my check or money order for the total S · · · . . . . · .. (No cash-no COD's accepted. Offer good _in continental US_A only.) 
Name....;_:____;_____;______;___..;______ 
••Address-----------'-----~-'-----,---,-""'." ,city..________state____..;__z;.,.______ 


STREISAND KRISTOFFERSON 
~ 


starts CHRISTMIS DAY 
...... 
, .. · 
.. ; .. 
·---~:·:~·..:.':~·.:.. ~--· 
--~·· ,.,,. 







