NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June 20, 1889.
Vol. XXII.
No. 42.
Literature as a Profession.*
BY MAURICE FRANCIS EGAN, LL. D.,
: Professor of English Literature in the University of Notre Dame.
I.
I have spoken much about literature to you; but what can you expect from a man whose life has been mostly a literary life? Besides, what is there left to me of sufficient importance to speak to you? You have already the best instructors in spiritual matters, in morals and manners. Matthew Arnold once gave a motto to a club of which I have the honor to be a member. It is, “Chacun a son metierf which translated, means, I presume, each one to his specialty; you will forgive me, therefore, for looking at literature to-day from a new point of view. We shall look on literature as a profession, and consider the preparation necessary to make it a successful profession.
Mr. Frederick Harrison, a man of letters, whose literary judgments are as right as his philosophical judgments are wrong, tells us that the making of many books and the reading of periodical sheets obscure the perception and benumb the mind. “ The incessant accumulation of fresh books must hinder any real knowledge of the old; for the multiplicity of volumes becomes a bar upon our use of any. In literature especially does it hold that we cannot see the wood for the trees.” I am not about to advise you to add to the number of useless leaves which hide the forms of noble trees; but, if your resolve to write outlives the work of preparation, you may
* Lecture delivered at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind., Tuesday, June 4th.
be able to give the world a new classic, or, at O	77
least, something that will cheer and elevate.. This preparation is rigid. Two important qualities of it must be: keen observation and careful reading. It is a pity that an old dialogue on. “Eyes and No—Eyes” is no longer included in. the reading-books for children. The modern book-makers have improved it out of existence; nevertheless, it taught a good lesson. It describes the experience of two boys on a country road. Common things are about them,—wild, flowers, weeds, a ditch,—but one discovers many hidden things by the power of observation, while the other sees nothing but the outside of the common things. To write well one must have eyes and see. To be observant it is not necessary that one should be critical in the sense of fault-finding. Keen observation and charitable toleration ought to go together. We may see the peculiarities of those around us and be amused by them; but we shall never be able towrite anything about character worth writing unless we go deeper, and pierce through the crust which hides from us the hidden meanings, of life. How tired would we become of Dickens if he had confined himself to pictures of surfacecharacteristics! If we weary of him, it is because Mr. Samuel Weller is so constantly dropping his w’s, and- Sairey Gamp so constantly' talking of Mrs. Harris. If we find interest and! refreshment in him now, it is because he went deeper than the thousand and one little habits; with which he distinguishes his personages-
To write, then, we must acquire the art of observing in a broad and intelligent spirit. Nature will hang the East and West with gorgeous tapestry in vain, if we do not see if. And many times we shall judge rashly and harshly if we do not learn to detect the true-heartedness that hides behind the face which seems cold to the
678	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
unobservant. We are indeed blind when we fail to know that an angel has passed until another has told us of his passing.
Apparently there is not much to think of the wrinkled hand of the old woman who crosses your path in the street. You catch a glimpse of it as she carries her bundle in that hand on her way from work in the twilight. Perhaps you pass on and think of it no more. Perhaps you note the knotted, purple veins standing out from the toil-reddened surface, and then your eyes catch at a glance the wrinkled face on which are written the traces of trials, self-sacrifice and patience. It is hard to believe that those hands were once soft and dimpled childish hands, and that face bright with happy smiles. The story of her life is the story of many lives from day to day. Those coarse, ungloved, wrinkled hands will seem vulgar to you only if you have never learned to observe and think. They may suggest a noble story or poem to you, if you take their meaning rightly. Life, every-day life, is full of the suggestions of great things for those who have learned to look and to observe. ' Mr. Harrison, from whom I have quoted already, puts his finger on a fault which must inevitably destroy all power of-good literary production. It is a common fault, and the antidote for it is the cultivation of the art of careful reading. “A habit of reading idly,” Mr. Harrison says, “debilitates and corrupts the mind for all wholesome reading; the habit of reading wisely is one of the most difficult to acquire, needing strong resolution and infinite pains; and reading for mere reading’s sake, instead of for the sake of the good we gain from reading, is one of the worst and commonest and most unwholesome habits we have.”
In order to write well, one must read .well-one must read a few good books—and never idle ■over newspapers. Newspapers have become necessities, and grow larger each year. But the larger they are, the more deleterious they are. The modern newspaper lies one day and corrects its lies, adding, however, a batch of new ones, on the day after. There are a few newspapers who have literary value, though •even they, mirroring the passing day, have some •of its faults. As a rule, avoid newspapers. They, ■will help you to fritter away precious time; they ■will spoil your style in the same way that a slovenly talker, with whom you associate constantly, will spoil your talk; for newspapers are generally written in a hurry, and hurried literary work, unless by a master-hand, is never good work. Nevertheless, in our country, the newspapers absorb a great quantity of literary mat-
ter which would, were there no newspapers, never see the light.
Literature considered as a profession includes what is known as journalism,—not perhaps reportorial work, but the writing of leaders, book reviews, theatrical notices, and other articles which require a light touch, tact and careful practice, but which do not always have those qualities. A writer lately said: “Literature has become a trade and finance a profession.” This is hardly true; but some authors have come to look on their profession as a trade and to value if principally for the money it brings. Anthony Trollope, for instance, whose novels are still popular, set himself to his work as to a task; he wrote so many words for so much money daily. This may account for the woodenness of his literary productions. In the pursuit of art, money should not be the first consideration, although it should not be left entirely out of consideration, for the artist should live by his art, the musician by his music, and the author by his books. Literature, then, should be a vocation as well as an avocation.
Literature, in spite of the many stories about the poverty of writers, has, in our English-speaking countries, been on the whole a fairly well-paid profession. Chaucer was by no means a pauper; Shakspeare retired at a comparatively early age to houses and lands earned by his pen in the pleasant town of Stratford. Pope earned nearly fifty thousand dollars by his translations, or, rather, paraphrases of Homer. Goldsmith, though always poor through his own generosity and extravagance, earned what in our days would be held to be a handsome competence. Sir Walter Scott made enormous sums which he spent royally on his magnificent castle of Abbotsford. Charles Dickens earned enough to make him rich, and our modern writers, though less in genius, are not less in their power of securing the hire of which they are more than worthy. Mr. Howells has ten thousand dollars a year for permitting his serial stories to be printed in the publications of Harper & Bros. Mr. Will Carleton, the author of “Farm Ballads,” has at least an equal amount • from his copyrights. Mrs. Hodgson Burnett, the author of “Little Lord Fauntleroy,” easily commands ten thousand dollars for the copyright of a novel; so you see that the picture often presented to us of the haggard author shivering over his tallow candle in a garret is somewhat exaggerated.
But none of these authors attained success without long care given to their art. They had their early struggles.. Mrs. Burnett, for instance, was a very brave and hard-working young girl;
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
she was poor; her only hope in life was her education; she used it to advantage and by constant practice in literary work. The means of her success was the capacity for taking pains. It is the means of all success in life. And any man or woman who expects to adopt literature as a profession must see well, read well, and take infinite pains. Probably Mr. Howells and Mrs. Burnett had many MSS. rejected by the editors. Probably, like many young authors, each day brought back an article which had cost them many weary hours,—for literary work is the most nerve-wearying and brain-wearying of all work —with the legend “ returned with thanks.” Still. they kept on taking infinite pains.
Lord Byron awoke one morning and found himself famous. But that first morning of fame had cost much study, much thought, and, no doubt, periods of despondency in which he almost resolved not to write at all. Poetry does not gush from the poet, like fire out of a Roman candle when you light it. Of all species of literary composition, poetry requires more exquisite care than any other. A sonnet which has not been written and rewritten twenty times may be esteemed as worthless. To-day no modern poem has a right to be printed unless it be technically perfect. It seems a sacrilege to speak of poetry as a profession; it ought to be a vocation only, and the poet ought not only to be made by infinite pains taken with himself, but born. As to the rewards of extreme fineness in the expression of poetry, I have heard that Longfellow received one thousand’ dollars for his comparatively short poem of Keramos, and that Tennyson gets a guinea a line. But we shall leave out poetry in talking of filthy lucre, and consider literature as represented by journalism, in which there is very little poetry.
II.
I did not intend to touch on journalism, as the work of making newspapers is sometimes called, but I have been lately asked to give my opinion as to whether journalism is a good preparation for the pursuit of literature.. Perhaps the best way to do this would be to give the experiences of a young journalist first.
I imagine a young person who had written at least twenty compositions; some on “Gratitude,” one on “Ambition,” one on “The History of a Pin,” and a grand poem on the Southern Confederacy in five cantos. He had been prepared for the pursuit of literature by being made to write a composition every Friday. These compositions were read aloud in his class. What beautiful sentiments were uttered on those Fri-
679
days! How everybody thrilled when young Strephon compared Ireland “to that prairie grass which smells sweeter the more it is trodden on.” He had never seen such grass; he would not have recognized it, if he had seen it; but he had read about it, and when a cruel scientific instructor asked him to give the botanical name, he turned away in disgust. His finest feelings were outraged. This, however, did not prevent the simile of the prairie grass of unknown genus from cantering through all the compositions of the other members of the class for many succeeding weeks, until the Professor got into a habit of asking, when a boy rose to read his essay: “Is there prairie grass in it?” If the essayist said yes, he was made to sit down, and he was given a bad mark. Teachers were very cruel in those days.
There was another lovely simile ruthlessly. cut down in its middle age,—pardon me if I digress and pour out my wrongs to you; I know you can appreciate them. Some boy of genius once said that “Charity, like an eternal flame, cheers, but not inebriates.” After that inspired utterance, charity, like an eternal flame, cheered, but not inebriated the composition of every other writer, until the same cruel hand put it out. In those .days, we knew a good thing when we saw it, and, if it saved trouble, we appreciated it.	'
Somewhat later, the young person attained a position in the office of an illustrated paper. It was a newspaper which was so fearful that its foreign letters should be incorrect, that it always had them, written at home. The young gentleman whose desk was next to that of your obedient servant wrote the Paris, Dublin, and New York letters. The correspondent from Rome and Constantinople, who also did the market reports at home, had some trouble v^ith. his spelling occasionally, and mg.de a very old gentleman in the corner indignant by asking him whether “pecuniary” was spelled with a “c” or a “q,” and similar questions. This old gentleman wrote the fashion column, and signed himself “Mabel Evangeline.” He sometimes made mistakes about the fashions, but they were very naturally blamed on the printers. To your obedient servant was given the agricultural and the religious columns. All went well, for the prairie grass was kept out of the agricultural column—though some strange things went in— all went well until he copied a receipt for making hens lay out of a paper—he did not know then that it was a comic paper, and that the friend who wrote it was only in fun. The hens of several subscribers lay down and died. There
68o	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
was trouble in the office, and the agricultural department was taken from him and given to “Mabel Evangeline” who later came to grief by describing an immense peanut tree which was said to grow in Massachusetts.
Your obedient servant was asked to write leaders on current subjects. How joyfully he went to work! Here was a chance to introduce the prairie grass and the “eternal flame.” With a happy face he took his “copy” to the managing editor. Why did that great man frown as he read: “If we compare Dante with Milton we find that the great Florentine sage was like that prairie grass which—” “ Do you call this a current subject?” he demanded. “It will not do. Where’s the other one?” Your obedient servant, in fear and trembling, gave him the other slips. He began: “ The geocentric movement, like that eternal flame which cheers, but—” he paused. “When I asked,” he said, in an awful voice, “when I asked you for current subjects 1 wanted an editorial on the fight in the Fourth Ward and a paragraph on the sudden rise in lard! Do you understand?” '
Dante and the geocentric movement, the prairie grass and the eternal flame were crushed again. The wise young person learned to adapt himself to the ways of newspaper offices, and all went well again, until he attempted high art. This newspaper was young and not very rich; therefore economy had to be used in the matter of illustrations. The great man, its editor, had a habit of‘buying second-hand pictures—perhaps it was not to save money, but because he loved the old masters,—and it became the duty of the present speaker, who was then a young person, and who is now your obedient servant, to write articles to suit the pictures. For instance, if a scene in Madrid had been bought, the present speaker wrote about Madrid. It was easy, for he had an encyclopedia in the office; but if anybody had borrowed the volume containing “ M ” we always called Madrid by some other name, for “ Mabel Evangeline,” who said he had travelled, said foreign cities looked pretty much alike. “ Mabel Evangeline,” who sometimes, I am afraid, drank too much beer and mixed up things, was not to be relied on, for he put in a picture of Rome, N. Y., for Rome, Italy, and brought the paper into contempt. Still, I think this would not have made so much difference, if he had not labelled a picture of an actress in a very big hat and a very low-cut gown, “ Home from a convent school.” He was discharged after this, and the 'present speaker asked to perform his functions. Nothing unpleasant would have happened, if a picture had
not been sent in one day in a hurry. It was a dim picture. It seemed to represent a tall woman and a ghost. The present writer named it “ Lady Macbeth and the Ghost of Banquo,” and spun out a graphic description of the artist’s meaning. Next day when the paper came out, the picture was “The Goddess of Liberty crowning Abraham Lincoln.”
It was a mistake; but who does not make mistakes? Who ever saw the Goddess of Liberty, anyhow? If you heard the way that editor talked to the promising young journalist, you would have thought he was personally acquainted with both Lady Macbeth and the Goddess of Liberty, and that they had not succeeded in teaching him good manners. It is sad to think that mere trifles will often cause thoughtless people to lose their tempers!
HI.
The writing for newspapers is a good introduction to the profession of literature, if the aspirant can study, can read good books when not at work, can still take pains in spite of haste, and cultivate accuracy of practice. The best way to learn to write is to write. One engaged in supplying newspapers with “copy” must write. If he can keep a strict eye on his style— if he can avoid slang,—“smart” colloquialism, he will find that the necessity for conciseness and the little time allowed for hunting for the right word for the right place will help him in attaining ease and aptness of expression.
The first difficulty the unpractised writer has to overcome is a lack of the right words. Words are repeated, and other words that are wanted to express some nice distinction of meaning will not come. Constant reference to a good dictionary, or a book of synonyms, is the surest remedy for this; and if the writer will refuse to use any word that does not express exactly what he means, he will make steady advance in the power of expression. Words that burn do not come at first. They are sought and found. Tennyson, old as he is, polishes his early poems, hoping to make them perfect before he dies. Pope’s lines, which seem so easy, so smooth— which seem to say in three or four words what we have been trying to say all our lives in ten or eleven, were turned and re-turned, carved and re-carved, cut and re-cut with all the scrupulousness of a sculptor curving a Grecian nose on his statue:
“ A little learning is a dangerous thing, Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring.”
That is easy reading. It seems as easy as making an egg stand on end, or as putting an
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	681
apple into a dumpling—when you know how. .It is easy because it was so hard; it is easy because Pope took infinite pains to make it so. Had he put less labor into it, he would have failed to make it live. It is true that a thing is worth just as much as we put into it.
Although the desire to write is often kindled by much reading, the power of writing is often paralyzed by the discovery that the reading lias been of the wrong kind. Again, the tyro who has read little and that little unsystematically is tempted to lay down his pen in despair. Lord Bacon said that “reading maketh a full man, writing a ready man”; from which we may conclude that he who reads may best utilize his stock of knowledge by learning to write. But he must first read, no matter how keen his observation may be or how original his thoughts are, for a good style does not come by nature. It must be the expression of temperament as well as thought; but it must have acquired clearness and elegance, which are due to the construction of sentences in the good company of great authors. To write, you must read, and be careful what you read; and you must read critically. To read a play of Shakspeare’s only for the story is to degrade Shakspeare to the level of the railway novel. It is better to have read the trial scene in “The Merchant of Venice ” critically, missing no shade in Portia’s character or speech, no expression of Shylock’s, than to have read all Shakspeare carelessly. To make a specialty'of literature, one must be, above all, thorough. The writings that live have a thousand fine points in them unseen of the casual reader, and, like the carvings mentioned in Miss Donnelly’s fine poem, “Unseen Yet Seen,” known only to God. Take ten lines of any great writer, examine them closely with the aid of all the critical power you have, and then you will see that simplicity in literature is produced by the art which conceals art. That style which is easiest to read is the hardest to write. Genius has been defined as the capacity for taking infinite pains.
There is a passage in “Ben Hur” which seems to me particularly applicable to our subject. You remember, in the chariot race, where Ben Hur’s cruel experience in the galleys serves him so well. He would not have had the strength of hand or the steadiness of posture, were it not for the work with the oars and the constant necessity of standing on a deck which was even more unsteady than the swaying chariot. “.All experience,” says the author, “is useful.” This is especially true for the writer. One can hardly write a page without feeling how little one knows;
and if the great aim of knowledge be to attain that consciousness, the writer sooner attains it than other men.
Everything, from the pink tinge in a seashell to the varying tints of an approaching thunder cloud, from an old farmer’s talk of.crops and weather to your lesson in geology and astronomy, will help you. Do not imagine that science and literature are opponents. For myself, I would not permit anybody who did not know at least the rudiments of botany and geology to begin the serious study of literature. If Coleridge felt the need of attending a series of geological lectures late in life, in order to add to his power of making new metaphors and similes, how much greater is our necessity for adding to our knowledge of the phenomena of nature, that we may use our knowledge to the greater glory of God. Literature is the reflection of life, and literature ought to be the crystallization of all knowledge.
You will doubtless find that what you most need in the beginning is to know more about words and about books. But this vacuum can be filled by earnest thought and serious application, system and thoroughness. It takes you a long time to play a mazurka of Chopin’s well. It takes you a long time even to learn compositions less important. A" young lady sits many months before a piano before she learns to drag “Home, Sweet Home!” through the eye of a needle; and then to flatten out again con expressions; and then to chase it up to the last key of the last octave of the treble or the bass until it seems to be lost in a still, small protest; and then to bring it to life and send it thundering up and down, as if it were chased by lightning. How easy it all seems, and how delighted we are when our old friend, “Home, Sweet Home!” appears again in its original form. But there was a time when it was not easy—a time when the counting of one and two and three was not easy. So it is with the art of writing. It is not easy in the beginning. It may be easy to make grandiloquent similes about “prairie grass ” and the “ eternal light which cheers,” etc.; but that is just like beginning to play snatches of a grand march before one knows one’s scales.
To begin to write well, one must cut off all the useless leaves that obscure the fruit, which is the thought, and keep the sun from it. Figures should be used sparingly. One metaphor that blazes at the climax of an article after many pages of simplicity is worth half a hundred scattered wherever they happen to fall. It is a white diamond as compared to a handful of garnets.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Margr Queen of Scots?
BY H. P. BRELSFORD, ’go.
Scotland's ruler was dying. From highland and from plain; from the vale where the thistle blooms, and from the glens where tarns lie dimpling in the shadows of the hills, arose a mighty wail of sorrow, for the “Poor Man’s King” was dying. A little while before he died, a messenger from Linlithgow palace announced that his queen had borne a child. “Has man or woman been born to me?” the expiring monarch asked. “’Tis one fair daughter,” was the answer. “Then,” said he, “farewell to the crown of Scotland! it came with a lass, with a lass it shall pass away.” With these words he turned his back upon his lords, commended his soul to Almighty God, and never after spoke. Thus died James V.
The ominous prophecy with which the king received the tidings of his new-born heir foreshadowed, all too closely, the after-life of that ill-fated queen. Truly, hers was a heritage of sorrow. Ere yet she had learned to lisp her mother’s tongue she was the subject of innumerable intrigues.
England’s monarch sought to bind Scotland’s realm to his own with the golden cords of marriage, and craftily he urged the espousal of Prince Edward to the fair young Scottish heiress. And even in the far-off Gallic land, Lorraine, and Guize, and Marie de Medicis, plotted their selfish projects against the baby queen. But she suffered not alone from the schemes of foreign courts; for while Scotland’s tears yet flowed for the dead king, a contested regency enforced the seclusion of the royal babe in the grim old walls of Linlithgow. Yet, while England strove with some success to foment discord among the jealous Scottish nobles, she could not buy the fealty of Scottish hearts, and a season of amity between the factions made possible the coronation of the infant Mary.
However, while Scotland would not be coerced by England, she did not hesitate to solicit the aid of France; and soon both realms rang with glad acclaim at the announcement of a betrothal between the young Scottish Queen and the youthful Dauphin. Yet the enforced separation of Mary from her widowed mother tinged the whole affair with a hue of sadness. Painful was the scene of their parting. From the Highland glen in the Isle of Inchmahone came the infant queen with her retinue; while her mother and new French friends awaited her com-
* Delivered, at the Oratorical Contest, Tuesday, June 18.
/ng upon Dunbarton’s “castled crag.” There was Mary of Lorraine in all the beauty of her ripe womanhood. There were Highland chiefs and Lowland peers resplendent in tartan and plaid; and there were fair ladies of high degree and gallant courtiers from sunny France. But there, fairer than all, was little Mary Queen of Scots, with all the winsome beauty of her childish innocence. ’Midst that gay but sympathetic throng parted mother and child—parted with tears for the present and prayers for the future —parted to meet no more upon Scottish earth.
No more favorable environments could have been chosen for the young queen than those which surrounded her at the court of Henry II; for at that time Paris was the very centre of learning and of culture. Here the tendei" years of her maidenhood were passed, and here, like a beautiful bud, her character unfolded its perfections ’neath the warm and genial influence of zealous tutors and fostering friends. Then came that momentous event, her marriage; and
J	O 1
never were nuptials more auspicious.
Divinely fair was that young queen upon whose smile two nations hung; and happy was she in her husband’s love and in the devotion of her people. But already the ominous clouds of her destiny lowered round about her, and the death of her mother was followed by that of her young husband ere yet their honeymoon had waned. Widowed and orphaned in the same sad year, well might Maiy—widowed, orphaned Mary—bid farewell to all her youthful joys; for the last of them was buried in her husband’s early grave.	-
But cares of State intruded even upon the sanctity of her grief. Never in her sorrow was she permitted to forget that she was queen of Scotland’s realm; and, brave young widow that she was, soon she turned from thoughts of the dead to plans and projects for the living.
She must return to her kingdom, and so in the month of July she left Paris, gay and beautiful Paris, and France, happy France, and left them forever. Sad was the scene of her leaving. Surrounded by her troup of servitors, she stood motionless upon galley’s deck and, as the angry waters of the narrow sea leaped madly about the advancing prow, Mary—heavy-hearted Mary— watched with streaming eyes the fast receding shore, and cried: “Adieu, fair France! beloved France, adieu!” And when night with ruthless eagerness threw her black mantle o’er the scene, still she stood, and, standing, strained her eyes on the distant shore, and sobbed: “Farewell, France! O France, farewell! I shall never, never see thee more!”
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
683
Her grief was not groundless. She was leaving a land hallowed by the happiness of her maidenhood, and sanctified by sweet memories of her married life; she was going to a kingdom rent with civil dissension; to a court that might receive her coldly; to a people with character as stern and as grim and as unbending as their ragged crags that frown upon the sea. The story of her life in Scotland is but a tale of tribulation.
Beset by foreign spies and native traitors, she had learned to lean upon the Earl Murray, and he, base ingrate that he was, while pressing courtier’s kisses on the fingers of his queen, while fattening upon the bounty of his sister, constantly betrayed her interests. And John Knox, coarse and narrow-minded, construed her sufferance of his abuse into a license for its continuance, and he ceased not to assail her with his bitter calumnies.
Then her marriage to Lord Darnley served but to augment her unhappiness. For, with woman’s inconsistency, she had learned to love her profligate young husband; for him she created honors; upon him she lavished preferment and power; her ambition was for him alone, and her confidence and trust was in his keeping. How he repaid the priceless gift of a spotless woman’s love, history relates, and the relation covers his name with everlasting infamy.
Her marriage proved but a milestone along a path of sorrow that terminated only in the refuge of the grave. Close upon the death of poor Riccio, her only solace, her only friend, followed that of Darnley himself; and the Scottish queen sincerely mourned that husband who, though unworthy, was still beloved. All know the misfortunes that befell the young queen after Darnley’s death; all know that she was forced to resign her crown and to flee from the kingdom of her fathers. Against the prayers and remonstrances of her frien ds, she determined to seek an asylum with her “good sister,” the English queen. And now, O virgin queen, the prey you have- hunted for years is voluntarily within your toils; and now O Good Queen Bess, a sister and a rival queen is at your tender mercy.
I need not prolong’the story of Mary’s after fate: by base treachery and infamous intrigue and shameless violation of royal faith, Scotland’s queen was doomed to die, and to die upon the scaffold.
Twenty years of tedious months had come and passed away since Mary had fled from Scottish traitors to experience the faithlessness of English friends. Soon was she to change her castle prison for the grave.
With feigned reluctance Elizabeth signed the warrant for her death, and the fate of Mary Queen of Scots was sealed. Then one dark day in February’s forbidding month the Earl Marshal of England appeared at Fotheringay castle, the bearer of a message from his queen. He came to see Queen Mary, and to tell her she must die.
The Scottish queen was ever mindful of her station, and, surrounded by her train, she received the Marshal as became her royal dignity. The Earl read the warrant for her execution, and Mary listened with countenance unmoved, and ■ then told him that he was a welcome visitor. She told him she had languished in prison for near twenty years, useless to herself and a burden to others, and that she could conceive of no termination of such a life more happy or more honorable than to die for the faith of her fathers. Her last night upon earth she passed in prac- . tices of religious devotion.
Finally the timorous tints of the purple dawn peeped through the window of her chamber and warned her that the darkness of earth’s night had passed, and passed forever.
A scaffold, covered with black serge, had been erected in the midst of the great hall of the castle, and at eight o’clock the captive queen followed the sheriff from her oratory to the place of execution. In one hand she carried a crucifix, in the other a book of prayer. At the foot of the staircase she found her faithful steward, Melville, and she charged him. with a final message in the following beautiful words: “ Good Melville, I pray thee, report that I die a woman true to my religion, to Scotland and to France. May God forgive them that have long thirsted for my blood as the hart does for the brooks of water! Commend me to my son, and tell him that I have done nothing prejudicial to the dignity or independence of his crown.” . And again protesting her innocence and praying for the Church, her son, and Queen Elizabeth, she held up the crucifix and exclaimed: “AsThy arms, O God, were stretched out upon the cross, so receive me into the arms of Thy mercy, and forgive me my sins!”
But the hour had come; and with trembling fingers, that rebelled against their office, the weeping maids fastened a handkerchief, edged with gold, over the eyes of their royal mistress. She was led to the block. Her servitors sobbed and sobbed in an agonyof grief, and pity brought unwonted tears to the eyes of the haughty English peers; aye and the heart of even that grim headsman throbbed with sympathy. Mary’s eyes were tearless and her countenance unmoved. With queenly grace she bent her head; but the
684
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
very steel of the headsman’s, axe seemed to shrink from contact rude with a throat so fair. The axe fell, and a gaping wound in the base of the skull told of the force of the cruel blow; a second time the headsman struck and yet a third,—and the fairest face in England’s realm fell bloodstained in the dust. Thus died the fairest and most unfortunate of queens.
The records of three centuries have been written since that February day. And surely now, if ever, we may read dispassionately the story of her life, and may judge without prejudice of her character. But no: the lapse of years does nor quell the animus of malice; does not subdue the rancor of relentless bigotry. The poet said: “Be thou as chaste as ice,as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny,” and these words, poor Mary, thy enemies prove true; for, in spite of history, and of justice, and of truth, they assail thy fair name with heartless hatred. Thou wert a queen by beauty’s right divine; thou wert a queen by grace of thy pure heart and noble soul—a queen by virtue of thy queenly deeds, and yet they have called thee a “wanton Jezebel.” It was thine, O Mary,to die a piteous death; but not, no, not in vain to die; for, dying, thou hast enshrined forever the sacred name of woman; and thy martyrdom has glorified thy faith.
To honest eyes the character of that saintly queen appears admirable in every way. The brightest gem in her crown of virtues was her fidelity to her religion. For her faith she lived, for her faith she was persecuted and reviled, for her faith she did not hesitate to die.
She was a woman with all a woman’s weakness, and she trusted but to be betrayed; but none can deny the purity of her life or the integrity of her purposes. Her character, formed in the pleasure-loving atmosphere of the French capital, was ill suited to the austere temper of the Scots; but with wonderful grace she adapted her life to the customs of her court, and yielded to the prejudice of her people. Her charities were worthy of her woman’s heart and .queenly station, and many a cotter’s humble home was brighter, happier, for her presence.
We love her for the mother love she lavished on her graceless son; we pity her that that son saw her die with cruel apathy.
Surely it was the bitter irony of fate that the babe of royal birth and the maid of matchless beauty should have lived a broken-hearted queen to die upon a scaffold. Poor Mary! her radiant beauty brought her naught but sorrow; her crown brought her naught but tears; but every people knows her story, every-bard her
praises sings; and until hearts cease to throb and tears to fall, all will love the name and mourn the memory of martyred Mary Queen of Scots; and while posterity points with scornful finger at the name of England’s perjured queen, it shall bring lilies sweet and roses to the tomb of Scotland’s Mary.
■ Christopher Columbus.*
BY E. CHACON {Laiu), ’89.
It is with pleasure, though not unmingled with anxiety, that I venture to appear before you on this happy occasion. It is with pleasure, for I keenly appreciate the honor you confer upon me by listening to my words; and it is with feelings of anxiety, for what shall I say that may return, in some measure, your kindness and your courtesy? It is true that I have chosen to dwell upon Columbus; it is true that the subject is not wanting in importance; but it is likewise true that what is held up to the gaze of all the.world will not so easily adapt itself to oratory; for on its way from the chair of history to the platform of the speaker it loses, as it were, all that novelty which alone can interest an audience. But when I remember how deeply rooted is the memory of Columbus in the minds of Americans; when I remember how all bias melts before him to be transformed into silent admiration, I cannot forbear to pay a tribute to his genius. I do not know, moreover, of a better opportunity for doing so than this: because these festive moments seem to have gathered together in this sweet solitude none but gracious visitors.
I will not tell you how Columbus, leaving his native land, sought the favors of Portugal when that nation’s arms were conquering the East; nay, suffer me to draw a veil over this melancholy period in our hero’s life, for we shall have occasion presently to sympathize with him in greater tribulations. Do you remember how the Spaniards, sweeping down like eagles on their prey, wiped out forever the existence of Granada? Do you recall the noble Isabella, as she rode into the fallen city amid the applause of chivalry and the booming of the guns? And yet that triumph so brilliant, that conquest so complete, achieved and solely inspired by this admirable women, was but the prelude to greater deeds under her beneficent protection. I say to greater deeds; for as the royal pageantry passed on to take possession of the Alhambra, Christopher Columbus, that man of dreams,
* peliverecl at the Oratorical QontegtjTuesday, June <8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	68<
whose eloquent simplicity had touched the heart of Isabella, went, commissioned by her, to seek for worlds over that dreary sea whose bourne, no mortal had explored.
It was the hour when, from the tolling of the bells, one might infer that holy monks were offering their morning orisons to God. All Palos was astir; and no sooner did Father Perez and Columbus come forth from the neighboring convent toward the beach, than all the inhabitants, rending the air with lamentations, followed them to catch a parting glimpse of those who might never return! In the midst of them all stood Columbus, erect and majestic as Moses stood before the waters of the Red Sea; erect and majestic this Christian pilot boarded his ship and commanded the sails to be spread in the name of Christ, Redeemer of the world. And thus his caravels, frisking on the bay, began their lonely course upon the deep. On, on they sailed, watching in silence the receding shore; on, on they ploughed the rolling sea till the distance had destroyed all sound coming from land and screened all forms on the horizon. And now, far from their country; away from their paternal hearths and scouring that green Atlantic, which had been thought the abode of formidable monsters, what fears must not have seized upon the sailors! Indeed, their merry voices would resound no longer from the decks; and fain would they return to Spain, if their admiral but hearkened to their wishes. But hopeless as to this, and raving withal through apprehensions, they forgot their dignity as Spaniards, shrinking from imaginary perils as if they had never seen dangers more awful and more cruel in their incessant wars. They gnashed their teeth; they wept, they roared like lions' in the desert; and, brandishing their weapons, they would curse the hour when they first met the Genoese adventurer. Yet, nothing daunted, Columbus kept his course, trusting in God and watching for the goal of his solicitude. What transports, then, what unutterable joys, must have filled his impressive heart when the sailors flocking to the prows one morning, sent up in glad chorus the shouts of “land!” Yes, land had been discovered, and ere the sun had wholly cleared the shadows of the night, vales enamelled with- flowers surprised their gaze, and stretched capriciously before them. There, oh,how nature revelled in all her innocent delights! And, wafting to the strangers perfumes and symphonies unheard of, how rapturously sweet they seemed to them after their toil across the sea! There grew the palms of Egypt ancl the Norwegian pine; there waved
the meadows in eternal spring, while venerable mountains swelled up with snow-clad summits into space. There the world was paradise; and man, roaming about in unconscious simplicity, knew not the strifes which entangled Europe in misfortunes. But, hark! how mightily the guns announced the presence of Columbus in these regions! And as the cross was planting amid the strains of the Te Deum, how timidly the natives took to the bowers, and there in trembling ecstasy would view the mariners, whose glance to them seemed bathed in celestial hue!
A great work had been accomplished; and this without spilling a drop of blood, as the fierce controllers of the world are wont to do in their baneful innovations. The face of • the earth had been redoubled; the superstitious theories as to the sea had been undone, and science, now free from the fetters of uncertitude, could well attempt those mighty speculations which have since given us a Copernicus, a Kepler, and a Newton. If, then, the discovery of America was to effect a radical change in the fabric of the human institutions; if it was to give an impulse to civilization that should be felt even to the end of time, what boon of glory would certainly, await the author of such an incomparable service! Then let us hasten with him across the sea on his return to Spain, for .there, while yet the paeans of victory lingered on the breezes of Granada; there, where but of late the ghost of Islamism was seen to fade under the effulgence of the Cross; the prayers of a patriotic nation rose daily to Heaven for the happy termination of his voyage. So, once ready to return, he again weighed anchor; and, slowly retreating from the shore, whither the natives thronged to witness his departure, he was soon lost sight of in the watery expanse.
Full half a year had he been absent from Castile; yet the winds had been prosperous, and the sea lay tranquil as if delighted with the vessels that rode so gently on its waves. Bright had been the sun till then, and silvery the stars. that twinkled in the night. But this fair aspect of the journey had to change, and scenes the most appalling would henceforth travel with Columbus as his ominous companions. The day grew dark; the sea soon lost its smoothness, and sprawling waves, lashing themselves against the hulls, scattered their spray on board. Anon the gale swept by, goading the sea to rise in boisterous convulsions; anon the spirit of the stormK hurling askance his thunderbolts, would glare in momentary splendor, and then relapse into his native darkness with a tremendous groan. High rose the ships bending their stalwart masts
L
686
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
under the blast; then, plunging down the watery abyss, their prows heaved up again and shook off the foam that settled on their crests. All ' hands were restless; all struggled manfully to keep upon the waves; and, with Columbus at the helm, they steered away to be tossed back, thus advancing but little in a day. The weeks went by, and still the billows swelled like mountains; and still the sailors battled for existence; and still the roaring of the storm rolled on, unbroken by the feeble detonations of a gun as it announced the vessels in distress. But at last, sick with exhaustion, pale and bewildered by their sufferings, the brave Columbus and his men came bounding into Palos amid the melancholy tolling of the bells.
Columbus was now famous; and scarcely had he set foot upon the strand when already the news of his arrival spread far and wide thrilling the hearts of the Castilians. And, need I picture the ecstasies of that romantic people as he went forth to lay his trophies at the feet of Isabella? Clad in the gayly decked costumes of the age, he went from place to place followed by lords and peasants, and universally proclaimed as the wise, the good, the great, the generous Columbus. But, oh! how fickle is the world! A.nd if to-day it offers incense to its idols, it shall profane them on the morrow with sacrilegious contempt; and woe to the man who, amid the plaudits of the multitude, forgets how shallow are the glories of the world! As for Columbus, a darker storm was brooding in the calmness of his triumphs: a storm of slanders and iniquities; a storm of ruthless passions that should come down with unrelenting fury on his venerable head; and when that storm set in, what tales of sorrow it produced! Then it was that, while the second expedition was preparing, the chains, wherewith the admiral should be treacherously bound were forged; then it was that, while again aboard he advanced in his career of philanthropy, incarnate fiend that Bobadilla sent him away in bitter humiliation to his sovereigns; then it was that insults th$ most rude, and falsehoods the most flagrant, conspired with hellish animosity to mar his spotless honor and his name; and then it was that, dragging his chains into the presence of the queen,- his soul gave way to grief and his decrepit form sank down under the weight of his misfortunes. Sad plight of genius this! Tragic conclusion of the .man who knew no dangers nor fatigues! Was such, brave sailor, was such the pay a world returned thee for a world thou gavest? And when thy brow, deep-furrowed by thy cares, bent low into the dust.
was there no chivalry to make such wrongs its own? Was there no friend, no champion of thy cause that should belie thy wretched calumniators? O Spain, fair Spain! Land of the mighty Cid! Cradle of honor, and asylum of the brave! Thou, for whose faith the grim Asturias scorned the savages of Mecca, where was thy spirit now? Was it so blunt as to behold the admiral in chains, and yet not shed a tear of compassion? Was it so dead as to endure an outrage done to thyself in him who doubled thy dominions? Yet, forgive my complaint, methought thy chivalry was gone; methought the age of heroes was no more. But no! thou hadst a queen fair as the rose in April born; pure as the lily of the lake; childish, yet grave; valiant, yet tender; great and yet meek; thou hadst a queen whose heart still throbbed with gratitude; and when the world, rushing with headlong speed in its career of infamy, trampled on great Columbus, that queen, that noble queen, alone stood by him, shedding her priceless tears, like the angel of beauty keeping his silent watch over the angel of genius.
Daniel O’Connell.
BY ROBERT C. NEWTON, ’89.
{Delivered at the Oratorical Contest, Tuesday, June rS.)
A tall, able-bodied man stands at a desk engaged in solitary occupation in the small hours of the morning. He has risen before the sun, and is laboring hard by lamplight. On the wall in front of him hangs a crucifix, to which ever and anon his eye travels, and from which he seems to catch inspiration. His brows are overladen with mighty thought; his Irish eye beams with intelligence' and humor; his uplifted arm emphasizes every glorious maxim of freedom and religion. He turns to greet us, and we behold the central figure of the Irish cause— Daniel O’Connell.	.
How every Celtic heart thrills at the mention of his name! How,like the sound of a trumpet, the word “Liberator” stirs the deepest feelings of.every son of Columbia! No work within the power of human kind inspires more reverence among men, or is more pleasing to the Almighty, than the task of setting a nation free. The patriot, girded with truth and justice, clad in the armour of the Eternal God, bearing the shield of faith and the sword of inspiration, is uncon- ’ querable and irresistible; for,
“ Freedom’s battle once begun,	,
Bequeathed by bleeding sire to son,	\
Tho’ baffled oft, is ever won,” .	1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
687
Such was the work to which Daniel O’Connell consecrated his life. Nature, foreseeing- the illustrious and noble career of her favorite child, had endowed him with all those qualities that immortalize a man in the eyes of his fellow-men. He was a great and lofty-minded statesman, one of the brightest ornaments of the legal profession, and among the foremost orators that the world has known. One of the most industrious men who ever lived, the amount of labor he performed daily would be sufficient to wear out an ordinary constitution in a few years.
As a lawyer, vigilance and caution were his prominent characteristics. His fluency of thought and language, his keenness and inge-nuity, his ready wit, his unconquerable goodnature, his abundant acumen in the invention of topics to meet an adversary’s arguments, made him without a peer at the Irish bar. As an orator he had few equals. His voice, was deep, sonorous and flexible; it was pronounced by Disraeli the richest and most beautiful ever heard in the halls of Parliament. His articulation and gesticulation were perfect, and few actors of the stage were his equals in disclosing “the workings of the mind through the windows of the face.” His logic was that of a philosopher, and his thoughts were moulded in the clearest and most pleasing rhetoric; one moment he melted his hearers with his pathos, the next he convulsed them with his humor. At a public meeting he directed the'storm of popular debate, carrying every point by dint of strength and dexterity.
As a man, O’Connell was the embodiment of Juvenal’s well worn, but ever to be remembered, line: Mens sana in corpore sano—“ Able-bodied, able-minded.”
He was tall, muscular, broad-chested and with herculean shoulders, fit for the burden he bore on them—the cause of Ireland. His face was handsome, his bright and sweet blue eyes beamed with the glow of health, and sparkled with the fervor of love. His manner was cordial and frank. He was a born king among his countrymen: “Kerry’s pride and Munster’s glory.”
Pie championed the cause of humanity without regard to clime, color or condition, and wherever the voice of the oppressed was heard, there he was to be found kindling the fire of sympathy, rebuking the tyrant and consoling the victim. This great man, who dazzled the world by his genius, was born in the County of Kerry on the 6th of August, 1775; a noble descendant of a noble race, he could trace his lineage in a direct line to the ancient kings of Ivera of the Country of Kerry. Pie was educated
at St. Omer, a place of sound learning and religious education, and afterwards studied law in London. In 1796 he was admitted to the bar, and at once began to achieve not only prominence but supremacy, taking a leading part while the question of the Union was being agitated, and distinguishing himself as a hardheaded lawyer, a high-minded politician and a grave theologian. From his entrance into public life, this far-famed son of Erin ever swore that his country’s wrongs should be avenged. We can see him walking down the street; his very gait and gesture would be construed by an English jury to be high treason, so aggressively do they set forth the national sentiment—“Ireland her own or a world in a blaze.” The Irish people were never absent from his thoughts: whether pleading at the bar of justice, addressing Parliament, or speaking at a public meeting, he ever bore the sacred cause of Erin’s liberty nearest his heart; for he knew that in battlingfor Ireland he was battling for God and for God’s Church.
He was Irish of the Irish; he was a Catholic of Catholics, and consequently the instincts of Ireland went out to him and identified themselves with him. He taught his countrymen that the secret of freedom lay in adherence to their glorious faith; and to-day the faith of the Irish race nerves them to trample down injustice; and the same Providence which at the present time is exposing conspirators, informers and perjurers will, at a distant date, give to the land of the shamrock the liberty now enjoyed by our own beloved United States. Just as in days of old in England the yew tree used to be planted in the very shadow of the churches, so that the English warriors might at any moment cut their national weapon from the ground hallowed by God’s worship and their father’s graves, so Ireland is fighting for liberty to-day with a weapon drawn from the holiest of sanctuaries, the undimmed and untarnished broad-sword of a never-dying faith.
The day has already dawned, and is ripeningto its perfect noon, when the dream of O’Connell’s life will be realized. The adoption of the policy of justice will be forced upon the English Government by the people of Ireland: for the God of Justice smiles upon the Irish cause. Every Irishman will rally in defence of his country’s flag; and that flag will advance by land and by sea till a triumph will finally be accomplished such as the world has never seen, and at which it will never cease to wonder. Ah! there is no ideal more grand or inspiring than that of true freedom. It is the correlation of all order; it is the function of all righteousness. But we must
688
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
be on our guard against false and spurious ideals of freedom. If the liberty of one is to be the slavery of ten thousand, we must trample that liberty into the dust. Trample into the dust every vested interest, or sham vested interest, which exists only for the blight and ruin of mankind.
The freedom Ireland asks for consists in the God-given rights of man, those inalienable privileges which the universal instinct of mankind acknowledges. She asks not for the license of the demagogue, or the anarchy of the socialist, for the undetected tyranny of rings or the wirepullings of the interested. She asks not for the liberty of the Reign of Terror, with its lullaby the Carmagnole and its toy the guillotine not that of Parisian Commune, with cities shattered with dynamite or blazing with petroleum. All she asks is liberty to unfold herself in works of goodness and nobleness, to develop the ener-ories and the talents with which a beneficent o
Providence has so richly endowed her. But what is requisite to obtain this freedom?- Not only bravery to do and to dare, but also that animating courage which suffices not only for the flash of transient valor, but for the long heroism of steadfast endurance.
. Irishman, if you would see the star of Ireland’s destiny, look for it in the hearts of your brethren; look for it in your own hearts. The large majority of Irish patriots are in the flush of youth or the noble prime of early manhood. How much may they do for Ireland to help and defend, to honor and elevate her! To the pure and high purposes which in the very teeth of clenched antagonisms inspire and animate their lives we look to -preserve undefiled the true life-springs of the national existence. The battle which the Irishmen are fighting to-day all the world over is the great battle of freedom against tyranny, of right against wrong. It needs' no stately amphitheatre, no pomp and circumstance of war, for its seat is in the universal instincts of humanity. Let the sons of Ireland, whether living in their dear old native land or scattered over all the countries of the earth, and her sons’ sons, in whose veins flows the pure blood of a noble ancestry, unite in a solemn and heart-spoken vow to save and exalt their country. Such sons will defend and dignify her ten thousandfold more than whole fleets of iron-plated vessels or batteries bristling on every promontory with ponderous guns. And if Ireland sink even for a time, she can only sink to rise again more glorious, as the sun but sinks in the ocean to reappear in the majestic splendor of the dawn,
MffWEseHoijw.
I9ubltsljcti t&crn 5aturtag iurfns Etna Eime at X. S. ®ni&trsttg.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, June 20, 1889.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has entered upon the twenty-second year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains: choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should lake it; parents should take it; and above all,
Old Students should take it.-
Terms, $ijo per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Close of the Year.
It seems to us natural and proper at this time to take a retrospective glance over the scholastic year now ended, to see what things have been accomplished and what have been left undone. A review like this is of great importance to those who intend with the coming September to renew their labors, and will enable them to accomplish next year more good and solid work.
When glancing over the work of the year, it must be especially gratifying to the weary, hardworking student, who receives the approbation of his own conscience, and feels assured that he has done well that which he undertook to do. Day after day he labored silently, unceasingly, careless of his own comfort, keeping high his aim, and pressing onward to attain it. For him who has been very successful, owing to the remarkable talents with which he has been endowed, the pleasure derived from the consideration of a duty well performed is considerably enhanced by the evidence of his progress. His labors are fully repaid thus far, and his future success becomes only a question of time. With increasing knowledge, self-reliance and manliness will be developed. He is no longer the boy, bashful and unlearned; he has become a man who thinks and reflects. lie cultivated
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
his mind, enriched it, trained it, and behold! his soul was likewise adorned with all the rich gifts that render man amiable, and fit him for his high place in society. It would be an unnatural exception to find a studious, well-lettered young man anything less than a gentleman. Whatever elevates and ennobles the mind cannot fail to react on the soul; and, therefore, the more the mind receives Christian culture the more the soul is beautified and its noblest faculties drawn from their germs.
At Notre Dame this available rule makes no exception, and finds many proofs to substantiate it. The better the student, the greater his progress and the better the man; and, in inverse direction, the worse the student, the less his progress and the meaner the man.	B.
Local Items.
—Good bye!
—Don’t forget the Scholastic.
—Special trains leave to-day on both roads.
—Crowds of welcome visitors throng the premises.
—The St.Cecilians return thanks to Bro. Leopold for favors received.
—The “Old Golds” have won the spring championship, winning the last game by a score of 17 to 5.
—St. Hedwige’s Cornet Band enlivened the Commencement exercises by their excellent selections.
—The “Blues” in the Junior second nine won their third victory on the 12th inst. by a score of 10 to 8. O’Brien’s pitching was the feature.
—The next number of the Scholastic, which will be the last of the present volume, will contain a full.and detailed report of the proceedings of the last three days. It will be issued early next week.
—The St.Cecilians enjoyed an ice-cream supper last Sunday night; the prize cake soon made its disappearance under the onslaught of the enthusiastic members. The Cecilians return thanks to Rev. Father Morrissey for his endeavors to make the evening a pleasant one.
—Very Rev. Father General Sorin arrived early yesterday morning in time to grace with his noble presence the greater part of our Commencement exercises. It was the source of the greatest pleasure to all to see him safely returned to Notre Dame and in such good health and spirits.
—Yesterday (Wednesday) morning Solemn High Mass .(The Alumni Mass) was. celebrated at eight o’clock by Rev. John R. Dinnen, ’66, of Crawfordsville, Ind., as celebrant, assisted by Rev. Fathers Stoffel and Fitte as deacon and subdeacon. An eloquent sermon was preached by R^V. T, O’Sullivan, ’56, of Cummings, Ill,
—The “Specials” started a game last Monday with a nine from Mishawaka, which was understood to be a boy’s nine, but on putting in an appearance, they proved to own developed and progressing mustaches. Up to the third inning, when the game was called on account of rain, the “Specials” were ahead by a score of 7 to 1; Wilbanks pitched.
—One hundred and fifty “old boys” constituted the delegation from Chicago that arrived Tuesday’evening. Accompanied by friends, they made up a large special train. It was intended that they should march in procession, headed by a brass band from the city to the College, but the terrible rain storm interfered with the programme, much to the regret of all, as the display would have been very imposing. All wore appropriate badges, and the train upon which they came was handsomely decorated. We hope the example given by the Chicago boys will be followed by others, and thus strengthen the bonds of union between Alma Mater and old-time students.
:—On Monday evening the Senior Branch of the Euglossian Association gave a very enjoyable exhibition in the college parlors. The following programme was well carried out: Vocal Quartette....F. L. Jewett, H. Smith, W. Lahey
~	A. E. O’Flaherty.
Selection—“ Ring Down the Drop ”...........J. Bums
Duet.........................C.	Ramsey, W. Hackett
“The Execution of Montrose ”...........R.	A. O’ Hara
“ The Royal Archer”........................W. Ford
Solo and Chorus..........   .W.	Lahey and Quartette
“ Erin’s Flag ”............................J. Toner.
“ The Raven ”.........................D. C. Brewer.
Duet........................F.	L. Jewett, H. L. Smith.
—The Grand Oratorical Contest took place on Tuesday evening in the presence of a very’ large audience. The speeches of the contestants will be found in another part of this paper, and are well worth perusal. The “contest” was preceded by a number of well-delivered declamations by the Junior Branch of the Euglossian Association, interspersed with vocal music by the Choral Union. The following is the o
PROGRAMME:
Part I. -
Overture—“ L’Enlevement au Serail ”....Mozart
■	University Orchestra.
Quartette—“Breezes of the Night,” Messrs.F.L. Jewett H. Smith, A. O’Flaherty, W. Lahev.
Recitation—“ Dream of Clarence ”....W. McPhee '
Recitation—“ William Tell ”....,....M. Quinlan
Baritone Solo—“The Raft”..............Pinsitte
H. L. Smith.
“ Battle of Fontenoy ”..............L. Monarch
Tenor Solo—“ Cujus Animan,” ^'Siabat Mater" of
Rossini}.....................  F.	L. Jewett
Recitation—“ Sinking of the Cumberland,” Jas. McIntosh Recitation—“ The Dandy Fifth ’’.......E. Berry
_ Part II.
Oratorical Contest.
Vocal Selection—“ The Scout”..........Campana
University Quartette. -
Oration—“ Mary, Queen of Scots ”.H. P. Brelsford '
Oration—“ Christopher Columbus ”....E. Chacon
Oration—“ Daniel O’ Connell and the Irish People,”
.................................  R.	C. Newton March for Retiring.University Orchestra.
690
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
—Base-ball.—One of the most hotly contested games played on the Junior campus in the last three years was played between the 1st nines, on the 12th inst. Wilbanks pitched for the “Reds,” distinguishing himself by his excellent and effective delivery, only two snubby hits being made, while eight champions formed the “ethereal three.” Both nines put up a beautiful game. McGrath’s throw from centre, Berry’s quick assist at second, the fielding of all the “Blues” and the pitching of Fleming were the features; after one of the tightest fights in baseball, the “Blues” won, giving them the chainpionship. The following is the score:
Reds.	ab.	r-	ib.	sh.	sb.	po.	a.	e.
Krembs, c................... 5	1	1	o	2	11	2	4
McNulty, 1. f............... 5	2	2	o	2	1	o	2
McGrath, c. f............... 5	1	2	1	o	2	1	o
Mooney, istb.............. 41101	801
Pecheux, 3db.............. 22103	111
Ibold, 2db................ 401 10	401
Wilbanks, p................. 4	o o o o 010 o
Conners, s.s................. 4 o o o 1 o 4 o
Berry, r. f....„...................... 40000	010
Total....................... 37	7 8 2 9 27 19 9
Blues.	ab. r. ib.	sh. sb. po. a. e.
Kehoe, 3db................. 2	1	o	o	o	1	2	2
Bronson, s.s............................. 31000250
McIntosh, 1. f............. 4	1	o	o	2	2	o	o
Moncada, istb.............. 41 201 10 20
Fleming, p................. 4	1	o	o	1	3	5	1
Duffield, 2db.............. 2	3	o	o	3	o	1	2
Shear, c. f................ 4	o	o	o	0	1	o	o
Covert, r. f............... 4	o	o	1	o	2	o	o
Hannin, c.................. 3	o	o	o	o	6	o	2
Total.................... 30 8 2 1 7 27 15 7
Earned Runs: “Reds,” 2. Base on called balls: “Reds,” 2; “Blues,” 7. Bases on hit by pitched balls: “Blues,” 2. Struck out: by Fleming, 3; Wilbanks, 8. .Wild Pitches: Fleming, 1. Passed .balls: Hannin, 4. Krembs,6. Left on Bases: “Reds,”4; “Blues,”4. Time of game: 2 hours. Umpires: Coady and Prudhomme. Scorer: Jno. J. Reinhard.
Score by Innings:—1 23456789
Blues:—6 o o o o 1 o 1 0=8 Reds:—3 0300001 0=7
{From the “South Bend Timesl') The St. Cecilians’ Banquet.
“What will the St. Cecilians do this year?” was the question that came up in the minds of the Notre Dame students and many of their friends as the time for the annual banquet of that society approached. To many it seemed that a St. Cecilia banquet without that society’s veteran friend and promoter, the late Professor Joseph A. Lyons, A. M., as master of ceremonies, was like playing Hamlet and leaving Hamlet out. The banquet was given Thursday, however, Rev. Father Morrissey, present president of the St. Cecilians, having the affair in charge, and right well did he perform his part in making the event a pleasurable and memorable one.	•
Not one of the old students, not one of the society’s invited guests, failed tQ notice the ab
sence of the quick step, the kindly face, and the cordial greeting of the lamented Professor Lyons. Not one there but deeply felt the absence of that faithful and loved instructor; that noble Christian gentleman. His kindly, honest face looked out from a myrtle-wreathed frame upon a stand in the rear of the head table in the banquet hall; but how little satisfying to the heart’s longings was the face without its welcoming smile, the lips without their soulful greeting. Many an honest sigh welled up from regretful hearts as thoughts of the dead intruded themselves amid the banquet scenes.
There was another absent face—that of the typical patriarch upon whose locks and flowing beard had the winter of age sprinkled the snows of time. The kindly countenance and striking presence of Notre Dame’s beloved Founder was not there to grace the occasion, but in the hearts of students and guests were fervent hopes that favoring winds and waves would soon bring safely to the shores of America the voyager from the scenes of the Old World. Very Rev. Father Sorin’s life-size picture, surrounded by , flags and other decorations, occupied a conspicuous place at the centre of the room, and seemed to beam kindly welcomes to all.'
Another much missed one was the ever popular Prof. Edwards who is seeking amid European scenes the rest and recuperation so well earned. But to those who were there! Highly honored were the St. Cecilians in the presence at their banquet of Rt. Rev. John J.Keane, D,D., rector of the Catholic University of America, at Washington, and one of the Church’s greatest workers and most able and distinguished prelates. In his honor was the banquet given. Then, besides the familiar face of the honored President of the University, Father Walsh, there were Father Zahm Vice-President of Notre Dame, Fathers Corby, Fitte, Regan, Oechtering, Hagerty and Morrissey; Signor Gregori, Prof. Wm. Hoynes, of Notre Dame; ex-Mayor Tong.G.W. Matthews, Hon. T. E. Howard, Auditor Aaron ■ Jones, Recorder T.M. Howard, Prof. Maurice F. Egan, Dr. Berteling, and representatives of the press of this city; Jacob Scherrer, of Denver; Prof.W.C.Lyman, of Chicago; members of the Society and others.
The west refectory was handsomely and tastefully decorated for the event, and the Notre Dame Orchestra discoursed music at intervals during the consideration of a very choice menu. The large company sat down at the splendid spread at 4 o’clock sharp and after partaking of the same to the content of the inner man, were favored with toasts and responses, Robert E. Newton, of the Class of ’89, acted as toast-master.
. »••••••«
After the toasts came the annual distribution to the St. Cecilians of the small cakes, one of which contained a gold ring. The distribution was attended to by Father Zahm, and the lucky lad proved to be Fred Chute, of Minneapolis,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	S9t
The banquet then came to a close, all feeling that as a successor to the late Prof. Lyons, Father Morrissey had done most admirably in every way. The guests repaired to the rotunda where a season of social enjoyment continued until about 7.30 when the time for dispersal came. Bishop.Keane left on the 6.16 p.m. Lake Shore train for Chicago.
Premiums.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Ahlrichs, A.—2d Premium in xst Arithmetic (xst Division); 1st Premium in 1st Geography; xst Premium in 1st United States History; 2d Mention in English Composition; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
Adams, A.—Mention in 2d French.
Bunker, I.—1st Mention in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in 3d German.
Brannick, J.—1st Premium in 2d Phonography.
Burns, J.—3d Premium in Ancient History; 1st Mention in English Composition; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Burger, C.—2d Premium in 2d Greek; 1st Premium in Modern History; 2d Premium in English History; Mentionin English Criticism; 1st Premium in Christian Doct.
Blessington, E.—xst Premium in English Literature; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in xst Phonography.
Bruggeman, W.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Brennan, J.—xst Premium in Phonography.
Brewer, D.—2d Premium in Logic; 2d Premium in English Literature; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Bran nick, E.—4th Premium in xst Orthography; (1st Division); Mention in Penmanship.
Brannick, II.—xst Mention in 2d Physics; 2d Premium in Astronomy; xst Premium in Perspective Drawing.
Barrett, D.—2d Premium in 3d Latin; xst Premium in 2d Greek.
Burke, P.—2d Premium in Astronomy; Mention in Botany.
Brelsford, H.—xst Premium in 4th Greek; xst Premium in English History; 2d Premium in Physiology.
Brown, C.—Mention in Penmanship.
Blackman, W.—2d Premium in English Composition.
Cassidy, M—3d Premium in xst United States History.
Crooker, J.—1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; xst Premium in xst Arithmetic; 3d Premium in English Composition; xst Premium in 4th German.
Cooney, J.—2d Premium in xst Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Campbell, S.—3d Premium in Linear Drawing; 4th Mention in Christian Doctrine.	•
Cooke, G.— xst Premium in Iron Working.
Cusack, J.—Mention in xst French.
Cullen, W.—Mention in Penmanship.
Casey, I.—xst Premium in Christian Doc'rine.
Cartier, D.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Type-Writing.
Cartier, W.—xst Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium for Guitar.	'
Cartier, G.—Mention in 4th Algebra.
Cavanagh, C.—Mention in 4tlx Greek; 2d Premium in English Criticism; Mention in Physiology.
Carney, F.—Mention in 3d French.
Coady, T.—3d Premium in xst Orthography; xst Mention in xst United States History.	,
Coady, P.—2d Premium in xst Grammar; 2d Premium in xst Orthography; 2d Premium in xst L’nited States History; 3d Mention in Christian Doctrine; Premium for Flute.
Chute,L.—Mention in 2d Greek; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; xst Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in Botany.
Campbell, W.—2d Premium in 2d xYrithmetic; xst Mention in xst Orthography, xst Division; 2d Premium in xst Phonography.
Combe, J.—xst Premium in xst Reading; 2d Premium in xst Orthography, xst Division.
Chacon, L.—xst Mention in Mechanical Drawing; 2d Premium in Iron-Working; 3d Premium in Elementary Science.	•
Dacy, C.—2d Premium in xst Book-Keeping; xst Mention in xst Ax-ithmetic, xst Division; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry; xst Premium in 3d Algebra; xst Premium in English Composition: xst Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Dore, M.—3d Premium in Linear Drawing.
Delaney, J.—2d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Dougherty, J.—xst Mention in 7th Latin.
Darroch, J.—2d Premium in 2d United States History; 3d Premium in xst Reading; 3d Prem, in Iron-Working.
Davis, P-—2d Premium in 2d Geography.
Dunning, L.—3d Premium in xst Book-Keeping; 3d Mention in xst Arithmetic (xst Div.); xst Premium in xst Orthography; Premium in Penmanship.
Eyanson, Geo.—xst Premium in Mechanical Drawing; xst Premium in Iron-Working; Mention in Penmanship.
Fleming, S.—xst Mention in xst Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th German; 2d Premium in Christian Doct.
Freeman, B.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Fisk, D.—2d Mention in xst U. S. History.
Fleming, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping
Ford,W.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in xst Grammar; 2d Premium in xst Orthography; xst Mention in xst Geography; 3d Premium in xst U. S. History; xst Mention in Christian Doctrine.	'
Fitzgerald, R.—xst Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in xst Reading; 4th Premium in xst Orthography; in xst Div.
Fack, E.—xst Mention in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d United States History.
Forbs, F.—xst Mention in 2d Arithmetic; xst Mention in 2d Geography; 1st Premium in 2d United States History.
Goke, M.—3d Premium in xst Reading.
Goebel, T.—Premium in Moral Philosophy; 1st Premium in xst Latin; xst Premium in English Criticism; xst Premium in Astronomy; xst Premium in Geology; xst Premium in Special German.
Giblin, J.—2d Mention in 5th Latin; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Gallardo, J.—Mention in Linear Drawing; 2d Mention in Christian Doctrine; xst Premium for Piano.
Galin, H.—3d Premium in xst Arithmetic; 2d Mention in xst United States History; Mention in Penmanship.
Galin, J.—4th Premium in xst Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in xst Arithmetic; 1st Div ; 2d Mention in 4th German; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Garfias, M.—xst Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Hepburn, J.—xst Mention in Ancient History.
Houlihan, P. - 2d Premium in Ancient History.
Healy, W.—2d Premium in xst Geometry.
Hayes, W.—xst Premium in xst Grammar; 2d Premium in xst United States History; 2d Pxemium in Christian Doctrine.
Hackett, W.—Mention in Modern History.
Hughes, B.—xst Mention in xst Algebra.
Herman, L.—4th Premium in Modern History; xst Premium in Rhetoric.
Howard, M.—4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Hoover, E.—2d Premium for Platt in Surveying.
Hill, W.—3d Mention in 4th Algebra; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Iron-Working.
Hummer, S.—xst Premium in Logic; xst Premium in 4th Latin; xst Premium in Criticism.
Hermann, W.—Premium in Penmanship.
Hearde, C.—xst Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in xst Geography; 3d Premium in its United States History; Premium in Penman.
Inks, B.—2d Premium in 2d Phonography.
Jennings, J.—Mention in xst Reading; Mention in Penmanship.
Jewett, F. —2d Premium in Botany.
Knight, N.—xst Premium for Platt in Surveying.
Kelly, J.—xst Mention in Elementary Science.
Kelly, F.—xst Mention in 7th Latin; xst Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Kenny, J.—Premium in Penmanship.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Knoblauch, G.—ist Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; Premium in Telegraphy.
Karasynski. A.—'3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in ist Geography.
Kimball, G.—2d Mention in Rhetoric; Premium in Microscopy; Mention in Zoology.
Louisell, M.—ist Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium in Ancient History; 2d Premium in Zoology.
Lane, F.—3d Mention in Ancient History; 2d Mention in Rhetoric.
Lahey. W.—2d Premium in ist Grammar: ist Premium in ist Orthography, ist Divison.
Lesner, J.—ist Premium in 2d Phonography.
Lozaha,J.— ist Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d United Stites History; 3d Premium iii 2d BookKeeping; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Leonard, A.—3d Premium in Modern History; Mention in English History; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in Botany.
Lappin, J.—2d Mention in 2d Geometry.
Long, F.—3d Premium in 5th Latin.
Long, L.—3d Mention in 4th Algebra.
Larkin, W.—2d Premium in Logic; Premium in 2d Latin; ist Premium in English Criticism; ist Mention in 2d Physics.
Long, Geo.—ist Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Mention in ist Orthography, ist Division; ist Mention in ist United States History.
Murphy, H.—ist Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in 2d United States History.
McAllister, H.—ist Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premiumin 3d Algebra; Mention for Guitar.
McAllister, G.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Premium for 2d Piano; Premium in Penmanship.
Morton, E.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Iron-Working.
Mackey, J.—2d Premium in Calculus; Mention in Astronomy; 2d Mention in 2d Chemistry; ist Mention in Mineralogy; 2d Mention in Metallurgy; 4th Premium in Linear Drawing; Mention in Botany.
McAuliff, J.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
McKeon, T.—2d Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Modern History; 3d Mention in Rhetoric.
Morrison, V.—Mention in ist Latin; Premium in Descriptive Geometry; Premium in Mechanics; Mention in Geology; ist Premium in ist French. .
Morrison, W.—ist Premium in 4th Latin; 2d Premium in Mineralogy; Mention in Metallurgy.
Meagher, J.—Mention in Moral Philosophy.
Meagher, W.—ist Premium in 4th Latin; ist Premium for ist Piano; 2d Premium in Botany.
Mithen, J.—4th Premium in English History.
Murphy, H.—2d Mention in 7th Latin; 3d' Mention in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium in 2d Algebra; ist Premium in Modern History; ist Premium in Rhetoric; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; Mention in Zoology.
Newton, K.—3d Premium in ist United States History.
Newton, R.—Mention in 4th Latin; Mention in Descriptive Geometry; Mention in Mechanics.
O’Flaherty, A.—ist Mention in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in English Literature.
O’Brien, W.—ist Mention in Mechanical Drawing; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in Iron-Working; ist Mention in Elementary Science.
O’Shea, J.—ist Premium in 6th Greek; ist Premium in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra.
O’Hara, R.—3d Premium in 5th Latin; Mention in English Literature; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
O’Flaherty, P.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Paquette, L.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; istPremium in ist Geography; ist Mention in ist U. S. History.
Pritchard, H.—Mention in Logic; ist Mention in 2d Chemistry.	'
Prudhomme, E.—2d Premium in 3d French.
Patterson, W.—3d Premium in 2d Phonography.
Pim, L.—Premium in Microscopy; Mention in Physiology; Mention in Zoology.	.
Paquette, C.—Mention in 4th Latin; ist Premium in
English Literature; ist Mention in 2d Physics; Mention in Astronomy; 2d Premium in Linear Drawing; 2d Premium for Platt in Surveying; ist Premium in Botany.
Powers, F.—3d Premium in 2d Phonography; Premium in Microscopy.
Reedy, D.—2d Premium in 2d Phonography.
Reynolds, M.—3d Premium in English Literature; ist Premium in Mineralogy; Mention in Perspective Drawing.
Rourke, R.—4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Roberts, W.—3d Premium in 2d Geometry; ist Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Rothert, O.—2d Mention in ist Latin; ist Mention in 2d Algebra; Premium for Violin; ist Premium in Botany.
Roberts, C.—4th Premium in 7th Arithmetic; ist Premium in Telegraphy.
Sullivan, R.—ist Premium in ist Orthography.
Sullivan, J.—2d Premium in English Literature.
.Stephenson, E.—3d Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Mention in 4th German: 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Smith, T.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Geography.
Soden, C.—2d Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in ist Orthography, ist Division; 2d Mention in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist United States History; 2d Mention in 2d Book-Keeping.
Spencer, C.—Mention in Logic; ist Premium in English Criticism; 2d Mention in 2d Physics; 3d Premium in 2d Chemistry; ist Premium in 2d French.
Toner, J.—ist Mention in 7th Latin; 3d Premium in 3d. Algebra.'
Tiernan, W.—ist Premium in English Literature.
Tewksbury, D.—3d Premium in Ancient History.
Vurpillat, V.—4th Premium in 4th Algebra; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Vurpillat, F.—4th Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra; Mention in Modern History; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.	'
Woods, H.—ist Premium for 2d Piano; ist Premium for Guitar.
Wade, T.—Mention in Architectural Drawing.
Welch, J.—4th Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in 7th Latin.
Youngerman, C.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Mention ist Geography.	.
Youngerman, F.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 2d Grammar;, ist Premium in ist Reading.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Adelsperger, E.—Mention in Logic; Premium in 2d Latin; 4th Premium in Modern History; 2d Premium in English History; ist Premium in English Criticism; 3d Premium in 2d Physics; 3d Premium in 2d Chemistry; Mention in Botany; ist Premium in Zoology.
Allen, J.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Allen, W.—Premium for Cornet.	•
Aarons, H.—ist Mention in 3d Grammar; Mention in 2d Violin.
Ayer, J.—Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Adler, M.—2d Premium in~3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography.
Adams, E.—Mention for Cornet; 4th Premium in Wood-W orking.
Anson, G.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic (2d Division); 2d Mention in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d United States History; 4th Premium in ist Reading; 2d Mention in ist Orthography.
Berry, E.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in English Literature; Mention in Botany. , * Baltes, E.—Mention in ist German; 2d Premium in ist Reading; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Geography.
Bates, E.W.—-ist Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Bradley, j.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; Premium in Penmanship.
Brady, J.—ist Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Mention in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in ist Geometry; 2d
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	693
Premium in 1st Algebra; 2d Premium in Modern History; 1st Premium in Linear Drawing; 1st Premium in Physiology.
Blumenthal, M.—xst Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography.
Boyd, R.—1st Mention in 5th Latin; 3d Premium in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium in Ancient History; Mention in Rhetoric.	'
Baily, W.—4th Premium in Wood-Working.
Bronson, H.—2d Premium in Phonography; Premium for Examination.
Bryan, P.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d United States History; 1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Cleary, T.—1st Mention in 2d Orthography.
Cleary, S.—Mention in Penmanship.
Cunningham, J.—2d Mention in 2d Grammar.
Crandall, E.~ 1st Mention in 2d Grammar.
Connors, J.—2d Mention in 3d German; Mention in Penmanship.
Connors, E.—1st Mention in 7th Latin.
Ciarcoschi, S.—2d Premium in Zoology.
Covert, W.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Wood-Working.	.
Case, R.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Premiumin Iron-Working; 1st Premium in Elementary Science.
Collins, S.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Campbell, A.—3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Cauthom, H.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Mention in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium in Modern History; Mention in English Literature.
Clendenin, R.—2d Premium in Wood-Working; Mention in Penmanship.	.
Chute, F.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Cass, B.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 1st Premium in 2d Geography.
■ Davis, L. N.—4th Premium in Linear Drawing.
Davis, L. B.—4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 4th Algebra.
Du Brul, E.—2d Mention in Christian Doctrine; Mention in 4th Greek; 2d Mention in 2d Geometry; 4th Mention in 2d Algebra; Mention in Modern History; 1st Premium in Rhetoric.
Devine, A.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in Wood-Working.
Dempsey, L.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Daniels, A.—2d Premium in Type-Writing.
Duffield, F.—2d Premium in Elementary Science.
Darroch, H.—3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Mention in Elementary Science.
Doherty, H.— ist Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Des Garennes, H.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 8th Latin.	'
Elder, G.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Iron-Working.
Flannigan, J.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st United States History; 2d Mention in 4th Algebra.
Falvey, T.—3d Premium in Elementary Science.
Fleming, P.—3d Premium in Type-Writing.
Fleming, C.—1st Mention in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 4th Algebra; xst’Premiuin in Wood-Working; 2d Mention in Phonography.
Frei, G.—2d Mention in Special German.
Ferkel, E.—1st Mention in 3d Reading. .
Fitzgerald, C.—1st Mention in Ancient History; 4th Premium in Linear Drawing; 1st Mention in 6th Latin; 2d Mention in 2d Geometry; 2d Mention in 2d Algebra.
Fitzgerald, J.~1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium in 7th Greek.
Greene, I.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Girsch, J.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium in Iron-Working; Mention in 1st German.
Galland, M.—1st Premium in Wood-Working.
Gappinger, J.—1st Mention in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Healy, J.—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine. ■
Healy, R.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar: 1st Mention in 7th Latin; 3d Premium in Iron-Working. '
Healy, P.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium for 3d Violin; 1st Mention in Elementary Science.
Heller, A.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 1 st Geography; 2d Premium in 3d German.	■
Hesse, B.—2d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 3d German.
Hoerr, L.—3d Mention in 3d German.
Hannin, W.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st United States History.
Hughes, E.—Mention in Modern History; 3d Premium in English History, 1st Premium in English Literature; Mention in Linear Drawing.
Hanrahan, T.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Hoffmann, L.—2d Premium in Iron-Working.
Hennessy, W.—1st Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 4th.Pre-xnium in Christian Doctrine.
Hahn, G.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic (2d Division); 4th Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d United States History.
Hammond, E.— 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Hartman, W.—2d Premium in Iron-Working.
Ibold, O.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; xst Mention in 3d Algebra: 1st Mention in Ancient History; 1st Mention in Physiology.	.
Joslyn, M.—2d Premium in 8th Latin; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in 1st Algebra; 3d Premium in Modem History.
Johnson, W.—Premium for 2d Violin.
Jewett, E.—3d Premium in 1st Orthography; Mention in 3d German.	.
Johns, T.—1st Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine (2d Division). .
King, J.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 1st .Grammar; 1 st Mention in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in 5th Greek: Premium in Penmanship.
Kutsche, W.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Kehoe, L.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; Premium in
Kellner, F.—Mention in 1st German.	-
Penmanship.
Kelly, A.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Krembs, F.—1st Mention in Special German; 2d Premium for Piano.
Lamon, G.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; isr Premium in 3d Reading Orthography; 1st Premium in Figure Drawing.
Moncada, J.—2d Premium in Wood-Working.
Mahon, T.—2d Mention in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Reading.
Maurus, E.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic (1st Division); 1st Premium in xst Orthography.
Mainzer, F.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Wood-Working.
Mayer, A.—2d Mention in 3d Grammar.	"
Morrison, E.—3d Premium in Iron-Working
Mooney, J.—1st Mention in Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Mention in ist Arithmetic (ist Div.); ist Premium in ist Orthography.
Merz, J.—xst Premium in 2d Arithmetic;, ist Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in xst Ortliography; ist Mention in 8th Latin; 2d Premium in xst German.
Mackey, F.—ist Mention in 2d Reading; 2d Mention in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.
McIntosh, J.—Mention in Figure-Drawing.
McGrath, J.—2d Premium in 4th Greek; 2d Mention in Ancient History. .
McMahon, J.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in ist Orthography.
McIvers, E.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; 4th Premium in Elementary Science.
McNulty, J.—Premium in Penmanship.
McPhee, W.—ist Premium in Calculus; xst Premium in 2d Physics; 2d Mention in Astronomy; ist Premium
6'94	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
in 2d Chemistry; 2d Mention in Mineralogy: 2d Premium in Metallurgy.’
Neef, F.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine: 2d Premium in xst Geometry; 3d Preniium in English Literature; 1st Premium in 3d French; 3d Premium in Zoology.
Neef, A.—3d'.Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in Linear Drawing.
Nockels, J.—Mention in 5th Greek.
Nester, A.—3d Mention in Sth Latin; Premium for Examination.
O’Brien, G.—4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium for examination.
O’Mara, J.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic (2d Div.); Mention in Penmanship; Premium in Christian Doctrine.
O’Rourke, F.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar: 3d Premium in 2d LL S. History; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Priestly, C.—Mention in 7th Greek; 2d Premium in Ancient History.
Populorum, P.—Mention in 3d French.
Pecheux, H.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium in Trigonometry; 2d Mention in 1st Algebra; 1st Premium in Ancient History; Mention in 2d French; 2d Premium in Linear Drawing.
Prichard, F.—1st Mention in Trigonometry.
Palmer, R.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium 1st Reading; 1st Mention in 1 st Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st Geography.
Quinlan. M.—2d Premium in 5th Latin; 1st Premium in 1st Algebra; 4th Premium in Physiology.
Rose, I.—1st Premium for Type-Writing; Mention in 1st German. .
Reinhard, J.—2d Mention in Trigonometry; 2d Premium in 1st Algebra; 4th Premium in Modern History; •Mention in English History; 3d Premium in Physiology.
Roth, E.—2d Mention in 4th Arithmetic; Premium lor Architectural Drawing.
Ramsey, C.—1st Premium in Wood-Working.
Rice, M.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st U. S. History.
Schillo, F.—1st Mention in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in Rhetoric; 1st Premium in rst German.
Schillo, C.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in rst German.
Sheehan, F.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Sullivan, C.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic (2d Division); 1st Premium in 2d Georgraphy; 1st Premium in 2d U. S. History; rst Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine (2d Division).
Spalding, R.—4th Premium in 4th Algebra.
Sutter, L.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 1st Reading. ’
Scherrer, L.—3d Premium in 5th Latin; rst Premium in Calculus; 2d Premium in 2d Physics; 1st Mention in Astronomy; 1st Premium in Surveying; 2d Premium in 2d Chemistry; 1st Premium in Metallurgy; Premium for 1st Violin.
Scherrer,C.—2d Premium in Wood-Working; 1st Mention in Elementary Science.
Shear, C.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography.
Sloan, H.—1st Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Staples, G.—1st Mention in 1st Geography.
Sullivan, A.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Wood-Working.
Tetard, W.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography; Premium for Violin.
Thome, F.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra.
Wright, J.—Mention in English History.
Weitzel, G.—1st Premium in 6th Latin; 1st Premium in 7th Greek; 1 st Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in 2d Algebra; Mention in Modem History; 1st Premium in English Composition; 3d Premium in Physiology.
Welch, A.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Mention in 8th Latin.
Wile, F.—1st Premium in 5th Latin; 1st Mention in 6th Greek; 1st Mention in 2d Geometry; 2d Mention in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 1st Premium in Phonography.
Walsh, J.—Mention in 7th Greek.
Wood, P.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Willien,— 1st Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine (2d Division); 3d Premium in Wood-Working; 2d Premium in Elementary Science.
Wilbanks, T.—1st Premium in 1st Geometry.
Young, W.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic (2d Div.); 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Mention in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine (2d Division); Mention for 3d Violin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Ackerman, F.—4th Premium in 5th Reading; 7th Premium in Penmanship; 6th Premium in Orthography.
Bates, B.—1st Preminm in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; rst Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Blake, S.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 5th Orthography.
Barbour, J.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography; Premium in Penmanship.
Bruel, S.—4th Premium in rst Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in Vocal Music.
Burns, T.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography; 5th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Burns, J.—1st Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 6th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Brown, O.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in 4th Penmanship.	_
Boyle, A.—3d Premium in. 3d Grammar; Premium in Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Blease, C.—5th Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Connelly, H.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in Vocal Music.
Cornell, F.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.	,
Creedon, W.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Preniium in 3d Grammar.
Cohn, A.— 6th Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 1 st Orthography; 6th Premium in 1st Geography.
Connor, C.—4th Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st.Reading; 1 st Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Geography.
Connor, W.—2d Premium in 4th Geography; 1st Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in 3d Grammar.
Crandall, W.—6th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in Penmanship; 7th Premium in 5th Orthography; 2d Premium in Reading.	'	•
Crane, J.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th-Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in Penmanship.
Cudahy, J.—5th Premium in 1st Grammar; Premium in Penmanship; rst Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in rst Geography; 2d Premium in rst Orthography.
Crawford, W.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Penmanship; 3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine. ’
Crawford, A.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Christian Doc
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	'	695
trine; ist Premium in 4th Penmanship; 4th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Carter, J.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Geography.
Clark, A.— ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.
Downing, L.—3d Premium.in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; Premium for Piano.
Darand, H.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Doherty, J.—2d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Dungan, Jesse—5th Premium in ist Grammar; Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Dungan, Jas.—ist Premium in 4th 0 rthography; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in4th Geography; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Dorsey, E.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Geography.
Dempsey, J.—3d Premium in ist Grammar; Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist Orthography.
Dempsey, F.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Dench, H.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 6th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Pemanship.
Dodson, C.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Elkin, M.—2d Premium in Penmanship; 4th Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Geography; 4th Premium in ist Orthography.
Elkin, E.—ist Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist Orthography; 7th Premium in ist Grammar; Premium in Penmanship.
Evers, F.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Geography
Evers, G.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 5th Orthography.
Elder, J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Pre-, mium in 2d Orthography.
Finnerty, T.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; ist Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Premium in 3d Grammar.	•
Falvey, E.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography.	■
• Foster, H.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium for Piano.
Fanning, E.—3d Premium in ist Grammar; Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium In ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Geography; Premium in Vocal Music.
Furthman, E.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 7th Premium in 3d Reading.
Furthman, C.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Reading.
Furthman, W.—2d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
■ Grant, C.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic. . Greene, A.—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium ••in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Geography.
- Goodwillie, D.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in 3d Grammar.
Gregg, I.—ist Premium in 2d Geography; istPremium .in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Pre
mium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Goodman, F.—ist Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar; ' 3d Premium in 3d Geography; Premium in Penmanship.
Gerber, F.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in 3d Grammar; 7th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.	•
Girardin, W.—4th Premium in 3d Reading; 7th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.	-
Gilkison, D.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Reading; ist Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Geography.
Gray, J.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; ist Premium in 3d Penmanship. .
Hendrv, H.—ist Premium in rih Reading; 2d Premium in Orthography; 2d Premium m Penmanship; 3d Premium in Arithmetic.
Hagus, J.—2d Premium in ist Orthography; 6th Premium in ist Grammar; Premium in Penmanship; 5th Premium in ist Geography.	-
Hamilton, W.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Penmanship; ist Premium in.3d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in 3d Grammar.
Hill, F.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Grammar;.
Henneberry. M.—ist Premium in4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Hedenberg, E.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 4th Reading; 6th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Johns, H.—ist Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Kane, J.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Geography.
Kroolman, C.—ist Premium in 5th Reading; 7th Premium in Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in Orthography.
Kirk, R.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in 2d Grammar.
Keeler, S.—2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium -in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Kaye, C.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in Christian Doctrine. ,	'
Koester, C.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in Vocal Music; ist Premium for Piano.
Kehoe, V.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; istPremium in ist Geography; istPre-mium in ist Orthography; Premium in Penmanship.
Lansing, E.—5th Premium in ist Grammar; Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 4th Premium in ist Orthography.
Levi, M.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 3d Orthography; 6th Premium in 3d Geography; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar.
Livingston, G.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Geography; Premium in Penmanship.
Londoner, H.—ist Premium in 5th Reading; ist Premium in Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in Orthography; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.	’
Lonergan, A.—ist Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 6th Premium in 4th Penmanship.	.
Lee, W.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d
696	'	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; Premium in Penmanship.
Lehnberg, B.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in Penmanship.
Marre, J.—1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Marre, A.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship; 6th Premium .in 4th Chris: tian Doctrine. '	.
Maternes,J.—2d Premium in4th Penmanship; 4th Pre mium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium.in 5th Arithmetic. ’
Marx, H.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; ’2d Premium in 2d Geography; Premium in Penmansnip.	’.
• McPhee, C.—1st Premium in 3d-Grammar; 1st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Piemium in 2d Geography; Premium for Violin.	.
Mattas, A.—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 7th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.	.	< .	.
McDonnell, F.—6th Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography. - McDaneld, E.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Reading; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 4th Premium in Orthography.	’
McGuire, S.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 5th Premium'in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 4th Pen. manship.
Mooney, H.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in Vocal Music; 1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.	-
Mayer, G.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Montague, H.—2d Premium in 4th Penmanship; 4th Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography; 6th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
McCarthy, C-—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Pre-.mium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 3d Grammar; Premium in Vocal Music.
McCarthy, J.—2d Premium in 3d Reading;. 4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 5th Premium in^th Geography.
Miller, A.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in Penmanship; Premium in Vocal Music.	.
Marr, W.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; Premium in Penmanship.
Morrison, B.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Grammar; 6th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Geography.	_■
Mestling, H.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Mestling, E.—4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Mosier, W.—4th Premium in 5th Reading. '
Nichols, W.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar.	•
Nichols, C.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Reading; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in Orthography; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Parker, F.—2d Premium in Penmanship; 3 Premium in ist Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Geography.
O’Neill, J.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Oppenheimer, H.—2d Premium in 4th Geography; 3d Premium in 3d Reading; 7th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Plautz, H.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium in 4th Geography.
Paul, L.—ist Piemium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in
ist Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Paul, C.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Powell, K.—ist Premium in 2d Geography; ist Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5 th Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in Penmanship.	'
Quill, D.—ist Premium in Penmanship; 7th Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist Orthography. '	.
. Roberts, F.—2d Premium in-2d Grammar;.ist Premium in 2d, Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; ist Premium in Penmanship; Premium for Violin.
. Seery, J;—ist Premium; in Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium for Piano.
' .Snyder, J.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium, in ist Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in Penmanship.
' Seidensticker, A.—5th Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th. Premium in 2d Prthography; 5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic	'
Stone, L.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic;. Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Steineman, G.—2d Premium in 4th Orthography; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Reading..
Stange, A.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Premium in 4th Grammar; Premium in Vocal Music. '
Staffiin, T.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in Arithmetic.
Thornton, D.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium, in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Trujillo, P.—ist Premium in 5th 2\.rithmetic; ist Premium in Reading; 2d Premium in Orthography; ist Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Wilson, L.—ist [Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Witkowsky, S.—ist Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar.
Webb, F.—ist-Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; 4th Premium in ist Grammar.
Webb, R.—2d Premium in ist Orthography; 6th Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Geography; Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
We ver, F.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic; ist Premium in 4th Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Reading;. 3d Premium in 4th Orthography; Premium in Vocal Music; 5th Premium in 4th Geography.
Washburne, V.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; ist Premium for Piano; 6th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Premium in Vocal Music.
Wilcox, D.—ist Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship;. 6th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Wilson, W.—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Orthog- • raphy; 6th Premium in 2d Geography.
Watson, T.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 7th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Waterman, W.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Orthography; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Zoehrlaut, C.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography.:
Zoehrlaut, G.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 3d.
Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
