A new idea
in smoking	Wsll H WSlF H M H ® @ ®
refreshes your taste
t
Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
menthol fresh rich tobacco taste most modem filter
It’s a new idea in smoking —a refreshing idea for every smoker. SALEM’s pure white filter brings you rich tobacco taste with new surprise softness . . . menthol-fresh comfort... a smoke as refreshing to your taste as Springtime is to you. Next time you light up — switch to SALEM and smoke refreshed.
Smoke refreshed... smoke Salem

GILBERT'S REPUTATION FOR DRESSING
N.D. MEN WELL IS BUILT ON ACHIEVEMENT
Notre Dame men have been buying at Gilbert’s for many, many years. You “second-generation students” are probably already familiar with us through your fathers. Although the Campus Shop is new, we are old-timers . . . and old friends ... of Notre Dame. Here you will find quality clothes that are comfortable, have individuality, and are in good taste. Here you will be fitted properly . . . and profit from our years of experience in selecting the right clothes for men of all ages.
o	o
^GILBERT'S
^^ampug^ho^
On the Campus — Notre Dame
October 4, 1957
CHARGE IT—
THE CAMPUS SHOP WAY
PAY 1 /3
JAN
PAY
PAY
1 / 3
MAR
i
Buy what you need at the Campus Shop, from their selection of nationally famous suits, topcoats and furnishings, and charge it the Campus Shop way. Pay one-third in January — one-third in February and one-third in March. Naturally, there is no carrying charge to pay. So, shop anytime, for whatever you need in fine men’s clothing and say “Charge it!”

4-1
DRESS RIGHT — You can't afford not to!
6)
^GILBERT'S

On the Campus — Notre Dame

1
I
4
The Scholastic
A '
a danger
an adventure
This week end the Festival of the Arts begins here at Notre Dame. This will be the fifth year of the Festival’s * existence and if history repeats itself, the turnouts for most of the activities will be quite meager. The Festival is not the only program which has faced this experience in the past. The Concert and Lecture series, departmental lectures, and symposiums generally are poorly attended at Notre Dame.	•
’ Exactly why this should be is not quite clear. Students in all of the colleges seem to find a great deal of time to spend in the local theaters, restaurants, and beer parlors. r They also have time to play cards and sports, to shoot pool and the bull. However when it comes to the matter of attending a lecture, an art exhibition, or one of the Concert * and Lecture series performances, time is suddenly nonexistent. Either this must be the case or else the small crowds must be attributed to a complete reticence on the i part of the student body to expose themselves to any form of culture. And if this is true there is a basic failure to realize the full scope and meaning of a college education.
Words like culture or concert or lecture do strangely ►. enough seem to have an omnious ring for most students. And regardless of what they may claim, this holds for the Liberal Arts students as well as those in Engineering, • Commerce and Science.
This is most unfortunate. And perhaps it is time for that vast majority who feel this way and who fail to take .> advantage of such opportunities to reconsider exactly what a college education means. Space certainly does not permit a full examination of that problem here. But some points - are certain. Anyone who came here only to attend a certain number of classes over a four year period, to take some tests, pass required courses, and eventually to receive a degree most certainly is missing the entire point of a college education. Such an attitude is downright absurd and anyone who holds it is simply wasting a good deal of time and » money. A college education should broaden a man’s horizons far beyond the simple scope of the classroom and the local pub. The true experience of education must be a sought outside the classroom as well as within. Here the value of the Festival and similar activities can be seen.
Does all this sound idealistic? If so it is perhaps because an education should be an adventure into ideas. It is not much of an adventure if it takes place only within the four walls of a classroom.
-J.S.
October 4, 1957
Tomorrow begins the home football season. A good percentage of the students have traveled to Purdue, and have already become embroiled in the annual hectic life of a ‘big football school student.’ After this week end all students will find themselves in the same situation. This situation is good. The weekly football game serves a valuable purpose in the life of the college student. It is a diversion from the daily habit of study, for even study carried to an extreme can be dangerous to well-being. But all too often we forget that the football game is a diversion. And one must remember that the first ten weeks of the semester usually determine the success or failure of the individual student.
Then here is the problem in our environment. Part of Notre Dame’s tradition belongs intimately to football. To many people Notre Dame equals football. This conception, of course, is not true, and these people, some of them students of Notre Dame, are sadly misdirected. The University primarily devotes itself to the development of the individual’s soul, intellect, and will. According to purist ideals, sports should only occupy the position of an intermural activity. Whether this is right or wrong falls out of our scope, but these ideas have been promulgated because of abuses to educational systems brought about by sports. Therefore, since we live with intercollegiate football which is firmly entrenched, and it is recognized as dangerous to our educational development, we must learn to keep it in its proper place.
Only last year in the ‘Letters’ department of die Scholastic, an upper classman expressed his disgust with Notre Dame students, because they seemed to be enjoying die game, and not living and dying with the team on die field He stated that the student body acted as ‘Ivy Leaguers’, and this would seriously impair football at the University. The following week we published a letter in rebutal of this attitude by a freshman. He said that when the students stop considering football as a game and a diversion, football as well as the students would be injured
This is the correct attitude, an attitude which one should remember. For the game should be left on the field, and the activities that accompany it should end on Sunday. They should not clutter the mind throughout the week, for study habits will be ruined and the vocation will be frustrated This subject was only treated because it is pertinent. There are other activities which are equally dangerous. Only maturity arrived at through education will extinguish die threat.
D.L.K.
5
OnCampue Mx Shulman
(By the author of "Rally Round the Flag, Boys!" etc.)
FOOTBALL THROUGH THE AGES
The football frenzy is upon us. But let us in the midst of this pandemonium call time. Let us pause for a moment of tranquil reflection. What is this great American game called football? What is its history? Its origin?
First of all, to call football an American game is somewhat misleading. True, the game is now played almost exclusively in America, but it comes to us from a land far away and a civilization long dead.
Football was first played in ancient Rome. Introduced by Julius Caesar, it became one of the most popular Roman sports by the time of Nero’s reign. The eminent historian, Siga-foos, reports a crowd of MMCLDDXVIII people at the Colosseum one Saturday afternoon to see the Christians play the Lions.
With the decline of empire, football fell into disuse. The barbaric Huns and Visigoths preferred canasta. Notun-til the fifteenth century A. D. didfootball emerge from its twilight and rise to its rightful place, in the firmament of European sports.
Which brings us to
September 29, 1442, a date dear to the hearts of all football fans. It was on this date, according to the eminent historian Sigafoos, that a sixteen-year-old lad named Christopher Columbus tried out for the football team at Genoa Tech. He failed to make the team because he was too light. (He weighed at the time only twelve pounds.)
And why, you ask, is this date— September 29, 1442—so dear to the hearts of all football fans? Because young Columbus was so heartbroken at not making the team that he ran away to sea. And if that hadn’t happened, he never would have discovered America. And if Columbus hadn’t discovered America, the world would never have discovered tobacco. And if the world hadn’t discovered tobacco, football fans never would have discovered Marlboro—which, as every
fan knows, is the perfect companion to football. And why shouldn’t it be? Look what Marlboro’s got... Filter ... Flavor ... Flip-top Box ... You can’t buy a better smoke. You can’t smoke a better buy.
the Roman
The end of football in Europe came with the notorious “Black Sox Scandal” of 1587, in which Ed Machiavelli, one of the Pisa mob, paid off the University of Heidelberg Sabres to throw the championship game to the Chartres A. and M. Gophers. It was a mortal blow to football on the continent.
But the game took hold in the American colonies and thrived as it had never thrived before. Which brings us to another date that remains evergreen in the hearts of football lovers: December 16, 1773.
On that date a British packet loaded with tea sailed into Boston
harbor. The colonies had long been smarting under the English king’s tax on tea. “Taxation without representation,” they called it, and feelings ran high.
When on December 16, 1773, the British ship docked at Boston, a semi-pro football team called the Nonpareil Tigers, coached by Samuel (Swifty) Adams, was scrimmaging near the harbor. “Come, lads,” cried Swifty, seeing the ship. “Let’s dump the tea in the ocean!”
With many a laugh and cheer the Nonpareil Tigers followed Swifty aboard and proceeded to dump the cargo overboard in a wild, disorganized and abandoned manner. “Here now!” called Swifty sharply. “That’s no way to dump tea overboard. Let’s get into some kind of formation.”
And that, fans, is how the tea formation was born.
© Max Shulman. 1957
Double your pleasure at next Saturday's yame by taking along plenty of Marlboros, whose makers briny you this column throughout the school year.
The Notre Dome
Scholastic
Vol. 99 October 4, 1957 No. 2
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
JIM STEINTRAGER
Editor
DAVID L. KUBAL
Associate Editor
JOHN GLAVIN
Associate Editor
George Clements ...... Harry McKee .......... Bob Early ............ Mike Fitzpatrick ..... Bob Williams ......... Loran Sheffer ........
.. NEWS EDITOR
.. COPY EDITOR FEATURE EDITOR ... SPORTS EDITOR ’
.... PHOTOGRAPHY
...... BUSINESS
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, at the University of Notre Dame ( Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, h Notre Dame, Indiana.
Publication Schedule for the 1957-58 school year,	:
Volume 99: No. 1, Sept. 27; No. 2, Oct. 4; No. 3	B
Oct. 11; No. 4, Oct. 18; No. 5,	Oct. 25; No. 6,	I
Nov. 8; No. 7, Nov. 15; No. 8,	Nov. 22; No. 9,	I
Dec. 6; No. 10, Dec. 13 (Football	Review); No. 11’	1
Jan. 17; No. 12, Feb. 7; No. 13,	Feb. 14; No. 14,	S
Feb. 21; No. 15, Feb. 28; No. 16,	March 7; No. 17, *
March 14; No. 18, March 21; No. 19, March 28; I No. 20, April 25; No. 21, May 2; No. 22, May 9; I No. 23, May 16; No. 24, May 23.	1
ON THE COVER: Senior Art Major Joe McDonnell captures the spirit of the Festival of the Arts which begins this week. The awed jester symbolizing the festive occasion bows back in reverence to this year’s theme, Christian Art. The entire Universe, depicted by the earth, moon, and the stars, pro- ' vides the background to this artistic devotion.
6
The Scholastic
1
•b
by MARTIN T. FRANCIS
haunting
Since I might be haunting this page during the coming weeks, I feel that perhaps an introduction would be in order. I’m Martin T. Francis. I suppose that you’ve now had time to ask youi-roommate if he’s ever heard of me. He hasn’t. For my last twenty-one years have been spent spiritually, but due to some mix-up caused by one of my ancestors marrying some witch of dubious reputation, dubious qua witch, I’m becoming a somebody. I need to communicate. My monster, I mean, my mother says that I should meet people. These have been lonely years, living, if I may use that word, in the steeple of Washington Hall. Sometimes on Saturday
nights I’d hear screaming sounds, seemed to be friendly, but they came up and spooked with me.
last year Hamlet’s father paid a
They never Once short
visit. But foi- the most part I’ve a solitary existence. Although I
have some amusements to occupied. Perhaps some of wondering about them.
In the past I hadn’t much

had did me are
keep you
desire to
explain them, but now that we’re going to be friends, and I will change if you try to accept me—I used to like to change myself. Bats, that was always my favorite form. Being a shaggy black dog was another of my favorites. Many of you would throw me bits of food when I’d lie about the cafeteria. It was usually rather overdone to suit my tastes, but I still enjoyed it. Please excuse me. I’ve digressed in the middle of a thought. I meant to tell you of some of my games. I’d like to start with Sorin Hall. It has such great spirits. Washington Hall had more atmosphere in the past, but the remodeling killed it. Forgive me. I’ve digressed again. I’m beginning to like you real people, but it’s difficult for me to become accustomed to talking.
HEAR THOSE BELLS
I*
As I began to say, perhaps you men of Sorin, both past and present, recall being entertained by the bells that rang so clearly on those early Sunday mornings—I didn’t especially like morning,
and wished they’d allow me to play them at night, nights are so much more peaceful. But those bells were beautiful, weren’t they? I enjoyed them even more than my chains. I hope they’ll allow me to continue playing them now that I’m making this transition.
Another spot on campus that I’ve always had an affinity towards is the steam tunnels. That’s where I used the chains. I am sorry the tunnels scar the lawns so brutally. It isn’t really my fault. I’d have preferred them so much deeper, but so goes life. (By Hades, I do like some of your colloquialisms.) Probably many of you upperclassmen, (Upper, that’s a word to which I must become accustomed.) have heard me down there. That is, if you’ve spent an exam-cram that’s lasted to the hours just before dawn. It’d be around five when I’d run through the tunnels with my chains. They gave such beautiful percussion. I’ve heard that it would reach, in full strength, all the way into the halls.
After I’d finish, it was tremendous to just stand still and let the rattle resound off the walls. It would pass right through me. It’s a crime that the Undergraduate Manual prohibits your presence there. With screams and moans added, moving symphonies could be created. They are awesome beyond human imagination. Or perhaps some of you have heard them in your dreams, but then dreams are such difficult things to give body. One of my uncles in England—he’s quite a historical creature, which is mostly due to his awful castle— has spent centuries in search of a method which will put flesh on a dream. He was always prowling about with Bram Stocker. They sure knew their ceme-taries and asylums. Excuse me again, please. Everything about me has such a propensity to flit about, even my conversation.
I was conjuring up some of my amusements, wasn’t I? I should mention that I left this campus on various occasions. A midnight walk around Angela and Notre Dame Avenue always afforded a pleasant diversion. I’d get such a wealthy illusion when I’d hob-nob with
you
the owners of the bigger monuments. But actually many of them seemed frustrated. The only thing they’d care to discuss was Goethe’s Faust. It was deathly boring at times. All they cared about was souls and sales, souls and sales.
PARLOR OR PALLOR
Sometimes I’d just drift about aimlessly, but on other Saturday nights—this was only when my sporting spirit was strong—I’d flont over to that sacrosanct mausoleum known as the East Pallor. A few minutes before the stroke of midnight was the greatest. The place would be packed. It always reminded me of a common grave, but I guess they are a bit more comfortable. Anyway, the place was a perfect labyrinth of bodies, so I’d make a rule that I wouldn’t pass through any of them and then see how quickly I could go from the entrance to the top of the chimney. 10:5 was my best time.
Of course, I wasn’t always so active. I’d love to spend a night with a good book. I hope that your standards aren’t too much opposed to this because I really enjoy absorbing such authors as Mary Shelley and Bram Stoker. Homer, Sophocles, and Shakespeare have more body, but their depth is edifying.
But enough of this talk about my amusements. The purpose of this article was to introduce myself and explain some of my background, so it will be easier for you to understand me. I’m really rather anxious to be a part of your world, and I hope you won’t find me too difficult to accept. This body I’m growing gives me a rather awkward appearance at times, but my old acquaintances considered me as being quite friendly. Then again, they weren’t the liveliest of groups. Anyway, I will put my whole spirit into making this transition, and in the future hope to settle down on some happenings that will be of more interest to your way of thinking. But now I have to dirty my bucks a bit. They’re such a ghostly white. Walking is such a drag on me. Until we meet again. Good night and pleasant dreams.
October 4, 1957
7
Nearer to You
Now Just a Few Minutes From Campus
— Choice Food
You can have — True Dining Atmosphere — Pure Relaxation
at the NEW
Eddie’s Dining Room and Lounge
OPENING OCTOBER 15
1345 N. IRONWOOD
Remember Eddie’s at 602’A South Walnut? . . . You’ll tike the New One Even Better.
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS*
keep alert eor a
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that "drowsy feeling” cramp your style in class ... or when you’re "hitting the books”. Take a NoDoz Awakener! In a few minutes, you’ll be your normal best... wide awake .. . alert! Yout doctor will tell you—NoDoz Awakeners are safe as coffee. Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
35taMets 1 in handy tin 1
Me
MOpOZ
4 WA K E NE RS
713 EAST LASALLE CE 3-0951
OUR SUPERBLY DELICIOUS OLD-WORLD PIZZA WAS CREATED FOR THOSE WHO ENJOY THE FINEST IN ITALIAN DELICACIES
FOR
Real Italian and American Food
Enjoy a Private Party in the Seclusion of Our Hideaway Room
AQUINAS LIBRARY and BOOK SHOP
New Catholic Books, Missals, and
Prayer Books. Religious Articles.
110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
A Non-Profit Organization
DR. N. FIZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service
309 South Michigan St.
Next to Avon Theatre AT 7-5477
8
The Scholastic

MISS CAROL LAUFENBERG
. . . to lead the ‘Embassy Waltz’. . .
YCS Plans Schedule Of Year's Projects
A general program aimed at instilling a greater degree of awareness of social responsibility in Notre Dame men is one of the various projects planned by the YCS for the coming year.
President Tom Fogarty said that the program will be used by all student groups in an attempt to facilitate the bringing about of a greater awareness of social responsibility on the part of the Notre Dame student.
Other activities planned by the YCS are a new freshmen program, an Advent symposium, closed retreats for the students, Christmas card sales, and a lecture series.
During Advent a symposium will be held for the purpose of disseminating information and aid concerning the formation and development of the student apostolate here as well as at other colleges. Also during Advent, Christmas cards will be sold to obtain money for the Holy Cross missionaries in Bengal, India.
In the spring a series of six lectures will be sponsored by YCS. These lectures will attempt to give Notre Dame students a greater- insight into their social responsibilities.
One of the main activities of the YCS will be their annual retreat to the Trappist Monastery at Gethsemani. While this is the only opportunity for the students to attend a retreat at Gethsemani, everyone will have the chance to attend a retreat at the new retreat house on the Dixie Highway.
October 4, 1957
AB AMBASSADORS TO ‘WALTZ’ IN FOREIGN SETTING TONIGHT
Bobby Davidson to Conduct 'Embassy1 Orchestra;
'Indiana Interlude,' Breakfast Are Also Planned
Flags of 35 different nations will provide a colorful background for the “Embassy Waltz” tonight as 350 Arts and Letters men and their- dates enjoy a bit of foreign atmosphere right on campus. Bobby Davidson and his 15-piece orchestra will play for the AB Ball couples from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center.
Miss Carol Laufenberg, from Madison, Wis., will reign over the activities for the week end. She will be crowned queen by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of the University. Crane Day, Junior sociology major from Independence, Kans., will escort Miss Laufenberg.
The center will be decorated with flags from 35 foreign nations plus a gigantic floral display of 40-dozen gladiolas. A red carpet will lead to the Rathskellar entrance where two doormen, diplomatically attired in ties, tails and red sashes, will greet the couples as they enter.
Marketing Club to Sell New Style Green Hats
“Watch for the change” is the new byword of the Marketing club regarding the introduction of its new style green hats to be sold around campus on or about the week end of the Pittsburgh game.
The green hat sales, a partial benefit to the annual Bengal Mission Bouts, is but one of several activities managed and regulated by the group, a campus organization of marketing majors in the College of Commerce. Directing the annual Archbishop O’Hara Lecture series is another important function of the club, states Jim Law, club president.
The annual membership drive is scheduled to end next Monday. This year’s total membership is expected to reach 75.
Tentative plans for publishing a new College of Commerce magazine, “The Marketeer,” are under serious consideration by the officers and moderator of the club.
Tomorrow afternoon the AB students and their dates will attend the Indiana game. In the evening there will be a victory dance in the Drill Hall from 8:30 to 11:30 pan. Gene Bertoncini and his Lettermen will provide the music.
A Communion Breakfast will be held Sunday morning in the Morris Inn after a special 8:30 a.m. Mass in Pangborn Hall chapel. Professor Matthew Fitzsimons of the history department will be the guest speaker.
General chairman for the dance is Crane Day. Assisting him are: Wiley Rice, publicity; Joe Milligan, bids; Brian Moran, business manager; Jim Lewis, football tickets; Bill Leininger, accommodations; John Fitzpatrick, entertainment; and Dan Ferrone, refreshments.
Late permissions for those attending the dance will extend until 2 aan. There will be no admission to the dance after 10 p.m. The car permissions have been extended this year until noon on Saturday.
The Arts and Letters Ball this year launches the 1957 Fall Festival of Arts which runs from Sunday through Friday. This year’s festival is completely described in a feature section article.
VACATION
Last week’s issue of the Scholastic incorrectly reported that the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, stated at the Purdue pep rally that the Christmas vacation would be extended two days. The Scholastic was rather hasty in reporting the story, failing to check the information with administration officials.
Father Joyce assured the Scholastic, however, that if the good spirit and sportsmanship of the student body continues there will be an official announcement in the near future granting the additional two days of vacation. This would mean that students would not have to return to classes until Monday, Jan. 6, instead of on Saturday, Jan. 4.
9
‘TIME LIMIT' CAST
Plans made for University Theatre drama
Ferrone Chosen For Role of Judge Advocate In Campus Theater Production Time Limit'
Daniel Ferrone, a junior in the General program from Newton Center, Mass., has been chosen to play the part of Lt. Col. William Edwards, the Judge Advocate, in Time Limit, a stirring contemporary drama by Henry Denker and Ralph Berkey.
The play is scheduled for Nov. 13 through 17 with a special performance Nov. 22.
Ferrone’s previous experience with the University Theater includes his roles as “Happy” in Death of a Salesman and as the romantic lead in the musical comedy Good News.
Reginald Bain, a graduate student from Phoenix, Ariz., will play Major Harry Cargill, who is officially charged with treason. Bain has played leading roles in Detective Story, The Alchemist and The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial.
Jerry Dodge in his first big dramatic
GAME TELECASTS
Tickets for the big screen telecast of the Army-Notre Dame game will be sold next Wednesday from 3 to 5:30 p.m. and from 7 to 9:30 p.m. in the basement of the Student Center. Tickets will also be sold for the Michigan State, Oklahoma, and S.M.U. games. Tickets are 50 cents for each game. The telecasts are being handled by Pat Rogers, social commission chairman.
role at Notre Dame will portray 2nd Lt. George Miller. Dodge has previously played the lead in Finian’s Rainboiv.
The part of Major General Connors will be portrayed by Michael Kennedy, who was given the title role in Macbeth last February. This past summer Kennedy participated in the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn.
Dave Shanahan will play the role of T-Sgt. Charles Baker. He is noted by ND playgoers for his singing arid dancing roles in Seventeen and Good News.
Wife of the major on trial, Mrs. Mary Cargill, will be played by Georgia Ann Weber, a senior at St. Mary’s College. She has previously appeared in Death of a Salesman, Heartbreak House and Midsummer Night’s Dream.
Meg Nerad, a sophomore at St. Mary’s, will play the part of WAC Corporal Jean Evans, the Judge Advocate’s secretary.
Other members of the cast are Bill Chesson, James Cooney, Gerry Broderick, Jerry Sebold, Norman Ornellis, Bill De Seta, Lee Legassie, Frank Draine, Ed O’Malley, Felix Isherwood and Frank Nocozy. Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., is directing the play. He is assisted by Fred Syburg. Gilbert Rathburn is Technical Director.
Today will be the last day of season ticket sales for this year’s three University Theater productions. The box office at Washington Hall will be open until 8:30 p.m. Prices for subscriptions are $2.50 orchestra and $2 balcony.
Law Students to Hold Practice Jury Trials
Last Saturday, the Notre Dame Law School held the first of its series of practice courts in the Federal Building in South Bend.	'
The practice courts are conducted by Honorable Luther Swygert, Judge of the U. S. District Court for Northern Indi- K ana and Edward F. Barrett, Law professor at Notre Dame. There will be a total of nine jury cases tried this semester. They will be conducted on Saturdays when there are no home football games.
FOR PRACTICAL TRAINING	'
The program is designed to give seniors in the Law School some practical training in the trial of jury cases. Every senior is required to try a complete jury case, extending from interviews with clients and witnesses, to the entry of the , judgment. The clients and .witnesses in the cases are people from South Bend who have volunteered their • time. The juries will consist of freshman law students and girls from St.’ Mary’s College.
The Law School has acquired the use of the U.S. District court room in the 4 Federal Buidirig to try the cases through the courtesy of judge Swygert and Honorable Robert Grant, also of the U.S. District Court. Judge Swygert has been a member of the faculty since 1953. Both men are graduates of the Notre Dame Law School.	.
Professor Barrett has prepared a set of rules of procedure which the students , must follow in preparing and trying their cases. He is.- also in charge of preparing the’ testimony in the cases, all of which are’ different.
Seniors to Vote Tuesday " For Patriotism Award	।
Balloting for the annual Patriotism	*
Award by the senior class will take place next Tuesday night from 10 to 12 p.m. in the senior halls. Nominees for the , balloting were chosen by the seniors last * * spring.
Off campus seniors have been mailed | their ballots for the award. These bal- < lots must be returned by Wednesday in order to figure in the voting.
The winner of the Patriotism Award will speak at the annual Washington Day exercises of the Senior class next February.
Among those nominated for the award are: Francis Cardinal Spellman, Francis O’Malley, Jacques Maritain, Henry Cabot Lodge, Vice-President Richard Nixon, and Louis Armstrong.	'
10
The Scholastic
Knights Paint Walsh Hall Offices, TV Room; Drive For New Members Now in Full Swing
'A
The Knights of Columbus office and •< television room in the basement of Walsh f,.k Hall have recently been given a new paint job and general rennovation. I Labor for the project has been completely done by the members of the local council.
The local campus council, No. 1477, opened its annual membership drive last b Tuesday. Carl Edmundson, a junior in commerce from Braidwood, Ill., is chairman of the council’s membership drive. He will be available in the Walsh Hall * offices from 4-5:30 p.m. every week day to meet anyone who has any interest in the Knights of Columbus and to discuss , possible membership with them.
Bob Porst, a senior economics major from Sturgis, Mich., and Grand Knight of the local council, has asked that any ; H student who has any questions about the K. of C. or anyone who feels that he might like to join the local group to drop in and inquire about the K. of C. ' ’ with the membership chairman. Students are reminded that to inquire about the K. of C. brings with it no obligation b to join.
The local council had its first meeting of the school year last Monday evening in its Walsh Hall offices. At this time " • the officers for the coming school year were installed.
Besides Porst, council officers installed at last Monday’s meeting were Deputy Grand Knight John Higgins, senior in , 4 commerce from Detroit, Mich.; Chan-celor Bob Loeffler, senior commerce student from Elmsford, N. Y.; Warden ■ Ken Boone, junior commerce student ' J from Louisville, Ky.; and Advocate Ken
WALSH HALL PAINTERS K of C men redecorate basement
Heineman, senior in commerce from Kokomo, Ind.
Other officers installed included Treasurer Jim Waldron, senior commerce student from Montclaire, N. J.; Inside Guard Frank McCormick, junior in commerce from Pensacola, Fla.; and Outside Guards Ken Kolady and Tom Moyna-han. Kolady is a junior liberal arts student from Sturgis, Mich., while Moyna-han is a sophomore commerce student from Indianapolis, Ind.
The local campus council is the largest and oldest college council in the United States and is one of the largest councils in Indiana. It received its charter in 1910.
Michigan State Contest Planned For Senior Trip
The class of ’58 will leave on Nov. 8 for the annual Senior Trip to the Michigan State game at East Lansing, Mich.
Originally, the trip had been planned for the Oklahoma contest, Nov. 16, but due to a cancellation of charter service by TWA the date of the trip has been changed to the week end of the Michigan State game.
Room reservations have already been made and meal facilities have been arranged. The students will leave Friday afternoon, Nov. 8, and will arrive back on campus Sunday night, Nov. 10.
Ticket information will be released in next week’s Scholastic.
Blue Circle Schedules Dates For Senate, Hall Elections
Vick Clesi, Blue Circle elections committee chairman, has announced that campus elections will be held on Thursday, Oct. 17. The polls will be open from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 6 p.m.
Nominations for the offices of hall senator, hall president, off campus senator, and hall council officially opened last Tuesday, and will close at 6 p.m. next Thursday.
Nomination forms can be procured in the Student Senate office and the completed forms should be turned in to the committee chairman in 205 Walsh before closing time Thursday.
Candidates must possess a minimum general average of 80 and a satisfactory disciplinary record. They must also have 30 signatures and addresses from their hall on the official nominating form.
Senate Set to Present First of ’Big Names'
The New York Company of the comedy stage play, No Time for Sergeants, direct from two seasons on Broadway, will be brought to the Notre Dame campus by Maurice Evans, in association with Emmett Rogers.
There will be a single performance of the comedy in the Notre Dame Drill Hall on Wednesday evening, Oct. 16, at 8:15 pan.
There are a limited number of tickets at student prices available at the box office in Washington Hall. These will go on sale Monday and Tuesday from 3 to 5 p.m. The price of student tickets are $1.50, $2.00, and $2.50.
All seats will be reserved and students are urged to get their tickets as soon as possible. Those who do not get student tickets will have an opportunity to buy them at regular prices at the public ticket sale on Oct. 12 through 15 from 3:30 to 8:30 p.'m. at Washington Hali.
No Time far Sergeants is adapted by the prize-winning author, Ira Levin, from Mac Hyman’s best-selling novel about the peace time Air Force and the havoc wrought when a charmingly naive Georgia plowboy is drafted.
Mr. Evans, who is presenting No Time for Sergeants at Notre Dame, is the producer who brought to the theatre such hit shows as The Teahouse of the August Moon, Dial M far Murder, and Man and Superman.
No Time for Sergeants is the first of this year’s big name presentations by the Student Government. Pat Rogers, chairman of the social commission, expressed the hope that the student body would cooperate in helping to make the per-fonnance a success. An enthusiastic reception for No Time for Sergeants would insure the possibility of having additional “big names” in the entertainment field visit Notre Dame, Rogers said.
'Stardust1 Chosen in Poll As Favorite Dance Song
“Stardust” has been overwhelmingly named the outstanding dance selection on the Notre Dame campus in a poll conducted by the Scholastic last week end.
The poll was run at the request of the producers of the “Buddy MorrowShow” in order to determine the song the student body would like to hear played at a college dance. The winner, “Stardust,” will be played on the Morrow show next Friday night as part of a musical salute to Notre Dame on the eve of the Army game.
Close behind “Stardust” in the balloting were “It’s Not For Me To Say” and “Autumn Leaves.”
October 4, 1957
11
Flu Vaccine Administered to 1200 Freshmen; Balance of Students to Receive Shots Later
Last Monday evening, 1200 Notre Dame students received an initial injection of the Asian Flu vaccine.
The first portion of the student body to be inoculated against the highly contagious virus were principally freshmen living in halls on the school’s east quadrangle. The rest of the campus was inoculated yesterday.
Dr. Joseph B. Crowley, University physician, and director of the Student Health Service, and three other physicians associated with the University administered the vaccine to the initial group on Monday from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. at the Student Infirmary.
Infirmary personnel and priests of the University administration and faculty are also being immunized, Dr. Crowley disclosed. Those students who reside off-campus will have the opportunity to be inoculated as soon as additional supplies of the vaccine become available during October, he said. It is hoped that •eventually all students and others living •on the campus will be immunized. The University physician advises lay faculty members and other Notre Dame employees to contact their family doctor about flu shots.
Dr. Crowley emphasized that the Asian flu vaccine is being administered to students on a voluntary rather than a compulsory basis. Only students whose parents have forwarded their written consent to the University are receiving the vaccine, he said.
Parents were informed of the inoculation program several weeks ago when it appeared likely that vaccine would be available. Dr. Crowley reported that the overwhelming majority of parents have given their consent, and the cards are still coming in.
Notre Dame students are being inoculated with two one-half centimeter doses
Rev. O’Brien Plans to Run Catholic Instruction Forum
A Catholic Instruction Forum, which will run from this Monday until midDecember, is being organized under the auspices of Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House here on the Notre Dame campus.
Rev. John A. O’Brien, author of Faith of Millions, will conduct the Forum which will meet every Monday and Thursday evening at 7:30 p.m. The first meeting will be Monday night.
Non-Catholic faculty members and students are cordially invited to take part in the Forum which will be limited to a size of 80 participants.
12
of the Asian flu vaccine, according to the University physician. Some investigators, he said, have found that the two-stage inoculation produces “a better antibody response.” Administering the vaccine in two doses will make it possible for twice as many students to be
ASIAN FLU VACCINE SHOTS First inoculations
inoculated with the initial supply of vaccine, he pointed out.
The Blue Circle is assisting the Student Health Service in organizing the campus inoculation program. Serving as co-chairmen of the project are Bill McCullough and Dan Cullen. The Blue Circle also helped administer the campuswide polio inoculation program last year.
Political Science Majors To Meet Next Tuesday
The Academy of Political Science will hold its first meeting of the year next Tuesday, President Jack Carpenter reported recently.
Guest speakers, representing both campus and local South Bend politics, will be invited to the regular monthly meetings of the club. Documentary films of interest to political science majors will also be viewed at these meetings.
The aim of the Academy is to acquaint the political science major with practical applications of school work and theory in American government. The organization ran a mock presidential election last fall and that previous spring had conducted a mock nominating convention.
Academic moderator of the group is Dr. Paul Bartholomew.
Symposium Planned For Campus Nov. 8
The Committee on International Relations will sponsor a symposium on “What America Stands For,” on Nov. 8, according to a recent announcement by Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz, committee chairman.
This is the second symposium conducted by the committee on this subject. The first one was held last March.
Dr. Kertesz will lead off this second conference by reporting on the progress of the symposium up to this point.
Other speakers scheduled to appear in the program include Charles Hardin, University of Chicago, “American Agriculture”; Clark Kerr, University of California, “Labor and Management Relations in the United States”; Karl de Schweinitz, Jr., Northwestern University, “The American Economic System”; and Thomas J. Stritch, University of Notre Dame, “Film and Television in the United States.”
E. Pendleton Herring, President, Social Research Council, “Characterization of the American Political System”, and Guy B. Johnson, University of North Carolina, “Freedom, Equality, and Segregation,” will be the final two speakers.
A round table discussion will conclude this portion of the symposium.
Fellowship Information Supplied to 60 Seniors
Approximately 60 seniors attended a meeting in O’Shaughnessey Hall last Monday evening where they received information on available fellowships.
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., AB dean, and Professor Frank O’Malley talked to the group about the various financial aid programs that interested seniors could apply for.
Information was given on the Woodrow Wilson, Danforth, Kent, Marshall, Fulbright, Root-Tilden (law), Rhodes, and Cavanaugh (law) fellowships and scholarships.	,
In the past six years, Notre Dame graduates have been awarded eight Fulbright grants and six Danforth fellowships. Since 1953, twelve Woodrow Wilson awards have been given to graduating seniors.
Father Sheedy emphasized that the past successes of Notre Dame graduates in securing post-graduate help should encourage seniors to apply for these grants.
Many of the application deadlines are late this month or early in Novembei-and all interested seniors are urged to contact Father Sheedy and to make all necessary arrangements soon.
The Scholastic
SHORT STORY WRITERS
If there are any aspiring writers of short stories on campus who would like to have their work considered for publication in the Scholastic, they are asked to send them in to Scholastic Feature Editor, Box 1 85, Notre Dame, Ind., or bring them to 331 Keenan Hall.
Over 750 Purchase Student Trip Tickets
Over 750 tickets were sold in two and a half hours for the student trip to the Army-Notre Dame game in Philadelphia on Oct. 12. It was originally planned that the tickets would be on sale for two nights, but the response was so great that the supply was soon exhausted. The line started to form over an hour before tickets went on sale the first day.
There were only 500 tickets for admission to the game available, so the remaining tickets were only for transportation, lodging, and miscellaneous expenses. Of these, about 120 went to band members and cheerleaders, whose fare is paid for by the University and who need no ticket of admission to the game. The other 130 will supply their own tickets.
The train, which will consist of 22 units, including 15 coaches, will leave at 5:40 p.m. on Friday, from South Bend. Buses will leave from the Circle at 5 p.m.
WAITING FOR ARMY
Long line for student trip tickets
'Who's Who' to Begin Campus Nominations
Distinguished seniors and graduate students about to receive their diplomas will either nominate themselves or be nominated by anyone in the student body for the National Intercollegiate Honor Society, “Who’s Who,” during the next three weeks.
Letters asking for nominees will be sent to the deans and members of the faculty along with the various campus organizations such as Blue Circle, YCS, College Advisory Board, Student Law Association, and WSND. Nonetheless, anyone in any year of school may make a nomination. Any senior or graduate student in his final year, who is distinguished in scholarship, extra-curricular activities, or leadership is eligible.
Nominations, which close Oct. 25, are to be turned in at Father Norton’s office, to 355 Sorin, or in ballot boxes in the Main Building and the LaFortune Student Center. The nominations should contain the candidate’s qualifications and his campus address.
The heads of important campus organizations each choose an outstanding junior. These juniors form an electoral board which selects the 32 seniors to represent Notre Dame.
No refunds will be given, but students may sell tickets through an official waiting list. Those interested should contact Walt Huurman in 411 Walsh.
The total budget for the trip is expected to run about $32,000.
University Announces End of Short Classes
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vicepresident of academic affairs, announced recently that the practice of reducing to 35 minutes the class periods on mornings of home football games will be discontinued. For the future these classes will be taught for the full 50 minute periods.
Notre Dame will remain on Central Daylight Time throughout October, and the Indiana and Pittsburgh games will start at 2:30 p.m. On October 5 and 26, therefore, classes will be scheduled as on every other morning, from 8:30 to 12:20.
In November the University will return to Central Standard Time and hence on the mornings of the Navy and Iowa games, Nov. 2 and 23, the 11:30 class will be shifted back to 7:30. The 8:30, 9:30 and 10:30 classes will remain on regular schedule. The Southern California game on Nov. 30 falls within the Thanksgiving vacation.
Hohmann Selected to Head Campus NROTC Battalion
William Hohmann, a senior from Chicago, Ill., has been selected as the battalion commander of Notre Dame’s NROTC unit for the fall semester.
Other seniors who received appointments as midshipman officers for this semester were: George Navadel of Buffalo, N. Y., battalion executive officer; Michael Gleason of Gilmore City, Iowa, battalion operations officer; Joseph Ryan of Columbus, O.; Joseph Heimo-ski of Chicago, Ill.; Thomas Bartholomew of South Bend, Ind.; and Edward Conroy of Philadelphia, Pa., as company commanders.
Glee Club Performs Tuesday In First of Campus Concerts
The Notre Dame Glee Club will open the first of their three campus concerts next Tuesday at Washington Hall. There is no admission charged at the campus concerts but tickets for reserved seats must be obtained at the box’ office at Washington Hall prior to the concert.
Projected plans for the club include a trip to Cleveland, Ohio, where they will sing for the Ursuline College Alumnae Association at the Music Hall of the Public Auditorium. The club will sing with soloist, William Lewis, the famous tenor, according to Warren Ginda, publicity manager for the club.
Franz Scheuermann, a fifth year architect from Westfield, N. J. is the president of the group for the 1957-58 season. Daniel H. Pedtke is beginning his 22nd year as director.	•
October 4, 1957
13
ARMBRUSTER, BREUNER AND CAIOLA EXHIBIT GERMAN GARB
Exchange Student
by WALLACE JONES
Iast May, while most Notre Dame students were cramming for final exams, three seniors were just beginning their semester. The three were Bob Caiola, Charlie Armbruster, and Dick Breuner, all chemistry majors in the school of science. They were starting theii- semester at Heidelberg University in Germany.
The three arrived in Heidelberg at the end of April, and found the surroundings different but pleasant. They found no campus like that of Notre Dame; rather, the university was spread all over the town. As one of them put it, “The whole town lives for the University. They’re all for the students.”
Classes started on May 2, and to the three, they seemed much like our own, with a few differences. The lectures
were in German, of course, but there were other things peculiar. Charlie had this to say, “When the teachers enter or leave the room, or if he makes a funny remark, the students stamp their feet and bang on the desks—it’s a show of respect and the teacher would be hurt if they didn’t.”
While the universities here in the states have a select program of courses for each degree, the Germans do it quite differently.
“Everything is based on one exam. You take one very comprehensive exam for your degree, and that’s all. Instead of them telling you what courses to take, you take what you think will best prepare you for this exam. If you know one course pretty well you skip it. You
don’t have to take things you already know. So if you pay your tuition and pass the exam you’ve got the degree.”
The tuition is about seventy-five cents an hour or about sixty dollars a semester, and the subjects are much the same as ours. There is no required homework or periodic tests; most of the studying is done between semesters, which are short for that purpose. There are two semesters a year: the summer semester, from the beginning of May to the end of July, and the winter semester, from the beginning of November to the end of February.
The three quickly picked up German customs and the language. “We’d all had some beginning German, so we caught on to the bulk of it pretty quickly. It’s not hard when everyone else is speaking it.”
When interviewed by the Scholastic, the three were dressed in a manner
which might shock a visitor to g serene campus like that of Notre Dame. They each had on a red, white and blue striped r beanie-type hat, leather shorts, and sandals. “This thing is called a capchen, said Charlie, pointing to his head. “It’s the typical pledge’s fraternity cap.” ■ He pointed out that the American fraternities are a direct model of the German fraternities. “The pants are lederhosen, guaranteed to last for twenty-five years. You can wear them for anything but the most formal occasions.”
The foreign students have no trouble " being accepted into German society. Out of the 6,000 students at the University, about 800 are from foreign countries, and a fourth of these are from the ; United States. “We had two apart- « ments and the landladies treated us just like sons.”	■
“The students from one country don’t I stick together. Our friends included students from India, France, Italy, and three girls from Sweden. They were all taking the same courses we were, and had pretty much the same interests.”
The mensa, or dining hall is the meeting place for students. “You pay for each meal as you get it. There are three types of meals: one costs ten cents, one for twenty, and one for forty.”
“There was always something doing. There’s an old castle called the Schoss-Heidelberg, or der Schoss; they had plays in the courtyard and ‘blew it up’ once a year with fireworks. The municipal center in town had everything up to grand opera. They had American movies in town—it was funny, you’d walk in and see Jimmy Cagney talking in German. Of course, someone was always having a party.”
After finishing the semester at the end of July, the three took off on their motor scooters to see the rest of Central Europe.
14
The Scholastic
The Incredible
Easter Egg Caper
by JOE PULEO
ONCE upon a time, but not too long ago, in the land of Way Up There, there was more excitement than there had been for many years. Not since Cinderella slipped out at the Prince’s Ball, or even since Wicked Witch slipped Snow White the apple with the mickey in it had the countryside been in such an uproar.
And no one knew how to solve the problem. Not Fairy Godmother, Dumbo, or even Little Red Riding Hood, who is by no means a dumb broad, was able to nail the culprit.
The trouble was that someone was running counterfeit Easter eggs into the surrounding land and seriously cutting down on Easter Bunny’s business. It wasn’t too bad at first. But now things had gotten to the point where something had to be done, since Easter was only two days away. If this thing continued, a whole tradition might be busted.
The night before, all of the citizens had gathered together at Hen House Hall to see what could be done. The best solution was that suggested by Mother Goose, leader of Way Up There’s social set. They would appoint one man to investigate the crime and track down the offender. And the man that they picked to do this was Chicken Little.
Now Chicken Little is not the same fellow that he used to be. He no longer worries about the sky falling in and such things as that. In fact Chicken Little is not even a chicken anymore, but was appointed Head Rooster in the last city election, which is quite a step up the social ladder for any. chicken.
Anyway, C. Little picked two other fellows to help him dig into the crime. They were Doc, a dwarf that is boss down at the HI-HO—HI-HO Diamond Mine, and a certain M. Mouse who had done quite a bit of police work in his time.
The next day, Little and his men announced to the community that they had narrowed the suspects down to two men,
but were withholding names until they had their- man for sure.
The secrecy could have been done away with though, since it was a well known fact that only two people in the community would do anything as bad as pass phony Easter Eggs. And either or both of them had to be the criminal.
These two hombres were, of course, Big Bad Wolf and Br’er Fox, mean characters in anyone’s book. The problem was that they were as sly as they were bad and it would be indeed tough to pin any kind of a rap on them, much more a bum Easter Egg one.
But C. Little and his cohorts set out to get their man. The first thing that they did was to gather up a basket of the bad eggs. They went over each carefully, checking them for paw prints, noting their size, their quality of coloring, and looking for any clue that might lead them to the wrongdoer. But to no avail. They were up against a smart operator. From outward appearances they looked like genuine Easter Eggs. Each of them was colored gloriously, but their coloring was of an inferior grade and it rubbed off easily. They even checked them under Doc Owl’s microscope, but this didn’t help either.
Chicken Little was dismayed. His only chance now, was to pull in the suspects and question them with the hope that the guilty one might break down and confess.
So off went Doc and M. Mouse to bring in Wolf and Fox. Wolf was found in the woods as usual. But Fox wasn’t at his usual hangout, The Hole. They finally found him down at Remus’ pool hall and shoe shine stand shooting a game of eight ball by himself. The reason he was playing alone was that his only friend, a certain Br’er Ba’ar, was out of town attending a Porridge Convention. So Br’er Fox was alone when M. Mouse and Doc walked in.
“O.K. Fox, we’re taking you in,” the rodent said.
“What is this noise, Mickey Mouse?” Foxy snarled.
“No noise,” Mickey answered, “just a pickup. We’re booking you on suspicion for the phony Easter Egg caper.”
“We’ll see. You guys don’t have a thing on me. Not a thing.” Foxy was getting hot under the collar.
“Let’s go,” M. Mouse said quietly as he shoved Fox towards the door.
Back at the Oak Tree, which had been set up as headquarters for the investigation, C. Little already had B. Bad Wolf in the private office.
“All right, Wolf, we know its either you or Fox that’s peddling the bad eggs. Either you tell us what you know or, so help me, I’ll boil your hide like Pig did,” Chicken squawked.
“I don’t know nuttin’,” Wolf shot back, “not a ting.”
Just then Mouse brought Fox into the room.
We picked him up at the pool hall, Chief, he says that he’s clean.”
“So does this one,” Chicken answered, “but it has to be one or the other and maybe both.”
The Fox sat down next to Wolf and they traded hesitating glances. Neither showed any signs of guilt.
“Okay, now, one at a time, tell me what (Continued on page 23)
October 4, 1957
15
YCS and Service
by TOM LAMONT
“Hey, Joe, can you get this Math?”
“I haven’t got that kind, Tom.”
“Well it looks like bye-bye on this course.”
“Why don’t you get a tutor?”
“What do you think I am, a millionaire? They probably don’t have them up here anyway.”
“Yes they do! They have a tutoring service up here, and probably most people don’t know about it.”
Last year Mr. Burke, the Student Advisor, decided that a tutoring system would be one of the best ways to help a student who was deficient in one of
his studies. It originally started as a small one-man job. The student would come in to see Mr. Burke, and if he thought the situation needed a tutor, he obtained one.
All at once the situation got out of hand. There were too many students to take care of, so this year the YCS stepped in and offered to take the job away from Mr. Burke. Now the YCS is running a campus-wide tutoring service. This is undoubtedly one of the greatest helps a student would ever hope to uncover at Notre Dame.
The YCS has turned the tutoring serv
ice into a swift efficient organization. Within two days they are able to obtain the tutor you wish at the specified hour.
This year Roy Wessel of the YCS has been appointed the person in charge of these activities. If you wish a tutor, you walk into the YCS office in the Student Center. There you tell them what course you wish a tutor in and how long you wish the tutor. Within two days you have the tutoi- of your subject. The rates are very reasonable, $1.50 per hour, and you can be assured that the tutor you receive will be the best, since one cannot be a tutor without having at least a ninety average in that subject or else be on the Dean’s List.
When the YCS gives a student a tutor they must, in the first place, contact the professor of that class in which the student wishes tutoring. This is a safeguard against you sneaky students who will employ the tutor to do youi- homework. Also, they must be sure that the tutoi- is capable of the work.
So now the student, who might have gone “bye-bye” in the past, is getting a much better chance in some course which would be giving him a hard time. Notre Dame has come a long way from the past, they have built themselves into one of the finest universities in the country. This tutoring service is just one example of the services they offer to turn out the Notre Dame Man.
YCS TUTORING SERVICE IN ACTION
Festival Feature
Tom O’Regan, program director of WSND, has announced plans for the campus radio station to broadcast por- b tions of the forthcoming Fall Festival of | Arts.	|
The broadcasts, which	will	originate	I
directly from the Art Gallery of the	I
O’Shaughnessy Building,	will	begin on	J
Sunday afternoon with a formal introduction to the AB Festival. The program will include interviews, classical music, opera, drama, and poetry readings * from 1 until 5 p.m.
Afternoon concerts from the Art Gallery will be carried on the air waves by WSND from 3 to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday.
Professor John Nims’ lecture on Dante will be broadcast on Wednesday night * at 8 p.m. WSND will also broadcast Rev. William McAuliffe’s lecture and demonstration of the development of the . Gregorian Chant on Thursday evening at 8 p.m. The Moreau Seminary Choir will assist Father McAuliffe in the musical presentation.
16
The Scholastic
Early Christian Theme:
Sunday, October 6, marks the opening of another annual Fall Festival of the Arts on the Notre Dame campus. This year’s festival has for its theme “Early Christian Art.”
The festival, organized under the supervision of the College of Liberal Arts and its Dean, the Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., should be one of the most interesting ever held here. It is scheduled to run through Thursday, October 10.
COPTIC CARVING OF A SAINT
The Festival exhibition includes more than one hundred and twenty pieces of art of the early Christian era, obtained this summer by the Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the University’s Department of Art. Father Lauck made an extensive tour of Eastern art centers in the United States this summer. He persuaded such institutions as the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the D’Arcy Museum in New York, and th*e Chicago
by Michael Mathews
Art Institute, to loan pieces for the exhibition. Father Lauck also received several works from the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore, which recently held one of the nation’s largest displays of Christian art. Many of the pieces which Father Lauck obtained from other museums and from pi-ivate collectors were also shown in the Walters exhibition, which speaks well for the interest that our own festival should demand this year.-
WIDE FIELD
The festival’s display will take in a wide field of art works this year: tapes- . tries, glassware, a few paintings, some sculpture, and various metal works such as chalices, reliquaries, and the like. Father Lauck and Mr. Paul Byrne, curator of the University Gallery, both made special note of the fact that almost all of these objects are ten to fifteen centuries old.
Some objects which should be of unusual interest include a silver cross, bearing several inscriptions of historical significance. This piece was loaned to the University by Maurice Bonnefoy, a New York art dealer, who discovered the cross himself in Spain, and estimates that it originally came from ninth-century Constantinople.
Mr. Bonnefoy also provided a pink stucco-head for the Festival exhibition. He theorizes that this piece is a portrait of some deceased person, since it was a custom of the early centuries to place some sort of portrait of the deceased in his casket. From a study of the materials and techniques used in this
October 4, 1957
IT
WILBUR D. PEAT
AN OBSERVER
SILVER CROSS
1957 Fall Festival of the Arts
SUNDAY
2:00—5:00 p.nr. Art exhibit, University Gallery.
2:00 p.m. John Walker, Director, National Art Gallery, Washington,
D.C., “Christian Art in the National Gallery.” University
Gallery.
MONDAY
2:00—5:00 p.m. Art exhibit, University Gallery.
8:00 p.m. Wilbur D. Peat, Director, Herron Art Institute, India-
napolis. “The Arts of the Early Church.” University
Gallery.
TUESDAY
2:00—5:00 p.m. Art exhibit, University Gallery.
1:30—5:30 p.m. Film showings:
IMAGES MEDIAEVALES
LEGEND OF ST. URSULA
Student Center Amphitheatre (continuous showings).
8:00 p.m. Robert A. Leader, University of Notre Dame, Art
Department. Gallery Tour. University Gallery.
WEDNESDAY
2:00—5:00 p.m. Art exhibit, University Gallery.
'8:00 p.m. John F. Nims, University of Notre Dame, English
Department. University Gallery, The Divine Comedy:
Regions beyond philosophy.
THURSDAY
2:00—5:00 p.m. Art exhibit, University Gallery.
8:00 p.m. (Rev.) Wm. McAuliffe, University of Notre Dame, Music
Department. Lecture and Demonstration of the Develop-
ment of Gregorian Chant (Moreau Choir accompanying).
FRIDAY
2:00—5:00 p.m. Art exhibit, University Gallery.
(This exhibit may be seen at these times throughout the month of October).
◄

portrait, Mr. Bonnefoy has even been able to place the portrait as the type used by middle-class family in the funeral ceremonies.
Another feature of the exhibition is a collection of third-to-fifth century Syrian glassware, obtained from Mr. Mitchell Samuels of the French company in New York. This glassware is specially valued for its beauty. It seems
that in the destruction of many ancient cities, objects such as this glassware were buried in the rubble. When they were unearthed centuries later, it was found that the quality of the Syrian soil had imparted an iridescence to the glassware which gave it an unusual beauty. Two pieces of outstanding quality among the Festival’s display are a paid of Pilgrims’ flasks, which the anci-
18
The Scholastic
ents used to carry with them to the shrines of various saints. The flasks were then used as containers for holy water or holy oils to be carried home. Father Lauck mentioned that these flasks point up a similarity in devotive practices over the centuries, since the people of today do much the same things at such shrines as Our Lady of Lourdes.
The Festival also features a display of Coptic textiles. The largest single collection of these weavings comes from Jacob Hirsch, a New York art dealer. This group is outstanding for the fineness of the threads used in the woven materials, and also for the beauty of the dye used in this early age. The majority of the weavings are believed to have been done in a period from the third to the seventh century.
CARVINGS
Another Coptic piece is a fragment of a fifth-century carving of a saint. Father Lauck explained that the Copts were the inhabitants of North Africa from the third to the ninth century. He continued to say that the Copts have recently been recognized for their great contributions to the field of early Christian art. He pointed out that the statue which the Festival will exhibit shows clear signs of influencing the Romanesque art of the tenth century, as found in France and throughout Western Europe.
Also to be in the Festival’s exhibition
resentation of an early Christian monk or philosopher.
Mathias Komor, another New York collector, loaned the Festival a fifthcentury marble sculpture of Christ as the Good Shepherd. This is reputedly one of the earliest themes of Christ as portrayed by Christian sculptors, and this particular piece shows strong influences of both Greek and Roman styles.
All but four of the art pieces to be shown at the festival are originals. The four* exceptions are remarkably accurate replicas of Irish pieces. The originals are now in the Dublin National Museum. Outstanding among these pieces is a reproduction in silver and gold of the Ardagh chalice, which is still used as a pattern for chalices today. This piece is magnificently wrought, and even the inside of the base is decorated lavishly. A system of mirrors will show this base in the Festival display.
LECTURES
But the exhibition is not the only high point of this year’s Festival. In addition to the art display, the Festival committee has arranged to have several noted scholars in the field of art deliver lectures during the course of the week.
One of these men is Mr. John Walker, director of the National Ari Gallery in Washington, D. C. Mr. Walker, who was chief curator from 1939 until his appointment to the position of director last
JOHN WALKER
year, has been involved in art work of this sori since his undergraduate days at Harvard, when he and two classmates organized the Harvard Society of Contemporary Art, a gallery devoted to the showing of the most advanced modern art.
Upon graduating from Harvard summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa, Mr. Walker went to Italy to study under Bernard Berenson. He returned to the
is a large bust, loaned by Piero Tozzi, a collector in New York. Tozzi recently found this object in Italy, and estimates it to be a fifth or sixth century piece. Tozzi was especially interested in the piece because it shows clearly the transition in the Roman era from the pagan style of sculpture to the more Christian mode. The bust is presumably a rep-
THE GALLERY
FIFTH CENTURY BUST
October 4, 1957
MADONNA AND CHILD
United States three years later, in 1933, and engaged in local politics in Pittsburgh for a brief year. But the next year he went back to Italy to become an associate in charge of fine arts at the distinguished American Academy in Rome. He stayed there until 1939, when he became chief curator of the National Gallery.
Although Mr. Walker is one of the leading men in the field of gallery art
THIRD TO FIFTH CENTURY SYRIAN GLASSWARE
work, he has retained his ability to communicate with the “layman” on art in terms which he can understand. This ability, coupled with Mr. Walker’s vast background in dealing with the arts are a guarantee that his lecture on Sunday afternoon, which will open the Festival, will immensely benefit those who attend it.
Another prominent museum director comes to speak at Notre Dame Monday
evening in the person of Mr. Wilbur D.	:
Peat, Director of the John Herron Art	I
Institute in Indianapolis. Mr. Peat at- ' tended Ohio Wesleyan University and went on to graduate studies at the Uni- ,1 versity of Chicago, the Cleveland School of Art, and the National Academy of Design Schools in New York, as well as the Art Students’ League. Following this, he went to Paris for further work.
OTHER LECTURES
Mr. Peat became the director of the Akron Art Institute in 1924, and in 1929 came to Indianapolis to take up his present position. Those who hear Mr. Peat’s lecture, “The Arts of the Early Church,” should come away with some interesting thoughts on the subject, for Mr. Peat, too, has a great deal of talent as an interpreter of the arts to the “layman.”
Although the Festival of the Arts is under the auspices of the Liberal Arts College, it is primarily a student-organized function. This year’s chairman is George Oess, a Dean’s List Senior in Political Science. He is also a member of the AB Advisory Council. Oess is assisted by two other seniors, Joe Fer-rone and John Steczynski. The Festival Committee feels that this year’s display and lecture schedule should be one of great interest and importance to the student body, since it has the dual value of being a fine artistic collection as well as an opportunity to see some concrete aspects of the early Church through its art.
MARBLE GOOD SHEPHERD
20
The Scholastic
At the Movies
COLFAX
Jet Pilot: In the making for nearly a decade this film has many people anxiously waiting. Breathtaking in its portrayal of the dangers of a super-j sonic air jockey it is an awesome display of the technological advancement of our age. Its only failing is that the advancement of technology in the world today is so rapid that this show is outdated already.
GRANADA
The Story of Esther Costello: The advertisements say “Don’t tell your friends what happens to this girl,” and is marked FOR ADULTS & MATURE k ADOLESCENTS ONLY. If you’re good at keeping secrets and fit the qualified category then perhaps this is the show for you.
STATE
Tammy & Bachelor: (A-l). Anyone that enjoyed Debbie Reynolds in The Tender Trap is bound to enjoy this film. Surprisingly Debbie shows exceptionally fine acting ability which is enhanced even further by a fine supporting cast.
’	Co-hit: Night Passage: (A-l).
Kelly and Me (Oct. 8) (A-l) : Van Johnson comes up with a lucky dog named Kelly. Every time he rubs the dog’s back he falls into a fortune a la Aladdin and his lamp. Tragedy strikes when the dog’s owner comes to claim him. But the story ends happily with Kelly running away and returning to Van.	,
Co-hit: Mister Cory (B). Tony Curtis and Martha Hyer.
'	Rock. Pretty Baby (Oct. 10). An all-star cast highlights this musical
revue. Intricate dance steps and superb orchestral arrangements add. to a well-developed plot which excellently describes the seriousness and stability of the modern high-school set. Topped off with a snack at Kewpies this would be a memorable evening.
Co-hit: Joe Butterfly: (A-2). A hilarious comedy that isn’t very funny.
RIVER PARK
Bambi. Co-hit: Yaqui Drums. Tammy and the Bachelor (Oct. 6). This creates a problem with the same show being in two theaters at once. For many the complex situation will be too frustrating to overcome.
Co-hit: Back Lash: Richard Widmark and Donna Lee. Big Rich is his usual tough guy self with Donna Lee being the beauty half of the duet. Dick takes many cracks on the noggin but Donna still sticks by him.
Fear Strikes Out. (Oct. 10). (A-l). Tony Perkins plays Jimmy Piersal of Bosox fame in the story of Jimmy’s fight to overcome his mental illness.
Co-hit: No Place to Hide: David Brian and Marsha Hunt. That’s exactly the feeling one gets when he sees this one.
AVON
Loser Takes All: That’s just what it is—a loser.
Battle Hell. (Oct. 6). The story of a cargo ship ambushed by the Red Chinese on the Yangtze River. High adventure at its best, the show is also an excellent documentary of a moment of recent history.
Let’s Be Happy. (Oct. 8). Tony Martin and Vera Ellen. Full of laughs this one should have everyone in stitches. The lunkheads will laugh with it and anyone with any sense will laugh at it.
PALACE
Pick Up Alley. Another story of today’s model modem children.
Co-hit: Parson and the Outlaw. Guess which one ends up the good guy.
House of Numbers. (Oct. 6). I doubt if the racket squad will even bother with this one.
Co-hit: Hired Gun. This one goes over with a big bang.
WASHINGTON HALL
The Silent Sea. A deep sea documentary.	—George Oess
WSND News
You switch on the radio during some leisure hours and, perhaps by choice, perhaps by chance you get WSND, the Student Voice of Notre Dame.
Broadcasting from the tower of the O’Shaughnessy building, this entirely student-operated organization utilizes the coordinated work of more than 80 people day in and day out to bring music, news and sports to the campus.
Under the direction of manager Jerry Slater, the staff is divided into nine departments which work together to see that a musical selection, commercial, or sports report reaches you on the other end of the airwaves.
Here’s how they work.
The scheduling of programs is decided by program director Tom O’Regan in connection with the chief of the traffic department, Bill Culliton. The traffic department is in charge of preparing and writing all commercials used on the station, thus having a hand in the programing. •
Once a program has been scheduled, more than likely it will need an announcer. If it is to be a disc jockey show or special event program, the chief announcer at the station, Bill Sigler, will assign one of his 13 announcers now on the staff to do the show.
However, if it is to be a news or sports report, men in these separate departments will handle the announcing, play by play, etc.
One of the most important departments at the station is the technical division which, under the direction of Bob Whearty, sets up equipment, keeps it in working order, and assigns production engineers to each program. The production engineer is the man behind the scenes who works the equipment while the announcer is broadcasting.
In charge of selling commercials to national advertisers, South Bend merchants, and campus organizations is Gerry Pastula and his sales department crew. The business department, under Jim Zilles, handles all financial transactions, while Warren Allbright’s public relations staff is in charge of all publicity and personnel work.
If you would be interested in working in any of these fields (other than as an announcer) stop up at the station any afternoon and talk with someone in the public relations department. Auditions for announcers will be held some time in the very near future.—Jim Dulan
October 4, 1957
21
A POSED PHOTOGRAPH SHOWING RADICAL TYPE OF DINING HALL APPAREL
The Coat and Tie Question
by TOM LAMONT
THE wondering freshman scratched his little head in wonderment as he walked into the new dining hall. “Gee, triple-breasted suits are coming into style. There’s Joe Good-guy, and he’s wearing yellow khakis with pink sequins and an orange sportcoat. There’s Captain Marvelous with his Davy Crockett hat and rifle and deerskins.”
And this amazement was not only characteristic of the incoming freshmen but also of every returning sophomore, junior and senior who came back to a new dining hall and to new dining hall regulations — coats and ties at the evening meals. To say that the ruling came as a complete surprise to the student body in general is to make an understatement. I have heard of no one who knew of the rule, or even its contemplation, before returning for the fall semester this year. Yet we have the rule, coats and ties at the evening meals. It is a regulation that was carefully planned out in its legislation, but somewhat mishandled in its execution. For one of the strongest objections to the ruling, if it can be called an objection at all, is that the student did not bring back sufficient clothing to meet the constant
demand for sport coats and dress shirts.
However, though this is one of the student body’s biggest arguments against the coat and tie rule, it nevertheless is one that can be remedied for most quite easily. And although it will serve as a temporary inconvenience to many of us, it is by no means a cause for even the slightest rebellion or demonstration in opposition to this new policy.
Now I am not going to say that this rule is right or wrong. Indeed it is a rule to be obeyed. It is simply my purpose here to try to show what the administration wanted and hoped when they put this policy into effect, and to show what the opinions of the students are who fall under this rule.
The administration’s stand is voiced through Father Collins, the Dean of Students.
“In the first place,” he said, “the administration did not rush into this policy on the spur of the moment. Notre Dame has used it before. The reason it was not used in recent years was that, because of the crowded and pushing atmosphere of the dining halls, it was not at all practical. It is a good thing for the simple reason that it is another
phase in the education of the Notre 4 Dame man. A man in college is supposed to leave that college and be prepared to fit into society. One does not fit into business society if he has never dressed properly. On top of that, the University is visited each year by over 100,000 people. What do they think when they see the students attending their evening meals in unkempt clothes?”
Father Collins’ opinion was followed and added to by Mr. Rockwell, the man- * ager of the new dining hall. Mr. Rockwell remarked on how the dress added to the enjoyment of the meal. “The meal is made pleasanter by the fact that the H dress makes the student more manner conscious. It gives a feeling of relaxation as the evening meal should be. t On the whole it is an immense improvement over the past.”
Now you- have heard the administration policy voiced. Perhaps you like it, * perhaps you don’t. Here is how some of your classmates felt.
It is appropriate that we start at the bottom and work up. Here’s to the freshman.
The first came out with deep, profound statement, “It’s good for a lot of laughs.”
The Scholastic
22
f. While the next insulted the first by saying that although it was an inconveni-> ence, it was a good policy for it bettered f the social attitude of the students. The x third came charging in to add, “One dollar coats don’t raise my standard of
• manners.” And so I left the freshman >> and headed for the sophomore halls.
“The way the reaction to this thing is spreading, I should think it would be better to revert to the old way.”
“I think it’s a good idea. How does anyone expect to go anywhere in business if he can’t even attempt to dress the part for a small portion of the day.”
JUNIOR OPINION
The juniors softly spoke, ranted, pounded — this “I don’t really mind it. It might have been all right if the administration had sent a notice to us so that we could have brought up our sport coats and a supply of white shirts.” “It’s the law; I do it.”
“If you’re going to do it, do it right. Don’t let the rule be a mockery or don’t ■<i have it at all.”
“I think it looks better. It gives a person a feeling of maturity.”
“I think as it stands now, it’s all right, but if they start to extend it into the classes it will turn the school into a psuedo-ivy league, and will destroy v everything that is Notre Dame.”
So the juniors had finished and now all that was left was the seniors.
“Notre Dame is supposed to be one big family. If I don’t wear- a coat and tie at home why should I wear one up here?”
“It would have been much better if they had sent us a notice so we could 'j. have prepared for it.”
“I’m always the guinea-pig.” This, obviously, was also in reference to the reconstruction policy going on in the AB school the past four years.
' “If they’re going to make a joke out of something like this, why have it at all?”
“Many people aren’t going to be able to afford the price of cleaning shirts and suit coats.”
? As you can readily see the reaction to the rule after two weeks of living with it, tends to be favorable. There are those who are unhappy about not being x forewarned of the new policy, but they are willingly accepting it. And there are those, also, who are still bitter and j sarcastic and pouting over a supposed mistreatment. However, if the ruling is to obtain the ends for which it was set up, every student on campus will have 4 to willingly submit to its demands. No regulation can be effective if there is not a spirit of cooperation in supporting that regulation. Therefore the success * of the new policy depends entirely upon the students. The administration can set up a policy, but only the student body can make it meaningful.
Easter Egg Caper
(Continued from page 15)
you know about the eggs.” It was Little that was speaking.
Fox began, “Honest, Chicken, I don’t know anything about those eggs. I may be rotten but I don’t go around passing bum Easter Eggs. I was a little fox once myself. And I still like to see the pretty green and blue and yellow and red eggs at Easter time.”
“That’s it,” Chicken shouted as he jumped to his feet. He ran from the room and in a minute was back again. As he stood in the doorway, he pointed an accusing finger and called out, “I’m arresting you for peddling bad Easter Eggs, Wolf.”
Wolf leaped from his chair. “So I did it, huh? Try to prove it.”
“You better give up, Wolf. Foxy mentioning the colors of the eggs gave it away. I know there was something about these eggs that didn’t run true. They were every color of the rainbow. Every color, that is, but one — red. So it had to be you, Wolf. Ever since your run-in with Red Riding Hood, you’ve hated the color red. And hating the color red is what gave you away.”
“All right,” Wolf was speaking, “I did it. And why shouldn’t I have? Why should Easter Bunny get all the credit for passing out those eggs? Anybody can peddle Easter Eggs. It don’t take no brains.”
“No, Wolf. It doesn’t take brains to peddle Easter Eggs. But it does take brains to know enough not to try to pass phony ones. Lock him up.”
Chicken Little pushed back his chair. He reached in his drawer and pulled out a piece of com seed and popped it into his mouth. He had got his man.
FACILITIES
LIBRARY
Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 5 pan.; Sunday and holydays, 1 p.m. to 9 pan.
ROCKNE MEMORIAL
Monday through Friday, 8 aan. to 9 pan.; Saturday, 8 aan. to 5 pan.; Sunday, 9 aan. to 5 p.m.; Swimming: Monday through Friday, 3:15 pan. to 3:45 pan. and 7:15 pan. to 8:30 pan.; Saturday and Sunday, 1 pan. to 4:30 pan.; Activities stop one-half hour before building closes.
GILBERTS
Monday through Saturday, 9 aan. to 6 pan.
BARBER SHOP
Monday through Friday, 8 aan. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturday, 8 aan. to 12:20 p.m.; Barbers leave at designated quitting time; no one will be admitted that cannot be served by that time.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANERS
Monday through Friday, 7:30 aan. to 4 p.m.
HUDDLE
Monday through Saturday, 8 aan. to 10 pan.
TREASURER’S OFHCE
Monday through Friday, 9 aan. to 12 noon and 2 p.m. to 5 pan.
WESTERN UNION
Monday through Friday, 8:20 aan. to 12 noon and 1 pan. to 5 pan. Closed holidays.
BILLIARD ROOM
Monday through Friday, 9:30 aan. to 9:30 pan.; Saturday, 9:30 a.m. to 6 pan.; Sunday, 1 pan. to 9:30 pan.
RAILWAY EXPRESS
Monday through Friday, 12:30 pan. to 2:30 pan.
POST OFHCE
Monday through Friday, 8 aan. to 4:30 pan., Saturday, 8 aan. to 1 pan. Closed holidays.
BOOK STORE
Monday through Saturday, 9 aan. to 5 pan.
BOWLING ALLEYS
Open bowling only; Monday through Saturday, 12 noon to 5 pan.
GOLF SHOP
Every day 7:30 aan. to 4:30 pan. until golf course closes; then Monday through Friday, 7:30 aan. to 4:30 pan.
October 4, 1957
23
Only Viceroy gives you
2Q000 FILTER TRAPS
FOR THAT SMOOTHER TASTE
4
AN ORDINARY FILTER
© 1957, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
Look! Viceroy gives you only golden brown tobacco, Deep-Cured through and through for extra smoothness!
THE VICEROY FILTER
Half as many niter traps in an
ordinary tip! These simplified
See the difference! The Viceroy
drawings dramatize the differ-
tip gives you twice as many filter

ence: Only Viceroy has 20,000
traps as the other two largest-
filter traps, for smoother taste!
Actual photomicrograph of ordinary filter section.


selling filter brands! Yes, 20,000
filter traps, for smoother taste! Actual photomicrograph I
of Viceroy filter section.
Twice as many filter traps as the other two
largest-selling filter brands!
Compare! Only Viceroy gives you 20,000 filter traps—twice as many as the other two largest-selling filter brands—for that smoother taste!
Plus—finest-quality leaf tobacco, Deep-Cured for extra smoothness!
Get Viceroy! 20,000 filter traps, for the smoothest taste of all!
WCEROY
k,NG-S|2e
24
The Scholastic
JnUU Seem
THE AUTHOR
I would have to cite improved line play as the decisive factor in our opening game win over Purdue. When a team can contain a fast and powerful back-A field like the Boilermakers’ that is a real accomplishment! Mel Dillard, their fullback who led the Big Ten in rushing last fall and whose running hurt us most when they defeated Notre Dame 28-14 last season, couldn’t even get started Saturday.
Coach Brennan knew we needed plenty of work on defense after last season— remember three teams scored over 40 points against us—and the boys really responded in practice last spring and this fall before Saturday’s opening game. Purdue couldn’t move past our 40 yard f line until the second half and when they did threaten in the third quarter, the whole right side of our line crashed through to nail their quarterback, Bob Spoo, for a 13 yard loss. This was perhaps the most important play of the r game.
People were saying that since our line play didn’t improve as the season progressed in 1956 that this season could ’ be just as miserable. I think we proved Saturday that the team is considerably improved over last season. The 1956 i line was primarily composed of inexperienced sophomores. Now that same group is juniors. That one year for maturity has made a lot of difference. i1* The intangible factor, spirit, with increased aggressiveness, was also an important point Saturday.
While our defense was holding the Boilermakers scoreless, it is my opinion that we should have built up more than the two touchdown margin that we won by. We had the opportunities — as
Junior Irish Quarterback Recaps
the Season's Opener and Tells
The Decisive Factor
By BOB WILLIAMS as told to Ed Rohrbach
when Aubrey Lewis intercepted that pass and raced inside their ten yard line, or when we only needed three yards in two plays to pick up a first down on their three — but we couldn’t seem to muster up the necessary scoring punch. My choice on which play to call could have been better in those particular situations. Penalties also hurt us at these crucial spots and our passing attack also seemed to fail us when we had golden chances to score.
One play that worked particularly well for us Saturday was the option play. Though it has been around several years, a prolonged fake to the fullback charging through the line has given the play added deception for us. Coach Brennan was well pleased with the way it worked against Purdue. Also, a hand
TOO MUCH COMPANY Quarterback Izo Runs the Option
off to the fullback off-tackle picked up plenty of yardage foi- us. Quick openers, which have always been a good play foi* Notre Danie, were going well too for us Saturday.
The psychological boost that this victory gave us is tremendous. This opening game win couldn’t have meant more to the team. We will face Indiana with renewed confidence tomorrow afternoon. But the whole squad knows that the Hoosiers’ resounding defeat by Michigan State last week is not at all indicative of their ability. Containing the “sidesaddle T” will give our defense quite a problem. Our offense will have to acquire a more potent scoring punch. We will have to correct the mistakes we made last Saturday to stay in the win column tomorrow.
October 4, 1957
25
LU. Pregame
by E. COLLINS THOMPSON
Irish Shoot For Second Straight Victory; Oppose Indiana in Stadium Tomorrow
Notre Dame will try to notch its second victory of the still young 1957 season when the Irish entertain the Indiana Hoosiers tomorrow afternoon. The game will begin at 2:30 p.m. (Daylight Saving Time) in the Stadium.
Notre Dame will be bolstered by the return to action of guards Al Ecuyer and Dick Shulsen, both of whom missed the Purdue game because of injuries. The backfield will probably be the same that started last week while there may be some shuffling in the line because of an injury to center, Ed Sullivan, last Saturday.
The Irish will be seeking their fourth consecutive win over the state university and their twenty-first in a series that dates back to 1898. Last year’s 20-6 triumph gave the Irish one of their two wins in a 2-8 season. With a victory tomorrow, Coach Brennan’s charges can match their entire victory output of last season. Indiana will be trying to rebound from a 54-0 shellacking administered by Michigan State last Saturday. The Spartans ran wild, running up 32
tom McDonald Side-saddle quarterback
26
first downs, a new Big Ten record, and 570 yards total offense.
The Hoosiers’ defense was the worst in the Western Conference last year. It allowed an average of 29 points per game and was exploited to the utmost by the Spartans’ hard-charging backs and sharp-passing quarterbacks. Although the Hoosiers spent most of their spring practice on defense, it still remains their most noticeable weakness.
Since head coach Phil Dickens was suspended last July by the Big Ten, line coach Bob Hicks has been installing
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP
NOTRE DAME	INDIANA
Royer...........LE .......   Gales
Puntillo ....... LT	   Rabold
Schaaf__________ LG ......  Howell
Sullivan...... C __________ Razmic
Ecuyer..........RG .......   Noone
Nagurski ....... RT......  DeMarco
Myers .........  RE	  Aloisio
Williams.............. QB .. McDonald Lewis.....................  LH.   Jones
Lynch ---------- RH	   Whitsell
Pietrosante ____ FB	   Meegan
KICKOFF—1:30 C.S.T.
2:30 C.D.T.
Dickens’ new “side-saddle T” offense. In this modified single-wing line-up, the quarterback crouches between the center and right guard, facing the left sideline. Thus, the ball can be handed to the quarterback as in the straight “T” or snapped back to the fullback or tailback as in the single-wing. This formation takes advantage of the power plays of the single-wing and the options and rollouts of the split-T. Either the quarterback, fullback or tailback can do the passing.
“We like to throw the ball,” commented backfield coach Wilbur StevenS? “Our passers showed us in the spring, they can do a pretty fair job of throwing that
MIKE RABOLD
Indiana tackle
ball. Our receivers, if not outstanding, appear adequate, and we’re apt to throw on a third of our plays and maybe a little more.”
The coaches admitted before the season started that the outlook was dim. Indiana lost 21 of 28 lettermen and has only seven seniors on the entire squad. ‘ Although the Hoosiers started seven lettermen last Saturday, most of them saw little action last fall. Only two of • those lettermen were seniors.
Most noticeable loss from last year’s team is end Brad Bomba, who led the Big Ten in pass receiving last season. With Bomba gone, the whole Indiana line is a question mark. The only bright ‘ spot in the line is junior tackle Mike Rabold, whom Stevens considers definitely an All-American possibility.	<
The backfield prospects are much better. Three returning quarterbacks give that position more depth than any other. Last Saturday Tom McDonald started 4 and was backed up by Tom Kendrick, who starred against Notre Dame last year. Steve Filipowski is anothei- quarterback possibility. All three are juniors.
Out this week with an injured knee is speedster Willie Jones. He and powerful Jim Yore stand out among the lettermen backs. Out last week with an injured knee, the strong and elusive Yore may be ready for tomorrow’s contest. . Yore came into last year’s Notre Dame game as the No. 2 fullback and amassed 100 yards in 13 carries. Yore is also a threat on kickoff returns.
Halfback Vic Jones is rated the best sophomore prospect and has worked his way into the starting line-up with his hard running and fierce competitiveness. One of the fastest backs on the team, Jones is developing into a top-flight defensive back.
The Scholastic
Irish-Hoosier Series
by Joe Bride
' The Irish and the Hoosiers have been battling on the gridiron for 59 years in a consistently one-sided rivalry.
The Hoosiers have managed to win only five of the 26 games, and tied one. They won the first game of the series | on Nov. 5, 1898, 11-5, and then won * three of the next seven contests. The two schools fought to a 0-0 tie in 1908, and Notre Dame then won 14 straight.
In 1950, the Hoosiers won their fifth and last game of the series, 20-7.
Over the years, many great and famous Irish names have stood out in contests with the Hoosiers.
In 1929, on Saturday, Oct. 5, Joe Savoldi, Jack Elder, Bert Metzger and Frank Carideo starred as the Irish won 14-0 in their season’s opener and went on to win the National Championship.
* Elder, a right half, tore around right end for one touchdown in the second quarter, and galloped 60 yards in the third period for the other Irish score. Carideo made both conversions.
ROCKNE BEATS HOOSIERS
In 1930, Rockne’s last season, the Irish dumped the Hoosiers 27-0 en route to the National Championship. The scrappy Indiana club battled the Irish to a scoreless tie at the end of the first half, but Rockne’s first squad, taking advantage of the damage created by the shock troops, scored four quick touchdowns in succession in the third period.
Three of the touchdowns came on long runs, and a fourth dash by Marchy
JACK ELDER
Scores twice in 1929
Schwartz for 78 yards lacked only two yards from being a touchdown.
Savoldi went 35 yards for a score with only four minutes gone in the second half. Three minutes later, Schwartz went 22 yards to score. Marty Brill bulled over from two yards, and a short time later raced 33 yards. Carideo made three of four conversions.
In 1941, Frank Leahy’s first team met a strong Indiana squad in their second game of the season. Sophomore halfback
DIPPY EVANS Led Leahy’s first team
Billy Hildebrand was slated to be the star of the game for the Hoosiers, but Dippy Evans, Steve Juzwik and Angelo Bertelli of the Irish combined their power, speed and passing skill to give the Irish a 19-6 victory.
The Irish scored three times, before the Hoosiers tallied and each of the scores was by Evans.
Bertelli completed five of ten passes for 120 yards in the first half to set up the first two scores. Evans circled right end for three yards for the first score and 14 yards for the second one.
In the third period, Evans gained 40 of 48 yards on an Irish drive and went over from seven yards out to score the final touchdown.
Starting for the Irish at left end and right guard respectively, were two 1941 all-Americans, Bob Dove and Bernie Crimmins, present Irish backfield coach.
When the series was resumed in 1948 the Irish were in the midst of their string of 39 victories without a loss. Quarterback Frank Tripucka, Halfback Emil (Red) Sitko, and Fullback John Penelli crushed the Hoosiers offensively as Notre Dame won, 49-0. Defensively Leon Hart, and present Irish assistant coaches Bill Fischer and Bill Walsh completely stymied the Hoosier offense, holding them to 44 yards on the ground.
AGAIN SCORE 49
The following year, the Irish again scored 49 points, as they opened the season by defeating I.U., 49-6. John Petitbon, Bob Williams and Sitko were the offensive stars, and Hart, Jim Martin and Bob Toneff were the defensive stars.
In 1950, halfback Bobby Robertson paced Indiana to their 20-7 win. Two sophomores, John Lattner and Neil Worden starred as the Irish opened their 1951 season with a 48-6 win over the Hoosiers. The Irish scored 35 points in the second period and Worden scored four times himself to pace the victory.
In the two most recent contests, 1955 and 1956, Paul Hornung was the Irish star as ND won 19-0 in 1955 and 20-6 in 1956.
In 1955 Hornung raced 33 yards on an option for the first score and passed seven yards to present Irish co-captain Dick Prendergast for the second score.
Last year, Hornung scored the first tally on a one yard sneak and passed 13 yards to Aubrey Lewis for the second
score.
; q
PAUL HORNUNG
Star of recent contests
October 4, 1957
TOUGH IRISH DEFENSE
Irish Whip Purdue
ROYER SPOILS PURDUE PASS PLAY
DICK LYNCH MOVES FOR FIRST IRISH SCORE
28
The Scholastic
Garside Fires 75-71—146 on Final 36 Holes
To Capture University Open Golf Tournament
Torn Garside, senior two-year- monogram winner on Notre Dame’s golf team, fired a 75-71-146 on the final 36 holes to capture the University Open Golf Championship last Saturday and Sunday on Burke Memorial golf course. Garside , was even par with a 284 winning total for the 72 hole tournament.
Joe Grace bettered Garside’s final 36 hole total with a 73-70-143 last week end but could not overcome Garside’s comfortable nine stroke lead he had built up over him the week end before. Grace, - who has finished second in this tournament for four straight years, was six strokes back with 290. Joe Leslie finished strong the last two days with a 74 on Saturday and a closing 71 to win third place in the championship.
There was a tie for fourth place between Tom Adamson, who had been second to Garside by five strokes after the first 36 holes, and Lloyd Syron, winner of the Michigan Amateur this summer. Syron’s 69 was the best score on the final two days of play. He and Adamson had 72 hole totals of 293.
* Garside, Grace, Adamson and Syron played together the final 18 holes. Included in the champion’s final card Sunday was one birdie and a single bogie. Grace stroked four birdies in the ideal weather Sunday to help him to his closing one under par 70.
COACH, WINNER, RUNNER-UP
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., congratulates Tom Garside as Joe Grace watches
Garside’s card for the last 18 holes: Par in........... 444	453	444-36
Garside ......... 444	443	444-35
Par out ......... 443	443	544-35—71
Garside ......... 443	443	644-36—71
Final University Golf Tournament
scores: Tom Garside .........
Joe Grace ...........
Joe Leslie _______ Lloyd Syron ______ Tom Adamson ______...
Marty Carroll .......
69-69-75-71—284
72-75-70-73—290
72-76-74-71—292
74-73-69-77—293
72-71-76-74—293
75-71-75-74—295
Coach Fallon S+ar+s Fall Tennis Practice
Fall practice for the University’s tennis team opened Monday, September 23rd, undei- the guidance of Coach Tom Fallon. Thirty netters, 15 varsity performers and 15 aspirants to the frosh team, turned out to start daily workouts which will continue until cold weather halts the practice sessions.
Coach Fallon’s principal problem this fall will be the selection of his doubles teams for the coming season. The singles berths on the squad will be filled by two returning juniors, Max Brown and Ron Schoenberg, who filled the first and third slots on last year’s team. Brown is
ranked 31st in National Men’s competition and placed eighth in the NCAA finals held last spi-ing. Schoenberg, the varsity’s newly-elected captain, moves up to the number two position on the team after the loss of Harry Smith by graduation.
Fall practice will also give Coach Fallon an opportunity to observe his freshmen talent. Within a few weeks, a tournament will be held from which the top netmen will be invited to join the frosh team. Among the more promising freshmen attending the fall practices are Donald Ralph, of Bethesda, Md., and Bill Heinbecker, of St. Louis, Mo. Ralph ranks 17th in the nation in boys’ singles competition and second in doubles play. Heinbecker, although without national ranking, was selected fourth among stiff St. Louis opposition. Both netmen have performed so well this fall that Coach Fallon is sending them to represent Notre Dame at the Indoor Boys’ Tennis Championships in St. Louis later this year.
Next spring’s schedule for the varsity netters has not been completed at the present time. Definite opponents, however, include the University of Kalamazoo, on a home-and-home basis, and the University of Michigan, which completed its 1957 season as’NCAA champs. Matches with other Big Ten universities will be scheduled at a Western Conference meeting to be held in November.
Kampus Keglers Move Into Third Week of Play
Kampus Kegler bowling moves into its third week of action on the University alleys this Wednesday evening. Two leagues will bowl that night, the first one starting at 6:30 and the second following at 8:45. On Thursday evening, two leagues will also roll at these times. The next night, Friday, only a 6:30 league will bowl although another one is in the process of being formed. It will follow the early Friday night league.
In the five leagues already bowling, ten teams are in each with an average of six players, making a total of some 300 bowlers in the Kampus Keglers. Five members compose a team plus about one substitute for each squad.
The Notre Dame Classic League, composed of bowlers with at least a 150 game average, is also presently bowling on the University alleys. The league bowls on Monday evenings. As of now, nine teams have been organized and a tenth is in the process of being formed. Five men are on each team which quantitatively must have a minimum team average of 775 and must not exceed an aggregate of 800.
October 4, 1957
29
TIME OUT
’"kWTURBOW \OPTOMETRIST
OPTICAL REPAIRS
Frames Repaired, Replaced Broken Lenses Duplicated “Bring in the Pieces”
EYES EXAMINED
207 W. Washington Oliver Hotel Phone CE 4-5777
STEAK SPECIALS — on — Tuesday and Thursday A Long-Time N.D. Favorite
Flaningo Masraiit
610 NORTH MICHIGAN Open Sunday
BREEN’S JEWELRY . . Nationally Advertised Watches, Diamonds, Silverware Men’s and Women’s Costume Jewelry
Four Ways to Buy. Cash, Charge, Layaway, Handy Charge .... Fine Watch Repairing
S25 South Michigan AT 7-3630
Order a full year’s subscription to the SCHOLASTIC for your parents and friends. Only $4.00.
Several things can be said of the opener with Purdue. The first and most obvious is the fine defensive play of the Irish line. Notre Dame consistently held the Boilermaker running attack, the strongest part of their offense. Particularly interesting was the defensive end play which was so poor last year. Dick Royer and Gary Myers played much better than last season. They kept wide plays inside the ends and also put tremendous pressure on the Purdue passers.
Notre Dame seemed much more aggressive than last season. The Irish tackled crisply, something which they failed to do last season. Gang tackling was also in evidence, reminiscent of Irish teams of the late fourties.
The Irish offense, while adequate to beat Purdue, was less impressive. However, had the pass receivers held on to three or four easy chances, the score may have been 20 or 24 to nothing.
At any rate one thing can be leai-ned from the game. That is that Irish fans can be proud of this team. The Irish may lose a few, or even several, but this is a vastly improved squad, both mentally and physically, which is going to beat some good clubs before its all over.
OPPONENTS
Irish opponents had a fine Saturday with only Indiana and Southern California losing. However both these teams are young and should improve as the season progresses. Indiana certainly picked a tough opener in Michigan State. The Indiana coaching staff said after the game that the Spartans were one of the best teams they had ever seen. Southern California on the other hand played a fine game, losing only 16-6 to a very strong Michigan squad.
The Hoosiers should be a better club as the result of their defeat, but it seems unlikely that they will be strong enough to beat the Irish. Notre Dame’s offense may jell with this one, so we’ll call it 30-6.
NUMBER ONE?
Now that the team has won a game, the familiar cry of “We’re number one” is quite likely to be heard from a few of the radicals at the rally tonight. Let’s remember though, that the cheer was dreamed up at the end of the 1954 season for a team that was number one and had proven this fact to the country. Notre Dame may be number one to us, but we haven’t as yet even proved ourselves to be number one in Indiana.
FINE RESPONSE FOR STUDENT TRIP
Congratulations should be given to the student body for its fine participation in the Student Trip. Walt Huurman, the chairman, has done a wonderful job in running the affair and has a fine week end planned for those fortunate enough to make it. I don’t think that anyone will be disappointed.
PRO FOOTBALL
Two big upsets in the first Sunday of league play make it obvious that no team is going to run away with the Pro Championship this year. The Browns are back in it after a year of rebuilding and the same can be said of the Rams and the Packers.
Tyler says that no team is going through league play undefeated and that one of the division winners may lose as many as three games.
In the East his choice is the Giants on the strength of their fine defense and balanced attack. He picks the Browns to finish second and. says that third spot is up for grabs.
Tyler is afraid of the Western Division. He rates the Bears and the Rains as almost equal, but gives the edge to the Rams with Waller, Arnett and a fine line. If there is an outsider it is rookie-loaded Green Bay.—M. F.
The Scholastic
rl
; TYLER’S PICKS OF THE WEEK TCU over Arkansas
Auburn over Chattanooga Syracuse over Boston U.
" Yale over Brown Michigan State over California Illinois over Colgate Colorado over Kansas Holy Cross over Dayton Duke over Maryland Michigan over Georgia Mississippi over Hardin-Simmons Notre Dame over Indiana Iowa over Washington State Tulane over Marquette Minnesota over Purdue Tennessee over Mississippi State Texas A & M over Missouri
* Navy over North Carolina Oregon State over Northwestern UCLA over Oregon Oklahoma over Iowa State Tufts over Bates Stanford over Rice Denver over Colorado State
' UPSET OF THE WEEK: USC over Pittsburgh
LAST WEEK:
21 Right; 2 Wrong; 2 Ties. Pct. .913.
Wrestlers Bolstered By Eleven Veterans
Bolstered by the return of all but one member of last year’s squad, the Notre Dame wrestling team hopes to improve , upon its three and seven record of last season. The Irish have lost last year’s captain, Terry Crowley. Crowley grappled in the 147-pound class for the past three seasons.
Leading the returnees from last year’s team is this year’s captain, Bob Pivonka. Pivonka wrestled in the 137-pound slot last year but will probably move up to fill the 147-pound position vacated by Crowley. Jim Rankin, a junior, will be expected to grapple in the 137-pound division. Buddy Day, a senior, will probably cover the 132-pound spot.
In the 157-pound position will be either Chuck Hensey, a senior, or Don Carbone, a junior. Mel Larsen will be expected to cover the 167-pound class ‘ with either Bucky O’Conner or Jack Armstrong in the 177-pound division. In the unlimited class will be either Bronko Nagurski, Al Ecuyer, or Dick Loncar.
Although official practice has not started, unofficial workouts are being held in the Rockne Memorial. Official practice, in preparation for the season’s opener on Dec. 10, will not begin until Nov. 1. The Irish will open against Western Michigan at Kalamazoo, Mich.
22525BBK9S|!
Marie Burzkowski
. SCHOOL OF DANCING
g	IN IPS 27TH YEAR
PENROLL NOW for FML CLASSES
b a
la
Classes Startiig low
PH. CE 3-3396
in
TOE—TAP—CHARACTER BALLET—ACROBATIC BALLROOM DANCING
(In AU Age Groups) Taught by Thoroughly Trained Personnel
■ Visit Us In Our •—' ■	—
SPACIOUS STUDIOS—119% W. CbHu
__________2ND FLOOR___________
K5e525e525252525252S252525E52525ES525Z52525BaK&S522SSfi5a
A Carpenter Without His Hammer—
— or a surgeon without his scalpel — is something like a student without his book. For books are the basic tools of the student’s trade. Nothing has ever replaced the professor in the classroom, and nothing has ever replaced the main tool of teaching and learning—the book. You may forget, but your books won’t. At 4:00 a.m. before your exams, your professors are getting their much needed rest. But your books are working with you —that is—if you have your own books.
Presumably you are in college because you want to learn. Your books are your tools. Don’t be like the carpenter with a borrowed hammer who must finish his work at the convenience of
the man who owns a hammer!
Penny for penny, page for page, books are the best
“buy” of your college career. We have then. Come inspect them, and buy your own books today.
Notre Dame Bookstore
October 4, 1957
n
One lesson at Arthur Murray's is all you need to go dancing...
Arthur Murray believes, and has thousands of pupils to prove it, that everyone has a dormant ability to be a good dancer. And, his experts will bring out your hidden talents in just one lesson. So come into the studio now and see how quick and easy it is to learn to dance and be a sought-after partner.
Studios Air-Conditioned
Come in for a Free Trial Lesson
Army Rifle, Drill Teams Schedule Appearances
The rifle and drill teams of the Army . ROTC are preparing for a busy season j of appearances and contests. Commanded 1 by Cadet First Lt. Andrew Donahue, the drill team will finish the competitive elimination drills this week. Thirty-six freshman candidates and eight new sophomores appeared for the pre-season tryouts. Seventeen men have returned u ‘ to the team from last year.
The drill team will begin its schedule of performances with a half-time exhibition at the Pittsburgh game on Oct. 26.
Capt. John Fatum is cadre advisoi-of the team. His assistant is Master Sergeant Donahue. Drillmaster of the ' < unit is Cadet First Sgt. Hugh Murphy.
Capt. John Brady, cadre advisor of the ROTC rifle team, announced that freshman tryouts for positions on the team began last Tuesday. He also expressed confidence that this year’s squad will show a marked improvement in firing ,, , ability over last year’s team.
This semester, he stated, team efforts will be focused on preparing for the Hearst Intercollegiate Small Bore Rifle Matches in early December. In these matches Notre Dame will compete against 40 different universities and colleges in- t eluding Michigan State, UCLA and Purdue.
Officers of the team include George Glasgow, president, and Steve Pietro-wicz, secretary.
ARTHUR MURRAY School of Dancing 120 E. Wayne CE-23339
Hungry For Steak?
Come To Albano’s
FEATURING EVERY TUESDAY AND THURSDAY
BONELESS NEW YORK STRIP
$125
FRENCH FRIES—BREAD—BUTTER—SALAD—COFFEE AND TRY OUR HAM BOY’S THEY’RE HAM SCRUMPTIOUS
ALBANO’S - 415 N. Michigan
Diamonds Jewelry Watches J. TRETHEWEY JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
LET US DO YOUR LAUNDRY While Shopping or at a Show CONVENIENT LOCATION 208 E. JEFFERSON JEFFERSON LAUNDERETTE
Bookmen Society Opens Drive For Membership “
The Bookmen society, a group devoted to the discussion of modern literature, is now accepting applications for membership in the organization. Sophomores, juniors, and seniors in all colleges are cordially invited to apply.	< t
Applications should be sent to 5 Sorin Hall before Tuesday. They should include the student’s name, campus address, and reasons for desiring membei'-ship. All applicants will be interviewed later in the week.	I
The Bookmen is the only group at the ' , University solely devoted to the discus- | sion of literature. Its faculty advisor is 1 Prof. Alvan Ryan of the English depart- J ment. Its officers are Richard Sampson, president; John Keyes, vice-president;
and Al Haverkamp, secretary.
The discussion topic for this semester * * concerns the discussion of modern literature from an extrinsic point of view. That is, it will discuss the philosophy, ethics, and other ideas expressed through modern literature.
The group will meet each Thursday night in the Student Center.
32
The Scholastic
'Virginia Quarterly* to Offer Two Emily Balch Awards
In 1958 two Emily Clark Balch Prizes will be awarded by the Virginia Quarterly Review for the best short stories submitted by January 1. The winners of the first prize of $750 and the second prize of $250 will be announced in the Spring issue or a later one.
This will be the third year in which the Virginia Quarterly, thanks to the generous bequest of Emily Clark Balch, has offered prizes in some field of American writing. The amount of the prizes and the kind of writing for which they are given will be changed annually, but every award will have as its sole purpose the encouragement of contemporary American writers and the development of new American talents.
The contest for 1958 is now open. All inquiries concerning it should be addressed to The Virginia Quarterly Re-view, One West Range, Charlottesville, Va.
Senior Pre-Meds to Aid At Hospital Night Calls
The Aesculapian Club is currently in the process of working out details of a program whereby senior pre-med stu-► dents will be on night call at South Bend Memorial Hospital. Dr. John Bennett of the South Bend Medical Foundation is working with the club on this project.
Dr. Bennett was the main speaker at last night’s club meeting. He spoke on “The Value of a Medical Foundation in the City.” Details of the proposed pro-‘ gram were also discussed at last night’s meeting.
This Sunday afternoon the Aesculapian Club will hold a mixer in the Vetville Recreation Hall. There will be girls from St. Mary’s College, Holy Cross Central School of Nursing, and the South * Bend Memorial Nursing School there.
The Aesculapian Club ■will hold its next regular meeting next Thursday eve-j ning. At this time a surgical movie will be shown.
I	Lee, Vondrasek Place First
|	In Duplicate Bridge Tourney
। The second weekly Duplicate Bridge J tournament was held last Sunday at the
LaFortune Student Center. Tom Lee and Bob Vondrasek took first place in the East-West division while Brian Moran » and Ron Vardiman were North-South winners.
Rev. Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C., rector of Sorin Hall, and Steve Barrett placed second in the East-West division. North-South runners-up were the teams of Marion Brown-Mercere Collins and John Whitehurst-Chuck Carroll.
Hours of Student Loan Office Announced by Administrator
Don Hoodecheck, administrator of the John A. Morrissey Memorial Fund, announced the opening of the student loan office for the coming semester. The office, located in Room 3 of the Rathskeller of the LaFortune Student Center, will be open from 1 to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday.
The purpose of this fund is to aid students in temporary financial need. All undergraduate students are eligible to receive loans up to $50. Loans must be repaid within 30 days.
After the student files his application for a loan, there will be a wait of approximately 24 hours for the loan to be processed by the loan committee.
TUTORS...
'Indiana Interlude' Chosen
As Theme of Victory Dance
“Indiana Interlude,” second of the season’s victory dances, will be held tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. in the Navy Drill Hall. Gene Bertoncini and his Lettermen will provide the dance music.
During the intermission, Jim Short, master of ceremonies, will introduce Carol Laufenberg, queen of the Arts and Letters Ball. In addition, entertainment will be offered by the Glee Club quartet.
Admission price will be one dollar per couple.
Students Scheduled to Get Salk Polio Shot in December
Bill McCullough, chairman of the polio vaccine committee, announced recently that the third and final inoculation will be given out sometime before Christmas.
Only those students who received their first two shots last yeai- here on campus will be given the final inoculation, McCullough stated.
___WANTEB
Sip ip in IS.IL Bffier Rnb 1-1 Stndent Center
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented 7 days before insertion date.
FOR SALE—Suburban (%-length) jacket. Only one winter old. Original price—$28. Your cost—$15. See Pat, 262 Alumni.
GOING SOMEWHERE? Want a ride? Save time and expense of posting notices on the bulletin boards. Do it the easy way with Classified Ads.
ANNOUNCEMENT: Club meeting, ticket sales, lose something? Save time and expense of posting notices on the bulletin boards. Do it the easy, cheap way with Classified Ads.
FOR RENT—Single room; very quiet, good neighborhood, near bus line. Inquire at 734 N. Notre Dame. Phone CE 4-4447.
Welcome Back
ROCCO'S
South Bend’s Original House of Pizza
Still the Best—serving Italian and American Dishes
Special Noon Lunches 11-1:30
537 N. St. Louis
Open—11 a.m. — 12 Midnight
GHDEI/S
Any-toy Store
CLOTHING — SHOES — WORK
PANTS — JACKETS CAMPING GOODS
512 S. MICHIGAN AT 7-6277
SUNNY ITALY CAFE A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food
601 NORTH NILES AVENUE
126 N. Michigan Ph. CE 2-1202
October 4, 1957
33
L
to freshmen and others: I
by MICHAEL KENNEDY
on disillusionment
After three weeks of life at Notre Dame you’ve had time to wear the sharp edges off your surroundings and have probably begun to make a fairly comfortable place for yourself. The old sack that sags a little in the middle is beginning to take on your shape—or at least you’re getting used to it—and the studies are beginning to be part of a daily routine. Soon the time will come for youi- second look around. For some of •us, who have already had two or three years to look around and within, it is a good time for a re-appraisal.
Sometimes it is a little hard for us to remember what kind of hopes and enthusiasms we brought with us to Notre Dame as beginning freshmen, and exactly what our first (and second) impressions of the University and all its accessories were. Did we look forward to four years of spiritual, intellectual, so-i cial, and personal growth? Did we come j to be “Men of Notre Dame”? (There ; is a dignity in that phrase, unfortunately i	though, it wears	thin through misuse.)
I	Did we come to	enjoy ourselves while
i looking for a place to fit in the world? i	There is a kind	of sacredness in the
•	hopes and plans	of zealous freshmen,
j	To them this column is addressed. For
;	those, if there are any, who came just to
; learn a trade so they can support them-S selves in the future, who neither expect j nor hope for anything else, there is no s	need to worry—they will not be dis-
|	illusioned. Those who don’t expect much
| are not unhappy when they receive little. ; There are seniors in this University | who look back with a certain nostalgia | on the gusto with which they attacked | their studies three years ago when they j were freshmen. Oh, we’ve learned a lot | since then, of course—our tastes are |	much more refined, but	the point	is, our
|	appetites aren’t nearly	so large.	Some
।	of us have come a long	way from	enthu-
|	siasm through disappointment to	a kind
of soggy indifference.
How, you may ask, can this be? Notre Dame is one of the leading insti. tutions in Catholic higher education, the volume of religious activity on campus is remarked at by Catholics everywhere who read in their parish newspapers statistics taken from the student religious survey; we have a distinguished professors program that brings some of
34
the greatest thinkers in the world to teach in our colleges, and our football team is making a comeback. How is it then that some unfortunates have poured their innocent enthusiasm into life with Notre Dame as into a sieve and looked again to find only a few hard pebbles remaining? This, by the way, is a warning to those who might pour without first taking a good look. Zeal is precious.
First of all, enthusiasm is very delicate, highly susceptible to frustration and other diseases. What happens when you begin to see through the surface of that Notre Dame spirit — the tremendous excitement that prevails on campus on football Saturdays and at the first pep-rallies, when you see what is missing behind it or what fills the gap, or even when you see the highly unsportsmanlike attitudes of some upperclassmen? You’ve broken through the surface then, the surface which doesn’t mean much anyway, and the problem is to find the core, the true community spirit—spiritual, intellectual, and otherwise—of Notre Dame. Many have been lost in the search. It’s their own fault mostly; this spirit is not, as some seem to think, exhaled by the hallowed walls, nor it it supplied upon arrival by the Administration. Spirit is what you create in and around yourselves, by giving of yourselves for the sake of the community. Notre Dame — if it is a university, a union —is not just a group of buildings, tuition-payers, and salaried employees loosely held together by an administrative organization; it is the communion in love of teachers and students, giving to one another, for spiritual, intellectual, and moral development. Granted, evidence of this deep communion is hard to find. But whether it exists already or not, it must be created and re-created by us.
Notre Dame is in a position today to become a great guiding light to American Catholicism. It is remarkable, when we think about it, how much the students of Notre Dame can help her to fulfill this opportunity. And yet, how many who have become enthusiastic about the perfection and advancement of some aspect of the University life have run into the opposition — or worse, the indifference — of unco-operative persons? Such students usually end up by saying,
“The hell with this! I’m just going to get what I can out of this place, and get out of here.” They end up by getting t less, even for themselves, than they would otherwise.
Let me give a concrete example of what often happens. A Catholic Univer- b * sity should be a kind of proving ground and growing place for the new streams of life that will vitalize the Church of the future. One of the most important signs of vitality in the Church today is the Liturgy movement — the attempt to restore the faithful to participation ' in the communal worship of the Church by the use of dialogue Masses, by extensive education in the meaning and practice of the liturgy, and so on. Now, such- a movement will never effect the parishes unless it first takes root in the leading institutions of education. There 4 is not much evidence that it is doing so at Notre Dame. Isolated students have in the past become interested in this movement, but their enthusiasm to bring it to life for the students of Notre Dame has in most cases been turned to disillusionment when they have found higher-ups have more important things to tend to than new ideas that might not work. They have found that what they considered new and vital ideas had no freedom to bear fruit. These, the disillusioned, should have realized in advance that only the concerted efforts of large numbers of students over long periods of time can have any effect in such matters. Unfortunately few of us * have the time or patience to organize. This experience, which you might run into in any activity, is inclined to make one a little bitter and sarcastic about the “spirit of Notre Dame,” or “the Notre Dame Man.” This is unfortunate, for such phrases could be as meaningful ? ’ to us as they seem to be to the outside world.
So, we say, be careful with your enthusiasm, if you have any. Be realistic: expect to run into walls of student indifference, opposition, and impenetrable red-tape. But persevere, talk, and or- t ganize — any significant change in such an institution takes years and the desired effect of what you do may not be felt till after you’ve left Notre Dame. If, knowing this, you are still eager to pursue your ideas, then you really do have enthusiasm.
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS [
Great catch ... University Glen Shirt in exclusive new Arrow Cambridge Cloth
Your favorite button-down, the Arrow Glen, is now styled in traditional collegiate fashion. It’s offered in feather-soft Arrow Cambridge Cloth—a new partner in popularity to the classic Oxford. Collar buttons down, front and center back. Full length box-pleat
in back. In solids, checks and pencil-stripes. “Sanforized” labeled. From $5.00. Tie $2.50.
ARROW—
Shirts and Ties
HILBERT'S
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS
Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
Live Modem
H
LM lets you pick the pack that suits you best!
©1957 Liggett a Myers Tobacco Co.
HANDY PACKS (King and Reg.)
CRUSH-PROOF BOX (Costs no more)
Free up! Get more fun out of life... get more fun out of smoking!


-	4
“ '**'*'/ < -



Light into that
Live Modern flavor!
Smoke today’s most exciting cigarette...L*M!
Only L&M gives you "Live Modern” flavor... the full, exciting flavor that means more taste ...more aroma! Every L&M pack ever made has carried this statement: "A blend of premium quality cigarette tobaccos including special aromatic types.”



“VERS TOBACCO