t•~ 
~}f,\t'(c."~~t \ • vr 
--,.. t ..:i.~-""-,. l
-~~,¥0,0.ME
f£;,9 \972 
soc)AL-\sc1ENCE 
, . \ 

J UBRARY 
~. :: -:. 
'}-t_~ ~-' 
!f;: ·~: 
,,,_ ­
:_,,.. 
~ '_ i-~ 
... ::, ..... 
~:~-;---~:4' 
{,.... -~~~ 
,::-r 
• "l,.~ri ­
~ "
.
',._ .... 
-~ -.,,
~.:--.... . 
. ­
·;-' 


Ifyou want to do so:mething to take a little ofthe insecurity out ofthis world, you might be happier at../Etna. 
If you have a gift for people, want to help them build a better life for themselves, .lEtna would like you to consider taking an administra­tive position with us . 
.Why insurance? Because insurance was invented to give people security. Why JEtna? Be­caus~ we have an excellent record in doing just that. Today, 27 million people look to us to help them build a more worry-free life. And that number is growing rapidly. 
/Etna has a variety of administrative jobs open today, both in the field, and in the home office. Jobs that pay substantial sa)aries right from the start. They're challenging jobs in a fast-growing, innovative company. 

We suggest you read the .lEtna brochure "The Whole TruthJJ that's in the Placement Of­fice. Cover to cover, it's an honest picture of an honest business. · 
There's a special section in it called "Ad-· ministration and Service" which gives complete detailed descriptions of jobs for you. Some will have you dealing with firms, some with the pub­lic, some with individuals. But all put a premium cm versatility, sound judgment, and the ability to originate and carry out plans and programs. 
Coming with JEtna could give you an excel­lent chance to help thousands of people, young and old. Including yourself. 
OUR CONCERN IS PEOPLE 
m
LIFE&CASUALTY
We are an equal opportunity employer. 
february 25, 1972 notre dame, indiana 

volume 113, no. 9 _

scholastic 


editorial  4  endorsement  
columns  
gred Stidham  6  bob  
jim palenchar  8  kartoon karnivore  
analysis  
jack wenke  9  positing no end  
michae/ merth &  
casey pocius  10  making bummers better  
features  
mike mooney  12  it can't happen here?  
jim sitzman  18  cultivation of sexual excellence  
george block  21  masculine/feminine  
perspectives  
robert meagher  26  re-thinking the political  
john barkett  28  women at notre dame  
31  just past puberty  
life and the arts  
eileen dugan  32  the eye akin to the ear  
john moore  33  a separate reality  
casey pocius  34  "play loud," it says  
p. christopher krieg  35  captive despair  
mark o'connell  36  off, off broadway  
kevin cassidy  38  coming distractions  
joe hotz  42  last word  

editors-in-chief: joe hotz, mary ellen stoltz / managing editor: jim munsch / art director: 
rick fitzgerald / editors: mike mooney, greg stidham, jim fanto, tom macken / copy 
editor: jim palenchar / sports editor: don kennedy / assistant art directors: linda v. 
salerno, dan o'connell / assistant managing editor: joe runde / business: joe meyer / 
circulation: cliff zmick / faculty advisor: frank o'malley / staff: george block, john banks­
brooks, kevin cassidy, bob elliot, marie glotzbach, phil glotzbach, bruce hooper, dave 
jones, martin linskey, pat mccracken, fred monsour, john moore, john moran, mark _ o'connel, jim pierce, casey pocius, bob rizzuti, jim sitzman, pat smith, mimi wheeler, cheri weismantel, jack wenke / business and circulation: joe leahy, ron hein, jack 
reschauer, marty zone / art and photography: jim hunt, michael tonier, bob mcmahon, 
joe raymond, pam seifert. 

The opinions-expressed in the ScRoLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the ScROLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017. Pub­lished fortnightly during the school year except during vacation and e.xamination periods, the ScHOLASTIC is printed at AvE MARIA-!'RESS, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL REVIEW). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCROLASTIC. 
editorial 

endorsement. 
The SCHOLASTIC has in past years, this year no excep­tion, been an amalgam of personalities who have pre­ferred to shun politics-at least the concept of politics that is connoted by the gerund form of the word, poli­ticking. Last year the editors undertook the task of endorsing a student body presidential candidate strongly influenced by the previous year's displ~y of student apathy and justifiably questioning the very validity of student government. 
This year's editorial board approached the endorse­ment interviews with similar skepticism, but at the same time sensing a crying need for strong student leadership-not merely leadership that would be able to oil periodically the bureaucratic machinery and to medi­ate diplomatically between students and administrators, but a leadership that would lead through example, a leadership that was sensitive to the underlying problems of Notre Dame that are merely manifested in the usu­ally publicized campaign issues. We held no illusions about the improbability of finding such rare qualities in any of the candidates and went into the interviews retaining the option of po~sibly endorsing no one. 
Surprisingly, two of the tickets convinced the board that they would not have to' elect that final option.. Floyd Kezele and Milt Jones from Notre Dame and Eileen Fitzpatrick and Mary Orr from St. Mary's both seemed·to demonstate that sort of sensitivity more than the other candidates. . 
Kez~le .and Jones discussed at length questions of academic concerns within the University as well as the more commonly discussed campaign issues, observations perhaps not so important in.themselves, but important in that. they reflected acrudal and a unique orientation and awareness. · 
Both the Kezele-Jones and the Fitzpatrick-Orr tickets seemed to recognize the importance of maintaining a Notre Dame-St. Mary's community, even in light of Notre Dame's new co-educational status and the im­probability of any form of merger in the near future. This is a consideration that the SCHOLASTIC is likewise compelled to acknowledge, not only from the standpoint of necessity but from that of desir_ability as well. At the same time, Misses Fitzpatrick and Orr seem particularly attuned to the problems peculiar to the St. Mary's com­munity. 
More important than all of these considerations is the sense both pairs give.of being oriented to the prob­lems of living together in the University community, of relating sensitively with the other members of that -community. This was an-·orientation that did not seem to take such priority in the other candidates. Both pairs of candidates have concrete proposals that seemed both desirable and feasible. But the importance of these faded in the light of this underlying philosophy, which the editors feel, finally, to be the most important qualifi­cation for the offices of Student Body President and 
Vice President. 
Perhaps this is, after all, what the editorial board was looking for.in the interviews: someone who demon­strated a sensitivity to the establishment and mainte­nance of community within this Univers_ity, in a time when we seem in _danger of losing all sense of what that means. 
. . . 
·With these· considerations iri mind the SCHOLASTIC 
. ---, ... ,. , 

strongly urges Notre Dame students to support the Kezele-Jones. ticket, and ·St~ Mary's students the Fitz­patrick~Orr ticket. . · · 

:~/il:t<tl~
,, , 
.' ' 
-"'<~~ 
,.,,."'-",-.. ¥ 

;~'[i{: 
i' 

FEBRUARY 25, 1972 

greg stidham 

There's something about this Notre Dame, you lmow, that exposes itself every now and then to make you really glad you're here. Not too often, though; maybe once a semester, or· twice if you're lucky. Last night, for instance, I lef{ the library early to go with some friends to Kubiak's. No kidding, an honest Polish bar with ,vooden chairs and tables, a terribly scuffed dancing floor,· a _blaring 5.:.member polka band, and beer for $1.50 a pitcher! 
Actually, it takes more than a_ Polish bar to make up one of those transcendental moments of re­joicing to be at Notre Daine. I guess last night it was Bob: I met Bob early last semester when he."stopped by my room. He wanted to lmow if he could help · · out with our grade-school tutoring group. I have come t6 lmow him much better since that evening. 
Bob is pretty quiet. He isn't easily shaken and seems able to take things as they come with a healthy, carefree attitude. I have always liked that, probably because I wish I could be the same. __ It has always struck me as incredible that Bob' decided to stay at Notre Dame a fifth year; he switched into pre-med as a senior and needed two more semesters to make up his · science requirements. We have suffered through many problem sessions in organic chemistry. 
When Bob heard that I was doing a lot of question­ing about the military and considering applying for a CO, he made a point of stopping by again. He had been through that same sort of questioning and thought it important enough to offer his expe_riences and support, whatever I finally decided. We talked a lot about the draft, and other "serious" thing~:­
* * * 

Last semester I spent many long evenings ponder­ing,the complexities of what has come to be lmo'Yll ·. tritely as "human nature" -hours many wo~ld · • 
bob 

claim better spent on my "education," like studying Organic. But then, maybe th_e questioning, the evalua­tion and reevaiuation, is part of the Notre Dame. education. At times I feel Notre Dame demanding that self-evaluation, often=an ugly and lonely business. But, finally, it is necessary for any sort of growth. The growth_ that results is significant, but the price is high. And Notre ·name is capable of exacting the whole price of frustration and_ loneliness. _ 
Academic questions seem so insignificant at times. At ·times they seem even an escape from confronting more _crucial, painful questions. 
-* * * 

· Yesterday was Bob's birtfiday. ·we were all a bit disappointed when we found .that he wouldn't be able to go out' with us last night Cathy's p~rents had invited the two of them over for dinner. Of course, we understood.... 
Bob just met Cathy this fall. They grew·close very quickly. We saw less of Bob, and when we did see him he was with Cathy, oblivious to all else. Even when we would see him late in the evening, he would retain· some of that oblivion. For anyone else·it. _ would have been all too maudlin to stomach without a slight case of nausea. But not so with Bob. He is too simple a person, arid his· fe_elings are too straightforward. 
It is easy to become disillusioned when you examine things you would, perhaps, rather not examine so closely. When you think about war, and about racism·and· exploitation of other people, even other ­societies, the whole question becomes all too clear. 
· ·When you str_ip:the fleshy layers of man's pretensions and triv~al activities,_ and his· soul lies exposed and ·_.· naked, tl!e examination can.·easily father disillusion­
-. THE SCHOLASTIC 

ment and cynicism if you find that soul to be, general­
ly, selfish and calloused to all but self-interests. It 
is hard to admit that maybe man_ is, simply, incapable 
of relating with other men in a self-less way. And it 
becomes even harder when, perhaps, you look at · yourself, too, and your own failures. 
* -!(­
* 

We did share Bob's birthday after all, and more. 
On our way to Kubiak's we made a long detour past 
Cathy's house. As our group, a good dozen of us, 
trudged through the snowdrift in the driveway, there 
were a few brief moments of concern about the im­
position we would become when we rang the doorbell 
in the middle of a quiet meal.: Cathy's mother didn't 
look at it that way at all,; with a broad smile she 
insisted that we all come in and join them for cake. 
Cathy's father immediately broke out the beer 
and whipped up a delicious-.and potent-punch, and 
Bob's birthday cake lasted a good five minutes. 
After a while we were all quite noisy, Cathy's parents 
included, all of which made us the more surprised 
when Bob suddenly called for quiet. Stuttering and 
crimson, in a barely audible voice, he told us that he 
and ~athy had decided to be married. 
Those of us who were closest to Bob were slightly 
stunned; so were Cathy's parents. As I sat on their 
living-room carpet, I couldn't prevent brief but 
frightening thoughts of divorce statistics, of claims 
that marriage is now an archaic institution, of the 
many unhappy married couples I have known. For a 
moment I wanted to wish them good luck. Not just 
wish them well, but good luck, because they will need . it. Had it been anyone else, perhaps I would have said something. But not Bob. He is too simple, and · his feelings are too straightforward. 

FEBRUARY 25, 1972 






TO BE 08.NOl'IO BE 

It Can't Happen Here'l mike 

Whoever c001,mits the abominable and detestable crime against nature with rnankind or beast; or who­ever enters, allures, instigates or aids any person under the age of twenty-one [21] years to commit masturba­tion or self-pollution, shall be deemed guilty of sodomy, and, on conviction, shall be fined ?Wt less than one­hundred dollars [$100] 'IWT more than one thousand dollars [$1000] to which may be added imprisonment in the state prison not less than two [2] years nor more than fourteen [:14] years. 
(Burns' Indiana Statutes, 10-4221) 

In the absence of valid evidence to th£ contrary, th£ Matachine Society of New York maintains that h<nno­sexuality is not a sickness,·disturbance or other 'P(l,thol­ogy in any sense, but is merely a preference, orienta­tion or preypensity. 
(from a Matachine Society newsletter) 

Reaction to homosexuality traditionally has fallen within a narrow range: one ignored it, one ridiculed it, one hated it, but most of all, one feared it. It could be said that there are homosexual tendencies in all of us, peculiarly unfaceable characteristics in our barely confrontable sexual identity. 
This reluctance to face the fact of homosexuality within society apparently has altered in recent months; if the Read£r's Guide to Periodical Literature is any barometer, media interest, at least, in homosexuality has increased dramatically over the past ten years. In the period of January to December of 1961, the Guide lists, by rough count, two articles concerning homo­sexuality; in the same period in 1966, 13 such articles are indexed; in 1971, 21 articles appeared regarding homosexuality. The trend is a rise in coverage, certain­ly, but perhaps not a rise in public opinion. For example, of the four members of the South Bend Gay Alliance the SCHOLASTIC interviewed, only two were willing to be identified. 
Certainly, the other pair's ret icence is understand­able. As Father Ralph Dunn of Notre Dame's Psycho­logical observes, 
This is a funny place. It isn't a place like the University of Chicago or Northwestern or the University of Minnesota. There are all kinds of traditions, religious and moralistic feelings about the place which I think would not be receptive to a highly visible homosexual community or sub-community. There isn't anything that can mobilize people faster, in their fear initially, then their anger, than a group of assertive homosexuals. 

It is expecting too much to suggest that an increase in press coverage signals a growing acceptance of homosexuality; if gay liberation is to have any con­tinued life, it soon somehow must make the transition from "hot copy" to practical reality. 
Perhaps the key to this transition lies in education -consciousness raising-both of the homosexual him­self and of the surrounding heterosexual society. Pro­ponents of women's liberation and gay liberation argue that the liberation includes not only women and homo­sexuals, but also their male chauvinist oppressors. 
One member of the South Bend Gay Alliance points out, "Most Notre Dame students, whether they realize it or not, when they get out into the real world will have to live and work with gay people and they've got to understand what's going on in the gay person's head. It [the education] is to raise consciousness, to destroy prejudice. To allow people to reach out into things a little less common." 
THE counter-argument runs that simply because homosexual behavior is a minority characteristic­"the abominable and detestable crime against nature," in the words of the Indiana statute-it should not be considered at all, much less "liberated." Homosexual behavior, however, is not as uncommon as this argu­ment would contend; indeed, if Kinsey's results are accurate, the incidence of some form of homosexual 
experience among males-is, as one writer observed, 
"as frequent as the common cold." 
Says Father Dunn, "The national statistics that I know about suggest that the rate of homosexuality is somewhere between 5% and 10% . I know of no selec­tivity factor here at Notre Dame· that would make the rate any different than it is nationally." Faubion Bowers, writing in the Saturday Review (2112/12), notes, "Depending upon whose estimate you accept and the calculation of how many homoerotic experiences constitute homosexuality, just how large [the number of American male homosexuals is] remains shadowy. For example, The Sex Book and Playboy magazine put the figure of those so impelled at 37% of_ U.S. men, or roughly more than a third of ~eir gender. "To date, the S.B.G.A. has received approximately 60 contacts since forming last November." 
But figures can be misleading. As Fr. Dunn is quick to point out, all such approximations are only estimates; there is no method to prove or disprove them. Additionally, such figures include not only overt, prac­ticing homosexuals but also those men who have had a single homosexual experience "leading to orgasm" by the time of maturity-indeed a broad and shadowy category. 
The numerical questions characteristically cloud the real question: how is the minority of gay people to adjust to a society at this point largely hetero­sexual if not anti-homosexual. The homosexual's first step to adjustment is not a confrontation with society, per se, but with self. The first step of the two-step process of "coming-out" is the admission that one is homosexual; only then can he decide how to face the heterosexual world honestly. But the heterosexual has a "coming out" of his own, his own coming to grips with sexuality. The heterosexual's problem is usually more easily solved. But perhaps the importance for straight society of the emergence of a highly ?isible gay organization is not as an alternative to the heterosexual mode but as a method of exploring that heterosexual mode, permitting a critical judg­ment of it, perhaps pointing out its shallowness. Het­erosexual behavior, after all, technically runs the gamut from backseat petting to boot fetish; can one say that sado-masochism between opposite sexes is in­trinsically superior to a truly loving homosexual rela­tionship simply because the former is heterosexual? One member of the Gay Alliance, speaking of sexu~ roles, says, 
All men suffer from this kind of oppression. The 
entire social code of body language is so rigidly 
enforced. When I became subtly aware of this 
FEBRUARY 25, 1972 
analysis 

making 

bummers better 
The number of anti-dope commercials on television 

attests to the rapid and widespread increase of drug use 
in the United States during the past four years. Smok­
ables (i.e., grass and hash) have accounted for most of 
the statistics forwarded by government agencies in their 
efforts to get more money to combat the "dope menace." 
Notre Dame is no further behind the rest of the 

country in drug use and abuse than it is in most other 
categories of student activity. In the last year especially, 
campus residents have been able to shed the paranoia 
over an impending bust which was so typical two years 
ago; the University is only slightly less than conveni­
ently blind concerning marijuana than it is concerning 
alcohol. It seems nearly any activity can be carried on 
as long as it doesn't "interfere with the good order of 
the community." 
The situation at St. Mary's is quite different. The few 

campus residents who do smoke do it underground; the 
percentage of users-is higher off-campus than in the 
dorms (the same also holds true for Notre bame). 
Almost three years ago, several Keenan Hall stu­dents, including then president Tim Mahoney, Tom_Tol­laksen and the rector, Fr. Robert Griffin, noted that the increasing use of drugs in. the hall was largely due to curiosity. They felt that the experimenters would find information concerning the effects of various drugs ·and the quality of drugs bought "on the street" helpful. No then existing service provided such information. When · Tollaksen received two hundred requests for reprints of an article about drugs taken from Esquire mag~ine which he had shown to some friends, he realized that there was indeed a desire for information on the part 
of· students. 
The Student Drug Information Center is the result of 

the response to that desire. Last year. in six months of 
operation, the,Center handled over six h1mdred requests 
for information and·counseling in its office Jn room 109 
of the library. Since the beginning of the fall semester, the number of contacts with students has dropped; counseling is beginning to predominate over requests for information. For this reason Tollaksen, now director of the Center, feels a more secluded office is needed in order to preserve the anonymity of students who come to the Center. 

In addition to problems involving illegal drugs, one of the most insidious problems the Drug Center has en­countered is that of football players who feel that they are becoming dependent on_ the painkillers so readily dispensed by their trainers. 
Commenting on the extent and type of drug use on campus, Tollaksen had this to say: 
There are probably between thirty and forty heroin and methedrine users -on this campus. But the trend seems . to be away fr<;>m the harder hallucino­gens, including acid and mescaline, and toward marijuana. In a -few years it will probably be diffi­cult t~ find a student who hasn't tried marijuana. 
· _,michae1, mert;h, & caseypocius 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

COURSE EVALUATION QUESTIONNAIRE 
The Scholastic editors would appreciate any comments 
or criticisms you might have concerning the "Course 
Evaluation Booklet." Please complete the following items · and return to the Scholastic office (third floor LaFor­tune) or mail to: Course Evaluation 
The Scholastic 
LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Did you use the booklet? Yes________ No_______ _ If "No" state reasons. 
Would you like to see the booklet's publication con­tinued? Yes________ No_______ _ If "No" state reasons. 
Would you like to see the booklet changed in any way? Yes________ No_______ _ 
If "Yes" how should it be changed? 
Thank you, . The editors 
FEBRUARY 25, 1972 
jim·palenchar 




kartoon 

-Roasting children. Aren't you ashamed of yourself? -Call it a weakness. 
If you were able to sit through the test patterns and the :MUZAK with periodic references to the time and the temperature, which would entail rising at the unprintable hour of 6:30 am., you would then be in­sulted by this menagerie of animals that talk. Yes, these animals talk-English! Sure, their speech might be cluttered by banalities, hopelessly convoluted alliterations, and depressing regularities, but it is still New Standard American English. Leading this crowd of cuddly critters is one Bugs Bunny (Esq.). It is Saturday morning, and you are being introduced, or reintroduced, to the cruel and sickly sub-culture of cartoon "entertainment." 
This is where you were about ten years ago, and it's appalling to be back there again. Somehow, belief in the coherence of your past has to be shattered by the realization that you, child that you were, sat completely enthralled, better yet autistic, while the talking animals paraded past your glassy eyes. 
Saturday morning and now you are hopefully in bed. Back in the late 50's, when people were not rich enough to have television sets in every room, you were sprawled out in some sort of common room, on the floor, still in your pajamas, eating some sugared cereal out of the box -without milk. But you were always maintaining some semblance of celebration and ritual. It is Saturday. No school and it's probably too damn cold to go outside and make the first tracks in your neighborhood snow. 
With the advantage of moral hindsight and the ability to recall how things were "back then," let us look at what is being done now in the world of Saturday morning cartoonery. We still have some of the old 
favorites: Bugs Bunny, Road Runner, Deputy Dawg, 
and Woody Woodpecker. And they are still doing the 

same stuff: violence, counter-violence, puns, and super­human feats of strength (and for a talking animal that's really saying something). Like a pornographic novel, the plots are alw~ys negligible. The only way that one can discriminate between one story and another is by comparison of the modes of violence. The variables here are only limited by the imagination of the creator, and sometimes this imagination can roam about with 

karnivore 
unbelievable insensitivity. Example: as Tweetie Pie watches Sylvester fall from the top of a towering building, he chuckles, "Aw, duh poor puddy tat's pawachute didn't open." And that is really funny as far as cartoon standards go. 
An even better example of this freewheeling gore is seen in "The Road Runner." This favorite is of more recent vintage, but its ties with the history of cartoon anti-intellectualism are unmistakable. No matter how calculating and shrewd the coyote is, the Road Runner ("mmbeep, mmbeep") is always shrewder with far less calculation. Ah ha, the triumph of the spontaneous imagination over sterile rationality. The true laurel of this triumph is found in the coyote's stupidity. No matter how hard he is crushed, he always bounces back with amazing resiliency. Our credulity is thanklessly assailed as the dumb, "rational" animal picks himself off the floor of a tremendously deep canyon for the nth time and starts scheming again. The-cat and mouse archetye is played out over and over; in defiance of the laws of physics, in defiance of its tastelessness. The imagination is given free play, and still we are bored with the contrivances-as children we were seduced by the predictability, now we are simply bored. 
While we may marvel at the wit of Mel Blanc and others, we must admit to ourselves, if we can conjure any posture of conscience on Saturday morning, that these men are charlatans. They are subsidized by the folks that bring you the wonderful breakfast foods composed of 85% carbohydrates and zilch% health. These are the wizards of the ad-world that give you vitamins that also turn into talking animals. These wizards have constructed an amazing psychology of child-spoilage that finds its roots in the pacfication and stupefaction of cartoon watching. Sit the kid down, give him the vapid cereal, give him token health in the talking animal vitamins, and of course give him that wonderful body builder, milk, but only after the artificial chocolate flavoring is added to m~e the body building palatable to his jaded sensibilities. 
Good morning! It's Saturday TV; presenting the charlatans and wizards ~hanting their litanies of seduction and boredom. Good morning! Time to go back to sleep; the day won't really start for about four hours. 
THE SCHOLASTIC 
analysis 



positing no end 

The Program for the Study and Practice of Non­Violence in Human Conflict Resolution has been in existence at Notre Dame for more than two and one half years. The present funding for the program expires at the end of the 1972 Spring Semester. At this time, a brief perspective on student and faculty involvement may offer a valuable insight into the nature of the program in relation to our community. 
Almost 2000 students have received or are receiving academic credit in courses offered by the program. During this semester alone, approximately 730 students are enrolled in Non-Violence courses. Some of the courses offered are seminar discussion groups, lecture courses with speakers from various departments, and personal encounter groups. In the seminar and perspectives courses, the students have an opportunity to participate in the selection of read­ing material that will be discussed. 
Service activities are considered a high priority in the program. The student is urged to give expres­sion to the values he encounters in the classroom by moving into the community. This relates education directly to the problems of society. Arrangements are being discussed with the South Bend Human Relations Commission to construct task forces of students to assess the extent of violent practices in South Bend schools. It is to be emphasized that the program is not merely a three-credit, "interesting" elective; instead, it is geared to orient the student to consider his role as an individual in helping to solve the problems which plague society. It may also be interesting to note that none of the instructors in the program teach nonviolence exclusively. Each teacher has duties to fulfill in other departments. 
"The Conference on Conspiracy and Dissent" pre­sented by the Program for Non-Violence last month received very good reviews from around the country. The address presented by Arthur Waskow on "Amer­ican Capitalism and American Catholicism: On Collision Course?" was reprinted, in its entirety, in the National Catholic Reporter. On campus, Father Burrell, Chairman of the Theology Department, described the discussion which ensued following Rich­ard Neuhaus' "Theological Reflections on Conspira­cy" as "the best theological discussion of the issues involved that I ever heard." The participants in th~ discussion were Richard Neuhaus, Stanley Hauerwas, and John Yoder. The Conference was chaired by Mr. James Forest, Co-chairman of the Harrisburg Eight Defense Committee. 
Most students have found the Non-Violence courses to be an integral part of their education at Notre Dame. In comparison with many other programs the country, which appear nakedly analytical, our Non-Violence program focuses· a spirit of Christian responsibility for the disadvantaged. The well­motivated student of nonviolence at our university discovers an awareness of the self in relation to others that is complementary to any .discipline which he may pursue. The student is able to transcend an academic exercise to find a pervasive experience in personal, humanitarian confrontation. Education is maximized because a bridge is constructed whereby the student can relate the tensions which shape our world to a viable alternative that fully incorporates the Christian concept of life in that world. 
The Program for the Study and Practice of Non­Violence in Human Conflict Resolution is not an arm of any "leftist movement"; rather, it examines per­plexing realities of fundamental human concern. The program posits no end-but it may offer a beginning. 
-jack wenke 

code, I would be concerned with my voice (was it too high?), my gestures, my mannerisms. I was very worried because I didn't know what other people were seeing in me. I think every human being has this problem. An<~ I don't think this should be a problem. It's a problem, first, of be­lieving there is a role to accept and, secondly, wondering how well you are participating in that role. 

Notre Dame's Dr. Morton Kelsey writes in a recent article, 
Why is there such a horror of homosexuality in the culture of today? It appears that the dis­taste for sexuality in general has been focused on this one expression of it. It appears that by repressing the bisexual nature of man our soci­ety has come to fear that men will be more attracted to the homosexual way of life than to the heterosexual. 

It seems impossible, then, to speak of homosexuality at Notre Dame or at large without speaking of sexual­ity. As one gay states, "I think it [human sexuality] is a closed system. Homosexuality is not a system apart from the establishment: it's part of it." Both straights and gays must come to a critical acceptance of the fact of the variety of sexual experience if homosexuals and heterosexuals are to come out of their respective closets. Says one gay, 
I look beyond the day when people will look upon homosex"Uality as "OK." I look to the day of a society that accepts complete flexibility. For a person who basically identifies himself as a homosexual as I do, it will not be inferred that this person is incapable or does not want or should not be allowed a heterosexual relation­ship. The same would apply to a heterosexual. Any straight person could feel comfortable having sex with a person of the same sex. I see this kind of anarchy as very healthy. What I mean is that sexuality will not be ruled by roles. 

Both practically and philosophically, this day is far off. Forty-five states currently have laws that are anti-homosexual in effect, that is, that prohibit certain private sexual relations between consenting adults. Such laws, in some cases, affect heterosexual behavior as well as homosexual behavior. For example, In­diana's anti-sodomy law quoted earlier has been inter­preted to include cunnilingus, under the view that the law prohibits "any unnatural sexual gratification which tends to corrupt the morals." There is no hint that legal marriage between . heterosexuals or mutual consent between hetero-or homosexuals at all mitigates 
·the crime. Anti-sodomy laws, as long as they include consentual behavior between ad:ults, are clearly crimes without victims. 
0 NE writer notes, "The law against homosex~al acts suggests that the nation cares more about enforcing private morality than it does about preventing violent crime. (America, 11/14/70.)" 
The stern legalistic position regarding homosexuali­ty has precedents in both the Old and New Testaments. The Indiana statute, in fact, nearly seems drawn di­rectly from Leviticus 18:22, "You shall not lie with a 
male as with a woman; such a thing is an abomina­
tion." The Hoosier State is a little more contemporary 
in its penalty, however, as the Old Testament penalty is 
death (Lev. 20:13). 
St. Paul in Romans 1:26ff summarizes the New 
Testament position: "That is why God has abandoned 
them to degrading passions: why their women have 
turned from natural intercourse to unnatural practices 
and why their menfolk have given up natural inter­
course to be consumed with passion for each other, men 
doing shameless things with men and getting an appro­
priate reward for their perversion." Similar condemna­
tions can be found in I Corinthians 6:9-10 and I Tim­. othy 1:10. 
Christianity Today (3/13/70) editorializes that for­
giveness is possible for a homosexual; the corollary is 
forgiveness is also necessary. The magazine remarks, 
"Homosexuality is a sin but so is the attitude that looks 
upon other's sins as worse than one's own." 
Joseph McCaffry, writing in Catholic World (July, 
1971), points out, "In Aquinas, neither respite nor hope 
exists for the homosexual unless, of course, he is a 
celibate homosexual and/or mentally deranged." 
There seems to be a dichotomy in this New Testa­
ment approach, a limitation on Christ's commandment 
to love all men. Certainly, Jesus did not intend that 
men love other men as men usually love women, but 
does this commandment preclude such homosexual 
affection? Dr. Kelsey observes, 
There is nothing in the teachings of Christ to continue the violence of this rejection [of homo­sexuality]; yet it appears that the Christian Church took over a Jewish attitude without re­examination. The reason for this Jewish rejec­tion has been rationalized on the basis that it would deter the population growth if· the male semen were not put to productive use. A more probable reason actually was the common prac­tice of male homosexual prostitution in the Mother cult religions of the Near East and the fact that anything to do with these religions was rejected.... 
Certainly, the Notre Dame Campus Ministry is aware of the dichotomy posed by the traditional Chris­tian approach to homosa"l.lality. Fr. William Toohey, Director of Campus Ministry, hopes that the priests under his office would encourage each student to de­velop to his full and most honest potential. Reserva­tions appear, however, when th~t development means homosexual cohabitation and intimacy. Yet given the clergy's efforts at probity in encouraging honest loving relationships as opposed to promiscuity and given that such honesty and love are as possible between men as between men and women, it seems that a resolution of the contradiction is not impossible. 
In the future, Campus Ministry will probably join with Psychological Services in counseling arrangements with the Gay Alliance. To date, the ministry's contact with the G.A. has been strictly informal and limited to a few visits with hall rectors. Fr. Dunn notes that his office receives roughly a dozen students per year who are overtly involved in homosexual behavior. Psych Services does treat many more students who are con­cerned about their sexual orientation, but of these, many only express doubts regarding their sexuality and prove not to be homosexual. Those active homosexuals who come to the Center often request counseling to traumas of the confrontation between the liberated women and the hung-up chauvinistic males of Notre Dame? 
A closely related theory, the Relevant Humanistic illusion, assumes that women are basically unknown entities, ·who having sprung from man's side, possess that portion of knowledge which men lost when women were created. Hence, women are the missing link, that final key to knowledge and truth of which this univer­sity has for so long deprived the student, for women see the world through completely different eyes: they are sensitive, aware, humane and loving, while men are obviously hardened, pragmatic brutes responsible for all the evil in the world. Thus, by interacting with women, both academically and, especially, socially, men will become fit to live in the modern world, purged of their hate, and other personality disorders by the saving insight of women. Naturally the University would have to abolish any parietal regulations so that women would be available to men for late-hour dis­cussions about their ·differences in world views. Com­plementing this change would be the initiations of many more seminar courses, and construction of a new stu­dent· center which would enable students to interact · 
20 · 

on a more meaningful basis by removing the bulk of the educational process from the classroom to the real world where it belongs. 
Still another view of women is the rnachisrrw syn­drome, in which women are not the highest moral good, but rather the necessary biological apparatus insuring the sexual sanity of men. This being a rather frag­mented group, the various members express them­selves in different ways depending on the degree of aggression in the male: some are lovers of forms, that is, they studiously apply their intellects and imagina­tions to the cultivation of sexual excellence while some discard this and define excellence by quantity rather than quality. Thus women will provide the one outlet that is now lacking in their lives, with alcohol being the other. Of course, the outgrowth of this male­dominant role is that professors would have to be in­structed· to deliberately grade women more harshly, though never informing them of this decision, for otherwise the ensuing traumas of the males, due to the destruction of their .world view, would cause an epidemic of impotency. Or the administration could 
admit: only les~. _intelligent women .. 
Thes~,. then, are some of the basic philosophies 

·TrlE SCHOLASTIC 

held by students regarding women, yet one should remember that any of these may be combined, yielding such hybrids as the liberated-machismo syndrome or the relevant-liberated-humanist. Yet given all these opinions on the part of students, what course should the administratioµ take to prepare for these women? Students need not worry too greatly: no C!Jnclusion may be drawn from this enterprise, for nothing has been decided, either on the part of the students or the administration, nor can anything be decided. Save one important insight: considering that only 300 women are not capable of answering these questions, perhaps we need more, and that way all men at this University will be able to conduct an individual, though super­fluous inquiry. 


jimslzman 

Cultivation of Sexual Excellance 
--. 
,--' ', ~7' ,-_-­
--.:.. -_ -i' 
-. ~ ." :, 
-
, -­

It would seem best at the outset of any journal­
. istic endeavor to clarify one's objectives, so that no unsuspecting reader is duped into absorbing any ideas which he would consider offensive. Hence it is hon­estly and openly admitted that this particular article makes absolutely no pretenses to edify anyone or criticize anything. We necessarily must speak of some­thing totally intangible, something which lends itself to .exhaustive analysis, yet is so vague as .to yield nothing at the conclusion. The topic most eminently qualified, then, is current student opinions concerning the historic leap; as it were, into coeducation. 
Considering that man has for some time attempted to define and stabilize his relationships with this par­ticular gender which so boldly sprang from his ribs, it is only reasonable that men participating in a com­munity dedicated to the eradication of all ignorance should, in answering this particular question, seek to study the actual source. Yet given that all men of this community readily claim that women are indeed 
. needed, wanted,· and sought for, not all employ the same .explanations nor the same suggestions as to what should be done with them : once they actually arrive. Some believe that women are mysterious beings whose nature is still unknown; others ·that women are not mysterious in. themselves, but will mysterious.ly cure their existential problems; still others think that women ~re not mysterious, nor will they solve their problems, but that they are a moral good -indeed, the highest moral good. 
Yet such immediate classification. of attitudes is unjust, '.as ideas and preoccupations of one group are of,fen accepted by another. Still, we can discover within this area a number of distinct theories on what women is, .why students need them, and what is to · be done about them. The first, and perhaps most quaint, hy­pothesis is known as the inorganic sculpture fantasy, in which members of this gender are described best. by the "Song. of Solomon" as having a "neck of ivory," "joints like jewels," and· "a nose as the tower of .Lebanon." Men indulging in this view are assured that women are to be prized above all other things on . earth. Hence, .their. outrage at their being cursed to such decrepit halls as.Badin and Walsh, as.humiliating 
to such divine creatures, forwarding such other choices as the construction of ivory towers in which to house them. Of course, the usual problems of hygiene facili­ties and medical services are quickly solved, to the economic delight of a financially burde~ed University, because women of this type do not defecate, urinate, or even bleed; indeed, women do not ever curse, swear, perspire, vomit, or burp; although it is true that the weaker ones do occasionally cry, laugh or converse with others. One problem for advocates of this theory con­cerns security, for the ivory towers must be carefully 
•guarded in order to prevent the possible theft or van­dalism of such beings. 
Another problem concerns the fact of laundry, for although women are never dirty, the air sometimes deposits various residues on their persons, hence the need for clothes to be laundered. But, unfortunately, the laundry at Notre Dame is much too· crude and 
.harsh for their clothing; for it is assumed that the delicate items of their wardrobes would never be the same -the dresses would be coarse and heavy instead of soft and airy, the undergarments would no longer be pliable or elastic, all of which means that these ex­tremely fragile creatures would be bruised and marred. 
The theory directly antithetical to tq.is is the Lib­erated Milleniest Dream, the product of an intense spiritual journey by the truly aware modern ·man. According to this view, women are totally equal to men in all aspects save a few minor biological differ­ences, yet are being crushed by the chauvinistic foot of the establishment. These men eagerly want to free the oppressed women who step onto campus, liberating them from all sterile, enslaving influences such as academics, administrative procedures, and dormitory regulations by establishing a true loving community. The problem of dormitory housing is easily solved, as the liberated woman will live with the liberated male or males in their halls; yet there is a need for many 
· drastic changes : will the oppressive infirmary provide contraceptives for the liberated women, will the chauvinistic administration allow open parietals, and will the immoral psychological services provide sex education for all those liberated but ignorant souls; as well as female-oriented counseling for the inevitable 
FEBRUARY 25, 1972 
relieve depression brought on by being homosexual rather than a treatment of the homosexuality itself. 
MOREOVER, Fr. Dunne does not perceive any factors in Notre Dame itself that would increase or decrease sexual tension. "As far as the basic development of the personality which would orient a person toward one sexual preference or another," he said, "that hap­pens before he ever got here." 
Gay Alliance itself is engaged in a form of counsel­ing, and, to the extent that G.A. offers a refuge for homosexuals, Fr. Dunne would respect · it. "I think very often homosexuals need and profit by support. One of the characteristics most typical of a homosexual is that he is an extremely lonely and·depressed person." One member of Gay Alliance points out, "Besides edu­cation, one of the most important things is counseling. People who aren't sure of their own sexuality often just want somebody to talk to. Everything in society militates against someone knowing himself if this [homosexuality] is what there is to know." 
G.A.'s intention to counsel complicates, perhaps, their purpose; when, for example, does counseling be­come proselytizing? The South Bend Gay Alliance asserts that they do not have conversion in mind, one homosexual noting, "When I think of conversion I think of coercion. It's denying him his human rights. When someone comes up to you and you push him in either direction, not allowing him to make his own decision, you're denying him his human right to his own life." 
Yet the possibility remains that a highly visible, highly active gay organization could influence sexual persuasion, particularly in young people whose orienta­tion progresses· through subtle changes during puberty. There is a critical difference between posing homosex­uality as an alternative and asserting gay as best. 
Another problem emerges when the goal of sexual "anarchy" is regarded as very positive by one homo­sexual earlier in this article. Joseph Epstein suggests a different view of . such liberality when he writes in Harper's (September, 1970), 
... and in America, the zeitgeist has never been more encouraging of hedonism in all its forms, homosexuality among them. One takes one's kicks where they are to be had. The swinging Sixties offered a large selection. Smoke it, swal-· low it, eat it, wallow in it,· screw it, kick it, stomp it to death and never mind what "it" is..... 
In all matters of human relationships, certainly in matters of human sexuality, a sense of the importance -sacredness-of the person should be maintained. If a · political or philosophic system somehow degrades that sense, it is a seriously defective system. Both women's liberation and gay liberation promise new and positive perspectives on human sexuality, a dissolution of archaic and enslaving archetypes-provided that the two movements do not substitute an archetype of their own formed from some universal stampede toward "relevance." 
For information concerning· the South Bend Gay Alliance, call 212-8115. · 

THE SCHOLASTIC 


GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
AC-DC -derogatory term for bisexuality Bi-sexual-to relate to men and women sexually buggery-another term for sodomy or crime against 
nature butch -female homosexual in masculine role camp-overemphasis of roles for humor or sarcasm closet queen -person who is known to be gay but 
won't admit it to anyone else coming out -acknowledging one's own gayness; has 

meant one's first homosexual experience cruise -to be seeking sexual partner cunnilingus -oral stimulation of woman's genitals Daughters of Bilitis -woman's homophile organization 
with main chapters in San Francisco and New York City; derivation from the quasi-historical lover of more obviously lesbian Sappho 
diesel dyke or bull dyke -derogatory term for woman homosexual in extreme masculine role drag queen -man dressed as woman (homosexual male) dyke -derogatory term for female homosexual in masculine role 
faggot -term for male homosexual, came from era of witch burnings when humans were used as kindling for the fires 
fairy -derogatory term for male homosexual fellatio -oral stimulation of man's genitals femme -homosexual in feminine role fruit flies -straight women who hang around gay 
men's bars 

gay -homosexual; 1879 definition "loving plea~ure; especially forbidden pleasure; wanton ..." ; may be from old High German word 'gahi' meaning fast, sudden or impetuous 
gay bar -bar exclusively for gay people, usually for 
one sex gay marriage-any gay relationship that has lasted hermaphrodite -a person who has physical sexual 
organs and/or secondary physical sexual characteristics of both sexes to varying degrees, and was born as such 

homophile -favorable to homosexuals; usually used in reference to organizations 
homosexual -a person of either sex who is emotionally and/or sexually attracted to members of the same anatomical sex 
hustler -male selling himself sexually to other men "in the closet" -persons who won't acknowledge their 

gayness "latent" homosexuality-repressed homosexual feelings lesbian -female homosexual, inhabitants of isle of 
Lesbos off the southern coast of Greece who were homosexual, home of Sappho lesbian baiting -to call any woman a lesbian as a derogatory term whether she is a lesbian or not 
Mattachine Society -men's homophile organization; derivation from the Italian jester, acrobat, mimic who pleased crowds but kept his truer feelings out of sight 
Nellie-effeminate male homosexual 
rub off-method of achieving orgasm by rubbing genital against leg or other part of partner's body (usually male) 
role playing-_ -a homosexual who plays male or female roles 
r<?ommate, girl friend, friend -cover terms for lover 
Sappho -poetess of 6th century B.C. who was a homosexual and lived on isle of Lesbos "69" -mutual oral genital stimulation either for gay or straight couples 
sodomy-as defined in the Washington State Statutes: Every person who shall carnally know in any manner any animal or bird; or who shall carnally know any male or female person by the anus or with the mouth or tongue; or who shall voluntarily submit to such carnal knowledge; or who shall attempt sexual intercourse with a dead body, shall be guilty of sodomy and shall be punished as follows: 
1. 
When such act is committed upon a child under the age of 15 years by imprisonment in the state penitentiary for not more than 20 years. 

2. 
In all other cases by imprisonment in the state · 


penitentiary for not more than 10 years. 

straight-heterosexual 
tea-room -public toilet, often place for men to meet sexual partners 
transsex -a person of either sex who feels that he/she was born in the wrong sexual body in an anatomical sense. Transsexuals are also referred to as psychic hermaphrodites and changelings 
transvestite -person of either sex who wears the clothing of the opposite sex while retaining the anatomical gender identity, also called cross-dressers. 
trophy hunter -person trying to "make it" with new _person (new in town or "newly out") · 
FEBRUARY 25, 1972 

Masculine­
·feminine 
.,.-~ -~ ., 
-..:--.·,I, , ­


george block. 
, Women at Notre Dame.· ·This soon=-to-be reality brings ·with it all the pending· doubts of an established institution facing great changes and ·a new form of '. life; : Many people in_the administration and in student , government are spending a great -deal of· time and imagination thinking of and solving all the foreseeable problems of wo:inen ·at· Notre ·name. ·For just a mo­
. ment I -would like to venture away from the main­·stream of bureaucracy, and look at things from some women's points o_f view. -Right now, men are asking other men what it will 
· be like to have -women' at male Notre Dame. Men have been speculating what it will be to ·have women a·s a part of iife at an· all-:inale university. Very soon 
·the undergraduate body will no longer be all male, so ·perhaps the proposition of seeing life outside the class-· ·room through a woman's eyes is not so distant 
In this venture, I face· one very fundamental stum­bling· block.· I am riot a_ woman. What little of life I 
-have experienced, _I have_ ·experienced as a man, and granting·the difference (which must be one valid point behind co:..ed), there must be some difference in ex­perience. T thank~the twenty-two women that helped 
·me put together the following train of thought. 
''No, ·Notre Dame 1sn't ready for women. How cpuld it be? For ornf hundred and twenty-five years it's been an all-male· school. The environments and 
'attitudes are _already set up. You can't offer a course · in womanology to get people 'ready,' so you just ha\'e 
· · to start bringing the numbers up to· an equal ratio. ·However, right now, Notre Dall_le is a men's university accepting women for.the first time. 
"The.numbers have to be about equal, so·that the -men' won't· treat the girls as novelties or something · merely fo be taken· out. , There will·have to be some ·really ·significant-improvements ·made on the student .c~nter, because· without', co-ed dorms, there'll be no way_:·to meet guys informally. -Right now; the place , where most of the informal, · deep and long-lastirlg · friendships start is in the halls; so without some very good substitute, we won't be able to meet-guys cas­-, ually; If the student center isn't designed to -be. the 
· -. center of activities and· campus life, or if there aren't ·a~lot more easily accessible ways to meet guys, the ·girls' dorms will become little 'St. Mary's.' -· ·. ·, "It;s hard to get to know guys through just the · •. dating<pattern. Call up Monday, get picked up, go ·to · concert, back to his room.. ·.. 'That's not -reai. You· .. -don't know how he· is in everyday situations. It's hard 
to_ see· how he thinks, how he lives. 
''Knowin~ a man on a-level much deeper· than the -dating thing·is· an important thing for a woman. Men · really do have different ways of looking at things. It's 
good to be able to intellectually understand that. Right now, 'non-emotional' relationships with men that really get deep are not too frequent. Guys here are too pressured to talk. It's hard for a woman to have a bull session with a group of guys. Just imagine the eight guys and two girls scene and you'll understand. They (ND men) have an unreal pressure to date. If the ratio and the environment were better this wotildn't be so bad. 
"Men do have an undeniably different way of ap­proaching things. For instance, guys view girls totally. different than other girls do. Men are much harder to fool. Girls can relate to each other on a very super­ficial level. In a dorm, it is quite acceptable for girls to be continually effervescing with emotion. You can go down and giggle, or scream, or cry with another girl, yet never have to get involved in any very deep communication, but this 'doesn't work with guys. It isn't quite so easy to hide behind the bubbles. This can't be done with a man, because the emotions aren't so superficial. 
"Emotional relationships with a man .are impor­tant, too. Being involved with a man brings the woman in you to a fullness, and this makes you unafraid of the . masculine side of yourself. When the emotional .relationship becomes a sexual relationship, the sexual -involvement makes you feel totally womanly. It makes you a total woman, and as a total woman, you are able 
. to understand the man much better. It's like the man contributes his 'maleness' to make the woman more womanly. "That's what is so bad when you find out that you have been sexually manipulated: It's a really negative process. Things that you have developed inside your­self are destroyed totally. All the communication is , destroyed. You're no longer sure of yourself. You just go way back. Things that you felt and experi­enced are made invalid, so the next time you approach these feelings you fear them and try to subdue them. That is why it is so bad for a virgin, because the to­tality of her sexual experience is a negative one. "To be a woman is to have a capacity to love and 'to see things in a really beautiful way. It means to be :open to· let people love you, and for you to love them · in' return. You experience things _in a really unique 
FEBRUARY 25, 1972 
perspectives 

vvornen at notre dame 
TO try to describe all the problems Notre Dame will face as it becomes a co-educational institution is a game niany might enjoy playing. To try to solve them, however, is not so appealing. But solutions must be found-quickly-if Notre Dame's commitment to co-education is the full one we all expect it to be. 
Where do we begin? For starters, why not have an orientation session over the summer for all staff and faculty members and administrators to alert them to the difficulties other schools have encountered upon admitting women? Talk about bias against women in the classroom or in certain majors. Talk about discrimina­tion. Talk about womanhood vis-a-vis Notre Dame. The "bastion of male supremacy," as it was once described. Are all the services ready? Has the campus ministry looked itself over in view of co-education? How about the Counseling Center? And the Placement Bureau? Make everyone aware that these women will be trail­blazers, in a sense, and the path they take could set the tone for the future of co-education at Notre Dame. Such an orientation should eliminate comments such as the one made by a Notre Dame Security Guard to a female Law Student after she asked him to walk her to Lewis Hall on a particularly dark night: "We never had problems with rape on campus until you girls came!" And if it doesn't eliminate them, perhaps it will start people thinking in the right direction. 
How many women faculty members are there? I would guess less than 1% of the professors and asso­ciate professors at Notre Dame are women. How many women faculty members ·are tenured? How many women are in administrative positions here? To quote from Coeducation 1910-11, a progress report on co-education at Yale after two years: 
Women educated in an environment in which teach­ing and administration are male preserves will find it difficuJ,t to aspire to 'J)Ositions of res'J)Onsibility and leadership themselves. Men educated in such an environment will find it difficult to accept women as fully equal co-workers. Although there are now over 1600 women students enrolled in the Univer­sity, there are few female "role nwdels" in the Yale community. 
With only two tenured women on the Y<ile College facuJ,ty, absence of women from many major faculty committees is virtually assured. Many students never meet a wom,an faculty member during their years at Yale, and must rely on rnale faculty for counsel­ing. The situation in .the professional schools is similar. In many cases male faculty members serve as excellent counselors for women, but men cannot effectively advise students about career problems which are unique to women. Academic and prof es­sional women encounter many problems for which they need advice, support and guidance from mature women who have found ways to resolve similar problems. Obviously the best counselors for women students will be members of the faculty or other women actively engaged in the .work of the Univer­sity, but the number of such women currently is inadequate for the task at hand. Unless women are appointed to senior administrative posts throughout the various offices of the University, and to the faculty in significant numbers, Yale's pervasively male ethos will continue to prevail. Women should not be forced to .fit into an environment created for men. The environment must adapt so that it be­comes comfortable for all its members. 
Let's look at the health services. Yale reported that the absence of gynecological services on the campus was a big complaint during its first year of co-education. Have any provisions been made at Notre Dame to secure a gynecologist if such a complaint is lodged here? The admissions procedure into the infirmary has received a poor grade from some of the women presently at Notre Dame. A degree of privacy should be guaranteed to any student with health service needs when he or she enters the infirmary. 
Security is another area to look at. Is the lighting on campus adequate? How about establishing an escort patrol of students who can be reached by a phone call on a 24-hour basis? And if the comment made by the officer above is any indication, perhaps we should care­fully consider a special orientation program for the department. 
COUNSELING should be a critical concern at the co-educated Notre Dame. Three hundred and twenty-five women are going tc, be surrounded by forty-eight hun­dred men. They will be a novelty at first. Once the aura wears off, they will be scrutinized closely by faculty and students alike to see how they react to the deplorable competition existing in the academic and social milieu here. The pressures on a Notre Dame woman will be 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

---john barkett 
great and the constant reminders of "maleness" in Badin and Walsh Halls will not ease these pressures. And, to repeat again, these women will be crusaders, and the odds of success they face seem to me to be just a little better than the children in that disastrous crusade. Counseling is, therefore, a crucial need. 
There are many levels of counseling. The hall direc­tors in Badin and Walsh share the center arena with their 325 residents. They must be qualified counselors and competent administrators. They must be "young enough" to earn the love and respect of the women, but "old enough" to fight the N.D. bureaucracy that creates the terrific time lags from approval to initiation of action to completion of action here. They must be cognizant of the maleness of Notre Dame and of the precedent-setting role all Notre Dame women share. And like all rectors, they must be allowed a reasonable flexibility in helping the students run their halls. 
In another arena are the resident assistants. The criteria for selection should be the same for all resident assistants, but those chosen for the women's dorms must be fully aware of the situation they are in. Perhaps an effort could be made to find women with more counsel­ing experience than usual in a resident assistant. 
Of course, there is academic• counseling, referred to above, but there is room for improvement in that field with or without co-education. And career advising takes on added significance now. To quote from the Yale re­port, 
If equal emplayment opportunity for women is to be given anything more than lip service, their career counseling must be undertaken seriously and sensi­tively. It is important that women ·should be ap­pointed to the staff. 
Students of both sexes will readily agree that educa­tion is not something which may be confined within the walls of any campus; with encouragement, they will view summer jobs, internships and leave of ab­sence occupations as a chance to test tentative career or rprofessional commitments. Without this encour­agement, many tend to leave planning until their senior year. At this late date, they first succumb to panic, then may seize on. the first job they manage to hear of; or, belatedly and without strong motivation, they may apply to a succession of graduate schools in the effort to postpone the issue. 
WITH more and more students in search of non­traditional occupations, a serious effort should be made to provide them with leads. Barnard College Placement and Counseling Service has pioneered in this endeavor. The Cambridge Institute directs a wide program of "action for social change"; both the Boston regional office of the Friends' Service Committee and a group in New York City issue periodic listings of "Vocations for Social Change," and try to match applicants with open­ings. Yale students could profit from a systematic at­tempt to keep in touch with all phases of this growing­edge of activities. 
The needs of women in the residence halls is another area we must look at. How much closet space has been allowed? Will the mirrors in the halls be lowered? Will full-length mirrors be installed? Will shelves be installed in the bathrooms? How about shower curtains? .Will laundromats be provided? If so, how many? 
Who is going to handle Freshman Orientation for women in Badin and Walsh? The first few days here could be the most profitable ones the women will enjoy at Notre Dame if they are oriented honestly to the agony and promise of the co-educated Notre Dame. To underestimate this period of time would be a grave mis­take by all of us so vitally concerned with making the transition to co-education at N.D. as "problemless" and healthy as possible. 
What about rules and regulations? Visitation hours seems to be the "controversial" one at issue here and I would hope the hall directors and resident assistants and all women residents will tackle that question and all hall regulations within existing limits, of course, during or immediately after orientation. We have the opportunity of a lifetime here: to put all the theories about an ideal hall community to work in two new com­munities. I hope we take advantage of it. 
What type of hall government should be established? The Hall Presidents' Council and Student Government certainly can be of invaluable service in this regard. Is there a model constitution that could be provided the women? 
There are other questions students should look at: 
What arrangements can be made for interhall sports competition? 
Should an escort system be established? 
What type of interaction with St. Mary's women will 
FEBRUARY 25, 1972 
perspectives 



re-thinking the political 
We have witnessed in modern times and in recent years the corruption and trivialization of the public realm and the consequent withdrawal into privacy and intimacy. Martin Heidegger has expressed the altogether pervasive modern perception of public life when he claims that the light of the public darkens everything. This withdrawal is understandable although unfortu­nate; it means that we generally ask too little, indeed almost nothing, from public life and expect too much, indeed almost everything, from private life. Such is surely the movement, whatever its pace and progress, a movement which may leave political life to the cor­rupt and the quixotic and consume private life with un­qualified demands·for meaning and fullness beyond its scope. What is at stake in such a movement is not a particular political issue ·but the political dimension itself. 
One might ask whether serious, long-term engage­ment in political life is already irrevocably. passe and if not, _what the · sources and. aims of such engagement might be. One might wonder what would have to enter the public realm, what would have to be held. up and hoped for, for the approaching presidential election to be challenging and compelling for what is best rather than for what is worst in our common lives. As matters stand, five or six million newly enfranchised youth may only widen, rather than fill, the gaps left by-their dis­illusioned and spiritually disenfranchised fellow-voters. That one or other party and candidate will win is pre­dictable; whereas it is quite possible that our country will know only unyielding night for still another four years regardless. It is this darkness of long-settled moral fatigue and confusion which calls into sheer question­ableness the peculiar claims of any likely candidate and which formulates the political issue: engagement in or disengagement from the concerns and responsibilities of pqlitical life. 
It·is to this decay of the public realm and the conse­·guent withdrawal from political life into private life, or to the same problem variously formulated, that public debate ought to address itself. What this suggests is the location and scale of the problem, the range of the crisis --i.e.., that it encompasses the whole of political life rather than a part or dimension of it. The question for many is not a specific malfunction or misdemeanor which complicates involvement in political concerns, but instead a general collapse or pervasive misconception of political life which precludes or at least questions the integrity and significance of any involvement at all. 
Further, I might suggest that not only engagement in political. life, but also the character and quality of that engagement is a critical matter during the remain­ing months prior to .the primaries, conventions, and the election itself. The public realm and political life have been periodically renewed and illumined by the play of false lights and the shouts of empty voices. Apathy and despair are occasionally vulnerable to brief amusement and curious excitement, which is to say that garish political spectacles always have their captive audiences. Perhaps words of ·caution in this regard would be ap­propriate. One might ask, quite generally, what form and degree of integrity · is proper and necessary to a political campaign,_ a summons to political life. One might ask whether there· might not occasionally be greater defeats than losing._ 
Whether unfortunate or not, it is descriptively ac­curate, I think, to say that for all but a small fraction of citizens, political life is . cyclical and approaches a significant leve! at best once· every four years. In an election year, involvement in political life, at least to the point of attention and discussion, is ordinarily widened and intensified. However, it is questionable whether that attention and discussion are illuminating, edifying, and enriching, or even any longer interesting. What are the appropriate, as distinct from the actual, concerns ·of contemporary political life? What would ·have to be discussed and resolved upon to allow for intelligent and moral participation in public life? ·It is. my perception that it is particularly in an election year that· the appropriate concerns of political life are trivialized and perverted. Caution, strategy, theater, and divisive pres­sure replace honest, serious debate. With an illusion of clarity and decisiveness-which is merely an imposed confusion of issues and reduction of options-each voter is encouraged and left no alternative but to calcu­late his immediate self-interest. For there are many whose hopes and expectations have been reduced from public to private, or from common to personal, dimen­sions. Can one any longer speak of or hope for national decency, honor, integrity, justice, meaning, or peace? Or have these become necessarily _private concerns able to be raised and resolved at best within the confines of 
THE SCHOLASTIC 

-robert meagher 
an individual life or of a small communal nucleus? 
It is perhaps surprising and surely unsettling how common is this sense that American life has in some pervasive way broken down and ceased to function with minimal adequacy. One might argue that a decent, hope­ful private life is still possible though impoverished, while others would deny this and suggest that private and public life, the life of the part and the life of the whole, are so inseparable that the individual life is necessarily cast into the darkness, confusion, and pollut­ing stagnation of the streams of our common life-­which have ceased to flow. 
Men surely differ in the formulations they would offer for the distinction between the public and the private and for the appropriate relationship between the two. However, most generally, all would assume, I think, that in a sound, vigorous nation there would be a harmony between public and private concerns, a well­suitedness of the one to the other. National well-being and unity would seem to require that the life of the individual find his bearings, support, recognition, and even completion in the life.of the community. Our own national experience, quite to the contrary; points at least for the moment to a radical disharmony between the public and the private. Public concerns appear at worst antithetical and at best indifferent to private concerns, to the individual's concern for a lighted space in which to live a decent, full life. It is this quite available, in fact unavoidable, experience of the sundering of the public and the private to the point where it seems that one must opt between them (unless, by chance, one's 
. own most personal leanings are in the direction of public life· or unless, by design, public life is diverted to per­sonal gain) that occasions these reflections upon the political--that point or space where public and private converge and converse . 
.In ·one of the most brilliant reflections upon the political in our tradition, Sir Thomas More presents Utopia as a state in which all things are common and nothing. is private. (Contrastingly, it might be argued that in America all things are private and nothing is . public.) In Utopia, .. what is central to and effectively _constitutive of ·its political life is shared deliberation · regarding the pre-eminently public thing, the compre­hensive good which is most properly common and thus most properly the concern of the common or public life 
of all Utopians, namely, happiness, fullness, or well­being (all attempts at the Greek eudaimonia). The political activity, then, is seen as the essentially com­munal endeavor to understand and articulate human well-being which is presumed to be the public thing, the res publica. (Again, in clear contrast to this, is the American, not to say exclusively American, consecra­tion to the essentially private character of happiness in conception, articulation, and realization.) 
The task, it seems, of responsible candidates and political spokesmeµ, particularly in an election year, is to attempt to expand the meaning of the political to its appropriate scope and to inquire into the properly politi­cal, to inquire into the res publica, the common thing or things the possession or anticipation of which consti­tutes and nourishes our common lives. 

-Robert Meagher is an Instmctor of Theology. He re­ceived his undergraduate degree from the University of Notre Dame and a Master's from the University of 
Chicago. 
FEBRUARY 25, 1972 
way. It's a feeling. A woman has a very special part in the creation of another human being. A man can, but only for a moment, everything else is the woman. You can physically create as well as intellectually_ or artistically. Knowing that is a very powerful and frightening awareness. Someday there will be little people-from you, what else can you say?" 
"To be a woman...." This seems to capture the spirit of the new Notre Dame. I guess that is what this whole place is all about. The question that needs to be asked with the 'new era' of Notre Dame educa­tion is probably the same question that started i.t all 125 years ago. What it is to be a human being?" 
Maybe along with improved security and new plumbing ca~ come the old awareness of an old ques­tion that is too seldom asked. Possibly the school should add a few more semesters of Philosophy and Theology, and maybe a few more ,seminars, and then we can all talk about the problems that must inevitably shape our lives. If perhaps, at Notre Dame, we can all. discover what it means to be a person, then we can answer what it means to be a woman, what it means to be a man. 
It would be impossible for this or any other article to pretend to •present an accurate appraisal of the feelings of women who will be entering Notre Dame. The women quoted above offer varying perspectives, but there are many other opinions which remain un~ voiced. It is essential both to probe and question the ideas which have been expressed and to search-out the voices now silent. 
REAL LOVE AND CONCERN FOR GOD AND MAN, JOIN US IN OUR STRUGGLE AGAINST HUNGER, DISEASE, POVERTY AND IGNORANCE, AS WE SEEK TO BRING THE JUSTICE, FREEDOM AND PEACE OF CHRIST TO ALL MEN. THIS IS THE TASK OF THE DIVINE WORD MISSIONARY PRIEST AND BROTHER. TO KNOW MORE ABOUT US, WRITE: FATHER TOM STREVELER, SVD DIVINE WORD COLLEGE DEPT. 20D EPWORTH, IOWA 52045 Include your age, education, interests, address, etc.  
R. K. MUELLER, INC. Genuine Registered KEEPSAKE diamond rings Downtown 233-4200 218 S. Michigan St.  
Study in Guadalajara, Mexico The Guadalajara Summer School, a fully accredited University of Arizona program, will offer, July 3 to August 12, anthropology, art, folklore, geog­raphy, history, government, language and literature. Tuition, $160; board and room, $190. Writa Office of the Summer Session, University of Ari­zona, Tucson, Arii;ona 85721.  
HELP WANTED NATIONAL PARKS, PRIVATE CAMPS, GUEST RANCHES, AND BEACH RESORTS. Need college students (guys & gals) for next sum­mer's season (1972). Applicants must apply early. For free informa­tion send self-addressed stamped envelope to Opportunity Research, Dept SJO, Century Bldg., Polson, MT 59860.  

HAVE YOU GIVEN MUCH THOUGHT TO WHAT YOU'LL BE DOING TOMORROW? 

Finding a job 
--~ ~:.. \_-_·.·_.·~--'.·;:;;.:: that gives you ·.·. satisfaction isn't easy today. Not in a world as con­fusing and com­plex as ours. 
But the Paul­ist finds a fre­quent joy in his own way of life and values th.at are lasting. 
As a Paulist he may counsel a run­away youth, listen to the problems.of a senior citizen, or­ganize a Home Mass or conduct a forum on nar­cotics. Because Paulists have al­ways been pioneers in communi­cations, he may communicate through the printed word or through mass media such as radio, films or television. 
Whatever tool he chooses, the Paulist gets his "message" through. 
Can you think of any other life that will provide more inner satisfaction for you? 
For more information about the Paulist priesthood write to: 
Rev. Donald C. Campbell, C.S,P.,Vocation Director, Room 

paiisrfothets. 
415 West 59th Street NewYork,N.Y.10019 
there be? 
What will St. Mary's students' attitudes be toward Notre 
Dame women? 

What social arrangements will be made for St. Mary's and Notre Dame women and men in the hall orientation programs? 
What will the attitudes be toward women in inter­
collegiate sports competition? 
PERHAPS the most important questions confronting students particularly are: what is the Notre Dame man's attitude toward womanhood, toward femininity? What should it be? Don't many men consider them objects, in­stead of persons-an outgrowth of the pervasive male­ness that exits here? And will the myth that all women from St. Mary's are stuck-up be applied to the Notre Dame "woman"? It seems to me that just as orienta­tion will be an important time for the women, it will be. so, too, for the men-freshmen and upperclassmen-if these questions are to be answered. Rectors, resident as­sistants, and hall orientation chairmen might provide an invaluable service if they would force their hall resi­dents to forget all . the myths and . the complaints about the social atmosphere and to face the very real presence of women-·a new form of human being to some-on · this campus. Campus ministry, student government, aria· the counseling center might want to help the hall staffs in this task Present the men with the difficulties the women will-not encounter if very thoughtful soul­searching precedes the assaults on Badin and Walsh. 
B~ore I conchide, I would like to suggest·th·e crea­tion of a Co-education Office under the Provost or Presi­dent. The head of the office can be an _ombuds-woman~ helpfog to' resolve problems or investigating co~plaints. She could be someone to talk to; someo·n~ who will listen 
· and act, .someone to. show that·women are wanted at Notre Dame.: · · · · 
THERE·.·ch~e -many:praj~cts.'she 'could. ini~ate;· too... 
. Starting simply, she ·could-. .tip ·off-the :_tailor shop -·and shoe shop that women -wm'·_be living~ or:i· ,the campus in September.· She could·-be m·-charge . of :the. ongoing evaluation_ of co~edtication _at .Notre -DaIDe, .preparing periodic reports· fck the·. Provost arid ·President and ­maintaining con~act for; comparative purposes with_ 
other recently· co-e.ducated institutions (Princeton, Yale,' Wesleyan, Vassar; Connecticut College,for examples);' She could meet-with. women students· from bo_th halls,I '. 
all classes, and all colleges who could serve her in an advisory capacity: Certainly, the persons most· knowl­edgeable about the problems and needs of the women are the women themselves. -With the cooperation of the Student Union Academic Commission (unless funds could be found elsewhere), she could initiate a seminar program similar to the one at Yale which ap­pears to have met much success this year with its four goals: 
... to suwort the aspirations of Yale undergraduate wcnnen in regard to their careers or occupations after college; where goals are unclear} to stimulate think­ing which will help clarify them; to counteract to some extent the scarcity of f mnale role models on this campus by importing distinguished women speakers from outside; and to bring Yale wonum out of their isolation from· each other and into a fruitful exchange with their peers and with the wommi invited to talk with thern. 
The fourth_ goal. would probably not apply so much here, since the women will be concentrated in two halls. One last quote from the author of the Yale report, who incidentally heads their Co-education Office: 
At a time of budge(cutting and staff reduction} par­ticularly} it is easy to rationalize that nothing special 
. needs to be done for wommi students. Provided the President and Provost•impress the University com,­munity with'tlie fact that Yale has a serious commit­mmit to its women students} faculty} and staff} I be­liev~ that existing ·inadequacies can_-be overcome. Suwor~ from the.central_ administration is particu­larly necessary. in the absence of substantial num­bers of_WO?nen}aG'l!,lty° and administrators. 
I have n.ot exhau~t~d the question_~ and needs and problems that must be looked'at in a co-educated Notre . Dame._ Nor..have I adequately elaborated' the many top­ics I discussed~:,aliov~;-I,hope, however, that I have en­lightened:you: to -the'.point that ·you-·all of us-·will be­. gin piepari~g: i~~dia!elY: :for·:co;education at Not~e
Dame.·.-.:,.·,··"·~,,.:-.... _--.. _:"_,:._,_···_._-·· 


. Jqhn..Barkett is a'seriior Government major a~d i~­presently the ~otre Dame Student Body President. 
• -~ ---~ < -· ' ' --­
' . :· The'Sc}iolastic offers this. space ~a.ch.issue to any; :member·9f the University Community_: The opinions_ · expres~ed· herein do not· necessarily refiect.-tlle opin-­
. ions o.fthe Scholastic. · . ----· --·' . ,
• ~.,, ·-': -:: ' • ~ -.----_, 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



perspectives 

just past puberty 
On a dark, cold February, in itself like many others, 
a Notre Dame man proposed marriage to a young 
woman. Recognizing a primitive sincerity, she polite­
ly, but insistently, demurred. All was lost; the de­
vouring cold rushed in~ Desperately, pleadingly, he 
grasped her hand and placed it on his loins. Confused, 
uncertain, she hurriedly left the room and the Notre 
Dame man was alone. 
"Groin me, blow me, ream me, did you get any?~' 
Such at times· is our. common discourse. Granted, 
strange as it may· seem to our elders, these terms·are . 
often bantered:amo:ng friends; yet their constant repeti­. tion suggests more. Perhaps, such discourse, if. we 
think about it, reveals more of our char~cter_ than we 
might be willing. to profess publicly. 
. One frequently hears· the complaint.that ;r,-rotre Dame is the home of male chauvinism and:sexual·im­
. . 
maturity. Every floor in each hall probably has its . own incredulous -examples. Yet, is this surprising?• In · the residence halls, old age and its respective wisdom consist of a mere twenty-one years. In most cases, the immediate experience of manliness is the one:that ·· has just passed: puberty. Everyone is at least im-: ­plicitly aware of the fact that the men are divided from the boys in terms of the length and thickness of their penis. "Mine's bigger than yours" seems to be : the essential indicator of manly virtue. Yet, there is a further step. To be a real man, you must :riot -..· . . only _have the world's greatest prick, but also you must use it. "Did you get any, get your rocks off, get laid."" Our common vocabulary in this area betrays us. Most ­of our words imply a strong element of manipulation and refer to a private, singular pleasure. Does any-_ · -· one ask if the woman achieved orgasm, .or even if it · · made·a difference if the object were a woman or an . · . ­anim·al, let alone if the particular woman mattered? ­~e essential thing often seems to be "getting one's · rocks off." Such is the extent of our objectification of ­women in our individual, lonely searches for the 
perfect piece. 
Ironically, violence is defined in the Non-Violence 
Program as_ the objectification of an individual. 
"Make love not war" rings somewhat insincerely in 
context. Could it be, if we think about it, that many of 
us have personal Viet Nams? Yet, perhaps this is not 
really strange. Would it be different on other cam­
puses? When old men are twenty-one and the 
immediate experience of manliness is puberty, what 
can one really expect? If our common discourse does in 
a way betray us then we--all of us-have a problem . 
While calling ourselves men and masquerading in 
men's bodies, perhaps we don't really know the first 
thing about what it means to be a man. Ironically 
again, perhaps some of our friends have died men's 
deaths in Viet Nam while sharing our predicament. 
Perhaps we can raise this question in some of our 
seminar classes-Freshman Seminar, Collegiate Sem­
inar, Theology and Philosophy. In our collective 
ignC?rance to whom can we turn? 
It might be wise to ask the older men among us 
what it means to be a man. Those that have truly 
made love could possibly teach us that all the heavy 
breathing and technical manipulation is for the one· 
moment of pre-creationlike stillness, when two friends 
that·are a unity cling together in the embrace of 
wholeness. The new Notre Dame women could pos­. sibly teach us the same thing. Yet the answer that 
would come closest to the truth could just as well 
come from a CSC. It is somewhat tragic that we don't 
understand them: who in his right mind would live 
without sex and money? Real men don't live that 
way.... 
The author is a Resident Assistant in one of Notre Dame's dorms; he agreed to withhold his name at the suggestion of the editors. · · 
On February 17, 18, 24, 25, 26, the ND-SMC Theatre is producing Judas Christ, the first full-length play of a young writer, Michael Rehak (whom some may remember from his five-month run playing the bartender at Nickie's). The production of an established play, the sort of e\·ent usually offered at collegiate theatres, is rather like moving a ten-year-old child to a new school; the main idea is to discover new virtues to enhance while protecting the essential victories of the past. But attending the premiere of a new work is an event of heightened promise, it is watching a real birth. And attending the production of the premiere work by a new plaY\vright is watching the birth of a first son. 
Any theatrical production is an act of hope, but at such a dual debut, the possibilities of renewal are tripled. However, the avenues of appreciation become significantly tripled as ,vell and the only way for the audience to avoid premature rejoicing or unnecessary dismay is to recall the three styles of victory which can occur singly or in consort at such a debut. 
The first question is the playwright. Can he really be what the name implies, a maker and shaper of plays? This is largely a question of the techniques of the theatrical form. In the present age of fluid con­ventions the precise name and number of these tech­niques are not easy to delineate, but basically it is a question of speaking through scenes; taking some set of people and conditions as premises and then proceed­ing through some regular style of demonstration to portray a conclusion. The clearest examples of this type of mimetic argument appear, almost in slow motion, on afternoon television. Objections can be made to the intellectual implications of Secret Storrn et al, but not to the elementary grasp of the techniques of dramatic argument which they display. It is no accident that such fine modern playwrights as Harold Pinter and Tom Stoppard have a lengthy list of "soaps" associated with their early careers. Learning to write in scenes, even soap opera scenes, is learning the playwright's alphabet. 
The playwright must not only speak in scenes, but the scenes he chooses must be practically theatrical. They must be designed to speak effectively in the rather narrow confines of time and space available in the living theatre. Removing a protagonist in flaming midair between two 747's or cataloguing 24 hours in the history of the Statue of Liberty may be options available to a moviemaker but they are denied to the playwright by the rigid demands of his medium. 
A simple statement of the elementary requirements for real play-making tends to make the task appear ridiculously easy. In reality, however, the ability to speak in tight, fluid scenes is as rare and promising a gift as a gentle, rapid touch in a pianist or a wide range and good ear in a singer. To find it at a premiere is to find a child with strong, supple muscles and bones. 
The next question is the matter of the play itself. Any play which offers, as this one does, to deal with Jesus' last days, takes up a myth which has become embedded consciousness of a culture for over twenty centuries. It is unavoidably dealing in images whose 
. . I . I . -_ . . . . ._ 

inherent power is enormous. The entertaining sleight 
of hand which is farce is almost impossible with such 
strong images. The shallowest interpretation they ,vill 
bear is probably the grim farce of a detective piece. If 
the play chooses to do more than fit together the 
causal links of a deadly puzzle, it must fac~ the serious 
questions about the meaning of death, hope, and love 
which are tied up in the crucifixion myth. The 
audience has a right to expect that the play will clearly 
and honestly display the dreams ,vhich move men to 
publicly live and die. It must pointedly ask and 
answer questions about the motives of some of the most 
enigmatic men in history: about fishermen-conquerors 
and carpenter-gods. 
The number of plays which seem to capture the 
essence of the human psyche can be set out on a short 
list. The number ,vhich firmly catch some main portion 
of our dreams can be gathered in a list only a fe\v 
times longer. Any sign that Judas Christ might evolve 
into a candidate for either list is a -victory for a 
dramatic culture slowly dying of malnutrition. No play, 
of course, is likely to premiere polished and finalized. 
All that is really necessary is that the child have 
sharp vision and accurate ears. 
The third aspect of a double-debut is the production itself. This certainly is the theatre which the audience is most accustomed to examining. It involves all the questions an audience asks itself when it leaves the theatre. Did the costuming, the lighting, the setting, the movement, the line readings fairly and imagina­tively reflect the possibilities which the author seems to have suggested in the text? A play survives from day to day only in skeletal form, in sketches and plans and texts. The art of incarnating those outlines is ,vhat occupies most of the workers in the theatre. At a debut it is especially important to differentiate their work from the work of the author. Is there imagistic chaos (or order) because of a clumsy (or incisive) directoral hand or because of a muddied (or en­lightened) authorial imagination? Do critical objections to characters arise from artless representa­tion by an actor or from the banal things he is asked to present? In an art as communal as theatre it is often difficult to tell where the primary causes really lie, but careful attention to the spoken text (which is the author's primary contribution) can provide some useful hints. 
One of the most exciting things about the art of drama is that no production ·is actually definitive for a parti~ular work, and certainly no first production should be expected to offer a definitive view of a play. The most we should hope is that a premiere production can highlight a script's best and most promising features. 
The ND-SMC Theatre, by producing Judas Christ, is creating theatre in the fullest, most accurate sense of the word. Such attempts are all too rare in contempo­rary collegiate theatres, probably because they involve the chance for many more kinds of failure than simple production of "reputable" works. But they involve the opportunity for many fore kinds of success as well. And most important, they offer a sign that drama on this campus is still alive and fertile. 
-mark dconnell 

ttplay loud," it says 
Before B.B. Blunder, life had settled into the dull drone of everyday existence. My car was on the fuzz; I couldn't get a date for the big concert; the cat had just run away. Having heard B.B. Blunder, things have changed immeasurably. I cruise around town in my new sports car, dine with beautiful women and throw the best cocktail parties in town. 
By now you must be wondering: who the hell is 

B.B. 
Blunder? Well, a couple of nights ago my house­mate staggered in_ with this new album he'd just won. A quick look at the cover and we suspected that it couldn't possibly sound as schlocky as it looked. It didn't. The cover and inside cover are generally reminiscent of the Airplane's "Volunteers" album of a few years ago. 

B.B. 
Blunder, the band, is composed of Kevin Westlake,· drums; Brian Belshaw, bass; and Brian Godding, guitar and lead vocals. As B.B. Blunder the musical entity, they are a very tight, competent group that plays a kind of lyric rock that has at its roots basic rhythm and blues. _ 


I gather that the group is British and for all I know they might be a smash on the continent. At least they should be. Although their album is on a level with the best of the year ( somewhere between The Who and the Moody Blues, if you're into compari­sons), it's not hard to see why they haven't had.much 
. success in the States. While there ·are many fine tunes on this album, there aren't any that would fit the daily AM play lists. For an established band.this isn't anything to worry about, but few. new bands can make it without sufficient radio air time, especially in the early stages of their careers. It keeps them in the public ear until they're-finally noticed. So much for . the drivel that goes down as music over the_AM waves; back to the aforementioned fine turies. 
There are more of" them on the second side thai. the first, which is no putdown of side ~o~e. AU: of them are ·very good. "Seed" (Play~loud,· it says.'c We-·dici: 
. They_ did. That did it.) fea.hlres_=·some excellent harmoriy by· Brian Godding and Julie Driscoll as ·well as the generally fine playing of the rest of the group. "Put Your Money Where Your Mouth Is" (Right · Between The Cheeks) is an old-fashioned rocker that reveals a new side of the band. "Rise" is the best song on the album as far as I'm concerned. It opens with Godding's gently strumming electric lead, ac­celerates slightly as the rest of the_ band comes in, singing; then winding round and round into a long instrumental where a~ three trade of some great solos. Belshaw is a perfect complement on basl:! and Westlake drives them all from behind his drum kit. Just about everyone gets in_ on "New Day," subtitled 
· "A Philosorock Special." The Stones' Mick Taylor plays slide guitar, Brian Auger at the piano and every­body-I mean old ladies,· friends, relatives, children, roadies, technicians, cohorts, accomplices and office boys-joins in for the. chorus. A lyric, joyous song done in the best beltin' gospel tradition. 
Side One· has some pretty decent cuts on it though it is generally not as· consistent as the flip. side. "You're So Young''. and ~'Rocky Yagbag" (An Irish Sex-Thril­ler) are outstanding with Westlake doing some interest­ing percussion ori the latter. When this band cooks, 
: which is most of the time, their music is always ex­cellent and sometimes innovative. The weaker cuts are largely the result of overproduction, such as·the·addi­
: tion_ of-the horns on "Sticky Living," rather than any _weakness within the band itself:-They are.at their best _·as a hard-driving trio,· although it should be noted-that Julie Driscoll's:yocals add much to the songs that she is on.:. · · · · 
So_·now you_ know all about 13.B. Blunder. Except that you've never heard the album and aren't' likely to unless you get out and order it. So here's an un­
-_ solicited pl~g: they record for Polydor, 1700 Broadway, New_. York. ·Your local record store· (even the, ugh, Booksto~) should be. able to handle itC ·~ So much for 
_-_th~ promo_:: So long, and bless you, Blunder, .wherever you ar,e,.· ..•. : 
-casey pocius 

THE SCHOLASTIC 

captive despair 

At the command of Pope Julius II, Michelangelo began carving what was to be the greatest tomb since the time of Hadrian. '.I;'he intensity with which he threw himself into the work can be known only to those with artistic passion. But when Julius took him from his work prematurely, to paint the Sistine Chapel, his talent was again transformed into an exploitable affliction. He left behind, however, an unfinished piece that articulates his deepest troubles: the Captive. The male figure is struggling to free himself from the virgin rock that covers more than half his body. The creative vocation that promised to free Michelangelo's soul, but was crippled by the caprices around him, led him to image this battle in marble. 
This same captive despair is reasserted, over 400 years late, in the graphics of Georges Rouault. The centuries have worn the Captive's energy, and in these new figures we see tempered disillusionment. Rouault's vision may have been a little less metaphysical than 
Michelangelo's, and his talent less glorious, but his religious zeal was as intense. In the passionate simplicity of his almost caricatured subjects, he despairs for the lonely and abused, and celebrates that which binds men together. The figures emerge from a shroud of darkness, either to reflect the cold light of an inhumane world, or to radiate the subtle peace of a divine grace. Those subjects of degradation have heads tilted violently upward, as though gasping for air. They are cloaked in shadow. Those with a noticeable hope in the midst of the gloom are in humble contemplation, their faces illuminated. 
Our response to the ugliness he portrays is a sympathetic one. In his studies of the Crucified Christ, we are moved to pity those who sustain a faith in the goodness of men. In his later etchings using aquatint color, his people are ironic in their festive moods. Presented at the beginning of this century, when world wars had not yet tarnished ~e gleam of aestheticism, his works are unique in the moralistic import they contain. 
Perhaps Michelangelo dreamed of a day when his captive soul would be free. Perhaps Georges Rouault spent the night in the same way. It makes no difference. Such creations of art are reminders of our daytime nightmares. 
~-christopher k:rieg 

sophomore literary festival 
the eye akin to the ear 
Robert Duncan, while calling himself a derivative 
writer, is one of the most imaginative and complete 

poets in America tod?-Y-Duncan openly acknowledges 
that he draws his art from the resources of Stein, 

vVilliams, and Pound; borrowing also from Zukofsky, 
Olson, Creeley, and Levertov. Possessed with an 

exquisite imagination and a very personal mystique, 
Duncan has published 23 books of poetry and prose, and 
can afford to acknowledge his credits. 
Duncan is a personal poet, using anything as 
inspiration for his craft. However, it is this mag­
nanimity which makes Duncan a poet for our time. 

Working in words I am an escapist; as if I could 
step out of my clothes and move naked as the 
wind in a world of words. But I want every 

_part of the actual world involved in my escape. 
Instead of concluding in the orthodox sense, Duncan's poems unfold in gradations seeming to reach toward the end of a natural arc. 
I enter the poem as I entered my own life, mov­ing tietween an -initiation and a terminus I cannot name. 
For Duncan a poem is not a stream of consciousness but a place where after entering, the poet can obey and record a kind of automatic imagination. What inspires Duncan is the specific process of becoming inspired and making a poem. His method of composition is gathered to him and his poetic scholarship and in­extensibility are quite admirable in an age of scrappy creativity. 
Duncan is master of the music of poetry. As sound changes so does poetry. It is the celebration of an event in process. He celebrates it in an open-series poem, "Structures of Rime" _ 
The Fire Master waits always :for me to recall 
-him from a place_ in my he8!t that is burnd ­
or is burning. He comes to my mind where, 
immediate to the thought of him, his rimes 
. :flicker and would blaze forth and take over 

-Iri his vehicle of words Duncan has revamped the language, making the eye's focus akin to the ear1s. He has summoned modernity and antiquity to the call of meter. Duncan's metrics are extremely various, extending from tight lyrics to looping paragraphic structures; yet the ear detects in them all the ostinato of the standard iambic, and the falling intonation of 
liturgy; the masculine and feminine of our poetic tradition. 
·My mind a shuttle among set strings of the music -­

lets a waft of dream grow in the daytime~ 
an increment of associations luminous soft threads the thrown-glamour, crossing and recrossing, the twisted sinews underlying the work. 

Duncan, although not a protester, emerges from his literary Eden to comment on social disorganization. He manages to merge protest and ·art: a difficult marriage. He writes of the possible horrors of modern warfare in "The Uprising" ... 
And men wake to see that they are used like things spent in a great potlatch, this Texas barbecue of Asia, Africa, and all the Americas, And the professional military behin~ him, thinking to use him as they thought to use Hitler without losing control of their business of war 

Duncan also comments on_ student unrest in his poem "The Multiversity"-specifically on the Berkeley riots. In these two poems Duncan is writing for the people. I don't mean to say that just because they are more contemporary and accessible they must be better poems. The failure of readers of poetry to come to terms with all of Duncan's art is shameful and lazy; as Duncan has said in "Roots and_Branches": 
Foremost we admire the out­law who has the -strength of his own lawfulness. 

-Robert 'Duncan has nurtured and cultivated his work that it may bloom with the endless -chaos and variety of nature. ­
-eileen dugan 
THE SCHOLASTIC 



a separate reality 
A Separate Reality: Further Conversations with don Juan by Carlos Castaneda Simon & Schuster 
The question, "What is reality?" has indeed become a most irritating cliche and excuse for cynicism in a directionless age. Yet it remains perhaps the most in­triguing facet of any existential query. A particular emphasis of the question runs a new and exciting path through the writings of Carlos Castaneda. 
Castaneda, a (former?) graduate student in anthro­pology at UCLA, published his first work, The Teachings of don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge, in 1968, and the book has found its way onto the required reading lists of various departments on this and many other campuses. Now Castaneda's second book, A Separate Rea7,ity: Further Conversations with don Juan, has emerged, and it continues the first work in a way that will probably exist as the closest and most extensive study of the mind of a sorcerer ever written. 
At the base of the two works is the bittersweet joy that, two hundred years too late, someone has recog­nized the American Indian as one of the most meta­physically involved races in the ·history of man. The total schema of· Indian knowledge, however, involves many regional and tribal variations, and Castaneda ex­plores a very intricate and involved one in the appren­ticeship of Juan Matus, a brujo, or sorcerer, of the Yaqui tribe in northern Mexico. 
,The first book deals with Castaneda's induction into apprenticeship and the events which mark it: the "meetings" between himself and the "non-ordinary reality" induced by the hallucinogenic preparations of peyote, jimson weed and a species of the Psylocebe mushroom. It ends with his withdrawal from the asso­ciation due to his terror of the world into which he had stepped. 
The second book ·portrays the reintroduction of Castaneda into the apprenticeship, following a three­year absence. This volume deals with more extensive concepts of Yaqui knowledge, the most important of which is the ability to see. Although inseparably inte­grated with all the other aspects of becoming a "man of knowledge," seeing is the method of knowing. As 3.:11 isolated concept, seeing is differentiated from looking in the Yaqui sense much as it is in the metaphysics of Kant (Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics), in which looking involves perception of the appearance of things and serves as a shield from the existence of things, the perception of which, according to Kant, is limited to God, as God is not bound by space or time. By the same token, in the Yaqui concept, seeing is the ability to "tell things apart. You can see them for what they really are ... a thing is never the same every time you see it, and yet it is the same." · · 
Don Juan goes on to state: "The world, when you see, ... is a fleeting world that moves and changes. One may perhaps learn to apprehend the fleeting. world by oneself, but it won't do any good, because the body de­cays with the stress." Such a property of perception, in the Yaqui sense, necessitates· the ingestion of "the little smoke," a preparation of the Psylocebe spE:cies. The "smoke gives . the necessary speed to grasp the fleeting movement of the world and at the same time it keeps the body and its strength intact.'' 
However, the ability to see involves the ultimate realization that the life of a man of knowledge "will be over altogether too soon; he knows that he, as well as everybody else, is not going anywhere; he knows, be-: cause he sees, that nothing is more important than any­thing else." The man himself, "upon learning to see ... becomes everything by becoming nothing. . . . Seeing has already detached him from absolutely everything he knew before ... then you'll know that there is no end to the new worlds for our vision." 
This can only serve as a glimpse of a system of knowledge, for, as stated, this and the other concepts of the system are interrelated. A Separate Reality does indeed introduce the units of the knowledge and explains much of their interrelation, and it does it well and in­terestingly. However, the greater importance of A Sepa­rate Reality is Castaneda himself. 
In The Teachings of don ·Juan, Castaneda is the edu­cated social scientist, concerned with the structural analysis of don Juan's methods in an attempt to cor­raborate the knowledge into his own method of ra­tionality and thought. The inability to acomplish this appears to be the primary reason he terminated his apprenticeship. 
In A Separate Reality, Castaneda slowly realizes the truth of don Juan's assertion that "trying to become a sorcerer by taking notes is as ludicrous as standing on one's head." However, don Juan is determined to teach Castaneda as a result of the concern shown for him by "Mescalito" (the "person" of the peyote plant). The work presents Castaneda's transition from the reality which all of us take for granted into the world of the man of knowledge. It is, for Castaneda, and imaginably for anyone, a difficult and perhaps impossible task to assume the life of a "warrior" ; a man not shielded by the actions of other men, but who must choose his own shields and abandon reflective thought of his actions. 
Castaneda does not accomplish this before he ends his reportage, but he states, "the events that took place on that occasion (the time of his last entry) marked a transition. They not only closed a cycle of instruction, but they also opened a new one ..." One can only feel that Castaneda has been successful in becoming un­chained from his reason and has returned to learning the ways of a inan of knowledge, because, in the words of don· Juan, "there is no other way to live." · 
· ' · -john moare 
coming distractions 

FILMS 
Share in The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Run­ner. Misery loves company, February 25 at 3 :30, 7, and 9 p.m., in Carroll Hall. 
Take a lesson in anatomy February 25 and 26. Claire's Knee will be surveyed in the Engineering Audi­torium at 8 and 10 p.m. Bring your lenses. 
Cinema '72 scorches the screen with Barren Lives February 27 and 28. The emptiness begins at 8 and 10 
p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. T.µe CAC cries Gimme Shelter. Washington Hall provides cover on March 2 and 3 at 7 and 9 p.m. Trisilltna comes to town March 3. Meet her in Car­roll Hall at 3:30, 7 and 9 p.m. . · Ashes and Diamonds will be all that's left March 4. 
The CAC continues its Cinema 72 Series with a March 4 and 5 showing of Media at 8 and 10 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. 
Go to the Engineering Auditorium and spend a Night at the Opera._ Shows start at 7 and 9 :30 p.m. on March 7. 
LECTURES 
Law Dean Thomas Shaffer queries: "Is the Chris­tian lawyer a contradiction in terms? Interrogatives declare themselves at 9 :30 a.m., February 26 in the Law Building. 
Question: What's the intersection of AC and CRS? Answer: U and the Civil Rights Symposium, Febru­ary 27, at 8 p.m., 28 at 3 p.m., and 29 at 8 p.m.· 
Stanley Hauerwas says, Love is not enough. What is then? Maybe your presence in the Donor's Room of the Morris Inn at 8 p.m. on February 27 will suffice. 
·Ezra St.oiler takes a peek at Architectural Phot.og­raphy March 1. The door snaps shut and the lecture develops at 2 :30 p.m. in the Architecture Auditorium. 
Fathom a new angle of the dead and the dying March 2. W. F. May drops his lines on Sacral Power of Dea.th in Contemporary Experience in the Library Auditorium. Pick them up on March 2 at 8 p.m. 
The Regional Mock Law Office Competition will be in session March 4 in the CCE. Law students from University of Iowa, Washington University in St. Louis, ID at Indianapolis, and Notre Dame cross and examine_ at 12:30 p.m. 
Modal Thought in Literature will be the .mode of thought for Boston University Professor· W. Arrow-
smith in his following Ward-Phillips Lectures: March 6-"The Nature of Modal Thought: A Glance at Gilgamesh and Achilles (Iliad: xxviii)" March 7-"The Modal Nature of Character and Action in Drama: Euripides' Alcestis" March 8-"A-Modal Critique of Culture and Poli­tics: Aristophanes' Birds" March 9-"White Men and Red Men: An American Modal Encounter" Thoughts become words at 4 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Professor Franklin Long's recipe for the P. C. Reilly Lecture Series: First, take the "Proton Transfer from Cyamo Carbon Acid: Both Kinetics and Isotope Effects"; second, stir in a pinch of "Chemistry and Society"; and third, add a spice-"Arm~ Control and Disarmament," whether it be "An International Prob­lem or a National-One." Boil and let the pot cool in room 123 of Nieuwland. It will be ready at 4:30 p.m. on March 6, 8, and 10. 
Delve into a Qumran Lecture on the Study of Exe­getical Techniques, Especially Midrash, in Judaism Around the Turn of the Era. Professor L. Silberman 
takes all comers into the Library Auditorium, March 6 at 8 p.m. 
Brush up on Art Works and Real Things with Co­lumbia Professor A. Danto. Step into the reality of the New Biology Auditorium March 7 at 8 p.m. · 
Professor J. Snell journeys back into time March 7 to take a closer look at Science and Politics in Ger­µiany, 1815-1918. The time machine will be in the Uni­versity Club Lounge. Takeoff is scheduled for 8 p.m. 
Black Studies sheds light on the Socio-Political Con­ditions and Liberation Movements of the .Chicanos. With power supplied by the American Minorities Lec­ture Series, Doct.or R. Gusman flicks the switch in the Engineering Auditorium at 7 :30 p.m. on March 8. 
The Haynes Forum would like to introduce into evidence the following: first, Thomas Singer, as ex­hibit A; second, his weapon, Demonstrative Evidence in Trials, as exhibit B; and third, March 9, room 104 in the Law Building,,and 11:15 as exhibits (for) U. 
Doct.or Robert Berg digs up the Identification of Sedimeniary Environments in Reservoir Sandst.ones in room 101 of· the Geology Building. The excavation begins on March 10 at 4 p.m. 
View The architecture of William Wurster now 


through March 13 in the Architecture Gallery. Also in the AG, March unveils The class of 1974-a showing of the work of the current third-year architecture stu­dents-and The Rome studio--sketches, -plans, and details by the students spending a year in the Notre Dame studio in Rome. 
The O'Shaughnessy Gallery displays The graphic work of Georges Rouault, until February 27, and selec­tions of Robert Leader's paintings and drawings until April 19. 
Sculptures by Harold Langland and Konstantin Milonadis interiorly decorate the South Bend Art Gal­lery and the Local Artist Gallery, March 5-26. 
SPORTS Northern Illinois and Notre Dame make waves in the Rockne Pool, February 25 at 7:30 p.m. 
Pins and holds will break my bones, but Cincinnati will never hurt me? This answer to this ND grappler's question lies on the ACC mats, February 25 at 7:30 p.m. 
The University of Michigan icemen cometh. The Wolverines invade Notre Dame ice February 25 and 26 at 7 :45 p.m. 
\Vestern Michigan and Notre Dame kick up the dirt on the ACC track February 26 at 1 p.m. Marshall University and Notre Dame match strokes in the Rockne Pool February 26 at 2 p.m. 

RIJ7Hl€ 
Wl/0?
\ 




O,,L l"uhlidwn-llall ~rnthnlr 
rr, REAl.Uf RimIT$ 
R'Jllil€ wtlO ( Kt. 7111€. ~$ He, 
CPeU UP!
,,
5li IJ(?SBl/ M~,­Al.JO l~
wiw~ 
P8cCO 
HJ THIS 
iWORlO r 001RVST? 
I 

Villanova. and Notre Dame clash on the ACC hard­wood March 1 at 8 p.m. Michigan State and Notre Dame draw sticks and skates March 3 and 4 on the ACC ice at 7 :45 p.m. 
SPECIALS 
A Travelogue, Wheels Across America, will roll with ·Julian Gromer and the South Bend Lions Club. Rev up your motors in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 
p.m. on February 25. 
February 25 and 26 will be the last days to view the last days of Christ with his apostles. Judas Christ and company walk onto the O'Laughlin stage at 8 :30 p.m. 
Roller Derby bangs and bumps its way in to the ACC. Watch the skaters knock elbows, heads, arms, legs, and anything else they can think of, February 28 at 8 p.m. 
Plan to be, not not to be, at Hamlet, A Planned Happening in the Little Theater at 8 p.m. on March 3, 4, and 5. . 
Andy William and Heney Mancini make beautiful music together in the ACC on March 5 at 8 p.m. 
The Vienna Symphony Orchestra, with Conductor Josef Krips, makes an elevated pit stop in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 p.m. on March 8. 

OJWfl/l!!T~~
1 , ,, I fN;
1 KOV4 
• 
HARVel.
NJO 
I 


~ 
Bl.OW 
'/OCR
SKVL.l-
OFF. 
-kevi'1J, cassidy 
f 
0 

1-30 

!r
I <IS 
~1 
/5 W€ 
WA 
f;R[A, RV1111t 
!MITA­
1JDk]. 

FEBRUARY 25, 1972 

Paae 1 
-

.•'•: 
• •<~,~(~,,',. / 
• :. ' , . 
_--,-_.. -;+,!.._. 
u. s. POSTALSERv;cE STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION (Act ofAugust 12, 1970: Section 3685. Title 39. United States Code}  ·sEE INSTRUCTIONS ON PAGE 2 (REVERSE)  
1. Tl I LE OF PUBLICATION Scholastic  2. DATE OF FILING 2-25-72  
3. FREQUENCY OF ISSUE fortnightly for the months September through }1ay  
4. LOCATION OF KNOWN OFFICE OF PUBLICATION (Street, city, county,state, LJ.l:'Code) (Not printers} LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame, Indiana 466.56  
b. LOCATION OF THE HEADQUARTERS OR GENERAL BUSINESS OFFICES OF THE PUBLISHERS (Not printers)-. The University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 ·· -. · · ··  
6. NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF PUBLISHER, EDITOR, AND MANAGING EDITOR  
PUBLl.:>MER (Name a11Ct aaaress} University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46656  
EDITOR r1vame ana aadress} v. Joseph Hotz and Mary Ellen Stoltz% Scholastic, Notre Dame, Indiana·465.56_  
MANAGER EDITOR (lVameanaaaaress) James Munsch, 339 Dillon, Notre.Dame, Indiana 465.56  
7. OWNER (If owned by a corporation, its, name and address must be stated and also _immediately thereunder the names and addresses of · srockholders owning or holding 1 percent or more of total amount ofstock:. If not owned by a corporation, the names and addresses ofthe individual owners must be given. If owned by a partnership or other unincorporated firm, ·;rs name_ anci address, as -i,,ell as that of each individual must be given.)  
NAME . AD.DRESS  
·x.ne University or l'lotre uame Ilo"tre uame, .J.D.Ql.ana -nJXJu  



·, 8. KNOWN BONDHOLDERS, MORTGAGEES, AND OTHER SECURITY-HOLDERS OWNl!'JG OR HOLDING 1 PERCENT OR MORE OF · TOTAL.AMOUNT OF BONDS, MORTGAGES OR OTHER SECURITIES (Iftherearenone,sostateJ  
-NAME  ADDRESS  
None  




9.. FOR OPTIONA,L COMPLETION BY PUBLISHERS MAILING ATTHE REGULAR RATES (Section 132.121, Postal Service Manual)· · 39 U. S. C. 3626 provides in pertinent part: "No person who would, have been entitled to mail matter under former section 4359 o·f this title, ·shall .mail such matter at the rates provided under this subsection unless·he files· annually with the Postal Service a written request for permission to mail matter at such rates." • In accordance with the provisions of this statute, I hereby request permission to mail the. publication nam,ci in Item 1 at the reduced postage·. rates presently authorized by 39 U.S. C. 3626. , /"'\ . · ..._ / · · · .  
. (Signature and title of editor, publisher, business manager, or owne"'J/ j' J.. .. · IJ . t~-;,,!. , -~.,~ ·'££R~ (~­. · lJ. ,~6~.{_;,_;~-­~> -The purpose, ·function, and nonprofit status·at this' E Have not changed . Have c~anged·during (ifchanged, publisher must organization and -the .exempt status for Federal during preceding ·,, .. preceding 12 months submit explanation ofchange '· Income.tax purposes .· . 12 months with this statement.)  
AVERAGE NO. COPIES ACTUAL NUMBER OF COPIES OF EACH ISSUE DURING SINGLE ISSUE PUBLISHED NEAR·11.· EXTENT AND NATURE OF.CIRCULATION,·· PRECEDING 12 MONTHS EST TO FILING DATE  
8;700 8.700  
B. ~AID CJRCULATJON , . _ .-. .~., -­-, , . ,: SALES THROUGH DEALERS AND CARRIERS, STREET .. : VENDORS.AND COUNTER SALES . ·' .• "  

 
C. TOTAL PAID CIRCULATION ' 
.. 0. FREE DISTRIBUTION BY.MAIL, CARRIER OR OTHER MEANS.,1. S~MPLES, COMPLIMEN1:'ARY;AND OTHER FREE CO_PIES" .. ~ 2. Co~1Es· 01sTRl8i.iTEDTo N'eWS AGE'NTs, BUT_NoTSOLD -~ -~ ., .­; , ~ _-.. w .: ' ' -• > - 
'. ':, -·._ -. • • •· -~ ~ -l --:, •• : -, E. T?TAL.DISTRIBU_TION '-Su\otc;:~;;dD} .. ·-8;600 .. · _ ·:. 8,600 _ :1__________-..:.....-....::...__:-'--'---'---'-...C.......::...:..::.._::,___;_ -=-ii--...L--------.....;_-+--.......-------------1 F; C>FFICE USE, LEFT-OVER, UNACCOUNTED, SPOILED AFTER. 1\:-:PRINTING,,_,: _.;·-;­-·­-,~ ·~. · -~-·· "-~ _-­-'.:.::: ~ "-. -...-_-, -100 ~ 100  
•·';; :,;: !~.:?.::. .,.,~• . ., A' • • -• -•-: ~ -•"·, ,--•• ~:•• ,G: TOTAL.:.(Sum ofE &F..:.should ~qual net press run shown_in A}: ­'· .: ,. .., ;­-­,'~ t~_., ---~· ,!· ·-',~ _----­_­--· -:,­..... --.-_ ~;••_ .. ~-­~ 8.700 8.700 ·:. .. ' · • ··: ·, :-­~': ·"· ·~f•:_~, ·;:• :: ·, · .: (Signature ofeditor, publisher, businessm~ager, orowner} . ,:.~ ·;ertify tli~t t~: ~t~t:~~~ts.:~ad:..~; ~·e ab~~~ :~~~~:r~~t an~~~mplete. : A1~ [il!eflt 5if14 . .  

~ · 

. . ·'•. . 


:.,,/ { ~.: -L ::) /~-.
-v. IT·· , ~v_"() 
FEBRUARY·25,··1_972 
the -last word 

Within. this issue the .SCHOLASTIC has' atte~pted ' Such:a giving i;'a sapping. of. o~e's own --~trength _, to explo~e a·;~bject· which most:people~at Noire Dame which seems· to make oni:!'less a man..To such men really would-rather not ·talk or-think about·_:_ the caring is a forin_'o{pity :·bec~~se._it acknowl~dges that public assertio·n of· hoiriosexriality among·inen.· . others are-:les_s ·strcmg. _,_·. ..:.· . . 
. Reading· the rece~1:·1etters:in tlie'Observer from . , The authors' ,of these letters to other men' are so-called "Gay" sympathizers,·.r was struck by the ~learly-;talking·:. o:f·a: different inotion. of. ckri~g .. Their com~o~ ·signatu~es: ''one-who cares." ·The idea·' ()f ·' caririg·se~ins-to· involve'iin e~pathy and givi~g of . caring ·seems to be-a confusingone.· Often caring · .oneself ~to·:·another wnJ is: suffering~from. a. soda!·. involves the pitying of· others-.-L care for· someone ~ .. ( co~ventiori~) -stig~a>: Such·.a· caring· seems· t6 · .. because:r pity him; h~:is weaker:iiLsome.respects ''·... ~cknowledge that:I.~an'.·gfve_of."myself and:thatI am 
· than L .¥ et ·tjearly:·thaf isri't;the i:ntentiorf of those who.· · -'riot. so self"."cert~in: -Yet· liow\nany of us··~en ever . . . signed ·these letters: To: them caring· seems-to:involve con~ider:such·a>caringto be .. ii..:m•anly·quality·t~ have a real feeling of._empatlly .and love.for other._men · in life:'.l.\'1ote;esseii:tially,_.:how·many ~f us~are sensitive who' are suffering. because men are·not· supposed'tO be. enough fo-Be_:aware ~f-bth~rs.-:When we ·casually 
.: erotically.attracte'ci.tc/othe~-men.~ These letters-and' .: . gross o~t:a--!.'f~ierid"~do we'ever:conside; the possibility .. the whole presence piGay-Lib&~tio~·:rais~~-ilie> . . . -~ tha(C>ur~_wor~s ~ight.irif~Jct'paiidn· others_ or can't question of,maniiriessi:._.·,.:' · . ,_: .. ,,. ,_. ··: '.:··, . ·we'eyen cppe·..wfrh-tf1at"pos:siqility>of paip.'? Wben'we·· ·..·Whaf·does' fr me~n:to;be ~ ·man ·for _those of; us at' . pass ·a·woman"uiUn'.;the_stadiun(do· we· evir:.sens.e Notre Damef Some_ critics cite.Notre, Danie:as·: ., . ·. :_. -., .that 1:Jlis. girriniglifreally\>.Ei:hurt?. ,:such. -~\T~~ts ' . . 
.·a '.'bastloµ of_ niaie :·cha:uviJ.iism::', ._:We 'ar,e ~#in~~·> .. ,: ~-_happen_eyery·day:·a_n_a: fiiey_-'se~hi~ to·~e '.of.little .... accosted with' that assertim{and 'niost of us· }VOUld. qffer .· -significance.. ·Sureiy>such:•actiohs\vere, never-intended a qufok refutation. For.me,;'1:he phraseJi:self-11:_~s ~·::·/: -: -as being./'person{!L'} ::WhY _ShCl:Uld·-r as :~:_ma~·he ~on.-. become devoid of meaning, but has brought me.to···: '-: ~ -~-~rned ·with a_ person \vho..is'·huit:·by-stich:·an . ·:. wonder what society wants'and: expe~ts)11.'a, niari:'iThe./·:: ¥1Sign!ficclllt·e'venu:·r·~~-;:: :.,> _.:, ...'.<..:·.:· ..:>:,-..: . . : ­first persol'! that comes to ip~nd ~hen,I fi?.ink~bf the(.'.-i : · :~_:-To .~ID:ariy 9-t -Notre· Dame/a:='member :of Gay epitomy ·of manliness in:·our s·ociet:Y:)s=:John:·Wayrie.• :":_ . :LilJeration _isn't really a. man· arid -'as such lie· · · 
' • • • • ·-· ..., .6 • ' • , '· • -~ • ;, • • , -~ • • .:_ •. -• '" • ' •• J • J • • •
~ ~ ~ 
· The_"Du~e'' ~s the type of ~?-n ~ho..!s:s:g-2!1K,a~d~~; .. · ·c_ap_onJy 1:>e seen·as.~b)iorjnat··_It may be a._very valid 
0 

nothing can·penetrate oi.hurt._such a;m.an.·He·., · .··~~-::.:·· cri~icisin.that sexual.relationships between ·men· .... 
. exu_des .th~. confidenc;e an_d.'self~assuredness. · ·:~-._:· :·:·_ ~/.-.: .'· ~. ·. ·.:are~sqme~ow inappropriate t~ the n~ fur:e ·of:·man~. but . soci~ty likes-to see;, ;He is ~_niq~Jn that.hi~ siren~,-/-··.-::::. :is-:'th_eir·caring_ for. other men;·their sensitivity to. makes him._stand· and· be unique. from all· oiliers:_Tliougli'~':· -others;· such an affront to manliness? .Is· it.-so':sexually. it certainly:would be pretentious and naive to. say.~:,~: :· ,-~ . :·~friappropji~te·_ that men acknowiedge ·that0·theyf~an··: :__ that all ·meri want to be.lik~ John Wayne, it_doef:se~µi".. -~·offer '.themselves fo others? Or is ifthat·on~-can't be:, 
-expecte~ of a'true man that·he be strong and that .....:. : c·~cii#i:r;iassionate and.truly tie~ man?. . . ·: :,·--. .:: . ·. ·._ 
his strength' m~es ~Ill ,self-_cert~in.__ . ~:···.\-;-.:\\. >--·::::i::}J.J..~o-~4~r/\\~_hej:her;th~Jmen·,:oi <;ay _Lib~ratipn .. ~ 
·I_ am· pulled back t~.i:h~ phras~, "Qne: :who. carfs,? ·. -__coµIdn't'Jeach.:us a·lot-about'.being a 'mari}:. :-:, ,__ ... If one is the_ m~ our -~dciety :s~ks to_·creafe(th~Il..--; . :·;_.,. :"··:, l. _.:;~{;: .-\,..-·.\: :-.--.· ., ·, .· ·.. ·:-~.-::· t\::. ':~· ,--:,-. _. _,·., 
: ishardfor such a ma11. to give of himself to,?th~r•: . . . . ·\J ti; X,' :;,\i,~,i:.-~::c 


UNIVERSITY OF DENVER THIS SUMMER 

Plan now to spend your summer profitably at the foot of Colorado's rugged Rocky Mountains by enrolling at the University of Denver. Summer session dates are from June 12 to August 11. You can live in comfortable on-. campus residence halls and enjoy weekend side trips to nearby nationally famous scenic and recreational areas. 
Send for our 1972·.Summer. Session Bulletin ·wliich lists over five hundred courses and contains application materials. Ifyou are in good standing as an undergraduate . student or if you have completed a bachelor's degree, you can apply as aspecial student and earn·transferable credits for consideration by your home institution:· 
For further information write to: ·. 
Offi;e of the Summer Session. L!niversity of Denver/ Denver. Colorado 80210 


available. 
2 sessions: June 26-July 29 and July 31 -Sept. 2 (day and evening). Phone (516) 299-2431 or mail coupon. · 
And next time you pass 
C. W. Post..• don't. Come in. You'll see one of America's 
· most beautiful campuses. 

-
CP · 

. Summer Session Office · C. W. Post Center · Greenvale, L. I., N.Y.. 11548 
Please send me Summer Sessio.ns ·bulletin •. 
· Nam-------------------....,..---, 
..Addres"--------------------'-­
.City ·Stat....e -----'-z;.,______ 
If visiting student.which colleg ______________ 

. -' . :. ~ ; ' -_ 
' 
" 
' . -' , -. ~ ­
~ ' . , ~ 
. ' ~ -, . ' .. ' ' -· 
--._ _-:. -· ~~ , ' 


...0 L'"\ 
>-'-" -0 a: C!4 
< 
Ci P.: z 
0-: er, H 
c­

u -J t.rl 
{1~ ~ 
a: _.J < 
<O 
., >-I 
:;;. C: Ct1 H.::'.1 C: 
a: :'-: r 
µ: isl 0 

o en ~ ;::; 
When you know it's for keeps 
You can choose Keepsake with complete confidence, because the famous Keepsake Guarantee gives written proof of a perfect engagem~nt diamond of precise cut and superb color. There is no finer diamond ring. 
~psak:e~ 
REGISTERED DIAMOND RINGS 
Rings from $100 to $10,000 Trade Mark Reg. A. H. Pond Co. 
1--------------------------.-7 
I HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING I I Send new 20 pg. bool-let, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" plus II full color folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢. S-72 I 
I Name----------------------I
I I I Address---------------------I I I I Citv------------Co._________ I I I I Stale----------------LiP-----I j KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N.Y. 13201 I 
L----------------------------~ 














