
How the stars
I
T
Start smoking Camels yourself!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!
Stars ofthe fabulous new TVprogram
CBS-TV,frMays

ANNE JEFFREYS dreamed of being an opera star, studied long and hard. BOB STERLING could have been a pro athlete, but chose the long, hard pull of acting. Both eventually won good parts on stage, radio, TV. They met on a TV show... became Mr. & Mrs. in real life . . . and "Mr. and Mrs. Kerby” in TV’s brilliant new "Topper” program!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.. Winston-Salem. N. C.
I CHANGED TO CAMELS YEARS AGO BECAUSE TO ME THEY TASTE BETTER ANO ARE SO MILO. YOU TRY THEM, TOO/Z~
"Sob: SO MANY FRIENDS SMOKE CAMELS, I TRIED THEM ANO FOUND I UKE THEM BETTER THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE
M/LDNESQ ahd FLAVOR
THAN ANY OTHEA C/GAAETTe!
by Ken Murphy
Top of the Week
Sixteen whole days of Christmas vacation coming up. Enjoy ’em, gang . . .
Open Letter to Santa Claus
Dear Santa,
I have been a very good boy all semester long. I devoutly made my morning checks every WEEK, attended every single pep rally, didn’t throw food at George in the chow hall, didn’t
shove any St. Mary’s girls in the path of oncoming cars while crossing the Dixie, and even studied a couple times.
Sooo . . . since I should, so to speak, have a pretty good “in” with you on the basis of the above, here are a few incidentals I would like for you to distribute come Christmas eve:
Please give Adlai Stevenson a new pair of shoes . . .
Maryland a few football opponents next Fall . . .
Gene Kessler a new typewriter ribbon . . .
President Eisenhower a new set of irons . . .
Mary McCarthy an escalator . . .
The Big Three a fourth for bridge ...
WNDU a new microphone . . .
The swans on St. Mary’s Lake some ice skates . . .
Senator McCarthy a new magnifying glass . . .
Bob Frolicher, who writes Splinters from the Pressbox, a pair of tweezers...
The football pollsters the grace to go to confession . . .
“Ozark Ike” a one-way ticket to Shanghai . . .
All the guys who are giving their girls miniatures or engagement rings, the money to pay for them . . .
And, last but not least, yours truly a few good ideas for his column.
Gratefully, K. M.
The Guiding Light
Evidently the postmaster general finally got around to slipping a bill through congress or Joer’s or someplace concerning a lamp for the local letterdispensary. You can .imagine our surprise the other night when, instead of triping up the steps, cracking our cranium against the railing, and bloodying our knuckles against the wall trying
to find the letter drop, we were guided straight to the elusive little push-panel by a shiny new light just to the left of the post office door.
’Course we were so unused to finding a light there that we were temporarily blinded and proceeded to stumble up the steps, smash our skull against the railing, and bloody our knuckles anyway.
In Your Merry Oldsmobile .
Since we’re moving out tomorrow for parts known and unknown, charted and uncharted, (and some of us for home), here are a few ditties that we believe are appropriate for the season, especially with New Year’s Eve coming up: At 45 miles per hour, sing—
“Highways Are Happy Ways.”
At 55 miles per hour, sing—
“I’m But a Stranger* Here, Heaven Is My Home.”
At 65 miles per hour, sing—
“Nearer, My God, To Thee.”
At 75 miles per hour, sing—
“When the Roll Is Called Up Yonder, I’ll Be There.”
At 85 miles per hour, sing—
“Lord, I’m Coming Home.”
At 95 miles per hour, sing— “Safe in the Arms of Jesus.”
Digging Up The Past
It looks like there was a touch of humor around campus even as far back as 1944. Not that we were any shorter of copy this WEEK than usual, but we just happened to be thumbing through a ’44 Scholastic and came across a couple of real knee slappers.
“There once was a watchman named Doran
Who nodded while guarding old Sorin, So that men coming late,
Had, quite often, to wait
While Doran was snorin’ in Sorin.” Don’t turn to the next page yet, it gets worse.
“New Yorkers and Californians are said to be the most self-satisfied classes of Americans. They should be—they can’t get any farther away from Indiana and still stay in the country.”
Maybe they’d be better if we had dusted them off before using them? The jokes, we mean.
Absentee Ballot
Due to the absence of a Calendar in this issue, we will give a brief analysis of what’s recommended around the movie circuit.
Botany Bay for the guys majoring in same.
Don’t Bother to Knock for journalism majors.
Flight to Tangier for the Air Force ROTC.
Paris Model for the arts majors.
African Queen for the St. Mary’s queens.
Back to God’s Country for the guys, going home. .
Bottom of the WEEK
. . . it’s gonna be a long haul ’til Easter.
Faculty Wives Extend Christmas Invitations
A cordial invitation to spend Christmas Day, and share a home-cooked dinner with a Notre Dame faculty family, is extended to students remaining here for the holidays. This includes, of course, all students, both undergraduate and graduate; those living on campus and off.
Three years ago it was brought to the attention of the Ladies of Notre Dame, the organization of faculty wives, that one student had eaten his Christmas dinner alone, in the South Shore station! Since then, an effort has been made to give every student the opportunity to spend Christmas in a home.
Students who wish to avail themselves of the invitation are asked to leave their names and addresses in the Placement Office, Main Building, or to call Mrs. W. R. Dooley at 4-3275. Friends sometimes prefer to spend the day together in the same home, and the families would like to have them indicate this when they give their names.
December 18, 1953
3

Thanks, Carolers
FOR UNDERGRADUATES HOME ON VACATION
Brooks Brothers await your visit with a wide selection of good-looking suits and overcoats... colorful sportwear... traditionally correct evening wear... and fine furnishings. All are designed for today’s undergraduates, and reflect the quality and good taste that have made the name Brooks Brothers synonymous with fine clothing the world over.
ESTABLISHED IBIS
glen’s furnishings, |?ats ^$ho»
346 MADISON AVENUE, COR. 44TH ST., NEW YORK 17, N. Y. BOSTON • CHICAGO • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
Editor:
In behalf of the Social Committee of the Student Senate and the Student Council of St. Mary’s, I would like to extend a hearty thanks to all who participated in the various Christmas parties and city-wide Christmas caroling on Dec. 12 and 13.
The hundreds of happy faces of the children were evidence of their success and they and the people of South Bend were certainly appreciative of your fine Christmas Spirit.
Sincerely, Phil Bolin Social Commissioner Student Senate
Bergquist Confroversey
Editor:
In the Dec. 4 issue of the Scholastic, Gordon Bergquist in his column “The Back Page,” poorly attempted to prove that “the student specializing in a par-ticulai' field of study, is so impressed by that field and its offshoots that he can not or will not see any other science or art.” This is by far the poorest article I have ever seen in the ND weekly.
Frank Yans.
Editor:
Concerning The Back Page by Gordon Bergquist, I would like to say that it is the worst piece of writing I have ever read. Its examples are not only irrelevant and vague, but in most cases have no connection with the statement given. It is just a mixed-up affair which says one thing then another.
Charles Wittenberg
College of Arts and Letters
Editor:
In the Dec. 4 issue, the column written by Mr. Gordon Bergquist on “The Back Page” does not prove' anything and looks like he tried to fill up space.
Joseph Silk
College of Engineering.
Editor:
. . . Finally, Mr. Bergquist, judging from your past two articles, I might say you are attempting to become recognized and associated with the Scholastic by means of moving the sentiments of the students. My suggestion is that you contact Mr. Kessler or Mr. Doyle for they succeed in only one paragraph.
Sincerely yours, Thomas W. Haley
(Continued on Page 17)
The Scholastic

Scholastic
Vol. 95 December 1 8, 1953 No. 12
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate, of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor PATRICK C. CARRICO
Managing Editor LAWRENCE J. BREHL
Associate Editor WILLIAM F. NOONAN
PAUL FULLMER _________________News
FRED C. ECKART ...............Copy
JOHN A. ADAMS .....Assistant Copy PAUL J. LaFRENIERE.... Assistant Copy JOHN E. SLAVICK ........Features ROBERT B. FROLICHER ..___Sports JERRY D. BAIER ....Advertising B. JERRY CAMPBELL ___ Circulation
BOB FOWLER-------Editorial Cartoonist DICK HAIRSINE----Photography Coordinator
JOHN P. DEFANT....Faculty Moderator
NEWS STAFF: Bill Burnett, Clifford Carlson, Dick Colgan, Paul Clemens, Dave Cohen, Dick Connelly, Mark Connelly, John Cusack, George Dailey, Tim Devereux, Bob Dunseath, Jack Flynn, Gerry Gates, Jim Gibbons, Jim Healey, Jerrold Hilton, Ellis Joseph, Robert Kaufman, John Mannion, James Mason, James McIntosh, Charles McKendrick, Ronald Michaud, Roy Moxley, Francis Newman, Dick Norton, Jim O’Brien, Henry O’Bryan, Tom Quinn, Dick Rust, Pete Sturtevant, Ray Walsh, Mike Ward, Ken Woodward.
SPORTS STAFF: Erwin Alfonsus, Phil Bolin, John Cywinski, Dave Davin, Dave Kilkeary, John Phelan, and Bob Ruhl.
LIBRARIAN: Norbert G. Radziwon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association^ Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Sendee, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except durim;. vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185. Notre Dame, Indiana.
OUR COVER: Most of us won’t be here to witness this scene on Dec. 25, but few can deny that the combination of Our Lord, His Church and the snow-covered campus make a perfect and ’significant Christmas setting.
From all on the Scholastic, best wishes for A Merry Christmas and A Happy New Year.
December 18, 1953
It'll Be a Sad World if They Ever Forget Christmas
The world is full of people who are hard to understand . . .
Even in our times, there are despots . . . evil, cold-hearted little men who disrupt quiet homes and send their youths to the bloody battlefields of the world. They teach them to fie and hate, to plunder and kill. And there are traitors, and kidnapers and thieves.
But these men are easy to understand . . .
They are evil, it’s true. It would be difficult to forget their hideous deeds; pointless to overlook their guilt. But, at least they believe in something. They may be ignorant, or misinformed—but they have a purpose: and they have some sort of faith.
If anyone ever asks who the world’s worst people are, tell them it’s the men who don’t believe. Tell them it’s the men who have no faith in the warmth of a handshake, in the color of a blue sky, or ... in Christmas. They can talk, and read, and think like other people. But what they say is nothing but idle noise; what they read is wasted; what they think is useless—without something like the faith of Christmas. There is nothing inside them, for they are shallow. They are like a smile without a face.
These are the people who are hard to understand . . .
How could they say there is no such thing as the Spirit of Christmas? Maybe they’ve never smelled the fragrance of pine needles, or felt the warmth of an open hearth or strung tinsel on a tree at Christmas time. Maybe, as children, they have never tossed nervously in their beds, waiting for morning to see if Santa Claus has come. Maybe they have never shuffled through the snow and darkness of an early Christmas morning, or heard the singing of caroilers in the belfry. Or maybe they have never knelt before a crib and all its little people, while the choir sang Silent Night and the deacons and subdeacons moved with grace and solemnity in golden garments on the altar before them.
Maybe they’ve never even taken time enough to read carefully the simple verse on a Christmas card. Or maybe they’ve never had a kid brother or sister, and they’ve never watched the dance in their eyes while they stood in amazement before the glistening reds, and blues, and greens of the shiny ornaments and the silent lights.
If they’ve never experienced these things, they’ve never known Christmas. Because it’s the spirit of these things that carries the wonderful message of Christmas. With the simple cards, the glistening ornaments, and the carols in the snow-covered belfry—people everywhere remind one another of the world’s great miracle. This is the special time of the year when the family, the relatives, and friends give particular thanks for a Gift that would have otherwise left the everyday tasks of their lives worthless.
If people ever get to the point where they no longer remember the meaning of Christmas, it will be a sad world—not even worth living in.
5
Arrows Way Out Front .4s Christmas Gift Favorites
Students heading home for a fast round of gift shopping (and hinting) seem to be generally agreed: Arrows take all the work out of the hectic days before the 25th. They’re one gift that scores high with every guy. Big holiday selections at all Arrow dealers now.
ARROW »»--------------->► TRADE ® MARK
--SHIRTS * TIES * UNDERWEAR « HANDKERCHIEFS « SPORTS SHIRTS-
Mate GILBERT’S
your ARROW headquarters
^GILBERT'S
813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o’clock
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED
OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to H-Hour Service
309 5. MICHIGAN
Next to Avon Theatre 7-5477
You Always Get a Square
Deal at Breen's
WATCHES DIAMONDS RADIOS SHAVERS EXPERT WATCH REPAIRING BREEN’S Jeweler
325 So. Michigan St. Ph. 7-3630
Fish, Steaks, Chops and Chicken
At Prices You Will Appreciate
Our Specialty
14 Golden Brown Fried Chicken Shoestring Potatoes Jug of Honey Hot Buttered Rolls $1.30
JOI ABICHT’S Bestauraiit "Chicken in the Rough” 213 N. Main Open Sunday
The Scholastic
The Scholastic
Volume 95, Number 12	Notre Dame, Indiana	December 18, 1953
Shannon, Matz to Lead Next Year's Gridders
The traditional Irish shillelagh of Notre Dame football captains now is in the firm grasp of two rugged ends who have more than adequately proven their gridiron prowess to packed stadiums throughout the country this year.
Dan Shannon and Paul Matz, who prepped together at Chicago’s Mt. Carmel High School, are now “co-captain-ing” the Fighting Irish. They were selected by members of the team and officially presented the team’s reins at the 34th Annual Testimonial Banquet in the Dining Hall last week.
Passing on the “barbed stick” was Don Penza who also played end this year. Shannon and Matz are the fourth and fifth ends to receive the post in the last six years. Other ends who shared the honors in the last six years were All-American Leon Hart, Jim Mutscheller and Penza. Both Mutschel-ler and Penza received All-American mention in the major’ sports polls.
Shannon, a junior accounting major, was a well-known gentleman in opponents’ secondaries this year and last. It was his devastating tackle in the 1952 Oklahoma game that led to an Irish upset. And it was his two spectacular catches of last minute passes that saved the day for the Irish against a spirited Iowa team this year.
Matz, first string defensive left end last year, alternated ■with Shannon this year at the post. His rugged line play thwarted many enemy threats, especially in the Georgia Tech clash. The aeronautical engineering junior also was a consistent pass receiver.
The last time Notre Dame elected co-captains was in 1949, when Hart and Jim Martin headed the team.
LAST SCHOLASTIC ISSUE FOR 1953
This is the last issue of the Scholastic until after the Christmas holidays. The next issue will be published Jan. 8, 1954.
PASSING OF THE SHILLELAGH
1954 Co-captains Matz and Shannon Get Irish Club from 1953 Captain Penza
Bartholomew's Annual Trek to Nation's Capital Will Include Variety of Interesting Excursions
Once again Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, of the Department of Political Science, will lead the annual student sojourn to Washington, D. C., during the period between semesters. Students taking the trip will leave the campus Thursday, Jan. 28, at 4:30 p.m. by bus for LaPaz, Ind., where they will board the Baltimore & Ohio’s “Columbian” for Washington. Dinner that night will be on the train.
The train will arrive in Washington at 8:40 the following morning. Special buses will then carry the members of the tour to the Bureau of Engraving and Printing to observe the procedure used in producing paper currency and government bonds. At 10 o’clock there will be an inspection of FBI headquarters, followed by luncheon in the Supreme Court Restaurant and tours of the Capitol. There will be visits to the Senate, House of Representatives and Supreme Court, if in session. At 6:30 p.m. the tour will leave Washington by steamer for Norfolk, Va.
Saturday there will be a day-long
sightseeing tour of Norfolk, Jamestown, Yorktown, and Williamsburg. The tour will leave that night for Washington on the steamer.
The steamer will arrive at Washington at 6:30 Sunday morning. There will be Mass in the Franciscan Monastery. A tour of the grounds and breakfast will follow. Then there will be a stop at the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception followed by a tour of 16th Street, Rock Creek Park, the National Zoological Gardens, Georgetown, Fort Meyer, Arlington Cemetery, and the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. After lunch at Allison’s Little Tea House in Arlington, the tour will visit Mount Vernon, Washington’s Tomb, and the Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials. Dinner will be at the Hotel Dupont Plaza, where the tour will stay.
Monday will feature visits to the Washington Monument, the Smithsonian Institute, Folger Shakespeare Library, Library of Congress, Archives Building, and the National Gallery of (Continued on Page 17)
December 18, 1953
7
Experts Discuss Faults Found in Legislative Investigations at Recent Law Symposium Here
Six experts recently pin-pointed the abuses that have characterized certain legislative investigations and proposed remedies that would protect the rights of witnesses without hampering the functions of Congress. They discussed various aspects of the challenging problem at a symposium sponsored by the University’s College of Law.
William T. Gossett, vice-president and general counsel of the Ford Motor Co., who served as moderator, pointed out that witnesses called before investigating committees “are not afforded the protection to which they are entitled in court.” Legislative committees are not courts and their proceedings are not trials, Gossett emphasized, but their “investigations may affect directly and adversely the rights of individuals.”
Doubts Congressional Job Well-Done
Abe Fortas, former Undersecretary of the Interior, traced the course of Congressional investigations since 1938 and suggested that “there is considerable room for doubt that the Congress has done the job either wisely or well.” Fortas termed “the disorderly, hit-or-miss procedures of some committees” as “a menace to the nation, apart from the individuals concerned. Their failure to present an objective and a bal
SPEAKERS AT LAW SYMPOSIUM
Recommend Safeguards for Legislative Witnesses
anced statement of facts results in causing many of our young people to exaggerate or distort the dangers to our country and the ineffectiveness of our law enforcement agencies, and in causing many others, who are repelled by the disorderly work of such committees, to underestimate and unduly discount the problem.”
Republican Representative Keating of New York declared that Congress itself must take steps to rectify abuses of the investigatory power and said “it would be a mistake to turn toward any power outside the legislative branch for a solution.”
Keating Suggests Remedies
Congressman Keating suggested that majority control over the subject matter of each hearing as well as over the use of executive hearings would be steps in the right direction. Keating proposed that “every person called upon to testify should have the absolute right to be accompanied by a counsel of his own choosing.” He also defended the right of every witness to submit prepared statements as long as they were reasonably brief and relevant.
George Morris Fay, former U. S. Attorney for the District of Columbia and lecturer on criminal law at the
Catholic University of America, distinguished between Congressional hearings which, are called to help frame legislation and those which have other functions.
“It is not necessary to deny that Congress may utilize informative and educational hearings,” Fay said. “When it embarks on such a field, however, it ought not possess the same coercive means of compelling witnesses to attend and testify. When individuals are not called in good faith to furnish information, but because they are the wrongdoers, when the individual is called not as a witness but because he is an object of scorn and sacrifice to public titillation, when he is called and addressed directly as ‘the defendant,’ then he ought to enjoy some of the substantial rights of a defendant, for the Committee in modern times has become an examining and often committing magistrate.”
Telford Taylor, former chief prosecutor at the Nuremberg War Crimes Trials, pointed out that because of “the illusion of investigative omnipotence and other misunderstandings, witnesses are pleading the Fifth Amendment when it is neither necessary nor to their advantage. Some, who are guilty of no reprehensible, let alone criminal conduct, are pleading the privilege out of fear,” Taylor said. “Others are invoking it from a misguided notion that they are thereby challenging the committees’ powers on an issue of principle.” Taylor deplored the reluctance of conservative lawyers to represent or advise witnesses before Congressional committees.
Liberal, Conservative Positions Reversed
The problem of legislative investigations was placed in historical perspective by Dr. Marshall Smelser, associate professor of history at Notre Dame. Smelser demonstrated that the liberal and conservative position has been completely reversed on Congressional investigations since the 1920’s. Presentday liberals who condemn the methods of Senate and House investigations were the chief supporters of the same tactics and practices in the 1920’s and 1930’s, Smelser said.
Opening the symposium, believed to be one of the first of its kind to be held on the subject of legislative investigations, Dean Joseph O’Meara, Jr., described the problem as “a challenge as insistent as any that has faced the. legal profession in its long history.” The responsibility for solving it, Dean O’Meara said, “rests on the law schools no less than on the practicing bar. Today’s symposium attests recognition here at Notre Dame of this joint responsibility.”
The Scholastic

RALPH MARTERIE
Coming for Mardi Gras Bail
Marterie Contracted For Mardi Gras Ball
Ralph Marterie and his orchestra, plus two vocalists, will furnish “music with the danceable beat” for the annual Mardi Gras Ball in the Student Center next Feb. 12.
Five hundred bids at $5 apiece will be available for the dance.
The Mardi Gras carnival, consisting of booths and carnival games, will be held in the Drill Hall from Feb. 13 through 16. First prize for this year will be a new Chrysler 4-door sedan, while the student selling the winning ticket will win a new Ford Victoria. Contest books will be $7.50 each, but the seller may keep $2.50 from the sale of each book for himself. Individual tickets are 25 cents.
Contest books will be distributed in the residence halls this week, while off-campusites can obtain books in 231 Sorin.
An added attraction this year is a 10-day, all-expense paid vacation to Miami Beach for the student who wins the special “book of tickets” contest. Each student who sells two complete books will receive one chance for the trip. There is no limit to the number of tickets that a student may sell. There will be one winner selected at random. The grand drawing will be held on Feb. 16.
The Miami trip is scheduled for the Easter vacation. It includes round-trip via Delta airlines, lodging in the student’s choice of one of eight of Miami Beach’s fashionable hotels, breakfast each morning in the hotel, use of all the recreational facilities of the hotel, and any two of the following: deep sea fishing; a day’s yachting in the Gulf; Cataraman riding; and two sight-seeing tours of Miami and Miami Beach.
Geographical Clubs to Stage Gala Festivities For Yuletide Entertainment of Member ND'ers
Although social activities will be at a standstill on campus over the holidays, plenty of Yuletide entertainment will be available for the troops at the various dances sponsored by Notre Dame geographical clubs all over the country.
The St. Louis Club will hold its Christmas Dance in the main ballroom of the Sheraton Hotel on Saturday, Dec. 26. Benny Radar’s orchestra will provide the beat from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Formal attire for the occasion is optional.
Members of the Minnesota Club will swing and sway at its annual Christmas Formal in the main ballroom of the Lowry Hotel in St. Paul on Saturday, Dec. 26, from 9 to 1, with Dick Kast and his combo giving forth with the music.
Tickets for this alumni-sponsored affair- may be obtained at the door or from John McGowan in 104 Morrissey. Jim Rogers, ’53, is chairman for the dance.
Dances, Dances, Dances
Two dances are on tap for Milwaukee Clubbers. A Christmas party for members and their dates will be held this Saturday at the Miller Inn. Festivities will commence at 8 p.m., and melodies for dancing will be by recording. On Dec. 28, a dance for members and alumni will be held at the Hayloft. Chair-man Andy Corrao announces that admission will be $2, payable at the door. Guest privileges will be in effect, and dress is informal.
Sponsored by the Indianapolis Club, the Christmas Candlelight Formal will be presented Dec. 29 from 9 till 1 at the Indiana Roof, with Billy Moore and his orchestra furnishing the music. Semi-formal dress will prevail and admission is $3.60 at the door. For further details, contact either Dick McNamara, 125 Lyons annex, or John Foley, 256 Dillon.
The Met Club will stage its annual Christmas formal Dec. 27 in the Grand Ballroom of the Biltmore Hotel. Couples will dance from 9 to 2, with Francis Walther and his orchestra giving out with the melodies. Tickets may be obtained from hall representatives or from Tom Ryan, 374 Dillon.
The New Jersey Club will hold its annual Christmas dance Saturday in the Crystal Room of the Hotel Suburban, East Orange, with dancing from 9 till 1 to the harmony of Vince Waldron. Dress will be informal. Hall
representatives are selling ducats as well as Ticket Chairman Jack Hoblit-zell. 147 Dillon. Price: $3.
The Dallas Clubbers will hold their annual Christmas Ball on Dec. 26 at the Lakewood Country Club. Billy Mayo and his group will play for dancing, commencing at 9:30 p.m. Formal attire will be optional.
There will be a special admission price of $10 per couple for students only, a reduction from the regular price of $12.50. Admission includes all refreshments. Tickets may be secured by sending a check made out to the ND Club of Dallas to Ticket Chairman Warren Higgins, 523 Wilson Bldg., Dallas, Texas.
The Chicago Club will stage its annual Christmas dance on Dec. 27 from 9:30 to 1 in the Grand Ballroom of the Palmer House. Lou Breeze will furnish the music for the semi-formal affair. Tickets are $4 50 on campus, but will cost $5 if purchased at the door.
The Pittsburgh Club will stage a New Year’s Day celebration at the Schenley Hotel there. Dancing will be from 9 to 1 with admission set at $5 per couple. Dress will be formal.
A pre-Christmas party will also be held on Dec. 21 at the Totem Pole Lodge in South Park from 8:30 to 12. Ducats to the sweater dance will run $2 per couple.
Three Groups Submit Scripts For Annual Student Musical
Three complete scripts have been submitted for the annual student musical to a committee, selected by Fr. Norton, for approval and judgment.
Bob Rossiter, co-author of last year’s production of Brute Farce, and Gavin King have submitted one script. Two brothers, Don and Carroll Dowden, have also written a script, while Jerry Godwin and Marion Leszczynski have combined to produce a third. A script by Ray Numble and Jack Hughes is written in rough draft.
The committee expects to reach a decision on the scripts some time in January, so that casting and rehearsals may begin, and orchestration of the music completed. The musicals are entirely student-produced and directed, and will be presented some time in April or May.
December 18, 1953
9
“Gee, it’s rough to be compused indefinitely.”
SANTA MAKES A HIT AGAIN
Photos and Text
By DANA WEITHERS
Notre Dame men and St. Mary’s girls made a lot of kids happy and poured forth a lot of the true Christmas spirit Saturday at the Northern Indiana Children’s Hospital. Almost within the shadow of the Golden Dome the Irish and the lasses showed what the real Notre Dame spirit means. For three hours they brightened the dull and lonely life of invalid children at the hospital. A magician, ukelele quartet, Glee Club group, varsity basketball players, and —best of all—Santa Claus with a bagful of presents kept the kids laughing and shouting with glee. Besides, there was loads of enough ice cream, cake, and orangeade. The little kids—and the big ones—took care of it without much trouble. Everyone loved the party.
It was great, it was sad—almost everyone left with a little regret. A common remark was “when can we do it again? Let’s do it soon; it doesn’t have to happen just once a year!”
“What’s the word from the gang up North?”
* 10
The Scholastic
“That last ice cream .. . that’s what did it.”
St. Mary's Warblers Herald Christmas
Military Ball Tickets Go On Sale After Vacation
Fred Dale and his Indiana University orchestra will provide the music on the evening of Jan. 16 for the third annual Military Ball. From 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. the future officers of the Army, Navy, and Air Force and their ladies will waltz away the evening in the new Student Center.
The dates of the three co-chairmen, Lewis Blakey of the Army, Joe Deig-nault of the Navy, and Gene Wagner of the Air Force, will reign together as queens of the ball. The detachment officers and enlisted men have been invited to attend.
Favors for each of the girls and 2 a.m. residence permissions are promised. Dress is informal, and each ROTC member will wear his regular uniform. Refreshments will be served.
Tickets go on sale in the basement of the Dining Hall the week following the Christmas vacation. Four hundred ducats, priced at $3.75 apiece, will be available. The allotment of tickets is 140 for the Army and Air Force and 120 for the Navy. On the final two days of sale the remaining bids will be pooled and offered to all ROTC members.
The girls of the St. Mary’s Glee Club, directed by Miss Martha Williams, joined voices in traditional carols in the LaFortune Student Center Friday evening to herald the coming Yuletide season.
Registration — Spring Term 1954
The new registration procedure, which will go into effect in January, has been released, it was announced by Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., Assistant to the Vice President, Academic Affairs.
Since the registration procedure will take place during January, before the end of the semester instead of immediately prior to the beginning of the spring semester, statements are being sent out early by the Students Accounts Office.
Father Lochner stressed the importance of making payment early enough to enable the students to complete registration without incurring late charges.
The complete schedule, which is outlined below, should be clipped and saved for future use.
Veterans: Those for whom BENEFITS were authorized during the SEPTEMBER 1953 SEMESTER need not report to the Office of Students Accounts unless: (1) you change your course objective; or (2) the September authorization covered the September semester only, rather than the scholastic year September 1953 td June 1954. NEW veterans in FEBRUARY 1954 SEMESTER
must in all instances report to the Office of Students Accounts in order to receive benefits authorized by the Veterans Administration. In no other manner may benefits be obtained.
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS
Jan. 4 to 18 (Mon. to Mon.)—Undergraduate students must PICK UP their CERTIFICATIONS from the Office of Students Accounts. Main Building, ground floor, east wing, from Monday, Jan. 4 through Monday, Jan. 18. Then . . .
Jan. 11 to 25 (Mon. to Mon.)—Undergraduate students must PICK UP their CLASS CARDS by turning in their tuition certification and census card (the latter being obta:ned and filled out) at the Office of Academic Affairs. Main Building, one flight up. east wing, from Monday, Jan. 11 to Monday. Jan. 25. FAILURE of undergraduates to pick up their cla^s cards BY THE 25TH will result in a PENALTY OF $5.00. Failure to pick up class cards BY THE 29TH. the last day of the semester, will constitute “late registration” and the student w'll then incur, according to the Bulletin, the usual late registration fee of §25.00. Then . . .
Jan. 4 to 29 (Mon. to Fri.)—Undergraduate students must PRESENT LAUNDRY CERTIFICATION at the Office of the Laundry, located in the laundry building near the Grotto, during the month of January, as soon as possible after receiving their certification [rom the Office of Students Accounts. Laundrv office hours during January only will be 8:00 a.m. to 4:50 p.m. PLEASE write your first semester’s laundry number on the certification before presenting it to the laundry. Then . . .
Jan. 25 to 30 (Mon. to Sat.)—Undergraduate students must HAND IN BOARD CERTIFICATION lor dining hall cards for the spring semester from Monday. Jan. 25 to Saturday morning,
A representative of each service is serving on each committee. The committee chairmen are: Fran Meany (Navy), business manager; Nick Brown (Navy), decorations; Phil Stump (Air Force), refreshments; John Locht (AirForce), tickets; Bill Webb (Air Force), hotel rooms; Bill Woodward (Army), entertainment; Bob Howard (Army), publicity; and Jack Riva (Navy), transportation.
Jan. 30. in the basement office of the Dining Hall. Then . . .
Jan. 30, 31 and Feb. 1 (Sat., Sun., and Mon). —Students must TURN IN LODGING CERTIFICATIONS lor the spring semester to their hall rectors on Saturday. Sunday, or Monday, Jan. 30, 31 or Feb. 1. If a student fails to hand in his lodging certification by Feb. 1, it will be assumed he is not going to complete his registration for the spring semester and his ROOM WILL BE RE-ASSIGNED to another student.
LAW SCHOOL—Law students who have paid their account by Friday, Jan. 8, go directly to Room 108 Law Building where they will fill out census cards and obtain their class cards. Those who have not paid their accounts by Jan. 8 should first obtain their certifications in the Office of Students Accounts and then finish their registration in Room 108 Law Building. Dining hall, laundry and lodging certifications will be handled as above according to the schedule for undergraduate students.
GRADUATE STUDENTS — Graduate students must pick up their spring semester certifications in the Office of Students Accounts Monday, Jan. 18. through Friday, Jan. 22. After you obtain your certifications, then pick up your class cards in the Office of the Dean of the Graduate School, Main Building, from Wednesday, Jan. 20, through Wednesday, Jan. 27. Graduate Engineers pick up their class cards during the same period in the Office of the Dean of the College of Engineering, Engineering Building.
12
The Scholastic
Scholastic Sports
Loyola Invades ND Fieldhouse Tonight

ART SCHALK
Returning Rambler Faces Irish
Name Don Matthews Skipper of ’54 Sailors
At a recent meeting of the Notre Dame Sailing Club, new officers were elected to inaugurate the spring season. Junior Don Matthews was elected Commodore; junior Paul Miller, vice commodore; sophomore Frank Dwan, secretary; sophomore Norm Savolskis, treasurer; and freshman Tom Burke, fleet captain.
The Irish sailing team finished their fall season by placing seventh in the Timme Angston Memorial Regatta, held in Belmont Harbor of the Chicago Yacht Club. First place honors in the regatta were garnered by George Washington University. Others in order were: Harvard, Michigan, Ohio State, Oberlin, Minnesota, Notre Dame, Marquette, Purdue, Cincinnati, Northwestern and Detroit.
Skippers who handled the Irish crews at the Angston Regatta were Commodore Ed Rodgers, Matthews, Miller, and Burke.
Irish Tackle Braves, Northwestern During Christmas Vacation; Face Cardinals Jan. 6
By DAVE KILKEARY
The Ramblers of Loyola University, who have won three out of their last five games, will be eyeing their first win over a Notre Dame team when they take on the Irish tonight in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse.
The maroon and gold, who were dropped here last season, 53-45, will be out to break the spell that the Irish have over them; Loyola has never, in nine battles, come out a winner. Loyola Coach George Ireland, a former All-American at Notre Dame in the mid ’30’s, will be out to end the jinx tonight.
Dick Clark, who played his high school ball under Coach John Jordan at Mt. Carmel, is the starting center and captain of the Rambler team. Art Schalk 6-1 and Ray Jendra 6-1 are the starting guards. Schalk, a sharp passer and snappy ball handler, had a 12.5 point average last season. Ireland’s forwards are hustling Bill Palka 6-2 and Eddie Stube. Palka, who is cat-quick, can score heavily with his one-handed push shot, and Stube, despite his comparative lack of height, often bolts into the key-hole to take advantage of his deadly hook shot.
Notre Dame will take off for Peoria, Ill., on December 23 to meet the Braves of Bradley who have only recently gotten back into the good graces of the N.C.A.A.
This year the Braves are hoping to improve their ’52 record of 15-12, and regain their usual consistent winning form. All but one of the starters return, led by two top ranking shotmakers in 6-1 guard Bob Carney and 6-4 forward Dick Estergard, the nation’s sixth ranking rebounder the last two seasons. At the other guard is 6-1 John Kent. Dick Peterson, who moves over to make room at center for skyscraper 6-9 Barney Kilcullen, the tall
est Brave eager in history, will hold down the other forward position. The Braves are fast, experienced and strong. Last year Bradley fell 74-64 to the Irish.
Notre Dame will celebrate New Year’s eve with the Wildcats of Northwestern in Evanston. Northwestern, who lost only one man from their starters last year, Larry Dellefield, is one of the most experienced fives in the Big Ten this year. Larry Kurka and John Biever are the guards, while the forwards are deadeye Don Blaha and Hal Grant 6-6, a sensational dribble-master. Frank Petrancik is the center and high scorer of the team. The Irish beat Northwestern earlier this season, 75-66.
Louisville will appear here on the sixth of January. The Red Birds lost to Notre Dame last season, 73-62. Louisville is led by the high scoring Chuck Noble, a 6-4 forward. At the other for-
ROSENTHAL HITS FOR TWO
ND Dumps Titans For Third
December 18, 1953
13
by Bob Frolicher
Returnees From 300 Circle Lead Cagers
After the first three basketball games, the returning lettermen from the charmed 300 Club (Captain Dick Rosenthal, Joe Bertrand, and Junior Stephens—all of whom scored over 300 points last season) have been the
JOE BERTRAND Finds Form Early
mainstays of Jordan’s attack in early wins over Ball State, Northwestern, and Detroit. Although the three have not yet collaborated to match last season’s performances, each has had at least one good night. Junior Stephens, Irish guard has been the most consistent of the trio.
Notre Dame’s spectacular forward, Joe Bertrand, leads the Irish in the scoring department, however. Bertrand opened the season, pouring in 25 points against the Ball State squad. The following week he went even further to dump in 28 tallies against the Wildcats, the toughest of Notre Dame’s first three opponents. In the third game, Bertrand’s chance to retain his current hot pace was cut short when he suffered four personal fouls before the first half ended. He sat out most of the second but came back
strong and was still hot
enough to chalk up eight points for the evening.
The encouraging thing to Jordan has been the all-around performance of Bertrand. Not only does he lead the Irish on offense, but has played some notable defense. He paces the Irish after three games with 60 points and a 20 per-game average. The ace also leads .in floor percentage sinking 23 of 33 field goal attempts for an outstanding .697 average, and also has hit for 14 out of 20 free throw attempts for an average of .700. Closely behind the Irish forward is Captain Dick Rosenthal who boasts of a 17.7 average, putting in 18 out of 49 field goal tries. Rounding out the “Big Three” is Stephens with an average of 16.7.
Solution to the “Sixth Man” Strengthens Squad
Coach Johnny Jordan has hit upon an excellent sixth man in Sophomore John Fannon. The 6 ft. 5 inch forward has proved a good clutch player and is good under the boards. If an Irish guard leaves the game, Jordan can switch versatile Bill Sullivan into the guard slot and insert Fannon in “Sully’s” position. Another sophomore, guard Bill Weiman, has nailed down a starting spot. Weiman’s ball handling and sharp passing constantly keep the Irish squad on their toes.
Representative of a Great Irish Eleven
Although the Fighting Irish finished number two in the final polls, the starting eleven displayed their greatness on the field. Seven of the first string members received first team All-American honors on one team or another, while receiving honors and mention on many others. Captain Don Penza captured first string end on the New York News, All-American Johnny Lattner, winner of both the Heisman and Maxwell trophies, won a berth on everyone’s All-American squads, halfback Joe Heap was placed on the All-American Academic, tackle Art Hunter gained the nod from Look, both Neil Worden and Jim Schrader were named on the NBC television All-American, Paramount News chose “Minnie” Mavraides on their first eleven, and end and co-captain elect Dan Shannon made Kessler’s AllAmerican team.
ward post will be Vlad Gastevich 6-5, g and the center is 6-11 John Prudhow a fine rebounder and hook-shot artist. The guards are hard driving Phil Rollins C 6-2, and 5-10 Corky Cox. Coach Peck Z Hickman’s team had a record of 22 and p, six last season.	p
Coach John Jordan’s charges got off to a flying start this year, winning their first three contests. The Irish rolled % over Ball State 84-63 in the lid-lifter, with Joe Bertrand flipping in 25 points	|
to take the scoring honors. North-	|
western was dumped on the seventh of this month 75-66 with Joe Bertrand	g
again leading the scoring with 28 points.	|
Detroit proved little more than a light	f
workout for the Irish as they became	|
victim number three, 72-45. Center and	j'
Captain Dick Rosenthal returned to form, dunking in 27 points. The win | enabled Notre Dame to stay unbeaten in 24 games with Detroit.	|
----■ ~ « — --
Forty Cage Teams Entered;
Hall and Club Loops Formed
With the advent of cold weather, the annual interhall basketball league has । been sent into action under the tutelage of Mr. Ernie Szekely of the Department of Physical Education.
There are 40 teams in this semester’s group, representing both the different halls and various geographical clubs. The forty teams have been divided into two divisions, an afternoon and evening league. The afternoon teams have been divided into two divisions, an afternoon and evening league. The afternoon teams are the clubs and • off-campus contingents, while the night outfits represent the campus residence halls.
On Monday, Wednesday and Friday afternoons three games are held, at 0 3:35, 4:15 and 4:50. Evening games are played on Tuesdays and Thursdays except on evenings of home Varsity games, at 7:30 and 8:05.
Since the league play only began on Dec. 7, it is not possible at this date for the officials to determine the / stronger clubs. However, in the second semester round, which begins on Feb. 6, the teams are reseeded, and any teams that were late in signing up are added to the roster. According to Mr. Szekely, there will be at least eight more additions for the coming session, and perhaps more.
The pre-holiday play lasts until Thursday, Dec. 17. A.fter the Christmas vacation, play is resumed on Jan. 4 and lasts until Jan. 18. Then, the teams are reshuffled and the second and final round begins on Feb. 6. From 4 this series, the campus champion is determined.
14
The Scholastic
Haering Tops VeloHa For Bowling Honors
After holding down second place in the Kampus Keglers since the first week of the season, Jim Haering of the AIEE club moved into the number one >	spot on Dec. 6. It took a 593 series,
1	high for the season, to enable Haering
to take the lead from Buzz Velotta who had held it since the opening week of the year.
. The final selections for the school team include Jack Battel of the Met club, Bob Rich of the K of C, Buzz 11*	Velotta and John Aquilla of the Cleve-
[ land club, and Wally Clarke and Paul Pfohl of the Erie club. Pfohl, a junior in the College of Commerce, has been appointed captain of the team.
The team’s first match, held on Dec.
6,	against Valparaiso, showed promise w for a successful season. Notre Dame dropped three out of five games, all closely contested, to a strong Valparaiso team, despite the fact that they rolled three 9C0 games, the high being 980.
Jack Battel turned in the high single ? game, 244, and wound up the afternoon with 908 for the five games. Bob Rich hit a 952 series, including single games of 240 and 212, while John Aquilla turned in a 910 series and Wally Clarke a 210 single game.
Sunday, Dec. 6, saw a number of
■* surprises in the Blue League. The Cleveland club dropped all foui- points to the seventh place Philadelphia club, yet managed to hold first place, while the second place Met club could only take one point from the eleventh place Air Cadet club. The K of C team swept their three games and increased their lead in the Gold League to three 1 points, while the Accounting and Pitts-• burgh clubs, tied for second place, could take' only three and two points respectively.
Grap piers Slate Two Meets;
‘ Several Squad Posts Vacant
The Wrestling Club of Notre Dame, which has been working out for a month under the direction of Mr. Thomas Fallon, have announced two meets for the coming season. Both are scheduled for the end of February. , One is against Wheaton College, the other, the University of Chicago.
;	There are still some openings in the
' club, especially in the lighter weights. ] Lack of competitors in these light weights has caused the Club to forfeit '	quite a few matches in competition in
t*	years gone by. Mr. Fallon would be
| glad to assist anyone interested. No ! previous wrestling experience is needed.
Ten Chomps Crowned in Novice Tourney; Cabral Stops Mangialardi for Heavy Title
Notre Dame’s 23rd edition of the Novice boxing tournament saw ten champions emerge victorious from a field of 48 contenders. Three days of preliminary bouts, and the semi-finals and finals—a total of 47 bouts—cut the field down to the final ten.
In the heavyweight division a pair of performers, fresh from a season’s action with the undefeated 1953 Irish gridders, dominated the scene. In the final bout in this class Walt Cabral of
Leslie and Strasser United At Korean Air Force Base
Second Lieutenants Leroy Leslie and Donald Strasser, former Notre Dame basketball stars now serving with the
LTS, LEROY LESLIE, DON STRASSER Basketball Stars Reunited in Korea
Fifth Air Force, were recently united in Korea, where they are stationed at the same base.
During their years at Notre Dame, Strasser, as a guard, was playmaker for the Irish quintet, while Leslie, who manned a forward position, was on the receiving end. The two former roommates were key members of the university’s 1951-52 hard-court aggregation.
Together they helped write several new records in the annals of the Irish cage squad. In 1952 Lt. Leslie was selected the most valuable player on the College All-Star team that played the Harlem Globetrotters. Leslie at one time also held a Notre Dame scoring record for one season, broken last year by Dick Rosenthal.
Sorin gained a decision over Fred Mangialardi of Fisher.
In the 125-pound class Harry Higa of Lyons pounded out a decision over Jim Lyne of Howard to gain the title in that division. Since there were only three contenders in that weight group, Higa did not fight until the finals, while Lyne gained the championships by virtue of a decision over Dick Tagawa of St. Ed’s.
Art Nakamaru of St. Ed’s decisioned Larry Withum of Morrissey to gain honors in the 130-pound class. Nakamaru advanced to the finals with a win over Dan Dwyer of Lyons, while Withum previously had TKO’d Jim Connelly of Lyons in a semi-final bout.
In the 140-pound division Gene Jordan of Zahm defeated Mike Demoreville, Off-Campus, by a decision. Both boys lost their semi-final bouts, but won berths in the finals on the basis of their skill and determination in their other fights.
Queally and Noon battled it out in the 145-pound division, with Queally gaining the win by a decision. Queal-ly’s only fight prior to the finals was his win over Jordan, while Noon had defeated Demoreville and Ernie Kletz of Zahm in advancing to the championships.
In the 155-pound clash Nick Triano of Morrissey shaded John Boveri of Farley for title honors. Triano previously had decisioned Jim Hurley of Morrissey and scored a technical knockout over Curt Matthews of Morrissey, while Boveri had won over Bob Stevenson of Zahm, Bob Williams of Farley, and Jim Fay of Morrissey.	.
Bob Walters of Zahm dropped a preliminary decision to Sar Brennan of Howard, but bounced back to decision Joe McGraw of Badin, knock out Ron Lynch of Dillon, and gain a decision over Bob Hanrahan of Dillon in the finals of the 165-pound division.
Jim Roth of Cavanaugh won all four of his bouts to gain the title in the 172-pound division. Roth decisioned Mike Mulrooney of Morrissey and TKO’d John Henrick of Zahm in the preliminaries, decisioned Dick Wing of Zahm in the semi-finals, and decisioned McGraw in the finals.
A pair of 177-pounders, George Hubbard of Fisher and Al Dreisbach, Off-Campus, battled it out for the full three rounds, with Hubbard being awarded the decision. Hubbard’s TKO of George Bennett of Howard and decision over John Boyle of St. Ed’s in the semis gave him a shot at the title,
December 18, 1953
15
Get Home Sooner and Surer. Weather and holiday traffic delays can’t cut vacation time. The train trip with your crowd is part of the fun, too. So are those swell dining car meals! And you can safely stretch vacation’s end to the very last party, yet still get back to school on time!
Save 25% of the Coach Fare by traveling home and back with two or more friends on Group Economy Plan Tickets. They’re good on trips of 100 miles or more. Gather a group of 25 or more and you can each save 28% traveling long-distance together on the same train___then, returning as a group or individually.
Consult Your Local Railroad Ticket Agent Well in Advance off Departure Date ffor Detailed Information EASTERN RAILROADS
ND Theatre to Present Three Plays in January
The University Theatre will vary the usual calendar of productions by staging three one-act plays following the Christmas vacation. The plays will be presented in the new LaFortune student center, using the unusual the-ater-in-the^round-style of production.
These plays will be student-directed and produced, and will be held in the vicinity of Jan. 15.
One play will be Noel Coward’s Hands Across the Sea, a satire by the prolific English author. This production will be directed by Marion Leszczynski.
Anton Chekhov’s sparkling comedy, the Marriage Proposal, depicting Russian middle-class life, will be directed by Joe Huebner.
Rounding out the triple bill, and in sharp contrast to the other two plays, the University Theater will present Tennessee Williams’ tense and moving sketch, Portrait of the Madonna, directed by George Hadyka. Williams is an American playwright.
The plays and techniques are introduced to give variety to the University Theatre’s standard productions, and to give students experience in direction, and unusual stage technique.
Diamonds Jewelry Watches
J. Trethewey
JOE, THE JEWELER 104 N. Main St. J.M.S. Bldg.
liliaty cutd Book Shop
SPAGHETTI	RAVIOLI
CHICKEN	STEAKS
We Cater to Banquete and Parties
The new tradition at Notre Dame is...
Aamingo Restaurant Open Sundays
610 NORTH MICHIGAN 3 blka. N. of South Shore Station
We Sell Truth
New Catholic Books, Missals, and Prayer Books. Religious Articles. 110 East LaSalle Ave., So. Bend
GLASSES FITTED
Satisfactory Optical - Service in South Bend for over 50 years. Lenses Ground in Our Own Shop.
J. BURKE
Optometrist
DR. W. G. BOGARDUS DR. M. I. MITTERMAYER Associates 228 So. Michigan St.
Intercollegiate Battle of Wits Finds Gophers Edging Irish
Notre Dame and Minnesota didn’t meet on the gridiron this year, but students from the two universities competed in a battle of brains on the College Quiz Bowl program Saturday over the NBC Radio Network. Allen Ludden presided over the intercollegiate quiz show in New York in which Minnesota’s team copped the’ judges’ nod. The teams answered from their own campuses.
Representing Notre Dame against Minnesota, which has won against four other colleges and universities in previous weeks, were David Burrell, Akron, Ohio; Thomas Field, Wilmington, Dela.; Thomas Calder, Worcester, Mass., and Joseph Imbriaco, Elizabeth, N. J.
Minnesota was awarded a $500 gift which will be administered by the college. The winners will return Saturday to meet a new opponent. Each member of Notre Dame’s team received a wrist watch. Among institutions which have participated in the popular NBC quiz program are Columbia University, Northwestern, Radcliffe College for Women, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Illinois and New York University.
16
The Scholastic
Letters
(Continued from Page 4)
Editor:
। I have read Gordon Bergquist’s “The Back Page” of the Dec. 4 issue three times. As of yet I do not see the point of the article. In my opinion the only
X	thing he is trying to do is antagonize
'	people in every branch of study, and he
is doing a pretty good job of it.
Sincerely, Ronald Witt
Editor:
4 Mr. Gordon Bergquist’s choice of subject last week, namely, the problem of over-specialization by many students in their particular fields of study and their consequent disregard of other fields, was one of very general interest. But his treatment of the subject leaves much to y‘ be desired in view of many facts which he either ignored or did not trouble himself to investigate.
George D. Stehlin, Jr.
Editor:
I wish to express my appreciation of ? Gordon Bergquist’s column, “The Back Page,” in the Dec. 4 issue. I believe Mr. Bergquist has touched on a subject that is kept fairly well concealed, due to the appalling truth of the matter.
Though there will be many unfavor-4 able comments on this article—I say, keep up the good work, for those who complain the most are the ones that the truth of the article hits hardest.
Jack Griffith.
Engineer
SAVE...Low one-way fares everywhere
SAVE AGAIN ... Bigger savings on round-trip tickets -•—>
BIG SAVINGS on HOLIDAY TRIPS HOME!
Annual Trek
(Continued from Page 7)
Art. Lunch will be in the Senate Restaurant. The evening will be open.
After breakfast at the hotel Tuesday the tour will visit the Pentagon Building, and the Capitol Building where they will attend a Congressional Committee hearing. There will be luncheon in the Senate Restaurant, followed by visits to the Senate, House of Representatives, and Supreme Court if in session. At 5:40 p.m. they will board the “Columbian” for the return trip.
Arrival will be at 6:20 a.m. at La-Paz, Ind., where special buses will pick up the tour for the trip back to the campus.
Cost of the trip will be $117 with all expenses paid.
For information contact Dr. Bartholomew, Room 346 O’Shaughnessy Hall.
From South Bend	One Way	Round Trip	Extra Saving On Round Trip
BOSTON		.$20.85	$37.55	$ 4.15
CHICAGO 		. 2.10	3.80	.40
CLEVELAND 		5.95	10.75	1.15
DENVER 		. 21.85	39.35	4.35
DETROIT 		. 4.65	8.40	.90
EL PASO 		27.00	48.60	5.40
MEMPHIS 		11.25	20.25	2.25
MIAMI 		26.90	48.45	5.35
MILWAUKEE 		3.65	6.60	.70
MINNEAPOLIS 		9.40	16.95	1.85
NEW ORLEANS		16.70	30.10	3.30
LOS ANGELES		43.65	74.45	12.85
OKLAHOMA CITY. ..	16.15	29.10	3.20
NEW YORK CITY......	17.90	32.25	3.55
PHILADELPHIA ......	16.45	29.65	3.25
PITTSBURGH 		9.05	16.30	1.80
PHOENIX 		35.10	63.20	7.00
ST. LOUIS		6.70	12.10	1.30
ST. PETERSBURG . ..	24.90	44.85	4.95
TOLEDO 		3.60	6.50	.70
Plus Federal Tax
AGENT, L. G. SHIMER 117 WESTERN AVE Phone 7-6541
GREYHOUND
December 18, 1953
17
by Gordon Bergquist
During the past weeks, there have been dark rumblings on campus as the intellectual giants rose from slumber. The postman has dumped numerous letters upon the desk of the editor of the SCHOLASTIC, all save two concerning this columnist. There have been murmurs of discontent from a certain department of the Liberal Arts School concerning this columnist. All this seems to be over the Back Page of two weeks ago.
Before I take up some of the blasts that have been thrown my way, I would like to state again my position as concisely as possible.
The problem which I maintain exists (though many writers
of letters disagree) .is this: almost all fields of study are to some extent blinded by their own field. This is partly natural, I think, but this is not to say that it should be that way. A student must specialize in something if he is not to be lost in the world today. Brit not only must he have his own field as a base, he must, if he is to live sanely in the world of today, have some knowledge of other fields.
I made that point two weeks ago by showing that the advocate of- the liberal arts has little room to talk about the “mere technician” scientist when that same Liberal arts advocate does not appreciate the achievements in science. Several persons have made the point that Science does not create problems. This is wishful thinking. True, Science does not deliberately create problems but the developments that science has made have caused the creation of problems. Obvious examples of this are the atomic bomb and the industrial revolution. Anyone who will deny that there are not problems, both moral and political created by the atomic bomb has had his head in the ground for the past ten years. The effects of the industrial revolution, slums, unequal distribution of wealth, were made possible by the improved methods of production and machines which were developed by science.
I think that it is a fair statement to say that the Liberal Arts student is too often inclined to scoff at the man of science as a mere juggler of facts. I upheld, to a certain extent, the position of the men of science and yet it was from them almost exclusively that I received the most criticism. One gentleman argues that my examples of lack of knowledge of other fields do not constitute proof of my thesis. I agree. An example, by its very nature, is not a proof; but it is an indication of the proof. It is presumed that the intelli
gent reader will think a little further about the particular point with which he disagrees. The same gentleman excoriates me over my “definition of an atom” phrase. No, I cannot define an atom. This is perhaps an indication of my non-appreciation of science. I think it is also, on a larger scale, of the Liberal arts’ school’s non-appreciation.
Several writers and others as well— have taken issue with my attitude toward sociology. I realize the distinction between the teaching sociologist and the practical social worker. But if Sociology .is to justify itself and its existence, it must accomplish something. True, Sociology has accomplished much in a few particular- instances. But as any person is able to see for himself, the number of slums still far surpasses the number of cleaned up areas. I notice also that the divorce rate is still climbing.
Supposedly, the introductory courses in Sociology are to acquaint the student with a field which happens to be called sociology, and to give the student a knowledge of problems he faces as a member of society and show him what general lines of solution experience and research have worked out. Therefore, it seems to me, that academic sociology is .inherently practical. The introductory courses in sociology come out to be nothing more than a mass of “problems,” theories, and counter - theories. The present courses are more concerned with giving the student the “correct view” than with actually giving him some practical knowledge that he can use. In short, they seldom get out of the clouds.
And while we are up in the clouds, let’s take another point. It has been painted out to me that the Liberal Arts are supposed to be free from all con
siderations of practical action and pre-cuniary remuneration. If this is so, those who scream “Ivory Tower” at the advocates of the Liberal Arts are fully justified. But the object of a liberal education is not to produce a man of contemplation but to produce a man who can intelligently and with some degree of success, live in the world.
The liberal education is aimed at producing a “well-rounded” man. This man does not merely exist in society, but lives, moves, and acts. He must put to use the knowledge he has gained. If he has learned, and believes that such things as divorce and genocide are wrong, that such conditions as slums and displaced persons are a disgrace, can he in all conscience stand aside and say, “I understand all this but I am a liberally educated man and am above this?”
I have been told that the mere fact that the man of science is in more denothing. True, but it also is an in-mand than the man of letters proves dication of a modern tendency. And those who doubt even this fact, have only to take a long look at the bulletin board outside the Placement Bureau. They will there find enough facts, figures, and statistics to fill , their heads.
A few have criticized me for “personal opinions.” There are personal opinions in the article in question, but the majority are personal observations. The distinction is obvious. And if personal opinions and observations are to be vitiated on the sole grounds that they are personal, we must throw out many of the works of literary scholarship, sociological research, and political theory. We must even omit governmental policy which is nothing more than the considered aggregate of personal opinion and observation.
And a final point. Yes, dear readers, there was a typographical error!
HELP WANTED
MEN and WOMEN:
URGENT
We need representatives in your locale to help fill out an organization for business surveys, polls, and public opinions. . . . Ideal part time work. . . . Choose your own hours. . . . Your nearest telephone may be your place of business for surveys not requiring the signatures of those interviewed. . . . Send $1 for administrative guarantee fee, application blank, questionnaire, plan of operation, and all details on how you may manage a survey group for us. . . . GARDEN STATE and NATIONAL SURVEYS, P. O. Box 83, Cedar Grove, New Jersey.
18
The Scholastic
Just speed your season’s greetings
No matter what else you do...say
by TELEGRAM
WESTERN UNION
105 N. Main St.
Telephone 3-6101
Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myths Tobacco Co.