is always good company
WINSTON
TASTES GOOD/
cigarette should/
f'i :U,.-
i
0
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO..WINSTON-SALEM. N.C.
Enjoy a finer filter cigarette I


E 8
The moment you touch a match to your first Winston, you’ll know why it’s so popular! Here’s real flavor, rich and full. And here’s a real filter, too — a filter that does its job so well the flavor really comes through to you. Enjoy finer filter smoking. Switch to Winston.
Switch to WIWSTOW Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!
LATE DATE WITH A BIRTH RATE
JUNIOR’S driving the combine tonight. He’s got a date with the 10,753 new Americans who’ll be born by next sundown. A birth rate that has upped our population 30 million since 1940—while 2 million farmers have left the farm for other jobs.
How can 2 million fewer farmers feed 30 million more people? Machines—millions of them—are the answer. Today’s farmer still has to work late when his crops are ready. But "hired hands” of steel enable him to produce more. Tractors do the work of 40 men. Grain combines reduce labor 85%.
Today’s farm production depends on the trouble-free operation of these machines. That’s why every make of farm tractor uses Timken® tapered roller bearings; why more and more implements are using them, too.
Timken bearings reduce breakdowns because they roll the load. They practically eliminate friction, require less maintenance, minimize wear to keep farm machinery on the go.
Keeping farm equipment rolling smoothly is just one example of how the Timken Company keeps America on the go. We work hand-in-hand—drawing-board-to-draw
ing-board—with all industry to increase speed and precision. Decrease wear and maintenance. Improve the machines that are improving your way of life.
This spirit of cooperation and progress has helped make "Timken” the best-known bearing in America. It’s helped make us the world’s largest manufacturer of tapered roller bearings.
And it’s kept us moving up. If you want to keep moving up, you might be interested in what we can offer you. Write for our booklet, "Career Opportunities at the Timken Company”. The Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton 6, Ohio.
TIMKEN
TRADE-MARK REG. Us S. PAT. OFF.
TAPERED ROLLER BEARINGS
Timken bearings keep America on the GO... and you keep going up when you go with the Timken Company
January 11, 1957
THE STYLES YOU PREFER ARE AT THE
CAMPUS SHOP
What’s your style preference? Like Ivy League ... or do you prefer a more conservative model? What you like— we have ... by America’s finest makers. You’ll find a big selection of all popular styles here from which to make your choice. Why not drop in soon and look them over? Remember, it’s important to dress right . . . you can’t afford not to!
■On the Campus—Notre Dame
4
The Scholastic
PAY
1 3
JULY
NO CARRYING CHARGE
USE YOUR
CAMPUS SHOP CHARGE ACCOUNT
Buy what you need at the Campus Shop now . . . and charge it the Campus Shop way. If you like, pay for it next summer while you’re working . . . one-third in May, one-third in June, and one-third in July. Every Notre Dame Man is invited to use this convenient way to accumulate a wardrobe. Dress Right—you can’t afford not to!
-a
On the Campus—Notre Dame
^GILBERT'S
January 11, 1957
The Notre Dome
Looking for a Chance
TO GROW?
Take the First Step Today SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER for an INTERVIEW with
BABCOCK&WILCOX ON FEBRUARY 5,1957
Scholastic
Vol. 98 January 11, 1957 No. 12
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Charles McKendrick
Editor
JOE NORTON
Associate Editor
DEGREES	BOILER DIVISION	TUBULAR PRODUCTS DIVISION	REFRACTORIES DIVISION	ATOMIC ENERGY DIVISION	RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Mechanical Engineering	X	*	X	X	X
Ceramics Engineering			X		X
Chemical Engineering	X		X	X	X
Civil Engineering	X			X	
Electrical Engineering	X			X	
Engineering Physicists				X	X
Physicists				X	X
Fuel Technologists	X				X
Industrial Engineering	X	X		X •	
Metallurgical Engineering	X	X		X	X
Metallurgists	X	X		X	X
Business Administration and Engineering	X			X	
Chemists				X	X
Nuclear Engineering				X	X
Mathematics	X			X	X
Background in any of the fields listed in the left-hand column is all you need to begin your career with B&W. Check the activities you want to talk about with the B&W representative when he’s on your campus. He’ll be glad to see you... and you’ll be glad you talked to him.
Mscocir * *mcox
161 East 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.
PE-12
DAVE THOMPSON
Associate Editor
JIM STEINTRAGER    News Editor JAMES McDONALD ..........Copy Editor I
DAVID KUBAL ..........Feature Co-Editor } JOHN QUAGLIANO ....Feature Co-Editor GEORGE CLEMENTS.......Assistant News JIM DULAN ............ Assistant	News
BOB VONDRASEK..........Assistant News
HARRY McKEE..................Assistant	Copy
MARSH PIDGEON...........Assistant Copy	J
DON STUHLDREHER....Circulation Mgr.	t
HARRY CONLON ............Business Mgr. JOHN GLAVIN..............Sports	Editor
BOB EARLY....................Assistant	Sports
MIKE FITZPATRICK .......Assistant Sports
News Staff: Tom Banchoff, Mark Bradley, Jack Coughlin, John Fitzpatrick, John Ford, David Karnath, Bob LaMontagne, Jim Lenox. Jim Loeffler, Jerry Leppek, Jim ' Naughton, John O’Hara, Ed Plumly, Walt Rudge, Dave Schwartz. Pete Stafford, Jim Sutter, Bob Williams, Jim Yoch.
Sports Staff: Pat Defoe. Jim Goethals, Jack Grady, Roger Laur, Jim Merz, Greg Rogers, Ed Rohrbach, Ted Thompson, Doug Zilliox.
Sports Features: Joe Bride, Tom Edwards, Bruce Huot, John McMahon.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: $4.00 per year. Single copies 25c. :
6
The Scholastic
Qam>p4tA Scatty
JAYCEES HONOR DR. DOOLEY . AS ‘OUTSTANDING’ AMERICAN
ND Graduate One of Ten 'Young Men' Selected; Cited for Medical Aid to Vietnamese Refugees
Dr. Thomas A. Dooley, who received his pre-medical education at Notre Dame, was named one of the ten “out-standing young men of America for 1956” by the U. S. Junior Chamber of Commerce this past week. Dooley is the sixth Notre Dame alumnus to receive the award since it was established by the national Jaycee organization in 1938.
The 29-year-old physician, formerly a lieutenant in the U. S. Navy Medical Corps, was cited for demonstrating that “medicine is the best foreign policy weapon” in today’s world. Dr. Dooley lb headed the Navy Preventative Medicine unit in Haiphong, on the border of North Viet Nam, where natives fled from Communist troops.
Under his leadership, a small medical unit processed and treated more than 600,000 Vietnamese fleeing the advancing Communists before Haiphong was turned over to the Communists. The group begged medicine from passing a ships, and eventually got aid from U. S. pharmaceutical companies.
In a book, Deliver Us From Evil, published last year, and a Navy-sponsored lecture tour in the United States, Dr. Dooley told about the medical needs of the people of Laos; the hesitancy of the people to accept help because of Communist anti-American propaganda; and the diseases and atrocities he has wit-
GRADUATION ROOM ACCOMMODATIONS
Graduation weekend room accommodations for the parents of seniors will be made available Sunday at 5 p.m. in the Mahogany Room in the basement of the Morris ~ Inn.
* Applicants are requested to enter through the south door adjoining the parking lot of Morris Inn. Reservations will be handled on a first come, first served basis with one room to each senior.
There will be approximately 20 rooms available in Pangborn Hall. >.................................
nessed. During this tour Dr. Dooley spoke at Notre Dame.
Using royalties from the book, proceeds from the lecture tour, and aid from many benefactors in the U. S., Dr. Dooley has now returned to Laos as head of a four-man medical mission. In Laos, there is only one doctor for every 2,000,000 people. Dr. Dooley is visiting small villages to bring help to the native people of the country.
Dr. Dooley says that by bringing medical help to these people he can show the Asian people that Communist propaganda is “so much malarkey. It will be very hard to convince the mother of a child whom I’ve cured of yaws, or another hideous disease, that I’m an ‘imperialistic monster’ as the Communists say of Americans.”
A native of St. Louis, Dr. Dooley received his medical degree at St. Louis University after his pre-medical work at Notre Dame. After graduation, in 1953, he was commissioned in the Navy Medical Corps, from which he has now resigned. For his work in Laos, Dooley was awarded the Legion of Merit by the secretary of the navy, the highest award of the Viet Nam nation, an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the University of Scranton, and the Christopher Award.
The Junior Chamber of Commerce award goes to ten men between the ages of 21 and 35 each year who have made outstanding contributions to their professions and the general welfare of the people. The men are nominated by the general public, and final selection is made by a panel of judges. Notre Dame nominated Dr. Dooley.
This year’s award winners will be guests of honoi- at a banquet to be held at the Statler-Hilton Hotel in Dallas Jan. 19. Because Dr. Dooley is now in Laos, it is unlikely he will be able to attend the banquet.
Other Notre Dame men honored in previous years include football coaches Elmer Layden in 1938 and Terry Brennan in 1954; Dr. Charles Hufnagel, 1948; Col. Francis Gabreski, 1951; and Brig. Gen. John Henebry, 1952.
DR. THOMAS A. DOOLEY “Medicine . . . the best foreign policy.”
Alumni Group Selects Four Board Directors
The election of four new directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association was recently announced by James Armstrong, executive secretary.
Named to three-year terms on Notre Dame’s alumni board are Leo Vogel, head of the Interstate Equipment Corp., Pittsburgh, Pa.; Raymond Durst, former president of the Hallicrafters Co., Chicago, Ill.; Jules De La Vergne, New Orleans, La., architect; and William Cotter, assistant to the vice-president-for-operations, U. S. Steel’s Oliver Mining Division, Duluth, Minn.
The new directors will be installed and new officers of the association will be elected at the winter meeting of the alumni board to be held on the campus next month. Joseph O’Neill, Midland, Tex., oil operator, is the retiring president of the Notre Dame alumni organization. Othei- outgoing officers include vice presidents John McIntyre, South Bend; Robei-t Gore, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; and James Ferstel, Chicago, Hl. O’Neill will serve as honorary president during the coming year.
Scheduled to serve on the alumni board until 1958 are John Brennan, Detroit, Mich.; J. Patrick Canny, Cleveland, O.; Patrick Fisher, Indianapolis, Ind.; and Joseph Whalen, Des Moines, la. Board members whose terms expire in 1959 include Oscai- Dorwin, New York, N. Y.; Edmond Haggar, Dallas, Tex.; Eugene Kennedy, Los Angeles, Cal.; and Francis Layden, Evansville, Ind.
January 11, 1957
7
Corbaci Announces New Exam Schedule; Revised Registration Procedure Explained
A new schedule for semester exams and registration, the result of conferences between the Student Senate and the administration, has been put into effect. Exams will be held from Thursday night, Jan. 17, to the following Thursday. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, Jan. 25 through 27, will be free days, and registration will be on the following Monday and Tuesday. The second semester- will begin on Wednesday, Jan. 30.
Mr. Leo M. Corbaci, administrative assistant to the vice president for academic affairs, indicated that the exam schedule is one day shorter than that originally announced. The math departmentals on Thursday night, Jan. 17, are the only exams shifted outside the originally scheduled days. Certain other departmentals will also be held at night.
An attempt has been made to eliminate the lines and simplify the procedure in the Drill Hall. Freshmen, sophomores, and new students in either category will register on Jan. 28. On Jan. 29, all juniors, seniors, graduate students, and new students who fit into any of these categories will register. Second-semester sophomores should register on Jan. 29.
Tuition certificates must be brought to the Drill Hall, and the student must have or remember the code number on the yellow instruction sheet obtained earlier. However, students are to report alphabetically, not according to code number as stated on the yellow sheet. Sometime next week the Blue Circle will distribute new official instruction sheets to the rooms, indicating when to report according to alphabetical grouping. Approximately 100 students will report every 15 minutes.
Students changing colleges within the University should complete details of
PIANO CONCERT
Joel Ryce, concert pianist, will present a program of piano music tonight in Washington Hall beginning at 8 p.m.
Mr. Ryce, a protege of Rudolph Serkin, has recently returned from a tour of Europe where he appeared with violinist Alan Grishman. The concert tonight will mark the first performance by Mr. Ryce in the Middle West.
Selections of Bach, Brahms, and Bartok will be featured. The recital, sponsored by the University’s department of music, is open to the public.
their transfers by Jan. 15. These students can obtain their schedules and register normally. All other changes will be made in the Drill Hall. This includes adding or dropping courses, courses cancelled since pre-registration because of insufficient registration, and failures. A list of failures will be published in the halls by Sunday night, Jan. 27, at the latest. Students who fail can reschedule their courses with theii-deans in the Drill Hall.
On registration days the student will enter the Drill Hall by the southwest door, and take a census card, envelope, list of cancelled courses, and additional instructions from tables at this point. The usual chairs are provided, and after he fills out his cards he will report to one of ten tables, numbered from one to ten. He will go to the table whose number corresponds to the last digit in his code number, that is if his number is 1654, he should go to table 4. He will receive an IBM name card and his schedule in return for tuition certificate and census card.
If any changes are necessary, he may next see his dean. Otherwise he will proceed to the registration square. Each department will be represented in the square. The student must pick up an IBM card for each course on his schedule. He presents his schedule to the department representative concerned who will give him the card. These will be double-checked against his schedule at the check-out desk. He will leave his IBM cards here, marked with his student number (not his code number), and take his schedule with him. This doublecheck should eliminate the large number of conflicts that have needed correction after registration in the past. Last year, over a thousand such conflicts had to be changed after registration had closed.
After pre-registration, it was found that the registration for some classes was too large for the classrooms assigned. In this case, students will report on the first day to the rooms listed on their schedules. The instructor will then inform them of the change of classrooms.
Some large sections will be split into separate sections taught at the same time. In this case, the change will be made when the student receives his IBM cards in the Drill Hall. He will be expected to check carefully. If any changes have been made in the classroom location of his courses, it will be up to him to make the corresponding change on his schedule. If a student shows up at the wrong classroom due to an error of this kind, he will be charged with a cut.
Debate Team Takes * Pre-Holiday Tourney
The Notre Dame Debate team scored a major tournament victory in the Wake Forest College “Dixie Classic” Debate tournament immediately preceding the	,
Christmas vacation.	i
The Notre Dame team, composed of	f
jack Martzell and Paul Coffey on affirm- ? ative, and John Hirschfeld and Stan Kus-per on negative, tied for first place in J the four-man competition. The Notre 7 Dame affirmative team of Martzell and p Coffey was named best affirmative team in the tournament, with the duo of	7
Hirschfeld and Kusper taking third among negative teams. Coffey and	s
Martzell also went to the finals in the extemporaneous speaking event.	« •
This was the second time this year 'i that the Notre Dame debaters went g south to meet such teams as Florida, i Miami, South Carolina, North Carolina, ; Wake Forest, and many others.
Now that the major tournament activity of the first semester has been completed, the team is devoting itself to exhibition debates for the rest of the semester. Hirschfeld and Kusper debated Wisconsin State College on Thurs- • day, Jan. 10, before the Wisconsin State	i
College student body,	and a series of	?
exhibitions by team	members before	’
civic groups in South	Bend is now in	1
progress.
Ticket Sale Announced For Marriage Institute
Ticket sales for the annual Marriage Institute, sponsored by the Senior Class j in cooperation with the religion depart- ; ment of Notre Dame, will begin on Mon- ■ day, Jan. 28, in the bus shelter and Dining Hall, Tony Yurchak, committee chairman, announced this week.
Cost of the tickets, available only to seniors and graduate students, will be $1 for the series of six lectures. The first talk will be Feb. 5, by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of - | the University. Father Hesburgh will i speak on “Selecting the Marriage Partner.”	I
The second lecture, Feb. 12, will be j on “How the Man and Woman Look at I Marriage,” by Mr. and Mrs. David Mat- ; thews of South Bend. On Feb. 18, Rev. I Arthur Maloche, from Canada, will j speak on “The Image of the Trinity in ,| Sanctity, Sanity, and Sex.”	' |
Dr. Louis B. Leone, of Chicago, will g speak on Feb. 26 on “The Doctor’s View- I point,” followed on March 6 by Mr. and Mrs. Charles Strubbe, also of Chicago, speaking on “Unity Through Love.” Mr. and Mrs. John Clark, also of Chicago, will conclude the series on March 12 when they will speak on children.
8
The Scholastic
’an expose
It was one of those wild evenings, when I didn’t have enough dimes to try to get a date with a St. Mary’s girl, that I decided to go into that unconquered, unknown, and virtually undeveloped suburb of Notre Dame called — South Bend.
As I was walking out of Cavanaugh Hall in my N.D. jacket and wedgies, I was stopped by the rector.
“Where are you going tonight?” he Jt inquired suspiciously.
W “To South Bend.”
Suddenly his jaw dropped and his eyes took on a glassy stare, “No . . .”
“What’s the matter, is the place haunted?” I laughed. He didn’t. Instead he mumbled a few words from the Apocalypse and walked away.
I arrived in South Bend in the true Notre Dame tradition, on foot. It was not a bad looking town, in fact it almost seemed friendly. On top of a theater marque was a large neon sign reading:
MUSHKA, MUSHKA, WELCOME NOTRE DAME MEN (WITH MONEY)
This in itself was not disturbing, the people were apparently just economic-■ ally minded.
I felt very proud strutting down » Michigan Avenue with my blue and gold 9 jacket. Up the street I noticed two attractive girls coming my way. They wore the usual white sweat socks which completely covered their knees, and black motorcycle jackets which covered the rest of them. Here, I thought, was an opportunity to really impress these small town maidens with a real college man. Both of them saw me at the same time and stopped. I smiled and buttoned ♦ up my jacket. They hurried across the street and continued on their way, giving me a dirty look from behind their dark goggles. Well, I thought, maybe that wasn’t the right approach.
I walked a little further until I came to a brilliantly lighted cafe, blasphemously named the “Philadelphia.” A group of other fellows stood around, smoking and talking. Four girls walked * out of the “Philadelphia” and I sauntered over to them.
“Well, you girls must be from South Bend,” I began hopefully. They looked at me with a rather bored look and continued talking. “Well, heh . . . heh . . . I’m from Notre Dame.” Still no answer.
Just then a battered old sedan, resembling a Farmall 400 pulled around the
by FRANK SPIERING
corner, screeching its tires. It stopped, and inside I could see three typical “Southbenders.” They were covered with shaggy manes of hair, which extended from their heads to their chins. Apparently these fugitives from the SPCA had “something” because the girls immediately began to giggle and foam at the mouth.
“Gee . . . there’s Ernie. . . . Hotcha,” one yelled, as she pulled up her sweat socks. With that they ran toward the car, and jumped in, amidst a chorus of grunts and growls from the males. The car sputtered and roared, then shot off into the night, showering the street with a spray of black oil, like a cattle car leaving the stockyards.
I walked into the “Philadelphia” and sat down at a table in the rear. Next to me four St. Mary’s girls sat swapping souvenirs.
“I’ll trade you Sammy Delacroix and 9 Elmer Molo, for two of yours,” the 9 beady-eyed one was saying.
“Well, I’ve got a full list for this weekend Freida, but next week you can have Dewey Philbin and Mel Haney . . . they’re, real spenders.”	'
The waitress had finally come to my table and was waiting, scratching her ear with a pencil. “Order please,” she squeaked.
Since the menu was in Polish I closed » my eyes and stabbed at one of the selec- a tions with my finger. It was a little S concoction called a South Bend Boom- a erang. She shuffled away toward the n conveyor belt behind the counter, and I a began the long wait. Soon, Frieda and g her friends finished their economic re- B ports and left. I had been waiting about B half an hour when the waitress returned. B She laid my order on the table, flashed S a three-second smile, and walked back S to the “belt.”	s
My order consisted of a half-filled S dish of melted ice-cream, alongside a tiny g pitcher of rum sauce. I drank the rum 8 and left the ice-cream.	B
After paying the check, I walked out	B
of the restaurant. It was then that I	S
remembered what the fellows back at the	S
hall said. Just wait on any street corner,	9
and you will be picked up by a girl.	9
In a few minutes a shiny red convert-	S
ible came cruising down the street.	g
There was a fine-looking blonde inside,	S
and she smiled at me. I smiled back.	»
She kept going.	E
They probably like the more	forward	I
approach, I thought. Then I saw the B Chevie. This time it was a brunette at ■ the wheel, and she smiled also.	g
“Are you going to Notre Dame?” I	a
shouted. She nodded her head. I stepped	i
off the curb. Just as I reached the	3
car, it took off, leaving me standing	g
there beside a trick streak of smok-	i
ing tire rubber. I started back for	S
the sidewalk but too late. A cigar puff-	|
ing man in a Hudson had me in his	fl
sights. As he stepped on the gas I	I
jumped. His fender scraped the curb,	1
missing me by inches.	i
It took me a few moments to regain my composure. I gradually became aware of the man in blue standing next to me.
“Did you see what that guy did,” I yelled.
“Nope,” he replied, writing in a little black book, “all I saw was you . . . jaywalking! . . . See you in court.”
I returned to Notre Dame on foot. Reaching Cavanaugh Hall I stopped to sign in. Suddenly I noticed that the nightwatchman seemed to be sniffing.
“What did you have to drink tonight?” he asked.
“Rum,” I replied smiling, “a whole
pitcher of it!”
January 11, 1957
Cubism and Afterwards
by Joseph R. Shapiro
Mr. Shapiro, considered an authority of Modern Art, lectured at the University this past year during the Festival of the Arts, and has written for us an interesting article explaining some facets of Modern Art.
Mention modern art and most men reach for their guns. Too unintelligible and obscure; such art lacks meaning, reality. But “modern” is just the present tense of history. And such criticism is an old story. Great creative art of all times never sought to communicate upon a superficial level of literary or representational reality; nor does ready understanding of any art come easy. Art deals with intuitions and insights into the realm of living forms. It is a revelation of the inner life of feeling, externalized in the expressive forms of art.
The artist of each age is nourished by the dominant forces, ideologies and spiritual temper of his time. Many forces have shaped and defined reality for the modern artist. The disruptive effect of total wars and sanctioned violence; the resurgence of primitivism; the new concepts of space, energy, speed, motion and the machine; the disintegration of matter; the corrosion and repudiation of traditional values; the re-examination of the individual and the affirmation of the uniqueness of his personality and being; the exploration of the subconscious, with its own psychic laws, its fantasies, fears and compulsions, that color our imagination and motivate our spirit and behavior.
The art forms at the beginning of our century germinated an efflorescence of “isms” with cross fertilizations and hybrid growths. Three major movements emerged, significant of and for our times — CUBISM, abstractionism and SURREALISM.
AFRICAN ART
Cubism’s first phase is sometimes called African because of the use of archaic and primitive art forms by Picasso. The artists around 1907 responded readily to the new experience of African Art, with its feeling for pure form, linear simplicity, and expressive distortions. Such art seemed to reveal the secret essence of the object and also to communicate a mysterious sense of fear and wonder, so sympathetic to the contemporary vision.
Analytical Cubism followed rapidly. Now the object was dissected, analyzed for its structure and recreated into a composition of shifting, transparent, geometric planes. Views from different perspectives were combined into a simultaneous image. Form was a construct of the mind, rather than the senses. This formulation of the underlying structure and architectural order beneath the evanescent quality of surface appearance, followed the tradition of Cezanne and Seurat. “See in nature the cube, the cylinder, the sphere and the cone!” is the famous dictum of Cezanne.
A NEW TREATMENT
Of primary importance to the modern artist was a new treatment of space. Instead of being merely an empty area in -which isolated objects existed, space became a positive element, organized through the creation of movement, space tensions and their resolution. Directional lines, overlapping planes, the distribution of mass and volume, the plastic use of color and texture, were pictorial elements used to create movement—and by the creation of movement, space.
When each element of the painting moves and flows as part of an organic unit with rhythmic, effortless ease and consistency, there is space revolution. This produces an awareness of space as an entity, a conceptual thing in itself. Such awareness is of an essential substratum of life itself, an intuition of stability and permanence.
The last phase of Cubism is known as Synthetic; characterized by the decorative use of color and texture in a flat design. In these semi-abstractions, the object is fragmented into pieces, combined with arbitrary shapes and colors and organized into an expressive composition. One no longer viewed a painting of objects, but the painting itself as an object. This was the revolutionary significance of Cubism; a break with representational reality, an assertion of the artist as an existential individual, with power to create out of his own mind and imagination, a work of art, having its own life, its own meaning, and its own reality.
The Cubists always retained some reference to the visual world, for they conceived their work as an imaginative manipulation of that reality. It was the Abstractionists who took the final step.
They felt that the object and its emo- (f tional associations would be obtrusive and distracting to the purity of their artistic conception.
Kandinsky, and many other Abstractionists, often identified the harmony of their compositions with a mystical apprehension of the spiritual harmony of , the universe. They asserted the affinity of their art of pure form to music and ; spoke in terms of melody, counterpoint, i rhythm, and harmony and the aesthetic beauty of those abstract forms.
An art of pure form can have meaning and content. It can create a symbol of order and equilibrium, animated with livingness, through the invention of light, space and movement. Every work of art, figurative or abstract, has its own commanding form, its own basic structural rhythm, that defines its artistic. meaning and truth. The subject is not a mere summation of elements, but a new content, image or reality, that emerges from the relationship of those elements. It is this new emergent reality, which contains the mood, the sense of life, the poignancy of felt experience, the quality expressive of human feeling. Without the realization that the work contains his involvement with universal problems of human existence, the artist’s • , forms become empty forms without inner necessity and emotional significance. Empty forms, a mere academic arrangement of pleasant shapes and colors, appropriate to drapes and decorators.
The Surrealists created their personal world of dream reality through the use of both abstract forms and provocative subject matter. Although there were painters of the fantastic and the romantic imagination in early times, Surrealism as a movement is a progeny of our atomic age of anxiety, the aftermath of wars, the flight from reason, and the revelations of Freud, Jung and the depth psychologists.
REVOLT AGAINST BETRAYAL
Dada erupted in 1916 both in litera- , ture and art as a revolt against the betrayal of civilization by Reason. With $ the monstrous jest, the absurd, the irra- i tional, it protested against Art, culture : and traditional values. Through the method of uncontrolled, automatic writing and drawing, Dada opened a new experience of psychic reality, a liberation of primal impulses and an awareness of subjectivity. As the poet Apollinaire put it: “One day I fell to looking,,'^ for myself.” The looking was not by the s intellect, but by intuition and the re- : lease of unconscious imagery. It was in this trance-like, suspenseful dream existence, that the Surrealist found his super-reality. In this dream world of de- ' sire, myth and plausibility, the Surreal- | ist created his convincing impossibilities. ., ,
(Continued on page 12)
10
The Scholastic
4
4 The Unusual
Christmas Gift
by BOB TAYLOR
The Dillon Hall Christmas party was ' an affair with a purpose—to make Dick Coyne, of Dillon, one of the “best wheeled” men on campus. It had the expectant air of the zoo at feeding time. The academic animals were not drawn by the wafted aromas of steak on the fire; but by the warmth of spirit which has permeated Dillon Hall since the fall of ’56.
This same spirit had encompassed Cavanaugh Hall two years ago. The men of Cavanaugh saw fit to elect Dick Coyne, the chief exponent of this drive, to the post of Hall prexy.
So on December 17, every Dillonite did his monetary part in adding, if it is possible, ‘3’ miles per hour to this now fabled drive. Their Christmas present to Dick of an electric powered wheelchair was both practical and unique. It I put him in the position of operating a 4) motorized vehicle on the campus without its being registered with the powers at large. Though not quite as fast as the red roadster from the Frosh squad, Dick says he can back into a corner faster.
During the vacation Dick played the mechanic role long enough to enlarge the drive wheels and thereby raise the top speed of his chariot to four mph. All the better to make the non-academic ,jaunts across the highway. And how many rectors can run four mph?
Also over the vacation Dick. became insured for collision and property damage. Next thing you know he will need a license and be paying a sidewalk tax.
A younger brother, Bob Coyne, preceded Dick to Notre Dame. It was through the many friends that Bob brought home for weekends that Dick became influenced toward Notre Dame. 4P This is a pat on the back for the not-a-little-downtrodden weekend warriors. Bob is a senior in Business Administration.
The paradox, age and academic wise was brought about by Dick working for a time after his graduation from Joliet Catholic High School. The humdrum static life of general office accounting and $60 a week did not hold a future * for him. He attended a small business college in Joliet while he was working.
The initiative shown by Dick in the dual task of working and going to school was the same that carried him to many honors in high school, and is now standing him in good stead here under the Dome. Included among the laurels were ^positions as co-editor of his high school
DICK COYNE
paper, treasurer of his senior class, scribe of the Joliet High student council, and foremost “Honor man of the Senior Class.” The latter was merited by exemplifying three qualities: social activity and interest, average scholastic ability and sports contest attendance.
Retention on the Hall Presidents Council as commissioner here at Notre Dame along with the Cavanaugh president post round out a full extra-curricular schedule.
Dick has completed all of the accounting courses required for a major in his five semesters here. He plans to take the CPA test in May, for practice, he says, with the ever-present grin. The Southland is where Dick eventually plans to migrate in the employ of some large firm.
All the preceding were achieved when the “Coyne” did not roll as easily as he does now with the advent of the motorized age. Dick has been using a wheelchair for the past seven years. Before that he used a cane.
Having worked on the hall level, Dick feels it is the basic aspect of Notre Dame life. The many different personalities each with their own paths to follow which cross and intertwine form the strong fiber of the Notre Dame unity.
The men of Dillon are proud to be neighbors and friends of Dick Coyne. He is and will continue to be the personification of the Notre Dame spirit.
The life of Dick is a striking endorsement of Shakespeare’s thought, “Sweet are the uses of adversity.”
ND Graduate Receives Rhodes Scholar Grant
Dennis V. Moran of Tucson, Ariz., a 1953 graduate of Notre Dame, has been awarded a Rhodes Scholarship for graduate study at Oxford University in England.
Moran is the second Notre Dame man to become a Rhodes scholar recently. Donald Sniegowski, Toledo, Ohio, who graduated last June, currently is studying for an advanced degree in literature at Oxford. Among the qualifications required of Rhodes Scholarship winners are “literary and scholastic ability and attainments” as well as “physical vigor, as shown by a fondness for sports.”
A native of Bayonne, N. J., Moran formerly lived in South Bend and was graduated from Central Catholic High School in 1949. During most of his high school years he studied at Holy Cross Seminary on the Notre Dame campus.
Prior to entering Notre Dame, Moran attended St. Michael’s College, Santa Fe, N. M., where he won athletic honors. He majored in modem languages at Notre Dame, was graduated with honors, and has since completed a .year of graduate study at the University of Arizona. From 1953 to 1955 Moran served as a linguist with the U. S. Army.
----------- i
Armstrong Elected Chairman Of American Alumni Council
James Armstrong, executive secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, was recently elected district chairman of the American Alumni Council for a two- • j year term beginning in 1958. The vet- • eran Notre Dame official was also appointed director of the ACC’s 1958 national convention to be held at Lake Placid, N. Y.
As district chairman, Armstrong will head alumni officers of 150 colleges and universities, both state and private, in Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Ohio. Included in the organization are alumni secretaries, directors of alumni and development funds, and editors of alumni publications.
ON THE COVER. Ivan Osorio, fourth year architecture student, opens the new year for the ‘Scholastic’ with his impression of the ND man during the first week of January. While our friend George looks a bit weary from the holiday party-time, no doubt he could still discourse at some length on the popular question on campus these days.
January 11, 1957
11
At the Movies
COLFAX
The Girl Can’t Help It (B) Jayne Mansfield, Tom Ewell, Edmond O’Brien, Julie London, Ray Anthony, etc. This is a plot to end all plots! Jayne is a rock and roll singer (?) whom Edmond O’Brien is trying to push into stardom.. However an ex-rival of O’Brien’s from the gangster era owns all the juke boxes in town. The two proceed to shoot it out (Chicago style) with the following results: Jayne decides that singing is not for her and she marries Tom Ewell; O’Brien goes to work for his rival making rock and roll records.
Summing up: Don’t go for anything except rock and roll music.
GRANADA
Giant (A-l) Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson, James Dean. This picture is the biggest thing at the movies this week in many ways. It runs for 201 minutes, spans 30 years, and takes place in the biggest state in the union, Texas. The story by Edna Ferber involves a big cattle rancher and a Maryland socialite, their children, and their children’s children. The 30-year transition in the story is a challenge for the actors and actresses who for the most part come through with flying colors.
Summing up: The Granada is presenting Giant at this time in order- that you can have an excuse to flunk your exams. Lots of luck.
PALACE
Sharkfighters (A-2) Jan. 11-12. Victor Mature, Karen Steele. The navy found out during the first year of World War II that sharks just love fliers for supper. After everybody in the Pentagon decides what to do, they tell Vic to find a shark repellant. Well, any fool knows that the only thing that will repel sharks is the inky solution derived from octopi, but does the Navy? They try a copper acetate solution and lose one native boy. Vic decides that if anybody else is going to die it will be over his dead body.
Summing up: Even sharks can’t stomach Mature.
Co-hit: Hot Cars (B) John Bromfield, Joi Lansing. Mr. Bromfield is an automobile salesman who gets involved .in a hot car racket to pay the doctor bills for his son. He is arrested for the murder of a policeman but escapes in order to clear himself. There is the usual chase with the usual ending.
Jan. 13—Broken Star (A-2) Howard Duff, Lita Baron.
Co-hit: Manfish (B) Victor Jory, John Bromfield.
AVON
Death o fa Scoundrel (A-2) George Sanders, Yvonne DeCarlo, Zsa Zsa. As the title suggests George is a scoundrel of the highest quality, but a very shrewd one. He must have been a finance major in college since he knows just about every way to manipulate stocks as well as women. He breaks up marriages in order to gain control of companies, sells phony stocks, and ruins companies by publishing their financial statements to gain control throughout the show. Naturally the bad are punished and George gets his in big doses. His brother’s wife commits suicide, leaving a note that George poisoned her, the Justice Department wants to deport him, and when he wants to give all the money back his partner shoots him. The film starts and ends slowly, but for the most part is enjoyable.
Summing up: Money isn’t everything, is it?
Ticket Sale Set Feb. 6	«
For Mardi Gras Dance
Bids for the 1957 Mardi Gras Ball will go on sale in the LaFortune Student Center Feb. 6 from 6 to 9:30 p.m. and Feb. 7 from 4 to 6 p.m. “Vive la Danse,” the title of this year’s ball, will feature Bobby Christian and his orchestra with dancing from 9 p.m. till 1 a.m. Price of the bids is $5 and rooms may be obtained for dates at the Morris Inn. The new LaFortune Student Center- facilities will be dedicated and opened at the dance. Dance officials are Don Renier, general chairman; Dave Klocke, decorations; Paul Heer, business manager; and Bill McGowan, tickets' and invitations.
There will be two more dates for return of Mardi Gras ticket books, Jan. 31 and Feb. 25. Students who wish to sell ten books and receive a free Mardi Gras Ball bid must turn their books in by Jan. 31. The date for submitting the booth designs of the campus clubs that are participating in the Mardi Gras is Jan. 14 from 4 to 6 p.m. in the Student Center.
Mardi Gras Chairman Bud Malloy reported that 10,000 more ticket books _ than last year’s total have been distrib- ♦ uted and if the student enthusiasm keeps up, this year’s Mardi Gras will exceed any previous year in total ticket returns.
'Cubism and Afterwards' (Continued from page 10)
We are converted by their compelling air of reality, their sense of truth, im- • portance and significance, their insight ; into other than visual realities. Their I metaphysical paintings create an image of the haunting disquietude of a world unknown, of the mystery and wonder of marvelous unseen places. The evocative feeling of loneliness, of solitude, of estrangement are given objective form. The art symbol is created by the invention of an invisible world, bathed in un-earthly light and infinite space, inhab- / ited by visionary creatures in unexpected | relationship. Surrealism is the art of | the ambiguous image, the metaphor, the | enigmatic presence, whose poetry is ac- J tually enhanced by its obscurity and mystery.
Are these symbols too personal, too unintelligible to have the universality of , great ait? The artist gives shape to our	■
most obscure feelings. By formulation	|
and organization he may deal with dreams, irrationality and fantasy. The image of super-reality can be given clear articulation, order and harmony in the work of art. And, if you scratch the individual deep enough, you will find the universal.	w
12
The Scholastic
■
iliik Scuu
CAGERS ENTERTAIN LOYOLA IN FIELDHOUSE
~ Junior Class Plans New Athletic Program
Jordanmen Close First Semester at Home;
Face Ramblers Tomorrow, Spartans Next Week
The officers of the Junior Class have begun work on an inter-class athletic program which is to go into effect next year.
The program will include both participation in the various sports and instruction for those who are not experienced. The sports include basketball, swimming, handball, golf, and tennis.
It is stressed by the members of the committee that the only thing which is desired is participation. Class unity and spirit are the only things to be gained by the program and every junior is cordially invited to take part in the activities. Trophies will be awarded to the high point men in each activity and a banquet or picnic will be held at the end •of competition for all those who have taken part in the program.
A mimeographed letter will be distributed to all juniors, who are urged to respond to its instructions so that the class officers can make the final plans.
The representatives in charge of the program include: Bill Murphy and Bob Fari-ell of Dillon, Walt Huurman and Al Weinsheimer of Pangborn, and Paul •Underkoffler and Jerry Burke of Sorin.
Notre Dame’s hot and cold roundball-ers, coming off an excellent win Monday night against a good Northwestern squad, meet Loyola here tomorrow night and then close out the first semester’s play when Michigan State pays a visit to the Fieldhouse next Tuesday.
The Irish, now sporting a mediocre 6 and 5 record, including a second place in the New York Holiday Festival, can expect nothing but trouble from Loyola. Although they are not exceptionally tall, the Ramblers have good rebounding strength and excellent outside shooting.
Only one regular returns from last year’s Loyola team which won ten and lost fourteen. However, Coach George Ireland always comes up with an excellent effort against the Irish. Leading his squad this year is Art McZier and Paul Krucker.
McZier is a 6-4 forward who can be expected to turn in a good performance at all times. He is a more than adequate scorer who shoots from both the inside and outside with equal ability.
Krucker will start at guard for Loyola. He was a regular two years ago but a dislocated shoulder forced him from competition last season.
Rounding out the starting five for the Ramblers will be Al Norville at forward, Jim DeWulf at center and Paul Sheedy at guard.
Tuesday night the Irish play host to the Spartans of Michigan State. Playing a tough schedule, State is finding it difficult getting started. In their last two outings they dropped one-point decisions to Purdue and Michigan.
Gone from the Spartan team this year is Julius McCoy who finished second to Robin Freeman of Ohio State in the Big Ten scoring race last year. However Coach Fordy-Anderson has seven lettermen from the team which had an overall record of 13-9.,
Leading State will be Jack Quiggle. Quiggle, a 6-3 guard, is a fine playmaker and an excellent rebounder, making him the most polished pei-foimer on the team.
Quiggle is a native of South Bend where he played his prep ball at South Bend Central. He led Central to the State Championship in 1953.
The other starters for State will include Larry Heddon and George Ferguson at forwards, Chuck Vencie at center, and footballer Pat Wilson at guard.
FUTURE VISITORS TO FIELDHOUSE
Art McZier (Loyola), Jack Quiggle (Mich. St.), Paul Krucker (Loyola)
January 11, 1957
13
Irish Cagers Show Well In Holiday Tournament
by BOB EARLY
The Fighting Irish are a tournament team! They proved that for the third straight year by rolling to the runner-up spot in the annual Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference Holiday Basketball Tournament in Madison Square Garden. In the previous two seasons the Irish battled from underdog roles to win the Sugar Bowl tourney.
The Notre Dame story in the Garden was one of hustle, fight and comeback. In the NYU game they were down by nine points with only 13 minutes left to play and John Smyth went out on fouls. But the Irish fought back and won 72-71.
The next day was a day off, but then came Brigham Young who earlier had beaten St. John’s by 14 points. The Irish won 91-66, but it was closer than that. Coach Jordan used only six men (Smyth had fouled out again), and it took a second half fast-breaking attack to defeat the Cougars.
JASPERS TOO HOT
Then came Manhattan in the final game. The Jaspers had clobbered Niagara 95-79 and a much taller Ohio State team 82-67. They were hot, shooting better than 45 per cent in their last five games, and they did the same thing to the Irish hitting 29 of 63. But the real story of the game came in the first five minutes. The scoreboard in front of
NICE GOING BOBBY
Devine gets Hero’s treatment after NYU game.
the television camera read 22-8 and the Irish could never catch up.
Notre Dame had a number of heroes. There was Tom Hawkins who held AllAmerica candidate Cal Ramsey of NYU to four points in the second half, and personally handled the rebounding chores on both boards. There was Bob Devine who flipped in the winning bucket in the first game and was a steady scorer throughout the tournament. There was captain Smyth, steadying them and leading the hustle. And there was John McCarthy who played the role of sixth man and turned the tide in the first two games.
In the first game the visitors opened the scoring as Joe Morelli sank two foul shots, and then throughout the first half the lead changed hands nine times and was tied nine others. The officiating was close and Smyth had to leave the game with four fouls after twelve minutes of play.
Meanwhile Ramsey ran wild for the locals, banging in 17 points. It was a good show, and the Irish were down 40-33 at the half.
The second half started the way the first period ended with the Irish unable to reduce the seven-point lead. Then, with 14 minutes to go, Smyth committed his fifth personal.
That’s when the South Benders came
AND AWAY WE GO
Gleason scores against Brigham Young
to life. McCarthy scored eight straight points and Hawkins acted like a hungry dog gobbling up rebounds, stealing the ball, blocking shots. And with 2:50 remaining to be played, the score was 65-65.	_
There was more excitement jammed® into the final minute and a half than most patrons of the Eighth Avenue establishment have seen in a lifetime. With the score tied at 69 at this point, Hawkins dropped in a free throw. The Violets tried a shot and missed and Notre Dame started freezing the ball. With 50 seconds remaining, Gleason was called for an obvious charge and Tom DeLuca, who seconds later was to be-^ come the goat, hit on both charity tosses. With a half minute to go, McCarthy tried a jump shot and missed. The game appeared in the bag for NYU as they
TWO MORE FOR THE HAWK _
Flashy Soph scores against Cougars *
14
The Scholastic
^■went into a freeze of their own but DeLuca made the mistake of dribbling into the corner where he was trapped and called for a running violation. Devine took the ball and raced the length of the court amidst a flabbergasted Violet team that didn’t make an attempt to stop him.
The Brigham Young game started . evenly with the score tied at half but the Irish ran the Cougars off the court in the second half. John Benson scored 31 points and it was mainly his performance that kept the Irish running. They didn’t get a chance to rest. They still remembered the NYU game and they poured it on. The Westerners fell by 25 points.
In the final game Manhattan hit on nine of their first twelve shots from the field and that was just about the story.
Hawkins played even more brilliantly than he did in the NYU game ending up with 35 points and 21 rebounds. Smyth didn’t foul out of this one and pressed the Jasper boardmen all night.
The game started slowly and was tied at 4-4. Then the Jaspers got hot and the Irish didn’t. It was 14 to 4 and the
GET OFF MY BACK McCarthy ties up Manhattan's Powers
Irish took time out, but it didn’t help. John Powers hit and it was 16-4 before ^ND scored again. Then Gerry Paulson hit two more and Powers added another and the score read 22-8.
Notre Dame came back late in the period with Hawkins the big gun but Smyth, Devine and McCarthy also helped in the scoring and the Jaspers had a shakey six-point lead at the half 49-43.
As the second period started Manhattan upped the lead to nine points and that’s where it stayed for the rest of the •^game, the final score being 86-79. The
Irish were game and never looked better than in this tournament, but they just didn’t quite have enough steam to come back another time. The fact that they failed to hit on their first twelve shots in the second half killed their hopes.
After the game Coach Jordan accepted the runner-up trophy, but no one was satisfied. Although Notre Dame was not discouraged, they were disappointed. The small Irish team, counted out by the oddsmakers from the first, came on fast, but just couldn’t hold the pace.
TYLERS BASKETBALL PICKS
TONIGHT: Brigham Young over Colorado A&M Cincinnati over Duquesne North Carolina over Clemson Columbia over Harvard Iowa State over Drake California over Oregon UCLA over Washington State Seattle over Oklahoma City ' SATURDAY: .	v
Notre Dame over Loyola Syracuse over Boston U. Bradley over Tulsa Columbia over Rutgers Duke over Clemson	.
DePaul over Memphis State Denver over Montana Dartmouth over Brown . Western Kentucky over Eastern Kentucky
San Francisco over Fresno State Connecticut over Holy Cross Illinois over Wisconsin	.
Indiana over Purdue	\
Kansas State over Kansas	:-
Kentucky over LSU Minnesota over Iowa	v
Louisville over Murray State	'•
Manhattan over Navy	-
Colorado over Nebraska California over Oregon Wake Forest over South Carolina SMU over TCU Canisius over St. Vincent St. Bonaventure over Niagara Seton Hall over St. Francis (Pa.) St. Louis over Detroit West Virginia over Villanova
January 11,
1957
15
Classified Advertising
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING can be placed at the University Press Office in Farley Hall at a cost of 50c per line. A minimum of 3 lines is necessary and all advertising must be presented 7 days before insertion date.
PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS
BABCOCK & WILCOX—Tuesday. Feb. 5. Placement Office.
I.B.M.—Tuesday. Feb. 5. Placement Office.
Foundation Donations Made By 99.5 Percent of Students
More than 99.5 percent of Notre Dame students living on the campus made token contributions to their school during the third annual Student Foundation week, Dec. 2 through 8, according to an announcement by Chairman David Mann.
Mann reported that 3,832 out of a possible 3,851 students living in Notre Dame residence halls participated in the campus campaign. Participation of off-
campus students has not been finally-computed, he said.
Mann stressed that 100 percent student participation, rather than a sizeable fund was the goal of the annual event. He explained that the students were encouraged to give only a nominal amount, even a few pennies, to the campaign.
Student participation in the annual Foundation week has increased since its establishment in 1954. The participation1 figure that year was 93 percent and 98.4 percent of the students took part in last year’s drive.	'
offers rewarding career opportunities to
Seniors and Graduate Students <
What you should know about
International Business Machines Corporation
A world-recognized leader and pioneer in the fastest-growing and perhaps the one “unlimited” field in electronics today: digital computer development, manufacture and sales. Builder of the world’s largest computer.
IBM leadership is based on a 42-year record of steady achievement and growth, with sales doubling on an average of every five years in the past 25. Serves all industry, plus government and education.
IBM’s excellent salary and employee benefit program is instrumental in achieving an employee turnover of less than one-sixth the national average.
Advancement is based solely on individual merit. Rapid growth creates positions of responsibility.
IBM Laboratories and manufacturing facilities are located in: Poughkeepsie, Endicott, Owego, and Kingston, N. Y., San Jose, California, Lexington, Ky., and Rochester, Minn. Sales and service offices in 190 principal cities throughout the U. S.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5 If your degree or major is:	Sign interview schedule for
Liberal Arts • Business • Accounting Engineering • Mathematics...Sales
Accounting • Administration Management • Auditing.......Business Administration
Physics • Mathematics • Engineering.... Applied Science
Physics • Mechanical • Electrical Engineering Physics.........Engineering Research
and Development
CONTACT YOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR APPOINTMENT, TODAY!
If you cannot attend interviews, write for more information to:
R. W. Hubner. Director of Recruitment, IBM Corp., 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.
I
i
DAT* PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS • TIME EQUIPMENT • MILITARY PRODUCTS
The Scholastic
GETHSEMANE RETREAT
The YCS has recently announced that it will again sponsor the traditional Holy Week retreat at Gethsemane, Ky. Accommodations will be available for 29 students, with the Trappist Monks accepting only those reservations made through YCS.
Students making the retreat will leave, the Circle on Tuesday, April 16, and return Saturday afternoon, April 20, in order to be home Easter Sunday. According to YCS Retreat Chairman Tom Eisenhauer, registration for the retreat will be early next Semester.
Congregation to Build New Moreau Seminary
Plans for construction of a $3,000,000 seminary by the Holy Cross Fathers on the University campus were recently announced by the Very Rev. Theodore Mehling, C.S.C., provincial of the order’s Indiana Province. The structure will
provide training facilities for 200 seminarians of the Holy Cross Congrega-£ tion which operates Notre Dame and other schools, parishes and missions at home and abroad.
Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., director of province development, is in charge of the nationwide fund-raising appeal which got underway last week.
The new seminary, to be known as Moreau Seminary in honor of the founder of the Holy Cross Fathers, will take the place of the old seminary of the d same name whose inadequate and outmoded facilities are incapable of handling the great increase in vocations that the Congregation has experienced since the end of World War II.
Besides accommodating 200 college and philosophy students, the seminary will include 28 rooms for faculty, student priests, and semi-retired religious. In addition to the main chapel, there ^will be five smaller memorial chapels, classrooms, assembly room, library, dining room, kitchen and gymnasium.
The schedule for the four-story seminary calls for the letting of contracts in February, groundbreaking in early spring, and completion by early fall of 1958.
DuPont Co. Renews Grants ^For Chemistry Development
The DuPont Co. has awarded Notre Dame a $4,000 grant and renewed a post-graduate teaching assistantship in its aid-to-education program benefitting 122 colleges and universities.
The nationwide philanthropic program of the chemical firm is geared to help '^educational institutions maintain high
January 11, 1957
quality of teaching and at the same time develop new teachers.
Notre Dame was awarded the $4,000 grant in recognition of its strength in undergraduate chemical and technical education. Of the grant, $2,500 is earmarked “to strengthen the teaching of chemistry” while $1,500 is intended “to aid the teaching of other subjects which contribute to the education of scientists and engineers.”
The post-graduate teaching assistantship awarded to the chemistry department provides $2,400 a year for an un
rope. youhaV&folMrM
That’s why American Express Student Tours are expertly planned to include a full measure of individual leisure— ample free time to discover your Europe—as well as the most comprehensive sight-seeing program available anywhere! Visit England, Scotland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy and France—accompanied by distinguished tour leaders—enjoy superb American Express service throughout.
11 Special Tours ... 53 to 63 days ... via famous ships: lie de France, United States, Liberte, Saturnia, Guilio Cesare, Flandre. $1,448 up
Also Regular Tours ... 42 days ... $1,301 up
You can always TRAVEL NOW—PAY LATER when you go American Express. For complete information, see your Campus Representative, local Travel Agent or American Express Travel Service, member: Institute of International Education and Council on Student Travel
... or simply mail the handy coupon.
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••*
American Express Travel Service
65 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y. do Travel .Safes Division
Yes! Please do send me complete information C-69 about 1957 Student Tours to Europe!
Name..........................................
Address.......................................
City...................Zone.....State.........
PROTECT YOUR TRAVEL FUNOS WITH AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES—SPENDABLE EVERYWHERE
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••*
married man or $3,000 for a married man plus an award of $500 to the University and payment of tuition and fees. The DuPont Co. stipulates -that the grant be awarded to an outstanding graduate student with two years’ experience as a half-time teaching assistant.
The DuPont program also provides additional fund for fundamental research in science, post-graduate fellowships, summer fellowships for high school teachers, and fellowships for advanced training of prospective high school science and mathematics teachers.
17
Bach Pa^e.
by JOE TAFT
letter from uncle gott^
Having experienced an abnormal amount of time-consuming holiday handshakes, cups of milk punch, and family dinners, I decided to use a letter I received from my eccentric uncle for the New Year’s column. I think it will give you an insight into the activities of a character who is rapidly going under ... so to speak.
308 Banality Grove Homestead, Oklahoma January 7, 1957
Dear Nephew,
I want to extend all sorts of new year’s greetings and best wishes for the approaching exams. I don’t mind telling you that I enjoyed our last visit immensely—it was most enjoyable throwing olive seeds at the people in Times Square on New Year’s eve. Since then I have suffered misfortune and don’t mind telling you the details. I remember how consoling you were at my hippopotamus’ wake. (Our swimming pool hasn’t been the same since.)
The day after you went back to the city I had a couple of dizzy spells and your aunt forced me to get a checkup. The doctor gave me 20 minutes to 20 years to live! You know how dynamic I have always been; I raced to the undertaker’s office lest I inconvenience anyone.
I made a few unsuccessful trial runs on the newer models but found them unsatisfactory. At first I had my eye on a 1957 Imperial with power steering in the lid hinges and special torsion-level rotaries for the ride down. The name’s exclusiveness appealed and the torsionlevel rotaries interested me because I , feel certain the squeaking noise would depress me terribly.
JS
These features practically sold me on the Imperial but I didn’t like the upholstering—mainly because the pillow was too large and it cramped my neck. The undertaker, Bill Later, said the majority of his customers prefer the softer color tones in upholstery but I really couldn’t go along with his advice.
Mr. Later was ostensibly discouraged when I disapproved of his newest models. I asked if he could order any sportier ones. He checked his catalogues and found a new firm, Terminated Inc., that operates from Death Valley, Utah. They specialize in the custom tailored models. Their Substrata Cruiser IV sounds like the perfect thing! I’ll quote the catalogue.
“The exclusive, modernistic Substrata Cruiser IV is for the sportsman. Its Scotch plaid upholstery comes in a great variety of colors—colors guaranteed to brighten the trip. After all, the sportsman would never tolerate the depressing conventional greys, off whites, and other distasteful neutral tones. Another feature of the Substrata Cruiser IV is an ash tray (strategically placed) on each side of the colorful interior. This sleek model has a safety belt to protect the sportsman who may choose to cruise in an area where earthquakes, volcanoes, or tornadoes may occur. Naturally this sports model has a back speaker for its exclusive hi-fidelity radio and phonograph. The speaker is ideally located six inches above the headrest—a headrest that is small, compact and most mobile. This speaker has a special toner to combat the poor acoustical qualities of subterranean reception. Our extensive research has discovered the milieux of Western Union lines, coast-to-coast cables and other reception intimidators.
“Our celestial heater is easily adjustable and guaranteed for an infinite period of time. The most symbolic feature of the Substrata Cruiser IV is its streamlined body. Everyone knows the^ sportsman is most charitable and would : never consider displacing more than his * share of sod.”	1
I thought you would enjoy this direct quote from the catalogue not only for its modern and wonderful features but also for the progressiveness of the firm. It must have originated from some Notre Dame graduate’s mind. It sounds so practical. Fortunately, I am receiving^ the benefits of the after-Christmas sales.'5’ The cost is menial when compared to the J features. It sells for $10,000. I only ’ hope your aunt won’t have a fit—she has had so many lately I merely regard them as condition reflex spasms.
I have made the quarterly down payment and plan on using theii’ eternity clause—quarter down, eternity to fulfill the remaining balance. Since this is stilLJ the holiday season, Terminated Inc. of-^l fers a self-winding, water and shock | proof, luminous-dial wrist or pocket | watch as a bonus thrown in without | additional cost. I just couldn’t pass up I this offer.	■	I
Well, nephew, that is about all of the J news from this end. I hope you will f drop me a line before the first of the | year; I am anxious to hear your words^ of approval! You had better hurry | though, I have an appointment with Mr. Later a week from today. He is rather | rushed this time of the year since people | are receiving their bills, etc. I must be I patient and wait my turn.	-	?
Your devoted uncle,
Joseph Gott (Jj
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS I
A Campus-to-Career Case History
Frank R. Hoffman, B.S. in Liberal Arts. Hampden-Sydney College, ’53
Meet an Assistant Manager-Hampden-Sydney, ’53
Frank Hoffman is Assistant Manager of the telephone office at Newport News, Va. Frank’s office has about 25.000 accounts. and handles $360,000 worth of business a month.
He joined the telephone company in 1953, only three years ago.
“My wife worked there first,” says Frank, “while I was still in college. What she told me, along with what I learned from friends in the business, pretty well sold me on the telephone company as a place to find a career. And the interview clinched it. The job opportunities were too good to refuse.
“I began in the Commercial Department, which takes care of business contacts with customers. The training was
continuous and excellent. One of the most rewarding jobs I had was working on revenue studies involving estimates of population and telephone growth. This experience is really useful in my present position as Assistant Manager.
“I supervise the personnel who handle customer contacts. And I assist in the handling of our public relations work in the community. In the Manager’s absence, I take over.
“It’s a great job, full of opportunities and satisfaction. I like working with people, and I like to see my work contributing to the betterment of the community and the company. Choosing a career in the telephone business was the best move I’ve ever made.”
Frank Hoffman chose a career with The Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Company of Virginia. Interesting career opportunities exist in other Bell Telephone Companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your placement officer has more information about them.
Bell Telephone System