Midshipmen to Train Here; Draft Registration Monday; Carnival Continues Tonight.
Left to right: Melton. Humphries. Flynn. Capt. Veit. Gonzalez, Madigan. Bums, victorious fencers.
Volume 75
FEBRUARY 13. 1942
Number 14
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE W. G. BOGARDUS
E. C. BEERY
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 South Michigan Street
DRIVE SAFELY AND SAVE A LIFE
"I DROPPED it!" “WHAT?"
“My WATCH."
PETERS, Watch Maker
102^2 N. Michigan Street
Over Clark’s Restaurant
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
First Class
Shoe Repairing
James McAllister
Watch Repairing
Jim Warner
All work done promptly and at reasonable prices.
Next to the HUDDLE
Patronize Our Advertisers
with the best!
It’s a great service—the Air Corps! Picked men and picked equipment! One of its latest radio devices—theWesternElectric throat microphone — transmits speech clearly in spite of roaring motors, leaves the pilot’s hands free, doesn’t interfere with his oxygen mask.
This new "mike”— and many other kinds of special radio equipment for the armed forces— grew out of Western Electric’s 60-year experience as manufacturer, purchaser, and distributor for the Bell System.
We’re glad the knowledge and facilities gained in our telephone job—more important than ever today — enable us to help "Keep ’em Flying!”
Western Electric
. . . is back of your Bell Telephone service
COLLEGE
The campus is barely recovering from the “something-new-has-been-added” illusion (coeds) of last weekend and now, even as 3,000 of you are frantically flipping over this page to see if the “Weak” is as bad as ever, the campus is struggling half way through a neo-social deal. For the edification of those who are in their right mind and speak English, we mean that the carnival season is here. Last night was the beginning, tonight is the midway mark, and tomorrow, ah yes, tomorrow—“the light fantastic” (contrary to a poem which we hope to squeeze in somewhere in this column).
Maybe the Juniors and Seniors are hard pressed financially after last weekend but here’s the chance for the sophomores and freshmen. Shake out the silver you’ve been saving for a “big” Easter vacation—it’s all for charity and you’ll have a good time in the bargain. Without conducting a thorough scientific investigation, we are inclined to think that precedent is about to' be broken tomorrow night when the Valentine Ball comes off in the Rockne Memorial. Come on boys, here is your chance to break something legally.
Simple Stuff
Sweet young thing—“Isn’t it wonderful how you filling station people know just where to set up your pumps to get gas.”
“What is a snuff manufacturer?”
“A man who goes around putting his business in other people’s noses.”
<*
“Did you make the debating team?” “N-n-no. They s-s-said I w-w-wasn’t • t-t-tall enough.”	. .
—All from the Navy Log
Water, Water Everywhere
Rationing has already been started at Notre Dame, but the worst may still be due. An inkling of the terrible thing that may happen is to be found in the Pitt News. The article was headed, “Prohibition or: This is no Coke.” The gist of the story was that Coca-Cola may soon be rationed. The article predicted bootlegging of the drink and previewed the coming scene. Following is an excerpt from the article:
“A tiny aperture, resembling those of the pre-Roosevelt era, becomes visible.
PARADE
By ROBERT LeMENSE
Our senior suspect meekly announces, ‘I’m a friend of Joe’s. He said maybe I could get some.... err.... stuff.’
“The door slowly opens upon a dark, foreboding, chamber, filled with Pitt students, cautiously sipping the costly, forbidden beverage—coke.”
The Undertaker
The only man who ■will ever box Joe Louis and walk away without an injury.
No Wonder It's Scarce
“Chrysothamnus Nauseosus!
Source of Rubber Supply.”
—Ohio State Lantern
Special to Coach Leahy
Moral: Don’t Count Harder Down While He’s Still Got the Ball.
“HARDER ENROLLS FOR SECOND SEMESTER: SQUELCHES RUMORS”
—U. of Wisconsin Daily Cardinal
The Chiseler
When he pulls the wool over your eyes it’s half cotton.	■
Ya know?.... Just five years ago today we all got two weeks....
Every Year
With apologies to the Juggler:
We might have loved as lovers do
’Neath starry skies above.
We might have danced in night clubs gay
There to speak of love.
We might have sped in roadsters swift
For stolen midnight rides;
Or tripped the light fantastic step Through life’s more shady sides.
We might have done a thousand things
Well knoivn to college fame
But you went to St. Mary’s
And I went to Notre Dame.
The Windy City
It’s not unusual for men of Notre Dame to take a weekend in Chicago. Imagine, though, a girl coming all the way from Gonzaga College in Spokane, Wash., to Chicago for a week-end or a week or something. Especially when Gonzaga boasts an all-male student body. The story is that the gal was “calcium-Clara,” a skeleton from the school’s biology department. She made the trip because a special cleaning job was needed when she became discolored in a-recent fire.
Skip This One
Waiter: Will you have pie, sir?
Customer: Is it customary?
Waiter: No sir, it’s apple.
—Queen’s Journal
3
THE WEEK
BY J. Q. O'CONNELL
Top of the Week:
Carnival Time on the N. D. Midway!
"I Don’t Remember. . .
The week after an important social function like the Junior Prom is interesting chiefly for its repercussions. The repercussions this past week were terrific. Explosions are natural to war times.
Now that the smoke and the dust has been cleared away, a number of incidents shine forth as brightly as Errol Flynn’s battle flag, and a writer with a taste for the robust, the fanciful, and the fantastic, could compile an intriguing history. For instance, what Conan Doyle couldn’t have done with “The Case of the Peculiar Truck Drivers!” Imagine him delving into that “Curious Incident in the Hoffman Hotel Dining Room,” and “The Mystery of the Jolly Waiter.” Then for a bit of romantic charm, there is “The Story of the Veiled Beauty,” and “The Tale of the Lonely Dancer, or: ‘They Didn’t Give Me a Favor.’” The material is unlimited, the possibilities endless. Anyone with the proper capabilities and credentials is welcome to the use of our secret dossiers.
"My Time Is My Time... ."
The change last Monday morning from Our Time to War Time produced the expected confusion. Ed Mangelsdorf, conscientious in all things, forgot to adjust his watch Sunday night; and his dreams consequently were filled with •visions of swift and drastic federal punishment. It got so bad, finally, that he awoke in a cold sweat, and staggered to the nearest corridor light. There he twisted and turned the dial until his agonized spirit was once again calm, and for the rest of the night his sleep was undisturbed. But to his horror, when the day dawned, he found himself five hours ahead of the general public, and he ate his breakfast at two o’clock in the afternoon, Mangelsdorf Time.
❖
Movie Review: "Bahama Passage"
Rating: four squiffs.
The reviewer found this picture interesting from a number of angles. First of all, it is probably the first time the
4 .
process of sea-water-evaporation-for-the-purpose-of-gathering-salt has ever been presented in Technicolor; and secondly, it is also probably the first time that a series of “coming attraction” flashes has . ever been passed off as a full length feature.
While “Bahama Passage” does not compare with other documentary films of the same nature, such as “The Plough That Broke the Plains,” and “The River,” the scenery and the setting is picturesque enough, and it was with deep regret that we left lovely Dildo Key as the sun rosily set over a platter of ham and eggs.
A Good Five Cent Shakes-
peare
As some of you no doubt know, one of those book buying firms was on the campus again, during the week. They collected the usual 74 Public Finance books, and one volume of Horace’s works, the last from a man who flunked in Father Hebert’s class. We hear the 75 men who sold their books pooled the proceeds, and bought three ten cent Defense stamps.
There’s been another book story .making the rounds lately. This one is about a freshman, who, in a burst of energy, drew five or six books out of the library a couple of weeks ago. Just about the time his two weeks were up, a man came around and asked him if he had any books. Thinking this was part of the service, he gave the man what he had, and the library’s six books are now well on their way to various military, camps about the country.
Incidentally....
One of our Walgreen Watchers reports that a new driver has joined the Clyde Hartman, set. His name, painted in simple, golden majesty on the door of his cab, is J. Rudolph Ege.
On Wednesday a statistically minded accountant dug up the.February weather reports for the past 100 years, and found, to nobody’s surprise, that the last ice-less Prom Day was in 1876. He says the weather was crazy all that year.
❖
Bottom of the Week:
“We’d better fish.”	' S
BENCH CHATTER
Jim Brutz and Herky Bereolos
We know that you fellas are going to be surprised to hear from the Greek and myself. We’ve collaborated to put into print our opinions on topics that concern all of us. And whatever is written here is strictly the personal opinion of said writers and does not reflect either the opinion of this magazine or of the Ad- . ministration.
We’ve felt the need for a column that expressed the athlete’s views on topics relevant to the student interest on the whole, and so we asked for this space to express our views. We assure you that at times they may seem “corny.” But after all the corn they dish out in the dining hall, anything is liable to seem that way. All of which leads up to the topic of food.
Naturally a big question is how do the athetes feel about the new food set-up? After having gone through a week of . this “starvation diet,” we are glad to report that we are all alive and that most of us are looking well, at least biologically.
As a matter of fact, we personally think it a lot better for everyone that they cut .out this excess food. There has been no cutting down on the necessary amounts of food, since everyone receives more than he can take care of. But the fact that each fellow now doesn’t so readily consume a pound of butter at each meal is a fine addition to our own health program and of great value to the health programs of the rest of the people in the Midwest.
Representing the opinions of the athletes, and having personally had a few courses in what constitutes a good diet, we give it our fullest approval.
But there is another item that we want to discuss and that is school spirit. The exhibition of apple-throwing in the gym at the Kentucky game had nothing on the famous bottle-throwing fans from Ebbets Field, or on the tomato-barrage laid down by Clevelanders not long ago. To our mind it was entirely out of keeping with real sportsmanship. One might argue the state of excitement of the students in such a closely-fought game. But what of the players? They were just as excited but were men enough not to let their fists fly. So from now on we recommend that you leave the apple-throwing to the man who sells the apples.
Just one more word, of appeal for more cooperation on the War Charity Carnival. Many of us obviously will be on the receiving end next year; and then we’ll really appreciate what it means to hear from school.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
Volume 75
FEBRUARY 13, 1942
Number 14
NAVY ELECTS NOTRE DAME TO TRAIN MIDSHIPMEN
Following closely upon the news Sunday of the selection of the University of Iowa as the midwestern training center for naval cadets—a choice which rumor-mongers had insisted for weeks was Notre Dame’s—came the electrifying announcement from the office of Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University, that Notre Dame had been chosen as a collegiate training center for 1,000 midshipmen in the Navy’s V-7 program. According to the brief dispatch, the prospective deck-officers will begin their naval education here April 15. Father O’Donnell and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president, left Monday morning for Chicago to confer with Admiral William E. Downes, Commandant of the Ninth Naval District, regarding the details of the program.
Not until Tuesday afternoon, after Father O’Donnell and Father Cavanaugh had returned from their conferences, was any comment forthcoming from the University Administration. At 4:00 p.m. on the hour, the brown walnut doors of the President’s office in the Dome-topped Main Building opened and from out of the spacious green-carpeted interior two trim-looking stern-faced undergraduates emerged and moved swiftly down the corridor toward the residence halls to post copies of the President’s letter to the students. Simultaneously, in newspaper offices and radio studios throughout the Midwest, editors opened the familiar monogrammed University publicity envelopes and read from the mimeographed sheet headed: “To be released on or after February 10, 1942. Statement of the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame:
“The United States Navy has honored Notre Dame by inviting her to participate in the war program as a training center for reserve midshipmen. The University will do her utmost to cooperate, with Navy officials in this undertaking, in order to help our beloved country win the victory that all true Americans desire. Certain of our facilities will be made ready for the first class of prospective midshipmen by April 15th. Accommodations will also be available for our own students through more intensive use
of residence facilities on campus. Our students will gladly help in whatever rearrangements are necessary, as their contribution to the successful operation of the program.
“Earlier recognition of the University by the Navy came last Fall with the establishment of a department of naval science and tactics, a unit of the Naval R.O.T.C., under the capable direction of Captain Henry P. Burnett and his staff.
“Many colleges and universities are cooperating with the Government in whatever is needed to accelerate the war program. But it is equally important that our own students who are not of draft age, and who can not enlist for various reasons, be trained in the Notre Dame system of education so that they may contribute their share of post-war leadership.
“The patriotism of Notre Dame, both in peace and in war, is well-established and well-known throughout the United
States.’ Under God it shall be maintained during this critical period as our nation marches on to victory.”
Notre Dame’s campus makes it a “natural” selection for housing the midshipmen. Notre Dame has housed and fed 2,700 students on the campus yearly during the period since 1939, when the last of the residence halls was completed. The beginning of this large-scale boarding school operation came in 1927 when overflow enrollment so overtaxed the boarding facilities that the University Dining Halls were built.
Incorporated in one building, a modi-fied_ Collegiate Gothic, designed by Cram and Ferguson with Prof. F. W. Kervick and Prof. Vincent Fagan of the University department of architecture as associates,. the Dining Halls contain two major units, seating 1,000 students in each, a smaller dining room on the second floor seating 150 students, and a cafeteria in the center of the ground floor, seating several hundred faculty members, visitors, off-campus students, or other patrons. The two great halls are each 185 x 63 ft. with 34-ft. ceilings. The caf e-
Admiral William E. Downes, Commandant of the Ninth Naval District and Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., President, as they met on the campus last. September. They met again in Chicago Monday..
teria is 72 feet x 45 feet with a 26-foot ceiling. The upstairs dining room is 31 feet x 70 feet with an open trusswork ceiling of 32 feet.
All students are thus fed almost in one sitting, within a half-hour period three times daily in these spacious and impressive surroundings. By making a more intensive use of these facilities, the midshipmen can be fed in this center with a minimum of additional provision for equipment, help, and general operation.
Fourteen residence halls house the 2,700 students on the campus. They are of various ages and styles of architecture, ranging from the two dormitory halls incorporated in the Main Building to the largely single-room freshmen group of most recent construction.
Aviation Pioneer At N. D.
Was Dr. Albert F. Zahm
Albert F. Zahm, pioneer aeronautical scientist, who now occupies the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics in the Library of Congress, was a student at Notre Dame in the early ’80s, receiving his bachelor of science degree in 1883. His brother, Rev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C., also a famous scientist, was a prominent priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross, which conducts Notre Dame. It was Father Zahm who traveled in South America’s jungles on trips of exploration and study, accompanying Teddy Roosevelt on his famous River of Doubt venture.
Albert Zahm was a keen student of principles of flight. He studied birds, the construction of their wings, their powers of soaring, of flying into the wind, of sudden rises and swoops. Articles, with illustrative drawings of his studies of these phenomena, appear in the student publications of that period.
Dr. Zahm remained at Notre Dame after receiving his bachelor’s degree, taught and worked for his advanced degrees. During this time he experimented constantly in the field of aeronautics. He made gliders and sent them off the roofs of the campus buildings.
And in 1893 it was Dr. Albert Zahm who extended from Notre Dame’s campus the invitations that brought to Chicago the first American Aeronautical Congress, in conjunction with the Columbian Exposition. Here Chanute, Langley and other pioneers joined their experiments and theories, including a paper by Dr. Zahm, and from this stimulus to American pioneering came the rapid developments that culminated at Kitty Hawk.
It was in the midst of this tradition in the field of aeronautics, that the modern department of aeronautical engineering was established at the University in - 1935.
Lourdes Relics Prized
Treasures of Museum Here
Charles Kleibacker
The feast of Our Lady of Lourdes, which was celebrated last Wednesday, brings into the news the relics of St. Bernadette of Lourdes which are prize articles in the Museum atop the Notre Dame Library.
Fred Snite, Jr., of Chicago, widely known victim of infantile paralysis, is the donor of the St. Bernadette of Lourdes mementos to the Notre Dame collection of relics. Mr. Snite acquired the pieces while on a visit to Lourdes two years ago.	-
Chief among the mementos is a New
Our Grotto._____a Lourdes facsimile....
Year’s greeting in St. Bernadette’s own handwriting. The letter is dated Jan. 1, 1859 and was written to Madame and Dr. Douze, friends of the young French girl. This is considered a second-class relic.
In addition to the letter, the collection includes a small piece of rock from the niche in which the Blessed Virgin appeared to Bernadette, and a piece of wood from the Lourdes grotto.
St. Bernadette was a peasant girl of Lourdes. She received the first apparition of the Blessed Virgin Mary on Feb. 11, 1858, as she and two companions were gathering firewood. Bernadette, a sickly child of 13, told her experience to the parish priest who advised her to return to the same place the next day as the apparition requested.
Bernadette received some 18 appear
ances in the days that followed. Because of the heated controversy in the town over the visions, eventually only Bernadette was allowed to enter the grotto. Once she was told to dig near the grotto and not to stop until told to do so.
About two feet down water came forth. After partaking of this water, Bernadette was miraculously cured of her tubercular disease. At the same time many other people were cured through use of the water.	•
Today cures at the grotto are famous throughout the world. The total number effected is unknown, but a conservative estimate of documented cases is 15,000.
Prof. Birder Chooses Staff
For H. M. S. Pinafore
When the midshipmen come to Notre Dame in mid-April, they will be surprised at the naval atmosphere. By then, the whole campus should be resounding with, “I am the captain of my ship and a right good captain too.” Mr. Birder, the Savoyards, and the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra have started things rolling and the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, H. M. S. Pinafore is in production already. Rehearsal started last Tuesday and Mr. Birder was well pleased with the balance of voices that he was able to get by careful discrimination during the tryouts.
The following men are those chosen to sing and act in the,H. M. S. Pinafore which will be shown to the public on March 22, 23, 25, and 26 in Washington Hall. Here they are: Ames, Richard; Binet, William; Borgess, Richard; Bums, Louis; Brady, William; Byrne, James; Clark, Herbert; Coleman, John; Con-rardy, Richard; Curtin, Richard; Do-nadio, Anthony; Haley, Francis; Hein-len, Jerome; Inwood, James; Kane, Henry; Kamm, Gerald; King, Francis; Kempf, Edward; Maher, Thomas; Marshall, Willoughby; Monaghan, James; Murray, Richard; Murrin, William; Ne-rad, James; O’Reilly, Gerald; O’Toole, Kevin; Purcell, James; Schreiber, Thomas; Slater, Bernard; Ten czar, Francis; Thorson, Ralph.
Many of these men were in the last year’s operetta, “The Gondoliers” which was received with such warmth by the faculty and students. Others are prominent members of the Glee Club, and one of them, a law student, was a member of the Georgetown University Glee Club during his undergraduate days.
Mr. Birder was well pleased with the large turnout and says that this year’s production will, with enough cooperation on the part of the orchestra and stage group, be even better than last year’s offering.—Frank King
AdminiiinGiiM, J^ew^i
Dooley Explains Need Of Technical Graduates
Joseph Conerty
Generally, companies and corporations desiring men contact the universities of the country and place before the student in training their requirements and offers, as well.
In recent months, however, there has been a decrease in the number of these notices with the exception of those di
.... take a steel mill for example....
rected toward men who are technically trained. This condition has best been explained by Mr. William Dooley, director of the Student Placement Bureau.
“Even up to a few months ago,” Mr. Dooley says/ “companies seeking men were content to accept a man to train him as they wished, allow him to go into the Army for service for a year or . two, and then take him into their organization again.
“This attitude has since changed and the average business concern doesn’t want non-technical men because of almost certain draft into the Army until the end of the war of all physically well-qualified men. If they should be employed, their training time would be shortened so that it would be negligible.
“However, if for some reason it may be thought that deferment or limited service is in store for a non-technical man, this chance may, and has been taken.
“Technical men find themselves in a
different position. For one thing it has long been advocated that they be deferred to complete their training so they may step into defense positions vital to national preservation. The large demand for technical men may best be illustrated by the example that steel manufacturing corporations don’t need salesmen at the present time; it needs producers. Now we must have production rather than marketing, thus, though there is still the demand for technically trained men, there has been a decrease in offers extended to those students who are nontechnical.”
12 Brother's Vested
With Religious Habit
Twelve Brothers were vested with the religious habit of the Congregation of Holy Cross in a solemn ceremony in the chapel of St. Joseph’s Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind., on Sunday, Feb. 1.
The Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial of the Holy Cross Congregation in the United States, presided over the impressive services, which were attended by approximately 125 relatives and friends of the young postulants, who are beginning their novitiate under the
.	February 10, 1942
To the Students of the University:	’
In keeping with my promise to you, I wish to announce that Notre Dame has been honored by the United States Navy as one of the training centers for reserve midshipmen. I give you herewith copy of . telegram I received from Admiral Jacobs, chief of the Bureau of Navigation: ■
“University of Notre Dame has been selected by Navy Department as the location for indoctrination training center for reserve midshipmen. Commandant Ninth Naval District has been directed to arrange necessary details. Your patriotic cooperation in this vital program is greatly appreciated.”
This program anticipates about a thousand midshipmen here on the campus, and I know you will gladly cooperate in whatever rearrangements are necessary for the success of the undertaking, in accordance with Notre Dame’s cherished tradition of patriotism. The character, purposes, and the integrity of the University will not be disturbed. A more intensive use of our residence facilities is contemplated without forcing any student to take residence elsewhere. Complete details will be given to you as quickly as possible.
Also I take this opportunity to commend you for the sympathetic cooperation given the administration of the University during this very critical period of our country.
(signed) Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.
President.
direction of Rev. William Robinson, C.S.C., master of novices. ...
Among the Brothers are Brother Walter, from Cincinnati, Ohio; Brother Nelson, Detroit, Mich.; Brother Genard, Los Angeles, Calif.; Brother Bennet, Baton Rouge, La.;' Brother Fulgence, Sioux Falls, S. Dak.; Brother Geran, Evansville, Ind.; and Brother Charles Borromeo, Newport, Ky.
The Congregation of the Holy Cross numbers 1,400 ordained priests and professed brothers who conduct parishes, schools and colleges in 11 dioceses and archdioceses of the United States, besides their missionary activities in many foreign lands.—J. H. Johnston
Director of Studies Warns
Seniors To Be Serious
A close scrutiny of the latest dispatch from the .office of the Director of Studies, Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., discloses the following gleanings of fact and advice concerning the effect of World War II on the University:
The enrollment of students at the University for this semester is considerably better than was anticipated. In consequence of the selective draft and voluntary enlistment in various branches
7
of military service, however, the cancellations throughout the year will of course continue to he more numerous than in former years.
It will be possible for the student who enters the University as a freshman at the beginning of the coming summer semester to do the eight semesters of his college course in two years and eight months. ■
Beginning with the spring semester of this year, degrees will be conferred at the end of each semester—in May, September, and December. This year there will be fully formal commencements in May and in December. The dates for the conferring of degrees in 1942 will be May 10, September 8, and December 23.
It is well for present seniors to remember that their last semester is in no respect less serious than .any other of their college course and that no student is graduated until he has satisfied all of the requirements for his degree. A number of students failed of graduation last June because of failure in required courses of their last semester.
Accountants Advised
To Use Imagination
“Capital, management and labor should see eye to eye in the operations of a business and know what each one
DEAN MCCARTHY
owes to the business,” Dean James McCarthy of the College of Commerce told members o f the Commerce Forum at a meeting Monday night, Feb. 9, in the Law building au7 ditorium.
Dean McCar
thy’s talk, entitled Public Relations and Business, was addressed in particular to those students majoring or planning to major in accounting. He pointed out that accountants of today need an imagination and should be the professional improvers and interpreters of business and above all things should simplify their statements so the layman can understand them.
John Moriarty, president of the Forum, introduced the dean. He informed the group that at the next meeting, Feb. 23, a movie produced by one of the airlines would be shown. Moriarty, announced also a coming handball tournament and plans for the annual business trip.
Rev. Magner Shows Need Of Catholic Leadership
Speaking on the subject “God and Victory” in Washington Hall Monday evening, the Rev. James A. Magner, Ph.D., S.T.D., of the Catholic University, noted author and lecturer, told his small but very enthusiastic audience that “Catholic organizations must be the representatives of God in Victory.”
Rev. James A. Magner
Father Magner said that Catholics have a right to expect mature, authoritative, and detailed pronouncements of guidance from our clergy in these times. “We cannot let religion end when we leave Mass on Sunday morning, but must form a clean-cut impression of Christian principles particularly, in politics and economics and be equipped to educate others by example and teaching. Then can Catholics assume united leadership, which it is their duty to seek, that peace and morality be secured for all nations . after this war.
“The mediocrity and indifference among the laity are due to poor organization and while they are dickering with first principles, the enemies of Christianity are well and forcefully united in carrying out their intentions.” Father Magner saw great possibilities for the development of international cooperatives particularly in Latin America, and he stressed the necessity of the parish as
the center of Catholic culture where potential leadership abilities in boys and girls are encouraged and developed. Father Magner concluded: “Catholics must be united and strong to demand enforcement of Christian principles in economics and politics with vigor of action based on recognition and acceptance of God in all relations.”
Many Students Apply For Marine Officer Training
Lt. James W. Crain, United States Marine Corps, was on this campus Tuesday and Wednesday giving information on officer training as offered to college and university Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores by the Marine Corps Reserve. A number of interested students were present to ask questions about the program and many of those interviewed are making application for entering this work. Tuesday night at 7:30, Lt. Crain talked to over 100 interested students again about the plan and described in detail the program of training.
The officer training work as offered by the Marine Corps is open to college seniors, juniors and sophomores. It is desired that students enlisted as juniors and sophomores remain .on inactive status and continue in college until they complete their college courses and receive their degree. However the exigencies of the service may necessitate their being called to active duty before graduation. In that event, at least six months notice will be given. The training will consist of approximately three months as enlisted men. Upon completion of three months training, candidates will receive their coimnission and continue their training for three more months in Reserve Officer’s School. Upon completion of the six months course, the officers will be assigned to general duties with troops.
The program is open to all college men pursuing a course leading to Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science or Engineering degree. The maximum age’ for. seniors is 24 years, six months, and the minimum age for sophomores is 18 years. Before being accepted, an applicant must pass a rigid physical examination. The physical examination will be given to all applicants on this campus in. early March. The exact date will be announced later. .
Lt. Crain expressed the fact that there is a very good opportunity today for college students to enroll in this program. The Marine Corps are greatly enlarging their officer personnel under this program to provide officers for the large numbers of recruits being taken by the Marine Corps.
Lt. Crain will be on this campus again on Wednesday, Feb. 18, and Thursday, Feb. 19, to interview students that are interested in this program. Those who are interested in this work and were unable to see him this week may see him on the above dates in Room 231, Engineering building, from 12:30 until 4:00 p.m.	. '
8
ESMDT Offers Wide Variety of Courses
J. R. Clark
The new period of defense training courses, which opened here Monday, Feb. 9, offers to the defense workers of the St. Joseph Valley a variety of vita] and interesting subjects.
All classes met on Monday, Feb. 9, at 7:30 p.m. (war time) for organization and assignment of times to the various groups.
The Engineering Science Management Defense Training program offers new courses in this second period particularly designed for foremen and others in supervisory jobs as well as for methods and standards men in the various defense industries.
. One new course, “Motion Study,” will meet two hours on one night each week, for 12 weeks. It ■will be devoted to lec-. tures, motion pictures and discussion of the “motion economy program” now being inaugurated by all industries. This program tends toward a better use of existing machines and personnel, and at no time does the effort direct itself toward rate-cutting. This course is specially designed for foremen, job supervisors, time study men, and others specifically interested.	-
Another course—an advanced course in “Motion Study,” which -will be called “Work Simplification,”—will meet one night weekly for 3 hours, over the 12-week period. This course is particularly for motion and time study men and others of similar training, as an advanced course in methods engineering.
The very popular “Industrial Management” course will be repeated. This course treats of factory organization and production engineering in general. It meets twice weekly for two hours each over a 12-week period.
“Production Engineering and Control,” will also be repeated, two hours, two nights each week for 12 weeks. Factory planning, production control. and follow-up are the primary studies of the course.
A highly specialized course in “Salary Determination,” a job evaluation study, will be given twice weekly for the term. Enrollment will be selected from those interested and involved in wage payment problems.
Demand has been noted for the course in Production Processes and Machines, work designed to acquaint the student with modern mass production processes and methods, with particular reference to the highly specialized machinery used
in high speed mass production. This class will meet twice weekly for the 12-week - term.	■
Registration in any of the above courses or the other courses of the program is subject to approval by the IT; S. Government and the University of Notre Dame. Workers may apply for registration by sending a post-card with name and address and course or courses desired to Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C.,
Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C.
Engineering Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana. Father Trahey serves as coordinator of the defense programs on the campus.
The department of metallurgy has already undertaken two courses in metallurgical physics: elementary physics and laboratory physics. These courses, like the others in the program, are tuition free but have the additional requirement of some college training or employment in some metallurgical industry. The lecture courses in metallurgical physics are held each Monday and Thursday evening from 7:15 to 9:15 and this course is an additional requisite for the laboratory course, held each Monday evening from 7:00 to 10:00.
At the present time, there are 45 persons enrolled, most of them from metallurgical industries centered in South Bend, and a few from surrounding communities and even from as far distant as Benton Harbor, Mich. As the program is enlarged, more individuals from Michigan cities and more distant Indiana cities will enroll. These courses in metallurgical physics were begun on Jan. 22 and are an example of the way in which the greater bulk of the defense training program will be conducted. It is one more service Notre Dame is performing in assuming her share in this war emergency.
Two N. D. Men Working Under Heavy Shell-fire
Tom Clemens
Two former Notre Dame men figured in war dispatches from Associated Press and United Press last week:
Rev. John E. Duffy and Ensign G. K. Petritz, brother of the Notre Dame sport publicity director, Joseph S. Petritz.
Healing spiritual and physical wounds of General MacArthur’s stalwarts in the Philippines, as well as burying them and delivering messages and supplies under shell fire are the heavy duties of Father Duffy, who is a graduate of the class of 1922. He is a major in the army and chief of the army chaplains in the First Philippine corps, according to U.P. writer, Frank Hewlett.
First word of the whereabouts of his brother since the outbreak of the war was received of Ensign Petritz, when a delayed Associated Press release told of his work in piloting Clark Lee, war correspondent, across mine-infested Manila Bay in a Navy patrol boat. Ensign Petritz, a member of the class of ’38, was in the midst of shell-fire and dive bombings around Fort Corregidor and the Bataan airfields.
A. S. M.'s Learn About
Pig-Iron Smelting
An historical account of the development of iron smelting, from the early processes of India, China, Japan and Egypt to modem practice served as the opening of an address by Mr. Bradley H. Booth at the February meeting of the American Society for Metals, Wednesday evening.
Speaking in the Engineering auditorium, Mr. Booth described the smelting of “silvery” (high-silicon) pig iron, and the use of this material in the control of silicon in foundry iron. Interesting and informative lantern slides augmented the lecture.
Mr. Booth’s experience in foundry control has included the analysis of cast iron and of raw materials, heat treatment, calculation of furnace charges, and general foundry practice. His special work in his present connection is in assisting foundries with melting and casting problems.
"Mac" Is III
Mr. J. W. McAllister, custodian of athletic equipment, has been stricken with double pneumonia and has been very ill. Latest word as the Scholastic went to press was that the familiar white-haired, pipe-smoking character of the fieldhouse was improving. The campus wishes you a speedy recovery, “Mac.”
9
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus Founded 1867
Thomas V. Powers, Editor
Don Heltzel .......................    Managing	Editor Ed Drinkard ..........................Staff	Photographer
William Scanlan............................Promotion	Leo Lee .................................Advertising
John Dinges.............................Sports	Editor Frank Kiener................................Advertising
William Baader.............................Art	Editor John Lynch .................................Photo	Editor
Tom Clemens......................Administration	Editor Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C.............Faculty	Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Sendee, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. TH E SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six times during the schoolyear at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to Editor, 225 Walsh HalLor 121 Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Ind.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Old Ave Maria Building;
Editorial Staff, 6:30 P. M.; General Staff, 7:00 P. M. _
BEATING KENTUCKY
We all felt elated at the basketball game, last Saturday evening. The game was a thriller and the men from Kentucky were good—very good. That was the cause of the worthwhile victory, naturally.
We were proud of our team—and of the enthusiastic support of the student body, too. We would have enjoyed the evening a little more, were it not for the regrettable incident reminiscent of bar-room tactics. For it is not in the best Notre Dame traditions to browbeat officials or players. Notre Dame hospitality is above this level. We don’t know what the Kentucky players thought of this exhibition of our sportsmanship. We should like them to know, however, that it was not characteristic of us. We don’t recall another instance wherein the game had to be postponed while attendants cleared the playing floor of fruit, hurled by ungentlemanly spectators from among our students.	.
Those who participated in this phase of the spectacle were not only rude to guests, but eminently unfair to the decent standards that characterize Notre Dame. In no sense are they local heroes. Indeed, we are sorry to number them among us! "	"	f '
AN END TO RUMOR
Now THAT the Navy is definitely coming, we think living around here is going to be a lot easier—for with the rumormonger definitely dispatched.by the definite news, there will be one less individual to make life hectic.
The most truthful thing we can say about his passing is that~he lived too long. We first thought his version of the student trip to the Southern California game in 1938, with the students traveling in air liners flying in a huge N. D. formation was terrific. But then, as months rolled 10
by, and he continued to spew the same sporadic scandal, we became aware of his real danger, of his actual threat to the security of school life. He ascended new heights during the uncertainty about the Navy.	-
With the news Sunday of the Navy’s choice of Iowa as a naval aviation training center, it . looked as if he had gained a victory. The students, following their natural patriotic urge, did not want Notre Dame to be slighted, as he strongly asserted they were. Then Monday he was throttled. May he rest for eternity.
THINK FOR A MOMENT
When you go to the War Charities Carnival tonight and tomorrow night, you might stop for a moment at the •entrance to the Midway. Stand there and give the whole conglamoration of booths, refreshment stands and entertainment stages your thoughful eyes for a few moments. Try to think of the difficulties, the disappointments, the mental and physical labor involved in such a tremendous undertaking, as if you personally had been given the job of duplicating the festive scene presently before you.
If you do so, we think you will become aware of the forceful spirit of the men behind the Carnival. We think you will realize for the first time the seriousness of the project, of the duty of Notre Dame and her friends to make the War Carnival a success. We think you will sense the imperative need of the entire proceeds for the Red Crass, Navy Relief and the Notre Dame Student Commission who MUST have the contributions so that they may render their vital services in these times.
And we believe that, thinking this way, you will move down the Midway aware of its gigantic duty and noble purpose, fully prepared to do your individual duty in making the Carnival a success."	.
CcunfMtA NewA
NEXT MONDAY AFTERNOON OFF AS LARGE NUMBER OF STUDENTS REGISTER FOR SELECTIVE SERVICE
La Raza Club Speakers Begin Engagements
DAVE CONDON
Attention Mr. Notre Dame! Monday, Feb. 16, is a red letter date on your calendar—the day when men of America
will register for wartime selective service. And included in that horde of millions expected to swamp regis-tra tion quarters throughout the country, will be a large group of N. D. students. .
With nation-wide preparations being made for the registration of men between the ages of 20 and 44 to serve in the nation’s armed forces, all was not certain about registration conditions here on the campus.
Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, announced that he was endeavoring to contact selective service officials in South Bend and make arrangements to have it possible for Notre Dame men to register on the campus instead of down town. According to Father Burke, there has been no definite announcement, although he expressed the
ABRAHAM SETS A RECORD; MIDWAY UP IN THREE FLAT
The precision that attends a circus performance became part of the routine for the Carnival committee, now holding forth in the local Fieldhouse, on Thursday afternoon. And not the most insignificant of the local committeemen was Mr. Eli Abraham.
For days, Mr. Abraham had planned the erection of the booths, the proper spacing, the timing of the decorations, the stocking and the ultimate manning of the individual stands—down to the last barker on the Midway. But those plans were all put aside when he discovered that a multitude of athletic activities held priority rights on the ground space in the edifice.
Accordingly, it became his problem to set up the Midway in the space of three hours. For, until four o’clock, the place had continued to show forth shot putters, pole vaulters, broad jumpers, milers, bas
belief that “in all probability it will be held on the campus.”
Further conferences are on schedule and it is expected that an official announcement will be forthcoming soon. In commenting on plans to hold a local registration here on the campus, Father Burke stated that there most likely would be several registrars sworn in and stationed at convenient locations around the University, in order to facilitate the registering.
Campus registration will be on the afternoon of Feb. 16, and according to Father Burke, no afternoon classes will be held on that day.
With final preparations and details expected to be completed and made certain shortly after publication of this article, Father Burke said that registration locations and the exact times would be widely publicized around the campus as soon as he has made definite arrangements.
To date Scholastic staff members have been unable to obtain an estimate of the number of Notre Dame students to be registered.
ketball men, and flying footballs. So heavy was the traffic that the absence of Coach Kline’s baseball aggregation was hardly noticed. Anyway, as the basketball men moved off for New York, and the track team packed luggage for another field of action, the Carnival committee men set about their tasks with an accuracy proper to a circus crew. With a minimum of confusion, each man went about his work. Carpenters and decorators transformed the interior miraculously. By seven o’clock in the evening, the doors were ready to swing open to the public. To observers, it offered a perfect parallel to the circus arriving at daybreak, pitching tents, performing, packing, and leaving before midnight. The Carnival will, close Saturday night.
Remember Pearl Harbor! Remember it every pay day! Buy U. S. Defense Savings Bonds and Stamps.
Proof that Notre Dame isn’t lagging when it comes to the good neighbor policy has been presented the past two Wednesday evenings
by the Notre Dame Inter - American Affairs Club.
Wednesday evening, Feb. 4, the club presented a panel discussion on Inter-American Affairs, in the auditorium of the Law Building. On
Feb. 11, the group spoke before the International Relations Club of St. Mary’s
College. Both presentations were well received.
The La Raza club panel, from which the speakers were chosen:
Inter-American Relations in a World at War, Mark McGrath (Panama), chairman of the panel; The Two Americas, Clarence Finlayson (Santiago, Chile); The Meaning of “Hispanidad,” Frank Cabrera (Mexico City); The Prophet of United America, Raymond Araujo (Cartagena, Columbia); Making the Americas One, Louis Flores (Are-quipa, Peru); The Race Problem in Latin America, Armando Pachecho (Cur-ityba, Brazil); The Church and State in Latin America, Eduardo Alcayaga (Cau-quenes, Chile); The Mexican Oil Controversy, Rafael Alducin (Mexico City); The Tourist Dollar, Peter Robles (Mexico City).
Speakers from the Inter - American Affairs Club have accepted dates to appear and speak at various other schools ., including: St. Francis College, Joliet, HI., Tuesday, Feb. 17; Mundelein College, Chicago, Feb. 23; Wednesday, March 4, Loyola University, Chicago; St. Xavier College, Chicago, a week following the Loyola engagement, (date not certain). The club will also participate in PanAmerican week by sending representatives to speak at Sienna Heights College, Adrian, Mich., the week of April 12.
Rev. W. F. Cunningham, C.S.C., is faculty advisor of the club.
—Dave Condon
Let freedom ring on Unde Sam’s cash register! Buy U. S. Defense Bonds and Stamps.
11
10 Anonymous Juniors Pick 10 Best Prom Guests
Have you ever tried to get yourself into hot water? Well, that’s what I’m supposed to do in this article. The Editor asked me to mosey around, get a good look at, and then write about, the ten most beautiful girls I saw over the Prom week-end.
Not trusting my eyes to any job like that alone, I asked if I couldnarrow the field down a bit and then consult some other Juniors on the question. He agreed, so this is the selection of ten men, none of whom landed his date in the first ten.
Several interesting discoveries came out of the investigation:
First, there seems to be no truth to the idea that a roommate’s cousin or a pal’s sister is not the type to bring down for a dance. For even in the first ten, there are three instances of proof against this popular idea.
Secondly, there is no decided preference, at least among this year’s Juniors, for either blonds or brunettes. .
And finally, it makes no difference whatsoever, as far as her popularity is concerned, whether a girl comes from the north, south, east, or west.
The ten girls considered the most outstanding follow in no particular order. President Bill Costello’s guest of honor, Miss Catherine Cann, from Gloucester City, N. J.; Miss Mary Alice Dolan, from Manhattanville College and Chi- cago, the guest of Jack Griffin; Miss Nancy Berthold, of Northwestern University and Chicago who helped Roger Cummings enjoy the week-end; Jim Byrne’s guest, Miss Shirley Ann Gibbs from the University of Detroit; the guest of Bill Terheyden, Miss Dorothy Ochsenhirt from Pittsburgh; Miss Bette Treinen from the University of Cincinnati, who was shown the campus by Jim Clark; Cummings’ sister,. Mary Cummings from Chicago, escorted by Quentin Sturm; Miss Marjorie Stock of Denison
University and Dayton, Ohio, the guest of Dick Pohl; Costello’s sister, Miss Catherine Costello of Seton Hill College and Gloucester City who went with Frank Kelly; and Miss Mary Collins from D’Youville College and Buffalo, 'New York, who accompanied Bob Nenno.
That gives us ten. The girl whom the men chose as the most beautiful of all comes last. She was Bill Brady’s guest, Miss Cynthia Murphy from Detroit. A striking blond, she is the cousin of Bill’s roommate, Ed Hickey.
This completes the list and I hope that I haven’t stepped on too many toes for it was well nigh impossible for even ten men to see all the 370 girls that visited Notre Dame over the week-end. It is entirely possible that we missed a couple that we shouldn’t have.	.
Critical Student Body Okays MOST Prom Guests Charles Patterson
A campus that saw very little of Junior Prom guests, returned a verdict fairly favorable to their charms: -
Albert Plotkin, South Bend, Senior English Major: “I’ve been in an ascetic mood all weekend and haven’t seen any of them. And, oh horrors, I couldn’t look at them, anyway.”
Bob Hartmann, Commerce Freshman from Zahm: “You don’t see enough of them around the campus, and that’s what most of the fellows who don’t go to the Prom are interested in.” -
Floyd Vincent, Commerce Sophomore, Morrissey Hall: “Where were they hiding?”
John College that I
Kilbane, Walsh Senior in the of Arts and Letters: “The four*
saw looked pretty ragged
maybe it was due to the weather.
Frank O’Dowd, Commerce Senior, Alumni Hall: “I didn’t see very many
of them, but those I did see were goodlooking.”	.
, _. .	. ,	, t .. t-l	Of course,” said the Dillonite, “all
Clark Fisher, Arts and Letters Fresh-	- , ,	,	„
_	„	,	, this will be changed. We had only one
man from Cavanaugh: “About half, and ,	, j . -	, ,
. .. T .	„	.or two classes a day m summer school -
half, I should say.”	.	, , ,	, ,	, . „	,
and aad a good chance to loaf around
John Reardon, Arts and Letters Soph- and easy- With a curriculum omore, Lyons: “I’d like to see more of them.” -	.	,
Bernie Crimmins,'Alumni Hall Commerce Senior: “They were very lovely.”
Boh Bowers, Commerce Junior, Howard Hall: “Very nice.” :
John Nugent, Commerce Sophomore • from Morrissey: “A general crop.”
Tony Girolami, Junior: Commerce School, Howard Hall: “Very, very nice, that is, some of them.”	.
Tom Maloney, Arts and Letters Junior, Howard: “There were some good ones, but out of 350, there’s gotta be.”
But it was Johnny Murphy, Badin Hall sophomore in the school of Commerce, who said what everyone was probably thinking: “They can’t compare with.mine!”	. .
He Multiplies By Ten, Gets South Bend Summer
“South Bend in the summer? — Just multiply by ten the difficulties of a regular school year and you have it.” Thus spoke a student who has felt the South Bend summer, when approached for facts relevant to living conditions under the three semester plan. The student, a Junior, asked to keep his name from publicity as the summer session at Notre Dame wasn’t his idea.
The weather man keeps in line with his traditional winter-session policy— give them all you got. Always bordering on the extremes, the weather in the summer hits high gear, directly antithetic to: the. low registerings of the winter.	.
Girls? The Dillonite didn’t know. “They must have gone up to the lake or something. They weren’t around here. And as -far as the hot dogs go, St. Mary’s won’t be around either.”
According to this Gold Coast resident, St. Joseph’s lake and Walgreen’s corner ' were the two most popular places in the vicinity. After classes. in the morning the summer scholars made a bee-line for ’
, a plunge in the lake—one way to escape-
the heat. In the evenings when things . had cooled off just a bit, most of the students walked down town, ogled in - that manner peculiar to Notre Dame
: men and then returned to the campus.
to handle next summer the boys got a job on their hands.”
Nevertheless, South Bend in the sum. mer or not, more than 60 per cent of the students indicated in a poll conducted by various hall rectors that they will
; .return to Notre Dame next May.
12
S. C.'s Valentine Ball
Saturday in The Rock
For the first time since its construction in the late thirties Notre Dame’s Rockne Memorial will be used for a general student dance, when the Student Council’s Valentine’s Day Ball gets under way tomorrow evening. The dance will be the final event of the three-day War Charities Carnival now in progress and will bring a double-barreled finale to the week-end celebration as the final Carnival night will be in progress in the Fieldhouse at the same time as the dance.
General chairman of the dance is Jerry Feeney, Off-Campus senior and Villager’s Club representative- on the Student Council, who has been making . arrangements for the affair for the past two weeks. Other committeemen are Walt Ivancevic, house chairman; John Gilbert, tickets; Don McNally, transportation; Bernie Marbach, refreshments; and George Stratigos, publicity.
Tax for the evening will be one-ten per couple with time limits set from 8:30 to 11:30. The transportation committee has made arrangements for busses to accommodate St; Mary’s. The busses will leave the circle at 8 p.m. for St. Mary’s and will wait on the road back of the Memorial for the return trip, after the dance is over.	.
Committeemen expect 500 couples to attend the dance, which will be staged on the basketball courts in the Rockne and will be informal.	'
Heretofore the only social activity held in the Rockne Memorial was the annual Senior Ball. Depending on the success of this dance, the Student. Council- will be given permission to run a series of informal dances in the Memorial.
Hank Kane Takes on Vocal
Duties of N. D. Cavaliers
The Notre Dame Cavaliers should change their theme song from “The Man I Love” to, “There’ll Be Some Changes ‘ Made.” Ever since Christmas, they have been doing a fine job of keeping one Scholastic reporter busy just keeping up with the changes and additions to their personnel.
On Saturday, Feb. 7,1942, they played for the Junior Prom Tea Dance, and the happy Juniors (in case any of them happened to look at the bandstand) were greeted by the smiling face and mellow voice of Hank Kane. Hank is a Junior
philosophy major from Flushing, N. Y., but you’d never think it to hear him sing.
It was a pleasant surprise for all the Tea Dancers and one and all expressed their approval at the addition of a vocalist to the Cavaliers. Hank gave very fine renditions of such popular numbers as, “There’ll Be Bluebirds Over the White Cliffs of Dover,” “Humpty - dumpty Heart,” “This Love of Mine,” and others.
The Cavaliers have felt for some time
TWO NIGHTS LEFT FOR N. D. WAR CHARITIES CARNIVAL
The Notre Dame Carnival for War Charities was one-third on its way to a happy ending today with tonight and Saturday night remaining on the calendar of the three-day event. Yesterday evening the doors of the Fieldhouse were thrown open to the curious throng of students who came to inspect and to spend as the Carnival was officially opened to the public.
Three months in the planning, the gigantic event is the first of its kind ever to be held on the Notre Dame campus and the first of its nature to be staged by any University in the country since war was declared. All proceeds from the event will go to war, charities, such as Red Cross and Navy Relief.
Residents from South Bend and. vicinity have been personally invited to attend the affair, which is expected to reach its peak tonight and tomorrow night. Five thousand letters went out of the council chambers of the local Knights of Columbus telling of - the Carnival, all fraternal organizations and clubs' throughout this area were contacted and . parishes, and schools have received notices of the event.
The entertainment chairman, Thomas Tierney of Chicago, released the schedule of performances early this week which are to appear. The affair was ushered in last night by a torchlight parade which wended its way about the campus to the Fieldhouse. The parade, lead by the band, started in the Sophomore quadrangle, proceeded to the Gold Coast, up the Main Quad to the Freshman Quadrangle and then to the Fieldhouse. Stops were made at each of the 15 residence halls on the campus while new recruits joined in the parade line. On the entertainment program last night was a concert at 9:15 and a “Barrel Battle” at 11 p.m.
Tonight the Cavaliers, under the tutelage of Vite Capella are scheduled to perform at 9, to be followed by the Glee
that they needed a vocalist, for, no matter how good music may be, the dancers like to hear some kind of a change for variety. They were a long time in making their choice, but when they did decide on Mr. Kane, they picked the right man for the job.
With this addition, the Cavaliers are now complete and are ready to present a program with variety; good jive, good sweet tunes, novelty numbers and the sweet tenor voice of Hank Kane. .
Club double octette at 11. Scheduled to the final night’s entertainment is Jack Whelan, magician, and the instrumental quartet.
The final two Carnival nights will faff into the same pattern as that of Thursday. The doors will be thrown open to the public, admission free. Several door prizes will be given away in the course of each evening while the Grand Raffle awards will go the same route.
Central sponsor of the Carnival is the local council of the Knights of Columbus which has been aided by 40 various campus' clubs and organizations. Main figures behind the event are Rev. Charles M; Carey, C.S.C., moderator of the Carnival,-who put a tremendous amount of work into the affair; Eli Abraham, financial secretary of the Caseys, who headed the concessions committee and who was a general overseer of other committee work; Tommy Mills, overseer of the Midway construction and student cochairman James Fayette and Edward Reidy.
The complete list of the Carnival committee follows:
Executive committeemen: Frank W. Lloyd, J. Arthur Haley, Herbert E. Jones, James E. Armstrong, Frank W. Leahy, William R. Dooley, Eugene F. Connolly, Thomas L. Mills, Eli M. Abraham, Rev. Walter McInerney, C.S.C., Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C., Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., and Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.G.
Student committeemen: James J. Fayette, Eugene J. Schumaker, Edward P. Reidy, Donald T. Heltzel, George E. Murphy, and Paul B. Lillis. The Carnival was under the patronage of Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University.	.
There are no “rookie” dollars. Send ■ yours to the front! Buy U. S. Defense Savings Bonds and Stamps!
13
INTRODUCING
By JOE PALMER
If some day you’re around this campus and are looking for something interesting to do, just find someone from Cleveland and have him tell you about Joe Prokop and his athletic achievements at Cathedral Latin High School. Mister, that’s really a story worth listening to. The way we got it, Joe cleaned up on just about every track record in sight, and those that he left alone were admirably cared for by a younger brother.
Here is part of the too - long - to - give -you - now list:
1.	Joe was All-City halfback in Senior year, made 114 points in eight games. In his Junior year, he starred on the Latin team that won the city championship.
2.	Made the All-Catholic team in basketball in his Junior year, but gave up the sport in his final year.
3.	Cleaned up quite completely in track and field events. He holds the school records in the century, in the 220 yard low hurdles, discus, javelin, and broad jump. His best time in the 100 yard ■ dash was 9.9. In the hurdles, he won the state championship.
4.	After his Senior year, he participated in the National Catholic Meet, held that year for the last time, on the Notre Dame campus. He can still show you some four or five medals that he won then.
5.	Bight after that, he was a member of the track and field squad that participated in the “Lithuanian Olympics.” The idea of the meet was thought up by several Lithuanian newspapers in this country, and gave a large number of American college men (of Lithuanian descent) a chance to see what the old country looked like, to compete against native Lithuanian stars. Also numbered among the American members was Ed Beinor, All-American tackle and outstanding weight man from Notre Dame. Well, to make a long story short, Joe
Prokop, 18 years old and the only high school athlete on the team, won five more medals for himself. He was first in the 400-meter hurdles and was on the two winning relay teams, besides taking second place in the 100-meter run.
So much for the past. That’s all we can give you now, but Joe’s roomie, Vic Gulyassy (of undying fame at St. Mary’s) will be glad to tell you as much
as you have time for. And when you’re in that .room on the first floor of Alumni, ask Vic what his favorite nickname is. On second thought, you’d better ask Joe about it. Vic probably won’t tell you.
. Seeks Third Monogram
Since coming to Notre Dame, Joe has won two monograms in track, and he is now out after number three. In the indoor season, he is taking part in the low hurdles and sprints. He will add the discus and javelin to his events when the outdoor season comes. He made one of his best showings last year, when he won the 60-yard low hurdles in an indoor meet against Marquette.
Evidently, the Prokop family is quite athletic by nature. After Joe, there is Eddie Prokop, now a football and track star on the freshman squads of Georgia Tech. Another brother, Walter, is active at Baylor Military Prep., Chattanooga. Joe is really proud of these younger brothers and predicts great things for them in future years.
Getting away from athletics, we’ll tell you first that Joe is, first-last-and-al-ways, a devotee of “smooth” music, not too fast and not too slow. There are few things he likes better than to dance to Tommy Dorsey’s music. The good-looking runner loves to sleep and eat, and, in his more active moments, is an enthusiastic follower of Nimrod and Ike Walton. In - the summer, he works in his father’s grocery store in Cleveland.
Social life? Well, just take one look at the pictures on his wall, and you can see how nice it must be to have athletic fame attached to your name. Blondes (even some from Finland), brunettes, and redheads get no preference over each other. Like his-room-mate, Joe is always ready for a trip or two to St. Mary’s.
A few final facts: Joe was sent to Notre Dame by Don Miller, one of the immortal “Four Horsemen.” Will graduate this May with a degree in Commerce and a major in Finance. ’Tis probable that Uncle Samuel will borrow his services after that graduation. (Joe hopes to become a physical instructor in the Navy). He likes to tell of his friendship . with Ray Mack, second-baseman on the Cleveland Indians. But if you want to argue about home towns—well, Mr. Prokop will stand up for Cleveland as long as you will for your Somewhereville, because to him it’s the best little place in . the world. Judging from the pictures on the wall, we’re inclined to agree with him.
Campus Pool Tournament
Starts Today in K. C. Hall
Here’s the chance for all you Pool players to have some fun and win some cash at the same time. Starting next Friday, Feb. 20, there will be a Pool tournament held at the K. of C. Rec. in the basement of Walsh Hall. The manager of the tournament, Jerry Colligan, says that it will be run off in elimination form, and each match will be played in a straight 100 game. The entry fee is fifty cents and all entry fees will be returned in cash awards for the winners. Entries close at 8:00 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 17, so hurry and sign up, either at the K. of C. Rec. or with, Jerry Colligan 351 Badin Hall.
14
NOTRE DAME SPORTS
TRAINING BEGINS FOR ELEVENTH ANNUAL
BENGAL BOUTS; ENTRIES STILL ACCEPTED
Final Bouts Scheduled For Date Near March 20
Bill Reynolds
Last week while the juniors scurried about making final preparations for the Prom, 60 students began training for the Eleventh annual Bengal Bouts. Under the watchful eye of Instructor Dominick “Nappy” Napolitano these campus boxing enthusiasts face a six week’s training grind before they square off in the ring the fieldhouse. Three nights of preliminary bouts precede the finals which are tentatively set for March 20.
Behind the Scenes—"the Scooper"
Bill Scanlon, the Scholastic’s promotion man, is in charge of this year’s bouts. It is Bill’s, job to make arrangements for the bouts and to see that they are administered successfully. The Scholastic’s big hope is to make this, the first in the new decade of Bengal Bouts, a bigger and better show than any of the previous bouts. Practical experience as a Bengal fighter the last two campaigns fits Bill particularly well for his -administrative role.
One of the most popular of Notre Dame’s winter athletic attractions, the Bengal Bouts are indeed sponsored for a worthy cause. There are 500 Catholic missionaries hard at work in the American Holy Cross field at Bengal, India. All the proceeds from the bouts go to help these missionaries in their work of teaching the word of God to thousands of Bengalis.
The eight weight groups in which the fighters will seek recognition are 120, 127, 135, 145, 155, 165, 175, and heavyweight.
Entries Still Accepted
Although training has begun, it is not too late to enter; anyone wishing to do . so may see Mr. Napolitano, or “Nappy” as he is called, at the Rockne Memorial. In previous years about 100 fighters have
been on hand for the three-day preliminary battles. The 16 survivors in the eight weight divisions meet in the finals. All finalists receive monogram sweaters with the letters “N.D.” set in a pair of gold boxing gloves.	_
Four of last-year’s champions likely to defend their titles are: Paul Malloy, 120 lbs.; Dan Canale, 127 lbs.; Tom Nolan, 155 lbs.; and Chuck Kralovec, heavyweight. Adrian Padon, 135-lb. champ and younger brother of trainer Bill left recently for Army service but another younger brother is here to fight his way to fame.
No Serious Injuries, Fellows
All entrants are required to take a rigid physical examination before beginning instructions and all fighters are examined before going into the ring. Evidence of the care with which the bouts are conducted is shown by the fact that no one of approximately 1250 participants has been seriously injured in the ten-year history of the bouts. Special beginners’ classes are held for those who have had little or no experience but wish to enter. Many champions have come from the ranks of those who had never entered a ring before beginning instructions under “Nappy.”
Bengal boxers thrill thousands of fans so that. ..
“Nappy” wants more boys to turn outr especially in the heavier divisions where candidates thus far can be counted on the fingers of one hand.. In recent years approximately 125 fighters have entered the bouts.	..
Hall Trophy
A trophy is given the hall having most winners in the bouts. This has proved to make the bouts an inter-hall meet in
. Nappy wantsmore boys. ..."
recent years. Thus far this year two halls, Lyons and Alumni, fail to have even one representative. Morrissey Hall with seven entrants leads in this respect; close behind with five entrants each are Badin, St. Edward’s and Zahm.
A partial list by halls of those answering the initial call follows:
Breen-Phillips: H. Lacey, W. Baum-ert, J. Considine, T. O’Neil. Brownson:
15
S. Atwater, E. Casey, F. Keenan, H. Osborne. Cavanaugh: D. Dean and H. Moran. Zahm: J. Padon, T. Hartman, D. Scherrer, R. Ames, and D. Massa. Badin: A. Nunnink, K. Rousseve, F. Quinlan, F. Kiely, and T. Nolan.
Morrissey: L. Schmitz, J. Farrell, T. Kerrigan, B. Kuhn, P. Yoklavich, G. St. George, G. Alexander. Carroll: F.
. • . this priest can bring Christianity to the Bengali. . . .
SOPH - LOADED ILLINI ARE TRACK FOES TOMORROW
Frank Keenan
Minus the services of the mile relay quartet and high-jumping star, Keith O’Rourke, Notre Dame’s track forces swept over Marquette University by the impressive score of 71-33 Saturday afternoon in the Irish fieldhouse. Meanwhile, the five missing stars were competing in New York at the Millrose Games where they turned in a very creditable performance.
Irish Were Really "Hot"
In the dual meet here Marquette never threatened. Though the Hilltoppers had a number of good men they did not have the team balance of Notre Dame. N. D.’s missing stars were amply replaced by Murphy in the high jump and Austen Jones in the quarter mile. Murphy, although in his first year of varsity competition, leaped an outstanding 6 ft. 3% in., and paired with Keith O’Rourke, gives the Irish two excellent high-jumpers. In the first race of his career Jones flew over the quarter-mile course in:51.6, superb time. Notre Dame’s high scorers were Dillon, who turned in a recordbreaking :07 flat in the 60-yard low hurdles, which is only one-tenth of a second above Roy Cochran’s world’s indoor record, and Conforti, who won the 880 comfortably and tied Hunter in a 4:23 mile.
Jim Delaney uncorked an . excellent 16
Spiegel, J. Kiely, B. Sprafka. Dillon: P. Malloy, B. Rogers, R. Carver, R. King. Howard: J. Kersten, F. Hoth, P. Mancini. St. Edward’s: T. Spencer, J. Russell, M. Massullo, H. Florence, G. McQuiston. Sorin: J. Dinges, B. Wojcik, C. Lohr. Walsh: J. Rice, D. Holwell, P. Deery. Off-Campus: D. Walsh, J. Walsh, J. Maloney, J. Sullivan, G. Kelly.
heave of 50 ft. 6% in., only 7 inches short of his Notre Dame all-time record.
At Madison Square Garden Saturday evening the Irish mile relay team lost a thrilling battle to Fordham’s eastern champs when Ray Roy was nosed out in the last 40 yards by Fordham’s great anchor man, Campbell. Incidentally Campbell’s final quarter in :48.1 was a tenth of a second under the world’s record. For-Notre Dame it was their second time on boards and the first this year. Nevertheless they turned in the second best time of the evening, in a field of 12 teams, as they beat out N. Y. U.’s eastern runner up foursome, anchored by Leslie MacMitchell, by 15 yards. Fordham’s time was 3:21.2.
Keith O’Rourke tied Dick Morcom of New Hampshire for first place in the high jump, with a rather disappointing leap of 6 ft. 5 in. in the last event of a thrilling evening.
. Rice Rolls On
Chunky Gregory Rice added to Notre Dame’s laurels with a brilliant Millrose record breaking two mile run in the second best time of his career. This performance by the ex-Irish ace was terrific in view of the fact that his truss broke in the second lap. Exhibiting indomitable courage Rice finished the race, coming from behind to win in great pain.
It's lllini at Champaign Tomorrow
Tomorrow Notre Dame’s superb track squad will meet Illinois in what should prove to be a different although highly interesting duel. The lllini are heavily loaded in all but two or three events with outstanding sophomores. Their main stars are Olson in the sprints, who is undefeated this season, and • Gould, a soph broad jumper, who did 23 ft., 7 in. against Michigan State. Their sophomores have also dominated the one-half, one mile, and two mile runs in meets so far.	- •	.
And Then the Wolverines
In what will be the toughest competition of the indoor season, the Irish will journey to Ann Arbor on Feb. 20 to meet the University of Michigan. Although they have an extremely well-balanced team. Michigan’s greatest strength lies in the running events up to and including the half mile. But the Blue and Gold are out to avenge previous Michigan defeats and hope to be at their best for this important meet.
Monogram Club Meets;
Selects Carnival Patrol
Edward Sullivan
The Monogram Club held its first meeting of the new year last Tuesday night in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial. The chief business discussed was the final acceptance into the club of all the candidates who had entered conditionally before Christmas. They were warmly welcomed by President Bereolos.
Rev. Charles M. Carey, C.S.C., addressed the meeting on behalf of the War Charities Carnival and asked that the club continue its fine cooperative spirit. Father Carey praised the work of “super-salesman” Jim Brutz, stating that Jim’s feat of separating §18.00 and charity tickets from a number of freshmen “will go down in the annals of high pressure salesmanship.”
The club offered to take care of a number of the booths at the carnival and various members were assigned for this task. To continue the services of the Monogram club, Bereolos assigned certain members of the beef trust to patrol the grounds and maintain order. Included among the patrol-men are: Wally Ziemba, Lou Rymkus, Herky Bereolos, Jim Delaney, Bob Maddock, Bob Neff and Ray Ebli.
A complete coverage of every hall with chance books was arranged.
The last bit of business voted upon was the okaying of a gift for Mr. McAllister, the custodian of equipment in the Fieldhouse, who was stricken with pneumonia.
WEAKENED IRISH QUINTET WILL TRY TO PICK VIOLETS
By John Powers
The Notre Dame basketball team weakened by the loss of three key men, will face the New York University Violets in Madison Square Garden tomorrow night before a capacity house of some 20,000 fans. Bonicelli, Kuka, and Singer are the three Irish stars, all guards, who will be missing from the fray at the Garden. The first two, Bonicelli and Kuka, were literally carried off the floor in the rough-and-tumble skirmish with the Sailors .in Chicago stadium last Monday night which the Irish won, 46-43. Singer will not see action for the next two weeks, at least. This news is not encouraging in view of the fact that the Violets this year are anything but what the name implies, having won 12 out of 14 games played thus far. Until upset by Temple at Philadelphia a week ago, 43-40, the Violets had dropped but one game in their first 12 starts—to the University of Washington Huskies, current leaders in the Pacific Conference.
Coach George Keogan, who is accompanying his Irish squad to New York for the first time in two years, was very pessimistic about the chances for victory. “New York University is the best team in the metropolitan area, year in, year out,” wailed the coach. “The Violets’ superior strength has been stiffened further by the addition of two sophomore stars, Simmons and Mele, who recently became eligible for play. Any team that goes through its first 12 games with only one defeat is plenty good. But our boys, as banged up as they are from the last two games, always play their best game in the Garden. I look for a tough ball game.”
If You Thought Kentucky Was Rough
One more tough game would hardly hurt Coach Keogan, who has already seen two rough games in less than a fortnight. Both Irish victories, over* Kentucky and Great Lakes, ended in identical scores, 46-43. The game with Kentucky was played in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse before 5,000 fans, with many prom- guests sprinkled throughout the stands to add color to the affair. The Irish tied the count at 7-7 after the first nine minutes of play. Kentucky, led by Center Mel Brewer, countered by getting a 16-8 lead and increasing it to head the Irish, 22-15, at the halftime. The second half was the proverbial nip - and - tuck battle, featured by a triple foul, when two personals on Kentucky and one on Notre Dame resulted from a scrap under the Kentucky hoop. Boh Rensberger, jun
ior guard, scored 17 points to lead both teams.
Look at Great Lakes •
The brilliant play of Rensberger also featured the tussle with the Sailors two nights later, with the Chicago stadium furnishing the locale. Exactly 12,235 fans packed the stadium to witness one of the roughest, scrappingest contests ever played in that city. In getting revenge for the defeat they absorbed at the hands of the Sailors last December, the Irish took a terrific physical pounding. The Irish led for the first 16 minutes of the game until Baumholtz’ free throw and Caliban’s goal sent the Sailors ahead, 15-14. Faught and Niemiera soon countered in some manner to forge ahead again, 17-15. The Sailors, however, largely through the efforts of Baumholtz and Andres led the Irish at the intermission, 26-24. Andres hooped two more goals at the start of the second half to put the score to 30-24. Quinn and Rensberger countered with 10 points for a 34-30 lead over the sailors. After this point, the Irish never lost their advantage though Great Lakes came within a point at 34-33 and 42-41 later on. Rensberger’s 16 points captured all honors for the game. Andres tallied ten points to lead the Sailors, followed by Calihan and Baumholtz,. who each scored 11 points. It was the fourth loss in 25 games for the Sailors, and Notre Dame’s 12th victory in 16 games.
"I look for a tough ball game."
Notre Dame Fencers Continue Winning Streak; Maroons Next
Phil Keen
The Irish fencing team showed Cincinnati some real fencing last Saturday keeping their undefeated record intact by the score of 11-6 and thus proving to all skeptics that this 1942 squad definitely has that “certain something.”
The final score of 11-6 does not begin to show the definite superiority of the Blue and Gold. Before the matches were half over, it was obvious that Cincinnati would join Michigan State and Purdue in the defeat column. Upon completion of the sabre bouts the boys from the neighboring state might well have had a tribe of Turkish sword yielders and fared no better since sabre team of Humphreys and Melton clinched the meeting by winning all of the sabre bouts.
Angel Gonzalez continued to be the outstanding man in winning his three foil bouts. Coach Langford has counted heavily on him to carry the burden of the foils and Angel has accomplished this in great style, having won his last four foil matches. Herb Melton and Captain Frank Veit backed Gonzalez with victories in three important bouts.
Main factor in recording three victories and maintaining this undefeated record has been due greatly to the work of Captain Veit, who has won his last four epee matches; Herb Melton, winner of his last five sabre bouts; and Mike Humphreys, who is riding on a four bout winning streak in the sabre contests.
The bout-point summary: Notre Dame won 11 bouts for 66 pts., and Cincinnati won 6 bouts for 58 pts.
Notre Dame’s undefeated fencers will journey to Chicago a week from tomorrow to meet the crack Chicago fencers. Although defeated once this season by Ohio State, Chicago still is considered the powerhouse of the Big Ten. Faring much better than their football or basketball squads, the fencers have remained Big Ten champions for the last seven years. Still, Irish fencers have held a definite jinx over the boys from the “big town.” Until this season Chicago has lost only three dual meets over a period of six years, but of these three meet losses, the Blue and Gold have captured two. Coach Langford’s boys are already pointing for the Chicago meet with the thought of maintaining the jinx while, you can be assured, the Chicagoans have the Irish labeled for a sweet, vengeful defeat. As the teams shape up, at the present, it appears that it is going to he a battle royal and one that any lover of fencing should most certainly witness.
17
JCCW’N JPLINTEKr
FROM THE RR EFT BOX
BY BILL SCANLAN
TRACK SQUAD MISSES POPULAR ATHLETES
Two of the best known athletes on the campus, ambitious Will Riordan, the center-quarterback-guard of football reputation sent Notre Dame-way by Sioux City, Iowa, and Ed Sullivan, the Belle Harbor, L.I., N. Y., football guard, are among the missing on Coach Bill Mahoney’s 1942 track squad. . . . Riordan, once the No. 1 halfmiler in these parts, is currently concentrating on scholastic interests before turning to spring grid drills. . . . He played center* in high school, quarterback as an Irsih freshman, and won his monogram last fall as a guard. . . . Who said Bernie Crimmins is the only versatile athlete around here? ... A leg injury is keeping the quick-witted Sullivan from track activity where he captured a monogram as a shot putter when Ed sustained a knee injury.. .. Perhaps he may be another Frank Leahy.... We hope so.
BENGAL BOUTS WELCOME ANOTHER PADON
The name Padon, synonymous with Bengal Bouts competition for half a decade, receives new emphasis this year with the coming of John, an entrant in the 145-pound division. . . . John, a freshman at Zahm hall, joins his brother Adrian, winner last year at 135 pounds, and Bill, chief aide of Matchmaker D. J. Napolitano. Adrian, however, left for military service after the first semester. . . . The Padons, together with ehampion Paul Malloy of the 120-puond section, hail from Tulsa, Okla. . . . Bill Hoyne, titlist at 175 pounds a year ago, currently tips the scales at 198 pounds.
FAUGHT TIES ALL-TIME SCORING MARK
Contrary to early reports that the all-time Notre Dame basketball scoring record for a single game is 28 points, a check of records shows that Bob Faught, current sophomore flash against Marquette, tied Johnny Moir’s b'est, 25 points, marked up .against Pittsburgh on the local court Feb. 22, 1936. . . . Notre Dame defeated Pitt that night, 43-27, and Moir left the game with five minutes to play. . . . Faught departed with 10 minutes remaining. . . . “Names make news” has long been a favorite axiom of journalists and John Kovatch, senior journalist and footballer of more than passing repute, recently experienced that axiom to its fullest extent. . . . After the Navy game, his namesake and cousin, the former Northwestern, All-American, wrote N.D.’s John a letter, liberal with praises for Big John’s exploits at Baltimore, adding that he really put the name Kovatch on the map. . . . More recently, however, John of N.D. spent the greater paid; of a week explaining it wasn’t a mistake when the South Bend Tribune carried a sports page story announcing John Kovatch’s appointment as coach at Illinois Wesleyan. ... It was John of Northwestern. . . . What a name!
ZALE INTERESTED IN NOTRE DAME VISIT
George E. Trafton, one-time Notre Dame great, later a star with the .Chicago Bears, and currently is manager of Chicago’s celebrated gymnasium for boxers, approached Tony Zale as a possible honor guest at the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts championships in March. . . . Trafton wrote: “I contacted Tony Zale, middleweight cham-pion of the world, and he is very much for it, but he doesn’t know whether he will be around here or in service.” . . . Zale, by the way, has a date with Billy Conn at Madison Square Garden in New York tonight. . . . Conn was guest of honor at the 1940 ‘ Bengal Bouts show.
/
GENERAL MacARTHUR PRAISED ROCKNE
Among the tributes to Knute Rockne after his tragic airplane crash on March 31, 1931, was’that of Gen. Douglas MacArthur, then army chief of staff, and currently the hero of the Philippines. . .. Gen. MacArthur’s message stated: “The army extends its deepest sympathy in the tragic death of Knute Rockne. American sport has lost a great and beloved leader. We share with Notre Dame the inspiration of his gallantry, his vigor and his skill. The army will cherish his memory.” . . . The report of Gen. MacArthur s message was one of about 500 items and newspaper clippings recently given Splinters by Brother Theogene Merline, C.S.C., postmaster at the Notre Dame post office. ... He made a collection of clippings from newspapers during the Easter vacation of 1931. ... Among the odd stories in this collection is one which had Warren Brown, the Chicago Sun’s current sports editor, ticketed for N.D. as athletic director.... Rumors had their heydey then too.
WHAT ABOUT SPORTS
By Red Lonergan
In sports today it is customary to give all the credit for a successful team to the manager or head coach, forgetting for the moment that one or more of the personnel of the coaching staff might have had more than an assistant’s share in the success. This brings up the case of Dr. George Hauser.
Dr. Hauser is an ex-teammate of Bernie Bierman’s and has been his able line coach since 1932. In ten years the good doctor has produced at least 11 authentic All-American centers, guards, or tackles, a record equalled by few if . any.
He was born in Council Bluffs, la., attended school at Cedar Falls in the same state, and eventually went to Minnesota. He helped the honor and glory of Minnesota by playing a bang-up game of football at tackle and only because of the first world war was denied All-American honors.
Long afterward it was found that Dr. Henry L. Williams, then coach at Minnesota, had asked Walter Camp to withhold Hauser’s name till the following year when he would be a senior. When the next season came around we were in the war and Walter Camp had suspended judgment for that year. However, Hauser was admitted to be one of the best tackles in the country that year. After graduation he entered service in the Navy.
After the Armistice he returned to Minnesota to spend four years as an assistant coach. Then he took successive coaching positions at Iowa State, Colgate, and Ohio State. It was while he was at Ohio that he took up medicine, but even there he was still thinking about Minnesota, for he finished his internship at his alma mater. Besides coaching the line at Minnesota he heads the athletic training department and is head physician in the Student Health Service. What time he has left he spends at home with his two daughters, his pipe, and his bridge game. When Bernie Bierman departed for his post in the Marines, the athletic department was left in the able hands of Doc Hauser. If he can continue to produce the same quality of linemen as he has in- the past, the football fortunes of Minnesota will be scarcely affected by the loss of Bernie Bierman. For, as records bear evidence, a perfect line is a big step toward a perfect backfield.
Billions for Allied victory ... or for tribute to dictators? There is only one answer: Buy U. S. Defense Bonds and Stamps.
18
SPORTS QUIZ
1.	What nation is credited with correcting the flaws of basketball and making it the game it is today?
2.	What professional fight is considered to be the longest in rounds?
- 3. How did bob sledding originate?
4.	What is accepted as the greatest number- of basketball games' played in any one season by any big college?
5.	Who has been the top figure skater of the world and for how many years did he or she hold the title?
6.	Was ski-ing thought-up or devised as a pleasure sport or as a mode of transportation ?
(Answer on page 21)
Brownson, Lyons Lead Interhall League Heavies
Jack Denniston
Brownson hall, paced by McKay, who collected 16 tallies, dropped the “lawyers” from the unbeaten circle in heavy league II, by the count of 42-19. St. Ed’s smothered Badin 53 to 25, to sneak into first place while Brownson quenched the Law club’s bid for first place. “Master” Creevy and “Dippy” Evans, with 18 and 16 points respectively, shared the scoring laurels in the St. Ed’s A. C. rout. Morrissey, inspired by Van Dyke, stopped Cavanaugh 32-26.
Two Close Ones
On the other heavy front, Lyons hall breezed over Alumni and Carroll for their 4th and 5th victories to pace League I. Dehner, Lyons pivot whiz, sparked his teammates in both of this week’s struggles. The Oif-Campus lads nosed out the Navy’s bid for their- first league win. Ruetz hooked 18 points for the Villagers to defeat the ROTC men, 34-32. St. Mary’s downed Dillon 35 to 32 to remain unbeaten, while Zahm was lucky to ‘ win a stalemate from Cavanaugh, 32-30.
Light League II found Badin throwing . everything at the basket except their uniforms while smothering Cavanaugh 64 to 22. Berg counted 26 points while Nickson tallied 20 to keep Badin near the top. St. Ed’s lights continued undefeated, downing weak Breen-Phillips 31 to 14.
Morrissey snuffed Carroll 50-17, with Hoffman notching 14 points, to scramble the race in light League I. Dillon rocked the Walsh “little gentlemen” 29-22, with Murnane of Dillon netting 16 counters.
Results of last week’s games follow as well as the schedule of games for the week of Feb. 16:
Monday, Feb. 16: Light League I — Dillon vs. Morrissey, 7:30; Walsh vs. Carroll, 7:30; Zahm vs. Alumni, 8:30;
Heavy League II — Brownson vs. Sorin, 8:30.
Tuesday, Feb. 17: Heavy League — I Breen-Phillips vs. Carroll, 7:30; Zahm vs. Alumni, 7:30; Lyons vs. Off-Campus, 8:30; Navy ROTC vs. St. Mary’s, 8:30.
Wednesday, Feb. 18: Light League II —Breen-Phillips vs. Cavanaugh, 7:30; Lyons vs. Howard, 7:30; St. Ed’s vs. Badin, 8:30; Heavy League II—Badin vs. Cavanaugh, 8:30.
Thursday, Feb. 19: Heavy League II

S
¥-183
How to Win Friends in one easy lesson
Treat yourself and others to wholesome, delicious Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum. Swell to chew. Helps keep breath sweet, teeth bright. The Flavor Lasts.


—St. Ed’s vs. Morrissey, 7:30; Heavy League I—Navy ROTC vs. Breen-Phillips, 7:30; Off-Campus vs. Carroll, 8:30;
. Alumni vs. Howard, 8:30.
Sunday, Feb. 22: Light League I — Dillon vs. Brownson, 9:30; Carroll vs. Alumni, 9:30; Zahm vs. Walsh, 10:30; Heavy Legaue II — Sorin vs. Morrissey, 10:30.
Results of games on Feb. 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Heavy League II: Brownson 42, Law
19
Club 19; Morrissey 32, Cavanaugh 26; St. Ed’s 53, Badin 25; Walsh defaults to Sorin.
Heavy League I: Dillon 46, Off-Campus 30; Lyons 39, Alumni 19; Off-Campus 34, Navy ROTC 32; Lyons 45, Carroll 28; Zahm 32, Cavanaugh 30; St. Mary’s 35, Dillon 32.
Light League I: Dillon 29, Walsh 22; Morrissey 50, Carroll 17; Brownson defaults to Zahm.
Light League II: Badin 64, Cavanaugh 22; St. Ed’s 31, Breen-Phillips 14; Lyons defaults to Sorin.
Money talks! United States Defense Savings Bonds and Stamps shout “Victory!”
* * *
There are no “rookie” dollars. Send yours to the front! Buy U. S. Defense Savings Bonds and Stamps!
* *
Bonds or bondage? Buy U. S. Savings Bonds.
* * *
Let freedom ring on Uncle Sam’s cash register! Buy U. S. Defense Bonds and Stamps.
<------------------
Muy American! Muy ArrowI
ARROW was bom just l ninety years ago in a one-room work shop. Today Arrow is America’s foremost maker of shirts —designed in America for Americans; made the American Way.
Come in and get some Arrow Shirts today. Choose, from the great variety of collar styles, the one particularly suited to you. All Sanforized-Shrunk, fabric shrinkage less than 1%!
$2.25 up
ELLSWORTH'S
MAX ADLER
“ON THE CORNER”-	Michigan at Washington
It's Adler's for Arrows!
You’ll find a huge selection of authentically styled, long-wearing Arrows at Arrow Headquarters. The snappy patterns for winter are here. See them tomorrow.
"Listen here, Mr. Quigley!"
A high choking collar is old stuff! Newest is the Arrow Hull—cut on the easy-riding low slope pattern to provide maximum comfort. And with the long-point, authentic collar, it’s the hest-looking white shirt yet! Sanforized labeled (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). Enroll in the Arrow class today!
Arrow ties go with Arrow shirts!
HARROW-
ISHIKTS and TIES’
20
Kelly Thinks Senior Ball
Might Be Held April 24
The Sophomore Cotillion has come and gone. The Junior Prom carved its notch in history last week. Now jockeying for position is the Senior Ball.
So far, April 24 is the date of the Ball. However, the advent of the Middies may require a change of plans.
Senior class president, Jim O’Neil, has selected only a portion of the various committees. Those whom he has already appointed have been informed privately. Of these only the following are known: Larry Kelly, general chairman; Tom Walker, and Don McNally, music committee; Tom Powers, publicity chairman.
The music committee is at present dickering with three big name orchestras, chief of which is Vaughn Monroe. It will be a week or so before they obtain their results.
Kelly stated that nothing in regard to the dinner, favors, or tea dance has been planned. Their major aim is originality.—Frank Sieraivski
University of Texas geologists predict a peat industry for Texas from recent extensive finds of the substance throughout the states.
The MEN’S Corner
HOME OF NATIONALLY ACCEPTED MERCHANDISE
ROSE and KATZ
Complete New Stock of
Arrows
including
Arrow Formal Shirts
$2.25 up
MAIN AT COLFAX
Sports Quiz Answers
1.	The Orientals.
2.	John L. Sullivan beat Joe Kilrain in a bare knuckled fight after 75 rounds.
3.	It originated at St. Moritz, Switzerland, when two Americans tried to find a new diversion.
4.	Notre Dame played 48 games in the 1908-09 season.
5.	Sonje Heinie formerly of Norway held the title for eight successive years.
6.	It is a man’s oldest form of travel on ice and snow.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND 1107 Beyer Avenue
Former N. D. Fencer Married in Mexico
- Carlos, son of Professor and Mrs. de Landero, was married at Merida, Yucatan, on Feb. 9, the Archbishop of Yucatan officiating at the ceremony.
Carlos de Landero and his brother, Telmo, were graduated from Notre Dame two years ago, and while here were the mainstays of the fencing team.
Professor de Landero taught Spanish at the University until two years ago, when he returned to his native Mexico due to ill health.

21
SAM'L SPIRO & CO.
Feature
Manhattan
Shirts, Pajamas, Handkerchiefs . . . Mansco Underwear
WILLIAMS, The Florist
Just west of the Oliver
THE PERFECT
CORSAGE FOR YOUR VALENTINE
Wire Flowers!
THE
Zke famous fundamentals”
IN ONE EASY LESSON...
Here’s all you need do. Just remember that Manhattan shirts are Sizc-Fixt (average fabric shrinkage • 1% or less) Man-Formed to your figure and Collar-Perfect in a style to suit your face. That’s all —these are the famous Manhattan Fundamentals that have sold millions of Manhattan shirts to men in college and out. Follow the Fundamentals for finer, better fitting shirts—get some Manhattans today.
THEY BELONG IN YOUR WARDROBE
H U D D L £
A Variety of Pipes — A Variety of Prices—
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
Dr. Grabow _____________$1.50
Yello-Bole Regular______ 1.00
Yello-Bole Imperial ____ 1.50
Kaywoodie Drinkless ____ 3.50
Kaywoodie Carburetor ____ 4.00
Kaywoodie Super-Gran .... 5.00
Hollycourt ____________  3.50
Comoy ___________________ 6.00
Corncobs.............10c and 25c
22
DISC-CUSSION
By Ed Roney
The most important news this week is that we’ll soon be able to hear Bobby Byrne, that man the Juniors and Seniors raved about last Friday night, on records again. I talked with him to find out that he’s leaving for Meadowbrook
CHICAGO DATE?
Take the South Shore!
Get there on time, without worry, _ fuss, or traffic jitters. No parking problems, either—South Shore trains breeze right into the Loop.
. Step off your train and onto Michigan Ave. Five other convenient stations in Chicago.
Remember—there’s a South Shore train leaving for Chicago every hour. Similar frequency of service from Chicago, too, with a late
• train leaving at 12:20 A. M.
TO CHICAGO
Plus Tax
ONE WAY FROM
SOUTH BEND
For information call
C. IV. VEACH, Ticket Office 301 N. Michigan Street Phone 3-3111
soon and while he’s in the East he’s going to record some of the biggest hits of last weekend. He liked playing for Notre Dame as much as we liked dancing to his music.
Glenn Miller released a new record combining “Always In My Heart” and “When The Roses Bloom Again.” Both - are moderately slow and show good use of woodwinds. The vocals on both are done by Ray Eberle in that soft sentimental way.
Cab Calloway comes out with two new numbers in two different styles. The first, “Nain Nain” is sung by Cab himself in that way that he is famous for. The second, “Tappin’ Off” is strict swing that has lots of rhythm and a wonderful beat.
When a person wants a couple of good records he can usually depend upon Jimmy Dorsey for them. So Jimmy came across with two late ones that are knockouts. The first has Helen O’Connell singing “You Made Me Love Love You” and Bob Eberly giving out with “A Sinner Kissed An Angel.” And the second, not to be outdone, has Helen singing a side and a half. She tells how “Arthur Murray Taught Me Dancing In A Hurry” on the first side and teams with Bob on the vocals of “Not Mine.” Both of these are excellent.
Orrin Tucker- has changed his style of playing and recorded a really smooth arrangement for “Who Calls.” It is sung by Orrin and the Bodyguards. Backing it up is “As We Walk Into The Sunset,” with a vocal by Jack Bartell. This is the first time in some time that Tucker has produced any music without that old style that drove everyone crazy.
For a nifty vocal and arrangement of “Dreamsville, Ohio,” try Skinnay Ennis’ record of it. He, of course, does the singing in that way that no one can copy. “Around and Around She Goes” is on the reverse and the words to this, are done by Skinnay, Carmene, and the Chorus. This one is somewhat of a novelty record all about the belle at the village ball.
BANDWAGON PLAYBACKS
Artie Shaw will break out with a new air show in the spring. . . . Tommy Dorsey and his band just celebrated their sixth anniversary. . . . Kay Kysei- was the top band in earnings in 1941. . . . Sonny Saunders replaces Dick Haymes as vocalist with Harry James. . . . Dinah Shore was rated radio’s number one girl singer. . Glenn Miller’s “Chattanooga Choo Choo” has just finished traveling 1,261,060 miles. ... It just passed the 1,000,000 sales mark. . . . Miller and T. Dorsey have been chosen the top sweet bands of 1941 while Benny Goodman copped the swing honors. . . . “Remember
Pearl Harbor” and “Keep ’Em Flying” are the first two really big song hits of this war. . . . Charlie Barnet comes out scon with his new band containing mostly strings and the accent will be bn sweet music. . . . Alvino Rey and the King Sisters will soon appear in a motion picture. ... ..Basil Rathbone is making a new album composed entirely of American and English poetry. . . . keep ’em flying.
PROFESSIONAL CARDS
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF M.OUTH AND JAWS X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
702 J.M.S- Bldg.	South Bend. Indiana
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING.
Phone 3-1254	South Bend. Indiana
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT ORTHODONTIST	.
314 J.M.S. Building	Telephone 4-3601
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER,	M. J. THORNTON,
M.D.	M.D.
PHONE 3-2805	RESIDENCE 4-1S44
DR. ARTHUR C. EVERLY FOOT AILMENTS
-X-RAY EXAMINATION 609 J. M.S. BUILDING HOURS BY APPOINTMENT SOUTH BEND. IND.
telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard a. rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s.
Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 Sherland Bldg. South Bind
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Bldg. Phone 3-2974
IT’S CHESTERFIELD says LOIS JANUARY Star of Stage and Screen

always Milder and Better-Tasting always Cooler-Smoking... that’s what makes Chesterfield
the steady smoke of more smokers every day. You can count on Chesterfields to give you, day in and day out, more smoking pleasure than you ever had before... So make your next pack Chesterfield and its right combination of the world’s finest cigarette tobaccos will go to work to give you all you want in a cigarette
Copyright 1942. ItccETT * Mvm Tomcco Ca