New Aviation Cadet Program Offers Special Advantages To College Men Now Preparing for Military Service
Here is valuable postgraduate training that money can’t buy! As an Aviation Cadet you can receive instruction and training worth thousands of dollars—at the same time you are serving your country. You can choose— immediately—between being a Pilot or Aircraft Observer in America's swiftly expanding Air Force. The Air Force encourages candidates to stay in school and graduate. Seniors and students with two years or more of college who anticipate early entrance into military service can receive unmatched training in flying and leadership for the years ahead.
3. Accomplish Flying Aptitude Tests and enlist for two years only!
4« The Selective Service . Act awards you a four-( month deferment while • awaiting class assignment.
WHO MAY APPLY
AGE—Between 19 and 2616 year*. EDUCATION—At least two years of college. MARITAL STATUS—Single. PHYSICAL CONDITION—Good, especially eyes, ears, heart, and teeth.
HOW TO QUALIFY
5. Immediate assignment to Aviation Cadet Training Classes starting July 19, August 19, October 2, and November 19, 1952.
I. Take transcript of college credits and copy of birth certificate to your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Station.
6. Attend Aviation Cadet Training School for one year—either as Pilot or Aircraft Observer. Get $105 monthly plus food, housing, uniforms, and other benefits.
Appear for physical examination at your nearest Air Base at Government expense.
7. Graduate, win your wings. Commissioned second lieutenant, begin earning $5,000 a year! Receive $250 uniform allowance, 30-day leave with pay.
WHERE To Get More Details
Visit your nearest U. 5. Air Force Base or U. S. Army— U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station or write direct to Aviation Cadet, Headquarters, U. S. Air Force, Washington 25, D. C
The Scholastic
LETTERS
Bouquets
Editor:
As Stay Tuned for Addleman concludes its five-night run this week, we’d like to express our sincere appreciation to several persons without whose assistance the show could never have been put on — but who received little public acclaim.
The help of Mr. John Tumpane of the Department of Speech was invaluable in every area of the production.
Mr. Everitt Warren of the audiovisual center, was of great assistance in recording the show, handling the sound engineering and working with our set designer on the projected scenery. Lou Marinello, our long suffering pianist, deserves a big vote of thanks for the many long evenings he spent helping the chorus rehearse.
And, finally, our sincere thanks to the Blue Circle ushers, the WND sound men, the set designers and stage crew, the assistant directors, the cast and chorus for working so long and so hard on what we hope was a successful and entertaining event for the many who witnessed it.
Jerry Costello
Jack Hynes
Chaz Schubert
—co-authors
■
Brickbats
Editor:
You have in your “employ” a senior who next year will be in the business world as a representative of the result of four years at Notre Dame. It seems w to me that at this stage of the game such a representative should have grown up to the extent that he can escape' being pointed out as a “wise guy.” Jack Hynes has failed in this respect.
In baseball, when a player gets caught off base as often as he gets on, the manager usually benches him or farms him out to the minor leagues to give him the experience necessary to play the game right. I seem to remember that the boy columnist was caught flatfooted a pair of weeks ago
you're a, great catch..
.Van Hensen
Holiday Poulard sport shirts
Cool, full-cut, silk-feeling sport shirts in distinctive foulard patterns you’d expect to find in expensive ties. Styled and tailored by Van Hensen—so you know these shirts are right! Short sleeves, $3.95 Long sleeves, $4.95
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP.. NEW YORK 1. N. Y.
PUBLICATIONS BANQUET
The Annual Publications banquet will be held next Wednesday evening, May 14, at 6:30 in the Mayfair Hotel in Mishawaka. All persons who will receive keys are invited to attend.
Make GILBERTS your VAN HEUSEN headquarters
^GILBERTS
-	813-817 MICHIGAN STREET
Open evenings until 9 o'clock
May 9, 1952
in a matter involving fees and stipends paid to pugilists for personal appearances.
At that time Jack Hynes accepted a piece of humble pie. It would be well for him to memorize the recipe for said pastry because, if he continues to think and write on his present level, he will have great need of it in the future.
The Freshman Frolic was successful to the extent that the well-known epilogue:	. and a good time was
had by all” was never uttered at a more suitable time than at one o’clock on the morning of May 3. Furthermore, Mr. Benny Strong, although a stranger to the poor man’s Walter Winchell, made an essential contribution to that success.
The dig in Hynes’s column of May 2 was directed as much at the efforts of the Freshman class as it was at the notoriety of Mr. Strong. Perhaps Young John considers a freshman to be some form of lower life which is only fit for the snide comments of pseudowits. Even if we freshmen had no talent whatsoever and acted as a deadweight to the progress of Notre Dame, by sheer force of numbers we would keep pace with the soaring ideals of Pulitzer Prize seekers such as Jack Hynes.
Remember, gentlemen, there are 1500 of us, and in three years you’ll look back at Notre Dame and you’ll see the “lowlifes” which you now look on with scorn running your Alma Mater. I hope that when I have completed seven semesters of scholastic achievement, I will not think that I have achieved anything which would make me and my efforts intrinsically better than those men who have completed only one semester.
If Jack Hynes reads this, let it be known to him that the only thing which separates him from me is time, and, dear Jack, you are going to be mighty surprised at the swiftness with which that temporal barrier is breached. Then myself and 1500 like me will be breathing down your neck in any field you choose, and then we shall see if anyone knows, “Who is Jack Hynes?”
Thank you, Michael Henry Ducey
En rapport:
Stephen R. Rebora, Richard A. Beeman, John H. Sennett, Joseph F. O’Donnell, Jr., Richard Hanlon, Patrick Padon, Robert Ward Navarre, John Byron McDonald, Jr., David A. Russell, Jeremiah T. Bransfield, James T. Griffin, Lee Crean and Ted Laughlin.
MASS CALENDAR
Monday, May 12—Sts. Nereus, Achilleus, Domitilla, and Pancratius
Tuesday, May 13—St. Robert Bellarmine
Wednesday, May 14—St. Boniface
Thursday, May 15—St. John Baptist de la Salle
Friday, May 16—St. Ubaldus
Saturday, May 17—St. Pascal Bayion
e
for a college wardrobe BROOKS BROTHERS' DISTINCTIVE SPORTSWEAR
Our selection of casual, colorfill sportswear has never been better. Everything from warm flannel sport shirts, distinctive sport vests, and tartan or blue flannel blazers... to popular polo coats, and practical greatcoats for stadium wear...all with Brooks Brothers’ individuality and good taste.
mABUSHDltl*
^Itns |^imishings,^ats
MADISON STREET AT MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO 2, ILL. NEW YORK • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO


The Scholastic
By Jack Hynes
on the rail, waiting for the race to start.
■
Pass in Review
The Sorin Hall reviewing stand will get another play over the weekend as it has over the past two. Many of the judges have passed up the opportunity to procure dates for themselves in order to devote themselves wholeheart-
Top of the Week
Stay Tuned for Addleman to go on the road . . .
■
Fair and Warmer
This is a bad time of year. What with this mid-August heat wave we’ve been having no one feels like doing much of anything. And we are no exception. Not only have we passed over study as an unhealthy pastime, we have succumbed to the typewriter-trauma which has plagued authors of The Week since this journal first hit the thresholds back in 1867.
Annually, during this season, my predecessors have been rather hard put for something to write about. I feel pretty much in the same, traditional position this week. As a matter of fact, now that I look back, I have been pretty much in that same, traditional position since September; but that’s neither here nor there. What we’re trying to say is that— well, doggone it, Dad, we don’t have much to say this week; do you wanta make somethin’ out of it?
Nice Weather We’re Having
We could talk about the weather. That’s just about as banal a subject there is, but it does fill up space. And it is the subject of campus conversation (well, isn’t it?) especially among the Senior crowd.
The Seniors, easily recognized by the bags under their eyes and the golf clubs under their arm, are no little concerned over this weather business. For tonight is the Senior Ball and in latter years it has almost become another tradition that it rains on the night of the Senior Ball. As a matter of fact, we’ll give 8-5 that as this issue is being delivered it will be pouring generous portions of that old South Bend dew. It never fails.
The Ball tonight, by the way, will be held over in the Navy Drill Hall, a large, Quonset-shaped affair over at the East end of the campus which looks something like a Robert Hall clothing outlet.
But tonight you won’t recognize it (well, I should hope not!). The Ball committee acting under instructions from Frank Lloyd Wright has been as busy as ants at a picnic in shaping up the place for some 800 potential alumni and Ray Anthony. You will note there, I trust, the fine distinction —Ray Anthony is not a potential alumnus—but he doesn’t feel too badly about it at all since he does hold the distinction of having one of the three top dance bands in the country (the other two being Les Brown and Frankie Yankovic).
They’re Off and Running
The horsey set on campus packed away their binoculars and green sheets last weekend and headed en masse for Louisville, Churchill Downs and the Kentucky Derby.
As far as we can determine, only few of them brought much money down with them—and none of them brought any back. As a matter of fact, there were a few who didn’t quite know why they were going down or where they were going. They just smelled out a good party (ND men are notorious for their ability to smell out good parties) and went along for the ride. In fact, a few might still be down there, hanging
SUNNY ITALY
A NOTRE DAME TRADITION
edly to their self-appointed task of opinionating on the passing parade of flies on their way to church.
This is, when you come to think of it, quite an admirable thing and we rather hope it will become a standing institution with future Sorinites who will have to recognize the fact that they have a reputation and traditions to maintain.
■
Bottom of the Week
... it opens in Osceola the 15th.
In questions of importance—and life has few decisions more critical than the choice of a vocation — advice is indispensable. Very often THE BROTHER’S 2?d , rfveaJs
VOCATION His designs to us by means of His representatives, that is to say, by means of those whose duty it is to guide us. Speak to your confessor, and personally or by letter seek information from the Order you wish to join. Carry out your project resolutely and promptly. Once your decision is made, reject as temptations all thoughts to the contrary. God has spoken, obey as soon as possible. For free literature write, phone or visit: Brother Louis, OSF, Vocation Department, 41 Butler St., Brooklyn 2, New York. Phone: MA 4-2036.
“Rosie’s." Here you’ll always enjoy the Italian accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 North Niles
May 9t 1952
5
AQUINAS Library and Bookstore
MAY 9
DRILL HALL—It’s the biggest night of the year and the biggest social event of their collegiate lives for the class of 1952. There will be Dancing in the Clouds from 10 to 2 to the music of Ray Anthony and his orchestra.
PALAIS RO YALE—Frankie Lane, Patti Page and Illinois Jacquet feature a stage show with Billy May’s orchestra providing the music. Shows are at 7 and 9:30 only.
AVON (to May 13)—Love Is Better Than Ever (A-2) is a frothy little concoction starring Elizabeth Taylor and Larry Parks. It’s a comedy about show business, and has Parks playing the role of a highly successful theatrical agent on Broadway meeting the sweet unspoiled girl from the sticks, who is none other than Elizabeth Taylor, out shopping for a little marital bliss. Parks uses all his cunning to prevent getting hooked but he’s no match for Miss Taylor and her parents. Not a sensational job.
MAY 10
PALACE (to May 15)—If you always wanted to know what it’s like working in a steel mill, see Steel Town (A-2), with Ann Sheridan, Howard Duff and John Lund. It’s an adventure story of the mills, with the usual love interest thrown in. Photography is in technicolor and shots of the steel mill in operation are really fascinating. Co-feature is The Fabulous S enori ta (A-2), a Latin-American musical starring Estelita.
DRILL HALL—Monogram Dance from 8:30 to 11:30 to the music of Mike Leone and his lads.
WASHINGTON HALL—The Blue Veil, with Jane Wyman. A real jerker.
MAY 14
COLFAX (to May 20)—Judy Holliday is the dumb blonde again in The Marrying Kind (A-2), and although she’s much like Billy Dawn of Born Yesterday, the picture doesn’t suffer because of it. It isn’t much of a story — just a series of marital adventures loosely hung together that border on the hilarious at times. You’ll recognize Judy’s husband, Aldo Ray, as one of the football players in Saturday's Hero. He gets a bigger part this time and does a fine job. A real good comedy.	'
MAY 15
GRANADA (to May 21)—A pretty good Western is Fort Osage (A-2) with Rod Cameron and Jane Nigh. It’s a story about the time when Fort Osage, Missouri was the last outpost before the Indian country, with pioneers streaming through it for California and the gold fields. The Indians get the blame in this one but it turns out that a bunch of whites are the dirty guys. Douglas Fairbanks would have fitted into Aladdin and His Lamp (B), story about fighting in the desert. It really swashbuckles.
DINING HALL—Seniors honor Father Cavanaugh at their first annual banquet. Tickets are $1.
Next to the grace of God a taste for good reading is one of the greatest gifts we can possess.
110 EAST LaSALLE
David Kempler
FAY’S ■ Quality Jewelers
Welcomes Notre Dame students to come in and visit with us.
We carry a large showing of fine
Watches and Jewelry_
We maintain a complete
Watch and Jewelry Repair Service.
111 South Michigan Street
a
SR T-T V
EUVISION BROADCASTING
Special SUMMER COURSES
6-week intensive professional training to prepare you for a job in Camera Operation • Direction • Prognat BolNiag • Production • Film Tert-m*ms • VMea Effects • Copywriting • Sabs, etc.
Instruction by outstanding network professionals.
Complete TV station equipment.
Teaching under actual broadcast conditions.
Courses start
JUNE 23 and JULY 21 Also courses In Radio Announcing, limited Enrollment — Write or call for illustrated brochure "Vour Future In Television
DEPARTMENT 21 OP / /School of dV	■ / Radio Technique)
TELEVISION STUDIOS Amerko’s OMest Iroodcesting School 310 West 57 St., New York IP, N. Y.
Plaza 7-3211
6
The Scholastic
Vol. 93 May 9, 1952 No. 26
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor JOHN J. POWERS Associate Editor JOHN F. MEANEY
Managing Editor ROBERT G. FINNEY
DONALD J. CARBONE ..........  News
PATRICK CARRICO  Assistant News RICHARD P. CODY...........Features
JACK R. VARLEY .............Sports
THOMAS FOOTE ________Assistant Sports
LEON GARDNER ............Librarian
RONALD E. ZIER___________Advertising WILLIAM KERWIN ______Circulation JOHN P. DEFANT„„Faculty Moderator
Let's Keep It Clean
Each time Spring comes ’round to Notre Dame, it proves conclusively that we are blessed with one of the most beautiful campus scenes in the nation. What makes it more beautiful is the fact that it isn’t marred with the usual park signs about keeping off the grass and not throwing trash around.
Sometimes we think it should be.
The campus, for a fact, has been marred with trash from end to end almost since the very day that warm weather brought all the troops out into the hot sun. The situation really becomes annoying when you think of all the places that are kept neat even though all the lawn-manicuring in the world can’t make them a comparison to Notre Dame. Yet here, with a physical plant that resembles a park more than a campus, we are stuck with the problem of “Cleanup” campaigns.
And if any of you lads are still wondering’ what we’re talking about, take a look at the cigarette butts, paper cups, papers, candy wrappers, ad infinitum that litter the campus from the Caf to Farley. Take a look at Washington Hall’s front steps. Even though said steps are flanked by rubbish disposal cans, the junk piled there can be spotted yards away.
If all this discussion was about some messv-looking location, the whole thing wouldn’t mean so much. But it isn’t. .And the tragedv is worsened bv the fact that it usually takes only a few steps to dispose of an empty cup where it won’t be seen and a few seconds to “field-strip” a cigarette butt. Notre Dame would really be a show place without the litter.
So what say, lads? You could make the scenery a whole lot prettier by just crumbling up that wrapper and waiting till you pass a rubbish can.
NEWS: Phil Bolin, Larry Brehl, Vai Chun. Pete Connolly, Mike Ducey, Fred Eckart, Carl Eiberger, Paul Fullmer. Bob Gorman, Jim Harrington, Ted Kintner, Joe Leaser, Matt Malison, Bill Moore, Gorman Redding, Bob Rust, Al Suwalsky, Mike Ward, Irv Carrig, Frank Donlon, Jerry Burns.
FEATURES: Sal Asselta, Jay Conlon, Charles Hands, Joe Imbriaco, Harry Siemonsma, John Slavick, Bill Stapleton, Rudy Unger, Ed Vasta.
SPORTS: Mickey Carroll, Roger Fernandes, Bob Frolicher, Ray Humble, Tom Moore, Ken Murphy, Bill Noonan, Jack Sand.
PHOTOGRAPHY and ART: Dick Bennett, Bob Huddleston. Jack Quetsch, Jerry Sheehan, Bob Swanson, Bill DeCrick.
ADVERTISING: Tom Murphy.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City.
THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, cr-cept during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address ail manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana. Subscription $4.00 per year.
COVER: The lads in the two craft on this week’s cover bobbing happily around St. Joseph’s Lake aren’t kidding. They’re members of the sailing club featured in the article on page 18.
—Photo by Bob Huddleston
President's Progress
Next week is Scholastic’s last issue for the year. As such it has a lot of special feature stuff in it, including a feature on Father Cavanaugh. But because it will be crowded we’re taking the opportunity to say something in this column about him now.
In 1946, education-hungry vets started swamping the registrar’s office with applications. The University then faced the decision of keeping the enrollment down and the standards safe or admitting as many of the troops as possible and taking a chance on the effects of expansion. The enrollment increase since World War II answers the question of how the decision went.
We think it was a great one. Granting the fact that anyone can work better with fewer people, we still think so. It permitted more men to get the sort of education that Notre Dame is dedicated to. This fact alone, we believe, makes that decision a great one.
The Cavanaugh administration faced some other knotty questions, too.- And in the space of his six-year hitch, we got a grad school, new buildings and a bigger endowment. Granted there’s still a long way to go in respect to endowments, we’ve still come a long way.
So Father Cavanaugh bows out with a great deal accomplished in the space of six years. Our hats are off to him and the example he leaves behind.
May 9, 1952
7
but men are more so
"Young ladies, if you will direct your attention to the complex telephone equipment on the left, I think you’ll agree with most folks who tour our telephone offices that it is exceedingly impressive.”
We think so too. But the minds of the men who developed it are even more impressive. Some people use “the human element” to denote weakness. In the Bell System, we believe our greatest asset is our people.
They make headlines in fires, hurricanes and floods. But much more important, they give the world’s best telephone sendee all year round.
As the Bell System continues its growth, new and even more amazing machines are being created. And along with this growth is the need for college men with the right qualifications for work and opportunity in a variety of fields —in engineering, research, operating and administration.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
8
The Scholastic
Ball Tonight Ends Year’s Social Whirl
Ray Anthony to Play;
600 Seniors to Sway
By FRANK DONLON
I	Tonight will mark the exciting cul-
I mination of Notre Dame’s 1952 social | whirl when over 600 seniors and their ।	dates swing and sway to the tuneful
j	melodies of Ray Anthony and his or-
| chestra at the Senior Ball.
Iln a transformed Navy Drill Hall, the fortunate couples will be “Dancing in the Clouds” from 9:30 to 1. Cars and 3 o’clock permissions have been granted for the dance.
The two young- ladies who will reign over the Ball as royal Queens are Miss Pat Reilly and Miss Pat Quigg. Miss Quigg, from Brooklyn, N. Y., I	will be escorted by	dance Co-Chair-
|	man Richard Stubbing. Miss Reilly,
|	a senior at Barat	College in Lake
I	Forest, Ill., will be	the date of Co-
Chairman Roger Fitzsimmons.
Gene Hull and his band will fill the £ intermission periods with their mellow music. Refreshments will be served and actors from the student musical, Stay Tuned for Addleman, will perform several skits from the show.
An indication of the scope of the decorations is the fact that the committee has been working since last week. Special lighting effects to complement the color scheme of violet and black have been provided through the efforts of Phil Meyer.
A continuously flowing water fount in the middle of the floor, designed by
REPORTS DUE
All reports from dance chairmen, and reports of club activities are to be in the Office of Student Affairs by May 16.
—Office of Student Affairs
Bill Osborne, will add a novel touch to the decorations.
Another interesting innovation for this year’s dance is a large moon which will rise and set behind the band stand as the dance progresses— indicating how much time has elapsed.
An abundance of stars and clouds overhead will provide a realistic note in transforming the Drill Hall into a palace in the sky. There will be tables and chairs foi- all, and 6,000 square
MISS PAT REILLY
Angels . . .
feet of dancing space should furnish ample room for the dancers.
Favors for the dance, which are a closely guarded secret, are promised to be unique.
The enjoyment of the dance-goers will not terminate with the Ball, however. A program of continuous activity has been planned during the remainder of the weekend.
Saturday morning the Seniors will conduct their visitors on a tour of the campus and in the afternoon have alternate choices of attending the annual Old Timers Game at Notre Dame Stadium or joining a picnicing safari bound for the Indiana dunes.
Following the Old Timers game a
reception will be held at the new Morris Inn. Refreshments will be served and Jerry Costello’s Combo will supply music for terrace. dancing.
Tomorrow evening there will be the usual affair at the Drill Hall sponsored by the Student Council and dancing feet will once more glide across the floor to the music of Gene Hull and his Lettermen.
After attendance at the 9 o’clock Mass, reserved for them at Sacred Heart Church on Sunday morning, some 150 couples will adjourn to the Oliver Hotel for a special Communion breakfast. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., retiring president of Notre Dame, and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will be the speakers.
Sunday afternoon the fun-weary group will have an opportunity to relax, reflect and bid lingering farewells to each other and to Notre Dame’s social life for this year.
MISS PAT QUIGG ... on a Cloud
May 9, 1952
9
Thousands of Travelling Miles, Trophy Hoard Produce One of ND's Best Debating Seasons
Professor Leonard Sommer has finally given the sign to his debate team that they may unpack their suitcases. After a season of extensive travel the team may now relax and spend some time reorganizing its forces for the next debating season.
Some eight trophies and 50 certificates are the material proof, after many thousands of miles of travel, of one of the best seasons in Notre Dame history.
* The freshman members of the squad opened the season by capturing some 30 certificates at the Bradley tournament in November. This was a record number of awards to any one school in Notre Dame as well as Bradley Tournament history. With this start from the younger members of the squad, it was impossible for the varsity team to fall behind as they journeyed to the “big time” meets at Boston, Baltimore, New York, Mobile, and Cleveland—to mention just a few.
At these meets the first team of Al DeCrane, Chuck Doherty, Bill Hank, and Don Dowden carried Notre Dame to new heights. But Professor Sommer points to DeCrane as the leader and the outstanding man of the year.
“For a boy who had never debated in high school or college until last year, he has shown amazing skill in becoming president of our organization here at Notre Dame, and one of the most feared debaters in the country. And this was Al’s first year to shine as last season he was more or less in the shadow of Bill Carey.”
As example of DeCrane’s prowess, Professor Sommer points to the three trophies and nine certificates of outstanding achievement that the Arts and Letters junior from Cleveland has won during the season.
DeCrane won the extemp speaking contest at Baltimore, finished second in this field in Boston, and took second in the National meet at the TKA conference in Cleveland.
There are also prizes for his work in being selected best debater in the Boston, New York, Mobile, and Cleveland tournaments, and for capturing the United States Tau Kappa Alpha singles debate championship—the first time a Notre Dame student has "won this award.
DeCrane’s only comment was to express his appreciation for Professor Sommer’s untiring aid. He also gave credit to his freshman partner, Chuck Doherty, without whose help said De-
Crane “I wouldn’t have a chance to win any prizes.”
Nor can Hank and Dowden, the two Sophomores on the team, be overlooked. They too had a hand in the winning of the sweepstakes trophies, and they won their share of the individual and team awards. For example, they were rated the best negative team at the Mobile Tournament. They also helped in capturing the Congressional trophy in Cleveland, and Don Dowden was awarded a certificate as the best legislator in the congress meeting there.
After thousands of miles of travel and an extensive array of trophies, Professor Sommer and the Notre Dame debate team ring down the curtain on one of the best seasons in Notre Dame forensic history.
Trade Confab Brings 100 Exporters Here
More than 100 export representatives from all parts of the United States are expected to attend the fifth annual World Trade Conference Thursday in the College of Commerce here.
Prof. Wesley C. Bender, head of the Department of Marketing and director of the Conference, said that 13 leaders in the field of foreign commerce will appear on the program.
Robert S. Byfield, a member of the New York Stock Exchange, will address the dinner session of the conference on the subject “Vishinski Versus American Business.” Principal speaker at the luncheon session will be H. R. Dominguez, manager of the Export Division of the International Shoe Co., St. Louis.
Other authorities who will speak on various world trade phases will be William S. Honneus, advertising manager of Time International; Owen L. Carleton, vice-president of the Central National Bank of Cleveland; A. L. Kelley, treasurer of the D. C. Andrews Co., Chicago; and Charles M. Wey-and, executive assistant of the Nash-Kelvinator Corp.
An afternoon panel discussion will feature, in addition to the morning speakers, Emil Schnelbacher, director of intelligence for the Office of International Trade of the U. S. Department of Commerce; Martin Plotnick, of the Martin H. Plotnick Co., Chicago; and R. W. Bruce, general agent of the American President Lines.
'Time* Editor to Speak e At Press Club Dinner
John Scott, editor and former foreign correspondent for Time magazine, will be the featured speaker at the annual Awards Dinner of the Notre Dame Press Club Tuesday evening at the Ramble Inn. After the steak dinner, several awards for excellence will be presented to the journalism majors.
Included among the presentations will be the F. A. Miller Awards, four $25 prizes for excellence in practical journalism. Mr. Miller is president and editor of the South Bend Tribune.
To the journalism senior who ranks first scholastically will go the Hugh A. O’Donnell gold medal. In addition there will be five other awards.
Speaker Scott is currently on a lec- f ture tour of universities, describing to ' students the work of a foreign correspondent and discussing the Press and the Cold War. Not scheduled to speak in the South Bend area till later this month, he will make a special appearance at the Press Club dinner.
Now 39, married, and twice a father, Mr. Scott was originally a certified metal worker and labored five years in Russia. Ousted from his job in 1937, he stayed in Russia as a correspondent until his objective reporting on the Soviet-controlled world led to his expulsion in 1941.
Afterwards he joined the Time staff in Japan, served in Stockholm and Berlin during the war, and returned to the New York office last year as an editor.
EDITOR JOHN SCOTT And Several Awards for Excellence
10
The Scholastic
ERNIE BUCKLEY
In the Center of the Circle
Circle Elects Buckley To Fill Top Position
Elections for new officers of the Blue Circle Society were held recently, and the final tally of votes placed three new men in office immediately.
Heading the Blue Circle from now through next year are Chairman Ernie Buckley, a junior in the College of Commerce, hailing from Portland, Me.; Vice-Chairman Jack Bradshaw, who is a fourth year architecture student from Indianapolis, Ind:; and Secretary-Treasurer Art Lewis, junior in the College of Engineering, from Rocky River, Ohio.
These men replace Chairman Ed Noonan, Vice-Chairman Dick Cotter, and Secretary-Treasurer Vic Kroeger, who will he honored guests at the Blue Circle banquet next Wednesday night at Albie’s. Graduating seniors, and those who have served on the Circle for three semesters, will receive plaques at the banquet.
Twenty-four new members have been accepted into the Society. These men will fill the ranks depleted by graduation of an equal number of seniors.
Plans for the Freshman Orientation Program are now underway. Suggestions for the welcoming of the Freshmen may be made to Dick Wolfgram in 366 Dillon, or to Tom Hassenger ® in 237 Howard, the co-chairmen of the orientation program.
Three-Day Program Scheduled by University For 107th Commencement May 30 to June 1
By FRED ECKART
Trains and tassels flapping in the warm summer breeze are just around the corner! In three weeks those who have waited so patiently for the “big” day will receive their diplomas signifying their successful completion of college.
The One Hundred Seventh Annual Commencement Exercises of the University of Notre Dame have been set for Sunday, June 1. The complete commencement program, still tentative, is scheduled to begin Friday night, May 30, and to continue' until Sunday.
Friday at 7 p.m., the University Band will start things off at the Main Quadrangle with a concert. Following the concert, films will be shown in Washington Hall from 8:15 to 9:15.
The program for Saturday is the heaviest of the three-day affair. At 9 a.m. the Class of 1952 will make its last official visit to Sacred Heart Church. This ceremony, which will be preceded by an academic procession from the Main Building, will be solely for the graduating Class. Following the ceremony will be the procession from the Church to the Drill Hall.
There, at 10 o’clock, the Class Day Exercises will be conducted. The program will consist of the awarding of prizes, and the commissioning of the NROTC and the Air ROTC Units of the University.
That afternoon, from 1 to 2:30, Faculty “at homes” will afford the families of the Class of 1952 an opportunity to meet the faculty in the several offices, classrooms, and laboratories of the colleges, and to see the many interesting buildings and facilities of the University.
Following at 2:30 will be a baseball game pitting Notre Dame against the University of Indiana at Cartier Field.
To allow the families of the graduates to meet the president of the University, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and other University administrators, a reception by the University administration ■will be held from 4:30 to 5:30 in the Rockne Memorial.
At 6:30, the University Band will give another concert at the Main Quadrangle. Following wall be the annual Graduation Concert by the Glee Club, which will begin at 8 o’clock in Washington Hall. The world-famed Glee Club will be under the direction of Mr. Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music.
The “big” day will begin with an
academic procession in the University Stadium at 8:40 a.m. Immediately following the procession will be a Solemn Pontifical Mass. The Baccalaureate sermon will be given by the Most Rev. Patrick A. O’Boyle, archbishop of Washington, D. C. The Moreau Seminary Choir will sing at the Mass.
Immediately after the Mass, the flag, presented on Washington’s Birthday by the Class of 1952, will be blessed and raised.	'
The actual conferring of degrees will follow the academic procession in the Stadium at 1:40 p.m. The Commencement Address will be delivered by Dr. Charles Malik, Minister of Lebanon to the United States. Dr. Malik is also the Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights of the United Nations.
fTo date, 907 students are expected to receive diplomas. This total is divided among the various colleges as follows: A.B. (including Physical Education), 263; Engineering, 140; Science, 80; Commerce, 287; Law, 54; Graduate School, 83.
Leone to Play for Annual Monogram Dance Tomorrow
The Notre Dame Drill Hall will be the scene of the annual Monogram Club Spring Dance tomorrow night from 8:30 to 11:30. Dance Chairman Bill Gaudreau has announced that Mike Leone and his orchestra will provide the music, and decorations from tonight’s Senior Ball will remain up for the occasion.
Miss Mary Kelly of St. Mary’s College, Gaudreau’s date, will reign as dance queen for the evening. The dance will climax the highlighted Old Timers football game o'f the afternoon and is expected to attract many of the Irish alumni.
Dance tickets are priced at $1.50 and may be purchased at the door. Advanced ticket sales will be made through the hall representatives of the club or ducats may be purchased today or tomorrow at the- Dining Hall.
A special bus for- all dance-goers will be provided between Notre Dame and St. Mary’s.
Serving under Gaudreau on the dance committee are Walt Cabral in charge of refreshments, ticket handler Harry Snyder, and John O’Conner.
May 9, 1952
Senate System Replaces Student Council; Class Elections Provide First Test Monday
By AL SUWALSKY
This week the new constitution of the Notre Dame student body was ratified by a majority of the students. Ratification ended when the necessary 51 per cent had signed the petition circulated in the residence halls during the past two weeks.
The old constitution and Student Council were thereby voided and the Notre Dame Student Senate was made the official instrument of student government at the University.
Elections will be held under this plan Monday and Tuesday with the polls open from 11 a.m. until 7 p.m. Along with the elections there will be a referendum on the proposed $1 per semester student tax. The $10,000 collected is to give the Student Senate a working fund and enable them to lower dance prices.
Sophomores, juniors and off-campus students will vote in the Dining Hall, while freshmen will cast their ballots in the lobby of Washington Hall. Voting machines will probably be available, according to the Blue Circle Elections Committee Chairman, Tom Morsch. ID cards must be presented at the time of voting.
Under the Senate constitution only the posts of sophomore, junior and senior class officers, college senators and a Vetville senator will be elected at this time. Early in the next semester, freshman class officers and 14 hall senators will be chosen. The now-defunct Student Council will choose four of its members as parts of the “stay Senate/’
The 30 men comprising the Student Senate will include: four stay senators, four class presidents, five college repre5 sentatives, 14 hall representatives, an off-campus representative, a Vetville representative, and a graduate school representative.
The Law Association will elect a senator from among their membership as will the graduate students. The Vetville City Council will appoint a senator to look after their interests. College representatives will be elected in May and December and serve for one semester. Freshmen are being urged to look over the list of candidates from their college and find out something about them since none are members of the present Freshman Class.
The Senior Class elections may likely be the most interesting part of the race. There are seven candidates filed
for senior class president. Nominations for the other places on the ballot were less encouraging, particularly among the Freshman Class.
Results will not be disclosed until the conclusion of the balloting. Since elections will be held on two days there should be little waiting although a greater turn-out than in past elections is expected.
Regional Heads Slate NFCCS Parley Here
Sunday afternoon Notre Dame will be the site of a Fort Wayne Regional NFCCS Council meeting. At this last business meeting of the school year the new officers will assume their positions, and the final reports from the outgoing officers will be heard.
Approximately 50 representatives from the eight regional schools will attend the meeting, which will start at 1:30 in the Law Building.
Notre Dame’s representative among the incoming officers will be Marshall Desmond, regional treasurer. The new regional president, Miro Pregel, from St. Joseph’s College, will take over from the outgoing president, John O’Connell of Notre Dame.
The local NFCCS Council held their election of campus Senior Delegate this week. The man chosen was Marsh Desmond, who is at present junior delegate. He will assume his new post next Tuesday.
The election of the new NFCCS junior delegate has been scheduled for next Thursday at 5 p.m. in Room 100, Law Building. Under a new plan, those who will do the electing are the two highest officers in each club which participates in NFCCS work. Monday night is the deadline for nominations, which may be made by anyone eligible to vote. Those eligible for the office are present Sophomores or Freshmen with an 80 average and no major disciplinary record.
CHEERLEADER TRYOUTS
Tryouts for varsity cheerleader began yesterday and will continue through May 16 daily at 4 p.m. in the light apparatus room of the Rockne Memorial. Neil Vasconcellos is in charge.
NSA Congress Meets Aug. 18-27 at Indiana
The Fifth Annual National Student Congress of the U. S. National Student Association will feature highlights of the past academic year when more than 700 students representing approximately 300 colleges and 800,000 students meet to discuss student affairs on the campus, national, and international level from Aug. 18-27 at Indiana University in Bloomington.
With the theme “The Student and the Crisis in Education,” student government leaders from every section of the country, along with leading educators and student leaders in other countries, will examine the role which effective student government can play as a significant part of the educational community.
Leading national figures including Patrick Murphy Malin, director of the American Civil Liberties Union, will address the nine-day Congress, which will include debate on such questions of student interest as UMT, selective service policy, inter-collegiate athletics, the 18-year-old vote, and international student relations, along with the many workshops on all phases of student activity on campus.
The Congress will be preceded by a four-day College Newspaper Editors’ Conference and a similar Student Body Presidents’ Conference.
Poli Sci Academy to Honor 3 Students at Dinner Thursday
Present and future political science majors will attend the Academy of Political Science Awards Dinner Thursday in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle.
Cost of the dinner is $3. the academy having subsidized $1.50 of the original price. Members and future members may bring their own dates at that price. Also invited are St. Mary’s Poli Sci students and members of the faculty. Dancing will follow the dinner.
Besides serving as a farewell to graduating members and as an introduction of new political science majors, the banquet will honor three students for their work during the year.
Two awards, for outstanding leadership and for outstanding scholarship, will be given to students in the Department of Political Science. To the Notre Dame student who has made the greatest achievement in student government will go a third award.
Sirloin steak will be the main course of the dinner, set to begin at 7 p.m.
12
The Scholastic
* • Powers Hands 'Scholastic' Reins to Finney;
Carbone, Foote Named as Associate Editors
While most students at Notre Dame are looking ahead as far as June 1, the Scholastic is already looking ahead to next September. Successors have been named to the positions now held by the out-going seniors. Robert Finney, a junior-engineer from Kansas City, Mo., will sit in the editor’s chair vacated by Jack Powers.
Succeeding Finney and John Meaney at the associate editors’ posts will be Don Carbone, a junior journalism major student from Chicago who is the current news editor, and Thomas Foote, another journalism junior from Ellsworth, Kans., who is current assistant sports editor.
At the head of the news staff will be Patrick Carrico of Louisville, Carbone’s assistant on the present staff. Carrico is an arts and letters sophomore. Aiding him will be Larry Brehl, a freshman AB from Washington, Pa., and Pete Connolly, an AB freshman who calls Rye, N. Y., his home. Both Brehl and Connolly moved up from positions as writers on the news staff.
Taking ovex- Jack Varley’s post as chief of the sports department will be Jack Sand, an arts and letters sophomore from Newark, N. J. Assisting him will be Bill Noonan, a sophomore from Irvington, N. J., who will rise to Foote’s present job from his position as a sportswriter.
The feature writing will receive its
BOB FINNEY
Editor . . .
final editing from Ed Giacomini of Thermopilis, Wyo., a juniox- journalist. Giacomini is filling the vacancy which will be made by the graduation of Dick Cody.
Next yeai’ the job of collecting and coordinating the advertising in the Scholastic will fall to Tom Murphy, a junior’ journalism major from Green Bay. He succeeds Ronald Zier.
Circulation continues under the direction of Bill Kerwin, a junior who follows the Commerce line and who hails from Freeport, N. Y.
DON CARBONE
. . . and . . .
Dr. Simon Is Guest Speaker At Grad School Breakfast
The Annual Communion Breakfast of the Graduate Students’ Association will be held in the Morris Inn on Sunday, May 18.
Rev. Phillip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School, will celebrate a special Mass for members of the Association in Dillon Hall Chapel at 9 a.m.
Guest speaker’ for the Communion Breakfast, which will follow in the Dining Room of the Inn, will be Dr. Yves R. Simon, a former faculty mem-bei’ at Notre Dame and now on the staff of the Department of Philosophy, University of Chicago.
Tickets for the breakfast are obtainable from representatives of the Asso-
TOM FOOTE . . . Associates
ciation at §1.75 pei’ person. Members of the Arrangement Committee have requested that tickets be purchased before Wednesday, May 14, so that seating arrangements might be completed.
ROTC Units' Review Honors ND President
More than 1400 future officers of the Armed Forces took part in a combined review of the Navy, Air Force, and Army ROTC units here Saturday as a tribute to Rev. John J. . Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s retiring president.
Military dignitaries on the reviewing stand during the testimonial review included Rear Admiral Francis P. Old, commandant of the Ninth Naval District; Maj. Gen. Harry A. Johnson, commanding general of the Tenth Air Force; and Col. John Boos, representing Gen. A. C. Smith, commanding general of the Fifth Anny Headquarters.
Awards for outstanding military achievement were made during the review to 37 students in the three Notre Dame military training units. Bill Hayden and Don Riley, who won individual national championships in the William Randolph Hearst ROTC Rifle Competition, were presented awards symbolic of their national titles.
The Honorable John A. Scott, mayor of South Bend, delivered the testimonial address honoring Father Cavanaugh and praised the accomplishments at Notre Dame during his administration.	,
May 9, 1952
13
NEW PIER FOR SUNBATHERS
Place Your Reservations Early
Father Cavanaugh, Fay, Boland on Rostrum At Revival of Annual Senior Dinner Thursday
Seniors at Notre Dame will revive an old tradition with the re-inauguration of the annual Senior Dinner scheduled for this coming Thursday in the East Dining Hall. The Senior Dinner, a traditional affair at Notre Dame previous to the war, represented the last major function of the Senior Class and was the scene of vaudeville skits depicting the humorous aspects of the past year.
This year’s Senior Dinner will have as principal speaker Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University. Bill Fay, sports editor of Collier's, graduate of Notre Dame in the class of 1938 and editor of that year’s Scholastic, will address the students. Also scheduled for a brief address is Mr. James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni Association.
Joe Boland, sports announcer for WSBT, South Bend Tribune station, and Notre Dame graduate of 1938 when he played Varsity football, will act as master of ceremonies for the evening. Harking back to the traditional senior affair, one of the high
lights of the evening will be a humorous essay presented by Lee Steiden, Commerce senior, on the events of the year.
Among the guests at the speaker’s table will be Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president, and Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs.
Seniors will be treated to a particularly sumptuous meal including fruit cocktail, roast prime rib of beef, asparagus tips, French fried potatoes, chef salad, assorted rolls, olives and celery. For dessert the menu calls for-chocolate sundae with coffee, iced tea, or milk as a beverage.
The University Orchestra under the direction of Mr. Charles Biondo is scheduled to play dinner music during the meal. The chairman of the Blue Circle committee in charge of the Senior Dinner states that tickets are available through senior hall council representatives. Price for the dinner has been placed at $1, the University handling the major expense of the meal.
Swimmers Welcome t New Pier and Boards
New joy filled the hearts of Irish “sun-worshippers” recently when construction of a new $3,000 pier on St. Joseph’s Lake was completed.
The pier, 60 feet long and 16 feet wide, has been installed to facilitate and provide safety for the many students who swim in the lake.
Everything on the pier is completely new, including the pilings, stringers, girders, and, of course, the platform itself. The outstanding feature of the new pier are the high and low diving boards along with the life-guard stand, which is shaded by a huge sun umbrella.
Carpenter Foreman Lucian Urbanski and his four-man crew began erecting the pier three weeks ago, and with the cooperation of the many swimmers who * patronize St. Joe’s daily, the job was completed several days ago.
Secretary's Chorus Plans May 18 Recital
The girls’ chorus of Notre Dame, composed of secretaries and library workers from the campus, will present its initial concert Sunday, May 18, at ’ Washington Hall.
At 8:15 p.m. conductor Cliff Caluette will unveil a program comprising a variety of selections from both modern and classical musicians, sung by the chorus of 24 voices coupled with piano and choral solos.
Dick Casper will be the featured accompanist and will also play several solo numbers. Miss Margaret Chung, featured vocalist in the aggregation, will sing Morning, by Oley Speaks and ” Puccini’s One Fair Day in her solo appearances.
Director Caluette has also singled out three of his best singers, Gene Gooley, Arlene Sieve, and Evelyn Mager, to form a trio to add variety to the program with Claude Debussy’s ever-popular Claire de Lune. The entire chorus will handle such perennial favorites as My Hero, I'll Get By, and Italian Street Sony.
The chorus has been formed to give the girls employed on campus an opportunity to enjoy a relaxing recreational period, and it also provides them with a chance to obtain professional help if they take singing seriously.
On the other hand, Director Caluette sees in the project an excellent background and experience for himself in preparation for future musical teaching. Admission is free and the general ‘ -public is cordially invited.
14 .
The Scholastic
BADIN BOGBALL
Photos
by
BOB
HUDDLESTON
Sunshine makes a and rain a morass, cars are parked on passed over it. But
dustbow]
of
People cross
it, it,
it, footballs are not until Spring
and does For ball
the accompanying softball games Badin Bog really begin to live, there you’ll see, if not the best in the world, certainly the cheap-
plate of a protruding pipe, the tree which functions as third base, and the fire hydrant in left-center field only add to the color. There’s a scoreboard, of the scratched-in-the-dirt variety. There are box seats, bleachers, and grandstands. In fact, there’s just
about everything except hot popc^] and cold beer. But you
•rn
can never
est and most colorful. And the home
tell - .
He's one Casey who didn't strike out.
Perhaps the choicest bogball seats can be found on the Badin porch-bleachers
which provide an excellent view of the color, of the thrills, of every exciting play.
And it's on with the old ball game.


May 9, 1952
15
Should Students Be Taxed by the Council?
Pro
By JIM MANNION
Complaints have already been overheard about the campus concerning the proposal which is to come before the students for a vote Monday and Tuesday. Perhaps an investigation of the purposes behind, and the potential results of the proposal to assess each student $1 per semester to compile a student activity fund might quell these complaints.
The plan originated in the Student Council — that is, it came from the students and will be submitted to the students for their approval. (This is a situation where the student can voice his opinion concerning an assessment prior to the action — unlike the compulsory assessment which took place when the present mailbox system was installed).
We cannot contend that the Administration will accept the outcome of the poll, but at least they will know student opinion concerning the proposal.
Fee Charged to Students' Accounts
There is the background, here are the facts. The assessment could be billed to every student per his account in the student accounts office and carried over to the student government.
Student activities in the past have been supported by the revenue from the victory dances, so consequently a minority have been supporting functions which are properly the burden of all. The estimated revenue to be gained from the assessment would produce the following results:
1.	The Blue Circle would receive greater allotments to widen the scope of such group-benefit activities as the freshman orientation program, guide services, and information booths.
Aid to Athletic Teams
2.	Each of the Hall Councils would receive a $100 grant which would permit them to increase their too-few social activities — hall parties, dinners, etc.
3.	Minor athletic teams at present not supported by the athletic " office could find support from the Student Council until they gained recognition . •—tumbling team, bowling.- team, vol-j: leybalL.team, and sailing team. .
4.	Wider representation of national' student'.groups at which Notre Dame should be represented.	...
5.	More activities of the nature of
Con
By REGIS MURRIN
Since 1946 student government at Notre Dame has evolved at a rapid pace under the inspiration of a few able and energetic individuals. The progress has been remarkable, the “guiding lights” can proudly stand back on their record. But it must be remembered that student government and the related activities have been spontaneous growths, originating to a great extent in the student body and always relying on student-inspired machinery for operation.
Now we are faced with a program whereby each student will be assessed one dollar for a student activity fund to be collected by the Office of Students’ Accounts. Is this in keeping with the democratic spirit which fathered the current Student Council, or with the spirit of equality which gives to the entire student body a gift denied them at “socialite” schools?
Too Many Recipients
The advocates of such a measure of
fer a series of arguments which seem to be overwhelming at first glance. At present, the student activities fund is supported solely by victory dances. Under the proposed plan, the Blue Circle would, receive funds, the NFCCS would receive funds, minor athletic teams would receive funds, the academy of Political Science would receive funds, WND would receive funds and victory
the Student Musical, Mock Convention and Choose your Major Program could be scheduled with adequate financial support.
Non-Profit Victory Dances
6.	Projects such as WND broadcasting of away basketball games when not carried by local stations could be undertaken.
7.	As the victory dances have been the prime and only source of revenue— the cost this year hovered around $2— with this added source of revenue these dances could be run on a nonprofit basis and the admission charges fixed at a price that would nearly cover costs.
These are the facts—you have the opportunity to sanction or kill the Student Self Assessment Plan at the polls Monday and Tuesday.
dances would be gratis. A great Notre Dame “pork barrel” would be created I which would only add to a problem already present in the allocation of student funds. As a member of the Charity Chest I know the problem involved in the granting of money to numerous worthy causes lauded by all. What would be the result in the proposed “give me” contest where the participants would be unpopular and even questionable in some cases?
Not Fair to Non-Dance Goers
Should the student who is not interested in victory dances pay so others may go? Can funds collected democratically by the Student Council, the representatives of the entire student body, be given to the minor sports which have not been fully recognized by the official athletic office? And what of the plan to use the adminis-tration of the University as a medium for collecting this $10,000 fund, conceived by the student representative body, the Council? To me it seems to be an about face from the spirit of Student government at Notre Dame.
Finally let us think of those who will pay a large share of this $10,000 and who will have no voice in the plan, the incoming Freshmen of the Class of 1956.
Violates Democratic Spirit
As a graduating senior I have seen four years of life at Notre Dame. Filed away in my mind I have the memories which have made the city of Our Lady wonderful to me. Foremost among these is the democratic solidarity of the student body, its spontaneity of action. To me the proposed tax, is “benevolent । paternalism,’.’ a burden, an attack on the freedom of choice of the individual student, the creation of a Frankenstein Monster, $10,000 worth, which in its collecting method and distribution can only weaken one of ND’s greatest gifts to its citizens.
Lawmen in Photo-Finish Win At Pre-Derby Spring Dance
A fast track, a large starting field, a call to the post by Gene Hull and they were off and dancing at the “Barrister’s Derby,” the annual Spring law dance at the South Bend Country Club last Friday night.
Trading their torts for scratch sheets, some 150 aspiring lawyers and their dates waltzed to the tuneful melodies of Gene Hull and his Lettermen in a genuine track atmosphere. Toby Barry and the decoration committee
16
The Scholastic
transformed the country club into a replica of a race track replete with scratch sheets as programs.
An authentic touch was achieved by enclosing the dancing area within the track itself.
Various Occupational Positions, Fellowships Offer Opportunities for Notre Dame Grads
By JOE LEASER
Festivities began at 9 p.m. with the grand march led by co-queens Kaye Fena and Ariis Enburg, respective spouses of Co-Chairmen Jack Fena and Bob Enburg, and came to a photofinish close at 1 a.m.
Freshman Frolic Converts 'Rock' to a Nocturnal Paris
They danced till one in the morning, drifted two-by-two to the Morris Inn, and at two in the morning of May 3, well over 300 freshmen and a like number of young ladies were recounting the hours of “Nocturne Parisienne” as remembered to the music of Benny Strong.
There was disbelief in many female eyes when their owners were told that the original function of the “Rock” was a gymnasium. Joe O’Donnell and Jim Barry crowned Misses Janice Rog-
The United States Civil Service Commission has announced an examination for highway engineers and highway bridge engineers to fill positions in the Bureau of Public Roads and other federal agencies in Washington, D. C., and throughout the country. Salaries range from §4,205 to §5,940 a year.
To qualify, applicants must have a Bachelor’s degree in engineering or at least four years of progressive technical engineering experience or a combination of such education and experience. From one to three years of professional engineering experience is required, part of which must have been in highway or highway bridge engineering. No written tests are required.
Information may be obtained at most first and second class post offices, from regional Civil Service offices or direct from the U. S. Civil Service Commis-
Applications should be submitted to the Institute of International Education, 2 West 45th Street, New York 19, N. Y.
College graduates and second semester seniors with credit for one year of college physics and mathematics through integral calculus are now eligible to apply for USAF commissions and government expense training to become weather officers.
Successful applicants will be commissioned as second lieutenants and sent to study meteorology at one of seven participating colleges. Those interested who will graduate before August of this year are urged to write as soon as possible to the Chief, Air Weather Service, Andrews Air Force Base, Washington 25, D. C., for forms and detailed instruction.
ers and Jeanne Benish respectively, the glee club octet gave out with Rigo-letto’s quartet, and June Hovis told the story of “Rose of San Antone” all in the festivities which were called collectively the Freshman Frolic.
Couples took time out from dancing to inspect the walls muraled in chalk which so strikingly lent the atmosphere of Paris to the “Rock.”
To the pianissimo refrain of Goodnight, Sweetheart, the class of ’55 ended successfully its first social event.
sion, Washington 25, D. C.
British Universities Offer Places
Five leading British universities, including Oxford and the University of London, are offering American graduate students places in this year’s Summer School Program. The cost—including tuition, meals and residence— ranges from §68 to §201.60. A limited number of grants to cover part of the fees is offered by the participating schools. .
PLACEMENT NEWS
Federal Bureau of Investigation representatives will be at Notre Dame Wednesday to conduct tests and individual interviews. Only those students whose application forms were on file in the FBI office in Indianapolis by Wednesday, May 7, will be . tested and interviewed here.
Derby at the Country Club . . .
. . . and Paris at the ‘Rock’
May 9, 1952
17
Nautical
Almost every day the
trim craft can
water, boats draws
two this the and
rated Purdue team which has won of the Midwest’s major regattas season. In their other two meets Irish fared less well, finishing fifth sixth.
Rigging at the advice
Photos by BOE
Text by 0
I

I I



Since its inception in the Fall of 1947 and its membership in the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association in the Spring of 1948, the University of Notre Dame’s Sailing Team has progressed steadily to become one of the Association’s leading teams. The team has competed in the Midwest finals each year, and though it has never finished high enough to compete in the National Collegiate Championships, ^e team feels that this is the year. ™
Composed mostly of underclassmen, the Irish sailors got off to a fast start this year by taking the Indiana State Championship Regatta from a highly
You can t sail them
t I
until they’re in
the the pier and
comments mers and Then, the place and
from swimsunbathers, last line in sails hoist-
ed, they’re off.
Team officials believe their lack of success in the last two regattas was due to the fact that they try to give each member a chance to prove his worth under competition, thus developing more and more good sailors, and also that the MCSA does not require a standard class of boats. The ND sailors have two Penguin class boats recently purchased from their own funds.

^ut Nee
HUDDLESTON
U MURPHY
number
of possible points.
■>e seen on St. Joseph’s lake.
Interest is high in the club, and the belief is that it could be higher if all equipment and regatta expenses did not fall on the individual member. At present the team is negotiating with the University for financial support in order to get more boats to train more men — consequently coming up with a better team. Old “salts” on the team clajm sailing is as easy as driving a ea"when you get the hang of it.
Anyone who would like to join the team is invited to come to the lake any afternoon, or watch his hall bulletin board for notices of meetings. No experience is necessary. “All we want is the man,” the secretary quipped. “We’ll make a sailor of him.”
In annual competition the Notre Dame team faces regular Big Ten squads and other Midwest independents, including Bowling Green, De-Pauw, St. Louis, and Washington of St. Louis.
Ed Rodgers, Commodore of the team, is Notre Dame’s leading skipper and ranks among the five best skippers in the MCSA, with a .704 percentage. The percentages are figured by dividing the number of points scored by the

Out on the lake there's a stiff breeze, the boats heel and crews ride the gunwales while the skipper keeps a weather eye on his sail. Then they’re abreast and it’s a race back to the pier.
Addleman Scores All Way ’Round
Stay Tuned for Addleman offers conclusive proof that the student musical is here to stay.
Following the lead set last year by Mr. and Mrs. Broadway, the all-student production was a rousing success in 'every department during its five-night stand which concluded last night. The biggest problem in appraising the show is where to begin passing out superlatives. The acting, the dialogue, the scenery were all tremendous. It was obvious from the orchestra that a lot of hard work had gone into Addleman to make it the success that it was, and all persons connected with the show ought to be pretty well satisfied with the final result. It was a show which could be seen over and over.
A Team Job All the Way
It would be impossible to single out any one person, or group of persons, as being mainly responsible for its success. It was a team job all the way, in every department, and there wasn’t much more that could have been asked. One feature which was quite surprising was the homogeneity of high quality, and it was most noticeable in the acting. Everyone, from Charles Schubert as Addleman right down to Tom Cassidy as the radio announcer and Joe Huebner as Flagstep, gave truly fine performances. There didn’t seem to be an amateur in the whole cast.
Jack Hynes, Charley Schubert and Jerry Costello did a polished job on the book. The story is about Irv Addleman, a New York disc jockey,-who is a success on an all-night show. But Addleman wants to branch out into the finer things, against the advice of his secretary and manager, and lands a job selling Granby toasters on a classical music show. It flops, but Addleman rises again in TV, gets his secretary, who has loved him all the while, his manager gets his sponsor’s daughter and the sponsor sells a lot of toasters — all of which makes everyone happy.
Small Touches Add Sparkle
The show didn’t have as many lavish production numbers as last year’s show but it had more and better dialogue, really sharp- and witty. It ran quite long — two and a half hours — and yet it never dragged. Small quick touches added here and there kept it moving and added to its sparkle. There were a couple of Joe Miller originals
By JACK MEANEY
Associate Editor
slipped in but they were inserted so deftly one never realized they were years old.
Besides helping write the book, Jerry Costello also wrote all 11 songs. It may have been tu the show’s disadvantage— and Mr. Costello’s — that he was so adept at song writing. There were so many different numbers that no one song became fixed in the showgoer’s mind, although perhaps Organization and Delight may be exceptions.
Jack Hynes did the directing—with invaluable aid from Prof. John Turn-pane—and despite the fact he had never done any work of this type before, he turned in a professional job. Dick Byrnes’ work on the sets was truly amazing. The scenery was as good as we’ve ever seen here, far better than one would expect from amateurs. His use of the projection screen was something that isn’t seen often outside the professional houses. Leon Silvers and Tom Powers did fine jobs on the choreography, particularly on the silhouette routine.
Two Air Tours of Caribbean Area Arranged by NFCCS
Caribbean Trailblazer, a two-week student tour by air of the West’indies and Central America, has been arranged by the National Federation of Catholic College Students and the National Newman Club Federation. Cost exclusive of personal expenses is $434.15 from New York.
There will be two identical tours, one July 5-18, the other Aug. 2-15. The student tourists will leave New York by plane for Nassau—with stops at Philadelphia, Washington and Miami for other passengers—and will stay in the Bahamas two days.
Included in the rest of the tour are two days in Haiti, three in Jamaica, five in Guatemala, and a final day in Miami.
Reservations and requests for information may be addressed to NNCF/ NFCCS Caribbean Cruises, care of Resort Airlines, 620 Fifth Avenue, New York 20, N. Y.
Now for the cast. Charley Schubert had the part written for him and it was a perfect fit. Somehow or other he looked like Robert Q. Lewis and	i-
some of the other bifocaled gentry currently peering from the TV screens. Nancy Driscoll was a sprightly package imported from the West and you wouldn’t have believed it. Bill Toohey continued his fine performances on the Washington Hall stage and gave out with a fine rendition of Delight. Playing a rather old person is usually difli-	;
cult for young people, but Walter Swift was as convincing a Granby as anyone could have wanted. Jean Artessani turned a beautiful cold shoulder, quite befitting a wealthy man’s daughter. 0
Driscoll Finds His Vocation
Among the lesser lights, Tom Craig as Floyd seemed quite true to life, perhaps because he’s been here four years and lives on Long Island. A lady went backstage after the first performance last Sunday night to hire Tom Driscoll	1
and she wouldn’t believe he wasn’t a	'
real butler. Fred Poehler seemed to enjoy playing Bruno, and Bill Delaney read water meters in Brooklyn all last summer, so he was really a semi-professional. Other stickouts were Irv ' Carrig, Jack Corcoran, Gerry Godwin, John Burke, Fred Esser, Bill Gorman and Abou Ben Fager, Hildegarde Var-gyas, Joe Hubner and Paul Corcoran.
Numbers that shone through were the silhouette dance by Eleanor Kaskey and Leon Silvers and the act that Tony Critelli and Tom Foley put on. That dance number of theirs surprised a lot of people.
The Musical's Made Its Mark
Boys in the chorus were: Richard Bennett, Paul Harrington, Pete Regan, Wally Purcell, Dick O’Donnell, John Moran, Ronald Smith, Francis Ferro.
Chorus girls were: Nancy McGrue, Margie Carner, Nancy Schroeder, Meri Doyle, Eleanor Kaskey, Sylvia Micin-ski, Shirley Przybysz, Shirley Smith, Judy Felix, Donna Campbell, Barbara Gardner. The special tap routine was devised by Sally Ramp.
A special accolade also should go to Lou Martinello who sweated over a hot keyboard from the first rehearsal.
Yes, next year’s crew will have to go quite a way to top Stay Tuned for Addleman. It showed the musical is definitely here to stay.
20
The Scholastic

a hit to remember.
man
“Mister Disk Jockey" number, staged against projected backdrop, sets pace for the show.
Photos by BILL DeCRICK
Where's studio C?” A bewildered Tex Ritter :.dds to a radio producer's many troubles.
TWO MEN on a tricycle ... a pintsized Lothario . . . silhouetted dancers . . . hefty hoofers in zoot suits . . . Check, Check, and Check, the triplicated admen — these and many other "little touches," catchy tunes, and scenes like these made "Addle-
Addleman tells the gang
about advantages of “Organiza-
tksn” in one of show’s outstanding and memorable numbers.
Out for a lively stroll, the guys and dolls celebrate “A Day in the Country" beneath the Washington Hall greenery.
Raoul,
the poor man’s
Picasso, attacks Addleman s sponsor
for failing to ‘‘contact the muses.” Faithful Bruno stands by.
Drinking Water Will How to Student Rooms In University Plans for New Utilities System
By PHIL BOLIN
Next fall when Notre Dame students return to their Alma Mater to begin another school year, they will find a new facility in their* rooms which they have been longing for these many years. This innovation will be drinking water in all of the taps.
To make this modern convenience possible, a huge water tower tank is now being constructed here at Notre Dame by the Chicago Bridge and Iron Construction Co.
The new tower, estimated to cost well over $100,000, is being erected next to the power plant. It will stand 180 feet in the air, while the tankwill hold 500,000 gallons of water.
The tank will be supplied by three major wells. One will deliver a million and a half gallons of water, while each of the other two will supply a million gallons.
At present there are two types of systems which supply the University with an average of a million gallons of water a day. Both of these systems are operated by pumps, located at various points throughout the campus, which supply both lake and well water for domestic and drinking purposes respectively. '
Revamp Power House
. After the water tank has been installed, there will be only one system which will supply water for all purposes. This system will pump water from wells as well as store it in the new tank.
The water tower is expected to be completed sometime in August.
Another interesting project which is now being undertaken by the Notre Dame Utility Department is,, the revamping of the present power'’ h6use.-
One of the four old boiled" hash already been fitted with a complete new setting plus water walls. This boiler has also been converted from coal to oil firing.
The three remaining old- boilers will be removed by next falD*, In their place, two new 475-pound ^pressure boilers, which will have a'capacity of over 70,000 pounds of steam per hour, will be installed. These two boilers will be fired with coal.
The total capacity of all three boilers will be 180,000 pounds of steam
per hour, approximately double the capacity of the old units.
New Water Treatment
Within a week or two, work will begin on a new addition to the present power plant. This extension will provide additional required space for the larger boilers and auxiliaries, a new water treatment plant, electrical distribution switch-gear," and the power generating equipment, which consists of a 2,000 KW turbine alternator and two 1,000 KW generators, each driven by 1,600 HP Diesel engines.
Another sizable project which the Utility Department has planned is the installation of a new 6’ x 6’ steam distribution tunnel. This tunnel, which will effect only the east side of the campus, will extend from the powerhouse to the present tunnel at Farley Hall.
After the present piping in the tunnel from Farley to the Engineering Building has been revamped, steamreducing valves will be installed in the various buildings on the east half of the campus.
The west side of the campus will continue to operate with low pressure.
$2,000,000 Project
A fourth project to be started soon will be the installing of an underground. duct system from the power plant to the new Liberal and Fine Arts Building.
This duct system will carry four electrical circuits which will supply the campus buildings as well as eliminate the present overhead single circuit, which is hazardous and overloaded.	J;
The total cost for the undertaking bf all these projects will be approximately $2,000,000.
The man who has been largely responsible for the planning of all of these projects of the Notre Dame Utility Department is Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., superintendent of the power house. He has labored many hours with the Albert Kahn Associated Archi- • tects & Engineers, Inc., of Detroit in organizing these projects to provide Notre Dame with the best facilities possible.
Council Approves Bid f For Storage Service
After an involved discussion, the Student Council at its last meeting approved one of the two student storage ' concession bids. Available to students for the summer months, the approved concession will offer storage near the University, insurance from fire, theft, and vandalism, and will provide transportation with two 2%-ton trucks.
Jay Baier and Pat O’Malley, sophomores operating the concession, contracted with the Student Council to store large items such as trunks and chests for $2.75; a second large item will be 50 cents less. Small items such as floor lamps, radios, throw rugs will be stored for $1.75, with the second smaller item 75 cents less.
The two concessionaires, who will shortly publish additional information on their service, have also announced that they will buy used furniture from seniors and will resell the furniture next fall.
The Council also voted $800 to the Jim Aoki fund at the recommendation of Hank McCormack, charity chest chairman. The appropriated funds will cover institution expenses for the last part of Aoki’s convalescence.
Junior class President Floyd Blair presented a motion to form a committee of class and Student Council officers to meet with a group of the administrators to discuss the alleged outdated “blue book” of University student regulations. .Resulting from student complaints to the council, the committee was to have met Wednesday to arrange for the meeting with the administrators.
Council President Jim Garvin noted the lack of candidates for the coming class elections, and recommended to the council members that they publish this fact to stimulate more interest in the office elections.
DeCrane Wins Breen Medal
Al DeCrane was adjudged winner of the Breen medal in the annual Breen Oratorical contest held recently in the Engineering Auditorium. The title of his speech was “Black”; it dealt with the existing racial problems in this country.
DeCrane, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, is majoring in speech. He is president of the Debate Team and a,member of the Blue Circle and the Bookmen.
The judges of the Breen contest last week were Mr. William Eisen, Mr. Frederick Govern, and Mr. Leonard Sommer of the Department of Speech.
22
The Scholastic
> Liberal Arts Corner Laying Set for May 24
Cornerstone-laying ceremonies for the new I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts will be held at 10:15 a. m. Saturday, May 24, as a part of the joint weekend meeting of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, and the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce.
The University Administration has invited members of the Notre Dame student body to attend the ceremonies, which will be held at the site of the new building now under construction at the east end of the main quadrangle. In order to make it possible for the entire student body to attend the ceremonies, Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., has announced that there will be no final examinations given during the period from 10 a. m. to noon that day.
I. A. O’Shaughnessy of St. Paul, Minn., president of the Globe Oil and Refining Company, donated $2,173,533 to the University for construction of the new building. Mr. O’Shaughnessy is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame. Construction of the building was started last Summer, and final completion is scheduled for next Spring.
Mr. O’Shaughnessy will attend in order to participate in the ceremonies. Principal address at the ceremonies will be delivered by Dr. Mortimer Adler, of the University of Chicago, who will speak on “The Liberal Arts in th’e Development of the Western World.”
Murray Receives Laetare Medal in Gotham Ceremony
Notre Dame formally conferred its 1952 Laetare Medal, awarded annually to the outstanding American Catholic layman, on Thomas E. Murray, of New .York ?City, a .member of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, in ceremonies in New York Monday aft-ernoon.'
His ■ Eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman, archbishop of New York, presided at the ceremonies. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, presented the Laetare Medal to Mr. Murray.
Father Cavanaugh, . in the citation accompanying the medal, told Mr. Murray that Notre Dame selected him for the honor “because of your contri-butions as an inventor in the field of y engineering, and because in an age when a' spirit of materialism and un
belief has infected many in the domain of science and engineering, you have stood out as a champion of Christian principle.”
Annual Law Institute Slated forNextWeek
The annual Practising Law Institute, under the joint sponsorship of the Notre Dame College of Law and the Indiana State Bar Association, will be held May 16 and 17 in the Law Auditorium. Chairman for this year’s Institute is Mr. Harrison Church, Elkhart attorney; faculty moderator is Mr. Roger Peters.
In an effort to make this year’s Institute extremely valuable to the practising attorney, as well as to the Notre Dame law students, the president of the St. Joseph County Bar Association, Mr. Joseph Hemphling, has given much assistance.
The Institute will consist of three panel sessions, the opening one a discussion of Title abstracting and Title insurance. Composing the panel will be Mr. Arthur L. May, Mr. Horace B. Clarke, and Mr. Charles M. Boynton. Prof. Robert E. Sullivan will be the moderator.
I got that trick — I think!
To achieve a complete analysis of the new proposed Indiana Probate Code, authorities from all over the state have been enlisted to take part in the second panel discussion. Mr. Harvey A. Gra-bill, Mi’. Verne G. Cawley, and Mr. John W. Schindler, Sr., will serve on this panel, moderated by Prof. William Dewey Rollison.
The final session will concern Federal Income Tax, particularly as regards the new 1951 provision in the Internal Revenue Code as affecting the sale of residences, and the tax implications of property dispositions emanating from divorce and separation settlements.
Mr. John M. Sullivan, Mr. William T. Oare, and Mr. Charles J. Sullivan will appear on this panel. Prof. Roger Peters will be the moderator.
Next Friday night the annual Hoynes Dinner will be held at the Morris Inn, in honor of the graduating law seniors. All members and participants upon securing reservations by Tuesday of the Institute are invited to attend with Mr. Harold J. Cook, Mr. Harrison Church or Maynard R. Bissonnette, student chairman of this year’s Institute.
May 16, 1952
23
Waited £(uu^ul:
Man From Texas
By MORT LUBY
but Spanish classes for about eight years. Suddenly he found himself at the helm of both the tennis and the fencing squads in 1940 when the former coach, Professor deLandero, returned to Mexico. Despite an already burdensome schedule, Langford has led his teams to repeated success through the years.
Perhaps the best indication that a man will achieve some sort of greatness at Notre Dame is the measure of his affection for the University. There is no doubt that the greats of Notre Dame history, like Sorin and Rockne, had a deep emotional devotion to Notre Dame. The man sitting in Knute Rockne’s old athletic office behind a mountain of uncorrected Spanish quizzes loves Notre Dame too. He loves it with the unassuming zeal and talent that makes up Notre Dame greatness. The quiet sort of distinction that characterizes Walter Langford— the head of the Modern Language department, the winning coach of tennis and fencing, and a man who has given Notre Dame men a live and inspiring look at Latin America and the international set in general.
Walter Langford was born 46 years ago in Haskell, Texas. During his grade and high school years he learned Spanish and how to field a hot grounder while playing baseball with his Mexican school pals along the Rio Grande.
He came to Notre Dame in September 1924. Mr. Langford recalls his first night in Howard Hall when a group of muscular football players invaded the hall selling Scholastics, which were supposed to have been paid for along with tuition. Naive freshmen laid out twenty-five cents for the magazines on the pretense that it was a special issue, published especially for the new students. And special it was. For the Scholastic heralded the fact that the basketball team had been drubbed by Wisconsin . . . only eight months before.
Tennis to Baseball
The gridiron speculators evidently had not soured Walter Langford on athletics for he joined the freshman tennis team that year. Tennis was deserted in his sophomore year for interhall baseball, which during the twenties was a prominent campus activity. Notre Dame used to tangle with local factory and high school teams in those days.
Notre Dame was not all baseball and study to Walter Langford. Evidently
the friends he had made with the Roman collars and his trips to the shaded sanctuary of the Grotto had left their effect too. For after some gentle urging from his convert mother and a close friend, he was baptized by Father O’Hara, who was then Prefect of Religion.
Langford graduated from Notre Dame in 1931 and returned to Mexico to work at the National University of Mexico. After an uneventful year as
WALTER LANGFORD
Tennis, Fencing, Modern Languages
a bank cashier in Texas he felt a longing for Notre Dame. He called up Father Carrico, then director of studies, who asked Langford how he was getting along. Langford replied that “it sure would be swell to be back.” Father Carrico evidently thought this was a fine idea too, for Langford was requested to return to Notre Dame the next term to teach Spanish.
Since then he has been immersed in a number of campus activities. Walter Langford thought his schedule was plenty heavy when he taught nothing
Three Undefeated Seasons
Since he began coaching the tennis team, the squad has enjoyed three undefeated seasons in 1942, 1944, and 1947. They tied for the NCAA team championship in 1944. Until 1951 Langford’s teams have made Notre Dame the only Midwestern school in the country to score points in the NCAA’s championship Garfield Bowls. Last year the Irish racketeers had their first losing season. Coach Langford is making elaborate plans to avenge last year’s 5 won 6 lost season.
Langford says in all his years of experience with athletics he will never forget the Notre Dame-Wisconsin meet in 1949. The Irish arrived in Madison that year with a mediocre team expecting to take a good whipping. And after they had lost four of the six singles it looked like they were just about washed up. The doubles matches dragged on an hour and a half past the regular time, but Notre Dame came through to win all three doubles. Although the Badgers had a distinctly better squad that year, Coach Langford says, “It was the Notre Dame spirit and fight that upset them.”
Sporting the most enviable record of any Irish athletic squad, Langford’s fencers represent perhaps the only sport at Notre Dame where the novice can win a monogram without any previous experience in the sport. Coach Langford says that 99 per cent of the men that turn out for his squad have never touched an epee, foil, or saber in their lives. For a team that can boast a record of only five losses over a six-year period, this is quite phenomenal. During the war years, between 1943 and 1946, the potential Errol Flynns had to suspend operations due to a lack of good material.
A Green ND Squad
Most good college fencing teams are from cities that are fencing centers — that is, where fencing is an organized sport in high school and city athletics. This is especially true in the East where teams are of outstandingly high calibre. It is then quite surprising that a green Notre Dame squad should cap-
(Continued on Page 32)
24
The Scholastic
Old Timers to Test Varsity Tomorrow
Large Crowd Expected for Traditional Tilt As Irish Wind Up Spring Practice Sessions
By JACK SAND
Tomorrow afternoon the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame will unveil what many spectators and sports writers consider to be the unofficial starting array that will line up next Fall, as they tangle with the former’ ND greats in the annual Old Timers’ game commencing at 2:30 p.m. in the Stadium. The game will be under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley as has been the case for the past several years, with all the proceeds going to their scholastic scholarship fund.
Martin Leads Returning Veterans
Among the returning veterans who played such a prominent part in the glorious Irish football history will be four members of the 1949 National Champions, in addition to a couple of real old timers from the 1942 and 1946 teams.. Leading the parade of oldsters will be Jim Martin, co-captain
JIM MUTSCHELLER '51 Captain in Action Again
and All-American tackle in ’49 along with another fine tackle, Gus Cifelli. Fleet halfback Ernie Zalejski, one of South Bend’s most well known gifts to the Irish, and guard Bob Lally will round out the quartet who will definitely see an extensive amount of action in tomorrow’s contest.
The two remaining footballers who are most certain of returning are fullback Jim Mello and end John Yonaker.
PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP (Offensive)
Old Timers	Varsity
Mutscheller _...LE...... Katchik
Toneff ........LT_______ Poehler
Kapish ........LG.............. Seaman Hamby ..................C .. Schrader
Boji ..........RG—. Varrichione Zambroski  RT.........  Bush
Ostrowski .....RE........ Hunter
Mazur ..........QB... Guglielmi
Petitbon ......RH......  Lattner
Barrett .......LH........ Heap
Gander .........FB.... Worden
Kickoff time, 2.30
Mello, who participated for the Irish in 1942 and 1946, and Yonaker who won a couple of monograms back in 1942 and ’43 have both enjoyed a great amount of success in the professional ranks.
In addition to these six returnees will be a whole host of graduating-seniors, most of whom were members of last season’s varsity. Heading the list are such standouts as ends Jim Mutscheller, 1951 captain, and Chet Ostrowski, along with All-American tackle Bob Toneff, quarterback John Mazur, and halfbacks John Petitbon
Pl
JOHN PETITBON
Speedster threat to Varsity
and Billy Barrett. This current edition of the Notre Dame Old Timers will be seeking to reverse last year’s decision as they look for their third victory in the long series that started back in the mid-twenties.
With the experienced Mazur handling the chores at the quarterback slot, and Barrett and Petitbon occupying the halfback positions, the Old Timers will have three-fourths of the backfield which opened the season last September against Indiana. Del Gander, a veteran of three years active duty, will round out the backfield at fullback. Also expected to see service in the backfield will be halfbacks Dick Cotter and Gene Smith from the 1950 outfit, along with two of last year’s backs, Jack Bush and Joe Caprara.
Druze and Ziemba Coach Old Timers
Besides Mutscheller, Ostrowski, and Toneff a formidable number of potent linemen including end Bob Kapish, tackle Tony Zambroski, center Jim Hamby, and linebacker Byron Boji will support the backs in their quest for a triumph over the varsity. According to Coaches Johnny Druze and Wally
May 9, 1952
25
Ziemba, who will be tutoring the Old Timers for the second straight year, Boji will most likely open up at one of the guard positions with Kapish starting at the other guard spot.
In last Saturday’s varsity scrimmage which was delayed until 4:00 due to the military exercises preceding it, Coach Frank Leahy’s first and second offensive units worked out against the defensive stalwarts, and showed by grinding out six hard-fought touchdowns that they would be ready for anything the Old Timers could dish out.
Offensively the Irish started off a little slow, with the defense again showing early signs of strength. But it did not take long for quarterback Ralph Guglielmi to warm up his accurate right arm as he pitched one over the line for 35 yards to back Bob Kigali setting up the first score. Fullback Dan Shannon then plunged over from the four for the touchdown.
Carey Alternates With Guglielmi
With Guglielmi still calling the plays from the ‘T’ another quick TD followed on passes to John Lattner and Joe Heap, the latter taking a lateral basketball pass resulting in a surprising sweep around right end by Heap for the score. Alternating with Guglielmi was Tom Carey, who immediately after taking over flipped a 30-yard aerial to end Walt Cabral for the third touchdown. Cabral, who displayed some fancy pass catching, scored later on when he again took a pass from Carey, covering approximately the same distance as his first score.
Guglielmi and Carey each had a share in the two remaining tallies that were registered, with the latter galloping 25 yards through a maze of
tacklers to set up the TD for Lattner, who then bucked over. Guglielmi had previously engineered the fourth touchdown when after Neil Worden had roared through left guard for 35 yards to the four, Shannon swept around end for the tally.
JOHN MAZUR
Directs Old Timer Attack
Besides alternating at fullback, Worden and Shannon also worked out as linebackers on the defensive unit which consisted of ends Bob O’Neil, Paul Matz, and Don Penza, tackles Ray Bubick, Bob Ready, and Tom Murphy, guards Jackie Lee, and Captain Jack Alessandrini, linebackers Dick Szyman
ski, Sam Palumbo, Armando Galardo, xrt and Ed Sarna, and safety man Bob x-* Joseph.
Pitt Conquers Notre Dame Trackmen in Tenth Meeting
The tenth meeting of the Pittsburgh and Notre Dame track squads found the Panthers coming out on top 71-60 to even the series at five wins apiece. This marked the third straight year that Pittsburgh has copped the classic. The series started in 1932, and all the contests have been close, particularly in 1950 when Pitt edged the Irish 65 2/3 to 65 1/3.
Co-Captain John Patellos was the only double winner of the day, taking both the 100 yard dash and the broad jump while finishing third in the 220 yard dash to lead the conquering Panthers.
Coach Alex Wilson’s Irish squad had four winners paced by the always reliable Hughes Wilcox. Wilcox won the 440 in :50.3 time, tied for second in the high jump which was taken with a jump of 6 feet 1% inches and was anchor man on the mile relay team of English, Feltes, Wagner and Wilcox.
The Irish took a one-two in both the pole vault and discus. Jim Harrington cleared the stick at . 13 feet 6% inches for his second highest jump of the year followed by teammate Joe Springer. In the discus throwing N.D’s Shea followed behind teammate Jack Sorrano who captured it with a throw of 145 feet 7 inches. The only other- Notre Dame winner was Harvey Newquist who continued his conquering in the 220 yard low hurdles with a time of :24.3. ’
Guglielmi (I.), Cabral (r.) display running ability
26
The Scholastic
> Irish Nine Rocks Pittsburgh in Doubleheader After Losing Eleven-Inning Decision to NU
By BILL NOONAN
Notre Dame’s diamond crew finally donned their hitting togs the latter part of last week as they blasted Pittsburgh twice, 18-3 and 9-4 at Cartier Field. The Irish racked up a grand total of 32 hits in the two day series with the toothless Panthers. Earlier in the week, on Wednesday, Jake Kline’s club lost a 2-1 heart-breaker to Northwestern’s Wildcats in eleven innings.
Jim Gibbons was the victim in the elongated affair played at Evanston. The Irish righthander went the full distance, pitching brilliant ball before being touched for the winning marker in the home half of the eleventh. An unearned run in the third gave the
DAVE COSTIGAN SAFE AT THIRD AGAINST PITT 32-Hit Barrage Smothers Panthers
Wildcats a one run edge which was matched by the Irish in the fifth when Gibbons drew a pass, went to second on Dick Colloton’s sacrifice and scored on Joe Ridge’s one baser.
From the third to the eleventh Gibbons permitted only four runners to reach first but then got himself in hot ; water. After Larry Deliefield had fanned, Buster Carlson ran for Jack Tosh who had doubled and Bob Will walked. Dick Ranicke’s single to left was wasted when Carlson was tossed out at the plate, but Larry Jones followed up with another base hit which brought Will across with the clincher’.
The Irish had loaded the bases in the tenth, but with two out, NU third sacker Larry Kurka spectacularly a speared pinch hitter Tom Bujnowski’s line drive for the third out. Steady playing Dick Colloton led the meager-
five hit Irish attack against four Northwestern chuckers with two bing-les. Gibbons allowed nine hits and struck out an identical number.
Cutting loose with both barrels on Friday, ND, behind the four hit pitching of Tom Bujnowski, banged out 19 hits in their 18-3 triumph. For 412 innings it was a close contest, the Klinemen scoring three in the second, and Pitt pushing’ over a single tally in their half of the third. But in the fifth, six consecutive hits by ND’s Costigan, Ridge, Ledwidge, Mutschel-ler, Colloton and Bujnowski, the latter’s, a long triple to right, set things up for a big eight run inning. After adding one in the sixth and two
more in the seventh, the Irish staged a four run cluster in the eighth highlighted by Jerry Ledwidge's home run blast. The Panthers tallied two runs -on three hits in the last frame but Bujnowski bore down and whiffed the final two batters to face him. Every Irish starter chipped in with at least one hit with Jerry Ledwidge, Joe Ridge and Bujnowski garnering three apiece. Six Pitt errors and the same number of free passes also contributed greatly to the home team’s cause.
A pair of foui- run innings enabled Notre Dame to cop Saturday’s engagement from the “Smokey City” boys, 9-4. Stan Konopka, in winning his first of the year, gave only five hits, though plagued with erratic control at times. Deadlocked 1-1 in the fifth, Dick Gaberik’s single, together with a hit batsman, Dave Costigan’s double,
and successive singles by Joe- Ridge and Jim Mutscheller gave the Irish four markers.
Pitt’s backstop, Milt Emory, connected for a tremendous round tripper to left center in the sixth to cut the deficit to three. Konopka’s control acted up in the seventh, and the Panthers scored two more. However the Irish hurler retaliated with a towering triple to help his own cause and spark another four run uprising in the eighth. This sewed up the game for Notre Dame.
Costigan and Dick Rosenthal -with three hits each and Gaberik with two, paced the 13 hit Irish attack on loser Don Shanafelt. The Irish record now stands at five wins and nine losses against all opposition and five and five against collegiate opponents.
Ne+men Top Purdue; Hoosiers Snap String
By JACK HEALY
Last Wednesday the Irish tennis team, playing on their home courts, whipped the netmen from Purdue by a score of 7-2, adding another Big Ten scalp to their skein of victories which at that time was three straight without a defeat. Then approximately twenty-four hours later, at Bloomington, the tables were turned on the Irish and this time they came out on the short end of a 7-2 score. It was the Indiana racqueteers who accomplished the feat, handing the men from Notre Dame their first defeat of the season.
In their match Wednesday the Irish wasted no time in clinching the victory. They took five out of six singles matches and then just to keep up appearances, went on to take two of the three doubles matches.
Angyal Starts Irish Rolling.
The number one man for Notre Dame, Ken Angyal, gave the Boilermakers a preview of what was to come later, by overcoming the disadvantage of losing the first set 4-6, and going . on to win 6-4, 8-6, in a hard fought battle. The only Irishman to lose was Matt Tuite and as is evident from the scores, -5-7, 6-4, 6-4, even this was a close fight. The remainder of Notre Dame’s singles men, Ray Smith, Capt. Tom Overholser, Don Crowley and Dick Simmons went through the rest of their matches without disaster.
In the doubles Capt. Tom Overholser and Maurice Reidy suffered the only setback on the part of the Irish, 7-5, 6-3. Don Crowley and Bill Reale and
May 9, 1952
27
Dick Simons and Charles Gallagher, the other Notre Dame doubles teams, won their respective matches, 8-6, 6-4, and 1-6, 6-4, 7-5.
The next day at Bloomington, it was a case of who kept a winning streak of three matches intact, and it wasn’t the Irish by any means. They just couldn’t seem to find the form that has been theirs for the last two weeks.
Hoosiers Waste Little Time
Indiana started off like the proverbial house on fire and swept the first four of the singles matches before the Irish could get started. Notre Dame’s Don Crowley and Maurice Reidy, started the team on the long road back by taking the remaining two singles matches.
By Jack Varley
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
May 9—TENNIS—Pitt here 10—TRACK—Michigan Normal and Bradley here 10—TENNIS—at Marquette 10—GOLF—Bradley here 10—SAILING—Midwest Regional Regatta at Bowling Green 11—BASEBALL—at Great Lakes
12—BASEBALL—at Wisconsin
12—TENNIS—Iowa here 12—GOLF—Northwestern here
13—BASEBALL—at Wisconsin
15—BASEBALL—Western Michigan here
However, the Irish never did make it, although it looked somewhat promising for awhile when the Irish captain, Tom Overholser, and Ken Angyal put on a real show before succumbing to Indiana’s leadoff men in the first doubles match. The men from I. U. walked away with the first set, putting down the Irish by the score of 6-3. The second set was the one that accomplished the rise in the Irish hopes.
It was a long, drawn-out, hard fought affair;, more of an endurance test than anything else. First Indiana would forge ahead, then Notre Dame and so on. Finally the Irish won it, 10-8, and there was still a chance. But then the forces from Notre Dame dropped the third set, giving Indiana the five points which assured them of a victory. Indiana went on to win the last two matches, but after that last set in the first match of the doubles, there was no doubt about the victor.
Golf Pros to Give Exhibition
According to Athletic Director Edward Krause, the recently concluded golf clinic was quite a success and because of the interest shown, another one is scheduled for the early fall and another one next Spring. Krause, an ardent golfer himself, is very much interested in developing the sport here on campus. Next Friday, May 16, a team of six of the best Chicago professionals will be out on the Burke course to give local enthusiasts some pointers. The six will take on the Irish golf team at 11:30 and then at 4:30 will give an exhibition of various shots. The six professionals are Charlie Penna of the Beverly Country club; Henry Pizzola of the Mission Hill Country club; Jackson Bradley, Edgewater Country club; Harry Adams, professional representing Gregor and Goldsmith sporting goods; Stan Bernandi, Old Elm Country club and Stan Kertes of the Bryn Mawr Country club. A question and answer period will follow the exhibition.
A Test for the ’52 Squad
Tomorrow afternoon when Frank Leahy’s Varsity and the Old Timers, coached by Johnny Druze and Wally Ziemba, meet, football fans are sure to get a pretty good indication of just what the ’52 edition of Notre Dame football is going to be like. Ln the game which dates back to the mid-twenties, the Old Timers have managed to win but two times and tie twice. But, every spring the Oldsters won or tied, the varsity always found itself with at least a slightly blemished record before the following season was over.
The Two Wjns and Two Ties
The first time the Old Timers didn’t lose was back in 1934, when they managed to tie Elmer Layden’s Varsity, 6-6. The following fall the Varsity won six and lost three.
In 1941, the teams battled to a scoreless tie and the 1941 Varsity while it didn’t lose any and won eight, was held to one tie.
The first Old Timers triumph came in the spring of 1948, the veterans winning, 20-14. And before the ’48 team ended up with a 9-0-1 record, they scared many a Notre Dame fan with two very close wins — a 28-27 victory over Purdue and a 12-7 decision over Northwestern — and a 14-14 tie with Southern Cal.
The last Old Timer win came back in 1950 when they defeated the Varsity, 25-7, a game that preceded one of Notre Dame’s worst gridiron campaigns of 4-4-1. So if the Old Timers win tomorrow and precedence holds true, Frank Leahy and the coaching staff will most likely have many worries before this coming December.
Prediction of the Week
The big question mark of this year’s Varsity is the line. The backfield, with the exception of quarterback Ralph Gugliehni, has all had quite a bit of experience. Guglielmi in the Southern Cal game and in practice has looked quite capable. But, the line is going to present a problem and from here the Old Timers seem to edge in that department, especially with a couple of ends like Chet Ostrowski and Jim Mutscheller. Old Timers 20, Varsity 14.
28
The Scholastic
$ Interhall Diamond Leagues Heading Into Home Stretch
Aided by perfect weather conditions the action on the interhall front was fast and furious last week as the clubs turned down the regular season home stretch. Both the interhall softball and hardball leagues, under the direction of the Department of Physical Education of Notre Dame, are in full swing and rapidly approaching the stage when the respective championships will be decided.
The softball league’s season is heading into its final half, and the competition for the title is still stiff. This coming week will also see the final regular league activity for the base-ballers under Mr. Ernie Szekely. Then the two leading nines from each of the three five-team loops, the Blue, Gold, — and White will meet in a “sudden death” championship playoff.
There will be three days for that final single elimination tourney among the top baseball aggregations here on the ND campus. The playoff games will start promptly at 3:30 each afternoon on the baseball fields to the south of the soccer fields and tennis courts.
TRACK MEET
ID cards will admit students as usual to the varsity track meet with Bradley and Michigan Normal on Cartier Field beginning at 12:30 p.m. Saturday, May 10.
Enter only by North Gate, opposite Drill Hall. Tickets for non-students available at the Cartier Field boxoffice, North End, priced at $1.00.
—TICKET COMMITTEE
If the regular season play is any criterion the championship contests should feature some excellent ball games. To date most of the league meetings have shown good, smart baseball and low, tight scores.
At the moment it appears that the top contenders for that titular series will be Lyons and Zahm of the White league, Cavanaugh and Morrissey of the Gold circuit, while in the Blue loop Morrissey, Cavanaugh, and La Baza are fighting it out for two playoff berths. The La Raza club, particularly has made an especially fine showing this year and could possibly pull some surprises before the season is over. Cavanaugh looks like a safe bet to win the Gold circuit after edging* its closest rival, Morrissey, 7-5 for its third win in as many starts.
SEASON’S RECORD
N. D.	1	Camp Breckinridge 4	N. D.	0	Michigan 3
N. D.	4	Fort Knox 6	N. D.	3	•Purdue 2
N. D.	2	Iowa 7	N. D.	7	Quantico Marines 17
N. D.	2	Iowa 3	N. D.	1	Quantico Marines 8
N. D.	5	Ohio State 8	N. D.	1	Northwestern 2
N. D.	3	Ohio State 1	N. D.18		Pittsburgh 3
N. D.	4	Ohio State 1	N. D.	9	Pittsburgh 4
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL STATISTICS
Batting Averages
	G	AB	R	H	RBI	Ave.
Bob Stefkovich, p 		2	4	0	2	0	.500
George Moresco, p 		2	4	0	2	1	.500
John Reynolds, p 		3	2	1	1	0	.500
Dick Gaberik, c 				6	11	3	4	0	.364
Dave Costigan, 3b 			 14	38	5	13	7	.342
Dick Colloton, 2b _			 14	50	5	17	3	.340
Stan Konopka, p 				3	9	3	3	2	.333
Len LeRose, 3b 			2	3	0	1	1	.333
Joe Ridge, cf .			...... 14	52	10	17	8	.327
Jerry Ledwidge, rf	..		 12	32	5	10	6	.313
Jim Mutscheller, If 				 13	52	8	12	4 .	.231
Harry Durkin, ss 				 10	31	1	7	5	.226
Mark Tremblay, rf					5	9	0	2	0	.222
Tom Bujnowski, p			...... 1 1	25	3	5	3	.200
Dick Rosenthal, 1b 			 13	48	1	8	3	.188
Bob King, c 				5	13	2	2	0	.154
Jim Gibbons, p-rf 			 11	29	4	4	4	.138
Hal Reilly, 3b-ss 			..... 12	37	4 •	4	3	.108
Dick Farrell, c 				 10	14	4	1	2	.070
Pitching Records
	G	IP	SO	W	H	W	L	Pct.
George Moresco	2	11 1/3	8	10	9	1	0 •	.1000
Ron Mottl	1	6	4	3	3	1	0	.1000
Tom Bujnowski	6	46	29	14	45	2	3	.400
Stan Konopka	3	21 1/3	45	24	17	1	2	.333
John Reynolds	2	10	3	4	15	0	1	.000
Bob Stefkovich	2	6 2/3	8	2	12	0	1	.000
Jim Gibbons	2	19	11	4	19	0	2	.000
May 9, 1952
29
College Deferments Subject To Revision This Summer
Early in the summer, the Local Draft Boards will begin re-opening the files and reviewing the cases of those enjoying educational deferments. This is a normal procedure. Selective Service regulations require that the cases of all students enjoying such deferments be considered at the end of each academic year.
The criteria for determining further
'SKKZ	... *
THAT
THESE STAMINA-TESTED SPALDING-MADE TENNIS BALLS HAVE TOP RATING IN CHAMPIONSHIP TENNIS.
the WRIGHT & DITSOH
IS THE ONLY OFFICIAL BALI,OF THE US.LTA NATL CHAMPIONSHIPS SINCE 1987.... OFFICIAL IN EVERY U-S.DAVIS CUP MATCHJOO.
•VATH ITS TWIN...
theSPALDING..,.
THEY ARE PLAYED IN MORE MAJOR TOURNAMENTS THAN ALL OTHER TENNIS
BALLS COMBINED
M»P. U.S. L.T. A WkMPIONSH/P
student eligibility, as established by the Selective Service System, are the proven ability and performance of the student as shown by class standing and test score on the Selective Service Qualification Test.
The Office of Military Affairs recommends that those students who seek to continue their schooling have the Deans of their respective colleges send their marks and class standings to their draft boards. This service must be requested and forms are available at the Office of Military Affairs.
CHAMPIONSHIP <
Chicago Club Plans Summer Dance at Edgewater June 8
Sunday night, June 8, is the date set by the Chicago Club for the summer dance. The affair will be held at the Edgewater Golf Club, 2045 W. Pratt Avenue.
Though dancing space has been restricted at former Chi Club dances, it is expected that using the terrace in addition to the main ballroom will alleviate' this problem.
Music at the semi-formal affair will be provided by Johnny Lewis’ band. Hours for the dance will be from 9:30 to 12:30 o’clock.
Tickets for the dance may be obtained for $3.50 on campus, but the price at the door will be' $4.00.
Booklets for Servicemen
Fall In, a booklet by Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., head of the Department of Religion, and Letters to Servicewomen, by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh,	।
C.S.C., executive vice-president, have	1
been published by the National Catholic Community Service.
SPALDIHG
TOR A SHARPER GAME. ... PLAY THE
TWINS OF CHAMPIONSHIP TENNIS
sets the pace in sports
UI H£W SPORTS SHOW BOOK «f Mullin Cartoons published in this book only.
WRITE TODAY TO SPALDING—DEPT. C-S2 Chicopee, Mass.
y>Au>iii$
Drama Club Postpones Play < 'Brother Orchid' to Next Fall
Presentation of Brother Orchid to be produced by the Notre Dame Dramatics Society, has been postponed until the initial months of the next school year. Due to the use of Washington Hall for the many graduation and other summer exercises, the society was unable to procure sufficient time to set up its equipment and scenery.
At a recent meeting of the group, the first panel was held in the series of discussions on worthwhile plays. Thornton Wilder’s Skin of Our ‘Teeth is the first on the list for this energetic club to tackle under its dynamic moderator, Mr. Steve Hauser.
Also, permanent club officers were chosen to rule until October, 1952. Bill Bleakley, president: John Engelhardt, vice-president; John Mahoney, secretary, and Jerry Godwin, treasurer, were installed as the first officers in this Notre Dame Dramatics Society.
A membership drive is the second objective of the society in the remaining weeks of school. To be truly productive and stimulative, the club is aiming at signing up about 15 new men to supplement the original nine.
Anyone who would be interested in active participation in this activity may obtain further details on membership from Bill Bleakley, 117 Zahm, or John Engelhardt, 130 Cavanaugh.
30
The Scholastic
Vetville Elections Tomorrow; Interview Future Residents
Results of the election for new Vetville councilmen will be known by tomorrow night at 8 o’clock when both councils, the new and the old, will sit in on a joint meeting. The session will be held in the Vetville Rec Hall.
Election ballots for the new guiding fathers appeared in yesterday’s Vet Gazette, were collected in a house to house pickup, and are being tallied today and tomorrow.
Nominations, which closed last week, selected two contenders from each ward in the community. Candidates from Wards 1 to 6, respectively, were: Leon St. Pierre' and Dick De Loof; Bill Daner and Gene Cartsinger; Bud Guiltinan and Bob Simmons; Elmer Farinella and Don Butler; Jim Ragen and Anthony Black; Dick De Santis and Bob Lally.
Married students residing downtown who have applied for apartments in Vetville will be interviewed next week from Monday through Saturday. Interviews will be held from 3 to 5 o’clock each afternoon, and from 7:30 to 9:30 each evening in the Council Room of the Vet Hall. Mayor- Lassup urges that the applicants make note of and observe these hours.
Heidelberg Invites Gurian To Teach Summer Seminar
Prof. Waldemar Gurian of the Department of Political Science, editor of the Revieiv of Politics, and chairman of the Committee on International Relations, has been invited by the University of Heidelberg to conduct a class on the development of the Soviet Union and a seminar on problems of world politics in the summer semester of 1952.
This unusual invitation has been extended to Professor Gurian because of his acknowledged authority in the matters pertaining to the philosophy and practices of the Soviet Union, and it represents an honor to him and to the University of Notre Dame.
The Department of State of the United States has approved the invitation and has concurred in the arrangements.
Kimberly-Clark Fellowship Competition Opens for 1952
Prof. John H. Sheehan, head of the Department of Economics, announces the 4th annual Kimberly-Clark fellow-ship in economics which will be awarded to a student in one of 150
colleges and universities in the United States.
The fellowship is worth $1500 in the academic year of 1952-53. The holder is free for full-time graduate study. Selection of the recipient will be made aftei- consideration of his academic record and willingness to do research with some practical applications in problems of finance, taxation, depreciation, and related areas.
All applications or inquiries should be addressed to: Prof. John H. Sheehan, Department of Economics, University of Notre Dame. The final entry date is May 25, 1952.
Canada Plays Host to World Student Congress in August
This summer, for the first time in 12 years, Pax Romana, world-wide Catholic student organization, will hold its International Congress in North America. Several students are expected to represent Notre Dame at the meeting, which is to be held in Montreal from Aug. 26 to Sept. 1.
The theme of the Congress will be “The Role of the University,” and it will feature several prominent speakers, including the well-known philosophers Jacques Maritain and Etienne Gilson.
The Congress will be composed of delegates representing 86 national student federations and 46 graduate associations, including the NFCCS, of which Notre Dame is a member. It will be the meeting ground for a supra-national exchange of thought, and fraternal understanding and charity.
This Congress and the NFCCS one here at Notre Dame will be held at approximately the same time. How
Attention
We want to contact Indiana residents who are interested in high paying positions for summer work. Write P. O. Box 187, Indianapolis, Indiana, giving name and hometown address. Interviews will be arranged in near future.
ever, NFCCS is encouraging all Notre Dame students who do not plan to be at the meeting here to attend the Canadian meeting.
Anyone who is interested in further information may see John O’Connell in 162 Dillon or Paul Zalecki in 265 Dillon.
DIAMONDS — JEWELRY — WATCHES
J. Trethewey
TOE THE JEWELER
104 N. Main St.	J. M. S. Bld?.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS General Dentistry
Diseases and surgery of mouth and jaws Extraction of teeth—x-ray diagnosis
702 J. M. S. Building South Bend By appointment Ph. 4-5661
CANOE TRIPS
in the Quetico-Superior wilderness. At a price a student can afford. For free colored booklet and map, write:
Bill Rom, Mgr., Canoe Country Outfitters Box 717 C. Ely. Minnesota.
May 9, 1952
31
Man From Texas
(Continued from Page 24) ture sixth place in the 1950 NCAA tournament and 10th in 1951 in a league that represents 50 of the country’s best teams.
Coach Langford’s most satisfying remembrance during the years he has generaled the fencers was in 1941. •Chicago had run wild over the Big Ten that year and hadn’t lost a meet since Notre Dame upset them in 1936. The* ’41 squad proved to be just as formidable however and trampled Chicago 17 to 10. The Irish had snipped powerful Chicago’s winning streak at both ends.
Walter Langford’s coaching duties have not overshadowed his work with the Modern Language department. He was made the head of this department, which has almost 1300 majors, in 1946. Active interest in his work and the language students are responsible for the many opportunities for practical application of the languages that have been set up.
An Ardent Crusader
Since 1933 Langford has been an ardent crusader for the Notre Dame summer session in Mexico City. The department has two aims in this novel project: that the Mexican students have the opportunity to get an Americanized education without the expense of actually crossing the Rio Grande; and to provide a center for American students to study Spanish and Latin History in the atmosphere of the tongue. All classes are taught in English, with the exception of the language courses which are taught in the idiom of the course. Almost 1000 students attended the session last summer soaking up the atmosphere of old Mexico in the ultra-mild climate of Mexico City. American educators have been amazed at the success of this project.
In the last three years the Modern Language department has shown over fifty foreign films on campus, more than any school in the country. Mr. Langford says, “We feel that watching these films trains the ear and gives an insight to a people whose customs and way of life differ- from our own.” Langford believes that a close study of the films leads to a better understanding of world problems. And he says, ■“If there is to be peace, there has to be more understanding between the peoples of the. world.”
Audio-visual aids, records, and tape recordings are also carefully planned to augment classroom instruction. Mr. Langford has compiled an impressive
collection of recordings taken from short-wave broadcasts that treat everything from a hot tamale “soap opera” to some good and very bad Mexican poetry.
A Block From the Dixie
Last fall the Langfords moved into their present home a block from the Dixie — right on the Southwest corner of the Notre Dame golf course. Langford and his wife, Alice, have four children: Lois who is a sophomore at St. Mary’s, Walter, Jr., who is a freshman at Notre Dame, Jim who is seeing his first year of high school, and little three-year-old Elizabeth.
Living practically within the shadow of the Golden Dome, Walter Langford recalls how over half his life has been spent at Notre Dame. He has seen a great many changes in Notre Dame
Frank Mott Completes Staff Of June Writers Conference
Pulitzer Prize-Winner Frank Luther Mott, dean emeritus of the School of Journalism at the University of Missouri, has been named to the visiting staff of the Notre Dame Writers’ Conference to be held here June 23-28.
The appointment of Mr. Mott completes the staff, which includes Karl Shapiro, Pulitzer prize-winning poet and editor of Poetry Magazine, and Miss Betty Finnin, editor of Woman’s Day magazine.
Mr. Mott won the 1939 Pulitzer prize in American history for his History of American Magazines, which is published in three volumes and brings the history up to 1895. He is currently working on the fourth volume, which will cover the years from 1885 to 1905.
General purpose of the conference, which is divided into three workshops —Fiction, Poetry, and the Teaching of Creative Writing—is to provide criticism and direction for younger writers or teachers of creative writing by experienced staff members.
A 20% DISCOUNT ON ALL CLEANING AND PRESSING FOR NOTRE DAME MEN.
Rubin Cleaners
217 E. Jefferson	On the Bus Line
and its student body since those early -days when the streetcar used to run 'P right up to Father Sorin’s statue.
“Students are more serious now — the practical jokei- of the good old days seems to be practically extinct.” Even the uniform of the brown corduroys has given way to the Ivy League’s gray flannels.
Changes or n.o, Walter Langford is still plenty fond of Notre Dame. He says his life at Notre Dame “has been most satisfying.” “Teaching at Notre Dame has the added value of a tie-in with the spiritual — a sound prop for student and prof.”	•
He is still fond of Mexico and feels that he has neglected it because of the difficulty of transporting his sizable family south of the border. And he is in no hurry to lose'his identity with Texas—a trait rather common to na- . tives of the Lone Star state.
But the tall suave Texan pulling tomorrow’s Spanish quiz out of Knute Rockne’s old athletic office vault is a Notre Dame man to the hilt.
Clevelanders Honor Moms; Coyne Wins $50 Club Award
Mothers’ Day will be observed by the members of the Cleveland Club Sunday by attending Mass and receiving Communion for their mothers. Father Broestl will celebrate the Mass in Alumni chapel at 8:30, after which breakfast will be served in the Faculty Lounge of the Dining Hall.
The senior members of the club and their dates will be the guests of the undergraduates at the breakfast, which will feature two guest speakers.
Afterwards, the presentation of the annual Student Prize, a $50 award is given each year by the Notre Dame alumni of Cleveland to the most outstanding and active member of the campus club, will be made to Jack Coyne, a Commerce junior. Coyne has been unanimously elected to receive this year’s award.
Notre Dame STUDENTS
Welcome to
128 W. Washington St.
32
The Scholastic


Capsule Comer
Chacko Addresses K. of C.
Dr. Kadankavil C. Chacko, Fulbright scholar and a professor of Engineering Mechanics at Notre Dame, will deliver the principal address at the 51st annual state convention of the Knights of Columbus in Indianapolis May 18.
A 37-year-old native of Palai, India, and father of seven children, Dr. Chacko came to Notre Dame in September, 1951, to study for a Master’s degree in Civil Engineering.
■
Metals Society Meeting
Frederick K. Landgraf, Jr., research metallurgist for C. A. Zapffe and Associates, Baltimore, spoke on “Fractography” at the May meeting of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals Wednesday night.
The regular- technical session, which was preceded by a dinner in the Morris Inn earlier in the evening, was held in the Engineering Building.
Addition of NewSwitchboard Will Improve Phone Service
With the addition of a new switchboard, tentatively scheduled to be installed during the weekend of May 24, Notre Dame’s telephone facilities will be greatly increased. Thereafter two operators will be on duty during the busy hours to handle incoming calls.
Two new series of numbers — in the 500’s and 600’s — will be added to the three existing series for the intracampus phone system. This will ease the present burden on the 200, 300, and 400 series and permit the handling of a greater load, should more phones be installed later.
Since the revised system will mean that many of the numbers of existing campus phones will be changed, a new telephone directory will be issued as soon as the new switchboard is installed.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
New Limits on Parcel Post Weight in Effect During Rush
New weight limits on parcel post for packages addressed to first class post offices will be in effect during the heavy mailing rush at the end of the school year. Students may learn the class and zone number of their post offices by inquiring at the Notre Dame Post Office.
Parcels not exceeding 40 pounds will be accepted when addressed to offices in the first and second zones. Packages destined for zones three to eight will be accepted if 20 pounds or less.
For bound books the old limit remains at 70 pounds. Such parcels should be labeled “books” on the address side.
The post office cautions students who intend to send radios through the mails to pack them with extreme care. Recommendations for packing can be had at the post office.
Summer Chern Training
A Chemistry Teacher Training Program for secondary school and college chemistry teachers will be conducted from June 20 to Aug. 5 during the 1952 Summer Session here.
The program will provide a background of information and training in chemistry and related fields especially suited to the needs of these teachers and their students.
Successful completion of the training program leads to the Master of Science degree.
Geologists’ Field Trip
The Geology Department and Club sponsored a field trip on Saturday and Sunday, May 3 and 4, including areas such as Thornton Quarry in Chicago, LaSalle, Coal City, and Lehigh Quarry, all in Illinois.
■
Sessler Judges Art Show
Prof. Stanley S. Sessler, F.R.S.A., head of the Department of Fine Arts at Notre Dame, is one of three acting judges in the annual Blossom Festival’s Berrien County Arts Show in the twin cities of St. Joseph and Benton Harbor, Michigan, May 4-18.
Prize ribbons in five classes are to be awarded for outstanding works in paintings and crafts work.
SOMEBODY scent Sheedy this note: "You’re a smell guy, Paul, but your hair’s against you! That’s why you’ve been getting skunked in the race forpopularity. I wouldn’t even touch you with alO-foot pole cat! Better get WildrootCream-Oil. Everybody nose it’s Your Hair’s Best Friend.’’ Non-alcoholic. Contains soothing Lanolin. Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Relieves annoying dryness. Grooms hair neatly and naturally all day long. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test. Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil and now he’s whiff a new gal every night! So put on your pin-stripe suit, head for any drug or toilet goods counter, and buy a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil, America’s biggest-smelling hair tonic. Ask for it on your hair at the barber shop, too. Then all the girls’ll fall fur you!
* oflllSo. Harris Hill Rd. Williamsville, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
May 9, 1952
33
Fishing and Philately
The Notre Dame student, who is the subject (possibly unwilling) of this column, is variously fat, tall, surly, skinny, phlegmatic, short, excitable, devout, sophisticated, cheerful, and naive. He is shy, blustering and modest. He weighs anywhere between 103 and 290 pounds, and has as a hobby fighting and philately, bass-fishing and amateur theatrics.
He comes from Korea and Kokomo, New York City (the area) and Texas (the greatest).
He is a graduate student specializing in the later Greek idealist philosophers, and he is a freshman writing his first composition on what he did last summer. He is an almost infinitely varied individual who defies categorization and attempts to narrow him down to a colorless, saccharine-flavored type.
Movie-writers and magazine feature scribblers have tried to pack him down into a compact, meaningless, inhuman (in the truest sense) pigeon-hole, and have labelled him the “Notre Dame Man.” Generally speaking, he wouldn’t fit it.
Serious-minded, Uncompromising, All-embracing . . .
Perhaps his greatest (or at least most noticeable) quality is his serious-minded, uncompromising, all-embracing love for the sack. The completeness and unswerving character of his devotion mark him off from his brother students in other universities who are sometimes averted from their purpose hy such things as streetcars, girls in sweaters and week-ends at Smith.
He is boisterously, pugnaciously, fiercely masculine. He seems sometimes to be unable to accept it as a simple matter of gender, and brags, variously, of a) his essential ruggedness; and b) his irresistible male charm which exerts itself in waves when he is away from Notre Dame and in the company of the more rounded sex. He does all this, though, in such an indirect way that you can hardly believe that he is doing it.
Apathy and the Science of Griping
He is badgered, called names and threatened, yet, at least for the four years that I have known him, he
By Bill Riley
changes very little. He has cultivated apathy, and the science of continual, resigned griping to a degree that has probably never been equalled, except perhaps in a 20-year man in the army who has been broken many times from buck sergeant to buck private.
He is, or at least he says he is, underfed, and must maintain himself by periodic trips to a small square barred-windowed building that is called, nobody seems to know why, the Huddle. Yet the Red Cross people say that he is almost offensively healthy when they sample him for blood. Maybe it’s the week-ends.
From what I can gather, he is not at his best as a ladies’ man. This, perhaps, is the result of spending nine months a year in a semi-cloistered atmosphere. This is not to say that he is not much and often loved, just that suavity, generally, is not one of his strong points. He makes up for this lack with cocker-spaniel friendliness mixed with bluff frankness, and is perhaps all the better for it.
His life at Notre Dame has conditioned him to an elemental, simple, unpolished mode of daily living that causes him to gape a little when he takes a look at the interior of the palace on the corner of the golf course. However, all of this simplicity is not natural. Often it is a studied, carefully cultivated pose, an indirect form of hypocrisy, but a fairly harmless one. It is the homage that must be paid if the ideal of the “good guy” is to be maintained.
A Dull, Conceited . . .
And the Notre Dame student, if nothing else, must be a good guy. Out of all I have known I can think of only one or two who were not. He may be dull, conceited, sarcastic or sadistic, but • almost without exception, he is a good guy. I suppose that this is because if he were not he would be ostracized, and as the Romans found out a long time ago, ostracism is one of the harshest of punishments.
As far as personal sanctity goes, he stands, I think, very well. And this, of course, is an all-important quality. He lacks somewhat real concern for the social meaning of Christianity, takes his religion for granted. This,
I think, is an almost unavoidable offshoot of living in a group wTiere he C doesn’t have to fight for it, and think of it, and justify it.
He is not a very good student, generally. Sometimes he works hard, sometimes he works hardly at all; but rarely does he seem to have any end in mind beyond getting a grade, or a degree. This is partially his fault, I think, if lack of intellectual maturity can properly be called a fault. However, it would be much less a factor if his professors would stop goading and start leading him.
Not a Jack Armstrong Altar Boy
He is not a mixture of Jack Armstrong and an altar boy, even though it looks like he is going to be judged by that standard by those who have created the above-mentioned mythical NOTRE DAME MAN. He is, I think, ** variously fat, tall, surly, skinny, phlegmatic . . .
Nationally Advertised
WATCHES DIAMONDS GIFTS REPAIRING ____________ GUARANTEED
126 NO.MICHIGAN ST.
NEW LOW AIR TOURIST RATES Effective May 1st.
ROUND TRIP NEW YORK TO SHANNON Only $433.80 LONDON* Only 486.00 PARIS Only 522.00 FRANKFORT Only 563.60 'Via Prestwick or Shannon (Forel subject to government opproval.
Good low-cost meals available on olanej
• KLM Royal Dutch Airlines	■
| 572 Fifth Avenue, New York 19. N. Y. | I Please send full information on new a KLM Air Tourist Rates to Europe I
j NAMh................................ । | ADDRESS ....................... |
L----------
34
The Scholastic
BUDGET-WISE STUDENTS KNOW
GRE^OU^ 8 the
You Enjoy Extra Convenience and Lowest Fares for Trips Home from School and Summer Vacation Travel ... Going GREYHOUND!

•	BEST for convenient schedules!
•	BEST for dollar-saving fares!
•	BEST for relaxed travel!
•	BEST for choice, scenic routes!
UNION BUS TERMINAL
117 Western Ave.
Phone 3-8283
—give you more time to visit
There are similar low Greyhound fares to almost any destination in the 48 states, Canada, Alaska or Mexico.
	SOUTH BEND to:	ONE WAY	ROUND TRIP
	INDIANAPOLIS 				.S 3.75	S 6.75
	CINCINNATI 				. 6.05	10.90
	LOUISVILLE, KY. 					. 6.20	11.20
	JACKSONVILLE, FLA. 				. 20.85	37.55
	MIAMI, FLA. 		  _			.. 26.90	48.45
	ATLANTA, GA. 					. 14.75	26.55
	ASHEVILLE. N. C					. 13.80	24.85
	BOSTON. MASS		...	_ 19.40	34.95
Soys	NEW YORK CITY		. 17.35	31.25
	WASHINGTON, D. C		. 14.35	25.85
	PROVIDENCE, R. I.					. 19.25	34.65
	PITTSBURGH, PA				.. 8.65	15.60
	TRENTON, N. J.					. 16.80	30.25
	ST. LOUIS 						. 6.50	11.70
	CHICAGO 		. 2.00	3.60
	DETROIT 				. 4.45	8.05
	KNOXVILLE. TENN. 				. 11.85	21.35
	NEW ORLEANS, LA. 			. 16.30	29.35
	RICHMOND, VA			. 16.85	30.35
	WILKES BARRE, PA. 			. 14.50	26.10
	SCRANTON, PA					. 14.50	26.10
	CHEYENNE, WYO			.. 21.85	39.35
	DALLAS. TEX. 					. 18.60	33.50
	HOUSTON. TEX. 		. 21.00	37.80
wK	BUTTE. MONT. 						. 31 60	56.90
	MILWAUKEE. WIS. 			. 3.30	5.95
	MINNEAPOLIS, MINN		.. 9.05	16.30
	NASHVILLE. TENN. 			. 10.30	18.55
	LEXINGTON. KY. 		. 7.80	14.05
	BUFFALO. N. Y				. 9.60	17.30
	SYRACUSE. N. Y				. 12.45	22.45
If	PHILADELPHIA, PA. 		. 16.05	28.90
Add U.S. Transportation Tax to All Fares
Ask about Greyhound’s “Through” and “Express” Service to major destinations and vacation areas everywhere. They cut hours off many trips
or vacation!
GREYH

May 9, 1952
35
A
Sufe
costly glycerol and pure sugars which are natural to tobacco
-nothing else.
WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS pre-tested by laboratory instruments Tor the most desirable smoking qualities.
|GAV\ETTE5
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO


PORE COSTLY MOISTENING AGENTS proved by over 40years of continuous use in U.S.A, tobacco products asentirely safe foruse in the mouth— chemically pure, far more
HIGHEST PURITY CIGARETTt
PGPER-the best that
money can buy.

g


-