The Notre Dame
let(/ou/i ownfifflEand Ef/AOAT he the judge/
FOR SMOOTHNESS AND MILDNESS. . .
There’s never
a rough puff
in u Lucky
t
Distinguished actor Maurice Evans playing Hamlet—ano of Ns greatest stage roles.
COPB.. THU AMCAIGAM TOBACCO COMPANY
Lucky Strike...so round, so firm, so fully packed----------------------------so free and easy on the draw
2	The Scholastic

Maurice evans says: *7 always count on Luckies for a perfect performance!”
Correct, Mr. Evans... you can always count on Luckies to give you the real smoothness, mildness and deep-down smoking enjoyment you want.
And, smokers, you can depend on Luckies because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco—fine, light, naturally mild tobacco thaf s always smooth. Yes, let your own taste and throat be the judge. Find out for yourself—get a carton of Luckies today!



Bad Connection
Editor:
To clear up possible misconceptions arising from recent articles and letters about the Scholastic: of the’52 names on the Scholastic’s masthead last week, 13 are those of students in the Department of Journalism; of 14 editors and department heads, 3 are Journalism students. This department has great respect for the Scholastic, but can claim no credit for its very substantial achievements.
There is no connection between the Scholastic and the Department of Journalism. Neither desires any. Both are, in my opinion, right.
Thomas Stritch Head of Department.
Insufferable Situation
Editor:	•
Living in a community, as we are, presents many inconveniences which have to be tolerated. This fact has restrained me from heretofore voicing my opinion on an absolutely insufferable situation: the farce known as a “chow line” in the Notre Dame dining halls. I cannot reconcile myself to the wholesale disregard for the line. What conceivable legitimate reason can there be for it? The selfishness of the “line-buckers” is positively disgraceful. They are not only inconsiderate, but uncharitable and unjust.
I would like to believe that Notre Dame men are at least mature enough to maintain orderly lines for meals without kindergarten-like supervision by ” faculty members or dining hall employees. I find it difficult to do so.
William V. Cuddy 161 Morrissey •
In Explanation
Editor:
Three weeks ago a cigarette advertisement that many found objectionable appeared in Scholastic. Several students wrote to Scholastic to protest its appearance.
Scholastic has a contract with its advertisers that sells space for several weeks, and in some cases the entire year, ahead of publication. We have no way of knowing the content of these advertisements in advance.
However, because we believe there is some justification in the protests of students, we are informing our advertising agent that hereafter any advertisements that we believe objectionable to Notre
March 17, 1950
“ARROW Gordon. Oxfords are tops on my list1' said John in a recent campus interview. “The collars look good and fit perfectly. The body is cut right, doesn’t bunch at the waist. . . . They wear and wash well, too! Best for MY money—anv day!”
*3.95
ARROWshirts & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS * SPORTS SHIRTS
It’s Adlers for
ARROW
MICHIGAN at WASHINGTON
Dame standards will be refused publication.
Many of the leading college publications in the nation come through my office. After seeing the pornography and smut that is the product of the students in many of these other schools, it is refreshing to know that at Notre Dame even comparatively mild photographs produced not by the students but by an advertising agent bring protest.
Our thanks to those who expressed their opinions. Scholastic is the publication of Notre Dame men and we appreciate it when the men speak out.
Dale Francis
Faculty Moderator
A Fly in the Pie
Editor:
Before the Scholastic or the Mardi Gras Committee breaks its arm congratulating the committee for its excellent job on the Mardi Gras, certain of their shortcomings ought to be mentioned at least for the purpose of preventing a repetition of them at any future Mardi Gras, if not to correct them now.
The one that comes to mind now and the purpose of this letter is to protest the absolute failure of the committee in
making a fair and reasonable determination of who was to receive the well-publicized $50 prize for the most attractive booth at the carnival. After talking with both Mr. Farrell and Miss Sackley, the only judge in this "contest,” the following facts were discovered (statement of Miss Sackley) :
1.	She did not know anything about being a judge until about 9:15 p.m. Tuesday night, when she was approached by Ed Farrell.
2.	Even then she thought it was a joke and consequently took no notes and made no report until Thursday night when she happened to run into Farrell at the basketball game.
3.	.She was at no time aware of the fact that she was the only judge.
4.	She did not know several booths were in the contest and consequently took no notice of them. The North Dakota booth she named in this group.
5.	She could not see and did not see the themes of several of the booths, the North Dakota booth being also specially mentioned here.
6.	That had she known in time she would have made her judgment at some other time as no one could make any
thing approaching an adequate decision between 9:30 and 11:30 on Tuesday night.
In view of these facts we would like to make the following recommendations:
1.	That the $50 be either split up evenly between all the clubs participating in the Mardi Gras or be returned to the Foreign Students’ Relief.
2.	That the committee be censured for such sloppy neglect.
3.	That future Mardi Gras prizes be awarded on the basis of a FAIR judgment on the merits of their booths following a set schedule of points on which to base that judgment.
Francis Webb, President North Dakota Club Off-Campus
Entrepreneur Thanks
Editor:
I would like to take this opportunity to offer you my sincere thanks for your sympathetic article about my small undertakings. I want to express my appreciation to you and especially to Jack Bradshaw for his time and effort. He is to be commended for his clever handling of the drab facts.
A. Patrick Tonti 411 Badin
University of Notre Dame Press . . .
THEOLOGY FOR LAYMEN:
“Christian Virtues” by Fr. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., presents moral theology in an easy to understand fashion. “God and the World of Man” by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., makes dogma understandable to the modern mind. Each volume only $3.
PIONEER AVIATION:
The collected papers of Albert Zahm have just been released in two giant 9 by 12 volumes of 1,000 pages complete, with drawings and photographs. It is a set that belongs in the air enthusiast’s library. Two volume set, $15.
NOTRE DAME:
Every friend of Notre Dame should own Father Hope’s History of Notre Dame. Illustrated and easy to read, the new edition costs $4.
DOMES:
The Dome is the Notre Dame annual. Each year it includes hundreds of campus pictures. Our storehouse includes’ a few assorted copies of the 1947 and 1948 Domes and we’re offering them for general sale. They did cost $8 each, now only $5. Order it with any of the above ’ bargains and we’ll send it to you for only $4, just half the original price.
Send all orders to
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS
Notre Dame, Indiana
4
The Scholastic
'THE WEEK
by flack M^oldtick	5 „
Top of the Week
Vaughn Monroe to broadcast from here tomorrow.
To Each His Own
Shure and today is the feast of St. Patrick, but for all the interest this grand and glorious occasion has generated here on the campus, you’d think it was Hungarian Independence Day. We checked the news calendar last week, and this is what we found on today’s docket for “that little bit of Erin that’s just outside South Bend” (as the hit song from a Broadway play once put it) :
8 a.m.: Classes begin . . . and last all day . . . the same as they do at Southern Methodist and Northwestern and Purdue.
10 a.m.: One block from the campus, the Northern Indiana Crippled Children’s hospital opens after a year’s delay. (Truly a Gaelic festivity).
—„	8 p.m.: Dylan Thomas will give a
9 lecture-reading in Washington Hall. Mr.
Thomas is a Welsh poet touring the United States.
It’s true that the Dining Hall is serving green ice cream, and that the Irish Culture club is throwing a banquet at the Oliver. But aftei- all, men, this is supposed to be the home of the Fighting Irish.
It looks as if Sweeney’s Shamrock and the Blarney Inn will have to bear 0 the brunt of the festive whims of the real and naturalized (for a day) Sons of Erin.
Life at Notre Dame (VI)
Registration for rooms, the annual nemesis of all Juniors, Sophs, and Frosh, with averages under 97.2, is being carried on this week at the usual 80 m.p.h. clip.
This exercise is usually a good work--x out for the average student, but back 9 in the old days, there was much more of a competitive spirit to the thing. Rooms were handed out on a first come-first served basis, and the long lines used to form in the wee hours of the morning, complete with mattresses and lunch boxes.
Nowadays, ever since someone got the idea of awarding rooms on a priority scale, according to scholastic averages, the effect is less like trying to get into
the World Series, and more like being assigned a cell in Siberia by the secret police.
Although the present bureaucratic system is more scientific, and gives the ingenious scholar less chance to express-himself, (it’s no longer whom you know, but what you know) —there are a few WEEKworthy tales that concern the ceremonies:
This week’s story is about Jim (no relation to “Double Dollar”) Rogers, Sociology major from New York. Jim was determined to get his old room back in Sorin Sub, and he asked for it by number when he got within bargaining distance of window No. 5.
Jim was told that, unfortunately, that particular room had already been spoken for. He was further told that there was only one single left m the sub.
Disheartened, but making a lightning decision, our hero decided to take the remaining room. On leaving the window, Jim looked down at his receipt, blinked twice, and discovered that he had been assigned to Room 17 — you guessed it — the same one he had this year.
What’s Wrong With the “Scholastic” (2)
“The Evansville College Camera Club has announced its second annual Salon of Photography Exhibit, open to all students of Indiana colleges.
“The exhibit is to be held March 8 to 15. The closing date for entries is March 20 ... ”
—from the Feb. 17 Scholastic
And nobody wrote a letter to the editor about this!
Bottom of the Week
He’ll probably sing “If I’d Knowed You Was Cornin’ I’d a Baked a Cake.”
ENGLISH NOTICE
Upperclassmen who have not yet passed the Freshman English Essentials examination may take the examination on Tuesday, March 21, from 7 to 9 p. m, in Room 253 of the Main Building. Results of the January Essentials examination may be obtained from the Director of Studies Office.
Library Displays Exhibit Of Rare Russian Icons
An unusual and interesting collection of Russian icons is currently being displayed in the Card Catalogue room of the University Library. A private collection of Prof. Elie Denissoff, Department of Philosophy, it contains objects of Moscovite and Byzantine origin.
A highlight of the collection is an Icon portraying the Blessed Virgin and the Christ Child. Inscribed on the icon is “The Judgment Is Just But the Judge Is Merciful.”
Another- icon, dating from the days of Napoleon, was dredged from the Meuse River only recently. Prof. Denissoff believes that it was dropped by one of Napoleon’s fleeing soldiers after their rout from Moscow.
The most valuable icon was obtained from the Monastery of Vatopedy in Greece. The rare piece pictures Christ accompanied by St. John the Baptist and His Blessed Mother. The display wall be on exhibit for two weeks.
DANCE
Alice and George Davis
2 for 1 rates
Now two can learn to dance for the price of one and save 50%. Call ' 3-8229. Come in for a Free Lesson.
Northern Indiana's Largest Dance Studio
106 W. Monroe at Michigan South Bend
March 17, 1950
Entertainment
MARCH 17
ST. PATRICK’S DAY . . . Irish Culture Club holds second annual banquet, in Oliver Hotel’s Rotary Room . . . guest speaker and entertainment. . . . COLFAX (through March 22)—Twelve O?Clock High (Legion of Decency Rating A-l), an excellent war drama with Gregory Peck, Dean Jagger, Hugh Marlowe, Paul Steward and Millard Mitchell. . . . GRANADA (through March 23)—John Patrick’s drama, The Hasty Heart (A-l), is as fine a movie as it was a play ... it is the moving story of a dour Scot who is to die and who is befriended by fellow patients in a war hospital. . . . Richard Todd makes a memorable screen debut. . . . Ronald Reagan and Patricia Neal offer fine support. . . . Unmasked is the mediocre co-feature. . . . WASHINGTON HALL . . . Concert and Lecture Series presents Dylan Thomas, Welsh poet, at 8 p.m.
MARCH 18
DRILL HALL—Vaughn Monroe airs his nation-wide broadcast from 6:30 to 7 o’clock . . . doors open early . . . admission by ID cards only . . . each student allowed one guest. . . . WASHINGTON HALL . . . (showings at 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. only) John Ford’s She Wore a Yellow Ribbon (A-l), a bang-up technicolored western with John Wayne, Joanne Dru, and John Agar . . . you’ll have saddle-pains after this one. . . . CHICAGO . . . the Chicago Club sponsors a Concert-Dance at Terrace Casino Room of Hotel Morrison. . . . Notre Dame Glee Club to Sing.
MARCH 21
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM — Modern Languages film series’ third presentation is the French-made Maria Chapdelaine . . . stars Jean Gabin and Madelaine Renaud . . . story taken from Louis Hemon’s novel of French-Canadian life.
MARCH 23
WASHINGTON HALL . . . Earle Spicer, baritone . . . recital under auspices of Concert and Lecture Series. . . . Spicer, known for his rendition of American and English ballads. . . . COLFAX (through March 28)—Young Man . With a Horn with Kirk Douglas, Lauren Bacall, Doris Day and Hoagy Carmichael ... a pseudo-biography of the great trumpeter, Bix Beiderbecke . . . the story is hackneyed . . . the production, though, is good ... on the whole, it is solid entertainment. . . . Bacall’s acting is awful. . . . Day’s is surprisingly top-rate . . . she can not only sing but can also emote. . . . GRANADA (through March 28)—So Proudly We Hail and Wake Island are two fine war reissues . . . neither of them is great, but both will keep you glued in the seat.
MARCH 24
PALACE—After several delays, All the King’s Men (B) finally arrives . . . this is bound to cop many of the Academy Awards . . . and it’s a deserving winner, at that . . . the film is a fine political commentary on the rise of a power-mad politico. . . . Broderick Crawford, John Ireland and Mercedes McCambridge are especially fine in the leading roles. . . . Beauty on Parade is the trite second feature.
DIAMONDS—JEWELRY—WATCHES
J. TRETHEWEY Joe the Jeweler
104 N. Main St.	J.M.S. Bldg.
GOLF SPECIAL
5 IRONS, chrome shafts
3 WOODS, chrome shafts STAY BAG
$37.50
Golf Balls, 39c to 95c
Shoes and Accessories
SONNEBORNS
SPORT SHOP
121 W. COLFAX AVE.
South Bend, Ind. Phone 3-3702
LENT IS AN ANNUAL RETREAT
at which time we better
. practice Christ's Way of Life. . . . We can read our way to an appreciation of what Christ's Way of Life really is.
AQUINAS Book Store 110 LaSalle Ave.
Summer Courses
UNIVERSITY of MADRID Study and Travel
A rare opportunity to enjoy memorable experiences in learning and living! For students, teachers, others yet to discover fascinating, historical Spain. Courses include Spanish language, art and culture. Interesting recreational program included.
For details, write now to Spanish Student Tours 500 Fifth Ave., New York 18, N. Y.
6
The Scholastic
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
JOSEPH HERRINGTON
9	Associate Editors
KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI __________________ News
JOHN J. POWERS___________Assistant News ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE ___________ Features
JOHN F. MEANEY  Sports JACK R. VARLEY Assistant Sports RICHARD CULLEN_______________Photography
LEON GARDNER___________________Librarian
M. A. ALEXANDER______________Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO ______________Advertising
0 EDMOND FOLEY _________________ Circulation
ROBERT WILDEMAN  Circulation DALE FRANCIS___________Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Rod Belcher. Frank Blanch, Roger Blatz, Justin Bolger, Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, Bob Butler, Don Carbone, Jim Carrig, Jim Clark, Joe C-onerty, Jay Conlon, John Corrigan, Frank Cotter, Bryan Coughlin, Dave Driscoll, Charley Dullea, Carl Eiberger. Bob Finney, Tom Foote, Bill Gorman, David Hayes, Jerry Howell, Tom Kelley, John Kelly, Rik Klein, Joe Lang, Lou Meece, Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy. Tom Murphy, Jim O’Brien, John Quetsch, Tom Reedy, —Neal Scarlett, George Schwartz, Roger Vorce.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Jack Econo-mou. Jack Keane, Ted Prahinski, Frank Ronnenberg, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES:Jim Carroll. Jim Kingsley, Larry McDermott, Robert Romaker, Jack Ward. Bill Weir.
Member of the Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame. Indiana.
COVER: Orville R. Foster, director of the audio-visual center, explains the operation of a 16 mm. sound projector to two of his students. Another group (left) orientate themselves with a motion picture camera. The department will mark its second anniversary next Thursday by the continuous showing of Rome—The Eternal City.
March 17, 1950
Vol. 91. March 17, 1950 No. 19
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1101, October 3. 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
From the Editor’s Desk..
Lent and A Retreat
Why not make a Lenten retreat?
For one thing, making a retreat means giving up Saturday night O-	O	O O V	y O
movies or beer. It means sitting on uncomfortable chapel benches and kneeling on hard wooden kneelers. It means standing out in the elements to say the Rosary7 at the Grotto—and it might be snowing. It means getting up early for Mass, instead of sacking until the 11:10. It means more conferences on Sundav. more kneeling and hard sitting, more braving the elements at the outdoor stations. It means the essence of Lent—a little bit of sacrifice.
There are still two more weekend retreats before Easter vacation. These are specifically for the students of certain halls, but they are not restricted to those students alone. Any student, on or off campus, whose regularly scheduled retreat period has passed without his response, is welcome to make either of these last two retreats.
Lent is the ideal time for a retreat, just as a retreat is an ideal practice for Lent. The two overlap. The purpose of both is to root out sin and perform acts of sacrifice and contrition.
Viewed in this light, all the arguments why vou shouldn’t make a O'	O	J s
Lenten retreat suddenly turn around and become arguments why you should make a retreat.
It’s not too late. There is no signing up. Just show up at the proper hall chapel at the proper time tomorrow or next Saturday evening. Your Lent will be the richer for it.	-
Neither Miser Nor Spendthrift
The funds available for Student Council use are at one of their highest totals in recent years. The general fund contains about $2,000, while the Charity Chest has over $5,000 in it. Such amounts should give the Council a working margin for the next few months, o	o o
Just having the money, however, is not a sufficient excuse to use it indiscriminately. A week ago last Monday night, over $300 was given out. There was some justification, surely, for this expenditure, but we believe on closer examination that it wasn’t really necessary.
One of the authorizations was $140 to the Sophomore Class sponsored talent show. One hundred dollars of that sum goes as prizes for the winners in the competition. However, members of the band, glee club and Student Theatre work longer and harder for little except publicity and an occasional trip. But granting that the prizes are necessary to procure talent, there still is a question as to whether or not it is worth it. The last talent show, the K. of C. vaudeville, was anything but a success. Even if this year’s edition be more successful, we believe the Council would be more justified in putting the money behind another student play7 or musical.
The other expenditure was $200 to the Bengal Bout Fund. Surely the Bengal missions are a worthy cause, but the school—through the Knights of Columbus—is sponsoring the charity fights which bring in many times that amount. Wouldn’t it be better to save the Council charity7 fund for the many other worthy causes that come up during the year for which no other action is taken?
The Council must not just spend its money. It must spend it wisely.
7
THE DU PONT
DIGEST
CROSS-SECTION of the new mop yarn. Each cotton fiber strand is jacketed with cellulose sponge material.
Science Makes a Better Mop
Cleaning tasks lightened by new Du Pont cellulose sponge yam
offer mop manufacturers the yarn in commercial quantities.
An ordinary mop has a bad habit of unraveling. It often leaves a trail of lint. And it wears out fast. A man who sold yarn to mop manufacturers decided to do something about these nuisances. Perhaps some reinforcing material might be combined with the yarn. He did some experimental work of his own but more and more he wondered if it might be possible to use a cellulose sponge coating.
THREE YEARS OF RESEARCH
So the man called on Du Pont, the company that had introduced the cellulose sponge to America in 1936. The suggestion of a sponge yam presented a challenging problem.
Some way would have to be found to extrude a tightly fitting cellulose sponge jacket around each strand of
the yam. The whole sponge process would have to be adjusted for use in an especially designed machine. Du Pont chemists and engineers tackled these problems.
Even the very first cellulose sponge yam produced experimentally made mops that were strong, absorbent and durable. But the process had to be changed and improved time and time again. Then the mops were tested in places where they would get the hardest usage—railroad stations, for example.
The mops performed so well that Du Pont built a pilot plant near Buffalo and, under a license from the man who had the original idea, manufactured the yam on a small scale. Only after three years of study and testing was Du Pont able to
FASTER AND CLEANER	•
Mops made with cellulose sponge yarn pick up and retain so much water they need wringing less often. You can mop a floor with them in far less time than it formerly took. They dry quickly, leave no lint. They outwear other mops three to five times. Best of all, perhaps, they stay dirt-free longer than ordinary mops. Here is something women will appreciate—a clean mop!
The introduction of these new cleaning tools is another example of how business firms of all sizes depend on each other. The Du Pont Company had facilities for specialized research on cellulose sponge. Because Du Pont could supply sponge yarn economically, some twenty mop manufacturers today have a better product that saves maintenance people and the American housewife time, 9 labor and money.
SEND FOR "The Story of Cellulose,” a 43-page booklet that tells how wood and cotton are transformed into sponges, textile fibers, lacquers, plastics, coated fabrics, Cellophane and many other useful products. Illustrated with photographs, charts and chemical equations. For free copy, write to the Du Pont Company, 2503 Nemours Bldg., Wilmington 98, Delaware.
«E6. U.S. PAT. OFF.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
i.. THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Great Dramatic Entertainment— Tune in "Cavalcade of America” Tuesday Nights, NBC Coast to Coast
8
The Scholastic 9
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
- VOLUME 91, NUMBER 19
MARCH 17, 1950
Audio-Visual Center to Mark Second Year With Continuous Film Showing on Thursday
By TOM KELLEY
The Department of Audio-Visual Aids will mark its second anniversary next Thursday. The event will be celebrated by a continuous showing from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. of the picture Rome—The Eternal City. Pictures of the first Notre Dame commencement held in the Stadium, June 1949, will also be shown.
It was Rev. Howard Kenna, c.s.c., Vice-President in charge of academic affairs, who first realized the possibilities of this neglected educational medium. Since its inception, the AudioVisual Center has increased its facilities . and activities under the directorship of Orville R. Foster. Although AudioVisual activities are limited by space, services are extended to many of the other University departments.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c,
(Continued on Page 33)
Surrounded by a battery of floodlights, an Audio-Visual class listens to lecture.
March 17, 1950
executive Vice-President, has given full authorization to a large-scale motion picture production program to be undertaken by the Center. At present there are three major efforts in this direction. The first film will be a revision of the Football Highlights from 1947 to the present time. After these pictures have been edited and a new sound track added, the film will be released nationally as The Winning Streak at Notre Dame.
The second film, already in production, is a full-length documentary feature to be produced for Associates Investment Corporation of South Bend, one of the largest investment corporations in the world. This picture will consist of shots of the South Bend
U. Theatre to Present New Play Next Month
The University Theater winds up tryout sessions this afternoon for the cast in the three-act comedy The Gentleman From Athens by Emmet Lavery.
The play will be presented on April 24, 25 and 26 in Washington Hall. Professor Francis J. Hanley of the Department of Fine Arts is the director and has been conducting the tryouts that began Wednesday afternoon in the Main Building.
After the cast of ten males and three females has been chosen, rehearsals will begin Sunday afternoon.
The Gentleman From Athens is a satire on the U.S. Congress and depicts the fortunes of a roughneck from Athens, California who hijacks his way through typical Washington red-tape and bureaucratic bungling.
Mr. Hanley recently appeared in the role of David, the father, in the South Bend Catholic Theater Guild’s production of Hay Fever.
Emmet Lavery is also the author of The First Legion, Murder in a Nunnery, Brief Music, The Magnificent Yankee, and Guilty of Treason. The Gentleman from Athens appeared on Broadway three years ago.
Vaughn Monroe Will Air Show From Drill Hall
Tomorrow night at 6:30 Vaughn Monroe and his orchestra will air the “Camel Caravan” show from the stage of the Drill Hall over the Columbia Broadcasting System.
Notre Dame is one of the many colleges and Universities that the Monroe show is broadcasting from during a coast to coast tour.
Featured with the crooner-leader are “The Moonmaids” and blond songstress, Joan Holiday.	,
Notre Dame students and faculty members will be admitted to the broadcast upon presentation of their I.D. cards. No tickets will be issued and one guest will be allowed to see the Monroe show with each student admittance.
9
Rev John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., has appointed an Executive Committee to administer the affairs of the University of Notre Dame Foundation under his direction. Frank C. Walker, ’09, New York City Foundation Chairman, and chairman of the Committee on Alumni and Public Affairs of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, will serve as Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Other members of the committee include, - left to right, seated, Rev. John H. Murphy,
C.S.C., vice-president in charge of public relations at the University; Mr. Walker; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, and Rev. Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president.
Standing are John Cackley, Foundation office staff; J. Arthur Haley, director of public relations; James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary and Foundation vice-chairman; John B. Kanaley, Foundation co-chairman in N.Y.C., and Herman Zitt, Foundation staff.
Father Cavanaugh Outlines Building Program; Construction of Four Residence Halls Planned
By J. K. O’BRIEN
The long range needs of the University received the spotlight at the recent meeting of the Executive Committee of the Notre Dame Foundation. During the meeting of the newly-appointed committee, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University and director of the Foundation, gave an outline of the proposed long range building program.
This program is aimed at increasing the facilities of the University so that the needs of an average student body of 5000 can be effectively satisfied.
Foremost on the committee’s plans is the erection of several residence halls so that the entire student body, graduate and undergraduate, can be housed on the campus. Tentatively this calls for one graduate residence hall and three undergraduate halls. One of these undergraduate halls, the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial, is slated for construction in the near future. The others will follow when funds permit.
The Science Building is also planned for construction soon. Needing approximately two million dollars, the fund for this building now stands at $1,225,000.
Future buildings to be added to the campus scene include:
The Notre Dame Inn—a guest house
for alumni, friends and students’ parents — to overcome current lack of campus housing and dining facilities for such groups.
Liberal and Fine Arts Building—The offices and classrooms of the College of Arts and Letters are scattered in crowded buildings throughout the campus. A new building will unify work and provide facilities for expanded departments.
An Auditorium—to meet a longstanding need for adequate seating of student, parent, civic and other campus meetings. Tentatively it will seat 8,000 to 10,000 persons and include a basketball floor and an ice arena.
Union Building—to satisfy recreational needs, provide additional dining facilities, and house student publications. Notre Dame is perhaps the largest university in the nation still without a Union Building.
Memorial Library—to replace the present outgrown library, built in 1917 for 600 students. The present library will be used for the Mediaeval Institute, Archives and art gallery.
Maintenance Building—to effect greater maintenance efficiency and savings.
Administration Building—to supplement the University’s main building,
erected in 1879, now poorly housing entire administration.
Bacteriology Laboratories — for research in germ-free life, cancer, and disease-germ control.
Funds for some of these buildings’ are already quite large. Continued support by alumni and friends could make several of these buildings a reality this year.	-
In addition to these building needs, X Father Cavanaugh stressed some of these other needs of the University. Notre Dame must raise further" endowment for salaries of teachers engaged in research, professorships in departments offering higher degrees, and for visiting professors and special lecturers.
Also, special funds are needed for new books and library maintenance and for support of the University’s nationally-known publications as The Revieiv " of Politics and The American Midland Naturalist.
A further need of the University is a general unrestricted endowment. Notre Dame at present has the lowest endowment of any of 95 leading American universities.
RO Airmen Organize; Name Cadet Officers
The air ROTC unit of Notre Dame V organized the Air Cadet Club, composed of the students who are in the unit, last Monday night in the Law Building. This is the first attempt by the Air Force officers to organize the future pilots other than in their drills and classes.
A constitution was adopted at this meeting, and a committee was chosen to run the Club. According to the preamble of the constitution, the aim of the Club _ is “the development of friendship and J cooperation among students who recognize a community of interests from their participation in the Air Force Reserve Officer’s Training Corps.”
The committee is composed of the following cadets. The chairman is William Anhut from Detroit, Mich; the Senior representative, Robert Greenawalt from Titusville, Penn.; the Junior delegate, Patrick J. Plunkett from Detroit, Mich.; the Sophomore representative, William Whiteside from Philadelphia, Penn.; and the freshman committeeman, Charles W. Roemer from South Bend, Ind. This committee will rule the Club until they hold their first elections for officers in May.
The Air ROTC unit also announced the appointments of the cadet officers. Ralph Dixon from Long Beach, Calif., has been named Cadet Colonel. The two Cadet Lieutenant Colonels are Lyle M. Peterson, from Twin Falls, Idaho, and John R. Dolan of Chandler, Arizona. /-
10
The Scholastic
Father Mullahy
Sophomores to Open Retreat Tomorrow
Through another change in the lenten retreat schedule, the two final retreats have been advanced a week. The “spiritual huddle” for men of Cavanaugh, Lyons, and Morrissey Halls will begin tomorrow evening, while the Freshman \ - conference will be held on March 25-26.
The Sophomore retreat this weekend is under the direction of Rev. Bernard Mullahy, C.S.C., who will preach the conference in the Cavanaugh Hall chapel. Father Mullahy is assistant head of the Department of Philosophy.
Services will begin at 8:30 p.m. tomorrow at the chapel and will follow the same schedule as last week.
_ Those who make this retreat will be asked to answer a questionnaire, stating their impressions of the retreat and telling which exercise they found most appealing. They may also suggest ways to improve the retreats in particular and student Catholic life in general.
Similar questions were asked of the Graduate Students, Seniors, and Juniors in the first three retreats, all of which were well attended. All emphatically agreed that the lenten retreats, now in their fifth year, should be continued.
Although opinions differed, to many the most impressive ceremony was the outdoor Way of the Cross, where everyone accompanies the priest from station to station. The straightforward conferences, confession, and the beautiful evening rosary at the Grotto were particularly appealing. General impressions of the retreat also varied, but all were very favorable.
S March 17, 1950
Bishop O'Hara Lecture Seminar Will Open With Talk by New York Advertiser Today
Mr. Gene Flack, Sales Counsel and Director of Advertising for Sunshine Biscuits, Inc., New York, will give the opening address today in this year’s Bishop O’Hara Seminar Lecture Series at 3:30 p.m., in the Law Auditorium. Three more lectures will follow to complete the Series by March 29.
Mr. William Power, Sales Manager of the Chevrolet division of General Motors Corporation will give a talk at 3:30 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium on Monday afternoon, and Mr. Noel Sargent, Secretary of the National Association of Manufacturers, New York, will discuss “The Organization and Activities of the NAM” at 2:30 p.m. in the Law Auditorium on Wednesday, March 22. Mr. James C. Downs, Jr., of the Real Estate Research Corporation, Chicago, will wind up the series on March 29 at 4 p.m. in the Law Auditorium.
Mr. Flack has had 35 years experience in selling and has traveled- the equivalent of 40 times around the globe in the air in his continuous hops across the country addressing all kinds of organizations. In World War II he served on the speakers’ bureau of the Committee for Economic Development, U. S. Treasury, War Food Administration, U.S.O., National Federation of Sales Executives, and the Advertising Federation of America, and received a citation for services he rendered in behalf of the American Red Cross.
He is now a member of the National Distribution Council of the U. S. Department of Commerce, the Committee on Advertising of the U. S. Chamber of Commerce, the Advisory Council of the U. S. Treasury, and the advisory of the Junior Achievement and the National Urban League. He is the past president of National Sales Executives, Inc., numbering 12,000 sales executives and representing more than three million salesmen. He is also past president and chairman of the board of the Sales Executives Club of New York, the largest club of its kind in the world.
Mr. Noel Sargent has been with the NAM for the last 30 years in various capacities. He organized their Industrial War Production Committee which facilitated wartime cooperation between industry and many government agencies. Since then he has mobilized a committee to provide for an easy, efficient business changeover to peacetime economy, with continued high production and long-range job security. He also originated many other NAM departments and activities including its economic research
committee, social security department, and industrial practices committee.
The final lecturer, Mr. James C. Downs, Jr., is the editor of the monthly National “Market Letter” of the Real Estate Research Corporation. In 1949, this organization completed several score of the most extensive survey, analysis, and advisory studies ever to be performed in the fields of real estate, building, mortgage loans, and slum clearance.
The Bishop O’Hara Lecture Series is named for the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame and now Bishop of the diocese of Buffalo, N. Y. Sponsored each year in cooperation with the Advisory Council of the College of Commerce, it is intended to supplement classroom business instruction with lectures by established businessmen. The talks are open to seniors in the College of Commerce, members of the faculty, and interested businessmen from the surrounding area.—Bryan Coughlin
Tomorrow Is Final Date
For Talent Show Auditions
Tomorrow is the last day to sign up for the sophomore talent show, so if you could use an extra §50 (and who could not?) and you think you have some audience appeal, hustle down to Gene Hull in 228 Cavanaugh; Bill Toohey, 326 Cavanaugh; or Jack Moran, 140 Morrissey and make an appointment for an audition.
Jack Fitzhenry, grad student, will be the audition and final show pianist , and a committee of three men, yet to be selected, will act as judges for the tryouts. The date for the final show has not yet been determined, but it will probably be about a week before the commencing of the Easter vacation.
The tryouts are open to any student on the campus who can sing, dance, impersonate, play a musical instrument, or entertain in any other way. Contestants will be judged on musicianship, showmanship, and audience reaction.’ Prizes totaling $100 will be awarded to the ten finalists after the final show in Washington Hall. The winner will receive $50 and the rest of the prize money will be proportionately awarded to the other finalists.
“The real purpose of the show,” according to co-chairman Gene Hull, “is to discover the local talent for future reference.” This is not to be a vaudeville show but a contest to uncover campus talent.
11
Student Trip Budget Discussed by Council
Another burgeoning rumor bit the dust at this week’s Student Council meeting, as Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.s.c., faculty moderator, disclaimed any knowledge of the reputed 14% raise of the general fee. Emphasizing his desire to ascertain the source of this information, Father Kehoe stated, ‘ I know of no such increase. However, it is stated in the Bulletin that fees may be changed at any time.”
Next year’s student trip was the subject of discussion resulting in plans for budgets for each possible trip. Steps are to be taken to find out the preference of the student body. Mention was made of the fact that the Friday preceding the Tulane game will be Founder’s Day, thus providing for a long week end.
The Flower Committee has relayed information, through Co-chairmen Charles Mouch and Dick Brodeur, that prices on campus will be lowered in order to compare more favorably with South Bend rates. A flower display will be held in the caf between Easter and April 21.
A motion by Secretary William Anhut for a tentative working budget was carried. Additional legislation accepted provides that the Mardi Gras Dance be held annually and be sponsored by the Student Council.
Earle Spicer to Sing Here Thursday Night
Earle Spicer, one of America’s foremost ballad recitalists, will present a program of English and American ballads in Washington Hall, next Thursday night at 8 o’clock. The concert is under the auspices of the Concert and Lecture Series.
Instead of a serious talk on ballads, Spicer, a baritone, will give brief comments on the various songs and ballads in an informal manner. He sings with a grand sense of humor and a pleasing personality, according to advance reports.
The New York singer has appeared as guest artist with many of the leading symphony orchestras and oratorio societies in the United States and England. He has sung for the English nobility and the governor-general of Canada, and has presented a recital at the White House.
For three years he was featured soloist on an NBC radio program, singing with Donald Vorhees and his or
chestra. Spicer has played many college engagements, including Columbia, Minnesota, Texas, Kansas State, Lafayette, Franklin and Marshall, Maine and Yale.
Last Wednesday the Juilliard String Quartet appeared in concert on the Washington Hall stage under the sponsorship of the University Concert and Lecture Series.
Vocational Lectures End
Monday For Sophomores
Vocational guidance lectures for Sophomores will end next Monday afternoon with a talk by Professor John H. Sheehan on Economics. The talk will
Father Phelan
be given in the Law Auditorium at 4:15 p.m. The series was initiated by the AB group of the YCS under the direction of Ken Hoelscher, Dave McBride and Frank Marzolf.
Among the professors who spoke in this series were Very Rev. Gerald Phelan, Philosophy, Professor Bernard Kohlbrenner, Education, Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., English, Rev. Thomas McAvoy, c.s.c., History, Professor Thomas J. Stritch, Journalism, Professor John J. Kane, Sociology.
The talks were presented in an attempt to remedy the indecision of Sophomores in choosing both their major subjects in college and theii- careers after graduation. The object of the lectures was to acquaint the students with all the related aspects and opportunities of the different fields of study and how these studies are applicable to various •vocations in life. A question period followed each talk.
Yanics Announces Date € For 1950 Junior Prom
Junior class President Ray Yanics announced this week that the Junior Prom will be held Friday night, April 21. Location of the dance is not definite, although the final selection is between the Palais Royale in South Bend and the Rockne Memorial.
Committees for the dance will be or- C ganized within the next week, Yanics said. However, plans have been made to provide an enjoyable weekend for the Prom-goers.
Saturday afternoon the upperclassmen and their dates will see a sneak preview of Coach Leahy's 1950 edition of the Fighting Irish in Cartier Field, where an intra-squad tussle has been tentatively promised.	_
An informal dance sponsored by the Student Council is on the agenda for Saturday night revelers. As yet, an orchestra has not been chosen for the Prom, but Mr. Yanics has disclosed that Les Brown, Jimmy Dorsey, Elliott Lawrence, Freddy Martin, and Ralph Flanagan are among the bands under consideration.
Five Finalists Selected
In Breen Preliminary Talks
Preliminary speeches in the Breen Oratorical Contest were run oT last Monday night, leaving five contestants still eligible for the “Breen Medal for Oratory” which is awarded annually to the speaker judged the winner of this contest.
The five finalists, who will give their crucial speeches next Thursday at 8	_
p.m. in room 250 of the Main Building, are Joseph Browne, C.S.C., Edward Goer-ner, Joseph Hoffman, C.S.C., John Edward Kelly, Jr., and Robert Miquette.
The winner- of the Breen Medal is automatically eligible for the honor of representing the University in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest. This speech battle will take place on April 29 at Manchester College, North Manchester, Ind. All colleges and universities in Indiana will be entered in this contest.
A third contest has been announced by the Speech Department to be on the immediate agenda. This is the Hearst Contest, in which ND will be represented at a regional talk-fest in Chicago. The subject is James Madison and the speech must be original. Five prizes will be awarded at this contest — a $250 gift to the winner, a $100 prize for the runner-up, $75 for showing, and two $50 awards for fourth and fifth places.
12
The Scholastic
Welsh Poet to Give Reading Here Tonight
It is not often that a poet in the status of T. S. Eliot or W. H. Auden comes to the Notre Dame campus, but today at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall, Dylan Thomas, one of the foremost poets of the twentieth century, will W give a reading of his works. The young Welsh-born poet, who has been in the United States only a few weeks, is on a lecture tour of American universities which will carry him all over the country.
Dylan Thomas published his first book of verse at 19, a verse that was markedly different from the politicalsocial poetry then fashionable. His was an individual and personal poetry; W subjective, it tended toward introversion. He combined Biblical imagery with a scientific psychology and produced a very difficult and surrealistic style.
His more recent poems have tended to be much simpler and more lucid without losing the strange fascination of his style. Some of these latter poems are Fern Hill, Poem in October, In My Craft, and Sullen Art. He has also published several volumes of short stories among which are realistic remembrances of his youth in Wales, and a volume of fantasy and dreams. Thomas has infused the natural beauty of Welsh poetry into the English vernacular.
Thomas’s readings have received excellent critical reception. His reading, a combination of a deep musical voice and the strange style of his poetry, has charmed student audiences from East to West.
A public discussion of the works of Dylan Thomas was held last Wednes
day by Mr. John Frederick Nims to acquaint students with the style and content of his poems.
MARRIAGE FORUM
The seventh session of the Institute on Christian Marriage will he held next Thursday evening at 7:30 p. m. in the Engineering Auditorium.
The topic of the meeting is “Carrying Christian Family Influence . . .” Mr. Patrick Crowley will discuss “By Family Holiness.” Mrs. Patrick Crowley will explain the topic “By the Family Apostolate.”
Both men and women are invited to this lecture.
New Book on U. S. Culture Includes 7 ND Contributions
Seven Notre Dame faculty members have contributed to a new book on U.S. culture, called The American Civilization. Published in Belgium, the text was edited and translated into French by Dr. Yves Simon, former professor of philosophy here.
The Notre Dame contributors and their subjects include Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., professor of philosophy, writing on “Rural Life”; Dr. Willis D. Nutting, professor of history, discussing “Family Life,” and Economics Professor John H. Sheehan, on “The Economic System.”
Dr. Waldemar Gurian treated American foreign policy, while History Professors Aaron I. Abell and Matthew A. Fitzsimons handled religion and politics, respectively. A chapter entitled ••“American and World Literature” was ‘written by Frank J. O’Malley, professor of English.
A former instructor at Notre Dame, Dr. Alvan S. Ryan, treated the subject of education in the United States.
Irish Debaters Star In Kentucky Tourney
Last week-end the Notre Dame debaters traveled to the University of Kentucky at Lexington foi- the National Tau Kappa Alpha tournament. Out of a 79-team field of competition the Irish tied for first place in debate with Arizona and Mississippi. TKA, a national forensic fraternity, sponsored the tourney with 45 colleges and universities in the field from 21 states.
Bill Carey and Bill Dempsey made up the first place debate team and Carey then went on to take first in extemporaneous speaking. Tom Ninneman completed the honors with a third spot in discussion.
Director of Forensics Leonard Sommer considers the present squad one of the best debate teams of recent years. Last February the group placed first in the Boston University Invitational' meet. They will go east for the West Point Invitational Tourney next month.
ND Songsters to Appear In Chicago Club Concert
The Chicago Club -will sponsor a concert by the Notre Dame Glee Club tomorrow night in the Terrace Casino Room of the Morrison Hotel in Chicago. The concert will begin at 8:30 p.m.
Forty ND singers will leave the campus in the afternoon and appear at the Morrison that night under the direction of Daniel H. Pedtke. The program will consist of religious, popular, classical and folk tunes by the chorus and soloists.	.
The Chicagoans have arranged for dancing to follow the concert. An added feature of the evening’s entertainment will be the presentation of awards to ND football players by the club.
Entertainment
MARCH 3
COLFAX (through March 8)—All the characters who made Dear Ruth such a top comedy have been brought together again for that picture’s sequel, Dear Wife (Legion of Decency Rating A-l). Ruth (Joan Caulfield) and her ingratiating Air Force boyfriend (William Holden) are now married and living with her family. Miriam (Mona Freeman) is at work again and gets Holden nominated for a big political post. The comic situations come out of the fact that Ruth’s father (Edward Arnold) is the opposing candidate. All in all, the film adds up to pleasant, innocuous fun.
PALACE (through March 9)—Marcia Davenport’s bestseller has been jazzed up in its picturization into nothing more than a woman’s soap opera. East Side, West Side (B) stars Barbara Stanwyck, James Mason, Van Heflin, Ava Gardner and Cyd Charisse. They all try hard to overcome this supposedly-inside story of New York’s cafe society set but are handicapped by the plot. The co-fea-ture is The Blonde Bandit (A-2) and is about as silly as its title.
GRANADA (through March 8) — The much-discussed, much-publicized Howard Hughes production, The Outlatv (B), finally gets a booking in South Bend. Only the over-curious will want to see this one, and even they will be disappointed. This is, without a doubt, one of the worst westerns ever put out. The acting is awful; the story worse. Don’t waste your money — wait for the next Roy Rogers thriller, it’s bound to be better.
AVON—Battleground (A-l) will be held over as long as the demand lasts. If you haven’t already seen it, then hie yourself down immediately. Ask anyone who saw it last week. This is top stuff. (Since the run for this movie is so tentative, the management could not give any definite dates on the films that are scheduled to follow.) Some of them, however, will be: Challenge to Lassie (A-l), with the canine cutie and Donald Crisp; Key to the City (B), a rough and tumble comedy with Clark Gable and Loretta Young; My Foolish Heart (B), Susan Hayward and Dana Andrews in a flood-tide tear jerker; Mrs. Mike (A-2), a good picturization of the popular book, with Dick Powell and Evelyn Keyes starring; and Tight Little Island (A-2), a wonderful piece of whimsy from England.
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—The Journalism Department continues its series of films with The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, starring the old sheik, himself, Rudolph Valentino. Those who have been able to get tickets will be on hand at 7:30 tonight to see just what made their mothers swoon.
MARCH 4
WASHINGTON HALL—Gunga Din, by now considered to be somewhat of a modern classic, is brought back to the campus for a re-run. Cary Grant and Sam Jaffee, as the immortal water boy, are the featured players.
MARCH 7
ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM—The Department of Modern Languages presents Revenge, an Italian-made film at 7:30. Charge of admittance for those who do not hold a season ticket will be ten cents. Anna Magnani, Italy s top dramatic actress, essays the leading role.
The Scholastic
4
The Notre Dame
Scholastic
Vol. 91. March 3, 1950 No. 17
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
Founded 1867
Entered as second class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1101, October 3, 1917. Authorized June 23, 1918.
Editor
JOSEPH HERRINGTON
Associate Editors KENNETH A. THOREN WALTON R. COLLINS
JOHN H. JANOWSKI_________________ News
JOHN J. POWERS _________ Assistant News
ALPHONSE A. LAPORTE _________ Features
JOHN F. MEANEY  Sports JACK R. VARLEY ________ Assistant Sports
RICHARD CULLEN____________ Photography
LEON GARDNER  Librarian M. A. ALEXANDER __________ Advertising
LOUIS P. LOURO ___________ Advertising
EDMOND FOLEY _____________ Circulation
ROBERT WILDMAN _____________. Circulation
DALE FRANCIS   Faculty Moderator
NEWS: Jack Bradshaw, Dan Brennan, Bob Butler, Don Carbone, Jim Clark, Jay Conlon, Ray Doherty, Dave Driscoll, Charley Dullca, Carl Eilberger, Bob Finney, Tom Kelley, Joe Lang, Dan McCarthy, Lou Meece, Don Mulvihill, Jim Murphy, R. O. Murphy, Jim O’Brien, George Otott, John Quetsch, George Schwartz, Bill Shidaker, Don Smith, Roger Vorce.
SPORTS: Jim Brislin, Bill Delaney, Jack Economou, Jack Keane, Ted Prahinski, Frank Ronnenberg, Rudy Unger.
FEATURES: Jim Carroll, Jim Kingsley, Larry McDermott, Robert Romaker, Jack Ward, Bill Weir.
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City. Printed at Ave Maria Press.
The Scholastic is published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscripts to the Editor, Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.
COVER: A quartet of half-frozen students leave ice-laden Indiana for a brief sojourn at Miami Beach, as they dream under the sunlamp in the Rockne Memorial. All four of the dreamers have some additional contentment in the fact that South Bend’s never had snow later than June or earlier than September.
—Photo by Jim McLaughlin
March 3, 1950
From the Editor’s Desk..
Cooperation Climaxes Carnival
Ann Blyth’s Drill Hall appearance which climaxed the successful Mardi Gras Carnival is a good example of the ever-increasing cooperation between the University administration and the Student Council.
Since the idea of having Miss Blyth appear was a last-minute one, the Council and Carnival chairman had to act quickly. They received immediate approval, and through the intervention of Father McDonald, they were able to bring the actress to Notre Dame.
Besides giving its approval, the Administration took every means to insure a successful visit. University autos were placed at the Committee’s disposal, and provisions for the star’s use of an Infirmary’ suite were made.
Miss Blyth’s cooperation must also be congratulated. No doubt her appearance was responsible in some degree for the large crowd that packed the Drill Hall for the last night of festivities. We believe she enjoyed her brief stay, and we know the students liked her visit.
A word of praise must also go to all those students who enabled the carnival to turn over almost $15,000 to charity: Chairmen Ed Farrell and Ed Noonan, members of the various clubs who erected and tended the booths, and, of course, to all those students who attended the affair and sold the donation books.
This is the third successful relief carnival in as many years. More important than the money turned over to relief—though that amount can’t be slighted—is the opportunity for many of the organizations on campus to work together. The carnival is not the work of any one group or organization. To be successful, the Council, the Syrian-Lebanese Club, the Law Club and others must organize their talent and combine their energies. It isn’t often that there is any necessity for such cooperation. But it is good to know that such an attitude of cooperation can be had if the need is there.
Live As If You're Going to Die
Notre Dame students packed Sacred Heart Church last Friday for the requiem Mass for Ray Espenan. After breaking his neck in an accident in the Central High School gymnasium early in the week, he had made a week-long fight for his life. Conscious almost to the end, Ray-accepted his suffering and offered it up for those who weren’t living up to their religious duties, o
Most men on campus are in their physical prime. To them, death seems a long way off. And probably in the great majority of cases it is. But death can strike and does: almost every year one or two students end their earthly life.
Probably Ray Espenan was not worried about death that day he went down to Central for his practice teaching. But he was ready for it. He had received Holy Communion that morning, and his whole life had been a preparation for that day.
With the facilities for attending Mass and receiving the Sacraments here at Notre Dame, every student should be as ready as Ray. Chances are you won’t be called soon, but it can happen.
’	7
<
I THE NOTRE DRPIE SGHOLESTIG I
Though it took a few weeks for this writer to get around to scanning through the old Scholastics so highly praised by our outspoken critic, Thomas Kelleghan, this task ivas an “educative” and “informative” one. The criterion by which the present magazine is judged — age — is, strangely enough, also at fault, if ive are to accept Mr. Kelleghan’s appraisal. We admit that the Scholastic of present issue IS concerned with campus and local items primarily, but we do not agree that the old issues were the guiding prototypes of literary endeavor, the precedent-setting trail blazers so championed by our “literary” critic. We submit herewith excerpts from these issues of happy memory for comparison—comparison ivith the ideal which Mr. Kelleghan has painted of them and what they actually are.	-
By AL LAPORTE
LOCAL ITEMS
“ . . . Watermelons are plenty just now.
“. . . Pope’s famous villa at Twickenham is for sale.
“ . . . New sewers are being dug around the campus.
“ . . . Students taking twilight walks must not become ‘too stilish.’	•
“. . . The Band instruments have been repaired and put in good order.
“ . . . The Tycho Brake, the famous Danish astronomer, has just been honored with .a statue-monument at Copenhagen.”
“. . . With favorable spring weather, the University grounds will have become a vale of flowers before Commencement. Numerous violet beds and lily vases have been added to the lawn, and St. Edward’s Park stands ready to bloom forth in more than its native loveliness at the first burst of sunshine and showers.
“. . . There is a certain fellow in Sorin Hall who explodes so many puns that, if one may judge from the “atmospheric perturbation” aroused by the explosives, he will be overwhelmed by such a copious draught of water from the commissioners that a Kansas rain-maker would explode his whole outfit for envy.
. . . Among the bits of interesting history that may not find place in the chronicles of Notre Dame and are too good to be lost is the following: In the days of Indians and uncleared forests a workman was sent into the woods to haul back a large oak tree that had been felled on the previous day. The trunk was so large that the tackle which he made use of to fasten it on the wagon broke twice. In a fit of desperation he took off his cap and flung it on the ground, exclaiming: “Confound the hogs that didn’t eat ye when ye were an acorn.”
* # # $ #
The lead article of the Sept. 16, 1876, issue began thus:
“The study and history of the various narcotics used by mankind form a most interesting subject not only to the
chemist but also to everyone who is liable to come under their influences. It is on narcotics in general that I would now speak ...”
The coverage was worldwide:
“A meeting was held re-
cently in Birmingham, England, to construct an aquarium for that city which is already very far advanced.”
Another little bit of foreign news: “The Juniors have had a canary-bird presented to them for their study-hall.”
$	4^
As for scientific treatises, here are some samples:
“The sturgeons present some striking peculiarities. The skeleton never becomes bony, but remains throughout the life of the fish in the condition of cartilage. . . . Caviare is the roe of the female sturgeon, prepared by salting and drying. . . . About 9,000 persons are said to be engaged in the Caspian sturgeon fisheries ...”
* * *
Such scholarly themes as manners were treated, aiding in developing the cultural Notre Dame man.
A FEW WORDS ABOUT EATING
Soup should be eaten with the side not from the point of the spoon, and there should be no noise of sipping while eating it. Fish must be eaten with a fork. Side dishes must be eaten with a fork only. A knife should never, on any account, be put into the mouth. . . . Tea and coffee should never be poured into a saucer to cool. . . . The above rules are always observed by the best American and English society.
$
Earlier in the same year, an editorial took care of three vices:
. . . Did you make any resolutions, O gentle reader, as you yawned your first yawn on the New Year’s morning? If you did the Scholasjic hopes that one of them was a promise to yourself never again to “crib” in the competitions,
The Scholastic
16
or if you have never indulged in the meanest of college vices, never to begin. Cigarettes are bad, “skiving” demoralizing; but a man may use up any number of the little paper-covered cylinders, may “cut” classes day after day, and still be a gentleman. But “cribbing” is dishonest and unfair to your fellow students, and if they were not altogether too chivalrous, you would never “crib” again . . .
# V *	*	*
THE FOOTBALL SEASON •
With the close of the football season of 1894, we can look back with pride and satisfaction at the results and, more, we may feel encouragement and assurance for the future of the sport at Notre Dame. That football has come to stay there can be no doubt. It is pre-eminently the game for college men, and as it progresses, the necessity for the exercise of brain, as well as brawn, becomes more and more evident. The victorious team, now, is not the one exhibiting the greatest amount of avoirdupois, but the one whose men are quickest and show the greatest head-work. The enemies of footfall are not few; for there are those who cavil at everything in the heavens above, on the earth below, and in the apartments under the earth, to which latter- place they usually belong. But let them cavil, if it eases their minds. It is to be noted moreover that these individuals are the ones who know least about the game . . ..
* *
THE PHILOPATRIANS
As announced in our last issue, the Philopatrians gave their annual Entertainment in Washington Hall on the evening of the 8th. It was feared on Monday that the weather would not be propitious, for it rained and blew to its heart’s content on that day, and when night closed the rain continued. However, all fears of bad weather vanished on Tuesday morning, when the sun came out at his usual hour and caused a genial warmth to abound. The day wore on, and when evening came the weather was just such as could be desired. As a consequence of the fine weather the hall was rapidly filled with visitors in anxious expectation . . .
4:
The first paragraphs of a few of the cultural articles give some indication of their nature and scope:
LATIN CONVERSATION
Morhoff, who lived in the seventeenth century, relates in an exceedingly curious chapter of his Polyhister a story of a boy four years old who in his time was exhibited before the King of France, and who if he had happened to be born in our day would have realized a handsome profit for his enterprising manager. At the age of two years this poor child had been caught by some philosophers and pedants and taught nothing but Latin. So accurately had he learned to speak the language that he was able to correct blunders made purposely by those who thronged to see him. When, for instance, he was asked: Ubi ibis a priandio? he immediately corrected the phrase: Quo ibis? Again, on another occasion when a visitor said “Conscendere in equo?” he interrupted him with “Conscendere in equum.” . . .
FLORAL BEAUTIES
Flowers are the most beautiful of all the many beauties of nature. There are those, without a doubt, who have never thought of flowers as beautiful. This is because they have never studied them. Look at a pretty flower, and if you have any appreciation of the beauties of nature it will bring to your mind many happy memories of the past . . .
WIND
It may be of interest to some of our younger readers to know something of that phenomenon of everyday occurrence — the wind. We will not speak of the disagreeableness of a cold north wind in winter, not of the agreeable breezes in summer-time — this we leave to the poets; what concerns us now is to ascertain the cause of the -wind, and some other little items connected with the subject.
Hot or warm air is lighter than cold air. This is the principle or the law on which the cause of winds is based___
MUSIC IN SCHOOL
At first sight, this is a subject which might appear to be quite easy to discourse upon; however, on inspection, we will encounter difficulties which had never before entered our minds. No two persons would treat the subject in the same manner.	-	.
4$	*	*	# 4s
The poetry would have appealed to a Poe or Longfellow.
TO MY FOOTBALL SUIT	.
Oft have I worn thee, Long would I mourn thee If fate had torn thee And me apart,
Though stains deface thee They do but grace thee, Naught can replace thee
In my fond heart.
Thou’rt rather muddy,	-
A trifle bloody, Thou’rt quite a study,
In gray and red;
But gold can’t buy thee,
Oi- ragman eye thee, Or soap come nigh thee, Till love is dead.
* jf: *
“There was a young Corbyite swell
Got attached to a maiden called Nell:
A pin from her- headgear Got stuck in his ear	’
The attachment was deep, so they tell.
* * *
“There lives a great man in Old College — Was anxious to get some more knowledge
So swallowed a tome
And started to roam —
Gone mad with the weight of his knowledge.”
NOTES ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS
Without the sun perpetual sterility, eternal winter and night would reign over every region in our globe, and throughout surrounding worlds. The sun is 520 times larger than all the planetary globes taken together, and 1,300,000 times larger than the terrestrial globe.	'
Arabia was, to a certain extent, in contact with Egypt, Palestine, Babylonia and Assyria, and certain facts connected with it are known from their- records; but these facts are too few and too isolated, previous to Mahomet, for a history; — as the history of India previous to Alexander the Great is excessively doubtful and disallowed by the best critics.
Sleepless nights may be avoided by turning the head of the bed towards the north or northeast, because the current of electricity passing constantly around the earth comes from that direction; this position may also obviate feelings of unrest caused by the diurnal motion of the earth.
£ March 17, 1950
17

Cluricaune
and the
M erro w
By SEAN
MULDOON
that
told
him if once he could ever possess himself of the cap, the Merrow would lose
the time, I never But there he was,
but un-
her cap,
Many years before, Cluricaune — he told me later his name was Cluricaune Naggeneen, of the County Kerry Nag-
the Ire-but
geneens — had been sitting on shore of Ballynaskelling Bay, in land, naturally, doing nothing thinking of taking a wife.
He had turned to gaze at a rock
Irish mermaid — for he spied cohuleen driuth, a small enchanted lying upon the rock beside her.
Cluricaune said his mother had
veered boldly out of the emerald sea when there to his amazement he saw a beautiful young “gil” combing her long black tresses. Cluricaune guessed at once that she was a Merrow — an
are one,
It was St. Patrick’s day, almost thirty years ago. I was taking my afternoon walk around St. Joseph’s lake when I saw him. I had heard of his annual visits, but being some-
twisted elf. His
what of a cynic at believed the stories, sure as life.
He looked like a
long white beard was tucked in his belt and little shamrocks were twisted in its strands. I didn’t know whether or not to say hello, but he spoke.
“I’d be pleased to shough me dudeen
(smoke my pipe) but me matches all gone. Might you be having per chance?”
His voice was high and squeeky, buttered with that lyrical, slightly
intelligible magic that every brogue has. I told him I was sorry, hut I didn’t smoke, so had no matches handy. Without any introductions he said, “Well then, sit y’rself down. I’ll till y’me story.” This is how I remember it.
her and cap the cap salt
power of going back into the sea, she would be his. He seized the with great speed. He said, “When Merrow saw that her little civin’-was gone, she cried and cried. The tears, doobly salty to her, no doot,
•^**11—
came tricklin’ doon her cheeks.” Cluri-acune, being unable to converse with her, because of her wailing sobs, took hex- hand. It had a web connecting the fingers as thin and as white as the skin between an egg and its shell. Then she lifted her eyes to Cluricaune and said with fear, “Man, Man, would you be thinkin’ of eatin’ me?” The Irish youth told her of course not, and she asked, “Then what will Man do with me?”
Cluricaune’s thoughts ran on a wife. He saw that though she was a mite different from the other Kerry County girls, with her curving fin and all, she was a rare beauty. And since she spoke, and spoke like any real woman, he was fairly in love with her already. ’Twas the neat way she called him Man that settled the matter. He couldn’t stay silent longer. “I’ll make you mis-_ tress Cluricaune Naggeneen before all W the world, and that’s what I’ll do!”
The Merrow clapped her hands with childish glee and agreed with Cluricaune’s plan completely, even if she didn’t know what it meant. After no small amount of trouble, the two lovers were married.
At first the Merrow was astounded and even shocked at the strange natives of County Kerry. She stopped and stared at their odd dress, their manner of walk and their spindly legs. But after awhile the Merrow and Cluricaune settled down happily at Gollerus, where, at the end of three years, there were as many young Naggeneens— two boys and a girl.
The life they lived in their own Thierna na Oge— or Country of Youth—could not have been more blissful. Every day was like a combination of heaven and Friday, for surely the Merrow ate nothing but fish.
h But then, alas, Cluricaune had to go on a business trip. Mrs. Naggeneen, as she was now called by her funnylooking neighbors, was sad at heart. She tried to forget her sorrow by cleaning the house. She was washing the Avail behind Cluricaune’s fishing-net when what should she find in a bitty cranny but her own cohideen driuth, her enchanted cap!
* * *
A green tear rolled down the old man’s wrinkled face. “The love for her family called her and into the sea she went to pye them a wee visit. I knew she would return to me and our children. Nothing could ever persuade me but that her faather, the King of the Waves, kept her- below by farce. I waited and waited by the sea, but my beloved Merrow never returned.”
I told him of my sorrow for his loss but asked what he was now doing on the banks of St. Joseph’s Lake. He
wiped away a tear with his beard and then told me.
One day, while sitting on the shore of Ballynaskeeling Bay, waiting for his Merrow, he had lost his mind for- a second and hurled “turrible” Gaelic epithets at the sea. Before the next wave had hit the rocks the water-sheeries had risen in rage, turned Cluricaune into an ersatz leprechaun, and whisked him off. His destination was that faraway spot of Ireland, which has no sea, but only two little lakes. And here he has been ever since. One day a year he is allowed to sit on the banks of the St. Joe, to wait for his darlin’ Merrow’s return.
Today is St. Patrick’s day, the day he is permitted to wait and watch. Cluricaune Naggeneen will be down there, shoughing his dudeen. Maybe you’ll see him, maybe you won’t. Bring some matches, just in case.
Middies Attend . Breakfast
The NROTC unit of Midshipmen held a Communion breakfast last Sunday in the west wing of the University Dining Hall. One hundred and twenty-five Midshipmen attended the affair.
They went to Mass in a group at 8:45 a. m. in the Dillon Hall chapel. Rev. Howard J. Kenna, c.s.c., VicePresident of the University in charge of academic affairs, was the celebrant of the Mass.
The main speaker for the event was Rev. Francis Nealy, O.P., of the Department of Religion. Rev. James E. Norton, c.s.c., assistant to Father Kenna in academic affairs, was a guest of honor.
Legion Chief Advocates U.S. School for Diplomats
In an address at the University Drill Hall last Saturday, National Commander George N. Craig of the American Legion advocated a “West Point” for U. S. diplomats and State Department officials to prevent the sending of “bricklayers to the international poker game.”
Over 1,000 local, state, and southern Michigan Legionnaires and their guests attended. The occasion was the mass initiation of some 200 new candidates to the Legion’s ranks.
Commander Craig declared that disloyalty, which he linked with Communism, is a serious fifth column in our midst. He urged that we should have an institution — similar to West Point for the military, or Annapolis for the naval — for the training and education of a loyal, competent foreign service and State Department.	.
As a part of the Legion’s initiation pledge, each candidate declared that he is not a Communist.
Commander Craig stated that the U. S. seeks a peaceful future and permanent prosperity. He urged further vigilance however, and -recommended some sort of a universal security train-nig for a potential defense of the nation. He also declared that the American Legion would continue to oppose the Hoover Commission which commission, he said, would jeopardize the benefits accruing to disabled veterans and the beneficiaries of deceased vets.
The Legion officers thanked Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.s.c.. who represented the University, for splendid cooperation in the affair.
Irish Club Honors St, Pat Tonight at Oliver Hotel
The Irish Club of Notre Dame will hold its second annua] Saint Patrick’s Day Banquet tonight at the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. The Committee for the banquet has completed the final arrangements. The dinner will start at 6:30 p.m.
Thomas O’Shaughnessy, Irish lecturer, artist, and historian, will be the principal speaker. The St. Patrick’s day spirit will be encouraged by John Broderick and Jack Powell who will sing a few Irish selections accompanied by Rev. John D. Gallagher, C.S.C., on the piano. Miss Eileen Duffy from St. Mary’s College, will again entertain the banqueters by playing the traditional instrument of Ireland, the harp. As an added pleasure, the Irish club will start community singing.
The general public has been invited to attend this affair. Tickets are 82.
March 17, 1950
19
Six Halls Now Served by Student Watchmen; System Eventually Planned for Entire Campus
For the first time in the history of the University, students have taken over the job of watchmen in the halls. Six campus residence halls — Lyons, Morrissey, Howard, Badin, Breen-Phillips and Farley — now have students sitting by the sign-in lists from 10 p.m. until 12:30 a.m. to make sure that midnight-takers can spell their names.
This innovation went into effect early in November and has worked well. Eventually, if it continues to work as . well as it has to date, the system will embrace all of the residence halls. The next two to be converted to student watchmen system will probably be Zahm and Cavanaugh halls.
The reason for the replacement of the full-time watchmen by students is admittedly an economic one. The major job for full-time watchmen in each hall was to handle the signing in of students. This work takes only a little over two and one-half hours a night and it is cheaper to pay students for two and a half hours work than to pay for an eight-hour stretch. The administration also hopes for an increase in efficiency from the new arrangement, and is glad to be able to give some students an opportunity to pay for part of their education by working.
Payment for the work is better than that for most student employment.
Two students sign in before midnight under the watchful eye of a student prefect.
There are two reasons for this: the work is necessarily at night; and the job involves a great deal of responsibility.
But there are advantages in this job besides the money. The majority of the students at Notre Dame, it appears, especially those in the Freshman halls, don’t go out much on week nights. This gives the watchmen, except for Saturday and Sunday, a chance to get in an hour or so of uninterrupted study each night after 10 o’clock. The watchmen also get to meet most of the men in the hall and they appreciate the opportunity of making new friends.
On the debit side, the watchmen find that working six nights a week puts a serious crimp in their social activities as well as providing a compelling argument to cut eight o’clock classes.
These student monitors are through for the evening at 12:30 and for the rest of the night one full-time watchman makes the rounds of a given number of halls for security and fire watch.
The student watchmen are recommended to Rev. James Leahy, C.S.C., Prefect of Discipline, by rectors and priests on campus. The recommendations are made on the basis of maturity and sense of responsibility. From these names, Father Leahy makes his selection. As of the present, he has a re-
serve list more than sufficient to cover future needs.
There are at present seven students serving the six halls under this system. Six of them are regulars and the seventh, Ed Coffey, works as a relief man one night a week in each hall. The six regular men are Pete Flaherty, Max Gabreski, Ed Menard, Joe Judge, Mike Kiehl, and Matt Kehoe.
The hardest part of the job, according to these pioneers, is trying to convince some of the students that they cannot overlook any violation of University regulations. Most of the students realize that the watchmen have a job to do and are responsible to the Rectors and to the Prefect of Discipline for the performance of that job. No matter how much they sympathize with the student and no matter how touching his story, the watchmen have to do their duty. Justice and honor are practically backed up by the liability of suspension in this matter.
RLC Hears Talk
Professor Eugene Geissler, of the Department of English, spoke to the Rural Life Club recently of his personal experiences in building his own home and the homes of some of his friends. He stated that a house can be “home made” for only half the expenditure that a similar dwelling would require if bought from a contractor.
The speaker was introduced to some twenty members of the club by Robert Brzinski, president. The RLC is devoted mainly to the furtherance of Christian family living in suburban areas or on small subsistence acreage. Its members regard the country rather than the city as the ideal place in which to live and rear a family.
The Scholastic ;

20
Scholastic Sports
Leahy Lads Invade Cartier Field Today
Morrissey's cage champs: front (left to right), B. Barrett, L. Drew, B. DeOrsey, C. Ostrowski, F. Johnston. Rear: C DePreke), J. Mutscheller, E. Foley, J. Fox.
Spring Training Starts For 1950 Grid Squad
By JACK VARLEY
The only thing wetter- than March rains in the neighborhood of South Bend are the ever present tears of Coach Frank Leahy as each year his gridders take to Cartier Field to inaugurate Spring training. Last year the Great Precisionist predicted seven possible defeats but, the ‘ AP came through to give him a few All-Americans and the team went on to win the National Championship. It’s much too early to seek aid from the AP, but according to the last issue of the Student Register, there should be some football players on campus today to meet Mr. Leahy and staff. True, great gaps have been left, particularly in the line with the loss of Co-Captains Leon Hart and Jim Martin, ends Bill Wightkin, Ray Espenan and Doug Way-bright; tackles Ed Hudak, Al Zmijew-ski, Ralph McGehee and Gus Cifelli; guards Frank Johnson and Bob Lally; and center Walt Grothaus.

Morrissey Hall Beats Cavanaugh Squad, 51-45, To Take Interhall Basketball Championship
By RUDY UNGER
A small but rabid crowd looked on in Notre Dame’s Fieldhouse, March 9, as Morrissey Hall captured Ernie Szekely’s highly successful Interhall basketball tourney by besting a game Cavanaugh quintet, 51-45. Walsh edged Lyons in the consolation fray, 31-28, to capture third place.
In the title game, both Morrissey and Cavanaugh, each possessed of plenty of depth, presented well balanced, high-scoring units which resulted in a fast, hard-fought battle that was close from beginning to end.
No one player can be singled out as being responsible for Morrissey’s victory, but mention must be given to Jim Mutscheller, whose cool, deliberate floor
play and superb rebounding held together the Morrissey men’s attack while shackling just sufficiently, Cavanaugh’s scoring machine.
The one man Morrissey couldn’t stop, however, was Dick Stubbing who stood out for Cavanaugh in defeat. The Brooklyn lad was deadly on hooks and follow-up shots and netted 18 points for the evening’s high.
It was Stubbing’s two field goals and charity shot which enabled Cavanaugh’s squad to get off to a 12-8 first quarter lead.
Fink dropped in two beautiful long shots to put Cavanaugh into a 16-12 lead at the start of the second quarter.
(Continued on Page 24)
In the backfield the quality of the losses are much greater than the quantity. In the fullback spot No. 14 won’t be worn by All-American Emil “Red” Sitko and Mike Swistowicz won’t be sporting his familiar 44. Halfbacks that have trod Cartier Field for the last time are Frank Spaniel, Ernie Zalejski and Larry Coutre.
Yes, Notre Dame has lost many great players, many of them first stringers either on offense or defense, but the reserves of last year’s Irish gridiron machine could have beaten almost any team in the country. Sophomore halfback Billy Barrett tied Sitko with 54 points for last yeai-’s scoring honors; another soph, John Petitbon stood out all season as one of the best defensive players on the field; fullback Del Gander, who was hampered by injuries much of the season, went wild anytime he got in; Bill Gay, junior halfback who pulled the 1948 Southern Cal game out of the fire will be back; John Landry returns at the fullback slot for Leahy’s
9 March 17, 1950
21
warriors; another halfback, Richard Cotter, will also help strengthen the backfield.
Leading the list of returnees is AllAmerican Bob Williams. He will again field general the Irish machine. Right behind Bob in the quarterback spot will be John Mazur.
Then, Benny Sheridan, freshman coach, might have something to say about this year’s successes. Last year he came up with many good boys; he probably will do it again. He has one lad who played under Williams in high school, a quarterback named Bill Gau-dreau. Two other backs that could bolster the Irish are Ralph Paolone and Bob Kelly.
The line is going to be the toughest place to fill in. The tackles and guards will probably be the weakest as far as
Football coaches plan gridiron strategy
veterans are concerned. However, last year’s defensive standout, Bob Toneff, will be back at his tackle spot. From last year’s roster of guards John Helwig, Paul Burns, Art Perry and Fred Wallner will again don the green jerseys. At center, Capt. Jerry Groom, Jim Bartlett, Byron Boji, and Jim Hamby are returning. At the wing positions Jim Mutscheller, Bill Flynn and Chet Ostrowski will be back.
Another severe loss in the form of Steve Oracko, extra point kicker, must be replaced by Leahy before he can field his defending National Champions next September against North Carolina.
The backfield seems to be strong and with replacements coming up from last year’s frosh and “B” teams, this just might be the team that captures Leahy’s fifth National Championship. 1
22
Shot Putter Helwig Beats Michigan's Fonvilie For Only Irish Victory in Illinois Tech Relays
Johnny Helwig beat Michigan’s present Big Ten titleholder, Chuck Fonvilie, to give Noire Dame its only victory in the Illinois Tech Relays, last Saturday. John shoved the ball 54 feet one inch, just three inches short of the school record he set the week before. His opponent, Fonvilie, was far and away the world’s best shot putter two years ago but a back injury forced him to quit competition just before the Olympics. Helwig is the only man to beat the Michigan star since he started his comeback this year.
Leo McKillip almost made the Notre Dame rooters forget that a bad leg was keeping Bill Fleming from defending his high and low hurdle crowns. McKillip, a real competitor, looked like a world beater in winning his low hurdle preliminary heat and placing second in the high hurdle semi-finals. But in the low stick semi-finals Leo pulled a muscle and had to watch from the sidelines with Fleming as both finals went in slow time. McKillip will
Fencers Avenge Loss Given by Detroit U.
The tables were turned last Saturday as the Notre Dame fencers swept to a 23-4 victory over the University of Detroit, and thus avenged last year’s only setback.
The Irish handily won the foil, epee and sabre matches to give them their ninth straight victory and keep their undefeated record intact. Nick Scalera and Bob Westrick each won three matches in the foil. Ralph Dixon proved master of the epee by also making a clean sweep.
To make the rout complete, Captain Bob Schlosser and left-handed Bob Bosler won three matches apiece in the sabre. However, Captain Al Kunz-man of the Detroiters turned in a creditable performance for his team, as he carried both Schlosser and Bosler to the limit in their matches before bowing out.
Captain Schlosser, after his three victories Saturday, is now just three wins away from setting the all-time Notre Dame scoring record for fencing. His record stands at 23 wins and three losses.
Despite occasional bright spots, the Detroit club showed little of the winning form of a year ago, as they were
be lost to the trackmen shortly when spring football practice begins, unless grid coach Frank Leahy decides to excuse him from the off-season pigskin workouts.
The best other Irish performance was turned in by the two-mile relay team, which took third with a sweet 7:56.5 time. Jerry Johnson, Joe Riley, Jim Bollas, and Vai Muscato all ran half miles for this combination.
Bob Boyne turned in two good quarter mile legs, the first while leading off the fourth-place sprint medley team and the second while anchoring the fifth-place mile relay team. Captain Bob Smith also did a nice job taking fifth in the individual 440-yard race, and contributing a fast 220 leg to the sprint medley combination.
Injuries carried over from the previous week were very costly in the distance medley race. Notre Dame, running without John Mohar, Lou Lepry and Jim Kittell, had to be content with a fifth place showing.
overpowered by the superior speed and aggressiveness of coach Herb Melton’s charges.—Joe Moresco
St. Joseph Valley Men To Pay Tribute to Rockne
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley will pay its annual tribute to the memory of Knute Rockne on April 2 at a Mass in the Dillon Hall chapel. Following the Mass, breakfast will be held in the faculty dining hall. James Crowley, of Chicago, a member of the Four Horsemen, will be the principal speaker at the breakfast.
Immediately following the ceremonies at the dining hall, all those present will go to ’ the Highland Cemetery, where wreaths wull be placed on Rockne’s grave and those of two of his coaching associates, George Keogan and John Nicholson, basketball and track coaches, respectively.
Friends of Rockne need not be membars of the sponsoring club to attend the ceremonies and are cordially invited to do so.
NEXT WEEK IN SPORTS
March 18—FENCING, Cincinnati here TRACK, Chicago Daily News Relays at Chicago Stadium
March 24-25 — FENCING, NCAA Championships at Wayne
The Scholastic
SPLINTERS
by flack M^ttey
Michigan State and the CCC
Michigan State’s domination of the Central Collegiate track meet is at last ended. Not because Notre Dame or any of the other competing schools anticipate a track powerhouse next season,
however.
Western year and
The Spartans will enter into Conference competition next with then- leave taking, the
the Central Collegiates seems
future of the Central Collegiates seems W to be going with them. The Spartans
would still be eligible to compete in the Central Collegiates but since that meet and the Big Ten track meet are traditionally held on the same weekend, it’s unlikely that they would pass up the Big Ten show for the less glittering CCC affair.
You couldn't have asked for better hosts than the Spartans. For the past few years they have thrown open the doors of commodious Jenison Fieldhouse £ to sponsor the annual get-together of the Midwest independents. Now that the spacious structure will no longer be available, the question is, “Where will it be held?” Mention of Notre Dame Fieldhouse and the CCC meet in the same breath brings cold shivers to veteran track officials.
We were pretty much disappointed when the recent off-again on-again CCC meet was finally held at Michigan State.
9 Holding it in the local arena would have shown just how totally inadequate the antiquated bandbox we call a fieldhouse is. Not even a mechanical brain would have been able to figure out some workable arrangement whereby the meet could have been run off in a day. The last time it was held here they finally put out the lights at 1 a.m. Sunday morning. Yet that’s the best a CCC school has to offer.
_ That leaves the CCC powers that be W three, or possibly four, choices: use the ND Fieldhouse, borrow some non-CCC member’s fieldhouse, or forget the indoor games altogether. The fourth, and probably the best way out of the dilemma if it could be arranged, would be to change the date of the CCC meet and petition Michigan State for continued sponsorship of the affair. The week-end preceding the Big Ten meet would probably suit the Spartans best. If the arrangement is okay with Michi
gan State, it ought to be okay with everybody.
Advertisement
The biggest and best bargain of the year is now being offered on campus. We’re talking about tickets for the 1950 Bengal Bouts which went on sale last Monday in the Huddle, at the Breen-Phillips ticket window, and in the Dining Hall during meal hours. Number one buy is the five-night reserved seat ticket at only §1.50. Besides saving money, the student is assured of a seat down front for all five nights of boxing.
All ticket and refreshment profits go to the Holy Cross missions in Bengal. You couldn’t ask for a less painful contribution for a more worthy cause.
Another National Championship?
It isn’t only the football team that racks up undefeated seasons around here. Coach Herb Melton and his fencers need only a win over Cincinnati tomorrow in the Fieldhouse to match the efforts of their gridiron brethren. Next week the squad will go after the National Championship at Wayne University. Let’s hope that fate is a bit more kind to them at Detroit than it was at West Point last year. With a little help from Lady Luck, the Irish could bring home first prize.
Time Out
Now that the O’Donnell Trophy, symbol of the National Championship, has been received from Michigan, we’re wondering where it is going to be placed. Is it going to be tucked away in the obscurity of Charlie Callahan’s office with the Williams Trophy? Or is it going to be put in a more appropriate place such as the Rockne Memorial foyer? It was won by the greatest team that Frank Leahy, Notre Dame, and college football ever produced. Surely it should occupy a position befitting such a trophy and for all to see.
Athlete of the Week
Top performance of the week by a Notre Dame athlete was turned in by shot putter John Helwig as he bested Michigan’s famed Chuck Fonville in the Illinois Tech Relays. Helwig has im
proved rapidly this year but as yet has not reached his peak. Unofficially, he’s tossed the 16-pound ball over 55 feet.
Next month at the Southern Relays, Helwig will square off against world’s record holdei- Jim Fuchs of Yale. Maybe the strong competition of Fuchs will give John the incentive he needs to uncork his best heave.
Eleven Teams Fall Under Irish Fire
Irish eyes are sharp this year! The University Rifle team, to be distinguished from the NROTC National Champs, have roared through a 12-match schedule, while suffering only one setback.
The University team undei- the direction of Captain Daly, USMC, has thus far tested Dayton, Knox College, Rutgers, the University of San Francisco, Harvard, Pittsburgh, Michigan State, Georgetown, Navy, Kings College, the University of Chicago, and Princeton.
The team is composed of such sharpshooters as Oscar Beumel, Evansville, Ind.; Joe Bowling, Louisville, Ky.; Frank Brickson, South Bend; Stan Brons, Flushing, N. Y.; Pat Dougherty, Mishawaka; Jim Hartman, Vanderlip, W. Va.; George Knopf, Canandaigua, N. Y.; Don Murphy, Hawthorne, N. J.; Don Riley, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Richard Six and his counterpart, Wayne, Quincy, HL; Frank Stermitz, Helena, Mont., and Bill Weir, Newtonville, Mass.
The University Rifle team will fire against the University of California on March 25. The Irishers have a chance for sweet revenge, when they fire against Dayton here, March 25. The Dayton riflers are the only proud possessors of a Notre Dame defeat thus far.
Captain Daly is looking forward to the team’s entrance in the National Intercollegiate held at Cleveland, Ohio, sometime in April.
This is the team’s first year of competition. And if the team’s record is any criterion, look for great things from the lead slingers.—Joe Deiss
Bowling Season Nears End With League Races Tight
With six weeks of competition remaining, the Notre Dame Bowling League race promises to be a scramble down to the wire. At the .present time in the Blue League, the K. of C. team captained by Ronnie Sanford and fellow team members Pierre Espenan, Ron Cross, Russ Skall, Fred Bruno and Larry Le Roy, is leading by the slim
March 17, 1950
23
margin of two points, followed closely by the Pittsburgh Keglers who have been in first place most of the year.
In the Gold League the race is even closer with the PhiladelPhis aggregation of Mike Piarulli, Bob Hensler, Jack Allwein, Jack Crane, Alfred Abbey, Gene Renz and Andrew Kosloski out in front by only one point. They are followed by Dayton, the Central New York Club and the Met Club in that order.
The Aero Club turned in the highest single performance in both leagues thus far with a thumping 1020. Ron Sanford of the K. of C. leads the individual scoring with a game of 240.
The Notre Dame keglers will take on DePaul University tomorrow, out to avenge a three to two loss suffered at their hands in January.
Morrissey Champs
(Continued From Page 21)
Then Mutscheller and Billy Barrett’s floor play and three rapid baskets by the latter evened the margin. Mutscheller then hit with a two handed jump shot from the foul line to give Morrissey a momentary lead which quickly vanished. . Bob Cossaboon potted two baskets from way out to give Cavanaugh a 29-27 half time lead.
Morrissey opened the second half scoring and pulled away quickly. Cavanaugh had its high-geared attack tied up by the fast breaking Morrissey quintet and could not find the range until late in the third quarter.
Mutscheller hit immediately after the jump to even the count at 29-29. A basket and a charity toss by Ostrowski and two rapid baskets by Jay Fox highlighted the West-Siders’ drive. Late in the quarter, Cavanaugh, led by Stub-bing’s two lay ups, began to cut down
Cavanaugh goes after Morrissey rebound 24
the margin. Bob Fink started off the last period by hitting on a two handed set to put Cavanaugh one point away, 42-41. But Cavanaugh could come no closer. Mutscheller, DePrekel, Foley and Ostrowski hit in rapid succession for Morrissey to sew up the game, 5145. All Cavanaugh could get from the floor during the same period was a basket by Stubbing.
In the consolation game, quite slow compared to the championship play, Lyons gave heavy favorite Walsh unexpected trouble as the Lyons men pushed Walsh to the very last and succumbed only in the final seconds, 3128.
Cavanaugh shellacked Lyons, 70-40, and Morrissey squeezed out a 33-31 triumph over Walsh in the semi-finals to gain play off spots.
Chet Ostrowski and Bob DeOrsey of Morrissey are repeaters from last year’s tourney title squad, Farley. Officials for the games were Tom King, Dave Langley and Frank Blyer.
BOX SCORE:
Morrissey	b f p | Cavanaugh	b f r
Mutscheller. I	4	2	4 |	McCormack	0	15
Ostrowski, f	5	2	0 |	Everist	2	13
Fox. c	2	0	1]	Stubbing	8	2 2
Foley, g	3 2 2] Fink	405
Barrett, g	3	1	0 |	Peckels	10 4
De Prekel. f	4	2	2 |	O'Day	1	0 2
De Orsey. g	0	0	0 1	Desser	2	10
|	Cossaboon	2	0 0
|	Corbitt	0	0 0
BiiHner Will Captain Strong Tennis Team
Mr. Walter Langford, tennis coach, has announced, in conjunction with the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, the 1950 schedule for his tennis team:
April	29—“Wisconsin at Notre Dame
May	2—Michigan State at East Lansing
5—“Western Michigan at Kalamazoo
6—Detroit at Kalamazoo 8—Iowa at Notre Dame 10—Michigan at Notre Dame 12—Purdue at Notre Dame 18—Northwestern at Evanston 19—Marquette at Milwaukee June 1-3—CCC Championships at Western Michigan College at Kalamazoo
19-24—NCAA Championships at a site to be announced
Gene Biittner of Schenectady, New York, has been elected captain of this year’s team. Gene is a senior and this will be his third year on the team.
Along with Gene there will be Bob David, last year’s captain, Matt Tuite and Tom Overholser, a couple of fine sophomore prospects, and such men from last year’s squad as Jim Hennessey, Pat Tonti, and Herb Hoene. David and Biittner will be numbers one and two. The next three spots on the team will probably be held by Tuite, Overholser, and Hennessey.
Coach Langford expects the team to do as well as last year’s, if not better. Last year’s record was six up and three down, and all three of the teams that beat the Irish netmen last year are on this year’s schedule — Michigan, Northwestern, and Michigan State. All three appear to be as strong as they were a year ago, too.
The team will begin practice as soon as the weather permits. Coach Langford hopes to be outside before the end of March.—Bill Delaney
All-Star Cage Team Chosen From Finalists in Tourney
A well-balanced squad, replete with height, savvy, and scoring punch, was selected from the four final teams as the all-campus quintet. The coaches’ dream team has at forward Don Wolfe and Moe Murphy, at center Dick Stubbing, at guards Chet Ostrowski and Ed Foley.
Replacing these boys when the situation calls for it would be Jim Mutscheller, Hank McCormack, Jim Sullivan or Buck O’Keefe.
Ostrowski, a Chicago lad, and Foley, who hails from Fall River, Mass., led Morrissey to the campus title. Chet wasted none of his seventy-three inches in repeatedly clearing the boards for the champs. Foley specialized on defense and aggressive floor play along with Wolfe of Walsh and Hollis, Long Island. Murphy, a team leader and Lyons’ high scorer from Little Neck, Long Island, completed the first string with Brooklyn’s own Dick Stubbing of Cavanaugh who racked a 20-point average in the final games.—Joe Straub
All-Star Cage Team Chosen From Finalists in Tourney
With wanner weather and meltingsnow indicating the coming of spring, Notre Dame students are eagerly awaiting the return to outdoor sports. Mr. Napolitano and the men in charge of the interhall program are planning a schedule to satisfy the athletic tendencies of every sports enthusiast (un- “ less there happen to be a few bull fighters or prospective polo players around). Leagues will be arranged in baseball, softball, volleyball, and tennis, and competition will begin as soon as the weatherman cooperates.
However, still on the indoor scene, an interhall handball tournament is next in line. A definite date has not yet been set, but it will probably be held next week.	-
.
The Scholastic
£ The Knights of Columbus Bengal Bouts committee gets ready to push their annual endeavor over the top. Seated (l-r) are Harry Monahan, publicity, Bill Shanahan, concessions, John Noonan, Grand Knight of Council; standing (l-r) are Pat Henry, program, Ollie Celusta, tickets, and Jim Welch, awards. Bouts start on March 27.
Ten Heavyweights Will Compete in Bengals; Roemer Trims Weight in Quest of Fifth Title
With Gus Cifelli throwing his 210 • pounds into the ring for another crack at the Bengal Bout heavyweight crown, Bill Roemer’s quest for his fifth campus ring title gets quite a hit tougher. Ten boxers, including Cifelli and Roemer, have signed up for the top tonnage class and comprise one of the largest heavyweight fields in several years.
“Zip” Roemer reports he is trimmed down close to 175, which is going to give the South Bend Strong Boy a weight handicap which may give other a contenders some chance against that ~ lethal left. Those who saw last year’s bouts will remember that Roemer, while somewhat heavier, was considerably slower than he had been in previous Bengal appearances. Bill likes his present weight and will have a speed advantage over his heavier adversaries.
While some fighters are still circling the fieldhouse track muffled in everything short of overcoats and parkas in an effort to sweat off some extra pound
9 March 17, 1950
age, the competition in each weight class begins to shape up.
The 1949 semi-finalist, Sal Fiorella, is the lone veteran in the 127-pound class and is favored to be in the April 1 finale. Half a dozen newcomers will jockey for the honor of meeting Sal in that Saturday night bout.
The 137-pound division is loaded with scrappy veterans of the 1949 fights and the competition promises to be among the best the tourney will provide. Champ Joe Sterett rules as favorite, but will have to contend with such dangerous foes as George Chopp, Leo Hickey and Dan Brennan.
Johnny O’Brien heads a slim 142-pound contingent. Up from last year’s 137-pound group, Mike Sutton may give the Green Bay, Wis., lad some trouble.
The rattlesnake right of Vic Roblez threatens the ten other aspirants for the 147-pound crown. Roblez only had to make one ring appearance last year
to win, but he will find the competition a little more extensive this year.
Roblez’ finals opponent last year, Joe Brown, has pushed up to the next class and will find it rough going among veterans like Ed Callahan, Jim Engel, Dan Finn, Ed Smith and Dick Windishar. Smith is the defending champ. This will be the third year for Engel and Finn. Engel was a finalist in the 1948 bouts.
The 167-pound and light-heavyweight classes have the largest lists of fighters. The 167-pound list includes two of last year’s finalists, Joe Fallon and Dick Hyland, who must rule as favorites in the pre-fight forecasts. Fallon learned the lesson of being too cautious from Mike Merrigan last year and is not expected to repeat the mistake. Ed Smith had his hands full with Hyland in the finals in 1949 and Dick will try to teach Fallon some new lessons this year.
Those who remember the slam-bang affair staged by Frank Tripodi and Bill Sheehan last year- will approve their being matched again in the light-heavy division. Other veterans in the class include Aaron Dyson, Tom Carroll and Charles King.
Tickets for the Bengals went on sale this week in the Huddle, Dining Hall and Athletic Office. Students desiring the special reserved seats for students are advised to secure them early as only a limited number are available. In order to take advantage of the special rates for reserved and general admission tickets, students must purchase theii- ducats at the above three locations before the tourney begins. Only the regular general admission tickets for 50 cents and §1 and ringside seats at §1 and $2 will be on sale at the fieldhouse on the evenings of the fights.
Fight Committee Announces Trophy Donations by Clubs
Awards Chairman Jim Welch announced that the Huddle and eight campus clubs have consented to donate the trophies for the 19th Annual Bengal Bouts to be held in the Fieldhouse March 27-30 and April 1.
Following their usual custom, the management of the Huddle will sponsor the Sportsmanship Trophy to be presented on the night of the finals to the fighter whom the awards committee believes displayed the best sportsmanship during the 1950 tourney. The 1949 winner was Russ Van Kuren of Rockford, HI., who competed in four tourneys, but never won a title.
The following campus organizations have donated trophies in the weight di
25
visions indicated: Nebraska club, 127-pound; Kentucky club, 137-pound; New England club, 142-pound; Indianapolis club, 147-pound; Detroit club, 157-pound; Chicago club, 167-pound; Metropolitan club, light-heavyweight; Law club, heavyweight.
The Law club might be credited with some unusual shrewdness in their choice to sponsor the heavyweight division. Law club member Bill “Zip” Roemer is favored to add the heavyweight crown to the four previous Bengal honors he has won, so the lawyers will be keeping this mantel gadget within the clan.
Welch also announced that the awards committee hopes to display the trophies on campus and downtown prior to the fight.
ND Spring Schedule Gets Board Approval
Schedules for spring sports were recently approved by the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. For the first time in history, a rifle team is representing the university in collegiate competition. Jake Kline’s lads will undertake an ambitious 23-game schedule with two dates still pending. The opener is scheduled for April 11 at Iowa City with the Hawkeyes. Doc Handy’s track team will inaugurate their outdoor season at the Southern Relays at Birmingham. The complete schedules are as follows:
OUTDOOR TRACK
April	S—Southern Relays
22—Kansas Relays
29—Drake Relays
May	3—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
13—Michigan State at Notre Dame
20—State meet at Purdue, Lafayette, Ind.
27—Central Collegiate Conference meet closed for members only at Notre Dame
June Bradley University at Peoria, Ill.
10—Central Collegiate Conference—outdoor, Milwaukee, Wis—open meet
GOLF
April 17—Iowa at Iowa City, Iowa
20—North Texas State at Notre Dame
22—Indiana University’ at Notre Dame
24—Purdue University at Lafayette
May	1—Loy’ola University at Notre Dame
6—N’western University at Notre Dame
8—Wisconsin at Madison, Wis.
13—Minnesota at Notre Dame
18—Detroit University’ at Detroit
20—Washington U. at Notre Dame
22—Michigan State College at E. Lansing
BASEBALL
April	11—Iowa at Iowa City, Iowa
12—Iowa at Iowa
15—Michigan State College at Notre Dame
17—Ohio University at Notre Dame
18—University of Chicago at Notre Dame
22—W. Michigan College at Kalamazoo
24—Indiana University at Notre Dame
28—Pending
29—Pending
Hart Loans Trophy
Leon Hart (left) and Bob Lally, both members of the 1949 football squad, hold the Heisman trophy awarded to Leon as the outstanding player of the year. Hart has graciously granted permission for the trophy to be exhibited in the lobby of the Rockne Memorial for the next three years, so everyone in school during last Fall can see it until they graduate.
May	2—Purdue at Lafayette
3—Northwestern at Notre Dame
6—University’ of Chicago at Chicago
10—Wisconsin at Madison
11—Wisconsin at Madison
12—Minnesota at Minneapolis
13—Minnesota at Minneapolis
16—Purdue at Notre Dame
17—Northwestern at Evanston
19—Ohio State at Notre Dame
20—Ohio State at Notre Dame
23—University of Michigan at Ann Arbor
24—Mich. State College at E. Lansing
26—Illinois at Notre Dame
27—Illinois at Notre Dame
June	3—Western Michigan at Notre Dame
VARSITY RIFLE TEAM
(Postal Matches)
March 25—U. of California at Los Angeles
25—University of California, Berkeley
April	1—University of Nevada
1—Yale
1—Colorado A & M
8—Brooklyn Poly Tech
8—University of Nebraska
8—Creighton
8—Denver University
8—Washington University, St. Louis
8—University of Michigan
8—University’ of Wyoming
8—University of South Dakota
May’	6—Princeton
6—City College of New York
6—Columbia
6—Virginia Poly Tech
13—Carnegie Tech
13—New York Maritime Academy
13—St. John’s University
13—United States Military Academy
13—Cornell University
13—Lehigh University
Relay Teams to Run In Daily News Meet
Notre Dame’s mile and two-mile relay teams have accepted invitations to compete in the Chicago Daily News Relay Meet tomorrow night on the Chicago Stadium board track. This meet draws the strongest teams of the Midwest each year. Outstanding performers, both collegiate and non-collegiate, have been invited from all over the nation. Most of these men have been running in the East’s big board track meets.
Bill Fleming received an invitation to compete in the high and low hurdles, but at this writing still had not definitely accepted or rejected the offer. Bill is waiting to see if the strained muscles in his ankle. will be strong enough for hurdling.
The mile and two-mile relay teams have been matched against some strong opponents. The two-mile squad faces Michigan State, Indiana, and Oklahoma. Michigan State has a really outstanding squad and took the measure of the Irish in the first meet of the season. In the Notre Dame-Indiana dual meet held here three weeks ago, the Irish half milers definitely looked superior to the Hoosiers. Oklahoma is an unknown quantity. Four of these five men will from this team: Jerry Johnson, Vai Muscato, Joe Riley, Jim Bollas, and John Mohar. Mohar hasn’t run since suffering a severe spike wound at the Central Collegiates two weeks ago. He’s a Chicago boy and was outstanding at Mt. Carmel High School two years back.
The mile relay squad drew three tough opponents — Illinois, Purdue and Wisconsin. All three beat Notre Dame last Saturday in the Illinois Tech Relays but by such a close margin that a good race should result tomorrow. Bob Smith, Bob Boyne, Paul Schwetschenau and either Bollas or Joe Riley will carry the baton for Notre Dame.
Biologists Hear Talk
Dr. Aubrey Gorbman, associate professor of Zoology at Columbia University, addressed the Notre Dame Biology Seminar recently, discussing the anatomy of the thyroid gland and its ability to pick up radioactive iodine. A small portion of the gland, according to Dr. Gorbman, does not have an affinity for iodine and embryologically has a different origin than that of the rest of the organ. Dr. Gorbman has found structures which will take up radioactive iodine in some very primitive chordates in which a thyroid gland has not been recognized as yet, but he drew no conclusions regarding the ancestry of the vertebrates.
26
The Scholastic
New St. Ed's
(Continued from Page 15)
longer satisfied with just a tabernacle; he wanted to build a main altar, and two side altars; he wanted to make a mahogany backdrop, build a huge crucifix, make candlesticks and a sanctuary light.
" Gasparclla Draws Design
Joe Gasparella, who was a quarterback on the Notre Dame team of ’46, and a senior in Architecture, drew a design for him to follow. Jim Loeffler, a student in St. Ed’s, procured four hundred feet of bleached mahogany from his dad as a donation to the chapel. Lawrence, himself, paid some hundred and thirty dollars for planing • and milling the lumber. Father Burke used stipends, and his cousin gave him fifty dollars to buy the corpus for the crucifix, the missal and the sanctuary bulb.
Working an average of five hours a day for seven months, Lawrence built and carved St. Ed’s the chapel it has today. He is not finished yet, for he was dissatisfied with the candlesticks and is making twelve new ones, each of which takes about thirty hours of carving.
And Lawrence Slaughterback who £ broke up one of his violins to get the ebony for the crucifix said that the only thing that kept bothering him was that he “wasn’t doing it good enough.”
Bishop Noll to Open July Vocation Meet
Rev. John C. Wilson, c.s.c., Director of Vocations at Holy Cross Seminary, recently announced that the Fourth Annual Vocation Institute will be held this summer on the Notre Dame campus, July 29-23.
The Institute will begin with a Holy Hour on the evening of July 20, and will continue through three days of talks and informal discussions. More than 400 priests, Brothers, and Sisters are expected to be on hand when the Most Rev. John Francis Noll, d.d., Bishop of Fort Wayne, delivers the opening address. This yeai- special emphasis will be given to those particular problems of modern youth which affect their attitude toward vocation.
In addition to Bishop Noll, numerous other prominent Catholic personages will participate in the Institute. Among them are Father William Robinson, C.s.c., Assistant Religious Superior at Notre Dame, who will speak on “Deepening the Spiritual Life Through the Teaching of Religion.” Also on the
March 17, 1950
agenda is a symposium on the religious life of a nun, to be presented by four Sisters of St. Joseph. Father Patrick Peyton, c.s.c., is tentatively scheduled to talk on “The Family Rosary and Religious Vocations.”
Studies in Mexico City Slated for Summer
For the fourth straight year the Department of Modern Languages of Notre Dame is sponsoring a special summer curriculum in Mexico City. This special session held in conjunction with Mexico City College will begin June 19 and continue through Aug. 25. Many courses are available to the students both in English and Spanish and up to nine semester hours of credit can be earned during this session. The tuition fee for the full ten weeks is $100 and G. I. Bill 346 may be applied. Room and board which will be provided by the college in private homes can be obtained reasonably for $10 a week in American money. The
'Scholastic' Photogs Win Award
Two Scholastic and Dome photogs, Jim McLaughlin and Charlie Murphy, have been named as the recipients of an award for the “outstanding sports picture of 1949.” Their picture of the immortal Four Horsemen re-enacting the astride horses pose that made them famous was judged the best of a gallery of sport shots exhibited at a recent
recent decline in the value of the peso makes living in Mexico decidedly cheaper than the United States. Transportation to Mexico will be arranged individually by each student.
This curriculum offers to the students an American-type college education in the foreign atmosphere of Mexican life. Notre Dame students attending this ten-week session are urged to take courses in Spanish language and literature as well as Latin American civilization and culture. Most of the courses taught outside the Spanish department are given in English. Besides the regularly scheduled curriculum Mexico City College has arranged a series of week-end trips to many places of beauty and interest surrounding the city as an additional convenience to the students.
The Reverend Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., of Notre Dame will act as director of the Mexican summer session and additional information can be obtained from Professor Walter M. Langford, head of the Department of Modern Languages at Notre Dame.
Sports Publicity Clinic held in Kansas City in conjunction with the National Association of Intercollegiate Basketball tournament.
Charlie Callahan, Director of Sports Publicity at Notre Dame, was also honored at the meeting for “outstanding achievement in the field of sports, publicity.”
27
do you hove wide-spread appeal?
Wide-spread Van Britt spreads your charms . . . dresses you up . .. gives you that "man-most-likely-to-succeed” look! Comes in oxford or broadcloth . . . in colors . . . and in white . . . $2.95, $3.65, $3.95 and $4.95. And Van Heusen gives Van Britt a strictly college background with its famous magic sewman-ship and guaranteed lab-tested fabrics.
A new shirt free if your Van Heusen shrinks out of size!
Van Heusen . ohwro "the world's smartest" Ulill LU
PHILLIPS-JONES CORP., NEW YORK 1, N. Y.
The Place to Go
for the Names You Know
^GILBERT'S
for VAN HEUSEN
Dean Manion Attends Round Table Talks
Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the College of Law, attended a recent United Nations’ roundtable discussion in Chicago and represented the American Bar-Association on the issue of the proposed ratification of the Genocide Pact. Dean Manion took a negative stand by P opposing the ratification of the pact.
The convention was held as an open forum for the public to provide information regarding all the aspects of the proposed pact. The pact is now before the United States Senate and must be ratified by the Senate as a treaty before it can be accepted by the United Nations. The document is designed to prevent the extermination of races and religious beliefs, but as yet it has not been wholly perfected.
Alumni Clubs to Celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night
More than 20,000 alumni will assemble in local club groups on April 17 to observe the twenty-seventh annual Universal Notre Dame Night.
In 105 cities and towns throughout the United States and in six foreign countries, the traditional programs will P be highlighted by talks from prominent alumni and members of the Notre Dame administration and faculty. A number of local radio and television broadcasts are also planned as part of the observation.
Universal Notre Dame Night was first celebrated in 1924, and since then special programs have been held each year to commemorate the academic, patriotic, scientific, social and religious P achievements of the University.
Sociologist Says Engineers Are Least Neurotic Group
Morgantown, West Va.— (ACP) — Engineers are ‘tender lovers’ and have the lowest divorce rate of any profession, Dr. James Bender, director of the National Institute for Human Relations, said this' week at West Virginia P University.
He gave credit for their stability in married life to seven factors. Dr. Bender said they are logical and apply logic to morals, they are a bit shy and don’t get involved with theii- secretaries and they are home-loving men who like big families and home-centered hobbies.
Also, they are the least neurotic of all vocational groups, he said. They rarely quai-rel or get mad, and are good church attenders.	jk
28
The Scholastic
* Music
* *
By JIM BRETT
This week that well-known crooner with the flashy sports shirts, Bing Crosby, is serving up a platter full of musical goodness .entitled Sunshine Cake on Decca record 24875. But master Bing is not the only one who can throw a mean tea party, for a certain little dish by name of Mindy Carson is also vocalizing on a couple of delicacies called Candy and Cake on RCA Victor record number 20-3681. On the flipov.er Mindy, together with Henri Rene’s Orchestra, serves a bit of sweetness titled My Foolish Heart from Samuel Goldwyn’s motion picture of the same name.
Now that we’ve filled up our lunch boxes with a nice bunch of goodies, we might look up Sammy Kaye and his swing and sway crowd and do a little bit of the Wanderin' that he features on RCA Victor record 20-3680 with Tony Alamo on the vocal. On the reverse we have a number that’s just right for those people who grow weary of strolling through musicland; it’s a gay two-wheel job known as the Bicycle Song. Of course it gets a mite rough when you have to pump up hill, but with Laura Leslie, Don Cornell and the Kaydets taking care of the music you’re in good hands. And speaking of hands, lift one of them and wave good-bye when Ralph Flanagan and the boys give out with Farewell Amanda on Bluebird record number 30-0024. Harry Prime is on the vocal and oji the reverse Flanagan’s brass — musical that is — and his piano take off on an etching called Leave It to Love.
Father Fitzgerald is assistant professor of economics at Notre Dame. From 1946 to 1948 he majored in economic regulation and industrial relations at Chicago. Recently he completed a dissertation study of the legal opinions of Justice Reed of the Supreme Court in the areas of economic and labor legislation. This study is one of a series of monographs dealing with the Court and social legislation.
In 1946 Father Fitzgerald worked in labor arbitration cases as a public panel member of the Chicago regional War Labor Board. He received a government citation “in recognition of the meritorious service performed in the furtherance of the work of the National War Labor Board during World War II.”
He graduated from Notre Dame in 1928 and obtained his Master’s degree from Harvard in 1931, before he entered the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Dr. Fitzsimons To Do Research In England on Labor Regime
Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons, professor of History at Notre Dame, will sail this week to gather first-hand data on the foreign policy of the Labor government in England.
Dr. Fitzsimons’ tour, which has been arranged in cooperation with the Notre Dame Committee on International Relations, is expected to continue until August. During his stay in England, Dr. Fitzsimons will also conduct research on seventeenth century English historians, using the facilities of the British Museum and the Cambridge University Library.
The results of Professor Fitzsimons’ study of Socialism in England will be the subject matter for several lectures at Notre Dame next autumn. His findings are also to be included in a series
of articles for the Review of Politics.
Dr. Fitzsimons joined the ND faculty-in 1937. Before that, he studied at Columbia University and spent two years in research at Oxford University, England.
WND Posts ’Static’, Weekly News Bulletin
“Static,” radio station WND’s news bulletin, is being posted weekly on all hall bulletin boards. “Static” informs listeners of new programs, changes in the program schedule, new personnel, and general news of WND.
This week’s “Static” announces two new programs: “Bach to Bop” from 8:15 to 8:30 p. m. Wednesday, and “Huddle Up” from 7:15 to 7:30 pan. Thursday.
“Bach to Bop” is a weekly review of the latest in classical and popular record releases. It is being produced by Don Kotoske and Lynn Marshall.
“Huddle Up” is a weekly public service program. Emcee Joe Shelly with tape recorder interviews campus club officials concerning the activities of their organizations. He does this in the Huddle in the afternoon, producing a “Man in the Street” type background. The recording is then aired from 7:15 to 7:30 Thursday.
FINE REPAIRING
Nationally Advertised
Watches, Diamonds, Jewelry
126 N. Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.
For those who are looking for- something a bit different in an instrumental Anton Karas gives an interesting account of The Third Man Theme on London record 536. It also features Guy Lombardo and his orchestra on Decca 24839. And as a parting tidbit for the week, we have a couple of characters, namely Ray Bolger, the 0 dance man, and that gun-toting Miss, Ethel Merman, teaming together- on Decca 24873 for Dearie.
Sunny Italy
A Notre Dame Tradition
N. D. Economics Prof Given Ph.D. Degree From Chicago
The degree of Doctor of Philosophy was conferred today upon Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., at the winter convocation of the University of Chicago.
Q March 17, 1950
"Rosie's." Here You'll Always Enjoy the Italian Accent on Fine Food.
SUNNY ITALY CAFE
601 NORTH NILES
Names Make Netos

Professor GEORGE F. DRISCOLL, of the Department of Civil Engineering, attended the convention of the American Road Builders’ association in Cincinnati, 0. Prof. Driscoll is a member of the board of directors of the educational division of the association. . . .
The Notre Dame circle, Daughters of Isabella heard Rev. JAMES P. SMYTH, visiting professor of religion at Notre Dame, recently. Father Smyth spoke on “The Problems of Normal and Mentally Deficient Children”. . . .
Several Notre Dame men have recently announced their engagements. TOM RYAN, of Syracuse, N. Y., and GENE BITTNER, tennis team captain from Schnectady, N. Y., are engaged to Miss Mary Louise Rickert, of Syracuse, and to Miss Jean Herman, of Ravenna, Mich., respectively. PHIL CANTWELL of Los Angeles, Calif., is engaged to Miss Catherine Taylor, of La Porte, Ind. Miss Jacqueline Deere, of Pasadena, Calif., is the intended of TOM CARTER, of Alhambra, Calif. An alumnus, RICHARD L. SULLIVAN, of Fulton, N. Y., will many Miss Patsy Jane Green, of South Bend, in April. . . .
LARRY (MOON) MULLINS, former Notre Dame football star and now head football coach at St. Ambrose College, Davenport, la., was awarded the GEORGE GIPP trophy at a KNUTE ROCKNE memorial banquet in Kansas City, Mo., last week. Coach Mullins was named the “Little All-American Coach of the Year”. . . .
THOMAS STRITCH, head of the Notre Dame Journalism Department, has been named chairman of the subcommittee on publications, a part of the general public relations program of the Community Chest of South Bend and the Council of Community Services of St. Joseph County. Mr. Stritch will advise on bulletins, pamphlets and other printed matter published by the Chest and Council and the other Red Feather services. . . .
Coach JOE BENDA, of St. John’s University will take a one-year leave of absence from his post as head football coach, it was announced last week. Benda was one of the famed “Seven Mules” in his playing days at Notre Dame. He will be succeeded by JOHN V. McNAL-
30
LY, who attended Notre Dame for a short time before entering the professional football ranks. McNally has been freshman coach at St. John’s. . . .
In an address before the faculty and student body of Wabash College, REV. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, author and lecturer at Notre Dame, spoke on the need of obeying Chrisl’s command of brotherly love to maintain world peace. . . .
RAYMOND PEETS and JIM Me GUIRE, members of the 1949 class in correctional administration, are currently engaged in developing new profess-sional service programs for the New York Department of Correction. . . .
Skiing instructor in the new Y.M.C.A, physical and adult education classes starting this week is TOM CANFIELD, a Notre Dame student. Canfield spends his winter vacations as an instructor in Northern Michigan skiing areas. . . .
RUFUS WILLIAM RAUCH, Professor of English, was a guest of ButlerUniversity last week, where he served as guest leader of a Great Books Seminar. The group was an adult fifth year seminar, and the book under discussion was Dante’s Picrgatorio.
A.I.Ch.E. to Dine
The ND chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers will hold a dinner tonight at the Post 50 clubrooms of the American Legion in South Bend. Dr. Gordon P. Whitcomb of the American Cyanamid Company, will be guest speaker at the affair.
Next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. the chapter will hold a meeting in Room 215, Chemistry Hall. A lecture by Dr. H. L. Goebel, Executive Head of Research at the Ball Band Plant in Mishawaka, will follow a short business meeting.
Rochester Club Holds Dinner
At a recent meeting of the Rochester Club, thirty-five members heard Rev. Robert J. Fagan, C.S.C., of the Department of Religion, guest speaker at the club’s special steak dinner.
Rev. Albert Schlitzer, c.s.c., and Rev. Edward Thomas A. Kelly, c.s.c., natives of Rochester, were special guests of the organization.
State Geologist to Talk To ND Club Thursday
Dr. Charles F. Deiss, State Geologist of Indiana and Chairman of the Department of Geology at Indiana University, will speak to the Notre Dame Geology Club next Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 350 of the Main Building. His topic is the work now being done by the Indiana Geological Survey.
The Club recently heard a lecture by the Professor Emeritus of the Department of Geology, Dr. Knowles B. Smith, on gold mining in the United States and Canada. Dr. Smith described prospecting and mining procedures and exhibited some gold-bearing rock specimens from his personal collection.
MASS SCHEDULE
Saturday, March 18—double—white —St. Cyril of Jerusalem, Bishop and Confessor: 2nd Coll, from the feria,. 3rd Against the Persecutors; Tract; Credo; Last Gospel taken from the feria, or Mass of the feria—violet—no Gloria; 2nd Coll, from the feast, 3rd. Against the Pers.
Sunday, March 19—semi-double— privilege of the First Class—violet or rose—FOURTH SUNDAY IN LENT; 2nd Coll. Defend us, 3rd For the Living and the Dead; Credo; Pref. for. Lent.
Monday, March 20—double of First Class—white—St. Joseph, Confessor, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary; 2nd Coll, from the feria; Tract; Credo; Last Gospel from the feria.
Tuesday, March 21—greater double —white—St. Benedict, Abbot; 2nd Coll, from the feria, 3rd Against the Pers.; Tract; Last Gospel from the feria, or Mass of the Feria—violet— no Gloria; 2nd Coll, from the feast, 3rd Against the Pers.
Wednesday, March 22 — violet — Mass of the feria; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us, 3rd For the Living and Dead; 4th Against the Pers.
Thursday, March 23—violet—Mass of the feria; no Gloria; 2nd Coll. Defend us, 3rd For the Living and Dead, 4th Against the Pers.
Friday, March 24—greater double— white—St. Gabriel, Archangel; 2nd Coll, from the feria. 3rd Avainct the Pers.; Tract; Credo; Last Gospel from the feria, or Mass of the feria—violet —no Gloria; 2nd Coll, from the feast, 3rd Against the Pers.; Last Gospel from the feast. -
The Scholastic
Your Future
11: Advertising Agencies
By J. D.
The job situation in advertising agencies is, and has been lately, very tight. A good indication of this is the ratio between position wanted and help wanted ads in Printer’s Ink; there are about ten applicants for each job. And most of the advertisements specify experience ranging from three to five years.
But agency work is interesting, far more so than most of the allied fields and well rewards the man who is qualified. There is always room for the man with sound ideas in an advertising agency.
Ability is essential. You must be creative yet a logical thinker. Your mind cannot run in patterns; it must be constantly sifting ideas, seeking new relationships and outlooks. But, a good advertising man must be able to apply his creative thinking by focusing it on specific problems. You must know the fundamentals of good advertising.
A skill at writing is highly desirable because it is necessary to be able at least to recognize good copy, if not write it. Your writing must be clean and sharp to sell your ideas effectively.
Your taste must be good, both in words and design. It is necessary to understand why a particular design or-layout is effective or ineffective.
Above all, you must be objectively critical of your own ideas and copy. You must be able to see what is wrong, why it is wrong and how it can be corrected. And you must be able to get along with people, for you are constantly selling yourself as - well as your ideas and skills.
A real desire to work in advertising is the second essential. It sounds simple. But the work is never done; it can’t be hidden in a drawer at 5 o’clock and forgotten. You must be prepared to work hard and long, your mind constantly alert in the quest for new ideas.
The third requirement is the most difficult for the average college graduate to fulfill: experience. You can’t get a job unless you have it and you can’t get it unless you have a job. Your ability must have been proven, somehow, somewhere. It is not always necessary to have experience in an agency. A job on a newspaper, or in publishing or engraving — learning the mechanics of advertising, or in the ad
vertising department of some company,
USINA
often provides an extremely valuable background for the agency job-seeker.
While in school you should be trying to get as broad a cultural education as possible in music, literature and the visual arts. Develop hobbies that are con-
J. D. Usina graduated from Notre Dame in 1947 with an A.B. in Journalism. He was formerly sports editor of his home town paper, the St. Augustine, Fla. “Record.” Since graduation he has worked for the MacDonald-Cook Co, and Carter, Jones and Taylor and the Lincoln J. Carter Advertising Agency, where he is now account executive.
nected with advertising such as photography. Take all the courses you can in advertising. Expose yourself to good writing; it’s one of the best ways to improve your own skill. Keep up with the advertising trade publications. Go over to the library’s periodical room regularly and look over copies of Printer’s Ink, Advertising Agency and Advertising and Selling, and Industrial Marketing.
J. D. Usina
A majoi- in Journalism should prepare you as well as any other for advertising. Or if you intend to specialize
in research, a major in Marketing. However, many advertising men hold degrees in business administration, engineering and philosophy.
Work anywhere you can to get experience. Join the staff of the Scholastic or any other publication. And if you should be able to get any kind of work in an agency, take it, no matter what the pay. The advantage it will give you in later job-hunting is worth it. Incidentally, the starting pay for agency work is usually between $200 and S250.
When you look for a job, do it intelligently. Start by deciding On the area in which you would like to work. Then narrow it down to a few cities and from these pick a specific agency. Learn all you can about it; how many people it employs, which accounts and what type of accounts it handles. (You can get much of this information from the agency list of the Standard Advertising Registei-, available in most large libraries.) When you apply, let them know you have selected them as the agency with which you would like to be associated. Impress them with your sincerity and real interest in getting a job by knowing a good bit about their organization.
Make up a portfolio with samples of work you have had published. Have them neatly arranged and labeled with name and date of publication. Include a brief skeleton of your personal his
Q March 17, 1950
tory, neatly typed, listing all pertinent information and your qualifications. Try to answer questions before they are asked; put down your name and address, schooling and honors, past jobs, activities, interests, hobbies, such personal information such as height, weight, marital status. Keep it brief and factual.
Remember that you have to sell your experience, ability and desire through a proper presentation. Be positive about yourself, but don’t brag. Sug-
: PROVE
» TO YOURSELF 4
Do exactly the same thing—DON'T INHALE Notice that bite, that sting? Now you know why you should be smoking PHILIP MORRIS!
““PHILIP MORRIS
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
F HERES J AU YOU L DO!
Philip ; Morris! /
light up a PHILIP MORRIS
THEN, just take a puff—DON’T INHALE— and $-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through your nose. Easy, isn’t it? And NOW ...
In just a few Seconds you can prove PHILIP MORRIS
is DEFINITELY LESS IRRITATING than the brand you’re now smoking I
gest the departments you think you could fit into. Don’t make your interviewer pry all the information out of you; it isn’t worth it to him. You must be able to show that you are worth having; that the agency stands to benefit by hiring you.
But if you don’t get the job, don’t be afraid to go back again. Be persistent. Leave a copy of your personal history and qualifications along with a picture of yourself if the agency wants it. Your return will prove that you are

seriously interested in advertising. And when an opening occurs you may be the one to get it. You must be willing to work as hard to get a job as you are to work after you have it. -
Sergius Yakobson to Speak Here on Russian Nationalism
Sergius Yakobson will visit the Uni- “ versify next week to present a series of lectures entitled “Russian Nationalism, Old and New.” The lectures are slated for Wednesday, Thursday and Friday at 4:15 p.m.
Mr. Yakobson is chief of the foreign affairs section of the Legislative Reference Service of the Library of Congress.
The entire lecture series will be held in Room 101 of the Law Building. The -talks will be open to students.	R
AUDIO-VISUAL FILMS
Tuesday, March 21
MAINLINE, U. S. A.
(Color—18 minutes)	12:30 p. m.
This film, in full color, shows the part which railroads play as a vital factor in American economic life. Many sections of the United States are photographed, enabling the picture to provide an informative and entertaining drama of trains at work for the nation’s benefit.
BIG TRAINS ROLLING
(Color—20 minutes)
This film, in full color, shows two children taking a railroad trip, and shows America’s railroads at work.
Wednesday, March 22
THE NEW TOBACCOLAND, U.S.A.
(Color—30 minutes)	12:30 p. m. ’
Produced by Louis de Rochemont, this film is the story of the American way of life rich in beauty and tradition. You follow a southern tobacco planter and his family as they move through the cycle of a tobacco year. Striking photography and well written dialogue are carefully blended so that the audience gets a rounded picture of tobacco growing in the South, and of the care that goes into production of a Chesterfield.
Thursday, March 23
ROME . . . THE ETERNAL CITY
Continuous showing from 8 a. m. to 8 p. m. in anticipation of the third year of operation of the Audio-Visual Center.
32
The Scholastic^}
Two New Officers Elected
To Fill Vacant K of C Posts
Elections were held at the Knights of Columbus meeting last week to fill two offices vacated by graduations. John Celusta of Toledo, Ohio, was elected Chancellor from a field of six, and Daniel Connell of Chicago was named Outside Guard over his two opponents.
Also discussed at the meeting were the Annual Spring Formal, to be held at the Erskine Country Club on April 28, the Bengal Bouts, and the forthcoming initiations.
Jim Slattery is general chairman of the dance, Tom Carroll is ticket chairman, and Tom Feeney is in charge of arrangements. Bids are $4.00 per couple and are available through the -a hall representatives of the Knights of ” Columbus or in the K. of C. office in the basement of Walsh Hall.
Two first degree initiations will be held, one on March 21 and the other early in April, with the second and third degree initiation being held on April 16. All those initiated in the above two first degree initiations will be included in the second and third degree initiation on April 16. More first degree initiations are planned for later in April and early in May and a district e second and third degree initiation will be held in May.
A picnic is also planned for sometime in May, but the exact date and other details have not been decided on as yet.
the DeVrylite, Victor, and Ampre lightweight projectors for classroom showings in other buildings.
As Mr. Foster points out, “many students fail to realize that they can get adequate training not only in the use of projectors and in making good recordings, but also in taking good pictures, both still and motion, through the Department of Audio-Visual Aids. Credit for these courses is offered in the Education Department as well as the Speech Department and several other departments are seriously considering offering this course as an elective in the field of study.”
Mr. Foster has had a lot of experience in radio and audio-visual work. He received his M.A. in education at Notre Dame and did graduate study in audiovisual aids at the University of Chicago. He came to Notre Dame in 1939 as a part-time instructor' in the Department of Education. Father Kenna appointed him director of the new Audio-Visual department in 1948, thus coordinating the earlier audio-visual work done by other departments.
Although Audio-Visual activities are limited by space, services are extended to many of the other University departments. A schedule of the Center’s activities for one day shows the increas
smiminniinminfflHnniiiiiiniiiiniiniiiiira^
ing importance of audio-visual work: 9:30 a.m.—The Feeling of Rejection, a motion picture for a Sociology class. In the projection room-office a private preview showing of The Story of the Storage Battery for Doctor Hinton.
10 a.m.—Spanish class in audio-visual classroom, using specially-cut transcriptions correlated with the text.
11 a.m.—Round-table conference on one scene to be shot next week for a TV background.
12:30 p.m.—Special student showing of Epic in the Afternoon, a football classic, and Wings to Ireland, a Pan-American World Airways film.
1:15 p.m.—Meeting of the American Chemical Society for rehearsal and tape recording of their bi-weekly radio program over South Bend’s WHOT.
2:30 pun.—Private preview of films on job placement and evaluation of work positions for the Departments of Job Placement and Testing and Guidance.
3:15 p.m.—Private (closed) showing of the Journalism Department film to be presented next night.
4 p.m.—Twenty-four members of camera crew on location at Grotto for new pictures.
4:15 p.m.—Private preview in office projection room of Modem Language series film.
1 Audie-Visual
(Continued from Page 9) area, including the Notre Dame campus.
The third film will be a Pictorial History of Notre Dame. This is still in the early stages of development. In addition, the Audio-Visual Department has been placed in charge of films of official use by the University of all athletic events, including the football games. Bruce Harlan has been appointed head photographer of these football pictures.
To facilitate these operations, the Audio-Visual Center has gradually acquired the most modern equipment available. Leica cameras, equipped with new f.2 Summitar lenses and 90 mm. precision-made portrait lenses, are used in the still work. In motion pictures various cameras are used including a Cine Special II, a Bolex, a Bell and Howell and a Revere in both 16 mm. and 8 mm. widths. Other equipment includes wire, tape and disc cutting recorders as well as a library of educational and historical transcriptions. The Center is also equipped with dual RCA projectors for student showings and also
March 17, 1950
Think of it... for as little as $3.50 a week you can become an expert dancer at Arthur Murray's. So come in today.
SAVE 507° NOW
ON ARTHUR MURRAY
DANCE LESSONS
lUUlUiUllllllUlllUIIIIIIUllUUiUUllllilUUUlUlililMiililiilUHIM
DON'T WAIT another minute to leam to dance "The New Arthur Murray Way." Even a beginner can learn the secret to good dancing in just one lesson thanks to Arthur Murray's wonderful discovery, "The First Step To Popularity." Put yourself in the hands of one of his talented experts and see how quickly you will become a sought-after partner. Bring in your favorite partner and leam together at half the price. Come in or phone 2-3339 for your free trial lesson.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE STREET South Bend

33
Roughly Speaking by Ken Zhoren mm—i
Ireland. Forever?
Some might question our right to spout about St. Patrick’s day when our only Gaelic blood can be thinly traced to a maternal grandmother whose maiden name was McMahon. But, we’ll take our chances.
Notre Dame is known throughout the country as being America’s little bit of Ireland. Our teams are hailed as the Fighting Irish in every newspaper and periodical. We wouldn’t be too surprised if many subway alumni thought Gaelic was a required language for every ND student. That’s the position Notre Dame is in, whether it likes it or not.
And here it is, March 17 and the Feast of St. Patrick, again. And how does the Notre Dame student body celebrate it? The answer is, of course, by wearing green ties, getting some ice cream with mint flavored shamrocks embossed on it and by raising the roof at Sweeney’s. Miles-long parades are held all over the country, Hibernian societies sponsor banquets and what do we get? —mint flavored shamrocks!
If that’s not a poor way of celebrating St. Patrick’s day then we want to know what could be worse? Last year the newly organized Irish Culture Club held a banquet in the special second floor dining room. The fee was low, the entertainment was fine, and the meal was great. But because of the limited space, very few ND’ers could attend the fete. This year the Club has moved their banquet downtown to the Oliver in order to handle a larger crowd. We’re not saying this isn’t a good start, but we do think a special campus-wide program should be held to honor Ireland’s patron saint.
Lent understandably prohibits any lavish celebration. But that’s no reason why a Washington Hall program, for an example, couldn’t be presented. We’d venture to say, without going through every name in the student directory, that the largest racial group represented at Notre Dame is the Irish. Therefore, this group—as well as every other Irish-for-a-day racial group — should be provided the opportunity to celebrate this day in a style worthy of St. Patrick.
And what campus organization could sponsor such an event? The Irish Culture Club seems the obvious choice. As fine as their annual, intimate banquets are,
34
we feel that the Club should offer a program on a bigger scale. We feel certain the student body would supply the interest. Let’s hope something along this line will be carried out next year.
As for now, we’ll have to be satisfied with wearing the ties, eating the shamrocks, and drinking Sweeney’s beer. For those who do the last mentioned, we offer the old Irish saying: “Beware of the dragon at the bottom of the flagon!”
New Rooms
Notre Dame went on a mass roomhunting jaunt last week. It’s good that such a necessity happens but once a year. Our cubby-hole in Alumni was busier than the Huddle ten minutes before 10 o’clock classes. We had scores of Sophs peeking in to see our dimensions—that is our room’s dimensions— every other minute. It became disconcerting at times, specially when you were attempting to shave. We were luckier than some, though.
All the Sophs had to do was stick their noses in our door, see the cubicle and then choke and say “Ugg!”. Other Alumni boarders had Sophs who did everything but inspect the dust under the carpets and in the corners and take measurements from the radiator to the window. You’d have thought they were planning to rebuild some of'the rooms.
Our gripe about the intruders can’t be too loud, though, because we did the same thing in Dillon. Oh, for the life of a Senior who doesn’t have to go through the yearly ritual anymore. They just remember how it used to be.
First you get a page-list of acceptable rooms. You take it up to the Student Accounts Office. Wait patiently in line, then finally edge up to the window when they blare out your name. You’ve got high hopes for one of those natural, doubles. You read off the list of rooms you’d like and then get politely told, “Sorry, but they’re all gone!”
You get a broom closet and whether you like it or not, that’s your abode for the coming year. Even then it’s not too hard to take, unless you see a spread in LIFE showing spacious suites enjoyed at some colleges. That’s what they call taking the bitter with the sweet.
Bengals Shape-up
Reports coming from the Fieldhouse proclaim a Bengal Bouts that will beat all previous Bouts. Everyone likes the
heavyweight contests and this year there -are 13 contenders in that class; more then ever before. There has been such a big turnout, K. of C. sponsors foresee 15 bouts to be run off on each of the first three nights. Formerly, there have never been more than eight or ten. A big demand for tickets has also been reported. They’re going fast. ‘Don’t be caught without a stub. The Bengal Bouts are one of the top events of the ;~1 year, and one of the most worthy. **
Irish History Course Offered
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, c.s.c., head of the Department of History, has announced that through the efforts of the Irish Culture Club a class in Irish History will be offered both semesters of next year. The first semester will cover the period up to 1691, the Treaty of Limerick, and the second semester, from 1691 to the present day. The instructor will be Mr. Thomas N. Brown, who is a graduate of Holy Cross, Boston College and Harvard University, and who has a special interest in the Irish in Ireland and the United States. Students who wish to take the course may sign up at pre-registration time.
Bavaria Offers Fellowships To U. S. Graduate Students J
The first German Government scholarship program since the end of World War II was announced last week by the Institute of International Education in New York. In appreciation for the large program now bringing German students to the United States, the Bavarian Ministry of Education and Culture has established six graduate fellowships for Americans for a one-year period beginning May 1, 1950.
Successful candidates will be admitted to universities or other academic institutions in Bavaria and will receive free tuition and a stipend of 200 marks a month, equivalent to about §50, for living expenses. There is no restriction to the field of study, although the most favorable opportunities exist in the social sciences and the humanities.
The Institute of International Education -will make preliminary selections and recommend candidates, but final decision will rest with the Bavarian Ministry of Education and Culture. Interested students should write to the Institute of InternatioanI Education, 2 West 45th Street, New York 19, N. Y., before March 20 for application forms. Requirements include a B.A. or B.S. degree, full knowledge of the German language, American citizenship, and good academic, character and health qualifications.
The Scholastic
gwuM,, Senior .
Get your Official NOTRE DAME CLASS RINGS before Graduation by ordering NOW! .
Don't delay! If you place your order right away, you will have it in plenty of time before graduation. A $5 deposit is all that is needed when ordering.
The official Notre Dame ring as manufactured exclusively by the L. G. Balfour Company shows the tower and dome of the Administration building modeled on one shank. The ND monogram is reproduced below with crossed torches in the background, an emblem of the ideals and attainments of Notre Dame.	.
The opposite shank shows the seal of the University in high relief and below are crossed torches.
The raised letters "University of Notre Dame" frame the stone, set in the oval top.
The Bookstore offers you facilities for perfect fittings and displays sample rings of the various types and stone colors.
A NOTRE DAME MINIATURE:
The Ideal Gift for Wife or Sweetheart
Also available is a miniature of the official size ring for the sweetheart or wife. This is an exact replica, two-thirds size, of the large ring and has been manufactured to meet the great demand for this style. Your sweetheart will treasure this lasting gift.
Both the miniature and the official class ring are available with the following stones: black onyx, green onyx, bloodstone, sardonyx, garnet synthetic, amethyst, aquamarine, synthetic ruby, blue spinel, tourmaline, and dark blue sythetic sapphire. You have your choice of either the light weight or regular styles of I OK gold or sterling silver.
IN THE BOOKSTORE BETWEEN ONE and FOUR EACH DAY!
March 17, 1950
35

I
r
c.
... and JASPER T. CARTER, PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMER says "Chesterfield pays the top price to get
^Chesterfield has been my cigarette for over 35 years."	-t<;n
" If you want a Milder cigarette that Satisfies its Chesterfield"
MChesterfield
the Best cigarette for^^ to smoke
Copyright 1950, Liggett & Mros Tobacco Co.
