

2 APRIL 2009 

05 news 
Safe Haven 
6 
Kristina Cloetingh 
The university addresses the issue of safety and security on home football weekends 
09  culture  
1 O  A Celebration ofAwareness  
Kate Zinsmeister  
Culture Editor Kate Zinsmeister takes a look at Best Buddies and Disability Awareness_ Month at Notre  
Dame.  
13  Campus Chatter Jason G'Sell  
Assistant News Editor Jason G'Sell reports on the beginning of a new tradition: Duncan Hall's  
Highlander Games  
15­ sarcastic  

1 5 Scholastic Senior Staff Let Scbolastic's senior staffers give us an exclusive tour through the labyrinth of Notre Dame 


27 sports 
28 Running With Hope 
Mimi DiSipio Assistant Sports Editor Mimi DiSipio gives us an insider's perspective on the Holy Half Marathon. 


32 last word 
32 Notre Dame, Catholicism, and the Obama Threat 
Marql!es Camp vVhat do we make of the Barack Obama Commencement controversy?­
2 APRIL 2009 I SCHOLASTIC' I 1 

IT'S CALLED "SARCASTIC" FOR A REASON! In some sense, good humor and satire are effective only when there are a few people who end up taking it too seriously. Notre Dame is the perfect storm for comedy: Curmudgeonly old professors and alumni always complaining about one thing or another, students with a most genuine and completely self-oblivious earnestness, manufactured Viewpoint controversies, overachievers, under­achievers, and everything in between. 
That is why every year, in the spirit of April Fool's Day, Scholastic takes the time to honor Notre Dame in all its ridiculousness-it's not a matter putting down the University for its flaws, but rather a matter of realizing that this is college, and if we take ourselves too seriously then we'll look back one day and ask ourselves why we were such self-oblivious young students. 
SCREW HELLO-YOU HAD ME AT GOODBYE ·with this issue, we'd like to bid a final (hopefully ;) ) farewell to the seniors who 
have toiled long into the night, and into the wee hours of the morning, who 
have given up their collegiate lives for the sake of bringing the latest news and 
commentary to the Notre dame community. It's been a fun run-just make sure 
when you come back and bum your jobless self around the Scholastic office in the 
future, to shut the lights and close the door on your way out. And please put the 
lid back on the Queso dip. 
WE ARE NOW IN YOUR HANDS We would also like to extend a welcome to former Culture Editor and Associate Editor Jen Wulf, who will serve as Scholastic's next Editor-in-Chief during the 2009-2010 school year. Here's a third-person autobiography (how creative!) about our fearless leader: 
Jen Wulf is a junior PLS major. She enjoys reading, libations, and making unnecessary allusions to Plato's Republic in everyday conversation. She is currently studying abroad in London and has been doing research for next year's Scholastic through the London Paper(which, incidentally, was the first British publication to break the national news ofAlfie, the thirteen-year old baby daddy). In fact, she is so devoted to her research that she stares down every bloke she sees on the train in the hopes that one day she will find herself in "Lovestruck," the anonymous personal ad section for socially awkward Brits who are unable to approach people in person. Though she hails from the cultural hub ofTerre Haute, Indiana (birthplace of Eugene Debbs) she has decided from her travels abroad that she is going to move to Amsterdam as soon as she becomes financially independent. She eagerly awaits the trials and tribulations of her duties as editor in chief and proudly accepts the challenge to guide the Notre Dame student body through yet another maelstrom of class council elections, sexually deviant plays and fornicating freshmen. 
Marques Camp Interim Editor-in-Chief 
2 I SCHOLASTIC I 2 APRIL 2009 


With joy and thanksgiving we invite you to celebrate the ordination to the priesthood of· 

Rev. Mr. Vincent A. Kuna, C.S.C. Rev. Mr. Charles F. McCoy, C.S.C. Rev. Mr. Aaron J. Michka, C.S.C. 
The Sacrament ofHoly Orders will be conferred by The Most Reverend John G. Vlazny, D.D. Archbishop of Portland in Oregon 
Saturday, April 18, 2009 at 2:00 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


"We heard_ a summons to give over our lives in -a more explicit way" 
(Constitutions, 1.3) 




·. vocation.nd.edu 
.  .  .  .  - ..  ~  .'  .  ~··  
.  .  .  .  
.  .  .  .  .  .  

f:rom. feb:ruary 25 ID april 10 
sand iches 
Happy Birthday, Mr. Darwin .. 
Year-long series commemorates Darwin 
Kate Mullaney 
The Colleges of Science and Arts and Letters know how to throw 
a party. Charles Darwin's 200th birthday will be commemorated 
throughout 2009 with "Darwin at Notre Dame," a year-long series of 
events co-sponsored by the Jwo colleges. 
The series also marks the 150th anniversary of Darwin's 
groundbreaking work that introduced the theory of evolution through 
natural selection, "On the Origin of Species". 
The goal of the series is to promote an interdisciplinary approach to the study of Darwin and his scientific legacy, including films, theatrical · performances and academic conferences in both the sciences and the 
humanities, and an art exhibit. 
"We look forward to a series of rich conversations in laboratories, 
classrooms and performance spaces," John McGreevy, Dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters, says. 
One of the first events was the L.A. Theatre Works performance of 
"The Great Tennessee Monkey Trial" at the DeBartolo Performing 
Arts Center in February. Agustin Fuentes, an anthropology professor 
and author ?f "Evolution of Human Behavior", gave a lecture before 
the performance on the importance of evolution. His main goal, he says, 
was to combat ignorance. 
"Hearing the words, the misconceptions and the biases [portrayed in 
the play] drives the core points home," Fuentes says. "So many people 
have a great misunderstanding of what we know about the patterns and 
processes of evolution." 
Academic dialogue also plays an important role in the series. A 
conference hosted by the Glynn Family Honors Program, "Evolution 
of Age: Multidisciplinary Reflections on Darwin 150 Years Later," 
will take place on April 3 and 4. According to the series' Web site, 
this conference will "explore Darwin's evolutionary theories and their 
bearings on modern understandings of Theology, Philosophy, History, 
Anthropology, Physics, Biology [and] Darwin himself." 
Senior Margaret Culhane, conference chairperson, says, "The 
conference will illustrate where Darwin's theories are today, illuminate 
some misconceptions about Darwin and evolution, and explore what 
these principals entail for us as creatures whose identity extends beyond 
mere biology." 
Much of the series' academic discussion will be influenced by Notre 
Dame's Catholic identity. 
"Evolution remains a controversial topic in our society, which is why 
it is so critical that Notre Dame make the compatibility of evolution 
with Catholic belief known," Culhane says. 
Alvin Plantinga, philosophy professor and keynote speaker for the 
conference, emphasizes the distinction between unguided and guided 
evolution, asserting that guided evolution is compatible with belief in 
God. 
"[Some spokesmen] say that the scientific theory as such makes no 
pronouncements on [whether or not evolution is guided]. . .in which case 
there isn't any incompatibility between evolution and Christian belief," 
Plantinga says. 
The theology department welcomes discussion of Darwin and 
evolution; it will host the annual meeting of. the College Theology 
Society at a conference entitled, "God, Grace and Creation" in May. 
The series will resume in the fall with another conference and 
cuh11inate in a theatrical ·production next November. 
BU [Q)@u'JJ ~~y 
~£[1:,~~ 
The Economy 
You can always stay another semester. Or three. 

Rihanna's Gun Tattoo 
The symbol for women's empowerment, brought to you in part by Bang Bang 

Twitter "Following" 
It doesn't make stalking sound any less creepy 

Observer Viewpoint 
Where would they be without Obama? 

Fast and Furious 
Plagiarism is bad, especially when you rip off yourself 
6 I SCHOLASTIC I 2 APRIL 2009 



Safe Haven 
Committee for campus safety makes recommendations to the university 
Kristina Cloetingh 
0 n March 17, 2009, the Committee of Campus Safety, Security and Hospitality submitted its final report to University President ReverendJohnJenkins, C.S.C.. Created in October 2008, the IO-member committee was established to review issues ofon-campus safety and security, as well as hospitality for non­students on home football weekends. The discussions were designed to review current protocols and develop recommendations for the administration to implement. Combing through countless comme;:nts made by alumni and parents as well as observing behavior at home football games and studying the policies of other universities, the members of the committee met four times over the past five months and produced a report of21 recommendations for the administration. Richard Nussbaum, a South Bend attorney and Notre Dame alumnus who served on the committee, says, "There was not an occurrence or series of events which led to the creation ofthe committee. Rather, it was determined it was time to look atwhat has been done for a number ofyears to see ifwe can do things better. First-hand information was developed on campus, and the multifaceted backgrounds and expertise of the committee could be leveraged to craft the recommendations which were submitted to Father Jenkins." Fr. Jenkins says he will take the recommendations into consideration and will make a public statement in April. Until then, the recommendations will be kept secret from the public. "Until Fr. Jenkins comments publicly next month," associate vice-president of student affairs and committee member Ann Firth says, "I prefer not to make any comments about the contents of our report." Despite the controversy surrounding the issue ofhome football weekends and campus safety, some students were not aware of the committee's formation. "I didn't know about this committee," freshman Christine Bucior says. "I know I was only here one football season, butI didn't see anything unsafe occurring. And I think tl1ey ar_e being-underhanded in not releasing what the recommendations are. Is there something in them· that they don't want us to know?" 


Things Come Together 
Author Chinuci Achebe Speaks on lgbo Religion and Culture 
Caitlin Wilson 

Apacked audience welcomed celebrated Nigerian author Chinua Achebe, perhaps most well-known as the author of the acclaimed novel "Things Fall Apart," to Notre Dame on March 23 for his speech as part of the Blessed Pope John XXIII Lecture Series in Theology and Culture. Fr. Jenkins introduced Achebe at this first of three speeches, recognizing his literary achievements, theological insights and status as an elder in the Igbo culture. Over the ensuing three nights, Achebe spoke about the Igbo people's perceptions of God, man and creation. Achebe spoke with dignity -and precision, openly discussing his advanced age because, as he says, "In Igbo culture, wisdom and age go together." Achebe captivated the audience with personal vignettes and quiet humor. He discussed the Hebrew God's satisfaction with the created world, which contrasts with Chuku's, the Igbo god's, continual dedication to improving his creation. He also exposed the similarities between the role ofwomen.and the role of Chuku, for each offers protection and has responsibilities to a la~ger community. After his speech, Achebe participated in a fifteen-minute question and answer session on his upbringing, Igbo culture and Nigeria's future. 0 
r:::-:-=u
.. ::J ~o·..!;-~
: . . \(~~J. } .: ·: :::~)
~.J 

Rejected Commencement Speaker Ideas 
c1UEve Ensler 


c::')
jJ Peter Griffin 
g}]1~ Ty Willingham 
· 1:1 
w 
SAny Democrat 
2 APRIL 2009 ISCHOLASTIC I 7 
. . . . . . ·.· ' . -. . . , ' ~ . . • . . ·.i • • ;· ·. , .• 
. . . . 
. . ..· . . . 



Drink-Up 
Notre Dame students seek to save their peers' time and money ., Paige Becker 
As sophomores, Jake Jeffrey and Adam Hansmann were carrying 'cases of water back to their dorms when they realized that the inconvenience of shopping off-campu_s provided them with a marketing opportunity. 
Now juniors, finance majors Jeffrey and Hansmann have turned their idea into Dorm Drinks, a service that allows students to order beverages and snacks and have them delivered to their doors within a few days. In dorm rooms and around campus, magnets advertise their Web site, dormdrinks.com, where students can choose from eight different categories-water, energy drinks, soda, tea, sports drinks-, coffee, juice and snacks-and place their orders. 
The co-founders split the responsibilities within their company: Hansmann handles Web site management, Jeffrey takes care of legal and financial matters, and both contribute to delivery and marketing. The Web site and the company evolved over the past year as Hansmann and Jeffrey tested their ideas and made improvements. "There was about a month or so that was just kind of a beta run. We just did it in Morrissey and Lyons Halls," Hansmann says. "We didn't want to get in over our heads." 
Despite their caution, the duo still experienced some difficulties. "We had the joys of dealing with ResLife, initially," Jeffrey says. The two received requests for a disciplinary conference, but the Office ofResidence Life and Housing merely wanted to ensure they were following policies outlined in DuLac. "It was actually pretty helpful," Hansmann says. "We wanted to make sure we weren't stepping on anyone's feet," Jeffrey says. 
In its first month, Dorm Drinks sold $600 worth of products and has since grown to accommodate $15,000 -$20,000 worth of sales in a year. "That's pretty substantial growth, and we still think there's a lot ofroom for [more]," Hansmann says. The company has also expanded to reach across the nation, operating at St. Mary's College, St. John's University in New York and the University of North Dakota. "I think it really has to be the right fit;" Hansmann says. "It has to be like Notre Dame, where a lot of people live on campus and people are strapped for time." 
The growth can be largely attributed to customer satisfaction. Jeffrey and Hansmann note that new customers tend to crop up near current ones, indicating that word of mouth is important. "I don't have a car, so leaving campus is very difficult. Being able to order my drinks has made my life much easier," freshman Chad Heise says. Junior Christine Romero says the company is "reliable, consistent and flexible in payment and _delivery options." 
With their current success and the pqtential for more, Jeffrey and Hansmann are looking toward the future. "We have had interest from multiple parties interested in buying the business and managing it once we graduate, but we're open to staying involved post-graduation as well ifwe can balance it with full-time responsibilities," Hansmann says. 

CULTURE 
a 

\ ~.'1
e
" 
4
c--' 
of 



Best Buddies and Disability Awareness Month at Notre Dame 
Kate Zinsmeister 
During March, Notre Dame celebrated Disability Awareness Month with an array of events and activities intended to foster a greater knowledge of and compassion for people living with disabilities. An important part of Disability Awareness Month on campus is Best Buddies, a student club that celebrates the disabled members of the Notre Dame community year-round. Best Buddies is an international organization with a mission to cultivate one­on-one friendships between college students and developmentally-delayed members ofthe community. Senior computer engineering major Ed Suski, the president ofBest Buddies, explains that the Notre Dame chapter is unique in that it also meets regularly as a group for events such as holiday parties, bowling nights and movie nights. "[But] the important thing is that each intellectually disabled person in the community has one dedicated college buddy," Suski says. · Senior piano performance and philosophy major Nick Krienke, the treasurer for Best Buddies, says that the club gives people with 
10 I SCHOLASTIC I 2 APRIL 2009 
disabilities a great chance to be surrounded with people committed to spending time with them on a regular basis. "This is really 
___..--·r 
etudents who have . aI buddy begin to --understand that people with 
developmental disabilities 
are people first. They getto 
know a person for who they 
are, not for the label that 
·~-·,--.-.. --~.. """1 
their disability puts o~_t~em. 
-Marissa Runkle 
their opportunity to have friends. There's an inherent loneliness in having a disability, so they really get excited about this stuff," he says. 
In conjunction with the Logan Center, a South Bend organization that provides opportunities for people with disabilities, Best Buddies has helped to make Disability Awareness Month a success. "The officers of Best Buddies plan the events, apply for funding, adv:ertise and promote the events across campus, introduce the speakers and performers, and inspire other students to become more compassionate towards people with disabilities," adv1s'or Marissa Runkle says. 
The most important task for Best Buddies during Disability Awareness Month is to secure a main performer or speaker. This year, Brittany Maier, a blirid and autistic woman who is one of the leading savant pianists in the world with a repertoire of over 10,000 songs,. performed on March 18 in Washington Hall. She was joined on stage by her mother, Tammy Maier, who shared stories about her daughter's life and sang along with the popular tunes. 
Logan Center advisor Nichole Maguire says, the concert was a "celebration ofability," 

-. . . . .. .. . . . -~ . -'" -. ',. ~· . .' .• -' ; ' ' . . . . . ·: ..
{ 
' . . . · .. , .· .·.,,. "' : ..···.' .·.·, -,_·, -... 

not disability. 
"What is really cool for the buddies, especially the ones that recognize that:rliey have a disability1 is that theycan take prid~ in it for the month," Suski says. '.'Instead.of 
. . -.· -. ~ -· 
being worried or self-conscious about it,_ they can really _celebrate." 
The -concert also made an impression on members of the audience not affiliated with Best Buddies.Junior Joe Bramanti says he was 
_stunned by Maier's ability to play just about any song she_ had ever heard and touche~Lby her enthusiastic, spirited performance. ''Th.ilr_ · ·-, was one of-the most heartwarming thi.:iigs: I've ever seen," he says. • · · ­
Best --Buddies, -in. conjunction with ,;the Logan Center, also took part in thenationwid~ campaign to end the use of the word ''retard," or the "r-word." On March 31, students< encouraged people to sign a pledge stating: "As a member ofthe Notre Dame commun,ity, I supportthe end ~f the pejorative use of the·. · of the "r,-word". "It's ·.a word retard,'~ in _ap. _attempt to -make people -.fll,ll.0£. negative -si:ereotyp,~s/o_f:p·eoplf.wit:h more aware of_the derogatory connotations. 
-important, _way: '.'A lot buddy beginto,understand that: _people ~ifh, /'.f( 'i\:','./ of people that•_ don't have developmentaJ _dis-~bHities are peopl~ Jfs.t: -:·\ . •}i. experience · with·_ • people They get to know·a person fo~ whc{they'a:~;;, J(, ·:)t with intellectual disabilities not for the_ lapel that their di~abiiity pµts!,o~ ,\'. _-;' :M 





~i!m~•.~it11i~~~il'/if1
them. What i've iearned _the most, is:-just a spirit of compassio_!l. Just:· _to share with --your friends what you've learned _and-_ what you know about how to communicate _witJ-i the111. A _ lot of times· the respect just 

' ' . 
. , 
. . , . , ' ' _· 
, , 
, . ~------------~--------•~--------~ 
' 
Q&A 

8dwfosl'ic: How did Notre Dame serve as the foundation for your career? Andrew 8,mi:dn: I am a big proponent ofbroad liberal arts education. Notre Dame allowed me to combine interests in the life sciences, public policy and philosophy. At the same time, I was able to devote significant effort to deepening my interest in scientific research, especially as related to global health. Beyond the classroom and the lab, part of the unique character ofNotre Dame is the belief that all this knowledge and expertise should be directed for the benefit of humanity. 
S: 
What sparked your interest in biology? AS: At the heart of my passion for biology are the fundamental questions of "What is life?" and "How does it work?" I think these are deeply spiritual questions. Ifyou have the right attitude, studying the natural world can tell you a lot about God; it's His creation, after all. And there is tremendous potential to apply biological insight to problems we all face -how to improve nutrition in rice or how to improve your chances of getting a date. 

S: 
What activities were you involved in while you were at Notre Dame? AS: I was involved in student government my freshman and sophomore years. During my junior year, I spent a great semester out in the Arizona desert at the Biosphere 2 program, [which is] sadly now defunct. But mainly, I think itwas my long experience at 


12 I SCHOLASTIC I 2 APRIL 2009 
By tvlaria Sel:ers 

ndrew 
Sarazin 
After graduating from Notre Dame and receiving the Rhodes Scholarship in 2003, Andrew Serazin completed a Ph.D. in Medical Science at Oxford University in 2006. He has since served as the Program Officer in Global Health Discovery at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. On March 21, he addressed a group of benefactors and professors in recognition of his academic achievements. Scholastic met with the ND alumnus to discuss his years here and their impact on his life. 
tailgate parties that helped me prepare for the Rhodes scholarship . interview process. 
S: What is your best undergraduate memory? 
A: My favorite memory is from when I traveled to Burkina Faso-extra points if you know what the capital is -as part of my undergraduate research on malaria. Flyir{g into West Africa, the first thing you notice is the complete lack of light; there is an occasional fire, but otherwise it's darkness. I remember spending days rambling out in the middle ofnowhere -it was about 100 miles from Timbuktu-conversing with the local chief, before collecting mosquito samples, and spending nights listening to beautiful West African music that uses both guitars and an electrified instrument made from a large local gourd. Transformational. 
S: What is the one thing you miss most about Notre Dame or wish you could have done? 
A: Strangely, I miss the sheer exhaustion you feel after standing for an entire football game. Hopefully, a game that ND won. 
S: Do you have any advice for undergraduates? 
A: Spend as little time as possible in the classroom -most learning happens outside ofthese scheduled periods. Study only what you are passionate about and study it well. 
CULTURE 


Campus Chaffer 
DEPARTMENT OF SCOTTISH HERITAGE 
Duncan Hall held its first signature evenf, the Highlander Games, 
on Saturday, March 28. Inspired by the Duncan family's Scottish 
heritage, the Games consisted ofsix individual events ranging from a 
shackle race to an inflatable obstacle course. Each event earned teams 
anywhere from one to 100 points, with male and female winners . declared at the end. 
Nine teams of four to six students came together to compete, 
representing dorms from across campus. "Despite the cold, everyone· 
had a great time," freshman and future Duncan Hall president Mike 
Oliver says. Because Duncan is still in the process of forming its 
identity and reputation, the success of the Games was critical. 
One of the biggest obstacles facing the Games was its status as a 
new event. "Unlike the Keenan Revue or other well-known signature 
events, the Highlander Games don't have the same name recognition 
or initial draw," Oliver says. Despite the Games' newness, Duncan 
Rector Fr. Tom Eckert is, "very pleased with the turnout, especially 
for a first time event. There were dorms from all around campus, and 
Duncan was able to field several home teams as well." Duncan Hall 
President Tom Bacsik says that while this year there were six teams 
from other dorms, "we're hoping next year to get double that." 
One Resident Assistant from Duncan spearheaded each game. Games included a shackle race, imitation javelin throw, three­man water balloon launch, human duck hunt, dunk tank and obstacle course. The Games loosely followed a fictional story-line detailing the Duncan Highlander's escape of the from an English prison who frees a maiden from distress. Because most of the games required minimal athletic talent, students of all abilities were able to participate. 
Planning the event was no small task, largely because everything had to be done for--the first time. "It was challenging not knowing who to talk to, but everything went off well," Bacsik says. The idea for the Games surfaced at a Hall Council meeting and quickly evolved into the six competitions. Eckert credits Duncan's assistant rectors, resident assistants and Bascik with the success of the Games. 
Proceeds from the Games benefit St. Baldrick's Foundation, a charity that funds juvenile cancer research. Recently, the Freshmen Class Council sponsored St. Baldrick's Day, an event in which participants shaved their heads in order to raise money. Duncan's involvement with St. Baldrick's began when freshman resident Sam Marx, who is currently battling cancer, approached Hall Council asking them to support the charity. So far, the Highlander Games have raised almost $800. 
Duncan staff will be critiquing the games to try and improve upon them. A survey will be sent out to students who participated and to dorms that lacked representation to see what worked and what could make them more appealing next year. 
Freshman Eileen Gillespie, whose team represented McGlinn Hall, says, "It was great to see so many people taking part of the games and supporting such an important charity." 
"The Games combined brotherhood and activity with an important sense of purpose," Eckert says. 
-Jason-G'Sell 

2 APRIL 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 13 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, & Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, dunn.54@nd.edu, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
corecouncil.nd.edu 


NO.w·hiring: 
VA/niters 


Ph.OtoQrapbet£: 
·. . . 
De.s.i.goers.·· ..·.. Sectto.n· Ed,tto,rs .· 
\ -·. ,, ·. . 
' : • () i !· •, ..··· . -........ ·. << : i ..
: •·••. 



sepi:ember 
• 
Tailgating: See the Indiana Excise Police at their best while they catch you at your worst. 

• 
Dillon Pep Rally (oh wait) 



december 
• 
Ugly sweater parties: Head to Salvo and pick up a few, because rewearing the one from last weekend is just so lame. 

• 
Peppermint Patty shots: delicious. 

• 
'Study" days: The library is open 24 hours. There are just so many possibilities ... 

• 
Spring break: WOOOOOOO! 

• 
March Madness: Something we never see; it's always calm around here. 

• 
Start protesting graduation speakers: Again, see Observer. 

•St.Patrick's 
Day: You've never woken up so early to start partying and still made it to class. 




oci:ober 
• 
SYR season 

• 
Midterms: Watch freshmen freak out as their hrst exams come up. 

• 
Fall break: The best chance to work off your Reslife community service hours is in the beautiful Applachian moun,tain range. 

• 
Midseason football games: A losing record means 


•

January 
• 
New Year's Resolutions: Rolfs is packed. 

• 
Martin Luther King Jr. Day: Have fun in class. 

• 
Snow days? We wish. Bundle up: Extreme 


weather warning. Exposed flesh will freeze in 10 minutes. 
• 
Blue/Gold Game: Don't worry about not making it there -nobody ever does. 

• 
Bookstore B-ball: The country's biggest outdoor 5-on-5 basketball tournament, and the funniest. 

• 
Observer's April Fool's Day edition: Never as funny as Sarcastic. 

• 
Ring by Spring: Vomit. 


• 
Frosh-O: Musical men and forced awkward conversations. Make sure you know your major, dorm and home state. Don't miss Domer Fest! 

• 
The Show -Regular campus concert with B-list has-beens 

• 
Rally in the Alley -Running from the cops is the perfect chance to show off your summer workout body. 



november 
• 
Thanksgiving break: An empty dorm • awkward meals with the rector. 

• 
North Quad-South Quad snowball light: The Observer claims it happens, but no one has ever actually seen it. 

• 
Cold football games: Guess how many beers I can fit in my parka? 



february 
• 
JPW: Best Weekend to NOT be here 

• 
Dating season: Don't worry, there is always someone for you at the Backer. 

• 
Beginning of Lent: Don't miss the Observer for the annual Viewpoint war about no meat on Fridays. 


may 
• 
Graduation: Cry & hope there are no protesters. 

• 
Break-ups: Dump the guy who DIDN'T give you the ring in April. 

• 
Finals week: Maybe you should've actually studied on study days. 

• 
Senior week: Try to find a crappy on-campus job and party with the RAs. 

• 
Move-out: super fast. 




Hey, where the party at? 
DORM PARTIES: 
Unique to Notre Dame's on-campus scene is the presence of "social gatherings" in residence halls. By declaring in writing their intent to host such a gathering to hall staff, students have the license to stock their room with Natty Light or Keystone and invite their 200 closest Facebook friends. If you are looking for this kind of entertainment, wander the quad listening for Journey's "Don't Stop Believin"' blaring from an open window. Signs of a successful dorm party include: a decent playlist combining Top 40 hits and classic favorites, sweaty grinding and side rooms for "private" make-out sessions. An added bonus is a lonely sophomore or junior across the hall offering shots of Popov. Trash cans filled with ice and nothing else before I a.m. or an unequal male to female ratio ("Sausage Fest" in the local lingo) are not acceptable. 
Helpful Hinh: Under the Law of Parietals, the party will end promptly at 2 a.m. If at any time a man with a nametag or a Roman collar appears at the door, drop your beer and run. And for heaven's sake. Keep the beer out of the hallways. 
SYRs: 
One of Notre Dame's most time-honored mating rituals, SYRs are themed dances organized and funded by residence halls. The name "Screw-Your­Roommate," arose in a time when each student chose a date for their roommate; now, however, each student must fend for him/herself. Popular date choices include the guy you talk about your weekend with in FYC, that SMC chick you met at Domerfest or your roommate's girlfriend's roommate. 
Helpful Hinh: Unless the SYR in question is held at a bowling alley and you are 21, you must prepare yourself for at least 2 hours without access to alcohol. This will test your speed and stamina, as the powers that be give you exactly I hour in the host dorm before the dance in which to reach the optimum BAC -not puking but drunk enough to not feel awkward grinding on someone you barely know in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
<INSERT TEAM/CLUB NAME HERE> PARTY: 
There comes a time in every undergrad's life when the claustrophobia, limited quantities and selection of booze and difficulty of concealing beer pong games d_rives them to look off-campus for something more "sophisticated." When this happens, simply hike to Main Circle, fight the ~ther drunk kids for a cab and request to be taken "wherever you've been dropping people offall night." You'll inevitably end up at a party hosted by one of ND's many fine athletic teams or extracurricular groups. Five dollars is usually enough to get you access to a keg for the remainder of the evening. Stripper poles, enough toilet paper to last the whole night and unlocked bedroom doors are an added bonus. 
Helpful Hinh: If you are on a budget, and you can't find an empty Solo cup on the ground outside (and you aren't a scantily-clad female), try the fridge for miscellaneous goodies when no one is looking. If anyone questions you, tell them you paid his/her roommate. 


--------.-------·· -·SARCAST!C 


Home to NORTHERN INDIANA'S LARGEST DANCE FLOOR, Club Fever is the place to be on Thursday nights. And only Thursday nights. To avoid waiting in a ridiculously long line even though the club is nearly empty and you are wearing a mini-dress and heels, show up at 11 and head to the basement. To pass the time, challenge an IUSB student to a game of shufAeboard; the loser buys a round of dollar Red­Headed-Sluts, Washington Apples and Kamikazes. Trust us, you'll need all three (several times) before you head up to the main dance floor where DJ Stickyboots will be spinning the hot new jams. 
Helpful Hinl:s: While Fever isn't a bad place to try a fake (as long as it scans), be sure to bring extra cash to buy it back if it gets taken. Be careful not to lose your friends amid the fog, strobe lights and people having dry sex on the dance Aoor '-you may never find them again. The third Aoor provides a bird's-eye view of the dance Aoor and cage if you find yourself without a warm body to rub up against. 
Once Club Fever has lost its magic, stumble through the alley to the Blarney Stone, formerly and more popularly known as Finnigans on Thursday ... or Friday ... or Saturday. Don't let the asbestos falling from the ceiling or the overAowing toilets scare you away -strong well drinks and pitchers of Long Islands/Red Bull and vodka are always enough to quell your fears. To break the ice with your new hook-up prospect, challenge the townies holding down the beer pong table, and when you lose, head to the elevated dance Aoor. Mirrored walls provide a kinky twist to your typical bump and grind atmosphere. And as if this bar isn't hot enough-negative IO points if you're sober enough to notice the creepy space heater disguised as a fireplace. 
Helpful Hinl:s: DON'T EVEN THINK ABOUT IT -fake IDs not welcome. Even if you look 35, bring 3 forms, including your student ID, passport and birth certificate. Guest student bartenders on Wednesday nights are a novelty, but unless you're hooking up with one of them, expect to wait a while for your drink. 
It takes a. special person to truly embrace the sweaty, sludge"covered beacon of Notre Dame tradition that is The Backer. An instant perk comes in the form of a free drink ticket (top shelf excluded) in exchange for your cover charge. The Backer Long Island provides the most bang for your buck (both at the time and the morning after). Drink at least half before heading towards the pole that marks the middle of the dance Aoor; otherwise, you, your friend, your new friend, or your new enemy will end up wearing it. The Backer attracts the most diverse crowd to be found in South Bend -undergraduates (or at least RAs), grad students, alumni and townies come together to dance wedding-style to everything ranging from Beyonce to Michael Jackson to "Go Cubs Go." The challenge is to work the crowd to your advantage; chat up the alumni for free drinks without letting them follow you back to the dance Aoor, feel free to "Backer-make-out" with the townies, just don't let them lure you home to their parent's house. 
Helpful Hinl:s:The Backer experience is not complete unless you stay until closing at 3 a.m. DJ Drew will never fail to deliver the three tunes that speak to all demographics in attendance.Stand in a circle and sway with your friends to "Proud to be an American," watch the townies struggle to sing along to the Fight Song, and grab that special someone for "Oh What a Night." Upon arriving safely home, be 
ttsure to wash your feet and calves before the infamous 
~·"Backer sludge" leaves its permanent mark. 

Places to eat and drink on your /our-year trip to.South Bend 
Appel:izers 
Waddicks -Regular stop for every single Arts and Letters major on campus before their 11 
a.m. class. But the coffee is worth missing the first half hour of class, especially since your professor is probably in the massive line somewhere too. And it's fair trade -yay human rights! 
Mendoza -Delicious sandwich specials and cafe cuisine. Just be sure to pack a Wall Street Journal and sport business casual attire. Management reserves the right to refuse service to anyone in sweatpants. 

Lunch Ent:rees 
North DH -Be prepared to reckon with hostile natives who never progressed past the second­grade humor of throwing cups down stairs. You will also have to weave your way around bewildered-looking kids from the south side of town. Note that they use fancy lingo and big words like 0 make-your-own" here: it's important for_ the stud~nts to get mileage out of their $45,000 education. 
South DH -An experience closer to Hogwarts cannot be found anywhere: all this place is missing are owls and Aoating candles. Be sure not to miss the Spicy Sea Nuggets: They're the worst! 

Dinner Ent:rees 
Golden Dragon -No one knows where it is, but we all like what comes out of it -From the food itself to those sexy delivery men, the Golden D has it all. All over your FAC~ (is where the sweet and sour sauce will be ... so ask for extra napkins) 
Between the Buns -After the Golden D, it's time for some Between the Buns! Beer, dogs and an opportunity to prove your IQ with useless trivia -it's the perfect Notre Dame hangout. Just don't have more than two of those Papa Smurfs ... we don't want you to get caught between the wrong buns. 




Ala Cart:e 
Nick's Patio-Anything you want, anytime you want it. It's pretty much the best Friends-with­beneRts relationship you could ever ask for. The BEAST oF patios. 
Grab-n-Go -We recommend the soggy PB&Js. Stay away From the yogurt parFait; there aren't enough points per meal to cover antibiotics. 
Dessert:s 
(otherwise known as fourth meal) 
Reckers -It's the 24-hour home to organic piadinas, all-too-Floury pizza, and CHEESE !=RIES. Just don't sit on the arm rests oF the chairs, and we've heard it's Frowned upon to pass out there as well. 
S'Barro -Alcohol + pizza ~ a spanking good time. That's all you need to know. 
Huddle -When yesterday's "meat" has been simmering in green grease for close to two hours, you know it's good. 


Beverages 
Club 23 -Sure, people have been assaulted while stumbling around drunk in this part oF town. But a bigger crime would be missing out on pitchers oF Frozen Long Islands. Down enough oF those to the tune oF "Monster Mash," and you might get a nighttime visitor urinating on you or propositioned by the Friendly neighborhood crackhead. 
Corby's -Pitcher oF Coors: $4. Billiards lessons From a townie: priceless. Don't Feel like dancin', dancin'? Don't worry -no one else does, either. 
Morrissey -No need for a taxi, no cover, no charge For the brews. PerFect for the beer connoisseur, serving only the best: skunked Keystone From a tub oF ice water. And don't worry, no one else will be there to compete with you for the men or the beer. 
• 
spe 1es............•.••••••••......•....•••••••.•................•••••••••••••••.•.••...••. 

Common Name: AmbiUous Pre-law D-Bag Lal:in name: Branl:ius Reeshius Descript:ion: It's Thursday afternoon, and the only thing between you and your weekend is your tedious Poli Sci lecture course. A minute before class ends, you begin packing your books, and the professor asks if there are any questions. An arm shoots up -it's the Ambitious Pre-law D-Bag, and he's got something he's dying to ask. You're stuck here for at least 15 minutes while your professor tries to make sense of the future attorney's brilliance. AHire: He's wearing a suit, but nobody knows why. Habil:ab The Student Government office, or campaigning outside your dorm room, campaigning in LaFortune, campaigning in the Feve line ... wherever the voters are. Signal:ure Phrase: "You can fmd out more about my plan on my Web site. u 
Common Name: The Zahmbie Lat:in name: Creepius Iglesias Non-Pantsicus Descript:ion: ls something mysteriously grinding against you ata dorm party? Are stranger's hands creeping into your nether regions? Are you suddenly thrust in the air like Simba and slammed against a wall, because your dance partner is just THAT into serenading "I Want It That Way" to you? Well, my lucky girl, you have just snagged a nocturnal Zahmbie. But beware: Danger lurks for those adventurers that follow the Zahmbie back to his lofted lair. AHire: Striped shirt with a Zahm tee underneath. Maybe clean, probably just Febreezed Habil:ab House, Top of North Dining Hall Stairs, Prowling the Dark Nooks at Feve. Signal:ure Phrase: "You, Me, Zahm /-louse, Now?8 
.
. 
Common Name: Food Nel:work Workout: Girls Lal:in name: Rachael Rayasaurus. 
.. . . . . ..... . Descript:ion: Hard to miss, a Rachael Rayasaurus has booked a cardio machine from dawn to duskat Rolf's. In a unique 
.
. form of Catholic sadomasochism, these creatures feel the burn while watching Ace of Cakes marathons, only to
.
.
. satisfy their urges with an extra lap around the track and a brown bowl of spinach . AHire: Spandex shorts, stretchy headband Habil:ab Clogging up all the elliptical machines. Signal:ure Phrase: "Are you watching this?" 
Common Name: ND Floozies Lat:in name: Walkius of Shamius Descript:ion: Y~u can usually find the ND Floozy straggling home on Sunday morning across South Quad, down-. Burdette St., or in the middle of Notre Dame Ave. She probably looks a little haggard, a combination of last night's makeup and the difficulty of walking so early in high heels. If you go to abar with her, she will know every. Single. 
.....•.•.. Guy. There . 
AHire: Saturday night: Lacy/glittery/low-plunging tops, tight jeans, stilettos. Sunday morning: oversize sweatshirt, boxers, look of shame. Habit:ab Carroll, Duncan, Keough, O'Neill, Alumni, Dillon, Fisher, Morrissey, Sorin, St. Ed's, Zahm, Keenan, Stanford, Siegfried, Knott, Club 23, Corby's, Madison Oyster Bar, Fever, Finny's, the Backer. Signal:ure Phrase: "Baby, you don't have to go to St. Mary's for that.u 
Common Name: The Closet: Cat:holic Lal:in name: Virginus Maximus 
. Descript:ion: So you think you found yourself the man of°your dreams-he's good looking, smart, funny-and then . .. comes the first sleepover. Catholic guilt rears its Aaming head with the_ words: "Um, don't do that ... or touch there
. 
.. . .. . .... 
... well, actually ..." But don't worry about that walk of shame -he'll march you straight to Mass . 
. 
Habit:ab Dorm chapel, the Basilica, third Aoor of CoMo. Signal:ure Phrase: •... Umm ... actually I'm waiting till marriage ..: 
Common name: That: Girl Lal:in name: Domerlicius Legacius Descripl:ion: You've seen her. She's a legacy. She is a DOMER. She's that girl doing the gargoyle on the keg. She's that girl shrieking about something completely inconsequential atthe fop of her lungs and waving her Solo cup madly about. She's also probably puking in your house's kitchen right now. AHire: Oversize sweatpants and a T-shirt declaring her the high school track champion of 2003. Alternatively, jeans
......•••.. and a Notre Dame sweatshirt, all day, every day. · Habil:ab Any off-campus house, ro'aming the halls of dorms looking for a party, standing in front of you in every line (Backer, DPAC, Communion at the Basilica, doesn't matte~ screaming about how wasted she is right now·or 
was last night. · Signal:ure phrase: 0SPRING BREAK WOOOOO/8 "LOVE Tl-IEE NOTRE DAME!!' 
Ot:hers t:o wat:ch out: for: The Bro, The PLS Kid, The Al:hlel:e 
SARCASTIC 




OBSOLETER 
Attempting to serve the ND and Saint Mary's community with misspelled words we don't understandand blah blah blah sinceforever 
VOL. UMIZfNG SHAM~()O . ,_ _ CATU_RDAY, JUNELX.f, 2009 . ,,_ __ IWORK4TH~OBSOLETER.FML.COM_ 
Clarissa Friend Gets Ring By Spring 
By YOUR MOM LOVES COLLEGE 55th Year Senior 
In an astonishing turn ofevents, Notre Dame's very own goodtime From there, the relationship was a whirlwind of romance. gal, Clarissa Friend, announced today that she is engaged to: Hook­"He walked me around the lakes, we prayed at the Grotto together up #5. ... it's just been so fantastic," gushed Friend. 
"I don't know how, it just happened," said a beaming Friend as The two plan to get married in June in the Basilica of the Sacred Hook-~p #5 hovered nearby. "One day, he just approached me in Heart. the dining hall and it's been great ever since!" Hook-up #5 raised his eyebrows as Friend walked away to show 
"I just walked up to her and was like, '.Are you that mysterious off her sparkling new engagement ring. "I mean, I realized I had Clarissa girl in my cell phone?"' said Hook-up #5, bewilderedly kissed her under the Lyons Arch, so I guess I gotta marry her. And scratching his head. "Then I said, 'Yeah, we should grab lunch."' hey -she isn't lying that kissing's her hobby." 


V1EW0POINT 
page 0 
Britney Spears reacts to Operation Rescue's threats to "make this place a circus" in the days leading up to Ptez. Obama's speech at the 2009 Commencement. 
Did someone say a CIRCUS?? Ifyou seek Amy, I'm in. wrap it up, b*tches! A Hefty bag will do. That's how I got my little 
I'm here, y'all! Brought the kiddies! Heard about y'all's plan to men -Jayden and that other fella over there. That one there's a have a circus, so I'm coming with my tour. I mean, there are two spittin' image ofK-Fed. With the broken head. I mean, I haven't been types of people in this world: Catholics and everyone else, right? to Catholic school since "Baby One More Time," but any place that . And this debate is just drivin' me crazy, so I had to break the ice and lets me wear an outfit like that has to have their heads on straight. say to you that I'm stronger than yesterday, and it's time for me to And I love turnin' over tables! And humpin' my cousins. speak my mind. 
-I understand the fuss -I love my little tykes, but I love my booze TTYL, too! Unless you're ready to be a momma like me (and Jamie Lynn) It's Britney, b*tch! 
Question of the Day: What do you do when your pee won't stop burning? 





Kitten McNasty Virginus Maximus Health Services Kimberly Gentle Blond Giant Howard, sophomore Stanford, junior IUSB, 5th year O1Shagmee . Off campus, senior 'Just dance." -o to oniesszon. ''Don't worry, Le Mans, freshman "Gotta have'something to keep
"G C ,.r, • " it's just mono." "That's not normal?" me warm in the winter." 

We can't tell you what we've learned from school, but 

Scholastic sends 11 
We could tell you a story or two, um, · j Yeah, of course we learned some rules ·
staff members into the 
Like, don't pass out with your shoes on (get the Sharpiiw! 

real world. What will 
Do we really have to graduate?become of them now? 
Or can we just stay here for the rest of c;,ur lives? 
' ....-............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 
JESSICA FARMWALD, editor in chief, will leave the university in May with an anthropology major, a journalism minor and four year's worth of good times with great friends. She doesn't know where she's going, but she knows where she's been -22 years in the South Bend area is enough for now. A booming metropolis on the East or West Coast would be ideal, but really, anywhere they don't have lake effect will do. Jessica hopes her good karma will pull through once again and land her a sweet job on the sinking ship that is print journalism. If so, she'll buy you a drink at the Backer next fall when she's that skeezy alum. 

. 

MADDY ZOLLO, associate editor, has spent her past three years on Scholastic trying to get people to stop talking during production so she and Libby can watch Gossip Girl as well as getting used to the fact that no one can ever keep her and Molly's names straight. After spending the summer pretending that she is still in college and ignoring the fact that she's now an "adult," she is moving to New York City to get an editorial job in magazine publishing. Although she's ready to escape South Bend and go to a bar other than Finny's, she's going to miss knowing that no matter what night she goes out on, she's guaranteed to see a member of Scholastic and bond over a certain someone named Iggy. 

MOLLY SLAVIN. managing editor, has spent four years at Notre Dame putting the past in the second and correcting people's grammar. Having all too suddenly realized .that there is actually very little call for essays on post-colonialism and narrative form. she has chosen to face the real world by ignoring its existence. With any sort of luck, she'll end up on some tropical island 
eating guacamole next year. Otherwise she'll just turn into that creepy townie at the Backer. 
22 I SCHOLASTIC I 2 APRIL 2009 
I. ~ I i~ : I,_· i_,,.,...----. ---rJ l_,
r-,.
/ . ~ I ! I l ( ' 
.,.,.---<, \ i i I i LI i~" / \}. ', I _!I 1· II i : I I \_ ,,. j \ '· i. . . ! 1
I.. --~ . ! \ -'-..•• A • J I ; -....I'--, ___/ "'----~.,)' L__, 
~ r,:J -n ~.. r {! ,,.....
( ,•·,,\' .. 7 .~\' . \ I(;--<:\
,~1u u\'/v <:::!) o 
0 01 

CHRISTINA GOLUBSKI, executive editor, is a Program of Liberal Studies major and nothing else (gasp!). She c<;ime to college with no idea of what she wanted to do with her life, is leaving the same exact way and is proud of that fact. She loves to argue. She saves 
cl 
lives; She is not from Gary, but grew up in the south suburbs of Chicago. Contrary to popular belief, she does not have a 
I 
volume problem, although she never has a voice and yells a lot. Although a Notre Dame student. Christie 
d 
rocks the Saint Mary's College Club Volleyball Team as an outside hitter. 
2
She also has bruised a few girls' ribs playing flag football as safety for Breen-Phillips and; junior year, won her teams' Most Likely to Be Ejected from a Game Award. Some possible future plans include being a ski bum, traveling the world or creating the job, "professional student." 
I 

FRANCES THUNDER. copy chief, is , super duper excited about the current economic climate · seeing as it's just one more excuse to. keep living like a college student. With no current plans for the future, she looks forward to seeking out new opportunities like learning to sing with all the voices of the mountain and paint with all the colors of the wind. She most assuredly will reach great heights. however, with her past internship at Starbucks and her familiarity with American 
Sign Language. So hollatcha girl. 
,-j 
'7 



MAYENE de LEON, design editor, is a nerd to the max and emotionally unavailable forever and ever. She does not have red bangs anymore,
-·-] but she will hgve that radiating red
/'-')\ 

Asian glow when she finally turns
.../) 

21 on :Good Friday (srsly, wtf) and orders at least 5 long island ice teas at midnight (He didn't die until about 3 p.m., it won't be sacrilege). Having climbed the stairs of Main Building t\yice already, she hopes nothing crazy will happen to her before May 17th that will prevent her from graduating. (That myth is a load of crap, right?) She will return to California as an unemployed Graphic Design and Music Theory major with a minor in Chinese after four HELLA long years of absence from the Bay and will probably end up as a video game tester at Konami eating ramen for a year or two. 
':.::-=:-:=-J Fa sho. Also, anyone want to buy her a Nintendo DSi for her birthday? --~---'\Her number is ('i''f'sl,,,H-. f-. B,A,SEND). Thanks.:) 
,,,--,. r·\· \ 
( J \())
'-...../ I 
.___/ ~· 

MARY KAMINSKI, staff writer. will be awarded a diploma from the University of Notre Dame on May 17!! And she's goin' places!! She plans to move back to Canton, Ohio, to live in her sister Beth's guest bearoom. FO FREE. She will put her American Studies degree and journalism minor to good use by writing about what her life would have been like had she found a real career. When she finally 
does m·ake her hundreds, she plans to create the Presidential Speakers Fund at Notre Dame so that generations to come can experience controversial commencement speakers like Barack Obama. She would like to thank the little people at Notre Dame for helping her make it through her four years of Disturbia: Howard third floor, the men of Dillon hall, the Doublewide, Karl Malone, ,7 NEST, and the patrons and employees of the Backer. 
. KELLY WILKINSON, a 5 1 /2th year senior from Arlington, Texas, will finally, to the amazement of all, be graduating with a degree in theology (and English, mostly). During her many intriguing years at ND, she did pretty much everything at Scholastic, except the paying jobs. The highlights include testing the design editors' patience while being the newbie, spending seven 
the editors by proposing unpublishable ideas during staff meetings, and finally making it into the humor section, not via her own column, but by being the unnamed subject of someone else's joke. Honestly though, she loved every minute of it (mostly). Magazines and publishing are her true loves, and after graduation she will dive into the exciting yet kind of failing world of journalism. (The actual dive will be delayed due to the economy and personal finances ... so 

back home it is.) 

NATALIE KRATZ, humor editor, had every intention of graduating in May, returning to suburban Philadelphia, and spending the rest of her days hanging out at her hometown bar, mingling with NASCAR-watching men who have fewer teeth than the average toddler. while basking in her much deserved ND alumni after-glow. After laying out her well thought-out plans to her parents, they informed her that they did not pay nearly $200,000 on her education to have her come home to mooch off of them some more. Or, as her father put it, "throw hot-tub parties, eat all my hint of lime Tostitos and drink all of my beer." Putting her math major to what they considered "good use," after months of job hunting (thanks, economy!), she accepted a position with Liberty Mutual in November. In June, she will pack up the family Tempo and move to Dover, N.H. to begin her exciting new life in the world of property and casualty insurance. 

DARIC SNYDER, 
an anthropology major from Leesburg, -Ind., will graduate in the winter. He studied anthropology because he thought it'd make him sound more interesting at the sort of parties he rarely gets invited to. Doric plans to head back to New York City, where he just spent a year writing jokes and pretending to know things abou_t the internet. Coping with his future 
unemployment, Dorie's been memorizing the hobo code and practicing bindle tying. He'd like to thank Scholastic for the years of great fun and irreparable trauma. 

WHO IS THE GIPPER? 
Due to the scandalous and highly-­classified nature of Gipp's work, Gipp's name will remain forever absent from the hallowed print of Scholastic. What can be told is this: Gipp is a woman. Gipp is possibly an ESFJ, though that categorization is always up for debate. Typically, one can find Gipp lamenting over the works of dead white men in the basement of the library, though 
she also enjoys researching dangerous cultural practices among African women. Next year, Gipp hopes to make a strong bid for her hometown's Popcorn Queen as she lives in her mother's basement, cleaning the family litter box for room and board. Eventually, Gipp would like to work in women's development, live out The Motorcycle Diaries, steal Annie Dillard's job and survive the technological singularity. Gipp is engaged to Bill Brosky. In closing, Gipp would like to thank the following: Scholastic staff, for your patience and assistance! Notre Dame, for your ridiculousness! Gipp's friends, for allowing Gipp, occasionally and secretly, to exploit your shame! And of course, to 

the English language, for being so wrought with adjectives. 
l
/~;=~~:> //:~~:~~\ f ~l. : . . /'~;~~-\. 1/:=--=::~·7 
( . ( i .· ( ') . \ i i · t f:J'@~~Q_Q2j pc~OLAS1)IC jI \ ,,_______.,/~":----\ \'~~-"~~ ·/ I i __ _l _\ \ .., .,,,,,.,~'----\ ·"-....__..,./ 1 










CONGRATULATIONS 
The StudentActivttles· Office salute_s.tts 2008~2009 print media award winners 
. , . ·' . -: . -.• . .. , ' .. 

Scholastic Magazine Theluggler. 
Associated Collegiate Press, National Indiana Collegiate Press Asso-datio:ri, Pacemaker Award. Literary Magazine oftheYear. · ·· · · 
Indiana Collegiate Press Association, Editor:Jackie Burke 

runner-up, News magazine ofthe Year. · JohnMinser-Best Rhymed Poem, First Place. 
Amelia Hirschauer-Best Overall Design, '.First and Second
Editor: Jessica Farmwald 
Place; Best Cover Design, Second Place; Best Photo Marques Camp -Best Sports Story, First Place; Best Illustration, Third Place. · -Sports Column, First Place; Best Opinion Column, 
Adam FungandAmelia Hirschauer-Best Cover Design, 
. Third Place. .. 
First Place. Mike Tresnowski -'-Best Essay, First Place; Best News 
Adam Fung-Best Photo Illustration, First Place. Story, Second Place. Megan McGinley-Best Free Verse Poem, First Place; . JenWulf and Malisha Samaresekera -Best · ­
Joel Ottman.:. Best Hand-Drawn Illustration, First Pl~ce. 
·. Humor/Entertainment Column, First Pla~e. · . Jackie Burke-Best_ Short Poem, Second Place. ~ 
J~n Wulf~ Best Opinion Column,.First place. 
. ' 
Graham Boechler-Best Rhymed Poem, Second Place., . 
Jessica Farmwald-Best Feature Story; Second Place; Becki Dorner-Best Short Story; Second Place. 
Best Editorial, Second Place. 
Malisha-Sa~arasekera.,. Best Sports Cblurrm, Se_cond . . . RA Melly-Best Free Verse Poem, Third Place. Place. , . : James-Costa-Best s·hort Poem, Third Place'. . 
. . ' ' . . -~-~ . 
· • KristtnKeve-Best Sports Photo, Second-Place and ·. Staff-'-Best Single Issue, Third Place:· Third Place. 
:~ . .
~ 
. . . ' -. ' 
·· Helen_Hall ~ BestIllustration, Second Place. 
.·. The Dome-• · ·_ .· ·· ·· · . ~~d 
Mike Laskey-BestEssay, Second Place; 


·.: Jndiana <;:ollegiab~"Press AssociationC 
J~mliferVanTriest~ ~ Best News Photo,• Sec:ond Place. 

runner-up, Division I Yearbook ofth 
_ Courtney Sullivan, Phil Langthome,Adrian . 
-· . , ~ 
. -Lopez~Medina and Kathleen McDonald -Best Photo Edi~or: Kathleen Martinez ·._ · _· · 
, ---, r 
Essay, Second Place. · .. ' ­
Kathleen Martinez,JenifferVelez and Laura Se~ 
·. · .MayeneDeLeo11~Best Informational Graphic, Sec6,nd ~eneral_Ex~ellence/BestTherne, First Place. ;·-f, I 
-~~-. .. . 

··_ Teresa Hanco~a1:1dJ\,1:artySchubert-BestAlbu ~ 
Sectiort, First Place; -· . · . · · _·· · · · 
_ -. . 
.
·~"-¥en ~e~gstrand-B.~st .Package Design; Third Place · · Danielle Straccia and casey carney ~ 
:: . , >~dy~ray-Best Sports.•Story, T_hird Place. -: 
· FirstPlaCe; -· . · · . · . Adrian'lopez~Medhia·~: Best .Cover Design, Third · 
. 'Lindsay Gilmour andLe~li Place.. -_._· . ­
·· ~econd Pia.ca < ·, . . JuanMuldo~n~ BesfPtioto Es~ay, J"hird Place._: .. , AnyaHershberger-· 
. : ..' ,, ,. ,, .. ~ .-. 
-• Place. . ·. __ ··. , •.• 
JohnThornton -Best Feature Photo; Third Pla6e .. . . ~ ,·. ' -;, /?p i". ,, . _'. -. , .~y_Walker ~Bes__ ~ nfLife: ,
Staff-Best Editorial, Third ~lace; Best Sing!~ ;~sue;. •. * ... 'i1.t"'l ,r.·; 
. ~ · , I I ,.A.•.,,,,' j4 'ii! 
Third Place. · Bryan~ern'"" prts,.Sf)re' 
, ·. . . . . .: · ·; ~--l•~-,·/iA Susanne DeSa. . !3ShAead~ 
'. ·/•,.~'•~ ..... ~..,,_-., courtneyBa}l 1 •. · .~f,O~ari}~atio_ 
David Prina _#,a~st/eaturE(Ph~t. Photo Third lace:-··· · · 
t • "I • I 




Bracket Madness 
The Quest for the Perfect Bracket 
Matt Formica 
Every year, millions of sports fans attempt to predict the outcomes 
of the 63 games that comprise the NCAA Men's Basketball 'Tournament, better known as March Madness. Strategies vary from tirelessly researching each of the 64 teams to picking the schools with the best names, but the goal remains the same: fill out a perfect 
bracket. 
The challenge of predicting which Cinderella team will make a 
surprise run to the Final Four or which highly-ranked team will 
underperform and be toppled early is daunting. The mathematics 
paints a bleak picture: The probability ofcompleting a perfect bracket 
is one in nine million trillion, assuming that every game is a toss-up. 
Despite such odds, the craze that is filling out March Madness 
brackets continues to grow. This year, over 5 million hopeful fans 
submitted brackets to ESPN.com. After the first round's conclusion, 
zero of these brackets remained unscathed. 
Even President Barack Obama is in on the action. Throughout 
the tournament, ESPN is broadcasting periodic updates on Obama's 
bracket, which was far from stellar early on but has since recovered. 
Additionally, ESPN featured a comparison of NBA star Dwayne 
Wade's and actor Samuel L. Jackson's b_rackets. Filling out a bracket 
is no longer reserved for avid sports fans; it is quickly becoming part 
of America's popular culture. 
Bracket madness is rampant among Notre Dame students as well. 
It is common for groups ofstudents to submit their brackets to a pool, 
with a small entrance fee required. This competition makes watching 
the games more exciting, as the student whose with the most accurate 
bracket is typically awarded a fairly large cash prize. 
Although some fans fill out brackets solely for fun, most cite the 
opportunity to win much-needed cash as a motivating factor. "Prize 
money definitely helps to attract people," freshman George Kolettis, 
who organized a bracket pool for a group of his friends, says. "Not 
as many people would enter if only pride was on the line." College 
basketball fans everywhere retain hope that they will win ESPN.com's 
$10,000 grand prize, awarded to the entrant with the best bracket. 
Additionally, the Web site Sportsbook.com has offered $12 million to 
anyone who achieves that elusive and seemingly unobtainable perfect 
bracket. 
Not all Notre Dame students are focused on winning money for 
themselves. Senior Jay Branham spearheaded efforts to raise money 
for charity by organizing a bracket pool. His idea was to offer a 
small monetary prize to the winner and donate the rest to the Boys 
and Girls Club. "Unfortunately, we weren't able to get everything 
organized this year, but it is something that I'd like to pursue in the 
future. I think donating the money is more constructive than just 
gambling it away," he says. 
People are motivated by a variety of factors to fill out March 
Madness brackets, and they utilize an abundance of strategies to do 
so. Yet one thing remains certain: This craze is here to stay. 0 



Mimi DiSipio 
,,-his is going to hurt." , That was my final thought before I, along with countless 
1 
other Notre Dame students, faculty and community members, embarked on the fifth annual Holy HalfMarathon. Any outsider who happened upon this scene would surely question the sanity ofthe masses gathered on South Quad at 10:00 on a raw Sunday morning. Aside from the obvious inquiries (Why did a number ofrunners think itwise to brave the elements wearing nothing more than Paulie-Bleeker style running shorts? Who would win the bet as to which unprepared Zahm sophomore would drop from exhaustion first? Would the two runners dressed as a gorilla and a banana finish the race? Did the banana even have the capacity for ambulatory movement?) one simple question permeated the scene: Why? Forget the $20 entrance fee. Ignore the fact that the weather gods blessed campus with not one but two forms ofprecipitation. Why would anyone voluntarily put his or her body to the test for 13.1 miles? 
Some people tell me they simply love to run. They take advantage of any chance to test their endurance. Others say they just want to see if they can do it. They have no expectations ofsetting records, no delusions of grandeur. One man says his only goal is to finish before the costumed runner. "In any race, it should always be your goal to cross the finish line before the guy in the gorilla suit." For the majority of runners, the race is personal. They sacrifice their bodies (as well as the feeling in their extremities) for a cause in which they believe. The proceeds from the Holy Halfgo to the Broadmoor Improvement Association, a neighborhood coalition working to rebuild a corner of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. 
Before Hurricane Katrina, the 365-acre triangular district.. of Broadmoor closely mirrored the city as a whole. The neighborhood was racially, ethnically and economically diverse -a microcosm of New Orleans. But for all its diversity and spirit, Broadmoor was also at the bottom of New Orleans' geographic bowl. Until the early 19th century, the neighborhood bounded by South Claiborne, Toledano and Nashville Avenues was nothing more than a 12-acre lake surrounded by swampland. The urban planning report that was widely accepted as the blueprint for the future of post-Katrina New . Orleans envisioned much of Broadmoor returning to its former state as parkland or drainage canals. What the commission termed future green space, Broadmoor residents saw as the destruction ofthe vibrant community they had built. They refused to watch as the lives they had created were leveled to rubble. 
28 I SCHOLASTIC I 2 APRIL 2009 
During tl1e spring and summer of 2006, Broadmoor residents held over 150 planning meetings in order to develop and draft a comprehensive 319-page plan on how to rebuild their neighborhood. The Broadmoor Improvement Association (BIA) -the charity that the race benefits -has been the principal force driving this effort. Established in 1930 as one of New Orleans' first neighborhood associations, the BIA has acted as a civic advocacy group on behalf of residents and business owners for almost 80 years. After Katrina, the BIA became the primary means of organizing and leading residents in a coordinated and effective rebuilding effort. Last summer, I had the opportunity to see the BIA in action when I spent 10 days volunteering with Catholic Charities in New Orleans. 
On Sunday, as I plodded through the wind and snow on a two-h<;mr 
_tour of campus, I could not help but remember my walk around the Broadmoor neighbo~hood fast summer with BIA President LaToya Cantrell. At every intersection; we met individuals and families committed to restoring their community to its pre-hurricane state. Some blocks were fully renovated,.the sounds offamilies spilling out of open windows and children riding bikes in the street. Turn the corner, though, and it was a ghost town. An entire street might be deserted. A single house inhabited while the rest fell decrepit, abandoned by their owners. But one thing. was identical in every corner of Broadmoor: The members of this community were wholeheartedly committed to their cause. Broadmoor is their home in New Orleans, a city in which one's neighborhood is as much a part of his personal history as his famiiy lineage. 
I felt that samelevel ofdedication as I rounded St. Mary's lake for the second time on Sunday. Looking across the water and seeing runners spread out all along the shore, I was. struck with a sense of shared community and commitment. Each of us was struggling to finish his personal race, but we did so in the presence ofone another. When one runner stopped, three more encouraged him to push through. Four women. crossed the finish line, arms linked, pulling each other along arid refusing to leave anyone behind. Yes, Sunday's half marathon was a race. There was a definite winner. But, it was also a testament to the response of the Notre Dame community in the face of adversity. Today, four years after Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf C_c;,ast, we are tempted to forget about those still struggling to rebuild their lives, their homes. The turnout for Sunday's race is evidence of our refusal 
w~~ 

Josh Flynt 

While many Notre Dame students enjoyed spring break in Cancun or Florida, four Irish track & field athletes traveled to College Station, Texas to compete in the 2009 NCAA Indoor Championships. Patrick Smyth, Joanna Schultz and Mary Saxer earned All-America Honors. Smyth finished 8th in the 3000-meter run, with a time ofS:01.56. With this performance, the senior from Salt Lake City, Utah earned his sixth All-America honor. He is now tied for third in Irish history in all­America' honors, trailing only Ryan Shay.(10-time honoree) and Luke Watson (8-time honoree).JuniorJoanna Schultz, who competed in the 400-meter dash, also finished 8th. Schultz crossed the finish line in 54.06, earning the first All-America honor of her collegiate career. In the women's pole vault, senior Mary Saxer cleared a height of4.05 meters (13' 3") to finish 9th, also earning her first All-America recognition. Junior Matt Schipper also competed, finishing 14th in men's pole vault. 

Just over halfway through the season, the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team holds a perfect 7-0 record. Senior attacker Ryan Hoffand junior midfielder Grant Krebs have netted 16 and 15 goals, respectively, to lead the team, while senior midfielder Peter Christman leads the team with 10 assists. OnMarch 8, theNo. ?Irish knocked offNo. 3 North Carolina 9-7 at the Loftus Sports Center, one of their most memorable matches so far this season. Since then, the Irish have climbed in the rankings, currently holding the No. 3 spot. TheIrish take on Air Force this Saturday, April 4, at 1:00 p.m. at Alumni Field. In21 meetings with the Falcons, Notre Dame has dominated with a 19:-2 record. Following Saturday's game, the Irish will play a pair ofroad games at Denver and Quinnipiac before returninghome on April 19 to battle St.John's in their final home contest ofthe season. 
Last week, Notre Dame bid farewell to basketball in the origina[J oyce Center. Led by junior Luke Harangodywith 30 points, 

the Irish defeated Kentucky 77-67 to advance to the NIT semifinals. Historically, the Irish have struggled against Kentucky. With the victory, Notre Dame improved to 18-41 in59meetings with the\Vildcats. Itwas the final basketball game in theJACC, which will be renovated following the commencementceremoniesinMay. Themostnotablevictorycamein 1974, when theIrish snapped UCLA's unprecedented 88-game winning streak. Built in 1968, theJACC was known as the Athletic and Convocation Center until 1987, when it was renamed after Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C .. The renovated arena, which will be completed by January 2010, will feature chair-back seating throughout and will be known as the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. 






Listening In ... 


an Girl I: "Even ifyou're vegetarian, at least you can eat pepperoni." an Girl 2: "No you can't. Pepperoni is definitely meat." Freshman Girl 1: "No it's not! It's made out of the same stuff bologna is." 
Student (at a party, arm draped around a male student): "I like you now. I promise lock you in the garage anymore." 

tudent I: "I heard the weather's supposed to be getting warmer soon." tudent 2: "Yeah, people should take _note of that. Specifically girls." 
tudent: (trying to insert a cord into a USB port) ''Wait, that's the wrong hole. That's e said." 
Female Student: "You can't do that to yourself. That's not how it works." Male Student: "That's what she said." 

Back In the Day ... 
Throwing a party today is easy enough at ND. First, come up with a theme. It isn't too important what it is; Country Night or S0's Night should suffice. Once you've got your theme for the night, head out for a few cases ofNatty. As long as you're off-campus, look to see ifyou can find some sort of steam machine to make the room extra hot and sweaty throughout the night. That's what dorm parties are all about! Next, make a playlist. Lady Gaga is obviously a must; Throw in some Backstreet Boys for laughs and Journey to sing along to, and you've got yourself a ready-made party. 
When it comes time to pick the music to play for the night, everyone gets a little self-conscious .. If it were 1986, the insecure student could simply call The Only DJs That Mat~er, a group of three seniors that offered its services to campus formals, SYRs and other class gatherings. The DJs came complete with two turntables, plenty of records, a sound mixer and a cassette deck. With these­guys around, you would never need to worry about deciding between your Run DMC and Poison cassette tapes again. 
-Michael Doyle 

30 I SCHOLASTIC I 2 APRIL 2009 

HUMOR 

It began as many days do. The sun rose over the gently stirring campus, spreading her abundant light from the forests of North Quad to the open plains of South. Children roused and rolled over·in their dorm beds, 
anxious to embrace just a few more minutes of delicious slumber, and the big white van rolled around campus delivering Observers, as it always )does. But hark! _This day was different! Hark! This was Gipp's favorite day of the year, and, despite its seemingly humble beginnings, debauchery was brewing in the nooks and crannies of Notre Dame. This day was green. This day was drunk. '.This day was: ST. PATRICK'S DAY. 
Someofthe earliest revelers started with the sun, and perhaps even a little before. In one fateful Route 23 house, a group of Ireland's . finest supporters congregated with emerald­toned beverage, singing drinking songs and kegstanding before the clock even struck 8 in the morn. On the porch and on the roof, the green-clad group raised their solo cups (the only red-hued part of their day) to the commuting workers of South Bend, earning manyafist-pumpandhonkinsµpport. Raising their glasses to a passing bus of elementary students was a questionable endeavor, but even the young ones enthusiastically cheered on their drinking. While Gipp acknowledges that a St. Paddy's Day· extravaganza hardly needs a reason, this party had a purpose: a PARADE! So when the clock struck 9, 
the revelers grabbed their instruments ­
bagpipes, trumpets, keyboards and all -and 
headed straight down Notre Dame Avenue 
with fireworks exploding behind them. They 
biked. They skipped. They sprinted. They 
jigged. Taking up an entire lane of traffic, 
the parade marked by its leading banner with 
the informative word PARADE-made its 
way toward Notre Dame's hallowed gates, passing many a professor and T.A. along the way. After an inspirational speech on the lawns of the university, the parade continued its march into the halls of DeBartolo, disrupting important research with chants of "PARADE! PARADE! PARADE!" and an attack of bouncy balls. Outside of the building, our valiant paraders took a jigging respite before continuing on to LaF ortune for some LaFun. Despite the fact that an NDSP officer was now pursuing the parade at a nice 4 mph clip, the revelers did not look back. Instead, they paraded into LaFortune amid cheers from Huddle and Burger King staff. One NDSP officer, abandoning his vehicle, soon . infiltrated the parade on foot. Only after the Parade had conquered the entire city ofSouth Bend, DeBartolo and the LaFortune Student Center were the encroaching police forces able to halt this Irish merriment. They may have confiscated use of the banner, but the spirit of the Parade had already captured campus. Gipp salutes those gallant lads and lasses who led the charge that day! May the Parade forever be a testament to the Catholic character of Notre Dame! 
As the day continued, so did the debauchery, which leads Gipp to his next tale: The Mysterious Case of Mr. Skywalker the Ninja. One group of students, after a morning and afternoon of hearty celebration, soon found themselves indulging iri pizza at a local establishment. Their holiday enthusiasm was noted -but humored -by the wait staff ... until the arrival of Mr. Skywalker the Ninja. Near the end of the meal, our group's waitress announced, "Your friend is here." Confused, the group insisted its. party was complete: Who could she possibly mean? Checking outside, the group found a festively-clothed man sleeping on the hood of a car in the parking lot; due to their belligerence, the waitress assumed this drunken, sleepy man must be a friend. And our Samaritans, despite not knowing him, decided they would attempt to care for this lost soul -whom Gipp will call Mr. Skywalker the Ninja. In the restaurant, Mr. Skywalker the Ninja proceeded to avoid using any words. 
Instead, he nodded affirmatively to three out of seven questions, most of which did not ask for yes-or-no responses (for example: "Who are your roommates?" *vigorous nodding *). After rejecting pepperoni pizza, Mr. Skywalker nodded at the prospect of plain cheese pizza. Given plain cheese pizza, he angrily rejected it. Mr. Skywalker could not be pleased; moreover, he could not be understood. And when one member of the intervention group looked down to get something out of her purse, by the time she looked up, Mr. Skywalker had disappeared, in her words, "LIKE A NINJA." 
The group thought Mr. Skywalker was gone forever, but nay, nay, nay! On their walk back from the pizza joint, fate allowed yet another encounter: This time, he was passed out on a bench outside the hospital. In an attempt to reach one of Skywalker's friends, the group searched through his phone, eventually deciding th\lt the person listed as "Trashcan" must be a trusty acquaintance, because why would you call someone "Trashcan" in your phone ifyou didn't have a close, loving relationship with him? Luckily, Trashcan answered the call and promised to come rescue Skywalker. Soon after, a group of people partying in a pick-up truck spotted Skywalker and enthusiastically waved him down; Hearing about the escapade via the group's translation (Skywalker couldn't talk, quite obviously), they simply laughed, claiming that ol' Skywalker stumbles away for daytime drunken naps in South Bend all the time. Finally feeling that their new friend was in good hands, our group kissed Skywalker good-bye and departed, consciences clear. 
And what happened after the sun had set on St. Patrick's Day, in the dusk and in the night? Those secrets will be forever held from the sanctity of this column, held only in the memories and Facebook photos of the Irish. After all, it's not always about the pot ofgold. Like the pirates say, the true treasure is not what they sought, but the beautiful memories they created along the way. In their St. Paddy's Day journeys, our paraders and Mr. Skywalker might certainly testify to that same gem. That is, ifthey can remember any of it ... 
Kiss Me, I'm Irish! 
TheGipper 


ifP iHe gfPP 
o o o o o at gipper@nd.edu 
2 APRIL 2009 I SCHOLASTIC I 31 

LASTWORD 


Notre Dame, athoHcism 
the bama Threat 
Welcome to Notre Dame, where the battle between good and evil 
will be waged May 17 in theJACC, 
in which the seats have been sold out and 
attendance is standing-room only. 
The controversy is simple: Notre Dame is 
apparently the last bastion of the American 
Catholic identity, the protector of life, front­
line soldier in the cosmic battle between 
good and evil. Barack Obama, the President 
of the United States and the man whom the 
University has invited to speak at the 2009 
Commencement Ceremony and upon whom 
will confer an honorary degree, is pro-choice 
and has recently passed a federal bill funding 
embryonic stem cell research. 
Welcome to Notre Dame, where the 
narrative of the Superhero President is 
torn down, limb by mythical limb, until he 
becomes nothing more than a controversy, 
nothing more than helpless and lifeless 
Viewpoint fodder, where support of a pro­
choice platform equals suppdrt for more 
abortions equals a cold-blooded, genocidal 
tyrant. 
Some students and alumni are calling Notre 
Dame's honoring of Obama a "disgrace" and 
an "outrage," due to his pro-choice policies. 
Obama, who would otherwise be met with 
nearly unanimous praise, possesses a tragic 
flaw that pro-life advocates find unacceptable 
and disqualifying of any praise from a 
Catholic institution. 
Never mind that every year Notre 
Dame confers real honors in the way of 
scholarships, diplomas and academic honors 
to students with the same philosophical 
views on abortion and stem-cell research as 
Mr. Obama. Never mind that while Obama's 
beliefs are controversial in virtue of their 
political nature, he will be speaking to the 
class of2009 as a fellow human, as a man who 
has traveled and succeeded on the road of 
life that graduates will be anxiously staring 
down in the next couple of months. He will 
32 I SCHOLASTIC I 2 APRIL 2009 
be honored as a symbol for the revolution of American racial politics, as a man who may very well define the next era in American racial history. Politically, he might not be any . more noteworthy than any other president; 
symbolically, however, he is so much more. 
Obama has been roundly criticized as a candidate and as President for his tendency to be vague and evasive on controversial issues. Now that he has taken a public stand and placed his foot in one corner on a particular issue, why is he being criticized? 
Thus is the tragedy of the Presidency, and of politics in general: They create enemies out of heroes, war out of peace. 
Despite his politics, Obama's character is generally well-respected and admired by most across the various political, religious and racial spectrums. Had he not been elected to the office of the President, Obama's legacy would have been much less the subject of controversy and more the subject of universal admiration, the story of a bi-racial man raised in a single-parent home exposed to array of diverse cultures; the story of a man who grew up to graduate from Columbia University and become the Editor of the Harvard Law Review; the story of a man who chose community organizing over a six-figure law firm salary; the story of a man who decided to wage a battle for the presidency that most initially believed was far-fetched; the story of a man who metaphorically overcame hundreds of years of racial discrimination and captivated the hearts of a politically weary nation. 
Nobody would have been concerned with his pro-choice beliefs, no more so than anybody would be concerned with: mine. 
There is another, smaller-scale battle brewing here: that of alumni and other Catholics who yearn for the glory days, decrying the loss of Notre Dame's Catholic identityvs. those students and administrators seekingtoforgeamorephilosophicallydiverse University through the encouragement of academic freedom and diversity. 
Barack Obama, in some sense, is the poster child for 21st century culture: worldly, cultured, intelligent, intellectually curious, charismatic and, most dangerously of all, progressive. This is more than a political or religious war. This is a generational war, a battle of past vs. present. 
Being Catholic or ofany religious tradition is more than believing particular things; it is about engaging with others, intellectually struggling with one's beliefs and developing stronger beliefs in the context of intellectual dialogue. It is about learning to respect and honor others in spite of what they believe, not shunning them because of it. Obama is no genocidal radical; his beliefs are, above all else, intellectually driven. Catholics need Obama, and Obama needs Catholics, more than either party would like to admit. 
Perhaps critics of Obama's Notre Dame commencement address are performing an important function by challenging his politics and demythologizing the notion of his universal praiseworthiness. By the same token, however, they are perpetrating the myth of Notre Dame as the purest of Catholic iconography, the lily-white and compassionate crusaders for the good against the pitch-black tyranny of baby-killing evil, loyal messengers carrying truth, justice and moral righteousness. One myth need not take the place of another. 
Ironically, however, this cnt1c1sm illustrates a striking insecurity that perhaps Notre Dame's innocent and impressionable graduates of 2009 will not be able to survive a speech by an otherwise praiseworthy man of high integrity, a role model for an entire generation, and the leader of the free world who happens to hold pro-choice beliefs. 
Ifthis is the case, then what is.the real value of a Notre Dame education? 
The views of this author are not necessarily the views ofScholastic Nlagazine. 




By students. For students. On your TV and on the web. 
Channel 53 I ndtv.net 
THE 0BSERVERER 



IEWPOINT
;r-jWednesday, April 1, 2009 page15 
The Truth About Friday Nights 
Oflate, Our Lady's University has fallen seige This trivia is causing kids to squander their I know what you are thinking. "This could _. to a scourge ofpandemic proportions. I'm brainpower outside of the classroom. In times of never happen toyou." "You're got everything , : . ·_talking about an evil far worse than pollution, far political and economic unrest such as ours, under control." Well, I'm here to tell you that it ~-=/ :wotse than politics, far worse than worse itself brainpower is one resource which we as a society can and it may. It has been happening to kids . [~ •·'.· ;:Morever,this condition is not one which exists cannot afford to waste, especially on pursuits as just like you all over campus and at a rate which · abr9ad, but one which is in our backyard. Each frivolous as that of a tshirt. I grew up expecting was previously unimaginable. Today, more kids 
weekend, thousands, literally thousands of our more out of Notre Dame students. are visiting Legends than ever before and the pe~rs are falling victim to Legends. Afriend of However, this trivia has not only put a strain numbers are growing faster than ever. mine, who wishes to remain anonymous, tells on our supply ofintelligence, it has also opened If you hear your friends talking about me that it is all that she thinks about. Legends students' eyes to the other dubious happenings Legends, or even about the Gym Class Heroes, has consumed her inner being. She squanders that occur at Legends. Point-in-case, a few or DJ SoCo, or, heaven forbid, the final concert her days wistfully thinking about rock music and weeks ago, after trivia ended, my friend stayed at of the y_ear, please, do them a favor and do not dancing. She has delusions ofsix events every Legends to watch a movie and to eat breakfast at indulge them. We must pool together to protect weekend. That is nearly twenty-four hours of Midnight. That's right. Can you believe it? It's one another and keep Legends from spreading. entertainment each week. That is almost more a heresy. As of now, this problem ofLegends is than one person can handle. You may think that the trouble stops here, something that is seemingly unique to the Notre. 
She claims that Legends is a great way to but Thursday nights are just the beginning. Dame community. No where else in the country unwind after a long week ofschool and work. Once classes get out on Friday afternoon, kids are kids seeing world-class concerts for free, week She, like countless others, has become a victim. start turning to Legends to fill their empty in and week out. No where else in the country Even when she is at home in her dorm room, she evening hours. People flock with reckless are some oftelevision's funniest comics stopping cannot resist Legends. Her grades have been abaondon, at 10pm every Friday and Saturday by on a weekly basis. No where else can kids suffering due to prolonged periods of time spent . night, over to the doors of Legends. Many of stay up dancing until 4am in a state of the art on, not just the Legends Facebook page, but also them enter their first time with very little nightclub that is withinwalking distance of the following legendsnd on twitter. She can stay knowledge ofwhat to expect. One of my home. That is right. Nowhere else but Legends. connected twenty-four hours a day. friends told me in confidence, "The first time I No where else but Notre Dame. 
Before she discovered Legends, she used to be went to Legends I had no idea what I was in for. wonderfully fun and outgoing. Now, I cannot I had seen concerts before, but had never had an Larry Egendski is afreshman at the University tell you the last time I have seen her. She is experience like I had that night. I was right ofNotre Dame who wishes to take astand against always at Legends. She starts each weekend there there, in the middle of it all, so close to the stage evil. He can be contacted at legends@nd.edu with Trivia on Thursday night. This trivia is the that I could practically touch the lead singer. I The views expressed in this column are those of subversive gateway into the world ofLegends. could feel the thump of the bass drum beating the author and not necessarily those ofThe Trivia is fun shrouded in the guise of academia, through me in time with the flashing lights. By Observerer. and we should be ashamed that it has reared its the end of the second encore, I knew that I was ugly head on our campus. hooked.". 
r-· -··--· ------·-· -­
L 
L B NBT I L L y A N D T H E WA 
I ·Make Checks Payable to: us J 0 R p R S B G D A S L 
E T s E 
Do you know where I Legends ofNotre Dame 
L E 0 0 L D N J H I ·L A A L G 
RT G 
to find them? 
p
CB N N R L AOS R L B A R E E J 


100 Legends 
Bayside
T G MSA D BY A s s B E N N 
AG F 
.Notre Dame, IN 46556
Dueling Pianos
D T D GHR CU H I A OA R u R I R 
Gym Class Heroes GE L N R B p N E B L L E T 
s 
Y O N 
Hairbangers Ball . Enclosed is $0 for one academic Hip Hop Nightclub year ofworld-class live 
I B A D GI I GR D B T D R 
0 
0 B I 
Jeff Richards entertainment.
F p TN N u s s G N N N u NAG E F 
Jon McLaughlin 
p 
Jordan Rubin Enclosed is $0 for 8 semesters of
p E GE HA I L D I B L L E N B A 
Ophira Eisenberg D . the greatest college entertainment 
A y DOS HT B HA G D S L I u I 
0 
Robert Kelly 
lineups in the country. 
Ry D
HI L R H T NO O I A E N L T 
Salsa Night 
Speed Dating 
Treaty of Paris Name: 
Rp E I J C U O H E E L I u E I A E 
I A N D OHWNS D S R E D E s L E 
The Young Dubliners 
Address: · 
p
HR H y E OGT N E R I N N D 
u H 
The Hood Internet 
City:
Tilly and The Wall
E I E H CH J E F F R I C H A R D S 
Who's Bad State: Zip:·
L H T s E 0 R E H S SA L C M 
y GB 
be§eAEls sf ~JetFe gaFAe I T p R U G H H R O B E R T K 
E L L y 
www.legends.nd.edu
L 0 s D N H K L CDT E BTEL y N 
L--··-·------·--····­
--·­
-
I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I. 
• .L: 
,. 





