Vol. XXL	NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, June. 30, 1888.	No. 41.
Oration of the Day.
Address to the Graduates
DELIVERED AT THE FORTY-FOURTH ANNUAL COM-
MENCEMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
By Rev. P. F. Carr, Denver, Colorado.
I came here, young gentlemen, with a general idea of the beauty of Notre Dame; but I must say that my mind-picture, though highly colored falls far short of the reality.
“ Had I a tongue in eloquence as rich. As is the coloring in fancy’s loom, ’Twere all too poor to utter the least part Of this enchantment.”
In thanking your worthy Faculty for inviting me to-day to fill the place occupied in the past by distinguished men of Church and State, and in assuring them that in my case such honor is ■especially great and most deeply appreciated, I must also congratulate them on this collegiate paradise, this educational masterpiece worked •out in prayer and energy and devotion; It is a revelation to the stranger, and must necessarily be a source of unstinted pleasure and profit to those who may happily call it “ home.”
I am especially pleased for your sake, young ’ gentlemen, to be so disappointed in my ideas of Notre Dame. Here you have much to enlarge your hearts and give you more comprehensive views of life.	.
MAN, IN A GREAT MEASURE, IS MOULDED BY. HIS
SURROUNDINGS.
Nature does much to train his heart aright. Place him in the cities, circumscribed by strictest social limitations, his vision blocked by bare bleak walls, and there is danger that his soul will little by little become warped, and his spiritual sight, like his physical, dulled by constant obstruction.
Man'cannot live where God has mirrored His ’ beauty in nature without a quickening of faith and hope and love through unceasing admiration and wonderment.	.
This is especially true of the West, where God’s handiwork is still untouched by art; where -the rolling prairies drink from beautiful rivers and streams; where the mountains lift their glistening peaks to kiss the laughing sun; where valleys smile at their grim protectors and offer the fragrant wild-flower in return for the melted snows; where stately trees, rich in inviting shade, look into placid lakes, and note the scars left by the battling storms of ages; where the air comes laden with freshness and perfume as if from the Garden of Eden. What wonder . that the soul is made stronger and nobler; that the Father seems nearer, and that faith in His power, and love for His beauty and wisdom grow keener apace!	.
Young gentlemen, you have been under sim-' ilar influence here. Your teachers have trained your mind; nature’s softening brush.has'touched . your hearts, and you go forth to-day, strengthened and hopeful to battle for the goal.
The memories of my own college days have not yet grown so indistinct that I cannot enter fully into your present feelings,—feelings of regret as you run over the happy days spent in . these pleasant places; feelings of satisfaction that the initial step has been crowned with sue-" . cess; hopes that the victories of the past may be but the forerunner of those awaiting you in the future. God grant that your most brilliant day . dreams of future happiness and prosperity may ' be realized! That they have been perhaps a trifle overdrawn, creatures of. a too fervid fancy , and untouched*by the pencil of ripened judgment and experience, I will not dare say; for i would not cruelly disturb the present compla- :
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
cency of your happy souls. However, if you profit by the lessons which you have daily received during the years spent within these walls; if you treasure up the counsels of wisdom and experience with which your youthful souls have been nourished,, and apply them to the occasions of life, even though the airy castles of your sanguine fancy may never materialize, though the glitter of worldly pleasure and power may lose its fictitious brilliancy, a happiness often a stran- . ger to the dreams of youth will replace and abundantly compensate for that desired and wisely denied.
You go forth to-day to stand or fall, alone. Hitherto, to think well, or to do well, you had but to listen or to imitate. All that is past.
Your step is upon the threshold of active life, and never so much as now have you stood in need of wise counsel and friendly guidance. The world looks upon you as beings especially favored and especially equipped for high purposes —destined to shape events, to make history. It respects and envies you. In the moral and intellectual order, it makes special demands upon you; and in proportion to the high position it assigns you will be your fall if you fail to satisfy these demands.
He who would have the last shadow of life lengthen in the golden light of unsullied memory must look well to the morning of effort. Before you begin your day—an irrevocable day whose every act must count here and hereafter— let me give you a brief word of warning, an epitome of what has gone before in word and work.
EACH OF YOU WILL SEEK A TWOFOLD HAPPINESS— a particular and a common happiness. One will become a lawyer, and as such his happiness will consist in the perfection of his knowledge of. law and . in the appreciation thereof. Another will follow medicine, and his happiness will depend upon the fulness of his knowledge of the science of health; he who enters the circles of business will find happiness in thorough acquaintance with the laws and tides of trade. But the happiness of the lawyer is not the happiness of the doctor, and both are essentially different from the happiness of the merchant. The happiness of all as men will be found alone in the right exercise of that function by which they are men—their reason. . .
THE PROPER USE OF REASON '
is the. measure of happiness and honor. If you follow the .worldly standard, you will be led to believe that the acme of happiness and honor is reached through wealth, the lever of pleasure and power... If you follow the Christian standard, you
will see that wealth is good and honorable only in so far as it is justly acquired and reasonably used.
Money has become the world’s God. Look at the rushing and the struggling of the masses;-note the eager eyes, the ceaseless energy, the: faces now lighted with hope, again blackened, in despair. Every breath is a prayer to reach the prize. What is the talisman that so quickens men?. What power draws the tension of human hope and effort even to breaking? What so benumbs every noblest impulse and instinct as to make men forget in their mad race even the tender claims of love and kindred? Money! Money is god, and man is his slave.
Does not reason tell us that man was created for some nobler purpose than this mad rush after wealth? Let it be, as the silly world will have it, the key to society, the open sesame topreferment, the door-way to the halls of ease-and luxury and pleasure,—is the end commensurate with the dignity of manhood, or of his-heaven-destined soul?	.
Experience teaches that nothing dries the-heart-strings so quickly nor so thoroughly as this insatiate strife for wealth. Nothing so-quickly makes a man forget his God and throw off, as he would a cloak, the faith of his fathers, and the devotion of his days of struggle. It isa deadly poison to brotherly love; a quicksand, to religion.
Do not understand that I deplore the necessity of work, or that I would stifle ambition for-competence. Far from it! Labor dignifies and ambition cheers our existence. But both labor and ambition should .be moderated by reason and sanctified by lawful means and lawful ends. And remember that wealth in itself is not a just title to honor. It is honorable only in honest-acquirement, and especially honorable in its-proper use.	.
Work hard, voting gentlemen; economize, and if God gives you means and opportunities, tact,, education and health to amass wealth, take not the credit to yourselves, nor hug your store with hearts cold to the appeal of want or good purpose, but rather learn the better to work out your eternal end through enlarged opportunity .and accepted responsibility. Do not imitate the-folly of those of my home to whom fortuneshave come in a day. The ruggedRockiesyielded! their golden treasures, pointing the while with a thousand stainless peaks to the God from whom-they came. Men took the treasure and forgot, the Giver. The intense, fever made them delirious to every thought of duty.- They became as- gods ‘to themselves and a. fawning world!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. .	659
nourished the delusion. And this insanity repeats itself throughout the world.	.
The world has it that the man of knowledge is an honorable man, and the world is right; but the knowledge which is honorable is not that drawn through the poison-bed of self-conceit. Here again must the proper use of reason measure honor.	•
To-day we have the sad spectacle of pygmy intelligence arrayed against the wisdom and revealed word of God. If one would know what man is, let him stand in a canon of the Rockies when the heavens frown and the lightnings dance from side to side of the solid mountain walls; let him listen to the roar and echoes of the thunder; let him follow, if he can, the lights and shadows cast by the giant peaks gleaming in the purity of their stainless snows; let him watch that boulder of a thousand tons tossed down the steep mountain side and dashed to its grave in the rushing torrent below; in such a moment, pride dies, and the veriest fool on earth would not dare lift his voice in blasphemous infidelity, or attempt to dam the current of faith with the straws of his own unreasonings, o
KNOWLEDGE IS HONORABLE, but it is that knowledge which has God for its beginning and for its end. Knowledge is honorable, but it is that knowledge which gives keener sense to the relations between Creator and creature. Knowledge is honorable, but it is that knowledge which sees in the unravelling of Nature’s mysteries the wisdom and the power and the goodness and the beauty of an Infinite Father and Ruler.
And that knowledge is far from • honorable which would raze the bulwarks of faith and confidence and devotion, because, forsooth, there are some things in the vast eternal;plan which the mind cannot grasp nor reason understand. That knowledge is not honorable- which attempts to change a God of love into a lucky chance, or His law into an invention of ignorant tyranny.	.	.
To-day there are young men who glory in having cast off what they are pleased to term the burdens of superstition. They free themselves from the shackles, one by one. And is it because they have reasoned themselves clear from the demands of duty? Not at all. It is because infidelity is the fashion, and because through some strange process of deduction, the man who casts off all pretension to faith is supposed to be super-intelligent. .
.Young.gentlemen, I said that you were especially equipped for high purposes. You have
been blessed-among men with superior training and a solid groundwork of religious faith. What higher purpose, and what more honorable one, than to do your utmost to stem this torrent of indifference and unbelief and to’ make men . ashamed of their shame through your so lid devotion and faithful practice?
Some of” you may not be called to be ministers of God’s Word, but you are none the less called, as every creature is called, to do Him honor and proclaim the truth. Your training has brought you to fuller knowledge of His love and beauty, and proportionately is your duty increased to protect His honor and confirm your brethren. Has thisdiigher education been given you solely for your own satisfaction? Do you for a moment think that God has blessed you with means and health to complete this excellent course of training, without having for each and every one of you a well-drawn plan whereby you may be instrumental in increasing His external glory, and have a-large share in working out His eternal design ?
The Almighty, besides establishing the laws by which the material world should be governed, established also	.
MORAL AND SOCIAL LAW
and all according to an eternal plan. He was not dependent, as man is, upon accident orwhim, but all thiflgs were with Him melted into an eternal present. In every relation His design is the measure of perfection and true happiness and honor. Just as every star, and tree, and stone . has its particular part to fulfil in working out the general destiny of divine glory, each has its particular place marked out from all eternity. As in the physical, so in the social world. Every individual, king and peasant, rich and poor, has , come from the Creator’s hands with a well-defined destiny—a destiny to be worked out by that individual, or not at all.-
This destiny cannot have for its ultimate aim wealth, or knowledge, or fame. These are good and honorable only in so far as they are subservient to the will of God, His glory and our ' own eternal salvation; and when they draw us from God, far from being good, they are pernicious and dishonorable.	,
Virtue is the only reasonable and genuine source of honor; and even though the'honors of the world are under no regulation, though true quality be neglected, virtue oppressed and vice triumphant, the last day—the day which reason tells us td work for—wilt rectify this disorder and assign to every one a station suitable . to the dignity of his character. Ranks will be
66o
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
then adjusted, and precedency set right. “We should have our ambition,” says Addison, “to outshine our Inferiors in virtue here that they may not be put above us in a state which is to settle the distinction for eternity.”
Have ambition for an honorable distinction in life, but do hot look forward to the empty honors given thoughtlessly and undeservedly by a whimsical world; honors that to-morrow’s fancy may deny and laugh at. Your efforts and energies should have for their aim the summit of Christian nobility. Let the world applaud, as it sometimes will, or let it condemn, the gain, even the temporal gain of a life spent under the standard of Christian honor, will be more than sufficient repay for the heats and trials of the battle. Better a.thousand times one moment of sweet, unaccusing recollection, than years of memory bedraggled in the mire of youthful folly and irreparable misdirected effort.
Let this, then, be your watchword, “CHRISTIAN HONOR.”
Be honorable in the sight of God by strictest following of His law. This is the essence of earthly happiness. “In the heart of every man there is an abyss which hope, joy, ambition, hate, love, the sweetness of thinking, the pleasure of writing, the pride of conquest, cannot fill. The whole world cast into that abyss would not satisfy it; but one drop of the grace of. God causes it to overflow. It is God who is the principle of real joy.” (Abbe Roux.)
Trialswill come to you atevery, stage of life. The strict code of Christian morality will grow burdensome, and the heart will be tempted to rebel against a yoke that it seems to bear alone. Then must you go to your Father in heaven who will not turn away from your humble petition, but will give abundant grace to enable you to send back your, sigh of sadness sanctified by Christian submission. ...	.
Be honorable in your calling. If you follow the law, bear well .in. mind, that it is. not the province of law to defeat.the ends of j ustice;. It is an honorable calling;-, but the lawyer whb will , lend himself and his knowledge to criminal ends, dishonors his profession.. . C ., . :As doctors', yOu:should know more than to . heal the body; you should know to console and aid the spirit. If through your ministry you aid in bringing one soul to God,Tie will not be out-. 'done iii generosity.///!!;^ !-
! In business, be honorabie and - upright ; Let / you^ your b^cL/fyfy
; along:fy.ljnqdiocrify.to	.
means crowned with riches’whose enjoyment must ever be disturbed by the constant gnawing of conscience.	•	,
Shudder to owe a dollar. Debt corrodes self-respect. It ruins the life of an honorable man. Be honorable in the discharge of your duties as citizens. Each one has equal responsibility to sustain law and order and to uphold the Government. You will hear it said that the Catholic Church is opposed to the free institutions of this country. That is not true, and you must show that it is not true by your patriotism and active interest in what concerns the welfare of the nation.	.	;
Young gentlemen, picture the difference that thirty years will work in you. Now you have enthusiasm, ambition, health; then you will have matured wisdom. Your enthusiasm and ambition will probably be dead. The memory of a Christian life will be your greatest pleasure. Your estimate of the relative values of things will be much keener than now. The heart-balances will be.properly adjusted., I pray that when that time comes you may be able to thank God that you heeded the counsels and warnings of your college days, and may congrat • ulate yourselves that you tried, not in childish folly, to have the emptiness of pleasure or wealth or notoriety outweigh the gold of solid virtue, unceasing love and noble practical devotion.	.
In conclusion, let me congratulate you, in the name of all your friends assembled here to-day, upon the successful crowning of. your years of honest study." I could wish for you that you might live forever in the shadow of these walls ° 1 s “ -
where good men have so nobly imitated the lavish kindness of God. That cannot be. Well, then, may your lives be cast in pleasant places. May you find in the world, friends as true and companions , as genial, as those, of your college life! May the smile of God’s abundant grace ever light your .way 1 May you be true Chris-tian men, noble, and.honorable in every relation of life, showing the. world by your sincerity and . earnestness and devotion. how well Catholic training can develop manhood, and how well the work of -.Holy Church has been aided by your Alma Mater— Notre Dame.r	J !
We should study the- interests! oF others as our own; and be careful to act on all occasions with uprightness:and loyalty.; /	? y
The highest:..clfanfy jis charify towards the; uncharitable.!,^	vdy-.-:; . !/..	. ’.
THE NOTRE dAMe SCHOLASTIC^
661
Nature’s Day.*
By Wm. H. Johnston, ’85, East Townsend, 0.
Loudly and cheerily birds of the morning ■ Carol their lays to the sun as he wakes;
Lovingly, softly, the Day-king in tenderness , . Kisses the mists from the shivering lakes; .
Dew-laden grass and the murmuring forest • Brighten and laugh in his life-blessing sight;
Ocean and river and chattering rivulet
Warm at his touch from the chill of the night.
Morning of tenderness, purity, melody,—
Blest be thy lessons of love and repose! ' -Birds—in thy blithesomeness, sing not of eventide—
Rouse but the drowsy and indolent rose!
West-wind blow softly; caress the fair meadows, ’ Nor.whisper of tempest to forest or flower!
Ocean—but murmur of might and of majesty,— Bearnot thy foam-crown, nor boast of thy power!
Morning and peacefulness still must yield To mid-day and battle, as light-born life
Thrills in each atom of things that live, Transforming the truce to a strengthened strife.
War for survival can never end
While matter is joined to life and force: Things that are strong and by strength upheld, In victory follow their battle-course.
Weakness grows weaker, and strength more strong, And conflicts their cycles of fortune yield:
Earth and the forces and life proclaim
The world but their limitless battle-field. .	.
Law that represses and checks and guides
Does only give ordered.and lengthened fray;
' Evening stops the unended strife	’ ■	■
And battle seeks sleep at the death of day.
The. sun softly sinks in his cushions	•	,
Of red and of purple and gold;
And he gazes a moment in twilight,.	.
.	’ Ere curtains his couch shall enfold. .	,•
And the evening shadows fall softly, .
And birds call their mates to the nest, .
And the flowers are closing their petals— -
For Nature’s retiring to rest.
- And the wind only rustles the forest, ‘	’’
And lulls the tired meadows to sleep, .	.
As it creeps to the shore of the ocean -	. a
And rests on the breast of. the deep. .	/	'
And the stars glide from eastward to westward;
The Night-queen ascends in the skies,■ And she flings but her tresses and covers ...	;
• The face of the day as he dies.	.
How short is our life-day! How great is the labor!
. How quick flies the beautiful morn! .	. .	.
L Our lives are like struggling flowers by the wayside \	■ Whose-buds are in peacefulness born—
Whose blossoms are tossed in,the wind.till they, wither
- . ^Alinnni Poem read at the Forty-Fourth Annual Commencement’.
/ . .	.	. -	-	,	. -	. .	.	.	./A^~
And cast their bright petals away;	‘
And shorn of their beauty, their seeds .flung around.
■ them, . .	.	;	' . . .
They end with their mission their day. •	. .
Is our life-day on earth, with its cares and contentions, The span of our knowledge and thought?	\ .
Does dur measure of happiness hold but those moments ;
Of rest we.so dearly have bought?	.
Or is there to dawn an eternal to-morrow \	:
Of justice and peace and content,—	.
. And Nature’s grand equity mete out the wages .	.
To each as his day has been spent?	.	.. ,
. Oh, dear College-home, ’tis with love and thanksgiving:' We gather to greet thee once more!	. . . . ■
The world’s endless conflict and cares left behind us, .
How pleasant thy welcoming door! -	. ;
In the morning of life.thou wert light for our footsteps, Our guide through the day is thy light;	'	.
Thy teachings are spirits that strengthen and aid us; - •< V' Thy precepts are guardians bright. •
Oh, memories fair of life’s peace-blessed morning, . J Come hover around us to-day! '	' ? ?
And .walk with us now through these haunts of our . boyhood,	.	•
And over each oft-trodden way	.
So familiar and thoughtlessly followed in school-days, But dear since those school-days have flown •	-
As paths through the past among graves where lie . buried	.
The happiest hours we have known.	-
Oh proud Notre Dame! May prosperity crown thee, And time spread thy fame in his flight! *
And farther, and farther with years be extended	.
' The rays of thy life-blessing light! .	.
When our day upon earth shall have reached to its . ending,	.	-	.
And we to our night’s rest shall go, -	.	.
May thy light shine as bright to illumine the morning That others shall waken to know!
Valedictory.
BY PHILIP VAN DYKE BROWNSON
_ Standing on the . bridge which7 spans .the swiftly flowing, changeful present, we turn “as :
. parting;. friends-. who. linger. while they sever,” :. to cast a farewell, wistful glance, which memory . shall, ever treasure, upon the fading shore of . the sacred Past, ere we step off upon the un- . known strand which: lies before us,over whose .
by.manya winding:path,.Necessity.points the.. :? way. -	' ■ • a„^.a ’'	■
The Past—what a rush • of’tender : thoughts! ’ The Past—what bitter,-sweet emotions; what uri- , substantial forms and recollections are conjured . ; up, and childish tears: and boyhood’s sports . arid old-time .doves,, and v western . winds and “songs; aridJflowers' and ::rairr”^arid rustling ; .
&
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
leaves and murmuring waters come trooping back again whenever Memory breathes o’er the soul the stony spell of the past. But now a soft shadow has fallen silently upon that hallowed shore which we shall never again visit o
save in fancy only, and a faint purplish haze clings with magic grace about the softened outlines of one grand, majestic form, nearest of all—our Alma Mater.
There rest our eyes tenderly as on a face we love and ne’er shall see again, and the soul is filled with solemn thoughts—the shadows of mighty phantom doubts which harass everyone who does not weakly close his eyes to truth—is filled, too, with bitter thoughts, sad recollection . of unremembered gloom, of idled hours, now flown tor aye, which the wealth of empires never could recover, the intercession of angels never could recall, and with pleasant, happy thoughts, when the heart beats quick at the remembrance of “youthful hopes and youthful fears,” kind word, soft touch, old face, triumphs whose laurels never fade, sorrows which chasten but do not subdue. Farewell to thee, kindly Mother! Short were the years that we spent in thy sheltering love, and long, long is the journey before us. But betide us -weal, betide us woe, ever shall ring in our ears the low, soft voice of thy counsels—never shall we forget the parting words: “Be lovers of the Beautiful, be followers of the True.”
What will the future bring us? Nothing but disappointment? Is it but one long series of cheats and of disillusions? Nay, I trust not. True, hopes are but formed to be blasted; passionate pleasure must ever tempt till it slay or be slain, and man, strive as he may, can never fashion himself after his own ideal—much less the ideal of others. But ever, in moments of despondency, let us shake off the deadening weight of the actual and turn to where, far away beyond the bridge where we are standing now, bathed in the mellow radiance of boyhood’s recollection, gleams in the pale, gold mist on the past’s sweet shore, the home of our youth,— our Alma Mater. These are the founts of peace,' the “coolstreams” of tranquillity, and above her clustered turrets shines a faery constellation— the stars of truth, of manliness, of duty,— as a beacon to her sons who may be toiling in the shadows, in the dark.
’ And you, beloved instructors, who have taught us the way in which we should tread, and have borne with us so long and so leniently, never will the Class of ’88 forget the debt of gratitude they owe you, and it is with feelings of sincere and deep regret we bid you' all farewell.
Comrades and friends, when in the future you think of the past, hold in affectionate remembrance the Class of ’88.
And now, classmates, the bridge is almost crossed—one more step, and we pass by diverging paths into the future. Together we’ve toiled, and side by side we’ve endured the trials and enjoyed the bliss of our College days. Now we must say good bye, and each for himself, losing sight mayhaps of each other, glide far away out of ken but not out of memory. Over the trackless waters of the Future lies our course— let us sail on together with the favoring gale of affection. . Swept by the same current, guided by the same compass, through light and through darkness, we shall meet in the same haven at the last.
“ But oh, blithe breeze, and oh, great seas, Though ne’er, the present parting past, On yon wide plain we meet again, Together lead us home at last.
.	o
One port, methinks, alike we se^k;
One purpose hold where’er we fare, Oh, bounding breeze, oh, rushing seas, ’ At last, at last unite us there.”
\From the “South Bend Times." ]
The Forty-Fourth. Annual Commencement June 18, 19, and. 20, 1888.
;	THE ORATORICAL CONTEST.
The oratorical contest at Notre Dame University is always the means of drawing large audiences, for it is an event of more than ordinary importance, and the friends of the contestants crowd the large Washington Hall to its utmost capacity, and each admirer hangs on the utterances of the object of their admiration and fondly cherishes the hope that success will crown his efforts when the award is made by the judges.	.	.
Notre. Dame has a fine reputation for the number of young orators she has produced, and the contests there will repay those who attend. Monday evening the Faculty, visitors and students crowded the great hall and expectantly awaited the opening number of the program for the oratorical contest and closing entertainment of the Euglossian Association. Visitors were in attendance from far and near, and to say that they were pleased with the entertainment and contest does not half express it. The following musical and elocutionary program was first rendered: .	.
Overture—“ Enchantment”...:............  Hermann
i .	. University Orchestra. .
" Drifting ”—Word Painting (Recitation).... W. McPhee “ Polish Boy,” (Personation)......:...'... ,R. C. Newton
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
f Angels of Buena Vista”.............Jas.McIntosh
Duet—Piano..............J. Reinhard and M. O’Kane
“True Men,” (Declamation)................E.Berry
“Life is a Game,” (Recitation).........T.	O’Regan
“The Dying Alchemist”..................D.	Brewer
“Good Night”:......................Vocal Quartette
Messrs. F. Jewett, P. Paschel, L. Orr, H. Hull.
The numbers especially worthy of attention on this program were the recitations by Master William McPhee and by James McIntosh. The latter is not fourteen years old, but displays elocutionary talent that is rarely found in elocutionists of much more age and pretension, while Master McPhee fell but little short. All the elocutionary efforts were very creditable, and the musical numbers almost all very good. Recalls were frequent and hearty receptions of the performers was the rule, particularly with Master McIntosh.
The oratorical contest began with an oration, the theme of which was “The Last King of Granada.” The orator was E. Chacon, a Mexican, who gave to his listeners an oration inter-csting in its detail, flowery and eloquent in style, gracefully and self-possessedly delivered, recited in a voice nicely modulated with a slight but not unpleasant accent. His gestures were appropriate, and his oration of literary merit, delivered without a lapse of memory. Mr. Chacon’s effort was rapturously received, and he was forced to appear a second time be Ip re the applause subsided.	-
“The Sphere of Woman” was Ray C. Pollock’s subject, and in the course of his remarks Mr. Pollock took occasion, in well rounded, forcible and eloquent sentences, to tell the sphere of the gentler sex. His argument against woman suffrage, as non-elevating and unsexing, was coupled with the very highest tribute to the talent and true worth of women. He did not contend that woman was inferior mentally, for literature, science and the arts alike belied any Such argument in the splendid works and products of the minds and hands of women. Her mission was not to secure the ballot, but to elevate the standard of virtue and morality. The cause of religion found its greatest ally in a good woman. Intellectual, but not strong-minded, women are the need of the times, and their influence could but be for good, and no right of suffrage was necessary to their welfare and happiness. Mr. Pollock continued at some length, and impressed his hearers with his earnestness, fine delivery, careful preparation and able consideration of his subject from his standpoint.
After a well-executed string quartette, Chas. J. Stubbs closed the evening’s entertainment with- an oration on “Pope Leo XIII.” Mr.
^3 J'S
Stubbs was very cordially received,: and, the treatment of his theme made it evident that the J life and works of Pope Leo XIII had received a most careful consideration. His tribute to < the Pope was frequently applauded, and deservedly so. Mr. Stubbs has a convincing style of . oratory, and puts upon his efforts the literary polish to make pleasing as well as interesting	:
all that he may say. He closed amid very loud.	<
demonstrations of approval.	.
Thejudges forthe occasion were Major Brownson, of Detroit; Dr. Rowsey, ’85, of Toledo, and J. C. Larkin, ’56, of Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
Tuesday’s exercises.	*	.
Tuesday at 8.30 o’clock a. m., Alumni Mass . was celebrated in the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Rev. T. E. Walsh being celebrant; Rev. L. J. Evers, ’79, of New York city, . and Rev. M. Hogan, ’74, of Lemont, Ill., being . deacon and subdeacon. The sermon was by , Rev. J. Fitzharris, ’68, New York city, and was of a most eloquent and impressive character.
DRESS PARADE AND DRILL.
About 9.30 o’clock Co’s. “ A ” and “ B,” Hoynes’ Light Guards, turned out in their neat cadet uni- . forms to the number of almost 100. After a dress parade under Col. Wm. Hoynes, the companies • were taken in command by their respective captains, Co. “A” by Capt. Joseph Cusack, and Co. “B” by Capt. George H. Craig. In their ' drill was the regular manual of arms, with and	;
without company, movements by company and * .. skirmish and bayonet drill, all of which was done with neatness and precision, evoking much applause. Loading and firing were.also shown, and a most creditable drill was given by these _	:
young soldiers.	-
In the course of the drill, Co. “B” presented . J. to their popular captain, Mr. .Geo.-Craig, the : pennant won by them in a recent competitive .' < drill.	’	;
Another feature was the presentation or mea-	J
als to the best drilled member’of each company, : H. McAllister of Co. “A” and V. O’Kane of x J Co. “B” being the successful ones. They were	J
called out from the ranks and the medals pinned .	. AL
upon their breasts by Col. Hoynes.	;	’ .J
- THE BOAT RACE.	.	/	.	x;?
About 11 o’clock, students, visitors and Fac- , "J ulty wended their way to the beautiful St.Joseph’s Lake, and soon there were gathered about its pleasant shores a very large number of eager .	%
spectators intent on witnessing an exciting; and Y interesting boat race. . The boat club has but j ust finished its handsome and commodious com-	; j J;
bination frame and brick boat house which was
4	’ - L--’
- . • - .. -
- .	_	■ - x’ ’
’	, '	’ ' '	Yi'S
- ~ • ’ - ■ • ‘ :
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
a centre of attraction, and which is a model in its way. Besides having a large room for the boats, there is an upper story to be devoted to a club room. It was not until about 11 o’clock that the two crews emerged from the boat house with their respective boats, and their appearance was greeted with applause.
The starting point was at the southwest corner of the lake, and the course was three times the length of the lake with two turns, making a mile in distance. A stiff breeze was blowing from the south, and combined with this was an oppressively hot sun. The start was an even one and was at 11.35. The Evangeline crew were the “Blues,” and the Minnehaha crew the “Reds.” Both crews started evenly and came up the lake at a good, steady stroke. In the turning of the first buoy the “ Blues ” had a slight advantage; but when they started out on the course for a return, the “Reds” forged ahead, and a very pretty race and one evenly contested seemed inevitable. At the turn of the buoy at the starting point the “Reds” made too long a turn, and from that time on the only question was, how badly were the “Reds” to be beaten. There was evident signs of flattening out on the part of the “Reds,” and this was shown the more clearly when the “Blues” came in about four boat lengths ahead amid much applause. One man in each crew had given out on the last course. The race showed that the “Reds” had the speed, but not the endurance. It was quite a pretty race until the last course, but the boys think that it would have been a finer race had their new boats been in-readiness. The time made-was five minutes and thirty-five seconds.
The following are the names of the crews: lAie Evangelines, or “Blues”—winning crew—are P. Paschel, Stroke; J. Mattes, No. 5; J. Hepburn, No. 4; T. Coady, No. 3; G. Houck, No. 2; H. . Lulin, Bow and Captain; J. Kelly,Coxswain. The Minnchahas,or “Reds,” are.E. Sawkins, Stroke; G. Ball, No. 5; :F. Springer, No. 4; .E: Prud-‘ homme,Nb. 3; P- Brownson, No. 2 and Captain;
L. Meagher, Bow. Time, 5:35. < ?	.	:
Tuesday witnessed a very large accession to the crowd of visitors at the Notre Dame Cdm-mencement exercises; but notwithstanding the 1 / influx, all were taken care of without a jar. A great many were nr attendance from this city..
~ J ?	\ ALUMNI ELECTION. ; '
Al: At the meeting of the. Alumni Association of Notre Dame, Tuesday afternoon, 'the following . officers were chosen for the ensuing year: sPresi- .
Adept;Rey. Andrew Morrissey, G: S. C.,- ’78, NotreDame; 1st Vice-Pra	Luke J. Evers,
’79, New York city; 2d Vice-President, Ferd. F. Kuhn, ’83, Nashville, Tenn.; Treasurer, Joseph A. Lyons, ’62, Notre Dame; Secretary, Rev. N. J. Stoffel, C. S. C., ’76, Notre Dame; Historian, John G. Ewing, ’77, Lancaster, Ohio; Orator, Wm. P. Breen, ’77, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Alternate Orator, George Clarke, ’86, South Bend, Ind:; Poet, Harold V. Hayes,’74, Chicago; Alternate Poet, Denis-J. Hogan, ’73, Chicago.
. BASEBALL.
The game of baseball between the “ Greens ” and the “Notre Dame nine” Tuesday afternoon drew an immense crowd on the grounds, and that crowd was veiy enthusiastic over the game they witnessed.	.
It was a great game, indeed, the errors being few. The following is the score: o	-
Greenstockings.
Maurer, 3............ .
Bates, m..............
Peak, 1...............
Conway, s.............
Dobson, r..............
Truby, 2..............
Staples, 1............
Brandenburg, c......'
Young, p .............
Total.................
Notre Dame.
O’Regan, s............
Guthrie, 2.............
Burns, c..............
McHenry, r............
Cooper, p.............
Smith, 1...:..........
Fehr, 1....t.........'.
Fuller, 3.............
Kelly, m..............
Total...........
Score; by Innings:— Greens:— Notre Dame:—
Two base hits: Young.
I I
I
o o
A.B.
3
26
A.B.
4
4
4
R.
I o o o o o o
I o
H.
O I O
I O
I O O
I
S.B. P.O.
I .0
I o 0 o o o o
I
o o o
II
8
A. o o o 3 o
0
10
E.
1 o o o o o
1 1 o
R. i o o . o d o o
. 4
H. !
I o o o o
I .
I
o - o o o
S.B. P.O.
o_ o o
. I o o o o o
O
8
o
9 o
i
A. 3 4
I p 9 o o
I o
E. o o
I : o o' o o o
29 1 3‘ 1 24 18 34567 8.9 100000 0=2
o 000 . 0 o 0=1
Double plays: Guthrie to Fehr.
Base on balls: off Young, i; off Cooper, 4. • Struck out: by Young, 7; by Cooper, 8. .Passed balls: Burns, 1. Wild pitches, Cooper, 1. Time, of game: f.hour, 34 minutes. Umpire: Clark.	;	*
. TUESDAY EVENING’S : EXERCISES.
at Washington. Hall “ Reverie ”.
. Schumann
, . . University Orchestra. -	'
. “How Ruby;Played,” (Personation).?...Chas. J. Stubbs Alumni Poem.:..;:.:. LI Wm; H. Johnston, Class of ’85 “Legends ’’Ajuhior Vocal Quartet. 1..;.. G . .... - ?
, Masters W- McPhbe, L: Monarch' Schillo, Thbine Overture des Marionnettes........ University Orchestra Oration of the Day . . . . . I .Rev. P. F:Carr, Denver, Col
. /Hie . musical^
. Charles ijXStubbs’;;^	were
very niceiyfdisplayeddhjtlie^
“ HowRub^P^	lie was applauded to . <
f tlieeclio
* interrupted? liimjin ^	/	:
?AThe'^	the :
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC...
Brownson,Detroit, Mich.; GJ; Stubbs, Galveston, \ ' Texas; Thomas E. Hansard, Youngstown, Ohio: .'
The Degree of Bachelor of Literature . was conferred on Simon J. Craft, Waseca;LMinn.g
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred : on Michael B. Mulkern, Dubuque, . i Iowa; Edward Sorin Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio. _ The Degree of. Civil Engineer rwas^ con- j-ferred on Michael B. Mulkern, Dubuque; Iowa; . George A. Houck, Corvallis, Oregon.	1
The Degree of Bachelor of LAW was conferred on Wm. B. Akin, New Carlisle; Edward D. Britt, Philadelphia; Patrick E.Burke, Still-, water, Minn.; Andrew P. Gibbs, Bellevue, Iowa; / Thomas F. Griffin, Lourdes, Iowa; Wal tier J. ; Rochford, Galena, HL; Chas. J. Stubbs, Galves- v . ton, Texas; Matthew M. White, South Amana, : Iowa; Patrick J. Nelson, Otter Greek, Iowa; < John. L.. Heinemann, Connersville, Ind.	.
. COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to Ed- . ward J. Blessington, Charlotte; Iowa; Matthew ; . N. Smith, Watertown, Wis.;. W. P. Devine, Chi- . cago; Joseph A. Clark, Parkersburg, W. Va.; , Andrew J. Joyce, Washington,,D. C.; Franklin E. Lane, Concordia, Kansas; Bert R. Stephens, Lima, Ohio; Charles. J. Senn, Chicago; Albert ~ V. Rudd, Owensboro, Ky.; JIany A. Higgins, Jackson, Mich.; Henry J. Wageman, South Bend; H. Leroy Hall, Marion,Ill.; Bernard H.Tivnen, _ Mattoon, Ill.; Joseph A. Whalen, Cincinnati, O.; < ' Ross D. Bronson, Terre Haute, Ind.; Thos. F. . Green, Wapella, Ill.; Wm. A. McKenzie, Cin- ; cinnati, O.; . A. T.: Hoye, New Orleans; Julius . D.Bombeck,-Kansas City, Mo:;. Walter J. Mc-:. Dermott, Galena, Ill.; Louis H.Orr, Piqua, Ohio; L Charles H. Miner, Red . Cloud, Neb.; John M. Henry, Dallas, Texas; James M. Brady, Versailles, Ill.; W. D. O’Brien, South Bend; John J. Reinhard, Columbus, Ohio; Wm.. Boland, Minneapolis,. Minn;; O.W:Sullivan, Chicago; C. Paquette, Detroit; Vincent E. Morrison, Ft. ;-g Madison,Iowa; B.Bachrach, Chicago; F.Suing, St. Helena, Neb.; P. Prudhomme, Bermuda, La. L
Medical Certificateswereawardedto Thos. 4/ ■ Flodd, South Bend; Harry D. Hull, Chicago. " . . Certificates for Telegraphy were awarded ; g-to Albert V- Rudd, Owensboro, Ky.; Ramon 4 4 Velasco; Jalisco, Mexico; J.W.Hackett, Kansas L .4 City;; Bert R.4Stephens,; Lima, Ohio. % ; CLASS MEDALS AND4FRJ1ZES., 4 Jk \	; c L^	4;
4 . The Quan Gold /Medal- In [Bie JSeniqr: class 44 4 : was^ awarded/tbgjariies4EgBu
City, Ind.-4 4- L4.gg
case of Wm. H. Johnston, the poet for the occasion. Mr. Johnston’s poetical production showed careful preparation,and fully established his reputation as a writer of poetry. His production was received with marked cordiality. The oration by Rev. P. F. Carr, of Denver, Col., orator of the day, was given with the graduates seated upon the stage. Father Carr’s effort was a finished one in every respect; abounded with flowery flights and impassioned descriptions, and was a model oration for such an occasion. His effort was replete with wholesome truths, good advice and words of cheer for the members of the graduating class, and from first to last received the very closest attention of the audience. Fa; ther Carr opened with a fine tribute to the magnificence of Notre Dame and to the fine facilities afforded by it for the acquirement of a first class education. ' His oration was universally pleasing and was the subject of many ✓encomiums.
WEDNESDAY MORNING.
The exercises Wednesday at 8I30 a. m., in Washington Hall consisted of music by the orchestra, followed by the Valedictory address by the eloquent Philip Van Dyke Brownson. The well earned reputation of this young gentleman . as an orator of rare- promise was fully sustained -in his splendid Valedictory effort - which was rapturously received.
After the literary, exercises came the con' ferring of medals and class honors that occupied the time up to 10 o’clock. . The principal inter- . . est turned on the awarding of the Senior classical medal and the medal for oratory, which,were awarded, respectively, to James E. Burns and Charles J. Stubbs, the announcement of whose names caused very Idud applause..	;.
At the conclusion of the awarding of prizes a few • graceful , remarks were made by Bishop Dwenger, and the Forty-Fourth .Annual Commencement of. Notre Dame University became . a thing of the past, and the most successful collegiate year in its history came to an end. i (	' " -	1	■ -	. -----— ,	’	•	■ j
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
/ The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on Wm. Hoyries, Notre Dame, Ind. ; .
The Degree of Master of Arts was con. ferred on Rev. Timothy O’Sullivan, Chicago;
Rev. John Fitzharris, New York City; Rev. Pl
. F. Garr, Denver, Coi. .	. ' ?
The Degree of Master of Science was con-: g : ferred on Michael O’Dea; Columbus, Ohio. J • The Degree of Bachelor of .Arts ’was . •. conferred on James A. Burns, Michigan City; : George A-Xraig,. Galesburg; Ill.; Philip VD.


iSs'j^'CSS
666
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
The Gold Medal in the Junior class was awarded to T. A. Goebel, Marietta, Ohio.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman class was awarded to Denis Barrett, Janesville, Wis.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
The Gold Medal in the Junior class was awarded to Vincent E. Morrison, Iowa.
The Gold Medal in the Sophomore class was awarded to W. McPhee, Denver, Col.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman class was awarded to Leo Scherrer, Denver, Col.
commercial course
Gold Medal was awarded to William O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.-
SPECIAL COURSES.
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne, was awarded to Arthur Larkin, Ellsworth, Kansas.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Very Rev. Father Sorin, was awarded to James Mackey, of Stillwater, Minn.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by J. B. Morrison, of Fort Madison, Iowa, was awarded to 0. H. Wood, Avon, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, presented by Hon. P. T. Barry, of Englewood, Ill., was awarded to C. T. Cavanagh, Chicago.
The Lyons’ Gold Medal, presented by Joseph A. Lyons, A. M., for excellence in elocution, was awarded to C. J. Stubbs, of Galveston, Texas.
The Medal for proficiency in elocution, awardedtoT. O’Regan,St.Paul Minn.; medal for progress in elocution was awarded to W. McPhee, Denver; medal for marked progress in elocution was awarded to James McIntosh, Sydney, Nebraska, closely contested by E. Berry, Denver, Col., and E. Brewer, New Orleans, La.
The Notre Dame Medal for proficiency in elocution, was awarded to Robert Newton, Nashville, Tenm
The McPhee Medal in the course of elementary science, presented by C. D. McPhee, of Denver, was awarded to Otto Rothert, Huntingburg, Ind.
The Gold Medal presented by W. H. Johnston, of Cleveland, for best original work in microscopical laboratory, was awarded to Thomas H. Flood, South Bend.
The Gold Medal presented by Signor Grego ri, the artist, for figure painting in oil, was awarded to Paul Wood, Chicago.
-	7	o
The Gold Medal for English essays, presented by Mrs. Mary R. English, of Columbus, 0., was awarded to Simon J. Craft, Waseca, Minn.
The Gold Medal presented by Mrs. James
Meehan, of Covington, Ky., was awarded for excellence in law department, to T. J. Griffin. Lourdes, Iowa.	•
The Gold Medal presented by Mr. George Mason, of Chicago, to student having best record in Junior department, was awarded to Hugh Miner, Red Cloud, Nebraska.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by William P. Breen, Ft. Wayne, Ind., was awarded to Charles J. Stubbs, Galveston, Texas.
The Sorin Association Gold Medal was awarded to T. H. Tomkins, Leadville, Col.
The Minim Elocution Gold Medal presented by Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, awarded to Henry Lonergan, Chicago, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine presented by Mr. Robert Meehan, Chattanooga, Tenn., was awarded to James Walsh, Limerick, Ireland.	,
The Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Richard Clendenin, Helena Mont.
The Second Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Forest Rogers, Deadwood, Dak.
FIRST HONOR AWARDS.
[The “ First Honor ” is a Gold Medal, awarded to students who have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
senior’ department.
First Honor Medals were awarded to Ross D. Bronson, McGregor McCart, Nicholas N. Jacobs, Harry L. Prichard, Thomas P. O’Regan, Joseph Gallardo, William H. Boland, Edward J. Blessington, Michael Dore, Patrick E. Burke, George R. Cartier, John H. Keating, John McDermott, Francis J. Suing, Joseph C. Langan, Edmund Coady, Dennis Barrett, Matthew N. Smith, Augustus L. Preston, Louis P. Chute, Andrew P. Gibbs, Francis Fehr, Arnold Fitz-harris, Walter Rochford, Tiburtius A. Goebel.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honor Medals were awarded to R. E. .Adelsperger, H. Bronson, R. Boyd, J. Cooney, Fred. Chute, W. P. Devine, Thomas Falvey, Frank Flynn, A. Hake, F. Lane, Wm. P. McPhee, W. J. McKenzie, Wm. O’Brien, John Pfau, Wm. Rowsey, Chas. Senn, Leo Scherrer, Tannar Wilbanks, A. Mayer. .
-	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
First Honor Medals were awarded to W. J. Williamson, J. J. Dempsey, H.. Mooney, C. Franche, G. Mayer, F. E. Smith,.L. W. Black, J. D. O’Mara, C, Boettcher, T. H. Tomkins, C, J. Connor, C. S. McPhee..	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
SECOND HONOR MEDALS.
[The “Second Honor” is a Silver Medal, awarded to those students who have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
A Second Honor Medal was awarded to Stafford Campbell.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
Second Honor Medals were awarded to James Conners, J. Henry, John McIntosh, James Peck, Chas. Scherrer, Wm. Walsh,
, MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Second Honor Medals were awarded to C. • H. Koester, A. A. Bachrach, M. F. Blumenthal, E. Savage, D. Quill, S. Bachrach, A. H. Morgen-wcck, C. V. Grant,_ G. Sweet, O. Griffin.
HONOR CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the courses of the University at least two sessions, and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J.D. Bombeck, John D. O’Shea, F. E. Henderson, L: Larkin, J. H. Mackey, E. Melady, Andrew Nichol, H. H. Woods, Hale Barnard, E. Chacon, J. L. Heinemann, W. Larkin, J. Burns, H. L. McAlister, E. G. Stephenson, A. Plato, John B. Sullivan, T. Coady, M. Howard, W. McDermott, J. McAuliff; John Jennings, O. A. Roth-ert, F. Wilkin, Henry L. Smith.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Adams, C. Bombeck, B. Bachrach, W. Blake, C. Burger, J. Brady, FI. Cauthorn, B. Case, J. Delaney, A. Daniels, C. Fitzgerald, E. Grossman, John Greene, Thomas Greene, Raymond Healy, L. Hall, James Hackett, E. Hughes, E. McIvers, FI. Miner, Fred. Neef, Geo. O’Brien, John O’Donnell, Fred. Prichard, Henry Pechaux, M. Quinlan, E. Roth, John Reinhard, Isaac Rose, Sam Rose, C. Schillo, F. Schillo, R. Spalding, Frank Shenk, Fred. Wile, P. Healy, J. McMahon, W, Merkle, L. Davis, J. Kinsella, Geo. Frei.
MINIM DEPARTEMENT.
J. Walsh, J. H. Seerey, S. Collins, J. Bradley, C. Carlile, B. Bates, J. V. Ayer, A. Welch, FI. Lonergan, V. Kehoe, J. Cudahy, W. Young, E. Smith, J. Flannery, A. Neef, W. Halthusen, J. Hagus, F. Parker, T. Burns, D. Thornton, F. Dempsey, L. Paul, C. Paul,H. Zieman,W.Walsh, H. Connelly, V. Jaramillo, Thos. Neenan, W. Nichols, L. Mayer, R. Hinds, G. Black, H, Johns, W. FI. Durand, P. R. Stephens, A. Witkowsky, W. Wilson, J. Perry, A. Lonergan, H. Ploutz,' - D. Ricksecker, J. Harlan, H. Oppenheimer, H.
Marx.
Jubilee Address to Very Rev. J. Reze, C. S, C.
Softly and sweetly Our dear Lord called thee, And raised thee to His side;
Firmly, forever He there installed thee, To share the priesthood of the Crucified, And in His radiance live, and near His throne abide.
Gently He uttered His benediction, And lol a change took place;
Blessing thy mission to heal affliction, A glow divine He kindled on thy face, And in thy heart wrought peace, and to thy soul gave grace.
Walking the valley, the mountain scaling, The Christ upon thee beamed.
Crossing the ocean, the tempest wailing, Its solemn dirge to thee sweet music seemed;
For on the waves walked Christ, His light upon thee gleamed.
Slowly the years hast thou left behind thee, And each its harvest bore. •
Harvests of grace! To thy God they bind thee, And on thy wounds their healing balm they pour, And whisper hope to thee of life forevermore.
Years of thy golden endeavor! Gliding
They left a luminous trail.
Many a desolate heart, confiding,
Hath learned to strip itself of sorrow’s veil,
And in God’s sunshine bask, on tranquil waters sail.
Years of thy mission divine! The altar
Has been to thee a throne;
Offering its sacrifice, couldst thou falter In seeking countries distant and unknown, O’er which to spread thy reign, with Christ to rule alone ?
Years of the glamour of Youth! Forever
Their dream-like spell has passed.
Gently we lay them aside, and never
A backward glance upon their charms we cast;
The future holds the j'oy that thou wouldst win at last.
Cometh now evening upon thee; glory Of day now yields to night.	-
Youth has gone by like a thrilling story;
Yet still around thee shimmers plenteous light,
The radiance of thy Christ, inimitably bright. '
Beameth the smile of His commendation
Upon each saintly deed.
Passion has gone in a self-cremation,
And thought has checked its fiery, headlong speed, And reason guides the soul, from every impulse freed.
Age! ’Tis thy season of harvest-making!
The fruits of hope are thine!
Plenteous the stores that await thy taking, That on thy glad, yet dazzled, vision shine, That ripe to fulness burst, and to thy grasp incline.
Season of harvest is age; and, reaping, Still on thee Christ doth smile.
Folding thee close in His loving keeping, - He guards thy purity from Satan’s wile, Thy heart from mad despair, thy soul from every guile.
Lover of Jesus! the shadows sinking, Rest thou upon His breast.
Pillow thy head on His bosom, thinking	•
How John, His dear-beloved, thereon was pressed. Mayst thou,.like John, be loved, and in that love be blessed,	’
668	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BE sewsnc.
53ublisljcl) tficra Saturtan Tmrinjj Ecrm Eimt at X. 13. Snibcrsitj.
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind.
Notre Dame, June 30, 1888.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC now closes the twenty-first year of its existence. With the next number in August it will present itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends who have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day;
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University ot Notre Dame;
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students;	■
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in.Class, and by their good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, $1.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
August 15, 1888.
We cannot close our volume of the Scholastic without a reference, brief though it be, to the 15th of August next. As already announced, it is the day chosen for the formal celebration of the Golden Sacerdotal Jubilee of the venerable Founder of Notre Dame, the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. His Eminence Cardinal Gibbons has signified his intention of being present on the occasion, and the same has been done by Archbishop Elder of Cincinnati, Rt. Rev. Bishops Dwehger of Ft. Wayne, Ryan of Buffalo, and Ryan of Alton. No doubt there will be present many other prelates who have not as yet been heard from. So that the commemoration will certainly mark the most memorable epoch in the history of Notre Dame, as well as one of the most notable anniversaries in the history of the Church in our country. -
We take particular pleasure in adding that our Holy Father Pope Leo XIII has been graciously pleased to bestow an especial mark of his favor in recognition of this golden commemoration. We have been informed that his Holiness grants a plenary indulgence, with the usual conditions, to all who shall, assist at the Jubilee Mass, celebrated in the Church of ’ the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame bn the day
above mentioned. This grand enrichment of the spiritual blessings connected with the solemnity will add renewed fervor to the countless prayers that will ascend to Heaven in behalf of our venerable Founder, that health and strength may be his for many, many more years, to guide the destinies of our Alma Mater, and to continue his able direction of his spiritual children throughout the world.
Thus, then, with the close of its twenty-first volume, the Scholastic extends to Very Rev. Father General the. renewed assurance of the filial devotedness of the students of Notre Dame, and the offering of their best wishes and prayers that his Jubilee year may be fraught with every happiness, and bring to him all that his heart could desire for himself and for his noble work.
Personal.
—One of the most welcome visitors at the commencement exercises was the Rev. John Fitzharris, Rector of St. Veronica’s Church, New York, who delivered the sermon at the Alumni Mass. It was his first visit to Notre Dame in Twenty years, and he found much to surprise and delight him. He was warmly greeted by many old friends, all of whom hope to meet him soon again, o	•
—The Most Rev. Archbishop Redwood, of Wellington, New Zealand, accompanied by his Secretary, Rev. Dr. Patterson, attended the commencement exercises on Tuesday and Wednesday of last week. The distinguished prelate is en route to Rome to visit the Holy Father Pope Leo XIII. His trip from Auckland, New Zealand, to San Francisco occupied twenty-two days, and when he reaches Rome he will, as soon as his business is finished,'continue his journey back to New Zealand, thus making a trip around . the world. .
—A very welcome visitor to Notre Dame during commencement time was Mr. James McCormack, ’67, of Memphis, Tenn. One of the leading students' during the years of his college life—’63-67—he has met with deserved success in the business affairs of life. Not a few among his former professors and fellow-students of “ye olden time ” were here to greet and extend a hearty, welcome. He was accompanied by his amiable wife and two beautiful children, and all greatly, enjoyed their visit. It is hoped , that their pleasant visit will soon, be repeated.
—Very Rev. J. Reze, Provincial of the Congregation of: the Holy Cross in Canada, celebrated the Golden Jubilee of his ordination at St; Laurent’s College, Montreal, on the Sth inst. The occasion was one of great rejoicing and was splendidly celebrated by the students of the college,, the members of the community and the .clergy" of . the city. Father Reze is well
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
known at Notre Dame, having resided here six years as Assistant General. His many friends extend to him their heartiest congratulations and best wishes for many years of health and strength to continue his useful labors in the vineyard Of the Lord. We take pleasure in reprinting on another page one of the addresses presented to him on the happy event.
—Very Rev.W. Corby, C.S.C., left on Tuesday last to attend the great battlefield reunion which will take place at Gettysburg next week, and will mark the commemoration of the twentyfifth anniversary of the greatest battle of the war. Father Corby was chaplain of the Irish Brigade, and administered absolution to the kneeling Catholic regiments as they were about to proceed to the front in that memorable battle. The Secretary I. B. V. A. wrote to him:
“ .... The Irish Brigade Veteran Association meet at Gettysburg, July 2, to dedicate a Celtic cross in honor of our dead. The reunion will be incomplete without you. We look to you who, twenty-five years ago, absolved our kneeling ranks to again minister at the celebration of that event. We want you as our guest, and will try to make you happy while with us, and when the parting comes to let the sorrow be tempered by the joy that we have met once more......Our hearts are bent on your . coming, dear Father. Do not disappoint us.”
The following is taken from the Catholic News:
“On the 2d of next July the survivors of the famous Irish Brigade will unveil a monument at Gettysburg to their dead comrades who fell on that historic field a quarter of a century ago. It is intended to have a Solemn Requiem Mass on the spot where they died, either by his Eminence the Cardinal, or by Archbishop Corrigan, with Rev. Father Ouillet, S. J., and Very Rev. Father Corby,C.S.C., the old chaplains of the Brigade. The music, by a full military band and choir, will be the same as that rendered over the dead of the French army on the field of Solferino, after that famous battle. If carried out as proposed, this will be one of the grandest, most impressive ceremonies of the century, for it is expected that fully 50,000 ex-soldiers of both great armies of the past will be present on that day.”
—We were honored at our commencement exercises by the presence of the Ordinary of the diocese, thcRt.Rcv.Bishop Dwenger of Ft. Wayne. Among the other clergymen present were:, the Most Rev. Archbishop Redwood and his Secretary, the Rev. Dr. Patterson, of New Zealand; Rev. T. O’Sullivan, ’58, Chicago; Rev. J. R. Dinnen, ’66, Crawfordsville, Ind.; Revs. J. Fitzharris, ’68, and Luke Evers, ’79, Ncw York; Rev. J. E. Hogan, ’77, Lemont, Ill.; Revs. J. Shanley and J. Christy, St. Paul,'Minn.; Rev. J. Guegen, Terre Haute, Ind.; Rev. A. B. Occhtering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Rev. T. Vagnicr, ’6r, C. S. C., Earl Park, Ind.; Rev. J. PL Gucndling,Lafayette,Ind.; Rev. M. Moore, Peoria, Ill.;' Rev. P. Paradis, Kankakee, Ill.; Rev. P. J. Boland, Litchfield, Minn.; and many others.
Other visitors were: Mrs. M. M. Guendling, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. W. Cartier, Miss Ida Cartier, Warren A. Cartier, ’87, Ludington, Mich.; Mr. B. Mott, C. Pool, W. Mott, Mr. R. Oppenheimer, Claud Beale, Elgin, Ill.; Mrs. S. Rose, Miss H. Rose, Jess Galloway, La Grange, Ind.; F. Kuhn, ’83, Nashville, Tenn.; Jno. Larkin, ’83, Pottsville, Pa.;.H. Brownson, John Nester, Jno.- F, Nester, Frank Nester, Detroit, Mich.; Mrs. J. O’Kane,
Miss L. Zeigler, L. Grever, Mrs. S. McKenzie, Lieutenant W. McKenzie, Eugene Grever, E. O’Brien, Mrs. M. O’Brien, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mrs. C. Boettcher, Mrs. H. Tomkins, F. Smith, Claud Boettcher, Leadville, Col.; Mrs. J. Hunter, Mrs. Kelso and daughter, Mrs. C. Silver, C. McPhee, W. McPhee, Denver, Col.; R. Papin, L. Campbell, St. Louis, Mo.; G. Campbell, Sparta, HL; Mrs. J. Kern, Mrs. F. Carney, Marionette; G. Noble, Pueblo, Col.; Thomas Griffin, Lourdes, Iowa; Mrs. T. Brady, Houghton, Mich.; Mr.W. Devine, Lloyd Lonergan, J. McDonald, Mrs. P. Kerwin, Mrs. G. Gale, Mrs. J. Flannery, M. McAlister, J. Hogan, Mrs. Chas. Plauerondon, Mrs. John Cooke, Mrs. P. Cavanagh, Joseph E. Elder, Alice Coffee, J. Murphy, John Inderrieden, Flor-, ence Flannery, Mrs. J. Cooke, Mrs. Plamonden, Mabel Kearsey, Bertha Kearney, Geo. Mayer, Mrs. H. Weadley, Nellie Weadley, T. Cavanagh, C. Cavanagh, J. McMahon, Jr., S. McMahon, W. Josselyn, B. Josselyn, Anna Mara, Mrs. P. Barry and daughter, Chicago, HL; W. O’Brien, Pares; Marie Brady, Versailles, HL; W. Sullivan, R. Hedges, Frank H. Dexter, ’86, F. Long, J. Linis, Kansas City, Mo.; Miss G. McMahon, C. Plautz, Chicago; Miss K. Young, New York; Mr. and* Mrs. Pfau, Indianapolis, Ind.; Miss C. Wehrle Madison, Ind.; S. T. Murdock, Mrs. P. Burns, Mrs. J. Cassady, Michigan City; Marie Beckman, Ottawa, O.; D.H. Regan, Victoria, Texas; J. Cui- . len, E. Melady, M. Kerwin, P. O’Regan, D. O’Regan, Cora Hollinshead, St. Paul, Minn.; John Mack, New York; Anna Heckard, Tolono, Ill.; P. B. Ewing, F. C. Ewing, ’79, Philomena. Ewing, Angela Ewing, Alice Cox, Lancaster, Ohio; Mrs. Timothy Nester, Hattie Nester,Lizzie Nester, Marquette; j. K. Fisk, New Zealand; John Keating, Council Bluffs; Mr. and Mrs. M. Cooney, Minnie Cooney, Toledo, Ohio; Wm. Morrison, Fort Madison, Iowa; Wm. Mug.’84, Lafayette, Ind.; Mrs. J. Murphy,Miss.M. F. Murphy,Wood-stock, Ill.; Angela Marre, Arkansas; J. Suavely, Mrs. W. McFadden, Clara McFadden, Joe McFadden, Rose McFadden, Harrisburg, Pa.; Theodore Muellenmeister, Chicago; R. F. Byrne, Colorado Springs, Colo.; Mr. and Mrs. McCormack and children, Memphis, Tenn.; J. Robertson, John Robertson, Allegheny City, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs. Chas. R. Frank, Pittsburg, Pa.; Mr. and Mrs, Chas. Kelly, Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Frank,Wovalano, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. F. Black, Hamilton, Ohio; Robert E. Brown, Uniontown, Pa.; Mrs. P. Cavanagh, Chicago; Mrs. Duggan, Dubuque, Iowa; W. Rowscy, Cleveland, Ohio, and a host of others whom we cannot mention through lack of space; but all may be assured that the honor and pleasure of their presence were duly appreciated. .
Summer Vacations. -
Before deciding on your summer vacation, call on or , write nearest agent of the Lake Shore Railway and obtain one of their pamphlets entitled " The Mail Bag,” in which . a list of routes and rates to the various Summer Resorts is given; or communicate with A. J. Smith, General Passenger. Agent, Cleveland, Ohio.	1 <	:■
6^0
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Local Items.
—Good bye.
—We hope to see you later. ’
—Who leaves the door open?
—The St. Cecilians, as usual, carried off most of the honors.
—The Library will be open from I to 5 every afternoon during vacation.
—Mr. Philip Wagoner should have been credited with a premium for Greek in our list of last week.
—The Chicago & Alton RR. placed at the disposal of the students the finest cars for St. Louis, Kansas City, and New Orleans.
—Each of the 135 Princes was decorated with a Sorin badge on Commencement Day. The badges were models of elegance and taste.
—There are two “eye sores” between the main building and the Presbytery! One is supposed to be an antique wooden covering for a cistern or cavity of some kind, and the other is a specimen of a primitive rustic fence. Let them go.
—The picture of 135 princes is-the finest and most artistic of any that Mr. McDonald has taken at N otre Dame this year. It was taken in St. Edward’s Park. Very Rev. Father General sat in front of the statue of the Sacred Heart, with the Rev. President and Rev. Father Granger on either side, Rev. Fathers Morrissey and Regan also figured in the group.
—To the great regret of the Minims and the o	o
Denver delegation, they had to leave Notre Dame on Thursday morning without seeing Very Rev. Father General who was not at home. But what was their delight to find him before them at the depot in South Bend. The students know how to value such thoughtful attention on the part of the affectionate Founder.
—The gentlemanly officers of the L. S. & M. S. RR. have the thanks of the students for the travelling facilities afforded during commencement time. On Thursday morning the last “special,” leaving South Bend at 8.30, consisted of two Pullman cars, bound for Denver and other points under the direction of Rev. Father Zahm, and two well-filled coaches for Chicago under the direction of Prof.: Lyons.
—After the great game of ball between the “Green Stockings” of South Bend,and the University nine, on Tuesday of Commencement, the young college athletes were fittingly rewarded fortheir efforts during the year. J. C. Larkin (Law) ’83, made a few happy remarks on the benefit of athletics to college students, after which grand gold medals were presented to the successful contestants. James Burns, captain of special nine, received the Farren medal; Geo. Cartier, captainbf U. N. D. champions, the Adler, medal; M. Smith, captain of U. N. D.‘‘Reds,” the Kempner medal; H. B. Luhn, captain of U. N. D. Rugby team, the Russ medal; J. Hep
burn, the Wyman Rugby prize medal; H. Jewett, the Krueper Rugby prize medal. The Director of the association presented gold medals to each member of the champion nine as follows: F. Springer, Frank Fehr, D. Tewksbury, Thos. O’Regan, H. White, J. Cusack, Geo. Tarrant, J. Meagher and J. Clark.
—The Minims’ distribution of Premiums took place on the 18th inst., in St. Edward’s Hall, and we.doubt if any part of the Commencement exercises passed off more pleasantly. The princes, dressed -in the beautiful uniform of the Sorin Cadets, presented a splendid appearance. Previous to the distribution, the Minims provided a programme, consisting of vocal and instrumental music, dialogues and recitations which did them honor and delighted the select audience of distinguished visitors. It was a pleasure to witness the happy faces of the Minims, as Very Rev. Father General presented each with his premiums. Rev. President Walsh, in the course of his speech, said that the Minim department had given perfect satisfaction during the year; that he was well pleased with the Minims, that the handsome prizes which they had just received were well deserved. Very Rev..Father General spoke next. Among other wittyremarks he said: “ I cannot agree with your Rev. President in saying I am pleased with you; I am not pleased, I am delighted and prouder than I ever was of my princes.”
—Gifts to the Historical Collections in the Bishops’ Memorial Hall:—Quaint old mitre of perforated canvas, filled in with old-fashion crossstitch in heavy red silk floss and decorated with vine and grapes made of pearl beads, owned and used by the sainted first Bishop of St. Paul, Right Rev. Mgr. Cretin, presented by Rev. Father Shanley when he came to attend the commencement exercises. Beautiful floral cross from Jerusalem, presented by Mrs. Peter Smith. Souvenir of his visit to Notre Dame, presented by Most Rev. Archbishop Redwood, of Wellington, New Zealand. Autograph of the Bishop of Portland, presented by Rev. T. E. Walsh. Ancient Roman coins presented by Mr. A. Hagen. Historical manuscript concerning the conversion of the Tong family presented by Mr. Hutchinson. Biography of Lieutenant Col. Julius P. Garcsche, U. S. A., with portrait; “Life of Rev. Prince Gallitzin,” second priest ordained in the United States; “Life of the Venerable Clement. Hoffbauer,” translated into English by Lady Herbert; “Familiar Explanations of Catholic Doctrine,” by Muller; “Victories of the Martyrs”; “Meditations of a Parish Piiest”; Ancient Devotional.Poetry”; Irish Monthly Magazine 14 vols., from 1873-87; lot of Catholic papers, magazines and reviews; presented by a friend. Four manuscript letters of Archbishop Marechal, presented by Sister St. Charles. T wo letters written, by the Bishop of Cleveland, presented by J. R---. Photograph of the-Rt. Rev. Bishop of Peoria, presented by Prof.William Hoynes, LL. D. Original letters written by the Bishop of:Denver, presented by Father Burns.	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC'.	611
St. Mary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
The Thirty-Third Annual Commencement.
Notwithstanding the Chicago Convention and o	o
the excessive heat, throngs of visitors came to St-. Mary’s to witness the closing exercises of the scholastic year ’87-88. Never were the shade trees more appreciated, and from early morning till dusk was every available space on the grounds occupied by parents and friends of the pupils.
ON TUESDAY, THE IQTH, . the exercises, consisting of essays and music by the young ladies of the Graduating Class, were held before a most attentive and appreciative audience. The music is spoken of elsewhere, and according to the opinion of all, the essays were worthy of the highest praise. Besides being models of composition, they were read in a very pleasing manner. The simplicity and modesty of the Graduates added not a little to the pleasure afforded by them, and called forth many favorable comments. The South Bend Times speaks of the essays as follows:
“ Light and Darkness ” was the theme of the graceful production of Miss May Hummer, of Iowa City, Iowa. She spoke of the importance of cheerfulness in one’s character; of the difficulty of one’s being philosophical in adversity and privation. When the means for doing good and achieving greatness seem to be barred from us it is then that one feels the load of despair come down upon him. Examples of historical note were adduced to show that even in the midst of discouragement, opposition or bodily affliction, many of the greatest men in history have won their way to greatness. As the diamond shows its intrinsic worth in the darkest cavern, so does fortitude shine forth the greater amid the darkest surroundings. These are only a few thoughts in Miss Hummer’s effort, which was well received.
’ “The Mission of Thought” was a subject very gracefully treated by the essayist, Miss Mary Neff, of Sioux City, Iowa. To devour the contents of many books does not bespeak for the reader a deeper vein of thought. Few books well read are more the means of correct judgment. The superficial thinker is the one most easily deceived by false reasoning. Soonest arrived at conclusions are not'the most reliable. Her essay was replete with good thoughts, and
was very creditable to her literary abilities. ; Miss May Sullivan, of South Bend, had for her theme “ The Sacred Past.” To many minds-there is nothing so irritating as a reference to the past. The young Miss who cannot bake a loaf of bread or prepare a roast, jeers at any reference to the past that had no gasoline stoves, ranges and other modern- appliances for the preparation of the articles of cookery for which very frequent commendation is heard. While the essayist did not believe in the past being-the only perfect time, she did believe that events and necessities shaped themselves to particular times. Miss Sullivan continued in this train of
I
thought throughout her neatly worded and originally expressed production,and liberal applause was awarded her as she concluded.
i “ Bande der Natur” was the subject of Miss Estella Horn’s essay in the German language. The writer is no judge of the production, from a-lack of knowledge of the language, but is in-formed that, as a linguistic and literary effort, Miss Horn’s essay should be highly commended. It was read with good effect, and was loudly applaqded. Miss Horn is a post graduate, and has one of the finest records at St. Mary’s.
“ Distance Lends Enchantment,” was Miss Maty A. Keyes’ subject for her essay, in which she held up for the consideration of her hearers the deceiving characteristic of first impressions. The necessity of illusions was recognized, and the critic might himself err in too closely criticizing what seems on first impression to be a mistake, an error in judgment. The glow-worm and the will-o’-the-wisp are very nice to talk and write about, but the sun, the gas jet, etc., are much nicer to study by and to accomplish life’s duties. The young lady concluded her ra’ther lengthy effort by saying that, despising the false and adhering to the true, faithful in our principles, our happiness will be secure. Her production was attentively heard arid met with a cordial reception. Miss Keyes is a resident of Denver, Colorado.
’Miss M. F. Murphy’s French essay, “La Reconnaissance 1’Ange du Cceur,” was another linguistic effort, the merits of which the comments of those who understand the language must be depended upon for a criticism. Their criticisms were uniformly that it was a most meritorious production. Miss Murphy’s three years’ study of the French language have evidently been spent to a purpose, as her abilities in; that language are shown in great conversational powers.
f Modesty, the Crown of Merit,” was the subject to which Miss Ellen Brady, of Versailles,.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ill., had turned her powers to display her abilities as an essayist, and very nicely, indeed, did she express her thoughts on that subject. She had the close attention of her auditors throughout her reading, and a very favorable verdict of her literary abilities was shown in the marks of approval at the close of her reading.
“The Niobe of Nations” was shown to be Ireland, in Miss Kearns’ essay in which she delineated the true Irishman in a manner that evoked applause which burst forth time and. again in the course of her predictions as to the future of the Irish race and the result of his resistance to tyranny and oppression. Miss Kearns received quite an outburst of applause when she concluded her reading. Miss Kearns is a native of Ireland.
The essay, “Simplicity,” was one of the gems of the afternoon, and was gracefully treated and read with fine effect by Miss Grace Regan, of Victoria, Texas. It well deserved the marks of approval from her listeners.
“An Unsafe Criterion,” was dwelt upon in a very talented manner by Miss Belle Snowhook, of Chicago, whose thoughts on that subject found utterance in an essay expressed in choice language. Her essay was one of the afternoon favorites.
“The Multitude” was originally treated in an essay by Miss C. Hughes, of Denver, who ' paid a deserved tribute to the “ many others ” that ffo to form the multitude that follow and o
support the standard-bearers among mankind, and who labor, fight, and, if need be, die to support their leaders in the effort for progress or civil and religious liberty. Her eulogy on the honest multitude, “ the mankind that began over 1800 years ago,” was clothed in eloquent terms, and her entire effort left with her audience an impression most favorable.
The essay," Sunset,” by Miss Frances Carmien, of Goshen, was a poetical effusion of a high order of merit. She put much expression in her reading, and thus enhanced the beauty of her fine poetical composition.
ON WEDNESDAY,’
the distribution of Premiums took place, beginning promptly at i I a. m. The programme was short, but well carried out from first to last.
The Valedictory, simple and touching, was rendered by Miss M. F. Murphy in her unassuming, charming way, and the emotion displayed by her and by her classmates, carried many a post-graduate’s thoughts back to the day which marked the close of her school-life. We give it in full in another column.
When .Rev. P. F. Carr stepped upon the plat
form, silent attention showed that all expected a literary treat, for many had heard his able Oration at the University on Tuesday evening; nor were they disappointed. Never were more appropriate words addressed to a graduating class, and as the Rev. orator dwelt upon the duties of young ladies and the qualities which render them beloved by all, his clear tones carried to each listener a lasting impression, and awakened in all a desire to imitate the ideal young woman, pictured in his graceful, earnest words. As soon as the applause accorded Rev. Father Carr had subsided, Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger introduced to the audience Most Rev-. Archbishop Redwood, of New Zealand, who thanked the young ladies for the pleasure they had afforded him, congratulated them on their success, and assured them of a remembrance in prayer.
Vocal and Instrumental Music of th.e Thirty-Third Annual Oommen cement.
TUESDAY—CONCERT DAY—JUNE 19.
Schumann’s brilliant, and effective “Gipsey Chorus” opened graduates’ and concert day. Taken by the vocal class at a rapid tempo, expressive of Roumeny life, the singers gave with zest the spirited subject. First in full chorus, then in alternate short motive themes, which flew through the ranks with gem-like brightness, winding up with vigorous harmonies. The accompaniment to all the choruses of both days, played with intelligence and precision by Miss E. Horn, showed her mistress of this portion of her musical education.
The vocal quartette from “Rigoletto” was excellent, blending in pure harmony, the parts being taken by the' Misses K. Gavan, H. Guise, C. Moran, and N. Dempsey, whose voices were prominent also in the Schumann chorus.
The harp solo—fantasia on “God Save the King”—demanded great skill, as it contained most of the technical touches peculiar to artistic harp playing, and the audience were satisfied, that Miss Dillon did justice to this difficult arrangement by Oberthiir.
Chopin’s best “Ballade,” opus 23 in G. Moll, was admirably played by Miss H. Guise, whose facile fingers kept the constant flow of melody equal, yet, with’ true Chopin sotto voce, under the connected singing tones. At times the agitato passages startled, then sank into tender cadences. The brilliant presto brought forth her strength, hitherto subdued, which now flashed a warm hue over this charming composition, and its soulful contents. .
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
$73
Miss M. F. Murphy did justice to the Bravura sons', founded on Yon Weber’s celebrated “ L’in-vito alia Danza.” tier clear soprano tones— florid chromatic and diatonic runs—with the long final trill gave a brilliant close to this piece of vocal virtuosity.	•
Liszt’s grand “Rhapsodie Hongroise, No. 12,” opened with a majestic introduction, rendered with- fermata aplomb, gave evidence that Miss Horn understood both the form and correct rendition of the composer’s meaning—an ideal expression of Zingarii’s reckless life. Heard in capricious, fitful alternate moods' of sadness and boisterous gaiety, the rubato episodes between the pipe and tambourine passages, forcing a contrary expression of bass against the treble. The stretto movement, in short, detached snatches of motives which appeared like separate private practice, interspersed by occasional tuning of their instruments, was well worked out, ending in a wild finale which roused the enthusiastic applause of the audience.
The closing chorus from Handel’s Messiah, the great “ Hallelujah,” needs no comment. Its uplifting power is ever felt, no matter what may be the mode of expressing its grandeurs, be it with full orchestra, mixed, or even female voices, Handel’s genius permeates throughout. The full vocal class, joined to the more cultured class, gave out their full strength, which showed the need of a larger hall for this glorious hymn of praise to the Most High.
WEDNESDAY—COMMENCEMENT DAY—JUNE 20.
“ Marche des Imperiaux,” from “Julius Cmsar,” arranged by Hans Von Bulow, was the name of the grandest march ever played for the entrance of the pupils at St. Mary’s; surpassing even the famous “Kaiser” of former years, adding to the grace of the salutations which form a unique feature, thus showing Academic education does not exclude the culture of life’s amenities.
Taken from the full orchestral score, the chords thrilled through the hall in slow, majes-" tic sounds, and the difficult tempos and strange accents were made to sound easy by the conquest of the trained fingers which produced such unshrinking unity by the performers: the Misses E. Horn, M. Rend, H. Guise, M. F. Murphy, L. Van Horn, A. Reidinger, B. Snowhook and G. Regan, o
Another grand chorus was reserved for this day from Wagner’s “Tannhauser.” Heavy and martial were the .ringing strains which floated through the hall, awakening the distant echoes, o	1	o
The rounded periods showed the result of good
training in the management of tone-power, and again we regretted the want of space where the vocalists could give full scope to their excellent voices.
“Che Gioja,” was a joyous morceau, sung by Miss FI. Guise, who-has a light soprano voice of a tender, child-like quality, the head tones clear and true, and her simple manner, threw a charm around the tripping melody which enhanced the beauty of the pleasing selection.
The sextette from “Trovatore” was a gem, rendered by six picked voices—the Misses M. F. Murphy, K. Gavan, H. Guise, C. Moran, M. Dempsey, and C. Dempsey—whose pure tones came out, distinguished according to the register of each vocal organ. Sweetly smooth in character, this piece bore a strong contrast to the heavier efforts of the day, and was. correctly rendered to the end. Miss Gavan’s powerful voice was equal to the rendition of Von Weber’s “Scena from Oberon”—“Ocean, Thou Mighty Monster”—difficult by reason of the long-sustained high tones and passages in various styles of vocalization. It was a perfect success, and the sympathetic accompaniment played by Miss Guise showed her genius to good advantage.
When Miss Murphy stepped to the front, some of the audience who heard her sing at the pupils’ celebration of Very Rev. Father General Sorin’s Golden Jubilee with such skill the classic “Che Pior Aspro Al Amore,” wondered if the “Oh Stella Amata” would not disappoint their expectation, being entirely different in the more modern variation form of brilliant enunciation. Miss Murphy’s presentation of the ornamented theme by Proch soon put aside all doubt, and proved her trained acquaintance with all phases of vocal culture which gained the approval of the most critical.
Then came the only instrumental piece for the music graduates—Miss Horn, piano I, and Miss Guise, piano 2, played an impromptu by Carl Reineke, on one motive from “Schumann’s Manfred,” which was a striking contrast to the elaborate style of their instrumental solos on -concert day. The impromptu being in imitative phrases of pure flowing legato, answering by turn in irregular rhythms, trills and charming diminuendo passages, through which the oft-recurring one motive from “Manfred” was heard, “Rufing der Fee.” The rendition could only be compared to the finest lace work, having just enough crescendo to give point to the limpid flow of exquisite melody.
The last choral number, was “Inflammatus,” from Rosinni’s “Stabat Mater”—a canto and chorus. The canto part by Miss Murphy, and
674	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
chorus full vocal class. We can only say it was the best among the best; all were as one, and this rendition was the crowning gem of the vocal o o
department in ensemble singing.
Again the pianists took places for the Retiring March from Carl Goldmark’s celebrated opera, “ Die Konigin von Saba,” a difficult march descriptive of the reception of the Queen of Sheba by King Solomon, and was appreciatively played by the Misses Guise, M. Dillon, L. Van Horn, A. Reidinger, E. Flannery, 0. O’Brien, M. Hillas, and M. Allen, who closed the day triumphantly, rolling forth the richest harmonies, while the pupils gracefully left the hall.
GRADUATING HONORS. ’
ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT.
Graduating Honors were conferred by Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger on Miss E. Brady, Versailles, Ill.; Miss F. Carmien, Goshen, Ind.; Miss M. Hummer,'Iowa City, Iowa; Miss K. Hughes, Denver, Col.; Miss N. Kearns, Ireland; Miss A. Keyes, Denver, Col.; Miss M. F. Murphy, Woodstock, Ill.; Miss M. Neff, Lincoln, Neb.; Miss G. Regan, Victoria, Texas; Miss B. Snowhook, Chicago, Ill.; Miss M. Sullivan, South Bend, Ind.
CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC.
Graduating Medal in Advanced Course Music was awarded to Miss E. Horn, Columbus, Ohio.
Graduating Medal in First Course Music was awarded to Miss H. Guise, Baltimore, Md.
Graduating Medal in Harp was awarded to Miss M. Dillon, Chenoa, Ill.
Graduating Medal in Vocal -Music was awarded to Miss M. F. Murphy,Woodstock, Ill.
Gold Medal for Completion of French Course, was awarded to Miss M. F. Murphy, Woodstock, Ill.	.
Gold Medal for Completion of German Course, was awarded to Miss E. Horn, Columbus, Ohio.
CROWNS.
£for politeness, neatness, order, amiability, and CORRECT DEPORTMENT.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Crowns par excellence were awarded to Misses M.F. Murphy,Kearns,Beschameng,Prudhomme, Moran,Wiesenbach, Flannery, Brady, Hummer, Neff, G. Regan, Sullivan, Harlen, Hinz, Wright, E. Regan, Hutchinson, Guise, Papin, H. Dempsey, Clifford, Henke, Stadtler, E. McCarthy, C. Dempsey, L. Meehan.
Crowns of Honor were awarded to Misses Hughes, Burton, McNamara,Piper,C. McCarthy,
Ducey, Barth, Waterbury, M. and I. Horner, Andree, Richardson, Reidinger, Geer, Heffron, Brewer, Moore, English, Sloman, C. Hurley Connors, Rend, Balch, McCormick, Robinson, Thompson, Blacklock, Davis, Bub, E. Coll, Kron, Bourne, Hellman? Daube, Saviers.	'
Honorably mentioned—Misses Zahm,E.Nich-olas, Marley, J. McFadden, Fenton, B. Voecht-ing, Hooker, Belfield, Dority, Pomeroy, Bogner.
First Honors—Misses Snowhook, Keyes, Car-mien, Smith, Hertzog, C. Desmond, O’Brien, Gavan, Fitzpatrick, Hoffman, McEwen, Wehr, Van Mourick, Bates, K. Hurley, Earley, Claggett, Kohler, Gordon, Boyer, Marsh, Dunkin, M. Coll.
Honorably mentioned—Miss E. Spier.
Second Honors—Misses E. Quill, N. Meehan, Sheean, K. Quealey.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Crowns par excellence were awarded to Misses Stapleton,Rinehard,Newman,Kloth.E.Quealey.
Crowns of Honor—Misses Miller, Churchill, Dreyer,T. Balch, M. Hughes, S. Dempsey, Hake, Morse, Blaine, Emma Burns, Rogers, Fritz.
Honorably mentioned—Misses G. Lauth, N.
Wurzburg.	■
First Honors—Misses Pugsley, Dolan, Butler, M. Burns, Rose.
Honorably mentioned—A. Wurzburg, Thirds, E. Smith.
Second Honors—F. Burdick, McCune, Farwell, N. Davis, G. Papin.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Crowns were awarded to Misses A. Papin, O’Mara, Ella Burns, S. Smith.
Honorably mentioned—E. Moore, F. Palmer.
Notes.
—The church, cement walks and the grounds 1	o
in general, were much admired by the many visitors of the past few days.
—It was a source of regret to all that the room in which the exercises were held was so small.. Next year, the new Exhibition Hall will be completed.
—The very last day of school was marked by an act of thoughtful kindness on the part of Very Rev. Father General, who treated the pupils to delicious strawberries.
—Among the visitors were the following PostGraduates: Mrs. M. Dillon Cavanagh, Class ’67; Miss K. Young, Class ’71; Miss A. Ewing, Class ’81; Miss A. Dillon,Class’80; Mrs. Lora Williams Wiley, Class ’87; Miss B. Kearney and Miss M. Kearsey, Class ’87; Miss A. Shephard,Class ’86; Miss A. Heckard, Class ’86. The old pupils were
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	6%S
represented by Mrs. M. Beckman, P. Ewing, A. Cox, F. Sullivan, Alice Gordon, H. and L. Nester, H. Stumer, A. Livingston, F. Kingsbury, S. Dart and J. Latta.
—Among the clergymen at the annual commencement exercises were: Most Rev. Archbishop Redwood, of New Zealand; Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, Ft.Wayne; Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C., Very Rev. W. Corby, Provincial, C.S.C.; Rev. Fathers L’Etourneau, Zahm, Morrissey, C. S.C.; Rev. Father Carr, Denver, Colo.; Rev. Father McShane, Chicago; Rev. Father Cooney, C.S. C.; Rev. Father Gue-guen, Chaplain at St. Mary’s of the Woods,Terre Haute, Ind.; Rev. Fathers Saulnier, Regan, M. Lauth, and Hagerty, C. S.C.; Rev. A. B. Oech-tering, Mishawaka, Ind.; Rev. J. R. Dinnen,Crawfordsville, Ind.; Rev. T. O’Sullivan, S. Chicago; Rev. J. E.Hogan, Lemont,Ill.; Rev. J. H. Guend-ling, Lafayette, Ind.; Rev. Luke Evers, New York; Rev. John Fitzharris, New York City; Rev. Father Shanley, Rev. Father Christy, St. Paul, Minn.; Rev. P. Paradis, Kankakee, Ill.; Rev. C. Maujay, Fowler, Ind.; Rev. Fathers Fal-lize, and Vagnier, C.S.C.
—The Art Department exhibition was pronounced good by those capable of judging. The workings of the course, from the first strokes to specimens of highest skill were easily traced, and that the work of teaching was thorough was evident. In oil paintings the heads, and the Madonna of Miss Neff were favorably criticised; Nora Meehan’s picture of the “Boy and Dog” was considered indicative of much talent; Miss Addie Gordon had many paintings as evidence of her talent and application, and if the many artistic pieces she has done to oblige others during the year were in the studio they would tell, not of her talent alone, but of her great kindness. The- Misses Nicholas, Henke, Fitzpatrick and Robinson had very creditable work, on exhibition. In water-colors the Misses Wehr, Bub, Kohler, Andree, Gordon, Stadtler, Hoffman, Campbell, Hutchinson, and Sloman did excellent work in paintings of flowers, etc., from nature. The Misses E. Coll, L. Hillas, and A. Gordon excelled in crayon work, to which fact several fine portraits testified. The pencillings were well done, and were admired by all. Those deserving special mention were from the pencils of the Misses L. McNamara, I. Horner,. E. Nicholas, Brewer, Kohler, Stapleton, Piper, Koester, Calkins, and B. Voechting. Miss G. Stadtler exhibited a beautifully painted tea-set. St. Luke’s Studio has always been a special attraction at St Mary’s, and this year has fully sustained its high reputation. •
The exhibit of fancy work was greatly admired by the hosts who visited that department. Table scarfs, piano covers, toilet-sets, chair scarfs,embroidered chairs, screens, and all imaginable articles admitting of ornamentation were there, richly worked, and showing skill and patience. Birds and flowers of every possible and - impossible hue were seen on all sides. Much
taste was displayed in arranging the different articles, and the whole room presented a most artistic appearance. The fingers which worked, so many beautiful pieces belonged to the Misses Bub, B. Voechting, M. Dillon, Wagner, Sloman, Beschameng, L. Nicholas, Brewer,Wehr, Kohler, Hellmann, Dunkin, Farwell, and others.
Valedictory.
BY MARY FRANCES MURPHY.
Mingled with the acclamations of joy which: so lately echoed through every loving heart on the commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary . of our beloved Founder, a minor chord is heard, to vibrate in the chorus of gladness. In the glory of meridian splendor there is a foreboding' of the coming night. Along the translucent azure portending clouds are seen to gather.. Amid the roseate hues surrounding the joyous anticipation of the welcome home, mingle shades-of present gloom. Borne on the plashing wavelets of dear St. Joseph’s River, and amid the ' sighing zephyrs of St.Mary’s consecrated groves, we hear the plaintive cadences of the parting hour. From every side surges the refrain of Commencement day—the mournful word adieuf
It comes with all the force of tender reminiscences, and the holy commendation from loving lips to the Divine protection, whose benedictions fall like the fragrance of celestial flowers in this, the chosen month of the Sacred. ' Heart.
And where can these benedictions perform-their heavenly office more effectually than here amid the haunts of our school-days? The very trees seem to bend caressingly downward, and to “whisper their benedicites” to accompany" us, as for the last time we go forth from beneath, their grateful shadows forever.	.
To the most indifferent nature, tender associations must cling around the places made-dear by some loved presence, or by hallowed " memories. How- much more to hearts burning-with , the fire of love and gratitude. Our surroundings have been the inanimate witnesses of' our joys and sorrows, of our pleasures and trials.. -Even now they seem to sympathize with our . hearts’ deepest emotions. From out the silent past come the echoes of voices long since gone' . to swell the celestial refrain; voices of those whose self-sacrifice and devotedness have transmitted to us the ineffable privileges we now : enjoy: voices which lent a twofold charm to the ; words to which we hearkened with eager atten- .
1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
tion. Even these seem around us as we pay the last tribute of affection.
Rr. Rev. Bishop of Ft. Wayne:—Our beloved Bishop, deeply do we feel your kindness in consenting to award our commencement honors, and we are far from insensible to the numerous benefactions due to your thoughtful supervision: nor do we forget the noble advice you have from time to time during our school career imparted tons. Thankingyou warmly, our beloved Bishop, and begging your holy prayers for the Class of ’SS, we pay our respectful adieu.
Rt. Rev. Bishop of New Zealand:—From the far, far Occident, we welcome you to St. Alary’s, and to our commencement exercises! With no common pleasure do we greet so distinguished an honor; and trusting that with our mingled i	o	o
introduction and farewell, joyous remembrances alone will blend, we beg your kindly prayers for our happy future.
Rev. Father Carr:—Our esteemed guest and orator of the day, while greeting you as the representative of the mammoth world of thrift and enterprise, which is now, like a young giant, springing to view in the mighty West, we must felicitate, not you alone, Rev. Father, but ourselves, on the noble delegates from the youth of the West, who have entered our beloved Alma Mater, and especially from your own “Queen city of the West.” With our earnest welcome and our grateful thanks for your prized visit on this occasion, fraught with so much interest to us, and also thanks for your kindness in paying us the tribute of your eloquence, accept our respectful farewell.
Very Rev. and dear Father General:—It has been our happy privilege, our distinguished honor, not only to hail your return home from Holy Land, with all its sacred associations, but also to celebrate the glorious anniversary of your priestly ordination, and to pay our congratulations on the remarkable recurrence of
“Your consecration
Made fifty years ago, the full oblation Of self by three grand vows; ”
and now, as we stand on the threshold of the parting hour, two volumes lie before us: the one that of our own future, just opened, still unread; the other, a rich, majestic tome; the first complete volume of a life which the angels read with joy—your own,Very Rev. and dear Father; a volume printed and bound in gold and clasped with innumerable jewels, the companion to others yet to follow, as we trust. We look upon the still unwritten pages of our own lives, and pray that ours may resemble, in some slight measure at least, the divinely illuminated pages
which we now contemplate with so much admiration. While around you from every quarter are showered cheering greetings from many a grateful heart, accept, with our renewed and earnest congratulations, our reluctant farewell.
Rev.Chaplain, and Assistant Chaplain:—With a keen sense of indebtedness we call to mind your devoted ministrations. While our physical and mental necessities have been the objects of constant and faithful attention on the part of our ever devoted teachers, our souls you have gently guided in the pathway of supernatural grace and holy benedictions; but while we address you, Rev. Fathers, we call to mind a cheerful presence and benignant smile, which for many years have been an integral part of St. Mary’s, but which are missed to-day. In lieu of thanks which we would fain return to dear Father Shortis, in our hearts we breathe, a grateful prayer for him, while we bid you, Rev. Fathers, farewell.
Seraph voices chant the praises of the noble, self-sacrificing labors of dear Mothers and our teachers. They toil, not for human gratitude, which so often, though bearing the semblance of sterling gold, turns out as mere tinsel. Undying affection and grateful remembrance are the tributes we return, as with hearts overflowing with emotion we depart from beneath their sheltering guidance.
Our dear Schoolmates:—The way before you is beset with countless obstacles, and fraught with many trials, sure pledges of future triumphs. Perseverance alone will win the golden guerdon which to-day is ours! Led, like Constantine, “by this sign you shall conquer,” your guarantee of success will be in your truth to the divine mandate. With this parting reminder accept, dear companions, our affectionate farewell.
Months of toil have welded more closely the ties which have held in sweet harmony, the Class of ’88. No cloud mars the horizon of retrospection—its brightness only augments the mournful suggestions of the sad word we are now forced to utter.
As we look back, the Alpha, with its fond expectations, shines like a star at the opening of our pathway. Over the laurels of the Omega fall the shadows of parting. No fonder wish could be expressed for each loved member than that she shall remain faithful to our class motto, and bear humbly the white flower of a stainless life before the throne of God, where, when the tuition of earth is over, we shall assemble at the final commencement of eternity, and shall no more be called upon to utter the mournful word—farewell!	■