

Unfulfilled? 
Quench your earthly desires here. 

is now hiring: 
Advertising/Business Manager · Distribution Manager 
Call 1-5029 or stop by the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall for more information. 

Cover: Sarcastic 2000 13 
Football players, the administration, squirrels: what else are they good for but as targets for our annual humor issue? We're funnier than The Onion and better than The Observer, so join us as we share our campus wisdom. byScholastic Staff 
Kaneb Center 8 

Teaching teachers: Professors arid TAs learn how to get their messages across. by Jane Pater 

Elegance Defined 27 
Look out, Broadway. After a two-year renovation, South Bend' s Morris Performing Arts Center is ready for prime-time. 
by Kathleen Corte 
When Help Counts by Aggie Noble  7  
A World of Possibility by Meredith Salisbury  10  
Positions Available by Jacklyn Kiefer  12  
Baseball's Beginnings by Rebecca Frazier  24  
Departments  

From the Editor 2 Listening In 4 ND Notebook 5 Campus Watch 23 Splinters from the Pressbox 25 Out of Bounds 29 Week in Distortion 30 Calendar 31 Final Word 32 


Tee-Hee 
Iwalked slowly to the center of the stage. The music faded, the audience hushed and the lights came up, nearly blinding me with their brightness. Although unable to see the crowd, I knew 1,500 expectant faces were staring at me. Dressed in a Navy ROTC uniform, I had the privilege ofskewering Notre Dame athletics, administrators and residence halls as an actor in the infamous Keenan Revue. After the show, the usual slate ofangry student letters appeared in the Observer. A few days letter, one of my friends approached me about the show. "I have to talk to you about the Revue," she said. I got nervous. Had I somehow offended her? "I was upset about the show. You guys didn't even make fun of our dorm once!" she complained. I smiled, relieved at my friend's mock anger. Although some students had taken exception to the jokes in the Revue, I realized that, by and large, people understood that the show's intention is not to offend but to entertain. It is a way of making sure that none of us ­even Keenan residents -take ourselves too seriously. In the same spirit, Scholastic offers its April Fool's Day edition, Sarcastic. While we parody everything from administrators to athletics to that campus newspaper, it's all in good fun. We had a blast putting the issue together and I hope you have just as much fun reading it. 
Award Winners 

This past weekend, Scholastic traveled to the Indiana Collegiate Press Association conference and took home a number of awards. Graduating seniors Meredith Salisbury and Dave Leeney were recognized for their contri­butions. Current staff members Mike Griffin, Kara Zuaro, Kat Corte, Carol Wolf and Kim Blackwell also received awards. Congratulations to all the winners. 

Hello and Goodbye

This issue marks the first time in four years that Brian Christ and Meredith Salisbury have not been up until an ungodly hour on Tuesday night. They did an incredible job during their reign as co-editors, and I can't thank them enough for all oftheir hard work and dedication. My only consolation is that the incoming staff is young, talented and will definitely follow in Brian and Meredith's footsteps. I also wanted to say a final goodbye to Heather Hogan. Heather, our assistant layout editor, did not appear on last issue's farewell page. We regret the omission and hope that she still loves us. Thanks to Heather and 
all of the g,aduating senion;. You will all p·~ 
Jim Pastore Editor in Chief 


Heather Hogan worked with the Scholastic layout team for two and one-half years as assistant layout editor. Heather will graduate from Notre Dame with a double­major in economics and psychology and will begin work with a public relations/advertising agency in Chicago after graduation. 



Scholastic 
Vol. 141, No. 12 • April 6, 2000 
Disce Quasf Semper V,icturus Vive Quasi Crqs_.&1.oriturus 

Editor in Chief 
James J. Pastore, Jr. 
. Managing Editor Associate Editor · Sarah E. Childress · . Michael P. Griffin 
·News. Jared P. Marx, editor Agatha Noble, assistant Jane E. Pater; assistant 
Campus Life Tina E. Zurcher, editor Jacki Keifer, assistant · Kimberly A Blackwell, assistant 
Sports •Gerard J. Meskill, editor Rebecca M. Frazier, assistant Chris E. Hamilton, editor emeritus· 
Entertainment Kara S. Zuaro, editor · Kathleen M. Corte, assistant 
Carrie E. Sweeney, assistant Departments Cristin E. Fenzel, editor Layout . Matthew B. Barr, editor 
CrissyManary, assistant Graphic Arts David B. Leeney, editor Caroline M. Wolf, editor Copy Adam M. Aroian, editor 
Jessica L Daues, assistant Distribution Angela M. Polsinelli, manager· Online Brian Scofield; webmaster 

http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ...scholast 
Published biweekly at the University of-Notre Dame and printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre. Dame, Ind., 46556. The entire contents of Scholastic Magazine is copyright ©2000. All rights reserved. No contents of this magazine, either in whole or in part, may be reproduced in any manner without written consent of the publisher. Scholastic Magazine does not assume liability for unsolicited manuscripts or material. All correspondence should be sent to Scholastic Magazine, Lafortune Student Center, Notre Dame, IN 46556, To be published in the next issue, letters must be received by 5:00 
p.m. Monday before the issue.·•AII letters· must include the writer's name, address and phone number. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances. Scholastic reserves the right· to edit letters for space. The subscription rate, including the annual football review, is $35 per .year. Available back issues are $1.50 per copy; please specify volume and number, or date. Copies of the annual football review are available at $5 per copy. Advertising rates available on request. The opinions expressed in Scholastic Magazine are not necessarily those of the University of Notre Dame or the student body. 
Cover painting by Bryce Richter 
Cover design by Michael Griffin 
2Scholastic From the Editor 

NOTRE DAM.E FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE _PRESENTS 
TIMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wed., April 12, 7:30 p.m. Thurs., April 13, 7:30 p.m. Fri., April 14, 7:30 p.m. Sat., April 15, 7:30 p.m. Sun., April 16, 2:30 p.m. 
Playing at 

Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors. $8 
,,•:· 

All Students $6 , 
Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 
Advertisement Scholastic 3 

-
-

''Think of yourself as a wild Hungarian." 
-English professor 
'Well, when you think about it, there are only five Big Five firms." 
-overhead student 
"Jell-0, the unspecified food. Half the time you don't know whether it's a solid or a liquid." 
-Core professor 
"If they were guys, they would be pissing on the Grotto right now." 
-overheard as four drunken St. Mary$ students stumbled to the shuttle stop
Public displays of affection or displeasure will not be tolerated. 
-sign in Walsh Hall N lounge 
"Thinking's fine recreationally, but I wouldn't want to have to do it all the time." 
-overheard student 
'We already spent thirty dollars on booze, and we haven't even left yet." 
-students after Flight for spring break was delayed 
"I'm worried about your health, your liver, and your life." 
-phone message from rector 
"This is what NASA picked to help their reputation after they blew up that teacher and those other people." 
-physics professor describing a COBE mission 
4 Scholastic listening In 
SYSTEM ERRORS 

Language Barrier 
New translator solves computer access problems 
Beginning last semester, students re­ported difficulties accessing the H: and I: drives on the ResNet system that connects desktop and laptop computers to the larger Notre Dame network. The two drives provide students with access to their AFS space and imp01tant class information such as PowerPoint lecture notes. Sporadic malfunctions of these two frequently-ac­cessed resources have prompted frustration among students and raised concerns about the operation of individual computers. But as Manager of Computer Platforms Ed Dickison explains, the problem is not specific to certain students or machines. Instead, the root of this campus-wide prob­lem lies in the infrastructure ofNotre Dame's network. Servers at the Office of Informa­tion Technologies are based on a UNIX and Andrews filing system. They form the back­bone ofcampus computing. Transarc trans­lators allow the few big systems to commu­nicate with the PC and Mac computers of Notre Dame students and faculty."We've been having some problems with these trans­lators since the fall," explains Dickison. "The volume is a group of drives that stores and distributes information. This volume is changed and modified in order to keep the loads of information balanced. As these volumes are periodically released, the [student's] software isn't capable ofrespond­ing to the sudden change. These changes are what cause the translators to crash." The OIT is combatting these problems with the use of new translators. Known as Samba translators, they are replacing the current Transarc translators, which often crash. When access problems first started to appear last semester, the OIT introduced this new option to students an alternative method of connecting to their H: and I: drives. The first installations were made before the end ofthe semester in a proactive step to avoid computer-related chaos during finals. "Samba makes use of the built-in networking capabilities of the Windows operating systems without the need for third­party drivers," Dickison says. "By replac­ing the Transarc translators, the stumbling block is removed." 
According to Dickison, the OIT will ulti­mately replace all of the Transarc transla­tors with Samba translators, but there is not yet a firm timetable for the completion of this task. Students who experience diffi­culty accessing their H: and I: drives can solve the problem by visiting the OIT help desk on the first floor of the Computing Center and Math Building, or by calling that office at 1-8111. "The help desk can ex­plain how to download the new program students need, and that should solve the problem," says Dichson. Shortly after downloading the alternate programs, the relay link between the floor-size computers at the OIT and the desktop models in every dorm room and office on campus should once again be fully operational. 
-Paul Camarata 

UUDGty\ENJ. CALLS 
Napster. I< . . With the latest iuition hike, how do they expect usto. + · affo~4 CDs? · · · · · · 
blockage 
'···•----··• ,, . , 

Theyj{iiailyl~ncldbig starlike]immjiFallon and.{h~n­
:SUB 
~-stick him in a tiny theater.· Only the administration can rival their planning skills. 
··, , .. · ., -, ' 

·•· l .·.·. ThegsmellTa~~ft;it)h&g taste itk~]ruit,-theiir~;1;;·;;j~ i
orange 

...·· ... ~J?II's~optalfryit sal.ad 7:so what's u;ith·th.epe1fect 1
Cubes· 

.·,; ..:,.,.·.~--··: ••.<.:.. __ ... .1111:!.n~wns. _ _ 
!The 
The Onion meets ND. We could get used to that. 
! Leprechaun t 

Q&A 

10uestions with 

Serendipity, baby! 
Dicky V. is one ofthe mostwell-knownfaces in the world ofcollege basketball. Famous for his unique catch phrases and for calling everyone 'baby,' Dicky has also done a lot for Notre Dame. Aside from hosting the opening practice of the yea,~ he has also established a scholarship at the university and plugs us on telecasts at every opportu­nity. Dicky took some time out ofbasking in the gl01y ofhaving called Michigan State to win the tournament to answer a few ques­tions. 
What do you think of kids leaving college early, or skipping it altogether, for the NBA? 
It hurts both the college game and the NBA, but most of all, it hurts the youngster. 
Could you sum up your opinion of Troy Murphy's game? 
He's an inside and outside player, baby, who's not afraid to take it to the hole. 
Do you think Notre Dame will eventually become a basketball-school? 
Football will always be No. 1 at Notre Dame. But there's absolutely no reason why the fans can't embrace basketball as well. 
How long until Championship City for ND, baby? 
Within five years, the Irish can certainly make a serious run in the tournament. 
Do your new catch phrases come to you in the form of visions? 
It's all spontaneity, baby, and a lot is due to encouragement from the audience! 
continued on next page -. . 
Notebook Scholastic 5 
Q&A 
continued from previous page 
Where's the best place in the country to see a college basketball game? Cameron Indoor Stadium at Duke, baby. 
What's the number-one, all-time best moment in college hoops? 
Jimmy V., baby, with his Cinderella N.C. State team in '83. 

What's your favorite basketball movie? 
Hoosiers, plus all the ones I've been in. (Hoop Dreams, Spike Lee's He Got Ganie and another upcoming Spike Lee film.) 
Is it fun doing the Hoops Malone ads with that Muppet? 
It's a lot offun. I get to work with beautiful people, and everyone loves the ads. 
On a scale of one to trifecta, how would you rate us as interviewers? 
You're Bo Derek 10s, baby, but I'd expect nothing less from the Irish. Go Irish! 


Born on June 9, 1939, Dick Vitale has enjoyed a prosperous career in basketball. Vitale began his ascent to basketball im­mortality in 1964 as a high school basket­ball head coach at his hometown of East Rutherford, New Jersey. By 1970 Vitale entered the college basketball world that would forever embrace him, becoming the assistant basketball coach at Rutgers and head coach at Detroit. He briefly departed i--------------------------------~---1 
thecollegeworldin1978-79whenhetook 
the helm of the Detroit Pistons. After his one-year stint in the NBA, Vitale settled into his familiar role as college basketball analyst, working with ESPN and ABC. Vitale' s voice has become intertwined with the tradition of college basketball, most notably during the NCAA Tournament. As an analyst, Vitale has recently been decorated with various awards. In 1995, he was honored with the CableACE Award for the top analyst. The College Basketball Hall ofFame awarded Vitale with the Curt Gowdy Electronic Media Award. Some of his fa­mous sayings include "diaper dandies" and "Give 'em the.rock, baby!" 
SOUNDS OF SILENCE 





Nightingale's Night to Sing 
Washington Hall's April play presents tough, timeless questions about societal violence 
You probably think of Greek mythol ogy as a bunch of ancient tales that serve no purpose in modem-day life. The cast of The Love of the Nightingale, Washing ton Hall's fourth and final mainstage production of the year, is deter­mined to prove that at least one Greek myth has valuable current applications. The play, written by contemporary play­wright Timberlake Wertenbaker, will be performed April 12 through 16 at 7:30 p.m. It "retells the ancient myth of Philomele and Procne,retainingsomeoftheclassicalquali­ties but with a strong contemporary per­spective," according to the play' s director, Film, Television and Theatre Professor Reginald Bain. The play tells the tale of two daughters of King Pandion of Athens: Philomele (Tara Murphy) and Procne (Louise Edwards). The sisters are separated when Procne marries King Tereus (Brad Charron). Tereus, however, becomes in­fatuated with his youngsister-in-law, rapes her and cuts her tongue out to prevent her from speaking of the crime. Later, Philomele reenacts Tereus' crimes with puppets. Angered, Philomele kills Tereus' son. As an enraged Tereus pursues the two women, all three are transformed into birds. Philomele becomes the nightin­gale of the title, finally able to sing again, but still unable to speak of the crime. 

The cast hopes that viewers will carefully consider the play' s serious nature and uni­versal themes regarding violence. "I think the most important message for the audi­ence to leave with is that forcing silence on people leads to violence, and that violence can be an endless cycle, as one thing always leads to another," Murphy explains. 
Bain agrees. "Wertenbaker wants us to fo­cus on the power of myth to deal with serious and unanswerable questions," he explains. "Wertenbaker has said that she was 'thinking of the violence that erupts in societies when they have been silenced for too long. Without language, brutality will triumph.'" 
The main theme of cyclical violence lends the play its universal appeal and importance, according to Murphy. "The theme is timeless -it applied back then, in ancient times, and it applies now." 
Although the play deals with serious issues, Bain credits the script with skillfully blending humor and solemnity. "It's not a lighthearted 
piece, though there is wit and comedy in it. It is a thoughtful verbal-and-visual work that challenges our creativity and uses all the the­atrical elements towards a complex end," he says, explaining why he was drawn to the piece. By masterfully combining all these elements, Bain impels the audiences to con­sider Philomele's story, as well as violence in 

today's society. 
DOME LIGHTS

s h I fH dK k
C 00 0 . a r noc S 
Number ofengineering 1119 students at Notre Dame 
1004 

836
806 
749 
627 

1986 '88 '90 '92 '94 '96 '98 
-Carrie Sweeney 
While the number of undergraduate stu­dents at Notre Dame has steadily increased over the past l 5years, the number of engi­neers is on the decline. At this pace, the uni­versity should be rid of the school alltogether by 2018. · Has hard work and dedication gone out of style? 
6 Scholastic Notebook 





When Help Counts 
Notre Dame students learn valuable accounting skills while providing a 
BY AGGIE NOBLEAsingle mother of two children walked into the Tax Assistance Pro gram Center in the Mishawaka Pub­lic Library. She had just mortgaged her house, and her income was under $20,000 a year. Jillian Seymour and Angela Shearman were working that day at the Mishawaka Center when the young woman came in for help. After Seymour and Shearman had completed her tax return, she had earned a $3,000 income credit. "I was so happy to help her," Seymour says. "Everyone is al­ways so appreciative." For 29 years, Notre Dame and St. Mary's have participated in the Tax Assistance Pro­gram. Originally a suggestion of a graduate student, the idea was developed into a model tax program under the 
~,u,,.r.t..rlha~;~"~singie~ :1.999 ~'-~ 1~~-~-;;;;~ 
{U) ~~~~r'A1!:;;rt_~-~-0 D~~~~~~~ ; --· . --You?' sochil ... ,. " ·
~:::::::..~-~-1£~-\,~:dfct 
:,·~'.' yau;"{~nd. ....J:. 
t $3 ~ eo to I.hi• run~ 
.. 

. 1 .,--·-,•••' 
·::-.·::·;-:-·•.--.~--:-----. ; ·\· ; 


useful service for others. 
direction of Professor Ken Milani. Hospi­tals and Goodwill are among the more than 10 public locations to which it has spread. 
This year, the program served a record 1,544 taxpayers. The growing use of the program has been funded through generous support from donors, 
"Everyone is really grateful, and everything is very appreciated." Although the project is time-consuming, Grove feels that the pro­gram has deepened her understanding of how accounting operates in real life. 
This February, Milani developed a new 

including a $200,000 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ endowment by Tim 
At times, I provide advice, answers and
and Mary Gray in 1999. The endowment affirming comments. But eventuaHy, I'm will go to part-time 
employees and future on the sidelines watching the students electronic filing, as 
struggle, sweat and succeed. 
well as to Notre Dame alumni who have -Ken Milani started tax-assistance 
programs throughout the country. The Internal Revenue Ser­
vice and the Indiana De­partment of Revenue also proyide free supplies. 
The training program for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students includes a federal income tax class, the Tax Assistance Program course and 10 to12 hours of training. The training stresses what students are most likely to encounter. "The earned-income credit, child-care credit, credit for the elderly or disabled, tax treatment of welfare benefits, and 
claiming a dependent are the most common situations," explains Milani. 
Senior Kristen Grove, a science and business major, is in her first year with the 
program. As the su­pervisor of the River Park Tax Assistance Program, she says, mobile tax-assistance program, Students Working At Taxes. The program aims to assist the elderly and the handicapped who are unable to visit the tax-assistance cen­ters. This "SWAT team" has emerged as a highly beneficial program for both the students and the taxpayers. Tanya Smith, the supervisor of the team, says, "People are really demanding, but when you actu­ally get to their homes, they are extremely grateful." 
As the program continues to help more taxpayers each year, students claim that the service is not only an educational experi­ence, but is also extremely rewarding. 
Milani stated in the program's 1999 an­nualreport, "Obviously, taxpayers have their tax returns prepared at no charge. Students are utilizing their professional skills in a community service while gaining invalu­able experience. And as an instructor, I understand how the coach of an athletic team operates. Tax Assistance Pro gram par­ticipants are selected and trained. Then they are 'placed in the arena.' At times, I pro­vide advice, answers and affirming com­ments. But eventually, I'm on the sidelines watching the students struggle, sweat and succeed.." 
News Scholastic 7 




Kaneb Center 
Opening Doors to Excellence in Education 



a time whenNotreDameis examin­g the possibility of becoming a 
ore research-oriented institution, 
opportunities to recognize excellent teach­ers are becoming increasingly important. By now you have probably heard about the Kaneb Teaching A wards; students are asked time and again to nominate a professor who has shown outstanding dedication in their field of teaching. Now comes the million­dollarquestion: have you heard ofthe Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning? Although the awards and the center are not directly linked, the name Kaneb has come to signify excellence in teaching. 
Located on the third floor in DeBartolo, the Kaneb Center serves primarily as a re­source center for members of the faculty, including teaching and graduate assistants. With a growing library of literature on ef­fective teaching methods in higher educa­tion, professors and TAs alike can walk in and locate resources in the office ranging from books and pamphlets to information on upcoming workshops and conferences. 

On anotherlevel, the Kaneb Center func­tions as a forum where professors and TAs come together to discuss issues often en­countered in higher education. In such a non-threatening environment, the faculty members feel comfortable to explore inno­vative ways of commup.icating their mate­rial to students and to examine new ap­proaches in solving the difficulties they face in class. Professor Dennis Jacobs says, "Teaching has become more public. We're talking about it at workshops and confer-· ences where we focus on student learning." 
Although the Kaneb Center has only ex­isted since August 1996, Professor John Affleck-Graves confirms high faculty in­terest. In response to the first workshop offered by the center, over 100 applicants vied after 18 to 25 seats. 
One of the main subjects receiving atten­tion from the center is the use oftechnology in education. Creative use of PowerPoint and multimedia equipment available to pro­fessors in most classroom buildings can help students learn more efficiently. This summer, two educational technology spe­cialists from the Office ofInformation Tech­nologies will take seats as assistant direc­tors of the center. This will enable them to devote more of their time to assisting fac­ulty with efficient and innovative use of technology in the classroom. "It helps get teachers in touch witp. the technology with 
which students are so familiar," Professor Larry Cunningham remarks. 
With the additional staff, the total number of employees of the center will expand to ­
13, arapidgrowthfromits original two full­
time staffers. Founded by a grant from John 
Kaneb, a member ofNotre Dame's Board of 
Trustees since 1980, the center was mod­
eled after a similar project begun in 197 6 at Kaneb's alma mater, Harvard University. Affleck-Graves, finance department chair, 
lauded the progress made by the Kaneb 
Institute, saying, "It has exceeded expecta­
tions since its creation. It helps professors 
look at the class from the student's perspec­
tive." 
Working with the Carnegie Academy for 
the Improvement of Teaching, the Kaneb 
Center called for proposals in December 
1999 to design research programs that would 
aid professors. One of the six proposals that 
won funding involves redesigning the first­
year chemistry laboratory. Before planning improvements, the faculty involved will survey the course for ayear and gather input from students. "Assessing student learning 'is one of our greatest challenges," Jacobs says. Instead of designing tests that more accurately determine what students have 
learned, these research programs involve 
more interaction with the students to dis­
cuss how they learn. They involve student 
surveys of their own learning, discussions 
with students about the teaching methods 
they find most effective, and placing video 
cameras in the classroom to evaluate which 
methods work better than others. 
Serving his second term.on the Provost 
Advisory Committee, Cunningham notes 
that he has seen incredible changes in fac­
ulty members who have used the resources 
available to them. "When younger faculty 
face a big class for the first time or realize 
that they want to learn more about effective 
teaching, they don't have to be pushed," he 
says. "They just go to the Kaneb Center on 
their own." For these younger teachers, the center 
serves a special function. According to 
Jacobs, "the range of training programs for 
graduate students and TAs puts them on the 
track to become better teachers." For many 
of them, their first experiences in front of 
the classroom can come with little or no 
formal training. The center provides one 
means to eliminate some of the anxiety that 
results from such inexperience. 
For the first time, the center will recog­
nize TAs with Outstanding Teaching 
Awards. Department chairs will be able to identify up to 10 percent of their department's TAs as the elite among their peers. TAs' commitment to excellence in teaching and personal teaching statements were considered, but teacher course evalu­ations were the most important criteria. At 

here." 
Through personal consultations with Pro­fessor Barbara Walvoord, the directorof the Kaneb Center, teachers can take the infor­mation provided in their TCEs and use it to tweak their teaching methods. "When you 

"The center tries to help facuhy choose and implement the most effective methods for teaching students the highest kind of thinking that the professor wants to foster." 
the awards ceremony on April 25, 27 TAs from the College of Arts and Letters, 11 from the College of Engineering, one from the College ofArchitecture, and 11 from the College of Science will be recognized for their excellence in the classroom. 
The recognition of high-quality teachers early in their careers emphasizes Notre Dame's approach to education. "Notre Dame takes teaching very seriously," Cunningham, a 30-yearveteran ofthe classroom, remarks. "Ifyou are a good researcher but an indiffer­ent teacher, you won't make it very far 
-Barbara Walvoord 
teach students to think at a higher level, you use some method or other," she says. ''The center tries to help faculty choose and imple­ment the most effective methods for teach­ing students the highest kind of thinking that the professor wants to foster." 
Walvoord, who came to Notre Dame when the center opened, brings a wealth of expe­rience in the field ofhigher education. While teaching at Loyola University in Baltimore, she was named Maryland Teacher of the Year for Higher Education in 1987. Jacobs hails he_r contribution to teaching at Notre Dame: "If the Kaneb Center wasn't there, and specifically if Dr. Walvoord wasn't there, I would not have gone down the road toward innovative ·pedagogy." Her assis­tance in redesigning Jacobs' first-year chem­istry course helped him to win the Thomas 
P. Madden Award for Outstanding Teach­ing of Freshmen. 
Affleck-Graves, who won the COBA Outstanding Teaching Award in 1993, lauds the center as a useful tool for professors. "The Kaneb Center really helped me im­prove," he says. "I'm a much better teacher than I was five years ago." 
As Notre Dame continues to maintain its national reputation as a top-tier institution for higher . learning, the center will help ensure that learning remains a priority in the eyes of professors. At the same time that it reinforces that excellence, the centeris train­ing the next generation of teachers to re­spond to the different ways in which stu­dents learn. Cunningham remarks, "The Kaneb Center directly impacts the desire of professors to become better teachers." For the students, the enhancement ofthat desire can significantly impact the quality oftheir undergraduate education. 0 
! 
I 
! 
i 
! 

The Inaugural Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 

'. Denis Donoghue 
"Adam's Curse: Christianity and Literature in the Twentieth Century" 
All lectures will take place at 4: 15 p.m., Auditorium -Eck Visitors' Center (Notre Dame Avenue, south of Morris Inn) 
Thursday, April 6 Thursday, April 13 
Otherwise than Being Church and World 

Tuesday, April 11 Tuesday, April 18 
After Virtue The Death of Satan 

News Scholastic 9 




By Meredith Salisbury 

The weekend approaches yet again, and students all over Notre Dame are stuck facing the eternal conundrum of the Midwest: What is there to do? It seems the only cities within easy driving distance are Chicago and Indianapolis, right? Wrong. In fact, that well-traveled Route 31 is the gateway to the world. You can follow signs along 31 to get to LaPaz, Denver or even Warsaw. To prove this, Scholastic recently road-tripped to Indianapolis, snapping pictures of signs along the way. Though we didn't have time to visit any of these exotic destinations, we hope that our efforts will broaden the horizons of all Domers who feel they're trapped in the flatlands. 



BY JACKLYN KIEFER

As the South Bend winter draws to a close, Notre Dame students begin to anticipate the transition from 
endless philosophy readings and calculus problems to hours of laying in the sun and watching MTV. However, most students' summer agendas include more than just getting a good tan and memorizing the top 
20. When asked the question "What are you going to do after the semester?" the answer of many undergraduates is generally, "Get a job and make as much money as I can!" Some students may get a head start on this goal by working Commencement Week. Perhaps the most popular choice of post­semester employment on campus is with Building Services and Catering by Design. 
For those who have not seen the signs in the dining halls and around campus during the past weeks, students working for Cater­ing by Design can make approximately $300 in one week. Lisa Wenzel, operations managerofCatering By Design, says that in conjunction with Building Services, her department employs 250 to 300 students during commencement week. Monday through Thursday, students will work in the dorms cleaning and doing repairs; Saturday and Sunday they will cater. "While working for Catering by Design, the students will work in one oftwo areas: either food service or food preparation," Wenzel says. Stu­dents are paid-$8 per hour and are given a $100 incentive; these comprise the $300 
12 Scholastic Campus Life 
paycheck. 

As some students may know, the $8-per­hour pay is a higher than what was offered in years past. "The increased pay is used mostly to provide incentive for students to stay and work. Also, the number of regular student workers at Catering by Design has decreased over the past several years," Wenzel explains. She adds that the on­campus labor market is relatively small. 
But students working Commencement Week will make more than students work­ing at catering on a regular basis. The regu­lar worke.r earns $6.10 per hour plus gratu-_ ities. When working for catering on a regu­lar basis, Wenzel says, a student will gener­ally work five-hour shifts both for Com­mencement Week and at other times during the year. 
Some students have had problems with this system. Many complained that they were not paid as much as the $300 adver­tised. This, Wenzel said, could be due to two factors: the time students take off to eat during an eight-hour shift is deducted, and some students do not work as many hours as others. 
However, most students who participate in this unique work experience enjoy it. Sophomore Lisa Wenzel says, "Working here over commencement week was hard work, but it was a lot offun, too." The hard work did not stop students from jumping at this year's opportunity. As ofMarch 28, all of the positions for this year's Commence­ment Week were filled, and a waiting list was being formed. 
But not to worry. If you are ever short on cash, Catering by Design needs many stu­dent workers for other special events such as Junior Parents Weekend. During this event, Catering by Design hires up to 350 students. These students are offered the same incentive package and the same $8­per-hour wage offered during Commence­
'Working here over com­mencementweekwas hard work, but it was a lot of fun too." 
-Lisa Wenzel 

ment Week. If you cannot wait until the second semester, catering also employs stu­dents for football-Friday luncheons, where they can receive both the incentive and higher wages. 
Catering by Design offers many well­paid employment opportunities through­out the year to Notre Dame students. A plus to this type of employment is that it does not require students to continue to work for catering. Students who need spending money for that trip to Chicago can make some quick cash at one of these special events, and even have some fun in the process. 

Old News Sarcastic 13 

i--____________WHOA ____________-.j 

Chasing the Dream 
The King ofthe SYR looks forward to his 50th dance 
As their days at Notre Dame draw to a close, seniors have know that I've had to tum down three invitations this year because been known to give theirultimate goals one last serious try. ofduty. Ifit weren't for that, I'd have already shattered the 50 mark, Some buckle down to pull that elusive A that will give them and we wouldn't be having this conversation right now." magna cum laude. Some scramble for meaningful employment. Declarations such as this seem to imply that the pressure of Others hit the Rock daily, in hopes to finally pass the damn first reaching 50 dances is getting to Bo. While he denies-that it is an round of Bookstore Basketball. A random psycho or two may issue, close friends say that it consumes him like flesh-eating attempt to scale the Dome. bacteria. "It's all the guy can talk about. Well, that and the Red Sox One Alumni Hall senior, Bo Sweaty, has visions much grander pitching rotation, but, seriously, it's driving him crazy. I hear that than those. During his four years at Notre Dame, Bo has attended he's been wearing a wig lately, because his hair's falling out under a whopping 48 SYRs and formals. With the Wake scheduled for the stress." this Saturday, Bo needs to attend only one more dance for to reach Another friend agrees. "I'm worried about him, really. Not only his goal of 50 career dances. because of the record, but he's also never been to a dance at Badin. "He's the King of the SYR," a former It's the only girl's dorm he's never been roommate notes. "You should see this guy 
to for a dance. I think he views it as a in action. It's friggin' unreal. He dances blemish on his record." like a donkey in heat, but every weekend, "Whatever," Bo grumbles. he's got another one of these things to go After several glasses of water and a to." Valium, he is able to continue with the 
"Bo was a sublime dancer," a one-time interview, provided that the interviewer date argues. stops asking such intrusive questions. "He dances with inanimate objects," the That in mind, Bo discusses the current roommate argues back, his voice getting state of the on-campus game. louder. "Criminy, look at that picture over "It's booty that they don't call them there! He's dancing with the wardrobe!" SYRs anymore. All-hall dance? What "Bo did dance provocatively with a pole the hell is that?" in the basement," the date concedes. As the concept of someone going to "I still get mocked in Pasquerilla West 50 dances is much more interesting than for dancing with inanimate objects. What the recentre-naming ofSYRs, we return can I say? I just like to dance," Bo ex-tothepursuitof50. "Itwon'tbethefirst plains. "It's a lot offun to just get to dance time he falls short of 50 if he doesn't to 70s music." make it," his former roommate con­"Hedoesn'teven drinkmuch," the same fides. "Back in eighth grade, Bo's bas-stunned former roommate continues. "God, ketball team was beating this other team. I know every time I hear Abba, I need a Pretty badly. They were up by 48 in the shot." closing seconds, when oneofBo'steam­Bo's numbers break down like this: Six-mates stole the ball. Bo was standing at teen dances his freshman year, 14 the next, the opposite end, right under the basket, 12hisjunioryear, and six to date. Why the and was fed the ball with three seconds senior drop-off? Bo admits that there was Bo sweaty, pictured here dancing with a wardrobe, remaining. He went up for the lay-up, a lot of talk about him going pro at the end has been to an astounding 48 dances while at and was stuffed by the bottom of the of his junior year, but an injury at the end Notre Dame. MoStlywith real live girls. rim. They could've won by 50. He's still of the season put an end to that, and carried over to the fall of his known as The Goat in some circles for that one." senior year. "That's also booty," Bo mutters despondently. "First off, it was ''That's simply not true," Bo says, taking issue with the critics a 20-footjumper. Second, what the hell difference does it make that who say that his game suffers to this day. A recent nose injury has we only won by 48?" brought about anotherround ofquestions about the young superstar's Does Bo feel that his impressive mark at ND will be tarnished health. Can he reach 50, or is he simply too frail, many wonder? somewhat by only attending 49 dances? "IfI don't reach 50, it's because I'm an RA. I'm on duty a lot of "Absolutely not.It'll be an NCAA Division I record, and it'll weekends, I ca!]'t be everywhere. In fact," he says, grabbing this stand for a long, long time." reporter by the collar of his shirt and shaking him, "I'll have you Whatever, Goat. D 
14 Sarcastic Hook-ups 


LITERATURE SUCKS; FOOTBALL RULES 
Murdered Tradition 
Alumni chastise Notre Dame media 
When Brian Oh Christ and Meredith Wendy Gertrude Grushenka Olga Salisbury 
took the historic step ofcancelling the foot­ball review issue, they knew there would be at least some controversy. Now, in a series of exclusive interviews, Sarcastic talks to the alumni who hate the literary issue to find out why they think football rules and literature sucks. 
"I think football is cool," says some guy pointing. "And I think literature sucks. Whatthis campus needs is a good football team. I mean, Jesus Christ, it's not bad enough that the team sucked this year, but now you have to go and insult them by not even writing a re­view of the season." Some guy pointing adds, "This literary is­sue thing belongs in the pooper. I mean, God, look at that cover. What the hell are those two midg­ets doing on it? Get them out of there. I don't want midgets, I wantbigburlymencrushingeach other in a game of football." 
Some guy pointing is not alone in his disdain for what many see as evidence of the moral deprav­ity of today's youth. 
As for the football team, Coach Head Bop Gravy says, "Thank God you didn't write one. We suck. We've got the worst student body in the country, the worst band in the country and the worst football pro­gram in the country. Hey, is that tape re­

corder do-thin on?" -No one cares who wrote this
1::~~EN )~~;~.~~:s:g~O~e.io/N,~,n~m,Satefrom·· 
!Scholastic . -+-Well at least the Gipper is funny.!Magazine
-··-,··•-•.,..,.... -··· ..-,-•_•tJ",'"-':':"•~,-,.... , .• 

•~t~p·~·n··•···~e.hte·;..• Y,a'.••·•.·:tizi;t:J:t:E::1tJf:.gll.7ost·b~lanc~s.0Jt.·the,.. ·· 
·..L.L~L:,. =y .•.•··•>o.·.•... •<.:... c.,.,C ...:C ···=•---•-··c:,;.. ;., -·.--........ .. ........ 
Tuition 

Now Killjoy can get drnnk every night on his gilded i 
IHike ttttt throne. i 
•so6'9a~! ; i~ ,Wi•~1t•affio~hjo;·Colon,1S1~ffs,,~s4{·~1:*h1 
Somepeople,however,likethenewliter­ary issue. 
"Those two young women kissing are quite attractive," says University President "Clunk" Killjoy. "Hey, what magazine did you say this was again?" 
The interview was cut short when Clunk threw Sarcastic reporters out of his office and locked the door. The enthusiastic re­sponse from Killjoy, however, was the ex­ception rather than the rule. "I don't mind 
about the girls kissing," says Joe Cruddy. "Just as long as you don't have any of those homosexual ads in there. I wouldn't want to give the wrong impression about Notre Dame." The always-image conscious Cruddy adds, "And none of those ads about bars, either. Students here don't drink, and that's how I wantto keep it. Imagine if we had ads for gays and bars in campus publications. Notre Dame would become a haven for alcoholic homosexuals every­where!" 
Whatever happens in the future, Notre Dame will not begin selling condoms and booze to underage students any time soon. However, while the football team continues to strive toward mediocrity, it won't be worth writing a review about more losing seasons. And, at least with the literary issue, there'sachanceofseeingsomenakedchicks. 
.; 

Jj 
_,I 
Q&A • h

10uest1ons wit 
w 
z 
0 
I 
a. w 
I 
I-

You have one unplayed message 
There is probably only one figure on campus that is universally loved. Sure, we were all happy that Troy and CoachD took us to the NIT finals, we 're pretty gratefitl that Jarious stuck around to make sure Davie didn't go winless, and pretty much eve1yone loves Blestburgh, exceptfor whoever made that one movie at the Student Film Fest. But no one brings as much joy into our lives on a daily basis as the Voice 
Mail Lady. 
Do you live in the phone? Yes. It's pretty roomy in here. There are gremlins, but not many. 
Have you ever received death threats from the answering machine industry for rendering them useless on campus? 
They put a horse head in my bed once. I'd rather not talk about it. 
Do you have other gigs? 
My mom was the voice of the starship Enterprise on Star Trek back in the sixties. I broke in as the voice ofET, and I also do any female voice in the movies that announces imminent self-destruction. 
Who's your pick to win the World Series? 
The Kansas City Royals over their cross­town rival, the Chiefs, in a 3-game sweep. 
(Concerned frown) What do you think of cell phones? 
I went to see Erin Brokovich the other night and someone's cell phone kept going offthe whole time. For God's sake, we live in a society. There's no need for that. I wanted to rip their freaking head off and cram the phone down the hole. 
(Another concerned frown.) Is it true that CBLD is run by the Mob? 
No. Satan. 
Will my message light ever blink with love? 
Outlook hazy. 
Is it possible to use the voice-mail system to rupture the space-time continuum? 
Yes, but you also need a Ghostbuster's proton pack. It involves crossing the streams, and can get messy. 
Do you have any comment about your illegitimate love-child with the DART guy? 
Iftwo consenting adult disembodied voices love each other, that should be enough. I'm sick of the media hounding us with these questions. This interview is over. 
Anarchist's Cookbook Sarcastic 15 


I'
1,
l! 
:1~i--------------------­
THE OSCARS 






Killioy and Ebert 
University President Father Clunk Killjoy reviews this year~ best films 
BY FATHER CLUNK Krr.,uoY

As is my yearly tradition, I invited some ofNotre Dame's most impor­tant administrators over to watch the Oscars this year. In the past, the party has been quite a humdinger. It was once a costume party, where everyone was sup­posed to attend dressed as a character from a movie they hoped would win an award. This worked well until 1990, when Father Blestburgh came to the party dressed as a prostitutein supportofJuliaRoberts' Oscar nominated role in Pretty Woman. I won't say how that party ended, but I can let you know this: There's a good reason Blestburgh's nickname is 'Teddy.' Since but the craziest we ever got was calling into WVFI pretending to be Regis and Kathie Lee. She managed to fool the DJs, but the long, boring speech I used tipped them off that it was me. 
Another candidate for Best Picture was The Green Mile. Before seeing it, I was really excited about this movie. For some reason, I really identified with the idea ofa taller than average man being in a place that he just didn't belong. After watching the movie, I discovered that the movie's por­trayal ofdeath row made it seem like it was a pretty nice place. In fact, the prisoners' cells were more roomy than most rooms in Alumni -and they had about the same number of mice. I was disturbed by the cidedly anti-Catholic. The characters dis­cover that, when extenuating circum­stances apply, the rules don't really mat­ter anymore, and even mortal sins like abortion become acceptable. (This seems to be a philosophy shared by the Women's Resource Center.) Thought this rules-don't-matter mindset is one we have adopted with student athletes, I don't think it would work for the rest ofcampus. Ifit caught on, du Lac would be rendered useless and people just might be able to get away with two pastries from the dining halls. 
This p<!,st football season and the final Academy Award nominated film, The Sixth Sense, have a lot in common. At the 

I: 
then, the party has been sans costumes and ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ conclusion of each of them, we learn 
a lot more low-key. (Swill Firk did come 
dressed as Forrest Gump in 1994, but no one 
actually noticed.) This year, Father Boarman, SwillFirk, Muffin Lockjaw, Bop Gravy, that little troll who runs food services, Joe Cruddy, abigbowlofbeefjerkyandporkrinds,and I were the only people to attend the party. Studentbodypresident-electBoogietriedto attend, but we asked him to leave when he kept asking Muffin Lockjaw ifshe wanted to sit on his tuffet and eat his curds and whey. The ceremony (and the dresses) were exciting as always.American Beauty kicked more butt then the Michigan State football team playing ND. I have seen the movie, and, let me tell you, ifthose characters were students at Notre Dame, I would send just about every one ofthem to Student Affairs. They broke every rule in the book, except the one about using Napster. They smoke marijuana, masturbate, videotape naked girls who live across the street, lust after minors, and have illicit affairs. With all the sex that went on in the movie, I felt like. I was spending an evening at St. Mary's. Perhaps worstofall, one character throws food at the dinner table. North Dining Hall could have· made those vegetables last for months! Even­tually, their sinfulness just got to be too much. I mean, I remember wild times back when Patty O' was VP for Student Affairs, 
16 Sarcastic One Finger Up 

w·1th ·all the se,v"'-that went on ·,n the mov·,e, I r It 1 • k I d•
Te I e WOS Spen Ing 
• 1
t St M 

an evening O • ary S. man, and he gave a great speech intro­
that the main character in each is pretty much dead. The catch phrase "I see dead people" was probably an adequate description of what I was thinking watching the team from my box at the stadium. At least I can have alcohol. Haley Joel Osment was a fine young 

scene in which John Coffey grabs Tom ­Hanks' crotch, trying to heal him ofa blad­der infection. If he really wanted to be healed of the infection, he could have avoided the homo-erotic play and justcome to the Notre Dame infirmary. He would have been given a shot of Pepto-Bismol, two Tylenol and a $200 bill. It always seems to work with our students. 
I haven't seen The Insider, but I don't think that it seems to be my kind of movie. It is the story of how one whistle-blower tries to bring down the entire tobacco indus­try by informing 60 Minutes that many companies were lacing cigarettes with extra nicotine. Nowadays, this wouldn't beaprob­lem. With Who Wants to be a Millionaire airing on Sunday nights, no one watches 60 Minutes anyway. Atthe time, though, itwas quite a concern. Itcertainly was to the girls of Farley. 
The Cider House Rules struck me as de­
ducing the child actor film clips. I suggested to Bop Gravy that he might make a good kicker for the football team. After all, the kicking game couldn't get any worse. Bob Davie agreed that getting a child actor as kicker was agood idea, but he had devoted all of his efforts into get­ting Webster. 
AfterAmerican Beauty picked up all its Oscars for the night, the party in Sorin drew to a close. We were able to concen­trate for most of the program, except dur­ing the portion when Robin Williams was singing "Blame Canada.'' While I was trying to listen to see ifABC censored the song li'ke I censor the Observer, Boogie was scratching at the screen begging to be letbackin. Firk finally got him to leave by giving him two pudding pops and a prom­ise to listen to his Rectors Endowment Fund proposal rather than just giggle. Maybe next year we'll just invite him and tell him it's still a costume party. D 
FROM THE THRONE 


Ex Corde Ecstaticae 
New papal decree uses virtue to destroy left-wing psychopaths. But not to worry; Fr. Killjoy can keep the throne 
BY JESUS Spring has sprung, and with it, fire hydrants. They're everywhere. On sidewalks, in the middle of quads, even under stones. But that has nothing to do with this story. In fact, an American bishops' council recently passed an unprecedented new or­der that will be sent to the Vatican for approval. Known as Ex Corde Ecstaticae, it would challenge Catholic universities in the United States to receive Papal approval before accepting any student. The point of Ecstaticae, says the venerable Lord Bishop PowerHungry, is to promote happiness and adherence to the Catholic virtues among students. · "The problem we're seeing among these damned whippersnappers is this cursed re­fusal to obey," Power Hungry argues. "Obey, obey, obey. For the love of God, why can't these miscreants just go to confession and never have sex and accept that women shouldn't be in positions ofauthority? That's all we ask." According to Ecstaticae, every student who applies to a Catholic university will have a full background check conducted by the bishop in charge of that university's 
diocese. PowerHungry notes, "That way, we'll make sure none ofthose pot-smoking, left-wing psychopaths get in." The back­ground check will include drug-history and crime records as well as detailed interviews with the student's parents, siblings, former CCD teachers and the state governor. 
The vote to implement this plan was met with confusion by university administra­tors. Father Clunk Killjoy, safely seated on his throne at the center of his phalanx of Holy Moss priests, declined to comment, stating, "I just don't get it. I mean, huh? Whatever. As long as I can keep my throne." 
This point is under debate, however, as Bishop PowerHungry has expressed plans to snatch the throne away from Killjoy. "Where the hell am I going to sit when I'm talking to all those idiot parents?" he asks angrily. 
Others at Not Our Dame appear to under­stand Ecstaticae better. Swill Firk says, "It sounds like they're trying to get rid ofdisci­pline problems. This is all a big plot to get rid of me! I knew it, I knew that rat Killjoy was after my office too -he wants to tum it into a wet bar!" 
After Firk poked a few pins into his Kill­joy voodoo doll, however, his apoplexy 

HAIL TO THE KING. From a throne of gold, Killjoy rules his round table of Holy Moss knights. 
r 
subsided. "Seriously, though," he says, "there are almost 10,000 students who ap­ply every year. Do you know how many brothers and sisters some ofthose kids have?_ We' re talking, like, 70,000 people the bishop would need to talk to, all in just a few months." 
PowerHungry feels these concerns· are irrelevant. "With this move, I will control who gets into these schools. And I already govern the faculty. Next I will be able to TAKE OVER THE WORLD! And then we can execute people who disagree. That'll take less time so I can finally go on that cruise in the Bahamas for spring break." 
Meanwhile, Swill Firkhas, in a paranoid frenzy, locked himself in his office with a four-year supply of quarter dogs and Ice Mountain bottled water stolen from the Huddle. In a telephone interview, he shrieks rabidly, "They can't starve me out! And I've commandeered all the infirmary's bed­pans too, so don't go getting any ideas about that, either." 
Father Blestburgh recently approached Scholastic with his own fears about Excorde Ecstaticae. "There was a little-known ad­dendum to Ecstaticae," he says, noting that he found this out directly from_ God, who 
calls Blestburgh every Saturday and Sunday when He gets five-cents-per­minute rates. "Lord Bishop PowerHungry attached it after the vote, and he wrote the whole thing in Pig Latin so the Pope wouldn't be able to read it. The addendum says that if the Pope blesses one more thing -any­thing at all -PowerHungry replaces him and the entire college of cardinals is disbanded." 
PowerHungry denies knowledge of any such thing. "Besides," he states, "would it be so bad ifl were the Pope? I mean, I amgoing to rule the world soon." 
Blestburgh, however, isn't concerned for himself. "I'm just worried about everyone else. I can go live on my own personal asteroid if anything goes wrong here." 
Holy... Stuff Sarcastic 17 

SQUIRRELOCIDE __________
;I, I'11 
' ' 
I, 
i' 
Furry Rodent Invasion 
Notre Dame assesses the damage after radioactive squirrels attack North Dining Hall 
Normal activity on campus came to a screeching stop last week when it was discovered that 1940s-era radiation experiments and dumping of nuclear waste had produced 
the most huggable and deadly foe with which the Notre Dame Security/PoliceDepartmenthadeverdealt. The atomic-fire breath­ing squirrels emerged late Saturday afternoon from their mutant hivein the depths ofSt. Joseph's Lake. Havoc ensued. The squirrels went on the prowl with an insatiable lust for dining-hall scraps and human blood. "We heard something out back that sounded like tearing metal," aNorthDining Hall worker says. "!lookedoutback, and it was chewing on the Dumpster. I reported this unusual event to my supervisor, who just shrugged his shoulders, ordered more horse testicles putinto the beefstroganoff, and went backto playing 
I 
solitaire. If he had listened, maybe we could've avoided the death of over 400 students who were not able to escape the onslaught." 
i ' 
I 

The onslaught to which the worker referred is the radioactive fire breath that rained down upon North Dining Hall when the squirrels were done tearing apart the Dumpster. ''The attack was horrible," said one resident of Pasquerilla West. "I was doing tae-bo in the lounge when suddenly I heard all this screaming. A burst of fiery light came through the window. I looked out and could feel bursts of heat from the atomic death that the squirrels were unleashing. The screams and the loud clicking noises that the squirrels made 
will live on in my mind for all of my days." 
The Notre Dame Fire Department was dispatched to the scene, as was as a large contingent of crack NDSPD SWAT members. "We had to come out with the big guns right off," the director of security says. "We generally save these guys for serious threats to the University, like pari­etals violations." Secur.ity quickly gave chase to the giant, mutant squirrels that left a flaming path of de­struction in their wake. "I hadn't witnessed anything like it since last year's big fire on South Quad," a Morrissey Manor resident says. "Of course, girls weren'tthrowing their bras into these fires. All in all it just wasn't as much fun. I think the wholeideaofpre­vailing death really put a damper on things, too." 
With the campus slowly turning into something that looked like a bombed-out village in the Balkans, and with no end to the carnage 
"I had expe­rience medi­ating many volatile situ­ations in my lifetime but have never tried to rea­son with wildlife. " 
-Father 
· Blestburgh 
, 

in sight, Father Blestburgh was called in to try to mediate the situation. "It wasn't like Security is used to handling this situation," says University President Clunk Killjoy, ''These squirrels were much bigger and rowdier than even the drunkest student at a football game, and they had radioactive fire-breath. Security's only really around to write tickets anyway. It's not like they were equipped to handle this situation. There's a big difference between students who can't fight back and huge mutant squirrels. We had to bring in Blestburgh." 


"I had experience mediating many volatile situations in my lifetime but have never tried to reason with wildlife." Blestburgh says. He attempted to master the squirrels' clicking noises and brought a giant muffin in as a token ofpeace. He stood fearlessly in the path of the destruction, and the wind blew hard. The squirrels stopped their destruction and eyed the muffin as well as the holy man standing next to it. Blestburgh began clicking, but to no avail. "The squirrels pushed me aside and ate the muffin. I clicked feverishly, trying to hammer out some sort of agreement, but they had the upper hand in the negotiation." comments Blestburgh, "I had no other choice but to do what I did next." 
Whathe did was something previously unwitnessed in the history 
of the University. Chanting an ancient papal chant and calling on 
the power of the Trinity, Blestburgh grew to an immense size. One 
St. Mary's student recalls the incident: "I was in the basement of Sorin, in one of the turret rooms, when it happened. My boyfriend and I had been studying chemistry, and I was looking for something under his desk, but he seemed distracted by something. After brushing offmy knees and standing up, I saw that there was this old priest guy getting huge in the quad. Then he started beating up these giant squirrels. I'd never seen anything like it." 
The colossus that was Blestburgh-or, as he prefers to be called, "Mega Blestburgh" -thwarted the squirrels' onslaught and chased them back to the radioactive lake hive from which they had emerged. "I'm not a violent man, but they ate that muffin and then started to tear apart my Basilica," says Blestburgh. "I simply won't stand for that sort of thing. They had their chance for peace." When asked about the chant, he responds, "Well, back in the day when Moses parted the sea, God gave him the choice ofeither parting the sea or becoming Mega Moses. I figured this was a pretty bad situation, too, so I had to bring .out the proverbial trump card." D 
-El Raton 

Out of Money? 
.NeedAJob? 

Doesn't Give a Crap 
All interested.applicants should carefully fill out a complex application, complete with an in-depth essay, and then throw it away. 
Roadkill Overkill Sarcastic 19 


Killjoy turns down WRC  Dam  
"Of course I won't join. They haven't donated any money  In an act ofdisgust, ti,  
to ourfine university."  Overlook~  
News • page blah  Blan~  



THE 





VER]
The Despondent Newspaper Mispelling; 
x~x OH BABY. NO! 69 · , . . -·., · 
• l ' ­
VIEWPOINTLESS 

Dear Overlooker, I'm writing in response to the annual Sarcastic Magazine that is published by irresponsible members of our college community. The attacks made by this magazine on the administration, the student body and the Overlooker are unconscionable. The material contained in this putrid rag offilth insults me on a metaphysical level. The Overlooker is a newspaper built on integrity. All of our stories are timely and honest. Did you read our investigative story on men?Yes, they have this thing called a penis. It's amazing. Furthermore, the administration cares about the student body. Homosexuals can't even shower anymore, let alone buy ads. And finally, the student body is obviously intelligent-they look for attractive girls at St. Mary's. Anonymous 
Man, Bench; Frozen 

were going to steal that sign. It's a good thing I 

By KOPPA TROOPA 
stopped them. Notre Dame students are real Assistant, Associate, Managing, Executive Editor dangers to our society," Fuhrman says. 

in Chief 
Director of Campus Security/Police T. Rex An unidentified man was found frozen to a promises swift justice. "I don't care if you're
OeilCfl. near I. e-s[aOIUill t0 .ay:-_rne-man;-Wfl0---·-...r.n:1z;c;-n-1.:o-a""-l;H::;ul.!;·u.-0J.--W-ffnLC-V-C;J.,--y-ou~-i.:llT· 
was found grinning and holding a cigar, could shouldn't be stealing signs. I have a gun, don't 
not bee reeched for comment. Notre Dame make me use it." Assistant to the Associate Vice 
Campus Security/Police has launched a full President of the Executive Director of Student 
investigashun into the event and is investigat-Affairs Swill Firk also feels that stealing signs 
ing the event which is under investigation. is wrong and that the university would like to 
Officer Donald Donut was the first on the avoid frozen people on benches in the future. 
scene and was discovering the man. "I "We are proactively reacting to apply correc­
couldn't budge the guy, so I called the tive corrections to the erroneous mistakes," says 
Roseland Police Department." Officer Mark Firk. 
Fuhrman received the call, but was too busy CORRECTION: The man mentioned in the 
throwing Notre Dame students out of Denny's above story was merely bronzed to the behch, 
to respond. "You should've seen how they not frozen to it. 
Informative Article Discov 
By TIKE CONMANLY 
Seeking gorgeous ND squirrel with large nuts 
A complete, informative story appeared in Monday's The Overlooker, shocking the campus. 
The 535-word article described the installation of a new stainless-steel wastebasket in the presidential office of President "Clunk" Killjoy. In an unusual turn of events, the story contained virtually all of the rel­evant details and didn't leave the reader hanging. 
"I can't believe it," said John Star, a Fisher Hall se­nior. "I finished the story, and all the important info was there. That's never the case! Like, one time I was read­ing a story about an interhall baseball game, and The Overlooker didn't even say who won! So, yeah, you can say that I was blown away when I read this wastebasket story." 
Analysts credited The Overlooker's success to its "stay simple, stay easy" story-selection policy. "I think The Overlooker realized that it was incapable 
of delivering quality stories on topic: than a new wastebasket," said Shelia r versity professor who tracks media t ciated Press. "The paper is right to cc trivial issues." 
She cautioned, however, that eve topics may not be enough to ensur ful story soon. Murphy cited freq and "missing" story continuatic hurdles the paper must-clear if it w the level of a typical middle-schoc 
Nevertheless, the mood at The C festive. 
"We're really proud of our ace Overlooker editor said on the condi "Our stories are always so superficial a complete story since, oh, the Hesbu Maybe the topic was simple, but, he can get." 
The editor said that the paper wil for consideration for a Pulitzer PrizE 
WANTDE: The Overlookur is currently g copy ediotrs. Pleeze, we nede U. Pleaze, PLease, pleez. If£ ya caN rede, u're hiredd! Thanks U. 

n Associated Press 
Thursday

re Associated Press refused to allow the ir to print articles anymore. 
APRIL 6, 

: Pages • pages 5-31 
2000 

LOOKER 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Headlines 
: ··. ,, _ . . ·. . , . . HTTP://4\VW\V'.BATHROOMCAM.COM ,­
• ' ' ' l • • ' 
.~ 

University President "Clunk" Killjoy collects nuts for the upcoming hibernation season. Later, he became horny. 
Goo DoN'T LIKE UGLv 
In a historical move, University President "Clunk" Killjoy has de­cided to remove all things deemed "ugly" from the campus. Conse­quently, the staff of the Overlooker was forced out of its office, and staged a sit-in in protest. 
"I don't think it's fair that ugly people are being discriminated against," said one Overlookerwriter. "We're people too." 
Among other artifacts removed 
~·1ro11r tne"lJvt::fTUUKerUfiict:!·werc·cr1~ 
evil Kuppa Troopa and Tike 
Conmanly. When reached for com­
ment, both shrivelled into a tiny little 
ball and were mysteriously found 
the next day on the floor of the bath­
room-much like the product they 
had once worked so hard to produce. 
When reached for comment, Kill­
joy made a neat squirrel noice, 
juggled his nuts between his teeth 
and said, "whore." 


; more complicated v1urphy, a Yale Uni­rends for the Asso­mcentrate on small, 
:n choosing simple e another success­[Uent misspellings )ns as additional ishes to rise above >l publication. 1bserver office was 
omplishment," an ltion of anonymity. 
CORRECTION(S) 
In all oflast month's Overlookers, we printed a series of ridiculous stories that we didn't investigate at all. Oops. Please disregard all information con­tained within. More specifically, the Main Building did not collapse. Also, "Clunk" Killjoy, Father Blestburg and the 20 other priests we said were in the Main Building when it collapsed weren't. Oh and I don't think thatthere's gonna be a Danzig concert in Stepan, as reported yesterday in the Overlooker, but news has it that Father Sorin will be leeding mass this Sunday at the Stanford-Keenan Chapel at 10:34. At least that's what the press release said. I just copied and pasted it onto the page, I don't really know. 
The Overlooker regrets any inconvenience, but intends to do nothing to solve the problem. Actually, it may be best ifyou just found another source ofnews. Try AP. Oh wait. Nevermind. We wouldn't want you beating us to the scoop! 

Happiness is Dude, we need a tioned. Nope, I wish i worked for Scholastic. 
found i n key to the con-not at all. ference room. they're cooler 
miracles, and No more hall-than we are, but
miracles are i am tiping a se­found in the way meetings. cret message we won't admit 
it :(Overlooker. that noone will Truth is no .ob-Crissy wants to see. that measn i stacle. be in the classi-am funny. 

time for bed. fied ads. But she 

good night. tee hee! tee hee! doesn't get men­

WHArAPE YOU DOING roMGHf? 
Bob Saget "Hosting a Lame. Show: You Too Can Do It" Tonight, Hesburgh Library 15th Floor 7 p.m. 
Movie of the Week: showing in DeBartolo* "A Movie of Broken Reels: The Story of SUB" Thursday 8pm, Friday & Saturday 6 a.m. & 3 p.m. 
Video-Rave-Hoedown-Luau Dance Party Tomorrow some time "An event everyone can go to." -Sub Member 
No food, drink, candy, backpacks, cd players, purses bigger than a quarter, watches, cameras, flash photography, soda or pop allowed at any event. 
*movie has been moved to Cushing unless otherwise noted. 
22 Sarcastic Sarcastic 
the puck" with an "f' in place of "icing the 
TIP THE GIPP. GIPPER.l@ND.EDU p." Get it? Whenever the Gipp wants to say 

Humanity i love you because 
when you're hard up you pawn your 
intelligence to buy a drink. 
-e.e. cummings 

Before this column gets going, the Gipp has a bone to pick with those who have been complaining about his column being "really disgusting" or "something a nine-year-old could write." The Gipp would like to re­mind everyone out there that the Gipp is not responsible for the tips -that's your job, kids. So if you're tired of the urination stories, quit sending them in. The Gipp rejected two pee-related stories this time around,just to prove a point. Butifyou want to keep out the excretion tales, do us all a favor -find some!hing more suitable to your higher taste, and tip the Gipp. · 
Live from IrmsbrucR 
There's nothing like a Gipp tipper who stays faithful over the miles. According to a Gipp spy in Austria, there is an Indone­sian man living in the dorm with our Innsbruck kids, and while the ND kids study the traditional Austrian fare, i.e. language and beer, he's researching East­ern teas and massage oils. On St. Patrick's Day, the masseuse man asked this Gipp tipper if he wanted to head back to his room for a massage. The tipper explains, "I was like, 'hell no,1 and decided to sucker a business major and a bio major into it!" Good man. The business major, being very drunk at the time, took the masseuse up on his offer. He was coerced into stripping down to his boxers and then given a full body massage. ''This business major was completely scarred by the whole thing, and he smelt like massage oils for the rest of the night." 
Then the bio major took his tum. The Gipp will let the tipper finish this one up in his own words: 
"It started out the same way, but the bio kid's massage got a little uglier. The dude was like, 'You have a nice body, not like the business major who has a little chub.' That is what the crazy Indonesian man told him. After a little while, the guy asked him how big he was. Then the man asked him to stay the night." 
This is why the Gipp never leaves South Bend. 
Flufflentl 
All right, kiddies, the Gipp is thinking of a word that he can't say in this column. It's like "fire truck" without the "ire tr" or"icing that magic word, he's going to say "fluff' instead. 


It's a Friday night so a bunch of good Catholic kids get together to cook up some burgers and brats for a "Fluff Lent" party. The Gipp thinks that the "Fluff Lent" party is funny in itself, but the tip here is that a Notre Dame man at the party left the shindig with a young hairstylist from town and another guy, who is also said to be from Notre Dame. The second young man sug­gested that the three of them engage in a little hanky-panky, but the first young man recoiled from the offer. Apparently, he had already been. in one ofthose two-guys-and­one-girl situations a few weeks before, _and it was a little weird. 
Now, eating some meat is one thing, but a menage-a-trois on a Friday in Lent? For chrissakes, doesn't anyone give a fluff about Jesus anymore? 
Gipplettes

• 
A business professor recently re­ceived a whopping $4,000 to spend on one ofthose new-fangled flat computer screens, the kind that can be mounted on a wall. The Gipp thought you all should know this so that when you start setting up your summer jobs, you can think about where your hard­earned tuition money it going. 
• Everybody knows that North Din­
ing Hall Lady, Elizabeth, right? She's the one who always greets you by name as she swipes your ID card. Well, here's fur­ther proof to the Gipp's theory that Eliza­beth is the cutest girl on campus-a couple of Keenan guys covered their names on their ID cards with authentic-looking nick­names. As Ms. Elizabeth swiped their cards . through, she said, "Hello, Sharp tooth! Well, hi there, Snake." 
• 
A Keough boy was caught fishing through the recycling bin the other day, and a passerby asked him what he was looking for. "A cinnamon roll," he said. "I threw it in here this morning, and now I'm hungry for it.Shouldn'tbeanythingwrongwithit,right?" 

• 
People are always stealing stuff from 


South Dining Hall, but the Gipp really has to give some credit to the kid who stole an entire tub of ice cream and managed to run away with it, past three angry dining hall workers. Nice job, son. 
Campus Watch Scholastic 23 

Baseball's Beginnings 
Peanuts and Crackerjack arrived at ND long before football was invented 
BY REBECCA FRAZIER Despite its tremendous popularity, base-head coaches. Kelly and Gallo headed the ball was not the first sport to gain varsity program for the next 12 "rebuilding" years 
It may be hard to believe, but, once upon statusatNotreDame-footballhadbecome until Pat Murphy replaced them in 1989. a time, football was not the be-all and a varsity sport in 1886. However, by 1892, Murphy found success his first season, end-all of Notre Dame's sporting exist-baseball was made a varsity sport as well. winning24moregamesthantheteamofthe ence. Before there was Lou Holtz, Joe Mon-Notre Dame played its first varsity baseball previos year. Led by an array of talented tanaandKnuteRockne, there was America's game against the University of Michigan, playersincludingAll-AmericanDanPeltier, favorite pastime: baseball. earning a 6-4 victory against the Wolver-the Irish marked 1989 as a memorable sea-At about the same time that Father Sorin ines. Notre Dame's teams of1906-08 posted son. Notre Dame managed to rally four wins was establishing what we all now know as an incredible three-yearrecordof60-9. The in one day during the Midwestern Colle­the University of Notre Dame, baseball was 1908 record of20-1 is still the best winning giate Conference Tournament and earn a establishing itself as an integral part of percentage in the program's history. bid to the NCAA tournament. Under American culture. However, baseball was Baseball was the biggest sport for the Murphy, the Irish came close to appearing not brought to Notre Dame until two de-Irish until 1913, when Notre Dame's Four twice in the College World Series in 1992 cades later. In 1866, Sturgis and Adrian Horsemen defeated Army in football and and 1993. Anson-both from Marshalltown, Iowa-began a tradition of football excellence. AfterMurphy'sdeparturein 1994,present introduced the game of "base ball" to Notre However, despite this new focus on foot-Coach Paul Mainieri took over the success­Dame (the sport did not become known as ball, Notre Dame still fielded one of the best ful baseball program. Since joining the Big "baseball" until later). Soon ''base ball" baseball teams in the country during the East in 1995, Mainieri has led the team to a becamethemostpopularstudentactivityon early 1900s, despite its small enrollment. combined record of211-91. The 1999 team campus. On any given turn-of-the-century Coach Clarence "Jake" Kline led the Irish managed to end the century by winning the spring day, much of the student body could over a span of five successful decades, league's regular-season title with a record be seen playing base ball on Notre Dame's beginning as assistant manager in 1939 of 43-18 and hosting the NCAA tournament numerous fields. and ending his career in 1974 as head for the first time in 40 years. For the first 20 years of its existence at coach. Kline's 1949 team, one of his fin-. The 2000 team has every intention of Notre Dame, all the baseball games played est, finished the decade with a record of continuing the Irish's winning tradition. On on campus were between intramural teams, 20-8, one of the best seasons in Notre Dame March 25, the 24th-ranked Irish played their and nearly every dorm fielded a team. The baseball history. This team also qualified for 3,000th official game, beating Villanova 4-· biggest baseball event ofthe year at the time the program's first NCAA championship ap-0. The Irish, defending their Big East Con­was the "Star of the East vs. Star of the pearance, beginning a streak that.would last ference regular-season title, currently hold West" championship game. During this-for the next 13 seasons. . an 18-6 record, with a record of 4-2 in the "Notre Dame All-Stars" game, the ~est play;:.::'· The -p~ogram '.experienced its .first major· ..·· J3ig East, The future of Notre Dame base­
. er~~r?~e~c~;~.~~pi,co~?~!~~J~iJ!!.!\?:~Rm};:,_)~mf!i:iJEl.9.i7.7;;;;WDe.n.1Ttim~~J4Y.~iikJ~~y:j;':~"alJ106~~}ifS!;!ti?~Ii~t,a~:1t~\?,!J.~~:_,..•... _ D 
, : : ·tu,~ty/~~~f9P.!~•:that· ear'.:s'.cliamps. · · · · Gallo took 0;1er the baseb~l program as c~,~:i:i.it.1¥..!Sapagg~fgnlt~~l! · · · , .. 

r--·· ! 
l 
i 
i 
i 
! 





Tara Durkin, a sophomore transfer from the University of Massachusetts, has proved she does indeed belong among some of the nation's best athletes here at Nore Dame. Playing goalie this year has showcased Tara's excellent lacrosse skills. I first started playing lacrosse when: I was a freshman in high school. I was a field player for about a total of two weeks before I moved to the position of goalie. My favorite part about playing lacrosse is: that it is a fast-moving sport with a lot ofaction. My favorite thing about being a goalie is that the position is a constant challenge. My most memorable moment in ND lacrosse has been: the preseason Loyala Tournament because we (the team) proved our­selves against top-ranked teams. My most memorable moment at ND outside of lacrosse has been: playing midnight basketball games with my friends. The hardest part about being the goalie in lacrosse is: that you have to stay mentally focused throughout the entire game. While growing up, my favorite athlete was: Brian Boitano. My role model is: my deceased coach Diane Fitzgerald, who continues to be my role model and hero to this day. The toughest obstacle I've had to overcome to be successful in lacrosse as the goalie is: that in other sports I have always played a field position, and overcoming the longing to run around and be active with everyone else was tough. · I chose to transfer to Notre ,,.n. ~ 
Dame because: of the reputa­tion of both the academics and the athletics here. 
If I could play any other sport at Notre Dame, I would play: soccer, because I have played that for 12 years. 
Photos Courtesy of Sports Information 
Jp;,.,,~
)Jr-~~_l: 
:~Y..\~'
ip,.-:: 
~"JIYl,<;.J--=-.
t!\·~~ ·' 
: ·•:~·-· · 

This Saturday, the Battle of the Catholics switches to the baseball diamond. Notre Dame, fueled by two solid pitching performances, sweeps Boston College at Frank Eck Stadium. 


After four straight losses, the women's lacrosse team may struggle beating Connecticut this weekend, but if they put forth the effort they will emerge vie­torious. 


Irish bats are booming this week­end as Notre Dame routs Boston College and captures both games of the double header. 
I 
I 
i 


From 1987 to 1989, the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team was very familiar with frustration. This frustration was not the result 
of poor performance; it was the disappointment of being over­looked. During those three years, the Irish had posted respectable records, including a 10-4 mark and the Great Lakes Conference Title in 1988. However, in each of these seasons, Notre Dame was denied an invitation to the NCAA Tour­nament, a belittlingjab to the pride 
Michigan State 6 
of a rising program. 
The 1990 campaign began with Notre Dome 12 
the same objective as each ofthe last three before it-toopen the eyes of the judging panel and earn the recognition accompanying an NCAA bid. To do this, Notre Dame knew it had to attract the committee's attention and keep it. The first step was to win the opening game. 
Canisius, Notre Dame's first opponent, bore the brunt of a scorned program's suppressed anger. While routing Canisius 19-7, the Irish broke or tied five school scoring records that day. Senior co-Captain Mike Quigley tied two records by scoring six goals and sophomore attackman Mike Sullivan became the first player in Irish history to score nine points at home. _ 
The performance bolstered Irish confidence, but the euphoria was 
~ short-lived. After completing the two-game homestand with a 10-8 I victory over Radford, Notre Dame hit the road. Unfortunately, the road ' hit the Irish much harder. During the trip, Notre Dame W!lS outscored 57­
13 in three humiliating defeats against Villanova, Loyola and Adelphi. 
Yet hopes ofa tournament bid had not died on the road. Both Loyola and Adelphi boasted top-10 rankings. Villanova, though not ranked, also fielded a strong squad. Cautious but undaunted, the Irish knew that attaining their ultimate goal depended upon the outcome offuture contests against Air Force, Ohio State and Michigan State. 
The first ofthose meetings came when Notre Dame faced AirForce at the San Diego State Tournament. At one point, Air Force led by as many as six goals. Rather than giving in, the Irish took their first strides toward the elusive NCAA bid they coveted, closing the gap to 11-10 with two minutes to play. Sullivan and senior attackman Brian McHugh sealed the comeback, blasting two quick goals to eliminate the Falcons. 
"As a team, it is good that we cleared the first hurdle," observed McHugh. "We didn't play particularly well, but we did what we needed to win." 
It did not take the Irish long to build on the win over Air Force. In the final, the Irish defeated tournament-host San Diego State, 18-10. The win secured the tournament title for the Irish and an inside track for the Western Regional bid for the NCAA tournament. 
However, after a mediocre performance in the second half of the season, Notre Dame's chances of making its first-ever appearance in the NCAA tournament seemed shaky. In order to even be considered for a bid, Notre Dame had to beat Ohio State in a crucial away game. The Irish opened quickly, scoring three unanswered goals to start the game. By the end of the first quarter, the Buckeyes had clawed back to 5-3, and by the second quarter Ohio State had tied the game. 
Ohio State again fell behind and again battled back to a 9-9 tie, before finally succumbing to the Irish offense. Notre Dame left the field with a 14-11 victory and a solid chance at making an appearance in the NCAA tournament. 
The Irish sealed the deal with a 12-6 mauling of Michigan State in the season finale. Finally the Irish' s hopes for a tournament bid were realized. TheIrish earned the 12th seed in the tournament, pitting them against No. 5 Harvard. The Crimson crushed any hopes ofa Cinderella run for Notre Dame, cruising to a 9-3 win and ending the historic Irish campaign. -Gerard Meskill 
26 Scholastic Sports 

Key Stat: The men's Lacrosse team ran all overOhioStateSaturday,April 1 with a 13­4 win. PrimeTimePerformer: Junior attack Tom Glatzel was named the Great Western La­crosse League Player of the Week. Next Game: The Irish face Butler at India­napolis this Saturday at 2 p.m. (EST). 
-.om~nsI 
l osse (3-4) 

Key Stat: The team lost its fourth straight game ofthe season with a 10-6 loss to Vanderbilt on Sunday, April 2. Prime Time Performer: Goalkeeper Tara Durkin tied the school record with 20 saves during Sunday's game despite the outcome. Next Grune: The Irish face Connecticut at Connecticut on Saturday at lp.m. (CT). 

II (18-6) 

Key Stat: The Irish had 16 hits Sunday against.UConn, equaling the team's sec­ond-most hits in a game this season. Prime Time Performer: Freshman pitcher J_.P.Gagne threw only 7 hits to help lead the Irish to a 9-2 win over UConn on Sunday. Next Game: The Irish host IUPUI today at 5 p.m. (CT). 

I(26-9) 

Key Stat: Notre Dame's 21st-ranked soft­ball team has been rated first in the North­east Region by the NCAA Division I Soft­ball Committee. , Prime Time Performer: Freshman Andria Bledsoe was named the Big East Rookie of theWeekafter Sunday's game against Provi­dence College. Next Game: The Irish face Western Michi­gan in Kalamazoo, Michigan today at 3 p.m. (CT). 

Susan Halteman, the center's office man­ager, glances up at the chandeliers and then down the foyer at the thick curtained doors. "I've never seen anything like this in America,". she declares, even though by now Halteman knows this theater like the back of her hand. ''The only theaters I've seen like this are in Europe." Overhead, painters on a break talk with each other across 
the balcony, their ··• ·,.>:·:< containers of paint sitting idle by the polished banister. Sarah MacLachlan sings ethereallyfromara­dio hidden some~ where amid the elaborate decor. 
The old and new mix easily at the Morris Performing Arts Center -the scent of new paint can barely over­come the feeling that one is a time· traveler suddenly swept back to the 1920s. But this combinationofpast and present per­fectly captures the image that S_cmth Bend community leaders envisioned when they began renovating the center two years ago. Their goal: to restore the theater to its former beauty while modernizing and en­larging it to accommodate everytpj_ng from symphony orchestras to Broadway musi­cals. 
The center, originally named the Palace Theater, wasconstructedin 1922alongwith the adjoining Palais Royale ballroom. It has undergone many changes between its open­ing as a vaudeville house and the restored magnificence theatergoers see today. Even as Halteman points to the richly painted walls and intricate molding, she recalls the recent absence ofthe vibrant colors. "This is what it looked like when it was built," explains Halteman. "After the second world 
. war, they__came in with gray paint b~cause they thought this was garish." 
Attendance at the theater declined soon afterwards as the 1950s brought televisions into homes. When the Palace Theater board decided to demolish the building in 1959, Ella Morris stepped in and saved the the-
Entertainment Scholastic 27 



ater by buying it and its fixtures, only to sell it to the city of South Bend for one dollar. 
Recently, South Bend community lead­ers began to take an interest in their city's historic theater, initiating the move to restore the building to its original state. Both private and public sectors of the community pitched in to fund the opera­tion, and in early 1998 Shawn Colvin played the last show at the old Morris Center before it shut down for renovation. 
Experts were flown in from all over the country to help research and restore the theater. Decorative paint consultant Darla Olson took thousands of samples of paint from the walls, examining them under microscopes until she could perfectly match the original colors and techniques used in the building. "The interiors of the Morris Theater are some of the most so­phisticated examples of decorative paint systems that I have ever had the privilege to work on," says Olson. "The interiors of the Morris will literally transform people entering its spaces from the common­place of daily life into a palace of fantasy and grandeur." 
In their quest to re-create the theater of 1922, the staff exhausted all possibilities. Denise Chambers, operations manager, recalls one search for historical accuracy. "We were looking for the color of the curtains and the grand drapes, and we put an ad in the paper," says Chambers. A reply came promptly from a woman who had played organ at the Morris as a girl and who actually had a piece of the cur­tains. "She had saved it and used it for a Christmas tree skirt," Chambers recalls. "We couldn't believe she still had it!" 
The help of older community members who frequented the theater in its prime assisted in more ways than one. When restorers ran into difficulties trying to locate the pattern and pile of the original carpet in the theater, research with depart­ment store Marshall Fields was only part of the process. "The woman who used to clean the carpet remembered the pattern," Halteman says. "So she had some input there." 
While the facade of the Morris Center 
returned to its original state, the back­
stage underwent complete changes. The 
old stagehouse was demolished, giving 
way to a more-modern building. "There 
was no backstage before," Halteman points 
out. "The new building boasts everything 
from spacious chorus rooms and a loading 
28 Scholastic Entertainment 
dock to a catering room and three-special star dressing rooms. With these additions, the theater is now better equipped to ac­commodate larger casts and more elabo­rate productions. 
Adjustments to the actual theater, par­ticularly its acoustics, have also been made with more modern performances in mind. "It was originally built as a vaudeville 

Ji'iffJJflltlll;::f

·-:~;;it·ti :.. 
•<--~---· ,-",., '-'l, 
'.Jhe South Bend Symphony II An lri~h' 
t"{i,d'~t_:\f¥?t¼nn7:,~:0r1P@~J111sr 
''1, '~· ':;. ·::•: 
{Atffi ,:tr 't\ -•­
. · Key __Bank Reception -perforn:iance of Riverd 
;~ --' .. ·.. 
·, ~-' ,' :~.:. ;;;.; 
?/~ililt~t~;i~i 
/,A·rrir2•.. 
, \/'f!P E:, 
,: Feldma
\9/3····. 
Ma 
\\(jq p:rTJ 

house and the sound had to be lively so people could hear." Now, bubble walls and a felt-lined back wall guarantee that orchestras and singers will sound their best. 
Despite these changes, the Morris' schedule of events is expected to remain much the same as it was before the resto­ration. "I think we'll get bigger perfor­mances with the stuff from Broadway," Halteman says, but she goes on to add that the Morris will continue to host regular performances by local groups, particu­larly the South Bend Symphony. 
With the renovation of the theater com­plete, the staff will next begin restoration of the Palais Royale ballroom. The scene of nightly dances and performances by musical legends like Duke Ellington dur­ing the 1930s and '40s, the ballroom was spray-painted black in the' 60s and turned into a disco club. Consultants have started the same process used in the theater, pains­takingly examining layers of paint to dis­cover the ballroom's true colors. 
"As preservationists, we believe we should save this part of our past," Cham­bers says. She and the others at the Morris have worked not only to preserve that past, but also to ensure a thriving future for the arts in South Bend. "Having an arts center here, we don't have to go to Chi­cago or another big city," explains Cham­bers. "We can see New York shows right here in our own backyard." 
The renovated theater has already caught the eyes of some Notre Dame students. Sophomore Grant Kreizenbeck got a glimpse when he and his friends attended Chicago, the center's first show since opening. "I had never heard of the Morris Center before I went," Kreizenbeck says. "I was very impressed. I have no idea what it was like before the renovations, but the architecture, lighting and overall atmosphere put forth by the center are right on par with what I would expect." 
And while the scenes on-stage may be an orchestra playing a traditional sonata or dancers performing an intricate mod­ern ballet, theatergoers can relish a mo­ment of time travel, back to the 1920s. Chambers recalls a tour she gave an older gentleman, who had been to the center when it was still known as the Palace Theater. "His first comment was that it looked like we washed it off and put it back from his childhood memory," says Chambers. "So from that, I'd say we did a pretty good job!" D 
. ON THE ROCKS 

What's Your Poison? 
A sobering look at South Bends bar scene 
In the dark you can hear the clinking of bottles, the laughter of talking to this girl, Laura DiN ardo, about beat poetry and we were old friends, a quarter slipping into a jukebox. Everyday faces tum immediately becoming best friends forever and she is the funniest fascinating through the haze of smoke and conversation. I just person I've met out here so I ended up casting her as the lead in turned 21 in January, but I was born into the bar scene. my student film. Could such magic happen anywhere but Brew 
My dad ran Senior Bar from '73 to '74 and started his own bar Co.? I think not. business back on Long Island after graduation. The place was The only bad thing about Brew Co. is that it closes really early. called the Tumblin' Inn. It closed when my sister and I were little, So, come midnight, you need to gather up your new-found friends butlgrewuphearingstoriesaboutit,how,backinthe and move onward to Corby's (see Monday) or go directly to day, Billy Joel used to show up for a beer now and Club 23. At Club, they make Long Island iced tea in a t~en, ac~glike_areal big s~ot, even though he was j l,.. Slurpee machine. Faithful OOB readers know that (a) ')ust a little sqmrt" at the tune. s: ~ ,.,\ I am a big fan of Slurpees and (b) I cherish anything 
1~r,.

Though I've always been into bars, I've got to ~ 0l~ '(J ~ related to or.symbolic of Long Island, my beloved adrnitthatl'veneverbeenquitesocrazyaboutthe L. ~ , homeland. On Tuesday's, Club's iced tea are spe­wholedrinkingthing. Truthfully,Idon'treallylike ~ Mr.uuo.uo .,. cially priced at $2.50. Here, my sobriety is chal­consurning a lot ofliquid. (Thimble-sized bladder, ~ 7.i «wq lenged, and I spend much time in line for the ladies 
you know how it is.) But I'm here to tell you that • o;., '(y 'J)liC::Jf:? room. going to bars doesn't have to be about raving ~.,,;w· ~ Wednesdays:Hereisthedaytogooutwithout drunkenness. uLJ!..-,' really going out. Wednesday night is for Senior Bar 
The following is a day-by-day weeknight guide -no cab fare, no cover (if you paid 10 bucks for membership from a (mostly) sober bar-goer. Feel free to keep reading ifyou' re the first week of school) and cheap drinks if you have the special still underage because everybody should get to be 21 someday. cup. Ofcourse, there are people who refer to it as "Senior Dump" 
Mondays: If you're really cool, you need to go out on Mon-and complain that too many juniors go there now, but, hey, I'm days. Personally, I'm kind of dorky, and I thought everyone did a junior, andldon'twantto bash the place because my dad would homework on Monday nights. However, I have been to Corby's get mad at me. on a Monday once or twice, and it's surprisingly hopping. There Thursdays: All right. You've got Boat Club and Finnegan's are more cool people· at Notre Dame than I once thought there for the young at heart, the McCormick's $1-import special were. And those who are really hardcore don't stop at Corby's. (which is fantastic, if you aren't scared of the clientele), and, of They'll hit Club 23 afterwards because Monday is karaoke night. course, what guest columnist Reesy Baby likes to call "The Land (Way too much fun for me.) ofthe Heart." I don't wantto offend anyone by complaining about 
Tuesdays: This 1,1sed to-be my least favorite day of the week. Heartland-or by mentioning those people who like to get up on It's like, you've already been through Monday, so the previous the stage and do interpretive dances to Bon Jovi songs -so I weekend is far behind, and yet, you 're not even halfway through won't even get into any ofthat. After all, as much as I whine about the week, so the next weekend seems light-years away. However, the lameness of Heartland, I still tend to go every week my woes were put to an end one fateful Tuesday night when I If you're still standing when you make your way. off the found myself at the Mishawaka Brewing Company-or simply Heartland dance floor you can head over to Club 23 for $2 pints. "Brew Co." for those in the know. A little intellectual conversation may replace some of the brain 
I couldn't believe it the first time I was there, but people were cells that were lost while you were chugging dollar drinks at the just sitting around talking-talking about books and movies and Land of the Heart. Or, at the very least, you can gossip about the stuff. And then this girl I've never seen before comes over to my girls with the shiniest tube tops. table, asks if anybody knows Lawrence Ferlinghetti's dog's By the weekend, you'll be too tired to do anything, but that's name. I declare my love for Lawrence Ferlinghetti and she OK. Just be safe, know yourlimits and when you hear "You Give declares her love for me. (Apparently, she recognized me from Love a Bad Name," please resist shooting yourself in the heart my reading at the Sophomore Literary Festival, and in case with an imaginary pistol -unless you want Reesy. and me to you're wondering, the dog's name is Homer.) So here I am really laugh at you.-D 




by Kara luaro 
Out of Bounds Scholastic 29 



Be Very Afrai 
Is sarcasm one of your Favorite Things 
BY CRISTIN PENZEL 
Have you noticed you've become a bit too proficient at being sarcastic lately? Can you stay straight-faced while saying, "This dorm room is just cavernous. Do you think we could break up the space with one of those Japanese folding shades?" like nobody's business? Exercise caution. You could end up confusing someone as to what your true intentions are. You could even lose your mind. 
The Ballad of Sarcastic Patrick 
At the start Sarcastic Patrick was a fairly normal guy It was just his sense of humor was the driest of the dry. His laugh was purified disdain, so taunting was his gaze His brow in gentle mockery indefinitely raised. And most the folks that knew him also knew, from day to day That Pat meant just the opposite of most all that he'd say. 
While Pat was at the library reading his favorite book He glanced and saw a female clearly giving him a look. But he just kept on reading-:--no attention did he pay Until she sauntered up and said, "Hello. My name is Kay." "Oh super," Pat said back to her, "This book is such a bore. I wasn't really reading it. Please -interrupt some more." 
"For days now I have watched you from that table there -you see? And now I've just got to ask you: Would you please go 
out with me? We could maybe go to my place, order dinner really quick And then break out the VCR and watch a classic flick." Well Pat was truly flattered so he said, "Yeah, sure. Why not?" And they went and got a pizza from Kay's fave Italian spot. When they went to watch a video Pat said, "Eh, you decide." 
She stared at him a bit too long. She smiled a bit too wide. 
"Well, the only video I own is The Sound ofMusic," she said. 
"I just LOVE The Sound ofMusic! It's the bestest movie 
ever!"(Be sarcastic, Pat thought quickly, and she'll think you're cute and clever) "I know all the lyrics -we could sing along together! It's the type of movie I could watch all day, each day, forever!" 
"I knew you were the one," Kay cooed, her voice as smooth as silk. And he began to feel the sleeping pill she'd slipped into his milk. She tied him up and gagged him good and dragged him on a plane When they touched down in Austria, Pat knew she was insane. Soon they reached her tiny cottage, down a winding country lane. 
30 Scholastic Week In Distortion 
"I knew you'd see things my way, Pat-I knew it from the start That you were my Lonely Goatherd and you'd hear my yodeling heart. And just like the Von Trapps, we'll watch our seven children thrive And watch our favorite movie every day of all our lives! Oooooh! We'll play the Fleeing Family Game -it's really so much fun: I dress up like a Nazi, and I chase you with my gun! Go hide now, while I count to 10, and when I find you ... RUN!" 
She fed him only Edelweiss, for years she washed his brain And slowly, very slowly, he went more and more insane. And when he'd about convinced himself he was Captain Von Trapp, Sarcastic Pat made one last plea before he finally snapped: 
"For God's sake, Kay, please let me go! I can't take one more song! I hate it! I've despised it all along! I'm qh, so tired of singing, climbing hills and herding sheep My lederhosen ride up so far that I can hardly sleep!" 
"Silly Pat, you've such a wit, but you can't fool old Kay. I know now that you don't mean most all of what you say. You just LOVE The Sound ofMusic -don't joke like that my dear! That first day when you confessed it, there was nothing more sincere." 
And so it was Sarcastic Pat's senility was assured And he left their little cottage for the psychiatric ward. If you're ever in Vienna, listen close and you will hear Echoed cries of old Pat screaming, "DOE! A DEER! A FEMALE DEER!" 
Be a cynic, Oh Great Satirist! Make your life a sarcasm spree! But hear me well: the road to hell is paved with irony. It only takes one wacko misinterpreting a chat To land you in the loony bin like poor Sarcastic Pat. 
And I know you would just LOVE that. 

G 


• 
Rambler Scrambler We~k outdoor concert, 5:00 PM, Fieldhouse Mall 

• 
Baseball: ND vs. IUPUI, 5:00 PM, Eck 


Stadium ·-• Game Show Night, 7:00'ijM, Reckers 
• Lip Sync Contest, 7:00 PM, 1 Lafortune Ballroo·in, $1 admission goes to Center for the"tfoiiieless • Toy Story2, 10:30 PM, 101 DeBartolo 
THURSDAY 
• RV and Camper Sho:w, 10:00 Al\1 to 8:00 PM, 
Joyce Center I ·-_, -/ ·• Fiestang, 7:00 PM, Step:¢ Center 
• 
BoysDon't Cry, 7:15 ,P~,-Snite 

• 
"Rockin' at the Rec/ ~:00 PM, RolfsSports 


Recreation Center / /i '/ I j • Toy Story 2, 8;00,J>M and 10:30 PM, 101 ! DeBartolo '---/ i • Campus-wide '80s Night, 10:00 PM, Senior 1 Bar 
! FRIDAY 
• 
Softball: ND vs. Villanova, 11:00 AM, Ivy Field ­

• 
Baseball: ND vs. Boston College, 


12:00 PM, Eck Stadium 

• Student Art Exhibition Opening
t : '\ ' 
Reception, 2:00 PM, Atrium,'Snite 
• Carroll Hall Fusic.'Festival 2000, 
3:00 PM, front lawn ofCarroll Hall 
' -I 
• Pangborn presents "The Ptice is Right," 8:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium • Toy Story 2, 8:00 andfoi30 PM, 101 DeBartolo 
SATURDAY 
DISTRACTIONSr 
\ 
• Sophomore Class Mass at the.Grotto, 7:00
PM ->---·.< ' 
SUNDAY 
-1­

I ,Galaxy Quest -4.40, 7.10; 9,20. 

MONDAY­
' ' 
• 
Tennis: ND wo1men vs. Indiaria, 3:00 PM, Courtney Tennis 'center ! 

• 
Baseball: ND vs. Purdue, 6:00 PM, Eck Stadium 


TUESDAY 
···.-------,..._________~-, 
-I 
i 
• Softbal( -' ,,-­
-.ND vs. Butler (DH) 4 O
Ivy F" Id 1 1 -, , : _o PM
'le / / /_/ ) ': -, 
• Baseball-IND vs B -1. 1 :
PM ·; .1 • ow mg Gi·een/5:00 
, Eck Stadmm / / 
• Theatre: [hhoveo•the1;. -::,-'.
7·30 PM , ' u' -zgtJ zngale 
· -1 , \\asl1ington,fiall 1~ _ ____ _ ' 
• ISA Film Festival, 8:0Q·pMTaF__ ! • Montgomery Theatre -' ' ortune, 
__ j 
I 
I 
j 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

i 

:NOW SHOWING---­

j -April 7-la ·· 
If 
. ·. .-, 

!---Cinemark Movi iC277-7336-­
IAll Shows in Stereo ­
I ---•-_---_ -­
,Friday 4/7 -•_---­IBeing Jo~nMalcovich 4:20, 1ys, 9;25 
!Sixth Sense . 4:00, 7:15,
I --------­jSleepy Hollow ___ _ 4:30, 7:25, 9:40 • iSnow Falling on Cedars A:05; 6:45, -9:15 1Stuart Little -•• -3:55, 5:45, _-7:45 IThree Strikes ..• -_ __ 9:45 ·­
;Saturday 4/8 and Sunday 4/9
iBeing John Malcovich 2:10, 4:20, 7:05, 9:25 · [GalaxyQuest · 2:00, 4:40 -· -_ ;Sh:th Sense _ 1:50, 4:00 iSleepy HoMow no, 4:30, -7:25; 9:40 iSnow Falling on Cedars 1:30, 4:04, 6:45, 9:15 iStuart Little 1:40, 3:55, 5:45, 7:45!Three Strikes -9:45 
Movies 14 

C254-9685 
All shows in Stereo 
,American Beauty !Black and White • i
iErin Brockovich* !Final Destination i IHere on Earth jHigh Fidelity* . iMissiontoMars­lMy Dog Skip \Price OfGlory _ j Ready to·Rumble [Return to Me* [Road to Eldorado : [Romeo Mustme • 
i Rules of Engagement* 12:55, 4:00, 7:05, 9:55 · [Skulls 1:10, 3:45, 7:00, 9:40!Whatever it Takes -12:50, 3:05, 5:25 · · 
I l* Stadium SeaUngAvailable ...._ -· ._-------·-__ 
Calendar Scholastic 31 
1:30, 4:15; 1:10; 9:50 12:45, 3:00, 5:20, 7:45, 10:05 1:00, 3:50, 7:10, ·10:00 12:50, 3:10, 5:20,7:50, 10:15, 8:00, 10:20 _ 1:25,. Ho. 7:30, 10:10 
-· 1:15, 4:05,7:15, lo:OO 1:05, 3:20, 5:35 7:55, 10:25 _____ _ _-> . 1:45; 4:30, 7:20, 10:15 _ 1:45, 4:30, 7:20,10:15 · 
·1:10, 3:15, 5:15, 7:25, 9:30 1:35, 4:20, 7:20, IQ:10 

by Monica Hlavac 

The Power of Service 
Service changes your atti­tude; it alters your perspec­tive concerning how you appro_ach the world. 

Monica Hlavac is a senior biochemistry and philosophy major. She will be interning for the Amercian Association for the Advancement of Science Program on Scientific Freedom, Responsibility, and Law in Washington D.C. upon graduation. 
The man had walked a long time in the rain to come to the hospital. He spoke ofhis extreme poverty and ravaging disease in such a matter­offact way that tears came to my eyes. His distress­ing story seemed entirely out ofplace in the sterile white clinic. He was, after all, not talking to a social worker or a soup kitchen volunteer, but rather to a doctor of infectious diseases whom I was assisting during the summer after my sophomore year. And this doctor, who to me will always be a hero ofnear mythical proportions, responded to the man'swords with so much passion that he reinforced a feeling that had been growing within me for some time. I realized that medicine was the career for me ... Although the tremendous concern and compassion demonstrated by the doctor at Mercy Hospital made him a role model for me, I did not forget that a doctor is a practicing scientist. My training as a biochemist was integral to my hope ofone day being a doctor ... To experience this more technical aspect, I spent a summer doing research in molecular biology ... Al­though at first my summer experiences seem unre­lated, they exposed me to both the human and techni­cal aspects ofmedicine, and in so doing solidi­fied my goals. My lifestyle, the people with whom I worked, the work itself, the thoughts · that consumed my days -these all contrasted to an incredible degree from one summer to the next. But there is one thing in common that I have learned, so powe,ful and clear that I am a changed woman. I learned it in an inner city hospital and in a college laboratory, and it hadprovided the impetus for me to completely alter the direction ofmy life. I want to be a doctor. The above excerpt is from my personal statement for medical school applications. Since I decided not to apply, this is probably the first time that anyone has read it. The most frightening thing about deciding not to go to medical school was not that I no longer had a career path or felt like I was letting people down. What I truly feared was that I would never find a career as "perfect" for me as medicine. I was attracted to the medical field because, as a doctor, service would be an integral component of 

my career. My summer service project was one ofthe most amazing experiences ofmy life. As the summer came to a close I realized that I had to somehow incorporate service into my future career. I thought medicine would be "perfect" since it would include service in an intellectually stimulating career in the sciences. But I soon came to realize that was not a good reason for wanting to go to medical school. I liked the idea ofmedicine, because it meant I would be doing service. However, I did not really want to do medicine in and of itself. 
For a while I felt lost and confused, as though I had put aside my compass and wandered into the Ama­zon. I had spent so long trying to convince myself of the benefits of a career in medicine that it seemed like every other idea I considered paled in comparison. Finding a career that directly involved service and science seemed such a daunting task that I essentially gave up trying. Yet the feeling of liberation that resulted from my decision not to go to medical school caused me stop to analyze why it was that I felt so compelled to do service as a career. · 
As I thought more about it, I realized that even if I was not working in the inner city saving lives, the spirit of _service could still be with me. Service changes your attitude; it alters your perspective con­cerning how you approach the world. Even ifl never participate in direct service · again, it still had an amazing impact on my life. The very fact that mySSP prompted me to so carefully scrutinize my future is only one example ofits impact. I am now much more reflective and inquisitive. My time and effort are directed more toward the interest and benefit of others and the community. 
Service is important for everyone, even if most of your time is spent deducing a reaction pathway in a lab on the fourth floor ofthe Stepan chemistry build­ing. You will complete your service with new found feelings that you will carry with you always. The particular things I learned in the hospital may no longer be applicable to my future career, but that is of little relevance, What is important is that whatever I do in the future will be carried out in the spirit of service. 
What I gained from that summer at Mercy Hospital will be with me for the rest of my life, guiding me wherever I am and whatever I do. D 
32 Scholastic Final Word 
Middle-Aged bu Jim Pastore 









